(Blasciow ■Clnircrsitv? Xibrarp ^6 • *£, -9 2,k*Y ' 1 > / ■ '■] -'! TT » ' \ *I (Price S:x Shillings bound.) DICTIONARY O F, RGERY; YOUNG SURGEON’S POCKET ASSISTANT. By BENJAMIN LARA, ■MF.MBE* OF THE CORPORATION OF SURGEONS OF LONDON, SURGEON TO THE ROYAL CUM- BERLAND FREEMASON SCHOOL, AND LATE SURGEON TO THE PORTUGUEZE HOSPITAL, &CC LONDON: Printed for JAMES RIDGWAY York STREET, Sr-jAMEs’s-SqUARE,^ThE prefent Volume folicits the attention Practitioners in Surgery, not from its con- taining any new difcovery, or original im- rprovement in the art:; but as a collection of fuch rules, precepts, and obfervations, which the belt authors have taught, and experience has fandtioned. They were originally compiled for my own afliftance in practice, and never intended for publication; but leveral intelligent lurgeons having feen the manufcript, and fuggefting, tliat i —.....—.PREFACE. vi . ' * ■ ; , that fuch a collection of furgical fa&s woulc form a defirable VacLe Mecum to Practitioners I, with much diffidence, now lay them be- fore the public. As a compilation, it certainly cannot afforc any information to the experienced furgeon but to Students, and the younger part ot the profeffion, particularly thofe in the army am navy, who, perhaps, neither have the mean, nor the opportunity of acccfs to more elabo rate and fyHematic works, I have beet tempted to think, this Selection may be o conGderable utility. Perhaps, on an enter gency, the experienced furgeon may recur t< it with advantage. To Dr. Wallis’s improved edition of Di Mothcrby’s very excellent Medical Dictionary I am indebted, for the arrangement 1 ha'v adopted, as alfo, for many valuable l.'.Cts thefe are detailed nearly verbatim. In treating of Diilocations, FraChircj Ulcers, and Wounds; IH.euife, in defenbin the different Ope.ations, 1 h ive almoft inva riably followed the accuiac and judiciovj MMe F AC E. yii Mr. Bell; where I have prefumed to vary :rom this able furgeon’s mode, it has been, ■rom having fcen fuch variation pra&ifed by lie mod eminent in the profeflion in this kinT_ -lorn, and, in fome inftances, from having luccefsfully purfued fuch method myfelf. ‘The many additional important particulars >vhich I have colled im JIOJ^ writers, are acknowledged in their refpe&ive rticles. From a publication of this kind, I cannot ■xpedt to acquire celebrity. The utmoft praife 13 whlch 1 can afP^e, is, that of having irmed a ufeful Surgical Manual; in the at- iinmentof which, I.fhail be amply gratified. BENJAMIN LARA. Ltndtn,b RRA1 A, In article Abfcefs of the Diaphragm, for vid Diaphragmatis, read vide Paraphreiutis. For article Achyls, read Achlys. In article Bubonocele, for vide article Gaftrorapht read vide article Wounds of the Alimentary Canal. In article Cirfocele, for avarice, read a van*. ‘Ibe references made to various authors, at toe cone i fion of article Diflocations of the Ribs, Jbould have be, %:L * w**- °sh &c. %A DICTIONARY O F SURGERY, &>c. A B S from abfcedo, to depart, Abscessus 5 or from and c«tu to rw P A} «tLnc*aL „ ™tttr:vs“fr'”K: ft r "s ££* * *n hls Jnrroduftion to the Theory and Surgery, p. 36, thus defcr.besThe J,^ °£ matter m abfeeffes : formation of r;“ thYiehel1" «i S* «s» ^13, j™ ,fle exhalent veflels • hv r’ and dilate “n exudation of ilrous 1mm • an? there vvi|i be Jfipofe interftices, wLofe^re"10 ° CClluIar dually be diflblved rhl texture >n part will gra- riougb off, and the differemferic's ofh" VeffeIs cornJjpjjjtion.A B S combination, a white, opaque, un&uous liquor, without any offenfive l'mell, termed pus. Tins mat- ter, in circumfcribcd tumours, will occupy the centre j hut, in extended inflammations, we often find many points of fuppuration, which running into one an- other, form large cavities and different finufes in the cellular and adipofe membrane.’'’ The inflammatory heat increafing, during three days, in oppofition to the ufual means, a fuppuration will certainly follow. If the patient complains of frequent fhiverings, a formation of pus is certainly commenced. This lhivering is produced by the sbforption of fomc of the pus, or its thinner parts; but, when the matter is inebfed in a cyft, or lur- roundgd with an inflammatory matter, this ablorp- tion rarely or never happens. In the cellular mem- brane is lodged many vclTels for the iecretton and diftriburion of fat, and many other vcflels pafs througn it in their way from one part to another. 1 his mem- brane cr.fily nullifies, and, being very flight, as cafuy divides, hy which a cavity is formed, and in it is depofited all that conftitutes the fuhlcqucnt difeharge. farther, by the rupture of the cellular membrane, the parts which were connefted are feparated, and their tenfion removed, the many blood-vcffcls, which before were comprcflcd, are freed, the blood circulates Freely, the heat abates, the part is lefs ree, am. gradually becopies more loft. f The nroerefs of an abfcsfs on the external parts of the body, t generally as follows: the tumour, the heat, pain, and rednefs incrcafe; a pul fat ion is all'o perceived, a fever fometimes attends, which i increased every night: when the contents arc at fuppurated, the pricking pam gives way, and an| itching with a growing numbitcG, is complained of the hard net's of Ac part at length yields to the touch and the Ain burfting, gives wut to the contained matter. ^A B S An abfcefs ffiould be carefully dillinguifhcd from a hernia, an aneurifm, and from a varicous tumour. If during the treatment of an abfcefs, the patient ls Hecplcfsand Feverifh ; If he breathes with difficulty and loaths his food; if the pus, when difeharged, is ill-coloured, fetid, arid famous; if eruptions of b ood or fpongy fleffi appear in the cavity of the ulcer; jf faintings come on during, or after the times of dreffing, the progrioflic is unfavourable : on the contrary, if thefe f'ymptoms arc abfent, or but m f moderate degree, a favourable iffiuc may be ex- pected. By improper treatment a phlegmon is cafily converted into a fphacelus. Deep feated are lomctimes difficultly difeovered by the touch ; but as no conliderable fuppuration can happen in the body wuhout being fooii after accompanied with a hctfric ■ Ttr> the Ihghtcft appearance of it at once deter- mines the cafe. cn .luPjP"rati.on is to lie promoted, endeavour to effect the following intentions, viz. i ft, To coayert into pus the congefted humours, is dffiy’d^gefted 1 ' ^ d^Charge °f thE Dlattcr whcn k ihufihn a/H*1- U§ the.°Pcningi °r UJ.CER; for dilcharged ^ “ dcnomuuited wh^ the matter is muft M inUnli^ rcPcllcnts S f ’ f°r. thclr ufc time may oo,uu the iuppurating tumour into a lcirrhus* f otuhcl incurable induration ; for this rcafon S thcCinflPir,C ” a ■t0pic’ and h«h c°rdials proper In a 113 1011 1 lntcrnaI’ ar‘ a>ikc im- Propc. I„ general, apply to the tumour fuch ftimu*iiU: ai,d moiften; fuch alffi as obftrna the pores, and thus prevent the paffi^e of the feP,aftV? theT Htt,cmP^ to efcapc through the fuffice VannlitJ w’ ‘ ^ WhltC bl'ead Poukic<-‘ will rare, applied warm every tw0) or ac moft_ thrce 2 hoursA B S hours. This application for its neatnefs, cleanlinefs, and freedom from offenfive fmells, is defervedly to be preferred j yet at difcretion maybe added afmallportion of the roots of lilies, the ointment cf yellow refin, or of the beft gum galbanum. In flightcr cafes, where the part is not too tender, or in fome fluggiih tumours with but little pain, a plafter of the gum galban. eo- lat. or empl. gummi, may be applied alone, and re. newed every four or five days ; and to expedite its efficacy, a warm poultice may be laid upon it twice in the day. During the ufe of external applications, the ftatc of the conftitution muft be attended to; too much heat may occafion mortification, and too little will render every attempt inefficacious. If the heat is high, bleeding and cooling regimen muft be employed. I Avoid cathartics; but in cafe of coftivcncfs, ufe an I enema. When the heat is not adequate to the pro- I motion of .the fuppuration, cordial medicines, and I generous diet is required. 7o ejfe£i tbe Jecond intention, the whole of the tu- I mour, or nearly fo, muft be converted into pus, I before a difeharge can be admitted ; for otherwife all I that remains unfuppurated will digeft with difficulty, I and often will become a faulty ichor. Again, if a I due difeharge is not obtained as foon as the pus is I perfected, it putrifies and forms a fiftula, &c. or it I will be abforbed, and caufe a heftic fever. The time I of opening is generally to be known by tbe prominence I objerojed being tcry thin, by tbe matter flu SI noting on the I ligbtrft prejfure, and an abatement of tbe pain, Deal, and I pvlfation in tbe part. Abfcejfes, are opened cither by incifion with the I knife or lancet (but never with fcilfars, as they bruifcl in cutting) or the cauftic ; but incifion is to be prc-1 ferred. The opening may be as far as the fkin isi difcoloured, or a circular piece may be taken out itjl the decolouration fpreads. The opening muft be, 'fl polfible,!A B S pofliblc, in a depending part, though where nature points out, the operation fhould be performed. When the bad quality of an abfcefs is likely to retard its ruturc incarnation, an opening made by a caultic, eft prevents the lips 0f the wound from growing callous. Venereal buboes, and fomc fcrophulous tumours, if not in the face or neck, are l'ooncft healed after opening with a cauftic ; and fuch of thefe as neither will give way to fuppurating nor difeutient edicmes, are cfteftually deftroyed by cauftics, and the efehar is foon cicatrized. For the application, &c. a cauftic, ride article Escharotica. Many advife not to open critical abkeffes before they are digcfted. Sharp fays, that “ Very little of the morbid matter is depofued in them before they arc fully ripe, therefore till then fhould not be opened.” ... ll ccrtaln> that by a premature difeharge, the Uiccr becomes foul, and heals with difficulty. & When the knife is ufcd, if a nerve, vein or wSrbnefbger’ ,Ct guide thoTncifion winch is bed; begun on the lower lide, for then the Bp!r * drfeharged rnoft freely, and the operator haft incommoded by it. If poflible, its oourl'e fhould oe according to that of the fibres of the f'ubiaccnt P,-rtJ ’ tblls> the fkjn is very near a nerve the ule nerll lnln.Uw,l> may be obferved in gc- made rh Then tllc opening and difeharge ‘are and t^re^ ££%&?£ ^ not be warmed* lvlat arCTPrcad with ointments need being cold then linM*'th'° ^atlCn.t c°mplainsof their W o L b • -hem t0.thc bur not fo 6 that their furfaces will melt. Obfcrve a 5 properA B S proper pofture to favour the difcharge. Repeat the dreffings once or twice a day, as the quantity or quality of the difcharge may require. The greater diftance of time between each* dreHing, the fooner will the cure be perfedted. Avoid unneccflary delay in drefling as the air is prejudicial. Vide Belli on Ulcers, p. 54. 93. 3d. edition. Alfo KirklancTs Medical Surgery, Vol.ii. p. 49.6’. An Abscess in the Maxillary Sinus, called the Antrum Highmorcmivni. Drake mentions this as a fpecies of ozaena. It is known by a pain which is deep feated in the cheek, and a tumour there, on the outer and upper part; a dilcharge of offenfivc matter from the noftril of the affedted fide, cfpccially on in- clining the head to the fide that is found ; fometimes the breath is rendered very difagreeable by the caries produced in the teeth by this diforder. Mr. John Hunter obferves, in his Natural Hiftory of the Human Teeth, part ji. that, “ The pain in this dit- eafe is at firft taken for the tooth-ach; however, in thefe cafes, the nofe is more affedted than is oblerved in the tooth-ach. The eye is alfo affedlcd, and it is very common for people with fuch a dileafe to hate a feverc pain in the forehead, where the frontal finufes are placed ; but Hill thefe fymptoms are not fufficient to diftinguifh the difeafe. Time muft dif- clofe the true caufe of the pain, for it will com- monly continue longer than that which aiifes from a difeafed tooth, and will become more and more fe- vere; after which, a rednefs will be oblerved on the fore-part of the cheek, fomewhat higher than the roots of the teeth, and a hardnefs in the fame place, which will be coniklerably circumfcribed ; this hard- nefs may be felt rather highly fituated on the infide of the lip.” The method of cure by drawing rr.e of the denies Molares from the atftdted fide was nr't propofed and pradlifed by Drake, and his improve- ment has been continued w ith the happielt mccrl DrawA B S -Draw the laft tooth but one ; and if rotten, draw the next on each fide it, then through their fockets make a perforation into the antrum with a large awl; the matter being difchar£ed, the cure may be finifhed by injecting a mixture of aq. calcis, tin£l. myrrh, and mel rofa; twice a day into the cavity, and re- taining it with a tent. See Gooch's Cafes and Re- marks, in which an extraordinary inftance is related, with the ingenious and fuccefsful mode of treatment. Mr. John Hunter propofed to effeft the cure thus : ift, if the difeafe is known before the deftruttion of the fore part of the bone, make an opening through the partition, between the antrum and the nofe; or, 2(ily, by drawing a tooth, as above: the latter method he prefers. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. iv. p. 209; and Kirkland's Medical Surgery, vol. li. p. 150. Aescess of the Amts. A large quantity of fat mis up the cavity on each fide of the anus, and is the leaf of this diforder. 1 he caufes are various, as contufions, tooiinds, inflam- mations, difficult labour, hard riding, a dyfenterv, the Venereal dfeafe, &c. ' Ahfcejfes fometimes are fuddenly formed in this part ; at others, they advance very flowly. In the ftrjl toft, the appearance; are in the beginning like thole C ,a co.mmon boil; but the fvmptoms foon incrcafc, and quickly proceed to a more formidable ftatc. In t.e latter, though the fuppuration makes but little progrels, the pain and tumour fuffice to determine tne nature of the complaint. The pus, whether it makes its way through the km or through the internes, is frequently fo tedious 1 Sj Pj'-figc, that the adjacent fat is more or lei’s corroded and rendered famous, whence finufes are toimtd of different lhapes and fizes. Sometimes the a VCXt,en(]ccl 011 every bde, rendering the U both difficult and uncertain. When abfeeffes inA B S in this part arc left to thcmfelvcs, they rarely fail to degenerate into fiftulas, and occafion troublcfome callolitics. The tumour being formed, every means mud be employed to procure a lpcedy fuppuration. This, in fome degree advanced the matter mud be quickly difeharged. To this end, let the patient ftand on the ground with his feet afundcr, and lean over a table upon his belly. Then by introducing a finger into the anus, a fluctuation of matter will be per- ceived-, in which cafe, though no external figns of fuppuration appear, an opening mult be made into it with a knife. In order to determine where to make the punfture, prefs the finger in the anus on the abfetfey and another on the external parr, by which means the pus will be fo directed, as to be per- ceptible externally. When the opening is made, endeavour to enlarge the wound in withdrawing the knife ; and for better application of dreflings to the bottom, another incifion may be made tranl'verfely. If the reftuin is laid bare, an incifion mud be made into it, as far 3s the denudation extends, in order to its reunion with the adjacent parts, for the regene- ration of flefh ou the furfacc of an intedine when deprived of its fat, is obtained with great difficulty. When the matter furrounds the anus, a cure is hardly to be performed without removing the denudated part. For an extraordinary indance of this kind, viu'r, Med. Muf. vol. iii. p. 251. 257. A proper opening being made, the dreflings, See. are as in abfctjfcs in general. It is, however, ob- ferved by Aitius, that when this difordcr extends round the anus, there happens a con drift ion of the circumjacent paits, and an ebdruftion of the paflage of the anus, while the wound is filling up; to pre- venr which, lie advifes the introduction or a canula, and to continue it till the cure is perfefted. But flow far a good habit of body, aud other favourable circumtlances,A B S circumftance, may encourage hopes of fucccfs this way, the pra&itioner can only determine by occur- ring circumftaoces, and his own experience. When the caufc is venereal, thefe tumours fuppu- rate but (lowly ; and without a gentle mercurial ptyalilm, a cure is rarely cffe&cd. Vide Kirklands Med. Surgery, vol. ii. p. 201. An Abscess in tbe Arm-pit. Abfcejfts are often formed by injuries in the arm, hand, or fingers ; fome- times a fever at its crifis lodges matter here, and when ' the fever is of a malignant kind, thefe tumours fup- purate but (lowly. When ripe an opening (hould be made with the cauftic. This dilorder when it termi- nates the plague, is ufually called a bubo, which fee. Alfo Abscess in the Groin. An Abscess in tbe Back and Loins. Vide Pfoas Sen i Lurnbaris Abfcejfus. An Abscess of the Belly. Vide Inflamatio -Muscul Abdominis. AnAbscess in tbe urinary Bladder. An inflamma- tion in the bladder is fometimes followed by an abfeefs. 'When this happens, it is known by an exacerbation of the fymptoms, and a fenfe of weight in the parts about the perinseum and pubes. In order to the cure, injeft emollient fluids, mixed with warm milk, into the bladder, very frequently, tohaften the fuppuration, and to folicit the difeharge tnto its cavity. If the pus is not evacuated in due time, it acquires an acrimony, corrodes the adjacent parts, produces fiftulas, and other inconveniences. If the injections fail, there is no refource but that t an operation, which though rarely required, two Samples are recorded in Bonet. Sepulch.lib. iii. An Abscess of tbe Bones. Obfervations. in prac- ice prove, that not only in the cellular parts near the omts, but alfo in the middle cavities of the lar^e >°m;s, inflammations have degenerated into abfctffcsT I he obfervation of Ruyfch, in which he fays, that hehe found in the middle cavities of the large bones, round bony pipes, feparate from the reft of the bones in which he law them, may be referred to this arti- cle. Vide Abscess of the Feriofteum. An Abscess in the Brain. Inftanccs.of this kind have occurred, and if the teepan is ufed early enough, the cafe ends well. An Abscess of the Breaft. Thefeare external andi internal, for die latter. Vide Vomica- Externally this diforder happens, for the mod part, to women. It is then called Nafta. Bruifes fomc- times arc the caufe, but generally, a too a&ivc f<?pa- ration of the milk, or taking cold while the woman continues to fuckle. Inflammation of the lungs and pleura often produces abfccjfti in the breaft externally and upon the ribs, which prove fiftulous, and rendci the bones underneath carious. A frequent caufe h from not letting the child fuck until tw'o or three day: after its birth ; an early application of the child t< the breaft, or otherwife employing the breads befort they arc turgid with the milk, would in general pre- vent this complaint. Another caufe is the ufe or at tringents, &c. to repel the milk. When Abfiefs arife from milk, it is termed Sptfrganqfis. If diefe abfeeffa burft at the top, finuous ulcers ar fbmetimes the confeaucncc; and this happens to from laxity in the habit, and a defective heat in th conllitution. When inflammatory tumours happen in the bread of pregnant women, or of thofc who arc mules, 1> very cautious in the ufe of repellents ; in fanguinar habits, bleeding and opening medicines are ncecflan with a cooling regimen. If luch tumours do not yer cafily and fpecdily give way, proceed to fuppuratioi for this is the bed w-ay of preventing a feirrhus or cancer. ... , The common white bread poultice is preferable 1 any other fuppurant in tlicfc cafes; apply it warnA B S cVery two or “three hours, and continue ir till the abfcgfs breaks of itielf, and then you have only to en- large the opening a little, if it be too fmall • a fmall opening is generally preferable to a large one, as it heals both looncr and more kindly : fome advice to make an opening during the ftatc of inflammation, bccauie of the pain which attends thefe tumours; but by luch premature difeharges frefh collections will be made, and thus may the whole breaft be wafted - or by repeated inflammations a feirrhus will be formed, which alrnoft'invariably terminates in a cancer. An abftr.fi-here muft be opened by incifion, never y a cauftic, only if the lancet pafles near the nipple ft poinbie direct ir lemicircularly, both to avoid cutting it, or the areola, for thus the beauty of the rented ^ Prc^crvec*» and future l'uckling not pre- h fometimes happens, that in order to healing a prelent abjeefs, as alio to prevent the formation&of new ones, it is abfolutely neceflary to wean tlte child/ »//-grtadlla y d,vert the milk from the breafts. Vide adl i Surrge/y. vol. v. p. 396. Kirkland's Med. Sur- gerv, vol. .11, p. ,60—175. Pearfcm's Principles of rgcrv, vol. 1, p. 73, &c. While's Surgery, p. 411. Si at/^BSCESS °flbe DiathraSm- Vale Duptnuc. an !!/ r^rS-CES\*,n ^nr' fymPtoms attending ln thls Part> havc nothing peculiar, except mat the pain is very cxmufnc. Vide Otai.gia. An Abscess in the Eve. From the fmall-pox 1110ft ,nm oth“caufes-,his "*■» npaW|lCn ** ftat isjn,the tranfparent part of the cor- "ppcarancelfC°Vered by thC Pcculiar "’hitenefs of its i - Sf," I! "l thc °Pakc Part of thc “rnca, the eye isfeated.^ H,t m°rC P;irtlCularly & where the ahfLp T IfA B S If its feat is deeper, the firft evidence of its exig- ence is generally the extravafation of its contents in the aqueous humour. Thofc on the tranfparent cornea, are generally curcc by cautioufly opening them with the point of a lancet carefully avoiding the pellicles of this coat which laj beneath. In the other two kinds there is great danger o: lofing the fight, for they difeharge therafelves intt the anterior chamber of the eye, though fometimes ; cure is cfFeftcd without any remaining inconvenience When the matter of thefe diffufes itfelf fo as to fpreac over all the pupil of the eye, then is formed the hy- popyon ; if only a part of the pupil is covered there- by, the matter forming itfelf into a fpcck like thofi at the bottom of our nails, it is called an onyx. Hei fter, in his Surgery, gives a different account of tli hypopyon and the onyx. In the cure of the chemofis, firft ufc remedies t< refolve the inflammation ; if thefe fail, proceed a| follows : While the contents of the abfcifs are no! yet difperfed, but extend into the hole of the pupil place the patient fronting a good light, with his heai laid on the back of an eafy chair, then make an in eilion into the tranfparent part of the cornea, undc| the hole of the pupil, taking care that the point o the lancet docs not touch the iris, which lays behin the pus ; make the aperture long enough to give free vent, then gently inje£t a little warm waterj Afterwards apply a comprcfs, wetted in a weak folu tion of ccrufs acetat; keep the comprefs conftantl m-lift by fprinkling it from time to time, and dro fume of it three or four times in the day in the orific of the cornea. Some days after the firft difeharge, frelh colleffion of pus fometimes prefents itfelf, which cafe introduce a fine ftillet into the incifion, i order to its palfage outward, and proceed as at th firfA B S firft. On thcfe fubjefts vide Wallis's Nofologia Methodica Oculorum, and Bell's Surgery, vol. iii. An Abscess in the Eye-HA, when externally (itu- ated, it requires no peculiar management different ! from ahfcrjf, i in general, except that in opening it when fituated near the cilia, great care is reouired not to enter the lancet any deeper than is barely ne- ceflary to evacuate the aLfiefs ; if the edge of the eye. 3 lid is cut, an incurable waterinefs is endangered. 1 The direflion of the incifion is the fafeft in the courfe of the orbicular mufcle. ^ .An ahfctji fituated on the infide of the eye-lids may- be opened with a lancet, and then walhed with a ' weak fclution of cerus. acetat. :i Abscesses in the Fen. Of all the forts that affeft thefe parts, the ftrumous are the word, for in thefc ! inftances the bones arc ufually affe&cd ; but abfcejjes of every kmd are bad, as they arc apt to form finu- :J ulcers, and cariato the bones. The applications all-l general managements as are in other cafes. 1 An Abscess of the Gums. Dr. Cullen places this j as a variety of the phlogofis phlegmonc. Thcfe tu- - naours are very painful, the inflammation is ofccir- • more diffufed than in other parts, and more or lels !;* attended with afwclling in the check, or perhaps the f whole face. The tooth-ach, the general caufes of inflammation, i j?i:ar'aus t00th> &x. arc the caufcs of this complaint. <r Mr. John Hunter obferves, that gum boils fcldom :• arile from any other caufc than inflammation in the d tavity of a tooth, the effeft of which extends all over the face, but more particularly in the gums; that lynietimcs this difeafe originates from a difeafe in the ■ • of the tooth, or in the jaw, without any cou- rt Action with the tooth. ■T lirough bad management, or neglect, they are i!>; *Pct0 degenerate into fiftulous ulcers, f.- Duringthe inflammation,to affuage the pain, let the patient hold a dccodfion of barley for of camomileA B S or elder flowers, or other anodyne ingredients) con. dandy in his mouth, fpitting it out, and taking frelh quantities, as may be needful to keep up an equal de- gree of heat, or, perhaps, the fuppuration cannot tx avoided ; in which cafe let figs be fplit and held ir the mouth upon the boil, and white bread poultice: (wrapped in thin linen cloths) applied hot on th< out-fidc upon the check of the affetted fide ; and a; fpeedily as is convenient, let the abfeejs be opened, foi tlic contained matter foon corrodes the adjacent parts ^and atfcdVs the bone. The difeharge being made, th< poultice may be continued a little longer, and th< mouth walhed three or four tints a day with warn: wine and honey of rofes. If a bad tooth is the caufc, it mud be extracted be- fore any attempts are made by medicines, or, at lealt as foon as the difeharge of the abfeejs will permit. If the ulcer degenerates into a fiftula, injeft warn wine and honey of rofes into it; and if it is fufpe£le< that the bone is carious, add to this injeflion a little q the tinft. myrrh, or of the vin. aloes. If thefe me thods fail, proceed as for the exfoliation'of a cariou bone. Vide article Epui.is. On this fubjeft, fee Mt John Hunter’s Natural Hiftory of the Human Teetli part ii. and Bell's Surgery, vol. iv. p. 203. An Absokss of tbe Heel. The common caufcs of a abjce.fi may produce ir, but generally it is ftrumous. The principal objeft of particular attention is, tha if there is a caries, the beft method is to pafsan aSu: cautery through a canula. Wifcman fays itfaves muc time, and that thus the caries feldom feparates in th form of a fcalc, but moulders away infenfibly withth matter. Abscesses on thf Fingers 'ami Toes. Vide Pako Kychia. An Abscess in tbe Groin, Thefe, like thofc in th arm-pit, arc fometimes occafioned by injuries done t the parts below, as in the knees, legs, or toes; a pefii lentil fever may be the caufe, but the venereal difesA B S C 1 pa (led is the moft frequent. Vide article Bubo. If opened withakmfe.be careful not to wound the inguinal artery In venereal cafes a cauftic is the belt for opening them flth> as cIjiToIves part of the induration which too often remains after the greateft part is fuppurated, and *7 ° a"lfts In d'gefling the remainder. If abfcrJTn in the groin, or in the arm-pit, are from the criiis of a fever, open them with a cauftic, and keep them run- ning till a ! danger from the fever is over. In glandu- lar parts all that is hardened fhoulti be perfeffly diffolvcd ; for inftances have occurred of cancers proceeding from remaining indurations. ° Abscesses on the Hands. For the moft part they are brumous; when not, the common methods fufTice for their removal. , Abscess on the Head. Wounds on the head ge- nerally are the moft fpeedily healed ; when an abjJs \is brought to the ftateof a wound, the fame advantages attend ,t, and the common methods fuflke for the cure. Uhcn^are feated on the futures, they may e troublcfomc by inilaming the dura mater which fades through them, and is continued to thepericra- mum. Every where on the fcalp, a cauftic is the belt 01 opening abfcejfes, efpecially if a long confinement of tne matter has rendered the fltull carious, for it imkes feme way for the rafpatory, which is always ufed, except where the futures are: exfoliation here'is very ^ low therefore raiping is ufed, and then incarnation can immediately proceed. JW‘‘ °v^ r!le f°r<:heacl are beft opened by incifion, ut care ftiould be oblerved, that the direftion of the canr,Srayiberf,0 0Wr^ f°r a tranfverl'e wound may >.auf(. the eye-lids to fall over the eyes. Un " Abs“s* Ln ibe. a fpccics of Arlbrot’uojis. 1V?“a'^Wt forms itlelf in the fockcr, or the head amen,C rh,gh',b0,,le’ thtreJ is ulua,1y a grcat fwLlli>ig and r f ,D thf.h,P> ai1li >n tunc a colle&ion of matter ^rnade here olio : howeyei, this is not the only way it pocteuG, for mftanccs have occurred, in which it hasA B S pniTed through the bottom of the acetabulum into th belly ; and in thefe cafes when the patient went to ftoci the matter by draining was forced back, and througj the external wound. Mr. Pott obferves, th.at this ail cafe originates in the hip-joint; yet, in this cafe, th leg of the affeffed fide is fliortcr than the other, th pain begins where the difeafe originates, i.c. about th great trochanter. It is, he fays, a diftemper of th joints and ligaments that furroutid it. He farther addt that, if we lee lcrophulous afftftions of any kind, i the beginning, if there is any remedy in art, I be lieve it to be iflucs; therefore in fcrophulous hipt apply a large caullic on the part large enough to ad mit of five or fix peas, and keep up the difch.irgc a long as it appears to be ncccffary. But, though thi method, if early ufed, is much to be depended or like many other valuable means, is ufually applied to late. Abscesses about the Jaws. Befidcs the comma caufes, a carious tooth, the tooth-ach, an injury dor to the focketarf the jaw in extracting a tooth, &c. ma produce an abfeefs in thefe parts. Abjcrjfn under the chin arc frequently found in chi dren, bur they eafiiy give way to the common method The conglobate glands under the jaws are very lul jc£t to fuppuration, and are often miftaken for ftrumot (welling*, but they differ greatly from them. 1 I llrumous kind are contained in a cyft, which requit to be deftroyed by tfcharotics after the matter is ni charged; but thefe arc managed and cured with<ia by the ordinary methods of digeftion. An Abscess in the Intrjlitics. When an abfeefi \ tire inteftincs is difeharged, the cafe is feme-times mi taken fora dyfentery ; indeed, if the cxulccration cot tinues long, its treatment will be the fame as in tl dyfentery, though at the firll the methods are far fro funilar. Before an akfeefs is formed in thefe parrs, there always a throbbing pain felt near the part affected, i liA B S ill ^ 3 ]b i'j. t the beginning of the fuppuration there are unequal llhiverings, which incrcafe and remit; all'o a "fever, with an exacerbation of the fymptoms in the evening. 'When th.is accident follows an inflammation of the ‘ bowels, it begins in about four days after the attack of t the inflammation, at which time a /hivering comes on, twitich extends through the whole body, and an ob- ' tule pain, with a fenfe of weight, is perceived by the part affefted. After the pus is quite formed, the 1 fymptoms abate, and the pain ncaply ceafes, till the ttime of breaking approaches, and then the pain is re- newed, and fometim.es the belly is violently ouftipated ; after the difeharge, a quantity of aqueous pus is thrown ■Out by (fool. Sec Aetius Tctrabib. tii. form. i. cap. 4a. . 'In about fourteen days the pus makes its way info the cavity of the belly, and produces inconveniences flmi- lar to thofc arifmg from a difeharge of the like kind . :from the liver : or, palling into the inteftincs, it runs off by (fool. In this,cafe, entire membranes are dif- charged, and a confumpfion often follows. . If, on the firft attack the means employed againft an inflammation of the intelfines fail, little more is to be :<Ione than to fupply the patient with emollient and gently detergent broths, until by the continuance of the excretions the dyfcntcric Ifatc is arrived, when the procedure is as in a dyfentery. Mufgrave, in treating of the irregular gout, ob- ferves, that fometimes a gouty dyfentery degene- fates into an abfafs in the bowels. Celfus ob- ferves, that large al-f;ejfc! in thefe parts are not fel- j [he conlequer.ee of fevers and pains, cl’pceiallv 1 0/ pains in th'c belly. Gouty gpjcrjfii are formed iii , the afophagus, {foiiiach, and guts, and that without p i||V:nS any ieafon to fufpedl them, till they break. „ «f>wt\er, as foon as the difcliargc is made, the patient mould avoid all cxercifc. To dilute and to deterge, • kt the following be uftd for common drink : ft, Hord. \ Pen*;, o fa. rad. ccnfolid. min. § i. cocj. in aq. puritfim.A B S lb i'j- ad ]bj. & cola. If the purulent difehargesar exceffive, moderate them with fnrall dofes of the tine opii. in cafe of faintnefs, a glafs or two cf wine ma now and then be allowed; avoid all acids, acrids, an high cordials, and let the diet chiefly confift of jellie. agglutinating broths, See. at laft, when all appeaiancc of purulcncy have vaniflied, the following mav b ufed both to reliorc, and to prevent a relapfe. R Gut myrrh, pulv. gr. v. balf. locat. q. f. f. pil. iij. bis die re petend. cum hauft. decoft. fupra prelcript. Vid VVrarner on the Gout. An Abscess in the Kidney. When an infiamma tion in the kidney fuppurates, it is known by the fol lowing figns, viz. a remiilion of the pain, which i fuccccdcd by a pulfation, a frequently returning hori ror, a weight and ftupor in the part, with a heat an tenflon, the urine is purulent and fetid fometime? and, at others, a whitilh pus is difeharged with li in which is nothing offcnfivc. If this fuppuration continues fome time, the who! kidney being confumcd, it forms a kind of bag of n ufe ; and, in this cafe, a tabes renalis is frequent] prefent; but if a fmall quantity of the inflammatpr matter remains coagulated in the minute follicula: c the urine, it forms a bafis, to which the fabulous mat ter which continually is paIGng by it will adhere, an- gradually form a ftone, and which alfo by the fam means will be augmented. When the abfeejs is burft, the urine becomes puru lent; and though in thefe cafes the difeharge ceafc- the kidney fluinks into a withered Hate, and all Cv m plaints are ended at fome certain period ; yet to haftci this relief, diluting and gently diuretic liquors ma; be ufed, gentle laxatives and balfar.iics alfo, and pro bnbly the bark may much conduce to the expediting cure. An Abscess of the Li-jer. A fuppuration is prog nollicatcd if an inflammation continues in the live in«rA B S more than three days; if the pain remit3,- and is fol- lowed by a pulfation in the fame place, and if ihh cl - ings come on, with a continuance of an idlcrical co- lour : foon after which a tumour is perceived in the region of the liver, and a fenfe of weight allb ; a heftive fever follows with third, and an extreme Jecblcnefs. Aretams oblerves, that a pain generally extends to the throat, and to the extremity .of the Cioutdcr, and a dry, but not very frequent cough, afflicls the patient. He farther remarks, that this diforder is fometimes miftaken for a tumor of the pe- ritonaeum, which latter is more irregular, and is not -ireumferibed by the limits of the hvpochondriuin* The confequences of an ab/irfs in this vifeus are : It is corroded and confirmed. In this cafe, after 3 tedious ifterical waiting, a flow fever, great atptiety, i lanious and fetid diarrhoea, Sec. the patient dies. . The abfcr.fi breaks inwardly, and difeharges a fa- mous pus into the belly : thus the reft of the vifeeta become putrefeent, a confumption of the whole, body h^ftily advances, an afeites follows, and terminates in death. The fame fort of pus paffes by the biliiary dudls into the inteflines, and regurgitating into the jfto- maAr, caufes various coloured and offenfive vomit- i mgs; or paffing downwards, produces a violent diar- tha-a. Acid and acefccnt fubllanccs mav palliate for * time, but the end is always fatal. _ 1 be ichorus matter palfing through the ramifiea- i °f thc vena cava to the blood, procures fymptoms - I‘lc ,T,°ft lormidablc, the functions are foon dithubed, ■ tr|d rlie difordcronly ends with life. , "-^e tumour may adhere to the peritoneum, and • form an external ubfafs, evident both to the fight j irk‘ touch. Jn this calc, a difeharge of the matter mud be procured in the following manner: Make ;• ?\n mcifion of fufheient length with a fcalptd, through ,i J.“c Lxtcrnal teguments in the moil depending part of ;i p10 tumour, and on reaciiing the abfeefs, open it with theA B S The point of the fcalpcl, or with a lancet, but picrci it with a trocar is preferable, as you may thereby t gulate the dilcharge. This opening may afterwat be enlarged, to prevent farther collections. Betwe the lips of the u'ound, a pledgitof foft lint, moiften with tine oil, or fpread with a mild ointment, ihoi be introduced, and a flannel roller palled three four times round the body. If the wound does r foon fill up, a canula Ihould be introduced toprtfer a free paffage for any matter that may afterwar form. Mr. Bell advilcs an opening to be made ir the abfeefs, in every injlance kvkefe there is the leajlca to fuf[>efl that matter has formed in the li ver. The fr life of the bark, when the fuppuration i; forme and the matter difeharged from the abfcels is ufef When the abfeefs burfts into the cavity of the che or in the abdomen, an attempt Ihould be made draw it off by the operation of the empyema, or p raccntcfis. Vide articles Paracentesis, and E: PVF.MA. In an incipient inflammation of the liver, the uft means for reducing inflammation Ihould be en ployed. Mercury alfo, has been found extreme beneficial. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. v. p. 3S Kirland's Med. Surgery, vol. ii. p. 135. and Lon.: Medical fournal, v. vii. An Abscess of the Mcdiaflinum. In fuch fitu tions there is but little to be done for the relief of tl patient; however, it is obferved by fevcral prafl tioners, that in the venereal difeafe this diforder peculiar and frequent. Vide Kirkland's Med. Surger vol. ii. p. 183. An Abscess of the Mefenterj. Suppurations^ this part arc not fufpgCtcd by many, becaufe neith heat nor pain are always perceived in it; but the fymptoms, though commonly attendant on, yet are n| t'ffcntial to inflammation and fuppuration, on the fei Utility of the parts thefe depend. It inay be obferve thA B S :nat pus is no where more readily formed than in parts iiat are every where covered with fat, becaufc the .at ulelr, m lomc degree, is conducive to it. Abtcejfcs in the mefentery are far from being rare, ind are generally to be difeovered by a continual hcc- ac lever an opprelfive unfcafmefs in the belly, a dif- barge of a famous matter by ftool, and fometimes mm and heat in the intellines. The fanious matter s alfo not unfrequently abforbed by the veins, and ring mixed with the blood, is conveyed to other munftones as the glands of the trachea, the kid- ‘ ’ 6rc. Hence large impofthumcs of the mefen. cry are often accompanied with dllcharges of nuru- cntunne, or a fpitting of purulent matter, though tthe fame time no injury has happened cither to nl! ?r°Whe ,kldnics- If thc <&Pr fcated in rfcr ^ f°r tllc excret‘°n of its contents, very rQubkfomegnpcs .efembhng a cholic, are produced : I the matter is difeharged into a cavity of thc bcliv, ■ p.oduces a gangrene in the pans it touches. Hor- he Dust?-h0l‘ne’ anj .TalPlus’ 'Sive inltances of • Pus bei"br emptied into the cavity of the inref >ncs and fo difeharged by ftool; but notwjthftand'ing II thefc orcumllances, for the molt part thc d.ag- oflics are very obfeure ; nay, thefc aAfitfc, have befit isair1 ** i-1* Jf thefe fort of tumours are fufpefted, they mull iir,hSng'“““d h!"" f‘om *» iP1-T“ftl' is d»“g«raus j for if the tie bclh t n " a V£7 Putild matter into he uSis ni r '"n t0H°T; lf aftcr rupture tv and fpecdily cured, it acquires a bad qua, ion*. d lndUCeS a -mtgrenc, a droply, or a eonfump- e1pc1tcheivCrplaiir ‘S maUifcft> alMl tllc tumour can percuved, emollients may be applied externally, andABS and internally may be adminifrered aperient and gen purgative medicines, and fudt things as are ufed obftruftions of the liver and fplecn, &c. Thefe fuppurations are generally in the glands the fncfentcrv, and are only one amongft otner fci phulous attendant fyinptoms. Thefe glands are oft found after death in a fcirrhouS ftatc, arid thus a frequently the companions of a cancer here, or fomc other glandular part. Vide Rrverius’s Prs Med. lib. xiii. An Abscess of the Neck. This part is affefted wi tumors of every kind, but generally the l'crophnlc and cncyltcd occupy it. Abfcrjfes here are apt to b come fiftulous, but by proper comprefs and banda this effeft is often prevented. An opening in tl part is belt made with a lancet; but if thcjugul Vein is near, fome care is required not to wound it. An Abscess intbe Noftril, Ozona. Thefe from t pain they occafion arc exceeding troublcfomc. If the inflammatory ftate they can be removed by blee ing, purging, bliftcring the back, &c. much trout to the patient will be fared ; but if the fuppuratii {till advances, emollient injeftiens may be thrown i the affected noftril, and a warm cataplafm laid up< the nofe. Wi fern an obferves, that the matter whi digefted is very tough. Vide Bf/'s Surgery, vol. i p. 76. Pear/bn’s Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 25 and White s Surgery, p. 265. An Abscess in the Nympho'. Aetius calls the Alse, and fays in cafe an abfeejs here, or in the p dtnda, lhould extend to the anus, we mud aro cutting, for a fiftula will be the confcquencc ; but it extends to the meatus urinarius, an incifion may 1 made. An Abscess of the Piinrrens. This complaint the 1110ft common in fcorbutic habits. Riolan fay that its prcfencc is probably gucilcd at by a fenfc ■ weight in the region of the itomach, no hardneft n< turnotA B $ amour being manifeft in the hypochondria, particu- arly if there are other marks of latent obftru&iona i the abdominal vifeera ; alfo a difficulty qf breath- ag trom the compreifion of the diaphragm; and ametimes by preffing near the fide of the ftomach a amour is perceptible, and then the preflurc caufes •a'n. Though jor the mcjl pan the diagnojlics are -aery bfiae or uncertain, yet it may be observed that a be Pit r tver, long -Matchings, Jhort Jlecgs, followed by afenfe of learinefs, fainting, and cold/weals, are certain attend- ’its when this difeafe is prefent. The cure is the fame as in fimilar diforders of the ther vifeera. See Riverius’s Prax. Med. lib. xiii. ap. 4. An Abscess of the Parotid Glands, alfo called na- atis. 1 The parotid glands fuppuratc with difficulty, the fs fo when the general habit is difordered, a venc- Scorbutic, peftilential, or other affeftion attends. They are apt to become fiftulous; though when ucy a rife in children, unattended by any other dif- ifc, there is no danger of ill confequences, and in -tch circumftanccs the bed remedies arc purgatives, uxed with fmull doles of calomel frequently re- in more advanced life, Trallian lays it down as a he, that if called early to aflift in fuch a cafe, the ire mull begin with bleeding: and Cclfus, with •eat judgment propofes, that “When the parotis unattended with any other dilorder, the cure may :gin with repellents and difeutients; but, on the i JnV‘ai7> if any other complaint has preceded or at- nds, luppuration muft be immediately promoted.” he management under fuppuration is the fame as rJ'Tiar cafcs> viz‘ thc Kubo, which fee, &c. 1 bland s Med. Surgery, yol. ii. p. 142. An Abscess in the Pcrinaum. An abfeefs, if fuf- «ed to be formed in this part, lhould,' if conve- nient.A B S Morb. Curat. lib. iii. cap. 43. Paulus Atgineta, lib. iv. cap. 18. An Abscess of tbe Temporal Mufele. The violent pain occafioncd by an inflammation and fuppuration in this part, is from the tendinous fheath which co- vers it, by which the matter is fo confined, that it can only clcapc downwards under the zygomatic pro- cels, and fo points into the mouth on the outfide of the dentes molares, where when it has advanced, it mav be aflifted by a punaure to difeharge ltlelf. Dr' Hunter oblervcs, that when the pam has been violent, and the fever excited thereby confiderable, he has, with advantage, made an incifion along the mufclcs; and he advil'es, when an inflammation is confiderable, that we open the part without delay, for we never can perceive any fluctuation there, as the fafeia is fo tight. Vide Kirkland's Med. Surgery, vol. ii. p. 13 3- An Abscess of tbe Tejlicles. Aide hernia HUMOR A LIS. An Abscess of tbe Tonfils. Abfceffes here endan- ger fufifocation. In the beginning endeavour to ob- tain a cure by bleeding, purging, or bliftenng be- tween the (boulders, and fuch other means as the cafe may require, or difcrction admit; but if, as fometimes happens, all means failing, a fuppuration fliouUl take place, an incifion or two may be made with a lancet into the body of the tumour. Thus bv difeharging lbme of the blood and humours before they are formed into pus, the dangerous degree ot fweUing is prevented. It is never prudent to leave the matter till it is formed into perfeft pus, but at the lateft, the pundture fhould be made as foon as tne appearance of digefted matter can be perceived. It lumpens fometimes, that when the patient is on the point of fuffocation, a fudden fpontancous difeharge point ot luuocauon, a gives inftant relief-, „ f«°»« rodtlwmfclYea, they conrraft, and by the afiiilancACH ot a gargle, made with the dccodf. cort. ulini. & mel. roiac. a cure is completed in a. few days. , -A'1 Abscess in the IVotnb. When an inflamma- tion licre begins to fuppurate, bladders of warm water fhould be applied over the part molt aggrieved ; frequent inceliions are alfo to be advifed. Oribafius obferves, that thefe nbfcejfts fometimes dilcharge themfelves into the cavity of the uterus, at Others into the inteftinum reftum, or into the blad- der. Poreftus fays, that if the difcharge is into the cavity of the womb, and is whitilh, the patient may recover; but the ulcer continuing, too often is pro- ductive of difeouraging effedls. When enquiry is made concerning an abfeefs of any particular part, refer alfo to what is faid on an ilnnammation and ulcer of the fame. Authors to be confulted on abfutfes are Hjppo- crates, Aretams, Celfus, Paulus, Alg'ineta, Qribalfus, Aet,us, Actuarius Hildanus, &c. and among thofe of later date, Bocrhaave, Wil'eman, Turner, Hcifter, Sharp, Dcafc, & Bell. ’ Achyls. A dirmiefi of fight; from dark- nefs* or dvudtnefs. It alfo fignifies a fmall fear or mark over the pupil of a light blue colour. It is fv- nonymous with Caligo corner,orblindncfs from opacity of the cornea. Vide Cullens Nofology. It is the Uucoma ncpbcUum of Sauvaces, and is deferibed a peck of the cornea, fomewhat pellucid, which occa- ioiis objcdls to appear as if feen through linokc, or i cloud, and hence are more obfeured. By infpcc- ;!on obliquely, it is difeovered to be different from me opacity of the aqueous humour, accompanying ,omq difeafes of the eye. This lpccies often arifes torn a variolous opthalmy, or moift one, or whatever - n render the cornea opaque; in infants, as their ■ cars increafes it often vanilhes fpontancoufly. The Ulee of cither the blues, or purple pimpernel; Ihould dropped into the eye twice a day for the (pace of J) 2 a week$- A C H a week ; the juice of the common ftar-thiftle, and blue bottle are ufcfnl; but fugar candy, finely pow- dered, is generally fufficient. Emetic wine dropped into the eye, may alio be ufed with advantage. The vapour of anifecd, or fennel water, is likewife ferviceablc. Vide Wallis’s Nolblogia Methodica Oculorum. Achor. LaBumen: abas., acores, cerion ; favus. The arttfla la,Ilea of authors, and in England, the Scald Head. Trallian fays, it is a fore on the outfide of the head, full of little perforations, which difeharge a humour like ichor, whence its name. He farther fays, that the cerion rtfcmblcs an achor ; but that the mouths of the perforations are larger, rc- fembling the cells of a honey-comb, whence the name ; the matter is alfo nearly of the confidence of thin honey. When thefe difeafes fpread, the ferum, which ouzes out, dries, and forms a fcab. The acbor differs from the favus and tinea only in t,hc degree of virulence. It is called favus when the perforations are large, and tinea when they arc like thofe which are made by moths in cloth: but gene- rally by tinea is underfund a dry fcab on the hairy Ealp of children, with thick fcalcs and an offenfive fjncll; when this difordcr affefts the face, it is called erujla Uiflea, or milk fcab. Mr. Bell, in his Treatife on Ulcers, fays, that the tinea capitis & crufta latfca, may both be reduced to the fame fpccies of herpes, viz. the herpes fsufti/lvfts, they being naturally the fame, differing only in fituation ; the tinea is on the hairy fcalp, and the crufta la&ea on the face. Dr. Cullen places this difiafc under ULCUS; as a fyno- nyme ; where alfo he places the Crust a Lactea, the clals locales, and order dialyfes. When it hap- pens to children, if in other refpedfs they are healthy, the beft treatment, bcfidcs keeping the belly mode- rately lax, is clcanlincfs and a moderate diet; an ifl'uc may be made and continued till the difordcr is J cleared-Jdearcd, and the ftfength of the conftitution is efta- ohflicd ; keep the hair fhort, and wafh the head with oap-iuds. Some inftanccs of this fort are very dif- ficult of cure, and attended with violent itchiiv a wlc countenance, &c. but (till the fame method generally fucceeds in all the fpccics and degrees of ■ irulence. Small dofes of calomel may be given as an Iterative rather than as a laxative, and the itin. an- im in fuch dofes, at proper intervals, as the ftomach vill cahly retain. Externally the unguent e pice may be ufed two or hree times in a week, or cream mixed with chalk in me powder. If the humour is repelled give warm fudorifics ntil it returns. Scabby eruptions on children ihould ot be repelled when about the mouth, ears, or in- eed on any part of the body. Though thefe crup- ions depend not on the habit, but the difficulty of alfing through the Ikin, yet cold bathing fhould not e uled. Ucanhnefs and a frequent ufe of the warm ath are ot great fervice. The pradticc of tearing up ie roots of the hair is ufelcfs, therefore cruel. Keep 16 halr /h®rt> and wafh the part with aq. pur. in ua gr* x. hydrargyriir\uriati. Among the ancients, Aerius, .Egineta, Trallian, ribalius, Galen, &c. treat profefledly on thefe dif- ders •, amongft the iater authors, Heifter and Tur- -r may be confidted, with the (till later writers, as rooks, Smith, Bell, in his Surgery, and- Treatife L C7wuM'JfSo°n the Management of Children, c. and White s Surgery, p. 59. ^Egyi.ops or >Ecelops. A difeafe in the in- ard corner of the eye , fo called from g0J r.^k- xv f>r’ or goal’s eye ; becaufc it is faid goats e fubjeft to this difeafe. Paulus xEgeneta, calls it ^ before ,t burfts, and evgylofs after. Avi, nna can, Jt garnt, and algarab. Anchylops and drc but diflerent hates of the Fijlula Lacbry, D 3 mils.M G mtfi'n. The eegylops is the fiftula lachrymalis begin- ning to diicharge pus. Dr. Wallis, however, com- bats the propriety of this general term, he fays, ‘ Why the diftinftion of the ancients fhould be at prtfent negleftcd with refpedt to the anchylops and a;gv[ops, and general term adopted, which is in itfclf highly abfurd, will not be cafy to account for. Surely, to denominate a complaint fiftulous, where no fiftula exifts, tnurt be ridiculous•, and the two different fpe- cies, as well as the third, are ftyied fiftula lachry- malis by the moderns. Some of the ancient phyfi- cians con fide red the lacrymalfac, in its ftatc of tume- faction, a? an anchylops; when ruptured, an segylops; and certainly the diftinction ought to be preferred.’ Fide his Nofulogica Methodica Oculorum. Arti- cle, Epiphora a Rbyade. It is either fcrophulous, atheromatous, or of the nature of a meliceris. Sometimes it is a fymptom of the lues venerea. Sometimes it is with, and at others without inflam- mation. If it is attended with crofion, it terminates in a cancer. In opening this abfeefs, be careful not to cut the edge of the eye-lid, for thus you will caufc an incurable watcrinefs. When it is ftrumous, it proceeds from congcftion, and the tubercle is round without difcolouring the Ikin. If it is caufcd by fluxion, pain and rednefs appear, with inflammation all over the eye. Some- times it begins with a weeping, and is not fufpedted until a rednefs appears in the eye, and then by a gentle preffure on the pan, a matter is difeharged. a part of which rcicmbles the white of an egg. If this matter makes its way into the nofe, it ac- quires a fcctid fmell, and is difeharged through the noftril. As to the cure, if the cafe is recent, begin with a cautious ufe of bleeding and purging ; or if thefc are contraindicated, give inch alteratives as are molt efteemedALB : deemed in fcrophulous diforders. The tumour may )c rcfolvcd by anodyne and difeutient applications, mt if there is a tendency to a fuppuration, haften it, nd the difeharge of the pus with all convenient peed, left the bone underneath fliould be a defied ; he abfcel's cleanfed, heal it with the tinCL of myrrh nd aloes mixed with niel. rofac. If the matter has laded all'o under the cilium, ufe a powerful dcftc- ative, fuch as ftrong lime-water, alfiftcd by a com- irefs. If the periofteum under the tumour is laid bare, an xfoliation mud be haftened by a cauftic, and a paf- age opened into the nofe, after which dry lint alone nay fuffice. Too conducting medicines may produce riiyas, (ee Rhyas; too digedivc applications may ,ive rile to an encanthis. Vide article Fistula .achrymalis, alfo the following authors, Galen, *tius, Cclfus, Paulus Atgeneta, Auftarius, Senncr- is, Wilcman, Heider, Pott, Bell, Kirkland, and Va re. Albugo Oculorum, White Speck on the Eyes. he Greeks generally named it leucoma ; the Latins, uhes maculae alba, nebula, and neibccula. Some old writers have deferibed it under the names of pterygium, annus oculi, onyx, paralamp/is, argnna, and cegides. auvages makes it a fpecics of leucoma, under the ante leucoma. Dr. Wallis calls it, the albuginous, or ‘airly corneal /peck. The French name it, tacbe 'anebe. When it (bines otherwife,/w/f; the Latins, 'argaritta ; the Greeks, srufu'Kay.wi;. It is a variety of ■ ullen s, Caligo cornea;. With us it is varioufly de- ommated as a cicatrix, film, haw, dra- ;OM, PEARL, &C. Every cicatrix will appear white in the black part t the eye; for the cornea-being thickened, the mod minent part turns white; adringents thicken thefc icatrices. Some writers, when this diforder is fu- erticial, term it nifbccula, and when deep, albugo. Others,ALB Others, when the fpeck appears of a fhining white and without pain, call it a cicatrix; if of an opak whitenefs, an albugo ; fcated fuperticially a fprck and more deeply n dragon. When an abfcefs ha been the caufe, its contents hardening between th laminae, occafions a degree of projection, and it i then called a pcurL The caufcs are various ; as in flammation in the eye, abfcefli in the cornea, crofion mealies, fmall-pox, wouqds, burns, &c. When deep the cure is difficult ; when the confequence of a woun or ulcer, it is calily cured; when it arifes from ai imprudent ufe of vitriolic collyriums, or the natura ffiape of the eye is altered, we are not to expert it removal. When it fuccccds inflammation, it gene rally difappears without the aid of furgical a Alliance In thefe inllances, I conceive it is taken up by th abforbent veffels. Following the fmall-pox, mealies, or other inflam matory complaints, bleeding, purging, bliftcrs, diu reties, and low diet, mull be ufed. Cold, and af tringent collyriums mull be avoided. When th fpccks arc imall, they often ulcerate, but are fooi healed by the aq. cupri, ammoniati of the Lond Pharmacop. If the fpccks have been of long Hand ing, the cure is difficult. The following method fhould however be recurred to : expofe the difeafc< part of the eye to the fumes of camphorated fpirito 'vine, direfled through a quill: This method leldnn fails to excite l'ome degree of inflammation,, by whicl the cure is effected ; and if the inflammation is high the uftial means mull be employed for its removal When the film is very tough, and the eye not in flamed, common glafs finely levigated, maybe blowt through a quill, and repeated every day or two. Dr Kirkland thinks, that in general, when fmall opacitic upon the cornea are curable ; and the cure is under taken as foon as the removal of inflammation admits nature allilied by lengthening the eye with cold water willA LG rill eiTeft the cure. According to St. Yves, it is cured ■) '-ginning with the inflammation which accompa- ies it. Bocrhaavc preferibed the repeated ufe of ca- nmel and cathartics. I have always found, that f exciting the abforbent fyftem the difeafe has been moved, to this end, I have always ufed calomel and tthartics; iometimes bleeding from the arm, and . -equently from the temple by leeches, and this col- rium R. Aq. Pur lbj. Hydrargyr. muriat. gr. j. Iifce. Vide article Unguis, alfo Kirkland's En- V°“ J1- 49*- Bell's Surgery, vol. iii. p. 35f,. •allns Nolology of the Eyes, p. 134, and White's tfUEgery, p. 22S. A1.gluo. Supprejfed Gonorrhea ; when it has ftop- •'d fuddenly, after it has appeared. The fymptoms e, a pam reaching to the anus, or to the tefticlcs ithout their being fwelled, and fometimes to the adder, m which caie there is a continued inclination ducharge the urine, which is paired with difficulty, d in fmall quantities. The pain is extended to the adder by the urethra, to the anus bv the accclera- y mufclcs of the penis, and to the tefticlcs by the a deferentia, and veficuhe feminales. To cfTeft ecure the running muft- be brought back, by the bit PUrgCS’ and bleeding, if in a phlethoric is f a.nUS, and Cockburn have written on fubjeft. In thefe and other difagrceable fymp- fmmhrKS rPtha TS’ dcafnefs» Celled tefticlcs, • tiom the ruppreffion of a virulent gonorrhea ere the common methods do not reprodufe the dif! rge ; a bougie imeared with the virus of an infeft- •cd; °nnhacbeCr ,nt,'odrllccd illt0 the urethra with ed ml r'SwCd,aUF ,nforms us- method was ais j111 ’ ycars aS°> ln °nv of the firft military hof- ais m Europe, with conftant fucccfs. This has itrtrb>' 're*-in his o„ ,p 2n if four fcaks or Celled tefticlcs, and 1 preffion of urine from a rctropulfcd gonorrhea, the* A M A the inoculation of the venereal poifon, by means of a bougie, previoufly applied for about half an hour to a pcrlon afflidled with a clap, and then introduced into the urethra, has been attended with unexpedted fuccefs, under Dr. Swediaur’s infpedtion. Vide his Pradlical Obfervations on Venereal Complaints, p. 53. Amaurosis, from «/xasf3«u, cbfcure. A decay, or lofs of eye-fight, when no fault is obferved in the eye, except that the pupil is fomewhat enlarged and motionlefs. The Latins call this difordcr a Chita Se- rena : cellaraRa nigra, offujcaliv, caatas minor, ntydria- Jis. The tabes pupillce may be confidered as afpecies of this difeafe. Some call it amblyopocia. Mr. de St. Yves diftinguilhes this difeafe into the perfedt and imperfect kinds. The perfedt is when there is a total blindiiefs •, the imperfcdl is when there is at lcaft a power of diftinguiihmg light from dark- nefs. There is a periodical fort, which comes on in- llantaneoufly, continues for fomc hours, and fomc- t'imes days, and then difappears ; but it often returns,] as in hyfierical and hypochondriacal people, &c. Inj another fpecicr, the pupil is always contradted, whc-l ther the unaffedted eye is open or liiut. In infants! attended w ith this complaint, the pupil is oft of ita natural fire, but no movement is obferved there, howJ ever exp; fed to the light. The nydlalops isfuppofeJ by fomc to be a fpccies of this complaint. The different caufcs are a pally in the optic nervej or the retina, proceeding from a flight apoplexy, &el a tumour, or a plethora in the adjacent paits; a tranll latiop of morbid matter from fomc oth^r part of tha optic nerve, or to the retina ; a venereal, or a rhcumal tic humour, may, by falling on the-eye, lie the caufel Supprefle 1 periodical evacuations, vapours, hyftericl and other nervous fymptoms, external injuries, a prel tcrnatural contradfion, as well as too great a dilatation of the iris, or whatever intercepts the nervous inj tfucncc in the eye, may produce this difeafe. Inthl middleA M A .idcllc of the optic nerve runs that branch of the ca- otid artery which enters into the eye ; this artery 2>ng diftended may prefs the nerve, and render ic iralytic ; this feems to be the caufe of the periodi- al lpecies. Depletion enters too into the lift of .ufc , whether it is natural or artificial; but of all ■ie kinds, that from the genitals knits the eyes the oft. Di. Cullen, in his Syn. Nofol. Method, ranks this .•nus of difeafe in the clafs locales, and order dyfaif- efise : and enumerates the fpecies from the follovv- :g caufes, viz. compreftion, debility and its caufes, aim, and the application, or the fwallowing of uifons. ° On difleftion after the death of patients who had en affljfted with this kind of blindnefs, in fome the a u nrrVC 'VaS founc! t0° much extenuated, flaccid, d by far too fmall; in others it was comprelfed by travafated blood, or by a tumour, or by a turgefccncy the artery which pafl'cs through it. 1 The phlegmatic, cachectic, aged, thofe witli weak ryes, or that have been fubjefted to feverities or ex- iles and perfons labouring under irregular or fup- cfled periodical difeharges, are the principal fub- 'ts of this diforder. The figns that indicate the prefence of this difor- r are generally the blackncfs of the pupil of the e. ns fi/e being larger or lefs than ufual, and its t contracting nor dilating when expofed to a great grcc of light. Its approach is generally attended ■ pain in the head, and as the pain dccrcafcs this order mcrcafcs, though fometimes an abfolute ndnels comes on without any previous complaint, ten it comes on without pain, and one eye only is r i L '10 KL'fcft ,s Perceived until the found eye is icd, then the pupil of the difeafed eye dilates, though wfed to a ltrcng light; and when the othereyc is -nod 1C contrails to its natural fizc ayain. In in- 7 the PPPl1 '• Sometimes of a natural fize, though icA M A it hath no movement, and thus they continue durin many months, or perhaps a year or more, before the can fee. When pregnancy, fuppreffed periodical dil charges, nervous diforders, or vapours arc the caufc, hcad-acb, vertigo, drovvfinefs, noife in the cars, &c often ufher in this diforder; but as in thefe cafes it i periodical, l'o it frequently returns, but loon fponta neoufly paffes away. The prognoftics are generally unfavourable: if thi blindnefs fucceeds a fever, or attacks the aged or very in firm, a cure is not to be expected ; if one eye fails, t! other ufually foon follows; but if the cafe is flight, th habit of body robuft, if it happens after the mealies < the fmall-pox, or in pubertine virgins, it is fometimt cured. Obferve to diflinguifh this diforder from the glauco ma or the cataract, and a vertigo. In order to the cure, an attention to the caufe wi be the firll Hep to the direction of proper remedies. According to the plethora attending, let the evacu ations be directed ; if it is fanguine, make a tree ul of the lancet; if ferous, purges, diuretics, and biiftei will be proper, and an emetic may be adminiftered, indicated by any diforder in the llomach. In phlegmatic habits, and when a rheumatilm is th caufe, alfo when a pally in the retina is fufpedted, van rian may be mixed with the bark, and taken as oftci and in as large a dole as \\ ill agree with the llomach. Be particularly careful to keep the bowels lax, and t this end fmall doles of calomel, mixed with aloetic pui gatives, are to be preferred. If blifters are applied to the nape of the neck, pin them high ; but if a palfy in the retina be the lufpeCte caufe, the propereft place for a bliftcr will be over tt fupra orbital hole, through which the nerves pals ai fpicad on the forehead. Electricity has alfo been uit with advantage. The forehead may be nibbed twice in the day v ii the liniment ammonije of the London Difpcnfator stA M A Jn$trwi ,ir“5 a'oMb‘ k«P> »p‘n 0„g as •» ™a,SS ? ?*** «*•«*■ tu7rr Rr°^StalhS^? of fcu”*‘ t “repo111 by r <TcS£ Ue,p«L“C,wo ? t* fPi* »f wine, arough a funnel to tile eye™ t'liit™ "V" 3 r3y Ig. biet, anti repeated pur’inj, vo orrZae7g™i,roff2C«T! 1 f"'?Ulsr O'"™ i J the nofe, difehanre. a F® °f gUa,acum buffed >cl to the 4mc nu7D0fe \uanti£y of forum , iritsmay be ufed £w rirft°f the yolatilc alcalil>e i Heifter aflerts the fucfcll nfPr°PCr X-dllutcd- and attcuuants, pardculariv°1'Cs’ ca™-a- iall dofes. Pitcain L ? °/ mercurials in Y*, that volatiles chalfbi * thC fam,e- Coward J nervous m d i„' “ mercurials> cephalic, *r- <■>, .ha, ck part of the head hJi kanficatl°» on the th fucccfs. ' h * L>ccn Speedily followed “iiSuh“ ; ution, may he piven ani’ °F .lat lcr t*lc following <1.. both more agreeable and Me SSgs»assK!saa P-‘ ^*I^h^-mcCdX^•na ^ded.150 Vi^ * Hcijia'%AM B Heifler s Surgery. Hoffman* Med. Rat. Pvft. St 2Wj on the Dife&fes of the Eyes. Mfad’s Caution and Precepts. Lord. Med. Journal, vol. xi.|p. 10 lfral/is'& Sauvages Nofologv of the Eyes, p. ici, &c Amblyopia, from dull, and «4, the eye J~i[u rlfbitis Aetii: P'jth Hebetudo-—BoerHaavf. Thi is a debility of fight, abfolute, or relative, with ocula inopacitv. The principal fymptom is an obfeurity o fight, without any apparent opacity of the cornea or interior part of the eye. Vide Amaurosis. Hippocrates, in his xxi Aph. Seft. 3. ufed this wor to esprefs the dimnefs of fight to which old pcopl are fubjedt. Paul us and Afluarim, ufe it to exp refs sGl'TT. SERENA. Adtuarius fays, there is a manifeft, bu not a vifible caufe of this dulnels of fight; for neithe the coats nor the humours of the eve are difordered and that a defedt of the nervous influence is the pro liable caufe. Videhiswork, DeMeth.Med.lib.ii.cap. The Amblyopia is faid by fome others to be fourfold ill, Myopia, or Jhort fightednefs. idly, Presba t je, or feeing only at a great diflance. 3dly, Nyc T ai.opia, ox feeing only in the night, which Cent names, ImbeciHitu! Oculorum. 4th, Amaurosis, dit nefs of fight. Dr. Cullen places this word in his Nc folugy, as fynonymous with the word Dysopi.' which is his generic term for thofe diforders in an of the eye, called Myopia, &c. The amblyopia < loine writers, is the Amaurofis of Dr. Cullen, 1< the different fpecies of which, vide DysOPIA, al IVallis * Sauvages Nofologv of the F.yes, p. * S1 > ^ Am bust a, Burn! or Scalds; called alfo, canris, an buftio, ambufv.ra. Dr. Cullen places this cafe, as variety of 1 he phhgofis erythema. . Burns and fcnlds differ very little refpedhng tl c.ne. A burn is from folid fubllaticcs, blit copfidcn tn the tffedf on the injured body : a feald is a l.i from any hot fluid, or folid when iu a fluid lUte.A MB Their danger is according to the degree, the pan ured the peculiarity of the confutation, and L- 'ffLnr h mPtoms- And wounds from burns are more 1c'ca,r“ th“ ^ *» Plac'd Btmsmzy be ranked into four kinds : re<in'rs “ ,he P“" *s ettended with l£\vTAitearillC.4”r”’ erUpti°” °f ” c3dly, When the fkin and fubjacent fat are burnt to 4thJy, When the burning goes to the bone. £ i rd a gangrene, and the fourth a fphacclus. ’ .g nerai, burns and fealds require bleeding i •fcooll ‘be F‘rJl K\nd- Mcdicln« that neither ho r cool m a great degree are to be preferred Col,) nt of wine is to be preferred ’ ca^Phorated nerally5 p'Pvlm‘^hTm’'? 'hC bl,ftcrs ari^, lamination ■ but f fhV al'va** moderate the tendinous part ’j, ,, hla JU^ 15 ? a membranous a,,d!» Sf > ot the follow mg may be ufed :_The white Li ofA M P Or Lotio Lithargyri Acetati Camthora- Tt, camphorated lotion of acriatcd litharge. R. Sps camphorati ^ij. aq. lithargyri acttati _£j. gradation coin mifceantur, dcinde modo eodem adjicantur aq. dil'ti! latit; jp>j. When the inflammation has a tendency t< become eryfipelatous, this application is extremely ufe ful: Lotto Spirituosa—Spirituous Lotion. R. Sp Vini Re6lificat. ^iv. Aq. Calcis jj-j fs. Vide Bell' Surgery, vol.v. p.357. Pearfott’s Elements of Sur gery, part i. p. 159. and White s Surgery, p. 24. Amputatjo. Amputation. The cutting off limb. From amputo, to cut off. Iitlome exetfio, an extirpatio is ufed in the fame fenlc ; excjfio is mor properly applicable to the operation, where one par is cut out of another, as in eneyfted tumours. Hippocrates fays, when fpeaking of a mortificatior that what is putrified mull be cut off, but does nc mention the taking off of limbs. Cellus is the lir who deferibes this operation. Till the fixteenth ccn tury, we have no account of any method to proven the htemorrage, which happens in this fort of opera lion, except Celfus’s, of making a ligature about th ve3els. Pare tells us, that previous to making th inciflon, a ligature, with a thin fillet, mull be mad above where th0 amputation is to be, which, he lay: firft keeps up the (kin and mufcles in a raifetl poi ture; fccondly prevents an hemorrhage ; and, thiroily leffens the fenle of feeling: he is the fini who clear! (peaks of preventing the haemorrhage when the! operations are performed. In 1674, Mr. Morel, French furgeon, introduced the tourniquet, as it now ufed; but the firft mention of this inftrumcn is in the Currus Triumphalis c Terebintho, publilli cd in London, by an Englifh furgeon, in 16-9. Abot the end of the lixtccnth century, Meflrs. \ erdui ant! Sabourin, one a Dutchman, the other of Gene' left a label of the flclh and (kin to wrap over th hump, and called it l’Operation de /’Amputation LamDcau ; but they probably learnt it FromanEnglilt rowA M P 1ia'Ip " !l° l'ubhlhed this praftice in 1679; fee Cur- he 15 C T‘-'R'bimho- Paulus ^gineta tiled ae ftual tantfty bm Ambrofe Pare fccured the h n n bf draW',ng them a little 0L>t with the forceps, ?0i ed^ rg|f ilgat,UrC u0Und them> as is often men- 2li*y LfUS; thouSh neglefted by fo many of his Dro •it A n t 'k l’rLlcnt eighteenth century, im- .m, ch ^ r are -b°th, many ?nd important, in this tj J u,Sc,y. the crooked needle, and moft odtPc H °f thC aP?aratus> cither being now ntroduced or improved. Cafes requiring Ampul a! ion. Afier ailI that can be laid down on this particular, many inftances, the experience and fagacity of the- "a mini UrgC°n al°ne’ Can P^iy determine for raditinnf 311 °rratl0n- Fr- Bllgucr> an eminent ,adte; ln thc of the king of Prulfia, du- g iis late wars, reduces them to fix, as follows : teI'l)(inem0rnbCat*0n’ W^*cd f"Prcads until it reaches robable!‘mb f° that 3 mortification is highly J. A violent contufion of the fled,, which at the mt ”mc has fluttered the bones. 4- VV ounds of the larger blood veffels of the limb h»r,c„urto is had „„p»,a,io„, a, ,1,1 Z-' f flopping the hemorrhage; or through an ludirirnent! ' ^ Umbs fhould Pcri(h (or " ant of 5- An incurable caries of the bones. ch. canccr> or humour in danger of becoming Perhaps Mr. Bilguer may have reftrained this ope 3eflah T- l0° TeCh: h°WL'V-> ‘‘is human,tfis ’ inftrudfi ns’rlTd h,S ,?8enuity is h'ch as renders Tn r t ddervmg of attention. calcs from mortification, Mr. Sharp has well cftablilhedAMP eftabliflied the propriety of waiting until it ceafesJ and granulations of new flefh befpeak a better ftatif of the blood. He obferves, that gun-fhot wounds art beft, if the ncccffary amputation is immediately per-l formed ; and that the diforders of the joints, ulcer:! of long (landing, and all fcrophulous tumours, ge-f nerally return on other parts, after amputation. On this important fubjeit, Mr. Pott obferves, thaj in the inftances generally demanding amputation, the rule is adhered to, a limb will now and then b«J taken off, that polfibly might have been reftored f but the number of thofe who would be fo lucky, il fo final), in proportion, to thofe, who, under the lam/ apparent circumftances, would end fatally, that it can make no difference in the general treatment. Selecl tions of one cafe from another, is what conftitutcl judgment in furgery ; and happy is the man, whf amidft the following demands for amputation, finglel out a cafe, in which he will fucceed, and favf the threatened part. In general, amputation is nel] ccffary, x. In fomc compound fraftures. Vide Frac| tura, when amputation is ncceffary. 2. A wound in the principal artery of a limb ; al(j in fomc aneurifms ; a large wound with lofs of fub dance from arteries not contained within the cavitl of the body, as thofe of the thigh, leg, or arm ; the! are often fo circumftanced as to render amputation thj only poffiblc means of faving the patient’s life, is true, every inftance of a wounded humeral or cr ral artery, does not demand this operation ; but the wound is fuch, as that the collateral branches! their neighbourhood are prevented from carrying the circulation, a fpeedy amputation will be nccel fary. 3. When joints arc wounded, violently injured, otherwile difeafed. When the heads of bones af difeafed, their ligaments lacerated, &c. in mod it ftancrA Hi p ances amputation is neceffary. Vide Vulnus, Sci o. etoplaga, Sl’INA Ventosa, &c 4- A caries of the whole fubftance of a bone, or of ic bones which compofe a limb. Vide Caries 5- borne Mortifications. Vide Moktificatio . Many instances of gunlhot wounds. Vide Solo" etoplaga. 7- Cancers. Vide Cancer. e chief circumftances requiring attention in this Jeranon, are, the choice (when poffiblc) of the part which the limb Ihould be amputated ;*he prevxn- onof ^rrha^y Juring the operation; the divi- , of the ^,n> mufclcs, and bones, in fuch a man i hir tV' thef ftemp bcinS entirely covered h fkin , the tying of the arteries, without includ- s the ner\e, or any of the contiguous parts ■ fecur s.,5zsir1 anda i>roijcr r“brc<i"en‘'™«- 1 he manner in which the ancients performed this ne amlTl?’ 7 C-Utt'"g j®»cdMtely down to the nc, and then Jawing it off; but a large furfacc be g thus expoJed, a cure was feldom obtained and entlvTPL that dld hca1’ wc™ Pyramidal, and fre- y broke out again. In amputating the fingers 1 toes, however, this mode may be adopted with atthStra^ loub e mcilion, Which is to Sivide ' StlVkl'’V thc firft incifion> and with the bon nC,?°n th°fC Tl'Cks which ar -attached eijjj . ‘ ^!1 1779i Mr. Allanfon, of LivemooJ “SJ-* o^rvau,,,,, „pon 'at Pcl{orni,nR the operation, by which a iferyed It°f ^ mteS»mcnts and foft' parts are ‘ 1 lS uone by floPing the knife upwards, foAMP To as to form a pyramidal (lump, whofe apex is the ffbne, and the balls the extremity of the (lump ; he then recommends the parts to be brought together, in order to heal as foon as pofllble, even by the firft intention if it can be effected. This mode is now generally adopted. Mr. Bell, however, differs with Mr. Allanfon, in the mode of dividing the mufcles, and the after pofition of the (kin. \ ide his Syl'tem of Surgery, vol. vi. Amputation-^ the Arm. Apply the tourniquet fo that it may prefs upon the chief artery of the limb to be taken off. W hen the arm is the part to be amputated (and not the fore arm) it is advifed by fome, for an affiftant to prefs on the artery as it paffes over the firft rib. The com- mon tourniquet is to be preferred to the ferew, as it is more eafily loofened. Two alliftants holding the limb in a ftraight line, an incifion muff be made quite round through the ikin and fat to the flefh ; with a ftraight knife oiled, then _ i t II .1. ..(■ r. k thO 1 I llki 1 the affiftant who holds the upper part of the lii^?» ‘ ; back as he can ; after whicn, muft draw the Ikin as far — -- . as near the edge of the retraced (kin as polhblc, the flcfli muft be divided, at twice, to the bone : and it there arc two bones, divide the flelh between them with the point of the fame knife, or the catlin, then, that the bone may be fawed oft as near to the Heft as poffible, obferve as follows: it is neceffary to cut the (kin, &c. to the mufcles firft, that you may drasV it back and cut the flefli as far under the Ikin as pol< lible, in order to having the (kin to reach over th< flelh and the hone of the ftump as loon as it is UiclleU if the incifion was made at firft to the bone, tliLij the (kin would not contribute to the covering ftump. Again, to allift the intention of bringing the ikin over the end of the ftump, the rctravfor contrived, which muft be put on after the incifion made through the mulclcs, to draw them up with.AMP l Vs fie J?atient ea% bear : thus the bone n be fawed off more clofely to the edge of the flelh, d with left danger of tearing it with the teeth of c law. When there are two bones, as in the fore- in, after having cut through the mul'cles, and divid- the mteroffeous ligament, fome recommend, in- ad of the retraftor, to pafs a comprefs between the ?MSVaild thercw,‘h t0 draw back the divided parts til the bones are Tawed through. i Where there are two bones,"apply the faw in fuch manner that both mav drop together, to prevent ■king fphnters, and alfo to avoid the painful jar lich the patient feels when this is negle&ed While tfaw is working the alf,ftant who holds the lower lt of the limb Ihould gently deprefs it, that the the °Perator Ihould ■ his ftrokes with n, as long as pofiible. If anv inters remain, take them off with the bone forceps7 The limb taken off: ,f the larger arteries are not ily feen, the tourniquet mav be flacked, and by the od fpnnging out, they will be difeovered 7 To "bin/iVT’68’ the tenaculum is commonly d, but I hare alwavs preferred the differing for- s, as with them the velTel is more eafily feized the lurrounding lubftance whether cellular or r ’ can bc fcParatc<l afterwards. The needle ligature fhould never be ufed, if it can he avoided nore 01 lefs of the nervous parts mull be included’ e arteries drawn out, tie the end of them with a igaturc moderately waxed. From the peculiar feel I°„ ttbcfarter,es rhcy eafily difeovered by reel. In the fore-arm,comprefles are generally fuf ™ britthl Til .SK -a, bring the ikin over the ed^e of iH,. > aSPfar;b!re> thcn aPP'y a piedgit of foft lint, 1'pVead Pumat- Cet- or with a eferate formed of tow or0wo7o, f heruthiS’ plaCC a fofr culbion tow or wool (which is to he preferred for its icity) wnh a comprefs of old linen, and then withA M P with two long flips of flicking plaftcr, placed acrofs each other, confine the whole by placing the ends of thtfe flips along the fides of the flump ; after this finiih the drefling, by turning a worfted night-cap over the whole. In the 2d. vol. of the London Med. Obf. and Inq. Mr. Kirkland propofes the ufe of fpunge for a part of the dretling, as loon as digeftion is begun in the flump, after an amputation. He oblerves, that the greatcfl danger after this operation is from an abforp- tion of the matter from the wound after the inflam- mation is gone oft', particularly if the digeftion pro- ceeds not very kindly ; and to prevent this inconve- nience, as foon as the ftate of digeftion is well ad- vanced, he directs a thin layer of line lint to be appliec to the flump, and, immediately upon that, lome thit pieces of fine fpunge, which have juft then beet made wet, but are l'queezed as dry as can be by tht grafp of one's hand. The thinner matter of th< difeharge from the wound being abforbed by th< fpunge^ the fever, diarrhoea, and other fymptom which it occaflons when taken up into the circulation are prevented ; and where, from the thinnefs and acri mony of the difeharge, fpunge pledgits arc neceflary he orders antifeptic diuretics to bo adminiftcrcd in ternally ; and, if needful, the batk.^ The drefling linilhed, the belt polition lot the pa tient is the bed. . . . An afliftant fhould gently and conftanily hold h: hand on the flump during iome hours, not only t guard again ft an hemorrhage, but alio by the gcntl prelfure to make the dreflings adhere more tirmly. The tourniquet may he gradually railed to adftt! the circulation of the part more freely, and it n danger I'cents to threaten, it may be removed the netl day. . J From plethoric habits, as foon as the patient is ■ bed, take away fame blood to prevent a fever. | On die third or fourth day, remove the dreilingM MAMP id proceed as in a common wound. Tf any part of •ie lint, &c. adheres, leave it to digeft away withfu- rre applications. The amputation of the arm, and of the fore-arm, -e the fame, except that in the fore-arm the brachial terv dividing into branches, lomctimes demands the c of the needle, more than when the operation is the arm. In general, when the arm is amputated ove the elbow, the fame procedure will be necelTary is directed for the amputation of the thigh jull ■ove the knee. Th- Amputation of the Arm at its Join! with the, Scapula. Mr. Morand, the elder, firft took off the arm at e Shoulder. Mr. Blomficld performed it with fue- ls in London. Dr. Hume, in his Medical F'adts cl Experiments, fays it is a dangerous operation, ough attended with all polliblc advantages. Here - tourniquet cannot be applied. But Dr. Hunter Serves, that, when we conlider the lituation of the Md-vcfTcls, as they pafs over the firib rib to the arm, evidently appears, that by turning the fhoulder twards, and making a proper preffurc with cmn- ctles and bandage, we may abfolutcly make our- ves matters of the blood in amputating the huinc- >, at its articulation with the fcapula, which is the ft intimidating circumftance in the operation. The patient s arm being held horizontally, make mcilion through to the flelh, from the upper part the Shoulder, acrols the peftornl mufclcs, down he arm-pit; and, to fave as much (kin as yon can, pn it about two inches below the joint, then rurn- the knife with its edge upwards, divide that iclc, and part of the deltoid, and thus the great ;ry and vein are expofed, and which Should im- iiately be fecured by ligatures, at leaft two fingers' autn below the axilla ; in order to which, carrv the I? ' 1 L armAMP . » v art arm a little backward ; then divide thefe veffels at a confiderable diftance below the ligatures, and purfuc the circular incifion through the joint, cutting firft into that part of the burfal ligament which is ncareft to the axilla; for if you attempt to make way into the joint on the upper part of the fhoulder, the pro- jection of the proceffus acromion, and proceffus cora- coides, will very much embarrai's the operation : in the next place difeover the true fituation of the acro- mion, which having done, draw back the Ikin, and in dividing the flefli, introduce the knife two or three fingers breadth under the acromion, for thus much of the"deltoid mufcle is faved, with which to fill up the wound, and expedite its healing. Thefe parrs cut through, raife the arm, that the head of the biceps mufcle may be more eaiily found and divided ; divide the ligament on the upper part, then on the fides, after which, the head being lifted out of the locket, cut away all that detains it, taking care not to divide the artery, &c. above the ligatures. The remaining flefh at rhe arm-pit fhould be nearly of a trianguiai figure, the broad part being next to the axilla. Ap- ply the remaining tlcfli immediately to the focket of rhe fcapula, and'lay over them dry lint and pledgits which may be fccured by a plaftcr of the lhape of 1 Maltefe crofs. To prevent the force of the artery lay a bolder in the arm-pit to prefs upon it; fecuvi the whole with the bandage called the Spica defeen dens. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. vi. Amputation of the Breafi. In this cafe, women only arc the fhbjcCls. li performing this operation, as in every other, alway endeavour to fave as much Ikin as polfible. forth cutis vera is never regenerated. The patient belli placed in a high chair, or on a table wi ll her hta lupported with a pillow, by an affiftant behind, lie arm held horizontally backward, and a little dev'n/ard, to expand the peftoral mufcie, make a longi- udinal, or circulation incifion (if the integuments are healed) as quickly as polfible, and accurately dilfeft •way the difeafed part. The comprei's and bandage re generally fufficient to prevent hatmorrhages, yet nmetimes the branches of the mammary arteries >hich come out between the cartilages of the ribs ito the breads, will create fome trouble, efpecially ae larger than the red from towards the axilla, near le edge of the peftoral mufcie, which is commonly •ore troublefome to fecure than the red. Whether te patient is feated on a chair or on a table, the ope- ator Ihould invariably be feated. If the ftrengrh ill admit, the patient fhould be bled foon after the aeration-. The treatment is as in wounds in general. tn the courfe of the cure a fever comes on, with •ins about the precordia, and a difficulty of breath- g, death generally fucceeds. Frequent bleeding ty ptevent theie lymptoms. Vide liell's Surgery, Amputation of ibe Fingers and Joes. Sometimes a finger or toe, that is nearly cut through th a lharp indrument, if clapped to again, whild ts warm, will unite, at lead it is better to give fuch les the trial, than to cut them away at the fird. hen cut obliquely, their reunion may be more cer- nly expected, than when tranfverfclv. iThe fingers and toes are bed amputated in their nculations ; a draight knife mud be ufed, and the ,°n °f the Ik in Ihould be made not exactly upon - joint, but a little towards the extremity of the ger or toe, that more of it mav be preferved for calier healing of it afterwards : it will alfo faciJi- e the leparation of the joint, when the finger is rorn the metacarpal bone, to make two Imall gitudinal incilions on each fide of it fird. When lower joints are feparated, the fird incilions Ihould F beAMP be from a little above to a little below the joint on each fide, and fo <leep as to divide the ligaments; and after this proceed -as above. The fkin grows over the cartilage very readily. If the cartilage i: removed by the knife point, or any accident happen- ing to the part, the,lkin heals better, unites ipetduy to the bone, but this is not ncceffary. If the patient is plethoric, lerfhd blood run from the amputated joint, and no haemorrhage will' happen there alter. It is never neceffary to take up an artery here. In cafe of fupernumerar'y lingers or toes, it trouble- feme, cut them oil": fometimes there is no born where they arc to be cut off, in this cale a knife ma5 be tiled ; but if there is any bone, a ftrong pair ol Jciffars may be tiled, for in infants thele bones are no: hard. Vide Bril's Surgery, vol. vi. and labile s Sur- gery, p. 199- Amputation oj the Hand. Heiftcr thinks it bell to amputate the hand, with knife only, at the joint of the wrift ; but the ufrn method is to cut through the bones above the wrilt in which cafe, fee Amputation of thl arm. Amputation of the Metacarpal and Mclatarfal Bone:. I f any one of thefe bones are carious, it may be ad vilable to cut away only fo much as is dilordered; (mall 1'pring faw is the moft proper to divide th bones with here. After thefe operations, the part heal foon, and a part of the hand or loot is bettc than to lofe the whole. , , , , In thefe calcs, carry your knife firft along the lia of the bone that is to'be removed, and as dole to . as you can, at the lame time making the wouna : I moot h as pollible. If one of the middle bones is be removed, we muff of courfe make two incifinn one on each fide ; having done this, divide the inti gumenis, dec. from the bone above and below, nanA M P rerfely, then fcrape off the perioftcum, and faw through the bone with, the law called the metacarpal aw. Hold the faw very* iteady, and make long Irokes when ufing it. If two bones are to be re- moved, we fhould proceed as above, in general; alfo e mem her to divide the integuments, &c. tranlverlelv letween the two bones, as is done between the tibia nd fibula, or between the radius and ulna in arnfuttn- ions of thofe parts. 1 he tourniquet is not required n this operation. Vide [('bite's Surgery, p. 300. Amputation of the Leg. Jf the leg is to be amputated, though the injury is vcr fo near the ankle, as a long dump is thought tore inconvenient than a fhort one, it is preferred to mputate it at about four or five fingers' breadth below ue tuherofity of the tibia ; if it is cut higher, the ap- oneurotic cxpanfion of the flexor mufcle will be hurt; elides, the flump would be tooihort for an cafy lup- ort on the wooden leg; and an artery which runs sto the thicknefs of the tibia to be diftribtlted to the tar row, would be unneceffarily wounded. As the gaftrocnemei mufcics draw back the (kin tore flrongly than it is drawn elffc where, tt is proper, 1 order to keep the fkin equal after the operation, to it fo that the wound on the calf of the leg is farther om the middle of the ham, than the wound in the >re part is from the middle of the patella. • The tourniquet mull be placed three or four inches iove the patella, and fo as to prefs more particularly the artery in the ham. The operator muff Hand the inlide of the leg, bccaufe the fibula will then lawed at the fame time with the tibia: but if, 1 the contrary, the faw i5 laid on the infide of the ?’ the tibia will be firft divided, and the fibula, mg too weak to bear the force of the faw, will apt to fpiintcr, lo not only render the operation dious, but alio the cure more difficult afterwards. 1' 3 ThoughAMP — \ the tourniquet as near as polfible to the top of th limb. Divide the nvevnbrana-adifpofa, and tcndinou fafcia, by a circular incifum, about three inches be neath the tourniquet. Pull the retraced Ikin 3bou an inch upwards'^and at the edge of it, with one per pcndicular ftroke of the knife, divide the mufclc down to the bone. This will give room to lccur the femoral artery and all the mufcular branche: I\ow take a large ftrong-round edged fcalpel, and com meucingat the upper edge of the circular cut, on th pofterior part of the thigh, cut down to the bone, an carry it up of the fame depth toa little above thegrea trocnanter into the joint. Make a fimilar incifion o the oppofite fide of the limb, at a fufficicnt dillanc from the femoral artery, and completely down to tit bone. Difleft the flefh from the bone, and let th flaps formed of them be taken care of by aififtanr; while any artery that may be cut is fecured. To dil engage the head of the femur from the acetabulum turn the bone in different clire&ions, and particular! prefs it inwards, and divide the ligament with a fcal pel or firm probe-pointed biftoury. This done, clca the coagulated blood away, place the mufcles as nca as poflible in their natural fituations, and draw th two flaps together, lb as to cover the fore neatly ; fc cure them in this fituation by three or four futures by adhefive plaftcrs; and by proper comprcfTcs, re tained with a broad flannel roller palled different time round the body, and fpirally over the flump. Th fubfequent treatment is as in other cafes of amputa tion. Vide Bell’s Surg. vol. vi. and White s Surg. p. 201 Sharpe's Operations of Surgery, ch. xxxvii. Si&rfc Critical Inquiry, ch. vii. Heifter’s Surgery. D Ihan's Operations. BUgucr's Diffcrtation on Anipu tatiem. A compleat Trcatife on the Gangrene am Sphacelus, with a new method of Amputation, by M» O lJailoran. Allan Ton's Practical Obfcrvations om An. put at ton. Minor's Prattical Thoughts on Ampm talioKm AA N C tiom, Scc. and London Med. Journal, voi. i. p. i 1 • An a p h rod isr a,-from a. neg. and uppaiia-iuy veneiy, lied alfo agent.ftu ; n/ecbuia- Impotence with refped to rnereal commerce. Ur. Cullen makes this a genus of ,e.a^r’ 'n t^le c!afs locales, and order dyforexia;. his inability and fterility arifes from various caufes, her from an abolition of all palfiouate defires; Rp- tite, or power of adion, neceffary for the propaga- n of our Ipecies ; from a defed in erection, emilfioiv, want of fertile femen. Sauvages has given us five ecies, which Dr. Cullen thus divides: ' The true c‘fs arc lhe paralytic and gonorrhoic—the Jpnr/ous cue, or where the impediments occur to prevent : ad from piles, orfome fault in the urethra ; tubat ■ailed faife or fiditious, that is fuppofed to arii'e from -gic. Vide Saitwges's Nofologia Methodica, voi. i. 770. The cure of this difeal'e depends upon the" novalof its feparate caufes; when it arifes from talyfis, fuch medicines as arc neceffary to fubduc t complaint rauft be employed. Sauvages gives an ountof a man being cured, by immerfing the penis «n in the day in a flrong decodion of multard feed, mce had a calc of this kind under iny diredion uch was confiderably relieved by a frequent ufe of • following liniment : i. Tindt. Cantharid, Jviij. Gum Camphor, r ij. m. -fms occaftoned by a fimple gonorrhea, the fyftem dt be invigorated by tonics, and particularly cold m ng. If from piles, or faults in the urethra”, fuch ans mult be ufed, as the nature and particular cir- nltances may demand. Anchylosis, from crooked-, it is alio . anryle, ancylojis, ancbyle, and a tliffjoinr. 11 is a =ies oi contradure, in Cullen’s Nofology. Some inguifh this diforder thus: ancyle, is when the fci are immoveable, and the joint in a bent poli- 15 but lf tlre hntb is ftraight, it is named ortho- colon.A N C colon. Petit divides this cafe into the true and falfe • the true are fuch wherein the bones are united fo ai to become as it were one ; the talfe is when, tiom the tendons being comraded, or other parts about thi joint are difeafed, the limb is rendered immoveable. The bones are covered at their ends, where the] form joints, with cartilages, to facilitate their motion and to prevent any farther production of bone ; ant if thefe cartilages (hould be eroded, there will be ai excrcfcence which will produce this diforder : how ever, it is fometimes a cure of lome other worie mil forrunc. . . . The general caufes arc a caries, abU-elks in thi joints producing caries, oflification of the ligament! ilrumous and rickctty diforders, and contradlion a the tendons. . . When the bones arc united, the cure ts lmpoftibie and whatever cite is the caufe, the cure is very ini' certain, on account of the difficulty of coming at th feat of the difeafe; and, indeed, often from the dith culty of knowing what part about the joint is the par primarily and principally affedted, or even in <*n) £ vrcc the caufe. . . The mod fimple cafe of this kind, is that from i long confinement of the limb to one polition ; an in fl immarorv affeftion of the ligaments, from externa injuries, is generally very dilhcult to remove ; rheii matic and ar'thritic matter falling on the joint is ha*.; ro be removed ; but the word is what is conunonl] called a white levelling, which is mod probably owmj to a fcrophulous virus. On difledtion, after the appearance called a wHit fwclling, there is always found a great thickening c rhe ligaments, which fo con founds the l'cv era I parts, tli. they can fcarce be diftinguifhod, together with crutt matter forming finufes through this undidinguiffifl mafs ; and generally an erofion of the cartilages I tiic f nd of the bones. , —A N C 4 Mem. 1TLthr/^UfC ‘S a ri^idit>r of the tendons,vemollient ncs are the proper means of relief Dr f o',,' r * ferving the glovers foften hard k7th£ Ii> that the water andep’o- miv u<* 11 , c ns w •-* s^S-iTsiMS » tftrce or tour times a day ; rub it f,->r * 7 •m zzzit ws'a fe”cu,c; h™ b«" di A paf“ f„d S“ 7'" P"mP“' “P™ ht UDon it L k g- fr°m a confidcrablc mc?hith'™ i»« ulcers the Vat ^ • atlvcs»-when the tumour burfts cers> the laturnine water of Goulard i r u ss'".s«ESA N E if the child can thruft the tip of its tongue to die outer edge of its lip, this difeafe does not exift ; and if the tongue is not greatly reftrained, the frxnulum will ftretch by the child's fucking and crying. Befides, without an abfolute neceffity for it, an operation fhould not be admitted of; for without great circum- fpc&ion, by cutting die fraenulum, the nerves palling there may be alfo cut, and then a lots of lpeeeh is the confequcnce. Sometimes the tongue is bound down with a fleihy fubftance ; when that is the cale, it lhould never be cut through, becaufc a dangerous haemorrhage would follow, without any attending advantage ; all that is advifable in this circumftance, is to advife the nurte, now and then, to ftretch it gently by a light preffuro on it with her finger end. When in conlequence ot delivering a child by the feet, a fwelling is obferved under the tongue, the nurfe fliould be forbid to ufe any means, for the complaint will be increafed there by : this tumour will foon lubfide. Vide Hildanus in cent. iii. Obf. 18, where he gi\e: an accurate account of the nature, cure, and bac effects that may follow on improper methods being ul'ed for the cure of this dilordtr. He never cut! more of the frasnum than appears ligamentous, anc then orders it to be gently rubbed two or three time* a day with honey of rofes. Vide Bell s Surgery An eur ism a, from £vivp to dilate much, and tha from tim, a funder, and «up« i, broad, called alio, Haemaio ode artmofum. Abjeeffus Spirituofus. Emboryjma. An aneuufm is a tumour, arifing from the dilatat ion o rupture of the coats of an artery. Arteries onjv ar the feat of this djforder, and any artery, in any par of tile body, may be thus aftedted, as any vein ma be the leat of a varix. ...... , , Dr. Cullen ranks this genus of difeafes m the clai. locale*, and order, uimoret, p* G 2 ipinc Dr. Hunter divides atteurifms into four kinds, viz. he true, the falfc, the mixed, and the varicofe. Fuji, of the true Aneurifm. The true aneurifm is formed by a dilatation of the rtery. It may happen in any part of the body, but loft frequently is found in the curvature of the aorta, /hich is fubjeft to this dii'ordcr from the extraordi- ary impulfe of the blood there ; from the curvature, : runs upwards along the carotids, or the lubclavi- ns, generally increafing, till by its great diftention it s ruptured, and the patient dies. The degrees of the dilation of the aorta, in cafes of his kind, are various; in fome, the curvature of this rtery has been fo enlarged as nearly to fill the upper ■art of the bread. And what is peculiar, and de- erving our attention, is, that the i'pot of the veil'd, vhich is the weakeft, and where the difeafe begins, > apt to be ftretehed more in proportion than other rteries, and to form particular cells, where they neet with firm reftftance, more than where their fup- iort is foft and yielding. The fac formed by the diftenfion of the artery is sot a diftenfion of a particular coat, but of the whole ubftance of the veil'd ; but the thicknefs of the coats f thefc facs will laft only to a certain period, for when he veftels of the coats can no longer conform to the xtenfion, the circulation grows languid, the fac be- omes thinner at its apex, and foon after burfts : far- hcr, as the aneurifmal tumour increnfes in fize, ft meets vith reftftance from the neighbouring parts, and as he coats will be more or lefs affefted, according to he degree of the reftftance, in i'omc places they will if fimply diftended, in others abfolutely deftroyed, . g. where the aneurifmprefles againft the diaphragm, t will be thinner than where it fuffers no preifurc; t is ftill thinner where it prefles againft the tendi- tous part of the diaphragm, and where it prefles theA N E 1 pears fpinc, it is the fooncft eroded through. A proof that all preflure muft be avoided in all in fiances of this fort. The blood that fills thefe tumours is always fluid, by being conftantly renewed ; that is, as faft as one drop enters another pafTes out, and continues its courfe in the circulation; but, notwithflandingthis blood is fluid, its paffage in the tumour is retarded, and this remifl- ncl's in its motion, which is more or lels confiderablc, according to the fize of the eincurifm, occafions fome of the fibrous parts of the blood to feparatc troin the red part, and adhering to the internal coat of the aneur/fm, it there forms fibrous flrata, which may calily be taken for real membranes by thofc not ac- cuftomed to obferve them. This fibrous flrata can- not be difperfed by any means, cither external or in- ternal, and preflure cannot be ufed, becaule thereby the coats of the artery arc foon deflroycd. > Secondly, of the Falfe Ancurifm. It is formed by a rupture or wound in the coats of the artery, and is of two kinds, viz. the diflulcd and the circumfcribcd. ... - , The diffiifed, is that in which the extravafated blood runs through the cellular membrane, in the intcrfliccs of firmer parts; this generally makes a rapid progrefs, may extend itfelf to a great difiance, and has little or no puliation, except very near the aperture of the artery ; but thcle ctrcumllances will fomewhat vary, according to the fize of the opened artery, and the ftrengrh of the circulation. '» uh regard to the lodgment of the fluid, this fpecies of fal{enuuurifm is analogous to the emphyfema, and is the higheft fpecies of ecchymofis. The circumfcribcd, beats and finks under preflure, like the true aneunfm, and indeed cannot be diflin- guifhed from that, except by the knowledge of i:s taufe, or by a careful difluetion of the part: it ap-A N E pears foon after the accident which gave rife :o it, and is comm- ..ly flow and gradual in its progrcfs. It happens when the orifice in the artery is very mall, l'o that the blood flows but leifurely, and finds he adjacent membranes lb firmly united as to keep it vithin a certain channel. It confifts of one bag with i fmooth infide, and communicates by an aperture vith the cavity of the artery. This fpecies of uuurifm is, perhaps, the mod common among thole hat happen in the arm after bleeding, cfpecially when confiderablc prciTure has been made ufe of inline- iiatcly after the accident. Thirdly, of the Mixed Aneurifm. This is formed partly by a wound or rupture in lie artery, and partly by a dilatation of the reft. It annot ealily be diftinguilhed from the circumlcribed aecics of the falfe aneitriftn, and will often l'o emu- ite the true one, as not to be diftinguilhed from it ut by a careful diflfection. ourtbly, of the Fancofe Aneurifm, or the Ancwifmtd Farix. This is when there is an anaftomofis, or an imme- iate communication between the artery and the vein f the part where the patient has been let blood, in infequence of the artery being wounded through the ein, lb that blood palfes immediately from the trunk ' the artery into the trunk of the vein, and fo back » the heart. This fpecies differs from the common fpurious teurifm is one circumftancc only, viz. the wound re- aming open in the fide of the vein as well as in the le of the artery. But this one circumftance will cafion a great difference in the fymptoms, the ten- -ncy of the complaint, apd in the proper method of eating it. Dr.A N E Dr Hunter firft defcribed this fpecies of ancunfm, and to him the world is indebted for many improve- ments refpefting the other kinds. Mr. Bell, in his Syftem of Surgery, divides the ancunfm into two ipecies, viz. the eneyfted,and the diffufed. The eneyfted includes all thofe inftances in which the coats of the artery, being onJy ddajed, lhc blood is confined in its proper coat : oh kmd he reckons the varicofe ancunfm. 1 he diffi^ed me udes all thofe in which, from an aperture in the artery, the blood is fpread about in the cellular membrane, out of T he^caufes^of ancurifms are various. In the true anfunfm, a particular natural weaknefs in a part of an artery is the immediate caule ; and in general the caufes of all the fpecies may be one or other of the following: internally, a fullncls of the arteries con- curring with feme violent motion, or other particular .§an internal tumour prefling on lome part of an artery ^or where there is no particular turgulnefs of the veffels, violent action, fudden anger, yomitingj by propelling the blood too forcibly to lome par- ticular thus, by ftretching the artery, a true, or by burfting it, a falfe ancunfm, or the mixed one, will'bc formed : convulfions, and other violent pa - modic fymptoms, and perhaps an acrimony u ™od bffavour of fome other concurrmg caule, may iSf’be ranked in the number of internal caufes* externally, ftrdins, blows, and punfturos are the mo 1 frequent ; preffurc ufed on a true inir the coats of the artery, produces a fall*, one fiimpending the breath, as in lifting great burthens V 7tdl"s’beCen faid, that a polypus exifting inter „a!lv, lbmctimes occnfions an ancm jm ; but Dr. Hun ter obferves, that it rarely or never happens th« ■ polypus is formed till the fart moments of life, win he heart's power having nearly ccalcd, the v hoA N E loot! cannot be propelled from the heart, but flag- ates, forming polypufes; which being found after eath, have been l'uppofed to have pre-cxiftcd, and to avc been the caufcof what they were only the ctFeft. As to internal aneurifn:, there is no certain crite- onby which to afeertain their exiltencc, before they jproach to the furface of the body •, whatever l'ymp- *ms they produce before they form a tumour exter- tlly, as they may be produced by other caufes, they e but equivocal figns. The pathognomonic fign of 1 the fpecies of aneurifms, is, a perceptible puliation fome part of the tumour, more or lefs manifeft, as e artery is feated l'uperficially or deep. The true teyrifn is generally of an oblong figure, and ha« a rong pulfation in it ; it fubfidcs on depreffion ; if is an aneurifn of the aorta, a ftrong pulfation is per- ived againft the ffernum and ribs on every fyftole i the heart, and when it extends above the fternum, ere is a tumour with pulfation. Thefe tumours are ithout difcolouration in the Ikin, except on the point burfting ; there is no pain in them ; they lubfidc prelfure while the blood is fluid, but when it is agulated, they dilappear but very little ; if there a fac with a narrow bafis, the blood re-enters c artery with a hilling noife when the tumour preffed. Sometimes there is a rednefs from the panfionof the parts beyond their capacity, or from e putrefaftion of the blood; in which cafe, there generally a fever, with fainting. The common ap- aranccs of an aneurifn from the wound of a lancet, - a dil'chargc of blood through the orifice of the n, by jerks, inftcad of an uniform ftream; and 'On being hopped from bleeding outwardly, an in- , uation of it among all the mufcles, as far as it can read, in the fhouldcr and arm, conftituting the dif- fed aneurifn: in this cafe, the arm becomes livid 'in the ecchymofis, and the blood coagulating pre- II nts any fcnfible pulfation. InA N E V Si 11C * In the falfe kinds of aneurijms, the cyft is probably formed of a portion of ihc aponeurofis that runs over the veffd, which, admitting of fomc cxtravafattd blood underneath, it becomes cxccinvely thickened and expanded ; that this membrane is the cyft, fcems to be confirmed by our fo readily difcovering the punflure in the artery upon opening the tumour : or it may be formed of the cellular membrane, which admits both of thickening and expanfion. The appearances of the varicofc aneurijm will dif- fer from the common falfe one as follows : the vein that was punftured will become varicous, and wil have a pulfatilc jarring motion, on account of the flream from the artery •, there will be a hiding noife, which will be found to correfpond with the pulfi for the fame reafon ; the blood in the tumour will b( almoft entirely fluid, bccaufc it is kept in conftani motion: it is foon formed to its largcft fize, anc there remains, if it is not difttirbed bv imprudeni management; there are no confidcrable inconvcni erices confequent. That this fort of anew ifin is pre fent, may be further known, by placing a finger ote the orifice in the artery : thus the ftream of bloot propelled into the vein, at every puliation, is felt by applying the car to the minified vein, a tremulou motion and noife are perceived •, by prclfing the cor refponding artery, this motion, noife, 8cc. ceafe, am on the removal of this preflfure the motions, &c. re turn ; the artery becomes larger in the arm and lniallc in the wrift ; the vein being emptied by prefiure inftantly fills again on taking the prclfurc oft ; th pulfe at the wrift grows weaker as the artery abo\ enlarges. ,, . ... The beginning aneurijm in the aorta fliould hr a * ringuilhed from a palpitation of the heart ; ft°m ft)* terics, in which fymptoms of fuflfocation fomctimt attend; from fever with fainting, both which ar fometimes the conftquencc of a falfe anetarjm ; rotA N E arices of the veins and their cfFcfts; from an cm- hyiema; from an ccchymofis ; from cncyfted i'well- igs in the neck, in which are often perceived a rong pulfation from the ftroke of the adjacent ar- ’ry» an^ from tumours formed from ruptured veins. 1 he aneunjm of the aorta may prove fatal many ays: it more and more injures the general health, it continues to increale in its iize ; it may be fup- orted during many years, but there can be no cure tempted, nor other palliatives uled than what con- ls in compolure of mind and quietude of the body. II aneurifms are incurable that lay too low for the oeration ; and, if unadvifedly opened, the patient’s e is m immediate danger, for bandages, which are c only palliatives in luch cafes, are but uncertain pendents. 1 he diffufed aneurifm is not only fub- hemorrhages, but alfo to a mortification. The method of cure is the fame in the true, the an<* .the mixed aneurifms; the varicous needs t little, if any alfiftancc; if it is enlarged by cxcr- e, and becomes painful, indulge a little reft, and 'derate the future labour; perhaps bathing the rt with a little fpirit may afford lomc finail relief, t bandages and all other means muft be avoided, lo palliate, when the operation is impra&icable, •ed as often as is required to keep the force of the dilation moderate ; let the diet be temperate, and •• cxercile very gentle ; keep the bowels conftantlv J , ’ "ihc,rc prcffiirc is ufed, it muft be fuch as > checks the force of the blood, not refill, it; flan- and.tges, or knit ftockings, &c. arc the moll pro- tor this purpofe. But all preffurc is bell avoided cn the aorta is the feat of the aneurifin, however umour may appear externally : it is true, that, if integuments give way, and the coagulum formed he infide of the tumour thereby has loft its fup- - ’ "c alhftance of a bandage is immediately ne- * ’ as 1C ls the only means to prevent a fatal hsemorrage;A N E haemorrhage; in this dilemma, if the fubftitutes to the integuments are judicioufly applied, and accompa- nied with fuch topical medicines as refift both luppu- ration and. putrefoirtion, the life of the patient may be preferved for fome time. j When the operation can be admitted, it is adviie- ablc firft to attempt the cure by compreifion ; becaufe it fometimes proves effcftual, is always a good pre- paratory ftep to the operation, by its enlarging the collateral anaftomofing branches, and thereby dilpofe* the part to have a more free circulation after the di- vifion of the artery ■, but when the tumour is large, the palliative method Ihculd not be long continued, becauie it injures the neighbouring parts, and will occahon more inflammations, floughings, &c. when the ope- ration is performed. The preflure, whether before or after the opera- tion, fhould be confined as much as rouble to thq atferted part, that the paflage of the blood through the anaftemoling veffels may be free, by which w* may prevent the mortification which fometimes cn lues, for want of a free circulation. Some few inftanccs of fmall ancurrjms and pvinc turcs of the artery from bleeding, have luccccdcd b the ufc of bandage, but they almoft all require th operation at laft, which is performed nearly m th fame manner in every part ■ but larger■ rnieurfas can not receive any advantage from the preffure, thcrefqt where it hath been ufed long enough as a prepavam to the operation, the fooner it is performed the bette Mr. Bell obferves, in lus Syftcm of Surgery, tffi in diffufed or falfe anurrifms, preffure cannot be aj plied to the artery alone, without at the lame tin afferting the refluent veins ; and as this circumUanc bv producing an increafcd rcfiftancc to the artci puliation*, mufl undoubtedly force an additional qua! tity of blood to the orifice in the artery, that ther fore no advantage is to be exported from it; but, <A N E « contrary, that on many occafions there is reafon liippo.c it has been productive of mifehief. But tough preffure ought never to be attempted in any -•ri°d of the diffuled aneurifm, yet in fome fiacres 0f "e other ipecies of this difeafe, it may be often had hiler h 1U|W1? ad^antagc- In their early ftages Jule the blood can be yet preffed entirely out of the - into the artery, it often happens, by the ul'e of a -ndage °f loft and fomewhat elaftic materials, pro- ;rly fitted to the part, that much may be done in e\ enting the lwelling from receiving any decree of onort °Q ^ occaflons> b7 th/. continued ppou thus given to the weakened artery, complete ies have been at lalt obtained. Vet, though pref Zl? Certam deugree has 1 °mc ti n,e s proved ulbfu 1 ought never to be carried to a great length: tioht 3gTS!nit.bef® ca(bs always counteract the inten- • Indeed, the greateit length to which prefliirr ko, ferve * ,7J,ryC " the pairs affeded, and no farther. With com- cfl.oii, other means Ihould at the fame time be ufed e bowe °WfrT "7 bleeding, * 1jx Hate of bo\vcl,, freedom from ftrong exercife, &e. Operation for tbe Aneurifm. A f“j! command of the circulation in the lower Dart the hmb bcing obtained, by the appl,cation oZhe riSuu above: place the patient lo that the dif- fed hmb being fetched on a table, is of a c^avel >camdg Tbe 7^ operator, who Ihould invariably Fhe 11110 being lecured in Inch pofition e IkbSr’ IMkera',1 incifion Wlth a fcalpcl through the tumour h181 ful,fta"“» alou§ the whole coude UppCr «^’„b|;Smnin? ab°UC half 3,1 ln°h above ^hTyond hs I’ a"d terminatin§ about half aa 'ay the h ■ d 7 eXt/e,UUy- This done, wipe «er, then makeVnn 8 fp°nger>Cezcd of ■ a make an opening big enough to admit a fingera finger of the left hand in the fofreft part of the tu- A N E Jau »«£StLM mour, with a lancet ;• now introduce your linger, and with a blunt pointed biftoury, cut upwards and downwards, fo as to lay the whole cavity open ; clear the blood and tough membranous filaments away with your fingers ; this effected, flacken the tourniquet to difeover the artery, and the opening into it from whence the blood collettcd in the tumour has beeh difeharged; the orifice afeertained, raife the artery from the contiguous parts by introducing a fmall probe into the opening; then pafs a double ligature about the eighth of an inch above and below the ori- fice. Always pais your ligature by the eye ot the needle forwards, left you lhould wound the artery or nerve. When in fcarchingfor.and fecurtng thcartery, the joints near where the diftafe is fituateJ, whether the knee or elbow, lhould be bent. Having fecurcJ the vefTcl, bring the parts together cither by need! and ligature, or fmall flips of lbcking plafter. 1 Ik only bandage required, is two or three turns of « flannel roller, above and below the centre of th< wound, but by no means tight. After the operation, the patient (hould be put t< bed, the limb placed in a relaxed pofmon upon thi pillow, and a dofc of laudanum admm.ftered 1h treatment lhould he cordials and nounfhing diet u hci “S. « reduced, and low die,, with blecdm if plethoric. When, after four or hve days, there no return of circulation, and the parts remain col and infcnfible, mortification generally enfues, an nn amputation is the only rcfourcc* t n , In cafe of popliteal aneurifm, the incifion ipuft made in a femlcircular direftion. It, befides the d made in a lemtcircuiai uin-w.wM. lated artery, there is an adventitious pouch, mak an opening into jt, by which ^l^rtachl^ dif | > U, UY " J - ver the art'ery. The nerve is moft ■ ver tree artery. i * - to the out fide, of this be careful not to inci your ligature, .. death would be the eonftju.ntjA N U Vhenever you perform this operation, always have our amputating mftrumcnts ready, in cafe of need Mr. John Hunter- was fucccfsful in the operation two cafes of popliteal aneurifm, one of which was Jove the triceps mufcle, Mr. Blizard alfo has fuc. eded in two mftances. Vide Lond. Med. Obf and nq. vol. ni. p. .06. Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. u. i, 6. and // arnei s Cales of Surgery ' Newcaftle, propofe,! fome years ice, mftead of ligature, to fecure the artery by the 7fed Attire. In the Lond. Med. Obf. and Enq ■’1.11. p. 360, there 13 a cafe of cmeunfm in the arm •red by this pradice ; after a few days, the pin came 'V‘,thihe ingin&;. For information on Aneu- , vide Aetms I etrabid ferm. iii.cap. 10. P JE- ncta^ lib. vi. cap. 37. Marc. Aur. Severinus de kffi- ci Medicine. Morgagni de Scdibus & Caufis Mor- rum. Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. an. i7i2 I7J3. Philof m 1 m r.rip ,D‘ H“" ■>» ASritaS;: at.M.d.Mem.dc 1 Acad. Roy.de Chirurgie. Prof "Edin^M'i3^ thf Formatlon of ALnJhn, in - Edinb Med. EfT. vol. 11. and iv. Lc Drafts Onc- • onsm Surgery. Sharp's Operations in Surgery \u. % ando'hcrs’ Observations on AneunfZ’ the Lond. Med. Obf. and Enq. vol i i ; , Z Bt/fs Surgery, vol. i. %hite s Surgery’ Si thf. 1?w,cft Part of thc inteftinum reftum monly called thc fundament. ' 5 neraCllv/f0lfUbiiCa djftrden, and thevare abiP / r T vhat tllfFlcult cure, from the ir- urv ^ tFc Parr> v'bich fubjefta it to receive frclh ur> t.om many accidents; Aetiusobferves tha> aftrin metals Should be n|ge.nT t,iat arC n0t acrifi> fuch ncr.A N U rcr, Heifter, andWifeman. Alfo the article Rec- tum. Excrefccncet about the Anus. • Various cxcrefccnces are found about the verge of the anus •, many of thefe are produced merely y re- laxation, which are fafely removable : thefe are un- attended with pain, any difagrecable ^charge, and arc fingle or diftinft, let their number be what they may. In removing them, prefer the ligature, tor tae fake of avoiding a troublcfome haemorrhage. When they difeharge a bloody fluid matter, and are painful, they are alfo generally in clutters, or not fitting and for the moft part d. jofed to f not already, become cancerous. Mr. Pott oblcrves, that In cancel ous cafes of this kind, there is rare^ a fintrle excrefccnce, but the gut is for the moft patl fu reminded with them ; and if a finger■« lotted Uttt the inteftine, thofe tumours produce the idea of pul- ing the finger into a rotten pomegranate. Bcyonc palliation, no relief can be afforded. 7/VAnus imperforated. Sometimes children arc born with a membrane acrofs the anus, which obftrufts the ejection of th Txe ements If the fituation of the anus cannot b diibovcr«l, by realbn of the thickuefs of the fupe fl om fubftance which clofes it up, a cure cannot b W*' mWjf’ the°cafcCadS^ts^f*a^urc!°th! KioTK ««« will be feen by a prominence or by a little hollow. , f -r ,.i..,ay The accident is generally fpoken of as it alw eirramitanced .like Mr. P« * SS o, :nc'.?U°" t p«rVT,itk , in iV it ought to be until ■■ ameer at h WbTr he urcthi, fi»m .hi. there ,, no m-eli.nA N U ) no anus externally. If the rcdtum reaches too ear the part where the anus lhould be, the impulfe f the faces againd the fkin will difeover where a erforation may be made; but if no fuch impulfe is ) be felt when the child coughs or cries, relief can- ot be afforded. 2d, Where there is a circle or mark 1 the lkin which points out where the anus lhould e : in this inftance the difficulty is not confiderablc. fowever, it may be proper to obferve here, that the erforating inftrument lhould be introduced into the iredtion of the os facrum ; if it paffes forward, the adder, or the uterus, or both, may be injured ; if is to be introduced far up, to divide a membranous odrudtion in the redtum, in cutting it lhould be loved not upward, but from fide to lide ; thus you void cutting the proftate gland, or the velicufa fe- linales, and perhaps the neck of the bladder. 3d, fhere there is a well formed anus, and perforated, ut it has no communication with the intcdinal tbe, from the redtum being imperforated. In this •dance, if the child is not duly attended to, it dies 1 great agonies. If an infant has had no dools dur- g the fird or fccond day after its birth, a finger ould be dipped in oil, and thrud up the redtum, to fcover whether or no the obdrudtion is there. 4th, 'here there is neither anus nor redtum, but the in- dinal canal terminates in the colon; in this cafe ‘ere is no relief to be expedted. Another equally 'fortunate kind, is that in which there is a lort of ftuni, but it is rolled up like a bit of catgut. Here 1 attempts to alfid are vain, for though for the pre- nt a dilcharge was obtained, as the intedinc was de- cent, evacuations could not be continued. I he means, &c. of relief, in the fird three of the >ove claffes, are the fame.' ] n either Of them the > >e rat ion lhould be performed without delay or rc- wd to any objcdlions ; fur if it is not conformed to, aui will inevitably follow. "1 he bed indrument is H 2 a largeA Q U a large trocar, fuch'as Is ufed for tapping the nfeites, and to be ufed as follows : keep the point of the tro- car within the canula until it is fixed againft the ob- ftru&ing part; then pu(h the trocar forward, and if you lucceed, the meconium will intently be dif- charged ; this difeharge may be left to itfelf for three Of four hours, or until the belly is well emptied. After a due difeharge, pafs a finger up the reftum to difeover whether or no there is anv ftridlure. If a flridhire is met with, introduce a probe-pointed knife on the back of your finger, and divide it on each fide. Tofinifh the cure, let a final! candle be introduced up the gut every two or three hours, until the anur, &c. is quite pervious, and no more aid appears to be re- quired. In two or three weeks the ftools wi pafs properly, and all inconvenience will generally be Yaviard, in his Obf. 3- r',vcs a» in(la,ncc of a child that was faved by a punfture through an m.pcrfo- ration of the thickncfs of three fingers breadth. \ i« Unflers Surgery, p. 39- Snr£eO'- 7“* hl pdinb. Med. Comment, vol. tv. p. 164. White s bur- gcry p. 379. Aponeurosis, from bh. frit”, and vtvpy,a nerve. Anv tendinous expanfion. T hefe tendinous r*Pa- fions, or afioneuro/e.’, arc nlfo called fifti.r. ^ matter is formed immediately vtfloer any of the a.cut, it cannot point where is was firfl fotrned, but ums uu der them to feme diflar.ee, to gain an outlet: to pre- vent inconveniences froth this caufe, as foon 2* m ' .1 can bd fejt under a fafeia, give it immediate ver.t When this happens under the temporal mulcle, .1 qccafions great difficulty. Vide Abfcefs of the tefli PJAquu l a.’ A diforder of the eye lids^P. Spinet ij lib. vo cap.xiv. lays, it is a pinguinous fubfiance undei the fkin of the eye-lid, and is alfo «lltd It is the bordeolutn kydattdofutr. of Sauviges s IIvd.it/do. ■ my sa^ chlldrcn> 11 is f"biefoVtaART roub'.cfomc, and produces great uneafinefs. The pper eye-lid appears watery, and cannot be elevated; he eyes are very tender, diftilling a rheum, efpccially 1 the morning if expofed to light. In order to the arc, an incifion is made through the fkin of the eye- d, and the cyft is to be diffedted out. Mr, St. Yves notices a complaint on the edge of ie eye-lids, or on the tunica conjuudtiva, which re- mbles the bladders that appear on the Ikin after a arn ; he calls thefe alfo bjdatis. The method of cure hich he propofes, is merely to open the. tumour with ie point of a lancet. But if the circumference of uc globe is covered with water, the conjundtiva will : inflamed, and in this calc bleeding, purging, and collyrium of Aq. Calcis will be ncccfl'ary. Vide a//i/s Nofologia Methodica Oculorum, and Bell's lrgery, vol. i. Arteriotomia, from aftku, an artery, and rt^n cut. Is the opening of an artery for the difeharge. blood. This operation is never performed, but , ^e different branches of the temporal artery, hen the artery lies fuperficial, it may be opened th one pufh of the lancet, as in venclcdtion, but itn the artery is covered with cellular fubftancc, it jft be laid fairly open, before the orifice is made th the lancet. The artery fliould be opened in an hque diredtion, neither quite acrofs, nor dircdtly igitudinal. If the blood does not flow freely, prcls artery immediately above the orifice, between and the correiponding veins. Compreffion, by a en comprcis and a linen roller, is generally fuffi-, nt t? hop the evacuation, previoufly clearfrig • orifice from blood, and covering it with a bit of Ving.pjafter. Should this not fucceed, you may her cut thc artery entirely acrofs at the orifice, fe- c_'t with a ligature, or by cunftant and regular • lure with a bandage, obliterate the cavity of the rJl • cru thc operation was performed. Vide s burgery, vol, i. White % Surgery, p, 17S.B. Bl.F.J’HarOTTOsis, from ^>.rpr-if0V) palpebra, eye lid, and wluwir. cafus, defcent, called alfo, />/?/?!. A dijhcation, or difp/aring of either, or £g/o eye-lids, by elongation, rctra&ion, turning inwards or outwards, with different fymptoms in different fpecies ; but the true blepbaroptrfis, or preternatural del'cent of the eye-lid, arifes from a wound of the frontal mufcles of the temple, or the fuperiour levator of the eye-lid: or from any large tumour dragging down the eye Jid ; from inflammatory, or cold defluxions, clongat ing the palpebra ; from mere relaxations of the eye- lids brought on by fuperfluons ferum ; or from a palfy of the palpebra, which is fometitnes conftant, an-" fometimes periodical. The varieties of this fpecies are obvious; with re fpeft to the firft, it mull be remarked, that the check of the fame fide, the lower jaw, the tongue, eyes and other parts, are affedlcd. The fccond and thin varieties are cured by removing the primary difeafi to which they owe their origin ; the fourth require! corroborating and fpirituous fomentations; the fifu antiparalytic medicines internally and externally which, if in two varieties do not fuccteG, rccourl mud be had to an operation on the prolnpled palpe bra, or on the ftin of the forehead ; which muft b treated as in curing the firft variety from a weur lnterr.al remedies, muft he purgatives and diureti If a paralytic affection, electricity muft be employe When ariiing from relaxation, ahun, with an infuf« of oak bark, is recommended externally, which not fuc. efsful, the relaxed fkin muft be cut away, a the edges of the wounds ccnfinid together by iuturtBOU id healed in that fituadon. Vide, Wallis s Nofologia culorum. There are other fpecies of this difeafe. Vide arti- es Ectropium and Trichta. Boucie. In the French language fignifics a zvax ■ndle. The term is applied to a machine, which sthe wax candle formerly was) is introduced into e urethra for removing obftruftions. It is likewife town by the term catheter, candela area, vcl medi- ta. Dr. Swediaur, in his Pharmacopoeia Syphili- :a, gives the following preferiptions for bougies, called thetercs, firft made of Fiver, but they are better rmed of claftic refin of various fizes. The fecond : calls Cf.kf.i of tlaftic refin, or of mufical chords, ade from the ihteftincs of Ihcep. The third Cerei Iedicati. ' R. Cerat flavae liquefaeftae fpermatis ceti 3 iij. |Ua' lythargyris acetati. Ph. Lond. nov. 3ij. ad. 3j. Ilefc being mixed together, and removed from the e, (lips of linen cloth are to be dipped in the com- jfition, of which the bougies arc to be formed. The urth are the Cereri Medicati, faid to be the vention of Le Drau. R. Herbie conii maculati, foliorum Nicotians taba- , Summitatum florentium hyperre'i perforati. radi- > irides fiorentinte, ana manipulum unurn infunde decodfi nticum julandis regiai ]Rj. addc herbie an- lufae officinalis JRj. axungiae porcin®, ovillze curaraz, a ]t)iij. mifee fuper ignem, dein addc cerae (lava; Ryj. enck, in great conftri£Uons of the Urethra, prefers ofe made of the mufical chord, becaufe they fwell, id then difiend the paffage, and befides, front their xibility, remain longer in the urethra without oc- fioning any irritation ; but perhaps thole made of e c:aftic refin, which arc formed hollow, are moil giblc, as they afford a free paffage for the urine uhotit removing them. Different com polltions have been ufed, and gene- rallyBOU rally mercury was a part in them. Riverius made a plafter as follows : R. Ol. oliv. iv. cera; citriu. jjj ij. minii & cgrul. aa i. Is. tcrcb. Venet. & ref. alb. aa 3 iij. m. , Whether the the bougies are made up of this, or any other compofition, they mull be of different fires, from the bigncfs of a knitting needle, to that of a goole quill. They arc made of linen rags, lpread with a proper matter, and then rolled up as follows. Having fpread any quantity of linen rag with thy compofition that is chofen for the purpole, cut it into flips, from fix to ten inches long, and from half an inch to an inch broad; then dexteroufly roll them on a glazed tile into the form of a wax candle. And as the end of the bpugie \ is to be entered hr ft into the urethra, Ihouid be fomewhat fmallcr than the reft, it would be as well to cut the Hips a little tapering. It Jhould' alfo be obferved, that when the bougies are roiled up, that fide muft be outward, on which the plafter is fpread. Monf. Daran, and fomc others, attributed the ac- tion of their bougies to the compofition they made ufe of in forming them. Mr. Sharpe apprehended, that as much of their efficacy was owing to the compref- fion they made on the affefted part, as to any other principle. And Mr. Aikin juftly lays, as it is evi- dent that bougies, of very different compofitions, luc- ceed equally well in curing the fame dilorders in the. urethra, it is plain that they do not aft by means of any peculiar qualities in their compofition, but b^l means of fome property common to them all. This muft. be their mechanical form and texture, therefore their mode of aft ion muft be fimplc compreffion. The efficacy of mere compreffion in many cafes cf yonftriftion is well known, from the ufe of lpongy tents for widening parts that are ftraightened by ci-{ carrices; and admitting obftruftions in the urethra to be from a conftriftion formed by cicatrized ulcers, or( a pro-iB R E irojefticn of the fpongy fubftance of the urethra to the canal, we may eafily conceive that a gentle ntinued elaftic compreffion will, in time, overcome : difeafe. We may alfo readily account for the in- •iour efficacy of metallic and whalebone bougies, from air not having the property of fwclling with moil- re, and therefore not making fo equal a comprcf- n. As to the bougies procuring a difeharge of matter, ire is no doubt but the mechanical ilimulus of a eign body, in fuch a tender part, though free m difeafe, muft produce it in fome degree, and swill be varied according to the chemically irri- ing quality of the compoluion, and the irritable re of the urethra; but it feems an abfurdity to ap- ■ a topic made uniform throughout, to the whole gth of a canal, with a view of producing extraor- ary effefts upon a particular part of it, by means fome powerful quality in the ingredients. As to t part of the bougie which was in contact with the tafed part being particularly covered with matter, 3 circumftance is owing to the greater irritation of urethra where the dilbrdcr is, than in the other ts of it. v'ide Sharpe's Critical Enquiry, ch. iv. and Aikin's fervations on the external Ufeof Preparations of 3d, p. 4Z. Bell’s Surgery, vol. ii. and Wbitis Sur- 7. P- 37i. 5REGMA. The two bones on the upper part of head ; called alfo Jinciput, p.vietaria, and medium The trepan may be applied to any part of fe bones, except on the lateral parts of the pofre- ■ lower edge at it, as the lateral finus lays under Infants often have tumours on thefe bones, con- hng a fluid, and to the touch gives the idea of a iciency of boue, which is not the cafe. Thefe lours fhould always be left to thcmfclvc •, as their tents will be removed by the abforLqnt vtffels. Broncho-BRO BronchoceLe, from the wind pipe, and x’lXn, tumour called alfo, Boa urn, Boiium. Different writers have given it different names. The Swifs call it goutier; fome have called, hernia gutturis, guttiar, tur- midum, and tracbelopbxma, gujfum, execbbrortcos; gon- grona, bernia broncbtalis. Heifter thought it fhould be named tracheocele ; Mr. Proffer, in his late pub- lication on this diforder, from its frequency on the hilly parts of Derbyfhire, calls it (with others) the Derby-neck; and not fatisfied refpefting the fimili- tude of this tumour, with that obferved on the neck of women on the Alps, he calls it (particularly that which he fo well deferibes) the Englifh broncho- ccle\ as various caufes give rife to this complaint, the more ftriftly to diftinguilh that, in which he experts fucccfs in his attempt to cure, he calls that fpecies which is not produced by external accidents, &c. fuch as loud-lpeaking, crying, blows, &c. the natural, the fpontaneous, or the curable broncbocele. The feat of this difeafe is the thyroid gland, which lies juft below the larynx, round the trachea. The tumour appears in the forepart of the neck, between the (kin and the wind-pipe. Women are the moft frequent fubjerts of this difeafe, in whom it ufuaflv appears early. Dr. Hu liter met with one cafe of this kind in a young furgeon; but it rarely happens in males, or being lefs in fight is not often noticed. Various caufes of this difeafe arc affigncd by dif- ferent writers. On the mountainous parts of Genoa I and Piedmont, they attribute thcl'e tumours to their drinking water cooled with ice. Dr. Leake obferves, in his Medical lnftrurtions, cd. 6. that fuch glandu- lar l'wellings as happen about the neck and fact, ihouid be owing to the feverity of the cold, moift air, is very probable, efpecially fincc they generally appear in winter: he adds, as far as he could oblerve, theie tumours were rare in the warm dry climates of Italy; and!BRO I nd Portugal. Some writers attribute it to a fcrophu- I ous caufe. Mr. Proffer inclines to think that it is a [iroply in the -gland, and fimilar to the dropfy in the varies. lie relates that Dr. Hunter differed one of I ihefe glands that had been confiderably enlarged, and was found to be enlarged by a number of cyfts lied with water. Yet moll writers agree in that its | rue caufe and nature are alike unknown. Mr. Proffer very accurately dcl’cribes this difeafe as 'jllows: the Ironchocele is a tumour arifing on the forc- I art of the neck •, it generally firft appears fornc time Vetwixt the age of eight and twelve years, and con- nucs gradually to encreafe for three, four, or five | ears ; and fometimes the laft half year of this time, j e are told, it grows more than it had for a year or I vo before. It generally occupies the whole front of ie neck, as the whole thyroid gland is here enlarged, I at it does not rife near lo high as the ears, as in the jifes mentioned by Wifernan, and it is rather tn a Imdulous form, not unlike, as Albucafis fays, the bp or dewlap of a turkey-cock’s neck when he is | lgry, the bottom being the bigger part of the tu- our, it growing gradually lefs upwards: but as to i figure, it varies confiderably in different cafes. It loft, or rather flabby to the touch, and fomewhat I oveable ; but when it has continued fomc years after c time of its growing, it gets more firm or con- tied. By the fituation and nature of the complaint, generally occafions a difficulty of breathing, and ry much fo upon the patient’s taking cold, or at- j mpting to run or walk fail; in fome the tumour is large, and fo much affe&s their breathing, as to 1 cafion a loud wheezing; but we meet with many j ccptions to this general rule. Some have the eafe in an aggravated degree, and fuffer but little it; in others, though the enlargement of the I; ind is not near fo confiderable, yet they fuller much lore from it. In common, the opulent of thofc whoBRO who have the complaint in a con fid arable degree, w ill be rendered incapable of enjoying life ; the poor of getting their living. Dr. Hunter obferved, in his lcfhires, A. D. 1771, that fometimes this tumour contains water, but now and then fuppurates. The broncboeelt. fhould be diitinguilhed from a ferr- rhus, alfo from an ancurifm, and particularly thole fwcllings in the neck that arife from drains, ruptured veffcls,"&:c. It is the natural, not the accidental, above deferibed, and which arifes fpontancoufly as it were, that is curable, and not thole from externa and other manifeft caufcs. This tumour is not apt to become cancerous. Mr, Gooch fays, he never knew this diieafe to endange life, however large it was ; but he obferves a confi derable inconvenience from it, in cafes of quinley at attending with it. Mr. Sharpe mentions, that the only cafes requiring bronchotomy, were owing ti the prefence ol bruniboci'lis. Dr. Hunter has noticed that this difordcr appears two or three years befor or after menftruating; and that it fometimes (pont? ncoufly difappears, if the menftruation approach kindly ; and Mr. Proffer adds, that often this chang in the conftitution, does not feem at all to affect ti tumour, but it continues to grow as before. Some have obferved, that the drain ot »u iffue, of a perpetual blifter, applied on lomc other occaliqn has prevented the growth of the IjfoticLocilf; the iHl or blifter being dried up, the tumour in the nec would increafc falter; and upon the iflues ben opened again, or the difeharge of the blifter, it won be fomewhat funk, or however its growing bigg'’ prevented. But on this method no dependence c he had. By reafon of its fituation, it cannot be <- tirpated ; it is fo entangled with the recurrent ncivt the lirlt branch of the external carotid arteiy, & that thofe who have attempted todiffeff it, were g. to dtfill: and if, by chance, a fuppunnion is tornvBRO 'it ill conditioned ulcer is the confcquence, and cry difficult of cure. If it can be di&uffcd, that lode of relief alone can be prudently attempted ; nd thus Mr. Proffer has fuccccded in many in- ances. On this plan, the late famous Coventry rac- icine was formed. Mr. Wilmcr has inferted it in n Appendix to his Cafes, &c. in Surgery. It begins 'ith an emetic the day after the moon is at full, "and ve day after that a purge ; the night following, and :vtn nights fucceffivcly, the following bolus muft : kid under the tongue at bedtime; and on thefe :vcn days, a bitter ftomachic powder fhould be given : noon. Tint bolus to be laid under the tongue, is trmed of calcined fpongc, cork, a:*! pumice-ftonc, ■ each ten grains ; iyrup, a fufficient quantity. But • proceed to that method, by which Mr. Proffer lures us the fpontancous or curable cafes arc relieved, ' Several have fucceeded by the ufc of his cdii inttf, though they wore nearly advanced to their venty-fifth year, which was more than twelve years ter the appearance of the tumour on their necks; ter the twenty-fifth year of the patient’s age, no nance of luccds has occurred. He orders one of c following powders to be taken early in the morn- s’,3!1 hour or two before breakfaft, and at five or < o clock in the evening, every day for a fortnight three weeks. The powder may be taken in a little ™p, or lugar and water, or any thing elfe, fo that »ne is loft. If it tioes uot plt weji on an cmpt 1C lnay bc taken betwixt breakfaft and Milleped. ppt. & pulv. n. been taken for two or d omit them fur about -gin with them again, r the fame manner; night, during the fe- cond 11$: Cinnab. ant. op. levignt gi. xv. Spong. ealcinat. Bj I After theic powders hav< J roe weeks, the patient ffio 3v.°°k> or nine days ; then , as 'nany more, af w *bo at bed-time, ever' IB R O c„„d conrfc of .he powto., throe of .ho followi.e p ! extracti colocynthidis comp. 3 •■ P : m ■ difap. Rub the qui(^filyer with the^u^enimc £ pears, then beat the . 0il. Divide turpentine be too thick, add a tie this quantity into ninety* ix pi ‘• confinement, Thefie >"^lOnctd0."0feve?c weather, and then it except they aie taken or need the diet be much may be only to the ho medicine, are regarded. It may d rather warm wca- taken in a temperate fcafo* ° ufual wav, ther, and the patient 1 veexattly ^ duri„g the taking fome care agai ^Thc patient ihould fecond courfe of the "S"" thewXng-tub, or avoid (landing, cfP.cc'J1 > with cojd water. As to Inch other work as i done witn^ ^ u the diet, when no alterati , ftaTcj regulation* l’uccefs has been the lam ^ may occaf.onally were regarded. In tn'5’ nurge, after taking diredt. If the pd * C°1n, . better to leave out the exm them a few days, it wouldb-better to l ^ colocynth. in the prepars that the mercury taw i» weight Xfj'S,; 1. general, 1. inav remain in the lame Dur„ed twice or will be proper for tl“ P^“ or any gentle cathartic, thrice with manna an » The medicines) before the powders arc i g f good conilitu- are here proport.po.d.fa„ „f , non; therefore, if l„ft be managed accordingly weakly habit, the dofes mult be hurtful, bu« As to external applications, they may do not appear likely tonc t find benefit in a lit The patient mull not expect ^ ^ mcd tie time ; perhaps it widbc J o ^ ^ nking cincs arc all taken, as eiveJinthc tumou before much difference will be pcrceivBUB and I 2 r>f the hcck. It is ncceffarv that the medicines be aegun with at a proper time, efpecially the i'econd courfe ; a few days ihould always be difpenfed with an that account. ' Amongft the earlier writers, Albucafis is the firft I who gives any ufeftjl account of this diforder. See it -jeanflated into FrieniTs Hift. of Phyfic, and into James's Med. Dift. art. B>anchorele. _ See alfo, Tur- in's Surgery, vol. i. p. 194. Wilmer’s Cafes and Remarks in Surgery, in the appendix. But the belt of the moderns on this fubjedt is an Account of the Method of Cure of theBronrhocele,byThomas Proffer, edit. 3. Gooch, in his Med. Obf. gives an inftance of an tqueous bronchocele. Belts Surgery, vol. v. IVbite's Surgery, p. 2S9. Memoirs of the Medical Society of (London, p. 217. Bubo. A bubo, from /Sos&uv, the groin. Vogel, aames it bubon when in the groin, it is called alfo,- :conbrica; cambtica membra'a ; conJonfcella ; by fome t i3 called fugilc, and aden. It is a tumid gland which is inflamed, or tends to fuppuration : but it i3 generally underftood only of thole glands which are in the arm-pits, or the groins. Dr. Cullen ranks this genus of difeafe in the clafs locales, and order tumores. He defines it to be the fup- purating tumour of a conglobate gland. See his No» fology, edit. t. Buboes are diffinguifhed into mild and malignant ; :he mild is when no manifeft previous difeafe is in the body ; the malignant is when fome peftilential difeafe, or lomc infectious one, excites them, as in the plague, lues venerea, krc. B he chief danger when buboes aril'e, is from the bad habit of body, or fome attendant difeafe.; if neither af thefe accompany them, at the worft they are but a little troublefome. Tile cure of the mild kind will eafily be effefted by • gentle mercurials externally applied, and a purge nowBUB and then ; though if a figuration threatens, h is belt to encourage it, and proceed as in a common abiccls. A b’ftiUntial bubo is known by its appearing at the time of a peftilencc, and being attended with more or lei's of its fymptoms; though, indeed, tlie bubo is the firft fymptom in fomc patients, at a tune ot peftilencc. The appearance of a bubo, when the plague cither prevails or attacks a pcrlcn, is gene- rally a happy prefage, and in the management ot it, repclhnts mull not be ufed, but encourage fap- plication ; and as l'oon as a tumour appears, which in this cafe, though the arm-p.t is the general feat vet it may be in any other part, as m the groin, the parotid glands, &c. apply the fpecdicft uppuvatives, Ed fecond them by the lift of cordial aunfeepne. J“ Tvenereal bubo. Thcfc very rarely happen any where but in the groin, though ^ftanccs havt ^cur red in which the arm-pus were the hat, they tend very (lowly to a fuppuration, and while no hndtn y to a fuopuration appears, it is beft to ddperk them ; but if nature direfts it, let fuppuration be encouraged; at the fame time let auti-venereal alteram es be L.ed in?™heybeginning, theft tumours are fore, if touched hard, and gradually incrcafing, they bet mi pamt.- , and if they tend to lhppurate, an inflammation aPlT?Vrnercal virus thickens the lymph in theft elands Which are the feat of this d.kaie, wl?«^cfcca- tion is rendered difficult in them, t 1 ’ f at length they (well, &c. bomeumes * « Ion: of M" arifts folely from the venereal comapon d «rt.> P»^6 to the afFeftcd i-lnml. and rheie hxing ukft, the is then the cfftnml difeafc. Or a gonorihrea being jl fuddcnly flopped, or being too “.d,J^frJ bubo arifts, and is a fymptomat.cal dileafc. it « UBUB ■without any late contagion, it then is the pathognomo- nic (ign of a latent pox. Tiiis tumour fhould be diftinguiftied from thofe that are limply inflammatory, peftilerttial, ftrumous, or the critical difcharge of lome other diforder ; and when in the groin, it muft be di.ftinguilhed from the epiplocele, and the enterocele. Alfo from the detention of a tel- :icle in the groin. Jn order to the cure, when venereal, the chief con- 'deration is to deftroy the venereal poilon with which he body is contaminated; this done, the bubo is no other than a fimple tumour or abfcefs in the part ; this oeing duly adverted to, if the bubo is but in its begin- ning, it may generally be difperfed by bleeding, if the tabic is inflammatory,or a fanguine plethora is manifcft ; md by rubbing as much of the ung. hydrargyri fort, on the patient’s groin as he can bear without falivating; gentle purging, at proper intervals, and a cooling diet, aflift this intention. But if, by the increafe of the in- flammation, it appears that a fuppuration is likely to ioIIow, the (boner this (fate is completed, the more oeifeft and fatisfa&ory will be the cure. The com- mon bread poultice applied warm, or, if this cannot oe complied with, a foft plafter, on which is galbanum, may be applied ; all evacuations muft now be forborne, md the diet may be more generous. The prominent >ait of the fuppurated fhould be opened with a cauftic, md the ulcer treated as is common in venereal cafes. Tile buboes that are feirrhous or cancerous, arc beft ' left quiet, efpecially while they are tafy : when they lrc painful, treat them as occult cancers. r y ’^c Tf ijicr s Surgery. AJlruc on the Venereal Dif- ta e’ Chapman s Abridgment of AJlruc. Belts Sur- ,yo)’ v> H all is s Sydenham, vn!. i, p. 14.. >U s Surgery, p. 20. Plenck on the Lues Venerea. ■ rra and Bell on the Vcncral Dileafe. Allb F-ot >’id tinnier. fj' bonocei.k; from flr.A.ri the groin, and y.n- n, a I i rumour.BUB tnm:ur. It is alfo called txrnia inguin'aHs, or rupture of the groin ; and is when the inteltmes force the integu- ments through the ring of the external oblique mufde of the belly, or, as Dr. Frcind remarks, through the cavity in the thigh, between the pclistteus and the far* lorii/s, though this latter is called berm a fcrrtoralis, or cntrnlis. , The caufe may be great diftenfion of the bowe.s from wind, violent excrcii'e, as leaping, lifting bur- dens, &c. , The figns are, a tumour in the groin, or upper partot the ferotum, beginning at the ring of the abdominal mufcle, and extending more or lefs downward to- wards, or into, the lerotum, in rrien, and tnc .uma pudendi, in women. This tumour appears dirteremlT to the touch, according to its different contents Jt a portion of the ileum forms the tumour, its iutface is (inooth and renitent, but much more fo if the patient coughs or liicezes. If only apiece of toe omentum has flipped down, the tumour is more flabby when feit, its furface is more unequal, and it makes Ids re- liance to the finger. If both the intefime and-omen* turn are defended, the d'agnoftics will oe Ids dillindt, and requires generally tome experience to alhlt in judg- ing of wliat can hardiv be learnt by delcriptions. Be careful not to miftake this diforder for the hydro- cele, nor the tumour of the tefticle called henna humo- ralis, nor a bubo, or other glandular fwclltng in the groin ; nor with a teftide detained in its pi age through ihc groin, nor with the hydrocele of the fpermat.c cord. It may be obferved that the greateft pain in the on- lonocrlty is at tiic pit of the ftomach, which antes from the omentum, which is connected with it. To I educe' the hernia, without cutting or eroding the part, is called taxis ; and when it is thus reduced the hand, if the rupture confiflcd of a portion of the intclline only, it generally flips up at once i the patten hting laid on his back, with Ins heels brought near toBUB l-fm buttocks, affifls the return of the protruded parts : iif a piece of the omentum is the contents, its return is nnot fo fpcetly ; if there is both omentum and intefline, •the latter afeends firft, and the former feels flabby, bur Toon after it alfo follows. Sometimes, after the intefliue is returned, a foft knotty fubilance remains unreduced, ;and refills all the efforts to reduction, until the patient's • veflels are emptied by bleeding, repeated purges, and a low diet; the varicous feel which this fubilance has, 'Teems as if it was the mdfentery with its veflels dif- ■ tended. In infants, the reduction is generally eafy, and as They get ftrength they are lefs fubjett to a relapfe. In the vigour of life, the return is generally more diffi- cult, and the negleft or bad management more dan- .gerous. The greatefl mifehief to be feared is a ftrifiure, •which is made by the borders of the aperture in the tendon, through which the intellinc paflfed ; and of this accident there is greater danger in the rebuff, than tin infants and valetudinary men. If no appearance of this lymptom attends a patient, the ufe of gentle means hlone arc to be admitted ; but a ftrifturc demands in- 'Rant help in evpfy circumftance. The cure is palliative or radical : the means are the fame in both kinds; the event depends cm what is not within the reach of art. The furgeon’s part is to re- duce the prolapfed bodies, and with a proper bandage to prevent their defeent; if nature lends her aid, tne SpcCture may be fu eor.traftcd as to remove our fear of tne parts returning, it is true, circumftances may at- tend, in different cafes, which may require fotnc diff'er- rncc^in the management. \idc Article Hernia. When the cafe is inch as to require an operation, the raufe of it is, an incrcafcd degree of what renders re- duction difficult, i. c. of the ftri&nre. In this cafe, .he pain hi the groin is great, as alfo in the belly ; the ; lever, naufca, and luppreflion of the hitcfiinal difr charm s.BUB charges, all increafe, as does the tendon of the belly, See. But as great nicctv attends the determining when to ufe the knife, every operator, on fuch an occalion, - will take the advice and alfcftance of thole, whole experience has enabled them to aft with molt ad- Tcf proceed in the operation, fliave the pubis and groin, and in order to have as much empty ipace as polfible for the return of the protruded parts, me pa- tient Ihould be advifed to empty his builder entirely, then having laid the patient on his back, on a table ot a convenient height, with his legs hanging caiy o\c the end of it, with a ftraight difleding knife, an mci- fion mull be made through the ikin and membrana adipofa, beginning juft above^hc-ringof the abdominal rnutcle, and continuing quite down to the inferior part of the ferotum ; upon the divifion of the membrana adipofa, fomc final! tendinous bands appear diftintt from each other, lying clofe upon the hernial lac, which arc next to be divided : here caution is ncctflary, as me fac is thinner in fomc parts than in ^s : even h external incifton of the teguments ough to be m^c with great caution; for although in by much the created proportion of hernial fwellmgs, the fpermauc vtfl'els lie behind the protruded parts, yet on lomecc- cafions they have been found on the anterior part ot the tumour ; fo that in order to avoid the rift, of wound- r,n as foon as die Ikin is divided, the remain* ofSthe operation ought to be done in the molt cautious manner, care being taken to avoid every large Wood- vefiel that makes its appearance I he incif.on n fac is belt made about an inch and a half, or two MW below the llridure, and need be no more than aperture as will jult admit the extremity of the probe, into which opening introduce one, and if i ' K down, .ben c,W it *«k « S ry, fufficient to introduce your hngt Jbole, remembering re divide tt downward.Jjr«BUB r *hich gives more room, and ldfens the hazard of the iteftines getting round your knife, and being wounded y 'r> which might cafv happen in dividing it upwards rft. The fore-finger introduced into it is the beft of ill direftors, and upon that finger a narrow bladed Iurved knife, with a bold probe point, will be the only iftrument neceffary to finifh the operation with. With nis knife on the finger, the fac fliould be divided, firft -Ownward to the bottom of the ferotum, then upward "> the ring. Upon the firft divifionof the hernial fac, fluid is difeharged, differing in quantity, colour, &c. n different patients. In opening the fac, great care is equired to evade wounding its content?. The fac eing fairly divided up to the ring, the inteftinc pufhes it, and feemsto be more in quantity th3n it did while uk confinement. At this juncture, if the quantity : the protruded inteftine is not very great, try to re- ucc it, by firft pulling down a little more, for thus its ilk being leflened, it perhaps may pafs without divid- g the ring. It this does not fucceed, you muft di' de the ring; which may he done, by introducing your ii!, between it and the ieteftinc, and cutting down- wards upon it, or with a diredlor upwards, with an ob- quity inwards. If the contents of the fac are found, iiticdiately reduce them, remembering to bend the ugh upon the pelvis, and to return the iaft protruded arts firft. Slight adhefions may be feparated with the iger, or fnipped with the fcilfars. When one part of ■ie gut adheres fo firmly to another, as to render the paration difficult, it is better to return the whole in h If ate into the abdomen. When the adhtfions are > ■'tween the gut and the fac, or the gut anti omentum, ji (mail portion of either the fac, or omentum, may be u at away. J A 'When a part of the omentum is mortified, or thick- .« . an<j collected into lumps, it may be cut awav with ■1 pair of thin edged fcilfars, and if a vcflfel of any fizc Wounded, pafs a ligature round it, without including if anyBUR anv of the membrane, and leave the threads hanging out at the wound. Remember to expand the part in- tended to be cut. If to DC CUt. . .. , r portion of the inttftine is mortified, ftcure it . with a ligature, to the parts moll contiguous to tire wound. When the mortification extends to any wound, w nen u»c . , , i ,1 great extent, the patient will certainly die, and the only chance of faving him, is to cut away the mortified part ; and if the quantity removed is not io considera- ble, as to prevent the ends of the gut from being brought in contact with one another, it fliould be; im- mediately done. Vide articleGASiRORAPHXA. lt this cannot 4 offered, as the gut muft here alio be corn nefled with the parts contiguous m the wound mtl < abdomen, a paflage for the iarces wtU flih be feeured The wound may be brought together by fucking pla ter. The patient fliould be to placed in bed, as to haw his loins elevated in tome degree above the reft of hi body. Opiates fliould be admmiftcrcd, and inflanima tion prevented by bleeding, and low diet. “ litnt’s conllitution is weak, blood-letting muft be avoic ed, and a generops regime a prefenbed. When women are the lubjefts of this operation, is performed in exafiUy the lame manner. V ide Fe on Ruptures. Le DrurJs Operations in Surgery. SbgP Operations of Surgery. Lend. Mcd. OW. am LncJ vol. iv. Bell's Surgery, vo!. 1. Bones Surge P’bcr8JE Mucosa, called alfo bmfa laulimbuifitl iW- *-» t]\TZ S feated upon or very contiguous to the different 1- I joints. ^They* contain » Soid, witici, Icon, rntend. fur lubricating rbc parts upon vvliicb .In KIKl’U that pals over the joints. They are to be ound other parts of the body, but chiefly aU.ut the h.p-|0« that of the knee, ancle, lhouldcr, elbow, and wrj In conlcquince of con.ulions andlVvrams and n«u frequently of rheumatilm, there is lemetimeerablc accumulation of fluids in thcfc facs, attended irith much pain. The fuelling yields to preffure, but i more elaftic, than where ordinary matter is contained. The fkin always retains its natural colour, unlefs it be -.tacked with inflammation. When thefe tumours arife Prom rheumatifm, the aments are commonly thin. But when from fprains, aere are a number of final 1 firm concretions in the aid. When thefe concretions are foft, they may be ftinftly felt beneath the fingers, on examining the imour. Tire cure for thefe collections, when they 'occed from rheumatifm, is generally obtained, by ecping the parts warm with flannel; by frequent fric- ons, by warm water frequently pumped on them, or y the application of blifters. When they arife from trains, and from their fize become troublcfome, the aly'chance of relief, is by opening the fac, and kcep- ig :t open, till the wound fills up with granulations •om the bottom. When the contiguity of tendons re vents their being opened to their full extent, Mr. eli recommends to lay them open at each end, and her prefling out their contents, to pals a fmall feton, r chord, from one opening to the other. Vide Belt's urgery, vol. v. and Monro’s Defcription of the Biafv Iuj-j/jt, and their dilcalls.c. CjEsareo Sf.ctiO. The Cajarean fifiion, or oper- ation, called alfo hxjlaoiomia, and byjlerolomatocia• Is the extradion of the fetus from the uterus, through the teguments of the belly. It is laid, Julius Csiar was brought into the world this way ; hence it is termed the Cafarcan operation. The caufes that may render this operation ncceffary, are the brim of the pelvis bang too narrow to admit the child to pafs, and from the child being forced into the cavity of the abdomen, by a njp- tuie m the uterus. It may alfo be performed to fave both the mother and child, when the child cannot be extracted in any other manner; to fave the mother when the child is dead, or to fave the child after the mother's death. The mode of performing it is this. Lay the patient upon her back on a firm table , ie cure her hands and leg-, elevate her head moderately with pillows, and raife her thighs. Then with a com- mon round edged fcalpcl, make an inafion of about fix inches in length, through the Ikin and cellular -uj- flancc, on one fide the abdomen, beginning about.two inches above the umbilicus, on the outer edge of the re-dus rrtufcle, and from thence in a perpendicular redion downwards. Now lay the uterus bare, by di- viding the tendinous parts of the abdominal mufe es and peritonaeum, and make an opening of he fame length into the uterus, by firft making a fma.l opemn with the fcalpcl, to admit the finger, upon which it riSVSKroi«t«d biflour,, .o fin lh the .n=M fion. The"mufeles and peritoneum may be du idedJ the fame manner. If any large veflcls I»rc cur (c.:u them with a ligature of iufficwnt length, to lease tu ends hanging out at the wound. Now take out*] JCAL cchiid and the placenta. Remove the effufed blood wfch a l'ponge. If any of the intcftincs protrude, replace them,and fecure the external wound with the interrupted finch ; cover the wound with a pledgit of emollient ointment, and fupport the abdomen with feveral turns of a broad flannel roller. Vide Heijler* Surgery, and ius Inflnutes of Surgery, p. v. cap. „3B. Mem. dc 1 Acad. Roy. deClurur. vol. i, p. 623, and vol. ii, ?■ 3oS- h.din. Med. Mays, vol. v. art. 37 and tS ;Lo„d M«I. Obf, and Enq. vol. iv, p. \V, augb<m s (of Lciceftcr) Account of the Cxferean Operation. Bell s Surgery, vol. vi, and White's Sur- ;cry, p. 451. ,.9Ah1.C‘JLrus: *f>e gravel and Jione. The Greeks all this difordcr lubiqfii and adamitum. The Latins lamed it calculus-, and we underftand by gray no mad Hones that paTs from the kkinics through the iretus, &c. in a few days; and by the stone,°a cal- ulous concretion in the kidneys, or in the unirary uadocr. \\ hat is called a fit of the gravel and jione, •>, when from the flony concretions in the kidnies. Sec leie is pam, &c. when nature endeavours 10 difeharge lem. The fymptoms ot a ftone in the bladder, will itter in degrees according to its lize, its figure, fmooth- . , ’ or roughnefs, or degree of motion which it may ate from the Hate of the bladder, whether pretcr'- aturaHy knf.ole or not; hardened faeces, orP fomc ra|'gV" fhc neck of. rlae uttrus- An enlarged pro- tlwWjj accompanied with an extreme lenfible date oni abn?dCir’ 'V,.J1 Produce the fame fymptoms as a one, and ulceration of the vefTcls. The fymntoms fetretion iof mucus> witl1 v'ri°"s ' blood Tr ’ <1,lcharge (>f red globules blood Irregular conditions of the bladder, tenef- ' urine ekher^' T tHc Urtthra > a ftoppage K Th-The firms of a fione in the kidneys are, an obtufc pain in their region; a naufea, fickncfs, and frequently a vomiting ; a titillation at the point of the penis; coltivenefs, and flatulency; the pain fornetimes extends to the groin, the hip, or to the neighbouring_tcft.de ; there is" a chilnefs, Ihivering, and difficulty'of breat h- the leg, on the fame fide with the aftethd kid ney, is fornetimes contrafted, and at others benumbed ; the urine is difeharged frequently, but with difficulty and in (mall quantities, or ,t is totally fuppreffed but as a diftinguifhing fign, the fediment of the urine may be attended to, for it fubfides diredtly; if then this, with the other named fymptoms attend, the patient s Ca^r^in the urethra, it may be detained in various parrs, but its fituation may eatily be known by the nain or by 3 estheter. . . * •« Pdn in the loins from the gravel or fione in the kid- nevs flmuld be diftinguiffied from that which is caulcd bv ('palms fuch as frequently happen in nervous dji - CTfcs; from the cholic, which it much rcfembles in the beginning of the fit; from the lumbago, and from pain in die pfoas mufcle; alfo from tne gout in the parts, or a iTtem Tntermitting fever there. The fione u the bladder fliould be diftinguifhed from the gout, and from fvmptoms; from the pain excited by ftarP^r,ne’ °r other acrid matter defeending from the ' , otherwife introduced into it; an abfeefs in a part ad) a «„ p r,nc forcibly .pinft ™ °c order in the uterus; and any complaint in the inteftij ,U A Tfiolr?n the kidneys often brings on a i; When die violent pun has continued for ieteia w, „d nigh,, Withnot intermirtion, 'ly ,1.= r»iem. If fc.awyy.g ! ,Tif the -nine continues to be totally fuppreOe c„ld, or n ir.ne _ continues long in thl J urete death is to be expedted.ureter, or in the urethra, the appetite begins to fail, a i naulea comes on, and a hedtic heat approaches, the ‘ danger is great. An inflammation of any of the vif- > cera approaching, is alfo fatal. In adminiftering remedies for the relief of thefe dif- orders, it fhould be remembered, that during the fit, the treatment muft be very different from what it is in the abfencc of it. During the paroxyfm, the in- ifiammation is removed by bleeding, emollients, and itcreointhine clyfters, in which is the oleum ricini; this oil fhoukt alfo be given by the mouth as a purge ; warm t baths hiould alfo be made u(e of*; and when the inflam- imation is abated, opiates, with oily emollient decoc- rtions, may be given. In general, plethoric habits arc ■ relieved by proper bleeding While the violence of ahe pain continues, with difficulty in the difeharge of urine, nothing affords greater relief than emollient oily LClyfters, warm bathing, and the pediluvium. Fomen- tations made with the flor. chamasmil. &c. and applied to the part moft pained, confiderably allay the pains and After the fit is over, begin with a cautious ufc of diuretics, and lithontriptics ; and when there is no in- flammation nor pain, the aqua kali may be given in imall quantities. I he bell mode of preparing and adminiftering it, is thus: lake of kali prepared, eight ounces; of frefh quit, tune four ounces; of diftilled water a quart,- mix them well together in a large bottle, and let them land f<jr twenty-four hours; then pour off the ley, fil- ter it through paper, and keep it in clol'cd ftnpt vials or ulc. Ot this the dole is from thirty drops to three or four drams, repeated three or four times a day. Mix the quantity to be ufed in the day with three pints tnain broth, which has been made with the lean parr it Kv 3 - the faf orolly flans being fe-pa rated from jl’- £Puttl”» ir> when made, into a large bowl, and *ng them oft when cold, and let the patient drink, K - withinCAL within an hour, a pint of this broth three times a day-, car'y in the morning, at noon, and in th. cvenin^ . continue the ufc for three, four, or more month,, ob- ferving fuch regimen as will not countcraft the medi- Lately the following folution of the vegetable al- kali fully faturated with fixed air, aerial acid, in- been recommended. Take kali prepared, halt a" ounce; diRilled water, jbj. 6- let the kali be dtflolved then fully faturatc the folution with fixed air. Ihw ounces of this may betaken twice a day, and, it ltomach will bear it, the dofe may be merenfed The diet fhould be light, and of a laxam e kind, « ercife moderate, but as conftantly as the ftrength, &c. will admit of. The water that is drank, and all the liquors that are of a watery kind, mufi be, from fuch fupplies as are abfolutely free from mineral imprtg- “IXt.rif*., are to be »fed the meerv»j‘ of the fits ■ but as feme fines arc only folublc in alkaline, others only in acid, and others again in no known men- firium before any of this kind of medicines are uled, the nature of the offending calculi lhould be known . thisdifeovefy is eafily made by an attention to the frag mints, &c.'that are" call off, or to the contents ot the ^Bleeding. During a fir, if the habit is plethoric and fine,' this evacuation both guards agamfl and re- moves inflammation, and alfo tends to relax the fibres to thofe perfons who are fubjeft to .. of ,b=“~'.U .bey Mt loft blood, M* before the return is expefted.. forcin<- Diuretics. Thcfe lhould never be of the torem* kind the emollient and oily ate the mod proper, a d rftcr them dtloting ones, bath by the monthad hj MyRcrs frequently repeated. In genir. , - the lefj ccptoufly given, i nc aGcu an bbe allowed the ufe of cordials with their dieuretic me- dicines. A very free ufe of-diuretics injure the kid- neys; however, when the pain and fpafms are very violent, and there is yet hope that the Jione may pals the urinary duCfs, gentle diuretics, mixed with mild anodynes, do molt fervice; for the latter relax the parts and eale the pain : and the former then more eafliy and fafely propel the jione. When gravelly matter is difeharged with the urine, and fubfides prelently after it is made, light flcel waters, either of the purging or of the diuretic kind, very fafely and effectually expel it, and ftrcngthen the kidneys ; the water lhould be continued fome weeks, and repeated at proper intervals. But if a Jione in the kidneys is fo large, that there is no hope of its palling through the ureters, the itecl waters lhould not be ufed. Purges. Of all the purging medicines, the oleum ricini is to be preferred in calculous diforders; whether tsjloue, or other caufe of inflammation, produce gra- velly fymptoms, after bleeding, emollient and lubri- cating medicines will be neceffary. To thefe ends, and to relax the paffage for the calculus to pals from the kidnies to the bladder, this oil conduces in a particular manner, beyond any other medicine : it lhould be given both by the mouth and by glylter. in want of this oil, manna with nitre, or fal catli. amar. mixed with the oil of almonds, muft be ufed; for they both empty the intcftincs, and take off all preffurc upon the ureters, they alio moderate the heat of the wxly, and lcffen the inflammation; thus they relax the {palm too, which the pain occaftons. If the ol. ricini !? takefn ,n thc fit> ^ to keep the belly lax, and the jixiv. iapon. is taken at proper intervals, mixed in any unable vehicle, their efficacy in calculous diforders wijl ■qua! that of the moll boafted noftrums ufed in thefe caks. [„ (lighter cafes, where gravel is to be carried give a mixture of foap four parts, and rhubarb one bow' Is'cafy * ‘U ^ofcs ^u^cicnt for keeping the K 3 Glyjlas.CAL Ghflers. Their ufc is Angularly bcncfitial. The colon forms a kind of arch over both the kidnies, is Sometimes joined to the left, and conlequemly if a warm emollient dccoftion be thrown up into it, « mav by its heat and moift vapour, relax and lot ten the' kidnev like a fomentation, lienee we fee why wind in the fir ft paffages, and much hard dry excrement, ufually occalion fuch grievous disorders, as to’ brig a freth tit: alfo why the left kidney is more fubjeft to complaints than the right. The ol. r,c,nl ,s P=^laJj ufeful in emollient glvfters; and turpentine diffoUett with the yolk of an egg Ihouldbe a part of them e pofition : or ft Dccoft. pro enemat. lb «*■ *«• vitel. ovi admixt. 3 ij. ol. nctnt 5 1). m. f. cnuia. this glyftcr thirty drops of the t.ndura opu may be added,‘when the pain is great. ,, Opiates. When the vomiting abates, the flomach and‘ bowels freed from their foul contents, and the bcllv rendered lblubk; it is proper W ’ ;;S of the fibres, molt to tluir repetition, it can only be determined Dy the attending phyfician. When the pain is of very tt.e anxiiuuij, r j d with great proftration long continuance, and attended wm h r ftrength is caufed by the violence of the Pa,n alon., ”"™r,o be utefab by depriving ibl calculus cf it* oily particles, end volanlicing the 'Hid fo deftroving the cement of its parts. The rrmicupium is a neceflary a,illljlntJth « violent, for it powerfully relieves die ftnftur ^CAL rpart. After fitting a fufficient time in it, let the pa- itient take from gr. ten or twenty of the pilui. ex opio, aand go to bed. Vomiting is foroetimes a troublefome fymptom, but .if not very fevere, it is rather ufeful, fo not to be fud- ddcnly checked. Whilft moderate, it rather prevents the cohefion of the gravel, and promotes its expullion. 'When it is nccetfary to remedy this complaint, let the patient drink freely of fome warm aqueous iiquor to free the ftomach from its contents : and, if need be, give the faline draught in the ad of fermentation, and an a few minutes after it give the following : Tintt. jcuzoes compoft. gutt. xxx. tindt. opii gr. xx. aq. aienth. J j. m. If a (tone flicks in the kidney, or the ureter, medi- cines are unfafe that expel, by their ftimuiating effedts, and a plentiful ufe of diluents are thrown up without producing any advantage to the patientbut when the inodynes, oily medicines, See. have conliderably abated he i'pafms, when the pulle is grown calm and foft, ind the whole body is of a moifl and equable heat, then he cxpulfion of the ftonc or gravel may be attempted, ry giving very gentle expellents now and then. bloody urint is fometimes a fymptom attending the ;ravel, in which cafe, a dole of manna may be taken as • Purge, in a quart of milk whey; this may be taken t levcral draughts. To quicken its operation, and ender it eafier in the ftomach, a Dice of lemon may iow and then be fucked. This may be repeated twice n a week, for it both cafes the pain, and moderates he difeharge of blood. After its operation, let a dole 't opium be taken at bed-time. If the bloody urine i s from clle bladder, and is attended with fpafms there, ir®'' ulcer, warm external applications are ufeful, fuck ! s bladders of warm water laid juft above the pubes. '• Jbfc* 2,1 ‘be bladder, are often very troublefome. . 'Vnilit they are aftually prefent, and arc attended with ;> ’3in aml difficulty of urine, emollient oily glyfters, baths.CAL baths, and half-baths fliould be ufcd, and mternaHy eive almond emul lions, with nitre, caller, and 1 loti - man’s mineral anodyne liquor. If a tranfiation o: rheumatic matter caul'ed the lpalms, iffues may be uled, and nerfpirative anti-rheumatics. When eolations coin plaints attend during pregnancy,« the pain is violent, bleed moderately, give oily medi- cines by the mouth, and glvfters, lucli as are directed above, may be repeated as oft as the hate of the cafe may feera to require; and if tilde fail, give °l,,a as to procure rdf. If a lfone be perceived in the blad- der, it fliould be extradted before pregnancy; but it the woman is already pregnant, wait until her delivery, for fear of inflammation. During the time of labour, the (tone fliould be pufhed and kept up above the child head, if pollible; if this cannot be done, the alliflant ntuft pafs up his hand as foon as the os internum is tu - En!i, dilU mi, breaking the ^mbr.net nm the child, and brine it away tootling, then there room for the (tone to be raifed by the catheter, to pre- vent the child’s head from prclhng it againft the u - thra, which would give the woman great pain, and per- l13 As'^a preventive of the gravel, itc. Dr. Hales pr<H. rofes for the patients at all times, to he with the lieadj nnd upper parts of the body confidcrably higher than! the lower : for thus the urine is not detained lo long uj ,|,e kidnies as to allow its tartarous parts to attach tfll CJ Tht'jmi vrfi in powder, nml given from 3 j- to 3 i nv'ce a dav with the common nnu'.lion, in which (hoj * be double the quantity of gum arab.c, « often p.oduc Ifve of eve, v durable advantage. An mlulion of h freds of wild carrot is deemed ilntoft * lpccific. Af I are as powerful fohents of Mne calculous concreWt »,he cau flic lixivium of ou.us, and of dm■ k,ndJ| acidum mnnaticum may be preterm • ,C‘L ‘ ^ Arctecm, Alexander Tndttan, « h Htgman > MjjCAN at. Syft. Sydenham. Lobb on the Stone and Gout, fedical Mui'eum, vol. iii. bell's Surgery; vol. ii. 'bite % Surgery, and Memoirs of the Med. Society, If a ftone is obftrufled in its paflfage through the -ethra, and the urine requires to be drawn off, though is is difficultly effected, yet, if pofftble, it muft be me; after which, a little warm oil Ihould be iniedted up e urethra, and repeated every hour; then bleed the pa- nt, give him an emollient clyfter; after its operation, anodyne draught will be proper, plenty of the com- on cmullion Ihould be drank, and the patient being iced in a warm bath prefently after the glyfter is ad- Iniftered, and the oil injedled, often facilitates the at of the ftone. (Cakcee. K«fsu»»f, a crab. By the term cancer, the amau writers underftood what the Greeks called <xan- ene, and Iphacclus; but the dileafe now called can- , is what the Greeks and Romans meant by carci- 'nia and carcinos. Cancers are divided into occult and open. By the mer are meant fuch hard fchirrous fweilings, as are ended with frequent lhooring pains, and which in neral ultimately terminate in the latter. By the open ice>, is underftood thofc fores fuccecding hard fwell- ot the glands, but in fome cafes there is no pt evi- s hardnefs. The edges of the ulcer are hard, ragged, unequal, and very painful, generally difcharging hm dark coloured foetid ichor, frequently fo fharp as corrode, and Jbmetimcs deftroy the neighbouring •ts. In advanced periods of the difeafe, blood is y often dilcharged from the blood veffels being crod- A fenfe of burning heat over the whole ulcerated ace, is almoft an unerring fymptom of cancer. Dr. Hen places this difeafe in the clafs locales, and onf. T'r 1 10U*h ™y PI,rt of the body may be the feat S diforder, a gland is generally its immediate litti- • In men, it moft frequently feizes the tongue, mouth.CAN mouth, or penis’; in women, the breaft and the uterusj particularly "about the cefi'ation of their periodical dtl- charges; and in children, the eyes. The only cure for this diforder is the knife, or cau- tery, but when thefe are not ulcd, the treatment is only palliative. If the tumour firmly adheres to the fubjacent part, it can neither be extirpated nor wafted away by a cauftic : if it is moveable, it may generally be taken away, at a due diftance from luch blood-velTcls as would en- danger life by being wounded. In general, the larger are more dangerous than the Idler, the painful than the indolent, and the ulcerated than the occult. When a breaft is once feirrhous, it feldom continues long m a (late that threatens a cancer, without affecting the axil Jary glands, the other breaft, or the uterus. Any kint of acrimony in the habit dilpofes a feirrhus to a lpced change into a cancer. When a cancer in any part i attended with a hardnefs of the adjacent glands, fuccel has rarely followed an attempt to cure. Jn habits no otherwife diibrdered, an occult cancer fhould not be ex afperated by emollients, ftunulating applications, o intemperance, for then it may remain a long time with out inconvenience; though at the celfation of the men fes in women they will be exafperated, whence, ft i can conveniently be done, it may be moll proper to c» tirpate early. .1. The indications of cure arc, ill, to extirpate tl tumour, and prevent a return of ihe dileafc : or, adi to palliate when extirpation cannot be admitted. The diet fhould be cool, moift, and light ; the mt fhould be tranquil; and the body as free from vioM aft ion as poffible. . , „ m 1 f the cure is to be effected by extirpating the turn (vide Am pot a no) and this method of relief is tempted, care mull be had to remove all other cotta cia tumours, the whole of each mud be cleared a\vs and the habit of body mull be corrcftcd as muchCAN iffible ; and when the wound is nearly healed, it may kept open in the manner of an iffue. ' 1 CCathaeretics arc propofed for deftroying the tumour, hen the knife cannot be fubmitted to from the pa- int’s dread of it The moft famed of thefe have lenic in their compofition. Mr. Plunkct’s applica- nt ls> on good authority, faid to be as follows: “ Take of crows-foot, fuch as grows in lo\V moift ounds, one handful; dog-fennel, three fprigs; pound em well: add to them three middling thimbles-full etude brimftone, and the fame quantity of white feme in fine powder. Make thefe into fmall balls, d dry them m the fun. Thefe balls mull be pow- red and mixed with the yolk of an egg, then laid over 2 fore or caucer upon a piece of pig’s bladder, which aft be cut to the fize of the fore, and fmeared with e yolk of an egg. This mull not be applied on a piece of . er larger than half a crown, if the cancer to be tirpated is on the face: the fame caution is required at is near the .heart; but elfewhere it may be fpread rhe fore. The plafter muft not be fiirred t. it drops oft of itfelf, which will be in about a ’ ,an bandagas are often to be put on.” . b<?n Cau**'c *s applied to the nofe or lips, it , ba d°fe Wlth great caution, that no portion of it ty be fwallowcd. •The arfcnical preparation will anfvvcr beft in recent cs, but it lhould never be uled except the whole tu- >ur can be removed. The crows-foot is added to de- ny the fltin, but this end will, perhaps, be better avered, by rubbing the part immediately over the nour with antimon. nitrat. the day before the arfeni- mcdicinc is applied : this makes way for the aflicn the arfemc. Inftcad of the Angle mixture of brim- nc and arlcnic as above, the preparation of arfenic, , raaSncs arfemcales, ftiould be ufecl. This cau- . does not dctlroy the gland, but only the fubftances around it, fo the tumour comes out as if it had been dextcrouflydexteroofly diffcfted out. A patient fhould never get into a warm bath whilft arfcnic » applied. Several eminent praftitioners have formerly encou- raged this method, as Fallopius Zaber, Semrertus, &e. but though on (mail cutaneous glands n may do, in the Leer and deep feated it is unfafe; for by the irritation of thofc medicines, an inflammation, and, perhaps, fever are brought on, which are dangerous ^mptoms. and by the fubtil penetrating quality of the ai .cmc, the STfeofihe patient is alfo greatly hazarded, whatever oe its mode of application and correction. . „ ,, Mr. Pott Serves, that, if a cauft.c is ufed, u fhoult be fuch a one as will penetrate quite through the tu- mour, and cffeftually eradicate it at two or three: times at the moft ; this the common ones will not do, for theyr only reach as far as into the cellular membrane hence- th Jr frequent repetitions will be ncccftry. On ttcrj ret etitinn of the cauftic, the tumour remflames, lur- d7ns, and enlarges, confequently^tbecomes by ^h treatment, more and more untraftablc. Laultics har den the furrounding parts, and produce>U t®* , liJ; orfoch other thing, a, opened tnamfcll, to b. the lead unc..l , . ^yc mcthod will be, ToS all external mm, w«k <*****£* rt. occult-ftatc; to prevent its being handled, or prel.ct bLthTcknuhs, that it mav be kept enfy and cool. ' To co^ft he habit of bodv, if any way diford r and with the alteratives may be given .mail dole ShtSteyr. murmt. but with great caution. • S^TeCdy fcluble with cooling medicine adroit * l it. 1a To avoid cordials, exercife, or whatever can excite greater heat than is proper to health in a ftate of reft. A flight inflammation in the neighbourhood of the tumour which yet is in its fcirrhous ftate, may be reliev- ed by means of Goulard’s fatumine water, and thus is hindered from degenerating into a cancer; but if the .inflammation is confiderable, a cancer cannot be pre- vented. r Bleeding is neceflary, at lead as often as pain and 'evenlhnefs require it. Purging fhould not only be ufed to prevent a coftive labit, but alfo immediately after every bleeding, to in. treafe its cooling effett. Pain, when urgent, requires bleeding, cooling purges i fpare diet, that is thin and cooling, and anodynes in- wardly. This fymptom is alfo much relieved bv de Iroymg the fenfibility of the parts by preparations of Fever. This requires the fame means for its relief s are commended againft pain; to which may be add- ™ an/ othcr f^nfuge that the ftate of the conftitutioa nay feem to admit of. Milk and water, or a decoc- ion of farfapanlla, are convenient for common drink I he beft external medicine in the occult ftate is a veil drefTcd hare s or rabbit's lk,„ ; for then all cmol- voidedftlmU aIUS’ 3nd unauous PrePafations are to be When the cancer is ulcerated, the following is re- ommended: 6 ar^ Ung,u- faturn- cum duplice quantitate ccra alba aratum. r. ceratura. R Pulv. e ceruf. C. mucilag. gum arab. aa 3ii. ce- Jfe acetata 3j. probe contritis in mortario maTmoreo dde fenfim aq. calcis & rofar. ad 5vi. f. lotio. After gently clcanfing the ulcer, wafh it with the )tl°n Juft warmed, then covering it with dry lint or T ft,rllldncd 'i? tlue lotl0n ; lay over the whole a plaf. -«•*-**”CAN Tn general, that which is the eaficft is the befi, and often a cerate of oil and wax is preferred. A mixture of vinegar, with twenty times its quan- tity of water, is fometimes of excellent ufe. Goulard commends his faturnine preparations. Tar-water, both inwardly and outwardly, has been attended with confulerabte advantage, and particular!y when the dilbrder appeared at or about the ccffation of the menftrual difeharge. Narcotic herbs, fuch as the folanum and cicuta, have been ufed with luccefs. _ Carrot poultices renewed twice a day removes the naufeous fmell which attends cancerous ulcers. Fixed air applied to the ulcer has the fame effeff, if it is ufed every fix, eight, or twelve hours, and after it, rags may be laid on the fore, after dipping them in lavender, or other odoriferous water, mixed with vine- The hvdragyr muriat. gr. fs. given night and morn- ing, as in venereal diforders, with the decodf. larla- naril. keeping the body lax, but not to purge, has been manifeftly ufeftll. though it is owned that its efficacy is lefs in cafes where the ulcer is very confiderable. it has often fucceeded in cancers of the lace and nol*. ]fhe bark mnv accompany it when the habit is lax. The bark and hemlock may very advantageoully ac- company the ufe of this mercurial medicine, and may, fn general, be thus adminiftered. r Extraft. cicut. g. v. vel plus bis in die. R Jnfuf. cort. Peru. §iij. bis terve m die. R Hydrag. muriat. gr. i-i6th, ad fs. bis m die. IF the mercury is not eafy in the ftomach, a tew drops of the tindf. opii may accompany each dole. In recent cafes the hemlock is fometimes ufeful. Mr. Juftamond intimates, in his Lethires on the Operations of Surgery, that the bell way of ufing hemlock is to make /bath with it; when this bath is ufed, it mud ft tepid, and the patient may (lay u> it durmg fifteenCAN L 2 may Jcor twenty minutes, and repeat it two or three times a week. He farther recommends as a powerful effica- cious medicine, the ferrum ammon. internally; it may be given three times a day, beginning with ten grains :made into two pills, and increafe the dofe as far as the ■ftomach will bear it. In the fourth volume of the Edinburgh Medical .Commentaries, is an extraft from a publication by Dr. rvLe Febure (a French phyfician) by which it appears, that tile internal ufe of arfejiic is frequently efFecr .ual in curing cancers. He fays, that in fome inftances -he cancerous virus is alkalefcent, and in others it i> icefeent. His general method of adminiftering this "aiedicine is as fralows ;• Arfen. alb. gr. iv. f. folutio in aq. font. Difl.il. |fcj. tujus folutio detur cochl. magn. cum laft. vaccin. cochf. magn. & 1 yr. mecon. ^ (s. mane jejuno. 1 he arfenic is dirc£ted to be of a clear, white, fliin« n§ appearance, and in fmall cryftals; and every morn- ng that the dofe is taken, the patient mull not take any htng after it during one hour. This courfe mull be ontmued eight days, after which, a dofe is to be taken a the fame manner, twice every day; the firft in the norniug, the laft about eight at night. At the end of roitniglit, three doles are to be given in a day; the aird being taken about mid-day. Thus, women of /ca' y conftitutions, may continue until a cure is com- eted. But with an adult of a good conftitution, the ole may be augmented, by degrees, every eight days, lne takes fix table fpoonfuls of the folution every =7: two table fpoonfuls being taken for each dofe, *th as much milk, and half an ounce of the fyrup of oppies. For children, tea-fpoons muft be ufed, and aote fhould, on no account, exceed three of thefe, , a proportional quantity of the fyrup. But, be- 'es that, the lolutton of the arfenic is thus to he in* * C i tk> ^fcrujn 'le'gbt, in point of quantity, the -tngth is alio to be augmented. Six grains of arfenicCAN may be diffolved in the fccond bottle of the folution, and eight in the third. But, bcfides this, Dr. Le Fe- hure thinks it unadvifeable to proceed. In general, he fays, fix bottles of the folution is fufficient for the cure of an open cancer; in one cafe, however, eight were necelfary. He alfcrts, that this method is never at- tended with any ill accidents; and adds, that the arfe- nic does not aft in any certain manner upon the fecrc- tions. A purgative, compounded of manna, rhubarb, and fal feignette, is to be given every eight or twelve days. Whey, with twelve grains of nitre to the bot- tle, or a weak dccoftion of the roots of marflunallows, with the fame quantity of nitre, may be given for com- mon drink. The belly is to be kept open by glyf- ters of whey, bran-water, or pure water, with the ad- dition of emollient herbs, if necelfary, or a little ho- ney. With refpeft to regimen, it is direfted to abftain from wine, and fermented liquors. Broth, made with a little beef, veal, or chicken, are proper. Broiled, roafted, or boiled meat, ought to be taken in fmall quantity. Spinnage, lettuce, fuccory, or forrei, may be given with advantage. Ripe fruit is not to be di.- charged. Rice cream, and milk in different forms, 3re a very proper part of diet. The deftor has fometitnes been obliged to give the bark, and to open an iffue, when the humours were cither very alkalefcenr, or in very great quantity. He confulers an llfuc as ufeful in every calc. When the ulcer is cicatrized, he recom- mends cold or warm mineral waters, according to tht circumftances of the patient, with a view of complet- ing the cure, or where thefe cannot be had, he give artificial ones. Bcfides this treatment by internal itte dicincs, the method of drefling the ulcer becomes a.!< an objeft of attention. If the tumour be not ulccrat ed, he direfts it to be waflted with a folution of at feme having eight grains in a pint of water. After wafhin with this folution, apply the following cataplaim : tak of carrot juice, one pound; of fugar of lead, half ' ounceCAR JUnce ; of arfenic diffolved in diftilled vinegar, half zq lance ; of liquid laudanum, a dram and a half; form the • vhole into a mafs of a proper confiftence. with as much uowdercd hemlock as is- neceffary. With part of this iataplafm the tumour is to be covered to a tolerable ■hicknefs, and the whole kept up with the common daftcr. If the cancer be ulcerated, it is adviled that he ichorous ferofity be taken away at each dreding, y means of dry lint. The ulcer is then to be fomented *'ith the arfenical folution, having the chill taken otf :, and having about one third of red wine added to it. ■ f the fore be of a very bad kind, it is advifed that the rfenic be diffolved in a deception of bark, for foment- ig the ulcer. After this the cataplalm mentioned bove, and the plafter are to be applied. This treat- ment mull be renewed every twelve hours. The aura ekflrka has been found to cafe the pain, ■dolt of the medicines here recommended have been aund ferviceable for a time, and then to lofe their ffeft. The method, therefore, to procure the patient continuation of relief, is by changing your applica- ons. Vide Le Dran’s Operations. Boerhaave'% jtphorifms. Med. Muf. vol. i. p. 8i, &c. and 338, et cq. Lond. Med. Tranf. vol. i. p. 75. Goocb’s Med. •bf. vol. iii. Hill on Cancers. Bell on Ulcers. JuJla- toxd on Cancers. Bell's Surgery, vol. ii. Pear fan % Irincip. of Surgery, vol. i. p. 209, et feq. and Pradti- il Obf. on Cancerous Complaints. White's Surgery, id Fear on on Cancers. Carbc.vcuu's, a carbuncle, from carlo, a burn* ’8 roal. Dr. Cullen places this as a variety of the "ilogofis erythema, on account of its violence, making fynonymous with anthrax, -Ad the erythema gangrse- dum of Sauvages. Carbuncles generally appear fud- enly and unexpedtedly in an hour or two, and arc tended with pain and heat. The inflammation pro- -cds fo rapidly to mortification, that there is feldom >iy evident tumour raifed, the parts turning black, ud ending in real gangrene, frequently in twenty- L 3 fourCAR v ... »( four hours from the fir ft attack. But when a tumour arifes, as foon as it is opened, a livid fanies, or fome- tiipes limpid water, is difeharged. It is black within, which fhews that a fphacelus has feized the fubjacent flcih, and is making quick progrefs. In thofe that re- cover, a reparation is made betwixt the found and dif- I cafed flefh, by fuppuration. There is no part of the I body but what may be the feat, and they are generally attended with buboes. The proximate caufe is the in- flammation from peftilential contagion, with a putref- cent ftate of the fyftem. Danger is great when the colour is livid; the milder fort are firft red and then yellow. When they are feated on the face, neck, breaft, and arm pits, they are generally fatal., When they occur internally, upon any of the vifeera, they rnuil probably prove fatal. Externally, when they are not very extenfive, nor feated in any of the large blootl veflels or nerves, they are frequently got the better of, by removing the affe&cd part. External applications Ihould be only fuch as.eafe pain. Vide Edin. Med. Comment, vol. vi. p. 165. Heifier’s Surgery. Bell on Ulcers. Kirkland's Med. Surgery, vol. i. and ii. Pearfm's Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and White's Surgery. Caries, is a difordcr of the bones, exadily of the fame nature with a fphacelus, or gangrene of the foft parts. The caufes are, whatever can by croflon, or otherwife, deftroy the circulation in the whole, or any part of the bone, as, wounds in general, affedfing cither the pcrioftcum or bones; violent contufions, and inflammations of the pcrioftcum, terminating in abfccfsl or gangrene ; the acrid matter of ulcers penetrating and deftroying the pcrioftcum, and the improper ap- plication of fharp acrid fpirits and powders to bones merely laid bare. An inflammation of the pcrioftcum, tending to a gangrene, a caries of the bone, i> known, firft, from the figns of inflammation preceding; fccondly, a freedom from pain in the affcdled par, • • • • without1 GAR without a manifetl caufe, and from a denfc, flow, inT creafing, and not very painful tumour of the incumbent parts. But among the figns of a beginning gangrene, the fudden removal of pain is fallacious, for this hap- pens in inflammations of the perioftcum, when the pcriofteum is corroded fo as to admit the matter to efcape betwixt the mufclcs ; though, in general, when pain is relieved by a rcfolution of inflammation, it goes off gradually only ; but a good refolution hardly, : if ever, happens after a violent inflammation. Again, when a gangrene is threatened, the taint is propagated : through the cellular membrane, which, by flight < caufes, is often raifed into a large tumour ; but, as all t the fyraptoms of an inflammation ceafe when a gan- ; grene is prefent, the tumour will not have the hard- : nefs and refiftance obfervable in a phlegmon, but will be flaccid, and hardly fenfible of pain. If the incum- bent part changes to a livid colour, the bone is then ' Without doubt in a mortifying ftate. Celfus judicioufly obferves, lib. viii. cap. 3, “ We ■ may foon, by means of a probe, difeover a caries of the bone; fince the probe will penetrate, lefs or more, ac- cording as the caries is fuperficial or deep.” When the probe comes to the found part of the bone, it is re- filled. Wifeman, vol. i. p. 296. edit. 5, lays, “ If the bone be bare, its corruption is eafily difeerned, though fometimes it be covered with a grumous or vifeous matter, which rubbed off, the bone appears white, brown, or black. If the white be porey, the caries may be deeper and more dangerous than if it were ; black and hard. If the bone lie fo hid as that you can- • hot feel it with your probe, yet you may judge it carious from the quantity or quality of the matter. If i Ihc bone lies near, and the flelh is lax and white, it is to be fufpefled that the bone is carious : but if the mat- I ter (link or be oily, it is a more certain flgn of rotten- hefs. Ulcers of long continuance near a bone do alfo forelhew a caries, according to Hippocrates. Alfo the 1 ~ ' • 1 • > • difficultyCAR Q lit I difficulty in cicatrizing them, and the frequent and hidden eruption of them after they are cured, given fufpicion ot a foul hone. But if the bone is much cor- rupted, the matter is fetid, and the probe will penetrate into it.” In living perfons, the bones are of a reddilh or bluilh colour : the firft fign of a vitiated bone, is a change from this colour to a white, yellow, dark, and at laft a black one: a-white denotes a beginning mortific.i- cation: hence, when fmall perforations arc made in a cranium thus affc£ted, the firft fign that a cure tuccecds is, when the w hite furface of the bone begins to affumc a reddiffi colour. When a caries is under an ulcer, the flefh over the caries is foft, flaccid, fungous, inflated, and tumid ; the lips of the ulcer inverted, the fanics clear, fubtil, feetid, and full of fmall black i'cales, nor can the ulcer be healed, at lead only fuperficially, and it toon breaks out again. \ ide Ulcer with a canes, under artic. Ulci s. In the Edinb. Med. Effays. Dr. Monro gives a par- ticular account of feveral fpecies of this difordtr, % iz. The dry or gangrenous canes, which is, where the bone is (month and firm, and throws out little matter; its furface at firft is not of a very dark colour, hut be- fore exfoliation it turns very brown or black. 1 lus kind exfoliates with Id’s difficulty than any other. I he worm-caen caries, or ulcer of the bones; this fpec.es has not luch a dark colour as the former, it dilcharges more matter ; the cavernous, or fpongy texture of the bone is evident. The carncous caries, or ulcer ot the bones with hvperl'arcolis; this fort differs from the worm-eaten curies only in ilie addition of fpongy flclh growing in the cells of the bone; this ipongy flefh oitcn bleeds if touched with the greateft care. 1 he phagedenic canes with hyperfarcofis; in this calc the m lodeum is tliickercd, the bone foftened, and its fur, lace is eroded, a vellew red fpongy fubftance fproutsor no the bone is carious : upon fcraping away this CAR ‘ft v: cut: the difference betwixt this and the carnous caries is, that in the latter the fpongy flefh grows out of the caverns while the grey or brown coloured fpongy bony Tides of them ftill remain ; but in the former, the bony fibres dii'appear wherever the fpongy flefh comes, fo that we can fcarce determine by the probe whether bone-confuming flefh, the furface of the bone appears rough indeed, but not much eroded, nor greatly altered in its colour. The fcrophulous caries: this is fome- times obferved when an abfcefs is opened ; the bone at the bottom of it appears white and fmooth, without its periofteum or connexion to any of the neighbouring parts, except by its ligaments at the extremities ; and this way of bones mortifying moll commonly happens in fcrophulous habits. The fcirrho-cancrous caries: in one fpecies of exoftofis the tumefied bone is fofter in one part than in another, and is not compofed of regu- lar fibres, nor cavernous, but as if the offifying juice had been thrown out irregularly ; over which a cartila- ginous or tendinous fubftance is fpread, and from this a firm fhining fmooth flefh grows out, which, after the teguments are moved, fends forth a thin (linking acrid fanies; the patient complains often of throbbing pains in it, and fometimes confiderable haemorrhages arc made from imperceptible veflfels in its furface. The fpreading cancrous canes: in the fpreading eating can- ters, the bones are wafted, 83 well as the foft parts, md the appearances are the fame in both, unlefs that the bones do not confume quite lb faft. It is neceflary to examine ftriftly all circumftanccs, md to dil'cover, if poflible, what caufe, either general ,r topical, may have occalioned the corruption of the >onc\ that endeavours may be ufed to remove it, if it dill fublifts: the lues venerea, fcrophula, feurvy, gan- grene, abfcefs, wounds, contufions, and many other hfeafes, may be the caufe. When the bone is perceived to feparatc, if the pus whichwhich flows from under it is mild and in a due quanti- ty, it will be the beft fuppurant and incarner, and nothing is to be done but to remove the pieces of bone as often as they are perceived to be loofe. If the quantity of pus is too fmall, drels it with ung. refill, or other fuch digeftive. If the opening in the integu- ments is fo fmall that the matter detained is either ab* (orbed into the circulation, or forms finuous ulcers, the aperture rauft be enlarged by means of fponge tents, and kept fo by dOifils of lint. Indeed, if the exfoliation is likely to be tedious, in fome cafes it may be haftened by the ufe of a cauftic or aftual cautery, though in general the fuppuration which contributes to throw off tile difeafed part is thereby retarded, or the rafp may be ufed ; if, inftcad of the aftual cautery, a potential one is preferred, the common cauftic is th# beft. ... , n Id the worm-eaten cants, it is necedary to deltroy all the affc&ed part of the bones as foon as convenient- ly can be done, by rafping, trepanning, &c. according as each of them can be applied; after which the method is as above. When the ulcer is deep, let honey diflolved in vinegar and water be injedted into it every day. 1 In the carnous caries, the fungous and corrupted parts are bed deftroyed Dy a cauftic; though Gooch, in his Cafes and Remarks, vol. ii. p. 359, g1^ an in- ftancc of the inefficacy of cauftics in this cafe, and of the neccffiry of ufmg'the aftual cautery, which he in general prefers. . f ' The phagedenic Caries: one or two applications ot the potential cautery are fufficient to reduce it to the nmft fimple kind of caries ; but fometimes great diffi- culties attend it. , „ , The fcrophulous caries: deftroy fully the teguments which cover the abfeefs formed on the bone with a cauftic, cut the elchar through the middle to evacuate the matter; and to lave the efehat as long as poilib e,CAR t mild applications only be laid on the Tore ; and to lift the difcharge of the matter, wafh it with water $ ut if it is foetid, mix vinegar with the water. In general, a mild treatment is to be preferred. In ce flighter cafes, endeavour to excite a degree of in- animation in the adjoining found part of the difeafed me, and continue fo as that it may be the means of t parating the mortified part. This is done by making number of fmall perforations all over the furface of ce carious bone, to fuch a depth as to give the patient ry little pain, and no farther ; this operation may renewed in different parts every third day, or there- out ; thus fuppuration will take place, and a confe • aent reparation of the carious part. But when the feafe is extenfive, and goes deeper than the fecond mella of the bone, inftead of little perforations made the pin which fixes the trepan, it will be advifcable ufe- a fmall head of a trepan; this inftrument ap- ed at proper diftances over the furface of the caries, id carried juft fo deep as to produce a little uneafinefs, 11 produce the needful inflammation and fuppuration. i foon as any of the parts loofen at the edges, their al reparation may be always greatly haftened by ily infinuating below them the end of a common itula, fo as to prefs their edges a very little upwards, ter the ufe of thefe inftruments, apply to the ulcer : fame drelfings as in cafes of a Ample ulcer ; and, moderate the feetor of the caries, the dreflings may covered with lint, moiftened with a ftrong decoc- n of the cort. Peruv. & fol. jugland. The caries 1 arated, drefs, as in cafes of Ample ulcers in flefhy ts. If the caries penetrates very deep in the fub- acc of a bone, fo that a confiderable portion of its ole fubftance is affe&ed, or, as frequently happens, difeafe extends even round the bone, the fhorteft thod then is to take out at once, all the difeafed ts, either with the head of a trepan frequently ap-. •d, or by meant of a fmall fpring faw. This may- beC A R be performed on the Ikull, hands, feet, legs, or arras. Vide article Tibia for the procefs. In the fcirrho-cancrous caries, as in cancers of the glands, extirpation is the only remedy ; but here alfo the diforder is apt to return in another parr rr. vi . • ' The fpreading cancrous caries feldom heals : it may be dreffed with 'lint, or a cautery may be applied ; but it generally breaks out again after a feeming cure. Some allert that fea-watcr is more efficacious in caries of the bones than in glandular fvvellings. A caries of the whole bone or bones, forming a . limb, is fumetimes productive of the nc certify of am- I nutation; particularly when the internal furface ot j fuch bones are affefted as well as the external, and that I through the whole extent or near it. In fuch in- ftances, if the whole bone is not removed by am pure- 1 tion, the patient will perifh. It too often happens that in young fubjeas, with the belt health, the whole j habit will be fo injured by the carious bone, that a j heftic fever of the putrid kind, with all its horrid tram of fyaiptoms, will quickly deftroy the patient. See Almclavccns edition of Celfus de Morbu Odium, n cjq. Petit’s Difeafes of the Bones. Heijlex s Sur- I eery. Le Dran’s Obfervations. Wife man s Surgery, j Monro's Account of the Caries, in the 5th vol. ot the Ed. Med. ElTays. Beil's Treatife on Ulcers, and h.s Sylkm of Surgery. Po//'s Works, and Lond. Med. Tranfaft. vol. iii. p. 25. , „ . * Carcuncula, a Caruncle, is a fmall piece ot j flelh, or an cxcrefcence of a flerti-like appearance, n» the carcuncula laoymales. Morbid excrefccnces of Hein arc alfo called caruncles, and fmall portions of a flelftfl fubflancc, which arc fometimes dilcharged in a d\len- tery by (tool, or in difeafes of the urinary palfagcs b), Excrefccnces in the urctha arife from its corrwled, or cxcoiiatcd lidcs, by (harp corroding matter parting!CAS trough and lodging there ; thcfe are faid to happen tter the cure is completed, which makes them mif- iken for the ftonc, or nephritic fr'mptoms'. A ftric- are in the uretha is generally, if not always, the cafe; .hen thefe morbid caruncle, are fulpefted, and a ougie palTed a little above the obftru&ion, and kept hi three or four hours, more or Jefs,'. every day, cures ; the figns are, when the urine is difeharged it palTes om the uretha, divided into two or more ftreams, imetimes only with pain, and in drops ; but the only mriTthiPhft 'T'* a Pr°be’ 0r bouSie> up the uretha, -o 1- hrabftiua'°r IS met Wlth> and if anv is found •a this fide the valve, at the entrance of the bladder, iere is caufe to fufpedt this diforder. Vide Bell's curgery, vol. 11. C"TVT*°. Cjflration. This operation is per- y-uT, rhe7 fttn^ 's ^chirrous or cancerous. fymmnnh KrLftr CTwfPUrateS) 'l 'S 01,1y treated td and rh CtS’ ? lhe *Permatic chord is dif- ieufelefs and'J S Mp the abdomen, it would euluefs and even dangerous to perform the operation, nkfs you can remove all the difeafed vas deferens. orneumes the cellular lubftance about the chord is lickcncd from inflammation, and a fluid depofited in hfety T3ti°n Ty bc Perfornicd with nety. 1 he mode of proceeding is this: place tiic tient m a horizontal pofturc upon a tabic of a con- urSv^inff’ hl$ hangin5 down> and firmly fe- rafn f’ r a| 1,hC p3rts beinS previoufly fliaved, S n ffd £ 7 1 one hand (or if it is too large wkeTwhim ‘"r “t 11 P?5Per'y )»»«<» "irhafcalpcl lake a longitudinal incifion through the infeeuments rh ab°VC WhCrrC tllC Ch°rd is b(: cut,’ ovwi toi the mfenour point of the ferotum. Now fepa- itc with vorir finger and rhumb the fpcrmatic artery Jfh Alfr0m ,hc*aS depcrcns (which is S diftS Uifr.ed by It. peculiar hardnefs) carry a firm, flat wax kn^t r r°Und the,n’ and ficcure^thein by ru’nnS knot about a quarter of an inch above that part of thf M chordCAT i.. chord which is to be divided. Cut the chord acrols at this part, and remove the tefticle, by differing the chord and it from above downwards. The difeafed parts being removed, untie the knot upon the chord to dif- cover the fpermatic artery and vein, and fccure them, taking care to leave out the nerve, which may be fepa- rated by the tenaculum, but when it cannot, it muft be included in the ligature.—For the drefiing, Mr. Bell advifes a quantity of foft lint, laid into the bottom of the fore, a comprcfs of linen laid over it, and the whole fecurcd with the T bandage, or fufpenlbry bag. My practice has uniformly been to bring the lips of the wound together by the interrupted future j cover it with a drelfing of wax and oil, and fccure it with the T bandage, or fufpenfory bag. The pa- tient being put to bed, an opiate Ihould be given, and every means to keep down inflammation muft be em- ployed. When the lkin of the ferotum is in a Rate of ul- ; ceration, or fo diftended as not likely to recover its rone, fuch part muft be removed in the operation. But then, inftead of a longitudinal incifion along the courfc of the tefticle, the firft incilion ought to com- mence at the under extremity of the fpermatic chord; from whence two femilunar incifions ought to be con- tinued to the under part of the ferotum, and made to include all the parts of the lkin, that are in any de- gree difeafed. The remainder of the operation is as already deferibed. Vide Sharpe's Operations. Le Dean's Operations and his 74th Obf. Hcijler's Sur- gery, and Bill's Surgery, vol. i. CataraCta, a Catarafl, from xnlaparx, to min- gle together, or/•/.■/out of order, is an opacity of the cryftalline lens, or its capfulc, occafioning a lofs of light, by the rays of light being prevented from pail- • ing to the retina. Dr. Cullen places it as a lpccies of cnligo, and names it call go (lent is) ob maculam opatatp s pone pupillam. r r - Whll ICAT M 2 tion, When a cataraft begins, the patient at firft com- plains of a diminution of fight, and on a careful exa- mination of the eye, a whitenefs is perceived very ideep in it. On examining the eye at diftant periods af time, its opacity is more manifeft, and the patient vrery fenfibly lofcs the advantages of fight. The pro- rrefs of a catarafl, is ufually very flow. No medi- cines feem adequate to the removal of this difeafe, rxcept in an incipient ftate ; fuccefs has fometimes at- I ended repeated dofes of calomel, and poultices of ; re£h hemlock on the eye, while a difeharge was con- stantly kept up by blifters on the back. The hydrar- j :yr. muriat. given internally for a length of time, tas proved beneficial. When any degree of inflam- mation occurs, blood-letting, with a ItriA antiphlo- i iftie regimen, is necefiary. When thefe means fail i removing the opacity of the lens, the lens mud be emoved, either by prefling it from its natural fitu- 4 tion in the centre, down to the bottom of the eye, /inch is termed couching the cataraft ; or by remov- I lg the lens entirely from the eye which is called : rtradion. Mr. Sharp gives it as a general rule for proceeding > the operation, when the cataratt is entirely opake ; e obferves, that fometimes they are of a proper con- fluence for the operation before they become fo, but prbids proceeding thereto while the patients can per- :ive any thing through them. Catarafis are of dif- rent colours ^ the pearl coloured, and thole that opear like burnilhed iron, are thought proper to ■ rdure the needle ; the white arc fuppofed milky; J ic green and yellow arc horny, and incurable ; the '■lack cataraft Mr. Sharpe takes to be the gutta ■ rena. ■ The yellow cataraft often adheres to the iris fo as ,« be incurable. When a gutta ferena attends, the 9 Deration will not relieve. ■ J( There is little to be expected from the opera-CAT tion, when the difeafed eye is either diminilhed, or increased, from its natural fize. Before and after the operation, a due regard mult be had to the Hate of the patient’s conftitution ; and fuch means are generally advifed, as will keep it fomewhat below its natural vigour. When no objettion to the operation attends, Mr. Sharp recommends the following method for depref- fing the talaraR. “ Place the patient in a conve- nient light, and a fuitablc height : put a pillow be- hind his back, that his body may bend forward, and the head approach near to you ; then inclining the head a little backwards upon the breaft of your af- fiftant, and covering the other eye, fo as to prevent its rolling, let the afliftant lift up the fuperior eye- lid, and yourfelf deprefs a little the inferior one: this done, ftrike the needle through the tunica con- junftiva, fomething lefs than one-tenth of an inch from the cornea, even with the middle of the pupil, into the puftcrior chamber, and gently endeavour to deprefs the cataraR with the flat furface of it. If after it is diflodged it riles again, though not with much elafticity, it muft again and again be pufljed down. If it is membranous, after the difeharge of the fluid, the pellicle muft be more broke and de- preffcd. If it is uniformerly fluid, or exceedingly claftic, we muft not continue to endanger a terrible inflammation, by a vain attempt to fuccced. After the operation, treat it as an ophthalmy; and a collyrium, of one part rectified fpirit of wine, and ten parts of luke war n water, will be as proper an application as any. When the operation of extrac- tion is determined on, proceed as follows : Pals your knife through the cornea, into the anterior chamber of the eye, about a line before the iris; for if it is not put there, the iris will, per- haps, be wounded : if you go too tar on the cornea, you may get between it> lamina, and fo not perforate • intoCAT rato the chamber, after pundhiring into the chamber, guide your knife with the flat 'fide per- pendicular to the eye, through the aqueous humour horizontally (being careful not to wound the iris) ; nd then thruft it out atrthe oppofite fide and fituation ! f the cornea you put it in at; then turning its edge bliquely and perpendicular outwards, make an in- | ifion rather through the inferior half of the cornea, juen lifting up the luperior part of it, the cryftalline umour will burft its aranea, and drop out ; but if it j tould flick at its exit through the wound, it fhows tat the capfula of the cryftalline is not broke, on phich you muft puncture it with the knife, and then t: will drop: but if the difeafe is in the aranea, or he capfula of the cryftalline, you muft extraft it alfo ■ hth the forceps. Rcfpedling the operation of couching, Mr. Port obr lerves that, as in fome inftances the cataraft remains i'lways fluid, fo in others they become inftantly indu- cted j whence it follows that there is no point of time for which we Ihould wait, but at any time when n other accounts the objedt is a proper one, the fur- i eon may proceed. Previous to the operation, it is ight to know the circumftances which render it likely r unlikely to fuccced, To have it fucceed, the cryf- lUinc humour Ihould be opake, and all the other ■ <arts of the eve capable of performing their fun<ftions ; : he eye Ihould be of its natural fizc. When with a ataraSi the globe of the eye is manifeftly enlarged, ! he patient is incapable of perceiving light, or dif- inguilhing betwixt light and darknefs ; in fuch a cafe, he operation muft be omitted. The pupil ought to >e capable of contradting and dilating ; it has been aught by many, that when tltc pupil is immoveable, t is to nopurpofe to perform the operation, which in general (enfe is true, though not in a particular one j he operation certainly Ihould not he performed, if the >upil is immoveable from a paralyfis of the part, nor f it adheres to the cryftalflne, as m thefc cafes weCAT could not operate with any fuccefs, but if it is im- moveable, oralmoftfo, from a diftenfion of the cryf- talline humour (which Mr. Pott thinks fometimes happens) you may operate; however, in thefe cafes, on a very nice examination, the pupil will be found to have a very fmall degree of motion. The patient ought always to be able to diftinguilh light from dark- nels, and a white from a black body ; if he is not, though you remove the catarai1 from over the pupil, yet the retina is incapable of performing its office. In the following inftances, fuccefs is hardly to be ex- pefted by cither couching or cxtra&ing the cryfta- line body : when the dlfcai’ed cryftalline is fomewhat of the colour of brafs, or of a bright yellow, or of a copper colour, the operation does not fucceed ; the pupil being generally found immoveable, and the whole eye enlarged When all the parts of the eye are enlarged, or when the cryftalline protrudes through the pupil, the cafe is not a proper one for the ope- ration. In extra&ing, Mr. Bell advifes the divifion of the cornea at the upper part, in order to prevent the aqueous humour from being all difeharged ; but this method renders the approximation of the divided parts difficult. Vide Celjus. Paulus. Aetiui. Sr. Yves on the Difordcrs of the Eyes. Heiftcr's Surgery. Sharpe's Operations. Med. Mufeum, vol. ii. p. 157- ct fcq. and 412. vol. iii. p. i. Warner and Pott on the Cataraft. Bell's Surgery, vol. iii. Medical Obf. and Inq. vol. vi. p. 4 50. Sauvages’s Nofologia Methodi- ca, vol. ii. p. 723. Edin. Med. Comment, vol. v. p. 275, and While’s Surgety, p. 236. CAtHETF.RisMUs, the introdu&ion of the ca- theter into the bladder. This appellation was given by P. iEgincta to this operation ; and it is required in the following cafes : When a ftonc lies internally on the neck of the bladder, and ftops the difeharge of the urine. ' • r WhenC A T When a preternatural weaknefs of the bladder hitl- ers the urine from being difcharged. in the ulual tanner; and when other remedies fail, as oft hap- ms in women weakened with labour, &c. When by too long retention of urine, the bladder fo diftended and weakened as not to be able to dif- large its contents. When mucus, blood, pus, or other matter, flicks t the neck of the bladder, in cafes of ulcers, or ounds of the kidneys, or after difeharges of bloody rine. When the urethra is contracted or obftruCted, or the cck of the bladder (but in this cafe bougies are pre- erred)or when the probata: tux- feirrhous, or tumid, ad prevent the pafTage of the urine. In the lafl months of pregnancy, it is l'ometimes feful to introduce the catheter, to draw off the urine. When a prolapfus uteri produces an ifehury. When a liquor is to be injected into the bladder, i which cafe, a bladder may be filled with the li- uor to be injeCted, then fattened to the catheter, and ) by gentle preflure conveyed through it. The introduction of the catheter into the female ladder, is eafily effeCled -, but with the male fubjcCt, requires confiderable expertnefs. The belt mode f proceeding is thus. The catheter being previoufly iled, introduce it into the urethra, with its convex an uppermoft, and carry it as far as it will pafs with- ur ufingforce, then turn it si.owi.Y round, fo as to ring its concave lidc uppermoft ; and in doing this, take a large fwcep with the handle of the inftrumenr, nd at the fame time keep your attention fteadily fixed n its apex, or inner termination, and be particularly areful neither to retraCl, nor move it from its firll: nc of direction. When the catheter is turned, prefs ■ onward, at the fame time gently deprefling its han- le. Sometimes there is an impediment at the caput illinanginis, m which cafe, draw the catheter a little back,CER back, and prefs the end of it a little higher, but not with force. If the difficulty flill continues, introduce a finger well oiled into the anus, drawing the pcri- naeutn forward, and with your linger afiifl the cathe- ter in its introdu&ion. Mr. Ware recommends the catheter to be about twelve inches long, with a larger curvator than common. I have always found the or- dinary catheter to arfwer full as well. In the follow- ing cafes, the catheter cannot be ul'ed with propriety or fafety : When the neck of the bladder is greatly inflamed, for then the urethra is much contracted, and to force in this cal'e would endanger a fphacelus. When a caruncle, cicatrix, or hard tubercle ob- lfruCts the paflage. In old men, fometimes from the flrifturc flirink- ing, or from wrinkles in the urethra. From the diftenfion of the fpongy fubftance of the urethra with the blood. From a feirrhofity or preternatural humour of the proftatc gland. A flone lodged in the neck of the bladder. When the uterus is remarkably prominent and pen- dulous over the ofTa pubis, the neck of the bladder then forming an angle with the body of the bladder, hinders the paflage of the catheter. Cerebi Compressio, ) Comprejjion of the Brain. Compressus, ) This often arifes from external injuries. The fymptoras arc giddinefs, dim- nefs of fight, ftupefaftion, lofs of voluntary motion, t( vomiting, an apopleftic llertor in breathing, convul- 1 five tremors in different mufclcs, a dilated ftate of the i frnpil of the eye, even when expofed to a clear i: igiu ; paralyfis of different parts, efpcciallv of the fide ft of the body oppofite to that part of the head U which has been injured; involuntary evacuation f» of the urine and fatces ; an opprefled, and in many I cafes, an irregular pulfe ; and in calcs of confidcrable t violence HC E R ■colence done to the head, there is generally a dif- Jpaarge of blood from the nofc, eyes, and ears. A ■:ght blow on the head, will induce fome of thefe Symptoms, fuch as vertigo, ftupefadtion, and a tem- porary lofs of fenfibility, which commonly yield to I; ft, or fome other gentle means. Thefe are more pobably the effeCt of a conculfion given to the brain, tan of comprelfion. Vide article Concussio. ompreffion of the brain, is occafioned by whatever nds to diminifh the cavity of the cranium, or in* ceafe its contents in any confiderable degree ; thus mdfures, with a deprefiion of any part of the bone, arcible introduction of any extraneous body, through oth tables of the Ikull, the effufion of blood, ferum, us, - or any other matter; the thickening of the ones of the head, from lues venerea ; extravafations the ventricles, or ether parts of the brain, may reduce this difeafe. For the mode of treatment, de articles Concussio, Fractura Cranii, EPREssro, Extravasatio, and Hydroce- Halus, likewife Bell’s Surgery, vol, iii. 'Cervix, alfo Co!turn, the neck, is fubjeCt to contraction to one fide, which is called the wry eck. It may depend either upon original confor- ation; upon a preternatural degree of contraction the mufcles of one fide of the neck, particularly the fterno-maftoideus mufcle; or merely a con- aCtion of the ikin, in confequence of extenfivc res or burns. When it is produClive -of much fortuity, it may be removed by an operation, cx- pt the vertebrae of the neck are diftorted. The ntraCtion is generally in the skin only,but fhould be in the fterno-maftoid mufcle, it mud be divided adually by repeated ftrokes of the fcalpel, carrying e incilion to fuch a depth, as may be neceffary to move it effectually, or no advantage will be gained ’ the operation. When the Ikin only is affeCted, >u proceed in the fame way. After the operation, firm fupport muff be given to the head, to prevent theC H £ In Dr. Cullen’s Nofology, it is a variety of lut , fpecics of ophthalmy, which he names the ophthal- inn membvanarum. It is when the internments very great, caufing the tunica conjundiva fo to thicken or proje«; that the cornea, or traulparent part of the fcclcrotica, appears depreffed and1 funk ui the triobe. When the ophthalmy is in this ftate, it is, tor the moil part, accompanied with violent pam, As fome obferve, in this hate of the u>flan|matwn, , the white part of the eye is become more like raw ikih or as others, that it refembks the pile of red velvet. Motif, de St. Yves fays, “ in this ipec.es of: r obthalmy all the conjunctiva is fwtllcd to the tinJc- Zk of a finger’s breadth ; this makes the traniparent part of the comea appear, as it were, fank. 1 cavity. This inflammation is attended w uh great paia STS head «* *y«. with se»v,.=r..-r^ortav and with want of Http; there ,s Shew lie aJeter, puliation, &c. All the tranfparent Part ?f t“C-C^ La often comes away by ^ppurat.on wh.^ Jft jS the anterior chamber of the eye. The C1C^”Lllme feauent to the iuppuration, hinders the anti vitreous homour. from falling out andby tta. meant, the entire decay iometimes both happen. crally the pain lofs of fight always follows; and generally P““ which comes on, deftroys the patient. quiL°rthcrfpLditft’and6mift'powerful tes £ &2Z £ mated JteqUred. A blffler may be »pph«•» * forehead, or leeches to the temples may be appUe, farJlv, Sc, as in ijeneral for inflammation «t l'ide Sauvages's Nofolog. St. Yves on the Diforders f the Eyes, and article Ophthalmia. Cholosis, a lamenefs from one leg being f.iorter than the other. It is often the cafe in chil- ren, that one leg feems longer than the other, nd occafions a rotatory walk. It is a kind of para- tfis of the part. In fuch cafes, the glutad mnfcles re much relaxed. The cold bath, with tonic medi- ants, and a feton, afford relief. Vide Poll's Works. Chordee, fothe French call, what others name, ra'a, chorda, corde, and cborde, from x°dy>, the chord a mufical inftrument. It is a painful involuntary redtion of the penis, happening at all times in the iy, but more particularly when the patient is warm t bed. The penis becomes hard, and painful to the ouch, and is curved downwards, giving the fenfa- on as if pulled with a chord. It fometimes remains tter the heat of urine, and other fymptoms of go- orrhoea are gone off; but is generally more fevere liring the inflammation. The cure is effedted by eeeding and laxatives, and by applying a cold folu- an of acetated litharge, camphorated oil, aether, • a ftrong folution of opium, in water, to the part, hirty or forty, or more drops of opium, taken at -•d time, is extremely efficacious. Leeches applied the part, are alfo highly ufeful. In feveral ob- nate calcs, I have directed the following injedtion, ith the beft effedt : . ' R. Ol. AmygdaJ. D.Jiv. iEruginis praeparat. gr. : milcc ; half an ounce was injedted twice a day ade .SW,W, Hunter, Bell, and Foot, on the Vene- al Difeafe. Cirsocele, from avarice, and a tu- our, it is alfo called varicocele. There is, how- cr, this difference between the tumours. The ncocele is a varicous diftention of the veins of the • otum, forming a hard, knotty, unequal tumour, he cnfocele ib of a nature like the varicocele, the tumour is in the courfc of the fperma- N v ticC I R *ic chord extending from the fuperior part of theferotum, to the abdominal rfuced bv a varicofe d Mention of the ipcrmatic vein Anv large tumour in the abdomen, or external of the blood, may occafion the veins of theiaromm, or the fycrmatic veins, to be dUat.d wuh Wooded the tcfticles hang lower than in their , ( j But this diforder moiily depends on a relaxed it ing with icminal matter, aie -ubjett neitheroain inoftly in the ferotum. However, when ne.^iergan nor other trouble feme fvmptomsattendnoicgad need be paid to thc cafe, except it be to appjy to TSK isU7;mptomatical, to remove Hie circamftances o„ which * ^ 1“' It feme tunes depends on the pren-ure trufs upon the fpermatk procels; anc ation in the bandage will probably anlvver the pur nnfc If tumours of a feirrhous kind aie the cau c and^ they arc To fituated as to admit of extirpation, le. be- loV^nded, plaint prevented. Before »^ifion a- »nadc , veins, it will be proper to try ^ the cold bath, the application of a foluti ir other »llriosrn,.. Betore pp»»5 thefe veins, it will be proper to to in an lvoruontal pofture, y '' e ^ an,| it r turning blood is facilitated ; the , contents'fl.ould be fupported by * and ftrengthoning embrocations a»y 11 thCON he part affctted. Vide Heificr’s Surgery. Bell’s iurgery, vol.i. Poll's Works, and White's Surgery, 334. Coxcussro, a concujjhn, from conci<tio, toJhake. i jell or Jbcck of the brain, by blows or falls, A con- uJTion of the brain is a fudden and violent emotion 'hereof, and of the pia mater, occafioning a fudden liftentionof their blood veffels ; and thereby depriv- ing them of the power to propel their contents, or i>f maintaining the circulation as before. It is often very difficult, when an accident, from internal violence, happens to the infide of the head, o know of what kind it is, and where its feat; in ueh circumftances confider the fymptoms ; how the misfortune happened, with any other circumftance hat ihay throw light on the cafe ; fometimes the mis- ortune proves fatal only for want of knowing what oart is injured. The figns of a concuffion do not always appear im- mediately after the injury is received. The fymptoms vttending a concuffion, are generally in proportion to he degree of violence, which the brain itfelf has uftained ; and which, indeed, is cognizable only by he fymptoms. If the concuffion be very great, all enle and power of motion are immediately abolilhed, nd death follows foon: but, between this degree, nd that flight confufion (or ftunning, as it is called) vhich attends moil violences done to the head, there .re many ftages. Sometimes a concuffion produces the ame kind of oppreifive fymptoms as an extravala- ion, and the patient is almoft or totally bereft of enfe ; at other times, no fuch fymptoms attend, but he patient gets no fleep at all, has a wild look, an :ye much like that of a perfon who has long watched hrough apprehension and anxiety ; talks much, and [ery inconliftently ; has a hard labouring pulfe, fomc mall degree of fever, and fometimes an inclination o vomit; if not retained, the patient will get out of >ed, and adf with a kind of frantic abfurdiry, and N z * appearsCON appears, in general, much hurt br a ftrong h^ Stunning is a flight degree of commotion, which foon ^°A 'violent blow on the head, not beating the head to the ground, nor agamft any hard body, moi fre- quently caufes a frafture or fiffure, with but lmall concjion; when a blow is given with fuch violence m ro knock the perfon down, and h.s head hits the ground, if the fkull is not thereby broken, a conas/- /ion will be the confequence. If the head ftrikcs againft a hard immoveable body, in confequence of a fall from a conf.derable height, a concutfion with an ex- travafation ufuallv follows, and generaHy death w the confequence. A concujfton of the brain <Worn>s at- tended, if ever, with cxtravafation, unleJ "^C?- r* aftion follows the blow. A concujfwn with a frac Mire, is lefs dangerous than one with a fiffure, caufe in the firft cafe the cxtravafation » »««• To diftinguiffi betwixt a concujfion and an extrava of ,$ in the brain, » lomettmer extremely difficult, though in many inftanceaveiry eaiy- The firft funning or deprivation of fenfe, wj« 1 or nartial may be from either, and no man can till from which but when thefe firft fymptoms have b ten removed, or have fpontancoufly difappeared, ft fuch patient is again oppreffi. 1 then ftnniditv or total or partial lofs of ftnie, becomes rnnft probable that the firft complaints were from commotion, and that the latter are frop extra- SSSSf-aS Srly month, » »fCON N i are irine for a great length of time; and often a total ols of fmell. The cafe difeovered, bleeding and antiphlogiftics ihould be ufed, to prevent, if not remove, the inflam- mation ; and if the injured part of the infide of the read cannot be difeovered, the chief dependence is an bleeding, purging, and fweating. Bleeding may be in the temporal artery, or in the ugular vein, though generally the arm luffices. Except there is a depreflion'of the fkull, the trepan Iocs not feem necelfary. On this fubjcCt, authors nd practitioners vary confiderably. 1 he diet fliould be cooling and flender. If great heat is perceived in the head, apply an mbrocation of oil, vinegar, and fal ammoniac. Mr. Schmucker, in his Chirurgical Obfervations, ■ublifhed at Berlin, fuggefts the^idea of aftringent applications as proper; and informs us, that he em- loycd them with the greateft advantage. The fol- ding he feems to prefer, Aq. pur. ft x. acet. cerim fti. fal nitri Jiv. fal Ammon, crud. ^ij. m. tith this embrocation he orders the part afteCted to e frequently well bathed j at the fame time that lood-letting is preferibed, together with the internal fe of nitre, ftimulating injections and laxatives. In II the (lighter affections of the head, the greateft fuc- ?fs, he lays, has been obferved from fuch a courfe j ad, even in fuch as have required the trepan, Mr. chmucker thinks he has often feen it put in practice ith advantage. In concujfions of the brain, even lfhout any external wound, cold epithems and •mentations, he fays, arc very ferviceable, efpccially conjoined with Simulating glyfters, and the appli- •tion of leeches to the temples. Mr. Schmucker rther oblervcs in the fame work, that violent con. [fions of the brain are often produced merely from •e paffage of cannon-balls near to the head, without Yl external affcCtion being obfervable. In fuch fes, and in all fimilar concujjions, emetics, he fays,CON 4 hard eminence, which anics m the folds d * are commonly attended with the beft 5 ven*- iedtion, however, mult always be premiled to the ufe of thel'e remedies. ■ - r r • Mr. Bromficld afferts the happieft fucccfs in thefe cafes from the ufe of Dover's fweat.ng powder ; alter bleeding, if required, he orders the bowels to be evacuated by means of a glyftcr, and then a fcruple of Dover’s powder, the operation or whlth'u‘tDC encouraged by putting the patient between blankets, and repLing it every twelve or twenty-four hours accordm- as the violence of iymptoms require As it is chiefly from the attenuating property of the opium, that relief is expedit'd, he ules uc a pr - nortion of the vin. antim. mixed with tintt. opu. a. will be needful to keep up a daphorefiswhenthc violent fymptoms are allayed, and until fuch a free dom from complaint, as needs no farther aid of Je S s brought about: of this he gives ten or fifteen drop; everylur or fix hours. As oft as the violent fv mo toms ^ return, he has rccouife to the powder. £,XhU hu Uf, .iw. m ■SviT di ed cafes he fuepeeded ; and m two which were at 31 Vide Bobnium, in Renunciatione Vulncrum dc Vi- V kIl doc , cle Commotione Cc- brattone Cerebri} QC the ConCu(fion o rebrii M»f. M of ,ht Royal the Brain, m the 3d • ot 1 book' v Acad, of Surgery; an Chlni^CON * .anus, or a hardening or a fwelling of the wrinkles there. Thefe tumours often happen in the orifice of the uterus, and other parts. It generally proceeds partly from a fault in the quality, and partly from a fault in the quantity of the fluids flowing there. At firft, it is named a tubercle, but when hardened, a condyloma. All tubercles and fungi, whether within the verge of the anus or more outward, are all of the fame nature, and are cured by the fame method, whether ailed condyloma, ficus, fungus, crifta, or whatever elfe, and are tumours of the glandules of the part, .which increafing, like a polypus of the nofe, prove , croublcfome, being often painful. Thofe who are : troubled with the piles have them very much. They . often appear in the pudenda from the lues vcnc- : rea\. j If the roots arc fmali, a ligature may extirpate ! them; if broad, they arc beft removed by a cauftic, : f care is taken not to injure any other parr. See P. /Egincta, Celfus, Heifier, Turner, Wifc- . man, and Bell's Surgery, vol. ii, Coxtusa, from Contundo, to knock together. Con- -u/td wounds, contufions, or bruifes. When any part is id aruifed, one of thefe two arc always confequent, and !; commonly both happen together; cither the fmali ajood-vellels of the contufed part arc broken, and the . olood they contained is ipread about in the adjoining (. >arts, or elfe without fuch an effufion of it, thefe i vefleis have loft their tone, their active force, and no ril onger contributing to the circulation, their contents i fagnate. In cither of thefe cafes, if nature, either ,j c- ith or without the alliftance of art, does not remove , he impediment, an inflammation comes on, followed ly an imperfect unkindly fuppuration, with putre- .. action or gangrene. Belidc which there are peculiar ymptoms from the injury done to a nerve, a blood- • “‘/Tel, or a bone. if! InCON In general, the fymptomsconfcquent on bruifes may be reduced to three clafles •, for, ift They aril'e either from this, that when the folids are deftroyed, and the humours discharged, thofc functions are abolilhed which depend upon a due and determinate motion of the fluids through the found veflets. Or, , ... „ adly, That the difeharged humours collcftcd either in the natural or preternatural cavities of the body, by their bulk and quantity, prefs upon the adjacent parts, and cither totally deftroy, or, afleaft, uihurb their refpeftive functions. , • ?dlv The humours thus difeharged, ma\, b\ their continuance and ftagnatioh in their cavities acquire fuch a degree of acrimony as to corrode and dettroy th\Vhcn the' intetnal parts are bruifd, and the ex- . ternal integuments are entire or coniine the extra- vafated fluid, the conicquence is, i- An cch>mofi. , z. A fpurious ancurifm; 3. Ulcers at\d gangrenes, 4. A caries; 5. A feirrhus, or a cancer. Concujions from gun-ihot wounds are not fodan- ecrous from the deftruftion of the .mured vcffels f,id the confcquences thereof, as from the general concuihon thin the whole body h.ffers from the air which is violently impelled agahift it, and from this concuihon it is, that moft of thc^rietmus lymp proceed, which are conicquent on wounds or bruites *r°I™ n'o cafe Should we be more cautious of pro- nouncing the event of any difafter than where a con- cUifion Sr a contvfion happens, rod where bothmay have occurred, the caution, it poflible, ihould gTn order to thtmoft cffeftual relief, remedies muft be ufed that diflbwe coagulated fluids, and that reftorc the tone of the veflcls. porC Y S For external ufe, where the (kin is not much de- -roycd, a mixture of (harp vinegar, with twice its quantity of water, may be a :n as they dry moiften them again. Or the Aq. jaids, with a portion of fpirit, may be ufed with dvantage. Spirituous applications (hould not be ufed, tcept where the foie intention is to ftrengthen the iijured fibres; in (lighter cafes, a fmall quantity of tint may be mixed with vinegar, and ufed on the firfl. eception of the bruife. If on account of a tumour or wound, a poultice i* >plied, the common bread poultice is the belt. If the bruife is confidcrablc, and particularly if any tcrnal part is affedted, bleed as freely as the confti- r.tion will admit; direct a cooling liquid diet; let yfters be repeatedly injedjed, if the lower belly be e feat of complaint; and, in all cafes, repeated :ntle purging is of the greateft advantage. The advantages of the tinft. opii externally, as a folvent, of Dover’s powder, and the anodyne antU onial drops, recommended in the articlcCoNCUSsro, hich fee, deferve the fame attention when contufions ppen, and on the fame principles. See Bobinus de Rcnunciat. Vulner. Fan Siuieten'% omments on Bocrhaave's Aphorilins, T’tffot's Ad- :e to the People, BJguci’s Diflertation on the In- ility of amputating Limbs, and Bell’s Surgery, U. v. CCvstocele, a hernia formed by the protufion the urinary bladder. The fituations in which it surs, are either in the groin or lcrotum, through -■ opening in the external obliauc mul’cle of the domen ; in the fore part of the thigh, under Pou- rt’s ligament; or in the perinteum through fome of t mufcular interftices of that part. There have en inftanccs of the bladder being pufhed into the gina. Vide Meil), de l'Academ. Roy. dc Chirug. .leans of linen cloths wrung byC Y S by Pipelet le Jeune, vol. iv. p. i3i. VV hen a cvftoccle is combined with a bubonocele, the pro- truded portion of the bladder lies between the her- nial fac, and the fpermatic chord. The fymptomsof | this fpccics of hernia: are, a tumour attended with fluauation either in the groin, in the foreipa*t of the thigh or perinaeum, which generally lublides on the urme being voided. Sometimes preffure is ne- | ceffary to bring the water forward. But when there | is no ftriaure, or the fwelhng is fmall, the urine is | Toided with great cafe. • ~ 1 When this hernia is without complication, fup- preffion of urine is generally the caufeVIn\'£ treatment therefore, every caufe of ^ppreffionrtuft be guarded again* *, and if there is no adhefions, “J the protruded bladder can be reduced, a trufsAjouW be worn for a confiderable time. When the parts cannot be reduced, and no fymptoms occur to render an operation neceffary, a fufpenfory bag Ihould be worm When this hernia occurs m the vagma, re- duce the parts by laying the patient on her back, elevating her loins, and ore ffing with the lingers from the vagina ; after which, introduce a peflary Jo prevent ftturi defeents. When from inflamma- tionP and ftriaure, an operation is neceffary th^ parts muft be divided, as in other cafes of hern a. Vide Article Bubonocele. Recoiled that in tins hernia, there is no lack, and great caution. » there- fore neceffary in laying the parts bare. ide BeU Surgery, vol. i.D Depressio, a depreffion. This word in Sur- ery is, in general, applied to a finking inwards of ome part of the ikull, in confequence of the bone cing fraftured from external violence. The fymp- oms arifing from mechanical preflure, they are the une as in cafes of extravasation. Vide Article xtravasatio, and Cerebri Compressio. 'he fymptoms in this cafe differ materially froip lofe of a concuffion. Vide Article Concussio. the ill confcquences attending and fucceeding i-tnple fra&ures, generally arife from depreffed ieces of bone, their removal is the material objedt i be attended to. Vide article Trepanatio. Dislocatio, from dijloco, or from h, vel out of, and locus, a place, to put opt of its place, ailed alfo, Luxatio, a Dijlocation or Luxation, when a bone, forming a joint, is difplaced. A one being forced entirely out of its focket is a com- ete diflocation; when it reds upon the edge of the cket, it is called an incomplete diflocation. Dif- cations are alfo divided into fimplc, and compound, he bone being merely difplaced is fimplc ; but if at- nded with a wound or fradfurc, it is termed com- >und. The ufual fymptoms of a diflocation, are ability to move the injured limb ; pain, tenfion, d deformity in the part affc&ed, and in fome cafes bfultus tendinum and fever. The firft fwelling in (location, fhould be carefully diffinguifhed from a eondary tumefaftion, which often extends all over e limb. The former is red, tenfc, and painful, .'ing to inflammation ; and the latter is pale, fnft, d eedematous, moft probably, arifing from a com- prelfionD I 5 predion of the lymphatic veflels by the end or the ^ It ^chiefly in the joints which pofftfs much mo- tion that wc meet with luxations. Ot thtlc there are two varieties. The one, termed the junftimi by the ball and focket, where the head or end ot the bone is received into the cavity of another, and the other termed ginglimus, or the hinge-hkc jomt, from its refemblance to the hinge of a door. Inthis, the joint is formed bv different parts of one bone being received into cavities or indentions of another. The former admits of the mod cxtenlive motion, as in the joint of the humerus, with tnc fcapula, and of the femur, with the offa innominata; while the j former only admits of flexion and extcnfion, as in tnc Joints of the elbow and knee. j J The principal indications of cure are, to reduce the^luxated part j and fccondly, to retain it in its orm'er fituation. But if inflammation, or tumour arc confidcrable, thefc ihould be bleeding, faturnine applications, an^ Plac'n? limb in a relaxed ftate, before a reduction is a= tempted In reducing luxations, the mufclcs fhou a l be put into a (late of the greated relaxation- Mr Pou obferves, that the affiftancc of the mufclcs M alone the caufc of the difficulty of reducing/**- Umb ; ,„d that « 5 ligament will rarely, it e'er imPtu . jmocatcii „L,4bt gradual .» „" wheui « SemTfoliS! th« cotutg^D I S tmmend a gentle extenfion, and to avoid every iolcnt effort. When a bone is fractured at a confiderable diftance om the luxated joint, the luxation may in general j immediately reduced, and the frafture treated in le ufual way. Vide article Fractura. But hen a bone is fradtured, fo near to the dillocation rat it cannot be laid hold of, the cafe is difficult id uncertain. In the joints of the fingers and toes, ic difplaccd bone may in fome inftanccs be pufhed to its fituation; but in the larger joints, as in the p and fhoulder, the fradlured bones mutt be firmly calcd, before the reduftion of the diflocation is at- mpted. The treatment of diflocations with a wound, the fame as in compound failures. Vide article K CTIIKA. Dijloraiion of the Boms of the Cranium. A fepara- >n of the bones of the cranium from the hydroce- lalus, is by fome called a luxation of the head. Whatever elfc be the caufe, comprclfion and ban- ge, if not by other circumftances forbid, are all at can be applied, befides the ufe of fuch means are adapted to the difordcr. Di/lociitioiis of the Bones of the Nofe. This difloca- in is cafily difeovered by the touch, and the defor- ity it occafions. To reduce it, place the prtient ipofitc the light, with an alliftant behind to fupport s head, and endeavour to replace the bones. This general may be done by the fingers ; but when <c of the oones is pulhed inwards, a quill, or other te body, mutt be introduced into the nottril to raife e depreffed piece. After the reduilion, apply a tuble headed roller to retain the bone in its fitua- sn. Dijlocationt of the Lower Jaw. This bone can only : diflocated forward and downward. If only one 1c is luxated, the chin inclines to the oppoff.c’ fide, id on the dillocated fide the mouth is wider open. Q \Y aeaWhen both fides arc diflocatcd, the chin is thrown I forward and downward, and the mouth is open. In | order to reduce it, place the patient firmly in a low! chair, and let an alliftanr fupport his head, then I wrapping the end of a handkerchief, or putting a j cafe of thin iron covered with thin leather on yotirl thumbs, to defend them from being bit, pulh theml as far as they will go, between the teeth of the up-Jj per and under jaws, the under or flat part of the! thumbs being applied to the teeth of the undci jaw .1 the palm of each hand ihotild be applied to the out J fide, while with your lingers you lay a firm hold ofl the angles of each jaw. With your fingers thus up-l plied, pull the under jaw forward, till it moves lunie-l what from its fituation, then preis the jaw forcibly down with your thumbs, and moderately backwards with the patm of your hand. Whether the jaw is luxated on one or both (kies, this treatment anlwcrs, only when the diflocation is on one fide, the deprcfiing force muft'be chiefly applied to that fula. i D,(location of the Head. When the head is dill.;* cated, the head falls forward upon the bread, rhi patient is inftantly deprived of fenfibihty, and lies a- if he were dead. If he is not quickly relieved, death follows. To reduce it, feat the patient on the ground with an a (fill ant to fupport him. Then Handing.be- hind, raife the head from the bread, let the alhdani prefs down the (houlders, and gradu ly pull the hear ftraight up, till the diflocation is reduced ; or if th. floes not happen with ■■moderate extenfion, « may . the fame time be gently moved from tide to fide. ■ fudden crack Or nbifc ts heard on the reduction Demi completed, and if the pfttknt be not entirely dea.1, .n immediately afeenained, by a partial, or perhaps. ci. lire recovery of all his faculties, the head, aftt •beine reduced, mud be kept elevated “nd in one podure by a bandage, for a ccu.fK era.de um DijiLuioi^of tbf Sfi*, Os &****.■arui Os ■D I S Complete difiocations of the vertebra, perhaps, have .iever occurred, even with a f radiu rc, without aim oft nftant death. In cafes of partial diflocatjons, the pa- rents have lived fome time, and in forpe inftances a omplcte cure has been obtained- Thcfe diflopariotis ere diftingui filed, by the body being diftorted, by exa- mination with the fingers, and luch fymptoms as arifo, rom a compreifion of the fpinal marrow, particularly a aralyfis of that part of the body below the injured) art, and cither a total fuppreihon of urine, or an in-, oluntary palling of both faces and urine. The verre- rae arc ufually forced directly forward, or in fome dc- .ree to the right or left fidp. When they are luxated' nrward, the body mud be gradually and llowly bent- ver a calk, or any other round body of fufficient fizq; : the bone is replaced, raife the body immediately, if ot, the fame procefs muft be repeated. This treat-, aent has fometimes fucceeded. If the dillocated bone inclines to the right or left, te body, in attempting its reduction, muft not only be :nt forward, but fome what towards the affe&ed fide, i Os Sacrum. When this is dillocated, the body muft : bent forward, in the way already mentioned, and. adeavour to replace it by external prelfure. I Os Coccygis, may be forced internally by a blow, and ternally by laborious parturition. In cither cafe, a olent pain is felt over the region of the loins, parti- larly about the junction of this bone with the os fa- una. When the luxation is inward, with the pain, ere is a lenfation of a tumour, or fome orher hard dy, compreffing the under part of the refhim : there fometimes a ten elm.us, difficulty in palling the feces, d in fome cafes there has been a fuppreHion of urine, a introducing the finger at the anus, the difplaced rtion of bone is difeovered. If t|iq luxation is outward, it may be replaced by clfure with the thumb ; if inward, dip the fore-fin- r in oil, introduce it as high as poiliblc up the anus. O z andD I S and pufh it outward, whiift the other fingers, applied exernally, guide it to a proper place. The t bandage is proper here. To prevent inflammation, bleeding, with low diet, muft be diredded ; local bleeding by leeches, is, perhaps, the moft ufeful. I .et the patient obferve that pofture in which he is moft eafy. D'Jlocai.on of the Clavicles. This may happen at ei- ther cxtrtmitv of thtfe bones, but is more frequent at their junftion with the fternum, than at the acromion. A c<nliderable degree of ftiffnel's and immobility in the correfponding joint cf the ftioulder, commonly attends this diflocation. To reduce it, the fame general me- thods mull be employed as in cafe of fradfurc of this bone, except, ra’fixg toe arm, as it tends to pufh the bone further out of its place. 1 he redudfion eftedted, the weight of the fore arm muft be fupported. The head anil fhouldcrs muft likewife be fupported, and a moderate pieflure by bolfters muft be made upon the end of the difplaced bone. For thefe purpofes the long roller, applies fo as to form the figure of 8 upon the fhoulders and upper part of the breaft, is employed. Mr. Bell, however, recommends a machine. Vide his Surgery, vol, vi. pi. Ixxxviii. fig. i. j D jkcattons of toe Ribs. The ribs may be diflocated inwards. The fymptems arc nearly the fame as thole induced by fradhircs. But a diflocation is diftinguhh- ab!e from a fradture, by the pain being moft fee ere at the articulation, and by no part of the bone yield- ing, excepting at this very fp< r. If the rib is n.n ic- duetd by the'eaufe which produced the luxation being removed, the befit method of reducing it, will be to bend the body forward over a cafk, or other cylindn- cal body, while the vertebra immediately above anf below, arc preffed inward with as much force, ns can with fafety be applied to them. After this, lay I thick comprefs of linen over the vertebrae ahead) mentioned, aim another long one along the rrfOft p>o-. ’ lnincnlD I S O .5 made, rainent part of the diflocated rib, and the two im- mediately contiguous ; then pal's a long broad roller two or three times round the body, with fuch ii degree of prelfure upon the vertebra;, as will retain them in their fituation. In applying tfye roller, let it not be fo tight as to impede refpi- ration. Bleeding, low diet, and perfedt reft, muft oc directed. Vide Petit's Dileafes of the Bones. Gooch's Cafes and Remarks. ' Pott's General Remarks on Fraftures and Dillocations. Kirkland’s Obf. on Pott's Remarks. Bell’s Surgery, vol. 17. and White's iurgerv. Dijlocations of the Humerus at the Joint of the Shoulder. The head of this bone may flip out before, behind even under the fcapula) or downward ; but never upwards, except the acromion and coracoid proccfs arc fradtured. When the humerus is luxated downwards, there s a cavity.in the upper part of it, perceptible to the ■ye in fomc inftances, but to the finger in all, and a umour in the arm-pit, becaufe the head of the bone s lodged there ; the luxated arm is longer than the fther, and when it can be moved or extended, it jives exquifue pain in lifting it up to the mouth. Frelh luxations are mod eafily reduced; thole of ong ftanding arc reftored with difficulty ; but if the cead of the humerus grows to the adjacent parts, a edudtion cannot be eftedlcd by any means. To perform the redudtion, bend the fore-arm, and et an alliftant fupport it; then elevate the arm fo hat the elbow may be advanced fomewhat above the rouldcr, bringing it a little inward ; then an allift- nt properly makes the extenfion, whilft another, ountcradting him, draws the inferior angle of the tapula.backward toward the fpinc, and prelfcs the cromion downwards; the operator, with his fingers t the axilla, prelies the head of the bone upward » foon as he perceives the extenfion to be fufficientlyD I S made, and at the fame time, with his other hand,' brings the elbow of the luxated arm to the patient’s; lide. An extenfion made downwards, or even hori- zontally, more frequently fails than when it is made in fonric degree upward. When the I’tX’iion is forward, that is, when the head of the humerus is under the peftoral mufeie, there is a cavity under the acromion, but the head of the luxated bone projects towards the bread, more than when juft in the axilla; and if the arm is moved, a moie acute pain is felt than in the pre- ceding cafe ; for the great artery and the arms of the nerve^ arc much pvefled. If this kind of lux- . ati an is not eaftiy reduced by the method dire died, i when the head of the humerus is in the arm-pit, let a puily from the top of a room be faftened to the j arm, juft above the elbow of the luxated arm, and * the patient gradually railed from the ground by it; ; this at lcalt brings the head of the humerus into thd j axilla,whence,asab' vedirefted,it maybereftored into its proper place. In this procefs, remember to let the fore-arm be brought toward the breaft, that the mulcles may be iclaxed. If the lixalioit is backward, the cubit approaches 1 the praecordia, and the head of the bone is promt- I aent on the outfide of the ihoulder ; the arm can nor I be moved from the breaft, nor extended without j great agonv, and the lower angle of the fcapula will I be fomewhat pufhed out. In this cafe, the gent rail procedure mav be the fame as when the head of theI humerus is under the peftoral mufcle. lu want of a pully, a tall llrong man may take the I patient’s arm over hi- Ihoulder, and gently raife him 1 from the ground, and the operator may pufh the I head of the diftocated bone into it« place as the body I beet me* fulpciuled. This method or dufpending the! patient is hot lb feverc as it may lecni; for as noi force is ultd about the fljoulJer to nuke a counttr| 1 tXt'UjjdlJD I S xtcnfion, the patient does not ftifter from thofe roublefome excoriations and contufions, which too ommonly attend the other methods. As to the iiic of machines for reducing a luxated umcrus, it is generally allowed they are never nccd- tl. Frcke’s commander is preferred to all the reft the inftruments tiled for this purpol'e ; in the life it, the limb may be moved in all directions dur- g the extenfion, and the lituation of the head of ic bone can be examined ; but great care is required keep it perpendicular to the fide of the patient. As in other luxation;, bleeding, &c. to prevent or back inflammation and levelling, muft be ufed after e reduction, and the arm fufpended in a fling. Bi/location of the Fore-arm at the Joint of the Elbow. pei fedt dillocation feldom happens here, except the ecranon is fraCtured, or the ligament greatly wcak- ttd. This luxation may be backward (which is mod eijuent) forward, outward, or inward. If the In.r- ion is backward, the arm appears crooked and ihorter, id cannot be extended ; in the internal part of the xtre, the humerus will be prominent; in the exter-r tiie olecranon, with a large cavity between both •ties. When, by rcafon of the fraCture of the ole- atmn, the cubit is pufhed forward, the os humeri will ck out behind, the ulna is prominent on the fore- rr, and a hollow appears in proportion to the luxa- ■>r. If the luxation is external, the tumour is fo too, d vice vt rfa. n a violent luxation, crone of long (landing, the bone, nnot be replaced without great difficulty, by rcafoq the ftrong ligaments and various precedes. If the ligaments and tendons are rigid, let emollient plications be uled lome time before the reduClion is empted. Reduce this luxation, by making an extenfion until e fore-arm can be put into a Hate of flexion, and then e reft is cafiiy accomplilhed by bearing upon the lower cudend of the humerus with one hand, and by taking hold, j of the wrift and bending the elbow with the other; ! and if it is on either fide, the hand of the patient nauft ■ be turned inward or outward, at the fame inltant, as j the cafe requires. After reduction, the arm Ihould be, j hung in a iling for fome time, that the parts may re- cover their tone. The bones of the fore-arm arc alfo liable tube diflo- cated in their connection with each other. At the joint of the elbow, a projecting part of the radius is lodged, and moves in a cor re! ponding cavity of the ulna, and below, a portion of the ulna is received by a fimilar cavity in the radius. In fiances have occurred of thefe bones being feparated from each other at both, thefe points of connection ; but it is more apt to hap- j pen at the wrift than at the tlbow. When it occurs, the ufual fymptoms of diflocation arc prefent; pain, fw el ling, diftortion, and impaired motion. The bone is calily replaced, but difficult to retain; therefore, when the bone is reduced, a iplint, to reach from the. elbow to the tops of the fingers, Ihould be placed on the infide and outfide of the arm ; fecure them by a flannch roller, and let the arm hang iu a fling. D: (locations of the Bones of I be Wrift. Di (locations of thefe bones are not very frequent; but when they occur, they are moft generally outward. The three fuperior carpal bones may be dilplaced at their con- ii 'ion with the ulna and radius, or they may bsj feparated from the five inferior bones pf the wrift. Sometimes, one or more of thefe bones are teparatodj from each other; and in fome rnftahces, they ar: diflocated at their connection with the bones of the metacarpus, and the fuperior hone of the thumb. To reduce thefe bones, let the arm and hand be iup- ported by two affiftants, who muff keep the parts firm, but not ftrctch them, ‘and in this funation, bones arc cafily pufhed into their places. Retain them ID I S r fplints and bandages, as direfted in article, Dijlo- •tion of tbejorc-nrm, at the joint of the elboiu. Diflocations of the Bones of the Metacarpus and Fin- rs. This is when the under extremities of the me- carpal bones are difplaccd at theirconne&ion with the mes of the fingers. The bones of the fingers and umb are all'o fometimes luxated, but not often, he ufual fymptoms of diflocation take place here, hen any of the metacarpal bones are dil'placed at eir connexion with the bones, they mull be re- accd by keeping the arm fteadily fixed, and pulhing em from above downward, while the hand remains ife and moveable. When the firft phalanx of any the fingers is moved from its junction with the rrc (ponding metacarpal bone, let one alfnfant fix e hand, while another draws down the diflocatcd ger, which mult be done by grafping the firft pha- ix only, in order to prevent the other joints of the ger from being hurt. The other joints of the gers and thumbs, mud be managed in the lame ly. Before cxtenlion is made to reduce thefc dil- ations, elevate the difplaced bone above the con- ;uous one. Dijlocatioiis of the Femur, at the Htp-joint. A frafture the neck of this bone, is fometimes miftaken for •j.x,ition. The head of the thighbone may be lux- 1 downwards, forwards, inwards, outwards, and 'kwards. 1 his luxation, like that of the humerus, always parfedfcj and molt frequently happens m- rds and downwards, the head of the bone tending ■ aids the large foramen of the os pubis. When the luxation is outw'ards, the bone generally >s upwards at the fame time : if inwards and down- rds, the leg is longer, and more bowed than the .er, and the knee and foot turn outwards : the id of the bone is thruft near the lower part of the ;ucn, and the foramen of the os pubis ; fometimes compreffure of a nerve, which communicates withD I S with the bladder, caiifes a fuppi-efTion of urine, and the preffure on the crural nerve, a numbnefs in the leg ; a finus is perceived in the buttock., bccaufe of the great trochanter, and the reft of the bone; and if the reduction is long neglcfted, the limb withers ; if the patient fhould not require a crutch, he will at le^ft halt; the knee of rhe luxated limb cannot be, brought to the other; the chief pain is perceived in the groin, and nograting can be perceived, as hap-, pens when the bone is fraftured, and the limb moved, j If the Luxation is backwards, the limb is drawn up- wards, whence a cavity is perceived in the groin, and, a tumour in that part of the buttock where the head of the bone and the trochanter are lodged ; the limb, is fhortened, the foot bends inward, the heel does not touch the ground, but the patient feems to ftand on his toes, and the luxated limb is more ealily iu- flefted than extended ; in this cafe, many ftand and walk firmly, without the bone being reduced, pro-t vided they have a high heel to their flioe. A fractured neck of the thigh-bone is diltinguifhed ji from a luxation of its head; firft, when the thigh-Jj bone is luxated by a flux of humours, without any! external violence, but only by walking or rifing up:J fccondly, when it is unattended with pain, tumour,a or inflammation : thirdly, when the whole limb may! be bent, and turned about the acetabulum without § any nolle, which is ufually heard in frattures : the I contrary figns indicate a fratturc. In reducing the luxated head of the thigh-bone, a if longitudinal extenlion will not fuftice, but it muft be j according to the direction of the cervix. Mr. K.irk-1) land fays, “ When a thigh is diflocated inward, or| outward, follow Celfus’s advice in laying the patient^ on one fide, lb that the part into which the bone hast) (lipped, be always uppermoft, and that from whichf it has receded, lowcrinoft; by which means the e>-p tenlion may be made in anv direction you plcafe, j analD I S id your own invention will point .out to you venty ways of fecuring the patient upon a bed (for tabic is ufually too high) fo that a proper refinance : tnade to the extenfion. This done, the knee bent, ad a towel fixed properly above it, you mud place jurfcl'f on that fide of the tliigh to which the bone idjflocatcd, with your knee near the head of the >ne, and both hands on the oppofite fide of the knee the patient, an aififtant being fixed, at the ankle, he extenfion may then gradually be begun by three four men, with the thigh rather in a date of flex- i; and when there is reafon to think that the head the bone is brought to a level with the fockcr, the renfion being fteadily continued, the knee may bent near to the abdomen, and, at the fame time* (illt’the knee puftics the bone towards its place, the cle mud be moved in the fame, bait the knee of patient in a contrary direction. Thus the head 1 always go into the fockcr, provided a due exten- i is made before you attempt to return it.” Sometimes the head of the thigh bone is pufiied ween the ifehium and facrum; in this cafe, ex. t the patient is very lean, before attempting the udtion, it may, perhaps, be mod eligible to reduct patient s flefli by repeated brifk purges, given at rt intervals; for thus the date of the cafe is berter overed, and the reduction more eafily effected. hjl'jcations of the Patella. The patella may be ully or completely luxated, and it may be dif- cd either upward or downward, outward or ard, it may alfo be luxated by itfelf, or dif- ed with the tibia and fibula, when tliofc bones [allocated. A complete luxation cannot take place ny direction, without a rupture of the ligament, dt ties it to the tibia, or of the tendon of the as mulcle, connected to the upper part of it, or •aps of both. The redudtion is effedted by plac- ■ Pat‘fiit on a bed or table, and dretching out hi;D I S his leg, which an alii (taut mult keep in that polture ;| then endeavour to pulh the bone into its fituatioTi,fe ratfi.tg it hrft a little, by prelling down the fide off the baits molt diftant from, the joint; then a very* moderate force will prefs it into its place. When! the patella is dilpiaccd, by the tibia and fibula beings luxated, it cannot be replaced till thofc bones are! reduced. Djlocution of the Tibia and Fibula at the Joint of the Knee. The tibia is the only bone of the leg imme- diately concerned in the joint of the knee. It cannot be diflocated without drawing the fibula with it. From the great ftrength of the knee joint, ir cannot be completely luxated, but by fuch force as mult rup- ture the teguments, ligaments, and tendons which c<m- nett the bones. Thefe bones, therefore, are feldom forced entirely pad each other, and from the lame caufe, a partial luxation feldom happens. However, a complete, or partial difiocation may take place on either fide, though the bones are more readily iorced back- ward than forward. The inoft partial difiocation oc- cafions confiderabie pain, lamcncls, and deformity which is very evident on comparing both knee joints J f the patella is diflocated with the tibia and fibula, r will generally be reduced with thefe bones, but whet * not, it muft t>e replaced as directed in Article D.jlota- cation of the ratclla. I To reduce the difiocation of this joint, fix the titigtt' firmlv, and extend the leg till the ends of the bones aril entirely clear of e3ch other ; the tibia and fibula con# netted with it are then cafily replaced. While thl force for extenfion is applied, the mufclcs of the ks Ihould be relaxed as much as polfible. When the rel dutlion is effetted, inflammation mull be guarded again® by repeated bleedings, &c. ’ J The under extremity of the fibula is fometimes fcpaj rated, and puts on the appearance of the mulclts beipi fprained; an attentive manual examination will diic vetD I S '■he difplaced bone; it is cafily rep'aced; and a lantiage ihould be worn till the parts recover their tone. Dtjlocation of the Foot, at the Joint of the Ankle. Tr. Hunter obfcrvcs, that when there is a luxation f the malleolus internus, there is generally a fradture : f the fibula; but that if the perfon is of a lax tabic, the ligaments may be relaxed without a frac- ture. If the anlde is luxated inwardly, the bottom cf the oot turns outward ; if it is luxated outwardly, the ■ottorn of the foot turns inward ; if forward, the -eel becomes (hotter, and the foot longer than ulual; ■f backward, the heel Teems lengthened, and the foot tortened. This kind of luxation is ufually attended '•'h violent pain, and often with other very violent virptoms ; and the difficulty of reducing the ankle is troportioned to the violence of ti e cau!e. Place the ar erst on a table or bed, and the leg. with the knee ent, muft be feeured by an adiftant or two. Then lace the foot in a pofition to relax the mufcles, and ivc it to an adiftant, who muft extend it in that di- ctation, till the prominent point of the aftragalus, leariy pafles the end of the tibia, when the bone will ip into its place, or may be eafily forced in. This one, the pat ent muft lie kept in bed, until he can in onie degree reft upon bis ankle. DiJloc.it.om of the 0.< Calcis, and other Bones of the oot. The os calcis is fbmetimes diilocated laterally, /here it is connected with the aftragalus. The af- ragalus and os calcis, arc fnmetimes luxated at their indtion with the os naviculare, and os cuboides. Tis has been miftaken for a diflocation of the ankle. : he foot, in this cafe, may be pufhed cither out- 1 3rd or inward, or forced diredtly downward. Vhcn the os calcis is difplaced, ir can only be reduced ; y fixing the leg and foot fo as to completely relax the ml'ctes, and then endeavouring to force the bone into t sfituation; in doing which, great alfiftance is dc- .ved front moderately extending the foot. P. la■ D I S In di (locations of the aftraguhs and os calcis, with the os naviculare, and os cuboides, as the anterior part of the foot is generally drawn towards the heel, : Inch extenfion rauft be made, as will clear the bones r on the oppofite (idea or the joint of each other.] R The bones will then immediately flip into their litu- i ation. j ^ The other bones of the tarfus, and thofe of the metatarfus, may he luxated in every dire&ion, 1 he re treatment j>-, as in di(locations of the bones of the >. hand. Vide article Dijlocauor.s of tkc Mrlac,v/m, and Fingers- DisTortsio, \ n for lion. The bending of a bone Distort 10, i prctcrnattirnlly to one fide. It is •fometimes applied to the eves, when a perfon foetus : to turn them from the objcCt lie would h ole at, v.hidt is called! fqianting. 1 Limbs,' may be diftorted various ways, and by * different canics •, either from a morbid (late of tbe bones, or from a contracted (late of the mufclcs, e® * the bones and mufclcs may be both atfcCted. In fonie cafes, the diftortion is owing to an original mal-con- fgrination ; in others, it occurs in infancy, and in fome at a more advanced period of life. jj i-; Where the limb is diftorted from a contracted Irate of the mufclcs and tendons which belong to it (and i this is the raoft frequent caufe) a free ul'c of emol- lients, with a moderate gradual extenfion, Mr. Bd*j ^ fays, is the remedy from which he has derived raoftj ^ advantage. The emollient applications muft be ufed very amply, they muft he rubbed on all the contraftedj f. tendons and mufcles, from their origins to their in- fertions, for half an hour or more, three or four times a-day, and the limb muft be conftantly covered wiA ■ a flannel well foaked in the application. While the fridtion is employed, the limb muft be (lowly extend- ed to as great a digrec as the patient can caftly bear. Mr. Bell alfo recommends an inftrument to be ap- plied afterwards, to prevent the mufclcs from con- rrsCtmgjD I S .adfing ; but perhaps this is not neceffary. l*or tnc Tm of this inrtrument, vide his Syftcm of Surgery, W. vi. pi. lxxix. fig. i. The bell kind of emollients, (t animal fats, in preference to vegetable oils. 'When the diftortion of a limb proceeds from a bone nag bent; if it is not of long duration, and eipe- lally in childhood, conftant preffure, gradually in- ceafed, on the convex fide of the limb, will often :move it. This diftortion is molt frequently in the xrS, and affedts the dire&ion of the feet and ankles, "the-bones of the leg arc bent outward, the foot is •ned inward, and vice verfa, the foot turned unvard, when the leg is bent inward. Writers live denominated pcrlons affedted in this laft way . a/p/ ; and vari when the feet are turned inward. The belt method of applying the preffure, is by nx- -g a firm fplint of iron in the fhoe, on the concave .de of the leg. The fplint ihotild reft againft the errefponding condyle of the femur, and the other ud of it upon the foot; by this mode, with one or I wo broad ftraps paffed round both the leg and the "lint, an eafv preffure is alfo made on the oppofitc de of the leg. The preffure may be mcreafed,-by rawing the ftraps tighter from time to time. \ ide >M’s Surgery, vol. vi. . Distortions of tht Sfnne. The fpinc may be diltoittd rtitwardly, inwardly, and laterally. In iome cafes, Wve meet with it in all thefe directions at the fame ime, and in the fame perfon. This fometimes antes rom external violence, but it is more frequently a ymptom of a weaklV, delicate conft.tution. In t ide ales, independant of the deformity, the health is ometimcs injured, by the abdominal and thoracic v,f- tera being compreffed. They may occur in all ages, out more frequently about puberty, and oftencr in Kiris than boys. The effefts they produce arc ob- AH ft irved before/ the caufeTs rufpefted for there is fel- dom much pairt in the part immediately attested. im mucu imiu m r““ . . , When diftortion in the fpinc occurs in infancy, ne p z patientD I S paticnf appears to be fuddcnly deprived of the ufe ox his limbs; but at more advanced periods, he com- plams for fome time of fceblcncfs and languor, and mirnUmbl'ru- °r Wantf of feelins il1 the under extre- ,*• ,J hls, wany of fcnfibility gradually incrcafes; . humbles, drags his legs, and cannot Hand eredt but v. ith difficulty At length, he entirely lol'es the ufc ot his legs; they become paralytic, and if the dif- tornon is forward, fo as to coipprpfs the thoracic or abdominal vifccra, he is dillreffed with dyfp- noca, or with complaints in the llomach or bowels.1 according to the part of tin fpine afl'edted. Sometimes there is a lofs of power l'oon after the hrlt approach of the dilcafe; it fometiincs becomes gradually Jels remarkable, but is fpidom totally re- moved. 7 On difcovcring the deformity, we frequently find only one of the vertebra; difplaced. On other oc- cahons, two or more are affected; and in fome cafes, there is probably only a thickening of the ligaments, connecting the vertebra; without any affedfion of the In diftortions arifing from a weakly habit, the pa. ,nt /hQuW be cautioned agaiuft indulging in parti- cular poftures. The body ffiouhl lie on an equal fur- ace during llccp, to which a hair matrafs, laid on’ hoards, lhould be uled. This treatment, with gene-, rous diet, cold bath, and tonic medicines, has checked the progrcls of this difeafe. When the bones are artl-ftcd, Mr. Pott advifes an »' Ihue to be opened with a cauftic 6n each (idc the tu- j motir, large enough, to admit a kidney bean, and the j ' tii’iii of the lore to be fprinkled from lime to time "’ith powder of ennthardcs. In every cafe of dillorrion, the head and ffioulders muli be fupported, by the collar ufually employed fori this purpofc. Vide Pott's Works. Jo,; s's Efi'av onj Crooked nets. Dr. Jckn JM\ Selcfl Calcs of the j Diiorder, commonly called the Paralyfis of the Lower J Extremities 9D Y S l1 1 natural Extremities. Bell's Surgery, vol. vi. and Load. Med; ournal, vol. vi. p. 358. ! Dysuria, Dyfury, from Lr, painful, and «po»,' rinc; a dijjiculiy of voiding the urine. A total fup- .'reflioa of urine is called Ischuria, which lee. A jartial fuppreffion is called dyftrla, and may be with . r without heat. When there ary frequent painful r uneafy urgings to difeharge the urine, and it partes ffi only by drops, or in very fmall quantities, it is .ailed a ftrangury. When a fenfe of pain or heat trends the diichargc of urine, it then palTes with dlficulty, and is ciiltinguilhed by the name of heat! :f urine. The caufcs arc various, as caruncles in the urc- hra; a ftone in the neck of the bladder, or in the irethra ; fpafm, or inflammation in the neck of lie bladder, or urethra; acrimony in the urine, ■heading the mucus from the bladder, or the urethra : he venereal dil'eafe, and the feurvy, often produce ids diforder; an ulcer in thefc parts, and a defedk in :he difoharge of mucus for lubricating the urinary •adages. The chronic dyfury has generally for its aide a rheumatic, arthiritic, fcorbutic, or other mor- >id humour, fixing it.fclf in the villous coat of the rtaddeis, near its neck, and in the. urethra. The diagnoftic figns of a dyfury fometimes fo much I'efcrnble tltofe of a ftone in the bladder, that fome lifficuiry attends the diftinguilhing of them, efpeciaily vhen tlie difurv is of the chronic kind. However, in 'cneral, the difficulty of difeharging urine is unat- tnded with pain or heat, except during the endea- ours to void it, or its a&ua! parting off, and for a hurt time, the pain perceived afterwards is in the : la ns, a circurnftance not fo particularly attendant in iie ftone ; in the chronic dyfury, bloody urine is more requently caufed by cxcrcife, and is voided in largo juanrltiesafter vigorous motions, than happens in the tort . Hear of urine is not’ from an uicreafe of itsD Y S tO 3 j. and 3 ij. ol. oliv. j ij. decodf. per cnemat J viijj [ natural heat, but from its coming in contaA: with the inner coat of the bladder, or of the ure- thra ; its acrimony abrades the mucus from thefe parts, or their mucus is too fparingly ('implied, whence the acrimony of the urine irritates them too much, and excites the lenfc of heat and pain. And if the heat of urine proceeds frdnT^ imony in the urine, it will be known by the high cafcur and thin- nel's of the urine, or elfe a mixture of unufual matter. The different kinds of du'urte> fliould' be diftin- guilhed from each other; and they from the (lone in the bladder, or urethra, from the ilchuria, and from the piles. The dyfury is not a dangerous difordcr, but it is both troLiblciome and difficult to cure, particularly in the aged. Whenever it happens, if it continues t long, it ulcerates the bladder and its neck. In order to the cure, the particular caufe muft be dilcovcrcd. Vi hen the application of blilkrs caufe a ftrangory, ■ walh the biiftcrcd part with warm milk and water ■ when dreffed. When an acrimony in the juices arc the caufe, if it is venereal, give anti-vencreals; if fcorbutic, give ' anti-fcorbutics, &c. If the pulic admit of it, bleed ; give lenient cooling laxatives, l'ucn as caffu, tama- ; rinds, the ol. ricim. or draughts of oil and manna. It is ufual to give nitre, but a folution of true gum arabic is by far more ufcful ; an ounce of it Ihould be taken in a day. Camphor, and finall doles of laudanum, arc often of great fervicc. Spt. atth. nitri. may be taken in each draught of comm n drink, or j f1 the following draught- and glylter may occalionally be adminiftered. R 1 in£f. Opii gr. xx. fpt. aith. nitr. gr. x.\x. ol, amygd D. 3 ij. aq. font. J ilk. in. f. haull. R Ball. Peruv. 3 il’s. in vitcl. ovi folut. Tinft. Opii. '] i. f. enufl. A fpmicppium is often of ulc. The .D Y S The patient ffiould drink pentifully of a folu'tinn of :?um arabic, or fuiop, of whey, or of a decodtion of unarlh-mallow rcor. When the pain is violent, let the mucilage of gum urabic, or lcine oily matter, be injected into the ure- thra before dilcharging the urine. If there are caruncles in the urethra, bougies ffiould be carefejlly- introduced, and repeated as re- quired. In the chronic tl-f'tty, after other means fail, a fali- ■ ration, excited by the tile of mercury, has fucceeded ; and an iffue in the inlide of one thigh, a little above -he knee, pretents the return, or at lealt renders re- apfes very eafy. When the patient is too weakly to tdmit nf fulivarion, a dofe of the uva urli may be aken every morning, and after it half a pint of ii'me, water, mixed with a llrung decodtion of the great water dock root. Dr. Perciva! obferves, that there is a fpecies of chronic dyfurv, to which perfons of an arthritic or fcor.butic habit, and w bo have paffed the meridian of ife, are peculiarly incident. It is often miftaken for he hone, and aggravated by the ufc of lithontriptics. die adds, that it has many fymptoms in common with that diforder, fuch as frequent and urgent calls to make water 5 pain at each extremity of the ure- thra ; a mucous difclrarge, tenefmus, and lometimes •a ftippreilion of urine. But the patients who labour under it, feel no uncafy weight in the perinaeum, and ihvays void their warer with much lefs difficulty in an eredf, than in an horizontal pefturc. The complaint, ilfo, may be further diftinguifhtd from the (lone, by I'baving thorter intervals ol calc j by more frequently J I injuring the retentive power of the bladder, and by j joccafioning no ludden interruption to the ft ream of l j urine in the abl'ence of pain. Jt feems to arife from > !ln acr>d defluXion on the coat of the- bladder, which I Jlf.^ereby rendered fo exquifttclv i'enfible, that the si rltimulus of the urine becomes ulniol't intolerable, and yeryD Y S very frequent efforts arc excited to expel it; thefe efforts, however, fhould be reftraincd as much as poffible, becaufe they tend to increale the pain and irritation of the bladder, and to prevent the complete difcharge of its contents; for that organ cannot ef- fcffually contrail itfelf, without a due degree of pre- vious diftenfion. Of all the remedies which Dr. Percival tried, he fays, that mercury was the raofl fucccfsful •, it leldom failed to afford relief, and gene- rally produced a cure, if adminiftcred with perfever- ance, and in fufficient quantity. According to the urgency of the cafe, one, two, or three fcruples of the ungt. hydrargyr fort, fhould be rubbed into the thighs every night, till a flight ptyalifm enlues : the fymp- toms for the moft part abate before the fpitting come* on, and after it has continued a while, they difap- pear entirely. Sometimes, in flightcr cafes, the doc- tor gives half a grain of calomel, with two grains of James’s fever powder, twice every day, and this fmall dofe of mercury, if duly continued, may fuf- flee to effeft a cure, without producing any falivation, or even forenefs of the mouth. See Lond. Med* Journ. vol. iv. p. 69. Violent heat in the urinary paffages of women, have been cured by the life of the bark. Confult the authors mentioned under the article Ifchuria. B/fs’s F.fl'ays. Lobb on painful Diftempcrs. Gooch's Cafes and Remarks, vol. ii.E IEccymosis, ? From r/.yyw, to pour cut) or from IEcchymoma. 5 f, 'without, and X“7©'> juice. Suc- ilatio, SuggHatwMy is alio applied in ihis fenfe. i tjj'jion of fluids jrom their refpe Stive vejfels widir i integuments. The caufes are preifure, or bruifes ; ood letting, either from the orifice in the ikin, .ding over that in the vein, or from the vein, being ■t through. In flight cafes, comprefFes dipt in vine- ir, or in water, fo Itrongly impregnated with fair, to fufpend an egg, frequently applied and kept on c part, will effett a cure. If it tends to fuppura- on, treat it as anabfeefs. It is recommended, when e quantity of coagulated blood is conftderablc, to (charge it bv as many incifions as may be requifitc r that purpofc, and then treat it as an approaching unification. I have frequently found a very extenfive eccymofis ■difappear gradually, by the ufc of briik purges, w diet, and difcuticut topital application. In fomc fes, (mail dofes of calomel have been employed, to ‘omote the abforption. An eccymofis fhouid be carefully diftinguiflicd from fpurious aneurifm. It fhouid be remarked alfo, tat livid or black fpots arc fometimes a fymptom of ie icurvy. Vide Heifer's, Bill's and Whites Sur- sry, Tctropium, from tvlto evert or turn out~ arc/’. When the rye-lid . are fo inverted or retrac- ed, or turned outward, that their interior red ikin eeomesprominent, and the eyes cannot lufiiciently be ivercd by them. Sometime!EL E - bi i tier* I and more tumefied, and the veins are formed into large vaticcs, which are very apparent from the knee downward to the toes. After fhis, the (kin grow* rugged and unequal, a fealy fubfiance foon forms it- feif en it, with fiflfurcs here and there. Thefe fcaics do not dry off, but are daily protruded forward, unril the leg is g early enlarged. Though this fealy fub- •ftance appears harili and infenfible. if it is fuperfi- cially touched with the point of a lancer, the blood freely oozc6 cut. Notwithftanding the monftrous li/.e of the’ difeafed leg, the appetite remains good, and in all other refpedts the patient is healthy : many of them continue thus for twenty years or more, and make no other complaint than what the enormous] fize of the leg occafions. It rarely happens that both legs are affedted. White people are afilicted with this diforder, when fubjedted to the fame circum- ftancts that arc the apparent caufe in blacks. This difeafe is infc&ious, and often found to 1* j hereditary. Though the cure is uncertain, the bark, j joined with antimonials, and genetous diet, have j proved beneficial. Mercury alio has been ufefiJ, I when adminiftered with the other medicines. The I firft paflages mufl be cleanfed before the cure is thus attempted. In this country the diforder appears at firft in die form of tubercles on- any or all parts of the body; ia time they ulcerate : if they happen on the beard or cyc-brows, the hairs there fall off; but this does not I happen on the head. The legs lwell, and are hard, j white feales cover them, and tifiures appear here and I there, though in feme inflanccs the legs arc emaciated t and lull of ulcers. Many other very dtfagreeable j lymptoms are obfcrvcd in different patients. None are obferved to receive this diforder fr '-n || others by contafif, but generally the children of the 1 difeafed arc fubjedt to it. The bark) with the .following embrocation milE M P bhiters have proved fcrviceable, after mercurials and antimonials failed. R Cort. Pcruv. pulv. J ifs. cort. rad. fafTafr. Pulv. jJIs. fyr. q. f. f. cleftar. cap. q; n. m. major bis in die. R ‘ pt. vini tenuior. Jv iij. aq. kali. Jj. fpt. (id. aminon. 3 j m. f. embroc. cum qua inung. partes affett. xnane nodteque. 1 he buffer (liouid be applied to the :«eck. Vide Turner on Difeafes of the Skin and IBrook's Pradtice of Phyfic. Kmi'hysema, from ^virauj, to inflate, any ’flatulent tumour, but by it is generally underftood, a foft tumour arifmg from air being admitted into the ' cellular membrane. Dr. Cullen means by the word nnrumutofls, wh:ch is his general name for "this difeafe the I welling formed by air, or clfe flatus or rarified fluids. He- places it in the clafs cachcxim, and order nntermefeenti®. The fpccies are, ift, Pneumatofsfpon- 'anea\ fbat is, when it happens without manifeit caufe. i. Pneumniofis traumatica, when it happens from a wound in the thorax. 3, Pneumatofls venenata, when he cauie is from the fwallowing of poifon, or an ex- ernal application of it. 4. Pneumatofls bvflerica ■vhen accompanied with hyfterics. The molt frequent caufe of this diforder, is the aicrcing of the pleura, and wounding the lungs by the lointed fragments of broken ribs, though it fometimes tapp ns that an empbyfema is produced in the lungs by ace rations therein, without any injury having hap- pened to the pleura : putridity is alfo a caufe, as is eon in mortifications of the external parts, and in nany inftanccs of putrid fevers. Putridity raif'es che irboth in vegetable and animal fubftances from a fixed ” an Ulf’lc ttate- ncver happens from pointed iu- .rument1, as the blood infiantly ftops the paflages. , . n':i'h.)manifeft by a foft puffy fuelling, ) Uh:th ca'c thc,(kln spears glofly, the tumour givfs •ay rn prefllire, but that removed, it inftantly returns u,cluing ts perceived on ftroking the em/.biflmatous fart;E M P part; when the lungs arc wounded, a trouble!'me cough attends, and the matter expedlorated is mixed with blood ; fometimes air elcapes from the lungs into the cavity of the breaft, and not being difcharged out- wardly through the pleura, &c. it cccafitms great diffi- culty of breathing, anxiety, a fenfc of iaffocation, ftupor, a livid colour in the face, and if relief is not fpecdily obtained, the patient dies. The air detained in any part of the cellular membrane may pioduct a mortification there. When thefe kind of tumours happen in putrid dis- orders, fomentations may be applied to them, made , with equal pans of fharp vinegar and rectified Spirit of ; wine ; but when a wound is the caule, if the breath- ing is quick and laborious, bleed, and repeat the ope- ration as often as this Symptom renders it neccffary. Punctures, or rather finalt incifions, may be made into the cellular membrane, with a lancet, or in diffe- rent parts of the body ; the air will thus lie excluded, if gentle preffure is alfo made on the tumour : when the air is thus evacuated, a comprcfs may be dipped in vinegar, and allied over the part where the wound is fuppofe’d to be ; a tight bandage may fccure it, and the patient fliould be direfited to lie on the injured fide, to prevent a frelh afflux of air. Nitre, and pcdforal cinulfions, may be given to prevent internal fuppura-l tions. When the air is detained in the cavity of thcl breaft, Mr. Hewfon propofes to difeharge it by a fmalM Opening made with a knife on the fore-part of th« cheff, which, if on the right-fide, muff be between! ti c fifth and fixth ribs, becaufe there the integument are thin ; but if on the left-fide, the opening muff bi betwixt the feventh and eighth, or betwixt the eighth and ninth ribs, the better to avoid wounding the peri cirdium. Perhaps the punctures neccffary to let cu the air, fhould be m-ide lb as to form a valve of th teguments. It may be done by a trocar, and the tub left in the orifice to give a free palfagc to the air. N id LoneE M P Loud. Med. Obf. and Enq. vol. ii. p. i 7) &c. vol. iii. }. 28, 36, 371, and 379. Alfo ]Vhtte\ Surgery, p. -8. Empy ema, from fy, lu/tbin, and vrvlv, pus or natter, !The ancients called all internal fuppurations empyema- lut at prefent this name is confined to a collection of •ourulent matter lying loofe in the cavity of the bread and lodging on the diaphragm. If matter is lodged on both iides the bread, there are two empyema:. . The Plls t^lar f°rrns an empyema may be from an ab- ce j.in the lungs, pleura, mediaftinum pericardium, or diaphragm; or perhaps from that inflammatory 'xudatton, or mlpilTated ferum, which Dr. Hunter ob- erves .s formed into a kind of pus, and is often found n large quantities in the cavities cf the bread, belly yc. Wounds in the bread may alfo evacuate their natter into its cavity, and prove a caufe of this dileafe • naking a way through the diaphragm, and emptying •hemlelves into the bread. . r 3 a When any fluid matter is coilefted in the cavity of he bieafl, it may be known by the following figns • L T^nS ,S/-hrjrt and \aborioui ! ^ration is mere J/utdt than infpiratton ; the patient perceives a flutlua- ton lichen part, adar motwns are performed-. Sometimes -ere is an enlargement of the cavity of the thorax, and Z "chT'0'", fr °fjbeJhn ™djlejh on one fide of hLCb3 Z rf’ accrmim- as *he matter is lodged in n r , >ot * fide£ ; a d>y c°t<gb; when the matter is on > c only, the patient cannot lie on the other; a floto lT'.;teaLat ‘t exlremitU:S °f.thcf"g>n, hol/ownefs of ' , V’ ^C‘ -but as t0 thc k’nd °f matter which is ,fS,herer-,LCan °nly bC known b>'the nature of the forder which preceded its accumulation, from the tav h and concomitant fymptoms. The matter v °f pus 5 and the latter of thefc ,1 difo^ePrCdcd .Wh?n thcrc, hath been an inflamma- lebieafl irt° iS'0 p*cura» or °thcr parts in anicdarlv ?h J Z ^ptom. of fuppuratL, and tculaily it thick clammy lweats attend. Q** TheE M P The chirargical method by which relief is obtained, is termed 7Jbe Operation for the Empyema. Though *' this operation is very feldom performed but for the .£ evacuation of pus, it may undoubtedly be employed 9 for blood, water, and air, with fuccefs. The method 3 of performing it is as follows : Lay the patient in an horizontal pofture, with the :jj fide in which the perforation is to be made lying over the bed. In this fituation, an alfiftant mull pull the | fkin oppolitc to the part to be cut, as much upwards as : pollible, and preferve it firmly in that fituation during j the operation. Then, with a fcalpel, make an inu- fion, of about two inches in length, betwixt the fixth j and feventh ribs, in the direction of thefe bones, and 1 at an equal diftancc, between the flernum and back- j bone, taking care to avoid the under border of the fuperior ; rib, on account of the blood vcjftls running in its groove., j It is not neceffary that the incifion to the bottom fhould j be of the fame extent as that in the fkin and cellular j fubllance. •The pleura being laid bare, divide it flowly and. cautioufly, to avoid wounding the lungs, if there ' fhould happen to be an adhefion. If they do not ad- here, the water will rufh out in great force imme- diately on a fmall hole being made in the pleura, Should there be an adhefion, the incifion may be either continued forward for an inch or two nearer the flernum, or, another opening may me made, either an inch or two higher, or lower in the thorax. As foon as the water is found to flow, a filver canula, with a pierced body, ftvuld be introduced at the opening. If you do not wifli to evacuate all the water at one |j time, fecure toe canul.i by a ribbon connected with it, b tied round the body, and apply a piece of cork to the | opening. Thus, after a day or two, an additio nal I quantity of w.tier may be drawn off. '1 lie drilling may be fomc bland ointment, ftcured by the napkin | and fcalpulary bandage. | laE M P In cafe of water being collefted in both cavities of :the cheft, the operation muft be performed on both Tides; but fome little time Ihould intervene between the nrft and fecond. Before the fecond operation, the air ;nuft be expelled, which may be done (after with- drawing the canula from the oppofite fide) by en- deavouring to fill the lungs with air, which will ex- pel a confiderable part of what was collected between :he pleura and lungs, by the perforation. This, re- peated feveral times, will expel almoft the whole of the air collttted between the pleura and lungs. After :khis, the Ikin muft be drawn over the wound, and, by a tsomprefs and 'bandage, the parts will unite without further trouble. During each infpiration, the retraced (kin fliould be | drawn over the fore. Another mode of drawing off the air, is by an ex- 1 laufting fyringe, or an elaftic vigetable bottle, with a mouth of ivory or metal fitted to the opening in the pleura. When this operation is performed for the evacuation of blood, it is fometimes fo coagulated as not to pals oft by the perforation. In this cafe the opening in the pleura Ihould be enlarged to the extent of an inch or fo; bur if this does not anfwer, tepid water muft he r.jetlcd with great caution. It may be necefl'ary to epeat it frequently, in order to foften and diffoWe the blood. The colltdVioii of blood in the thorax being, in con- equenre of a rupture of a blood velfcl, induced either ■y a fvabtured bone, or fome extraneous body being •relied into it ; the incifion lliouid be made contiguous o tlie part aifidted, not only for evacuating the blood, pur to remove the detached bone, or foreign body. When a wound with a lharp pointed inftrument is he caulc of the collection, and the mound is Jituated in be inferior part of the thorax, it is merely nccefiary to mlarge the wound. WhenENC When this operation is performed for the evacuation of pus; oblerve, whenever the feat of the abfeefs is pointed out, either by a long continuance of pain in ' one point, or by maittcr being diftineruifhed between ':i two of the ribs, it is the beft direction for the place of i the incilion i again, when the matter is I’eatcd fo im- ' mediately below the fternum, that it cannot be eva- ,] cuated by an opening between two of the ribs, a piece j of that bone mu ft be removed by rite trepan. The opening j in the thorax muft not be allowed, to heal top quickly, I particularly when the (lighted fymptom of opprefiioa I I in the brealt is prefenr. To prevent the healing, a j piece of common bougie, or a lhort tube of filver, in, j troduced into the opening, and allowed to remain there ] a few hours, as often as a tpndcncy in the part to heal feems to make it necelfary, will be fufficicnt. Vide be/ft l Surgery, vol ii, Alfo, Sbar/>e’s Operations. Heijhr's Surgery, Kirkland’s Med. Surgery, voj. ii. Pear Jons 1 Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and White's Surgery. Though the eftabliflied pradticc in this operation is | to make the firft incilion in the direction of the ribs, i we Ihould, perhaps, more fairly expofe the cavity between the ribs, and be better able to regulate the fizc of the opening, if the incilion was to be made in a direflion upwards and downwards. EncaNTHis, from iv, in, and *»v9of, an angle of the eye. Tlijs diforder is an tncyfttd tumour on its inner angle. At the tirft, a tubercle appears on the caruncula lachrymalis, or on the crclccnt-likc red cuticle adjacent to it ; afterwards this tumour extends over the pupil of the eye ; when this happens, the tears continually trickle down the checks, the fight is im- paired, the countenance deformed, and the eyes in- rtamed. When this tumour is of a malignant kind, it is at- tended with pain, is of a livid hue, and often becomes cancerous. If it is manifeflly cancerous, palliatives only arc to be ufedj but if not, dilledt the whole tumouyrnour and its cy ft ; in doing which, raife it with the rccps, the better to avoid cutting either the eye or :e caruncle : if the latter is hurt, the tears will ever ter run down the cheek ; it is therefore fafer to leave little of the luxuriant flefh. Vide Article Ec i ro- ium, alfo Heifter s Surgery, and White s Surgery, 231. i En’siformis, from cn/is, a [word, and forma, a form, •jj'ARTiLACOi The Sword-like Cartilage, called alfo pboides. It is the cartilage at the bottom of the ernum. It is obferved by Dr. Hunter, that if this rtilage fhould be prelfcd inwardly by a blow, it will cafion vomitings and violent pains, by preiling againft- e pylorus.; in this cafe, it would be proper to lay it re, and elevate it; but the diaphragm ariftng partly am it would probably difplace it. Epiphora, from tnusw, to carry with a force. his term in furgery is applied to the eyes, when the ars trickle down from them, in confequence of ob- rufted pundta lachrymalia, or inflammatory influx of e humours upon the eves. The Epiphora, or Watery Eye, may be occa- incd cither by a more copious Accretion of tears, than e pundta lachrymalia are capable of abforbing, or hat is more commonly the caufe, by an obftrudtion the lachrymal canal : whence the tears are prevent- froin palling freely from the eye into the nofe. fhen there is too copious a fecretion of tears, its caufe inflammation ; this though 11 fymptomatic, and is ired by removing the inflammation, and giving tone the a fife died pnrt^, bv mild aftringents. When it originates from an obftrudfion of the du£ts, ading from the pundla lachrymalia into the lachry- al fac, a cafe which rarely occurs, the tears fall over ie cheeks, and the fac is conftantly empty. In the ire of this, eflure is ufclcfs ; but a probe of fuitable •te may be introduced through the pun£ta of the ob- 'Udkd dudts into the fac, and daily repeated until the obftruClionE P I obftrudtion is removed. The obftruftion is moft com- monly in the fac, in this cafe, the tears, fometimes mixed with mucus, flow back into the eye through’ the pun6ta, when preflure is made upon the fac. The caufes producing an obflru£lion to the paflage of tire tears, are, either a thickening of the membrane lining the fac ; a lodgment of inf piffled mucus in the inferior por- tion of the cavity, or a fpafmodic aftion in that part, called by fome the fpbinSer of the fac. Either of thefe caufes may take place fcparately; they fometimes cxift together, and mutually tend to encreafe each other. The mod approved mode of cure, was firfl recom- mended by M. Anel, in the year 1712. Jt conliflcd in firft palling a probe, and afterwards injedf ng a liquor through the pundla lachrymaha, in order to clear away the matter which obftrudted the lachrymal paf- fage. Jn performing this procefs, ftand either behind the patient, or on tne fide oppolite to that of the dil- eafed eye, and always high enough to have a full com- mand of the patient's head. Then take a frc.dl Silver iyringe, with a pipe of a fuitable fizc, a little arched towards the point, introduce it into the pundtum Uchrymaiia, and through it injedt fonie warm water. Before the introduction of the fyringe, draw the eye- lid downward, and a little outward w th the fore-fin- ger of the left hand. The pipe introduced, remove the finger from tire lower lid. and apply it as accurate- ly as poflible over the luperior punftuni, to prevent the1 liquor from efcaping through it. To determine the liquoc downwards to the nofe, the lachrymal lac ina; be con.prcflcd. To the iyringe tiled for this opera tion, thure Ihculd be pipes fitted, aim the la. gef that can be introduced without giving pain mail b employed. Vide Ware on the Epiphoka, or IVoln Jive. Brook's Practice of Phyfic, and labile s Surgery’ P- 233- A tumour in the angle of the eye, a polypus i| the nolc, a diftortiuji of the eyelids, and a uftnil lachrymal! ■E R Y hrymalis, will alfo produce a-watery eye; thefe, ing only fymptomatic, will dilappear on the re- jval of the different caufcs, .Epiplocele, from imn’Kom, the omentum, and .mi, a rupture. An Hernia, or rupture of the •Mentum, is, when the omentum protrudes rough the openings in the integuments of the ily. The f.’inptoms are the fame as in bubonocele; • the treatment, vide article Bubonocele. :Epulus, from mi, upon, aXa, the gums. A tubercle the gums without inflammation. There are two ccics; one without pain, the other is troublefome, d often degenerates into a cancer. They are of ’flferent fucs, fume having a broad bafts, and others (lender neck, by which they are united to the gums.' ire be it method of cure, when they have-a .'mall ck, is. to remove them by a ligature; when they .ve a broad bafe, the knife will be neceffary. Vide eijln's Surgery. IErysipelas. Antoni i fan Hi ignis. Sami An- ony s Fire. It is alio called the Girdle and MNGLES, and fomc name it the rose, from its d colour. Tiie true fpeaes, is acute and inflam - atory. This difordcr may be on any part of tiie body ; at the face is molt frequently aflfefted, the arm :xt, and then the feet and other parts. The feat the true fpccics is in the furfacc of the ikin ; ciftcr fays, in the fcarf-ikin a-.id fat contiguous lereto, and the internal membranes. The baftard ind lies deeper, and is apt to degenerate into ulcers. Autumn, or when hot weather is fucceeded by >ld and wet. are the fcafons which favour this dif- ife, and in which it inoft frequently happens. The nguine and plethoric, young people, and pregnant 'omen, are the mod fubjcct to it. Thofe who have nee been atfmfted, arc very liable to future attacks. TheER Y The caufes .are, in genera!, -the fame as thoft which produce other kinds of inflammations; but chiefly fudden cold fucceeding a great heat or fweat, obftrudtcd perfpiration, and a fliarp flaw of the blood.'] The diagnostics of this difeafe are deferibed by TifiTot thus: It is fometimes but a flight indifpofi- tion, which appears on the (kin, without the perfon , being fenfible of any other diforder; and it moft commonly breaks out in the face or on one leg. The (kin becomes tenfe, or ftiff, rough, and red; but* this rednefs difappears on preiliHg the l'pot with a finger, and returns on removing it. A burniug heat ; is felt in the part affefted, which makes the patient uneafy, and fometimes hinders him from deeping. The diforder increafes for two or three days, con- tinues at its height one or two, and then abates: foon after this, that part of the (kin which was affe&ed, falls oflT in large feales, and the diforder terminates. Sometimes the malady is more fevere, beginning with a violent (hivering, which is fucceeded by a burning heat, a vehement head-ach, ficknefs at heart (as it is • commonly termed) or reaching to vomit, which continues till the eryjtpelas appears, which fometimes does not happen till the fecond or third day; the fever then abates, and the ficknefs goes off; though frequently a lefs degree of ficknefs, or loathing, and of fever remain during the whole time of the increafe of the difeafe. When the inflamma- tion and eruption happen in the face, the hcad-ach continues until the decline of the difeafe ; the eye- lids fwcll, the eyes dofe, and the patient has nc cafe. It often paffes from one cheek to the other, and extends fucceffively over the forehead, neck and nape of the neck, under which circumftance th< difeafe is of a more than ordinary duration. Some, times alfo, when it exifts in a high degree, the feve continues, the brain is oppreffed and obftruded, th< patient raves, and his cafe becomes exceeding dan gerouERY -rous. A violent-.tryfipdas in the -neck brings on iquinfey, which is very grievous, and often fatal, 'hen it attacks the leg, the whole of it is fwclled and the heat and irritation from it is extended up the thigh. Whenever the tumour is conliderable, j.e part it leiz.es is covered with fmail pultules, filled |:th a clear watery humour, refcmbling thofe which j pear after a burn; thefe afterwards dry and lcale Sometimes, when this diftemper affedts the .ce, the humour, which iffues out of thefe pultules, thick and gluey, and forms a thick fcurf and l'cab, arly rcfembling thofe of fucking children, and they ntinuc fait on the face many days before they fall '. When the difeafe is violent, it continues eight, .1, or twelve days at the fame height, and is at t terminated by a very plentiful fweat, that may .nctimes be predicted by a reftlelfnefs, attended ith Ihivering and a little anxiety of fome h mrs’ tration. In the progrefs of the difeafe, the whole m is very dry, and even the infidc of the mouth. An enjif>elai rarely comes to luppuration; when it jcs, the luppuration is always unkindly, and much fpoled to degenerate into an ulcer. Sometimes, a alignant kind of eryfipdai is epidemical, and then it ten terminates in a gangrene. This diltemper often ifts its fituation, it fometimes retires fuddenly, but e patient is uncafy and difordered, he has a pro- nfity to vomit, with a fenfible anxiety and heat ; c eryfipelai appears again in a different part, and e patient feels himfelf quite relieved from the eceding fymptoms. But, if inftead of re-appear- g on f me other part of the furface, the humour thrown upon the brain, or the breaft, he dies ithin a few hours; and thefe fatal changes and anflations fometimes occur without the leaft rcaion colour for aferibing them either to any error of the ttient, or of his phyfician. If the humours have :en transferred to the brain, the patient immedi- ately -E R Y atcly becomes delirious, with a highly flufiica vifagCj and very quick fparkling eyes ; foon "after, lie proves frantic, and goes off in a lethargy. If the lungs are attacked, the anxiety and heat are inexpreffible. There are fome conftitutions fubjeft to a very fre- quent, and, as it were, an habitual tryftpelas. If it often aft'edis the face, it is generally repeated on the fame fide of it, and that eye is at length confiderably weakened by it. The eryjipelas fliould be diftinguifhed from the plague, and from inflammations of different kinds that happen on the fkin. As to the prognoftics, many of them may be noted from the diagnoftics above related: when it ap- proaches fuddcnly, but with little difturbancc, ant attacks a perfon with a good habit, and when no ner- vous, membranous, or principal parts are affefted there is but little to be apprehended from it. Some- times a convulfive difeafe, as an afthma, colic, &c has been relieved by the approach of an cryftplha'. Danger is very coniiderable when this diforder i deeply feated, fixed on a l'enfible part, and the habi of body but indifferent : in fome bad habits, thi diforder leaves behind it a fwelling in the foot, o ankle, or both, which is both troublefome and dif lieu It to remove ; by bad management, it is cafily an foon rendered fatal ; frequent returns denote a dil ordered liver or gall-bladder: when it is feated i the face, a drowfinefs often attends it ; in whir cafe, there is danger of a phreniris, or of amort •lethargv : when it lares tin. breads, particularly! women in child-bed, or who give luck, an abler is the cohlequcnce for the moft part: if the noftri and mouth are dry, and the patient is drowfv, an il llammation of the brain is to be fufpefted: it is e nerally fatal within the feventhday, when thepatin •dies; and they who are often fc'utd with it, at die of it.- TE R Y 1 he diet ftouM he thin and pcrfpirati've ; roartrd Tpples may he eaten freely ; the drink may be whey arley-water, Jmall-beer, water gruel, or, if the pufle inks fmall negus may be allowed. The patient :lould keep out of the bed, during feme hours in ae day. But Iroin the extremes of hot and cold ?]ual care fliould be taken to guard againft them. * In order to Me cure, the firft endeavours fliould be ) remove this diiordcr by refolution. In the fliehter Ufes perfp,ration may be kept up with frequent rraughts of camomile, or of elder-flower tea, acidu- atC,f wlth ,thc rin- fcb-Di- Clutton, or with other oli.ig perfpiratives. It the face and head be af- -Cted, gent.e, but repeated purging is to be diredT <•1 nifn ho i it , —I _/i , J V — ^ UL- Uirccr- they lhould alfo be continued until all danger IS to be removed R.if _ ti- „ 5 pulfe is ftrunp- the fever and -ems to be removed. But, if the rd hlrclr biCed’ lnci rC^Cat ic as rover and rength of the patient indicates ; in this cafe, befldes krnt M M C°?Img PcrfPi™ives, the bowels may - kept fo.uble by means of whey, prepared bv irnmg c°w s milk with cream of tartar, tamarinds^ •TeVtr-d nfrC,n‘ obftrLVCi> that when the head is iKid’kP gCi,-are ,*hi; Specifics; but it may be v';.' :.f,'nr,ucb *'kc cafes, finapifms may be P cd Wlth fujSular advantage to the foies of the From an admiffion of cold air, the nyfydatoui -attcr „ fomctimes repelled; when this happens, ced immediately, apply blitters on the Tides of the :*LT!n°tnrhc !’art ir°? whcllcc thc inflammation cu ed, and finapifms to the feet; adminitter a puryc id repeat the like as the cafe may require. hen the pulie is low, cordials, and the Warmer •rTpnauvc*, fliould accompany the ufc of blitters When an rry^rla. attacks, or is repelledo the - m\ ?dCf^-=tClrCCh0f HfC " t0 «»"« it there! and f,x it on the external parts: in this cafe Cs the fever, pain in the bre-nfl, and other vio- R lentESC previoully cut a hole in them, nearly as hig as the efehar is to be made ; then, in the hole of the plafter, lay the cauftic, which mull be fecured by another piece of ftick ing-plafter: when the Ikin is not in- flamed, the cauitic very often occafions little or no pain. When the cauftic has produced its effect, an opening may be made through it for the difeharge of the pus, but the reft may digeft away. When blues arc made by cauftics, or bones laid bare by them, the efehar muft be immediately removed, or the next day, left new flclh fliould fill up the part which is opened. To lay a bone bare, or to make an ifluc, let the cauf- tic lay on about four hours ; to deftroy a large gland, lay it on fix hours; but to open an abfcel's, it nr.y remain two or three hours, according to the thick- nefs of the lkin; though, generally, when the efiedi of the cauftic is completed, the part on which it is applied ceafes to be uneafy. When a large fungus is to be deftroved by a cauftic, the method deferibed in the Edinb. Med. Effays, feems moft eligible ; it is as follows : the lap. infern, was applied to a tumour on the coats of the teftis; after the reparation of the efehar, tile lap. infern. Sc oh vitr. were alternately ufed, by rubbing the part firft with the lap. infern, then in lefs than a minute after, with a fir ftick dipped in the ol. vitr. which inftantly removed the pain occafioncd by the lap. in- fernalis; at each drefling, this alternate application of thefe oppofitc cauftics was repeated, till as much was wafted as was then thought convenient; the moifturc was abforbed by an armed probe, and a di- geftive applied. This method prevents the continu- ance of pain, and is not productive of any degree of inflammation ; it is alfo recommended for the removal of feirrhus, or any other kind of tumour that admits of a cauftic being made ufe of. Mr. John Hunter recommends a mixture of opium with the cauftics, in order to leflen the pain which they occafion. ExrouE X F Exfoliatio. Exfoliation. One principle caufe ff an e.\-foliation of a bone is, an interruption of the ontinuity of the velfels which nourilh it. The cold- efs of the air, by contracting and drying up the cx- remities of the fmall veffcls of the bone, alfo puts a op to the circulation of the nourifhing matrer ( trough them. Mr. John Hunter obferves, titat one part of a bone is never feparated fro another y the rotting of the dead part, tor that which comes ■vay is as found as it ever was. Exfoltat. on takes l iace fooneft in bones wherein are the feweft cells, id whofc texture is the elofeft. Before any part of bone can be thrown oft' by exfoliation it mult be :ad. Btit even then, till the procel's of exfehat. n .■gins, the bone adheres as ftrongly as ever, and outd remain for years before it could be feparated ’ putrefaction alone. Bones arc compofed of two bftances, viz. a true animal matter, and an earthy ae, which arc only intermixed with each other. A ! -’ad bone aCts on the fyftetn, in the lame manner as I y other extraneous body. It ftimulatcs the adja- nt living parts.; in conlcqucnce of which, fuch a beefs is begun that mull terminate in its being rrown off. The cffeCts of this ftimulus, arc, firft, at the living adjacent bone becomes more vafcular ; circumftance which always takes place when a part s more to do than is juft fufficicnt for the fupport life. Secondly, that the earth of the living part acre it is in contaCt with the dead bone, is abforbrd , nee the bone becomes fofter, and adheres by its imal matter only. Thirdly, that the living animal rt is at laft abforbed along the furfaces of contaCt : is part of the procefs commences long before the t is finifhed. Both of them begin firft at the fur- ■o, though in their courfe they do not every where ■-e place in an equal degree at the fame time, mrthly, in proportion to the wafte made by the laft 'rt of the procefs, a fungus arifes from the living • faccj and fills up the intermediate fpacc, fo that R 3 thereE X O there may be no vacuum. Thefe different ftages, taken together, conflitute ulceration. When any part of a bone is once loofe, it will be pufhed to the f'utface in the fame manner as moft other inanimate bodies would be, and this flagc is partly mechanical, partly a con- tinuation of ulceration. A proof of the third ftage abovementioned, may be derived from thole calcs where people die while exfoliation is going on. A fmall groove, or worm-eaten canal can then be difeovered, which becomes gradually deeper, and follows the irregularities <sf the living and dead fur- faces. After the application of the trepan, a circu- lar piece of, bone is frequently thrown off, which is always lefs than the fpace from whence it camel. This however, would never be the cafe, were there not a lofs of fublfance.” When a bone is laid bare by anv accident, and an exfoliation is feared, if fcvcral perforations are made in the bone, the exfoliation will be prevented ; in fuch cafes, the wound ihould be kept clean, and defended from undtuous and and watery medicaments ; pledgets of lint arc as proper applications as any; or they may be dipped in a mixture of the ol. tertb. and tindf. myrrh. As to caufiics, Mr. Hunter fays, that “ cauftics, or the adfual cautery, do neither of them haften exfoli- ation ; they produce deatli only in part of the hone, which is the firft ffep towards exfoliation. I f canIbcs ever haften exfoliation, where the bone is already dead, it muft be bv producing inflammation in the adjacent living hone j this brings about a change in it, and makes it exert a power which it was incapa- ble of before.” Vide article Cakiks. Exostosis, from e-, of, or out, and oa bone'. It is a preternatural excrcfcence of a bone, or a tu- mour on a bone. Mr. Pott calls it an enlargement of the bone. Its hardnefs equals, or rather exceedsJ that of the bone from which it proceeds. The (xojlq/ii fee ms to be cauicd by the difchargeii t oil— EXT a fuperfluous quantity of oflific matter upon the urt where it is (eated, or from a reparation of the any lameila;. The caufe of the firft is not known, l it the other may be the effett of irritation, which ill caufe a fwelling of the bone, and this irritation ay be difeafed or not; if difeafed, the part muft be nputated ; if not, which is not unfrcquently the life, the patient may live to an old age, without any onfiderablc inconvenience. This diforder fhouldbc diftinguilhed from venereal odes, from the rickets, from tophs, and from the fnina ventofa. i The difeafed irritation may be known by its vio- nt and frequent pain. i In order to cure, as foon as the nature of the caufe tuulerftood, and encouragement to hope for (need's manifeft, make an incifion, and lay the bone bare, ijen faw the difeafed part off; or if it is not too jg, remove it by the trepan. This will fuccced, if le habit is not much vitiated ; but if the conftitution alfo faulty, and the exojhjis proceeds from the exu- eraoce of bony matter, amputation is the only me- tod of relief, though, generally, in this cafe, the hole is bed left to nature. Sometimes a preternatural hardnefs of the liga- tent is called an exrtJlo/is; this fpurious lort, as well i the venereal nodes, are relieved by mercurials. Exojlofs happening in the middle of hard bones re generally hard in all their parts, but thofe near te ends of them, or about the joints, have often only a hard external lamina. When this diforder hap- ens on the bones of the Ikull, the confcqucnce may e an apoplexy, epilepfy, or a pally. See Petit's )ifcafes ot the Bones, part ii. ch. xvi. and Bell's urgery, vol. v. Extrav asatio, E,v/rwvafalio», from extra, and 'afa, out of the ueffel. This is applied to any of the uids in the body, which are out of their proper veffels :EXT Tt-ffcls : thus an ecchymofis, or ancurifm, may be called extrapolations. An fxtraiahtion on the brain, produces one or more of the following fymptoms, viz. a palfy of one leg or arm, or both ; dizzinefs ; fleepinefs ; impaired light; ravings ; bleeding at the nol'e oi cars ; vomit- ing; lofs of l'enfe ; ftupor, &c. Vide Article CERE- BRI COMPRF.SSIO. r j An extramnfation on the brain fliould be diftinguilhed- from a conculfion ; in the firft, the fymptoms are often ] better and worfe; in the latter, they are continually j the fame. Wounds on the head, with rxtravo/ations, arc very j fallacious, becaule the exiravo/a/ion may be between ] the Ikull and the dura mater, or under it, both at the,! lame time, nr under the pia mater, or in fcveral other ' parts of the brain; but when thei'e happen, bad ■ lymptoms are direftly produced. Whenever the dura mater, cither bv dcprclfton, J fnTure, or frafturc, kifcs its adhefion, there will be '3 from its blood vcfiels that ate broken, an extravnfo* j i.~<m between the bone and it. An ext‘rorJnJation is J lsfs confidcrable, when a feature of the fkull hap- 1 pens than when there is a failure. An extrainfation . is alfo more or lets dangerous, according to what part . of the brain the accident happens on. Extrarca/ationi 1 from a blow are moll commonly found under the jJ Ikull, that is, between it and the dura mater; in J this cafe, a lethargy or fymptom will continue, until I the tx/rerVofition is removed. Mr. Brumfield recommends the ufe of opiates in j fradturcs and eonculTiuns of the brains (vide Cos- j cu'ssio); the fame pra&iee may be alfo ufeful in I fame degrees of extrwva/ation ; hut, bcfules this, he I obferves, that when violent accidents have happened 1 to the head, an iffuc in the opening formed by the J reparation of the addiramentum of the temporal bone | i f fingular advantage. Vide the firft. vol. of hu I Wucur^cal Obfcrvations.F FFissura, a Fijfure or crack, from finch, to cleave. tefe are either natural or morbid : thus the mouth cothcr natural apertures into the body arc called m, Morbid fijfures are cracks in the fkull, &c. or : when a bone fractured in any part is length-wife, A morbid fijfure differs from a fra&ure, by the fir ft ring fomc degree of cohefion, but in the latter, ere is a total folutiou of continuity. A frafture is inverfe or oblique, and zfijfure is longitudinal. Fijfurcs moft frequently happen in the fkull, and thefe there arc, firfi, the contra-fijfure or countcr- «, and this is when the blow is received on one e of the head, and the fkull is cracked on the aer; or, where the internal table is broken, the iternal remaining found; or, where the ftrokc is ceived on one bone, and the fijfure is in that adjoin- g. Second/)’, that kind which is moft frequent, is at which, when large, is foon difeovered by laying C bone bare, and cleaning the part with fpunge. at fometimes they arc fo frnall, that fomc art is ne- 'ffary to difeover them ; in which cafe, rub a black uor made made of burnt bone, or cork, mixed with ater, or ink, and immediately wafh it off again; this ack liquor linking into the crack difeovers where fituation is : or, if the head is clean fhaved, and e patient is bled freely, an cedematous puffinefs ill appear in a day or two over the part affefted. 'Fijfurcs are often productive of worfe confequenccs an fraftures, for there is often at the fame time 3 ncuftion of the brain; whence it is the more ne- ccffaryF I S \ cclTary to be well affmed of the attendance of this accident, or the contrary, lnflances of the ilf effedts of fiffttr'ei have happened ten months or more after the accident. It is not fimply the Jijfure that is dange- rous, but the violence that occalioned it, which alfo occafions the teguments‘and the bone to fuller: all the bad fymptoms depend principally upon the rup- ture of a great number of vends, and a detcnfion of extravafated liquids, whence the bone is corrupted ; and when this happens, a fudden and uncxpcflcd death is often the confequence. The cranium can- not be fiffured without being alfo contufcd, by which many vcffels in the fubllancc of the bone and in the diploe arc broken. Trepanning feems to be the propcrcfl method of relief, though tiic method recommended by Mr. Bromficld, in concullions of the brain, has alone, cffedlcd a cure. Fistula, in furgery, is a kind of ulcer. It dif- fers from a fmus thus : a Jiftula is narrower, gene- rally continues longer, and has its internal fur face and its orifice for the moil part callous. The icat of a fijlula is in the cellular membrane. It is known to be prefent when there is an aperture on the furf&cl of the body from which a famous, or other matter, neither flows or may be preffed out; its depth and di4 redlion is difeovered by a probe ; or, if the direc-l tions arc various, warm water may be injedfed thcreinl and if the courfe is near the fkin, it will be oblerved| by the elevation made by the water, or, if othcrwifeJ the quantity of water retained will determine th<j! lire of the cavity. Mr. Bell, in his Treatife on Ulcers, includes thejj fiflula in liis’ fpecics of ftnuous ulcer. By fmuous ulcer, he means that kind of fore which has one of more openings running into it from chirks of th<i fame, or of different diredtions. A fmus, as thui deferibed, he fays, is the moil fimplc Hate of tin chfordcr, and is, by long continuance, or by the ule U‘F I S drying aftringcnt applications, liable to become id aad callous in its internal furface, and in i'uch a e, from its fuppofed rcfcmblance to a pipe, is, med a fijhda. The moil frequent caufo of finufcs ming in ulcers and abfcellcs, is the want of vent he difcharge, which eafily inllnuates itfelf into foft yielding fubftance of the cellular membrane, I proceeds on gradually till it fomewhere or other Is an opening either externally, or into fome of neighbouring cavities. An improper application bandages on ulcers is fometimes a caufe. Whtnfijiulas, as yet not become callous, are com- tated with ulcers, the moft expeditious relief is nt an incifion to the very bottom, if it can be done hout danger, after which they are to be deterged confolidated. Another ftep is, to prefs their bol- ts towards their orifices ; for which purpofe a nar- r comprefs, or a flip of plaftcr wrapped up in that m, is, after the ulcer is cleaned, and proper me- ncs put into the fijhtla, to be applied to its bottom, fecured as in other ulcers, with lint, plaftcr, and :dagcs; in applying the bandage, apply it to the tom of the fiftula, or, at leaft, to make it tighteft re, that the peccant matter may be propelled m the bottom to the mouth of the fiftula, in con- -lencc of which the bottom will be fooneft healed ; happens moft frequently when the fijhda is in arms or legs, or when its mouth is lower than oottom. Some abfolutely condemn all tents and in- ions ; but as to the latter, when fijlulas lie too deep having their moft remote parts deanfed, detcr- t injeftions niuft be uled, fuch as a dccodtion of hwort, mixed with honey of rofes, or with the •fure of myrrh and aloes: this, or fome other fuch dd, muft be injected warm at every drelfing, and ined for a fltort time, at the fame time gently prelflng the bottom and mouth of the fifiulo, that peccant matter may more effectually be wailied • and this method muft be continued until the bot- tomF I S tom oF the fifttda begins to be conglntinatcd; then drel's with fome foft digeftivc, in which is the balf. Peruv. or balf. capivi. This method failing, the ma- nual operation mull be attempted, but, indeed, it is not to be depended on, except when the opening can be made to the bottom of the ulcer. The incilion is made with mod eafe to the patient with a knife ; but whatever inftrument is uled, as much ikin and flclh is to be cut as is thought iafe and fufficient to ani'wer the end ; for when the bottoms of ff.ulas arc laid open, the corrupted matter is not only difeharged, but medicines arc allb more commodionfly applied. If, upon making the incifion, a large quantity of blood is difeharged, fill the wound with dry lint, and proceed afterwards as is ufual in recent wounds. Mr. Bell, in his Treatife on Ulcers, advifes almoft univerfally to Ihun the practice of laying the different figufes open from one end to the other, then cutting out ail the hardened parts, fo to convert the whole into one common ulcer. This method he owns will frequently effedt a cure ; bur, independent of the great pain, and very large unfecmly cicatrix which it occalion',1 it cannot, in every cafe, with fafety be put in prac-j: ticc: c. g. when finufes run far up the redlum, :t| cannot ever be conveniently done ; they pcnetratel deep, and run below either large blood-vefleIs, ten-] dons, or nerves; it would never in tilde cafe be advifcablc to have rccourfc to fuch treatment The intention of cure, in every cafe of finus, is i produce a coalefcencc of its fidcs, fo as to deflrov an vacuity that may have occurred : the moll effeflur. means of accomplifhing which, is, tft, To make depending orifice for a free exit to the matter; an<$ then, idly, by a gentle irritation, to induce, on th« internal furface of the finus, a flight degree of inflami mation, which, by experience, is known to be that Hate mod favourable to the produftion of adhefiol between any two parts; fo that a firm union of till a fidwF I S Me? or' the fi n us to one another, may, in due time, .i obtained. To anfwcr both theft- intentions, Mr. ell fays, that the introduction of a feton is fufiicient. The feton mult pafs from the orifice in the ulcer, ong the conrfe of the finus to its other extre- . :ity, where an opening, large enough for the dif- • targe, lhouid be made, as is done in cafes of abfeels. The cord of cotton, or of filk, fhould at firft be -retry large, more or lei’s fo, according to the capa- :ty of the finus; it lhouid be diminilhcd gradually the cure advances, bv taking away a thread or two rtm it? thicknefs every lecond or third day ; and at -ft, when the dilchargc is greatly Icflfencd, by the acuity occafioncd by the finus being rnoftly filled up, -e feton lhouid be totally w ithdrawn, and a bandage mew hat tight being applied over the part, and - ntinued for fome time longer, a complete cure will, general, be in due time eft’efted. The firft ftep een to be taken, is to difeover the direction of the mis, or finufes, which may commonly be done, ther by introducing a probe, or by obferving where 'C matter points, on being allowed to collcdt tor fome me, and from whence it comes on the parts being .‘effed; then into every finus that opens into the ucr, a feton lhouid be introduced. This method curing finufes, by the life of a l'eton, is free from l danger, and is admiifiblc in all cafes of this kind, feton, by means of a dire Tor, may always be ufed ith fnfety. The finufes, being removed by the tons, the ulcers they were connected with are then be cured as is ufual with that fpccies which it hap- ;ns to belong to. This prafficc rarely fails in anv tie of fimpic finus; in general, it anftvcrs in real when a fijiida happens in the perinaaum, this "afticc is peculiarly advantageous, not producing at troublcfomc cicatrix which happens when the life is tiled. The only objection to the life of the ton in cales of /iftnla in ano, is the irritation it S svouldF I S would occaficm in the gut. Vide Pott's Treatife on Fiftulas. Bell's Treatife on Ulcers. Fiftula in Ano. This kind of fiftula. is called complete, when there is an opening into the gut. and another externally ; it is called incomplete, when there is no external' aperture. The fymptoms of the incomplete kind, are anala- gous to thofc of the piles, and therefore are difficultly diftinguilhed. The complete kind has generally cal- lous lips, which, with the difeharge therefrom, more readily points out the nature of the cafe. Abfceffes in this part Ihould be opened as foon as wc find a fluctuation of matter, and that by a large I opening, which is the moll effectual method to pre- > vent a return. In examining one of thefc fiftula:, if | the probe docs not readily pafs, injeCt warm milk into it, and obferve if any returns by the rcCtuin ; if it docs, it is clear that the gut is perforated. When the probe is ufed for examining, let the patient Hand on the ground with his feet pretty far-afundcr, and lean on his belly over a table, then an affiflant can -hold the buttocks afundcr, that the operator may more I readily introduce his finger into the anus, before he I examines the fiftula with a probe. If thefiftula runs I fo deep, that the finger introduced into the anus can- fa not cafily reach the orifice, then the cure is not prac- I ticable, on account of the hemorrhage from the vef- I fcls, which admit not either of comprclfion or kga- i ture. If a fiftula has been of long Handing, in a bad ■ habit, and the difeharge is fuch as to weaken the pa- ft. tient, the operation Ihould not be attempted, at leaft t till the conflitution is repaired-, but if the patient is L of a good habit, if the fiftula returns, the operation <i may be repeated. The following is Dr. Monro’s method of operating: g “ Wherever the opening of the fiftula if, if it has I i!J7 1 1F I S S 2 uatural uny turnings where it reaches the gut, divide them, and make them ftraight, avoiding the fphindfer. r:Aftcr this, I attempt to promote incarnation, which might lefien the cavity, and by degrees fill it up, by ’•nje&itig balfamic fattening medicines; though iome- tcimes a patient of a good habit may be cured by ap- plying a poultice of bread and milk, and a digeftivc. Ilf thefe fail, I endeavour to render the parts en- tirely callous and infenfible, by injecting a mixture of lime-water and brandy, with a little honey of rrofes, increafing the brandy and diminilhing the reft, .asthe parts lole their fenfibility, until at length I injeft >?ure alcohol, which renders them quite infenfible.” ‘Vide He/Jier's Surgery ; Le Dran'% Operations ; hbarpe’s Operations. P-oit's Treatife on FtJ/ulas. Bell * Sur- gery, vol. ii. Kirkland's Med. Surg. vol. ii. and White s tiurgery, and Lond. Med. Journ. vol. v. p. 391. Fiftula in the Epidydimis. In the Lond. Med- Obf. and Inq. vol. ii. p- 273, is n inftance of afiftula in this part being cured. The iubftance of the relation is as follow’s : A man, of -hirty-fivc years of age, hurt his tefticles by a fall ; a uppuration followed, and the matter was difeharged xternaUy. After this, the fweiling being reduced y means of an emollient cataplafm, a Ji/lula was dif- overed in each epididymis-; a probe director was then ntroduced into the left finus, which was cut open its vhole length ; after which all the indurated parts verc differed, and all the difeal'ed Ikin : the fame was lone on both fidcs, and a part of the epididymis on n the right fide was cut away." After this, the drtlT- igs, as in common wounds, finifhed a cure. And vhat deferves fame notice in this cafe is, that the unit ions of the teftes were afterwards fully executed. Fiftula Lachrymal is, vide article Algy lops, Is generally underftood to he fuch a diforder of the I inals leading from the eye to the nole, as obftrudts the* F I S cafe, go a little farther back with your inftrumcnt: further, oblerVe in perforating the os unguis, not to prcfs upon it too forwards, for then you will be ob- ilrudfcd by a part of the maxilia fupcrior, which makes part of the canal wherein the lac is lodged ; if you prcfs inwards, there will be danger of injuring the os nafi, or the feptum nati, or the os cthvnoidcsj but if the inftrumcnt is palfcd backwards and down- wards towards the uvula, no obftrudtion will be met with. For comprcfling inftruments with which to cure the (lighter cafes, vide Sharpe's Operations, and &,oeb's Cafes. On the Fijhtia Lachrymal/!, vide Sharp/ 's Ope- rations, L.e Draft's Operations, Edinb. Med. Eflays, vols. ii.artd iii. Pott's TrcatiCe on the Fijhda Lachr\mn- lis, St. Yves on Difordcrs of the Eyes, Hcijlrr's Sur- gery, hell's Surgery, vol. iii. Kirkland's hied. Sur- gery, vol. ii. Lond. Med. Journ. vol. i. p. 62. vol. ii. p. 77, and 24;. IValii s's Sauvagds’s Nofology of the Eyes, and IVbite s Surgery, Fiftula in Pcritiero. This kind of fjlula is when an opening in the fkin corrcfponds with one in the urethra. Ir foinctimcS liappcns that one opening out of the fide of the ure- thra is attended with feveral through the fkin, but it rarely happens that there are more than one opening through which the urine is difeharged from the fide of the urethra. After lithotomy, a pun£hire of the perinaeutn, anl abfeefs in the fame part near the urethra, a fcirrhusl in the glandula pmftata, &c. a fijhtia is fometimesj formed, through which the urine makes its way in| part, whillt the reft is palfcd through the natural! paflage. A. fijhda proceeding from the urethra, runs in va-l rious directions before it reaches to the external open-' ing of the fkin, fo that when the external opening is nearF O N :aear the anus, it may be taken for a fijiula in that mrt; but the difeharge of urine through the fjlula at once diltinguiihes its feat. Befides the callofities on the external orifices of hefe Jijiutas, there arc fometimes calculous concre- ions lodged in their cavities; indeed, fo various are he circumftances attending different cafes of this find, that only general rules can be laid down for proceeding by to the cure. In general, in order to the cure, the outward open- ng rauft be enlarged, by cutting away the callous ips, or deftroying them by canities; but it fometimes aappens, that this end may be anfvvered by intro- ducing a bougie into the urethra, in order to diftend ts capacity. Le Dran obfervesi that though there ire fcvcral fijlulutts orifices, and feveral callofities in ■ die perinamm , and when the water paffes off in a tmall ltrcam through the natural paflage, the chief Remedy will be the introduction of bougies; alfio that w this canal is enlarged, the external orifices arc diminilhed and healed, and the callofities are foft- pned. Mr. Bell prefers the cure ‘of this Jijiulay by the introduction of a feton. Sec Fijiula, above. Alio Le Draft's Operations. Bril's Surgery, vol. li. Bond. Med. Journ. vol. i. and White % Surgery. i'ONTankli.a, a diminutive of foils. A little fountain. In lurgery, it is metaphorically ufed, to fignify the fmall aperture called an ifluc: The parts where iffues are generally made, are, The neck, The arms, near the loweft part of the deltoid mufclc, in the inxcrftice between it and the biceps mufcle. Above the kncct on the infidc of the thigh, where there is a fin us, which may calily be perceived fiy the linger. Below the knee, on the infidc of the ]eE> where generally a finus may be perceived. On the back ; but on all occafions, when thefe laid arc termed, they would be more ufetul and lei’s trouble- feme, if placed above the knee. TheFRA The method of making an iffue is, firft to mark the part with iiik, then raifing the Ikin with the fore-finger and thumb, pulh a lancet through the Ikin, fo as that an opening may be made into it, large enough to receive a fmali pea; the pea being intro- duced, it is fccurcd by a fticking-plalter and bandage; after which, every twenty-four hours a trclii pea mull be replaced, and the old one thrown away. Some apply a cauftic, and let it continue fix or eight hours, then cut the elchar and inferr a pea. Inftcad of common peas, fame ui’c wooden or filver balls to promote the dife barge; others take the dried oranges, called orange peas, or cut pieces of gentian cr orris-roots to a proper fizc. Fractura, from frango. to treat. A fatfurc. In furgery, the reparation of a bone, from external violence. Fradh.res arc of various kinds, viz. Iranf'vtrfe, Oil:one, and Long!' When a bone is fplit into fmali pieces, it is laid to be fplmttrcd. They are alfo difiinguifhcd bv did'erent names; thus, when the teguments remain found, the frad!are is denominated limplc ; when attended with a wound comniuniCaiing nvitb tk jratt’.rr, it is termed compound. Fratturfcs arc difeovered by the eye, the car, and the touch. The lymproms arc pain, I welling, and tenfioii in the contiguous parts; a more or lets crooked and diftoned ftate of ’he limb; a crackling or grating noile oti the parrs being handled; and lots of power to a certain extent in the injured limb. The force by which a frailurc is produced, fkould be particu- larly attended to, as the lyrr.ptoms arc more or lels lev err, in proportion :s the membranes, mulclcs, or other foft parts, are lacerated, pundtured, or coin- preffed. The indications of cure—arc, to replace the parts nf the bone that have been removed from their natu- ral fituetion ; to retain them in tn : fit nation, as long as may be neccffary ; and to obviate luch iymptoms J J nsFRA .is may fupcrvcnc during the cure. In order to re- place the parts of the bones, the different mufcies tonncdtcd with it, muff be relaxed ; this alone will frequently anfwer the purpofe, but when it does not Succeed, a flight degree of cxtcnfion may be em- ployed, by the upper part of the limb being kept irm by one affiftant, with his hands placed between the fr adhere and the contiguous joint, while the un- der part of it is gently extended by another, obferv- :ng to keep the mufcies ftill as much relaxed as pof- :iible. If there is very great tenfion and inflamma- tion, they muff be removed before the replacing of .the bone is attempted. To retain the bones, when replaced, comprcffcs, aandages, and a relaxed ffate of the limb till the :ure is completed, arc neceffary. The bandage muff tot be applied with more tightnds than is neceffary o retain the bones in their lituation. In a healthy middle aged peri’on, a Ample frafturc of the thigh, >r bones of the leg, will require about two months or the cure. The humerus and bones of the fore- arm, about fix weeks. The clavicles, ribs, and >oncs of the fingers and toes, hands and feet, about hrec weeks. In infancy, the cure is tffcdlcd in els time ; but in old age, the proccfs is more flow. When pain and tenfion fupcrvcnc, affringent ap- plications are neceffary. If inflammation is high, ocal blood-letting is extremely ufcful, frequent purging is alfo rcquifitc. When an union cannot be obtained between the :nds of the fradhtred bones, it mav arid, from conrti- ticional difeafe, as feurvy, lues venerea, rickets; torn the ends of the bones not having been kept toady till their complete reunion was accompli (bed j ro(n a portion of mufclc, tendon, or ligament, fall- tig in between the ends of the fradhired part; and 'n feme cates it proceeds from a bone being broken ui different parts, and the intermediate detached piecesFRA pieces being fo fmall as to prevent them from adher- ing even when kept in dole contaft. When this want of union proceeds from difeafe in the fyftcm, it mull be removed by api ropiate medi- cines. Tf it arifes from the bones’ not having been kept ftcady, and in a proper fituation, they lhould be replaced, and the an< ient prafticc of tubbing the -ends of the fraftured bones togetb , iray allb prove -ferviceablc. Sometimes the olfe matter, between -the ends of the bones, beco-i aard and fmooth; in this cafe, no advantage c" - typedcd from re- placing them. In fraft > rmall bones, this is of little inconvenier patent; b. t in the large bones of the ext re , iV may be produftive of the total lofs of ufc i ru limb. Here then it may probably be rc’novt , hv making an incifion through the furrounding (of: parts, fo as to lay the ends of the bones bare, and removing a fmall'.portion .of them, with a faw, or the trepan; and then treat ■them as a recent fra ft ore. , - When it is in confcutlence of detached pieces of bone, it is belt to remove them, by an iijcifion through the foft parts. When the reunion is prevented, by a portion of mufcle, or ligament, &c. (which may be judged of,£ by the pain ant! tenfion being more fevere than ufualu from the firft, by particular movements of the limb, a occafioning fevere pair, and twitchingsof the mulclts 1 that ferve to move it, and the ends of the bone not a uniting in the ufual time) put he limb into all the variety of pofrures by which thev may be mod readily! difcntanglcd. If this docs not fut cced, an incifion muft be made on the frafture part -, and if the ends of the bones have hot become fmooth, by placing the limb( as in recent frafture, a cure may be obtained. A large elfution \yf.blood round the divided bone,' may prevent its. re.union. But this can only be when a large veil'd is wounded, apd tltrows out fucili a quantity™fra cquantitv of blood as to occafion an extcnfive tumcT :ftion of the limb. The only method of removing is by making an incilion, and fecuring the divided ifTel with a ligature. Vide Poll's Works, dooca-i orks. Kirkland's Obl'ervrations on Mr. Pott’s Ge- ' rral Remarks on Fractures., Belly Deaf?, and Kiri- ids Syfiems of Surgery. Frailurts of the Cranium. VWhcn from an injury done to the head bv exter- u l violence, there follows a lofs of fptech/and of aide, a lethargy, convulfions, &c. as thefe figns may tire effe£t of an extravafation of matter on the e»in, or of a concutlion as well as of a frailure, no ftain concluftons can be deduced: for certainty, u nuift proceed to incifiou upon the part where the uury was received; if, upon making an incifiou, .a find the pericranium loofe, you may certainly '■'elude there is a frailure. In examining for a tMure, care is required to diftinguifh it from a -urc, particularly the uncommon ones, as thofe out the offa rriquetrae ; however, if upon fealping, find the pericranium firmly adhering to any part :t refembles a f ailure, we may be allured that re is a future; but if the pericranium eaftly fepa- es, the cafe is a failure. If when the head is ved, you can feel the pericranium under your ter to be loofe, a fradturc is clearly the cafe, wheit a ftailure happens on the lkull, the trepan mmediately ufed by fome furgeons with a view to jiaid; or prevent the effefts of fuch a degree of jeritb, as has fractured the lkull; but others of rn.qifcc forbid its ufe, except when a part of the I' *s doprcfTcd ; for the mode of treatment vide ! CONtusSIO. Frailures of the Nofe. 3oth the bones and the cartilages are liable to be j 'Ken. If the bones are broken, the nofe appears' flatFRA flat where the fraffare is; and if the cartilage is the futfering part, the nofc leans to one fide. If the in- jury is confiderable, the cure is incomplete; and from the ncarnels of this part to the brain, the danger is confiderable ; an ozarna, a caries, or a polypus, majr be the confequence. In order to a cure, place the patient in a reclining pofturc, and elevate the de- preffed parts of the nofe with a narrow fpatula, or any other inftruincnt of a fimilar form, replacing them in their proper order with the fore-finger and thumb of your other hand; to prevent their collap- linsr, introduce a canula, covered with foft hnt, and (pread with anv bland ointment. If any part of the bone is raifed above the reft, apply a double headed roller : if there is no wound, a plaftcr may luffice to fecurc the whole; and if there is a wound, treat it as if on any other part. If a fphnter is fo (ituated as not to be‘re-united but with difficulty, re- move it. When the bones arc reduced, they do not eaftly feparate again. " [ b'ruflnrcs of the fupfriw naxiUcav and cbetk-boHt.| When a frafturc of thefe bones ft retch toward tciej eyes, a dangerous inflammation may arife; and ifk they penetrate the antrum, deformity generally t»S the confequence. Where there is no wound, thep bones may be replaced with the fingers, and where* •he nuts are laid open, a narrow ipatula, or forcep'd t. . 1 r A ■ ic rhcl may be employed. A piece of adheftve plaftcr is thel beft bandage. If matter collcfts in the cavity of tl'.cj LK.U cmnuti^v* - » ~ ” , , r l antrum, an opening mu ft be rmue in the molt d j pending part. enuing pari. Frafturcs of ihr inferior moat uiry fours. I neij ^ /• i •• i It.. &1./V . Illl.l fra&urcs arc eaftly ditcovcrod by the touch; bui generally the pain and deformity they occafion, lutl ficiently'indicate them. To replace them, let th| patient's head be firmly held a little back., mtroJucl vour-finger or thumb of one hand into the patient* mouth, and apply the fingers of the other hand *;,he outfide, ami thus bring the parts together. In ate of a fra&ure on both tides, replace the one after he other, in the fame manner. Then lay a thick ■ inen compreis over the chin-; let it extend from ear to ar along each jaw, and apply, with a moderate tight- refs, a four head roller over the whole. Keep the oatient perfeitly quiet. He mutt be fed entirely on ,:poon-mcat, and avoid ufing his jaws in any way. Where only one bone is broken, the patient may be illowed to eat foft meats, and fpeak with freedom in bout three weeks. If both bones are broken, this hould not be permitted till about the end of live weeks. If a tooth is fituated in the courfc of the ra flare, extract it. If any teeth are dilplaccd, not at the courfe of the fraflurt, return them to their tickets, and tie them to the contiguous teeth- The oandage fhould not be removed, but when abfolutely Aeccffary, except there fhould be a wound, requiring o be dreffed. Fra flares of the Clavicles. Whatever part of the •laviclc is broken, the part which joins the fcapula, .leftxnds moftly below that part which is fixed to the fernum, on account of the weight of the arm. When his bone is fraftured, the patient cannot lift up his inn; it hangs inclined towards his breaft, and in a light motion of the humerus, the fraflure in the "laviclc will be evident to the touch, fight, or car, or hem all. To reduce this fra fluff, it is only ncccf- ary to rail'e the arm, and fupport it at a proper height; which is done by a lling round the neck, adapted to the length of the arm, and applied equally to every part of it. Mr. Bell recommends a leather cafe for this purpofe. Vide his Syftcm of Surgery, yol. vi. plate lxxxi. fig. i. It is generally directed in thefe fra flutes, to keep the patient’s head railed, and his fhoulders drawn back. But this fliould, by no means, be generally adopted, as, in fomc cafes, the fra&urcd parts of the bones are kept more cxaftly T togetherFRA together, when the head is bent down upon'the breaft, and in others, while it is raifed, with the ihoulders. If the fr allure is accompanied with a wound, and there are any fplinters, they muft be removed, but with caution, on account of the vicinity of the fub- clavian artery. The bones are generally united in about a fortnight; but the corrcfponding arm fhould be notufed till the end of the third or fourth week. FtaHuret ‘of ibe Ribs, are difeovered by the feat of the pain, and by preffure of the fingers. In genera), the fymptoms are moderate; but in fomc inftanccs, the pain is fevere from the firll; the breathing is difficult, attended with cough, and fometimes fpitting of blood ; the pulfe is quick, full, and fometimes ‘ opprefled. Thcfe fymptoms, however, only occur when the frallured rib is puffied inwards upon the pleura and lungs. In every cafe of fractured ribs, bleed proportionably to the ftrength of the patient. ' If any inequality is difeovered, let the patient make a deep inipiration, and by equal and moderate pref- j fure, endeavour to replace it ; and to prevent its j rifing, apply a broad flannel roller, or a leather belt, quilted infide, with cotton or flannel, moderately J tight, and let it be worn for fevcral weeks. When I the patient is freely blooded, and kept on a low j regimen, the raoft fevere fymptoms will generally lubfidc. But if the opprefled breathing is kept up j by air cfcaping from a punfhrre in the furface of the I lungs, or by blood dilcharged from a ruptured inter- I coftV.I artery into the chert, or where the pain is con- | tinned by the frallured rib being forced in upon the 8 pleura, an opening muft be made with a fcalpel, 11 dircdlly upon the injured parr, and if a portion of rib is merely forced inwards, elevate the deprefled j parr, with the fingers, forceps, or a fpatuia. When I the fymptoms arife from air or blood in the cavity of I the thorax, proceed as dire&ed in article Empyema. I _ Fxadurti IFRA I 'failures Frafiures of the Sternum, fhould be con fide red in the Tame light with fimilar injuries to the ribs. The (ymptoms arc the fame, and if they do not yield to copious bleedings, and the antiphlogiftic regimen, an textenfive incifion rauft be made, and the dcprclTcd [.part raifed, by a fcalpel or a levator; if there be an ! opening, that will admit an inftrument; if not, an oopening may be made with the trepan. The prac- tice of laying the patient over a barrel or drum is [idangerous, by prelfing the lungs with additional force againft the depreffed portion of bone. After the ( operation, the fore mult be treated in the ufual way. IThe operation Ihould be performed with great t caution. Fraftures of the Vertebra. When any of the vertebrae are fradtured, without affedting the fpinal marrow, then there are only the ppofterior apophyfes, or acute tubercles injured, and they are not dangerous. When thefe parts only are Tradtured, replace them with your fingers, and apply on each fide the fpina dorfi, narrow compreffes moiftened with fpirit of wine, and fecure them- with palteboard fplints, and the napkin and l'capuiary. Fraflures in thefe parts are eafily known by the pain there, as alio on llightly touching them. If the tranfverfc apophyfes which tend towards the cavity of the thorax are broken, then the heads of the ribs which are inferted into them will likewife be broken, and much danger attends this cafe. When the body of a vertebra is broken, th.e fpinal marrow is injured; then the parts of the arms, vifccra, or legs, which arc below them, become im- mediately motionlefs, and death is fooner or later the confequcncc. In this cafe, lay the injured part bare, elevate the fragments which prefs the medulla, and if loofe, extract them ; then treat the wound in the ufual way.FRA J Frailures of the Os Sacrttm. Thcfc fra&urcs arc difcovcrcd by the pain perceived in the part, and by the touch. Endeavour to reduce the fragment with your fingers; but if it is deprefled inwardly, pare the nail of your fore finger pretty clofc, then greafe and introduce the linger into the inteftinum rectum, and thus the deprefl'ed part may cafily be replaced ; this done, the t bandage may be applied over a proper com prds; the patient mult be directed to keep in bed for two or three weeks, and when he turns from one fide to the other, let him turn over his belly; when lie rifes, the propereft feat will be a bottomlefs chair. Ffailures of tbe OJfa Innosninala. If the injury is deeply leated, place the patient in the pofturc in which he feels himfclf cafieli, and keep him in that , fituation till the bones are probably united. The application of the bandage depends entirely on the practitioner’s judgment. Fraflurcs of tbe Scapula, arc difcovcrcd by the feat of the pain, by the feeling on preifing the injured parts, and by the ftiffnefs and immobility of the cor- relpondihg arm. To replace the bones, the mufcles d connected with the injured bones muft be relaxed. Railing the head and fhoulders relaxes the muf- cles of the back, and by fupporting the humerus, the deltoid mtifclc will be lufficiently relaxed to replace any fraftured portion of the fa pula'.' To retain them, perhaps, a long roller is the befl application. Keep the head and fhoulders lupported, and the arm fufpended. Fraflrres of the Huruen/s. Oblique fmfturcs here, arc often evident to the fight. Tranfverle fraCtures are dilcovered by the pain, inability to move the arm, and a grating noile being heard on handling the parr’. To accomplifh the reduction, relax the mulcles of the arm, by moderately bending the elbow, and railing the limb to nearly an horizontal direction; btir nor 10 forward .FRA T 3 If or ward as to ftrctch the latiftlmus durfi, infertcd into ae back-part of it; or too far back to ft retch the eftoral lnufcle. In this wav the fra&ured ends re generally replaced ; but if extenfion fliould be eceflary, let one alfiftant grafp the arm between the •adture and the fhoulder, and another above the 'int of the elbow. Then apply a couple of fplints nvered with flannel, or tow covered with old linen, ■me along the whole outiidc of the arm, and the other nn the inl'ide, fccure them with a flannel roller, loderately tight, and fupport the fore-arm in a fling, he bone will unite in about a month ; but the mb fliould not be ufed till about the end of the ixth or feventh week. FraHures of the Bones of the Fore-Arm. The forc- rm has two bone?, viz. the radius and ulna. FraFiurts terc arc difeovered by the fight, touch, and car : by he touch and fight, by moving the hand of the iffected arm inward and outward ; though afradtured ilna, from its inability to fupport the joint, will hew itfelf fooner than that of the radius: the car Jifcovers a grating noife, if the elbow is held ftcady, .nd the hand is moved inward and outward. To re- luce a fracture of either of thefe bones, relax the mufcles of tite.arm by bending the joint of the wrift und'elbow ; and let two alfiflants gently extend the imb, by one grafping above the fradlure, and the other beneath it. The bones replaced, apply a fplint defended with flannel or tow, of fuflreient length o reach from the elbow to the tops of the fingers ; md of 1 uch a breadth as to incafe more than one half bf the arm and hand, along the ulna ; and another not ]uite fo broad in the courle of the radius, and ccure them with a flannel roller, or a twelve tailed aandage, which is preferable; and let the arm hang ii} a fling. In applying the fplints, the palm of the laud inufl be turned towards the bread.FRA If a difiocation of the wrift attends this fraflure, a ftifF joint may be expected. When the olecranon only is fraftured, keep the frac- tured parts in contact, the fore-arm extended, and preferve it in this fituation, by a long fplint from the fniddle of the Humerus to the tops of the fingers, fee ured by a roller: Let the arm hang by the patient’s fide, to which fix it by one or two llrapt. Remove the fplint and bandage every eighth or tenth dav, and move the fore-arm flowly backward and forward, prevent a l\itf joint. Fraftnres of tbe Hone! of the Wrift. Thcfe bones are feldom broken, and when they are, they do not unite readily. After replacing them, bleed freely from the Injured part, to prevent inflammation, which gene- rally takes place here to a very confiderable extent, and frequently produces anchylofis. The hand ihould tyc fupported with fplints as directed in Fractures of the Bones of the Fore-arm. Fraihites of the Boms of the H,i>u/. Replace them with as much exadtnefs as poffible, and apply the fplints, as in cafe of Frafturc in the Bones of the F'ore-arm. Fmflurrs of the Fingers. When the contufion of the hand or fingers is very confiderable, amputation is moll advifcable ; but if you can fine the part, pro- ceed as follows: having placed the fraftured bone properly, and reduced the fragments, apply a piece of firm pafteboard cxaffly fitted to it, and loftencd iu water till it is moulded to the form of the part, and roll it up with a narrow HJlet to the next linger. Begin the bandage about the wrift, carry it over the back of the hand to the finger; and if more fingers than one are fractured, carry it round each fepa- ratcly, then round them all; and place the hand in fling. A large fplint of pafteboard, or thin wood, glued on leather, Ihould alio be applied on the infuleFRA li ■ the hand, the fingers ftretched on it, and fecur'ed IW a roller over the whole. \ - f Fraflura of the Thigh-Bone. Every part of this lone may be fra&urcd •, but the middle is more gene- !lolly injured; and next to this, the neck of it. 'hefe art diftinguiflied in the under part by a grat- Jl ig noife, a fhortnefs of the limb, if the fracture is Boliquc; or if the ends of the bone have been dilplaccd ,1 i cafe of a tranlverle fracture, by much pain, and l ie limb being unable to iupport the body. If the S.-adture is in the neck of the femur, the leg is Moorrened, fometimes lcveral inches, the trochanter is ■ igherthan the trochanter of the other thigh, and P ie knee and points ot the toes arc turned inwards, j To- reduce the frafture, relax the mul'cles, by laking the tliigh form an obtulc angle with the body, ind moderately bending the joint ot the knee. 1 his one, in molt cafes, the bones are eafily replaced, by i couple of aififtants extending the limbs, one fecur- lg the upper part, and the other gently draw- lg the lower. Frafturcs in the neck of the bone re replaced in a fimiiar way. Confidcrable exten- on is, however, fometimes necclfary. To retain ie bones, two fplints, well defended, mud be ap- lied, one to reach from the top of the hip-joint, to clow the knee, and l’ufficiently broad to cover more ban one half the thigh; the other to reach from the Toin to a little below the knee. Of the fplints, the angeft laid upon a twelve tailed bandage, is to be ■laced upon a thin pillow nearly as long as the thigh. Che patient being laid on a firm hair matiafs, his ncc moderately bent, and the bones accurately let, dace the pillow with the bandage and lplint above it, o-that the fplint may reach from the lup-joint ‘.long he outfide of the thigh to the knee. To preterve his pofture. let the patient lay turned iomewhat ovvards the affected thigh ; and the knee and leg "■fifed rather higher than the body. Now place the - Ihort yFRA ihort fplint along the infide of the thigh, from the groin to the knee, and apply the bandage, prcvinuliy placed beneath the other l'plint, withfuch a degree of tightnefs, as to make an equal moderate preffure over the whole thigh. It will not be neceflary to remove the limb till the cure is complete (which in healthy perfons requires about fix weeks) unlefs any untoward lymptoms arife. The limb Ihould not be ulcd for about nine or ten weeks. At about the end of a fortnight, lome liitle alteration Ihould be made in the pofition of the body and knee. Sometimes the pain, fweUing, and inflammation are fo great as to prevent the application of bandage. In this cafe, they mull be relieved by the ufual reme- dies, and the cure mull proceed, with the rilk of the limb being fomcwhat lhortened, by the ends of the bones palling over one another. Fradures of the PaJeila. When a finall fragment of the patella is drawn upwards, if the patient is fat, it is not very eafy to difeover this cafe. In fearching to know whether or no the patella is broken, do not bend the knee, becaufe you feparate the frag- ments thereby farther from each other, and occafion unnecefTary pain. This bone is generally broken tranfvericly, the lower part remains fixed at the knee; but the upper is drawn by the mufeks on the • fore-part of the thigh. When the cafe is dilcovered, lay the patient on his back, extend his leg, and gently prefs the mufclcs above the fraflurtd part downwards, until the fragments r.f the bones approach within act inch of each other; in this fituation, retain the leg j in a ftate of extenfion, by applying a long firm l'pliut of timber, well defended, beneath the th'gh and leg, i from the upper part of one to the extremity of the other, and fecurc the limb to it by four or more ftraps. Cover the joint with a large pledgit cf Goulard's I cerate, and fupport the bed-clothes with a hooped ! frame. If the divided parts feparate to any confi- j titrableFRA jLrablc diftnnce, they muft be replaced, and retained ■Erich, bandages. In longitudinal fractures, this 1 5 lily accompli (lied by very moderate preffuic, either Kith the common uniting bandage, or with flips of Slather fpread with glue, or adhefive plaftcr. In 1 anfverl'e fraftures, it cannot fometimes be cffe£ted; Mk as cures arc neverthelefs obtained in luch cafes, fl uch force mud not be employed. At the end of a 1 rtnight, the bandage fliould be removed, and every JLcond or third day after, the limb ihould be mode- X-.tely bent to preferve the motion in the joint. |j A feparation of the ligament, or tendon of the i-dbis mufcle, will put on nearly the fame appear- : ice as a fradtured patella. It is cured by the fame .catment. I'raiiuYCs of the Bones of the Legs. In fractures of ..e leg, often only one bone is broken; but a frac- irc of both is more frequent. In this cafe, the feat ad direction are cafily difeovered. But when only ic bone, the difeovery is niqrc difficult. One bone :maining entire, confinement only will cure the /adfured one. T. he treatment of a fraftured leg is, i general principles, the fume as directed for a raftured thigh bone. By bending the knee, and ightly extending the foot, the bones are cafily ic- laced. This done, place the patient fo that the ijured leg may, with eafe, be laid on its fide, ith le knee bent -, then apply the fplints and the twelve filed bandage. The fplint on the outfide muft reach rom a little abov’e the knee to beneath the ankle. IVhen the patient cannot lay upon his fide, he may iy upon his back, and the limb placed upon the aftrocnemii muicles, with the toes upwards ; rc- nembering to retain tile curved polition of the leg ; his is done by raifing the leg, and fupporting it upon frame at a proper height above the level of the tody. VVrhat is commonly called the riling end of the . | * bone, A M I uFRA bone, and moli frequently appears in fradtures of the leg, is owing to the inferior portion being dragged out of its lunation by the weight of the foi.'t, ar,d the contradlion of the mufclcs on the back part of t);c. leg. This • mud endeavour to raife, and then fup-i port it ir‘‘ u fituation ; but never apply bandages’to keer dow he fuperior portion, as it never riles out of its natural fituation. rrafhtres of the Bones of the Foot and Toes, are dif- tinguilhcd like fradtures in any other parts. The treatment is the fame as in f milar injuries to the hands and fingers. Compound Fraflures, May be produced by the external violence which fradtured the bone, and by the bones, in cafes of fimple fradtures, pufhing through the integuments; but however produced, the confequences relulting from them, are nearly fimilar. The admilfion of air to the fradture, adds confiderably to the rilk attending it, The firft objedt in compound fradtures, is to reftrain the haemorrhage, by the tourniquet. The next is to confidcr, whether you can attempt to fave the limb, or whether you will proceed to immediate amputation. Some practitioners confider amputation indiipenlably neceflary ; while Mr. Biiguer, of Berlin, fays it ii fcarcely ever requifite. Mr. Bell fays, he is convinced it Ihould never be advifed in private pradtice, unlcfi the bone is greatly lhattcred, or the furrounding fofl parts completely deftroved, but in the navy and army, he thinks the limb Ihould be immediately amputated When amputation is not performed immediately,.01 foon after the injury is received, it is not admilfible for fevcral days. Afterwards it may be neceflary, ill, from haemorrhages, that the tourniquet can- not check, nor the arteries be readily fecured by ligatures ; rdly, from extenfive mortification ; anc jdly, when the bones do not unite, and the patiunFRA jLcclming from the copioufncfs of the difcharge of ■rter. |l n the treatment of compound fra&t'Sjfc our ob- is the lame as in thofc of a firm mire. To lace the bones, and to retain tli >^.fraiijeous ics muft be removed, as well as ^pieb.Tof :ae which are not likely to unite with cne reft-/ **; ich end, if uecclfary, the opening muft be enlarged h a fcalpel. If a ftiarp point of a bone protrudes •ough the integuments, remove it with the bone ceps; but if the protruded portion of bone is broad, re the wound, and replace it. Should it be no- tary to cut into the fubftancc of contiguous muf- let it be in the dire£lion of their fibres. Should ■' artery be cut, fecurc it with a ligature; the extra- ms bodies removed, and the protruded bene re- ced, the fraflure muft be reduced in the fame man- 'as a fimple fradlure. This done, lay a plcdgit of 't lint, fpread with wax and oil over the whole, sn place the limb upon a firm fpliiit, in a relaxed ifturc, and apply the many tailed bandage. Recollect : limb mu§ be in fuch a pofturc, that (he wonnd may drefied without moving it, which Ihould be at lcaft ce a day, or oftener, if the difcharge is great. To event inflammation, bleed according to the ftrength, th topically and from the arm j direft laxatives, and cry other part of the antiphlogiftic courfe. If pain, miniftcr opiates. In cafe of inflammation, the milk d bread poultice is ufeful; but when the matter is "charged in great quantities, lay afide the poultice, efs the fore with gentle aftringents, and fupport e patient with bark and wine. Sometimes, to give e matter free egrefs, it is neceffary to make acoun- r opening, but this may generally be obtained by itting the limb in a proper pofture. Sometimes, a ofe piece of bone will keep up an cxceflivc dif- l^rge ; this muft be removed either at the fore, or ' a counter opening. If the inflammation terminatesFUR in a gangrene, proceed to amputation immediately, j Vide Aitkin's Treatife on Fractures. Post’s General Remarks on Fractures, and Kirkland's Obi'ervationsl oil the fame. Goccb's Cafes and Remarks. Bell's and ll'bite's Surgery. Furnunculits, from furo, to rage. A boil or lile.l It is a phlegmonous humour which commonly termi-j nates in a fuppuration of a peculiar kind. It is a va-J riety of the phlogofis phlcgmone. It generally fup-| purates fpontaneoufly, and breaks open at firft on it.;a top, or the moft pointed part, when fomc draps oil pus, like that from an abfeefs, comes out; after which! the germ, or what is commonly called the core, i J fecn ; this core is a purulent fubftance, but fo thick! and tenacious, that it appears like a folid b>xly, whkiJ may be drawn out in the fliape of a cylinder, like tful pith of elder, fbmetimes tc the length of an inch! The c midi on of this core is ufually followed by thtfl difeharge of a certain quantity of liquid mstrcrl fpread through the bottom of it. As footi as this dit-fl charge is made, the pain entirely ccafes, and in a fevl days the fwelling difappears. The opening common* heals of its own accord ; if not. it may be a Allied. 1 Suppuration is the bell method of removing thil kind of tumour, for if repelled, it almoll as certain* teturns on fome other part. They have been confidcrcd by fomc, as habitual! when fo, they fhould he prevented by the uf of all tcrativc medicines.Ganglion', in forgery, is a moveable tumour/ jvmeil any where about the tendons of mufcles, and ne ligaments ; the moft frequent fituation is about the arpus; but whatever part of the body it is in, it is .ar the IVin, and is not attended with any confide- »b!e uneafinefs to the patient. They arc formed of •'inph, which i- lVcretcd within the vagina; of ten- ons; they are different in their form, confidence, nd other appearances, but they never fuppuratc. >Ir. Sharp reckons thefe tumours among thole en- ylied ones, called meliceris. For the mod part, the latter of a ganglion rcleinbles the white of egg, )r. Cullen ranks.it as a genus of dilcafes in the clafs scales, and order tumores. v\s to the cure, Mr. Sharp allures us, that he has lequcnily lueeceded, by making,an incifion through :s whole length, and at the fame time dividing the igament of the wrift, and afterwards drolling as in rounds in general. Mr. Warner gives two indances f his fucccfsfully extirpating them: he obferves, hat the objedlion from danger of wounding the fub- acent tendon or ligament, is of no weight, fincc the •cciduit can be generally avoided, and, fhould it hap- >en, the difaftcr may be tafily healed, as happens kily in wounds < f this fort ; lie recommends the cut- lng away part of the cyd, and then digeding the red may. Vide Sjar/i’s Operations in Surgery, in the chapter on encylled tumours. Warner's Calcs in Sur- Jerv. linker’s Surgery, and Belt’s Surgery, vo). v. BpASTRORAPUIA. Caftreraphy, from >t*rpu, a U belly*GEN belly, arul fatyn, a future. In ftriftnefs of etymology,, this vvord fignifies the fewing up of anv wound of the belly ; yet in common acceptation, it implies, that an J inteftine is wounded as well as the belly. This ope- ration is ui'elefs in fmall wounds, but necefiarv in large ones. The beft method is to pafs double figa- tures in one needle, in order to include the rolls at one end, and be tied upon them with bow knots on the oppofitc fide, which gives an opportunity of Ibraightening and loofeningthe knots at pleafure. After palling in as many ligatures as feems neceflary, bring the lips of the wound gradually together, and keep' them fo until the knots are tied. As to the operation of Hitching the bowels, it can- only take place where they fall out of the abdomen, , fo as to fee where the wound in the inteftine is, or how many wounds there are, and in fome cafes of Bubonocele. Vide Sharp's and Lc Drart's Operations. N Genu, the Knee. It fometimes happens, that pieces of cartilage, or bone covered by cartilage, arc found loofe in the cavity of the joint of the knee. Thcfe are of different lizcs. Some of them are as large as common garden beans. They are generally flat, ob- , long, having their edges rounded. It is feldom that there are more than one of thcfe loofe cartilages in a joint; but fometimes there arc two. Mr. Cruik- Ihank fays, that he formerly conlulcrcd them as be- longing to the patella ; and that, like the offa trique- tra in the flcull, they owed their origin to diftindt points of offification. But having fincc found one , entirely cartilaginous, and another which, though1 hone covered by cartilage, was formed on the lower end of the femur, and this convinced him of his mif- * rake. In the laft mentioned cafe, Mr. Crttikfhank lays, that there wa; a cavity in the lower end of the femur, correfponding to the loofe bone, flicwing that they had been connected with one another ; though, as both furfaccs were nearly fmooth, the manner o! theirGEN ie'ir conneftion was not evident. He fuppofes that, Hiring their growing, thelc cartilages and bones are onneCled to the neighbouring pans by vefiels ; and aat, when either their determined growth is ftnifhed, rr their fi7.e is too large for the eal'y motion of the uint, they become loofe. When they become loofe, he fynovia, from the irritation they induce, is fe- reted in greater quantity ; the capfular ligament bc- omes diflended, the kner appears lwelled, a degree f ftiffnefs takes place in the motion of the joint, nth more or lei’s of external inflammation. There 5'alio the diftinft feel of a fluid undfcrneath ; and ahe loofe bit of cartilage gets frequently above the ondylcs of the femur, on the out or infide of the rtee, and may be laid hold of with the thumb and inger through the integuments. When the patient, las walked much, the fynovia is fenfibly increafed, nd on remaining more quiet, for two or three days, s as fenfibly diminiihed. The fymptoms are fome- imes fo mild as not to need an operation, but at other imes it is the only expedient for relief. Mr. Cruik- hank here obferves, that much feems to depend on he l’urgeon, whether this operation flr.ill be a dan- gerous one or not. Mr. John Hunter recommends he moving them by incifion ; but thinks the p irti- :uiar fpot where the operation is to be performed, as •veil as the manner of operating, deferve the greateft attention. There is a part within the cavity of the oint of the hue, which receives the bafis of the pa- :ella, during the cxtenlion of the leg. It partakes more of the nature of cellular membrane, than cap- ular ligament, and lies under the lower extremities af the vafti and crureus mufcles, before they are in- ferred into the patella. Mr. Hunter propofes to lay hold of the cartilage or bone, and cut down upon them at this place ; the incifion, he thinks, fiiould be no larger than juft to allow of their being cafilv thruft out. A ftitch or two is then to be palled U z throughG O N through the divided integuments, and the lips of the wound, by thefe means, are to be brought together. Thcfe Hitches, however, mud not pafs into the cavity of the joint; indead of uniting the parts in this cafe, j they would aft as fetons, and produce inflammations in place of preventing it. If pofliblc, heal the wound i by the firfl intention ; a piece of dicking pladcr, with j proper bandage, and pofition of the joint, may even make ditches in the integuments unncceflary. The circumdances which the operator has mod to avoid, Mr. Hunter fays, are the expefing the cavity of the joint too much; the lacerating or bruifing of the cap- i’ular ligament; the not properly clofing the orifice in the integuments; or the employing a blunt or dirty indrument in the dividing them. All, or any of thcfe cir- cumdances, he thinks, will produce inflammaiion in the joint, and render the operation exceedingly dangerous. But in tolerably found conftitutions, the operation now recommended, performed with the neccffary precau- tions, he is convinced, is as fafe a one as mod opera- tions in forgery. When the cavity of the joint has inflamed, the danger, he owns, is very great. Liga- ment and cartilage, the fubdances compofing joints, have fewer veflels than any other parts, perhaps, of an animal body; they inflame, fuppurdte, or go through the ufual proccflcs of parts under irritation, with greater difficulty ; aud, when they have gone through them, the confequcnccs are generally deftruftive of rhe ordinary intentions of thefe precedes; the joint diffens, and is dedroyed, indead of being recovered, Vide Mr. Cruikjbank’s Letter to Dr. Duncan, in the Edinb. Med. Commentaries, vol. iv. p. 34c, et Icq. Gonohrhcea, from ven>feec^i afid 10 fl'u' is an involuntary efflux of l'cminal juice. Dr Swediaur obferves, that this name is improperly ap- plied to the dileafe known by it. He propoles, if 5 Greek word is neccffary, to name it Btenuorrb<igi& from fiy.moc, mucus, and to flow, i. c. muctfluxo a'Trvus; and thus he didinguifhes it from the real go norr boatsG O N orrhoeas, and from gleets, to which latter he gives le name blennorheota, muajiuxuspnj/ivus, i. e. without jlogijhc fymptomi. Some reckon three fpecics of this diforder: ift, A inple gonorrhoea., alfo called a benign gonorrhoea, and gleet. 2dly, A virulent or venereal gonorrhoea ; nproperly l'o called, from its refemblance to the pre- eding. 3dly, An involuntary efflux of a whitifh .uid from the urethra, in confequence of a venereal tononbcea. Dr. Cullen places this genus of dil'cafe in te clal's localeand order apocawfes. He diftin- '.ui flies four fpecies : i. Gonorrhoea pura, wher, ithout venereal engagements, a purulent di- largc is obferved from the urethra, without dyfu- a, he. 2. Gonorrhoea impura, when, after impure fltion, there is a purulent difeharge from the rethra, with heat of urine, he. 3. Gonorrhoea laxo- am, when there is a pellucid difeharge from the rethra, without crcdlions of the penis, but with encreal thoughts while awake. 4. Gonorrhoea dor- licntum, when during fleep, but, in dreaming of encreal engagements, there are erections of the penis, id confequent feminal difeharges. The benign gonorrhoea is defined by Dr. Fordyce, 1 his Elements of the Pradtice of Phyfic, part the econd, to be “an increafed fecretion from the mucous lands of die urethra, without infedtion.” The mat- er difeharged is whitifli and mild, producing no ex- oriation or other diforder on the parts through which '• pafles, or on which it falls. The principal caufe is a weaknefs in the parts, -hich arc the feat of the diforder ; occalional cauics, re acrimony in a cacochymic, fcorbutic, or arthritic tabit, violent or too frequent purging, violent exer- iie, too frequent coition, cold, excels of fpirituous iquors, he. Dr. Swcdiaur well obferves, that the virulent goner- haea is a local inflammation, attended with the dif- harge of a puriform matter from the urethra in mm, U 3 andG O N jmd from the vagina in women; accompanied with a frequent defirc of making water, which occafions a fealding, or pricking and burning pain, during the time of its pafi'age ; and arifing from any ftimulus applied to thefe parts, provided it be lufhciently firong. Sometimes, by the violence of the irritation, the fecretion of mucus feems to be totally fufpended, or at leaft confidcrably diminifhed, fo that no dif- eharge, or only a very ftnall one, takes place, though the other fymptoms rage with the utmoft violence. In this cafe, the difeafe has obtained the very im- proper name of gonorrhoea (icca. He adds, though the matter (i. e. of the difeharge) has a purulent ap- pearance, it is not a real pus ; it i, only the mucus of the urethra or vagina, fecreted in a larger quantity than ufual, and changed in its colour and coufiftcnce by the ftimulus applied to the parts; like the mucous difeharge from the nofc or lungs, on taking cold, where the mucus allumcs nearly the lame appearance. That the difeharge from the urethra, See. is only an incrcafed difeharge of the mucus of the parts, has been fome time l'uppofed, but is firft rendered un- doubted by Dr. Stoll, of Vienna, which evidence Dr. Swcdiatir has inferted in his publication on this fubjedt. It is as follows : “ Dr. Stoll had, about the year 17S2, the inftiudlivc opportunity of dif- fering a man who died while labouring under a virulent gonorrhoea. On opening the urethra care- fully, he found its internal furfacc prctcrnaturaBv red ; two of the lymphatics pretcrnaturally w hits and enlarged ; and the puviforin matter oozing out from the internal membrane, efpecialiy at the lacun-n where the feat of the difordcr was, without the hail appearance of an ulceration or excoriation.” When this complaint is the confcquencc of a vene-j real taint, the matter of the difeharge is commonly! adhefive and whitilh, and capable of communieatina| injfcdtion, though the inflammatory fymptoms ll eutireiflG O N 1 entirely carried off; though fome fay it is incapable of communicating infection, even when the inflam- matory fymptoms are not entirely removed. Vide LLues Venerea. When it takes place from any other caufe, it begins with a running, nearly fimilar ::o that in a venereal gonorrhoea, but generally lefs in quantity, and is not attended with fo much inflamma- tion, and is never infedtious. Jn both calcs, the in- iflammatory fymptoms may, by expofure to any of the rcaufes, be encreafed to as great a degree as when there is infedtion ; but they go off of themfclves in a few days, and fometimes the running with them. IThc running fometimes ceafes of itfelf in a week or (two; fometimes it continues for years without any 'detriment to the patient ; and now and then a cafe occurs, in which the patient is much weakened by it; for when it occaflons involuntary cmillions of femen, 'it may be fatal. It is the mod obftinate after a venereal taint, in phlegmatic habits, and in thofe who, when young, ■were fubjedt to cararrhous defluxions ; for the fibres of fuch perfons arc very lax. Sometimes it refills all .means, and at lafl: departs fpontancoufly. The indications of cure are, i. To deftroy the venereal virus, z. To defend the parts from its acta- HTiony. 3. To abate the irritation which it occafions. To anfwer thefe ends, oleous and mucilaginous in- jediiors are well adapted, particularly if they have opium, and the mildeft mercurial preparations com- bined with them. A mild regimen, in all rel'pedts, is the moll pro- per ; mucilaginous drinks, as the almond emulfion and luch like, lliould be plentifully drank ; and, if required, an anodyne may be given at bed time. Much and ftrong vxercifc, and external cold, are to be avoided. 1 hofe of a lefs robutt nunc.may be lefs lfuring in their diet, and be not fo abltemious with refpedt to cordial liquors. IfGON * -If the venereal taint gave rife to it, and mercury j has not been ufed, or ul'cd in an undue quantity ; or 1 if there is any fufpicion of any remaining infection, the fafeft method is to begin the cure by a mercurial courfe. If fymptoms of an inflammatory fever appear, j bleeding may fometimes be ufeful; but, in general, ] more fervice will be derived from topical evacuations ' of blood, and from emollient and fcdative fomenta- 1 tions and poultices. Dr. Swediaur obferves, that, on the other hand, when the patient is of a weak and irritable habit of body, the difcharge is very thin and ' copious, attended with violent pains and quick pulfet thecort Peruv. given internally, according to circum- llanccs, with or without opium, is the mod ufeful ; adminillration ; and that opium, given in emollient elyflers, is fometimes particularly ufeful in thefe cafes: it allays or prevents the frequent painful ere&ions, ; the return of which, fliould be prevented as much as ; pollible. To prevent the more violent fymptoms, the pa- ! tient fliould, from the beginning of the difeafe, wear J a bag trufs, or other means, to keep the lcrotum fup- ported and warm. Neutral fait, and other purgatives than thofe which keep the bowels lax, are injurious. When the fymptoms are more exafperated, as when the heat of urine is great, a tendon is perceived in the length of the urethra, the urine is only pafleo by a few drops at a time, erections arc frequent, pains r fliooting through the urethra, ftresks of blood palling with the urine, or other figns of ulceration : in this fituation, betides what is already recommended, mcr- ft curial friftions will be ncccffary along the perinseutn, |) and the inlldc of the thighs. _ The fame treatment will be proper when the *iif- $ charge, during the inflammatory ftage, is fupprefled, <j and a hernia iiumoralis is threatened, or has taken place. I liGUT — If a fcorbutic, or other acrimony is the caufe, allay at lead before ftrengtheners are begun with. When no circumftancc, befides a weak habit, re- quires our notice, an infufion of the bark in red i -ine, may be given to two ounces three times in the ay : and other means of ftrengthening the general .abit, may be ufed. Sometimes it happens, that the cold bath increafes ! le running ; but when there is neither plethora, nor j ibad habit of body, nor any other contraindication, j te patient may go into the bath every morning and vening ; and after each emerfion he may go into bed ; nd, whilft there, he may drink two cups of fomc /arm infufion, by which the humours will be derived 3 the Ikin. Rcfinous aftringents, fuch as the balf. capivi, &c. lay be given three or four times a day •, but in inflam- matory habits much caution is required, to avoid the exciting any new degree of inflammation. Vide S:oe- 'uaur on Venereal Complaints, and White s Sur- cery. G utta Rosacea. Little red dry drops, or fiery urbcrcles about the face and nofe. Though perfons Mdidled to drunkennefs, arc rnoftly fuhjedt to this •ileafe, it fometimes attacks the abftemious, after rinking cold water when hot. The caufe feems to ■e in the liver. In general, temperate diet will re- move it ; but if the patient has been accuftomed to onerous diet, the change tnuft not be luddcnly made. Antimonial medicines, and mercurial purges, are fefnl. Topical applications muft be ufed with great aution. Vide Brooke s Practice of Phyfic, and Med. )bf. and Inq. vol. i. Gutta Serena. Vide article Amaurosis. Gottlieb Richter fays, I have lately reltorcd leveral icrfons to fight, who laboured under Gutta Serena. n all thefe cafes, the caufe feemed to be feated in the bdominal vifeera, for I cured them all by means of medicines■■ GUT ■medicines which clifTolve obftruflions in the vifeera. The pills he made ufe of, were the following : R Gum. Ammon, afiafertidae, fapon. venet. vale- ■ rianae, fummetat. arnic. aa 3>j. anti men. tartaris. gr. xviij. ft. pil. pond. gr. ij. quarumfuvn. ter quotidie xv. j The dofes of thefe pills were gradually increafed, and vomiting occafionally produced by the antimon. tar- •taris. Vide Gottlieb Ricbtcr'% Medical and Surgical Obferva+ions, p. 254. et. l'eq. * Mr. Ware recommends the following powder to be fnufled up the noflrils, once or twice a day, as 1 remedy in Gutta Serena: R Hydrargyr. vitriol, gr. j. pulv. glycvrrhizse gr. viij. si. —H II je m o r r H a G r a > from city*, b!ocdr and ie :ak forth, or fV/vo/xi, to break forth. There are bur v hemorrhages (not owing to external violence) ■licit would prove fatal, if no means were uled to Hop them ; hence many medicines have, at different tes, had the repute of being fpecifics. Periodical I critical hemorrhages have generally their caufe in ; prims vise, and their propereft remedies arc fuch thofe that purge, and render the bile temperate, which kind arc the natron, vitriolat. or the ol. ri- i ver, which is preferable. Tn acute difealls, when there are fmall difeharges blood which fuddenly ceafe, they indicate at lead edious difeafe. Hemorrhages are fahitary, when- inconvenience is obferved from them, for then die ait is one way or other relieved. When this ac- ent happens from difordered vifeera, efpecially if : liver, iplccn, or lungs, are the parts affcOtcd, the ifequcnce is generally fatal, by producing a drop- a he&ic, &c. Where topical applications cannot be admitted, the I remedies arc, a cool air, red, a fparing mild t, given in fmall quantities at a time, acidulated _nks, nitre, natron, vitriolat. and opiates in fmall es; Hoffman adds to thefe, frictions of the feet, 1 bathing them in warm water. If the diforder fymptomutic, the cure depends chiefly on the rc- val of the original dileafe. Pcrfons rarely die of mrrrbages, unlels the large arteries are divided ; butbut thofc who fuffer a great lofs of blood fall into a deiiquium, and then the hemorrhage hops: if the patient is thus left dead, as it were, in a moderately warm room, give only afmall quantity of flelh broth frequently, and thus drooping life may be fupported, until tht divided vcflcls contract. Thcfe who en- deavour to recover peril ns from the deliquiums which hemorrhages occaficn, by giving cordial liquors, do not reftorc the loll quantity of fluids, but increale the adtion of the veffels on their remaining contents, by which more blood is ftiil difeharged : again, if a large artery is not wounded, or l'uch a one as being, affixed to a bone, cannot rctradt itl’clf and dofc, the orifice, by the elafticity cf the veflcl, is contracted and concealed within the lips of the wound. Dr. llunter recommends, to leave all internal bar: orrhafts. to nature; and fays, that life is Cafe if the patient is permitted to faint. • As to external hamorrbages, which admit of topicd aifiitance, it may be obfen cd, that ahnoit all the fch.od difeharged from wounds, are difeharged from the ar- teries ; for pretty large veins, when divided, dilchargc but little blood. Sometimes the bleeding veflcl ad- mits of a comprcfs on the ruptured or wounded part; but when this cannot be effectually applied, the needle and ligature are the propereft means of rclitf. Hemorrhages in the mouth fometimes require the ac- tual cautery ; but in other cafes, cfcharotics are not advifeabte. Vide Wounds of the arteries. Hjkmorrhacia Nasi. Hamorrhagc, from the r.ofe. By Dr.Cullen, termed Epijiaxis. In molt cafes, by a proper application of cold, a temporary flop- page is put to this difeharge. The patient (hould be placed in a large apartment, with a current of cold air palling through it. His food and drink Ihouid be c Id. 11 is face frequently bathed, and e ven iinmwfcd in cold water, with a proportion of vinegar. A ftrong aftringent garglo Ihouid be ufed from time u timeH JF. ic, and comprefles, wetted in the fame liquid, juld be applied over the nofe. In bed, he ffyouid 1 lightly covered, and lay with his head as elevated rpoifible. When this treatment is ineffectual, com- jilion upon the ruptured veflel becomes ncceflary, nine-times a doffd of lint, introduced into the bleed- '' noftril, will be fuff.cient ; but when this fails, following method mud be adopted : Introduce a iiow curved tube, with a piece of catgut or lirm ixed thread in it, into one of the noftrils, and con- y it into the throat ; then, with a pair of forceps, .uv the ligature out at the month; now withdraw inftrument, and introduce another ligature of the Tie kind into the other noftril. A bolder of foft t, or a piece of fpongc, of lufKcient fue to fill tip : poftericur narcs, is now to be firmly tied to the o ends cf the ligatures hanging out cf the month, •d the oppoiite ends at the noftrils muft be pulled ■ward, till the bolder of lint or lponge is lirmiv plied to, and fixed in the upper part of the phu- uix.. This done, accmprefs of lint mud be applied each noftril, and fixed in this iituation, bv tyiiio, - two ligatures over it. The patient after this lhould put to left, and t!ie bolfters muft be continued a ancient time to admit of the ruptured veffeis’ herft- ■i- Vide Bili’t Surgery, vol. iv. and IVbtic s Sur- ry, p. 263. II^;v;or.juiordes, from eli//.a, blond, and i-u, to :o. I’bc h'CKorrbmlts, or files. A difeharge of blood irn the hatmorrhoidal veins is thus named, and is b called the open, or bleeding files: when, inftead this litemorrhage, there are l«?-ge tumours, which ~ generally painful at the lower part of the redtum, ey are called the blind/ihs. Dr. Cullen places this nus cf diicalb in the cluf, gyre.vier, and order her- irrhcigin. He diftinguiflies four fpecics : 1. Ihi- ,rfbots lumens, when there are external fwellim « the edge of the anus. 2. llweiicnbois frocidi •: . X whenH JE when the piles arc externa!, and caufcd by a bearing down of the anus. 3. Htemorrbois Jiuens, when the piles are internal, without external tumour, or bear- ing down of the anus. 4. Hsrmorrbois cceca, when there are pains and tumour about the anus, and no difeharge of blood. From diffefiions, this difeafe feems to be an ecchymc- fis in the ccllubar membrane of the lower part of the reftum, from the extremities of the neighbouring veffels : if this be true, it accounts for the great lois of blood this wav, without lofs of ftrength, for it is gradually emptied into the ecchymofis, and it is from thence that it pours out fo fcemingly plentifully. There is feldom much difeharge from the external haunorrhoidal veffels, but they readily admit of vari- ces being formed in them, which are painful. The internal haemorrhoidal veffels not only difeharge a large quantity, bur when fuppreffed, thofc diforders are generated which arife from dilorders of the liver, fplcen, pancreas, mcfcntcry, and inteftines. Near the extremity of the inteftinum reftum, in- ternally, arc little jagged proceffcs, fomewhat like the carunculae myrtiformes in the vagina, which are the feat of the internal, as well as of the external piles. Thole who arc of a lax, fpongeous habit, and dif- pofed to feed ; who eat heartily, and drink freely ; who indulge in cafe ; who arc habitually coftive, &c, are the moll 1'ubjciSl to this diforder. The piles often affeft pregnant women, from thd preffure of the uterus on the haemorrhoidal veins, i; all other cafes, the immediate caufc is a difficult cir dilation of the blood through the haemorrhoidal veins in confequcncc of their perpendicular firuntion, anq want of valves. The difeharge happens when th extremities of the veffels in the inteftinum rettum nr fo diftended by the accumulated blood, as to be re rumed, Whatever generates a redundance of bloccH JE X i be ictards its pafiagc through the ramifications of the i;£na porta;, or invites it in too large quantities to the jrsemorrhoidal veins, difpofes to this complaint. Aloes, . arlic, jalap, and even rhubarb, in feme conllitutions, rring on the piles, by deriving an afflux of humours > their feat : aromatic food, fweet and throng wines, nnger, grief, or any violent commotion of body or ’.aind, do the fame. The blind piles appear in the form of tubercles of ilferent fizes, from that of a pea, up to a pullet’s gg. They are diftinguilhed from other tubercles bout the anus, by their colour and refiftance to the ouch, for they appear livid or black, and, when nrefled by the finger, they feel like a bladder filled /ith water; which circumftances are not obferved in ther tubercles in the anus, or about it: fome of thefe re foft and not painful, others are hard, painful, and inflamed. This kind of piles generally appear n collive habits that are plethoric, and in women 'hat are pregnant, or after difficult labour, or fup- irefled xnenfes. If thefe blind piles burft, they form he open, or bleeding piles. The blind piles fome- mies caufe fuch afpafm in the anus, as renders fitting difficult, and the adminiftration of a glylter impofliblt ; tnd fometimes give rife to a fibula. The eruption of the haemorrhage in the open piles, is often pre- ceded by fpafmodic ftrittures, flatulencies, pain about die facrum, and various other fymptoms, which lilorder the whole frame. Jn the beginning of ex- teffive difeharges, the blood is black and grumous ; ifter this, it appears of a redder colour, and after :his, the dilchargc is ferous and mucous, refembling ■he white of egg : at length the ftrength is impaired, :he pulfe is languid and trembling, and a cachexy, au heftic fever, or a dropfy, comes on, and the cafe be- comes dangerous. The pih 3 are not always readily diftinguilhed ; iemc attention is l'omciimcs required, left theyH JE be confounded with the cholic, or a dy lent cry, or other tumours about the anus. When the caufe is a tumour in the liver or fpleen, a fatal atrophy, or. he<5Hc, is the confequencc. Ex- ec Hive hanuorrhoidal difeharges often terminate in dropftes ; but if they fucceed a dropfy from an indu- rated liver, death is at hand. On the contrary, mo- derate dilchargcs from the haemorrhoidal veins give great relief to the conditution that is opprefled by the gout, adhtna, ilchiatic paius, did ales of the kid— nies or bladder, hypochondriac, hyfteric, or maniac diforders, &c. Only thole difeharges of blood from the anus are to be deemed morbid, by which the pa- tient is enfeebled, and the digeftion, ike. are hurt, j The general indications are, i. To take od the incrcafcd impetus to the feat of the clifeafc, by bleed- ing, and (mall doles of ipecacuanha. 2. To induct an allriftion to the relaxed vefTcls ; this ftiould 1* clone (lowly ; and to this end, alum is a proper plication, or the bark may be ufed, but other vege- table aftringents arc too powerful. 3. To avoid all irritation, by regulating the ftools. An incautious ufe of improper diet will render the bed medicines ineffcfhial in this difeafe ; for which rcafon, carefully avoid all known exufes of it, and .every accident that can incrcafc it. Bleeding, at proper intervals, where there is a fan- guine plethora, will, in lome meafure, prevent the returns, or at lead, moderate the violence of thunj a light diet, that is cooling and laxative, iitould be kept to; broths and gruels arc ufcful, but fpirituous liquors (hould be fpanngly drank. When the piles do not bleed, they are attended! with conlidcrable pain; in which calc, d old Is of lint,] dipped in warm olive oil, may be applied, or otherl emollient liniment may be fpread on foft rage, and kept on with proper bandages: if the piles are trouble-I fome by their bulk, drefs them with a mixture of! funjndH JE X 3 Ucfor# T tuple lime-water, in which is a fmall quantity of iimphoratcd fpirit of wine, and a little cerufs. acetat, 'he fulphur ointments all'o have been ufed with ad- antage; likewife, an ointment of equal parts of *k galls ti nely powdered, and frelh butter; or orange irk, burnt and powdered, and mixed with butter. When the pain is internal, an infulion of galls may e injefted. The bowels muft be kept lax ; and for this end, lac elefl. c fenna comp. Sulphur, and the ol. ricini, are Ifo proper laxatives. If the want of tone in the reilum be a caufe, cha- /bente tindtures, with bitters, and cil'carilla, may e taken for l'ome time.' If other dil'orders attend, which conduce to the roclu&ion or continuance of the piles, inch rur.c- ics as are adapted to their removal, muft not be mitted. If the cafe requires the alTiftancc of a furgeon to heck the haemorrhage, a cooling purge m tv be ad- liniftcred, and five or fix hours b< tort the operation, ijedt aglvfter, then laying the patient >virh his belly crofs a bed or table, let an aifiltant leparate the nates, bcti the operator may fecurc the bleeding veins with lie tenaculum ; but if there arc tubercle., take hold [f them with the forceps, and cut them off, tying hem up alfo ; and be careful not to leave the linalkil ein op: u. If ;he profufion ceafes not thus, applv int, with proper coinpreffes, and the t bandage. If lie veins an high in the rettum, diftfncl it with a onvenient inftrumtnr, until the veins can be come at. * the blind piles encompafs the anus, fo as to pre- tnt the diftharges Ly ftool, and to prove otherwile roublclt.mc, remove the Lrgeft of them by a ligature, ■■'Inch, may he tightened daily until the tumour drops ft: hut before this attempt, let warm fpirit of wine ,c ufeci, in order to dilperfe it. If the diftended eln is high and inflamc-d, open it with a lancet.HER Before wc proceed to the ufe cf ligatures.. Mr. Bell advifes coinpreffion to be made on the bleeumg vefiels • thus, introduce a piece of fheep s gut, tied at one extremity* into the anus, then convey ja quan- Htv of water or any other fluid, into the end which might be employed with Uiccels. , Dift v;,lf Wirin's Inflitutcs; Lobb on painrui u J ,Ttail Operations, *«*.'. • * «£?•• &e o»W.c i <W. n'fi.Li"tS’ V01' " ’ Hernia* from .< ■ ‘ h X i * - 'K r 4't mo r.t.Mco cflort, part of the -fl1- confeqtier.ee of loin, hidden - I lhe nUCvftices dotninal contents are foited t * left between the tc“dlD°^' TScnes and biood- minal mufcles •, for the patfae j8 formed, ^ffi^^S^Va,in the d* and or^v^°^fi;atiou of there tumours, or According , obtam their te- from their contents, o bom, y thcll from their contents, or twin, “ / . kc th,it fpcaive denominations; though lorn SS from attending cirCumil»cc> r. 1 name from attending c - ventra!, &c, 2, r['hoic irom me ouiuvuv., TbMe ,,.V, enterv-cf'iplocrlc* t^a‘ou^ tt.e'indreer ucc msJ, iodetd tasv« hetnio, &.c. , 1. ... arc all tumours of the the true and fallc » > thc abj0IV)inal vifccr ferotum; but the true a - <r in ,hc !:,oin o defeending into it, and ■ other caufes ferotum ; whereas thc talle are horn ^HER hey begin below and afccnd upwards ; they are the ernia bumorcilis, hydrocele, hematocele, faroccle, &:c. :ney are not difplaccmcnts of parts, bat a morbid -ate of, or difeafes in the part where the tumour ap- •ears. This accident being unattended with rupture, or ivifton of the containing parts, the whole of the ifcai'c mu ft at firft be confidered as a change of ttntion of the contained parts; and, as fuch, were ney immediately returned, and kept in their place, he difordcr would entirely ceafe ; but continuing in ■hat preternatural fituation, they are prelfed upon by he tendons through which they pafs, and the circu- ition of blood being obftrafted, inflammation and mortification ipeedily fupervtne; which, however, s not owing to any change of ftate in the tendons, ■ut merely to the-r natural elafticlty, afting upon an ncreafed and yielding fubjacent bulk. The obftaele o the reduction of the prolapfed contents is, there- ore, the increafed bulk which they have acquired rom ftrifture, by which they become incapable of cturning through the fame paffage at which they feaped. It afliftancc is called to the patient in time, the cturn of the protruded parts muft be attempted by uch means as caufe the veffels to contraft, thereby liminithing the bulk of the folids, and repelling the Uriels, fuch as cold, aftringent, and ftimularing ap- ’lications. Emollients arc abfolutely to be avoided, or they cannot relax the tendons ; but they may, and often do, enlarge the bulk of the biT/iia, and render ts reduftion more difficult, if not impofliblc. Cold tftringents Ihoulil be immediately applied, fee and lalt s an excellen' application ; at the lame time, thefe nav be af lifted by a gentle but continued com ore i lion ’■i the part with the lingers, or with fmall boaters of oft linen cloth ; by continuing thefe eftorts for tome dnie, the vclTeis b.coiiie. vifiblv his diftended. the 4 linoHER fwclling grows flaccid; at length, the ftri&urc gives way, and the dilordcr is removed. When all proper attempts fail to reduce the con- tents of an bnnta, the fooner the operation is per- formed the better; but when there are evident ligns of the inteftine being in a mortifying hate, fuch as the tumour having loft its rcuitencc, 5;c. Mr. Gooch recommends it as a very reafonablc practice to n.ake an incil'u.n into the tumour, ample enough to evacuate the faeces freely, which may effectually re- move the ftrangulation cf the inteltine at the abdo- minal ring, ar.d then to treat the wound as a morti- fication, not being over bufy with the knife in cut- ting away what appears to have loft its vitality, but allowing nature to throw eft" the mortified dough. If it is a doubtful point what condition the parts, con- tained in the tumour, are in, proceed with caution in the operation, until you come to the intcftinc, and if that is mortified, open it too; and if the evacu- ation of the faces do not effectually make way for the return of the parts, the abdominal ring muft be opened by incifion. Hut, after replacing the bnnial contents, to retain them requires very often the abidance of a bandage, ora proper com pi el's. Mr. Pott obferves, “ all that can be done by furgery towards the cure of a btvnio, is to replace the proluplcd body or bodies in the cavity of the bcllv, and to prevent them from flipping out again. When whatever formed the tumour is re- placed, the fiirgcqn has done his part ; the ttft is nature’s: whether the tendinous aperture will fo contraft as to prohibit a future delccnt or nor, is matter of uncertainty, and not to be known but from the event.” .. W hen a rupture happens, and is unattended with any ftgns of flriCtunv or other violent fymptoms, a band ige or a tuffs will be the mod eligible means of relief. A. to the mules ol operation, when the knil-'II E R life is neceffarv, vide the rcfpcftive fpecies of this iforder, and the authors referred to at the conclu- an of this article. . Hernia Congenita, is a rupture where the in- tiftine and tcfticle are found in contraft. The teftes :e originally lituated in the abdomen, juft be- eath the kidneys, and gradually defeend near the me of birth through the Ihearh of the fpcrmatic iioid into the ferotum, each carrying along with it rperitoneal coat, which makes the tunicae vaginales. his difeovery was made by Dr. Hunter, in the year 755, aliiftcd by his brother Mr. John Hunter; it as demonftrated by the doctor in his public ledtures sat year. iSoon after the birth of the child, the commuuica- on between the tunics vaginales and the abdomen, obliterated by the ftridture of the parts; but if the teftine falls very foor, ft prevents this ftri&ure. om taking place, and thus this kind of henna is rmed. In the treatment of this fpecies of rupture, ttlc'difference occurs from the management of the ubonocelc, in its more ordinary form. 1 Hernia Fetnoraln, called alio, lLrnia Crural's. •his fpecies of rupture is the fame in both fexes, and rmed by the falling of the omentum, or inteftinc, both of them, into the infide of the thigh, through e arch made bv the os pubis and ligamentum illopii, where the iliac velfels and tendons of the oas and iliacus internus mul'clcs pafs from the ab- nmcn. Vide Buhoxocele. Treat it firft by the me general methods as is propofed for ruptures in neral; if the operation is nceelfary, proceed as for e bubonocele, with the dilfercnce of dilating the c ligament inftcadof the rings of the mufcles ; the lation muft be made obliquely outwards, inftcad perpendicularly upward., to avoid dividing the ■ftcls. Hernia Paratninis Magni Ifcbii, is when the in- teftincsHER teftines or omentum fall through the great hole of the ifehium into the internal part of the thigh, between and under the two anterior heads of "he triceps niufcle. In fuch a cafe, there muft be great laxity of the ligament, and the inteftinc ruuft lie behind the pcdtincus mufcle, wherefore no pref- fure can be ufed to keep it up, and the operation cannot be attended \v ith i'ucccfs; becaufe, as the in- teftine is ftrangulated, the oriiice cannot be dilated, by rcafon of the vicinity of the veffels. Iioma Hnworal/s, called alfo infiammalio tfjhitm. This is often a difeafe of the tunica vaginalis of the tcfticle only: it conlifts of an inflamma- tion and dwelling there ; bur any of the integuments of the tefticlcs, or the tefticlcs tbcmfelvcs, may be the feat. Dr. Swcdiaur fays, that the tcfticle itfclf is never fwclled, or in the lenft affedted, in the begin- ning of this complaint; and that the only affefred and fwellcd part is the epididymis. He adds, that if the tcfticle becomes fwclled, it is not until after the other part is affedted, and that from bad treatment. It is mod frequently a venereal fymptom, but m.v alfo happen from irritation, from bruiles, and other external injuries. It may terminate any of the ways that are common to inflammation in other parts. It is often caufed by a ftoppage of a venereal go- norrhoea, or rather from a tranfpofition of the vene- real poil'on ; cr, in other words, the irritation of the poifon tranfpofed to a different place in the urethra; viz. the caput gallinaginis, or the mouth of the ex: cretory dudts of the icminal vcftcles ; in which calc brilk purgatives, if they produce a return if th running, are ul'cful. Vomits, when the cjnftitutKi can bear them, powerfully afiift in removing thi difordcr wbilft in its inflammatory Rate; but the Ihouiil not be given until tiie inflammation begins t givre wav', and then the pulv. ipecac, is as ufcful as .s hydrargr. vitriolat. VWhatever be the caufe, endeavour to remove the ‘lamination and tumour, by bleeding according to ,e ftrength of the patient; let the bleeding be im- ediatcly luccecded by a brifk purge, and let the jical application be of the common aftringent and emulating kind, fuch as Goulard’s faturnine water; f: them be applied cold by means of rags folded veral times, and repeat them as often as they grew .arm and begin to dry. In want of. this water, a ixture of vinegar and brandy may be nfed; thus, the part is fufpended properly, and if the patient n conform to lay much on his back, this tumour ill be removed in a fliort time, without the ufual olent pain or the hardnefs remaining afterwards, ihich is almoft the conftant eft eft of emollients. As on as the inflammatory fymptoms abate, mercury ay be preferibed internally, and the ungt. hydrargyr. rt. may be rubbed on the ferotum every night, iher to prevent or remove any degree of induration. ., notwithftanding every endeavour to the contrary, Tuppuration cannot be prevented, an emollient ca- plafm muft be applied warm, and continue until a se dilchargc of the matter is effefted. The knife ufually preferred for opening this kind of abfeefs ith ; but care is required, left the tcfticle fliould be aunded : the dreilings may be the fame as direfted r abfcelfes in general. On abfeefles in the tcfticlcs, de Kirkland's Med. Surg. vol. ii. Dr. Swediaur propofes, in cafes of virulent gonor- icea, in order to prevent the hernia humoral's, lat the patient avoids expofmg himfelf to cold, olent exercife, venery, ftrong purges, and that he ceps the ferotum duly fufpended. If the hernia .imoralis takes place, he propofes, firft, to allay ie irritation, and then to rccal the poifon to its irmer original feat: to this end, if the pulfe is uick, full, and ftrong, bleed immediately, but with i duedue regard to the conftitution. If coftive, a glvftir fhould next be admiriiftcrcd, to empty the prefer,t contents of the inreftincs : after this, if it can be conformed to, the patient may fit half an hour in a warm bath, or on a perforated chair over the fleam cf hot water, for the fame of length of time, pre- vioufly fufpending his telbiclcs. From thence he muft go to bed, and a warm drv bag-trufs Ihould be immediately applied. After this, a warm bread poul- tice may be applied to the penis to re-produce the running, or determine the retropulfed poifon to i’s original feat again. And what is peculiarly ben.- iiiial is, to give a full dole of opium by the mouth} or in its ftcad, a glylber of ol. linn, and aq. hord. :a p. atq. cum tin£b. opii gt. xl.lx. The diet muft be lew When the running returns, relief is proportionab* obtained. If required, repeat the opiate every twenty-four hours; and the parts muft be expofid two or three times a day to the fleam of hot water. Dr. SzveJiaur’s Obf. on Venereal Complaints. Vide Aikins\ Obf. on Prep, of Lead ; L' nd. Aled. Obfb and Inq. vol. iii. j). i ca, Sic. Hernia hearer rata. he .rc.ra'nl, imfnri/bner/, or on fine,i bt mi.:, is either when the protruded in- teitinc lb adheres that it cannot be returned, or when it cannot be returned, becaulc of the flatus or othir matter which i. defeended into it, not being capable of a return. Its 1. inpioms are, a levelling in the groin and upper part of the fcrotuin, larger or fmallcr according to the quantity of contents, very painful to the touch, and refilling tile inq refs of the fingers; the pain is incrcafcd by coughing, fncezing, or ftand- ing upright; and there is a frequent vomiting, with a l’upprtflion of alt dil’charge by the anus, and a fever prefaotly comes on. If fpeedv relief i> r.vt obtained, the confcqucnce i> fatal. \ try copious or repeated bleeding, and a proper poll are, 1HER ofturc, arc the principal helps; the patient Ihould .e laid with his hips much higher than his fhoulders, id thus, by gently railing the ferotum, and a light refiure on the tumour, the inteftine may return ; nail doles of opium may be given at due intervals ; at if there is an adhclion, the operation is neceflarv : id if a gangrene is obferved in the detained intef- nnc, keep the found part of it lb united with the oerture in the groin, as to be the future anus. Hernia Scrotal/s. It is when the omentum, the teftine, or both, protrude and defeend into the rrotum. It is called a perfect rupture, in contra- ftin&ion to a bubonocele, which is the lame dif- dcr, only that the delcent is not lb low. The rnia fcrotalus is diftinguilhed into the true and lfe; the true is, when the omentum, or inteftine, both, fall down into the ferotum; the falfe is, hen a humour or inflammation caufes a tumour in is part; l'uch as in the cafe of an hydrocele, hernia imoralis, &c. Hernia Umbilicalis, called alfo exompbalos, is when c omentum, or inteftine, or both, protrude at the vel. If this rupture is attended to in due time, a ndage properly littcd to the parts will generally feft a cure. When a portion of gut alone is pro- itded, the ufual fymptoms of a ftrangulnted hernia' c apt to be induced. If the ufual means for rc- rning the gut do not fuccced, the ftrirturc muft be moved, by an operation, which is performed as Hows: make a free incifion in the cuurle of the rnour, and on laying the protruded parts bare, utioully divide the fac ; if the parts are in a proper ite to be returned, but cannot be without cnlarg- g the opening, introduce your finger, and divide far as necelfary, with a blunt-pointed billoury. o avoid dividing the ligament, formed by the uni- ical veffels, make tire incifion on the left fide of c umbilicus, and carry it a little obliquely up- V wardsHER wards and outwards. When the protruded parts ran nor be fafely returned from their dileafed ltate, proceed as direfted in the Bubonocele. Hernia Centralis. This may happen iu almoft any point of the fore part of the belly, but is mod frequently found between the refti mufcles, either above or below the navel. It is generally large, and is only to be relieved by returning the protruded parts, and preventing their return by a proper bandage. The tumour which requires this opera- tion, is fcldom bigger than a walnut ; fo when there arc the fymptoms of a hernia, and yet no appearance of one in the groin, the belly ihoitld be examined. The manner of relieving the ftridture will be by di- lating the part, as in other cafes. But after the ope- ration, a bandage mud always be worn, as the cica- trix cannot be trullcd to. See Lc Draft's Operations; Mem. de 1’Acad, Roy. dc Chirug. Sharp's Operations; Sharp’s Critical Enquiry; Monf. Arnauti on Ruptures; Pott on Ruptures; Gooch's Treatifc on Wounds, p. 427, &c. and Bell's Surgery, vol. i. Herpes, from h~*, to fpread or creep. Tetter. Thcfe diforders arc apt to creep on and fpread about in the (kin. Dr. Cullen places this genus of difeafe, in the clafs locales, order dialyfes, and de- fines it, pklrflrnec, or a great number or fmall ul- cers, crowding together, creeping, and difficult to heal. Mr. Bell, in his Trcatife on Ulcers, places the tinea and the herpes, as varieties in his fpcciesof ulcer, which he denominates cutaneous. He further ob- ferves, that the cutaneous ulcer may in all its varieties be included in the four following ; viz. 1. The herpes farinofus ; which includes what fome call the dry tet- tar. 2. Herpes puBulofus ; which include, the crufta laftca, and the time capitis. 3. Hopes miliaris; of| this variety is the ulcerous eruption called the ring- worm.HER vonn 4, Herpes cxcedens ; this includes the ulcers ailed depafeenr, and phagedenic. The herpes farinofus is the moll limple kind. It ppears on any part of the body, molt frequently on he face, neck, arms, or wrifts ; it comes out in broad- Hh fpots, which confift of very fmall red pimples, which arc attended with a troublefome itching ; they oon fall off in the form of a white powder, which rc- embles fine bran ; they leave the (kin perfectly found, out are apt to return in the form of a red efflore- cence, fall off, and renew as before. The herpes puftulofus occurs muff frequently in children, generally attacks the face, and behind the ars ; often on other parts of the head alfo, but rarely dfewh.erc. It appears in the form of puftulcs, which tre originally feparate and diftinft, but afterwards 'un together in clufters. At firft, they feem to con- ain nothing but a thin watery ferum, which after- .vards turns yellow, and exuding over the whole l'urr ace of the part affeflcd, at lad dries into a thick cruft or fcab: when this falls off, the (kin below frequently ippears entire with only a flight degree of redrafts oh rs furface ; but on fomc occaltons when the matter las probably been more acrid ; upon the fcab falling oft, the (kin is found gently excoriated. Vide Ac ft or. The herpes miliaris generally appears in clufters, though fometimes in diftindt circles of very minute pimples. Thefe are at firft pcrfcdtly feparate, and contain only a clear lymph, which, in the courfe of the difcale, is excreted upon the furface, and there forms into fmall diftindt fcat.es ; thefe at laft fall off, and leave a confide table degree of inflammation below, that ft ill continues to exude frelh matter, which like- wife ferns into cakes, and fo falls off. The itching in this fort of ulcer, is always very troublefome, and the matter difeharged from the pitnples is lb tough and vifeid, that every thing applied to the part ad- heres fo as to occafion much trouble and uncaliticls to Y 2 t heHER the patient on its being removed. The whole body is fubjedt to this difordcr, but it moft frequently ap- pears on the loins, bread, perinseum, ferotum, and groins. The herpes exedens difeovers itfclf on any part of the body, but moflly about the loins, where it fome- times fpreads to fuch a degree as to extend quite round the waift. At firft, it ufually appears in the form of fcveral fmall ulcerations, collcdled into larger fpots of different furs and of various figures, with al- ways more or lefs of an eryfipelatous like inflamma- tion. Thcfc ulcerations difeharge large quantities of a thin, iharp, ferous matter, which fometimes forms into finall crufts that in a fhort time fail off; but moft frequently the difeharge is fo thin and acrid, as to fpread along the neighbouring parts, and there to { produce the fame kind of fores. Though thefe ex- coriations or ulcers, do not in genera! proceed further than the true fkin, yet fometimes the difeharge is fo ; very penetrating and corrofivc, as to deftroy the fkin, the cellular membrane, and, on fume occafions, the mufclcs themfelvcs. Dr. George Fordyce fpcaks of an inftancc of this difeafe, under the name of herpes rapiens; and fays, it arifes upon the head in finall ulcers, covered with a brown inoift cruft, and fhining, but fimilar to venereal ulcers. He adds, its cure is the fame as for the vene- real ulcers, which fee. In the cure of thefe various cuticular difeafes, it lias been generally believed to be unfafe, and even dangerous, to proceed in any other way, than by cor- recting the original diforder of the fluids, which was fuppoled to produce them. It may occafionally hap- pen, that fomc difordcr in the general habit is attend- ant on any of thefe ulcerous complaints, and that a regard thereto may be required; but in the greateft number of inftanccs, they are more certainly and more fpeedily removed bv the ufe of loc<d remedies merely.H E R j.iercly. In many difeafcs of the Ikin, antimonials are requently given with advantage, but their efficacy items principally to depend upon their producing a etermination to the Ikin, and keeping up a free dif- harge of the matter of perfpiraticn; which, from i.arious caufes, is long retained on the l'urface of the I ody, and there becomes acrid, and doubtlefs is a fre- uent caufc of difordered affedtions in this part. Ac- ! ordingly, all fuch remedies are more or lcls effectual, s they arc more or lei’s powerful in keeping up a rce perfpiration. This is further evident by cbferv- ig, that a due ufe of the warm bath, is as efficacious i thefe cafes, as the ufe of antimonials and other medi- ines fuppofed to carry off morbid particles through he Ikin. In the treatment of every herpetic difor- er, tlie firft and principal circumftance to be attended o, is, that not only the parts affedted, but even the rholc l'urface of the body, be kept as clean and perfpi- ablc as poffible; to this end, the frequent ufe of warm lathing, and of frequent gentle fridlions, with clean inen cloths (in the dry forts of thefe complaints) are nngularly ferviceable. In the milder inftances, the ollowing externals generally fuffice : i. The aq. cal- ls fi. ufually is all that is required in her pa farinofus. ■ The folutions of lead in vegetable acid, i:. alio very ffcdtual; the following is a uleful general form : R Jeruf. aettat. Jfs. Acer, acerim. J iv. aq. font. dift. Ijij. m. This may be applied in the form of cata- >lalm, mixed with bread, or by means of foft rags lipped into it, and laid directly on the parts. In onie particular and more inveterate cafes, the follow - ng is fometimes to be .preferred ; viz. R Ilydrargyr. nuriat. gr. x. aq. font. dift. jfoj. m. This is very fficacious as an embrocation in any of thefe diforders. n the more obftinate inftances of this complaint, the treated care is required that perfpiratidn is duly fup- iorted, viz. warm diluent drinks frequently taken, as ‘•'ell as the ule of the warm bath. The ant. crud. Y i 'HER ppt. to 3 ij- in the day, if mixed with a little g. guaiac. is an admirable aiiiftant to the difeharge through the fkin, and contributes further aid by its efficacy in un- loading the bowels. In the more vigorous and pletho- ric habits, cooling laxatives are peculiarly beneficial. I flues are fometimes ncccffary in the more inveterate forts of herpes. In the hopes exedens, a degree of in- flammation often attends that requires attention ; here the faturnine applications, above all others, check its progrefs, and at length totally remove it. But if, as it fometimes happens, the herpetic ulcer has made its way into the mufclcs, the following ointment is pre- ferable to cither the faturnine folution, or that of hy- ilrargyr. murcat. R Zinci. pulv. fubtilis. 3 ij. axung. porcin. Svj. m. The ungt. faturnine of the diiflrent difpenfatories, is alfo an ufcful application in this laft mentioned inftance. But care muff be taken that this ointment is not become rancid. If, notwithlianding the ufe of the above, the difordcr is unconquerable, it may be fufpedted that a venereal taint at the fame time fubfifts in l'uch a patient. A flight herpetic dil- ordcr becomes obftinate by being accompanied with the itch : in fuch cafes, attention mult be had to luch difeafcs rcfpedtivcly, before thole of the herpetic kinds can be removed. In fome in dances of the herpes exedens, the following bolus has been ufed with con- fidcrablc advantage: R. Hydrargyr. calcin. gr. jfs. Confcft. opiata; 9j. in. oiTin. nodt. fumend. Mr. Bell obferves, there is a fjiecics of herpes, which aft'edls the face, and to which females are particularly liable. After fulphureous and mercurial applications have failed, the following tvalh has been uled with advantage : R Sulpliuris pracipitati 3 'j- CerufT.e ncctat.e 3j. Aq. Rofar. Jviij. m. noftc maiuq. utendum, phial* prius agitata. \ idc Turner on Dilealcs of the Skin, Bell on Ulcers, and H'bJc'j Surgery. , ‘ HydaR-HYD Hydarthrus. A white /welling. This term is implied to luch enlargements of the joints as arc not •tended with external inflammation or dil’colouration. lidr. Bell divides them into two fpecies, viz. 'The Rhett- talic, and The Saophnlous. Thefe i'wellings may oc- iur in every joint of the body, but are more frequent a the large than in the fmaller joints. "The fynijjtoms of the fwjl Aperies, which is the mod tuple, and frequently admits of cure ; are an acuta Lain over the whole joint, and frequently in the .aponeurotic expanfion of the mufcles connected with The whole of the furrounding teguments are ..veiled, and there is often conliderablc tenfion. From Lie pain which the patient fufFers on moving the joint; e keeps it in a relaxed Hate, conflantly bent, which himately produces a ffiflf joint. If by nature or pro- ber medicines, the difeafe is not now removed, the ..veiling gradually incrcafes to twice or thrice the .atural fize of the part. The cuticular veins become arg’id and varicofe ; the limb below the levelling dc- ays, and frequently becomes cedematous; the pain icrcafcs, and is confidcrably heightened by the /armth of the bed ; ableefles form in different parts f the fwelling ; on preflfure, a fluctuation is dilcover- d in them; but independently of the fluctuation, all jch I'wellings afford a very peculiar claftic feel, yicld- lg to preflure, and rifing on the preflure being re loved. When thefe collections break, or are opened, here is generally a confidcrablc purulent dilchargc, of good confidence at firft, but foon becomes thin and ctid. This difeharge, however, does not leflen the .zc of the levelling much, it retains nearly its former imenfions. The orifices, if not kept open, foon heal, nd again break out, until the furrounding teguments re often covered with cicatrices. Before the dileale .as arrived at this Hate, the patient’s health is con- idcrably impaired ; he lofes both deep and appetite, rom the unremitted violence of the pain. 'I he ab- lurptioiiHYD forption of the matter produces a quick puife, night fwcats, and a weakening diarrhoea, which ultimately prove fatal, if the limb is not removed ; or, the difeai'e cured bv feme other means. 'The fympiotns of the ft con J fpecies, which is the moft inveterate, arc, a more acute pain than in the rheumatic fpecies, and more confined to a particular fpot, moft frequently the middle of the joint; the 1 welling is at firft very in confide ruble, fo much io, that even when the pain has been very violent, but little difference could be difeovered in the fue of the difeafed and found joint. As the difeafe advances, the pain becomes more violent, the fweliing incrcafes, and the ends of the bones compofing the joints are evidently enlarged. After fome time, the tumour be- comes eiaftic, the veins varicofe, and matter is formed in different parts of it, which, upon being difeharged, is confiderable in quantity, fometimes purulent, but more frequently th n and fetid. On introducing a probe, if it can be puffed to the bottom of the fores, the bones will be found carious, and pieces of them arc often difchnrgcd at the openings. As the dif- eafe proceeds, night fweats, Sec. come on. 7be caifes of ike firft [fears, arc drains affecting the ligaments of the joints, producing inflammation ; bruifes, difloc-itions, or rheumatic arteflion. b oung, phleihoric peifoils are moft frequently th< fubiefts of this fpecies. As this is always at firft in damn "tory, bleed topically, and repeat it according to the violence of the fymptoms and ftrength of the patient. If nip- ping is employed, apply the inftruincnt on each fide t<f the difeafed joint. Leeches muft be applied on rhe fame part. After this, apply a blifier on the anteriour part of the joint, and renew it, until the wounds from whence the blood was taken are healed, then a bliftt r Ihould be put on one fide of the joint, and when that is healed, rhe other fide muft be bliftcred. (.h oling laxatives, and a ftrief antiphLgiftic treatment muft he \H Y D lircdfed; when the inflammation is removed, and here are no fymptoms of matter forming, mercurial ridfion has been employed with fuccefs. It mud be ift'd for fome weeks to keep the mouth merely fore. .u.e Dran recommends pouring warm water from a weight on thefe fvvellings, as highly beneficial. When he joint becomes ftiff from the bent pofition in which :t has been kept, a free ufe of emollients, as diredted :n article distortio, mull be adopted. When fup- juration comes on, open the different abfeeffes. ‘The fecorui Jpccies, is feldom oecafioned by any ex- crnal accident. It generally begins without the pa- ient being able to account for it. From the effedts it .iroduces on the bones it attacks, it would appear to .e a fpecies of the real fpina ventola ; and which is probably a difeafe of the fame nature in the bones, as he fcrophula is of the foft parts. This fpecies of .veiling is generally attended with other fymptoms of crophula, or the patient has been fubjedt to that difi- rder at an early period of his life. When thefe .veilings arc attended with other fymptoms of fero- hula, we may pronounce it of a lcrophulous nature, n the lmall joints, if the difeafed bones come away, y aififting nature, a cure may poflTibly be effedfed. ut in the large joints, particularly of the knee and tkle, amputation is the only probable rel'ource, but it tould not be advifed till the difeafe is far advanced, tr fliould it ever be recurred, until every means tor ving the limb have been employed. From every fymptom and appearance on diflfedtion, tis fpecies of white fwelling, feems to be an affedtion the bones only ; the furrounding foft parts fullering tly from their conncdtion. Vide Hell on Ulcers, lonro's Works, 4x0 edition 1781, p. 460. Edin. Med. flays, vol. iv. Lond. Med.Tranf. vol. i. White's, Sur- :ry, aud a Paper on this fubjedt in a Colledtion of •athological Inquiries and-Oblcrvations on Surgery, ' Riek.rd Broiun Cbejlu/i, lurgeon to the Glouccfter firmary. IIvdro-H Y D Hydrocele, from dJuy, water, and a tumour Is when water is in the contents of ruptures, buf part cularly is applied to a dropfy in the ferotum, called alio bydrops tiftis, and hernia aquofa. Dr. Cullen places this genus of difeafe in the clafs cachexia, anc order mtumejeentue. There are two kinds : the firft is when the water is lodged in the cells of the membrana cellularis fcro- t:, but this is generally a ivmptom of an anafarca The fecond, and only proper fpecies, is formed By water lodged within the tunica vaginalis of the tef tide. The firft is known by pits remaining for : time where it is imprefled by the finger: the fecond is not fubjedt to this accident. The caufe, when not anafarcous, is a preternatu- ral difeharge of that water, which is continually fc- parating on the internal furface of the tunica vagina- lis, for the moiftening, or iubricating the tefticle. From the time of its firft appearance, it is feldom known to difappear, or diminilh, but generally con- tinues to increafc, though in fome much faftcr that in others. In one, it grows to a painful degree of diftenfion in a few months ; in another, it continue! many years, with little difturbance. As it enlarges, it becomes more tenfc, and is fometimes tranfparcnt, fc that if a candle is held on the oppefite fide, a de- gree of light is perceived through the whole bulk of the tumour; but the only pofitive way of knowing that a fluid is the contents, is to feel for the fluctua- tion, or to difeover that the diftenfion of the tunica vaginalis is the caufe of the tumour, and not an hernia of the omentum, or inteftines, or fomc,other difordcr of the part. The hydrocele inuft be diitinguifhcd from an herni' of the abdominal contents, an hernia humoralis, ant a farcocrle. In order to the cure, if the water is lodged onl_y in the cellular membrane, fcarifications may bo mateH Y D n the legs, as in an anafarca; for in this cafe, an ana!area is attendant, and the caufe of the dirtenticri if the ferotum. If the cafe is a proper hydrocele, if any other dif- prder is fufpefted to give rife to it, the original dif- IIorder muft iirft be removed. If no i'uch dil'order at- tend, as a palliative cure, the trochar, or a lancet Mr. Bell recommends a flat trochar) may be ptifhcd | nto the feat of the water, in order to its difeharge ; I nd as the teftide lies always on the pofterior part I f the tumour, the perforation mult be made into the I nterior and lower part of it. The water thus dif- Iharged, its return may perhaps be prevented, by mpioying fuch general means as promote abforption", /ith fome topical applications,' of which, vinegar ■ nd brandy is probably the belt. I To obtain what is termed a radical cure, that is, I ) produce an union between the tunica vaginalis, I id albuginea, and thus obliterating the cavity, I Inch is the leat of the difeafe, various methods have 1 een propofed. Mr. Pott recommends a feton. Mr. 1 ukcr, of St. Thomas’s llofpital, employed a cauftie, hicli method was afterwards ltrenuoufly recom- I ended and extolled, by Mr. Kile. Mr. 'Earle ad- fes injection, and Mr. Bell, incifion. Which of tele methods arc 10 be preferred, i cannot prefume i fay. I have feen them all luccecd repeatedly. It the method by Sf.to.v, is adopted, choole a time I hen the vaginal coat is moderately diftended, and J whig pierced it with a trocar of a tolerable fi/c, B aw oft the water. This done, introduce into the Inula, a probe, armed with a feton, confiding of n or twelve firings or threads of fill; , pals the probe high to the upper part of the vaginal coat as you n, and'on the end of that probe, make an inrtfion fuch a lize, as to enable you to pull it out eafily, gether with a part of its annexed feton, then cut tlie probe, and tie ihe iilk very loofely, coveringH Y D the orifices with plcdgits. By the next ddy, the fetou will be found to adhere to the tunica albuginea, but do not offer to detach it. In about eight and forty hours, the ferotum will begin to (well and inflame. Now apply a foft poultice over the whole tumefied part, and l'ufpcnd it in a bag trufs. Bleed, and pro- cure 'the. patient a ftool or two ; the reft of the treatment is as in hernia humoralis, by fomentations, poultices, See. Do not meddle with the feton, till it is perfectly loofc, or till the inflammation is going, and the humours fubfiding; then daily draw a thread or two, until they are all removed, and heal the orifices with a fupctficial pled git. Vide Putt’s Account of the Method of obtaining a radical Cure of the Hyitrocele. In the method by' Caustic, proceed thus: lay a fmall caufiic upon the anterior inferior part of the ferotum, taking care to avoid the teflicle. A cauftic the fize of fixpenee is. Sufficiently.large: It ffiould never lay on lei. than five hours, but, if well guarded, no inconvenience will arife •from its being left twenty-four hours. On removing the cauftic, digeftives, or a bread and milk poultice, rhuft be ap- plied. In about forty-eight hours, but lbmuuiues not fo foon, the tunica vaginalis becomes-hanr ami tenfe, which is perceptible in the ferotum. If th<* patient’s pulfe is quickened, and complains of pain in the back, with colic pains, bleed;- and drrtiT- a glyfter, and repeat them if occafion requires, l iitic removed, the patient need not b confined to his bed, but may walk about if the icrotpm is lufpc ruled' In a few days,. theclch.mwilj come awav, arid when the floughv tunica vaginalis project throttgh the ori- fice of the ferotum, and feein- ready to burft; punc- ture it w ith a lancet. • This is only receflary, how- ever* to relieve the weight of the tumour. 1 he Houghs will come awav with the daily dreifings tor four, five, or fix weeks, and, in proportion to the dilcliarge.difcharge, the hard tumour of the fcrotum leifens. tUpen carting off the laft Hough, .the hardnefs is en- i tirely gone, and the wound immediately cicatrizes, 'Vide Elfe on the Hydrocele cf the Tunica Vaginalis Fcftis. The method by Incision, is as follows. The ypatient being placed upon a table of a convenient height, properly fecured by two affiftants, and the fcrotum lying nearly upon the edge of the table, firmly grafp the tumour with one hand, fo as to r.make ir fomcvvhat tenfe on the anterior part, then with a common round-edged fcalpcl, divide the ex- ternal teguments by one continued incifion, from the uperior extremity of the tumour, along its anterior iurface, to the moil depending point of the fwelling. Thus, the tunica vaginalis is laid bare from one ex- tremity to the other, about the breadth cf half an nch. Now make an opening with a lancet, at the ipper extremity of the vaginal coat, big enough to receive your finger, which introduce, and with the orobc-pointed biftoury, conducted upon your finger, 'ividc the fac to the bottom in the courfc of the firft aicifion. If the teftis protrudes from the wound, cplacc' it with caution, and preclude the exter- lal air from it as quickly as poflible, which, if tone Of the tunica vaginalis is to be removed, aay be immediately done, by finifhing the drdT- ag dirc&ly on the fac being opened. If the fac i not very hard, and not very thick, it will not e ncccfTiry to remove any portion of it. As foon as tie incifion has been made, infert between the tuni- i vaginalis, and the body of the teftis, flips of foft nen, fpread with fomc Ample ointment. They pro- ucc list's irritation than dry lint, and are afterwards lore eafiiy removed. Vide Bell's Syftem of Surgery, ol. i. When the method by Injection is employed, the turncur is very large, it muft be emptied, and Z theHYD the water again fuffercd to accumulate, till about fix ounces arc collc&ed. Then tap the cyft in the ufual inode, and injeft through the canula of the trochar, as much of the following injc&ion, made blood warm, as will diftend the tumour to its original fize : R Vini rubi ^xij. aquae, purae Jiv. m. Let the injetted liquor remain Four or five minutes, and then profs it out. If confidcrablc inflammation arifes, apply the bread and milk poultice. Vide Monro on the Tumours of the Scrotum, in the Edinb. Med. Effays, vol. v. Lond. Med. Journal, vol. xi. and White % Surgery. Hydrophobia, from dJuy, water, and to fear. A Drecui of Water. It is a fymptom of that lpccics of madncl's caufcd by the bite of a mad ani- mal, whence the diftemper is called fo itfelf; but this fymptom is not peculiar to this difeafe, nor always •attendant on it. This diforder is alfo called rabies canina. Dr. James obferves, that this kind of mad’- ticfs properly belongs to the canine genus, confining of three fpecies, viz. dogs, foxes, and wolves, to whom only it lee-ms inherent and natural, fcarcely ever appearing in other animals, except it be infiidled by thofe of the dog-kind. Dr.' Hcyfham defines it to be an aVcrfion and horror at liquids, as exciting a painful convullion of the pharynx, occuri'ig at all indetennined period, after the canine virus has been received into the fyftfm. The hydrophobia is a nervous diforder, though followed by inflajnmatory 1\ mptoms. Dr. Calien places this genui of dii'eafe in the clafs ncufofis, and order fpafrhi. He diftinguifhes two fpecies ; t. Hy- drophobia rabiqfa, when there is a defire of biting. 2. Hydrophobia fimplex, when there is'not. a deli rev at biting. * , Tlte general divifions of this diforder is into the dumb, and the raving iriadnefs; but'inftahc'cs are re- lated, In which it has'appeared periodiddlly.H Y D The, principal and original feat fccms to be about :he ftomach, and parts contiguous to it. Dr. Scleg hinks that it is in.the par vagum and inijercoftal terves; for molt. of the l'ymptoras happen where '. iicfe nerves are interfperfed. The fmalleft quantity’of. the faliva of a mad dog, and,that either freflr or dry, produces this difcaie. file infection may lay dormant for many months, 4ut, in general, it appears in three or four weeks, and f in, lix weeks no fign of difordcr manifells itlclf, ;fte patient is ufually concluded to be fafe. Some nave obferved, that the nearer the place bitten is to die fad vary glands, the fooner the lymptoms appear, n order to communicate the infection, a wound leents .p be no more ncccllary than it is in the linall-pox; o man it is communicated by the faliva only, but dogs .have received it by being in the kennel where □ad dogs have been before. It is above obferved, Juq the dog kind have only this difordcr naturally, but ' their animals having received the infection, may com- nunicatc it to other, fpccics. The dread of water is fymptom in fome fevers, and in fome particular nflammations, &c. The material or proximate caufc fccms to be in the rritation of. the nerves that arc the more immediate eat of this complaint. According to Boerhaavc, the figns of madnefs in a dog re as follow : he becomes dull, folitary, and endea- ours to hide himfelf; he feldom barks, but makes a • ind of murmuring noife, at the fame time he refufes 11 kinds of meat and drink ; he is enraged at, and Hies ipon itrangers, but in this Itage he remembers and cfpedts his maftcr; his ears and head hang down; ic walks nodding, as if overpowered with lleep : his is the firft ftage, and a bite now, though dan- ;crous, is not fohad as afterwards. After thelc l'ymp- oms, the dog begins to pant; he breathes quick and .eavy ; hangs out his tongue to emit a great deal of Z ?. frothH Y D froth from his mouth, which he keeps perpetually open 9 fometimes he walks flowly, as if half afleep, and then fuddenly runs 9 but not always direftly for- ward as is pretended ; at length he forgets his matter, his eyes look dilpiritcd, dull, full of tears, and red; his tongue is of a lead colour; he is fuddenly exte- nuated ; he grows faint and weak, often falls down, then rifes up, attempts to fly at every thing, and now grows mad and furious: this fecondftage (eldom continues thirty hours, death putting, by that time, an end to the difeafe, and a bite received now is incurable. To thefe fvmptoms the following may be added, which are confidered as certain figns of a dog’s be- ing mad : 1. All other dogs, upon fmelling the dog that is going mad, will avoid him, and run away with horror. 2. The tone of the dog’s voice, when he barks, leems hollow and hoarfe. In the dumb madnefs, if the dog is confined, he barks inceffantly for a day or two. When the human fpccies are the fubjetts of this diforder (though, in particular inftances, feme varia- tion may be obl'crved) the lymptoms are, in general, a flight pain in the wound, fometimes attended with itching, but always refembling a rheumatic pain : it extends alfo into the neighbouring parts, and, at length, from the extremities it pafles into the vifeera 9 the cicatrix (if there has been a wound) begins to fwcll, inflames, and, at length, dilcharges an ichor 9 this pain is confidered as the primary invariable mark of a beginning hydrophobia. There are more general pains, refembling rheumatic ones; they are of a cjuick. flying, convulfivc kind ; they affeft the patient m the neck, joints, and other parts; often a dull pain feizes the head, neck, breaft, belly, and ct cn runs along the back bone 9 towards the conclufion ot the diforder, the patient complains of this kind ot pain fhooting from the arms towards the breaft and regionHYD q£ i.lir. heart:. befib.es thefe fymptoms, a laflitudc, a 4jJTpain in the IicacL, and a vertigo come on; the patient’is gloomy, murmurs much, is forgetful, .drowfy, at times His mind r fee ms difordered, by turns he is wrathful, his’ ilumbers become difturbed, and, .awaking from them, convullivc agitations immedi- ately follow ; a deafagfs is Ibmctimes complained of, tile eyes are watery, the afpedlt forrowful, the face becomes p3le and con t raded, fwcat alfo breaks out ahpvit the temples, an unufual flow of faliva at length comes on, with a drynefs of the fauces, a foulnefs of the tongue, and, in fome, the breath becomes fetid. %fuJes thefe, from the beginning there is a peculiar ftndure and heavinefs on the breaft, a ftruggling, is it were, for breath, a, fighing, a naufea, and vomiting. This oppreihon of the prscordia, is one pf the primary and conltant fymptoms of this dif- urdcr ; it begins, increafes, and ends only with it: 'his is the firft ftage, under which different patients vary as to their continuance. As the above fymptoms iricrcafc, the fecond ftage advances; a fever comes in,’ which, at firft, is mild, and attended with mo- mentary horrors, byit . in fome there is no fever ; Cvjftcfulnefs become , continual,' the min’d is more and more difturbed, adejirium approaches, and an aver- fion to fluids, and polifhed bodies. At firft, a con- llriction'of the gullet is perceived, and difficulty of fwallowing, but as yet liquids are freely taken ; after- wards, however, they arc refufed ; this 1’ymptom aug- ments fo vifibly, that when any liquid comes before their fight, immediately an horror feizes them, and if :hey ftrive to drink, fpafms are produced, on which rnxicty and lofs of fenl’es follow : as foon as the fur- ace of tlie liquid is touched, a ftrangulation in the throat is felt, the ftomach is inflated, the larynx, out- wardly, is (welled, and that quite fuddcnly, and as uddcnly falls; though liquids are thus obllrudted, •lids are neverthelcis fwallowcd with tolerable cafe; Z 3 yetyet this fymptom may become fo violent, as totally to prevent the folids from palling as well as liquids. In fome, an exquilite fenfiDility is induced, fo that the air offends if it touches the fkin, the light becomes painful, and the leaft found is intolerable. The pa- tient now murmurs and mourns grievoufly •, at times, he lofts all knowledge of his mod intimate acquaint- ance, lie then becomes delirous of biting ; reaion re- turns at intervals, and. he laments his own calamity ; the third excites a defire of drink, but in vain they ftrive, and foon link into the molt affetting defpon- tlencv j confeious of the approaching inclination to bite/ he warns his friends of their danger, and ad- vifes them to keep at a diftancc •, a priapilm, and in- voluntary ©millions of femcn, fometimes attend this ftage ; at the approaching conclulion of which, the fever and thirft increafc, the urine is lixivious, and but in l'mall quantities; the tongue hangs out, the mouth foams, the pulfe is throbbing and cortvul five, ftrength fails, cold fweats come on, the tightncls in the breaft increafcs, by which the patient foon expires in fpafms. , The fymptoms appear in fome two or truce days after the* bite, more frequently not until after as many weeks ; and inftaficcs are well attefted, in which a year has palfed before the infeftion has taken place ; when the difordcr is once manifeft, the lymptoms arc fometimes fo rapid, that a quarter, or hall an hour, makes a confiderablc change. . , The infe-aion may be communicated, as that ot tnc fmall-pox is, by inoculation; and it is_ obfervablc, that when the fmall-pox is inoculated, it no inhu- mation appears about the punaure, or till after the inflammation appears, there is no (mall pox ever comes forth ; fu the fame is oblervablc in the bite of a inad-dog, though ihe wound readily hea - Umetimes, yet it conftanrly breaks out afrelh, and inflames, be fore any of the terrible fymptoms appear. ^.^1|| Thar this diforder is primarily and principally jkervoos, appears from the conftant and chief lymp- : ims that attendt viz', the flying pains, the tightnefs IF the praxordia, the difficulty of fwallowing, the ‘ orror on the approach of water, the quick fenfibi- ■( ty manifeft by the uneafinefs felt on the airs ap- proach, Difleftion difeovers nothing with re- K(Kf£t to. this diforder, _ Agreeable to the nature of the immediate caufe, cne cure is effedled only by fuch means as deftroy ervous or fpafmodic irritation, or that by a fpecific roperty deftroys the peculiar acrimony which catties the diforder. Of the firft, opium is the only one to e.depended on ; and of the fecond, mercury in fuch lorttons as to excite a ptyalifm, is the approved method. Solid opium, to the quantity of gr. j. vel. gr. j. fs. nay be given every three hours, or as often as the •ffedf of the preceding dofe ieems to have ceafed. Vlulk, in large dofes, may alfo be adminiftered every ix orcight hours; fponges dipped in vinegar may be •applied to the mouth and nollrils; and a piece of lannel, moiftened in the following, may be applied three or four times a day: R. 1 indt. Opii. ;$ij. camp. :5 j. m. The warm bath is alfo ufeful. In fome inftanccs, mercury, given by the mouth, or applied by undiion, until a ipitting came on, has proved effcdtual. The falivaticn ihould be kept up Ibv the fame means as at firft it was excited, and con- tinued during two or three weeks. 1 he ungu. hydrargyr. fort, ihould be well rubbed into the wound two or three times a day. A late foreign writer fays, that if vinegar is given to a pint a day, divided into three dofes, one in the , morning, another at noon, the third at night; it effedis a cure.- On the contrary, fome others iup- ' pofe the poifon communicated by a mad-dog’, is of an acid nature, and protaofe 'aeforbeut alkaline earths, as ,B • chalk.H V D phobk ; Med. Muf. vol "ii. p. 9", and fcq. I.ond. ■dulk, "bole, See. for the cure. Dr. Vaughan pro- polls the adtual cautery to be appliecl to the part, after; the bite, as foon as polliblc ; o/ rather, a dilatation of the wound, if I'm ail, and filling it with gunpowder, then letting fire to it 4 tnis, he liippofes, would pro-; duce a laceration of the part, would, fccure a free and continued difchargc.. fpr lome. tiruc; and he thinks, that the a&ion of the ignited gunpowder upon thd poii’on, may have its ufe. Perhaps tlte following may be purlucd as the’ moft probable means of relief : Avoid lla and cold bathing; keep the wound open by a pea, and Iprinkle cantharides into it every lleoud or third day; rub in the ung. liydrargyr. fort, fo as, to raifo a gentle ptyalifm, and particularly rub .thp throat 'with it; if fpafmodic fymptotns appear, give opiates with antimoniak, to excite pafpiration. R Opium, gr. xij. f, pil. ix. cujus cap. j. tertia quaque Inra. And ]p Antimon. tartaru.gr.}. micis panis q. f. f. pil. fexta. quaq. Hora lpatiis intennediis fu- irund. The vyarm bath, if the patient does uot ob- jafl to it, generally palliates. Trrrkabh , the belt mode that can be adopted, is, 1 innediatety on the bite being given, to luck the wound well for fome little time, then cut the bitten part away, rub the wound freely with cauftic, and direct the ufe.of mercury both internally and ex- ternally, till a ptyalilm is produced. Others pro- pole, in Head of caultic, after the flelh is cut out, to jill the wound \vi,hinercurialointment, andfurround tiie whole with bluteri-ng ointment. It has alfo been 1 itely recommended, to throw oil into the lyftcin by repeated external fridlic.ua and glyfters; and to be drank alfo if the patient will conform. Vide Dr. 'James'* Trcatife on Canine Madncfs; Dr. Mead on tiie Bite of a Mad Dog ; Dr. SeJt£\ DitTertation ou the 11 vdrophobia ; Dr. Nugent's Isfiay on the Hydro*HYP Vied. Obf. and Inq. vol. iii. Edin. Med. Comment, ol. i. p. 4 i ; Dr. Vaughans Two Cafes of Hydropho- ia; Cullin'$ Firft Lines, vol. iv. Memoirs of the VIedical Society of London, vol. i. p. 243. and White's ourgery. Hydrops Genu. A Drofifv in tb>• Knee. A col- edtion of water under the capfuiar ligament of the tnec. If the fynovia, l*aj» Dr. Hunter, is feparated n too large a quantity, and the abforbents do not heir duty properly, an hydrops articuli fucceeds, which caufes a relaxation of tne ligament. For the ure, Mr. Sharp recommends a tight bandage ; but ■ vith this, fome difeutient application fhould be em- ployed, fuch, as the aq. ’.ram. acetatae, or a folution •’f fal.ammon.crud. in acet. aecrrim, in the proportion if |fs to ftjj. Vide Gooch's Cafes and Remarks, ■ol. ii. p. 529, and feq. Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. 'H. p. 132. Hymen, v/iiv. A membrane, in general ; but by t, is ufually underftood, the membrane which appears ,n form of a crefccnt, and is fituated at the entrance of the vagina. When this membrane is ruptured, it •s fhrivelled up, and forms the carunculre myttiformes. t naturally lhrinks with years, and often difappears refore the age of twenty, and therefore can be no •roof of •virginity. In fome infants, this membrane 0 clofes up the urethra, that the urine cannot be •oided ; in others, the urine pafles, but when the nenles flow, they cannot be dilchargcd, from the tymen being imperforated. When the mark of per- oration cannot be fecn, the cure has been thought mprafticable ; but in a cafe where the lancet did not ucceed, a trochar and canula were ufed with fuccefs, hough the perforation extended four inches before he deflred efleet was produced. Vide Hi/Jler’s Sur- gery, and the Edinb. Med. Commentaries. Hypopyon, from -jVo, under, and — vov, pus. An tbfeefs in the coats of the eye, ariting from inflam- mation.HYP mation. The matter is confined in a bag, or cyft, or, at Ieaft, is always confined to one part of tile eye, which is obferved to be elevated into the form of. an ordinary abfeefs, while the reft of the eye retains its ufual form. As jion as the matter is clear iy furineJx an incifion muft be made in the mod depending part of the abfeefs, and after the contents are, evacuated, the parts muft be covered with a foft comp refs moiftened, with a weak fclution of the ccrus aceta^, and e\cry part of the antiphlogoftic regimen muft be followed, till the wound in the'eye is completely cured. If a fungus a riles where the opening was made, apply a little burnt alum, finely powdered, or any other, mild can flic. Avoid delay in performing this opera- tion, as the matter of the abicefs may burft inwardly, and totally annihilate every degree of vifion. Vide y. Yya on the Dileafcs of the Eye ; Watts s Sauvages t Nofobgy of the Eves, p. 176, and feq. licit’s Sur- gery, voL iii. and Wbue's Surgery.I Inflammatio, alfo, Pbltfgmone. Phlogofls. I„. 'Mammalton; is an increafcd circulation in any part, [from irritation, external or internal ; local, or uni- werfal. The immediate cauje of inflammation, is irritation, it docs not depend on the quantity of craifamcntum, •mr the ardency of the blood. Spafm and' inflam- mation mutually produce each other. Putrid matter s among ft the varieties which irritate the nervous ind. fen lib le parts, and fo excite inflammation. The ■cmds of irritation are, perhaps, ns various, as are the different caufes thereof; the matter of the lmall- ,iox produces one, that of the itch another, fee. More fluid circulates through, and is more fccretcd n a part that is inflamed, than when it is in a. oatural flatc. Scnfibility, and irritability, arc increafcd 3y inflammation, and are produced in parts that did aot manifeftly poflefs them before. - The. mediate caufe of inflammation is the increafcd enfibility, or irritability of the fibres; whence irre- gularity in the excreta and retenta. ri he ,emote caufes arc wounds, bruifes, fudden and txccfllve cold, luxations, aromatic aliments, &rc. Inflammations receive different names, according to ■ he'different parts on which they manifefl; themfelvcs, is in the inftanccs of a quinfy, picurify, &c. called atilcgmonous inflammations, and a Catarrh, diarrhoea, Vc. called inflammations of the mucous membrane. However various maybe the divifuns and iiibdl- vifionsI N F vifions of inflammation, like fever, they arc all but inflammation, differently circumftanecd. If the l'an- guineous vcffels, in thofc membranes that are in- flamed, arc the feat of the irrita *-ni (as in infant* nations of the ftomach, brain, &c.) the inflammation is then called phlegmonous ; but when the irritation is on the furfacc of the membranes, it ftimulatcs the fecrctory mucous glands to the accumulating and difeharging more than in a natural ftate they ufually do. So an irritation, and its confcqucnt, an extraor- dinary afflux, of circulation of humours through rhe part, conftitutc inflammation in both cafes. All the inflammations that come under the name of phlegmonous, have the fame feat; they arc all in the fanguinc arteries of the part inflamed. Bocrhaavc, to fupport his doctrine on this kind of infant- niaticn, fpeaks of the red blood being obftru&ed by an error of place; but obstruction is pot a caufe, though it may be an effeft of this difordcr. The mucous membrane is the feat of thofc inf am* nations which come under the denomination of in- formations of the mucous membrane. If there are tumours, the inflammation is phlegmonous, and thefe are diftinguilhed into phlegmonous and eryffpctalous. The feat of the phlegmonous is in the finguinaiy art; tirt, and the cellular membrane; the ft it of the cry flpelatous is in the fin, or other internal membranes no: cellular. Dr. Cullen ttfes the term pblogofs for this genus of difeafe. He places it in the clafs pvrexier, and order pbirgmaftC. Defines it to be a fever, rednefs of an external part, with heat, and a painful tenfion. The fpecics he points out, arc, i. Pblovfs pblrgmone, the phlegmonous inflammation. 2. Pblogofs eryibrnni, c rythematous inflammations. The principal cffVcH of inf animations arc heat, pain, fwelling, rednefs, an accelerated pulfe, a dry- nti's of the ^kin, and an itching. TheI N F The heat is excited by the reciprocal a£Hcn and rrcaition of the folids and fluiils. The irritation on ".heTibrcs increal’cs the aftion of the vcffcls ; the ■velocity of the fluids arc thereby quickened titrough them, and thus heat is excited in proportion as there is craffamentum in the blood. 1’uui. This is excited by the diftention of the vtflels in a part ’already become pretcrnaturnlly ietillblc. Sivfjling. This is not canted by obftrufted blood, • but bv the excels of lteat diftending tlte cellular mem- brane; but a (welling is not cflential to an infiam- tlhltlO).. Rcdtitji. Tiiis proceeds from the quantity of blood determined to the part. ‘fbr ijinckrifrd f.u!f is from tint iaw in nature, bv ■which the heart always increafes its efforts, to free its Tubfervient veffels from any injury they fuftain from .accidental, or preternatural irritation. Dry tiffs of the jkin. This is from the Itrifture in the capillaries, whole ule is nearly aboliliied by the irritation on them. Iicbiig. This is but the beginning of what ends in pain by its iucrcafc. The prngnoflics arc more or lefs favourable in proportion to the importance of the part affefted, the eonltirution of the patient, the intenfcncls of the lymptoms, the attendance of other diforders, as the 1'curvy, lues venerea, &cT In a part that is of a firm texture, and has but few vcflels, fuch as the liga- ments, gland.-, &c. the cure is often tedious, and a proper cure is not always effefted, for a feirrhus is Ipmctimcs the confequencc. If the lymptoms of iu- fommutiou ccafe l'uddenly, the epidermis it railed into blrfters full of ichor, or finks, and the colour of the part becomes livid, whilft, at the fame tune, the pulfc is lmall, and the fcnfiMliry of the" part is l.-ffencd, a gangrene is then approaching. Sometimes1 N F Sometimes an inflammation foon goes off, at others, it is removed with difficulty, and often it terminates in other difeaies. An inflammation can only termi- nate by a removal of its immediate caufe, viz. the ercthifm of the vcfTels, or rather the irritating mat- ter. Bur, generally, it is faid to end in a rcl'olution, a fuppuration, a gangrene, a feirrhus, or a cancer. That the two lalt are the refuit of inflammation, is not univcrfally allowed. Hrjolution, is, when, upon removing the caufe, the fymptoms diminifh gradually ; and at laft the pa- tient is in the fame ftate as before the dil'ordcr began. And, unlcfs morbilic matter was the caufe, this is tiic moft deftrable way of termination. A refolution may be brought about by fome increafed evacuation happening by nature’s efforts, or by thofe of art; a fever coming on ; or by a m< taftalis. But thefe are not properly the modes of the refolution of inflam- mation, but the methods which nature or an hat taken to remove the irritation which was tile imme- diate caufe. In all thefe fpccies of refolution, callo- fuics are fometimes left. Suppuration is more properly a confer]uencc -of in- flammation than a mode of its termination. It hap- pens, when a quantity of blood is thrown out into lomc cavity (the iufl.immatan continuing) it ferment, and is converted into put, which afterward. ..fts as-a ferment on the (olid parrs, and gives occafion for the converfion of the whole into a matter fimilarto itfell, the fytnptoms of inflammation going off. A gang)->:f may be a confcqucncc of inflammation, but never can be confidcrcd as a mode of inflammationk going off; for now fenfatien is deftroyed, and iit< J with refpedt to the part that mortifies, is extinguiflied ; whence no morbid caufe can any longer be produc- tive of effefts. I A /airbus and cancrr feem to be peculiar difcafe-1 not the modes bv which i-.^annalh'i terminate I Mrl IINF Vlr. Sharp obferves, in his Introduction to the Ope- rations of Surgery, that, “ A l'cirrhous gland is, ge- nerally mentioned as a fourth termination of inflam- mation ; but with impropriety, fincc it fcldom of never occurs but in venereal, fcrophulous, or cancerous safes, when it is the forerunner, and not the conic- ;^nence of an inflammation, the tumour generally ap- iocaring before the difcolouration.” One general method of cure is that which is proper n all the denominations of phlegmonous influmma- "icns, however diftinguifhed by phlegmon, eryftpelas, zsedema, or whatever elfe. And, in general, there ure but two indications-; the firft is to leffen or re- move the irritation ; the fecond is to abate the in- zrcafed afflux of< the humours. Though inflammations of all parts and kinds have die fame general treatment in order to their cure, yet -regard fliould be had to their ftru&urc, fituation, ■and-connection of the parts, to the antecedent cauTcs of the difordcr, and the conftirution of the .patient. It is obfervable, that a phlegmon, on its decline, affumes fucccliively the forms of an eryftpelas and noedema, and then it-vanifhes; this would not happen fo foon if they proceeded from infpiffated blood, le- rum, or' lymph, wedged in l'maller veifels than i ddtined to circulate'them ; whence, as thefc different appearances of inflammation are known to arifc'fuc- ■ ccffivcly in the fame place, it,feenis very certain that they proceed from the fame caufe, viz. from the fame kind of humours in the fayne , feries of vcffels,'and t-hat they arc nothing elfe but the different degrees of intenfity-'of the fame1 clifcafc, alfo that the lame ge- neral method of cure is proper for them ajl. • To anfwcr the fnjt indication, viz. to remove the irritating caufe, i. Endeavour to remove all that can continue the morbid irritation, "z. When fpalms are the caule, opium is the propereft'remedy. 3. When 2 fiunulacing fluid' is fccrcted on a lenlibVe membrane, • * A a'z itsI X F its aftion may be hindered by the application of miv, unctuous, or mucilaginous matters. The morbid acrimony may be deftroyed by proper alteratives, or mercury, &c. 5. Deftroying or leffening the irri- tability of the part, by means of the bark, prepara- tions of lead, fee. 6. The diftention of the internal veflels is removed by reftormg the circulation on the external furface of the body, or giving, internally, medicines to relax the (mail velfels throughout the fyftcvn, by their adtion on the ttomach ; fuch as nitre, fal ammoniac, all the neutral lalts, ipecacuanha, iineka root, antimonial preparations, cold water, external applications, fuch as ltnapifm, blilters, Sec. The fecondindication, viz. to abate the increafcd af- flux of the humours, is anfwercd, 1. By bleeding. 2. Purging with neutral lalts. 3. By the application of fedatives to the ftomach, as acids mixed in the patient’s drink, and narcotics given at proper inter- vals in l'mall doles. 4. Sedatives, fuch as the prepa- rations of lead, ike. may be applied externally. Ar.d, 5. An inflammation may be excited on the lkin, near the pare originally afledted (except the lkiti itl'clf is the part inflamed) ; to this end, friction1-, the volatile liniment, or even blilters, may be applied. Mean while, let a cooling attenuating diet be di- rected ; barley-water, in which the true gum arable is diflblved, is among the flrft for the common drink ; and, in order to its free difeharge by urine, add ' j each draught fo much nitre as produces a due dii- chargc that way -, though fometimes the nitre, by- irritating too much, rather checks than facilitates the difeharges by the kidneys. If the external inflammations are to be remo' ei without a fuppuration, emollients Ihouid never be applied; they increalc every degree of tumour, by adding to the quantity of matter there accumulated, and rendering the velfels both more yielding to their impulfe, and lei's able to carry thetb ofl ; thus they countcrablI N F counteract every intention of cure. The incrcalcd action of the' vefTels arc to be alfaved, ami the fcnlt- bility of the part abated, by*fitch ic datives as neither increafe the tumour, tiic pain, the hca', or fhe.tcn- iion; to this end faturninc topics, or, in their Head, the Ample aftringents and Simulants in common nfe, iuch as the ufaa! mixture or vinous lpirit with vine- ■gar, pollefs the deiireri efficacy. When the feat of inflammation is a lax glandular parr, applications that rare ftrongly flimulant, are th.e molt f.ifc and a.ivan- •Tagcous. And where there is but little fc-nfioilitv in the part, as in the fcrophulous tumours of lym- phatic glands, hlifters .exceed all other topical re- medies. The belly mould be kept hx in all kinds of itflain- * nation ; and internal or.s are much relieved by a frequent ulc of glvltcrs. Vapours and warm baths contribute much to re- lief, bv Icffenfng the irritation of tire fibres, and by ■ retarding the motion of the blood. When the nflarwiatton abates, arteumints and aperients are filed with advantage. Vide I'.fil ■on Ulcers ; f.V.'.Vs PirH Lines, vok i. A A,. </ Med. Surg.-.vol. i. Pair An’s Principle-.* or Surgery, vol. i. add White's -Surgery, vol. i. ■ Injlan/matM jjrliculi, inflammation in a joint, The rheumatifro A an in (Vance of this kind ; but no p;\ at danger is tu be apprehended from it, as- it is ft;.:-..1 in the. ligament*. In .this cafe, bleeding, mild,. - phartics, lud.irifics, and a prudent ub of opiates, are jtlleful;;aiui if the joint is rigid, a warm •btith will relieve it muc!:. The timnr-r of a fupptiration in a joint i» from the length ot difcliarge, and the abforption of. the mat- ter, which rarely fails to bring on a fatal lieftie; therefore, by all'means, if poifible, iet. this accident l)e prevented. • •, J -V c LAMM ATIO I.VTJSSIINOKVM. I’fliVnm.Uto i a iI N F of the bitfjli'ncs; called alfo, Enteritis. ltd the inflammation of the exterior coats of the intcllint- that is here treated of; it differs greatly from an in- flammation of the inner villous coat, or raucous mem branc, in which calc there is cither aphtha;, or a dy- feiiteryt According to the different parts of the in left me', in which the inflammation is feated, different names have been given, as iliaca paiiio, &c. but in all the treatment is the fame. If a lharp pain, with a fever and naufea, is above the navel, and below the ltoraach, the colon unde, the itomaeh is the lent of the inflammation. If the pain is in the right hypochondrium, under the fpu- rious ribs, then that part of the colon which join- the ilium, may be inflamed. If the pain is in the middle of the bcllv, about the navel, the final! gut-, are affefted. The.caufe may be, external cold, indurated faeces heavy or hard bodies lying in the inteffincs, intro* lulceptiun-, adhelivc ftiinulants, hernias, wounds, or any other cattle of internal inflammation*. The ul’ual lymptoms are, a lhivering, an acute burning pain in the belly, which is fixed in the part where it was firit perceived ; fometimes it increafes a little, and then remits, but moil frequently it is con- tinually the lame. Generally, the whole belly is af- fected at the fame time with fpalmodic pains, which extend to the loins ; and flatulencies arc often troublc- fome. The pulfc is fmall, hard, frequent, and often it becomes at- la if irregular and intermittent. 1 here i . eoldnefs in the extremities, alio a ludden and great proftrarion of ftrength. Sometimes a watery diarrhtea attends, but more frequently the mufcuhtr tibri . of the inflamed part contrail lb llrcngly, that nothing can pals through, although a motion returns vcr. frequently; lbmetimcs the amis is lb com ref lev'. T' : a fmall pipe can hardiv be introduced, biaru- U'.lus tii the itomaeh, Ccluiel-, violent readuag-.IN V and vomiting, frequently attend. The tongue is dry, thirft great, the urine often pale and obfirudted, • fon-ctimts it is high coloured, and difeharged with thcat and difficulty. The breathing is quick. The • :patient bends forwards, frequently comprcffcs his ffielly, becauffc the abdominal muf&les arc fpefmodi- : cally contracted; the face is fluffed. At length, a i -tlilirum comes on, and convultions, by which.thc pa- tient is deftroyed. i Inflammation in the bowels frequently terminate in a mortification ; in w^rich cafe the pain goes off, and the patient appears to himfelf for a little relieved ; • '.his face grows pale, the under eye-lid becomes livid •> . 'hut the pulle continue frequent, fmall, and often ir- : regular ; the extremities arc cold, delirium and con- vulfions now come on, and cut the paticnc off. Juff before he expires, it often happens, that he difeharges very foetid llools. If this difordcr is left to nature, it fometimes kills >n a few hours, and almoft always before the end of three days ; fothat there is raTcly a fuppuration. But ■: if an abfcefs is formed,. the pain abates, and is con- ff verted rather into a fenfe of dtftenfion, and irregular i cold fits, with the other fymptoms of internal fup- r 'puratjon, arife ; the contraction of the mulcular fibres, of the inteftines, the great frequency of the pulle, i and other fymptoms, go off. When this abfcefs burlts, 'the patient fwoons, and feems freed from a fenfe of ,» weight in the part where it was. rf Inflammation in the external membrane of the in- J tcftincs, (hould be diftinguiflied from the Hone in the < kidneys, or in the ureters, from inflammation ut the ( kidneys, or rather of the abdominal vifeera, from : ipatinodic pains of the belly, and from othes obftruc- tioirs there, in which no inflammation attends; it , thoukl alfo be carefully diftinguilhed from the coli-, the hamorrhoidcs, and from the iliac paifion. It the pain ffifts, the vomiting returns only at intervals,I N F I intervals, r.ncl -while the glyfters pafs downwards, •here i hope, if the patient furvives three days, and the pain abates fuddeniy, with chilnefs and'ihiver- ing, a fupjuiration is forming, which in about tdur- reen days will hreal:; then if the patient becomes tabid, ttic only help in a palliative one tor a ihort time. When at! jjafles upward*', the patient is very 'real:, the pulfc fluttering, the countenance pale, the breath oiTeniivc, then danger is very great. Clammy fwcar.*, a f’mali intermitting pulfc, foetid or bllhc hook, n total abatement of pain, are figrr- of mor- tification being begun, and tluii death Ikon follows. On the iirft attack, bleed freely, notwithflanding rlic hr. a briefs or the pulfc, and teeming weaknrk, tor the pillfc becomes fuller, and the proftration of !frir._th goes off as the injiammjii&t aV-mcs. Repeat ■ he bleeding at /hurt interval?, until the pu’.l'e becomes loft. Acids ih'ul.l be joined with every draught of the patient’!; common drink. 1 he antimonial powder fliould be given in fuch dofes as the ftomach will caitly retain, and a falinc draught fhould be repeated every hour or two. If acrimony is a fufperted caufe. bleed, git c a doTc of the t il carh.amar. with as much of the antiinon. tarta- r\7.. as will cattle ir to operate upward and downward ; rlicn give the c-cta miftura c. Ph. bond, and the de- coction of calcined hartfliorn for common drink. Cooling laxative glvflcrs fhonld be given every two <t thr,c liottrs, until a ftool is procured. It (hould boobferved, that though the fal marin. is the belt purgative in general for rlyltc-rs, it is improper if any information is fufpcflcd in the bowels. Hut to- bacco frooitk may be injefted, and repeated at Ihort i'uersr.ls, until the deli red effect is obtained. Purges are contra-indicated by the contraflion of the inflamed part; though when all other means fail of «’ht; ining a p iflar c , purge*, with opiates, mud be ‘r ed ; the I..1 carh. anur. is th. bell, of which two uur.tf*I N F :unices may he diffolved in ]{ij. of water, and given jv two or three fpoonfulls every half hour ; and to oievcnt vomiting, give the tinbt. opii gt. xxv. in aq. rir.nam. ft vel aq. month, pip. If no liquid ftavs on , he Aomach, give pills, fuen as the follow mg : P< Pulv. . lalap. Sc kali vitriolat. art 3 is. opii gr. j. iapo. Vcnet. . q. 1. f. pil. vj. ftatim fumend. It thcl'e do not operate , n two or three hours, repeat them. Immediately after bleeding, apply a blitter on the lained part; it often catties both glyfters and pur- atives taken by the mouth, to pal's downwards. Put the patient into a warm bath ; let him fit there, vith the water as high as his breaft, as long as he .an without fainting ; repeat it if required; but be I rareful that the water be not too hot. In bringing . rim from the bath, great care is required to guard i .gaitm the cold. If the bath cannot be had, the legs may be put into warm water, and bladders of warm , -eater may be applied to the belly, and the like may Ifo be laid to the feet. . If the vomiting is fevere, or to prevent a purging acdicuie from returning, opiates may b.c admitted, therwife their ufe is not advil'eable until all other j leans fail, and then give the following : Rantitncn. irtariz. gr.ad ], fyr. papaver. alb. 3 ij. ad 3 vj. aq. !‘ tenth. 3 ij. in. f. liauft. In cate of an abfcels, vide Abscess in the Intel- nes. isFtAMMATIO M.UIMARUM McLIERUM, amnatianm tkc Brcajis of Women, called alfo,MAs ro- \ \ysi a. This may happen at any time,but, generally, the attendant of thole who give fuck. Alhiveringis " toft frequently a preceding fymptom ; then follow $ ic infn:nn:atiun, with more i.r lefs fever; a quick ulfe, third, head-ach, and difficult refpiration. A, the ufual methods to prevent the afflux of milk j s the brc-ift arc uncertain, to guard againit n.jhvn- iMnnt the mother ihuuld confcnt to fucklc her own child,I N F child, at lend (luring the firfl month; snd during this thiic, to order her diet To that the difcKarge by urine may be fomewhat incrcafed, and the bowels kept lax ; the breafts Ihould a!fo be kept as empty as poffible, by means (;f giaflcs or other contrivances for this purpofe. Bur if, not with handing tliis, ati actually takes place, bleed, diredt a thin fpare diet, give laxatives, and apply the following embrocation by means of linen rag-, which (hould be moiltened with it as often as tltcy dry: R Aqu:». amnion, j fs. lpr. camph. J ifs. m. If this is too ir- ritating, add to it half an ounce or more of olive oil's or this lotion, highly recommended bv Mr. Juftamond, maybe ufed. R .Ammen. Muriat.jj.fps. rorifmarini Jt>j. in pulvxTcm redige r.mmuniatn, et in fpiritu foil vatur. The following is alfo ufeful : R .Aq. Amnion, acctat. fp. vin. RAq.diftiil. an Jiv. m. A fomentation of poppy heads, with crude fal ammoniac in propor- tion of half an ounce tea pint, has been employed with 1 uccefs. if the !>;/lamn.n/tMi docs nor yield to this ma- nagement in four or five days at the limit, the belt method is to en ecu rage a fuppurati.n without delay. Vide Attsckss in the Breath. I N’FLAMMATIO MusrL’t A BDO'.MMIS. hrfhtn- mation of" (be of-(be Be.Ye. When thefe'parts arc inflamed, the Ikin over them is greatly ftrctchcd, lb that it cannot be pinched up with the fingers; and if they'are fwelled, the figure of the tefpeftive mufclcis prclervcd ; the inflamed mufcle is very hard, and more tb as ■ it tends to iiippuratc-; there is generally more of lei's of fever-, during- any ’dtion of the difeaftd mufcle, the pain is conftduhibir augmented, as in cafe of fncezing, draining at ftool, or even in breath* ing. > The rheumatifm is fnmetimes fixed in thefe muf- clcs ; they alfo fuller from preflure, as when parent* with a done in the bladder leek fur relict, by reding their eight upon their belly when it is pLred upon Jbmo hard bode, Re. Tliis1 I N F This complaint fhould be diftinguiihed from a coiic, an inflammation in the liver, or any of the fubjacent .vifccra. If this kind of inflammation terminates in an nb- Jcel's, and it is difeharged inwardly, it proves fatal. And if any tendency to a mortification appears in theie rmnfcles, the ifhie is to be dreaded. If- the hardnefs is confklerable, and a throbbing •pain is perceived, an abfeefs is forming; it fhould be encouraged with all (peed, and a difeharge procured oy an opening, as loon as poffible. As a fuppuration is fo dangerous, and at the befi ts b very difficultly managed, to remove the inflammation nj the fpeedieft methods, before a tendency to the orming of an ab'cefs can be manifefted, will ncccf- arily appear to be the meft eligible method. Bleed- ing, then, with purging, and fuch ether means as rre ufed in other inftances of inflammation in the ex- ternal parts, fhould be applied, and flcadilv purl’ucd. Inflajimatto Perioste[. Inflammation of the ’’erioflrtm. Befides the other uftial caulcs of inflnw- nalicn in other parts of the body, the venereal dil- ate, and the feurvy, arc caufts of inflammation in his part. The venereal poilon is a frequent crude,, vhen the pcriofleum within the bone is the f eat of the i iforder. The external periofteum, that is, the membrane /hich covers the bone, and feparates, betwixt it and lie flefli; or the internal periofteum, that is, the lentbranc which lines the cavities of the cylindrical ones, and which feparates betwixt them ancfiiie maf- aw contained in them. When the external pcriofleum is inflamed, a deep rated pain arrd heat is ft It, and fometimes a pulfa- on : and when the part is not covered with much efh, the pain will be augmented by prefluro-; muf- tlar motion, however, increafes the pain. That ie inner membrane is the feat of the inflammation, L a ...I N F ing and burning pain is perceived in theregion of the bladder above the pubes, and in the pcrin.eum; lomeumes a reduefs is perceived in thefe parts, though the pain is deep i'cated. It the neck be the part af- fe&ed, there is a retention of urine, with a conftant ft unulus in its evacuation ; if the fundus be the part dilculed, there is a continual dribbling, with great efforts to throw out a larger quantity at a time, which the patient conceives to be contained in the bladder. Frequent attempts to expel fatces, with which the rectum appears to the patient to be always leaded; thefe increafe the pain very much, particularly whin nny fa-ccs arc actually contained, and efpecially jif they arc hard. The puli'c is frequent and hard, and ihe extremities are cold : there is great anxiety, reft- leffncfs, ficknefs, vomiting, delirium, and other fymp- nms of irritation. This, dborder ufuaily tenninates foon, cither in a recovery or death ; frequently the latter. A gan- grene comes on, by which the pain is removed ; but the other fymptoms continue until death. This dilordcr mav pafs off by an incrcafcd fecretior of mucus from the internal membrane, or by a me- tafia fir, or by fuppuration ; in which laft cafe th( matter may be dilcharged into the cavity of the blad der, and pal's oft' with the urine; or in the cellula membrane, and lb pal's externally through the pert n eum ; or laftly, into the cavity of the abdomen where it proves fatal. The ulcer in the biadder am per neeum are difficult of cure. Infianvnaiir-n in the external coat of the bladder Ihould be diftinguiihcd from that of the internal and in any part of the bladder Ihouldb diftinguiihcd from ixfuin.nation in the adjacent part alfo from that retention of urine which proceeds frot other caufes. I n order to the cure, bleed according to the ftrcngt of the patient, aud the violence of the lymptoms. i Rclaxsu >I N F /Relaxant medicines, fiich as the pnlv. antim. and uft. l'alin. lhould be given as early as poliible, and seated as often as is convenient; for help muftbe •cdy and powerful, or death foon puts a ft op to uaps. .Laxative and cooling glyfters lhould frequently be edted, or if thefe cannot be complied with, the olirig faline purges may be given by the'mouth, d fb repeated as to keep the bowels lax. If the urine is retained, dcccdiions of mucilaginous rbs lhould le freely drank; or, if need be, the dieter may be uled, though much care is required i its introdu&ion. * If notwithftanding due evacuations, a fpafmodic mtradtion with much pain continues, opiates in •tall doles, l’uch as tindt. opii. gt. iij. may be repeated proper intervals. If .a rednefs appears externally, apply an anodyne aollient cataplalm, and cover it with bladders of arm water. If no appearance of inflammation- is iftrvcd externally, rub the region of the bladder, id alfo the perinaeum, with the linim. ammonia?, h. Lond. to excite inflammation in the fkin. The patient may be placed in the warm bath two three times a day. If by uncertain horrors, and the departure of fame the fymptoms of inflammation, a fiippuration is fpedted, haften its prugrcls, in order to as 1’peedy a (charge of the matter as poliible, which, when .'acuateJ, proceed as in cafes of an ulcer in the uri- ary paflage. IxFLAMMATlO Uteri. Inflammation of the. Un- is. Women after child-birth, when the lochia are npeded, are the moft frequent fubjedls of this cem- la-inr. The caufes, befides the.common ones of internal flammahons in general, are tearing, bruifes, cxier- al llimuli, cbftrudted menftrua, or obftructed lochia. Bb : It1 N F It often happens after abortion, and child-birth, cfpccially when the lochia arc prevented by cold, or other caufe, and is then attended with fymptoms dif- ferent from thofe which appear when an uterus not lately impregnated is inflamed. In the firlt cafe, there is a pain at the bottom of the belly, which for the moll part is neither throb- bing nor conllantly acute ; the pull'c is frequent, ef- pecially after child-birth, often l'mall, fometimes ir- regular ; in ftrong habits, and after early abortions, hard ; the patient is affedted with delirium, a fubfitl- tu:j tendinum, and the other fymptoms of irritation ; the womb gangrenes and mortifies, and thy patient finks. In the fecond, the pain is more conllant, bounded, and throbbing; the pulfc is hard, full, and ftrong, and other fymptoms of general inflammation attend ; or if the difeafe riles to a greater height, the pulfe is fmall and frequent, the fymptoms of ir- ritation attend, and fuppuration is more liable to happen. In both, as different parts of the womb are affedl- ed, there is a ftrangury, or a fupprclfion of urine; the little that is discharged is foetid and hot, or a tc- nefmus attends, with a pain in going to ftool ; or there is pain in moving the lower extremities, or fuelling, with heat, to be felt by introducing a finger up the vagina, the os tinea; being lhut; univcrfal roll - lriTncfs, thick urine, pain upon external preflurc, the belly is tenfc, a red (lain extends up to the navel, and turns black when fatal; and if it happens in an impregnated uterus, an abortion follows. It often happens, that the woman can only lie on her back, and on turning to either fide, flic feels a painful heavy mafs fail to that fide, and at the larrtc time, an cxcelfive pain in the loins kidnies, and groin, of the oppofite fide. rI lie pains excited by inflammation in the womb, fometimes extend to the in fide of thighs when the woman turns on her !ide, or it is felt in the loins. ThisI N F If b 3 whether This diforckr mnv be removed far a fperit'aficous ruption of tlic monies, or of the lochia j or afrer an -bortion or child-birth, by the patient s iallin.: into a mnftant, equal, gentle, long continued 1 wear; or it nay terminate in an ablcels, or a mortification, both which laif are almoft always fata!. Sometiu-.es a inc- afiafis proves a means of relief. Bleeding, however uieful in moft irflammaloiy dil- srders, in rhis particular one, though not wholly ifclels, yet, if freely ufed, only increafes the weak - lei's, without leffcning the inflammation. \Vhe3 nijhwnn ■! on attacks a womb not lately im- pregnated, the common -remedies' ufed in internal :fl.w:nialions are to he employed, regard being had to whether the attendants are an inflanimatoiy diathefis, sr the fvmptoms of irritation. In ■.bortions and labours, where the patient has rot been much weakened, if the pulfe is hard, and tot very frequent, the lots of blood by the arm may ■>e foii.jwed with advantage, but it rarely happens hat this evacuation can be repeated ; therefore the- rm cral method ->t cure will always depend on rc- !awm , fudi as the pu!v. antim. and hand, ialin. tak- ing care that they do not produce a purging. To :i>le, a- ncccllary, may be added, anodyne and an- tilpafmodic fomentations and p*,ultice:. Jo delicate or feeble £onfliuiticn>, after child-birth, and where there is no hardnefs, hut great frequency, of tin- pulfe, this diforder too often proves fatal. All that, cm be done is to keep the patient in.bed,' mo- derately warm, exciting, if pofliblc, a gentle con- ltant fv.u at by farinaceous deerdtions, in finalI quan- tities a time, but frequently repeated, and applying fonier.i ations and poultices. ’’ Pi Tpiiatir-n may be free ^ the other tifual cvacu- atior-s by urine and {tool, m u be moderately pro- m-iti d ; bu; all very extraordinary ones are dangerous. A w - s guard again it preflurc on the atf-Ate-l part,I N F. ad v ant ed whether from any thing external, from urine in the bladder, or fr'om fasces in the rcCium. Urine, if ncceflary, may be drawn off with the catheter, and the bowels may be emptied by repeated glvfters, which fhould be watery. Bliflers generally quicken the pulfc too fnuch, and icem not fo ufeful in this calc as in fomc other local inflammations. No diforder requires more care to keep the patient compofed in mind, and ft ill in bed. Until the fever and fpafrns abate, the (limulant aromatics and emmenagogucs w ill be improper ; in- deed the lochia are rarely promoted by thenT at any time. If pain continues, notwithftanding the ufual treat- ment, opiates may fometimes be given with fuccefs, as is dirc&ed in an inflammation of the intcltines. If a fuppuration comes on, endeavour to procure an exit to the pus as loon as pollible, which, when it points to the perinseum, may be fometimes managed. Vide Magenife on Inflammation. Atkins s Obferva-. tions on the external Ule of Preparations of Lead, and on Inflammation, as it conftitutes particular Dil- orders; likewife, Fordyce s Elements of the Practice of Phylic, parr ii. Iris. The fore part of the Cboroides, fo called from the varieties of its colours. The operation of cutting the iris is required when a cataraC.t adheres u> it •, and when from the contraction of its tnufcular fibres the pupil is doled up. Thus both theft diforders are- fometimes remedied. Mr. Sharp, in his Operations, ch. xxix. diredts the operator to proceed as follows: place the patient as for couching, open and fix the eye with the fpcculum oculi, then introduce the knife in tiie fame part of 'lie conjunitiva that is wounded in couching; infinuate it with its blade held hori/.i n- tally, and the back of it toward- you, between the ligamentum ediare, and circumference of the iris, into the anterior chamber of the tyc; and -iter it isI N F ilvanccd to the farther fide of it, make your incifior. site through the membrane: and if thi operation ccecds, it will, upon wounding, fly open, and ap- .-ar a large orifice, though not fo wide as it becomes rewards. Mr. Sharp farther obl'erves, that when <e pupil is contracted from a paralytic difordcr, this aeration can hardly be encouraged. Ischuria, from ^yy, to retain, and upy, urine, n ifibury, a flop page orjuppreffion of urine. LaMottc ftinguilhes betwixt a retention, and a fuppreifion of cine. In a retention, the patient has frequent mo- ons to make water, without being able to void it; or he does pafs any, it is in very l'mall quantities, and ith difficulty ; this is alfo called a ftrangury. In a pprclfion, there is feldom any inclination to dif- largc any urine ; but if there is an inclination, the (charge is fuddeu. An ijcburia is of two kinds, viz. the true, in which fc the bladder is full; and the fpurious, in which ae bladder is empty, for nothing defeends from the dnics. Dr. Cullen places this genus of difeafe in the clafs calcs, and order epiichclcs. He diftinguifhes four iccics : i. Ifchuna rcnalis, when the kidnies do not crere the urine, and confcquently there cannot be ty •ftimulus to dil'charge it. 2. IJcburio urcterica ; lore is pain in fome part of the ureter, but no ftimu- s to dil’charge the urine. 3. Ifcburta veficalis, when tere is a tumour in the hypogaftric region, pain at ic neck of the bladder, and a frequent urging to dif- large urine. 4. Ifcburia urethralis, when there is a veiling in the hypogafiric region, a frequent defire • diichargc urine, and the pain in the urethra. The caul’es are various. Etmullcr lays, the mod equent is a want of mucus in the urethra. Other nifes are a Hone in the .kidnies, or, bladder; ca- incles in the urethra; inflammation in any of tliol'e arts ; a fpafm in the neck of the bladder, or in the retb.ra; pain from the riles in pregnant women, the child'sI s c child’s head prefling the neck of the bladder again It the os pubis; a tumour, or ulcer, in the proftatc gland ; a defluxion of humour on the neck of the bladder ; a retention of urine ; a pally in the detrufor urinte; a retention of hardened excrements in the inteftinum re£Uim, &c. A fpurious ifehury is when the kidnits fecrcte no urine, or when the ureters either do net receive, or do not traniir.it it ; and this may happen from inflammation of the ureters, or in the kidnics. When the fupprefled urine is lodged in the blad- der, a pain and levelling is obferved about the pubes j a fup predion from relaxation is diftinguiihcd from fuppreifton from flrifturc ; firft, by the little pain attending the di(order; fecondly, by the introduc- tion of the catheter ; thirdly, from the diftenticn of the bladder, obfcrvable from the fulncfs above t,he pubes; fourthly, from no fli riulus being edited hi the bladder to .dlfcharge ,anv fluid wherewith you difiend it. If inflammation in the kidnit's. is :he- caul’e, the pain and heat are principally in that ■ - gion. If a (lone in the kidnits give rife td tlie com- plaint, a vomiting-is an attendant • fymptom. i; ,i (lone in the bladder obftru£U the urine, a paisl i- telt there, and alfo along the urerhtrn; a mucus, or pus, is excreted with pale urine ; and, generally, tht ftcmri may he felt, if the catheter is introduced. Jf from inflammation in this neck of the bluddir, there i; alfo pain and a tumour there, the pain v ill be much iucrealed if the perinacum is but llig'iiv prcflfcf; and if a finger is introduced into tin anus. ; in! turned towards the bladder, a tumour wiij t >iiiy he perceived. _ -. If this difordtr is in a great degree, there" a tcncfmus, cohlncfs of tht extremum-, a vomiting, and a febrile pulfe. Jf this di!">rdrr is the fpurious find, there is no renfion, but rather . 1’ciiU ol emptm f> 1 ut the pubes. JrI s c If this diforder continues above ftven days, it gene- -tlly proves fatal; alfo, if from a wound of the lpinc, rr luxation of its vertebrae. If the finell of urine pro- eeds from the patient’s mouth or noftrils, there is o hope. An hiccough, and a tenefmus, are alfo ^favourable fymptoms. If the urine is lodged in the bladder, and cannot e voided, whether the caufc be cold, a too long re- -ntion of urine, and whatever elfe that could deprive te fibres of the bladder of their contracting power, rr if the fuppreilion is from a fpafmodic ftriCturc in te neck of the bladder, an immediate recourfe to the ttheter is not convenient; for in thel'c cafes it cauies tuchpain; but fuch medicines as oppofc the caufc tould firft be tried. It the habit is plethoric, bleed, injeft the turpen- nc glyftcr, with a dram of the opii tindt. and an dly mixture may be gjven, in which is the fp. nitr. tthcr, with the tinft. opii, in proportion to the egree of pain; and the patient may be placed in a /arm bath. If thefe fail, a bougie may be imro- uccd, or the catheter may be ufed. In children, a fuppreilion of urine is often relieved y a poultice of raw onions, or of radiilics, applied o the pubes. When a long retention of urine is the caufc, cloths tav be rung out of cold water, and applied round the /aiil and belly ; to this, bleeding ihould in fomc onfiitutions precede. If a relaxation or paralyfis of the detrufor urin® c the caufc, give the bark with nervines, and apply loths, wrung from cold water, round the belly and ains, or put the patient into a cold bath. Gentle •rcflure on the belly fhould now and then be uftd. When caruncles obftruft the urethra, bougies Ihould >e introduced. When a retention of urine is produced, let the autc be what it may, every patient fo circumftancedis fpnimodicaljy atflpfed; and, generally, the intro* duPtion of a bougie will incrcafc the: fpalvn, produce a fliivering, and then a fever fit; all which will re- turn as often as the bougie is introduced; and the tiifeafe to be relieved will become preportionabiy ob- ftinate. Yet, if the bougie is introduced without pain, and the patient difeharges his urine more freely, its ule may be continued. If there is inflammation in the neck of the bladder, • ; the catheter cannot be ufed before the inflammation abates; diuretics cannot conveniently be admitted; here nitrous medicines, neutral fait?, the aciduvn j muriat. diluted in the patient’s common drink ; and fmall doles of'camphor, may be frequently given. Deceptions 'of parfley roots, with a little nitre, may be drank in proportion as the thirft requires ; and bladders of warm water may be applied to the pubes and perinseum, or to the region of the kidnies, if the inflammation is there ; and fuch other medicines as are recommended in the nephritis. Ulecdiqg’ is here a principal remedy, and as a laxative the lai cath,. ahiar. or the ol. ricini ver. may be ufed. If a (tone obtfruPts the neck of the bladder, or the urethra, pufli it back with "the catheter, or cut through the perineum, and there cxiraPt it. Some advife never to ufe the catheter in retentions of urine fiom any caufc but from a -calculus obftruPling it> pnflage. But though this advice may be too general, the u(e of this inftrument is rarely required. When the head of tiic child, in pregnant women,' obflruPls the pafiage of the urine, introduce a linger into the vagina, and pufli back the child's head until a due evacuation is made. When acrid urine is the caufc, emullions made with the ok ricitr, fliould be the common drink. Nitre mixed in oily draughts, aiul mucilaginous de- coctions, arc the proper remedies. SpnftnsI s c Spafms arc- removed by fomentations, the warm ,ath, demulcents, gtyRers, antifpafmpdics, aiid nodynes. When the urine is totally retained in the bladder, : is too common a pradlice to advife to introduce the athetcr; but whether this complaint arifes from in- .animation or from 1'pafm, this c*ndu£! lhould carp- sally be avoided. Mr. Pott obferves, that the baft method of relieving this complaint, particularly when .aufed by fpafin, is by evacuation and anodynejre.lax- tion. The lafs of blood, he fays, is often ne.cef- ury ; as to what quantity,- the-ftrength and Hate of he’ patient will determine. The inteibines muii tc mptied by fome gentle cathartic. But the moft ffeftual relief will be from the warm bath, or ferni- upiutn, the application of bladders half filled with .tot water to the pubes and perimeum; and, above all jthcr remedies, the injection of glyftcrs, confiding •if the dccodb. com. pro. clyft. ol. ar.d tintb. Thebaic, or if after. a due bleeding, and if ntccfiary, em'p- • ying the bowels, a free dufc of opium is given, and he patient is fcated in a warm bath during twenty ninutes, or half 3n hour, rcpcatipg this ufe of the oath oftener or leldoin.r as.the C3fe may feem tq re- quire, fucccfs will very rarely fail to attend : and if ly tilde means, the urine begins tq drop through the urethra, although but a drop in a minute at the lift, by perfevering Readily and clofclv, the bladder will, at length, cffe&ually empty itfclf. Let the whole endeavour be to appeafe irritation and pain, to accompli lb which, although it may take up three, or four, or ("even days’ careful attention, it will amply reward the pra&itioncr's care, and the patient’s pa- tience. When great pain attends a retention or luppre/fioti of urine, the perfon called on for his alliilancc lhould iirfi. be well fatisfied, that the cafe is what it is fup- poled to be; he lhould obferve whether the kidnws haveI s c have done their office, and whether in reality there is urine in the bladder, which, if full, it will be fo diftended as to be felt above the os pubis, and bv i preffure on it, a pain will be excited in the neck of i the bladder. Another obfervation deferves attention < in inftances of this kind-, viz. the bladder will con- tain, fometimes, a large quantity, and not be affe&ed by it; at other times, a very l'mall quantity will affeft it; io that when an obftruttion takes place, an inflammation arifes, and fvmptoms of irritation en- fue; and, if relief is not immediately given, the patient is foon cut off'. Dr. George Fordyce obferves, that much of the difficulty and pain from retained urine is from the more or lefs fudden filling of the bladder or diftending it. When the urine is fuppreffed from the kiunics failing to perform their office, diuretics arc-difficulty to be admitted; attempts may be made to relax the. veffels of thefc organs by putting the patient fre- quently into the warm bath; and purges may be admitted, as they increafe the fccrctions in the in- teftines. If no other method will fuccced, a punftore tray be made into the bladder, as directed in the article Perinjeum (l’untturc of the). Indeed, there arc four methods propefed by dif- ferent writers, for drawing off the urine; viz. t. Bv making an ppening into the bladder above the n pubis, in the part where the high operation for the ffonc ufed to be performed. 2. By making a punc- ture in perinco, and fo getting into the bladder, w By making an opening inro tla bladder through the parts divided in the lateral operation for the hone, 4. By getting into the poftcrior part of the bladder through the reftum, with an inrtrument introduce up it for that purpofe. But from the experience o fomc judicious practitioners, it can hardly be ta t that their advantages are an encouragement to pefl tornI s c orm them. If one of thefe methods was determined n, Mr. Pott gives his opinion in favour of opening he bladder above the os pubis ; but obferves, that in is practice he has not l'cen any of them to be nc- effary; and further, though he does not abfolutely orbid, yet his perfuafions againft them do very little ?fs. Sec an inftancc of this diforder from a retroverfion f the uterus, in the Lond. Med. Obf. and Inq. vol. v. p. 38U, &:c. Vide Port’s Chirurgical Works; .ezv/s's Tranflation of Hodman’s Practice of Mcdi- ine; Bril's Surgery, vol. ii. IVbite's Surgery, and iTemoirs of the Medical Socictv of London.L. L \bia Leporika, the Hare-Up, is when there is a fiffure in the upper lip; fometimes there is alio a confidcrablc deficiency of parts, like that of a hare, whence its name. The divifion is fometimes double like the letter M ; it is then called the Double Hate- lit,. In forne in (lances, the fitTure extends backward along the whole courfe of the palate, through the velum, pendulum, and uvula into the throat; in tome, the bones of the palate are cither altogether, or m part, wanting, while in others they arc only divided from cue another. Either of thefc affeft.ons require an operation, which the fooncr it is performed, the fooncr will the deformity and inconveniences anting from the difeafe be removed. It is, however, gene- rally recommended to delay the operation ti . t c third, fourth, or fifth year. Mr. Kell is clearly of opinion it fliould never be long delayed when tnfr child is healthy. „ • In proceeding to the operation, if the patient is an adult, place him in a chair oppofite to the light, and let an affiflant fupport his head• but it a eh.Id, it will be better to lay him on a table, and fccurt him in a proper pofture by an affiftant (landing on each fide; then feparate the upper lip from the gums by dividing the frenum. If one of the foreteeth, op- pofite the "fiffure, projefts in any degree, «»{**•* When the fiffure runs through the bones of the pa- late. a finail portion of bone Tome timesi projcdls.tiort one or both the angHj this alfn mult be removed by This done, place a piece ■ lnipotb the pliers or forceps.LAB mooth foft wood under the lip,- and ftretch it upon jt, and with a common lcatpel make an incifion from -he under border of the lip up to the fuperior part of including all the parts concerned in the filTure; nd a fmall portion of the contiguous found fktn and 'arts beneath. This effc&ed, make a fimilar incifion :n the oppofite fide, of the fame length, and termi- iating in the lame point in the upper lip. Thus, if the -peration is accurately performed, the part cut out will e of the form of an inverted v, and the deficiency will avc the appearance of a recent wound. The divided- arts mufl now be brought accurately together, and fc retained bv the twifted future. In adults, three pins ■’ill be full fufficient; but two is enough with an lfant. In puffing them, let their entrance be made- early half an inch from the edge of the fore, and irry them nearly to the bottom; then pals them Lgain outward, in a fimilar direction, and to an equal I iftance on the oppofite fide of the fiffure. Apply a iece of lint, covered with mucilage, in the courfe L‘f the cut, and a bolfter of foft lint under the heads r ad points of the pins. To fupport the mufcles of the * icek, it is generally recommended to apply the uniting mdage, but Mr. Bell fays, neither this nor any other ; but fcldom neceffary. But when the parts are with difficulty brought together, he advifes anadhefive plaf- r, fpread on leather, to be applied over each cheek, of ifficient fizc for reaching from the angle of the jaw, F ' within an inch of the pins on each fide ; and each fc iece of plafter having three firm ligatures fixed to |! tat end of it next the pins, one at each corner, and I" tother in the middle ; let an ailiftant fupport the f tecks, while the ligatures are tied, fo as to retain jj te parts in this fituation. The ligatures fhould be I ade to pals between the pins. At the end of five [' ' fix days, the pins may be withdrawn, as in that f me, at iarthefl, the parts are united, i In cafe of a double b.ue-lip, the operation mull be C c z performedLEP performed twice. The cure of one fifliire fhould be completed before we venture on the other. For the future, Mr. Bell recommends gold pins to be employed ; and fome have recommended fiiver or gold pins with Heel points; but I have always ufed common pins, and I am inclined to think them equally good. The treatment here directed for the hare-lip, arc equally applicable by whatever caufe the filfure may be occalioned, only where the divifion is recent Irom a wound, it is merely necelTary to infert the pins. Sec. When a hare-lip is attended with a failure in the bones of the palate, after uniting the loft parts as already directed, fome advantage may be derived, from a thin plate of gold or fiiver, exattly fitted to the arch of the palate, and fixed by a piece of fponge ftitchcd to the convex fide of it, being inlerted into the filfure. Vide Le Dran’s Operations; Heijler's Surgery ; Sharp's Operations ; belt s Surgery, voj. iv. and White's Surgery, p. 249. Lepra, from x*5Tfo;, rough, and that from x«r»r> a Jcalr; the Ltprofy. Among the various diforders which arife from an impure ierum, and manifelt them- fclvcs in the Ikin and (ubjacent integuments, are thofe which come under the names of itch, herpe>, and leprofy; of the latter there are different l'pecies on record, fome of which are no where known toexili at this day ; and the reft are but obfeurely underflow* ‘fhc ltprofy, of whatever kind, ic a chronical d:l- order; ift warm climes it is very intettious, though not evidently fo in cold countries. Dr. Cullen places this genus of dil'eafe in the clafs cachexia, and order inpettgines. One fpecies onlv is known. Sam age notes fix varieties, rhe chief of which obferved with us are, the lepra Graecorum, and the lepra ichthyofis. Fat people are obferved to be more grevioutlv at- flitted with Ikiu difeafes, when they are the fubjettl ofL E P of them, than the lean; alfo more fubje£t to rc- .apfes after being cured. The remote caufcs are, whatever diminifhes the vital heat, and reduces the general ftrength of the oody. The immediate caufe is, a faulty ferum ; this ilagnatcs in the integuments and lkin, producing inflammation, exulceration, eruptions, &c. By the lepra Arabum, (which l'eems to be the fame <s the lepra Grrecorum) Aetius lays, the whole body s fo difordered, that the bones are faid to be vitiated. IThc furface of the body is covered pretty thick with pots and tumours, the rednefs of which is by de- crees converted into a black colour. The external ikin becomes unequally thick, thin, hard, and foft ; tt is in a manner rendered rough by certain feales, lefts, and chaps; the body grows lean; the face, egs, and feet lwell. When this diforclcr is of long tanding, the fingers and toes are concealed under a -umour, and a flight fever arifes, which eafily deftroys he patient, labouring under fo many dilordcrs. in the Weft-Indies, this diforder is known by the ame of the black feurvy, or Indian black feurvy. ‘ts approach is there obferved to be gradual ; at firft tere are many fpots on the body, of a yellow brown ift, which loon turn purple, and of a copper colour ; i tefc increafe, grow thick, and rough, with hard . ales; a numbnefs is felt on the fingers and toes; ic breath is foetid, the voice hoarl'e, the hard and aly parts crack, and ulcers appear in different parts; h at at length a fever comes on, which clofes the . cne. In hot countries, leprous diforders arc mod fre- j| aent; and in difl'erent places there is fume variety I the fymptoms ; but by the methods attempted for * ie cure, and the fuccefs which attends them, the ■ lorder feems to have but one general nature, how- ' 'cr it appears, or by whatever name it is called. Befides a thin laxative diet, warm bathing, and a pure C c 3 temperate ■ ktemperate air; antimonials, mixed with mercurials, are principally depended on ; thefe are aififted by warm peripiratives, 1'uch as guaicum, lharp-pointed dock, iaflatras, &c. fmall dofes of cantharides, fo as to promote a moderately increafed difcharge by urine ; nitre continued in fmall dofes for a long time, and manyother medicines, have been adminiftered for the relief of thefe diforders; but none of them feem to have equalled the fuccefc which Dr. Lyfons met with from the following decodtion : R Cort. interior, ulmi rec. J iv. coq. in aq. purs lt> iv- Jfeij. colaturae cap. Jjj fs. bis die. It fhould be continued feveral weeks. If after its ufe, the efflo- refcences increafe, it is a favourable fymptom. Vide JbetteU) lib. iv. c. 13. Cchw, lib. iii. Hieronimura Mcrcu lalem dc Morbus Cutaneis- Lond- Med. Tranf. vol. i. & ii. Lend. Med. Obf. Sc Inq. vol. i. p. zoi. &c. and Load. Med Journal, vol. i. Lepu a Ichthyosis, fijhy L’profy- Dr. Lctt- fom, in his Medical Memoirs, fays, “ this difealt does noc depend on any particular diet, nor is it con- fined to any particular temperament. In both fexes, it ufually appears about the age of puberty, or after that, towards the acme of life, cfpecially in thofe of- light coloured hair, and fmooth fine fkin. It certainly is not contagious. People advanced in years have it in a lefs degree, t ian when young, but no time of^ life is totally exempt from its attack. Befides the preternatural appearance of the fkin, no function feems interrupted or impaired, nor any other com- plaint evident. It would therefore appear to be purely a topical cutaneous difeale, which probably ariles from fome affedtion of the l'ccretory organs or gians of the ikin. At firft it appears in red fpots in the fkin, of a roundifh figure, which rife up into fenlible emi- nences, and being fcratched, a fluid ooees our. When ihc cuticle becomes thin, they Item evidently moreL I T rr lcfs feparated, and then rcfemblc fo many tran- rarent fcales, which generally do net fall off till a ew cuticle is formed below, which, in a little time, -lis again in the fame manner, in a dry, fcaly, crufty ruption; fometimes confined to particular parts; t: others, occupying nearly the whole furface of the ! ody, or removing from one part of it to another, f/ithout any evident caul'e ; and in fummer,/fometimes ntirely leaving the patient, and returning again in -utumn and winter. Mercury, antimony, and fea-bathing, feem to be :f no avail in this dil'eale. The mod ul'eful external | pplication, is a cerate of bees-wax and olive oil. 1'he only effedhial internal application, is the decodt. !'ort interior ulini. If the diforder is obftinate, it |/ill be neceffary to continue the decodtion for lome fiionths. Sometimes the dilorder feems entirely re- i; roved in tire fpring, when the warmth of the wca- jj her increafes with the year, and returns with tho leturning cold towards the conclufion of autumn. ; t would hence be advifeable, to repeat the dccodtion p t thofu periods when tire diforder may be moll fuf- P >edled, till the patient has a probable fecurity againft i; ny future attack." Lithotomia, from a fione, and tijavui, to rat. Lithotomy, or cutting for the ftonc. When a (‘tone is fufpedted to be lodged in the bladder, inde- pendent of the ufnal lymptoms indicative of its pre- } ence, it may be afeertained by the introdudfion of rm inftrument, called a sound. This inftrument * hould be of folid ftcel, and moderately curved. The » ntrodudtion is thus effedted. “ The patient being I aid on an horizontal table, with his thighs elevated, i rnd a little extended, pafs the found with the con- ’ save part towards you, until it meets with fome rc- | iltance in perinaeo, a little above the anus; then I ‘urning it without much force, pulh it gently on into r:he bladder, and if it meets with an obfirudtion atL I T the projedfing ftone. The bladder being thus laid bare, make a traufverfe incilion through the coats of it, directly upon the ftone, when, by prcffing the fingers in the rcdlum on the ft one, it will be forced out. Heiftcr fays, this method is practicable in boys under fourteen years of age. He always performed it on children, and recommends it to be pradtifed on adults, when the ft one cauhs a fiipprclhon of urine, by its adhering to the neck of the bladder; but other- wife, it is dangerous to adults. It is, however, i'cl- dom or never adopted in modern practice. The mode by the greater apparatus was; < thus : The patient being properly fecured, a grooved ftaff was introduced through the urethra into the bladder; the handle of the inftrument was carried over the right groin, while its convex part was made to pulh out the urethra on the left fide of the peri- neum. The ftaff was preferved in this fituation by an affiftant, who likewife fufpended the ferotum; while the operator, with a fcalpel in his right hand, made an incilion from the very bottom of the ferotum, to within a finger’s breadth of the anus, carrying it along the left fide of the perinseum, within a very little of the rapha. Now the urethra was opened at its bulb, by turning the back part of the knife to- wards the reftum, and cutting with the edge of it' diredtly into the groove of the llaff; and the incifion was then completed, by carrying it along to the ex- tremity of the urethra, at the commencement of the proftate gland. The wound was then dilated, and the ftone extradfed, in the fame manner as in the la- | tend opt ration. Tut IIigr Operation, focalled from the blad- I dcr being cut into above the ofih pubis. The incifion I ■ here, is made in that place lying between the middle of I the bladder and its neck. Previous to performing this operation, as the bladder muft be ditlended, the patient tliould accultom himlelf to retain his.urine, andL I T id as foon asitis thought he can retain the ncccflary quantity (about a pound a half, if an adult) pads ligature upon the penis ten or twelve hours before tc operation, and let the patient drink plentifully of ay diluent drink. This done, the patient ihould be cured by ailidatits upon a firm table, with his head Dnlidcrably lower than his body, and his thighs id buttocks a good deal elevated. The patient thus ccurcd, an incifion is to be made with a round edged alpel, dircdtly upon one fide of the linca alba, be- inning about four inches above the ofla pubis, and antinuing it down to the fymphyfis of thefe bones, ’he niufclcs then come in view, and the incilion lay be carried on merely by feparating them from nc another; but if fomc of their fibres were cut, o detriment would enfue. The furgeon is now with is fingers to fearch for the bladder, which he will ifeover immediately above the pubes. With the ngers of his left hand, he mull now prefs back the critonamm with the inteftines contained in it, and /ith a fcnlpcl cut into the bladder at its mod promi- ent part. The incilion ihould be fuflkicntly large, a admit the two fore-fingers of the operator’s left and, which being introduced, the incifion is to be nlargcd to the length of about three inches, by a unning a probe pointed biltoury along one of the ingers, down towards one fide of the neck of the •ladder. When the fingers are introduced into the •ladder, the ligatures from the penis Ihould be ins- tantly removed. The incifion being finiihed, the iterator Ihould extradt the done with his fingers in 'reference to the forceps. The done being removed, he fuperior part of the wound in the teguments* mght to be brought together, by adhefive platters >r the twilled future, leaving about £n inch and a tali in the under part of it open. The bowels (hnirUl re kept open with laxatives, and during the whol.g f.: .. cure.Cure, the headand upper p. 11 of the body ought to be kept confidcrably lower than the pelvis. When there is reafon to ful peft the ftone to be of Very large fize, perhaps this operation is preferable to the lat mi one ; but the mode by the greater afpait.tm fhould never be employed. The Lateral Operation. Before you proceed to perform this operation, let the patient's bowels be thoroughly emptied, by giving him a laxative in rite preceding day, and a glyftcr a few hours before the operation. The bladder, however, mull be kept full, to which end, the patient fhould drink plenti- fully of feme diluent liquor For fcveral hours previous to his being laid on the table ; and if he cannot re- tain his urine, a flight compreflion fhould he made < u the penis. Tbefe circumttanccs attended to, lay the patient on a firm level table, of about three feet two inches high, about three feet eight indies long, and two feet and a half wide. When on the tnbfcj fccurc him thus : let a nooft; be formed in the double of a piece of broad firm tape, about five feet in length; the patient’s wrifbs being introduced at thi^ noole, he ought then to take a firm hold of the out* fide of the ankle of the fame fide, when, by different turns of the tape round rhe hand, ankle, and foot, his hand is to be elffe&ually fccuvcd in this pofition; and this being done on one fide, the hand and foot on the oppofite fide are to be firmly tied together in a fimilar manner. The perinaeum and parts about the anus being fhaved, introduce a grooved ft a IF, of a fize propor- tioned both in length and bulk to the parts through which it is to pals. The ftone being diftinftlv few, not only by you, but alfo by your aififtants, place the patient in the pofture he is to remain during the operation. A pillow may be put under his head, and two, at lead, under his buttocks, which fhould be made to projeft au inch or two over the end of r 3 :haL I T •;hc table. An aflitbant on each. fide vkould fecurc the legs and arms : one rrmft prevent him from mov- ing die upper part of his body ; another muft lay i laid of the Half,. and let a fifth be ready to hand the ucclfary inlhuments. Nov.- touch the hone again with the ftnflf, ami pais the handle of it over the right groin of die patieut, Id that the convex part of the inftrumen*. may be diflinguilhcd on the left fide of the pcriiiiauiB. Let an afftftant preferve it in this ;pofmon, by bedding the hand.e with his right hand) while with his left he elevates and iuppocts the fere turn. Now being feared between the. patient and the tvbidow, matte an incifion through the fkiu and isellular fubflancc, at lealf four inches long in a full grown perlbn, and lo in proportion in final lor fined :people; beginning a little to the left fide of tho .agha., about an inch from, die termination of the .eretum, and proceed in an oblique direction along the peiinauun, till, ix is made to run at an equal dif- itance between-1lie- tuberofity of the ii'chium and the snus, width lali, it ought to pais about an inch. By this firft ftroiee of the fcalpcJ, the Ihm and cellular I.ubftancc fhoidd be freely divided, fo a., to bring the fubjiccnt mu [flics completely into view ; when, by a continuation of the incifion, the creator penis, acce- lerator urinsc, and tranfucrfalis pcrioaii, are alio to be divided. The levator ani being intermixed with tittle mulclc?, will aifo be cut. This incifion completed, with the index ef your left liand feardi for the Half, tnd naving found it, pulh the jsoint of your finger along the courfe of it tf.l you pci’s tlie bulb of the urethra, then with, tht edge of your knife turned towarefe the groove of.the ftaff, divide the membran- ous part of die urethra in it= w hole courfe, from the profiaic gland to th»- buibv Now lay afide the deal pci, ■ and with tire cutting gorget divide the profit ate gland, iv tch a. fmi.ll pn.ucu e>f the nock of the biadder. D d GuideL I T Guide the beak of the gorget into the groove of the ftaff, by previoufly introducing the nail of the index of your left hand into the groove, then take the handle of the ftaff from the ailiftant, raife it confide- rably from the groin in which it lays, fo as to form nearly a right angle with the body of the patient, and with your left hand preferve it firmly in this fituation, while with your right hand you pufh on the gorget till it has paffed freely into the bladder. Be careful that the beak of the gorget is exa&ly fitted to the groove in the ftaff. The gorget having entered the bladder, with- draw the ftaff. Then endeavour to difeover the fitu- ation of the llone with your finger, which will in- ftruCt you of the beft direction for the forceps. If you cannot reach the ftonc with your finger, intro- duce a pair of forceps, of proportioned lizc, in the courfc of the gorget, and immediately withdraw the latter flowlv, and in the exaCt direction by which it was entered. The forceps fhould be introduced lhur, and when in the bladder they mull be gradually opened, and moved eafily about, foinetimes elevated, and fometimes depreffed, till the (lone is difeovered, when it mull be immediately laid hold off. It fome- times happens, that the moll expert furgeon cannot readily difeover the llone by the forceps, cfpecmiiy when it is final). In fuch inftances, it is fometimes met with near the fundus of the bladder; but it is mod frequently found concealed in the under and back part of it, near to its neck. When it is found in this fituation, nothing will bring it fo readily into tontnCl w ith the forceps as elevating this part of die bladder, by introducing the finger into the I'cCtunr. In cxrraCting the llone, hold the forceps firmly with Both hands, the right hand towards the extremity ol the handles, and die left near to the common axis. ' If the done is broken bv accident, or pur pole ly .when too large for extraction; be cau ful to extrid everyLIT every fragment of it: and as the forceps and fcoop .can only extract the large pieces, water of a proper heat fhould be injefted to walli away the linaller panicles. As foon as one flone is. ext rafted, introduce your j-finger, and then the forceps, to determine whether there are any more; and as long as any ftoncs are difeovered, the forceps mult be repeatedly introduced ttill the whole are entirely extracted. In cafe any divided veffel fhould bleed profufeiy, pals a ligature rround it, but not till after the (tone or ftoncs are cx- ttrafted. If the veffel cannot be fecurcd by a liga- • ture, a firm roller may be introduced at the wound, or, what Mr. Bell prefers, a filver canula, well de- fended with foft linen. To prevent the inconve- nience arifing from blood collefting in the bladder, i the patient fhould be placed in fuch a pollute after 'the' operation, as moft effectually to evacuate any blood that may be difeharged. The pelvis lliould be confiderably lower than the reft of the body. Any hatmorrhage, that may have occurred, being, flopped, infert a piece of foft lint between the lips of ithc wound, bring the patient’s thighs together, and iin that pofition let him be carried to bed. If in an hour or two, a fevere pain is complained of in the sunder part of the abdomen, and does not yield to warm fomentations, with emollient and anodyne glyltcrs, it is an alarming lymptbm. If the abdo- men becomes hard and tumefied, and the pulfe full and quick, the danger is great. It arifes from in- flammation, and mult be treated accordingly. When 'thefe fymptoms yield to this treatment, the patient will probably recover. In young healthy boys, the ■ wound fometimes heals in about three weeks, bur in lotne cafes not till the feventh or. eighth week. The treatment of the wounds fhould be as in fimilar wounds in, other parts. To. prevent tire buttocks ifrom being excoriated with the urine, let them beL I T frequently wafted with ardent fpirir, or fitne-wr- ter. In weakly patients, an incontinence of urine frequently occurs after the operation. The cold bath, with bark, and generous diet, will generally remove this inconvenience. Women arc feldom the futjeds of the operation of the Hone, but when they are, rt may be extracted through the urethra, which may be gradually dilated to alrnolt any extent by the ui'e of tents, or by Mr. Bromficlds method, which is certainly preferable, when the method by dilatation is adopted. It is this: by the help of a ftraighr blunt dire&ur, he introduced into the bladder, the doled end of the appcndicula' iateftini cceci of a hnall animal; and leaving out tile open end, ar a proper length, he filled it with warm water by means of a fvringe, and iecurcd it with a ligature. He then made a twill or two of that part of the appcndicula, which was left out, that the contained water might, by being prefled imt diftciul the dole end wliich was in the bladder : an alliftant was directed to draw it forward from time to time, and occafionally to give a frclh twill, (b ?.« to fill the end, contained in the bladder, more and more as the cervix velicae opened ; by which proccts, continued for lome time, the neck of the bladder was ii» opened, that thr forceps might calily have been admitted if required ; but ir was not noccftory, as the Hone palled off with the urine. The parts were afterwards fomented with warm milk, and rhetv- s'. ith camphorated fpirit of wine. No inflamrna'ion or other difagrccablc fymptom l'upervcncd. Vide Bromfk!d\ Oblervauons and Cafes, vol. li. Mr. Gooch gives an inllancc of extracting a Hone of four ounces weight through an incifioo which he made from tiie vagina into the bladder. The wound icon healed by the ufe of loft hailatiuc injedtinns.LUE •?f the parts. Vide his Cafes and Remarks, vol. il. '3. 182. Neither of thefe methods, however, have gene- rrally obtained. The following is the Operation mofi ;commonly prartifed. The patient being placed on a :table, and fecured in the manner already diverted, introduce a grooved Half into the bladder, by pilling lit through the urethra, which lies between the nvm- jphae, immediately belmv the clitoris; keep it firm ■with your left hand, and with your right, introduce the beak of the cutting gorget into the groove, and run it eafily along till it has fairly entered the bladder. :NTo\v, as in male fubjedts, introduce your finger along j thc gorget, and having difeovered a ltonc, proceed ;to extrart it in the manner already dtferibed. Vide Sharpe s Operations of Surgery, and his Critical F.ncju'ry ; Hiijief s Surgery, Bromfiehi’% Cafes and (Obftrvations, vol. ii. Le Oran's Operations; Ilcijl'er’s 'Differtation on the High Apparatus; and Sett's Sur- tgerv, vol. ii. Lucs Veverea, the Plague of fenus, or venereal udifeafe. Dr. Cullen names it f\phili<, and places it as a genus in the clafs cache.v.-e, and order imfie/igines, which he defines, a contagious difeafe, ariling alter impure coition; and a difeafe of the genitals, ulcers of the throat, corymbofe papulae of the (kin, parti- cularly at the margin of the hairy fcalp, running in Tcabs, and fcabby ulcers; pain in the bones, and exoftofes : of which he allows only one fpccies. Wherever this diforder attacks at the firft, it is conveyed into the conlHtution by the lymphatics ; if the infedtion is received by the penis, by means of the . abforbent or lymphatic veins, the bubo happens in the groin ; for the lymphatics of the genitals pafs 1 through the inguinal glands ; if at the hand, the axilla will be the feat of the bubo, for the fame kind of rcafon ; if at the lips, the glands in the neck will tumify and inflame. This diforder never affedfs D d 3 the1 LUE the vifeera, but it attacks the bones; hardly a bone in the body but what has been injured by it, though molt commonly it is fcated in the thin bones, upper part of the fkull, the bones of the arms near the joints of the elbows, and l'omctinies the knees, ribs', of even the lpine ; tome external glands, the palate, nofc, (kin, or lbme other part not out of the reach of furgery, arc the ulual parts affe&ed. It is pro- bable, that the lacunae are the [frit feat of infection; if lo, the nearer the firft feat of running is to the neck of the bladder, the more the urethra will be aftc&ed, the fymptonts more fevcrc, the dilcliarge greater, and vice verfa; for, wherever the feat is, betwixt that and the neck of the bladder cfcapcs un- hurt. The inflammation and heat of urine is felt mo ft near the elans, and the feat of inflammation and pain are moft likely to he the feat of the dilchargc. < In patients of a thin habit, the fymptoms and cure are worfc and more difficult to manage than in the fat and plethoric. And in children, this d border is worfe than in adults. It is always propagated bv infection. The venereal matter muft he applied in a fluid ftatc, either to feme part where the mucus is very loft, as it is in the parts of generation, &c. or to a wound or ulcer ; or it may be given to a child from its mother during her pregnancy. The venereal ntntrer almoft always oc- caftons a ccnvcrfnm of the mucus of the parr, or of the fluids of the ulcer or wound, into a matter lhni- lar to itfelf; and when a futficicnt quantity has been thus produced, it brings on an inflammation in the murous membrane, or glands, or in the wound, or ulcer, and it is afterwards fometimes abforbed into the general fyftem of the vtffcls ; but very feldom be. for' . the niit lyinptom, therefore, appears in the part where the mfoctiou was received. If children receive the infoition from their mothers* they ure iouaumes b^rn with fymptoms uf cite dif* iji, i ta.c,■safe, as inflammations of the fkin, gonorrhoea, &c. sut, for the moft part, there is no appearance for "everal days, but in about a week, eruptions, with srownifh fpots or fcabs, degenerating in ulcers, arife iibout the angles of the mouth, or other parts of the lead, or over the body. Women are not fubjedt to fo great a variety of vmptoms as men are ; their chief complaints are, a difficulty of urine, and a running; however, they ire liable to chancres and warts, both within and with- out the labiae pudendae, as alfo buboes in the groin ; and fometimes a contradtion of the fphindter vagina;. The firft fymptom obfervable in afrclli gonorrhoea ~n men, is ufualiy an agreeable fenfation in the whole, m the greateft part of the urinary paflage ; at this ime, no, or fcarce any, difeharge is obfervable on the inen : then an uneafinefs about the parts of genera- ion, together with an appearance of a little whitiih, r rather water-coloured matter about the orifice of ihc urethra, when in the moft favourable degree ; nit often it is whitiih, and differs in colour and con- fidence. daily, becoming yellow ; then, if the viru- i»;ncc is great, it is greenilh, and fometimes ftreaked if nth blood. When the running is vifiblc, there is <li lfo an inflammation and fvvclling about the orifice of W'he urethra; this fymptom is fometimes perceptible *• /hen no running appears; in this cafe, there is a iegrec of pungency on the evacuation of urine ; the eat of unite is fcarce perceived in voiding it, but jimmediately after, the pa-ient feels an extreme heat | iroughout the whole duct of the urethra, but more J fpeciaJly at its termination in the glans. Spots ap- | car on the linen, the edges of which arc darker • \ oloured than the centre ; this dark margin is a prin- ‘ 'pal mark to dtjl.nguijlj the 'Venereal difeharge from tbofc 1 1 tifing from otb/r caufes. From a defedt of mucus in ! : uretlm, the urine excites a fmarting and pain icre as it nafles through. The matter dildiargcd fromfrom the urethra increafes in quantity. The inflam- mation at the end of the urethra increafes too, as appears from the- rednefs and hardneis of the edge - of its orifice. A tenfion and harduefs is perceived 1 through the whole length of the urethra, and a len- j fation of ftrifture in the penis, particularly during an creation. The matter diicharged is thinner, loics its adheflvenefs, and is more ill coloured. The in- flammation often occafions a curvcdne-ts in the penis, and the l'timulus, by which the inflammation is ex- cited, occafions an eredtion too when the patient is. warm in bed, and fometimes produces involuntary, j emillions; this fymptom is called a chordee, or a priapifmui. If the inflammatory fymptoms arc vio- lent, a Itrangury comeson. Sometimes an inflamma- tion in the prepuce coniines it from being drawn back, and thus forms a[‘byv.cjis ; or being drawn behind the glans cannot be returned, and is then called /- mo/is. When the tincture from tlicl'c two laid fymp- toms is not fpcedily relieved, a mortiiication comes oa the part, or the whole of the penis becomes u.-duna- tous, in which cal'e, without great care, a gangrene follows, I ii all thcl'e cafes, ulcers are apt to be formed. Tlius the inflammation continues to inertufe generally for about a week or two. If the mucus that is dil- charged walhcs away the venereal matter fader than, it is formed, the fymptoms may continue in the fame, date for foinc time, aud then gradually dccrcafc, and at length a cure is eiledtcd. All thefe fymptoms may occur, without occaiioning the Lues Venerea, llrictiy fptaking. Vide Gq.vokiukia. When the diforder dot-snot terminate thus, ulcers are formed, or the venereal poilun being ablorbcd, mftead of a gonorrhoea, a lues venerea, or pox, is the confequcncc. When the gonnrihpea is long con- tinued, it foiTictimes produces a ftriefure in the ure- thra, and otcnlimik a difficulty in the evacuation of the urine, wliieh is often attended with pain, rho * waterLU£ vaterflowing out in a fmall ft team; or only by drops: omctitnes it alfo produces an inflaitfluation, and a dHpofition to contraction in the bladder, and the urc- hra alfo contracting, the fteppage is alfo increafed : :iais generally goes off with a fecrction of mucus from tide parts; but it may have the other progrelfcs and emulations of an inflammation of the bladder, and Sften no fuch affcCtion takes place, or if it does, goes •‘•fF, and the ftoppage and pain continue for years. The tcfticles, the inguinal glands, and other parts, re fubieCt to phlegmonous inflammations. Ulcers are ormed in different parts of the body, as in the throat, ccafioning hoarlencfs, or perhaps a deafnefs, from heir fuuation on the orifice of the Euftachiafi tube; ?r if thefe ulers are very violent, they eat through .3 the bone, and foon after deftroying it, a paffage ; formed from the mouth to the nofe. Ulcers are .armed in the fkin; they begin with a pnrpiilh fpot r brown (cab. When ulcers from this caufe happen 1 the palms of the hands, the loles of the feet, be- ind the ears, about the anus, or the inlides of the ps, they have the appearance of Allures ; they alfo Ke out a thin matter, and are attended with great fj irenefs and pain; the feurf and lcab with which B lefe ulcers begin, are of a ycllowilh colour, incliu- "I to brown, like the honey-comb; it appears on I: veral parts of the body, by which cireumftance they 1! ay be dillinguifried from all others; fometimes they I j e broad, rcfombling the deferiptions given of the ‘ 1 profy by feme writers ; and the more this feurf treads, the eafier the patient becomes. .All thefe m-ereal eruptions are fmall, and meft frequently are • , rtned on the temples or other part of the head, and | hen- they fcale off, they leave a mark nearly of a wcolate colour behind them. The venereal matter ting on the eyes, produces an ophthnhr.y, and fome- rties a lofs of fight : falling on the ears, a deafnefs, id a caries of the bones follows. It very often • J | ippens, that the periofttura is affcCted, and when tlicL U E the patient begins to grow warm in bed, violent pa'ns arc excited ; thcle pains are (bated in tile head, and in £)the middle part of the bones of the limbs ; in the morning they abate, and during tire day are rarely troublcfomc. Sometimes the periofteum Swelling be- comes hard, anil forms thole tumours which are called nodes. Excrefccncts alfo arife on the glans, penis, prepuce, anus, labia pudendi, &.c. thefe are feldoin painful. Various other lymptoms appear, when no means have been lift'd to check the prourels of the • difordprs, but as mercury is fo univerfally applied, to, it is rare that even many of the above named ap- pear in the fame patient. Some confutations bear up many years under this dileafc ; but others fink under it foon, and are car- ried off. The venereal gonorrhoea fhould be diftinguilhcd from that in which there is no infection ; from the lluor albus ; and from other incrcafcd lecretions from, the different parts fubjefl to this d idem per ; from the involuntaiy emiHions of lie-men j from ulcers in the urinary paffiges : venereal ulcers, pains, eruptions, &c. lhould be dillinauilhed from thofe which arife from any. other eaufe. The more regular the difeharge from the urethra :s m ide, the more mild are all the lympn m ; but ,f the running is finall in quantity, or the matter of a yellow or greenilh colour, it is virulent, if, upon preiiing tjie penis, a drop of limpid liquor, rclembling the while of an egg, is dilchargcd, it indicates a !-tc cure. > i As a preventive of this diforder, tlte following is recommended: R Aqua Kali, puri. 3j- f» 1 v. in aq. font. ]|)j. & cola per chartam. Some et thi> foluti >n is to be mixed with a tea-cupfull of warm water (f<j much as tlie mouth can beai without pain) then tin, a fyringe witli the liquor, and inject it into the uic- thra, or vagina, retaining it there lor about a mmute i then add to the remainder of the liquor a tca-fpoonf tallL U E full of the folution, and wafh the glans, prepuce, la- bia pudendi, Sec. Laftly, injedt and walh with warm * water. } When the diforder is contracted, the indications of cure are, to deftroy the venereal infedtion, and :to remove rhe fymptoms excited by it. A gonorrhoea, if recent, is belt managed, by firlt ttreating it as a topical inflammation; at the fame time rendering the urine as foft as polhble, by rhe ufc of demulcent drinks; fuchas a decodtion of marlh- rmallow root,err a folution of gum arabic in water. The feat of the gonorrhoea is always in the inner -membrane of the urethra, but it may fpread to thfe rprbftatae and vehculae feminalcs, and bv gently fqueez- lligthc penis, it may generally be difeovered in what particular part of the urethra this diforder is lcated ; tfor cither a hardneis will be felt in the part, or the patient will complain of pain on ahnoft any degree of oreflure. Purging with ’he natron vitriolat, or the ol. ricini, •viH be proper until the inflammatory fymptoms abate ; |md then begin to rub the penis under the urethra, || v'’h the the nngt. hvrdragyr. fort, every night at jed time; or injedt a folution of hydrargyrus in the nucilagc of gum arabic, and rendered fuflicicntly uid with Hufeed oil frefli drawn; repeat the injec- ion three or four times a day? retaining it eight or cn minutes each time. ^ hen injedtions arc ufed. the patient fhould always take water firft, for thus much of the virulent mat- -■r is vvaflied away. The time to leave off injedt ing, \vhcn the running no longer ftains the linen with a ark-edged fpot. The running does not always ceafe [- t"ls time, but though it continues a wc*:k or two ! gradually IdTcns. ; During this time, avoid all cxccfles ; let the excreife - gentle and moderate;' tl*e diet fomewhat abfle- itous, or at k-aft free from every degree of what’in- eaic, the natural heat, or excites an extt aordinaVy eric. * IfL U £ It this method cannot be conformed to, give a few cooling purges at proper intervals, and one of the following pills, or two, if the patient can bear them without aftedting his mouth, or exciting any of the ienfiblc excretions : R Calom. gr. j. anrimon. tarra- riz. gr. J. conf. cyneib.q. f.f. nil. h. f. fumend. When there is merely a difeharge from the urethra, though arifing from a veneres! affection, mercury is fcldotn neceffary. Treat it a- a local inflammation >! and when the inflammation is over, by the ufe of adringents, a cure will in general becSedfed. Vide GoNORRHOiA. When an ulcer apjmm, or any fymptom of the Venereal matter being abforbed, t e ufe of mercury is nccclfarv. It ihould be lb adminifteredj that the whole habit may be affeCldJ by it,, and yet none of j the fcnhblc dife barges produced. It (hould be given fo as to produce hardneis. ftilln-efs, and a moderate frequency in the pulfe, but nothing further* tor mercury is molt effectual, and fpuddily ufofui,, when the patient’s ftrength is not IciTcned by it. Salivation is by no means nccellary, except the patient is fo irritable, that the fmalleft quantity of mercury im- mediately affefts his mouth. In the word cafes, the mercury is bed conveyed into the habit by inunSion ; but in lvf extraordinary circumftaoccs, its inward ufe may iufHcc. The Cv* lution of hydrargyr. muriat. is in of: convenient when the patient nvaii be cxpoie l to the a:r; other wife, preparations of crude mercury are to be preferred? or the pill with calom. & antimon. tartariz. above preferibed. If, without afTefUng the mouth, mer- curials run off by the inteftines, give the foiloyvicg pill: R Opii Jf antimon. tartariz ad gr. >, coni, cy- jiolb. q. f. i. pil. mane ac vcfpcr fumend. Sometimes it happens, that whilfl the patient con- tinues in the air of a large town, all moos prove ir.- effcdlual; but focn after his removal iytq, the coup* try, he is rcftoreJ to health. It is alio muft fntc con‘.mu*L U E li e » continue the ufe of mercurials for four or five week", although every fymptom may have difappeared. Dr. Smith recommends the following concifc me- thod of managing a confirmed lues venerea: Give .mercury only by way of alterative, and adminiftcr it as follows : ft Hydragyr. calcin. gr.j. ad iij. fulph. ant. S a4}' fl'J'iad lv*cxtr-“P" gr‘ls' ad gr-J. coni', rolar, K. q. f. t. bob omn. no&. her. decubitus fumend. •n r':YhCv Ui -Cof the mGrcuriatbolus, the patient, ■fhould take hah a p,nt of the following decotfiorf j -r tlmcs a dayr: R Rad. farfaparil. i iij. laurcolot 5 >J. coq. ex . aq. font, foiij. ad jfeij. & cola. During the cure, he direfts that the patient be Pt warm, ulc a light diet, drink plenty of broth i>ath°tht:r thin 1C1Uors’ and go frequently into a warm Sometimes the internal ufe of mercury produces neafinefs in the ftomach and bowels, or pafies off by -ool too freely ; m thefc cafes, as well as on other ac- 3unts the mercury may with equal advantage be an- hed by rubbing theungt. hydragyr. f rt. on the fun. here the patients ftrength is diminifhed, and here there are cod cm a tons fwcllings, a free ufe of cruvian bark is ncccfFary. In calc of a woman’s being pregnant, the fame -ntie method above recommended may be ufed with the fafety and advantage that follows it when this- : ppolcd impediment does not attend. The fvmp- J ms vvhich occafionally occur, and require particular I-'arment, are thefe : Bubo, Chancre, Cbnrdce, & J’■rnta Huniorahs, For the treatment of thefe, vide ; e rcfpedlive articles. Caruncles in the_ Urethra. Thefc rarely take place *ore the running is nearly hopped, 'if ever thev ■ _formed at all, for it is a cicatrix that is found on lection ; the ulcers in the urethra healing, leave icatrix which checks the free paffuge of the urine. j| bougie palled up the urethra, a little beyond the ■ ce where it meets with refinance, and kept thereL U E an hour or more every day, is the proper method of cure. Sometimes a ltrifture in the urethra is mif- taken for a caruncle, but the cure is the lame. Gumma, topbu!, or nodus. Thefe are tumours on the periolkutn ; the firft is the fofteft; the laid the hardeft ; they arc mod frequently canted by the ve- nereal diforder; much pain attends them. The de- ception of mezereon, is recommended as a radical cure; by the ufe of mercury, however they are ge- nerally removed, lliould they increafe in fize, and be- come inconvenient, they may be removed as directed in article F.rofto/is. Ulcers. Thefe are on the fkin, or the mucous membrane ; their edges are reddilh, or l'omctimes of an alh-colour, but their furface is whitilh, and their form irregular; they are fore or painful: if they are ill-treated, they cafily become cancerous, and hardly admit of a cure, though they are ealily brought to look well, and to have the appearance of a healing Hate. Rough medicines, and a too free ufe of mer- cury, produce the world etfefts. Mild mercurials are always proper; if there is any morbid acrimony in the blood, demulcents lhould accompany the mer- cury ; and the bark lhould never be omitted when venereal ulcers attend ; though if there is an inHani- matory habit, it lhould be removed by bleeding, .See. Venereal, as well as other ulcers, are difpoied to good granulation and fuppuration by the ufe of the bark, given with the mercury. The bark alone, by deftroymg the irritability of the fyftem, will make the ulcers put on a good appearance, and heal; but after a time, the difeafe wili be apt to make its ap- pearance again, fo that we lhould never trult to any medicine hut mercury. Mercury will fometimes produce ulcers on the ton- fil>. uvula, and inlidc of the check, which do netbut. appear fuperficial, i. e. more like an inflamed eroflon. The bark, with clcanlinefs, will remove Jthefe ulcers in a few days. Mr. Bell obferves, in his Treatife on Ulcers, that thole which he calls fymptomatic, or that arc the refult of a venereal taint of long continuance, are lingular in the appearance of their difeharge, which is as follows: at firft it is thin, but fpon oecomes tough and vifeid; having a very loath- some, though not the ordinary foetid putrid fmell, and a Angular greenilh yellow colour. In fuch ulcers ts have an old pox for their caufe, we lhould depend )ii the effects of mercury given internally, contenting ourfelves with fuch external applications, as will keep he fore clean. In this manner, the different ulcers haling up merely by the ufe of internal remedies, oroves, almoft to a certainty, that the difeafe is eradi- ated from the habit; and further, it is the only aroof that little or no more mercury is t equired. Vene- eafulcers are apt to be inflamed, and then by the pain hey occafion, are very troublefome ; if this inflam- mation becomes conflderable, bleed; but for the 10ft part, a proper application of the faturnine oultice will foffice. The inflammation removed, he ungt. ccreum. ph. Edinb. will be the only needful refling. The pH. mere. ph. Edinb. is generally the l eft mercurial for inward ul’e, but Tomttimcs it fails, nd tiien the hydrargyr. muriat. is generally more fiic- fsful; it may be given in the form of pills, or fo-. Jtion. In fome obftinate venereal ulcers, it fome- mes happens, that various mercurial preparations re tried, before it is known on which to de- end; but when a proper one is difeovored, it lOuld be ufed for fome time after every appearance tat is yenercal has vanilhtd. If the ulcer is leafed car a bone, and fungous flcfli appears in it, a caries iay be fufpebted ; in which cafe, bcTules rite need', try treatment lor carioiis bones, mercury muft be . E e z ' adminif-L U E adminlftered. Thefe ulcers are not unfreqnently ob- ftinatc, and do not heal, although every venereal lymptom has difappeared : here we may fufpeft the prei’encc of fonie other difeafe, and that both have had their fliarc in producing, as well as continuing the ulcer. As foon as the difeafe is dii'covcrcd, the proper remedies for its removal muft be directed; and then a cure will foon be accompliihcd. It may be that the fores will’ not heal, though no other dif- eafe is attendant, but from the free ufe of mercury,. &c. the body is enfeebled ; here the bark, with a notirilhing diet, a pure air, and moderate cxcrcife, may be tried, and ufualiy fucccfs will be the refult. If the fljughs cn thefe ulcers are tough, dreffings that gently ftimmate, w 11 be required ; e. g. R Ung. Rtfln Fiav. Jj. hydrargyr. nitrat. rub. 3?j. m. When the lloughs arc calt off, and a proper difeharge is pro- duced, chefs wicU luch other means as the then liars, of the lore requires. When a gland is the feat of a general ulcer, a kindly fuppuration is then difficultly produced, and fumctirr.es a cure cannot be performed, without deftroying at leaft a 1 the hardened part of it. This is beff done by repeated applications of the ar- gent. nitrat. which may be repeated every third or fourth day. (/'cnereat ulcers, whether in buboes, chancres, or other- wife, when they appear cancerous, will gradually give way by the ufe of frclh air, a fuller diet, abfti- ncnce from mercury, or by means of hemlock ap- plied outwardly, or given inwardly, whether with or without opiates. Sometimes, a more fpcedy effect has been obferved from eating fix or more lemons in a day. See fome Obfcrvations of this kind in the Lond. IVled. Tranf. vol. ii. p. 338, &c. Venereal ulcers in the throat, may be conveniently relieved with the following : R Hydrargyr. muriat. gr. x. acidi. mu- riar. gut. v. tinft. lav. c. Jj. m. cap. gut. v—xx. bw- diem in aq. purae vel jufcul. avcnac. WerttL U E E c 3 Warts and Excrtfcntces. When the infection is fe- ruvcly deftjroyed, thefe may be removed either by a jaultic or the knife. If they are cut away, deftroy heir roots with the lunar cauftic, if they are warts, ar hardilh; but the fofter, rub them only with a fixture of quickfilvcr and lard, in equal quantities, ftr with the aq. phagaden. When the whole is dc- troyed, heal the ulcer as a common 6nc. Mr. Deafe, in the fourth volume of the Edinb. VIedical Commentaries, obferves, how difficult it is o eradicate venereal warts; and at the fame time, cautions againft perfifting very long in a courfe of ncrcury for their removal. He adds, that they con- inue after the venereal virus is elFedhially removed rom the habit, fo then they are merely local, and rc- juirc no other treatment than Inch applications as will remove and prevent them front returning. Pams tn the Bonus. Thefe are moll troublefome n the night. The dccodlion of mezercon is here iFedtual ; but an opiate Ihould be given at bed- ime, until the difeale is fubdued. In this cafe, be ttentive to the deftrudlion of the venereal infec- ion. Phymofts, Tn the venereal difeafe, this isufually of lie oedematous kind ; and befides the ufe of proper nercurials, the bark fitould alfo be given front an atnee, to an ounce and a half in twenty-four hours, n every kind of phymofts, let milk and water be njedted between the prepuce and glans very often, f by a due ufe of proper means, the phymofts does ot give way, it mud be cut open with a knife : let he incifton be on one fide. If the phvmofis has con- inued long, fo that the prepuce is hard and feirrhous, tie whole of the prepuce Ihould be cut off. Exter- ally, the application of Goulard’s faturnine water, other fitch like application, may be ufed to remove he phymofts in the beginning, but emollient poul- -ocs mull be forborne.Parapbymq/is. The fame general method is proper here, that is directed for the phymofis. Vide Chap- man s Abridgment of Aftruc on the Venereal Difeafe. Fordyce'% Elements, part the fccond. Fait’s Treatifc on the Venereal Difeafe. Fordyce’s Review of the Venereal Difeafe. IVbrte's Surgery. S-xediaur, PUnck, Foil* and Hunter, oa VenereaF Complaints.M Mortification Mortification ; from mors, death, l and facio, to make. Dr. Cullen confiders the mor- tification (which he names fphacelus) not as a genua 1 jf difeafe, but as a mode of inflammation terminating. BMr. Pott observes, that a gangrene is in the cellular ■ membrane and the fkin, but that a fphacclus, or mor- tification, is deeper, attacking the mufclcs. ' A thorough mortification, or laft ftage of a gan- ffl^renc, is known by the difeafed part becoming to- tally black, by its loling.all pain and fenfation, at the ■same time that it emits a conliderable fetor ; at laft, ■ foftnefs or flacidity in general takes place, together ■ vith an entire diffulution of the different parts of ■ vhich the organ is compofcd.' When the parts con- tl inue mortified for a great length of time, without J ither turning flacid, or running into diffolution, it Bj i called a dry gangrene, but thele cafes never Occur ■from inflammation ; they commonly happen from the i ow of blood to fuch parts being put a flop to, by H ompreflion of one kind or another, as tumours, li« i, atures, or other fimilar caufes, obftrudiing the prin- pal arteries that ufed to fupply them. The eryfi- clatous inflammation moft frequently terminates in angrtnc, and whenever phlegmon is in any degree j snjoined with cryftpclas, it feems to acquire the fame ndency. To prevent mortification in every cafe of .Summation, endeavour to obtain its refolution or | ppuration. The immediate caufc is, the redu£lion of the vital :at in the part tojt certain degree below that which :a!th requires. The l\M O R The mediate eaufes are, violent inflammation, which by the heat attending, fo diftends the cellular membrane as to comprefs the veffcls, flop the circu- lation in the adjacent parts, and deftroy the vital aftion there. The acrimony of the juices, by rup- turing the vefi'els in an inflamed part, occafions an extravafation of blood, which putrefying, produces a mortification. A contuflon, or wound of the fpinal marrow, by preventing any further influx of the vital heat to the parts below where the injury is re- ceived, eaufes a mortification there. External com- preffion, intenfe cold, comprclfion from tumours inr ’ ternaily, poifons, &c. ‘ The prognoftics are to be taken from the patient’s age, the Attending diforder (if there is any) the Circumft.mces of the nmtfication, the ftrengtli of the patient, a knowledge of the caufe, the feafon of the year, Kcc. i In the treatment of gangrene, when no blood-let- ting or other evacuation has been preferibed during rhe proceeding inflammatory ftate of the diforder, the pulfe is full or hard, and cfpecially if the patient is* young and pjilcthoric, blood-letting, gentle laxa- tives, and a free ufc of acidulated cooling drink, become nccefiary. I it the .further prog refs of the mortification, the patient is apt to fink, and the pulfe to turn languid, then every evacuation, particularly of '■ blood, Jbould be dn edit'd noith caution, never to a greater degree than may feem tibfohtlely necejf.ny for moderating fuch fymptoms as at the time appear t>o violent. When the patient is much reduced, either by evacuations, or by the effetfls of the complaint, his pulfe low, and no confiderable fyihptoms of fever pre- fent, the coitcx Peruvianus, in fuch doles, and as frequently repeated as the ftomach will bear, with generous wine, mult be diiedted. A lull proportion of wine is far preferable to auv of the--tUmulrtting warm cordialf: but i£ the phtilrit*is much reduced, adam a r ad very languid, the volatile alkali, and confe£tlo romatica may be preferibed at the fame time. With ic bark, the vitriolic acid may be employed with iivantage ; the patient’s drink may be acidulated nth it. The external application of the warm gums and ■.alfams, ardent fpirits, or other medicines called rtifeptics, are prejudicial; the incifions alfo direfted i be made to facilitate the operation of thefe medi- •ines, may likewife do harm. All the advantages to c derived from external applications, may be ob- tined, by the ule of any gently ftimulating embro- ation, fuch as a weak folution of fal ammoniac in anegar and water, in the proportion of a drachm of re lalt, to two ounces of vinegar, and fix of water, i'he degree of ftimulus can be augmented or dimi- ifhed, by ufing a larger or fmallcr portion of the dt. Whenever the mortification runs deep, it is smetimes of fervicc to make fcarifications into the lifeafed parts, fo as to remove a portion of them. Be arcful not to carry the incifions the length of the aund parts. When a reparation is completely effetted, treat it ■> a fimpic ulcer, with flight eafy drcllings, and l'up- orr the ftrength of the lyftcm, by wine and gcnc- aus diet. In mortifications fcated on the extremities, and enetrating to the bones, deftroying the whole fur- Dunding loft parts, amputation is often necefiary. lowever, in general, amputation fliould not take lace, until a reparation of the mortified part from re lound is perceptible. But as foon as this l'epara* on has occurred, no time lhould be unneceffarily loft 1 having recourfe to the operation ; for fo long as any f the corrupted parts remain in contaft with the )und, the fyltem mull ftill be fuffering by the con- ant abforpuon of the putrefeent particles. ThereM O R There is a fpccics of mortification incident to the toes and feet, in which the Peruvian bark has little or no influence ; but opium, given in large dofes, and frequently repeated, is a very cffediual remedy. Vide Poll's Works; Betl on Ulcers ; Kirkland's Med. Surgery, vol. ii. and his Obi'crvations- on Pott’s Re- marks on Frarturcs ; Pearfon's Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and White's Surgery. :N Njevus, a Mole on /be Skin. Alfo the tumour known by the name of a wen, called alfo encyjlis. \Whtn a perfon is born with thefc moles or marks, they are called navi materni. There arc different fpccics of the WEN. They arc diftinguifhed by their contents: 1. Atheroma. 2. Meliceris. 3. Stkatoma. 4. Lifome. The Atheroma, is co» itdurlcfs, containing in a cyft, a matter like pap, boiled rice, or curds, intermixed fometimes with hard corpnfcles, and lomctimes with a hardifh matter like the chewed bones of chickens. It is of an irregular Tape, not cafily impreffed with the finger, nor after mpreflion docs it cafily rife again, in which it differs Torn the mcl'ccris. It it rcfembles honey, it is called 7/eiiaris; and if it is like fuet, it is denominated leatoma. The contents of the lipome referable real'e. As the lipome does not run between the nufclcs, nor poffefs any confiderablc blood vcffels, t may always be removed with cafe and fafetv. As to the other kind of teens, their extirpation may, r may not be attempted, according as they are litu- ted with refpeft to adjacent blood vefTcls. Fbr the icthod of differing the tumour out, vide article eatoma. In general, their contents may be cvacu- ted, by making an incifion through the whole ex- tra of the tumour, and preferving it open, till it 11s up with granulations from ihe bottom, or draw te divided edges of the (kin together, and truft to lodcrate preffure, and the ordinary effcdls of inflam- ution, for a complete cute. Vide Hajier'% Surgery ; IVarnei ’*N E P Warner's Cafes m Surgery ; Gooch’s Cafes and Re* marks; While’s and Bell's Surgery. Nephritis, from a Kidney. Isflam- Matio Renum, an Inflammation in the Kidnies. This dilordcr is not very frequent, for a determina- tion of the fluids to the kidnies occafions an increafed fecrction of urine, fometimes mixed with blood, which prevents inflammation. I>r. Cyllen places this genus of difeafe in the clal's fare.cut, and order phlegmnfne. _ '| The general caufes are, whatever hinders the ex- tremities of the arteries traniinitting their fluid ; as a wound, contulion, abfeefs, a tumour, a long con- tinued defluxion, a fmall ftone, &c.; whatever hin- ders the conveyance of the urine into the pelvis, ureters, and bladders; fuch as forcibly convey the .thicker parts of the blood into the urinary duels, as running, violent riding, cxeclflve heat, an chart of the body, a plethora, acrid diuretics, p. ifons; a long continued fpaftnodic contraction of thefe vel- • fels, See. When thefe veffcls are feited with a violent inflammation, they arc often fo conftrifted, that no urine can be difeharged ; or if a lmall quantity is evacuated, it is pellucid, thin, and aqueous, which is an unpromifing fign ; the nerves cohering to thefe veflels, and lying contiguous to them, being often irritated, pamjj (ind convulfions are produced in the llomach, melentery, inteftines, and uterus; hence arifes eruftatious, ‘ naufeas, vomiting, flux-., iliac pa (lions, retentions of urine, ilupor, immobility et the legs, preternatural heat in the 1 >ins, 5:c. A flbnc in the kidney ufu illy excites inflammnta n in the internal membrane thereof, and in the tubal uriniferi. ., , . Tite inflammation begins with a pungent burning prdn in the region of the kidney, that is tn the bade, near the articulation of the fhort ribs, higher up OP .1 hi Icft-fide than on the right, often mooting dr n * b)N E P by the ureters to the bladder, and by the fpermatic cord to the tefticle; a fever ; the urine is fometimeS red at the firft, but foon becomes pale, and is fre- quently difcharged in fmall quantities, and that with difficulty, pain, and heat. Sometimes a rednefs .appears externally ; the thigh and leg of the affe&ed tide is feized with a ftupor ; the pain is incrcafed .apon handing, walking, couching, lying on the I appofite fide, or in any other cafe where the kidney s moved, or the furrounding part extended; there ss pain in the groin, and in the adjacent tefticle; he pulfe is hard and frequent, and, as the pain ncreafes, it often becomes fmall, quick, and fome- times intermittent, with coldnefs ot the extremities; J :old fweats, licknefs, bilious vomitings, fainting, |lelirium, convulfions, &c. The patient lies with, he moft eafe on the affedfted fide. An inflammation in the kidnies fhould be diftin- ;uifhed from the gravel, a ftone obflrufting the Ureter, an inflammation of the pfoas mulcle, or other i .djacent parts, from the colic, and other inflamma- ory and i’pafmcdic pains in the inteftines. If the dil'eafe is protradlcd beyond the feventh or ighth day, and there is a ftupor or heavinefs of the >art, with frequent returns of chillinefs and fhiver- , &c. there is rcafon to fufpedt that matter is orming in the kidney, and that an abfeefs will enfue. If the urine becomes higher coloured, is fecreted in larger quantity, and at laft is copious, thick, and mixed with mucus, a gradual relief follows, and bus the cure is effected. It may go off by a meta- alis, or terminate in an abfeefs, mortification, or a -liirrhus. Inflammations in this part often fuppu- ate on the fourth day, if not prevented by either a atural, or an artificial attempt towards a cure ; but et tliei'e failing, an abfeefs may be be un fo late ai ae fourteenth day. This abfeefs may be difcharged ito the pelvis, the abdomen, or externally through F f theN E P the integuments and the (kin ; in the firft cafe, if the- matter is kindly, a cure may follow ; but otherwife an hcdtic deftroys the patient; in the fccond cafe, it is fatal; and, in the third, an ulcer, of very uncer- tain cure, is formed. .When the prcl'cnce of this diforder is once mani- fcfted, immediately bleed, and, in general, proceed, as in other internal inflammations. Decodtions of parfley roots, infufions of linfecd, or the Arabic emulfion, with a double quant'ty of the gum, are convenient as common drink ; an 1 to pre- vent their palling the appetite, a little lemon-juice and fugar may be added, to render them grateful. A moderately warm femicupium, and laxative glyfters frequently injedled, contribute much to pro- mote the fecretion. of urine. If inflammation appears externally, apply fomen- tations and poultices to the part affedted. In cafe of a fuppuration, after the abfeefs is burft, the patient (hotild drink freely of a decodlion of marlhmallow roots, or fuch like liquors, and take the hark freely. If pains are exceflivc, give opiates to moderate them ; and if vomiting is trcublefomc, give tepid water, fweetened with honev. and let the patient drink (mail quantities frequently. If a gangrene takes place, it is known by tire vio- lence of the caufe of the lymptoms, the want of relief by remedies, and the hidden remiflion of the pain with- out apparent caufe. cold fvveats, a week intermittent pulfc, hiccoughs, either no difeharge of urine, or fuch as is livid, black, full of hairs, fetid, and foul, v.ith a hidden and confiderable lofs of ftrength. In thofe cafes, no cure can be expedit'd. Vide Boetbcuti’e s Aphorifms,' and Fan Swiften * Comments thereon; Fordin'* Klemcnts, part the fccond ; lh vis's, and the London Pradtice of Pltyfic, and L+Ucns FirA Lines, voJ. i.F £ i fore o (Edema, from oiitu, tumeo, fignifies properly any umour ; but is now generally confined to thole fe- •ous tumours that are fcated in the cellular mem- arane, and form partial anafarcous fwellings. When the glands are difeafed, the lymph cannot aafs towards the heart, but goes to the lower extre- aities, merely from gravitation; and for want of a due bforption, the limbs fwcll. When the veffels are not too much debilitated, oilers, or laced (lockings, are ufcful. CEdema EttysiPELATOiDEs, is that cedematous umour which is white, pellucid, and accompanied /ith heat. Dr. Kirkland, in the firft volume of his Inquiry, peaks of an inflammatory oedema which comes on itddenly, and is fometimes accompanied with an •yfipclas, or more commonly, a Ample inflammation : the Ikin. He detcribes it as a cold, indolent, aughy humour; and in order to its cure, requiring ifculfion. He obferves, that an oedema is always cal; it is always confined to one place, or member. It is fometimes cauicd by a metaftafis of inactive .attcr from the blood and other juices; fometimes om nervous affc&ion. Dillinguifli this dil'eafc from the anafarca. In an oedema, which comes on fuddenly, and is of ort duration, the fluids have not had rime to be- mc vifeid in the cellular membrane ; they are therc-O P H fore eafily fet at liberty, and the inflammation dif- appears as the fwelling fubfides. As an external application, a cerate may be made of the empl. e min. f. fera. & ol. oliv. As foon as the fwelling begins to fubflde, apply a bandage, and gradually increafe its tightncfs as circumftauces will permit. Over night give 1'mall dofes of calomel, and next morning a purging draught, in which is diffolved a proper quantity of the kali tartariz. Sudorifics, or diuretics, may be given to haften the cure ; which, when tolerably advanced, will require the bark ; this, at firft, ihould be accompanied with the kali acctatum ; but when evacuation is no longer required, rhe bark may be given alone. Vide Kirkland's Med. Surg. vol. i. Ophthalmia, from an tyr. In flamma- tioOculi. An Inflammation of the Membranes which invefl ibe Eyes, particularly the adnata. The inner coats, however, are fometimes the feat of the in- flammation. Dr. Cullen diftinguilhes two fpecies of ophthalmia, viz. Ophthalmia mtmbranarum; that is, when the tunica adnata, and membranes lying under it, or the coats of the eyes, are the feat of the in- flammation ; and ophthalmia tafi, when the inflamma- tion is attended with tumour, erofion, and glutinous exudation of the tarlus, or edges of the eye-lids. He alfo confiders all the cafes of ophthalmia mrmbranarw% as the fame difeafe, differing only in fltuation or de- gree, and curable by the fame means more or left employed. Any of the caufes of external inflammation, may produce the fame in the external coat of the eye; and the fame caufes which produce this dilordcr in other internal parts, may alfo prod ce it in the inner membranes of this organ. Accidents from without, as cold air, duff, too much expofure to vivid colours, blows, wounds, &?. and as internal caufes, the meafles, and fmall-pox, fcrophula, &c. are ali oeca- fionally the caufes of this complaint. The redfcls in the eye are increafed in their Cue, and there appear many more than did in their natural date. There is p in which is increafed on the lead motion, which produces weeping. When the aft'eftion of the adnata is confiderable, it is communicated to the fub* jacent membranes, even to the retina by which its fenfibility is increafed, and the lead degree of light .becomes painful. In the cure of the above fpecies of inflammation in the eye, when a flux of humours attends, it ufually abates by whatever relieves the inflammation, and, in general, to confider and treat thefe disorders under the Ample idea of inflammation, will be the mod iroper and caly ; as to particular circumflanccs, thev ire to be treated according to their refpettive na- ures, as,directed here, and in other articles, or as he preferiber’s particular experience may diredt. Dr. lirkland, in the fird volume of his Inquiry, ob- ?rves, that “ like all other inflammations, it gives 1 vav-to thole remedies which remove the irritating Iaufe, and leflen the fenfibility of the parts.” All heating, fpirituous, and aromatic food mud be voided; a cooling liquid diet will be neceffary ; a cedom from all forcible excrcifc mud be enjoined ; id the eye may be fliaded from the light, and all laring objedls, by means of a diff paper, lined with ack filk. Bleed according to the drength and quickncfs of e pulfe : befidcs taking blood from the arm, leeches ay be applied to the external angles of the eyes. ■ oening the temporal artery is very generally ad- I cd. Mr. Ware obferves, that the two following rhculties attend it: ift. It frequently will not 1-ld a quantity of blood fufficicnt to anfwcr the in- f ided purpofe. id, The troublcfome and dangc- l is haemorrhages which have fometimes burd from I ; orifice, at the didance of many hours from the 4 .ration. He farther obferves, that confiderable F f 3 advantageOPH advantage has followed a complete tranfverfe division of this artery; by which the patient' not only re* ceived benefit from the fudden derivation of a large quantity of blood, b it one principal fource from which the blood circulated to the inflamed part, was cut off. The external jugular vein has alio fome- times been opened in this complaint; but as it does not come from the eye itfelf, it does not yield a very diredt derivation. As to leeches, when they arc ap- plied to, or near the eye-lids, they have fometimes occafioned them to Iwell to a large fize, and have in- creafed, for a time, the irritation of the eye ; to pre- vent which, when they are applied near the eye, confine them, as near as pollible, in the hollow of the. temple, about an inch and a half from the outer orbit. Dr. Kirkland thinks, that any otlter bleed- ings than from the arm, arc not attended with fuperior advantage; as to leeches, he fays, they leave an inflammation behind, and occafion a greater irritability in the neighbouring parts. Dr. Cullen fays, that in many cafes a very effectual remedy is that of fcarifying the internal furface of the inlerior eye-lid ; and ftill more fo, is cutting the turgid vcl- fels, upon the adnata. This is a very delicate opera- tion, and fhould never be performed, unlcfs the Surgeon has a very Heady hand. As foon as blood is taken away, let a cooling purge be given ; and I mall dofes of the natron vitriolat. may be repeated every day after, fo as to procure a few ftools, until the violence of the fymptoms give way. Particularly, Ijg careful to avoid ftrong purges. A bliftcr, when applied to relieve inflammation in the eves, is tnoft effectual when laid upon the fore-part of the head, and kept open a few days; apply the plaftcr from the crown to tne forehead, having firft lhavcd the part. Dr. Kirkland is cf opinion, that blitters, like leeches, are prejudicial, by increasing irritability where they arc applied, and to iome extent around them. J he feetOPT it and legs may be placed in moderately warm •ter every night. A l'eton, or iflue in the neck," riy be employed with advantage. .-As an external remedy, the vegeto-mineral water Goulard, is almoft the only one needful; begin :th it very mild, and increafe its ftrcngth fo as to aid irritation. Whether inflammations are phleg- anous, fcrcfulcus, cancerous, or erylipclatouij, from mifes, &c. this water is of Angular efficacy. White rriol is the ufual remedy in thefe cafes ; it cools, t ics, and reftringes ; it is very ufeful when there is i defluxion, or an inflammation in the eyes, but the I order Ihould be giving way before its ule is begun 1 •th ; bleeding, purging, and every proper evacu- j ion, fltculd alfo have preceded. The lolution lhould ; weak at firft : about ten grains of the vitriol, to }iur ounces of common, or role water, will be i'uf- iently ftrong to begin with. It may be made i onger gradually. Camphor is fometimcs added, rith advantage. Blue vitriol is ufeful when the hu- ) aurs are thick, and formed into lordes ; and when i ey begin to form fmail membranes in the tunica | mginea, which frequently happens after the frnall- oc and the mealies; in luch cafes, a grain or more ay be added to an ounce of water : but it fliould be lifted in all inftances of inflammation attended with I line, hot, acrid defluxions, with rednefs and itch* g, becaule it increafes thefe lymptoms. When the Hammation is deep, violent, and dangerous, the e being almoft deprived of fight and fenfibility, I ppy elfedts have been found from the ufc of tepid I mphorated fpirit of wine, mixed with the Peruvian Ifam. Weak folutions of camphor abate thefe in- immations, but a free ufe of it increafes them. Dr. irkland recommends a fmail quantity of natron vi- iolar. in fine powder, to be blown into the inflamed c : he obferves, that at firft the inflammation feems be iucrcafed by it, but loon adifeharge of lymph follow ■,O P H - follows, and the next day, the inflammation it much abated or gone. Opium is (aid, by fome, not to eafe jvtin in the eye ; but that this fymptom is relieved by the external ufc of aloes; however, it is dear from experience, that ('mall quantities of opium, mixed with any cooling liniment, fpeedily abates inflamma- tion in this organ. Mr. Ware ftrongly recommends a few drops of the tinft. opii. Ph. L.ond. to be dropped into the eye, once every day. I have long adopted this practice with lingular fuecefs. Dr. Kirkland obferves, with refpeft to it, that “with due pcrfeverance, it ftrfficienriy anfwers our inten- tion, where it can polliblv do fervice, without occa- fioning pain. It may be ufed with advantage where the fen Ability in the beginning is often exquifite, and few other remedies can be applied without giv- ing offence.” When a corroding acrimony is ob- fc-r"cd in the humour that is difeharged, the eye may now and then le walhed with a thin folution of gum arabic ; or the mucilage of quince Iced. It the eye remains very weak, after tire inflammation abates, the belt application is a folution of alum in the pro-- portion of a dram to hair a pint of water, with the Peruvian bark internally ; and to linifli the cure, tUc patient may bathe in the fca, >>r cold water may be poured upon his head every morning for l'orac time. When films attend, or arc followed by defluxions tar the eyes, or when the tranfparcncv of the cornea is diminilhed, borax proves an admirable means of • / relief, and may be ufed as follows : R Itoracis opt. | gfs. faccli. alb. 3], aq. rofar. Jij. nr. f. collyr. Let a little of this be frequently dropped into the affedted | e ve. Or either of the following preparations may be | ufed for the fame purpol'e: R yEruginis pp. gr. iv. ammonia; muriat 3K. aq. eaicis recent Jviij. m. i'rl, Liquoris hydrargyri muriat. gutt. j. y\q. Diflillat. Jjv. ft!, K Hydrargyri nitrati rubri, lapidis calamia. pp.O P H rp. 53 3jfs. lythargyri levigati 3j’. tutiae pp. 3fs. !ydrargyr. fulphurat. 9j. bene commifceantur, deindc djiciantur, adipis fuillae 3'j- balfam Peruvian!, gtt. v. mifce. This laft is called Pettier's Ointment. When pimples on the eye attend an inflammation, Ifolution of vitriolated zinc, will generally remove tem. If the pimples contain matter, let it out nth the point of a lancet, and wafli them with the . itriolated folution ; or, R Ungt. fperm. ceti 3v* erufa; acetatae 9j. quibus luper porphyrite fimul dtis inftillentur tintt. benzoin comp. 91'. hujus alulum, linteo exceptum, oculo dolenti omni no£te •mponatur. - When a blow is the caufe, and a blacknefs remains bout the eyelids, R Cpnf. rofar. rub. Jiij. tinft. opii. ij. m. A'W, R Acet. diftill. jij. aqua; amnion. Sjfs- m. ufeful. In Gooch’s Cafes and Remarks, there is an iftance of relief, when the tunica albuginea was sflamed fo as to referable, if not conftitute, the temofis. A gouty ophthalmia requires that the gout, poffiblc, be brought into the extremities, and then me diforder in the eye immediately vanilhes; if the iflarr.mation is violent, bleed, purge with ale-tics, id wafli the eye with a mixture < f tep;d water two arts, and brandy one part. When a translation of neumatic matter from the hip, or elfewherc, is the tufe, blifters may be applied to, or near the part hence the rheumatifm receded ; a drain made in the :ck, by a cord, or pea, and the bark, with guaiacum, ay be given. In the fcrofulous inflammation of this •gan, the bark is the fovercign remedy : if in this ile, the glands under the ears are affedlcd, apply a mftic on one of them, and then another, if there e more than one, and the confequent difeharge will on remove the inflammation ; proper alteratives, as quired, may accompany ’ the bark;,and the head ould be wafticd every morning with cold water, itre, given to a fcruple three times a day, has beenOFH ^ —IP been -found to be remarkably efficacious in this as well as in the common ophthalmias. The vene- real ophthalmia admits not of vitriolic collyriumsj it calls for the fpeedieft aid, which ffiould confift of bleeding; an inward ufe of mercurials; the warm bath night and morning; purges repeated every clay from the firft day of bathing, until the inflam- mation abates, if other circumftances do not forbid; comprefTes fqueezed out of brandy and water may be conftantly kept on the eye. As far-as the Ophthalmia Tarsi is produced -by the ophthalmia membranarum, the lame remedies arc neceflary. The crofion and glutinous exuda- tions which affeft the eye-lids in this fpccics of ophthalmia, may be relieved by the lapis calaminaris, mixed with an equal quality of fome emollient ■ointment. But the molt effectual application is a a ointment, compoled of one ounce of quicklilver, and four ounces of frelh hog’s lard, well triturated. With a little of this ointment, the ulceration on the eye-lids ffiould be covered night and morning, by means of a pencil; at the fame time, a fmail portion may be insinuated, between the upper and under eye lids; and weak faturnine, or vitriolic fo- lution, ihouid be employed once or twice daily, for bathing the parts. Vide Gooch's Cafes and Remarks; Heart’s Remarks on the Ophthalmy ; Whitt's Surgery; Belt's Surgery, vol. iii. Kirkland's Inquiry, vol. i. Warner on tire Eye, and its Dileafes ; Cubin's Firft Lines, vol. i. and Wallis's Sauvages’s Notology of the Eyes. Ophthalmia Mucosa. 'The Mucous Opbtbaln- It is a variety of ophthalmy of the membranes of the ey.e, though not in Dr. Cullen’s Nofological Arrange- ment. Mr. Ware calls it the purulent eye, but owns that the term is not to be ltridtlv underftood ; he days, “ the difeharge from the eye is not real pus, but only |OPH [ tly mucus incrcafed in quantity, and altered in co- Lur.” This difordcr rarely happens, except to new-born Lildren ; in whom', Mr. Ware obferves, that it firlt feovers iti’elf by a rcdnels in the eye-lids, which jickly l'well to a fi>zc i'o large as to prevent their ting feparated, without the utmoft difficulty ; after I hich, a conftant difeharge of thick yellow matter 1 on fucceeds; which, if the lids can be feparated, ill appear to fpread over the eye, i'o as entirely to •ver it. In common, both eyes are affefled nearly in ee fame manner j and in bad cafes, whenever the tild.fries, the infidc of the lid is turned outwards; hich is alfo tire cafe, whenever an attempt is made ftparatc them with the fingers : this is fometimes e conftant ftate of the lids, and though they are I ftored by the fingers fa their proper fituation, ycr being left to thcmfelvcs, they immediately return their forme r everted ftate. Occafiv mally, this complaint is accompanied with 'nptions on the head and other pern of the body ; d fometimes is attended with fymptoms of a fero- lous habit. The fwelling of the eye-lids, ncccflarily occafions jdghtncfs, or conftridfion of their ciliary edges, by |eansof which, the matter which is formed in the [fide of them, is prevented from wholly running and its continuing between the lids and the globe,. | 'ves ftill farther to increafe the inflammations, and alfo the frequent caufe of ulcers and fpccks, which ry often partially, and fometimes totally, enter the pi!. Thef'e etledls may, in a great mcafure, be I oduced by the acrimony of the matter; but even owing, that the retained fluid is perfectly bland d mild, it; continual lodgment on the eye is fuffi- nt, by maceration only, to deftroy the transparency the cornea, and when it has been joined with the Ieffurc of the fwollen eye-lids, it has been known- to.O P H 3 to caufe the cornea to burft, the humours to be par- tially or wholly difcharged, and the eye, of courft', to fink in the orbit. To this accurate delcription of Mr. Ware's, it may be added, hat ufually, if left to nature, the quantity of mucus gradually increafes until about a tea-fpoonful of it may be fqueezed from each eve every day ; foon after this, if no extaordi- nary fymptoms attend, the mucus decrcafes, and with- out art a cure iscffedted. This kind of inflammation may arife from any of the caules that produce external phlegmonous inflam- mations. Mr. Ware obferves, that the tunica con- junftiva is defended from the acrimony of the tears by a loft thin muons fluid, which is luppofcd to exhale from innumerable fmall perforations dilperfcd all over its lurface. This fluid, as it naturally exifts, is very fmall in quantity •, on which account, as it is pellucid, it is undifcernable by the naked eye ; ncverthclefs, it is liable by an irritation or inflammation of the parts which furnifh it, not only to be inercafed greatly in quantity, but to be fo altered and changed in quality, a; very much to rcfcmblc pus itfelf, both in confidence and colour. This inflammation is not often connected with any other diforder, and is moll frequently fup- pofed to arife from the child’s being imprudently ex- polcd to the cold air. a j When early aflxflance has been given, its crnfe- qucnces are generally luccefsful; but when negle&cd, a partial blindnefs at lead, and too often a total one, has been the confcqucnce. Like all inflammations of the eye, it is apt to terminate in an opacity of the cornea. in order to the cure, it is recommended by fome to wath the msuus out ot the eye. whilft in a tender in- flamed ftatc, with a cc.ilyrium of equal parts of the common cmullion and julep of camphor. Othcip with a fyringe walli out the mua s, but prefer mild fluid:, fuch as warm barley-water; and until theO P H veiling of the eye-lids fubfide, they apply to them ooiing ointmdits and emollient cataplafms; at the line time, they repeat gentle purgatives as often as ,.te patient’s ftrength, Sec. feemsto require. Leeches re applied to the temples, and a blifter between the •loulders, is kept open as long as a tendency to a dii- harge of mucus in the eye appears. When the tur- idnefs of the eye-lids abates, and the inflammation ;f the conjunctiva difappears, the decoft. cort. 'cruv. is given inwardly, and collyriums directed .::at arc of an aftringent kind, and tiled three or four :mes a day. Though bliiters arc generally applied, ;mc have from an extensive practice concluded, that deir conllant omillion would be no difadvantage to .ae patient. Mr. Ware propofes on the flrft attack i begin with refilling the difeharge of mums, by rengthening the external coat of the eye. To this nd, he diredts the eye to be cleared of the morbid mcm, by injecting into it by a fyringc, a gentle af- ringent collyrium; in particular, he prefers the aq. upri, vitriolat. camphorat. diluted with common /ater, in the proportion of a dram, lei’s or more, to wo ounces. This pradticc he tiles in all the Stages f the difeafe. As the matter incrcafcs, the colly - ium may be ufedmore frequently, and gradually in- reafed in its ftrength : in a flight calc, it may be ufed wo or three times a day, but in the more malignant imes, it may be repeated every hour, and tiic tlyp- icity or lhe collyrium may be increafed in propor- icn ; as the difordcr gives way, the ftrength of the aedicine, and the frequency of ullng.it, may both edccreafcd. To abate the (welling of the eye-lids, Ar. Ware prefers a cataplafm of the coaguluin alu- ainof. & ungt. flor. lamb. an. p. aeq. this lhould be pplied cold. When the eye-lids adhere ftnJngly, hey will be bed feparated by waflting their e'dges vith frefli butter di Solved in warm milk. If ttie afide of the eye-lids turn outward, only when the G g child1 inour* OTA child cries, and returns as (bon as it ceafcs fo to do, nothing more need be done than what is already re- commended ; but if this fymptom is conftant, it will require a more frequent repetition of the injedtion, and to employ a perfon'immediately after the ufc of it, to return the lids, and to keep a comprefs dipped in the diluted aq. camph. conftantly upon them with his finger, in order that the habit may be removed, and the eye lids may recover their proper tone and ftrength. When the infide of the eye-lid is much inflamed, the tindt. opii. may be dropped on them with advantage every day, and when the quantity of mucus is fo dtmini(hed, that the tin&ure may conic in contact with the eye, it may be applied there nlfo once a day. If there is rcalbn to fufpeft anv parti- cular humour in the habit, give fuch alteratives as their nature may appear ro require. Mr. Ware gives an inftancc of a cafe, in which blood infteadof mucus was diicharged, and which gave way to the fame treatment as is here recommended. Vide Ware's. Remarks on the Ophthuhny, Jkc. and a Trcatile on the Eye and its DiforJers, by Jof.pb Warner, edit. 2. Otalgia, from an car, and aXya;, pain. A pain in the car. This difordcr affects the concha, and the whole meatus auditorius. It is attended wiih inflammation, tumours, pun&ion, erofion, tenfion, pulfation, and a fenfe of weight. Dr. Cullen places it as a variety of pblopofis pbtepmone. Extraneous bodies failing into the meatus audito- rius, or what ever excites pain in other parts, may caufe it here. The quality of the wax may be faulrv, and be a caufe ; but the moft frequent caufes arc heat and c Id, fometimes an acrid leruin is fecreted in the glands of the car. When the wax, or other humours are faline, they excite a pricking pain ; when the falls in thel'c hu-G tr 2 -mours arc corrofive, they excite a gnawing pant ; when the wax ferments whilft it is yet in the glands, •it caiifes a teniive pain ; when the glands are very turgid, there is a fenfe of weight; and when there :is a tumour, a pulfation is perceived, efpecially if it tends to fuppurate. If the pain is violent, it feldom fails to bring on a •fever, which is early attended with great rcftlelfhefs, and a delirium, fainting, and often convulfions are •the confequence; for the membrane tljat Lines the .ear are exquifitely fenfible, and fully ftored with •nerves, beftdes, membranes which adhere to bones, have a more than ordinary fenfibility. In the beginning, whilft the pain is net very con- fftderable, a little warm olive oil dropped in the ear, will <often relieve. If cold is the caufe, keep the head warm. If there is inflammation and tumour, which 'will be known bv the throbbing pain, a fuppuration rmay be encouraged by cataplafms, applied warm on the outer ear; but if the ftate of fuppuration is not tmanifeftly near, endeavour by bleeding, purging, und difeutients applied to the ear, to remove the in- flammation and pain; if external heat was the caul'e, ■bleed, and give daily a moderate dole of Glauber’s ■fait as a purge until the pain abates, or until there is rreafon to fufpedt a fuppuration ; an opiate may be given at night when the pain is violent. When acrid defluxions are the caufe, injebt a warm minium of poppy-heads in water. When living infedts have crept into the ear, blow the i'moak of tobacco therein, and then pour in warm oil. If purulent matter dif- chargcs itlclf, injedt tepid water, mixed with a little foap, or honey of roles. Bolides the above-mentioned, blifters behind the ears, bladders of warm water laid on the affedted ear, and the pediluvium, areoccafion- ally ufeful. Vide Lobb on Painful Diftcmpcrs. Brook* s, and the J-.oadoa Pyadticc of Phyfic.Paracentesis, from wafaiurhiu, to make a per- foration. This operation is commonly called tap- ping, and is ufed for difcharging water through the teguments of the belly, from its cavity. The pre- fence of a fluid in the abdomen is known by the levelling it produces; by a fcnfc of tightnefs in the parts affeCtcd; by the breathing being difficult and laborious, efpecially when in an horizontal polture; and by a fenie of fluctuation being communicated to the lingers placed on one fl.de of the abdomen, when tl}£ ("welling is forcibly ftruck on the oppofite fide. A concurrence of rhcic circumftances point out the real nature of the difordcr; but a farther confirma- tion of it is obtained, when the patient complains of much third, a drv ikin, fcarcity of urine, and other fymptoms of dropfy. As loon as a fluctuation is dif- tinCfly felt, the operation may be performed. Per* haps if it was always recurred to at an early period, an effectual cure might frequently be obtained. A hidden difeharge of any kind of fluid, where', er fituatcd, but particularly in the abdomen, is hazard- ous, producing fyncope, and lomerimcs death. This is, perhaps, owing to.the immediate influence produced upon the circulating l'yftem, by a confnle- rablc part of it being too quickly deprived of a iup- porr-which it has long been accultomcd to receive. To obviate this inconvenience, equal prelTure mult be made upon the parts affeCtcd; for which purpofr. Dr. Monro invented a bandage, with ltraps and buckl.e. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. ii. plate xxii. A flani.elPAR A flannel roller,- or flannel laced round the belly, however, is fully adequate to the required preffurc. IThe roller being applied, place the patient in an (horizontal pofturc, take a trocar in your right hand, .and fixing the head of the (liliete in the palm of it, immediately below your thumb, while your finger direfts the point of your inftrument, puth it for- ward, at a point lying nearly at an equal diftancc, between the umbilicus and the centre of the fpinc ■of the ilium, till there is no farther refinance to the fftilette. Now withdraw the ftilette, and let the 'water flow as long as any of it can be drawn ofF, tgradually tightening the roller as the water is dil- icharged. If, nctwifhiht tiding this precaution, the tpatient fliould turn faintifii, apply your finger upon :thc mouth of the canula fora few minutes every now and then. If a portion of inteftine, or omentum, Ihoukl plug up the extremity of the canula, intro- duce a blunt probe into it, and remove whatever occafions the obftrudtion. Sometimes the lerum is gelatinous; in tins cafe, a trocar of a larger fize than rhe fir ft mutt be employed. Sometimes the water is n cyfis, in fuch circumttancc, withdraw the canula, rover the wound with a pledgit of any Ample oint- ment, ami renew the operation immediately, or on he following day, on the oppofite fide of the abd *- ncn ; or if rhe fwclling lhould be confined to any ather part of the bellv, make the perforation in the moft depending part of it. The water being all drawn off, drefs t!ie wound, find let the roller be continued of a fufheient light- tefs, to prevent any ttncafinels from the evacuation d the water. This operation may be performed ai nften as the water collects to any confiderable fize. Dropfical fwellings of the Ov ari a require this •peration. The fluctuation of the fluid in this cafe is uvt fo evident, and unlcfs accompanied with afeites, lie fuelling is commonly fixed on one fide of the Women. G g 3 Mr-.PAR Mr. Bell is of opinion, that this operation fhculd be performed for tympanites, rather than allow Inch patients, as labour under it, to die in certain inifery. Three or four days after the operation cf tapping, either for alcites, or air, much advantage may be de- rived, from removing the roller daily for about a Cjuarter of an hour, and rubbing the abdomen with ltrong frictions, with l'ome aftringent Ipirituous ap- plications, taking care to preferve the body in a horizontal pcfture, and apply the bandage again, as loon as the fridtion is over. Vide Sharp' s Operations ; Bril's Surgerv, vol. ii. anti labile's Surgery. Paraphrenetis. An inflaniv:ation of ibe Dia- phragm, called alfo DiaPHRagmatis. Its caufcs arc whatever can excite internal inflammation. The pain is very violent and deep feated in the lower part ' f the bread, or under the fhort ribs, cr ft liking be, tween them and the back ; the fever is very acute, and tlte delirium is conftant; the belly is drawn up, and kept a^ much at aeft as poliible ; the refpiratiot\ is excelfivcly quick, eicdf, linall, fuftocatinr, and difficult, and performed principally by the mutcles of the breaft; the patient-is frequently aftedted with fickntfs and hiccough, and often with involuntary laughter, convulfions, and madnefs; tlte pulfe ts ufuaily very frequent and lmall, often ii regular; there is great anxiety; the iymptorr.s ct irritation fiine on, and death frequently cnfucs: if this dies , not happen, the progrcls, termination, and manner of treatment are much the fame as in the plcurify, by bleeding largely, antimonial preparations, Sec. emol- lient glyfters are pccul arlv uleful. The pain is greatly augmented during infpiration, coughing, Incczing, repletion of the ftoir.ach. naufea, vomit- ing, ami a coinprcllion of the belly in difeharging the fans mil urine. The rilus lardonicus, convulfions, nudneft, and gangrene, often terminate the dileafe. home-timesPAR oir.etimcs a purulent afeites is a confcqucncc. If oppuration threatens, encourage it by means of fo- mentations and poultices, See. Vide Fcidcje'% Ele- aents, part ii. and Gillen s Firft Lines. Paronychia. A while low, or white flaw, from nfu, near, and s»a|, a nail. It is alfo called a felon. it is an abfeefs at the end of the fingers. It differs or from an abfeefs in anv other part. According as is fituated, more or Ids deep, it is differently de- lominated, or divided into fpccics by feme writers. ;)r. Cullen places it as a variety of the pblogofls blegmone. It begins with a flow heavy pain, attended with a ight pulfation without {welling, rednefs, or heat; ■ut foon the pain, heat, and throbbing are intole- rable ; the part grows large and red ; the adjoining ingers, and the whole hand fwclls up ; in forne ales, a kind of red and inflated fufe, or ftreak, may je obferved, which beginning at the affedted part, is ontimied aimed to the elbow ; nor is it unufual for ihe patient to complain of a very lharp pain under lie Ihottlder ; and fometimes the whole arm is excef- ively inflamed and fwellcd ; the patient cannot ileep, lie fever, &c. incrcaling, and fometimes delirium or onvulfions follow. VVhen it is feated in the fkin or fat. in the back or he fore-part of the finger, or under or near the tail, the pain is fevere, but ends well. When the 'erioftemn is inflamed or corroded, the pain is tor- nenring. When the nervous coats of the flexor 'Tidons (f the fingers, or nerves near them are eixed, the word fymptoms attend. The fccond pecics proves very troublcfome, and fometimes ends t a caries of the fubjactnt bone. The third l'pecics vc.) tedious in the cure,and fometimes the phah.nx >n which it is, is deftroyed. it the firft kind fuppurates, it muft be opened and reated as abfeeffes in general-, but the belt method ofPAR id" treating the other two fpccics, is, on the fivft, or at fart heft, the if con d day, to divide the part, where the pain is feated ; if this operation is longer de- ferred, a l'uppuration will come on ; in which cafe, fuppuration mould be fpeedily promoted, and as early a difeharge given to the matter as poflible. As the pain is lo confidcrablc as to occafion a fever, and fometimes convullions, the tinft. opii may be added to the iuppuiating applications, and alii) given in a draught at bed-time, and oftener if ncccffary. Vide Kids Med. Surgery, vol. ii. Beil's Surgery, veC v. Pear fan s Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and It hue's Surgery. P aRorchidium. A detention of the T'JHcla} as when t hev have not yet defeended into the lcrctum. The tcfticlcs are lbmetimcs detained in the body ; this cafe is called <rv/>Joi(bis; or concealed telltales. Sometimes the tcfticies (one or borh) arc detained ;n the groin ; ul’ually about the time of the child's birth, they defeend into the ferotum, in fornc inftances a little before birth, in others foon after. But this is' ■ very uncertain with refpeft to different perfons ; al'o in the lame perfon the two tellicies will confidcrably vary a$ to the time cf their defeeut. Sometimes one, at others both, are detained in the belly, or flick tn palling through the groin. Thele accidents happen and continue a longer or leffer time after the birth ; and in fomc inftances never pafs down into the Iere- turn. Mr. Pete takes notice of this cafe, and gives ; fevcral inftances of it in the quarto edition of his works; where he lays, that lit knows not of any particular inconvenience arilingfrt m the detention <F | a tefticle, witliin the cavity of the belly; but the lodgment of it in the groin, renders it liable to be hurt by accidental prefTure, Ike. When it is lo hurt, it may be miltaken for a different difeafe, and thereby,-1 occafion it to be very improperly treated. To which j confidcrations, lie adds, that there is no kind of dtl- • * cafe#PER afc, to which the tcfticlc is liable in its natural cuation, but what may alfo aflfedt it, in any or all s unnatural oiks. In the firft cafe, related by Mr. ottf a tcfticlc being detained in the groin of a young ealthy l'caman, who hurt tile part bv hitting it :gainft a piece of timber; the humour there became utremeiy painful, and was taken for a bubonocele, om which it might have been more readily diftin- i jifhfcd by the following circumftances, had not the | itreme tendernefs of the injured tellicle abf’olutely prevented any examination there by the touch ; and ite very hard fwelling cf the ferotum, which pre- ented any certainty of a tdlicle being there or nor. I ut Mr. Pott iicrc fays, that the tumour in the groin i d not, like the bubonocele, point obliquely from ilium towards the pubes, but lay, as it wdre, rcls the groin: alio, as necelTarily mud happen, |;at when the ferotum became foft, no tcflicle could felt in it. Two ftriking circumftances by which diftinguilh the detained tcfticlc from the bubono- le, and alfo to determine the nature of the cafe, it the earlier part of this young man’s life, this de- jined tcfticlc had been miftaken for a rupture, and a I jfs had been applied to it. The fecond cafe, the fficlc was detained in the groin ; this patient had o been advifed to wear a trufs on the fuppofition I at the cafe was a rupture ; but he could not wear becaufe of the pain it occaficned. At length, rting a clap, this detained tffticte inflamed, forming hernia humoralis, which was miftaken for a bubo, this cak, the tumour was moveable, and the hatum, on that fide, had no tcfticlc in it, two cir- raftances fufiicicn: for diftinclion and determination, th the ab .c cafes were cured as inflammations the tefticles arc, when their firuation is in the otum. Pekinfrom nrifm.c, toJlot" round. Pccaufe u part is generally moirt. It is the lpace between ■ antis and parts of generation. {’nurturePER ^1 Pnnffure cf the Parinecum. This is an r.pcra'rm for luch a fupprctlion of urine, as cannot be relieved bv any gentler method. Various modes have keen propnlcd for procuring a difeharge from the bladder ; vide article /jc uric; but pun during the bladder nloeee the /■!■/■■,or from the periiucum, are the only two methods now employed. If the opening into the bladder is to be made above the pubes, the bed fituation for entering the perfo- rating inftrumenr, is about an inch or an inch and a half above the fymphvlis of the pubes. It is recom- mended to nlake an incifion of about tw'o inches in length, through the common teguments and mufcles, and then perforate the bladder with a trocar. But, perhaps, as Mr. Bell obferves, this divifion of the teguments is unncccfiary, as the trocar may at once be pufhed through the (kin, mufcles, and bladder. As foon as the trocar has entered the bladder, with- draw the ftil. tic, and fccure the canula in its fitua- tion, by pieces of ribbon or tape conncffcd with it, and palled round the k dy of the patient. A piece of cork ought to be fitted to the canula, that the. urine may pafs off at proper intervals only. In cor- pulent people, a trocar, with a canula of two inches J.ng, is necelfary ; but in others, the inftrument lhould be half an inch fhortcr. The canula fliould be taken out and cleaned every two or three days; but previous to withdrawing it, a firm probe of a fuf- ficient length ought to be palled through it into the bladder, upon which it may be again returned with cafe and fnfety, as foon as it is properly cleared of the incrufiation. V idc EeiF s Surgery, vof. ii. In Drift Operations; Sharp's Operations, and Critical Inquiry. To putt dure the Bidder from '.be Pn.nnun,, lay the patient on his back, and his thighs being properly Jepav itcd and focurcd by nlfiflant', make an incifion ol about an inch and a halt in length, beginning at the commencement of the meuibt.iuous parr the . ureturi. JPER rcthra, and continue it towards the anus, in a line irallel to, but at lead half an inch diftant from the pha perinaei. This done, thb bladder being dif- ,tided, will be ealily diftinguifhed by preffure at the ottom of the wound. Bat fhould it be felt by the tiger, or not, there need be no hefitation in pu'hing the trocar a little above, and to the lefc of the •oftatc gland j and by direfting the inftrument a tic upwards, there can be no danger of wounding :her the ureters or vafa deferentia ; if the trocar is rried deep enough, it cannot fail of Reaching the adder. Mr. Bell lays, the ftilette fhould have a ep groove, bv which we inftantly know when tite itader is perforated, by the urine flowing along the1 oove. The lame 'treatment is neceflary here, as ten the operation is done above the pubes; In performing ibis cp/ratiM on women , it cannot be rte with fo much cafe or fafety, as from the vagina. " introducing the linger into the vagina, the blad- r, from being difended, is caffly felt. The fore- gcr of the left hand, being introduced into the gina, conduct the inftrument on it, and perforate at part of the bladder firft felt by the finger. The ne treatment, as already direfted, is here nficcf- v. The canula flinuld be of a fufficicnt length to }Ts out at the vagina, and to admit of its being d with the T-bandage, by means of tapes pro- j rly connected with it. Vide Bill s Surgery, vol. ii. Id While’s Surgery. Pernio, from —hf/a, bed. A Chilblain. Chilblains ! painful inflammatory tumours, to which the fin- 's, toes, heels, and other extreme parts of the j ly are liable, on being much expofed to fevero 1 ;rccs of cold. The tumour is generally of a deep rple, or fomewhat of a . leaden colour, attended I :h (hooting and pungent pain, and a confiderable 1j ;rce«of itching. Sometimes the ikin cracks and charges an ill conditioned matter ; in the la ft and word.PER word degree, a gangrene is formed. Dr. Cullcft places this dil'ordcr as a variety of the pblogojii try - tbenia. The principal methods of prevention and relief arp* to render the Ik in id's tender, and more firm; to guard againft change of weather, by fuitable cover- ing ; to corredi the vicious quality of the tempera- ment, and according to the different degrees of the complaint when prefent, the lubfcquent applications are made ufo of. When winter approaches, let the parts ufually aff.cted be frequently put into cold water, avoiding .every occafion of fubjedfing them to warm. I flues* or frequent gentle purges, will drain off a redun- dancy of humours. As to a faulty quality in the bleed, of whatever kind it may be, proper alteratives arc not to be negledkd ; but when the diforder is prefent, whilft in its lowed degree, dip the part into water that is col l, and as near to free/.ing as may be, and there con'i uic it during a minute or two; or if the cold chills or benumbs the part very much, dip it in, and take it out two or three times, a: lhort in- tervals; after this it may be gently dried; the fame procefs being repeated, at lead every morning and evening, until nil unealincls is removed. The mod troublefome itching is removed by dipping the pari in cold water, or by applying l’now to it, though in fume few inftancis ti e fnow rather jncrealcs than diminilhes the diforder. When the patient cannot bear the odd, when a cough attends, <>r other circumdnuccs which forbid the applicati: n of cold to the extremities, the bed fubftitirc is. » > wear dog ikin locks, or glove*, day and night, until the inflammation is remov'd., Linnteus r,commends the diluted tn.trine acid ter bathing the part nife&ed with, lir g"cater degrees, as when the part may be laid to be froft bitten, rub the parts with In nv, or fait and water, and immcrle them in the ccidcil wat.r. AvoiJ cordials and tx- pofingP N E •pofing the patient to heat, fuddenly; but gradually, both are employed with advantage. Vapours fomc- times agree better than baths, in which cafe, the vapours from vinegar are the belt; but as their va- pour foftens the (kin, it (liould afterwards be often ■waflied with a mixture, water two pans, and cam- fphorated fpirit of wine one part. If the parts are ulcerated, gentle purges may be ufed, the fwellcd parts expofed to the iteams of vinegar, and digeftive ointments applied to the fore. When a gangrene comes on, treat it as when the fame happens from any other caufe, attendance being given to the cir- "umftances of the conftitution. Vide Bell's Surgery, ol. v. Pearfon s Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and While's Surgery. Pneumatocele, from untu/M, wind, and xn'm, 1 tumour \ a flatulent Hernia, or windy Rupture. It is when wind only is the contents of a rupture; but it arely, if ever happens. In fomc putrid fevers, in he (mail-pox, and gangrenes, fome parts ofj the (kin requently crackle like parchment under the finger. When carcafes begin to corrupt, air evidently begins >o generate in the vefTels and cavities, from which it nay be prefumed that, in a very corrupted date of he fluids, the pneumatocele may be formed. Mr. Bell bferves, that the term pneumatocele, is applied to Unify a diftenfion of the ferotum by a collection of ir. This has been deferibed by mod of the ancien^ /rirers as a very frequent occurrence; but' there is tuch reafon to think, that a great proportion of all te tumours they take notice of as containing air, were ithcr formed by collections of water, or by a pro- ufion of (nine of the bowels. 1 hat fpccies of hcr- ia, to which young children are liable, is to this iy by the common people termed a wind rupture ; > aie all thole collections of water in the ferotum, ith which the new-born infants are atfcCtcd: but is well known,, that none of thefc tumours are “ h formedPNE formed merely by wind; their contents being of a very different nature. In wounds of the lungs, air is fometimes extravafated into the furrounding ccllu- lar fubftance, and in that way paffes into the ferotum, as it does in particular inftances over the whole body : <! and in high degrees of putrid difeafes, fo much air may be feparated from the blood, as to diftend the cellular fubftance of the ferotum, as well as of other parts; but a real pneumatocele has never, probably, exifted as a mere local affection of the ferotum. In the cafe of air diffufed into the cellular fubftance of ■< thefc^parts, in confcquence of a wound, or any other ■ ■ affection of the lungs, producing an extravafation of it, the fame method of cure will anfwer for its re- moval, that is recommended for an ffarcous fwcllings ; formed by water, viz. final! punctures with the point of a lancet, which are found to be fully fufficicnt for evacuating great quantities of air. But whenever the difeafe is induced bv fuch a great degree of putrefccncy in rhe fvftcm, as is neceflary for affeffing a reparation J of air from the blood, there can be little rcafon to , expert anv advantage to rcfult from whatever means * may be employed for relief; though when the putrid degeneracy of the humours is the caufe, a plentiful ufe of antifeptics and corroborants are indicated. Mr. Pott pofitively aiferts due pneumatocele to be a miftake. lie fays, that there is no tumour of this 1 kind, and in this fituation, in a living animal: it is, j indeed, particularly deferibed by many writers, both j ancient and modern, and laid to be a difordcr to which I ini .nt arc particularly liable: but the complaint fo j deferibed, and which nurfes, See. do ftill call a wind rupture, is not what they take it for ; neither is it produced by wind ; it is either a true inteftinal her- j rib, or a fptcies of hydrocele. There is no hernia ^ produced by mere wind; the two difeafes which in new-born children, and infants, arc taken for, and I caljcl wind ruptures arc. a tumour produced by a I fmalt J,fmall quantity of fluid remaining in the lower part of the tunica vaginalis, after its communication above with the cavity of the belly is clofed ; and a true, but fmall inteftiual hernia. The natural commutiica- i lion between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and the !belly, not being (hut until i'ome fpace of time after i birth ; it may become clofe at its upper part, while there i is a quantity of iluid on the lower, too large for the . abforbent veffels to take up immediately ; and confe- iquently that filch infant will, until that office be exe- cuted, labour Under a true hydrocele cf the tunica vaginalis teftis; a cafe which is very frequent, though ;generally-miftaken for a wind rupture. Some late writers miftake the cncyfted hydrocele of the tunica communis which connects the fperma- ttic veffels for the wind rupture; but it differs from i the wind rupture in its fituation ; but unfortunately, the cncyfted hydrocele of the tunica communis, may be accompanied with a hydrocele of the tunica vagi- nalii, or with a true hernia, and then the cafe is foruewhat difficult to afeertain. Vide Bell's Syftera of Surgery, val. i. and Puli's Chirurgical Works, quarto edit. Polypus, from tv&xv;, many, and ws;, feel. This term, when applied to the human frame, fignifies cer- tain coagulations and concretions of blood, in the blood veffels, which fend off ramifications into the ad- jacent veffels. The true polypus is fueh a con- cretion of blood, as confifts of a vvhitilii, fibrous, and pretty compadt fubftancc, and dlifers widely from grumous or coagulated blood, which, when found, is called the baftard poh'pin; it is a folid fibrous concretion, formed of the mory viicid parts of the lymph. Their feat is in the finufes of the brain, the ven- tricles of the heart, the ’jugular veins, the veins in the uterus, and in any atrery or vein. According to Dr. Hunter, in his lefture on the blood, this is no diieafe in the living body, for thepohpus found in the H h 2 bloodPOL blood veffels, arc not found till the body is dying. Thofe that are the fubje&s of manual operations, their feat is in the nofe, the uterus, and the vagina. A polypus in the nofe, has been called noli me fang ere, far coma, and byprr/arcoma ; but the polypus is always loft, and hangs by one or more (lender roots; the l'arcoma is fumerimes foft, but generally, hard, and is fixed on a large immoveable bafts. The polypus of the nofe is an excrefccnce whole branches fpread among the lamina; of the os ethmoi- dcs, and through the whole cavity of one or both noftrils. All thefe pchpufes fpread on the lamina; fpongiofae, pretty nearly in the fame manner as the hydatids of the belly, in one kind of dropfy do on the furface of the liver. They proceed from any part of the noftrils, or thofe finales of the cranium that arc lined with the fame membrane as that with which the noftrils arc ; being no other than an en- largement of one or more of the glands thereof. The catifes may be external > r internal; the ex- ternal are chiefly fome violence done to the pituitary membrane, the application of ftimulating drugs there- to, and blows, Scratches, Ike. Internal caufes are, acrid defluxions, frequent or profufe hemorrhage, &c. DilFeronf p'ypufes, and the fame at different timet, appear of different lizcs and confidences; their elon- gation is fometimes fo quick, that they appear below the noftrils in two or three days; for the moft part they are free from pain, vet fometimes they arc at- tended with both pain and hardnefs, and then they generally are difpcfcd to a cancer, in which cafe, they arc of a livid colour, and apt to bleed by the flighted touch. When a polypus appears foft, and of a pale colour, like the ferum of the blood, being alfo free from pain, it then is the beft kind, and in the moft proper ftatc to extract; thefe havo rarely more than one at- tachment,POL tachmcnt, from which they hang, and it is very finall; this muft be brought away with the polypus, which commonly happens in the ektraftion of it, if the forceps take hold high enough. If it is hard, and appears fchirfus, it will in general be found to -hare a broad bafts, and be unfit in every rei'peft to meddle with ; but if it is of th2t innocent kind juft mentioned, its attachment is ul’ually in the anterior pails of the nefe, let,the prjjpus appear where it will, it will he beft extracted antcrioiily, ior few can bear the introduftion of the forceps up behind the uv tila. Mr. Sharp direfts the following method of extraft- irlg apo'jpu.: “ Intrcduce a pair of forceps with a Iht at their extremities (for the better hold, an inch and a half up the noftril, tolccuie tlie pohpus as near the roots as may be; then twift them a little from one. i lie to the other, and continue this aftion while you pull gradually downwards ; if it breaks, repeat the extraction as long as any remains unlefs it is at- tended with a violent haemorrhage, which is an ac- cident that fometjmes happens, and rarely fails, if ihe pti\pus is become feirrhus; this hatmerrhage is Icon abated by the contraction of the vcffcls, or the application of lint dipped in feme ftyptic.” Jt may be known that the pjl'.pns is removed, id, By the hght; idly, By the voice; and ydly, By ihc free- dom of refpiration through the nefe. Jn introducing the forceps it is difficult to avoid the clfa lpongiofa ; but to lluin them, keep the beak of the forceps as rear as polfiblc to the os palati. When the operator ■raws away the polypus, he may generally bring it | ’.way whole, if he draws and moves it very gently, tf any of the polyptU remains, touch it with the ar- jent. nitrat. Polvpi in tbcJagim, may-happen at every period, but nofi frequently occur towards the decline of the menfis. They nuftbe carefully diftinguifhed from hernia.*, or a 11 h 3PRO prolapfus uteri. Their removal is bcft cffcdted by liga- ture. For fixing the ligatures the fingcrs are Some- times fufficient, but when the arc not, Dr. Hunter’s needle, or M. Levrett’s double canula, may be ufed. M. Levrett’s intirument is a piece cf flexible gold, or Silver wire, palled through a double hollov' probe in the form of a noofe : this is to be conveyed into the vagina, and carried over the tumour, till it reaches the bale. The ends ot the wire muft be gently drawn, or it muft be twilled round as tight as the patient can bear ; the canula mult be afterwards fixed to the thigh, and the wire tightened every day, as it llaekcns. , The circulation in the tumour being thus flopped, the polypus will drop off in two or three days. In fixing the ligature, be care ui not to miftake the tu- bercle of the os tincae, of the polypus tumour. Mr. Bell prefers the ufc of the ligature in every cafe of polypus, whether in the nofc, fauces, See. Vide his Syftem of Surgery, vol. iv. alfo Lond. Med. Tranladtions, vol. i. Lond. jVlcd. Journal, vol. vi. Pott's Work, 4to. and IVbiles Surgery. Procidentia, f rom procich, to full down. Pro- lapsus, is uled in the Line ferrfe. Aprocidence, or prolapfus, is the mifplacing of a Soft part, So that it is generally obvious to the light ; or, a tumour arifing from the diflocation of a Soft part, as a membranous or flefity part, as the bearing down of the redtum, Ac. Procidentia Am ; tbe falling down of toe fundament. It is a relaxation of the fphindter to luch a degree, that the internal villous, or rugous coat of the intel- tinc, protrudes beyond its ulual limits, occalioning a Swelling proportionably. The caufes are, a weaknefs in the part, which is aggravated by coftivcncfs, diarrhoeas, and particu- i.triy a tencfmus: an acrid humour falling on this part, the haemorrhoids, hard labour, a Stone in the bladder, or whatever can occafion a paralyfis of t lie levatores and Sphincter ani. InfantsPRO Infants arc the moft frequent fubjefls of this dif- arder, by rcafon of the tendernefs of their frame nd their frequent draining, either from coftivenefs, nr the falling clown of a fharp humour on thefe parts. The (igns are evident to the fight; the infide of i he inteftinc is turned outward; the tumour is of a I'iefhy colour, fometimes it is wrinkled, at others it s linooth and Ihining, and is accompanied with an [uneafinefs, and an inefFe&ual defire to go to ftool. Sometimes this diforder is miftaken for the piles i ndeed any tumour about the anus, when of a con- jj iderable fize,. may be miftaken for the defeent of the jpart, and vice verfa, attention is therefore neceflary. Through miftake, a ligature has been applied about he prolapfcd anus, in order to extirpate it. The cure is difficult, but lefs fo in children than j; n grown people. When coftivenefs, a ftone in the i ladder, or labour, gives rile to this complaint, the Ij ure is fometimes e fie tied ; when a diarrhoea follows (t, the cure is verv difficult; if fucceedcd by the ha;- B norrhoids, the difficulty is yet greater. When acrid matter is obferved to occafion fruitlefs Btraining, lo as to force down the inner coat of the ij eftum, give a gentle dofe of rhubarb every third or | ourth day ; and in the intervals of purging, give j bforbents and ftrengtheners, fuch as chalk, in fre- fj (ticnt and l'mall defes ; if pain is confiderable, give I'mall doles of the tiwfl. opii. at proper intervals, j f the habit is coftive, give laxatives, in fuch dofes i' s will procure a ftool or two every day ; if a diarrhoea I ttends, it fhould be gradually checked ; if there are f deers in the inteftines, or if by the fharpnefs of the | tumours the mucus is abraded, the ftarch clyftcr, I vith a few drops of the tintt. opii fhould be now and F hen injefted. If a tencfmus comes on, let a glyfter I te injetted every night, or oftner, in which is the | /cnicc turpentine diifolvcd with the yolk of egg. If he prolapfcd inteftinc is fwelled, apply dilcuticnts; whenPRO when the tumour gives way, uic gentle aftringent'; fhen, by gently prefiing the part with your finger-, the whole will return to its proper fituation; after the reduction, the part may be fupported by the T bandage. It is the mofl caftly reduced bv the pa- tient himfelf lying cn his back, and writhing him - fclf from one fide to another, eroding his legs, &c. But, as in all other cafes, let the caufe lie firfi attended to. If it goes up and down of its own accord, there is no qccafion for forgery ; the bed me- thod will be to remove the irritation, and ftrengthen the whole fyftcra, which is generally in a relaxed date. The irritation is frequently produced by an acrid mucus, which is generally relieved by alkaline medicines. Avoid aflringcnts, even omit the bolt, if it proves aftringent. Sometimes the inteftine i; not only thruft forth, but is fo bound by the fphinfhr ani above, that it cantu t readily he returned ; in fuch cafe, Mr. Pott advifes to bleed, to give opium as re- quired, to foment, and wrap up the part in an ano- dyne-'and emollient poultice; thus in a little time its ftate is fo altered, that it generally is returnable, until -which time, the more wc handle it the worfe it w ill be, but. now having gently wiped it clean, it may be returned. When the prolopfs ani i- caufed by a ftonc in the bladder, or other difcalV, it will be reftomd wlien thofe complaints arc relieved on which it depends. If a gangrene affett the inteftina! told, (lightly Icarify the difcolourcd part, apply ftupcs wrung t ut of warm red wine, or other antii’cptics; repeat them every . two or three hours, and betwixt the ul'c of htft', continue the catapl. e cumi.io on the part. When the prolapfed part cannot eafily be kept tip in grown people, Chtfcldcn recommends to “ take av..y a piece of the prolapfed gut lengthway, for after the cica- tiix- is formed, the cur will never de'cend. But n this Mr. Fat remarks, “ 1 am furry for this, left Mr. Chcfcldcn’sPRO iThcfeldcn’s authority fhould tempt any other perfon Lo make the fame trial.” By the means here recommended, the protrufion .'ill be returned, and its recurring again, may be 'prevented by the ufe of tonics, gently aftringent ajedtions, partial cold bathing, and the t bandage, ; irevioufly applying a loft comprefs of linen on the mus. Inftead of the T bandage, Mr. Gooch invent- , d a trufs, which may probably be more effedtual. 'or a delineation of it, vide his Cafes, and Practical Remarks in Surgery, vol. ii. alfo Bell's Surgery, vol. . plate xix. For the general treatment of this cafe, ide Ileijlcr, Bell, and White's Surgery. Procidentia Uteri; the falling down of the Womb. Afferent fpccics of this diforder arc thus diftinguifh- : i i. Relaxatio, a bearing down, or defeent of the ■omb, is when the womb defcends down to the mid- dle of the vagina, or even with the meatus urinarius. .Procidentia; the procidence or falling out of the •omb, is when it defcends to the labia pudenda. 3. ’he prolapfus ; the precipitation, or falling out arough the labiae pudendae. 4. Inverfio or perver- a ; and 5. Retrovtrfio. In the IcfTcr degrees of thefe diforders, they arc icovercd by the touch, and the greater degrees by l ie eye. 11 the woman Hands upright, and a finger I introduced into the vagina, the defeent of the womb difeovered, and by meeting with the os tincae the j le is diltinguiflied from a defeent of the vagina; | .ough, in feme inftances, much difficulty attends the j ftindtion of thefe accidents. If the woman is preg- : tnt, Ihe finds a weight at the bottom of her belly, id the cervix uteri preffes fo low, that fhe cannot I alk but with pain and ftraddling ; towards the Iat- r end of pregnancy, the .womb finks fo low as to ufe numbnefs in the hips, and fleepinefs in the ighs, a difficulty of urine and at going t>> ftool, by elfing the redtum and the neck of the bladder ; a confiderublcPRO confulcrablc pain is alfo felt in the loins, about the infertions of the ligatncnta lata. When there is a perverli) uteri, it appears like a piece of fiefh, and when this is the cafe, it is always attended with a procidentia veficae urinsriaa. Girls are fometimes the fubjefts of this difeafe, but it moft frequently happens to women who have had children, in whom it is generally caufed bv hard labour, nr getting cut of bed too loon after d livery, though fometimes it is owing to a weak, relaxed habit. A (hurt funis umbilicalis, and the placenta adhering, may be the caule, particularly if force is ufed in de- livering them. ’i» 3 If any fpecies of this diferder is ncgletted, the woman fuficn much pain, with a difficulty in voiding her urine, and ioinetimes an inflammation, ulcers, or a cancer, will be formed in the womb. In general the cure is only palliative, arid co-fifts of introducing a peflary into the vagina, by which the urerns is kept from falling down any lower; fometi: es this proves a means t.wards a radical cure, by giving the relaxed parts an opportunity Gf re- covering their tone. Sometimes, when a letter de- gree of this diforder has happened, the ufual confine- ment in bed during the next Iving in, has effected a cure ; a pefTary ffiould be introduced as loon as it con- veniently can, after delivery being completed, and worn fqr fomc time after the woman walks abroad. A round peflary is the belt, and Jho . ! be • > !r . «■ a* to occafion fomc uncafincfs in p illing it up, or it w ill be apt to fall down again. It a lacerated perineum is the caufc i f the womb bearing down, a peflary will net be very ufefttl ; in this calc, a fort ol culhiou may be placed with is convex lido to the os externum, and fccuted there by the t bandage. It the pn'lap- fus has been long neglcdfed, lo that a lwclling and inflamm:.; ion is come on upon the part, bleed, keep the bowels open, and apply fomentations and poul- tices.PRO I a mortification appears, give the bark, and It named applications, until the Houghs fe- ll the parts heal, after which apply a peflary, ient can bear it. Whenever a gangrene or appears, reduction increafes the attending i, or produces new and fatal ones; but if ulcers, the part fhould be reftored with all it fpced. itrjio is when the uteru' not only defeends, ned infide outward. This never happens ediatcly after delivery, the os tincae then rly as large as the fundus; and, befides this, re violence, fuch as pulling the funis forcibly to ng away the placenta, is ufed, otherwife the con- fftion of the womb, after being freed from its prin- 1 al burden (the child) would abfolutcly prevent all 'fibiiity of this kin 1 of diforder. Whatever be the Stifij’the part muft immediately be reftored,. ortho nfequence will foon be fatal, for its orifice will ■atraft in this unnatural ftatc, and fo prevent the -dful relief. Firlt empty the bladder, if it con- I ns much urine ; then lay the patient on her back. 1 -h her hips raifed, then with the hand reftore the rus; gently return it into the vagina with three gers, and then with the whole hand place it in ■ belly, after which, clench the fill, and retain it re, until the uterus com rafts upon it; laftly, fup- t it as i *. the cafe of a prolaplus. Dr. Leake, in his Medical Inftruftiens, advifes er the parts are reduced, the frequent ufc of the lowing injeftion: R Alum. r. & vitriol alb. aa 3j. ' bullient ]bj. tn. & ftltr. per chart. Itijeft it milk rm into the vagina, with a womb fyrnge. Ac : lame time, he direfts the ufc of chalybeate wa- s, generous diet, the Peruvian bark, and if the ernal parts arc found, the cold bath. If the pro- ded parts arc ulcerated, return them, and keep ulcer clean by injecting barley-water. The a--bandagePRO the T bandage may be worn with advantage. Should the defccnt of the tumour prevent the patient from walking about, a fine fponge wrung our of alum- water may be dried in a compreffed ftatc, and cut into any convenient form, fo as to be introduced as high as pofliblc. During the ul'e of this application, the injection may be ufed twice a day. The fponge tent lhould be made gradually fmallcr, as the vagina contracts. In the Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. ii. p. 43. there is an account of a woman, of about fifty years old, who was afflicted with a prolapfus uteri, and having tried various means of relief in vain, cut into the fubftance of the uterus with a common kitchen knife. A con- fiderablc hajmorrhage enfued, after which the uterus contracted, and flic never had any return of the pro- lapfus, or any other fymptoms. She effectually cured fcveral women in a fimilar way. In the prolapfus vagina, the fame method of cure is (till more (trongly recommended. 7'be relroverfion of the uterus. T his diforder i> not properly a fpecics of procidentia as above deferibed, but is when it fo falls, from its natural pofition, that the urinary bladder is either preffed by it, or drawn from its ufuat place, and the fundus uteri preffes upon the inteftinum rcCtum ; or it may be, that the fundus uteri is thrown upon the os pubis, and its orificc^o- wards the reCtum. Molt of thefc cafes happen in the early ftages of pregnancy, feldom folate as the fourth month; they occafion firft. a difficulty, then by de- grees a fupprclfion of urine, and loon after, a iup* prcUion of the intcftinal difeharge. For the inoft part, the following treatment has been fucccfsfuB Firft, the urine is to be drawn oft" by means of the catheter, then a ftimulating glyfter mull be injected, that the inteftines inav be duly evacuated ; thefc done, place the woman on her knees and elbows, with her head duw awards, and by introducing one hand upPRO i vagina, endeavour to draw it forwards, then with i > fingers in the anus, endeavour to pulh up the : dus uteri. Vide an account cf Come inftances of j;; nature in the Lond. Med. Obf. and Inq. vol. iv. .588, &c. and all'o Dr. Hunter's Tables of the gra- j Uterus. Denman on the Rctroverfion of the l.srus, and White s Surgery. [ft is fuppofed that fcarifications may fucceed inftead i ncifious on the procidentia uteri. Vide Rnyfcb's Obf. ... 1, 7, 9, 10, and Saviard. Lond. Med. Obf. and : q.vol. ii. Med. Mufeum, vol. i. Heifer's. Surgery, j rmilton’s Midwifery, edit. ^. Edinb. Med. Comm. I . ii. Lond. Med. Journal, vol. vi. White's Sur- ety, and Leake’s Med. Inftrudt. edit. 5. iProcidentia Vagina. The degrees of this difeafe different; but when a part of, or all the vagina ,| -pears through the pudenda, it may be called a pro- olus ; when it dcl'cends to the labia pudenda, it'may : termed a procidentia; and when not fo far,- a re- | cation. Widcmannus gives a C3<e of a prolapfus 1 gina, which had all the appearance of a prolapfus ! eri, and which was not properly diftinguilhed until I was too late 10 afford any relief; but generally they c diftinguilhed by tbfernung the os tinea, ivbtcbetif- iguifbes the womb from alt other cafes of a defeat!, and om the inverfio, by its only happening after labour. I 'lien the whole vagina is prolapfed, it appears like | ude bloody flelh. if the prolapfed vaginal wells 1 olently, and is attended with inflaqimation, there | immediate danger of a fphacelus ; if the prolapfed j trt be affe&ed with little or no fwelling, or if there !j no inflammation, the tumour will be very little Ii oublc, and without danger. This diforder lliould |U diftinguilhed from a tumour, a fungus, 8cc. of the ii art' ; The part may be reftored with the fingers; which Vhen done, the patient llioul l reft in bed for fome f <avs, and ul'e an wjettion of warm viuegar and water, 1 i wPRO or red wine and water ; but if thefe fail, the r ban* dage tnuft be worn. If inflammation, &c. attend, the fame procedure will be proper, as when the like fvmptoms happen to the uterus. Vide Hamilton's Midwifery, and the Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. ii. Procidentia Vrjica Urinaria. The invcrfkmof the uterus never happens without the bladder being dis- placed. It gets dqwn to the perinaeum, and there forms a protuberance. The bulb of the bladder be- ing thus forced down, it is now no longer cxpul'ed to the preffurc of the abdominal mufcles as before,- and not having force enough in this pofture, to contract, and prefs out the urine, the poor woman in this ftate netcr makes any water, without firlt fqueezing the bladder with her hands, or between her thighs. When the bladder is thus dilpol'ecl, if the catheter is to be introduced, it mu A not be thruft inward, but down- ward, the bulb of the bladder being below the meat® urinarius. Vide Lond. Med. Obf. and 1 ncj. vol. tii. • Provtosis, from ^forrrrl^, to fall out. The lame as Procidentia, to fall from it s natural fit nation. \V hen the eye is fo large that the eye-lids cannot cover it, it fometimes burfts. This diibrdcr, is called Pioptojk. If the eye is levelled with a watery humour, lbme call it, bydtopbalmia, cculus bubalui, ocultts bormus, or oculus elefibantinus, from its refemblance to the eye of an ox, or an elephant. In recent calcs, the dilcafe has been removed by bleeding, purging, blirtcrmg, and difeutient applications. If ,thele tail, the de- formity may be removed, by evacuating the humour. In the Medical Communications, vol. i.p. 409. & leq. we find an account of its being done by a feton. I hc author fays, to do it with convenience, tlte furgeoH and his patient lliould be leated in the lame manner as for extracting the cataract. The feton needle be- ing armed with fix threads of white fewing lilk, to be palled from the external angle, about a quar- ter of an inch from the edge of the cornea, throughPRO I 1 » thi' | ae pofterior chamber of the eye, and brought out : the fame diftance from the inner edge of the cor- ea. In fattening the threads, we muft be cautious ot to draw them tight, left they Ihould cut through tie cornea before the cure is completed. The exter- nal applications Ihould be of the fedative kind ; per- haps we have none more proper than the faturnine tater of Goulard, applied warm. Inflammation and tver will give way to a cooling regimen, bleeding, :md gentle laxatives. A fwelling of the eye-lids, and i thickening of the coats of the eye follow the opera- on ; they begin to fubfide about the eighth or ninth ay, at which time, I ufually take out fome of the nreads,and the fwelling then gradually finking within ae orbit, the patient finds a comfortable alleviation, rf thofe painful fymptoms with which he was before fffe&ed. For a month after the operation, I keep in ame of the threads, which after the firft inflammation i removed, do not occafion much irritation. Vide vOnd. Med. Journal, vol. i. p. 346. Prostate, from xopo, before, and ipijuu* to/land, \ rcom iz-iGi-aij.a.i, tube adjacent to. 7be frojlate glands. When the frojlate gland is inflamed from a fupprefled ;onorrhoea, every means Ihould be ufed to reftorc the ifeharge; for, if this inflammation terminates in uppuration, whether the abfeefs breaks into the urc- ihra, bladder, inteftinum rebtum, or perinasum, it fill always be attended with difagreeable confe- rences. The fymptoms of an inflammation or fwelling f this gland, are known from the pain and difficulty f making water; befides, if we Ihould be doubtful vhcnce they proceed, the finger will clearly teach las. If a fuppuration has already taken place, we pave only to obferve, that mercury internally and ex- ernally will be ncceffary, and afterwards proper in- actions, the compofitions of which muft be left to the udgment of the practitioner. The remedies proper or indurated tefticles or buboes, will be fuitable inP R U this cafe ; but efpccially blifters repeatedly applied t« the perinceum, and internally, hemlock in large doles. If a total fupprcllion of urine is feared, bring on a fuppuration to prevent worfc confequcnces. Pruritus. A viohnt I.coin?, or ike I.'cb, called alfo Psora. Dr. Cullen names this genus of difeafe f/ora; he places it in the clafs locales, and order dyaljfesj and defines it, pultules, or fmall prurigenous ulcers affedting the -hands, which are contagious. jVIany are the appearances on the Ikin, and various the diforders that are accompanied with, or manifefted bv an itching therein ; but the itch is a Ikin difeafe, and has for its caufe a very fmall kind of animalcula of a whitifh coiour, and fliaped like a tortoife, each having fix feet, and a fharp head, with two fmall horns on its point. They arc very hard, therefore not eafiiy deftroyed by rubbing them. This difordcr ufually appears at firft about the wrifts and fingprs, then on the arms, legs, and thighs, but never affe&s the head. In the evening, when the patient approaches to the fire, or begins to grow warm in bed, the itcb.ng is mod troublefome ; in fome patients, there are blotches here and there; in others, there is a feurfy or fcaly kind of cniption : this lait is called the dry iteb. The moift kind moll frequently happens to children; and the dryer fort to adults. The humour in the moift fort is fanious and purulent, and an inflammation-s obfcrvablc about the bafis of each eruption ; but in the dry kind, the pufiules arc of a fmall (ire, and arc filled with a ferous ichor, which, bv irritating the highly tender fibre under the cuticle, occaiiun both heat and itching. J The moift kind of i.'cb is more eafiiy cured than the dry fort; this diforder is obftinatcr in old people, and ftiil more in thole whofe vilcera arc unfound. Whether the caufe be a morbid ltrum in the blood, or the animalcula jibovementiontd, lulphur alone is toP R U I i 3 The ij.be depended on for a cure ; it ffiould be taken in- ir. rdlv, fo as to keep the bowels lax; but if it agi- H-es the blood, and occafions eruptions to appear on ll; Ikin, it may be mixed with the cream of tartar. ji. to its external ule, it need not be applied like other jledicincs to every part of the body ; but if rubbed I the palms of the hands, and the foies of the feet, [ fuffices : and thus ufed, there is lefs objection to the acll, and the unclcanlinefs complained of, than when c whole ikin is anointed. Dr. Pringle recommends the following ointment be ufed at four times, each portion to be applied at d-time; and to prevent any difordcr from too many ■>res being flopped at once, he directs that one- urth part of the body Ihould only be rubbed at once. R Flor. fulph. % j. p. rad. ellcb. a 3 ij- vel fal nmon. crud. 3 ij- axung. pore. J ij. m. The 1'itlphur vivum, is more cffe&ual than the owtrs of fulphur. During the ufe of fulphureous applications, clean ten is necclfary ; it Ihould often be changed, but at worn again before being well waffied and .cached. Many other applications have been ufed, and dill •c preferred by many. They confift chiefly of oinr- jents or walhcs, with the hydrargyr. muriat. or hire hellebore. Dr. Turner prefers a folution of the kali, in the roportion of a dram to an ounce of water; of this ■ tca-fpoonful is to be taken two or three times a day i any fmall drink. The body at the fame time to e waffied with a weak ley. The extr. cicutze has been found ufeful in fome bftinatc cafes, which renfted all other common methods. Baths, Ihould be ufed in the dry fpccies particularly; nd perfpiratlvcs are ufeful in both forts of this komplainr.P s o The venereal itch requires the ufc of mercurial alteratives, and the dcco&ion of guaiacum. Vide Biffs Efiays; Turner on the Dileafcs of the Skin; Philttf. Tranf. Ahr. vol. iv. and Bc(l on Ulcers. Psoas, tcu, Li'mbokum Abscessus. Pfoas% or Lumbar Abfctfs. This abfeefs receives different ap- pellations from different writer'. Mr. Pott obfeeves, that it receives this name from the matter of its Hiding in its fail upon the tide of the pfoas mufelc, or be- twixt that and the iliacus internus. Dr. G. Fordyce fays, that between the pfoas mulcle and the mufcle of the back, lies a quantity of lool'c cellular mem- branes, in which an inflammation often takes place, which, terminating in an abfeefs, forms this diforder. Mr. Pott thinks this diforder originates in the lymphatic glands, near the receptaculum chyli, the vertebrae about which arc generally difeafed and ca- rious in thefe cafes. Mr. Abernethy thinks, that the the pfoas abfeefs being connected with, and often producing a caries of the bodies of the vertebrae, is too prevalent an idea. Becaufe the cellular fubfhnco between the peritonaeum and the loins is the common feat of this abfeefs, and as the peritonxum would readily yield to matter collected behind it, the pref- fure of the collcdted pus againft the 'bones would be infufficicnt to produce the difeafe. Dr. Hunter again obferves, that matter is fometimes lodged in this part at the' crifis of a fever, and he has fecn inftances of matter proceeding fpom the liver into this iitua* tion, after making its way through the peritoneum. As there is a great quantity of cellular membrane over the pfoas inulcle, and a confiderable way toward the fit in. the matter feldom points outwardly on the back, where it is formed, but running down on the courfc of the mufcle, makes its wav into the gr in, thigh, ham, the inner condyle of the os ieinorifi, tkc.P s o r when on the right fide, it may penetrate the colon /hich lays upon it, and thereby occalion a large iicharge of matter per anura, and poilibly a fillu- i»us fore. The pfoas abfcefs often cxifts a confiderable time efore it is fufpeored. The fymptoms, in the beginning, arc fimilar to thofe |tf inflammation of the liver, excepting for the fitti- tion ; its progrefs and termination is alio like that of le liver. The pains are fituated in the back, for '.tie moft part, rather lower than the region of the- idnies. The pain is but.flight, and Jo moderate are ie fymptoms f< r a time, that frequently it has not een attended to until fuppuration had taken place, iftcr the abfcefs is formed, the pain often becomes reater than before; for, the pus fermenting in the ellular membrane, fpreads itlelf, and produces a treat degree of general inflammation. This cellular Membrane communicates itlelf with the cellular lembrane in other parts, and the pus fome times takes its way through the peritonamm, into the avity of the abdomen, whence arife hcddic heats, id proves fatal. The matter may alfo pal's down the rvas mufcle, and make its exit externally a little irtlier than the inguinal glands, or it may pafs irther down the thigh, dilTctSt the mufcles, and arm finuous abfcclTes. Sometimes the matter pafles irough the mufcles of the back, but may take its turfe into the cavity of the back-part of the pelvis : uis it appears, that the pus is capable of palling •veral diflerent ways, and may communicate w-ith 1 the parts at once, which makes it a dangerous ifeefs, not fo much with regard to its fizc, as to the arts which it aliedts. Ufually, the firft fymptoms rat the patient feels in cafes of the pj'jcu abfcefs, is ot where the difeafe originates, but a pain in the nver part of the thigh of the fide affected; he Hands n his toes, &c. and does not complain of the part for'This difeafe, whilft in its inflammatory (late, is generally ncglcdted or miftaken ; othcrwife it proba- bly would ealily be cured, and that, principally, by bleeding. Dr. Fordyce obfervcs, that this dilorder thou Id be treated in the fame manner as inflammation of the liver (except for the fitttation) both in the (late of inflammation and fuppuration. He farther adds, that in all internal luppurations, the lungs be- come affedled 5 hence hcdtic heats, &c. are produced; thence it is. ncceflary, that if the patient refides in a large town, he fliouid remove into the country for the benefit of air. Ccrrefpondent with this, Dr. Hunter oblerved in his Ledturcs, in the year 1771, that the mod likely means to prevent the fatal cffedls of this difeafe are, endeavours to keep up the pa- tient s llrcngth fufficicntly to enable him to undergo the ditcharge, which is moll likely to be accomplifhed by a nourifhing diet, and clear air, the bark, diluted acid of vitriol, &c. 1 Mr. Bell fays, for the mod part, the pfoas abfeefs is occafloned by the fmall of the back or loins having received fome confidcrablc injury by a hurt, or a fevere bruife, and if accidents oi this nature were treated with the attention they deferve, bv blood- letting, particularly from the adedlcd part, and other Inch remedies as arc ufetul in inflammation, an ab- fcels would probably be prevented. W hen fuppu- ration has taken place, and the matter has actually be- gun to point either in the neighbourhood of the anus or fore-part of the thigh, Mr. Bell is decidedly of opinion, that the matter ihould be difeharged. Mr. Aberncthy alfo advilcs the fame pradticc. For the evacuation of the matter, the trocar, lavs Mr. Bell, may be tiled with advantage, when the cafe is obvious ; but when doubtful, an opening Ihould be made in a flow gradual manner with a fcalpcl, in the fame manner as is pradtifed in cafes of hernia. Alter tire matter has continued to flow for l'ome time, andPUB es not become confiderably lcfs, in about two or fee weeks, Tome gentie aftringent may be cown up. Mr. Aberncthy advifes the pus to be dilcharged introducing a lancet through the integuments, and Ming it obliquely for a fmall diftance through the n and the fal'cia, and by deprclling the point of ; lancet, there punfturing the cyft. The matter ould be drawn oft' in an uninterrupted current, if ffiblc, and the abfeefs completely evacuated ; then aperture (hould be immediately and exactly ■fed, by drefting the orifice (made in a longitudinal fedtion, with regard to the thigh) with lint; and irrging the edges into clofc contact with (licking ifter, as wounds made in bleeding are commonly :ated. The matter inuft be evacuated from time to ne as the cavity fills and irritates the newly healed ndturcs by preffure. '■Vide Elements of the Prafticc of Phvfic, part ii. George Fordyre, M.D. Abrrnelby on Lumbar Ab- tfs i and Beil’s Surgery, vol. v. IP unis Ossa. Fbe bones of the Pubes. As a fub- tute for the Caefarcan operation, Mr. Sigault, of ris, firft pradlifed the feftion of the fymphyfis of e pubis. Jtwas originally propofed about two hon- ed years fince by Mr. Pincau, a French furgeon. he operation is thus performed : Lay the patient non her back upon a table, of a convenient height, |.'d her thighs being feparated, introduce a catheter i ■ empty the bladder, and let it be retained in the i ethra till the divifion of the bones is effected. The j ans veneris being previoufly lhaved, divide the (kin d cellular fubftance which covers the pubes at their mphyfis by a longitudinal incilion, which ought to nmencc at the upper edge of the bones, and be ltinued nearly their whole breadth. The bones ing laid bare, cautioufiy divide the cartilage. Both cifions may be made by a firm common round-edged fcalpel,PUB fcalpcl. Towards the end of the operation, the . affiftants, who have kept the thighs afunder, fliould now fupport them, to prevent a fuddcn or forcible reparation of the bones ; and if they do not recede lufficiently, the thighs may be (lowly and gradu- ally feparated. The child is to be delivered in the ufual way, and the placenta removed, then bring the bones together, and apply a cotton or flannel roller round the pelvis. The wound requires no particular attention. A bladder muft be fitted to the end of the catheter, that the patient may not be obliged to ftir when (he wants to difeharge her urine. The patient muft not be allowed to walk, or put the body in any pofture that may alter the fituation of the bones, for nine or ten weeks. Vide Be!i\ Surgery, vol. v. Practical Obfervations on the Chiid-bed Fever, by Dr. L/ake, edit. v. p. 258, and feq. and London Med. Journal. Dr. Hunter very early fuggefted the difficulties and diladyantages of this operation; and Dr. Walter, of Berlin, disputes its ufefulncls fo much, as to prefer the Csefarean operation.— — R. Ranula, the name of a tumour which is fcated ruder the tongue. It hath been thought to refemblc little frog, whence the name of rantt/a ; though ome lay, that it is thus named, bccaul'e it alters the •oice of the patient, fo as to make him croak like a rog. This tumour is formed in the falivary glands ■mder the tongue, and is. lcated on either fide of the rratnum ; it is generally of the fcrofulous kind. The natter varies much in different inftanccs of this dif- ■rder, being fometimes like the white of an egg, at thers it is more folid ; in fomc inftances it is puru- jntT in others it differs from all thefe. It fometimes rows luddenly, impedes both the fpeech and fwal- nwing, and alfo caufes much pain v but generally its rrowth is more gradual, and its effects not fo violent, nftanccs have occurred of their having degenerated nto cancers. They are all of the eneyfted kind, and re with great difficulty either difperfed or brought n fuppuration, generally requiring the knife for heir removal. If a tumour of this kind is feated vherc the falival duffs enter into the mouth, mel- ons mull never be attempted, becaufe of the danger f wounding thele du6Is, with the nerves or bloud- effels; in this cafe, wait until nature opens a pal- age for the contents : if it is feated on either fide, rcat care is required, left the nerves or the blood- eflels there, ffiould be injured : however, in fuch afes, hold up the tongue of the patient, and make n incifion tranfverlely into the tumour ; the matter jeing difeharged, drefs with warm water, or other moilient. If the fore ffiould be difficult to heal, the K k honeyhoney of rofes, with tindture of bark, or other aftringents may he ufed. Vide Heifter's Surgery; Bell's Surgery, vol. tv. and White's Surgery. Rectum Intestinum. The lad of the large in- teftiner, called the Reflum or Straight gut. Sometimes there arc hard feirrhous lumps, without pain, feated at the bottom of the redtum or near the arms. They are thruft out in every effort to void a lfool, but are not painful, except after handling them. Mr. Pott advifes to remove them as loon as polhble. In the in dances where they arc net removable, the (irft fvmp- tom felt is when the patient wifhes to void a large Itool. On introducing a finger, they are immedi- ately dilcovercd. Palliatives only can be diredfed.Sarcocei.e, from fif-Jb, and -xtiXv, « tumour. ft is a firm, flcfhy kind of enlargement of the •efticlc, or the feirrhous tefticle. The farcocrle, or hernia carnoju, Mr. Pott fays, taken in a general fenle, means any induration or difeafed Jtijb, though here an fined to the tefticle ; and farther obf'erves, ithat the Ja>cocele, which is diftinguifhed by the au- ccient writers into the farcoccle, the hydro-fa: cocele, the /cirrbui, the cancer, the earn adnata ad tejlam, and the caro adnata ad mafa, are really little more than do- fcriptions of different ftatco and circumftanccs of the Tame diieafe. The caro adnata ad tejlam is a fcirrhhs begun in the epididymis. The caro adnata ad uafa, lisa feirrhous of the epididymis fomewhat inrreafed, "hen it feems as if it fprung from the fpcrmatic vef- Tels. The hydro-farcoccle is when the tefticle is en- larged or hardened; there is alio a palpable accumu- lation of fluid in the vaginal coat. TheJarcoceie is a diieafe of the body of the tefticle ; and, as the term • implies, confifts, in general, in fuch an alteration made in the ftrutturc of it, as produces a refemblancc ;to a hard flefhy fubftance, initeadof that tine, foft, vafcular texture, of which it is, in a natural and healthy ftate, compofed. Many pafs feveral years with this difeafe, under its moft favourable appear- K k ! ances,anccs, and without encountering any of its word; j but, on the other hand, there are many who, in a very Ihort time, run through ail its Itagcs. Some- times the firft appearance is a mere fimple enlarge- ment and induration of the body of the tcfticle; void of pain, without inequality oi furfacc, and pro- ducing no uneafinefs nor inconvenience, except what is occafioncd by its mere weight. And in l'oine few inftanccs it remains thus for a confiderablc time, without vifible or material alteration ; but, in other inftanccs, very foon after its appearance in this mild manner, it fuddenly becomes unequal and knotty ; and is attended with very acute pains, darting up to the loins and back ; but ftill remains entire ; that is, it does not burft through the integuments. In fliort, inch is the variety of the appearances of this difenfc, that defeription can hardly afford u:i adequate idea of it. Sometimes the difordcr feems to be merely local, that is, confined to the tcfticle ; at other times, there is a pallid or leaden countenance, indigeftion, naufea, colic pains, fudden purgings, &c. fufticicntly indi- cating a vitiated habit and difeafed vitccra. The J progrefs alfo which it makes from the teftis upward, is very uncertain ; the difeafe afteding the fpcrmatic proccfs, in fame fubjefts, for a great length of time; while, in others, it totally fpoils the tefticle very \ foon, and almoft as foon fcizes tlac fpcrmatic cord. Araongft the miftaken caulcs of a feirrhous tef- 1 tide, Mr. Pott reckons the hernia humoralis. He does nor lay, that a farcocek never follows an her- nia humoralis, but that it docs not at any time ncccfiarilv enufe or produce it. Mr. Bell fays, j that a hardened ftatc of the teftis and epididy- mis, produced originally by a venereal taint, does in fomc inftanccs degenerate into the worft l'pe- cics of farcocele. However, in general, the hernia humoralis is one of the dilealcs which Ihouhl be d:f- j tinguilhed from the jhr.x\Ic. A quantity of waterS A R j fcmetimes collected in the vaginal'"coat of a feir- ] lous tellis, and fome have fuppofed that this water rnders the teftis lcirrhous ; but this not being true, j e hydrocele and the feirrhous tefticle lhould alfo be ftinguifhcd. The only remedy from which any advantage is ex- dbed, is, the removal'of the difeafed parts by ex- rpation. But before the operation is attempted, a onfideration of the manner of the farcocele'% having een formed, and the ftate of the fpermatic cord ■om the ring to the tefticle, arc objefts of neccfTary onfideration. When it proceeds from a blow on the ■art, fuccefs is more likely to follow, than whet) it is auled by a cancerous or ftrumous acrimony attending n that gland ; when thefc lalt are caufes, they will .encrally be found to exift on other parts alfo; t.herc- orc though the difeafed tefticle be removed, yet rorn the fame caufe cxifting in the habit, other parts non after become difeafed in the fame manner. In trumous habits the glands cf the mefentery, the •ymphatics, &c. are generally obftrufted; therefore external applications fignify verv little ; but fuch medicines mufti be ufed as hrft on the primre .vise, ind then on the lymphatics ; for in children they are feidom feen with this dilordcr without an enlarged belly, which, before any farther attempts are made, muft be leflcned. Air. Pott obferves, that fome writers direff, with refpeft to the fpermatic coni, as follows: Firft, if it is fr-lr, and of its natural fizx, caftration may be fafely performed; which is right. Secondly, if it is much enlarged, the operation is not vindicable. But this is going too far; for though it may be cor.fi dcrably enlarged, vet if it Ins no unequal feel, is not painful, or manifolds no tendency to Icirrhus; its btijjg en- larged is cf no conlequence ; f ir obftruttion in a dil- tafed gland will frequently oceafion an enlarged ya- ficciU: Hate of itr vends.. Lymphatics all’o, from the K I> t fameSAR fame caufc, mav be dilated or ruptured, which mult, confequcntly, occafion an extravafation in the cells or the fpermatic procefs, both which frequently happen in the ftrtocrli, and mult certainly give the fpermatic cord an enlarged feel; but it is not either of them that C3n be the lealt ohjedion to the operation ; t.;e fpermatic cord not being difeaicd, only enlarged, which is a circumftance worth regarding ; for when it is only enlarged, the operation may be or ule ; but, when in an enlarged, lcirrhous, painful hate, too high to be able to make a ligature fairly above the part difeaicd, the operation can be of no ufe, but is moil likely to prove fatal. Many advife to defer the operation until fuch lymptoms come on, as darting pains in the tcfticlcs, pains in the loins, See. - which, in truth, inftead cf being a proper time, is too late, the fpermatic procefs becoming a dialled, when a tefticle is become truly feirrhous, I'o as nevrf pnlfibly after to be of any ufe to the patient. l>y carrying lcirrhi too long, though at fir ft: the dilordcr || be local, a feirrhous habit will be brought on ; for j before the fpermatic procefs becomes a tie dl t d with J feirrhous tcfticl s, the patient’s habit is often found j affedted, and he is attended with colic}- pains, and t other cor.fcqucnt fymptoms. After a venereal gonorrhoea, Dr. Swediaur obfervesy that, from improper treatment, it fumetimes happens that one or both tefticles grow hard, i. c. become lcirrhous. in feme of theft inftanccs, the dilorder is accompanied with a fcnlation of a painful prcfiuie , but frequently without any pain at all. He adds, that, in theft cafes, mercury given internally, or rubbed in externally, into the pcrin.x'ura and icro- tum, twice a day, with the conllant application ot a warm p mil ice, made of the root ot atropa mandra- gori, I.inn. are often ufeful. Ailo that the ciiutt, applied internally and .externally, may be tried, with ■ pnilpect of advantage. An emetic has been lomc- 1 1 timesS C A mes found cffe&ual. The deco&ion of the hark of 1C root of Daphne Mcicrcum, Linn, internally, j lid a poultice ot it externally, has lately been very jj lucii recommended; but whatever means are tiled, too generally happens that thele (wcllings remain liaffedted, except we can bring on the running again rem the urethra ; one method of effecting which, is j inoculate the venereal virus by means of a bougie ttroduced a little way intothc urethra. Mr.Bell lays, hat when ahardncl'sof the tcfticle docs not yield to the neans commonly employed, lurh as moderate evacua- ionsof blood, when thefc are indicated; a Ibit ea!) diet; lax belly; the ufe of a fufpenfory bandage; and Tpecially when mercury, which, on the chance of he diforder being venere al, is very commonly tried, ire all tiled without anv elteft ; we may in Inch cir- cumftances always have great enufe to lufpett that ■he difeafe is of a real bad nature ; and when to this is joined an acceihon of more inveterate lytnpto.ns, and- if the diforder, from the ftnte or an indolent. : hard tumour, becomes painful, ike. no f.inhei delay ought then to be advifed. Caftration vnuft be pro- ceeded to. Vjde Sharp’s Operations. Pott's Works. ■iitli s Syftem of Surgery, vol. i. Lond. Med. Journal, vol. v. p. 32 ; Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. ix. p. 336 ; and Wont s Surgery. „ ,, , „ . Sc a tro. Totralp. To lay the (kulf bare, is called tfcalphn. It is'done by making an incifion equally, and at once, through the integuments and pericra- nium. In nerforming this, ufe the edge of the fcalncl, and rather than the point, especially it a Tract arc is ful netted. After making the incihon, raifo the pericranium a little from the bone vvitn the edge of the knife; and to clear the bone, ufe the murine. . ... , , j u purfuing a fofurc, a reftihnear incifion is the . belt, in mod other calcs, an oval one is prcic- ■ raufo. lioth Arnaud and Gooch give inftuncesot their havingS C I rnailc a crucial incifion upon the temporal mufcle, with good I'ucceh, the mufcle Hill continuing its uflton. Vide Gooch's Trcatife of Wounds, p. 25;. Sc ir rhus, from cxiffw, to harden, is a tumour of incomprdfiblc hardncfs, without pain. Dr. Culka places this difeafe in the clafs locales, and order tumores; he defines it, a hard tumour of (ome parr, moll frequently of a gland, not painful, and funpu- rating with dilSculty. Dr. Aitkin reckons the phyf- conia (a genus in Dr. Cullen’s fyftcm) a fpccics of Jen bus. Thc/ircoole lie includes as another fpccics. The feat of this kind of tumour is ufually fome glandular part ; not but fome other may be alio, and lometimcs is thus difordcred. The fluids in the glands being infpilfated, inmate in hardncfs, and form a /cirrous; or the contents of the lymphatic vcflfels in the liver, or other parts, coagulating, gradually harden, and form the like. It is probable, that fitnbi arc formed by too free bleeding; fur thus the circula- tion may he fo diminilhed in its force as not duly to afFcdt the iinaller veffcls, and thus obftrudtions may be formed, which end in fiirrbufis. All uetfons, and at any age, may be the fubjcfls of this dtlorder; but the fedentary, and more parti- cularly women, when their nienfes decline, and lometimcs, indeed, at their appre-auh, are moll fre- quently rhus difordcred. From the moll attentive examination, it appears that the matter of tittle tumours is infpiflated lymph. They often arife without any previous inflammation, from the proper fluid ftagnating in tite gland, ore:.-' iravafatiun from cuntufn n, ,Vc. Sometimes it hap- pens witen a gland is the feat of an inflammation, < nJ the inflammation termin.t’cs without coining to- f uppttration. F.xrcrnallv, they arc perceived by the touch, in- ternally, the evidences are obfeure ; but it the cjitus ■ : a /airbus have occurred, and if fome dciedls atren<,S C I a which \vc may impute a fcirrbus as the caufe, the xiitcncc of one may be fufpedted. Though a fcirrbus does not always become cance- ous, yet cancers are moft frequently only farrbi in heir beginnings. The effedts of a fcirrbus will be arious, and very different, according to the part it .ifedts, and the functions which it injures. Bv preff- ng on the vena cava, a mortification in the legs has <ecn produced; by prtifing on certain nerves, epi- eptic fits have been produced. If all the glands in he neck arc indurated, thofc of the mefenicry will ie fo too, in which cafe a cure is not to be expected. I fdrrbus in the liver produces a jaundice, which is difficult, and often impoffibk to cure ; and this Juudice is followed by a dropfy. A fcirrbus may fo srei's upon the thoracic dudt as to Occafion a fatal trophy. Whether a fiirrhtts is feated internally or xternaily, if it is affedted by acrid humours, or nflammation, it becomes cancerous. If an attempt is made towards the cure of a fe.r- bus, wc fhould be certain that it is recent and not et quite hardened ; and that it is in its benign ftatc, . e. that it is free from itching, heat, or pain; for ftcr the appearance of any of thele circum dances, lathing but a palliative cure can be admitted of, cx- cpt the knife can be prudently ufed. In the earlier tate of an external [airbus, gentle mercurials are ifcd internally, but with caution not to irritate; xternaily, cooling and anodyne applications only are o be employed ; Inch as the aq. linurn. of Goulard ; he Jurrbus part fhould be covered with loft leather o prevent tnc clothes from irritating it; whatever teats, foitens, or can tend to produce a iuppuration, nuft be carefully avoided ; a fulution of fa, ammoniac n vinegar is applied externally as a refolvent ; fotpe ipjffy the vapours of vinegar to the tumid part. If > Jurrbus is final!, and continues of the fame li/.c, do nothing;S C I nothing; if it fuppuratcs, increafcs, and is detached, extirpate it with the knife. Some good practitioners advilc to extirpate thefe tumours as I'jon as they feem to refill the effeft of gentle means made ufe of for rcl'olving them, and that before any fymptoms of their becoming cancerous appear. For correcting the faulty ftate of the habit, and for relolving fetr- rbous obitruCtions, the hydrargyr. muriat. given lb as not to ialivate, contributes much, if the bark, and the extr. cicutae, accompany it; their united efficacy is fometimes inch as cannot be produced by any two of them without the third. What is here faid of a feirrbus in general is appli- cable to a /embus in any external part; however, as there arc fomc peculiarities from their lituation, it may be proper to take notice of fome of them. A /airbus may affeCt the febaceous glands of the Ikin, particularly about the face and lips, where it is ib very irritable, that whatever is applied occafions great pain, and therefore is called noli me t,mg ere. Here Mr. Plunkct’s medicine (vide Cancer) may do well if the cafe be recent; but it ihould never be tiled unlcfs wc can remove the whole tumour. If we cannot cffcCt this, we arc at firft flattered with the hopes of a cure; but the difeafe loon rc-appcan. in another ftate, which carries off the patient. In ihort, whilft farrb'w tumours arc loofc, entirely free from pain, and the figure of the tumid gland is un- changed, whether the cauftic or the knife are ufed, fuccefs may reafonably be expefted, whether the fituation of the difordered gland is in the face, or any where elfc in the reach of thole means of re lief. « A farrhus in the brtaft. Whether the breafts of women are glandular or not, their ftrubture is luch, that indurated turnouts arc formed in them. Some tumours in the bread rcfemble a true Jen rhus; but in rime they inflame, luppuratc, and end favourably •,S C L md it is not cafy to give the diferiminating figrfs •ith precilion enough to be depended on in the be- ginning. It may be obferved, that a genuine fcirrbus t'eldom occafions ur.ea fin el's, except it becomes can- cerous ; and when an inveterate fcirrbus icizes the oread, the fubaxillary glands arc generally indurated :oo. The breafts are fovnetiines rendered fcirrbus by he imprudent application of the fpirit- of wine to them. About the ceffation of the menfes, the breafts of many women are thus affefted. * A fdrrlpm in the tongue. A tumour of this kind ffometimes happens in this part, and remains many vears indolent; in which cafe avoid all attempts to remove it, as it mav cafily be made to become can- cerous. If it lhould become painful, and is moveable, di'Jeft it out; but if immoveable, a portion of tile tongue muft be removed with it. If an hemorrhage ■entiies, it may be checked by iomc ftrong aftringent wafii; if it fails, ligatures muft be employed but if thefc cannot be adopted, the potential' cautery muft be lifed. A rdrrhous tonfil. The heft method of removing this is by ligature, as directed in article Polypus. Vide Surgery, vol. iv. Sharpe s Critical Enquiry ; Heijfei ’s Surgery; Pearfon s Principles of Surgery, vol. i. and U'oiir'% Surgery. ScLOPKTOr lag a, from Sc lope turn, a Gun, and Pin go, a Wound. It is a fpecics of vulnus, though fome writers make it a genus of difeafe. This kind of ".vountl is a contufod wound in the higheft degree. The ancients fuppoi’ed thele tp be of a malignant poiionous nature from gunpowder; hence warm -antifcptics, &c. were ufed ; but the ill effects of gun- ibet ‘Ujonnds, are owing to contufion, laceration, &c. and icquire Inch methods to he purfued, -is are di- rcitfd in article Coxtusa ; fuch as relaxing the .parts by an emollient cataplafam ; and if there is but one final! opening, to enlarge it for a free difehargeS C L v nf matter, or to be able to extra# foreign bodies, if J it can be done eafily. Sometimes jay a counte r- opening, rhe ball may be readily extra#ed with the.1 lingers. When fo, the opening Ihould always be , made ; but, if by endeavours to remove them, you. are likely to irritate, or give great pain, it will be'I bed to wait until the inflammation, &c. is gone, antf J fuppuration eftabiilhed; by which means you will 3 have ,a larger opening, and extra# any extraneous^ body more eafily ; for, at firft, the orifice of a worn? Jj through which a ball has entered, by its con t radii on* is always exceeding fmall before fuppurarion com- j menccs. Moft limbs arc taken off in the field of battle, and few of them recover. It is beft to perform a» ] few operations as polliblc in thefe calcs; and, if you 1 can, leave thefe few until feme time after they have j been wounded, as moft of thefe, where amputating is performed immediately, die of the operation, indeed they do in all cafes where it is performed in j high health. Limbs Ihould not be amputated in tbtr] fkdd if it can poifibly be avoided. The inllam- I mation Ihould ftrft be allowed to go oil; and if ever from the nature of the ivound, the inflammation tint j we fuppole Ihould attend it, Ihould be imagined u hazard rhe patient’s life, this Ihould not be a (ufficicnt j reaCon for amputation, bccaule the operation will i more than hazard his life in Iticlva lituation ,.nd in j fuch a Ante, a; experience evinces. The joints having been malhed by external force, j or a ball hnvin r palled through them, fcldom do well without amputation, efpecially if there is a great la- ceration of the ligaments, and a dilcharge of the i vtiovia, with the admi/lion of the external air; tor | the violent inflammation, Houghing, and dil'chai\_e, | bring on a hc#ic fever, which with c »! 1 >uativo j fwcats, front the abforption of matter, wd! carry him oSiSCO It may be further obfervcd,. that injuries from rail Ihot are rarely fo prejudicial to the bones, as iofe from larger Ihot •, from the latter, the bones are jnerally fplit or fplintered, and require that ampu- • tion be performed above the joint of the part whcic re injury is received, if poiCble. Thofe who affert that amputation fhoukl be uickly performed, when rendered ncccffary from r/H-fhot. wounds, advance the following rcafons : . When the injury is from large lhot. a. When iolcnt Symptoms come on. 3. When violent fymp- oms are overcome by medicines, yet there is kill a epellity for amputation 3 thefe form the three (lages com this kind of injury : and when it happens that patient pafles through the ffrft and fecund, except -erhaps one in one hundred, he is taken oft 111 the lird ftage. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. v. and White* uurgery. Scorbutus. Tut. Scurvy. Hippocrates dcfcribcs under the name of the difeafes of the iplcen, in is De Intern. Affect. Dr. Cullen places this t'cuus f difeafe in the clafs cachexise, and order impetigincs, md defines it, after living on putrid falted animal, and, in a cold country, recent vegetable fubftatices jeing at the fame time wanting, there come on uni- erfal debility, attended with fetid breath, looie pongy bleeding gums, different coloured ipots on the ■kin, molt commonly livid, particularly at the roots if the hair. The [curvy is a chronical difordcr of the putrid ;ind, and when a fever attends it,, is called the putrid 'ever. The immediate caufe is the fame with thofe that iroduce the putrid fever, that is, putrefcencc. The nediate and more remote caufcs are whatever leflfen he vis vita;, too little or improper kind of food, a ■lamp air, living in marffny countries, various kinds if acrid matter in the blood, a long_ ufe ot mercury ; L1 in.SCO in the navy, a folution of copper from want of care to clean the vclTels in which their food is boiled; animal diet which is not well preferred with fait; infection, &c. The prefence of this difordcr is known by a pale, or a yellowilh complexion, which gradually grows darker; a melancholy dejection of l'pirit, a lailitude, a ftiffhefs in the joints, a feeblenefs in the knees, and on uftng the leaft exercife, there is great wcaknefs, with a difficulty of breathing; the gums loon after begin to itch, lwell, and bleed, on being gently rubbed, and have an untifual livid rednefs; they are fofr, fpongy, putrid and fungous; this change in the gums. Dr. Lind fecms.to think, is the pathogno- monic fymptom of the difeafe. Haemorrhages alfo happen in other parts: the {kin feels dry, except in the laft ftage or the difeafe, when a cold clammy moifutre may be obferved on the lkin. In fomc the {kin is rough, but generally it is fmooth and fliining, and covered with many fpots, as if bruited; thefe arc of a yellow or reddifh colour, and as the difeafe increafes, they become blacker. In fomc, the ankles lwell towards the evening, and arc fettled again in the morning. Many other fymptoms occur, but they are accidental. If a fcorburic diarrhoea comes on, and there is a pain in the bread, it is generally fatal. Ulcerated lungs arc a f 'cquent confequencc of the fwjy; the ftocls are very often ft vc: the urine fpcedily becomes putrid. In the (econd ftage, the patient fometimes lofes the tile of his limbs, the flexor tendons in the hams arc contracted, the patient frequently faints upon the lealt motion ; and, on be- ing fuddenly moved into the frefti air, it fometimes happens that he expires. Hemorrhages from the lungs, inteftincs, Jkc. now are frequently happening: but the appetite is often good, though the lpirits are low. The third ftage has many violent, and ulually fatal fymptoms. jSCO L 1 z fucJi The fairvy ftiould be diftinguifhed from the ileum uentum, the black jaundice, hypochondriac and aclancholic diforders, fome fymptoms of the lues enerca, and i'corbulic cachexy. The indications of cure are, to flop the progrefs of utrefadfion, and totally to remove it; fecondly, to I lengthen the habit in general. Jf bad waters are the caufe, or improper food, acy muti be changed for that which is more falutary ; ihe air in the patient’s room mull be regulated by uch methods as will render it dry and warm. Fixed ir fhould be communicated to the water which the oatient drinks; an infuiion of malt, as recommend- 'd by Dr. Mac Bride, may be taken ; it is this: Take :>f dry found malt, freih ground, one meafure ; in- ufe it for four, five, or fix hours, in three meafurcs of boiling water, then pour off the clear licjuor. Let he patient drink, two, three, or four pints every lay. The bark in dofes as large as will be eafy in thc.ftomach, and repeat them two or three times a day. The acid of vitriol diluted may be alfo given I frequently in the patient's drink. Ir the patient is cold, pale faced, and has fwelled legs; if his thirft is not great, he may take four or 1 fix ipoonfuls of the following, three or four times a 'i May ; R rad. ph. hort. J iv. fol. coehl. trifol. palud. ‘ 5 m. ij. falvia. m j. vin. alb. jfo vj. m. If, on the contrary, there is a feverifh heat, thirft, > jifome difficulty in breathing, and the gums arc putrid : R Rad. lapith. acut. jjj cryftal tart. 3 iij. coq. per I hora fs. in laft. vac. iij. & colaturae adde mel. brit. J j. m. cap. 3 iij. ter. die. The roots of the herba Britannica, or the great water dock, is much extolled in this diforder. Particular care is required to promote the difeharges 1 through the fkin, and by the kidnies. And as to j particular fymptoms, fome of the chief of which are as follow ; they may be managed by thcfc, orSCO fuch like methods: the fpongy gums may be wafted with a decoition of the baric acidulated with the muriatic acid ; if ulcers fpread ip the mouth, touch " them now and then with the mel rol'je. acidulated with the fame acid. If a falivation comes on, divert it by blifter on different part of the body, and fina- pifms to the foies of the feet and hams, and, if pof- iible, excite a perfpiration ; for the ftriClurc of the fkin is the chief cftul'e of this fymptom, and here bolufes of camphor, with fome cordial mild opiate, may be repeated every four or fix hours. If the legs are oedema:oils, ufe gentle frictions. Ulcers in the legs, &rc. may be treated as thole in the mouth are. In cafe pf hemorrhages, the mineral acids may be given at proper intervals. When a fever attends,' 1 the duicitud mineral acids, or Clinton’s febrifuge j Ipirif, may be joined with fuch other medicines as the peculiarity of the calc requires. Rut though fome advantage mav be obtained by thefe particular admi- niftmtions and applications, yet all tlufc and the reft of the fymptoms difappear in proportion as fucccis follows the general method of cure. Dr. George Fordycc obferves, that the fatryy is taken off, oi prevented bv fuch food as is capable of being digefted properly. Putrefaction of the fluid never products a diieafe of itl’clf, but only fymptoms depending upon this; for when thefe fymptoms are taken oft, the patient recovers ; and wc fome times fee in putrid fevers, where the patient is considerably weakened, lo that in all probability he could not fur- rive many hours, yet there has been a hidden alte- ration take place ; rhe fymptoms of put re fa Cl ion im- mediately tubfi !e, and the patient recovers ; if then wc could give proper food, we might he able to-nrfie vent it, and could always cure it, when it his taken place. In order to the cure, any fuch loofc food that h s no medical property, is of great len ice; and the moft powerful are thefe oi the terraJyr.amia clap, ■ fuchSCO L 1 3 fomg ; ch as cabbages, turncps, &c. for, firft, they pro- j ice a fermentation in the ftomach, and become acid. )Lcondly, they contain a quantity of eifcntial oil, |f hich makes the matter loon evacuate out of the ■ody. Befides thefe, there are native vegetable acids, • acefcent fruits to be got, which like wife prove lifeful; but then the difficulty is to find out any .egetable food, that will give a tendency to become :id, that may be kept on boa.cl a Ihip for the ufe of lilors: there arc but few which we can preferve, nd thefe are oranges, lemons, limes, &c. any of thefc, ;iven with animal food, will be of ufe. Sugar is an ntiputrefeent, though not fo powerful as the vegc- ables ; but it was much ufed with food, Ac. before ■cgctables came into ufe. Thefe, then, are the Sncthods to prevent and to cure putrefaction. Many have ufed remedies as antiputrefeent, to flop putrefaction, hence they have given acids, &c. for that purpofe, but they will not produce that effcCh TTluiy have a tendency to prevent the peculiar fer- i mentation taking place in the itomach, as well as to i check putrefactive fermentation ; hence vegetable food will not ftop fermentation, but only tend to alter rite mode of the fermentation, and rather tend to convert the fubftanre into an acid than fuller it to putrefy. Another method to relieve from the feurvy, is to keep up the itrength of the ftomach, which has • been of confu'erable fervice ; hence, bark, Ac. have ! been ufed, which arc powerful remedies for that purpofe. Sir John Pringle, in his Difcourfe on the Improve- ment-. tor preferring the Health of Mariners, fays, that to know the nature and caufc of the fanvy, is an ellcutial Hep to the knowledge of the curt. He fays, that on examin ng : 11 the articles, which f old have been ufed, and approved of, as well as thofe which of late have been introduced into the navy ; how- e'er they vary in their mode of operating, they all,■Tome way contribute towards preventing or correct- ing putrefaction. He dire&s that the men be put to v. atch at three watches inftcad of two ; to this end, divide the crew into three companies, and put each ■c •mpany upon the watch by turns, four hours at a time; thus every man has eight hours free, for four of duty ; whereas, when half the men take watch every four hours by turns, they can have but broken llcep ; and when expnfcd to wet, they cannot get dry before they lay down, idly, To preferve the men from the injuries of the weather, in hot climes defend them by an awning over the deck ; in cold ones, aliow extraordinary jackets with a hood ; and in wet‘weather, proper means for drying and lhift* ing thcmfclvc s- Make a point of clcanlincls; this g ards from purrefadtions: keep the men’s per- fons, c othes, bedding, and birth-, clean: review the men, and all things belonging to them, and the /hip, and Ice that all is as dean as can well be. 4th17, Ships /hould -have the means of a conftaat fupply of frrfh water to wa/h the men’s linen, for f It water neither mixes well with foap,' nor dries readily, jthly,- Dry and air the hammocks, bed- ding, and all bandies, every day that is fair. By the p ripiration of many men, every thing below deck will in twenty-four hours contract an otl’cnfive (melt, fithlv. Purify the Ihip; ferape and wafh the decks; purify the holds, and wells of the pumps; and where the bilge-water is, with lire, as follows : light a good quantity of wood, and put it into a proper grate, then carry it fuccelhvely to every part of the ihip below deck. Wherever lire is, the air ncareft if being heated, becomes fp.ciiically lighter; and, by being lighter, lifes and pafTes through the hatch- ways inco the atmofphcre. The vacant lpacc is filled with the cold air around, and that being hr.1,ted in its turn, in like manner alccnd*, and is replaced l>v other air as before. Thus by continuing the f:reSCO or fome time in any of the lower apartments, fh'c I juI air is, in a good meafurc, driven out, and the elh admitted. And probably the acid fteams of thfe ood in burning, aft here as an antifeptic, and cor- eft the putrid remains of the air. When fire can- of be put down into the well, and carried in :her places, the fhips may be fumigated by gun- owder to remedy the corruption of the air ; or burn- ig tar, or other refinous fubftanccs. Dr. Hulmc communicates fixed air to the ftomaeh, | cc. as follows : R Kali. gr. xv. aq. pur* jiij. f. haul!:. is foon as this is fwallowed, mix and take the fol- | awing: R Aq. pur* Jiij. aciduli vitriol, q. f. ad i iturat. falis ut in haufi. precedent. Repeat this ; our times a day. The [corbutw ulcer is alfo called the putrid ulcer, ts diftinguifliing charafterilfics are: it affords nd : ood digeftion, but a thin, fetid, famous Ruff', mixed I/irh blood, which at length has the true appearance f coagulated gore, lving caked on the furface of the leer, and is with difficulty wiped off. The flefii liderneath the flough is foft and fpongy : if thelc oughs are removed by cfcharotics, or the knife, they oon return; the edges are generally of a livid co- )ur, and puffed up with cxcrcfccnccs of proud flefii, riling from below under the lkin. From comprcf- .on, the fungus is apt to mortify ; and the hicmber lways becomes oedematous, painful, and for the poll part fpotred. As the fairvy increafes in the | ;eneral habit, the ulcer lhoots out a foft, bloody- fungus, which the failors call by the name of bul- ! ->ck's liver, which, indeed, it much refemblcs when | 'ailed ; it often riles in a night’s time to a great fize, 1 nd, if defiroyed, will be re-produced to the fame ; izc in twenty-four hours. Thefe ulcers do not J peedily afTeft the bones. The flighfcR wounds of j oruifes in fcorbutic patients degenerate into luch 1} ilcers. By their remarkable putridity, they areeaftly diftinguifhcd from all other kinds of fores. In l'ome inftanccs, thefe ulcers are attended with fofr, fpongy gums. As an internal medicine when fcorbutic ulcers at- tend, Dr. Kirkland highly recommends the muriatic acid given in water, or mixed with the bark. Mr. Bell, in his Treatile on Ulcers, obierves, that the cure of the fcorbutic kind depends much upon the corre&ion of the putrid diathelis in the fyllein ; for which purpofe, vegetables, particularly the accfctnt ones, with milk jnd whey, arc almoll certain reme- dies. The different fecretions, particularly thole cf the fkin and bladder, fhould be gently promoted. In the feurvv, perl’piration is almolf quite checked. Gentle laxatives arc of ufe, particularly tamarinds, cryftals of tartar, &c. The beft external applica- tions arc tlte ungt. ALgyptiac. vel, mcl rol'a;. rum paucul. fp. vitriol. In the milder inflances. ftich as ufually happen in England, the caufe is more fre- quently from the want of due nourilhment ; hence what is called the antifcorbutic courle will not be re- quired •, but in its head, better food and greater plenty of it; a little good wine is a powerful aid. The bark is more ufefu! in this than in any other kind of ulcer; it ihould he given as frcclv as thr flomach will admit it. As a drolling, pled,gits of lint dipped in a ftrong decuftion of the bark will be ufeful in correcting the feetor of the difeharge, &c. though dt.ubilefs the carrot poultice far excels this decodtion as a drefling. When tjic fii'tor fiom the dilchaige is removed, and the Houghs onlv are to be removed, the ungt. refin. flav. with hydrargyr nirr-t. will be the moll convenient. Generally, me cure is finifhtd by means of gentle prcfTure. b 'inetiims in illue bcci mes ufeful. Wlvat is laid w’uIk regard t>* file treatment of fcorbutic ulcers, is applicable to aii fiich fores as are in the leaft connefted with a putrel- ccncy of the fluids, from whatever tank : thus fuc{k assen remain after critical abfeefles that l'uccccd to pu- ll fevers, require the fame general method of .atment. -ride Lind on the Scurvy; Sbebbear's Theory and fticc ofPhyfic; Macbride s Effays, off. <4. Boer- :ve’s Aphorifms. Med. Muf. vol. i. and ii. Hu/me on •Scurvy: Z,<?w/.s’sTranflation of Hoffman’s Pradt. of dicine, vol. ii. p. 411, &c. Bell on Ulcers ; Cullen s fit Lines, vol. iv. Trotter on the Scurvy, Med. inf. vol. ii. p. 325, 471 ; and Lond. Med. Journ. ii. p. 117,' 388. -•(JR'of'ula. The King's Evil. The Latins <311 drum a, and fcrofuln, or fcropbula, from ferofu, a or Jb~u; becaufe this diforder is oblervcd in fwine. >s called the king’s evil, becaufe Edward the Con- or, and other fucceeding kings, both of England France, have pretended to cure it by the touch. Cullen places this genus of difeafe in the clal's tex’ue, order impetigina ; and defines it, tumours rife conglobate glands, particularly of the neck, tided with a fwclling of the upper lip, and co- in of the nofe; a florid countenance, fmooth j, and tumid abdomen. He diftinguilhes four sics. 1. Scropbtt/a vulgaris, when it is without :r diforders, external and permanent. 2. Scro- Li mefcnterica, when internal, tvith lofs of appe- , pale countenance, fwclling of the belly, an fual fetor of the excrements. 3. Sdropbtrla fugax. s is of the moll Ample kind ; it is lcatcd about neck, and for the mod part is caufcd by the re- in on from fores on the head. 4.'Strop Bill & Athe- na, when it is joined with the yaws. Urnoft every part of the body may be affedted by difeafe; but it is only the lymphatic veflels in part that is the immediate feat of it. The iphatic glands of the mefentcry arc firft affedted.- e conglomeatc glands ait not affedted otherwift thanSCR children have Ir, whofe parents have it nor ; an?i Zjoany parents have it, whole children liave it not^ that it runs in families is certain ; but it is, where , the remote or pre-difpofing caufe is hereditary. If the Jcrofula was an hereditary difeafe, we fliould have ■ it in all countries, which we have not; it is not even fo far hereditary as likciicfles. The weak and debi- j litated habits arc moil likely to have it ; they are the molt fufceptible of the various aftions and the parts the moll expofed to it are the moll debilitated, as well as the age that is moll dilpol'ed to it is the raoft delicate.’’ .31 If a ft rumpus humour touches a bone, it becomes carious: though when this dil'order atfetts children, it ufually difappears when manhood arrives ; yet, if it appears after the age of forty, the patient rarely recovers ; but other diforuers, tilth as the jaundice, huntings, vomitings, a cough, dropfyv Sec. com:ng on, they ullier m death. If the tumour arifws from a caries in the bones of the lingers or hands, the cure is difficult; but if the caries is in the foot, the dis- charge generally exhaufts the patient. If any of-the tumours ulcerate, they cannot be healed whilu apy of the cyft remains, or any part by which they arc nourilhed; as to extirpating thnfe tumour.,, there is but little encouragement. When a fcrofulogs tumour is unequal, it is apt to become c-nncci'0U». If many of the glands of the neck arc indurated, thpfe in the me lent cry are fo too ; and die greater the number of die difordcred parts are, the greater-is the difficulty qf even palliating them. A great variety of alteratives-arc mentioned in different writers, each of which* in p.micuiur in- fiances, have been of ufe ; but yet none of them are to be depended on jn any call. When the blood is- poor, and the libres lax. the l ark is the bell known medicine; and, though in fome few inll.ir.ee.; it >ti- ll ot be prcleribed, yet in mod it i;> numiieft.'y ulefulSCR I )r. Lewis thinks its efficacy is improved by the ufe f aq. ealcis oftr. in conjunction with it: The bark oes riot fucceed where the bones are affeCted, nor there the fcrofulous tumour is fituated fo as to be ttended with much pain, as in the joints, and under te membranous cover's of the mufcles ; in thofe cafes, s obferved, that the bark rather increafes the ever; but as opium, when given as an alterative, as been very ufeful in fcrofulous diforders, fo its ccompanimcnt with the bark may be followed with dvantages not to be obtained by either feparately. »arcotic plants, that abound with a volatile fait, are owerful in refolving the fcrofulous tumours, and mongft thefe the hemlock has been found to be itninently ufeful, when applied in the form of a staplafm, and alfo when the extraCt has been taken twardly ; though the internal ufe is more proper in iults than in infancy and youth. The hydrargvr. aunat, if given as is ufual in the lues venerea, has ten followed by the happieft effcCts. Dr. Smith iredb a decoCtion of the rad. rub. tinCt. to be drank 'ith it. Mr. Pott advifes in all fcrofulous affeftions, ) produce large artificial purulent difeharges, fuch i ififucs, and perpetual blifters. With refpcCt to icdicines in general, in a fcrofi la, advantage is flowly otained. The bark, hemlock, fca-water,' &c. tould be given as circumftances require. Dr. aunders, in his LeCturcs on the PraCtice of Phyfic, eccmmcnds that, when the bark is continued two r three weeks, during which time the patient is mch better, and a cure feems to advance fall; but r’tcr this, it feems to have no farther cffeCt, and, erhaps, the difeafe feems to gain upon the patient ; i fuch a cafe, to prevent habit from rendering the irk ineffectual, begin immediately with the cicuta, " with fca-water, or fuch other remedy as at that anc may appear molt proper, and continuing it while, return to the bark; and thus alternate the Mm medicinesS C R medicines every two or three weeks, or as their efficacy is perceived to abate. The force of habit powerfully deft toys the effedt of means : it is therc- iorc ncceflary to alternate them. He farther advifes ro avoid all that can fuppurate, for it is ulelel’s. In general, we may fay, that to increafc the tone of the fibres, and to refolve the tumours, are the principal endeavours towards a cure ; to thefe ends, the bark, chalybcatcs, fen, and coldbathing, mercury, hem- lock, burnt fponge, See. In glandular and ferofu- !ous tumours, the bark does not promote l'uppura- tion but rciolution; and there are not many iymp- totns depending on Jcropbula, but what give way to it. Gentle mercurials are often ufcful as refolyents in fcrofulous fw cl lings. Strong purges, and what- ever enfeebles the habit, will prove pernicious. Grofs habits will require frequent but gentle purging. Externals are of little or no ufe. Palliatives ihotild not be omitted, although a cure is not hoped for. Living in the fea-air, and tepid lalt-watcr baths, have been found highly efficacious. Poultices of fta-watcr and oatmeal have been applied to the tumours with advantage. Internally, the terra tnuriata ppnclcrofa, mczercon, farfapariila, and fat foda, mixed with the Jcfujt’s bark, have been ui'ed with advantage. When tumours burft, the fcrofulous ulcer is fotmoJh Tilde never yield a good dii'chargc ; on their firit appearance, there is a vifeid, glairy, and Jometimes a whitilh curdled matter, which afterwards is changed into a more thin, watery fanies. The edges of the lores arc frequently, though not id way ■, painful; and are at lirlt raifed or tumefied, hut afterward , arc much thinner. So long as the fcrofulous oil pc fit ion fubfifts in the habit, thefe ulcers generally remain a long time without ftewing any dilpofition either to heal or to grow worfe. At other times, they heal very quickly, and again break out in Ionic other | artSCR i nt of the 1>ocTv. Some obferve, that fcrofuSous . tiers have their furfacc rather convex, and with an ] aiforin giofiy appearance. Mr. Bell obi'ervcs, in ? s Treatii’e on Ulcers, that Co long as the general orbid diat.hefis -continues in the fyftem, it is com- ii only in vain to attempt their cure ; nor would it deed often be Cafe, as by drying up the lores in ic part, they very commonly break out elicwhcre, id juft as readily fall upon the lungs, or Come other ■ganof confequenec to life, as on any other. Until (ic Screfu/a’h removed from the habit, all that ftiould i b done to the ulcers which are produced by it, i ., to produce as free and open vents to the matter as i aJiible, without endangering the ^formation of r aufes. The beft applications are faturninc prepa- rations. Mr. Aik in, in his Oblervations on the xtemai Ufe of Preparations of Lead, lays, that aiollient applications of all forts are highly injurious lien applied to fcrofulous ulcers: by weakening the ! lids, already too much difpofed to relaxation, they I 'event all endeavours of nature to bring about a firm carnation; and by giving the fluids an acrimony, i | i which in this difeafe they are not remarkably difi* i ] ofed, they occafion a kind of eryfipelatous corro- i | ve fpreading of the ulcer. Th# milchiefs occa- I antd by emollient applications are ftiU more clearly 'hewn, by the fpeedy change produced by almoft II .’cry kind of topics of the oppofite clafles, the IJ Iringent and the ftimulant. The moft Ample of jjic aftringent and ftimulant, viz. cold water, has j cmiently a good cffcft on throwing afid.e every 11 felling, and walhing the fore with it. Water, with < | very kind of feline and mineral impregnation, is Co uCed to advantage ; particularly fea-water, and jboulard's faturninc water. The greafy, faturninc j iplications are improper in thefe calcs. A continn- II ion of fuch Ample dreflinss as thefe, is all that, inSCR of the conftitution may remain ; but Mr. Bell ob- ferves, that in fome cafes, the ulcers arc fo inv cterate as to require other aidsalfo; as when they become fwelled, painful, and difeharge a corroding, acrid matter : when fuch appearances occur, a carious bone may frequently be fufpe&ed to be at the bottom of the fore, and then nature muft be alfifted, by free- ing her from fuch parts of it as arc moft difeafed, and that are become loofe. This, in fome fituations, may be done ; but when the complaint is fixed in any of the large joints, art can rarely afford much alfiftance; and as amputation is not often advifeable, from the rifk of the difeafe returning to fome other part, na- ture alone muft often be trufted to. in fuch a litua- tion, a continued ufe of fea-bathing, the bark,with hem- lock, particularly to promote a proper difeharge from the fores, muft be employed. And when, by a due ufe of the neceffary means, there is a tendency in the fores to heal, iffues fhould be formed, fo as to produce a difeharge as nearly equal to that from the fores as may be; thus the cure is carried on, both more effec- tually and fafely. Thefe iffues are generally re- quired through life. Gentle compreflion is peculi- arly ufeful in this kind of ulcers: it particularly prevents and removes that thickncfs in their edge* that fometimes is obferved. Thefe, in general, are the means that aifift and are moft ufeful, when there is a tendency in nature to overcome the difeale: but it being, in general, an opprobrium mcdicorum, it is difficult to aflert with much pofitivenefs concerning it. Vide Heifltr's Surgery; Bonbon's Surgery ; Feme on the King’s Evil; Coeyne on the King’s Evil. Lond. Med. Obf. and Inq. vol. i. p. 184—joo, 303 — 322; Bell on Ulcers; Cullens Firft Lines; White on the Scrofula; Bell's Surgery, vol. v. and Kirkland'S Med. Surgery, vol. ii. Scrotum, is the external covering of the Tcffi- clcs. The ferotum is liable to inflammation and ab- lccfs,SCR efs, which fometimes are attended with a confide- bie degree of f<5ver, and that not without danger of eV Tf poffible, endeavour to remove the inflam- ation without permitting l'uppuration to take place : this end, bleeding and other antiphlogiftics mull : direfted; difeutient cataplafms applied cold, and hewed as often as they become warm; and, if pof- >le, confine the patient to his bed. The femum oiild be fufpended in a bag-trufs, fo that it may kept near-the belly; and if it is thought proper > encourage a fuppuration, let a fomentation be : id warm, at lead twice a day, and after each time "fomenting, a poultice applied wann, and renewed often as it becomes coul. In this cafe, the patient uft be fupported with a generotls diet and proper irdials, fuefi as the cort. Peruv. rad. ferp. rad. con- ay. "in fubftance or in form of decottion as may cm mod eligible, the conf. aromat. is all'o to be lded, and if pain requires it, an opiate occafionally. When, by the fi/.e and prominence of the fwcll- ig, the foftnefs of the integuments, their Alining ;d colour, the peeling off of the cuticle from the .itis, the mitigation of pain in the part itl'clf, an tdeniafoits appearance of the integuments upon eing p reded, but above all, the fluctuation of 1 latter under the fingers, it appears that maturation perfected; then open rhe tumour in its mod de- ending parr. If the tumour be large, and the in . liguments thin and much dilcoloured, remove an vnl piece; thus you will be able more effectually t> apply the full drelfings. As i'oon a-s the mat- hf is difeharged, (ill the wound with foft lint, and ver it apply the poultice, or apply a plcdgit of foft ow with foine emollient ointment fpread on it. The ! iltiire dredings may be rhe ungt. retina; fiava;, or j >thcr digedivc. At the end of the two fird days, he dr effing fliould be renewed twice in twenty - our hours, and thus continue on account of the [. M m j acrimonyacrimony and quantity of the difchargc, fo long as may be thought necelfary, not forgetting to ulc an emollient fomentation, for the fpace of ten or fifteen minutes previous to each drclling. If the difeharge is thin, famous, or corrofive, fprinkle fome brandy or camphorated lpirit of wine upon each fomenta- tion cloth. If alter the operation any considerable hardnefs of the integuments lhould ftill remain, continue to apply the fuppurating poultice, at each time of dreifing, over the pledgits of digeftivc, until the hardnefs is removed. The ulc of the bark alone; or with'the rad. ftrp. V. or rad. contray. or a decoc- tion of thele ; as alfo the vitriolic acid, in the patient's drink, will generally greatly fupport the patient's ftrcngrh, and alter the matter in its quality. Another aiflidlivc difealc is too often met with in the jerotum, viz. the cancer. It feems peculiar to chimuey-fweepers; hence is called the rk.nnty- f;vccj>ni cancer, toe cbinmey~fw€cf>as' •uiari, and tbt loot suiirt. From whatever caufe it may be, it ts evident, beyond a doubt, that chimney-fwetpers are peculiarly liable to this dileafe in this part. Mr. Pott feems to be the firtl writer who has noticed it; he thinks it may be owing to a lodgment of foot in the ruga; of the ferotw/:, and at firft not be a difealc of the habit. He farther obferves, that it always makes its firft attack, on, and its appearance in, the inferior part ot the /'.ro/utn-, when it produces a fuperficial, painful, ragged, ill-looking fore, with hard and riling cdzcs. It docs not ufually appear before, whence it is often taken, both by the patient and the lurgcon, tor venereal; and being heated with mercurial , is foon and much exalperated : in no great*length <« time, it persuades the Ikin, dartos, and membranes < * the fnoium, and lcizes the tellicle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders truly and thoroughly diftetn* pored; from whence it make.. ir> wav up tile (per-SCR iiatic procefs into the abdomen, mod frequently in- jjurating and fpoiling the inguinal glands : when ar- •jved within the abdomen, it affetts fortie of the ilcera, and then very (bon becomes painfully de- rrutftive. ' The only chance of putting a flop to, or of pre- enting this mifehief, is immediately to remove the art afthfted, i. c. that part of the fcrctum where the lure is. If it be fuffered to remain until the virus .asfeized the tefticle, it is generally too late, even ur caftration. If ever extirpation bids fair for the arc of a cancer, it feems to be in this cafe ; but then ae operation fliould be immediate, and before the nbit is tainted. When it reaches the tefticle, it is ipid in its progrefs, and moft certainly deftruftive 1 its event: early extirpation is therefore the only are. Fistulous ulcers are fometimes met with in the return, if thefe communicate with the urethra, a articular attention thereto will be required in at- impting to relieve. The caufos may be an abfeefs f'the feratu-u; a wound made through the ftrethm uo the urethra; the venereal difcale firft affe&ing ic urechra, and from thence producing the ulcer in ■>c fr.rolum, &lc. The external fore is generally very mall and fitious; the lips grow callous; the difeharge tliin, copious, and aliuoft continual; and if there i a communication with the urethra, the urine will lore or lefs efeape through the external wound at ic times of making water ; it will alfo infinuate felf into the cellular membrane of the ferotum, and ■> neighbouring parts, and be therein confined ; hence many inconveniences arife that cannot be re- lovcd until the orifice made through the urethra is I ealed. When this diforder originates in the urethra, It ' tay be known by introducing a catheter or bougie ; -T an obftrudtion will be .met with there: when it isSET' l . ctiulcd by an abfccfs forming itfclf within the cel- lular membrane near the urethra, or in the corpus; cavernofum urethrae, there will be- little or no relilt- ante met with from the bougie. to fiftulotfS fores, eallofuics, enlargements, anti diftenftons in thole parts, it is worth remembering, that although the-' difeaie lhould appear to be 'not confined "to the' jtroium, but that it extends to the perinarum and nates, and there be many external fiftulous openings- through the integuments of thel'c parrs, yet tliefe fhnll, in lonie inftauccs, be difcovcrablc only on' opening into the urethra; to remove which, lhould' be the primary attempt of the furgeon, as the cure of the whole very much depends, if not altogether,- upon this very circumttancc; and «f this be allured, that the permanency oi the cure of every wound, however circumftanced, depends upon tiie roundnefs and firmnefs of its foundation at the bottom. When a venereal caufc gave rife to this diforder, the judicious introduflion and ul'c of bougies, made of a proper fide and ft i line Is, joined with mercurial; frictions, applied near to, or immediately upon, the ditcaled parrs, in proper quantities) at proper in- tervals, and continued for a due length of time, joined with fr.fr, oily purges, occafionally aduiini- ficred, and fofr, diluting drinks, will often render every fevcrc operation unutcclTary; though the cir-‘ cumftances attendant upon the complaint, be of a bad and complicated kind. • " V ide Po:i's Works; Warner’s Cafes in Surgery; Warner on the Tcfticle3; and White s Surgery. ’ Set ackum ; a Seton, fo called from feta eijkiHef, fairin' bain, bccaufe horfes’ hairs were fir ft ufed lor keeping the wounds open. The operation for » leton is thus : Elevate the (kin with a finger and thumb, an nlLftant doing the fame at about an inch from where you hold it; and having armed a large broadS P E ~oad crooked needle with as many threads as ntav necelfary, pal's the needle through the ftretchcd an, bring the threads a little way- through, and j ere leave them ; rub a little of the -thread, as I juch as will pal's into the l'eton at each time of | celling, with the unguent refin. flav. move the i read forward once or twice a dav ; thus the dif- j targe is promoted, and may be continued at ) eafure. The method of evacuating large collections of j -atter by introducing a feton into the body of the ! :mour, as recommended by Mr. Bell, has thefe i vantages over incifion. The difeharge is made i .adually; the cicatrix it occafions is neither incon- ij nient nor unfeemly, and a cure is often obtained in j If the time that is necelfary after a large incifion. tide Bell's Surgery, voL iv. Bill on Ulcers; and jr/jhf’s Surgery. j :Spermatocele, from amjixa, femen, and x>iX>i, j\ lumorr -, is a morbid diftenhon of the epididymis i d vas deferens, produced by a ftagnation of Jemen, phis may be produced by turnouts, ItriCture, or in- r.mmation, about the caput gallinaginis, or in the j urfe of the vas deferens ; but there is realon to 1) ink, that it is more frequently induced by the :j It, viz. by inflammation, than by either of the ii her two. When an inflammatory affeCtion of the parts is Ij fcovered to be the caufe of the difeafe, general !r id topical blood letting, gentle laxatives, a low holing diet, and reft, of body, will commonly be j und the moil effectual remedies. And again, when incurs are difeovered to prels upon the vas deferens, they ought either to be brought to fuppuratc, or h eir extirpation fliould be attempted when that can j): done with propriety. At other times, thefe tumours '[ c found to depend on a venereal caul'e ; and in Inch inflanccs,S P I rnftanccs, a well directed courfc of mercury hft been known to remove them. On i'omc occafions, it is laid, that, all the other means having failed, caftration has at lad been found requifitc. But this cannot be luppofed to be a very ncceflary ftep. Vide Beh's Sylletn of Surgery, vol. i. Spina Bifida, alfo called, Hydrops MedulLv Spi- rt >Us. Sagar fays, that it is a trne dropfy of the thecae fpinalts. It is a tumour of the colour of the (kin, and is feated upon the vertebra; of the neck, back, or loins, or on the futures of the (kull. It receives its name from the precedes of the fpinc being want- ing, where it is. It is known by its fituation, its being always there at the birth of the patient, its watery contents, and the pally, which ufually attends it. Dr. Cullen names it Hydrorachitis, a genus of difeife, which he places in clafs cacbexue, order, inlume.fcenliec, and defines it a loft fmall tumour above the vertebra; of the loins, the vertebra; open- ing beneath. This difotder is incurable. For the mod part, thofe children on whom thefe tumours arc found, die in a day or two. If this tumour is opened, death is fpeedily the confequcncc. Dr. Mackenzie, pro- felfor of midwifery in London, gave a drawing which was a cafe of this kind, and with which the child lived four months ^ but at length died in con- vulfions. Mr. Warner give* an inffancc of this dif- order in a yoting man of twenty years old. Vide his Cafes in Surgery, and Bell i Surgery, vol. v. Mr. Abernethy, at the end of his Account of Lumbar Abfcefs, propoies an attempt at the cure of this malady. He fays, a gentle degree of p re-flu re may be made on the tumour from its birth, or at its commencement, which might produce the abiorp- tion of any depolitcd fluid, and thus prevent the dif- 1 cation of the unfupported dura mater. Should the fluid,spr uid,. notwkhftanding, continue to incrcafc,. lie inks, as death would be inevitable on its buttling,, pundlurc, with a finely cutting inftrument,. and hereby difeharging the fluid, is vindicable. Endeavour o heal the wound immediately, and by bandage and ther topical applications,. reprefs a future colledtion. Spina Ventosa, alto often called,. A labile iveling. Mr. Sharpe fays, the Jpinn ventofa is a arics of a bone, attended with an internal corrup- tion of its whole fubftance,. and generally arifing srom a putrefaction of the marrotv, by which the crioftcum and ligaments, as well as the bone, are jtally. deftroyed. Mr. Pott divides this difordcr into the Hydrops 'rticuli, and Fungus Articul.or thickening of the gaments of the joint, and the enlargement of the ones. The 6r!t of thele often comes on fucldenly, i of thort duration, and goes off as luddenly ; it ften happens in a relaxed habit, from a want of /mphatic abfoiption, from relaxation, from an ob- rudlion of the lymphatic circulation in the joint; fometimes happens in rheumatic habits-. The cond is generally known by the uniform dwelling of 'iae -parts growing very hard, fo as to deftroy all illinction;. and laftly,. by an inflexibility: this fually ends in amputation. Dr. White, in his Surgery, fays, it is a tumour, ’hich takes its rife in the internal parts of the bone, nd gradually enlarges its fubftance. It is frequently ard, and without much pain ; fometimes it appears s if it were puffed up with air, and is attended with • tooting pricking pains. It gradually extends itfelf > the periofteum and integuments, which cover or c near the part atfedlcd, and, in the end. produces n ulcer of the rnoft ftubborn kind. It is not coll- ated to the cylindrical bones ; it affedts thole alfoof te head, face, neck, back, and chert, though the ;rmer arc the moil frequent feats of the complaint. Ili It is Tnoft injurious when fixed on the heads and precedes of bones. In the milder fpccies from external injury, cold ap- plications, with Goulard’s water of acctated ammonia, &c. have been of fervice. Mercurials and alteratives have checked its progrefs. When there is a pricking pain and burning heat in the incumbent parts, and they arc dil'colourcd, an ulcer is certainly forming withoutfide the bone, and the bone fhould be laid bare by an incifion. Proceed then as directed in Articles, Caries and Exojfofis. When the whole fub- ftance of the bone is difeafed, particularly in or near a joint, amputation is the onlv rclburce; but it is juftly obferved, by M. Lc Dran, that the operation lhould not be performed on the bone which is dif- eafed. Vide bell's Surgery; bolt's Works; Whitt's Surgery; and articles, Distortio, fedlion Drjlor- iio't the Spine,, and IIydarthrus. Staphyloma. This term comprehends two diforders of the eye; one, when the tvntca cornea is gradually rendered protuberant; the other, when the pupilla breaks forth upon the tunica cornea, and deforms the eye with the tumour, like catoXn, a grape, bv which the fight is dellroyed. Thefe tu- mours, from their different forms and fires, affumc different names; as margariid, myocephalorf, clmna, my lo>t, pom urn, trea, or acinus; according to the re- fcmblancc they bear to things whence they are named. Sauvages fignities bv this word, a dropfy of the cornea. Not only the cornea, but alfo the fclerotiea, is alio fometimes fwclled, and occaficns great pain and violent inflammation, which fomctiinas ends in a fuppuration, or a cancer. Mr. St. \vC9 propofes to extirpate the tumour, and then drcls with lint dipped in Orandv and water; after which the artificial eye may be fixed. If the cafe is flight, comprefies of alum water may be laid on, and the patient may lay continually on las back. ForSTR For the raoft part, the cure is not undertaken to i ecovcr the fight, but only to remove the deformity aid the bad lymptoms. Vide Article Hypopyon, alfo Bell's Surgery, , cl. iii. Wallis's Sauvages’s Nofology of the Eye; and i blit's Surgery. St E atom a, from r<«p, fuel. A fpecies of tumour. 1 7idc Article Njevus- Mr. Hill, in his Cafes of : urgery, fays, in general, all eneyfted tumours, ■hen frnall and properly fituated, may be turned out attire, without opening the cyft, by a crofs cut trough the teguments, and by railing up the four • jrners. Where the tumour is fo large, that this aodc cannot be adopted, Mr. Hill advifes a circular aoifion to the cyft, round the body of the tumour, ten gradually rail'c it up, diifedl it out of the fub- cenr teguments, and bring the lips of the wound ' pgether. This may be done by the interrupted .utttre, or by (licking piafter. Before the incifion made on the body of the wen, it Ihould be prefled own, and the teguments pulled back as far as pof- ■bie, as is pradtiled in amputations, etherwife they /ill not cover the wound. Mr. Hill has digefted jaUt fomc wens, by running a feton chord through ne length of them, and continuing it for many tonths. Care mult be taken to pierce the cyft at the ottom, otherwife the feton may cut through the >p of the wen, .r.td leave the under part untouched, 'ide. Bril's Surgery, vol. v. and Ric.ter's Medical jrnd Surgical Oblervations. Stremma, from rpifi to turn ; a Strain. When i; membranous or tendinous part is ftretched beyond if is proper limits, it is laid to be drained. This ac- i ident happens chiefly about the joints, occafions I veaknefs and pain there, with fwelling, and often a | ^-ta! inability to move. A Jlrain approaches very jf icnrlv to the nature of a contufion, and, as in con- i uli ms reft, with the application of warm vinegar, jliree or four titties a day, will be proper; or "a N n poulticeSUR pouirice with' vinegar, oatmeal, and crnm&a of ] bread ; in proportion as the fymptoms abate, let a j little fpirit be added to the vinegar, which now may ] be ufed cold, and a bandage may be made u(e of to | l’upport the weakened part,- until the natural degree | of ftrength returns. Dr. Lobb advifes the ufe of j vinegar, and of redtificd fpirit of wine alternately* j firft rubbing in the vinegar, then, two or three hours I after, rub in the fpirit. Cold water is ul'cd by fome ; but if the ftrcun is 1 deep, it dots no fcr.vice j if there is inflammation, it docs harm, fo that it is' only in flight and fuperficial* and theft muft be recent cafes too, in which it caw be of fervice. In almoft every cafe of ftrain, topical blood-letting, with a brifk purge fliould be directed*, in order to prevent inflammation. Vide Bel!'s Sur- gery, vol. v. SuKDITAS, Deofntfs. The enufes arc, the lofs of the external ear, wax cr other matter lodged in the external ear, a rupture, or a relaxation of the- membrane cf the drum of the car, a palfy, or a prelliire on the auditory nerve, violent noife, ob- ftrudtion of the Euftachian tube, cold, inflammation* abicefs, the lues venerea, See. The inolt frequent of th-clc cattles is hardened wax in. the meatus auditorium, which may be foftened and removed by frequent injections cf warm water. In cafe of a relaxation of the membrana tympani* a little warm brandy, or fpirit of roCcmary, may be dropped into the ear now and then. If the Euftachian tube is ohftru&cd, relief is fometimes obtained by chewing a crufc every morn- ing and evening. Sometimes fternutatorics have relieved when the caufe has not been known. When a defluxion of humours arc the caufe, an injection may be made a; follows, and tiled night and morning : R Ccrus acetar. gut. xxv. Ip. vin. C. gut 1 aq.aq. pirriff. ffj is. m. Vide Bill's Surgery, voU iv. ad Memoirs of the Medical Society of London, ol. i. Sutura, a Suture, in furgery, is the uniting the ps of a wound by fewing, aud thefc are of four inds : 1. "The twifted future. It isvalfo called the circum- olutcd future. This is ufed for the hare-lip, and in t few other inftanccs. It is performed by introduc- ag two or more pins through the whole fubftance of ie lips of the wound, then twilling a waxed thread bout them in the form of the figure 8. 2. 7> rterm/ited future, alfo called the knotted fu- •re. It is performed with a needle armed with vva:-;cd thread, by thrufting it through both lips of ae wound, then tying the thread ia flip knots, taking a number of flitches according to the length : the wound, at an inch from each other. The ecdle fhould go to nearly the bottom of the wound. Ur. Jufiamond advifes a particular regard to the iredtion of the longitudinal fibres of mufcles in Droning this [future, and not fo much to regard the iredtion of the wound; for if we do not pafs the ..gatiire in the direction of the fibres, it will be a ontinual ftimulus, excite the mufcle to adtion, ad occafion a perpetual tugging of the ligature, whence pain, inflammation, &c. will follow. Mr. jell, in the firft volume of his Surgery, advifes, in arming this future, to carry the needle and ligature > the bottom of the wound, fo as to afford but little lance of matter colledling underneath; and, far- lcr, he diredts both ends of the thread to be palled rom within outwards; which is readily done by | ling two needles upon each thread inflead of one. j. needle being put upon each end of t he fame | mead, and each needle being inl'Crted at the bottom [: the fore, and pulhed outwardly, fo as to pafs out :: a proper diflance from the edge of the wound ; ie needles are then to be taken off, and the threads Niu allowedT I B Mr. Whire, of Manchefter, preferred an arm, by 1 flawing oft the head of a difeafled humerus. Mr. I Park, of Liverpool, afterwards propoird removing | the ends of bones at the joints, as a general remedy in affections of the joints. He luppoles the operation J will be chiefly applicable to tiie afl'edtions of the 1 knee and elbow, and more particularly to thol'e of j the latter. Vide an Account of a New Method.of : Treating Difcafcs of the Joints of the Knee and : Elbow, by H. Puri -, and While’s Calcs in Surgery, with Remarks, part. i. Mr. Park relates a cafe of white fwclliug of the knee, in which he fuccefsfully removed the under 1 extremity of the femur, and the upper end of the tibia, in ten weeks, the cure of the fore was ob- J tained; the limb became fo firm, that the man has fince been able t > go to lea as a labor, and docs not even ufe a> crutch. The operation was performed thus : An incilion was made, beginning about two inches above the upper end of the patella, and con- tinued about as far below its lower extremity;. • Another, eroding this at right angle1, immediately above the patella, the leg being in an extended Hate, was made through the tendons of the cxtcnlor mut- clcs, down to the bone, and nearly halt rout’d the limb; the lower angles, formed by thei'e bunions, were railed fo as to lav bare the capledar ligament: The patella was then taken out, and the upper an- gles were railed, lo as fairly to denude the load of , the femur, ami a (mail ratlin was palled acrols the pi flerior flat part of the bone immediately above the condyles, care being taken to keep one of the flat ijdes of the point of the inftrumcnr quite clofc to the bone all the way. The ratlin being withdrawn, an elaftie fpatula was put in its place, to guard the feft pirrs, while the femur was lawing through : which done, the head of the bone thus I c para ted, was care- luilv difledted out ; the head of the tibia was then with ■AT I B /ith cafe turned out, and fawed off, and as much as oiTiblc of the capfular ligament did eft eel away, leav- ing only the pcftcrior part covering the vcifcls. Tibialis. Artkria ; the ttbial Army. Mr. ‘ott relates the following important particulars re* petting this artery : In the upper part of the calf if the leg, under the gaftrocnemius and foleus muf-* les, a fmall hard tumour is at tirft perceived ; it is ometimes painful, at others not much lb, but always mpediugthc patient’s extreifes ; it does not alter the .atura! colour of the fkin until it has confiderably mcrcaled in the bulk ; it enlarges very gradually ; it ocs not (often as it incrcafcs, but continues through .'he greateft part of it incomprcfiibly hard; and when :r Iras got to a large fuc, it feems to contain a fluid which may be felt towards the bottom, or relting as i : were on the bsck part of the bones. If an open- rg is made for the difeharge of the fluid, it mult be lade very deep, and through a very diflempered tal<> ; this fluid is generally finall in quantity, and oufifts of a fanies mixed with grumous blood : the ifeharge of it produces very little Uuminition of the umour; and in the few cafes that have occurred to 'tiirij lie lav.., that very high fymptoms of irritation nd 'inflammation came on, and advanced with great ipiditv and exquiftte pain, loon deflroved the pa- ent, either by the fever, which ran high, and was unremitting, or by a mortification of the whole leg. i amputation has not been performed, and the pa- tent dies after the tumour has been opened, the tonified (fate of the parts prevents all fatisfaftory xamittation; but if the limb was removed without ■ty previous operation, the arttria libinhs poftica will e lound to be enlarged, diflempered, and hurlt ; lie mufcles of the kg to liave been converted into a rar.gely morbid mafs, and the pofterior part of both 1 he tibia and the fibula more or lefs carious. This i Utafe derives its origin from a burftcr. artery, or is 1 i.vays accompanied with it, and is remedied by am- putationpmatidh only. Vide Mr. Poll's Remarks on the Ne- ceffity, See." of Amputation in certain Cafes, See. T u A c H £ o T O mI a , ‘Tracheotomy. It is tlie mak- ing of an opening into the trachea. This operation i's alfo called inoncb lomy, and laryngotomv. This ope- ration is made by incifion, or by punfture, betwixt the third and fourth ring of the trachea; or if this place cannot be chofcn, the opening may be made a little lower. When the lkin is cut through, a fmall incifion may be made into the wind-pipe, and then a fliort but crooked canula may be fixed there for the air to pal's through. Vide Sb.vfu's Operations. Be!, s Surgery, vol.ii. and IVr tie's Surgery. Mr. Sheldon oblervcs, that it is very happy, both for the lurgeon and the patient, that this operation is very rarely required. When it is attempted, he advifes to perforate below the thyriod gland ; to cut cautioufly between the two fterno raaftoid mufclcs longitudinally, carefully avoiding to wound the vein of tire thyroid gland, as it will bleed plentifully. Care muft alfo be taken, that no blood is permitted to fail into the larynx, as it will undoubtedly fuffbcntC the patient. Laftly, when the trochar is introduced, let it not touch the back part of the larynx, bccaufc of the irritability of its membrane, ft is a difficult operation, but it is heft performed on thole who have thin long necks. Trachoma, from watrough, fn Cullens Nofology it i» a'variety of the offitbatmia t.rji. A roughnef’s of the eye-lids, particularly their internal parts. This roughnefs is from a fi ft of (cabs, which differ much in their appearances in different inftanccs. Thefe complaints arc attended wrh a weight and heavinefs in the eye, a (welling in the eve-lids, a p m and itching, a heat and rcdnels in the Corners, and in the conjunftiva ; a \ ifeid humour, mixed with pun- gent tears flowing from the ulcers, which when very ftrongly fo, elofesihe eye-lids together. Ir this com- plaint continues long in old people, the lower eye-lid growsT R A ■rows thick, and turns downwards, lb that the car- tage refembles raw flelh. The original can lb, is'a liline Iuimour, which is thrown on the eye-lids ; the mnediate caule, is little ulcers there. A cure is r'metimes performed, bv touching the part with a aultic ; but the cauftic is no fooncr applied, than the nin which it occasions mud be allayed, by walhing ith warm water : apply the cauftic. twice a week. '.Yves on the Difordcrs of the Eyes. Mr. Ware calls this di(order the plaropbtbilmin, and eferibes it as follows : The dufts of the ciliary lands are ulcerated; when it happens that the oily ft fluid, fecreted by thefe glands, being mi::cd with no difeharge from the ulcers, is changed into an trid humour, which quickly infpi[Tates into an hard lhcfivc fcab. This fcah lodging on the oriliccs of ic dufts, fpreads the complaint, by the irritation hicli it occaflons, over the whole internal edge of the ye-lid, and prevents the poifibilitv of its being re- eved, untii local remedies are applied, to prevent te formation of the fcab, by curing thofe ulcers thich i'erved to produce it. This inrlammation of ne eye-lids being attended with an ulceration of icir edges, a glutinous matter iflucs out, and when hev have been Tome time in contact, as during deep, y hey become fo cloi'ely conn cited, as to require painful fForts for their reparation. Ufually, the ulcers are unfincd to the edges of the eye-lids, but fometimes Mey fpread over the whole external furfacc, and even xcoriate the greater part of the cheek: in cafes of ue latter kiud. the inflammation which accompanies, as often much the appearance of an crylipclas. This ifordcr is fometimes attended with a contraction of me fkin of the lower eye lid; in confequcncc of /hicli, it is drawn down, and the inner part turned utward, fo as to firm a red, flefiiy, and very dil" I grccable appearance. I To form a clear idea of this difeafe, it fhould be |j etnembered, that, on the infide, and near to the edgesrdges of the eve-lid?, is fituatcd a number of fmall gland?, feercting a lei aecous fluid, which is excreted by a row of duffs opening immediately on the inner edges of their border. Thefc duffs, and fometimes the glands thcml'elvcs, appear to be the parts princi- pally affetted ; and the fluid which is fecrctcd by tiitm, inftcad of being moift and mild, ftrving as a defence again ft the acrimony of the tears, is changed into a (harp, acrid, and adhefive humour, which caiifc- a con (fan t irritation of the eye and eye-lids, ulcerates the jnner edges of tire latter, and, for want of proper attention, has often perpetuated the dis- order for a great number of years. M. St. Yves ob» ferves, in bis chapter on the ophthalmv, fubfequent to the fmall-pox, that “ the puftules on the edge of the cartilage of the eye-lids, which penetrate between the cilia, and their inner furfacc, do not cicatrize, by reafon of the acrimonious ferofity which inccffantly humeefs the eye; hence follow ulcers, which laft fometimesfeveral years, and even during life, if they arc not remedied.” But though the lmall-pox and meafles, are frequent caufcs of this complaint, they are not the onlv ones; an inflammation of the globe of the eye, in itlclf but lmall, will fometimes affeft the lids, fa as to caufe them to fwcli, and become red ; in confequcncc of wt)ich, there will be an adhefiott of one to the ether, and often an univcrlal ulceration of their edges. The fmall puftules, alf-, which form on the outer mar in of the ciliary edge, whore the lalhes grow, and arc known by the name f ftyes, have, in fomc inftanecs, brought on an i flammation, which has been cmtinueJ to the febacejus glands and produced all the confequences abov c dclcriocd. 1 bis difordcr is often fpokeu of as fymptomatic, and the effed of ferophula, feurvy, or lues venerea; but it is verv often, if not nnft frequently, a local coni- t’laint; it cannot be known to be any other, except ly liich fymptoms a* mark the prciencc of' rhefe dif* orders.T R A U'clcrs. Yet, though this difeafe moft commonly | ikes place without any other complaint, at lealt as jhr as can be difeovered, it is yet necelTary to be oh- JJrrycd, that it is fometimes accompanied with the jj lain eft marks of a fcrophulou.s conllitution, and t eems evidently to arile from it. Thofe ulcerations that appear to be fuperfiqial, are I ot generally tedious to remove; but if they are deep, jhey are much more difficult to cure titan tilde at- jpnded with fungous flefh. In order to the cure, it has been the general cuf- bm to touch the edges of the eye-lids, where the I beers wercVpread, with the lapis infernalis, perhaps voi or three*times a week; but to moderate the fe- U erity of this method, the part was prclently wathed i] ith pure water. However, the pain excited by this jj jplicatinn, feems much to have deterred from its jj-'e; and Mr. Ware has propoled a method of relief, jl pally cfle&ual, but by far lcb exceptionable. He |j re£b, when this kind of inflammation extends ovet j:'C.'vhole lurfacc of the eye-lid, and on the cheek, j|-ving the appearance of an eryfipelas, that it be Heated with antiphlui'illics and fedatives; and when ji e extreme irritability is removed by proper applici- ]j ms, to finilh the cure by means of the ungt. citri- j! nn, Ph, Ed. tiled as hereafter directed. Ij'Soinctinies, the lower eye-lid turns outward in this jl bate, which then proves obftinatc to cure, but with I tc pcrlevtr.ince it is overcome bv the general me- I °.d propofed for the pforophthalmj. , It in any initancc, other lymptoms evidence the • efence of a feuryy, ferophuia, or venereal taint, || ole dilcafes muft be relieved, before any benefit can : procured .for that of the eye-lid. When a fero- ! u'a is the fourcc of this difeafe, though the patient ji perfectly cured, as tar as rcfpefls the external i: Ttptoins, there u ft ill a danger of its returning ; to ji event v Inch, fuch means as are ufed in ferophu- lousT R A lous cafes fliould be continued for a con fid if able time after. With refpeft to the pfcro/hlbcdmia, the firft enclca- vour fhould be to foften the fcabs, and remove them, and to ufc l'uch applications to the ulcers as may correct the acrimony of the difeharge, promote di- gcltion, and bring them into a (late of healing. The intention of M. St. Yves, in his direction for the cure of the ulcers, on the edges of the eve-lids, fubfe- quent to the fmall-pox, does net appear to be much unlike that which 1 have here mentioned, as appears from the following quotation : “ Ophthalmic waters, in general, arc of verv little fervicc ; but 1 have round, from my own experience, that, by touching them with the lapis infernalis, they cicatrize eafily. The violent he it of the cauftic mult be abated, as foon a they have been touched, by walhingthc eve in a feral! glats full of warm water •, you mud, above all, take care that the part of the eye-lid which was caute- rized, may not bear againft the globe of the eye, till the pain is entirely gone olF. They may be touched in this manner once or twice a week, until they feem to requre no more ufe of the caullic: then 1 y on thefe places rutty, finely powdered, ro cicatrize them.” M. St. Yves here recommends a very (irorg caurtic; but on a part fo tender, a milder applicant n will 1 ucceed, as is evident fropt the advantage*- at- tending that which 1 have preferred, viz. the uni t, i itrin. now called Un^mmum UvJtoryvfi wti'aii, m 1m< h is nude thus: R Hyilr.trgyri purifa J>j. acidi nitreE Jij. axungia; poricina; pp ]|ij. in acido nitrolo folvatur hydrargyrus, & dclinquorum adhus calentcm inifie cum adepe fuilla primum liqocfadb , poftca acri cvpr. fit a jam concrcl'entc. It maybe tiled as folk ws t Hold the ointment before a lighted candle, fo thru its 1’urfacc may be melted into an oily confidence; tike this oil on the end of the finger, and'carefully rub it on the edges of the a fie fled etc lids. 1 h- ufeatf it, once in twenty-four hours, will be fufficicnr ; md that fhould be when the patient goes to bed immediately after the application, a foft plaftcr, fprend with the cerat. alb. Ph. Lond. is to be bound ioofely u’er the eye-lids, which will p refer vp them m'oift and iipple in the night, and contribute to prevent their dhefions to each other. If, notwithftanding this ' crate being applied, it fiiould be difficult to open he eve-lids in the morning, they may be wafhed with milk and frclh butter, well mixed together, . nd warmed, by which the patient will be able to pen them without pain, if the eye-lid is very irri- able, the melted ointment may be applied with a lamcl-hair pencil: indeed, fume times the irritability s fo great, that before the ointment can be appl ed, ther means mud be ufed to remove that fymptom, as > already noticed. If, in confequence of this difeafe of the eye-lid, : ic eye itfelf lhould be inflamed, the ufual methods f relieving an inflamed eye may be ufed. Vide St. j 'ves on the Difeafes of the Eye. tVnrr'i 'Remarks- n the Ophthalmia; and Wallis's Sauvages’s NufoWy ; he Eyes. Trepan at to, the Operation of Trepanning. The atention of this operation is to remove a comprelling ! ,ody from off the brain, whether it be bone, ferum, lood, or pus. Some practitioners of eminence, ad- i ife the application of the trepan in every cafe of in- I iry to which the head is expofed ; while others, ipially eminent, forbid it in every cafe, except "•here the Ikull is depreffed. Air is certainly a pow- rtul ftimulus to parts not accuftomed to its applica- on, and the admiffion of it to the ,dura-mater, is, ■ ndoubtcdly, hurtful; but the point to be deter- lined is, whether the conferences arifing from the ] jn-performance of the operation, counterbalance ! c bad efteCfs of expoling the dura-mater to the air5 |j '■) decide this queftion, I am of opinion, requires O o more■r r-r! TR E nnojfc experience than falls to the fhare of any iiidivi- dual pradtitioncr. The parts of the fkull which fhould not be touched in tins operation, if they can be avoided, are,' almoft ull the under part of the temporal and parietal bones* all the under part of the occipital bone; the infc’ nor part of the frontal bone; and the whole courie or the longitudinal finus. But when the de- prelTed pieces of bones, lays Mr. Bell, cannot be railed without applying the trepan over the'e parts, no delay Ihould be allowed in performing the opera- tion on any part. Indeed, it has been performed on moft of them with the belt fueccfs. I lie operation being determined on, the patient mould be laid on a firm table, with a pillow under his head, in which Hate it mud be firmly fccured by an • ififtant. Make an incifion as directed in the article Scalpo; remove a portion of the integuments for the application of the trephine, but not more of the pe- rici.mium than is pofitively ncccflary. The tempo- ral mufcle may be divided without danger. If, in making the incifion, you divide any arterial branch, <md the patient is of a robuft habit, let it bleed, but is debilitated, fecure it. Now afeertain the part to apply; your perforator, by the trephine, ar.d place the pin at the edge of the fradfurc not deprefled, fo that the head of the trephine may include a portion ot the deprefled piece. As loon as the hole is luffi- eicntly large to receive the point of the pin in the centre of the circular law, this Ihould be inferted in- to it, to fix the inftrument during the firft part of the operation, and when a cut is formed in the bone luf- ficient to retain it, remove the pin. Now proceed with great ftcadincfs, and with as equal a degree of preflure as polhblc, till the perforation is completed. Always fuppolc you are trephining a thin Ikull. Withdraw your inlirument frequently, and clear it ol the blood and particles of bone with a brufli; and to afeertain the depth of the cut, each time the law is taken out, introduce a probe, or a quill, not x very ,T R £ 0 o z railed rs’cry fliarp-pointed. If the cut is deeper in one part Iphan another, the preffurc muft be fo regulated, as to render it equal, or nearly lo; as foon as the piece is . loofe, take it our with the forceps, and if the lower edge of the perforation is rough, fmooth it with the denticular; this done, raiie the deprefled piece of •fkull with an elevator, which now is made with ful- kcra, to reft on the found bone ; after this, if cxtrava- ffated matter feems lodged under the dura mater, open it with a lancet for its difeharge. When the trephine is ufed on account of a fiflure, it muft be applied fo tas to include part of it, if not diredlly over it, as it is anoft likely that the extravafated blood or lymph will d>e found diredlly under it; and when the filfure is of ra confiderable extent, a perforation muft be made at ■each end, if not more. When fcveral perforations are to be made, in order to the removal of fcveral de- 'prefted fragments of bone that have their internal -furface larger than their external, it is neceffary to apply the trephine as near the fracture'clparts as they \ will admit of, making the perforations adjoining to i'fave the trouble of cutting the intermediate fpaecs ■with the head-faw. In places where the unequal Ifthicknefs of the Ikull is obferved, it is heft to elevate i: the piece that is fawed before it is cut quite through, I 'thus the membrane will be unhurt. When an injury {' happens on'a future, and it is not thought advileable |'to ufe the trephine there, make a perforation on each ;j fide of it. By the trephine having removed the | pieces of bone, and thereby prevented all the prefent jhand future ills dependent on their remaining; aitcr jl'this, the drelfing Ihould accord with the general in- i'tention of not irritating and Ihould be as innocent ;; in quality, and fmall in quantity, as polfible; a piece j of lint, fpread with fome bland ointment, is all that ?! ran be wanted; this may be kept on bv a common v woollen cap, which is preferable to any bandage | whatever. After drelfing, lay the patient in as caly jj a pofturc in bed as poifibic, and with his ihouldersT R I raifcd high. Pcrfert quietude, open bowels, and tlie vefifels emptied by venefertion, and a low diet, are to the full as neccfl'ary before as after removing'' the pieces of the fkull. The air of the patient's room lhould be temperate. In young people, the perforations are in time tilled up, with a fubftance that is of a bony hardnefs ; but in adults this does not happen fo perfcftly. Sometimes a fungus proves troublefome, which may be prevented from riling to any conliderable height, by touching it frequently with the argent nitrat. And where the infenfibility is great, a ligature may be uled to remove it; but never ule comprcihon. The cure being completed, the bone, where much of the integuments have been deftroyed, will be co- vered by a thin cuticle only, with, perhaps, a very fmall portion of intermediate cellular fubftance ; in which cafe, a piece of tin or lead, lined with flannel, fhould be lifted to the part, to protect it from the ef- forts of cold and other external injuries. Though the trephine is almoft univerfally employed for this operation, Mr. Bell prefers the trepan, and foine other prartitioners alfo conceiving the trepan to be more advantageous, but dreading the rilk of its palfing too fuddcnly in upon the brain, commence the operation with this inftrument, and finith it with the or phi Hz’. Vide Bill’s Surgery, vol. iii. all'o ILti- Jiff's Surgery. Sharpt's Operations. Poo's Works. Gooih’s Cafes and Remarks, and While $ Surgery. Trichia, or T'ricbia/if, from a Hatr. 11 is alfo calkd ttitropium, thjiuhtaji.-, dtjluchiajis. It is, when the cartilage on the edge of the eye-lid is fo inverted as to bear upon the conjunrtiva, and the cornea tranfparcns; then the frirtion of the eye- lathes excites an inflammation in the eye. Accord- ing to the author of the Dcfinit, Medicae, it is, “ Ay falling of the eye-lids, and a preternatural genera- tion of hairs on them.’’ He makes three forts, ra which he gives the names of pb.tlattgq/i:, p‘ J>z, and,xpophyjh; and, as feme fay, a fourth, viz. tllflicbia. Tidearticle Blepharoptosts. The fridlion of the eye-la(hcs in this cafe, brings m defluxions and inflammations, if not prevented by >ulling out the hairs, one by one, at fuch diftances of ime, as may be ncceflary for preventing inflamma- tion. In Dr. Cullen’s Nofology, this difeafe is an in- rance of fymptomatic ophthalmy, called ophthalmia riebiujis. Mr. Ware, in his remarks on the ophthalmy, &c. Jiftinguilhes as follows, betwixt the inverfion of the jipper and under eye-lids, both as to the caufe and tire: and fpeaks, .Fir ft, of the inverfion of the. upper lid. }The upper lid and its ciliary edge (he obferves) are preferred, both in motion and reft, in their na- ural fituation, by the equal, though contrary, adtions T the mufculus orbicularis, and levator palptbrae uptrioris. The fkin of the upper lid is always very bin, flaccid, and folded. When, therefore, the triebia- 'is aftedts the .upper lid, it appears to be produced by i-relaxation of the levator palpcbne fuperioris, and a rOntradfion of the fuperior part of the orbicularis. The cure, either in the upper or lower lid, is palli- ative, or radical. It is only palliative, when, in order . ro relief, the eyc-la(hcs are cxtradled by their roots. The radical cure is affcdled by detradfing the ciliary edges, and prelerving them in their natural fituation. IThe caufe being a relaxation of the levator palpebrs l ftiperioris mufcle, an incifion rnuft be made through the integuments of the upper eye-lid, from the inner angle of the eye to the outer ; then the fibres of the orbicularis mufcle muft be fo fepatated, as to denu- date the expanded fibres of the levator mufcle, as near to their termination in the edge of the lid as ! polfible ; which being done, apply a fmall cautcrifing > iron, adapted to the convexity of the globe of the 0 o 3 eye,/ T R I eye, and made prcttv warm, by palling it two or three times over the tendino-carncoix* fibres. Thus, by producing a High; irritation (which produce^ the lame effeCt, as is often obl’crved to happen after burn-, particularly in the hands, after which the' fingers often contract, and in many inftances, have remained contracted ever after) a cure may be ex- pected. Secondly, of the inver/ion of the lower Hit. The lower lid, vvhofc motion is very fmall, in com- panion of that of the upper, is preferred in its na- tural tiate, by the equal attion of the orbicular fibres Iprcad over it, and the ihickliels and renitenev of the rein which covers it. When, therefore, a tncbieftt is produced in the lower lid, it can only arife from a relaxation of the (kin, and a contraction of the in- ferior part of the orbicularis. The cure wiil ncccfTa- rily be effected by increafing the rcnircncy of the fkin to 1’uch a degree, as to prevent the contraction of the mufculus orbicularis. When the calc is re- cent, a cure has fometimes been effected, by for ning a told in the ikin before the inverted lid, to draw in edge from the uye, and prcfervilig the Ikin in tlia,; date by the application of fticking philter : or, by means of an inftrument fimilar to that contrived by Bartil’chius (and reprefented by Hcifter, plate 15, lig. 20.) to pinch up a fmall portion of the ikin, and hang thereby .on the cheek ; which by its weight, anfwcrs the fame purjofc as the plaftcr, and is lets liable to lofe its hold. In flight calcs, the (kin may recover its tone by theft means; but in others it xvi 11 be neceffary to cut off a fmall tranl’verfc portion of the loofe Ikin below the edge of the lid, and after- wards confine the Tides of the wound together by means of a future. ft is remarked by Gottlieb Richter, in his Midical and Surgical Obl'crvations, that the external Ikin of the eye is fo cxtcnfiblc, that much more of it ihould be cut than appears neceffary. SometimesT R I Sometimes there are inftances, in which none of :hc above methods will l'urfice ; as, where the ciliary edges are not only inverted, but likewife contracted upr lhortened in their length. In this cafe, the cir- cumference of the ciliary edges mult be enlarged -ither by an incifion at the outer angle, or by a com- plete divifion of the cartilage, called tarfus, in the aniddle. The firit of thcle operations, is no more han a fimplc Itraight incifion, which may be made vitli a lharp-pointed curved biftoury. The laft, vhich is l’eldom necelfary, will be belt performed iy the fame inltrument ; only obferving, that the point be carefully introduced between the globe and vyc-lid, and carried below the cartilage (that is •bout ^ of an inch ;) whence it is to be pulhed out- vard in a horizontal direction, till it has cut its way hrough the lid. The cartilage being thus entirely livided, each portion will recede towards the angles, .nd a feparation be left betweeu them, which will lot only take off the complaint at prefent, but pre- ent its return for the future. Vide Bl/I’s Surgery, o!. iii. IK ire on the Ophthalmy. IVallis's Sauva- ges’s Difordcrs of the Eyes, and White's Surgery. 1 fit || • uiliu. Ulci's ; an Ulcer. It is a folutiott of continuity, in a foft part made by eroiion., Wounds degenerate into ulcers, when by a fault in the’ humours there is a farther lofs of fubftance. A lols of fubdanCC in the bones from eroiion, is called a eafies. Though 'when an abfeefs is opemd for the dllchargc of its contents, it is ufually fpoken of as an ulcer. Df. Cullen places this genus of difealc in the ciafs locales and order Jia- ty/i>. He defines it to be a purulent of'ichorous folu- tion of a foft part. Ulcers receive different names from their caufes, figure, the parts they atfeift, Stc. External ulcers are dilcerncd by the eye, but when they are internal, they are dilcovered by what is' difchnrged in one or other of the excretions. Their danger will be judged of by the quality of' the ulcer, the part affc&ed, and the ftrength of'the patient. The fymptoms which attend and retard the heal- ing of ulcers, are inflammation, pain, a fluxion of mor- bid humours, fpungy flefli, &c. Mr. Sharpe obferves, that except the callous ahd the finuous ulcer, and the ulcer with a caries in the bone, the cure of all the other kinds depend chiefly, on that of the morbid habit of the body in general. If the body is free from every degree of caccchymy, the healing of an ulcer is the work of nature, and all that topical applications have to effect, is the maintenance of the fibres in filch a moderate ftate betwixt laxity and rigidity, as will render them moftU L C ale to carry on this natural operation. While an .iflammatory hardncfs exilts, an emollient poultice i*id over the drcflings will relieve, after which, dry nt generally fuffices, or, at the moft, it may be oiftened in fome mild aftringent, to give a tone to ae new fleih. When a too great laxity, or a fpongi- efs, is obferved in ulcers, gently ftimulating and racing applications are requifite. The three kinds of ulcers which Mr. Sharpe men- ons, as more particularly depending on external ,yinagemcnt, are lb frequently joined with, or arife ura a morbid habit of body, that regard is firlt to : had thereto, and when this kind of obftaclc to ealing is removed, apply emollients to the callus on sc edge of the ulcer; or in many inftances fucccfs ill follow the ufc of a mixture of bafilicon, with a ::tle finely powdered precipitate. Vide Heijler s trgery ; and Sharpe's. Operations, in the Introduction. Mr. Bell, in his Trcatile on Ulcers, divides them :to two claffes, viz. ;. Such as are merely local, id that do not depend upon any diforder of the 11cm. i. Such as are the conlequencc of, or that e connected with any diforder of the conflitution. The lpccics belonging to the firlt clafs, arc, i. he Jimplc purulent ulcer. z. 'The Jimple •vitiated nicer. The fungous ulcer. 4. The finuous ulcer. 5. The llous ulcer. 6. The carious ulcer. 7. The cancerous :er. 8. The cutaneous ulctr. The fpecics belonging to the fecond clafs arc, The venereal ulcer, z. The Jcorlutic ulcer. 3. The opbuleus ulcer. The fimplc purulent ulcer is a local affection ; it has c' fymptoms common to all fuch diforders, as pain d inflammation, in a very inconfiderablc degree, ! lilft the difeharge afforded is always of a mild iirulent? nature, and of a proper confidence ; the anulations which arife in it, are of a firm, frelh d, healthy appearance. This ulcer is the moft fimpleU L C fimple that can occur, both in its fymptoms and me- thod of cure; and it is to its ftate, thit all others fnuft be reduced before a permanent cure can be expedted. In the cure of this fpecies of ulcer, as there is very little inflammation, and no preterna- tural fweiling fuppofed to take place, but merely a vacuity, either from a real lofs of fubftancc, or from a retradtion of parts (imply divided, the dil'charge at the fame time being of a mild purulent nature, the only indications that appear ncccffary are, First, To dimini/b, as much as pojfiblr, any •vacancy the ulcer nay barJi occajioned; to accomplilli which, the for- mation of new granulations, and the decay of filch parts as are immediatclv contiguous to the ulcer are requifire. To effeft the formation of new granules, inflammation and acrimony muft be removed, and pledgets of lint, fpread thinly with the ungt. cereum, Ph. Edinb. may be applied every twelve or twenty- four hours, to the furface of the fore. If inflam- mation attends the ulcer, moderate it by the appli- cation of warm emollient cataplafms ; but as fcon as this inflammation fubfides, omit the cataplalms, left an cxcefs of laxity be produced. Thus, by mild dreffings, irritation is prevented, and by preferring a proper degree of heat in the, part, a good matter will be produced, and firm granulations. To diniindh or deftroy the parts about the ulcer, fuch as fungous flefh ; as foon as the inflammatory (late is over, and good matter is induced, (light compreflion, by means of a roller, may be immediately applied, and (hould be continued during the remainder of the cure. The roller (hould be applied fo as not only to aft as a gentle preffure upon the parts immediately fur- rounding the ulcer, but likewile to terve as a fup- port to the (kin, and other teguments, (o as to pre- vent their retradion, which other wife, in large niters especially, is very ready to happen. Skcondly, To induce the formation of a cicatrix. This is frequently etfeclcdU L C Tecled by nature alone; but, in many cafes, when eery deficiency appears to be even thoroughly fup- icd, yet ftill a cure is tedious in accomplilhing ; ue furfacc of the fores remaining raw, and, at the Pie time, 'difeharging confidcrable quantities of tter. In fucli cafes, the ointment ufed for the receding part of the cure muft be laid afide, and effings- of a more drying nature fubftituted in its ead. In this view, the ungt. e ccruff. a. &c. is referable to the cerat. lapidis calaminaris. Some- imes the cicatrization will be loon perfected, by nbbing the part or parts, twice a day, with aq. .lc. ft. and ftill drelfing with the ungt. e cerufl'. If ae cicatrization is prevented by fpuugy granulations • even firm ones arifing above the fkin, they may : checked by dry lint applied to them, or perhaps gentle comprefs may alio be required ; fometimes a ight application of the vitriol, r. may be ncccffary i check the luxuriancy. It is very rare that a uuftic is required. The Jimple rjiiiated ulcer differs from the fimple pu- ilent ulcer, chiefly, in the appearance and nature of ic difeharge afforded. The mod common appear- ices of l'ucii deviations in the matter afforded by 'eers, from the more natural ftate of purulent mat- :r, are fanies, ichor, or fordcs. In every ulcer dif- larging any of thefe matters, in confcqucnce of the qnniony that fubfifts in them, the parts, inftead of Iling up with firm granulations, wafte away more nd more, and inftead of a reddilli complexion, have ithcr a dark brown, or a blackilh, rough, floughy ppearance. The pain in all of them is more or iifs conftderable, according as the matter is more or :fs corrofive. As the fimple purulent ulcer happens 10ft frequently in the fleihy parts, where the ccl- llar membrane affords a fluid moft plentifully, that i proper for the formation of pus; fo the fimple itiated ulcer is moft frequently feated near the ten* donsU L C dons or aponeurotic expanfions «f the mufclcs, from thefe parts not naturally affording that fpecics of lerum neceffary for the formation of falutary puv Accidental inflammation about the ulcer, or a gene nil ill-habit of body, may alfo be occafional raufes of this fpecies of ulcer, even in parts belt difpofed to produce the matter formed in the mildeft kind cf lores. In order to moderate the fymptoms peculiar to this kind of ulcer, and reduce it to the ftate of the fimple purulent one, the principal endeavours will be, to cafe pain, and to aoatc irritation; to which end, warm emollient fomentations and cataplafins are effectual; they Ihould be continued until all appear- ance of inflammatory tendency is removed. The part may be fomented three or four times a day, for half an hour each time, with an emollient decodion, and then a plcdgit fpread with the ungt. ccrcum, Pi- Ed. may be applied ; as the pain is more or Id's, fo a more or lefs free ufe of opiates inwardly, will be neceffary to remove irritation. The habit of body demands attention alfo ; if soo much exalted, it mult be lowered ; if too low, it mull be l'upported and raifed : and, generally, it is in this latter inflance that thefe ulcers are met with. Here a free but prudent life of the corr. Pcruv. is Angularly beneficial; fometimes 3). is rcqnircd fix or eight times a dav : in plethoric habits ; and in inflammatory confutations, great caution is required in the u(e of this medicine. Jf any general dilcafe attends, its removal mull be duly attended to, in order to the cure of this as well as every other ulcer. This ulcer now reduced to the Hate of a fimple purulent ulcer, proceed as *n cafe dircflcd. Sometimes more difficulty attends tlie cicatrization of thefe ulcer:, when they have been of long Handing; bur, befides the method propolcii for cicatrizing the fimple purulent ular, an iffue infertrd in a proper fituation, will grn'rx'.'.v fgilli the cU!1'-U L c i Si/xix,olw ,hc ,mcK> of ■*«>»<** fp=- ^ r““ called the fpo»„ uk„ ungous excrefcences frequently occur in fiff . pecies oi ulcers. By the term fungous, is underiWi ich preternatural rifings of the carts •U r d re more foft and fpongy than found healthy g^nu' dons; and though loft at firft nu' ._ev acquire etttraordinar, hardm (I The""! TllTeV "‘'T' "J ““r“- S ,"/te «t.r v occurs. In order to a cure the : n. a ■ufes are to be regarded Tf rL 7JUft nanicd am luxuriance of health merely its fur2r0/e ghrly touched with the arS^rat nnr “*y ^ three days, and immediately'after a nJeX/'l y lmt may be applied. If fh* bafts of Se fun is narrow, it may be be ft removed by a hgature ie fungous removed, proceed as in Lc gatu^e' «ter“,! hXg frr's “ot!r ThX:^ oft, and waftes away in the progrefs of thrUn^U* bout retiring cfcharotics. P S °f thC CUre> t cT Ul7‘ Vide articie Fistula. “ b° '*>'» i-> «dSe«, Mod itZZ F trading,— U L C {rafting, and fo diminifhing the Cue of the fore, keep at a ftand, turn ragged, and at laft, by ac- quiring a preternatural thickncfs, often rife confide- rably above the level of the neighbouring parts: and as it is generally from negleft oV improper treatment that ulcers do turn callous, the difeharge afforded by them is commonly a thin vitiated matter. Jt is in this Ipecies of ulcer chiefly, that varicofe veins occur as a fymptom, efpccially when the complaint is fet- tled in the lower extremities. This teems to be owing chiefly to the ftrifture occafioned by the callo- sities on the courfe of the different veins, a circuin- ftan.ee, which, in extenfive fores of this kind, muff, no doubt, have a confiderablc influence. Efcharotics have generally been ufed to deftroy callofity on the edges of ulcers; but as they tend" to increafe the difeafe by the continual inflammation they excite, they are now much laid aftdc, and in their lkad, emollients, with the affiftance of warmth, are fub- ftituted. By the ufc of a warm emollient poultice, and a reclined pofture, ulcers have been healed} though, on adopting this method, their ftate was very unpromifing. Yet fometimes the callofities are fo hard, as to require their deftruftion either by the knife, or the cauftic; and if the laft is preferred,' the argent, nitrat. is the beft ; with this the har- dened parts may be touched, every two or three days, and when they arc duly wafted, the ulcer will pro- bably be reduced to the ftate of the fimplc purulent one, and like that may then be treated. To ftrengthen and rcftorc the veins, that were rendered Variants about the callofities, aright flocking, ora Ipiral bandage will be ufcfui, but not before their having been continued for a long time. Callofity frequently attends venereal and cancerous uhtrs > in thefe cafes, the ftate of the conftitution in general jTiuft be attended to. Ibt Cuncerws Ulcer. Vide article Cancer. 7be iU L C 7’be Carious Ulcer. By this term is intended that species of the diforder, which is connected with a ocal affection of a bone. If l'uch an accident hap- pens, as bruifes, lacerations, and injuries of the erioltcum, it fometimcs terminates in a carits; in. tch a cafe, by the end of three, four, or five days, le bone begins to lofe the natural healthy appear- ince, turns firft of a pale white, then gets a flight {rnge of a yellow complexion ; and whenever this egins to appear, there cannot be a doubt of what 'ill be the confcqucncc. Sometimes it will continue i this date for many days, and by degrees acquire a tore deep tallow-like appearance, in which way it I ommonly remains for a longer or a fnorter time, ac- irding to the violence of the infiidting caufe, and rterwards goes through the ftages of brown, light, •ark, &c. until it acquires a darknefs of the deepeft ye. The difeharge from fuch ulcers, is never of the Ionfiftcnce of g^od pus; it is generally thinner, and om the firft appearance of caries, acquires a molt ifagreeable feetor, which always increafcs, as the liferent ftages of the diforder advance, at laft it 'jpears blackifh, as well as the bone underneath, id the difeharge, at this time, is exceedingly acrid, .s the feveral degrees of blackncfs go on, final! holes re formed in the difeafed parts, and by degiees in- •eafe confiderably, until even the moft folid bones iquirc a kind of fpongy appearance. In this fitua- on, the mortified portion of the bone generally be- imes loole, and when preffed upon, a quantity of ceafy-like matter, with a moft difagrecable foetor, generally forced out; this matter fo taints the hole difeharge from the ulcer, and gives it fuch a -culiar fincll, as to render it fcarce poftible, after ice feeing an inftance, ever to miftakc it again, his laft circumftancc alone, is a certain charafter- ic of a carious ulcer. Farther, in ulcers attended ith a carious bone, the flelhy parts never have a P P a healthyU L C . f healthy appearance, are foft and more flabby than in their natural ftate, and inftead of a florid red, have rather a dark brown, together with fomewhat of a glazed complexion. The granulations pufh forward too quickly and too far, if they are not prevented by art, which is always neceflary to be done, until the dil'eafed part of the bone is either caft off by natqre’s procefs, or cut out by the furgeon, fo that the cure may take place with certainty, from the bottom of the fore. And when ncglctted for any confide, rable time, thefc foft productions in carious ulcers frequently increafe fo remarkably as to form very large and troublefome excrefcences. Thefe appear- ances happen whether a portion of the bone, or its whole fubftance, is carious. When the whole bone is affected, the progrefs and its various fymptoms are more rapid, and the whole bone mull be removed; whereas, when a part of the bone only is affeCted, perhaps a Angle lamina, to the extent of the difealed f>art, is all that will be feparated and removed. So ong as the caries remain, it effectually prevents the ulcer about it from healing ; if by chance it appears to be healed, it foon breaks out again. When a probe can be introduced at any opening, to reach the bone, if a roughnefs of its furfacc is difeovered, the cafe becomes then altogether evident. Though the bone cannot be reached by the probe, for waut of an opening, the appearances of the ulcer, and the kind of difeharge, will rarely fail to determine what kind the ulct.r is of; for if the bone is carious, the ulcer is flabby, and inftead of a regular furfacc, the new granulations fprout up in different cluftcrs, of the lize of fmall nuts, and inftead of a healthy ftrong ap- pearance, have ufually a dark brown complexion > the difeharge is thin, dark-coloured, and grealy, there is alfo more or lefs of the peculiar faetor above named. Before this ulcer can be cured, the carious part of the bone mult be feparated from the found*’u l e found, and taken out; in order to which, vide article Caries. After the removal of the carious bone, the remaining fore muft be treated in the fame . manner as directed for that fpeefes of ulcer to which, at the time, it appears to belong. Tbe Cutaneous Ulcer. Vide articles Achor, and IHerfes. Tbe fettered Ulcer. Vide article Lues Venerea. Tbe Scorbutic Ulcer. Vide article Scorbutus. Tbe Scropbulons Ulcer. Vide article Scrofula. However fimilar the general pra&ice may be, there are foine peculiarities proper to ulcers on par- ticular parts, i'ome instances of which are as follow : An Ulcer in tbe Bladder. It fiiould be diftinguilhed from an ulcer in thc-kidnics, which fee. Ulcers are not fo frequent in any of the urinary paffages as they Teem to be though:; they are often fufpedted from a •flimy difeharge, which is of a gpllowilh colour, and 'proceeds from weaknel's. When an ulcer is formed in the bladder, there is a difeharge of foetid matter, or olood: and fometimes a fort of feales, ora membran- ous pellicle, are feen in the urine. There is alfo a continual dyfuria, and a pain in the urinary patTagcs. ‘ fiThe means of relief are fimilar to thofe for an ulcer n the kidnies. An Ulcer in the Kidr.ies. Dr. Hunter obferves, that though the kidnies are often found wafted, they tre hardly ever feen ulcerated. Chefelden obferves, Tat it is very rarely that an ulcerated bladder is met j with in the bodies that are obtained for dilfeftion. j Oribafius obferves, that an ulcer in the kidnies may j je diftinguilhed by the following circumftances, j rom the fame diforder in the bladder: ift, When he bladder is affeoted, the pain is felt in the pubes, tnd the bottom of the belly; but when the k:dnics lifter, the pain is in the back-part of the loins, •.dly, When the bladder is the feat of the difeafe, • ..here is a difficulty, if not a fuppreffion of urine; P .p i butULC but when the kidnies are in fault, the urine palTes freely. jdly. From the bladder there is voided membranous feales, but from the kidnies fibrous pieces of ilefit arc voided. 4thly, A violent pain is felt in the bladder when it is ulcerated; but when the utter is in the kidnies, the pain is of a dull kind. The urine looks like milk when it is firft made • from an ulcerated kidney, but is not foetid ; but on handing a while, the white matter falls: when the pain is confiderable in the kidnies, it occalions a naufea, and i'omctimes a vomiting. When an ulcer is fulpedlcd in the kidnies, the patient fliould abftain from acrid, four, and fait diet; he Ihould live on mild mucilaginous aliments; fuch as the broths of | Young animals, whey, milk, fwcct butter-milk, Jkc. Violent exerciic mull be avoided, chalybeate waters ihould be drank a long time, and iohuions of the mildeil balfams may be taken now and then. Ulcas di the J*(\*s* Tn ti'.cic Giles (i confiuement in bed is ufually demanded as neccflary in order to the cure. In Ionic inllances, amongft labouring people, ionic advantage is obtained from reft: but, in gene- ral, thelc ulcers arc moil firmly healed, when mode- rate exerciic is continued during the cure. Some are afraid of healing ulurs in this part, left an alihma, or other complaint, ihould follow ; but if the general health is not defective, or if it can be rellorcd, there will rarely, it ever, any iil ccnl’c- qucnccs follow from the healing of them. On this fubjedt, Mr.'Bell oblerves, in his Treatife on Ulm, that it has been almoft univcrfally recommended never to attempt the cure of fuch as have bccu < f long (landing, as, from the very acrid matters which th:y are frequently known to difeharge, it has been • commonly imagined that drying up fuch forts might prove dangerous to the conllitution. But lie is of ' opinion, that no fuch a«.rid matters, as are frequently outcry „dU L C bfcrved to be difcharged from ulcers, ever fubfiftcd ri the blood. The acrimony which, in fuch cafes, ccurs, is produced, he thinks, in a great meafure, jy fomc particular affection of the organs, which eparate thofe fluids from the blood, from which the natter, by its remora in the cavities of ulcers, is fterwards formed. He farther obferves, that ulcers re hurtful or beneficial to the conftitution, not by he quality of matter difeharged, but by the quan- ity; hence, he fays, the cure of every fore, of •vhat ever continuance, may be rendered perfectly afe by the previous introduction of an iffuc, which lifcharges a quantity of fluids, equal to the difeharge accafioned by the fore to be healed up. He afferts rrom extennve experience, that no inconveniences :ver refult from the practice; and hence concludes hat the cure of every ulcer may be attempted. The general intentions in the cure of ulcers being attended o, and a tight flocking worn over the dreilings, fuch other’ means may be directed as the experience of he practitioner, and the circumftances of the cafe nay luggeft. Mr. Underwood obferves, that in the cure of an ulcer, the firft object is, to bring it to difeharge a laudable pus, and this, he afferts, the noft inveterate ulcers on the legs may be brought to ifford, as freely as fores feated any where clfe. He recommends the hydrargvr. nitrat. R. finely levigated, is one of the belt applications for this purpofe. He adds, that this powder muff not be lightly lprinklcd an the fore, when its furface is ill-conditioned, but the ulcer rnuft be filled with it. This writer fpeaks of a.fpccies of ulcer which is ufually ftnall, and par- ticularly affeCts the parts about, and lbmctimes be- ’ low the ankle ; it is exquifitcly painful. In this cafe, as in others, he afferts, that reft is not ncccffary to the cure ; but inftead of confinement, he carries the roller fevcral times over the ankle and foot, fo as to leave no part but the point of the heel uncovered,U L C thus a tolerable comprefiion is made below the ulcer, jde farther adds, that cafes of this fort, arc often at- tended with confidcrablc puffings, and a tcttcrous appearance of the furrounding (kin, accompanied with a thin acrid difeharge, which renders the parts additionally tender; whilft the little ulcer is almoft perfectly dry, and cannot cafily be brought to (uppu- ration, until the complaint of the (kin is removed, which is molt fpeedily effe&ed by drying applications, furh as bol. armcn. alumen pulv. ungt. rub. defic. and in more obftinatc calcs, a folution of the ceru(T. acetat. and zincum vitriolatum, with one or two ounces of the fp. vini. c, in a pint of water. If the fore docs not foon change its complexion, on the dif- appearance of the affe&ion of the (kin, he advifes to fill the ulcer with precipitate, diflblved lunar cauftic, or any fimilar cfcharotic, and when the (lough is come out, to repeat it. Here he fays, that thefe cauftics arc only to be ufed after adtive digeftives, aided by proper bandages and cxcrife, prove ineffec- tual. Laffly, he recommends in the healing of ulcers in the legs, particularly thofe cf long (landing, that the furgeon proceed (lowly and cautioufly, avoiding the tuo early ufe of drying applications, and gradu- ally weakening the digeftive. It may be laid down as a general maxim, that the lore (hould rather be luffelcd, than invited to (kin over. When the ulcer is healed, temperance, a continuance of the bandage for feme time, and occafional purgatives, will be nc- ceffary. On this particular fpecies of ulcer, vide the Lond. Med. Obf. and Inq. vol. iv. p. 347, kc. and Roller's tffhy on the Cure of ulcerated Legs. UndenveneC's Trcarife upon Ulcers of the Legs. Ulcer' hi tbe Tou/ih. This diforder is far lefs fre- quent than is fuppofed. Dr. Hunter obl’ervcs, that the ronfils epen over all their lurfncc. by (mail ori- fices which emit a (limy mucus; and that when they are inflamed, the mucus b.ing purulent and white,U R E md the furface irregular, there is the appearance of ■Iceration, when, in reality, there is none. Not to e deceived in this cafe, defire the patient to walk his touth and throat well with lbme proper fluid, before ou determine whether or no-ulcers are here. When leers are formed, they may be touched with mixtures f honey, alum, borax, muriatic acid, &c. according !$ their caufe, or attending circumftances may re- uire. Ulcers in the Womb. Whilft a vifeid, yellow, or loody humour is evacuated, the ulcer is in a mild ate ; but when it becomes fanious, foetid, and is at. ended with pain, a cancer is for the mod part at- —ndant, and then palliatives only can be propofed. n the milder kind, keep the belly lax, with manna, -amarinds, and fuch like cooling purgatives, and in- ;Ct an infufion of elder flowers in milk and water. When the cafe is cancerous, demulcent and lenitive medicines," with anodynes to moderate the pain, are 11 that can be propofed. Vide Bell's Treatife on Ulcers, alfo, his Syftem of jurgery; Heijler’s Surgery; Pott's Works; and Parkland's Med. Surg. Urethra ; from »pov, urine. The inner mem- irane of the urethra, or palfage for the urine from he bladder, is a continuation of that which lines the dadder. Sometimes a stone is fixed in fome part of the urethra, vide article Calculus; this produces oain, then inflammation, tumefaction of the parts, nd always a partial and frequently a total fuppref- ion of urine. In fome inftances, when the diforder s long ncgledted, this fupprcllion and confcquent umefaClion, terminate in a rupture of the urethra; n confequencc of which, the urine efcapes into the contiguous cellular fubftance, and very troublefome wellings are produced, not only in the body of the senis, but frequently in the lcrotum, and through theU R E the whole conrfe of the perinaeum. When a ftone has been long fixed at obie particular part without yield- ing in any degree; and when the pain and inflam- mation produced by it are confidcrablc, a chirurgical operation ought to be immediately employed for re- moving it ; but, in the incipient ftages of this dif- order, other means of a more gentle nature Ihould be firft put in practice. In order to folicit the paflage of the ft nc, one important endeavour is, to remove fipafm; with this view, if the patient is plethoric, bleed; if he is thin and emaciated, a proportionable Quantity of blood Ihould be taken by means of leeches, dire&ly from the part affeCted. A quantity of warm oil ihould be repeatedly injeCtcd into the umbra, to lubricate the paflage ; the patient Ihould a)fo be im- merfed into a warm bath ; and a full dofc of the tindt. opii. ihould be at the fame time given. A proper quantity of blood having been difeharged ; the patient having remained for a fufheient length of time in the warm bath ; and the opiate having begun to operate, the parts will thus be as completely re- laxed as poiTible : and this is the period when i'ome attempt ihould be made for extraditing the ftone. To this end, inftead of any of the inftrutnents recom- mended for this purpole, which often do harm by iu- creafing irritation; the burgeon ihould at firft endea- vour, by very gentle prelfure, to puih the ftone for- ward along the courfe of the umbra : in this manner, large (tones may be brought off, for the removal of which a very painful operation might otherwife be liecefliiry. When the ftone fills up the urctbor notwithftanding the ufe of means as above, it will not pafs, it will be neceflfary to proceed to the epe- rat’on, which is performed by cutting upon the ftone, and extracting it either with a fcoop or with a pair of fmall forceps. When the (tone is fixed in the urethra near the neck of the bladder, lay the patient on a table, fecure him as for the operation of lirho-U R E ■my: an affiftant fufpending the fcrotum and penis, ae furgeon, after oiling the firft and fccond fingers ' his left hand, ftiould introduce them into the anus, ■ad by means of them, ought to prefs firmly upon ;ae parts immediately behind the ftone ; which will at only enable him to lay it bare with more eafe, ait will be the fureft method of preventing it from eing pulhed into the bladder by the necefiarv pref- ire of the knife ; this being done, an ineifion ought > be made through the common integuments and 'etbra, lb as to lay the ftone completely bare ; which ray now be either turned out by a due degree of reffure applied with the fingers in the rebtum ; or, this is not found to be fumcient, it may be taken ut either with a fcoop, or with a pair of forceps. The fter-treatment is the fame as after the operation of tthotoray. When the ftone has palled farther into lie urethra, in order to extraft it, the lkin Ihould be rawn as much as polfible paft it, either in a back- ward or a forward direction ; and the ftone being ,ow fecured in its" lituation by preffurc, a longitudi- nal cut ought to be made diredfly upon it through .he urethra, of a fufficient fize to allow" of its eafy *xtr’a£lion either with the fcoop or the forceps. The dges of the wound are now to be completely cleared if fabulous particles,- and the lkin allowed to regain ts natural fituation; by which means, if the opera- ion has been properly clone, the wound in the ■trtihrn will be entirely covered by lkin that has not oeen injured; a circumftancc which tends to render his operation by far lei’s exceptionable than other- .vife it would be; for thus the wound ulually heals ay the firft intention. If the ftone fixes near the noint of the penis, as it fometimes docs, if it is fo near ‘is to be oblerved by the eye, it may frequently be taken out with a pair of fmall dilfedling forceps: -jnd in order to facilitate the extra&ion, when it, cannot be otberwife effcfted, the urethra may be fontewhatU RE •i fomewhat dilated from its extremity, with the point- of a fcalpel. But if fuccefs does not follow, an incifion mud be made upon the ftone, as where the urethra is covered with (kin. Soft drellings (hould be applied to the wound ; and when the cure is nearly com- - pleted, a hollow bougie, a Ihort filvcr tube, or a fmall catheter of the cladic gum, (hould be intro- duced inco the urethra, in order to preferve it of a proper lize. The word fituation, in which a done can be fixed in the urethra, is jull below the fero- tum ; for if the done either makes its way into the ferotum, or if it is neceflfary to make an opening into it with a fcalpel, fuch large collections of urine are apt to occur, as commonly occafion much didrefs. To obviate this, as i'oon as a done is difeovered in this iituation, the greated attention ought to be given, either ro get it carried farther into the urethra, or, if this cannot be effected, to pu(h it back into the perinaium by means of a dalf. If either of thefc are impracticable, and it is neccflary to extraft the done, an incifion mud be made into the urethra, by^ beginning the cut;at the under part of the ferotum, immediately to one fide of the feptum, and continu- ing it upwards till the done is didinCtly felt* when it is to be laid bare and extracted as above directed. In applying the drellings after the operation, con- , duCt them to as that the fore may heal fird at the 1 bottom ; if this is not duiy attended to, the parts be- ; low will be filled witb matter, or perhaps with urine, and thus very troublefome finules may be termed. ■ In females the urethra is Ihort, and dilates readily, fo that ftones rarely arc detained in it: but when rhey do, they generally may be turned out b^p-diing the end of a blunt probe behind them, and then pull- ing forward: or if this does not fucceed, the end of the urethra may be (lit a little way fo as to admit the introduction of a pair of forceps, by which the done may be extracted. Vide BdVs Surgery, vol. ii.V. Vaginalis, in anatomy, is the paffagc from the external pudenda to the mouth of the uterus, -Phe ayina is fometimes too narrow, this may be either ..atural, from original conformation, or accidental, in onfequcnce of difeafe Cicatrices may be formed rrom a laceration after fevere labour •, in confequence •i ulceration-, crofion, &c. Preternatural conttric- iions may be induced from the ule of l^Vptic appo- rtions, or fumigations. The.cure may be attempted >y emollient fomentations, as by the ttcams of warm urater dirc^rd to the parts; and by introducing a mall tent of compreffed lpunge. If thele tail, re- Mourle muft be had to the kniie : though, in the lim- ale contraction of the cavity of the vagina, this ex- pedient is i'cldom neceffary, and the attempt is often .attended with the utmoft danger; therefore ihould .rever be determined on until every other method has failed. The dilatation, which was previous to (impregnation, has very often been accomphlhcd by tiabour-pains. Sometimes there is a natural defedt, ;.fo that the vagina is either imperforated altogether, or a foramen only remains fuflicicnt to tranfmit the Tnenttrual blood. If, from a coalition of the parietics .of the vugma, the pa flag e be entirely (hut up, an ♦attempAo force it would be vain. I he oritice in the latter calc wilL afford a proper diredtion for the knife; but the‘ operator mult be cautious not to miftake the urethra for'the paffage into the vagina. 'When the vagina is impervious altogether, tho uterus has been fometimes tound wanting. q n VomicaVUL Vonhca Pt'LMON'UM, Abfcrfs of the hums. This diforder, we arc told, often takes place, without any previous complaint. Its caufe is, in general, in flan/- ination. If ,t is not deeply feated, it burfts into the cauty of the breaft, and forms an cmpvema. This will require the operation direfted under article Empyema, for its removal. Jf the matter is deep the rupture will be into the bronchia; to folicit the difeharge this way, the patient lhotild receive the vapours of warm water into his lungs frequently. 1 he cough may cccafionally be excited by fnuffing a little vinegar into the nofe. The diet ihould be light and nouni ung ; a fea-voyage and riding on horle- baek are particularly ufeful. In calcs of wounds in the lungs, matter is often oimcd in their fubftance ; fomeurnes it is difehar^ed in the ways already mentioned, and lomctimes burfts into the wound. When it is afeertained that a coU lettion of matter points towards the wound, either flic pus oozing, or by introducing the finger be- tween two of the ribs, Mr. Bell advifes The ex- ternal opening of the teguments and intercoftel mulcles to he enlarged, then introducing a linger to dilcovcr the abfeefs, —- run a bidourv along the - 7" --—, “ uiuuui v along tne nngcr, and pu/h it llowly into the abfeefs, at what- ever depth it may be. When the matter appears, lay the abfeds as freely open as may be neceflarvy tor its complete evacuation. After' this a proper aperture muft be preferved by the introduffion of a leaden tubeof a round oval form, and with a bread bhm. solid tents, when they do not prevent the matter ufed and inftead of tubes. 1'i.rcrval's Obfcr- from difeharging, may be Vide Hell's Surgery, vol. v. rations. Vvi,nls, a Wound. Mr. Bell f j s, “Every re- cent lolution of continuity in the (prter p;rts of the body, when attended with a corrcfponding divifiorj of tiie teguments, may Le denominated a^wound " There■VUL Q^q 2 witl\ IThere are different fpccics of wounds, i Simple mcifed wounds. 2. Ptmflured wounds. 3. Lace- rated or contvfcd wounds. 4. Gun-Jbot wounds. And 13. Poifoned wounds. In order to the cure of a fimple incifed wound, remove he effufed blood with a fponge, prefled out of mo- dcrattHy warm water. If a conflderablc arterial haemorrhage, feeure the veflel by a ligature. Remove every extraneous body, if it can be done with pru- dence; extract it with your fingers, if pofiible, other- wife w ith the fcrcep , in doing which, place the patient i'n ftich a pofition as effectually tends to relax the in- i ured parts. When a lead ball is the fun ft -ice lodged, i fit cannot be cafily removed, it may be loft. But afplin- t:cr of wood, glafs, iron,or cloth, fhoqld be removed as libon as pofiible after the injure is inflicted. This -lone, the lips of the wound muft be brought toge- ther as nearly as pofiible, and fo retained by adhefive iplafters, if the wound is not deep; but otherwife, :rhe interrupted future muft be employed. Mr. Bell 'recommends the twitted future. The dreflings may Koe piedgits of foft linr, covered with one of tow, fpread with fome digeftive ointment, and large enough to cover the whole; thefe maybe lccurcd bv fuch oandages as the flfuation of the wound will admit; the firft dreflings ufuallv remain two or three days, or until the difeharge of matter renders the fepara- tion of them eafv. After the firft dreflings are re- moved; the dreliing may be repeated every twelve or twenty-four hours, according as the difeharge is more or lefs abundant or acrid. If, after the firft drefling, a warm digeftive is required, add to the ung. refitine. fiav. a little of the ol. tereb. vel ball", capiv. Tnefe applications need not be warmed, ex- cept when very cold; after fprcatling the pledgit, its lurface may be juft warmed by holding before the fire; each time that the furface of the wound is cleanfcd, it ihould be performed by dabbing it gentlywitn fort lint, anti not wiping it, left the tepder gra- nulations Ihould be injured ; neither Ihould the Sur- face of the wound be totally freed from the matter. *s probably ferves as a matrix for the granulations. Mr. Sharpe obferves, that the principal interrup- tion to the healing of a wound, made with a fharp in- ilrumcnt, is the fungus; and this he would have fuppreffed by dry lint, and a proper comprefs upon it; or if it advances above the iurface of the Ikin, to touch its edges only with fomc gentle efcharotic; but it lomerimes happens that an obttruftion to heal- ing is the flabbinefs of a wound, and wliich is gene- tally removed by dabbing it at each drelfing with the following, or lome l'uch application : R Aq. cakis Inn. j|) is.^ tin6t. cor. Peruv. inn. j ij. tinft. myrrh. Jj. m. Thus, if an ill conftitution or bad habit of the body is no impediment, wounds on the exterior parts arc generally foon healed. When the wound ta filled up with flclh, pledejt* of the cerate of tapis calaminaris ufually effefl the laft intention of cure, or the cicatrizing of the wound. 1 here are many accidents which occafionally arc attendants on wounds in one ftage or another, fuch as fever, inflammation, a callus, &c. Thefe are to be removed by the means directed in article In flam- mat to, &c. Pminntd Wounds, arc thofc made by a fmall pointed inftrument, the external aperture being fmall and contradted in proportion to the depth. Mr. Bell fays, in the treatment of pundlured wounds, our views Ihould be the lame as in cafes of finus; which arc, to procure a reunion of the divided parts; to this end, in fuperficial wounds of this kind, where vve are certain ot extrafling any extraneous matter, and where the inflammation is moderate, comprelfion f° applied as to keep the parts to be united in clofe contadf, may be employed with advantage. But in woundjV U L Qn 3 tlie c wounds of importance, Mr. Bell’s practice is, when they irun in fuch a direction as to prevent a feton from being carried along their whole courfe,toopen them immedi- ately from one extremity to the other,asfar as can be done uvith fafety, either with a probe-pointed biltoury, or "vith a fcalpel and a director, and then drefs them as tfimple iiicifod wounds. But when a feton can be mfed, emollient poultices are employed till a free l’up- jpuration is induced, and there is no probability of in- f flammation proceeding coo far. A cord is then in- troduced nearly equal to the fize of the opening, and allowed to remain, til! any extraneous matter is difeharged; it is then gradually lelfened by with- drawing a thread or two, every two or three days, tiil it is reduced to a third or fourth of its original thicknefs, and then taken out entirely. The bed pradtice, perhaps, in every cafe of punc- tured wound, is (where it can be done with fatety) to enlarge it immediately, and more particularly in thofe cafes where the wound has been received by a fmall ( word, or a. bayonet. When, from the conti- guity of large blood-vcfl'els and nerves, it may be unfafe to lay the wound open, and when the fituation of the wound will not admit of a counter-opening, for the introdudtion of a feton, we mud trud to a proper application of preffurc. If the external aperture feems difpofed to heal, before a fimiiar tendency appears in the bottom of the fore, tents mud be employed of a prepared fponge, or other fuch materials. Mr. Bell, how- ever, recommends leaden, tubes for this purpol’e, but we Ihould not be too hady to adopt either. Uiceratfd or Con deft d Wound*. For the treatment of thefe in the early itage, vide article Contusa ; and (hould a gangrene enfuc, the means diredfed in article Moktific \ rto, mud be had recourl’c to. Vide Belt's Surgery, vol. v. Cnn-Jbol Woundt. Vide Scr.opetoplaga. Vinfixed Wounds. Whatever may be the nature ofV U L the po:fon received by a wound, whether venereal or cancerous matter, or from the bite of a venemous nimal, the fame mode of treatment as directed in rwe ecHYUROPHOBIA> fllould bt adopted. Vide be/l s Surgery, vol. v. Wounds ,n the Fans. A proper application of pref- iure is generally fully adequate to check the ha;mor- rhage from a vein ; but where preifure does not an- lwer, or it cannot be applied from the vein beine cut entirely acrofs, a ligature ihould be employed home dirett efcharotics, and fome ulc the a&ual cau- tery, but the ligature is mod to be depended on. A wounded lymphatic requires the fame treatment. \ ide Bell s Surgery, vol. v. Wounds in tl* Nerves and Tendons, and Ruptures of the Tendon*. \\ hen from violent pain, inflammation, and convulfions attending a wound, tiiere is reafon to luppofe a nerve or tendon is partially divided, and large doles of opium have been adminiftered without j. d‘> the injured nerve or tendon ihould be imme- diately completely divided. Wherever a wounded tendon may be fituated, or where it is only ruptured, without any injury having bqen done to the external parts, the limb ihould be placed in l'uch a manner, as wil moll readily admit of the retraced ends of the tendons being brought nearly together, and when in tms iituation, the mufcles of the whole limb fliould be tied down with a line flannel roller, fo as to pre- vent them from exertion during the cure; at the lame time, thepofition of the limb mull be l'uch, as t<i keep them . ftertually relaxed. Though the roller mult be firmly applied, it mull not be fo tight as tOj mipede the circulation. Vide Bell's Surgery, R ounds m the Ligaments. The obje£l in thefe wounds is to prevent the admilfion of air into the joint. In fimpic inctfcd wounds, it may frequently be cf- Jcttcd by bringing the lips of the wound together, andV U L •id retaining them To, by the dry future, and proper andages. But in lacerated wounds, this mode can- iot be adopted; our views, then, mud be, to pres- ent inflammation, by plentiful bleeding, &c. while my of the limple ointments may be applied to the round. The beams of warm vinegar may, perhaps, greatly alfift in preventing the formation of pus. The pain in the joints is allayed by large dofes of rpium, and a fomentation of white poppy-heads i isten anfwers the fame purpofe. If a depofition of matter takes place, an opening (as foon as it is afccr- Uaincd) fnould be made in the mod depending part of r be collection, and this ihould be done as often as any new collection appears ; by this method, and the uie emollient fomentations and poultices, a limb may ifometimes be laved. But mod frequently the only tintans of relief in thefe injuries, is amputation. it ihould be remarked, that in the mod Ample in- juries of the ligaments, the prevention of inflam- mation mud be attended to. Vide Bell's Surgery, vol. v. Wound; in the Trachea, and Orjbphagus. In either cf thefe cafes, the fird ftep neceffary is to dop the hae- rnorihage by ligature, whether it be from an artery or a vein. In longitudinal wounds of the trachea, the divided parts Ihould be brought together by ad- hefive pladers, and thdfc alone have often effected a cure. But in tranfverfe wounds, except when dight, adhefive pladers wifi not anfwcr; the interrupted fnrure, with broad ligatures, mud be employed, Mr. Bell fays, indcad of pafling the ligatures round any of the cartilages of the trachea," and thus car- rying them into its cavity, he has l’uccccdcd by ex- ternal ditches, that is, by inl’crting a needle at one dde of the wonnd, and palfing it flowly up, for about an inch between the trachea and the fkin, including all the intermediate cellular fubdaocc, and mufcular a fibres.fibres, then puihmgitom, along withoncendof the 15- fherhrL?tCrrt|IS’ a(rntedle a! the othcr extremity of chnn f r f FaljLtl' hrr'u£b'he teguments on die b^°flrc K c: A,s many fixtures as may be neccffiuy bung introduced the divided edges" of the cut h oukl be properly fupported, and the ligatures fc- circd by running knots: ad he lire plafters mult be n nrh VtT thC m K' C’ and thc hw“* mult bo kept a> binda- P'iU>y UCnt Upoa thc brc5ll> b}' means of a In 110i'"‘JS ,!l ihe 0ef°i‘hoSus are to be managed nearlv ,n tnc *‘lrnc manner as thole of the trachea. It is, however, neceflhry in thefe cafes, it the wound is no. evrenftvc, that it fhould be enlarged in every di- ‘ r,hlt mav.hc, ncccfl-try, t bring thc injured parts t view. Vide it, Surgcrv, vol. v. \JT ^ TU ' The,‘ ^unds arc divided by IVtr. Bell mto three kinds, viz. Thofe which tieicly injure the common teguments; thofe which penetrate into the cavity of the thorax, without ai- t r mg tnc vilcera, and thofe in which fonic of die 'Uccra are hurt. h <,un,h of tbc external TyumenH, If thefe do not penetrate farther than the (kin and cellularYubttance, icy require no othcr treatment than fimilar wounds Jn a!’-v °'hcr Pa.rt ot the body. But when they n n <u.i ;n;. th_ mufemar libres, between the ribs, like Jinules, there is a probability, if any matter forms, and is not regularly dikharged, that it 1n.1v ultimately make its way through the pleura; to prevent dm, wcnn.lt give lt free vent. In open incifed wounds, the lips muft be prevented from healing, till tlnv are filled with granulations from thc bottom. punttured wounds require thc ricatment already di- dircxfed under ihat artide. 1 he regimen of the rw- twnt mu ft be particularly attended to, and inflam- mation j rcrented. Vide iki/'s Surgery, vol. v. U'otweis— V U L Wounds which penetrate the Cavity of the T'borax. The firftobjedt here is to check the haemorrhage from we intercoftal artery, which in thin people, may be one by drawing it out with a tenaculum, and apply- >fg a ligature but where this cannot be done, pafs 1 ligature round the rib, and with it, tie a dollil of :n;t upon the bleeding artery. This done, the air, ;thieh has rufhed into the wound, mull be expelled j which end, defire the patient to make a full in- spiration flowly, and inftantly draw the fkin over the are. Now bring the lips of the wound exaftly to- gether, and fecure them in that fituation by flips of dhefive plafters, and proper bandages. In this way hel'c wounds will often heal. Sometimes an opprel- ion of breathing comes on, either from a quantity ;>f blood having been thrown out, or from a colledlion of pus* If the fymptoms are moderate, we Ihould rru£k to the fluid being abforbed; bur, otherwife, an opening muft be made. Vide article Empyema, land Beil's Surgery, vol. r. Wounds of the Lungs. Emphyfematous fwcllings in the contiguous teguments, the quantity of blood dif- ctharged being confiderablc, its being of a deeper reel than common, and frothy, alio a dil'chargc of blood ffrotn the mouth, indicates a wound in the lungs, lit Ihould be obferved, that emphyfematous fwellings unay arife, without the lungs being wounded, as they tsiay be formed by the external air palling between tthe lungs and the pleura. There are but few in- stances of the lungs healing with eafe and fafety. Tocheckthe hatmorrhage, bleed the patient till faint- ing is induced ; keep him in a cool apartment, in a per- fect ftate of quietude •, direft cooling laxative medi- ccines, and low diet. If abfeefies form in the fub- : Aancc of the lungs, the treatment muft be as direfted .in article Vomica Puj.monum. Vide Bell's Sur- igery, vol. v. Whichfoeverv U L Which foever of the vifccra in the cavirv of the thorax is wounded, venefe&jan mull he freely cra- fh^d'orn ] nfCVC^ variety of penetrating wounds of the thorny, fays Mr. Beil, where the cure is not ac- TO I" 5 “? ;n fomc c ^ especially where ront m? In rmCd’ n ft,i,icidium of matter will in r* ma7 VCar- and in fonic cafes, for life; put however tedious and difagrecabie this mav be nyea.ons fhouW never be employed 7 * in 7uTf'n <be Abd0Tnen- Mr- Bell d'iftinguiflies them m the lame manner as thofe in the .norax. Wmmdf flke 7‘'Z!'m<”,! and M,irda °f fcAhdmen. than hf 1 thi8i,nd arC n0t ,Jf more conference Rnr »h ar .aff*a,on* ,n any other p rt cf the body. Bu he contiguity of the vifeera, and the polfibility the ^ £ lnjUr?d’ from th^ mifmanage.nent of the externa! wound renders them of importance. f, * trcatm<mt of tliefe Mounds Ihouid be nearly the ofThe th ed^VVOl'n.dSOf thc external teguments rLVr T,he Patlent fhnuld bc kcP< in an ho- rizontal pofturc during the whole of thc cure, and the parts when he attempts to walk or fit, fhould be lupported by a comprefs, 3nd a flannel roller; and V J n cC contlnued f°r l°me time after the cure. » ine l, ‘ s Surgery, vol. v. Hounds wbiib penetrate the cavity , he Abdomen. El , contained y.fcera. The danger likely to a rife from wounds of this kind, is from The air finding acccis into the cavity, and inflaming its contents ; and from a coHedion of pus within the peritonaeum. To prevent thefe effefts, after flopping the hemorrhage by ligature, bring the lips of the wound together, fecure them by a,ihefivc platters, a comprcls, and flannel roller. A rtrft antiphlogiflic regunen muft ,be di rafted. Should there be a large «cjk lition of matter, producing bad lyinptoms/it muft’ • * . *• V U L uft be evacuated by the trocar, introduced ir* i oblique diredlion. The fame precautions ares .ecefl'ary here as are fuggeftcd in article ParaCes- esis. Sometimes the bowels protrude, when a wound esnetrates the cavity of the abdomen. They fhould :e immediately returned : and if the wound is not lfttciently extenfive for this purpofe, it fhould be nlarged. If any fund, duff, or other extraneous tatter is. upon the protruded parts, they fhould be •athed with warm milk or water, before they are returned, but never otherwife. If the bowels pro- rruded are inflated, the air mull be cautionfly prefled ito that portion which is in the abdomen The -owcls being replaced, we may prevent their falling ut again (if the wound is lrnall) by a roller, and lacing the patient with his head and buttocks cle- ated. Coftivenefs muft be prevented. But when Tic wound is extenfive, futures are neccffary to bring «:s fides together. For the method of doing it, vid» . rticle GastroraphiA. If the ligatures occafion :.enfion, they muft be untied, and that fymptom re- mnov-ed, by bleeding, fomentation, &c. before they1 re again drawn together. Vide Bell’s Surgery, i joI. v. Wounds of the Alimentary Canal, are known by the lifeharge of blood from the mouth and anus; from file faces being difeharged at the wound in the inte- guments, and foetid air from the wound; alfo, bv riaufea, ficknefs, acute pains in the abdomen, cold ’ weats, and faintings. If the wounded part is not . .n view, the treatment is the fame as recommended in wounds which merely penetrate the cavity. If it -is protruded, the opening muft be fewed, before the gut is returned. For this purpofe, Lc Dra.i recom- imends what he call the Looped Suture; but the ge- •neral practice is, to effedt it by the Glover's future 1 Mr.VUL Mr Be|1 fays, both rhefe futures tend to dimimfi, &ould ZteA °f gUt’ 3nd thlIlks opeiSS fhould be done by entering a fmall fine m-eduT euT^an'd*th lh thre-ad oF f,lk’ from infidc of the Sm?lPUihlBS K 0UtW?rd- The operation fhould commence near to one end of the wound; the needle being pufhed through one fide of the gut, he ligature hould be drawn forward, and retained by a “S lormed on the end, remaining in the infidl The I: ” jaffi,?lJar inanner» fo as to pierce the oppo- site fide of the wound alfo from within. As rnt utches being thus made as may be neceffary, the end the nrh ‘S3tUre be fccured> and cut off clofc ts the other extremity of the wound, if the gut is to he !nt0 Lhc a,bdomcn’ or il may be left of a ufficient length to hang out at the wound of the ‘egrCntS’ d tho wounded part of the intefHne a fo be kept in contaft with the external opening lx is not, however advifcable to leave the ligature out eLnr,VdV0Ufnd’,KbUti.JtO prCVCnt the fitccs being emptied into the abdomen, the injured pan may h* retained in contaft with the wound in the abdomen. by means of the thread ufed for the ligature. If the gut is cut entirely acrofs, and protrudes at the wound, the two ends may be ftitched to the pc- ntonajum, and abdominal mufcles, exadtly opixffit* and contiguous to each other; the drcflingot' the outward fhould be as light as poffible. Anotht-r mode o treatment is, to inlert the upper extremity of the divided gut into the end of the other, and ftirch them together. In doing this, the gut fhould be extended by iome round body; fome recommend a tube of pa- oL n °,r -5hm Pafteboard for this purpofe; but Mr. ell advjles a (mail roll of tallow ; a piece of it nearly equal in diameter to the inteltine, fhould be inferred toto the end of the upper portion of the gut, then pffsV U L oafs it fairly into the other, to about the extent of an nch ; 'then ftitch the two ends together, carrying the Hitches round the gut, perhaps twice round would fford a better chance of fuccels. Sometimes, only one portion of the divided gut pro- rudes; in.this cafe, it isadvifed to ftitch it to the peri- onaeum •, and Ihould it prove the upper part, the pa- ient may recover, with the inconvenience c.f an ar- tificial anus. But ihould it prove the under portion, : hough death would certainly enfue, it is alrnoft generally adviled not to proceed any farther. lyir. IBell, however, fays, the divided portion in the ab- domen fhould be fought for, by enlarging the exter- 1 ill opening, fufficicntiy to admit the operator’s fin- egers. Vide Bill’s Surgery, vol. v. Wv.ani; of the Sto •tut:. 1 f the wounded portion does .".not protrude, it Ihould be fought tor, I'citched up, ind replaced. Intlarnmation muft be prevented, and the patient fparingly fed. Vide Bill’s Surgery, vol. V. IVoioids of the Omentum anil Mefenttrv. If the in- jured portion of omentum is nearly Separated from the reft, or has a tendency t j gangrene, remove-it, otherwne immediately return it into the abdomen. Wide article Bubonocele. I.i wounds of the mef nter\', whatever vcITelsarc .divided, muft be immediately tied with ligatures, and the ends left out at the wound. Vide Bril's ^Surgery, vol. v. IvouKth oj ibr L’Vtr and Call Blaeld r. Wounds of the liver art diftiuftly known, by bile being dil- chargcd with the blood ; bile tinged with blood being dil'chargcd by the ftomach and anus; the belly be- coming fwclled and tenfc, with a pain on the top of the Shoulder. The treatment is, to prevent exctlfivc haemorrhages by vencfeClion, eccoprotics, and keep flic patient cool and quiet. If bile or blood collectsV U L m the abdomen, make an opening in the molt de pending part of the collection. IVouuds of tbe Gdll Bladder feldom terminate f; vourably ; any colleaions of bile in the abdome mutt be evacuated by an opening. Vide Bell's Su gery, vol. v. /Pounds of tbe Bladder. If the under part of rh Vilcus is wounded, apply Ample dreifings, endeavoi™ boweh'la111 lnflainmatlon bX Weeding, and keep tty If the upper part is wounded, it fhoUld be ftitchei cither with the glover’s future, or as directed id wounds of the inteilines; and if the feound is in ti anterior part of the bladder, it may be brought to tl external opening, andl’titched to the contiguous par V ide Bril’s Surgery, vol. y. IVowuh of tbe Uterus. Wounds of this vilaid when unimpregnated, are fimilar to wounds in thl contiguous part;. Hut during pregnancy, fvmptoiri] or abortion will be produced : this'lhould not be prt 1 vented ; when they do not occur, and the patient 1 lively to fink from lofs of blood ;*tbe child lhould id taken out, cither by the C&iarian operation, or byi cnbrg-ing the external wound, and that in the uterusJ fumcientty to admit of the child's being extracted Vide B-ll’-s Surgery, vol. v. alfo vol. i. and (<oorb\ Practical Trcatife of Wounds. Deufe V oundj of tiie Head, and While s Surgery. 4 s 11! E t V D.LUOO'^^ I ->TJ43Uro pJB0JO|O3t?2