272 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Plevis. the operation I have just described without any difficulty. A soft instrument was readily passed into the bladder, and the retention relieved, but no instrument could be passed forward through the stricture. I therefore, keeping the tip of my left index finger in the membranous urethra, cut down upon it through the perinseum. The soft catheter was now carried through the perinasum into the bladder so that there might be no influence tending to favour the formation of a recto-urethral fistula. The rectal wound healed at once; but rest kept up for a fortnight did not enable us to pass any instrument through the stricture. The next step was to perform perineal section. This was a simple measure, seeing that the tip of the finger could be placed at the back of the stricture, and an instrument carried to its front, but the finest probe could not be passed through the stricture until the fibrous tissue around it was almost wholly cut through. A soft catheter, kept in the whole length of the urethra for two days, completed the operation. Later a No. 14 (metal) was frequently intro- duced, and the patient was soon well. A severe cystitis, with which he entered, subsided after the relief of the retention. The Retention op Bougies instead op Catheters por the Continuous Dilatation op Strictures. Among the various methods of treating stricture of the urethra, that of continuous dilatation is justly held in much esteem. In a few days, and with no risk, a very tight stricture may be dilated so as to permit a large instrument to be passed; hence the treatment may be said to combine the safety of gradual dilatation with the rapidity of incision. It is not suited to every case. It will not, for example, take the place of internal division in strictures anterior to the scrotum, nor of division in extremely irritable or resilient strictures and strictures with persistent fistulas. Never- theless, in a large number of tight—perhaps very tight— old and neglected strictures, with no great irritability or