207 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Nech. sore throat. In a few clays he was better; he got up and attended an inquest but was shortly after seized with rigors, severe pain in the neck, and a remarkable loss of use of the left arm. In a day or two later, great and rapidly formed swelling appeared in the neck, especially at the front and left side. In a few hours after the formation of the swelling he began to expectorate large quantities of bronchial mucus, but without marked cough or dyspnoea. The general debility and nervous depression were strikingly seen. In a few days he died with pain in the head, delirum, and intense prostration. The swelling remained to the last pale and hard, with no sign of redness or fluctuation on death of skin or cellular tissue. No post-mortem was made. During one of my visits to the Queen’s hospital a boy of fifteen years was brought into the hospital in a state of marked debility and distress. He stood with difficulty and his face showed extreme anxiety and depression. His breathing was frequent and audible. Around the front half of his neck and entirely covering it was a circumscribed collar- like swelling of the colour of his skin generally, which was of a slightly earthy tint, and the swelling was uniformily hard. His temperature was high and his pulse rapid. He was immediately put under an anaesthetic to a degree which enabled us to incise the skin over the trachea without complaint. I then carried the incision carefully down to the trachea. All the parts were matted together in a greyish yellow brawny mass. On reaching the trachea a little very dark and very foetid pus appeared in the wound, and appeared to come upwards from the lower part of the neck. The pus visibly and audibly bubbled as though the point of the knife had entered (it certainly had not) the trachea and air was coming through the fluid; perfect rest, warmth, fresh air, and nutrition, were sedulously attended to. The next day he was strikingly better, and the improvement continued for two or three days, when the febrile symptoms returned. The temperature rose to 104; the prostration rapidly increased, and in forty-eight hours after the relapse he died. The post-mortem revealed a singular intra-thoracic condition.