Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 30 surface, one near the elbow, the other near the wrist. Iodine liniment was applied to the forearm, except the more prominent portions of the abscesses, the hand and part of the upper arm. When he came three days afterwards, the arm presented a very singular appearance. The swelling of the forearm had entirely gone, and the abscesses were reduced to two circumscribed spherical prominences over which the skin was slightly pink. They were then opened. In thirty hours the swelling and discharge had disappeared. The Treatment oe Phaged.ena, Sloughing and Destructive Inflammations. The treatment of the destructive inflammations will usually be that of syphilis, especially in its tertiary forms. This may certainly be assisted by counter-irritation. Elsewhere will be found some remarks on the treatment of tertiary ulcerations of the nose and lip. It is too much forgotten in our present engrossing attention to methods of dressing that the true way of cleansing a phagedaena or sloughing ulcer is to remove the inflammation which causes it. In des- tructive inflammations a vigorous zone of counter-irritation is more beneficial (in my experience) than the local application of strong nitric acid. Probably the nitric acid itself acts as a counter- irritant, just as nitrate of silver does to the os uteri, or to the surface of an indolent ulcer, or an incision in erysipelas. The apparently dived irritation is in relation to the mass of inflamed tissue a positive counter-irritation. But the ordinary “ nitric acid treatment” has this serious disadvantage—it produces itself a slough where any further slough may be fatal. If sloughing action be already close to the femoral artery (as I have seen it with a fatal result from haemorrhage), the artificial slough produced by nitric acid may unquestionably open it. In the cancrum oris of children, now happily rare, I resort to an adjacent patch of iodine irritation, with the kindly aid of a few breaths of chloroform, as an aid to constitutional treatment, which here is of great importance.