Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 105 liniment was applied over the femorals. Recovery was com- plete in twenty-four hours. The Female Breast. Inflammatory diseases of the female breast are frequent, painful, and depressing. In acute inflammation, and in the early stage of abscess, a zone of iodine liniment around the abscess should be combined with a stripe of iodine liniment over the brachial artery. Over the whole of the inflamed part a thick heavy poultice should be applied, with as much pressure as is possible without producing pain. The pressure may be effected by a sort of many-tailed bandage (made of three or four broad pieces of calico or flannel), so arranged as to envelope the thorax without moving the patient; or, if the patient is kept in a completely horizontal posture, a shot mattress may be placed over the poultice, and the outer side of the breast supported by a cotton wool cushion in the axilla. Pressure, carefully and gently made, is of the greatest advantage in these cases. Much of what was said on the treatment of abscess applies to mammary abscess (in whatever part of the organ it may be situated), especially as regards the use of the knife. Where counter-irritation relieves pain and subdues inflammation, there need be at least no hurry in making an incision, at the same time in clearly established and abundant suppuration the knife should be used so as to give free and dependent exit. When the discharge is getting less and also in chronic inflmmatory thickening, a very successful method of treatment is to strap the breast, and apply iodine over the brachial region. Hypertrophy of the breast, when affecting the whole gland, is much more effectively treated by counter-irritation to the inside of the arm, in addition to pressure, than by strapping alone. Similar treatment is also the best for the clusters of enlarged glands that are occasionally met with between the mamma and the axilla. Mammary abscess: Opening and closure much accelerated by counter-irritation.—Sarah F., aged 25, applied with an unopened abscess of the breast, of six weeks' duration. There