248 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. On Longitudinal Incision through Sphincter, Rectum, and Stricture. The operative surgery of tlie rectum is, as a rule, attended with a large amount of success. The treatment of stricture has hitherto, howover, always presented unusual difficulties. In the Lancet for 1871, I published a description of an operation which I had performed, with completely successful results, for obstinate stricture complicated with fistula. I believe the operation is destined to prove of great benefit in severe stricture, whether fistula be present or not. I divide the sphincter, the stricture, and the rectal walls between the two by one incision, thus giving complete rest to the parts and a free egress to discharges. (See plate VIII., Fig. 4). The wound heals from the bottom, but the stricture is cured. Where there is a fistula it may, perhaps, advantageously guide the director or bistoury. Where there is no fistula I should make the incision at the side but nearer the middle line. Since the appearance of my case, with its illustrative diagram, it has been performed by other surgeons with marked success. Since I advocated the operation now described, I have learnt that Nelaton proposed or practised one somewhat similar in principle. M. Verneuil has quite recently published a description of a similar operation, but using the ecraseur and making a larger wound. Still more recently M. Verneuil has advocated the advantages of longitudinal division of cancer of the rectum in preference to colotomy when ob- struction sets in. Where the stricture lies, as it mostly does, near the anus, I believe the operation here advocated to be much safer than incisions into the margin of the stricture— which incisions have frequently ended in fatal peritonitis. It cannot be a matter of surprise that incisions in the rectum, near a constantly contracting and powerful muscle, should be followed by a cellular inflammation, which may readily reach the peritoneum. To arrest the action of the sphincter is of primary importance. I do not claim for this operation entire freedom from recurrence, but if the stricture form again it is slighter