287 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. patient use of which I think would be certainly beneficial. A consideration of the nature or pathology of the ancle collar I have left till last. Let us first see what it is not. It is not elephantiasis arabum. In elephantiasis the skin is greatly thickened, hard, rough, nodulated, of dark colour, and lessened sensibility. The bones, connective tissue, fat, and all other structures (the muscles excepted) share in the enlargement. The feet and toes are also implicated. It is not any form of innocent tumour or outgrowth. It has no capsule; it is adherent to the skin at the surface and to the deep fascia at its under aspect. The age and locality are inconsistent with the appearance of either con- nective tissue tumour, or connective tissue outgrowth—the latter mostly springing from the vicinity of the pelvic outlet, aud having thickened skin over it. There is no need to discuss the question of hypertrophy in the ordinary acceptation of the term; none of its conditions are present. Erythema nodosum sometimes leave bulky masses on the leg, but it has a characteristic history, and the enlargements which it leaves have no uniformity of configuration or locality. The antecedents of the collar leave no room for supposing that it is any degree or form of phlegmasia alba dolens. I do not think it is any form of skin disease, although so eminent an authority as Vanzetti uses the word pachydermatous in relation to it. Dr. Tilbury Fox, who also regards it as primarily a skin disease, applies the term dermatolysis to an affection in which the skin hangs in loose folds, its fibro-cellular element being greatly increased, and is disposed to put the ancle collar in this category. I am quite unable to accede to such a view. In the collar there is at no time any tendency to the formation of loose folds, or indeed to any such softness or pliancy as is essential to the formation of a fold. More- over, I again contend that the skin is not thickened, and is only secondarily affected; its elements are not larger or coai scr. It is true it cannot bo lifted up or glided over the enlargement, because it is adhorent to it in the same