139 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. sponge pressure. He went out with a sound, depressed cicatrix and with less hemiplegia. One of our house surgeons has told me since that he thinks sponges were specially designed for trephining cases. There are some operations where the styptic properties of sponge may be advantageously utilised. I have found that after lithotomy, when there is free bleeding, there is no mechanism which equals in accessibility, simplicity, and efficiency an elongated bit of sponge—a big sponge tent in fact—passed by the side of an elastic tube or catheter _ In lithotomy wounds, as elsewhere, when the sponge is put within the wound it speedily creeps into every corner, crevice, or recess from which blood may flow. It is on this principle that an ordinary uterine sponge tent, passed along the floor of the nose, as suggested by a surgeon whose name I forget, quickly and effectually checks epistaxis. In operations on the sphincter ani I use a bit of sponge or a sponge tent; it does not tend to slip out of place, and it can be kept antiseptic. Here the use of terebenised oil would render frequent interference unnecessary. There is at present a tendency to expect too much from mere dressing. We must remember that no dressing will quite get rid of inflammation, or erysipelas, or shock, or other evils, because these are not always due directly or indirectly to septicity. The great aim of a dressing is that it shall, by simple and attainable methods, secure all the conditions which favour the healing process. Not long ago there was, and justly, a great dread of sponges—a dread which was tersely expressed thus: When- ever and wherever you see a sponge, throw it into the fire.” The introduction of efficient antiseptic fluids has changed all this. I lie medium which most readily conveys septicity, most readily also conveys antisepticity; a sponge, in truth, conveys, renews, or maintains antisepticity with signal convenience and efficiency. Hitherto, on a few occasions, a sponge has been left on or near a wound as a temporary expedient, and with a lurking sense of slovenliness. Sponges have also been