Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 35 without impairing the integrity of the essential organs— there is a greater or less approximation to the state of hybernation, and to the condition of the cold-blooded animals. There is so much torpor in the action of the forces of life, that injury is better resisted, and its effects are not accompanied by that depression which is the more intense where nervo-muscular force is itself the more vigorously manifest. On this principle, the person with old joint- disease, worn to mental and bodily torpor, and the young- child, whose force is developmental rather than nervous or muscular, bear operations and injuries better than a man in the prime of life, whose every organ and function are subservient to the exercise of nerve-force. In such a man, the nerve-force is most predominant; if such a man receives an injury, the nerve-force is reduced to a condition of the greatest torpor. Shock is essentially a depression or meta- morphosis of nerve-force. Where nerve-force is predominant shock also becomes predominant. In the young, as I have remarked, the forces of development and growth are much more active than the nervous or the muscular. It is well known that, where growth is in excess, nervo-muscular force is deficient. Shock acts by altering or depressing nerve-force. In the young, there is less nerve-force to alter or depress ; and, consequently, the effects of such lessened depression or shock become unmistakeably obvious. This law, if I may call it such, of “less nerve-force, less shock,” receives support from the fact that the forces of growth and development in the young, which are so predominant, require the presence of more favourable conditions, and which can be spared less easily than in the adult. Where iujury or shock interferes with these conditions, in so much does it become important, and in so much should it influence the mode of treatment, which ought always to be of a character to favour growth and development. Whatever children may bear in the way of operations, they cannot hear the absence of warmth and food.