244 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. nodular or wave-like prominences externally, which to the unwitting eye look like cancer. These great nodules and waves may also exist without the cylindrical wall of gummy spheres in the rectum. But the diagnosis is the matter I desire mainly to draw attention to here. In gummy rectum the history of syphilis is often obtained with difficulty or not at all. And it must always be remembered that cancer is common in syphilitic persons. Nevertheless, a history of syphilis has a certain weight. One of the most important factors in diagnosis is time. Gummy disease is a much longer process than cancerous. Several years ago, in one of the first cases in which the difficulty came before me, I found a woman of about 35, having a florid complexion, and not wasted in body, with a rectal tube made up of, or surrounded by, firm globes the size of large marbles. I expressed in her hearing my fear of cancer. So Dr. (mentioning the name of a well known and able physician not now in practice,) told me six years ago, she re- marked. The “ six years ” immediatedly roused my doubts, and on deeper investigation, I came to the conclusion that I had a case of gummy disease in a locality, and in a form, which surgical literature had not impressed upon me. Another feature in gummy disease is the uniform size of the ball- like masses. A rectal tube made up of marbles, all much of the same size, should excite suspicion. But this symptom is not a very reliable one—the globes, or masses, may coalesce into a larger and more irregular mass. There is much less tendency to bleed in gummy disease, but a little blood is seen occasionally; if it be seen mixed with mucus and without foetid watery discharge, the inference would be in favour of the gummy view. The gummy mass, however large, does not become fixed to the sacrum or wall of pelvis; in the earlier stages of cancer, or gumma, this would be a symptom of less value. The “ gliding” of the mucous membrane over the sub- mucous lumps is retained long in gummy disease, and is quickly lost in cancer. Old and neglected syphilitic disease of the rectum is a disease scarcely less terrible in prognosis than is cancer