Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 205 I did not see him again, but I was informed that two days after my second visit the symptoms rather suddenly disappeared, and that he quickly seemed in his usual health, swallowing both solids and liquids with complete ease. Two or three weeks afterwards he lost his life from an unfortunate mistake. He swallowed at bed time what he believed to be a night-draught, but which was really an eye-lotion containing atropine. No post-mortem was made. His medical adviser believed, and still believes most con- fidently, that there was at no time any suicidal tendency. The first remark on the above case which offers itself is the rather sudden subsidence of symptoms of extreme mechanical difficulty in swallowing, and the next is the probability that a condition of the palate, which when fluids were brought into contact with it gave rise to facial contortion, was similar to the temporary condition of the oesophagus, the latter of which by inducing spasm prevented the passage of everything except fluids, and those with difficulty, and sometimes not at all. This is of course only inferential, a positive opinion was not justified, because in organic changes of mucous tubes it is not at all infrequent to find eruptions near these surfaces. A man with stricture of the urethra is more than other men prone to eczema of the prepuce or penis. Vesicles, pustules, pimples, appear about the anus in inflammation or cancerous disease of the rectum. When, therefore, we saw on our second consultation, a slight eruption on the palate, we did not at the time suspect that a similar condition might exist in the oesophagus. This was an after thought which I suggest for what it is worth, and as I have said from inference and analogy. It is always easy to be wise after the event, but to-morrow a surgeon might be called to see an adult past middle age, where, with an eruption on the mouth, there might possibly aud probably be an epithelial cancer at the junction of the pharynx aud the oesophagus. There might possibly be a ring of eczema or herpes of the mucous membrane. Altogether I think this case teaches a lesson worth