Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. 237 ature and prostration, a crepitating swelling was found under the left larger gluteal muscles; when this was opened, my finger readily passed to the sacro-sciatic opening in one direction, and the capsule of the hip-joint in another. Beginning at the lower part of the rectum, the cellulitis, during a relapse, ran upwards inside the pelvis, but fortu- nately turned at a right angle through the sacro-sciatic opening, and came outside the pelvis again in the gluteal region. (See Plate VIII., Fig. 2.) Several grave incidents occurred in the progress of this case, upon which I cannot now dwell. One of these was alarming haemorrhage from the seat of the cellulitis through previously made openings, which the family adviser ingeniously checked by using a Barnes^ dilator in the rectum. Another was the appearance of a pleuro-pneumonia of most threatening aspect, but whiclq happily, kept within circumscribed limits. Recovery followed by very slow steps. Many medical friends and advisers, including an eminent Birmingham physician, were in attend- ance, and doubtless all helped to save a life which for some time trembled in the balance. Shortly after the publication of the above cases in the British Medical Journal, Mr. Vincent Jackson, of Wolver- hampton, recorded an interesting case which is given below* The peculiar feature in the case is its occurrence in very hot weather, and it further illustrates the principle previously laid down, that if some of the favouring causes are very powerful, others may be absent. The query suggests itself here as in other cases—does the pressure in the sitting posture under some circumstances suspend the circulation and vitality of a certain area of tissue? or is thrombosis induced and thereby vitality impaired? In certain states of health a small patch of dead or even altered tissue might prove the centre of an extensive and spreading cellular and gangrenous inflammation. “ Ischio-rectal gangrenous cellulitis is, in our experience, so rare a disease, that as a contribution to the subject, I am desirous of supplementing the cases of Mr. Furneaux Jordan, by recording the only I have seen.” one