Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorcix, Sf Abdomen. 247 other women will prefer, as did my patient, to lie m bed a few hours frequently during the day—not every day in her case, severe as it was. The instrument readily keeps in place without any fastening in the horizontal posture, but a fastening could be easily contrived, if it should seem needful. Lying in bed a few hours daily, or for a wholo day now and then, has the advantage of voluntary quietness, a comfortable position, and the absence of fastenings. The principle of continuous dilatation would probably prove of great service in simple and cicatricial stricture of the pharynx and oesophagus—such namely as follow burns and scalds, and the swallowing of caustic fluids. A comparatively fine bulbous-pointed bougie—such as is used for the treatment of urethral stricture—if kept in the stricture (of pharynx or oesophagus) for a few hours at a time, would probably preserve a larger channel for the transmission of food than could be maintained by any other proceeding. The instrument should lie loosely in the constricted part, it should be very soft and pliable; one end should emerge from the mouth so freely that at any moment it may be withdrawn. Swallowing soft food, or milk, might be tried while the instrument is retained. When obstruction threatens in cancer of the rectum, I am of opinion that a fine bougie, a straw's size or smaller, retained constantly in the rectum would do more good than harm. The harm, if any, would be liminorrliage, and experience only can say whether this would occur or not. The bougie constantly retained would act as a kind of shoe-horn to the faeces, and constantly maintain a channel. Each individual would decide whether the instrument should or should not be removed during defecation. The principle of the treatment here put forward may be thus formulated— Keep up continuous dilatation of a strictured canal during the exercise of its function as well as at other times. The shoe-horn is constantly in place; or to alter the figure, the thin end of the wedge is always in, and always ready for an advance. It is presumed hero that the stricture is one suited for dilatation. It is not necessary to say that it is highly improper to pass instruments in every possible sort of obstruction.