Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, $ Abdomen. 227 great surprise, and in some degree to my alarm, I was able by the taxis to reduce with ease, and with “gurgling,” the whole hernia. I say alarmed, because I feared that the bowel that had been outside the abdominal cavity for seven years would cause some irritation or disturbance when it was once more put inside. Fortunately no uneasy symptom of any kind followed. Now I cannot help thinking that a firm and intelligent hand could at any moment in the seven years have reduced the hernia. Clearly there were no adhesions; but it may be said that the size of the abdominal outlet was too small to permit reduction. I cannot think it was so in this case, though I do not deny the possibility of such a condition. An opening which permits ready transmission of faeces, and sets up no disease or adhesion, would probably have permitted reduction by a trained hand. A Suggestion for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Much and varied ingenuity has been shown in efforts to radically cure hernia by closing its outlets. Unhappily no single method has been commonly or permanently successful. Had success been possible on the principle of closing the hernial openings Mr. Wood’s great ingenuity would certainly have secured it. Too many surgeons strive to improve what is already easy and successful in surgery; to Mr. Wood belongs the credit of grappling with real surgical difficulties such as the radical cure of hernia and the operative relief of extroversion of the bladder. In obstinate and difficult cases of hernia we find, as is well known, that the abdominal cavity becomes relatively too small for its contents. Especially does this happen at the age when fat begins to accumulate within the abdomen. If a man were to come to me with a hernia which no kind of truss could keep up, and which was at the same time more than ordinarily liable to strangulation, I should be prepared to adopt an entirely new principle in the radical cure of hernia. I would enlarge the cavity of the abdomen. Why not enlarge it by forming a partial pendnlosity, seeing that pendulosities, though possibly troublesome, are less