74 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. pressure, counter-irritation : Recovery.—A man, age 20, a currier, accidentally laid open his right knee anteriorly to the extent of two inches. The articular extremities were visible. The wound was carefully closed with silver wire, the joint was compressed with dry lint, (I should probably use a soft constantly moist antiseptic sponge now as keeping up better and adapted pressure as well as antisepticity), and a splint affixed. Counter-irritation to the thigh and leg was adopted and maintained. Not a drop of pus formed and no unfavour- able symptom occurred. In six weeks he was allowed to get up.” Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases not peculiar to any Anatomical System. SIMPLE LOCAL INFLAMMATION. A simple local inflammation which has not proceeded to suppuration or ulceration is not described in surgical text books, or any reference made to its treatment. I venture, however, to draw attention to inflammation in its earlier stages as a distinct disease. If we pass from the surgical library into the surgical ward, or out-patients’’ room, we frequently meet with enlargements which are tender, hard, hot, and perhaps painful, and covered by red or cedematous integu- ments, which often subside quickly or slowly, and which are more or less influenced by treatment. Such an inflammation is not an abscess, or a carbuncle, or an erysipelas, or, in the ordinary sense of the word, a cellulitis. Often in such cases all that we can say is that an in- flammation is present. But it is also not rare to find such a combination of local phenomena as enable us to do more than this, to say, for instance, here is an incipient abscess, here an incipient carbuncle, here an incipient whitlow, here an incipient cellulitis. There is yet no pus in the abscess or whitlow, no slough in the carbuncle or cellulitis. In the great majority of these cases it lies in our power immediately to arrest the inflammation. We can not only prevent suppuration or sloughing, but we can, sometimes