Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 58 imitate this worn out system ? I once assisted a friend to amputate the thigh of a man in active medical practice who was the subject of long standing epitheliomatous cancer. Repeated excision had failed to entirely remove it, and yet he was able to attend to practice. To my inexpressible astonishment the man whose thigh was to be cut off within an hour, himself drove to the station to meet me. He insisted on making a box of pills five minutes before the anaesthetic was given. On a beautiful country hill-side he died, I learnt, apparently from septic conditions which were probably in a great degree due to shock—shock which he did his best to aggravate. Had he been asleep, or anaesthetised, or even drunk for a week before the operation, he would have had a better chance. A gentleman in very active business and public life was brought to me, by his family medical attendant, with a large stone in the bladder. A day was fixed for lithotomy, and instructions given for a preliminary period of complete rest. He discarded all advice. He sat on the magisterial bench on Saturday, and performed other public duties to the close of the day. He had not spoken about his ailment, or the operation, to a single friend. On Sunday morning I performed lithotomy by the lateral method. The shock immediately following the operation was not unusually severe, but it was prolonged, and characterised by exacerbations. A week after, curious cerebral symptoms— partial unconsciousness, with muscular movements of the head and neck, not actually convulsive—appeared, attended with obstinate sleeplessness, which opium and chloral failed to relieve. The weather at the time was intensely hot, and something like heat-stroke was believed to be present. During this attack creeping cellular inflammation attacked the wound, and led to an indirect communication with the rectum, which became the cause of much distress. If I repeated the operation to-morrow, or twenty times over, keeping to the lateral method, I could not devise a single alteration or improvement in any one step. I believe all these anomalous symptoms arose from the fact that the man’s nervous system was kept at the highest tension up