170 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. respiratory organs. While I revise these pages a report comes from Germany of excision of the pharynx. Probably some of the operations which generally come into notice will as quickly disappear. f can do little more than mention the increased numbers, the difficulty and the complication of operations in the surgery of the genito-urinary organs. However numerous, difficult, or complicated such operations may be, they must be mastered by those who undertake the responsibility of this branch of surgery. When I look at the serious—often fatal results of stricture, its varieties, the operations for its treatment, the number of instruments that may be used, and the grave results which often follow stricture operations, I often wonder that surgeons and the public could ever have believed, or can now believe, that gonorrhoea is a trifling disease. I affirm, in the simplest and the strongest language I can use, that, in the surgical wards the clap kills more men than the pox. I cannot say that I believe gonorrhoea to be less frequent than it was, but I am glad to be able to believe that its later, indirect, and worst results—retention and the severer operations adopted for its relief—are less frequent —certainly less frequent in proportion to the population. There is another class of operations more melancholy to reflect upon, which keep pace with the population, and the prospect of lessening which is at present gloomy. They are - the operations for maladies which men, so far, cannot check or diminish—operations for liydra-headed cancer, for ovarian cysts, for morbid growths of every kind, for the grievous deformities of club-foot, for wry-neck, for squint, for hare-lip, for cleft-palate, for epispadias, hypospadias, and extro-version of the bladder. I am not sure that from some ucw operations there may not be a re-action as there has been in the case of the radical cure for hernia. A truss is better than a serious operation. False noses and false palates may come more into vogue than operations for absent nose or cleft-palate. If surgeons could put teeth into the natural alveolar socket the dentist’s mechanism would still bo preferred.