222 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. publication of my method I have constantly adopted it with a growing belief in its simplicity and efficiency; at the same time I have always kept on the watch for any better method. The operation pre-supposes that the operator is familiar by touch with the anatomy of the parts concerned in hernia. The principle of the operation is this: make an incision through cutaneous structures near the neck of a given hernia, of such a size that the finger may be freely passed into lax connective tissue, the finger can then be insinu- ated to the firm margin of the hernial outlet; pass now a hernia knife along the finger, slightly incise the given margin and reapply the taxis. It is the cutaneous structures which mainly interfere between the surgeon and the special hernial structures. Put the finger through the skin and the greater difficulties are overcome. The details of the operation consist in the application of the principle now proposed to the various hernial sites. The operation just sketched, like all extra-peritoneal operations, is most applicable to femoral hernia, and for the simple reason that femoral hernia passes through a ring merely, while inguinal hernia passes through a tube. In this variety of hernia the small cutaneous incision is made vertically as nearly as can be over the margin of GimbernaGs ligament; the fore finger passes at once along the inner side of the movable hernial globe to the fixed fibrous margin at its inner side; this is notched sparingly inwards with a hernia knife, and the finger firmly presses against the incised margin so as to gain by pressure and gentle dilation the fullest advantage of the incision. It is wholly needless to divide every flake of connective tissue down to GimbernaGs ligament; it is enough that the finger-nail reaches the constricting margin with ease and certainty—this margin may be GimbernaGs ligament, or a part of the saphenous opening, or both merged into one. In the great majority of cases, a moderate and brief application of the taxis reduces the hernia. Should the taxis again fail, the cutaneous incisions must be extended and the sac opened, when it will be found that the neck of the sac is constricted and rigid, or that the