1 d2 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. cold weather. Some other cause or causes, no doubt, in some cases, co-operate with cold, and their intensity may be so strong as to produce erysipelas in some cases inde- pendently of cold. But very frequently erysipelas will not prevail without cold, especially moist “ raw ” cold. The immediate appearance of erysipelas from direct exposure is not uncommon. A few winters ago, during one period of bleak and moist easterly winds of a few weeks duration, I saw more erysipelas than I usually see in a number of years. In one of the weeks I saw the following cases :— An adult man, in good health, the principal of a large healthy suburban educational establishment, on leaving a warm chapel, one Sunday evening, crossed a large quadrangle clad as he was during service; the next day an attack of erysipelas of the head and neck set in so severely that he narrowly escaped with his life. The same Sunday evening, in another part of the town, a lady left church, passed through two or three streets, and complained bitterly of the cold when she reached home; before the following Sunday she died from erysipelas of the head and neck. In another suburb a lady (in fair health), clad only in indoor clothing, gave directions to her servants out of doors in a very exposed spot; a severe, though not fatal, attack of erysipelas of the head and neck followed. At the same time numerous cases were brought into the hospital, and some (uot a disproportionate number) arose in the hospital. It was indisputable that the latter cases were found in the most exposed wards or parts of wards. It is a curious circum- stance that in our detached wards, which are wholly protected from easterly winds by a large block of buildings, not a case of erysipelas has been known to arise, and this, not- withstanding that they are the wards to which all cases of erysipelas are taken. In other parts of this volume will be found a description of gangrenous cellulitis around the rectum, and cellulitis of the neck. It will be seen that intense cold was a main factor in their causation. I feel sure that some cases of thrombosis and embolism, and also of icorrhmmia which I have seen, have been caused by ex-