123 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. authorities discourage operative steps in double cancer, and that the prospect was more serious than in cases of single growth. The woman’s answer was not encouraging, but it was very importunate. She said: “ My mother had cancer in both breasts; she refused an operation; she died from pain, discharge, and debility, a miserable death, and I will not die like her if I can find a surgeon anywhere who will take out my cancers.” It was impossible to refuse so painful a request. I removed both breasts. Some months ago (1880), a medical friend, living in another suburb than the one in which the lady lived when I operated upon her, said to me—“Do you remember Mrs. F., on whom you operated for cancer?” I said, “Yes. How long did she live ?” To my great surprise he answered, “ She is alive now, and well.” In 1870, I removed, from a lady of forty-eight, a healthy, looking, naturally thin woman, a circumscribed scirrhus of the breast. The glands were not affected. I cut very widely of the growth, especially removing all the superadjacent skin. She is now (1880), her family physician tells me, in excellent health. A small patch in the centre of the operation wound was a long time in healing in consequence of the free removal of the skin—a free removal, nevertheless, which has been a great boon to her. Such cases, probably, most surgeons of experience meet with (and as probably do not record them), and it is a just and legitimate encouragement to give the poor victims of so terrible a disease some knowledge of their occurrence. It is only honest, I need scarcely say, to give this kind of encouragement in cases which are suitable for operation. The grounds on ^which the suitability or unsuitability of the use of the knife are decided are well known and discussed, if not unanimously agreed upon. Clinical Note on the Painful Subcutaneous Tumour. It is not proposed here to discuss the pathology or histology of the painful subcutaneous tumour, or to consider the question