114 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. under ray care several years ago, the whole connective tissue of the thigh became a dense solid grey mass in which the walls of the arteries and the neurilemma of the nerves were incorporated and more or less lost in the general sclerosis. More than this : the sclerosis of the thigh ran upwards into the pelvis, and was especially marked around the external and common iliac vessels. Late secondary htemorrhage came on in a thigh stump, and it was believed to be necessary to tie the external iliac artery. I certainly put a ligature around a channel through which arterial blood ran, but the arterial coat seemed to be lost in a homogeneous mass of connective tissue. That secondary and fatal haemorrhage followed the application of the ligature was not surprising. It is an easy step from sclerosis to ulceration. A post-mortem examination showed that the ligature was accurately enough placed around what was once an artery. The bone disease here was noteworthy. There was great thickening of bone and periosteum with a patch of old suppurative caries and a few necrotic fragments. It originated in early boyhood (the patient was thirty-three), and probably as a node from hereditary syphilis. It is not in chronic cases only that unexpected continuity may be found. I have a strong impression that in some obscure acute and sub-acute abscesses the origin of the inflammation is in the periosteum, which arises rapidly, gives rise to suppuration, and rapidly subsides. I shall have occasion to speak of this again in a few notes on bone diseases. The extension of acute inflammation of bursae to the cellular tissue around (cellulitis of a limb sometimes arising in this way), and of inflammation to bursae from adjacent parts is well known. A curious example of the latter process appeared in my hospital practice. A young adult came with a large boil on the left buttock—large but uncomplicated. When he came a week after, the buttock was of immense size; the boil seemed better. Had there been au error in diagnosis ? Was there a large abscess ? Careful examination showed that the swelling was due to enormous fluid distension of a large bursa under the large gluteus muscle, and clearly