Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 273 resiliency or attendant induration, the surgeon is glad to get in a fine instrument and leave it in. Although it may require much patience and skill to in- troduce the finest bougie, the general custom is to withdraw it and attempt the introduction of a catheter. The effort occasionally fails, and much valuable time is lost. Now, in such cases I have for several years Icept in the fine or filiform bougie, and directed that the urine should be passed from time to time by its side or around it. In every instance in a large number of cases this has been easily done, micturition, as a rule, actually being easier and in a larger stream than when the bougie is out. In twenty-four hours a goodly-sized bougie (not catheter) can be introduced. On the third day (but a day or two matters little), I usually put in a No. 12, or even No. 13 bougie or catheter. It is of course in the earliest stages that the superiority of the bougie over the catheter is seen. The advantages of the treatment I have just described are these:—A more rapid and complete dilatation, due to the hydrostatic pressure of the urine along the exterior of the bougie; a bougie is more easily introduced than a catheter; when the finest bougie is once in, it need not be taken out—no slight boon; the ordinary acts of micturition are preserved; every kind of apparatus for keeping the bed dry, or for any other purpose, may be dispensed with; all the risks of operative interference are avoided. A Method of Treating Retention of Urine from Prostatic Enlargement. The proposal I now make is not intended for cases where catheterism by the patient himself or by his medical attendant (when that is possible) keeps up a fairly comfort- able condition. It is intended for the few cases where an instrument cannot be passed at all by patient or doctor, and also for the cases where, although the doctor (only) can pass a catheter, distance and other circumstances prevent the catheter being used with the needful frequency.