Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 136 soaked in terebone was left within the wound in preference to tying the smaller vessels which oozed when the abdominal pressure was removed; over this the flaps were firmly fixed with a few deep, thick, silver stitches, and large sponges were fastened outside with a broad long strap of plaster coming over the opposite shoulder in such a manner as to evenly compress and support the stump. A glance at the diagrams will again save the time of both writer and reader. I did not expect the youth to live many hours, and I was therefore a little astonished to learn next morning, twenty- four hours later, when I entered the hospital, that he was “ very well,” words which I incredulously repeated more than once. It was quite true; he had had no shock; he was better than before the operation; no fever or other ill symp- tom followed. The urgency of the case having been so exceptional, the “ interior ” sponge was left three days. The outer sponges were moistened every half hour with terebene and water. On removing the outer sponges the flaps were clean and white, and had everywhere united over the enclosed sponge. The wound was opened at the outer aspect and the retained sponge gently rotated or screwed out. The moist sponge dressing was put on for another week, and practically our patient remained “ very well.” A small portion of periosteum in contact with one side of the sponge had lost its vitality, and subsequently came away with a few drachms of pus. A little later a small abscess formed at the outer aspect of the stump, and was traced to the broken anchylosed surface. This, and a small sinus which followed, in no way retarded a rapid return to stoutness and good health. In this case I believe life was saved by the sponges, the internal and the external together immediately checking the bleeding when another drop might have been fatal, and supplying at the same time a quick antiseptic and restful dressing. In the summer of 1878 I had, iu conjunction with her family advisers, an opportunity of sharply testing the utility of the moist antiseptic sponge dressing in a Symos's amputation. The case was that of an elderly lady, the subject of marked senile struma. She had been for some time bed-ridden with