33 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Let us see now wliat are the results of experiments bearing on this subject which have been most carefully performed by my friend Dr. Norris. An adult white mouse was decapitated instantaneously with a sharp chisel, and death occurred immediately with a single struggle. The experiment was repeated several times, and always with the same result. A young white mouse was treated precisely in a similar manner; but life, as indicated by reflex action and struggles, was continued for about twenty minutes. The experiment on young white mice of several ages was also repeated, with this invariable result: the younger the mouse, the longer was life prolonged, and the greater was the vitality. The heads of several adult frogs were instantaneously removed : slight convulsions ensued for one or two minutes; then followed a period of absolute quiescence or shock, with absence of excito-motor irritability, which continued about fifteen minutes. At the expiration of the period of shock just stated, the legs were gradually drawn up, and shortly ordinary movements were executed. The same experiment was repeatedly performed on young frogs; and in these the period of shock was much shorter in duration, and in the youngest was scarcely, if at all, perceptible. In several frogs, the capillary circulation was examined in the webs. When the head was removed, the circulation being examined at the same moment by the microscope, it was found that the capillary circulation, and the circulation generally, was immediately suspended, with occasionally some oscillatory or even reversed movement in the capillaries. In a variable number of minutes, the circulation was resumed, at first by irregular, and then by regular, movements, gradually established. In the young frog—and Dr. Norris examined one not exceeding a quarter of an inch in length—the capillary appearances were the same, except in the very much earlier return of regular circulation. An important class of experiments, performed by physiologists on warm-blooded animals, confirms the conclusions which may be drawn from the experiments just described. It is only in young animals that experiments can be performed to ascertain the character c