Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 138 the patient in a few clays may be trusted to take charge of the antiseptic jug. In the deep excision of cancers from the raucous outlets, —a branch of surgery in which it has fallen to my lot to have much experience—I should be much at a loss if I had not at hand an autiseptic, styptic, compressing and draining sponge. I have recorded a case of cancer of the rectum, in which I removed the parts up to the levatores ani and from one tuber ischii to the other. Here an antiseptic sponge was the most reliable dressing. In 1877 I removed a cancerous penis as far down as the triangular ligament in the perinaeum. To do this I found it necessary to split the scrotum, as the man preferred to retain his testes. During the operation the bleeding was vigorous, as it always is in this locality; but at the close of the operation a sponge with a catheter passed through its centre stopped the bleeding, dressed the wound, and kept it antiseptic all at once. The following case affords evidence of the utility of the moist antiseptic sponge dressing in trephining. A young man was brought into the Queen’s Hospital with a cut fracture of the skull, caused by the fall of a slate. There was much comminution and depression of the bony fragments, the mem- branes were much torn, and the brain bruised; as much brain matter as would fill a walnut shell oozed out of the wound. Left hemiplegia was marked, but not complete. The trephine permitted many fragments (eight) to be removed, together with a portion of felt hat, leaving a gap two inches long, one inch and a half wide ; the depth of bruised brain must have exceeded an inch. The soft parts were loosely adjusted, and well covered and overlapped by a very soft sponge, kept con- stantly moist with terebene, and fixed by one strip of plaster twenty inches long and three inches wide. The strip was so arranged that, the middle being under the chin, the two ends came over the sponge, so that the latter could be removed and readjusted with very little trouble. His progress was most favourable. Some hernia cerebri appeared in a few days, for which nothing was done save the continued mild antiseptic