Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 267 It is best adapted for young men from puberty upwards. For little boys, as a rule, circumcision is best. After child- hood the operation about to be described has the merit of completely relieving the phymosis, and yet of not interfering with work, or movement, or occupation. It is, perhaps, the only operation, which, while wholly effecting its object, does not require the patient to lie in bed. The prepuce first on one side and then the other, is divided, skin and lining, by probe-pointed scissors to the extent of a quarter of an inch. The prepuce is then partially retracted, exposing on both sides a quadrilateral space of lining membrance, which is divided by a second snip on each side. The prepuce may then be fully retracted, and the incisions which were made parallel with the long axis of the penis will be found to have assumed a linear shape at right angles to the line in which they were made. The incision may be more or less free according to the degree of the phymosis. Usually no stitches are needed, all that is required is that the prepuce be kept well retracted by a strip of greased or wet lint. (See Plate IX., Figs. 2, 3, and 4.) It is no slight testimony to the merits of the operation that Mr. Lister (see a recent Clinical Lecture reported iu the Lancet) has performed it in preference to other operations during the last fifteen years. On the Kesults op Congenitally Small Urinary Meatus in Males and Females. These results I briefly pointed out ten years ago. (Brit. Med. Journ. 1870, Yol. II., p. 591). Further experience teaches me that the congenital defect iu question is a frequent cause of otherwise obscure urinary ailments. The natural meatus in the male extends from the centre of the glans to near the fraenum. An opening in the centre of the glans a line or two in length, looking as if it would scarcely admit a pin’s head, is practically a stricture and may give rise to almost all the results of stricture. I not infrequently meet with the cause and the effects. In boys a common result is cystitis simulating stone in the bladder. Boys, however, often escape notable troublo; as men they are