230 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, <f Abdomen. 5. Failure of the bowel is helped on by continued flatulent distension, however it arises; the altered muscular fibres being so injured by over-stretching that they never regain their functional contractility. Herein may be traced a likeness to atony of the bladder, where, it is well known, long-continued distension is in certain cases followed by entire loss of contractility; and it is not unlikely that fatty conversion of the muscular wall of the bladder is the basis of certain obscure cases of retention and cystitis coming on after middle age. It is conceivable that healthy gut may become the subject of fatal atony from long continued stretching; but some, however slight, fatty change would greatly favour such a result. 6. In a limited number of cases, death is due directly to failure of intestinal action, and may come without obvious exciting cause. The muscular fibre is now no longer muscular. In a larger number of cases, death comes more indirectly from some immediate shock to the abdominal organs. In strangulated hernia, when fatty bowel is present, the blown-out tube never again contracts. The vomiting continues, or returns and death follows, notwithstanding that reduction has been easy and complete and that there is no inflammation, or gangrene, or other cause of death. All injuries and operations in persons with failing gut are liable to be followed by vomiting, which ceases only with death. Especially is this so in operations on the abdominal or pelvic organs. Herniotomy and lithotomy are now and then followed by fatal vomiting, and subsequent search brings nothing to light; no injury to the peritoneum, no haemorrhage, no inflammation, no other lesion ; nothing but a hugely distended bowel. The cases which led me to believe that, in certain instances, death begins in the gut from entire cessation of action in the intestinal muscular fibre, and that the cessation was due to fatty degeneration, I now briefly cite. Several years ago, a lady so stout that she had long been confined to her room—the staircase of her house was also narrow and awkward—without any previous complaint,