290 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. The friends firmly declined any interference, and after some months more, the sinuses entirely healed, and now for several years tho limb has been perfectly well. The Transitoriness of Osteal and Periosteal Inflammations is probably not sufficiently recognised. In some previous observations on deep abscesses, caused by short-lived periostitis, I have anticipated this note as regards the periosteum. But we meet with cases in which there is some deep pain and tenderness on firm pressure, and probably some im- paired movement in the adjacent joints. These symptoms only last a few weeks or months. To my mind there are cases of more or less transient ostitis. I have known the head of the radius slightly enlarged, and distinctly tender, and the movements of pronation and suppuration painful and incomplete, and yet the symptoms continued a very short time. There had been no injury or sprain; there was no synovitis; ligaments are well known not to be seats of primary inflammation. I give this as a suggestive note merely, but the slight example I have cited serves as an illustration of some experience in other parts of the osteal and articular frame work. The Inexpediency oe Interfering with Long Retained Sequestra in some cases. It may seem a ventursome and heretical policy to suggest the expediency of permitting dead structures to remain in the living body. To make a rule of doing so would certainly be indefensible on many grounds. But there are some cases where, against skilled advice probably, portions of dead bone are retained for several years, and then the patient, or the patient’s friends change their minds, and ask for operative relief. In some cases I doubt the propriety of acceding to the request. My doubts are based on two kinds of experience—the experience of removing long re- tained sequestra, and the experience of leaving them alone. I will briefly relate some of the cases which have led me to the conclusions I here suggestively put forward. An