Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 151 The Relation of Struma to Syphilis. Several years ago I took great pains to enquire into the re- lationship (if any) between struma and syphilis. The question forced itself suddenly on my attention in this manner: I happened to have under my care at the same time, a few cases of extremely chronic ostitis (in one case in the tro- chanters, in another the lower end of the femur) in young adults, who were unquestionably the subjects of hereditary syphilis. The pressure of other work unfortunately deprived the enquiry of anything like completeness. The results I arrived at are to be seen in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1867. I still adhere to them in the main. The circum- stance that they gained the approval of many surgeons, and of so high an authority as my friend Professor Gross, of Philadelphia, leads me the more to reproduce them in these pages, in a tentative and enquiring spirit. A few queries will suggest the difficulty and obscurity which belong to this enquiry. Has struma any existence at all ? If struma is a reality, what are its signs ? What of the relations of struma and tubercle ? I assume in the following observations that struma is a fact, and that its surgical manifestations are seen in certain slow forms of in- flammation of cancellous bone tissue, in certain slow in- flammations of the lymphatic glands, especially in the neck; in certain slow cutaneous ulcers, also found more frequently in the neck. I will give no opinion on the question of phthisis, except to note its frequent association or alter- nation with so-called strumous bone, strumous glands, and strumous cutaneous disease. The nature of the relationship itself (if there be any) is by no means clear. Is struma merely a form of syphilis modified by transmission—a filtered syphilis altered in the process of filtration ? Or is syphilis merely a state which encourages the development of struma—does one diathesis help on the other ? or are the apparent relationships and combinations merely coincidences—coincidences the more com- mon, because both hereditary syphilis and struma are also common diseases ?