Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 3 modes in which action is called forth by the nervous-centres, because without such information it is impossible to form an accurate conception of the nature, and still less of the degree of intensity of the existing shock. Our knowledge of tho physiology of the nervous system has, of late, been greatly enlarged by the labours of observers and thinkers whose researches possess the highest value. Well known and widely recognised as such knowledge is, it is a matter for regret that no attempt has been made to apply it to an explanation of the nature and phenomena of shock. One writer (Mr. Savory), in a short and interesting essay, has certainly evinced a desire, so far as his limits allowed, to lift the subject to a higher level. The actions of the muscular organisation may be divided into two classes—those which take place through the instrumentality of the spinal cord and its upward prolongation, the medulla oblongata, and these which are the direct manifestations of the psychical power. The first set of actions comprise the excito-motor or reflex, as well as the sensori-motor or consensual; while those of the higher seats of origin of nerve-power are, briefly expressed, those educed by the feelings, ideas, and the will—namely, the emotional, the ideational, and the volitional. We shall find that in shock the most exalted of these, those which lend most dignity to human life, are the first to be impaired or suspended. In the arrested manifestation of these, there is comparatively little danger to the continued performance of the functions essential to life. Not so is it as we descend in the scale of nervo-muscular action. When sensori-motor action is arrested, life itself is in dan orer: and when excito-motor action in some of its manifestations (the suspension of all excito-motor action, it is needless to say, is inconsistent with life) is impaired, a fatal termination is extremely probable. A single but striking illustration may be given. The nerves which govern the act of deglutition arise from nuclei which are seated in the medulla oblongata (which, not only as regards excito-motor and sensori-motor action, but anatomically also, should be strictly considered as a portion of the spinal cord—so that, as Dr. Carpenter and