Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 143 very frequent doses of mercury immediately arrested the sloughing process. When the stage of cleaning arrives, it would be well to trust mainly to large doses, where they can be borne, of iodide of potassium. During' the stage of active destruction or active suppuration, the iodide is not so effective. A method of treatment which answers very well is, in many anomalous or obstinate cases, to give one minute dose of mercury at bed time, and one or two large doses of iodide of potassium earlier in the day. Destructive Tertiary Ulceration of the Nose or Lip. This, although rarely so rapid as it is in the lower limbs is of far greater moment, because of appearances. The treatment of extremely free iodides, and extremely limited mercurials may be supplemented by a measure which I have found of great utility. In addition to the consti- tutional remedies, put a few threads (two or three) under the skin at the back of the neck. If this be objected to, a patch of iodine irritation at the back of the neck will be of less, but still of great service. The threads I have used in a good number of cases, and whatever the extent or severity of the sloughing process, it has in no single case failed to stop it. In sloughing or tertiary lesions in the lower limb, a big patch of iodine irritation on the opposite aspect of the ankle or knee materially assists in- ternal treatment. The Treatment of Gummatous Products by the Parenchymatous Use of Iodine. I desire to make a brief note here. My experience is at present limited to few cases, but these were so striking that I note them for suggestion if for no other use. In the case of gummatous disease of the nose on another page, where the products were found external to the nasal bones as well as within the nares, after some years, one of the internal masses took on a polypoid or pedunculated form of a more diffused character. This was injected on two occasions with ten drops of tincture of iodine, and entirely