4 Enquiries of Surgery Generally. other physiologists point out, many nerves commonly described as cranial are really spinal), and very near the vesicular nuclei which give origin to the nerves of respiration. Now, if the power of deglutition be completely lost, in a case of shock, there is strong ground for apprehension that respiration itself will quickly cease. With suspended respira- tion comes suspended circulation, and death—somatic death, at least—ensues. It may be fairly urged, that the time has now arrived for the surgeon to call into his aid, and to utilise, a branch of scientific investigation which, of late years, has acquired an importance so great that it threatens to seriously modify the whole subject of physiology. If this is so, and if, as no one doubts, pathology is merely disturbed or diseased physiology, it is scarcely necessary to do more than point to the bearings which such new views must have on our interpretation of pathological actions and conditions. The principles of the correlation and convertibility of forces have been brought before us so admirably by Mr. Grove, Professor Tyndall, and Dr. Carpenter, that we can no longer hesitate to ask in what manner, and to what extent, we must investigate the whole range of pathology under the new light which they furnish. It appeal’s (and the bearing on shock of this statement is significant) that of all the vital forces—developmental, organising, secreting, nutritive and others—nerve-force is the most strikingly correlated to the physical forces. As we might anticipate, from the constructive and psychical supremacy of the nervous system, nerve-force is that which controls, influences, or modifies all others. Elevated, and justly so, as is our idea of the character of nerve-force, because of its manifestation in the mental powers, we must not forget that the origin of nerve-force (the forces of which nerve-force is a metamorphosis) is from the forces residing in the materials of the external world. Just as in animal life all the materials of development and maintenance are drawn from the inorganic world, and at death are given back to it finally and completely, so the several forces which are manifested in the auimal