Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 55 and on grounds other than those of shock and reaction, it is a controverted point, whether bleeding shall bo resorted to or not. THE PREVENTION OP SHOCK. It is the duty of the surgeon, as far as he possibly can, to prevent shock. It is probable that, in some degree at least, and certainly so far as the psychical causes of shock operate, amesthesia answers this purpose in surgical operations. As regards the administration of anaesthetics in operations, during the existence of shock, considerable difference of opinion prevails. Thus an excellent observer, Mr. Lister, advises it in such cases, and remarks that the circu- lation becomes stronger under the influence of chloroform. A sphygmographic trace, taken under chloroform in one of the cited cases, suggests this view. Mr. Savory considers chloroform inadmissible, and observes that it is the less necessary because the subjects of severe shock feel little pain from the subsequent operation. My practice has been to ad- minister an anaesthetic, and less suffices in these than in ordinary cases; and I think that the practice has decided advantages. On so important a question as the effect of anaesthesia in warding off shock, I determined to ascertain what in- formation might be afforded by experiment. At my request, the two following experiments were performed by Dr. Norris. The first experiment was designed to show the effects of a given injury under the influence of chloroform, and the second to show the effects of a similar injury without an anaesthetic. I give them in the words of Dr. Norris, written (as in the previous experiments I have brought forward) at the time. “ Etherised a frog. Observed that the heart still con- tinued to beat forcibly, and to raise sensibly the parietes of the chest. Placed the webs under the microscope, and found the circulation proceeding vigorously throughout tlio capillaries. The head was now crushed by a blow from a hammer. Examined the webs within a few seconds, and found that