Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. 217 It is put on thus:—The patient is reclining on a mattress with no pillow, pulley-extension is being made with a chin-and- occiput sling consisting of two strips of adhesive plaster to which thin webbing is sewn above the ears. The hair has previously been cut short. The prepared multiple strip in a single roll, after being dipped a few moments in water, is completely unrolled, its centre is then applied to the forehead well away from the eyes, the two ends are next carried along the sides of the head to the back of the neck where they cross—one end being carried under the neck first, then the other (pulley-extension being still kept up), they are drawn firmly enough to closely embrace the head and back of the neck ; the ends are brought forward one on each side of the neck, where they again cross each other in front of the neck and sternum, and lastly the two ends are fastened by a plaster jacket. Before the multiple plaster strip is applied, a flannel strip or long fold of lint is put on in the same way, and a little cotton-wool is put over the ears and in front of the neck. The flannel strip and subsequently the plaster strip are put over the adhesive plaster chin-and-occiput sling, the uncovered portions of which latter may be cut away when the plaster is set. Again, understand that this jury-mast may be put on during suspension so long as an adhesive plaster sling is used. In cervical caries the use of pulley-extension in the horizontal posture some time before the head is fixed is preferable. In severe cases of cervical disease it would probably be generally admitted that suspension is inapplicable. Whether the pulley- extension be preliminary and prolonged, or temporary, the weight must not be more than that which can be borne with comfort. I see no reason why this jury-mast may not, in its principle, be carried out in other materials. A long strip of gutta-percha (enclosed in calico before complete softening), or poro-plastic, or wire gauze, well padded, may in some cases be found convenient, especially where much time is needed for careful adjustment. A strip of auy material might be conveniently held in place by a plaster jacket.