Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 103 so curiously, seeing that tlie treatment of acute orclntis was published separately in one of our medical serials. Orchitis has often been cured in twenty-four hours by the following method: the scrotum is painted with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, and a broad stripe of skin over the femoral artery, of the same side, is freely covered with iodine liniment; the scrotum should be covered with cotton wool, and moderately compressed; or iodine liniment may be applied both to scrotum and thighs. If the case be severe or double the application should be free and extensive. It may be well to have a single full establishment of counter-irritation under slight anaesthesia where great severity is present, and time is important. No drugs need be given as a rule. In other varieties of orchitis, such as the syphilitic, the tubercular and the chronic, the action is so extremely chronic and diathetic (more like the development of a tumour than in- flammation) that counter-irritation is of little use. Sub-acute prostatitis: Iodine liniment to perinceum, thighs, and groins : Immediate relief.—George T., aged 34, married, had gonorrhoea ten weeks before. Frequent micturition, with spasm of neck of bladder, weight, and pain, and tenderness, in perinEeum, cloudy urine, and a gleety discharge came on. Iodine liniment was applied in a disc around the genital organs. In three days the pain, tenderness, and vesical irrit- ability were completely removed. Severe chordee : Counter-irritation successful, when other modes of treatment failed.—Mr. W., aged 22, had severe and painful chordee, which was quite unaffected by the ordinary internal and local treatment. The repeated application of narrow lines or discs of acetum lyttee at the under surface of the penis, a narrow stripe being applied every three or four days in a new locality. The relief was immediate and progressive, the pain ceased in a few nights, but some weeks elapsed before the curvature quite disappeared. Severe gonorrhoea cured in two days by counter-irritation. Mr. B., aged 19, had gonorrhoea for the first time, and suffered extremely from scalding and discharge. Two stripes of blister over the femorals removed the scalding completely