52 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. porfcionally less marked change. The character of the force of which a given material .substratum is the medium, is most directly and absolutely determined by the physical condition of such substratum. When the manifestation of force is similar to any given prior force, the character of the material instru- ment is also similar; if the manifestation of force be changed, there is also undoubted change in the material substratum. An exposition of the nature of such changes in the nervous system belongs to the future—if, indeed, it ever be possible. Treatment. The treatment of shock varies with the degree of its in- tensity and the nature of the prior injury. It should, in all cases and at all times, be of a kind to assist the natural forces of repair as far as we know how. In the slighter cases of shock, a negative policy is the wisest—giving the natural powers of repair all the conditions of ease and of mental and bodily rest, which conditions should be continued for some time after the indications of shock have passed away. In cases of severe shock, in addition to the measures adopted for slighter cases, it will probably be desirable to administer stimulants in moderate amount, and apply external warmth. Sinking is often, especially after operations, greatly relieved by nourishment, as well as by stimulants. It is often recom- mended to give stimulants sparingly, because of their aug- mentation of the ensuing reaction. This caution is highly needful, but it may be, and often is, carried too far. Stimu- lants only to a limited degree influence reaction. In direct injuries to the head, stimulants should undoubtedly be given with greater than usual caution, and opiates with extreme care. A little opium, however, added to the stimulant has a most favourable influence in most cases of shock. In cases of ex- tremely severe shock, it is often difficult to succeed in giving brandy or opium with effect. My experience of cases of great exhaustion has impressed me with this practical conclusion: that, where brandy and opium have their natural effect, the case, so far as shock is concerned, promises well. Where the stomach rejects brandy and opium, it is desirable to introduce