Enquiries in Surgery of Tvunlc, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 221 Wg will presume that the surgeon has before him a case in which he resolves to apply the taxis. The taxis fails. Now can any dilemma be more signal than that of the man who applies the taxis unsuccessfully, and instantly arrives at the conclusion that the bowel must be examined. The taxis failed because the stricture was tight, not from any sudden chauge in the state of the bowel. Let it be granted that in a few exceptional cases the bowel, though previously reducible has formed adhesions, or that the neck of the sack has rapidly become constricted, it simply follows that the extra-peritoneal operation will also fail to ensure reduction by the taxis. An extra-peritoneal operation should always be looked upon as a step accessory to and facilitating the taxis, and especially as a step which, like the unaided taxis, may also fail, and which may therefore need to be immediately merged into the ordinary operation. In a simple extra-peritoneal operation the wound is comparatively harmless, the peritoneal cavity is not opened, no blood enters it, and the bowel is not handled; all this is reversed when the sac is opened. Perhaps the readiest way of deciding when to adopt an extra-peritoneal method is to glance at the cases where it is not suitable. If the taxis is inapplicable an extra- peritoneal method is certainly inappropriate; where the sac and contents are clearly inflamed, and especially where the bowel is gangrenous, as it is when the sac is not well defined, and the cutaneous coverings are cedematous and red, where pain has ceased, and general shock is mai’ked—opening the sac is the only alternative. In the strangulation of the usually irreducible umbilical hernias of fat women, a special operative method elsewhere described is perhaps the best. In most other cases, in short in all cases where the taxis is appropriate, the extra-peritoneal may be used to help it when it fails. When both fail the sac must be opened. Several years ago I described a method of operating which is limited in extent—leaving the two or three inner- most coverings uninjured, and which is quickly and readily performed. During the years that have elapsed since the