Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 31 become less perfect in their physical organisation; and the forces of which they are the media are also less active and less normal in their character. When old age is associated with actual disease, especially disease of essential organs, then shock is greatly aggravated, and a fatal result much more readily ensues. A striking peculiarity in the shock of the aged is the uncertainty of its progress and termination. Often the shock seems less intense, but much more persistent; often it is of a varying character, and, when we least expect it, it may prove suddenly fatal. Shock in the old is not so immediately grave, but prospectively it is infinitely more so. In the consideration of shock in the young, I find myself compelled to differ completely from our recognised surgical authorities. On this subject, therefore, although I shall not hesitate to express my opinions, I shall speak with diffidence, and shall be prepared for correction. Further, in presuming to put forward an opinion which is the reverse of all prior doctrine, I have endeavoured to support it by careful obser- vation and repeated experiments. It is taught, then, that the young, as well as the old, bear injury worse than the adult; but it is admitted that, if the young subject does recover from shock, the recovery is more rapid than in the adult. That greater shock should be followed by more rapid recovery, is a somewhat anomalous proposition; but it cannot be discussed here. It is necessary distinctly to bear in mind that, in considering this subject, the nature and the extent of the injury must be in proportion to the age and size of the child. An illustration or two will better exemplify my meaning. If two bullets of similar size be shot, one through the thorax of a baby and the other through the thorax of an adult, if the man be twelve times larger than the child, the injury is twelve times greater in extent in the child, presuming the route and the locality of the injury to be the same. It would, of course, be an useless parallel if in one case the bullet traversed the root of the lung and in the other the periphery merely. If a child of one stone weight and a man of twelve stones each lose a tablespoonful of blood, the injury in the child is twelve times as serious as in