47 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. from shock, because of the diminished circulation in the perspiratory glands, and the diminished activity of secietmg cells generally, which accompany that condition. It is most likely due to the relaxation of the orifices of the ducts from diminished vascular supply and the impaired contractility of the smooth muscular fibres of the skin, which permit the perspiratory fluid to escape upon the surface of the skin. Such perspiration is never abundant or persistent in its appearance. The blueness of the nose and fingers in cases of shock, and especially in that peculiar form of shock which results from the application of cold to all the structures, is for the first time satisfactorily explained by the experiments of my colleague, Dr. Norris, as described in his paper on “ Stasis,” which appears in a recent volume of the Trans- actions of the Royal Society. He has observed that, in experiments in which spasmodic contraction of the smaller arteries took place, there was a reverse current into the capillaries from the veins, which continued until the capil- laries were full. The capillaries remained full permanently, or until the relaxation of the artery again permitted arterial blood to be propelled through it. When cold is applied to the surface, the arteries are contracted by its influence; and the capillaries are filled with venous blood which is returned from the veins. It is the presence of venous blood in the capillaries which gives rise to the blue ap- pearance referred to. There is no doubt that the colour of the skin, whatever it may be as regards the different shades of pallor, redness, and blueness, is due to the con- dition of the capillaries mainly, and very slightly to the condition of the larger vascular trunks. Reaction prom Shock. Reaction is a condition following those cases of shock which do not prove quickly or immediately fatal, and has many and varying characters as regards its phenomena and the time at which they make their appearance. When the injury and the resulting shock are slight, the reaction