144 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. and quickly disappeared. Is it not well worth while in gummy deposits in accessible sites to repeat this method ? In gummy products in the testis where their locality is well defined, it would seem a useful treatment. Gummy growths, in muscle especially, when they reach a large size, are extremely slow in subsiding. A few years ago, a woman of thirty was under my care, with a gummatous mass in the right rectus muscle, between the umbilicus and the pubes, the size of the foetal head. She had small but similar masses in the pronator teres and the infra spinatus muscles of the left upper limb. A young man came with a mass the size of two fists, in the upper and outer part of the thigh. These cases made very slow (the latter scarcely any) progress under the iodides. In similar circumstances I would now resort to the parenchymatous use of iodine. Curiously, while revising these sheets, this young man has again come under treatment, and has been in hospital some weeks. He has had injections of the tincture of iodine (ten drops) once in four or five days; the swelling is less than half its original size, and is steadily diminishing. A Node op the Bones op the Elbow Modelled by Pressure. Although these notes are mostly confined to questions of the treatment of syphilis, I may here interpolate a few lines descriptive of a case of syphilitic periostitis of the lower end of the humerus and the elbow ends of the ulna and radius. A cachectic looking man, approaching middle age, with a clear history of syphilis, came to the hospital with considerable enlargement of the lower third of the humerus and upper third of the radius and ulna. The swelling, although chronic had a little more tenderness than is found in ordinary nodes, and there was slight oedema in the soft parts in the vicinity of the elbow. There was no evidence that the joint itself was directly involved; there was severe tenderness in moving it, but this was apparently due simply to pressure on the swollen periosteum. The man had constantly worn a figure of eight bandage around the elbow, and always exactly in the same place, so that a deep indentation was left in the soft parts