252 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. Position is but one of many influences which guide the clinical course of a malignant growth. Ihe other distinction which, I believe, is not commonly made is, that the female rectum, from a surgical point of view, is a totally different organ from the male rectum. It is different in size, and, what is more significant to us, it is very different in its relations and accessibility. A woman’s rectum, with its ailments and its contents, can be reached at almost every aspect. I do not mean, merely, that a small hand can be introduced into it when it is healthy and in certain diseases, but that it can readily be got at from the outside in health and disease; in short, the female rectum having in front of it so capacious a canal as the vagina, is practically almost as superficial an organ as if it were actually under the skin, like the mammary gland. The surgical bearing of the distinction I put before you is this, that objections to the excision of the rectum should not be of equal force in the two sexes. They should have much influence in males and scarcely any in females. On the continent, cases have been recorded of the bold excision of the rectum proper, and even of adjacent parts (suggesting, indeed, the idea of a general scooping out of the pelvis), regardless of sex. In this country there is a strong disin- clination to excision of the rectum; a disinclination with which I have much sympathy, and should have more, if it were not also an objection which pays no regard to sex. No records of alleged success would induce me to remove a cancerous male rectum, with portions of the urethra and prostate gland, allowing, if the patient survive for a time, fasces and urine to drop into one common chasm, only to drop out of it again. But are we quite right in refusing to remove an isolable cancer of the lower part of the female rectum (even though it begau in the rectum) when it is distinctly below the peritoneal level, when the back wall of the vagina may be safely removed with it if it be needful, and when, above all, the urinary pathway may be left untouched ? In a previous lecture ou destruction of the rectum, you saw how a woman may live in moderate comfort without that organ.