169 Enquiries in Suryery Generally. pointed conical clastic bougie has, within my personal knowledge, saved a goodly number of severe and often fatal operations. I turn now to those branches of surgery in which there is an increase in the frequency and in the number of operations. I shall again take my illustrations from the surgery common to all the organs, from the surgery of the bones, the joints, the great vessels, the digestive tract, the respiratory tract, and the genito-urinary tract. The fact that stands out most prominently is the frequency and the utility of aspiration. It is standing the test which not every, even good, operation can stand—the test of reaction. Its exaggerated use has not dwarfed its real use. Its benefits might, in my opinion, be still more general if we were to adopt in some cases gradual or gentle aspiration—to put iu, say in the cavity of the skull, in a meningocele, or in spina bifida, the needle first, and then create a vacuum very slowly—a method the reverse of that which is commonly practised and which Dieulafoy teaches. If, as we have reason to hope, injection into the substance of organs turns out to be a real gain to surgery—enlarged thyroid, enlarged glands, nasal polypi, enlarged prostrate especially, as a very fatal ailment, offer a large field for its use. In the bones, section, or excisions of slices or wedges, giving new positions and new uses to limbs, are increasing in number, and are most valuable operations, so is trephining in, not abscess only, but continued osteitis of different kinds in various bones. The possibility of opening joints safely under antiseptic conditions is a recent and striking feature in the surgery of to-day. This would be a great boon if antiseptic surgery had done nothing else. The reduction of old dislocations, the lessened use of pulleys in dislocations generally, the rupture of adhesions by flexion are more and more in favour. The surgery of the larynx may claim to be almost a new blanch of surgery. The removal of growths from the interior of the larynx through the natural passages, thyrotomy and excision of the larynx mark an epoch iu the' surgery of the