Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 92 Articular osteitis of elbow : Iodine counter-irritation to arm and forearm: Rapid recovery.—Maria B., aged 28, came to hospital with enlargement of lower extremity of humerus, with impaired and painful movement of the elbow, of six months’ duration. A light gutta perclia splint was applied to the bend ol the elbow, after two-thirds of the arm and two-thirds of the forearm had been freely moistened with iodine pigment. Directions were given that iodine should be applied every second day. In a week, the movement of the joint could be made without pain. In six weeks, the recovery was complete. Severe osteitis of knee : Counter-irritation to the thigh and leg : Speedy and complete recovery.—Mary C., aged 12, came with marked and advancing symptoms of articular osteitis of the knee. There was swelling of the femoral condyles and tibial tuberosities, wasting of the whole limb, starting pains, and contraction of the hamstring muscles. The disease was of seventeen months’ duration, and the patient had formerly been in the hospital. Counter-irritation was effected by means of iodine to the thigh and leg, and maintained by removing the light splintage every third day. Recovery was complete in one month, but treatment was kept up as a precautionary measure. Osteitis of wrist: Counter-irritation to whole of forearm and hand: Subsidence of active symptoms in a week: Complete recovery in a month.—Mai’y B., aged 15, came to hospital with swelling, pain, tendeimess, and impaired movement of left wrist. There were occasional, though not severe, start- ing pains. The forearm was somewhat wasted. The forearm to the elbow, and the hand, were freely covered with iodine paint (a strong one, so that less frequent removals of splintage might suffice). In less than a week, pain and tenderness completely disappeared. In a month, recovery was complete. Advanced caries of the lurist, with great swelling and old sinuses on dorsal and palmar surfaces : The actual cautery in four long stripes: Recovery in one month.— Eliza E., aged 39, married, looked 50, came into hospital with caries and sinuses of left wrist, of old standing