Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 229 signs of degeneration in various organs and with a history of habits which naturally lead to visceral changes. Ex- amination of the bodies disclosed great internal accumulations of fat, and occasionally indications of visceral degeneration, but, curiously, no obvious or recognised cause of intestinal obstruction. In all the cases, the intestinal canal was greatly loaded with fat, and presented a strikingly yellow appearance ; in some cases, indeed, it seemed to be simply a tube of fat. In one case, the microscope conclusively showed that the unstriped muscular fibres of the bowel were con- verted into fat. In observing and reflecting on these cases, of some of which I shall speak later, I have arrived at the following conclusions. 1. The smooth muscular fibres of the bowel are subject to fatty degeneration which may become more or less complete; and that, consequently, they may, and do in given cases, wholly cease to contract. 2. This fatty change of the essential element of the gut-wall, when it ends in complete cessation of contractility, causes death by intestinal obstruction. Fatty failure of the intestines being in some cases extensive in area and reach- ing high up towards the stomach, the ensuing obstruction is acute, the vomiting incessant, and death early. In other cases, there may be less complete, or more limited, or irregularly distributed fatty change; and there will follow a slower or more fitful stream of symptoms and a later death. 3. Fatty transformation in the gut is more likely to appear (though perhaps not exclusively) in fat, especially very fat persons; in those who, from habits or natural tendency, are liable to have fatty degeneration of other organs, especially of the heart. Death in heart-cases is quick and direct; in intestinal-cases slower and more indirect but nevertheless very certain. 4. As premonitory syncope or exhaustion may happen from time to time before death from heart-fattiness, so “attacks” of obstruction may run before final obstruction from intestinal fattiness.