183 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head cind Nedi. arterial circulation generally on one half of the cranial cavity, it would likewise lessen the effect of the pressure already effected. The ligature has another advantage over the trephine under the circumstances: if there be an error in diagnosis, if the haemorrhage be not from a meningeal trunk, but fiom some other (arterial) source, the ligature would be still of use, while the trephine would not. % A Case op Apparent Death op the Outer Table op the Skull pollowed by Recovery. The death of bone—for so it must be regarded in this case—did not follow periostitis, but a severe burn. An Irish labourer fell, while in an epileptic fit, with his head against the fire. The scalp was entirely destroyed and the pericranium also. He lingered in a workhouse infirmary a long time in a miserable bed-ridden state, and was then put under my care. I found the whole skull above a line drawn from the eye-brows to the occipital prominence en- tirely denuded, and the bone (the outer table at least) of a dead dull brown colour. The soft parts were thickened and so detached that a sulcus extended around the calvarium, and contained decomposing pus. (See Plate V., Fig 4.) With little expectation of doing any good, I directed the principles of treatment to be these: perfect cleanliness, broad and long strips of lint to be moistened with tere- benised oil, and so applied as to draw up the everted margins of the scalp along the surface of the “ dead31 bone. The bone to be kept covered with the same strips, and a layer of cotton wool and a suitable bandage to keep all in place. The results were striking. Not only did the whole circumference of the soft parts at once adhere to the “ dead33 bone, but it sent up all round a broad margin of granulations. In many places the granulating margin shot up promontories which here and there expanded into islands with isthmuses. After a time the method of skin grafting was adopted with great benefit; for while granulations shot