Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 57 cited is not very great or very definite; but what difference there is, is distinctly in favour of the beneficial influence of anesthesia. If these experiments proved merely that anesthesia was not absolutely injurious, their importance would not be slight; and to the advantage, whatever its importance may be, which the experiments enable us to infer, we have to add the almost incalculable advantage, which anesthesia affords, of protection from the operation of psychical causes of shock in surgical operations. But I believe that anesthesia is not only not injurious: it is positively advantageous in diminishing shock, not merely in preventing mental in- fluences, but also in maintaining the vital powers. The patient who has been operated upon under the influence of anesthesia is less the subject of shock than a similar patient, under similar circumstances, upon whom an operation has been performed without its aid. One of the conclusions I have arrived at in investigating the nature of shock is, if it be accepted as proven, of great importance in the prevention of shock after certain operations. Shock is most severe where the higher nerve functions are most active—such is the conclusion which observation and experiment lead me to believe. If so, can we contrive to diminish the activity of nerve force for a time prior to those operations which are not of urgent character as regards time. Before lithotomy in the adult, before all operations for conditions which have not interfered with the active use of the brain, may we in any way lessen the activity of the intellect and will. Complete rest in bed for many days, the absence of all busiuess or professional occupation, a somewhat restricted diet, perhaps mild purgation, naturally suggest themselves. Can anything more be done before a grave and exhausting operation ? Could some kind of mild stupor or drowsiness be induced by opium, or alcohol, or slight but protracted inhalations of ether? We know that amputation of thigh in a nervous system long depressed and worn out by disease of the knee joint is greatly more favourable than the amputation of the thigh of a man in the moment of active intellectual life. Can we induce or