304 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. further removed from the trunk. The operation was followed by loss shock, less haemorrhage, less opportunity for septic infection. The vessels were more easily dealt with. The thigh may be simply cut through with a circular sweep or a few free sawing movements. The boneless thigh should be firmly held, and somewhat flattened if cut across. The muscles may be cut on the same level as the skin, after this has been drawn upwards by an assistant’s hands ; the bone being absent, they retract so strongly that the skin readily covers them, its vitality is less endangered, and a great cellular plane is not opened. A glance at the diagrams will show that the bulk of the soft parts of the thigh, especially near the pelvis, lies at the inner side of the femur. Why put a knife through these parts ? It is better to enucleate the femur inhere it is most thinly covered, and cut across the limb where it is smaller and further removed from the trunk (see Plate X, Figs. 6 and 7). In removing the thigh very low down, the area of the wound is no doubt increased^ but even then it would be a much less dangerous wound in character and locality. The operation is of course more suitable for those cases in which the soft parts could be freely left than for malignant and other exceptional cases. The surgeon may, if he choose, make the circular sweep before the shaft of the bone is turned out, if precautions against haemorrhage have been very complete. There ought to be no hurry; the patient is in a deep sleep, no large vessels are near, and the femur may be patiently turned out of a bed that need neither be scored nor stabbed. I say patiently, but the whole operation carefully and leisurely done need not occupy more than a very few minutes. If the thigh were to remain a soft, pendulous mass, it would be a small price to pay for greater safety, but it is a remarkable circumstance that, as a rule, the muscles do not rest until the longest thigh has become a short one. In hip-disease, with much acetabular mischief, the wound gives safe access and free drainage for any length of time. The principle of the operation might be adopted in ampu- tation below the trochanters (a chain-saw being used), and