Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 36 THE EFFECTS OF PRIOR DISEASE ON SHOCK. Ifc has been supposed, without sufficient discrimination of the nature of the disease, that the presence of disease in a person who sustains an injury, very seriously aggravates the severity and the danger of the resulting shock. This want of discrimination has led surgical writers into this anomalous position. It is asserted that shock is more fatal in disease; it is also asserted that amputation of the thigh for injury is more fatal than amputation of the thigh for disease. The suggested explanation of this conti-adiction is very inadequate. It is said that shock is double, there being first the shock of the injury, which is supposed to be all the greater because it comes suddenly, without anticipation and without preparation; and then the shock of the operation. I have already put forward the proposition that shock is more or less a protection against shock; that the shock of a first injury is only slightly aggravated by the occurrence of a second. I will not, however, say that the shock is not rendered more dangerous in its result, but merely that the phenomena of shock are not materially augmented in intensity. But, turning from this view, it may fairly be said that, in certain cases (where the mortality is certainly not less), the operation or second injury is a very trifling one—possibly a mere trimming or closure of a wound. In other cases, again, the operation so immediately follows the injury, that the shock is only single. Where an anesthetic is given, too, the phenomena of the shock of the first injury actually diminish in intensity while the second is being inflicted; the pulse, respiration, and temperature becoming more natural under the influence of an anesthetic. I fully admit that the operation of psychical causes in these cases has a material effect on the issue; because, as I have stated in speaking of the effects of injuries in the young, I believe it is the supremacy of nerve-function at the time of injury which renders it so much more fatal. A more correct estimate of the influence of disease prior to shock may be arrived at by dividing them into two classes.