106 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. was much induration and pain, with emaciation and sleepless- ness. Iodine liniment was applied over the brachial artery, and a linseed poultice, with a bandage, to the breast. Pain ceased immediately, and prolonged sleep was obtained. In a few days the abscess opened spontaneously, and six days later it was well. General hypertrophy of breast: Recovery from counter- irritation to arm.—A woman, aged 22, single, applied with general hypertrophy of left breast, which was three times the size of the right. Strapping and internal remedies, after a long trial, failed to do any good. Counter-irritation was then effected over the brachial artery, with marked and rapid benefit. Abscess of breast of five weelcs’ duration : Counter-irritation over brachial: Recovery by absorption in a weeh.—Ellen E., aged 20, had a tender, painful, red swelling of the breast, of five weeks* duration. Strapping to the breast and iodine liniment over the brachial artery removed all the symptoms in a week. (Under Dr. Hodge’s care).—Discharging abscess of the breast: Adjacent counter-irritation : Recovery in three days.— “ On January 31st, M. D., aged 26, married (four children), was brought to me by her mother, one of our nurses, suffering from abscess of right breast. The mamma was twice its natural size, hard, and infiltrated. There was an opening about the size of a sixpence, from which very unhealthy looking pus was exuding. It had existed nine days, and had been repeatedly poulticed without relief. Patient stated that her sufferings had been so great, that she had scarcely had an hour’s sleep for the past week, and her looks fully confirmed her statement, for a countenance more expressive of pain and continued sleepless nights, I never saw. Taking the margin of hardness as the point beyond which I should not go, I made a semi-circular ring on the upper part of the affected breast with the liuiment of iodine. I continued the iodine well over the corresponding clavicle, and extended the paint laterally, and thus included a pretty extensive surface. I enveloped the breast in cotton wool, and then