Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 115 set up by extension of the furuncular inflammatory action. On this the boil floated just as if it were on a water bed. The thin-walled fluctuating swelling soon disappeared. The Fewness of Diseases, or Pathological Processes, as Bearing on Diagnosis. This fact has an encouraging and educational aspect which might with advantage be placed before the young student of medicine. The most industrious of young men when he sees the vastness of medical libraries and museums, the activity and detail of chemical and physiological laboratories, the labour in dissecting rooms, operating rooms, clinical wards, operating theatres and patho- logical theatres, naturally dreads the prospect before him, or doubts his capability of creditably filling his part. It would be well occasionally to tell him that the primary diseases he is called upon to understand and to relieve can almost be counted on the fingers ; that in professional life he will be called upon to say of the thing before him—is it an inflammation, or a cancer, or a tuberculous product, or an innocent growth, or a degeneration, or an injury, or a mechanical condition, or a poison, or a parasite. In relation to these primary ailments, are doubtless numerous questions of locality, causes, varieties, stages, complications and so on; but in acquiring the habit of philosophic diagnosis, it is necessary to keep constantly in sight fundamental principles. The highway of diseases must be learned before the bye-paths are traced: the highways of disease are the pathological actions which arise in the body and the conditions which come to it from without. These are not numerous. To the surgeon who frequently deals with enlargements, a constant question is this: is there here an inflammatory product, or a malignant, or an innocent growth ? Less frequently, is there a displacement, a dilatation, an effusion, an extraneous body ? The paramount importance of being guided by principles rather than by details is seen (giving a very simple ex- ample) in the examination of a severely injured limb. A surgeon oppressed by detail tries to arrive at a detail first and last; a surgeon guided by principle ascertains