48 Experiments in Surgery Generally. follows quickly, and consists of little more than a return to the natural, or a near approximation to the natural, state of the several organs and their functions. In these cases, there is commonly some acceleration of the heart's action, some flush of the skin, and some diminution in the distinctness and vigour of the mental power. In other cases of slight injury, but considerable shock, there may be smart febrile reaction. Every one is familiar with the sensation of shock from sudden mental emotion, as in witnessing some great danger or accident to human life—the mo- mentary confusion of thought and feebleness of the heart’s action, followed immediately, so rapid is reaction in these cases, by palpitation, hot skin, and perspiration. The act of blushing is probably rapid reaction from mental shock more or less severe. Our knowledge of the fever, its nature, and the time of its accession and duration, which follows severe mental shock, is very imperfect; but we cannot doubt that, as in shock, there is some physical change in the nervous and other structures (although much of the change in nervous structures, but certainly not all, may be of a dynamical character), so in reaction there is also some further change in the affected parts of the organisation which, in favourable cases, terminates in a state of health. In more marked shock, but not that of the severest injuries, the fever is very obvious. The pulse and respir- ation are accelerated, the skin is hot, the secretions are scanty and deficient in water ; thirst and headache are also present. Vomiting* occurs at an early period in reaction. In such cases, the fever of reaction comes on quickly, and as a rule, quickly subsides. In the severest injuries, which are yet not fatal, there are two classes of reaction from shock. First, those where the fever is long deferred, or slightly marked, or too transient, and where exhaustion and a fatal termination are very likely to ensue. In the other class, reaction comes on within a few hours, speedily becomes very marked in its * I have often seen a desire on the part of surgeons to attribute, very unjustly, the vomiting of reaction to the influence of anaesthetics.