178 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. In simple depressed fracture with symptoms—trephine; in compound depressed fracture with symptoms—trephine; in compound depressed fracture without symptoms—some surgeons trephine, others do not; in punctured and cut fractures, with or without symptoms—trephine; in fracture followed by haemorrhage from a meningeal trunk, with symptoms—there is much difference of opinion; in fracture followed by symp- toms of pressure from inflammatory products—there is also great diversity of teaching; in the remoter irritating sequelae of fracture, epilepsy especially—trephining has hitherto been very rare. Indeed, as a matter of fact, trephining is rarely resorted to, either for paralysing blood-pressure, paralysing pus-pressure, or for the later results of fracture. We naturally expect that opinion and teaching vary where the problems they deal with are extremely obscure. The locality of the head-injury, its characters, its extent, its implication of ad- jacent parts, its complications, its accessibility, the possibility % of removing the causes of “ symptoms,” are matters so grave and enigmatical as to tax the most instructed and experienced judgments. The judges also are not alike. Here is one who takes a sanguine view of cases, and trephines frequently; there is another who takes gloomy views and never trephines. One class of teachers I warn you against—namely, those who in ambiguous matters dogmatically lay down laws as if there were no ambiguity and no difference of opinion. For example, one authority says: “ In suspected clot between the bone and dura mater, even if there be no wound and no sign of fracture, trephine oyer the meningeal artery.” He gives no hint that others not only differ from him, but go so far as to contend that even if there are signs of a fracture and a wound, as well as evidence of such a clot, it is undesirable to trephine, because the coagulum is so diffused, so difficult to remove, and so frequently dips into the base of the skull. In surgical affairs, gentlemen, as in all the affairs of life, your opinions need not be the less strong because you clearly see, fairly state, and justly appraise opposito opinions. Strictly speaking, there are only two principles touching the operation of trephining on which surgeons are agreed :