46 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. namely, vomiting. I have never known vomiting to occur (except in strangulated hernia, when the vomiting has a mechanical cause), unless the pulse was accelerated, and some heat of the skin was present. And yet vomiting may unquestionably occur at an early period after shock. Effects of Diminished Circulation. The effects of enfeebled circulation are numerous and palpable; as, for instance, the tallowy pallor of the skin; the peculiar whiteness of the lips (which is probably due to the absence of the rete Malpighii, with its pigmentary cells, in mucous membrane) ; the coldness, subjective and objective; the want of lustre in the conjunctiva of the cornea and sclerotic; the contraction of the features; and the dilated character of the nostrils. The shallow, irregular nature of the respiratory action is also due in part to the impaired muscular power of the heart, but in part also to the direct influence which is exerted upon the respiratory functions, as well as upon the circulatory, through the medium of the nervous system. An important feature of the respiration is its extreme irregularity, especially in the deeper inspirations, which occur naturally, about every fifth inspiration. But the chief peculiarity in the respiration is the loss of the relative proportion in the frequency of the pulse and the respiratory acts. A glance at the cases, tabulated for the purpose of showing the relation of the temperature of the body to shock, shows this very clearly. The pulse may even increase in frequency; and the respiratory acts become slower at the same time, or the reverse may occur. This peculiarity runs more or less conspicuously through the fever of reaction, affording another point of difference between the fever of reaction and the ordinary “medical fevers.-” The cold “ clammy ” perspiration so often perceptible on the skin is mostly found in those cases where psychical causes have played an important part in the production of shock, and in cases where the injury has occurred to a person engaged in bodily exertion. It is improbable that the perspiration is secreted at the time the system is suffering