75 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. even in a few hours, rapidly remove considerable masses of induration and painful swelling. How can this be done ? Chiefly by counter-irritation. A. belt, or zone, or horse shoe of counter-irritation carried around, and a little distant from, the inflammation will remove it in a period of time which will depend on the extent and intensity of the new in- flammation. The following cases, briefly stated, show the great benefit of counter-irritation in the vicinity of in- flamed areas. Extensive inflammation of popliteal region : Counter-irri- tation to thigh and leg : Rapid subsidence.—A little girl of five was brought to the Hospital with the left knee semi-flexed. A large red, hard, aud very tender swelling filled the popliteal space, and encroached on the thigh aud leg. Smart fever was present. The thigh and leg were painted (see diagrams) leaving only the inflamed part uncovered, and a large poultice, when the paint had dried for an hour, was ordered to envelop the knee and ad- jacent limb, and to be surrounded by several turns of bandage, securing pressure short of pain. In two days nearly all inflammation gone; in five days limb quite well. Hot a drop of pus formed, at least no opening was formed or made. Severe incipient whitlow : Counter-irritation : Immediate subsidence.—A woman presented a fiuger in which a tense shining red and painful swelling had come on for a week. Iodine paint to the other fingers, all the hand, and part of fore-arm. Complete relief in twenty-four hours. All symp- toms gone in a few days. It is not intended to show that it is well to dispense with the knife here, or in deep abscess, but where pain is not acute, or is relieved by counter-irritation, the knife need not be instantly resorted to. In deep, painful whitlow, the knife should be hourly in mind. This case represents a large number which I have seen. The knife, poultices, and a three week’s sling, were saved as a rule. “ Sub-acute glandular inflammation: Counter-irritation: Arrest and subsidence.—A girl of four was ailing a few days,