197 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Heck. The injection should be repeated at intervals of two or three weeks; perhaps the best rule of guidance in this matter is to repeat the injection when the shrinking process set up by the previous injection has ceased. The polypus becomes firmer and of a deeper colour, at the same time it becomes smaller and eventually disappears. My late house surgeon, Mr. Cordley Bradford, treated at my request three cases successively by the method now described, and with complete success. I have had sufficient expei’ience to convince me that the method is so successful in results and easy in manipulation, that it is worth remember- ing in reviewing the several methods of dealing with nasal polypi. My final remark is to suggest a long interval, a few weeks at least, between each injection. A man came to me three times at intervals of a fortnight—each time much improved. He told me the third time that circumstances would prevent his seeing me again for a considerable time. Three months later not a trace of polypus was to be found. Since the above was in the printers5 hands, Mr. Reginald Harrison has advocated the use of multiple punctures with a surgical needle. The method is simple and may well be used before other methods are adopted. The Treatment oe Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus. There is a general tendency in surgical opinion in favour of free exposure of the formidable growth—naso-pharyngeal polypus. Nelatoffis method of reaching it by division of the palate is no longer approved. Of the various methods of turning down the nose, or of partially resecting and tempora- rily lifting up the upper maxilla, I will not speak. I desire now to suggest simple measures prior to any step which in a disease of early adult age, necessarily and extensively scars the face. A few years ago a very formidable case came under my care. A young gentleman, about eighteen (who had the advantage of being seen by several eminent surgeons), found that breathing through the nostrils was getting more and