20G Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. knowing : if there be no intra-thoracic pressure, aneurism, or cancer; if no history of syphilis or contact of caustic fluids, or no history or sign of other ulceration or cicatrisation; if there be no evidence of hysteria, supposing the patient to be a woman or even a man, we may, in cases of very sudden accession of symptoms, bear in mind the alternative which the above case suggests. Cellulitis of the Neck. I saw, in consultation with his medical advisers, Mr. C., a very stout man of middle age. His appearance suggested free eating and drinking, but he would not admit this. He was a man of great mental activity, and added the labours of a voluntary Sunday preacher to the duties of a responsible vocation during the week. His illness began a few days before I saw him with the symptoms of a cold and some swelling of the neck. He rapidly grew worse and when I saw him the swelling of the neck was extreme, especially in front, the chin being scarcely more prominent than the swelling which extended from the chin to the sternum. The superjacent skin was of a pale earthy tint and smooth, but not glossy, and certainly not red. The hardness was uniform with some pitting on firm and prolonged pressure. The nervous prostration—a combination of debility, dejection, and indifference—was extreme. The temperature was high and the pulse rapid. There was an incessant expectoration of finely bubbled frothy mucus, but no cough or dyspnoea were noticed or complained of. I made several incisions, and advised a continuance of the poultices with the utmost possible attention to nutrition in diet. He sank in a few days from exhaustion and without difficulty of breathing. From beginning to end there was no sign of softening, or suppuration, or sloughing. A few years ago, I saw with his family attendant, an inn- keeper, who resided in a healthy locality in the neighbourhood of Cannock Chase. He was a very stout red faced mau, of intemperate habits. After a prolonged exposure to severe weather he had what seemed a bilious attack with cold and