280 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. cases. A concealed bistoury, larger and stronger than the one used for dividing strictures at the meatus, may be easily carried into the bladder, after the membranous urethra is freely opened, along the staff’ (or even without the staff) in the urethra. A nervous operator may touch the stone with the instrument ; the blade is then directed upwards and projected to a measured extent, and the instrument is withdrawn with the sheath pressing back towards the rectum. It seems to me that no lithotomy could be more simply contrived or formulated than this: open the membranous urethra on a grooved staff; put a strong simple concealed bistoury into the bladder; project the blade upwards and draw out the bistoury; put the finger into the bladder, feel the stone, and extract as usual. Much may be done with this bistoury. (See Plate X., Fig. 2.) It may be used as a sound; it may incise the prostatic urethra to any desired extent. After the incision (or before, if the urethra be large enough), the sheathed bistoury flatwise is an ex- cellent guide for the finger to the bladder. All these advantages I experienced in the case of this little boy— my fourth case. Whether the straight bistoury on the finger, or the concealed bistoury, be used, the instrument should be so held that the upward incision is confined to the prostatic urethra. The floor of the membranous urethra is already divided; its roof need not be cut. To confine the upward incision to the neck of the bladder, and to avoid opening the roof of the membranous urethra, and thereby avoid opening unduly the space between the bladder and the pubic bones, is the one great precaution the operation requires. I have found less than usual haemorrhage by this method; but, if it be at all free, say in adults, the application of a long sponge-tent for an hour or two effectually checks it. Tho tent may be withdrawn at will, without removiug the tube. I have been asked if there is no danger of urinary infiltration. Urinary infiltration is not a feature of the supra-pubic operation, in which there is no downward drain,