188 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. difficulty in getting and keeping a sufficiently big and fairly symmetrical mouth. In one case I removod the whole of the upper lip for epithelial cancer in an elderly man, and formed a mouth from tho lower lip. In this case the lips were very long, and thin, and tho mouth, formed altogether of the lower lip, was quite big enough without the lateral cuts. A Method op Operating for Hare-lip. The methods of treating hare-lip resolve themselves into two classes: the carving and saving method and free removal. The carving methods are necessarily complicated in descrip- tion and usually complicated in practice. In my experience and observation, success is best secured by a simple method boldly carried out. The steps that require to be bold are two : free separation of the affected parts from the bone, and free paring of the margins of the cleft. Before operating there is difficulty in bringing the margins together, and it is naturally feared that if some of the margins were cut away the difficulty would be increased. If, however, the cleft and adjacent portions of lips, cheek, and nostril, are freely lifted from the bone, the margins of the cleft can be easily brought together, however much tissue may be cut away. In some cases the wing of the nose and the cheek near it should be separated from the bone, in order that the top stitch may draw the flattened nostril towards the middle line. The mobility (or movability) of detached parts of the face may be proved by a single and bloodless experiment. A surgeon, before a mirror, can make the angles of his mouth meet over his closed jaws; there would be no difficulty in paring them and stitching them together in such a position. In speaking of another operation, the removal of cancer, I am in the habit of saying that the face may be lifted up from tho underlying bones as a living mask, cut to new shapes, put into new positions, and laid down again, without fear of failing union or failing vitality. The steps of the operation which I prefer are these: with a long narrow knife (a rather long tenotome say) separate