195 Enquiries in the Snrgevy of the Head and Neck. with long sleeping tertiary syphilis this periostitis is very formidable. I believe there is a growing tendency to be very patient in its treatment. Time, the iodides, and clean- liness (I should put a thread or two under the skin at the back of the neck) are preferable to active operative inter- ference. The separation of a necrosed fragment is extremely slow and tedious, but there are two powerful reasons against any attempt at removal. It is frequently difficult or im- possible to know how much to remove, and secondly, the operation sets up further and more active disease. Of course loose fragments should always be removed. The Treatment of Nasal Polypi by the Tissue Injection of Iodine. The treatment described here is the injection of iodine tincture into the substance of the simple gelatinous polypi. I have not used it in other varieties. Whether it would prove of service in the fibrous or naso-pharyngeal polypus, experience only can prove; whether we should even try to get the experience is a matter for grave reflection. In the fibrous growth the vascularity is great, and the gentlest manipulation is occasionally followed by alarming haemorrhage. Yet the recognised methods of treatment are so formidable, some of them involving extensive facial scars at the threshold of life, that to me such efforts would be quite justifiable, the more so that a few cases have been recorded of their spontaneous diminution and even of alleged disappearance. The structure of the simple gelatinous polypi is singularly well adapted for parenchymatous injection ; it is easily permeated by fluids and is not very vascular. When ten or twenty drops of iodine are injected into a greenish or yellowish, or pinkish polypoid body, it instantly assumes the appearance of a ripe purple plum. It is not proposed to inject iodine into every even simple polypus. Where there is one accessible polypus, well peduuculated and seated in a large nostril, the forceps or snare effects a quick and not very painful removal.