Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 243 opened the left colon frequently, and will tell you one item of my experience. In tliin and emaciated persons, I have found the bowel within one inch of the surface; but, on the other hand, in stout persons, I have found the bowel at a depth of four inches. I shall not forget the case of a very stout man. When the tips of my fingers touched the blue colon, the ends of my metacarpal bones were below the level of the skin. [Nearly six years have passed away since the above lecture was given. The woman remains in excellent health, and the opening in the bowel is easily managed.] Gummy Masses around the Rectum simulating Cancer. Such masses have come under my notice in a few cases, and in some of them the diagnosis was not at all an easy task. Curiously the cases in which this difficulty occurs have been in my experience almost altogether in women. A given woman in the earlier half of adult age finds difficulty in expelling fmces from the lower bowel. Probably when she first makes the complaint she seems otherwise in fair health. There is no conspicuous cachexia, and for a time mild aperients keep her in order. But she soon has attacks of diarrhoea, alternating with mechanical constipation; the general health fails, she wastes and becomes very feeble. If the finger be carried into the bowel it will be found that the rectal channel is much contracted, and its walls seem to be made of round, firm masses, giving a feeling very similar to that of the nodules of malignant disease. This condition is clearly one of stricture—gummy stricture as distinguished from annular stricture and from malignant stricture. Probably these gummy masses, for such they are, in some cases soften down sooner or later (usually after a long period) into an extensive tertiary and very serious ulceration. In other cases they lead probably by more limited ulceration and subsequent cicatrisation to the simple annular stricture. Now and then in these cases there are vast masses of gummy products in the ischio-rcctal fossa, causing great