210 Enquiries in the Surgery of the TTead and Neele. the neck; was paralysis of an upper limb, evidently from deep pressure on the brachial plexus. In a rectal case, paralysis of one limb resulted from pressure on the sacral plexus. In describing the causes of the rough pathology, I have indirectly given some of the clinical symptoms of cellulitis of the neck. Noticing then the size, the habits, the activity, and the liability to exposure of the victims of the disease we are enquiring into, wo pass on to observe that, locally, there is a thick, large, hard, pale collar-like swelling gradually subsiding at the sides and back of the neck. The general condition is one of extreme nervous prostration and fever; the temperature, two or three days before death, reaching 103. The secretion and expectoration of bronchial mucus is remarkable. There is, it may be, gangrene outside the pleura, but there is not the ordinary pleurisy of physicians; there is gangrene, it may be, around the bronchial tubes, but there is not the ordinary bronchitis of physicians. Relapses are prone to occur, and, which gives much gravity to the relapses, each relapse involves an extension of the disease. The new area of extending cellulitis may be on the surface, but it may also be deep, uncoutrolable, and quickly fatal. It is probable that the fatal cases are due rather to a relapse and extension, than either to progress of the original disease, or intensification of shock. In my experience death is due more to exhaustion than to impeded respiration. The two extremities of the digestive tubes seem to be favourite localities of cellulitis. I have not met with cellulitis in any part of the body so severe, so uniform in its causes, and characters, and mortalitjq as in the neck and around the rectum. I do not say that the cellulitis of the two localities are exactly or greatly similar, nevertheless, they have much in common as will be seen iu the enquiry into cellulitis around the rectum in another page. The sex, the age, the drinking and eating, the dimensions of the patients, the ceaseless active energy, the exposure to cold, the relapses, extensions, and mortality, are much alike in both. Extreme and prolonged cold will in rare cases, perhaps, alone suffice to produce cellulitis; in some cases excessive intemperance