Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 70 be used. The pressure and the heat (counter-irritation) of a poultice are not only bearable but “ comforting ” in the acutest and tenderest inflammations. Or is there any virtue in linseed meal, independently of its being a medium for pressure and heat ? Shot-mattresses, from the lightest to the heaviest, strapping, easy or firm, bandages, slacker or tighter, are the simplest means by which pressure may be effected. A shot-mattress over, or a bandage around a poultice materially augments its benefit, even in acute inflammations. Chronic inflam- matory products, say in the breast, testis, cutaneous structures, knee-joint, &c., are more rapidly and effectively dispersed by carefully adjusted pressure than by any other treatment. Of the utility of rest, the importance of which should never be forgotten, of elevation, of the removal of any known cause, of the importance of attention to diet, and even drugs for given purposes sufficient mention has already been made. The utility of elevation of inflamed parts is more frequently acknowledged on paper than in practice. In the limbs it is often necessary simply to relieve pain, for the tension of an inflamed foot, or leg, or hand, or fore-arm, is greatly diminished if the veins are emptied by elevation, at the same time that a barrier to local circulation is removed. In elevating the limbs care should be taken, where there is no good reason to the contrary, that the joints are somewhat flexed, as they always are when in repose. There is one kind of elevation to which I shall draw attention here, because of its great utility, in my opinion at least. It is that of elevation of the pelvis in inflammatory diseases of the pelvic organs, by placing a flat pillow under the nates. It is especially useful in hip disease, because, besides assisting the local circulation, it tends to overcome, by the weight of the limb itself, the tendency to flexion which is often difficult to counteract, and which, if it be allowed to remain, causes a little limp in an otherwise cured case. The different remedies which are here believed to be best,