Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 148 I have reason to recognise this fact from a case at this moment under my care. Bubo within the Abdomen. In the Edinburgh Journal of Medicine (vol. iii.), I recorded a case to which the above title was, I think, correctly given. That the condition is rare there can be no doubt, as since that time I have not seen or read of any similar case. On describing the case in the presence of an able surgeon, he believed that an obscure case which he had seen was of a similar character. I do not know that any author has spoken of inflammation and suppuration of an iliac, or a lumbar gland arising during an attack of primary syphilis. If I am correct in looking on the case here described as one of bubo within the abdomen, it is unlikely, however rare it may be, that it is the first case of the kind; when such cases have been met with they have probably been regarded as due to peritonitis, especially if no post mortem examination has been made, other cases may have been attributed to “ simply coincident abscess,” or in the female to “ pelvic cellulitis.” It is almost needless to say that the lymphatic ducts pass from the cutaneous coverings of the external genital organs to the inguinal glands, from the inguinal to the external iliac, and from the external iliac to the lumbar glands. Now, in considering the following case as one of bubo it is presumed that in rare instances a lymphatic duct may wind its way between the inguinal directly to the external iliac glands. It is much less likely that the syphilitic poison would pass through the tissue of an inguinal gland without affecting it and then produce its specific effect on an external iliac. It is extremely unlikely that the lymphatic ducts are the only anatomical structures which are free from even striking abnormal deviations. If the internal carotid may arise from the arch of the aorta or be entirely absent, if the interosseous of the fore-arm may arise from the axillary artery, if the large nervous trunks which form the brachial, lumbar, or sacral plexuses may differ in number and conformation in every one