Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 117 or which would also seal up the divided vessels, is certainly a matter of speculation, but the absorption of solid gut lifts the idea above the level of an idle dream. On Constitutionalism or Localism in the Origin op Cancer. In matters concerning human health and life, there is no more important question than this: is a given ailment cancer or not cancer ? In morbid growths it is the one distinction to make; it is a distinction between life and death; it is a distinction so fundamental, early, and irrevocable that no metaphysical cobweb-spinning or verbal criticism can destroy it. When does this distinction between malignancy and non- malignancy in a growth begin ? Does it first begin solely in a local change, or is the beginning still earlier—in other words, is the origin “ local or constitutional ? ” This appears to be the salient point in the discussion between what may be called two schools—the localist and constitutionalist. It will clear the ground if we first ascertain what we know and what we don’t know in the matter before us. We do know—we know too well that cancerous tumours grow rapidly, are painful, invade all tissues, involve the glands, are attended by ill health, and destroy life. We know that non-malignant growths grow slowly, are not associated with ill health, and do not (except by accident) destroy life. The two sets of growths are the antipodes of each other. But we do not know how cancer originates, or when it originates, or where it originates. To discuss, for example, whether it arises in the solids or in the blood is scarcely more profitable, with our microscopical and chemical knowledge, than to discuss with the schoolmen, the question of how many angels can dance on the point of a needle. It is a phase of our ignorance which has been too much concealed. The relation of the solid organs and the blood is so intimate, and their reciprocal influences so active, that it is difficult, if not impossible, to say where any pathological action begins. Man is not made of blood only; nor does ho consist of