73 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Delayed peritonitis after rupture of the intestine: Death from shock on the seventh day.—A woman of 35, after injury to the intestine, was insensible from profound shock for six hours, with an axillary temperature of 95°. When she rallied she progressed for several days very favourably, except that she was subject to occasional pain in the abdomen of a very severe character, which changed its locality at each recurrence. These pains were always relieved by vigorous local applications of iodine liniment around the seat of the pain and. in the groins. Opium and a little nourishment were given by the rectum only. During the seventh day she suddenly and in a few hours sank from shock. After death a rupture of the intestine was found, and a thin layer of solid faeces spread over the intestines. There was no peritonitis. In the following case the uniform improvement which succeeded each individual application of iodine was surely something more than a succession of coincidences :— “ Ovariotomy during peritonitis : Counter-irritation at groins : Recovery.—Mrs. K., age 40, entered the hospital for the purpose of having ovariotomy performed. There was constant vomiting, a quickened pulse, and a temperature of 99-f0, with abdominal tenderness. As these symptoms did not abate with time, the operation was performed. Universal recent adhesions were found. Vomiting and pain during the first few days were met chiefly by counter-irritation in the groins. Improve- ment uniformly followed each application. Linseed poultices to the abdomen were also sprinkled with mustard. Complete recovery followed.” In the following case, which I brought before the Medico- chirurgical Society fifteen years ago, of severe wound of the knee-joint, it is impossible to say that this case would not have done well without the counter-irritation. One circum- stance, however, struck the dressers and pupils. Counter- irritation was not applied for several hours after admission. He was complaining of pain in the limb, and was very restless; when the counter-irritation was excited, both the symptoms immediately disappeared and did not return. “An incised and gaping luound of the knee joint: Rest,