112 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. into cancers. Old cicatrices, which are tense and inflamed (not the soft and uninflamed) it is well known are extremely prone to take on epitlieliomatous action. Inflammatory granulations appear to pass gradually into cancerous warts. Is there in such cases any precise time at which it can be said—now inflammation stops, now cancer begins ? In the interpretation of microscopic appearances, it would bo at least hazardous to say that intermediate forms are not present. The clinical features of inflammation have much in common with cancer. In both there are swelling, pain, tenderness, and redness, both ulcerate and slough, both infiltrate the adjacent parts, both form adhesions, both implicate the glands, in both the temperature is elevated. When cancers slough and ulcerate, they are said by some observers to be attacked by inflam- mation. But as all cancers tend to slough and ulcerate, are we justified in assuming that another and alleged independent action is superadded ? A coincidence which is constant ceases to be a coincidence; singular, or, to some, absurd as it may seem, I think I have seen in extremely rare cases an undecided, vacillating, irresolute, pathological process. In one case of old carious bone the character of epitheliomatous cancer apparently set in; but again, in time, these characters melted away and gave place again to those of a more typical inflammation. It seemed as if two pathological principles were quietly contest- ing for mastery, and now one, for a time, and then the other slowly prevailed. The Continuous Extension of Pathological Action in the Tissues. This is another kind of continuity well worth attentive consideration. It is a favourite idea with some German histologists that the human body is a large mass, or cast, a model of connective tissue, into which nerve, muscle, blood and other elements are inserted for special purposes. This connective tissue is the chief seat of diseased processes. If we start a morbid action in this widely prevailing structure, there is scarcely a limit to the extent to which it may go.