62 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. The cystitis of calculus, or stricture, or enlarged prostate, must be met by removal of the cause, if possible. It is unnecessary to stop here and tell the surgeon what compli- cations and mechanical conditions demand the first attention. The treatment here discussed is that of the inflammatory process itself in its numerous phases. The great majority of diseases which the surgeon treats are of an inflammatory character. They form a large pro- portion of any surgical nomenclature, they form a still larger proportion of the cases in actual practice. If we look at the diseases of the cutaneous structures, we find that the frequency of cancer, nsevus, and warts, is slight, contrasted with the frequency of abscess, boil, carbuncle, onychia, paronchia, erysipelas, and the ulcers. In the bones, again, periostitis, acute and chronic, osteitis, necrosis, caries, abscess, Sclerosis, preponderate numerically over rickets, mollities, tumours, and cancer. It is so, more or less, with all the organs, the diseases of which fall to the lot of the surgeon to treat. I have taken some pains to ascertain the percentage of inflammatory and non-inflammatory diseases in the out and in-patients of the Queen’s Hospital, between two fixed dates. In round numbers, of the out-patients five-sixths of the diseases were inflammatory, of the in-patients two-thirds were inflammatory. The disparity is probably due to the entrance into hospital of cases specially for operations, as cancers, various tumours, hernias and vesical calculi. Excluding for the present specific inflammations, as the syphilitic and rheumatic, no one contends that the inflam- matory action is a different process in the different localities organs, and tissues. How comes it, then, that there are numberless varieties of treatment for inflammatory diseases ? How comes it that there is one list of treatments (if I may say so for brevity) for an inflamed urethra, another list of treatments for inflamed prostate, another for inflamed bladder, another for inflamed testis, one for inflamed tongue, another for inflamed tonsils, another for inflamed larynx, another for inflamed bronchus? In systems of surgery the chapter on