63 Enqvwries in Surgery Generally. the treatment of inflammation gives a long list of remedies. In the subsequent chapters these are frequently forgotten and new ones are introduced. Inflammation then being in the main one disease why should we not have in the main one treatment. Let us consider for a few moments some example of a simple inflam- mation—say an inflamed patellar bursa, cured at a moderately early stage, before new tissue or chronic thickening has appeared. No drug or combination of drugs will cure it. Rest alone will not cure it. It may be certainly cured by means of counter-irritation in the form of cantharides, or iodine, or even by mustard. Take another case. A man came with severe double acute orchitis and unable to stand upright. Counter-irritation, slightly to the sci’otum, and sharply over the upper thirds of both thighs, and lying in bed practically cured him in twenty-four hours. No drugs or other remedies could have done this. Seeing that counter-irritation can do what no other remedy can do in certain manifestations of a process which is the same process in all its numerous manifestations, why not use counter-irritation in all ? Why not use it in abscess, carbuncle, cellulitis, erysipelas, osteitis, periostitis, synovitis, urethritis, and so on ? If the bursal inflammation or synovial membrane be also submitted to gentle compression, especially when the inflammation has proceeded to thickening, the subsidence of the inflammatory action will be much quickened. Here there is another remedy which can do what no drug, or combination of drugs can do. Why not use pressure— gentle, or moderate, or firm, as circumstances require, in all inflammations where it can be used ? Why not adopt these remedies to the age, tho locality, and the severity ? THE PRINCIPLES WHICH SHOULD GOVERN THE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. The real nature of the inflammatory process is still a matter of dispute. Fortunately, the signs of its presence are usually clear. The process is attended by certain phe- nomena which are so regular and uniform that they may be