180 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. if it can bo called a separate class, is that of depressed and exposed bono without paralysis—the “ compound depressed fracture without symptoms.” Here teaching differs greatly. Hero also is seen the pertinence of the question I have just put—Was the injuring body so edged, or pointed, or cornered, that the in-driven fragments pierced the meninges ? If they were, why not put these cases in tho first category—viz., that of punctured fractures ? One of three things will happen in compound fracture of the skull: the broken bone presses and paralyses—if so, trephine; or the broken bone perforates the membranes—if so, also trephine; or it will do neither, and no operation is needed. In other words, exposed and even depressed broken bone may neither perforate the membranes nor cause paralysis by pressure. Kemember that I am not describing all the injuries, or indeed all the fractures, of the skull now; I confine myself to those which involve the question of trephining. With respect to these compound depressed fractures which do not paralyse, I would, discarding the terms “ cut ” and “ punctured,” or giving them a larger meaning, at least suggest this guiding principle: lean the more to the use of the trephine the more reason there is to suspect perforation of the dura mater. Whether the dura mater is injured or not is all important. There may, however, certainly be some degree of indented and depressed bone without either laceration of membranes or paralysing pressure. In deciding this point the degree of inclination, size and shape of the fragments, the presence or not of brain-substance in the wound, and the gentle use of a fine probe, will give us great help. In otherwise doubtful cases Sir James Paget gives a valuable suggestion: the trephiue can be more easily dispensed with in the eaxdier than in the later half of life. A third class is that of paralysing blood-pressure. Here, after a fracture has torn a meningeal truuk, effusion between the bone and dura mater comes on in a few hours with re- action, and, if abundant, leads to paralysis of the opposite side. If I were at hand when hemiplegia and coma where clearly coming on after an interval of consciousness, I