79 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. features of a number of cases. In my work on the treat- ment of surgical inflammations they were given more at length and more in number. Alice F. was brought to hospital with an abscess in gluteal region, the size of a hen’s egg. A broad circle of mild iodine paint (tine., four-fifths, lin., one-fifth) was applied around the abscess. The next day the abscess opened spontaneously, on the third day the abscess had quite dis- appeared, and the opening was closed. Joseph Gr., age 7, came to hospital with a large abscess in the palm of the right hand. The hand, fingers, and forearm were swelled to twice their natural size. The abscess had been present sixteen days, and spontaneous opening had occurred ten days before admission. Tho hand, except the palm, and the forearm, were covered with iodine liniment. A linseed poultice, with bandage and sling, were also ordered. In forty-eight hours the discharge had ceased and the swelling had subsided. The hand could be used on the fourth day. Amos S., age 92, presented himself at hospital with a lars:e abscess at the side of the neck. The iodine liniment was applied freely to a comparatively large surface at the back of the neck. Two days afterwards the abscess opened spontaneously •, two days later still, that is, on the fourth day, the opening had completely closed and the swelling had disappeared. Edwin 0., aged 17, had a large strumous abscess of axilla, with extensive redness and induration around. Duration three weeks. A circumjacent zone of integument was painted with iodine liniment and a pigment prescribed for the patient’s own use. Fourteen days later only a little induration could be detected. Remarks.—This case is importaut as illustrating a class in which great benefit may be obtained notwith- standing the existence of the strumous diathesis, and where the accompanying abscess is usually extremely tedious and chronic. James T., aged 35, a smith’s striker, came to the hospital with two large abscesses on the forearm, both on the extensor