Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 203 there is no trouble with hminorrhage, although it may be well to have ice and the perchloride of iron, and the black cautery at hand. Finally, adjust the cheek wound with a few silver sutures. Recovery is singularly rapid and, when complete, the mucous membrane covers the muscles at the floor of the mouth. The muscular floor often becomes convex, and greatly assists chewing and speech. To summarise then: Divide the cheek freely. Transfix the tongue well downwards and backwards at its root, and pass two ecraseur chains through the line of transfixion; work the two chains simultaneously, one below the tongue in front, and the other close to the pillars of the fauces behind; stitch up the cheek. I have also removed half the tongue by means of two dcraseurs. One chain is made to work transversely in front of the pillars of the fauces, the other works in the long axis of the tongue; the tip of the tongue being well notched with scissors to receive the chain. This operation is more difficult, but if appropriate steel pins are made to transfix the tongue until the front ecraseur is in a good groove the object in view may be certainly obtained. If a few long ungainly teeth interfere with the free use of the fingers in the preliminary steps they should be removed. In a few hours cold milk is easily taken by the mouth, and on the second day simple words are frequently spoken. In some timid temperaments support by the rectum may be carried on for a few days. The mouth should be frequently rinsed with Condy’s fluid and water. A Case of Probable Herpetic Eruption of the Oesophagus, Simulating Organic GEsophageal Stricture. The following case seems to be one of interest and instruction. I had never heard, or seen, or read of any similar case. I give its essential features here. I was asked by his family adviser to see a well-to-do retired publican, for what appeared to bo stricture of the oesophagus, attended by urgent symptoms. He was a little