Enquiries in Surgery Goner ally. 149 of twenty cases, why may not a small lymphatic duct pass one inch and a half further than usual, terminating behind rather than in front of the Poupart’s ligament. Benj. H., eet. 21, single, was admitted September 9, 1856, into the syphilitic wards of the Queen’s Hospital. Here is the record of his case in part: with the exception of an attack of gonorrhoea twelve months ago, he has always had good health. For two months he has had sores on the inner lining of the prepuce. These are three in number, but are alike in size and shape; they are all healing; there is slight but very unmistakable induration underneath and around them. The inguinal glands are not enlarged. Eleven days ago he first noticed pain and tenderness deeply seated in the right groin; shortly a convex swelling followed. A few days before admission this swelling disappeared but was followed by increased pain and tenderness, as well as by sickness, rigors, and prostration; at the commencement of the abdominal symptoms he had diarrhoea, which ceased suddenly in a couple of days. Vomiting, which before had been occasional, became almost incessant twenty-four hours ago. He lies on his back with his thigh drawn up. The abdomen is distended, tense, painful, and tender; prostration is very marked and a daily record points to increasing prostration with distressing vomiting that became stercoraceous two days before his death, which happened on the 30th of the same month. Thirty hours after death the body was examined. “ Body much emaciated; rigor mortis present. The cranial and thoracic organs were healthy. On opening the abdomen the viscera in its lower half were seen to be covered with layers of lymph. This condition was more striking in the right iliac and hypogastric regions, so that in these sites coils of intestine were bound together in almost solid bundles. In the right iliac fossa, the intestinal folds were not only glued together but were glued also to the anterior wall of an abscess, which filled the greater portion of the cavity. Its lower limit was three quarters of an inch from Poupart’s ligament; near its inner sido was the external iliac artery; externally the abscess reached within two inches of the crest of the ileum; behind it