Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Bf Abdomen. 235 confined to the public, that "drinkers” should live so long, seeing that they frequently take so little solid food. In truth, they live so long because they eat so little. Singularly little food supports the adult. Take much food, and at the same time check metamorphosis with copious alcohol, and you lay a train for very certain pathological explosions. One of these explosions, and a dangerous one, is cellulitis around the rectum. The pale, hard, slightly lobed, extremely prominent swelling pi’ojecting between the big buttocks of a big man is not easy to describe. It may begin anywhere in the vicinity of the rectum—around the tube or near the surface; if it begin deeply, it quickly comes to the surface; if it begin under the skin, it soon extends deeply. Its deep position is sometimes known by the effects of pressure, as on the sacral plexus. In one case I had difficulty in believing that actual paraplegia was not present. It is only fair to say that his regular medical attendant (an able member of a hospital staff) could see nothing more than extreme prostration. In a some- what similar disease—cellulitis of the neck—I have known paralysis of one arm appear a day or two before the dense collar in front of the neck. The progress of the disease is very rapid. The skin over the swelling, if not cut by the surgeon, quickly melts away, and discloses a mass of dead, black, foetid tissue, but as a rule, little or no suppuration. Should pus appear, it is scanty and foetid at first; at a later stage, when the sloughs separate, there may in some cases, be free suppuration from the large granulating surfaces. The slough comes away rather slowly • a cavity, usually of extreme size, is left, which closes tardily, and leaves, curiously, no fistula, as does the ischio-rectal abscess. The gravest feature in the progress of these cases is the great tendency to relapse or extension, or both. The cellulitis tends to run rapidly on the surface to the thigh, buttock, perinaeum, or scrotum, or it runs into the pelvis, reaching the bladder, or evfen the peritoneum. Cellulitis, closely followed by gangrene, may, then, suddenly extend in possibly fatal, and always dangerous, directions. Here (see