78 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. aiound the abscess, and leaves the pus in a circumscribed isolated cavity which projects from the surface with all the distinctness and prominence of a tumour. The skin is slightly red over the round swelling. If abscesses were not more rapidly cured by means of counter-irritation, the greatly lessened formation of pus and rapid removal of swelling which follow its use would be worth obtaining. With the ordinary treatment, including the use of the knife, suppuration and swelling often remain many days. Incisions themselves in abscesses and erysipelas frequently act as counter-irritants, but curiously enough they are tardy in their effects, because it is their resulting inflammation which causes counter-irritation, and this may not set in for some days, while congestion and inflammation immediately follow the use of cantharides or iodine—hence their value. In chronic abscess the principles of treatment are the same, but the counter-irritation should be milder, and the zone or other shaped surface larger. Iodine preparations are here of great service. The common form of chronic abscess, which is very common, is that which accompanies osteitis and caries of bone. But the abscess here is only a symptom, for if the caries could be removed the abscess would cause no trouble. In abscesses from caries of skull, or ribs, or sternum, or vertebrae, or tibia, it is the caries which determines our treatment. Free exit of discharge, cleanliness, or even auti- septicity, and long rest, are more important than counter- irritation. There is some constitutional peculiarity which prolongs local disease; whether we call, or refuse to call it struma matters little. In the treatment of abscess, as in the treatment of in- flammation generally, I take it for granted that medicines, and all surroundings, bodily and mental, are such as contribute most favourably to the restoration of health. To this col- lateral but most important aspect of treatment I shall not recur. I shall now cite with designed brevity, the salient