185 Enquiries in the Surgery oj the Head and Neck. closed wound will have a tri-radiate or letter Y like ap- pearance. (See Plate V., Figs. 5, 6, 7). On this method large gaps may bo made and filled up. I he anatomy of the leading divisions of the facial nerve must be re- membered as far as is practical, but the preservation of life must be the first object. It cannot be too frequently stated as a fundamental fact in surgery, that the face may be lifted up from the under- lying bones as a living mask, and may, when thus de- tached, be partially removed and carved, and readjusted, and laid down again, without fear of failing union or failing vitality. I sometimes jocularly say to my class: you may take the face and grind it to powder and mix it with sand, and plaster it on the skull again and it will still live. The method of excising cancers just described is well illustrated in the following case. An old man had two epithelial cancers, one on the lower lip near the right angle of the mouth, and near it a second inside the right cheek. To remove these freely it was necessary to take away a third of the lower lip, and a circular portion of considerable size from the adjacent cheek. The lower lip was drawn to the right and fastened to the right extremity of the upper lip; next the circular gap was treated by the method j ust described, a tongue of cheek was brought forward towards the centre of the gap, and then the parts were so stitched as to leave a Y lying, as it were, on its side. (See plate V., Fig. 5.) Union was quick and complete, and the old man, after a short stay in the hospital, took a long journey home. There are two circumstances which encourage the surgeon to freely excise cancers of the face. Epithelial cancers of the integuments are mild, and the face is very amenable to manipulation. In an epithelioma of the nose, in an elderly woman, which had been under treatment a long time by the piece-meal-caustic method, and which had all the time been slowly extending, I took prompt, and perhaps rather bold steps. I excised the whole nose, and an adjacent area of face comprising portions of the cheeks, forehead, eyelids, nasal septum, and upper lip. Repair was singularly rapid. The