236 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sf Abdomen. Plate VIII., Figs. 1 and 2) are diagrams of cases which I have seen, in conjunction with medical friends, to several of whom I am much indebted for notes and suggestions. They are merely suggestive, but they save many words. One diagram (see Plate VIII., Fig. 1) is based on the case of a huge man, a bricklayer’s foreman, who ate a pound of meat thrice daily, and drank spirits at a similar rate. In a drunken fit, he sat the whole of a cold November night on a doorstep. A swelling so large in a man so big I had never seen. After a few days’ illness, with severe pains extreme prostration, and high temperature, peritonitis set in, and he quickly sank. An incision (persistently refused for some days) showed an enormous mass of black gangrenous tissue, stretching into the pelvis beyond the reach of the finger. There was no suppuration. His family adviser—him- self an able hospital surgeon—in a note about the case, used the just expression, “ gangrenous cellulitis.” In another case, where the build, habits, and exposure were such as I have described, the family adviser told me that the rectal cellulitis was preceded by pains in the limbs, vague in locality, but so severe that the man’s shouts could be heard in the street. Here the skin, no knife being used, rapidly disappeared, disclosing a large black gangrenous mass. While this was slowly coming away, sharp bladder symptoms set in—cystitis, more or less retention, and the formation of a large abscess near the neck of the bladder, which burst into the urethra. For some time, pus and mucus appeared in large quantities in ammoniacal urine. The convalescence was extremely tedious, but ultimately, under the skilful guidance of his family physician, the parts healed and left no fistula. Yet another example, in a large manufacturer, an ex- mayor, the leader of his political party in a Worcestershire town where political feeling runs high; who kept tfa good table,” and who was “ never at rest.” After a formidable cellulitis in the vicinity of the rectum, especially between the rectum and the sacrum, he appeared to be slowly recovering, when suddenly, with a return of high temper-