Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 76 when a hard oval swelling was found occupying the outer two-thirds of the groin. A horse-shoe of weak paint was applied above, externally and below, but the skin was very sensitive, and only a little was used occasionally. A poultice was applied within the horse-slioe of paint. It caused smarting. No marked changed occurred for several days, when the inflammatory mass rapidly disappeared, and the child was suddenly well and active. Remarlcs.—Such cases mostly end in abscess of three weeks to three months’ duration.” “Incipient abscess in axilla : Circumjacent counter-irritation : Immediate disappearance.—Jno. H., age 28, labourer, had a large red, painful, and tender tumour in the axilla, of fourteen days’ duration. Iodine paint was freely applied to the thorax, axillary folds, and upper arm. On the third day the swelling had disappeared, and on the seventh there was complete recovery.” THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. The treatment of abscesses is uniform and simple. If very acute, a not wide (the width must always depend on the extent of the primary inflammation) zone of integument may be painted with acetum lyttae. The benefit will perhaps show itself in twelve or eighteen hours, but then it will be very rapid. In somewhat less acute abscess (and even in the most acute) an effectual and rapid treatment is to paint a broader zone of iodine—the liniment, or a stronger pigment, and to repeat this once or twice daily as often as the patient can bear it. Iodine is, perhaps, generally the more convenient irritant. The smarting lasts a little longer on children, to whom a few breaths of chloroform should not be forgotten. The directions I have just laid down are applicable to any abscess, but in certain localities there are a few modifications that may be made with benefit. Thus, if an abscess be situated in the vicinity of a large artery (as in the limbs or neck), which large artery is more or less an independent or "next” artery, a stripe of counter-irritation may with advantage bo established over it. In an abscess (or carbuncle, or boil,