Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 128 If this statement of the merits of the dressing is at all truthful, it deserves a more careful if not a lengthened examination. A sponge, by its bulk and softness, is in itself a good splint—a sufficient one in many operations. The mobility of one part of a sponge on another, as the upper on the lower, gives marked protection from accidental movements or blows, or friction. The soft splintage and compression of a moist sponge keep up delicate adjustment as well as any desired position—a great boon in perhaps awkward flaps, corners, and margins, such as are left after “ conser- vative ” operations for injuries. Rest, adjustment, and gentle pressure prevent or diminish pain. The easily regulated and peculiar pressure of a sponge secure many useful objects. Of its utility in maintaining apposition of parts mention has just been made. It is of great value in the treatment of haemorrhage. Pressure which is not at all severe arrests haemorrhage from the smaller vessels. In newly-performed operations it is well known how sponge pressure on the cut surfaces will for a time check haemorrhage, even from the largest vessels. In some operations, as in certain cases of removal of the breast, where the axillary glands need to be taken away, and where the vessels are numerous and spout vigorously; and also in some amputations, especially near the trunk, by a bit of sponge being put firmly on the vessels, and left in the wound (Mr. Lister’s writings first suggested this to me), the margins of which are, more or less, approximated, and a large sponge put outside all, bleeding is not only quickly stopped, but the total loss of blood is much less. Here I need scarcely say that the first dressing should be changed and the enclosed sponge taken out as soon as the proba- bility of primary and reactionary haemorrhage has passed away. In operations and injuries involving the hands (especially) and the feet, the haemorrhage being free, and from many and not large vessels, the advantages of a firmly pressing sponge are clearly seen. There is probably some physical peculiarity in sponge which tends to arrest haemorrhage with a minimum of