Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 40 distinguish between the ulterior effects of shock and the ulterior effects of the injury which produced the shock. In speaking of the modes of death from shock, I shall have to observe that, in some cases, it is due to an altered state of the blood—the instantaneous result of a violent impression on the nervous system. To those who are familiar with physiolo- gical science, it is not necessary to dwell on the proofs that changes take place in the blood in the shock which follows intense emotion. In such cases, the secretions are generally altered, and often have a different odour—a condition frequently marked in the perspiration in slight shock from mental causes. The well-known case of a soldier’s wife is often quoted. Her husband was suddenly attacked and his life endangered. She threw herself between the combatants. Shortly afterwards, her baby, having been put to the breast, fell back and died. An eminent physiologist pertinently asks if the blood may not be suddenly so changed as to be no longer a nutritive fluid, but a deadly poison. In cases where shock is less intense, changes occur in the blood which are not fatal, but which may show themselves later in local inflammatory and degenerative conditions. It is extremely probable that one or two of the principal forms of pyaemia may be produced by shock, whether induced by psychical or corporeal causes, or by both. The first variety has just been referred to, in speaking of the generation of a noxious fluid in the blood as the result of shock. Such a state of the blood may disturb all the organs and functions to a considerable extent, and give rise to local inflammations, diffused abscesses, cellulitis, or inflammation of the serous membranes. In the second class of cases, there appears no doubt that in the state of shock, certainly in its syncopal forms and those which assume the character of protracted asthenia or debility, there is a disposition to the formation of coagula in the heart or blood-vessels, which are driven by the circulating blood to different parts of the body, according to the direction of the current, arterial or venous, and the size of the vessels and coagula. To the formation of clot (thrombosis), and its dislodgment and altered locality (embolism), many