Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 284 a previously unstretclied vagina, but with more decided tractiou to overcome less yielding tissues. With the forceps only we secure a minimum of dilatation with a minimum of duration of time. When a cutting operation is required in the female I prefer the supra-pubic. In three little girls I have performed this operation with success. The finger in the adult bladder is an excellent guide to the apex of the bladder. While correcting these pages another case of still larger calculus in the female bladder has come under my care. I resorted to similar operative steps; the womau is now in hospital and holds her water three or four hours. On Sounding for Calculus through the Perinceum with a Long Needle in Traumatic Stricture.—Nine years ago I adopted a novel method of sounding for stone in the bladder in a little boy with severe traumatic stricture, which may under similar circumstances prove of use to others. No instrument could be passed into the bladder, and a urinary fistula existed on one side of the periuseum. There was every reason to believe that a stone was present, but before operating I introduced a long acupressure needle an inch in front of the anus, and carried it behind the pubes. It came into contact with a calculus, and on being withdrawn a little and then urged quickly onwards a distinct click was heard by all who were round the table. I removed the stone by the supra-pubic method, aud the lad made a good recovery. After the removal of the stone I carried my finger to the vesical meatus, and readily passed a bougie to the traumatic stricture, but uufortuuately not through it. (See Plate X., Fig. 3.) I believe this was the first attempt to pass au instru- ment through a stricture from behind forwards by means of a supra-pubic operation—an attempt being made to kill two birds with one stone. John Hunter proposed (and proposed only) to reach the rear of a stricture through the apex of the bladder with a metal instrument to be met by another metal instrument in front.