22 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 3. The temperature is not altered by the administration of chloroform. 4. The temperature is not affected by incisions in the soft parts, however extensive. This conclusion is based on cases in which the incisions were made when the patient was under the influence of chloroform. 5. The temperature instantaneously falls when the long bones are divided with the saw. The diminution of temperature is from one to four tenths of a degree (Fahrenheit.) 6. The temperature falls, in severe shock in the adult, to 97° or even 96°, rarely lower. In the young it does not fall as low as in the adult; it falls lowest in the aged. 7. The correspondence between the temperature and the pulse, and especially between the pulse and the respiration, is less in the fever of shock than in “ medical fevers.” 8. The thermometer furnishes the most reliable informa- tion (more than the state of the pulse and respiration) of the real nature of shock and reaction, and its data afford the safest grounds for prognosis. The Sphygmograph in Shock. There can be no doubt that while in shock, as a rule with very few exceptions, the impression of a severe injury is made first on the nervous system, most of the more marked phenomena are due to the secondary effects of the injury on the heart, and consequently on the circulation generally. Indeed, the degree of enfeeblement of the action of the heart will serve as a fair index of the reduction of vitality generally. It cannot, further, be denied that the sphygmograph, as perfected by M. Marey, gives the only certain mode of esti- mating the degree of enfeeblement, or, indeed, of any other change in the heart’s action. The character of the pulse is affected by several conditions, which affect its character and modify the trace written by the sphygmograph on paper. These conditions are, the propulsive power of the heart, the degree of rigidity of the arterial walls, and the facility with which the blood is propelled through the capillaries. In shock, the degreo of propulsive power of the heart will bo indicated by the length of the hue