1 76 'Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. perhaps the most eminent English authority on nerve path- ology, ho expressed a fear that our patient would some time become tho subject of one-sidc-boginning epilepsy. The young man, who is naturally of a quiet, simple, good- natured temperament, is thought to be a little, but only a little, less mentally capable than he formerly was. The dressing you have seen used in this case is worth your attention and criticism. From first to last a very soft Turkey sponge constantly moistened with terebene-and-water was kept with gentle pressure upon the wound. It took up a little serum and blood at first, and afterwards a few drops of healthy pus. Nothing remained or decomposed in the wound. Any attempt during the process of repair to substitute oiled lint or other dressing was uniformly followed by some foetor in the wound, and as uniformly by some rise of temperature. Our patient you see is well, yet recovery in such cases is rarely seen. It is very likely that several circumstances contributed to the fortunate result: the patient is young; he has an unexcitable nervous system—a most important factor in shock or in inflammation; the operation was done quickly, before inflammation of brain or membranes could set in; the gentleness in every step of the operation and the character of the dressing had also their share of influence. Let me now say a few words on the general question of trephining. In one lecture Ave cannot at all fully review the subject; nevertheless, advantage must be taken of single cases to throw light on general principles. There is one law touching the use of the trephine about which there is no difference of opinion. Being an important, clear, and un- disputed law, it should, I think, be put first and separately; our case falls under it. In cut or punctured fractures Avhere there is necessarily a scalp-AVOund, where tho meninges are pierced and bits of bone stick in the brain, Avhether there are “ symptoms ” or “ no symptoms,” trephine im- mediately. It is true our young man had some hemiplegia, but if ho had had no hemiplegia the treatment Avould have been the same.