297 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. The after-treatment required considerable care to keep the foot in the exact axis of the leg. After a little experience it was found that slinging up tho anterior part of the foot—in other words, holding the leg up by means of the toes—secured the best position. In all other respects the progress of the case was most satisfactory. The shock and reaction were of no moment; and the healing went on solidly and certainly, so that in eight or ten weeks, the wound and the sinuses had healed, and the foot could be moved and handled without pain. But now a curious circumstance attracted notice. It was found that the foot had not only become gradually shorter but that the first row of tarsal bones having been removed, the second row had in some degree taken their place. The scaphoid and cuboid bones were partly under the malleoli. The tibia and fibula were thus kept at some distance from the ground, when the foot was put down. How was this brought about ? Probably by the action of the muscles which lie at the front and sides of the ankle. In such action tho tendo Achillis could, of course, take no share. The incident was unlooked for, seeing that before the opera- tion the scaphoid was held at some distance from the tibia by its articulations, and that during repair, the foot was suspended by its toes. (See Plate IX, Figs. 9 and 10.) I feared that the remaining portion of the foot, when the weight of the body came to bear on it, would ride or turn upwards, and thus give rise to inconvenience and unsight- liness. That fear has not been realized. It is now nearly twelve months since the operation was performed, and tho foot cannot be displaced, either by the weight of the body or by the surgeon’s hand. Some retentive apparatus is still worn for the purpose of walking. The affected foot is one inch and a half shorter than the left foot, as measured from the tip of the inner malleolus to the tip of tho great toe, this distance being seven inches in Hie sound foot, and five and a half in the affected foot. The leg on tho operated side is one inch and a quarter shorter ; the measurement being, from the lower border of