Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 32 the adult. The same remark applies to diarrhoea, and to suppurative and other discharges. If we go back to intra-uterino life, although the conditions here are possibly more favourable as regards the absence of atmospheric influences, while there can, of course, be no rest, and no surgical appliances or assistance, we find injuries better tolerated, such as amputations, and compound fractures. It is curious, too, that we find congenital conditions of a surgical nature, such as spina bifida and others, which, although tolerated easily in the infant, are incompatible, as a rule, with adult life. Operations for strangulated hernia and hare-lip (considered simply as a wound—as a remedy for deformity some delay is preferable) do as well a few days, or even hours, after birth as later. Lithotomy in children, as is well known, is only fatal in exceptional cases. There is another operation which leaves—in my mind, at least—no doubt of the greater immunity from shock in children. It is well known that, in the adult, any operation for artificial anus which involves opening the peritoneum is almost uniformly fatal, and that, therefore, surgeons invariably prefer Amussat’s operation, as one which leaves the peritoneum uninjured; but statistics have shown in the clearest manner that, in the newly born, the peritoneum, as in Littre’s operation, may be opened, and the intestine also opened, with a success quite as great as in colotomy. In the views which I now advance, I speak strictly of shock from injuries which act on the nervous system; for it is a well known and most interesting fact, of the truth of which I have completely satisfied myself, that the young of all animals bear cold worse than the adult. This fact by no means contradicts the other experiments which I shall bring forward, showing the greater toleration in the young of shock from injury; but, indeed, rather confirms them, because it confirms the physiological principles which I shall adduce in explanation. In speaking of the modes of death in shock, I shall have to describe the mode of death from cold, as differing from all others in this respect, that it acts directly on the circulatory and on all the organs equally with the nervous system.