282 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. upwards on the end of the finger. Three calculi, each averaging an inch and a half in diameter, were removed with great ease. The forceps was gently held along the whole tract, and not more at one spot than at another, a new ex- perience to me. A long sponge-tent remained by the side of a tube for a few hours. His recovery was complete and rapid. The third case, which ended unfavourably, was that of a man aged sixty and extremely fat. He stoutly alleged that he lived a temperate life—'falsely as it was afterwards shown. The bladder was the deepest I have met with. Five calculi, all exceeding an inch in diameter, were removed. To my great regret, I found that the too zealous curiosity of some friends who were present had led them to insinuate their fingers upwards between the bladder and the pubes. This reminds me of the one great precaution to be taken : let there be no manipulation or examination in an upward direction. No purpose can be served thereby. After death on the third day, the heart and liver were found to be unusually fat. There was a limited patch of urinary infiltra- tion above the pubes; it was not near the peritonaeum, and there was no peritonitis. Probably it had nothing to do with the result. My last case was in this little fellow eighteen months old. I opened the membranous urethra on a grooved staff, and then carried, without a hitch, a concealed bistoury into the bladder along the staff, but with no auxiety to keep in the groove. An instrument that passes readily in the direction of the bladder cannot go anywhere except into the bladder. With- out caring to do so, I felt the stone with the eud of the instrument. Turning the blade upwards aud projecting it, I incised the neck of the bladder upwards. Keeping the closed instrument on the floor of the entrance to the bladder, my finger passed over it into the bladder with great facility. The forceps, introduced over the finger, seized and brought away two calculi in close contact with each other, and weighing together 185 grains. 1 never saw so little haemorrhage. He passed all his urino by the natural channel on the seventh day. Ho is now in perfect health.