Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 1G3 posuro to a low temperature. One case made a deep im- pression upon me. A fine, though rather large woman, between thirty and forty, was operated on for ruptured perinteum. In two or three days symptoms of thrombosis and embolism appeared, which were especially marked in the thighs; these dark hard masses were becoming gan- grenous when death set in. Necessary exposure of the thighs (not suspected at the time) in an insufficiently warmed operating theatre was, I believe, the explanation of the unusual and sad result. Some of the surgical com- plications which occur in medical cases are certainly due to the action of cold. Of the two extremes in the treat- ment of fevers, big fires and closed windows on the one hand, and chilly room on the other, I should, if I had fever, prefer the former. One of my children had scarlet fever in a rather exposed country house during the month of March. She was doing well. There was copious mucous discharge from throat and nose, when a strong and biting east wind set in, and instantly, with every care, an abscess formed in each eustachiau head, with such rigors and tem- perature as showed some septic absorption. A singular in- cident happened bearing on the question of counter-irritation : the mucous discharges all ceased the moment the abscesses formed. Here were cause and effect, not a mere coin- cidence. A family (in the country) of five children, had scarlet fever during a severe frost and snow. The family adviser, although a shrewd man, forgot, as “ ventilationists ” are apt to do, the effects of cold in his determination to have “fresh air.” Some of the window frames were taken out, and thin calico put up in place of glass. The children who were first convalescent were immediately put into a perambulator and taken over gravel walks covered with a thin layer of snow. The results were calamitous though happily not fatal. Large, multiple, subcutaneous abscesses appeared in three of the four children. The abscesses were the largest in extent I have ever seen. They appeared in the limbs and neck. One lad of ten had in one lower limb, the left, an abscess which extended from the gluteal fold to the popliteal space, and a second which stretched from