224 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. contents is a very variable one. Sometimes the opening is so largo that it is difficult to understand that strangulation exists; in other cases mild symptoms accompanying the tightest constriction; sometimes reduction is difficult, before or after an operation with a large ring, and sometimes easy with a small one. The Treatment oe Strangulated (previously) Irreducible Hernia. This is guided by principles less clear than those which regulate our conduct in the management of strangulated (previously) reducible hernia, or in the management of gangrenous bowel. If we divide the fibrous structures external to the sac, we have not the same test of success in effecting reduction of the hernia. The strangulation of irreducible hernia is due to a fresh descent of bowel, and we cannot be quite sure we have reduced the newly- descended portion, or indeed that the stricture is not in the neck of the sac. In exceptional cases only we may feel confident we have returned a portion, when it would be well to defer any operation for a time. Three methods suggest themselves in these cases: the common one of opening the sac and dividing the stricture in the ordinary way; an extra-peritoneal method on the presumption that the stricture is not in the neck; or a method similar to that about to be described as useful in strangulated irre- ducible umbilical hernia. Here an incision is made just large enough to admit the finger through the covering of the hernia and a little remote from the neck; the finger is carried to the stricture and a herniotome is carefully guided along it. Newly protruded bowel or omentum should be returned with as little manipulation as possible. As a dressing, the constantly moist, soft, antiseptic sponge is of great service in such cases. It is easy to conceive cases (previously reducible or irreducible) where if the fibrous constriction being first divided externally to the neck of the sack, a subsequent limited incision into the sac away from the neck would