Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 34 of reflex movements. In adult warm-blooded animals, life cannot be sustained under the conditions requisite to obtain purely excito-motor action. It cannot bo assumed, unless all physiological experiments be worthless, that the relation of the human infant to the human adult differs fundamentally from the same relation in the creatures experimented upon. This, then, is a legitimate conclusion: the younger the human being, going back even to intra-uterine life, the less the shock from injuries or operations. The explanation which I offer of these apparently singular and assuredly most interesting facts is one which I think is forced upon us by the present state of our physiological knowledge. There is no principle in the science of life more certain than this : the lower the organisation of any living creature, the greater is its tenacity of life. In other words, the more lowly organised creatures can sustain life under conditions that would be destructive to life in the higher organisations. We have already seen that the frog can sustain life, and manifest the ordinary indications of life, in a decapitated state. This, we saw, was not practicable in the adult of any mammal. We may go lower and lower in the scale of organisation, until we come to living thiugs so tenacious of life that, if the head be severed from the body, the head will form itself a new body, and the body a new head; or, if the creature be cut into fragments, each piece will form for itself both a body and a head. It is acknowledged by all observers that warm-blooded animals, in a state of hybernation, approximate in many particulars to the cold-blooded, and especially in their greater resistance to injury and unfavourable conditions generally. It may, therefore, be stated as a correct generalisation, that, the lower the manifestation of vitality, so far as this is tantamount to the manifestation of nervo-muscular force, the less the susceptibility to shock from injui-y. I would suggest, then, so far as regards the susceptibility to shock from injury, that, in children, and in a certain class of diseases to which I shall have occasion to refer— namely, those which lower all the manifestations of vitality