259 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. Touching the question of suppuration, I find, with surprise, that so careful an observer as Van Buren denies its occurrence in epididymitis. If there be an abscess, he infers that the body of the testis is inflamed. I believe that in this country surgeons are agreed that suppuration is not rare in the consecutive or other epididymitis of cachectic men. Let me ask you now to look for a few moments at the causes of inflammation of the epididymis and cord. Bear in mind that any inflammation of the prostatic urethra may extend along the cord to the epididymis. Now, an inflam- mation of the bladder of any kind, whatever its cause, under whatever circumstances it arises, may run forwards to the prostatic urethra, and thence to the epididymis. Again, an inflammation of the anterior urethra of any kind, how- ever caused, arising under whatever circumstances, may run backwards to the prostatic urethra, and thence to the epididymis. Acute inflammation arising primarily in the epididymis has few causes: I can speak positively of one only,—injury. If the causes of primary epididymitis were more numerous, we should, I think, long ago have held urethral disease to be one of its results. Why injury sets up epididymitis mostly, and not orchitis, is no doubt for the same reason that inflammation of the cord and epididymis so rarely reaches the testis—namely, that within the tunica albuginea there is no room for acute inflammation, for vascular changes, cell-proliferation, migration of cells, the running riot of germinal matter, or other inflammatory phenomena. Since the above was in the printers' hands I have seen a case in which the following events clearly occurred:—Strumous orchitis, thickening of cord extending gradually up to the inguinal ring, and, lastly, urethral discharge. If you accept the facts of the case before you, and my reading of them, you will now and then be able to explain an otherwise obscure gleet. Moreover, you will not be compelled to affirm that in every case an epididymitis and a gleet together have necessarily a urethral, much less a