184 Enquiries in Hoc Surgery of the Head and Neck. up everywhere with groat rapidity, the epidermic covering followed much moro slowly. In the course of a few weeks nearly the whole of tho calvarium was covered, but an irregular oval patch about the size of a florin, was left over tho sagittal suture. This patch was confined to the outer tablo as was clearly seen by tho process of detach- ment by a deepening circle of caries. His general health in the meantime became good. He resumed self-helpful and active habits. Before tho thin plates of bone were en- tirely separated he returned to tho parochial infirmary; but, I am informed, he continued to do well, and very shortly went back to Ireland. The bone here was I believe dead; but not so dead but that the contact with it and growth over it of granu- lation tissue restored its vascularity and its life. The diploe evidently wanted only a little assistance outside to recall vitality to the dead, but not irrecoverably dead outer table. On the Excision of Morbid Growths of the Face. The method of removing comparatively small cancerous and other growths from the face by elliptical incisions will long continue in use. But frequently we meet with larger, more or less circular, growths, which cannot be dealt with by so simple a method. An irregular circular mass needs for its removal the excision of a disc, which leaves behind a circular gap. But a circular gap is of all gaps the most difficult to fill. I have met with the difficulty many times, and I find it is most simply (that is with less cutting and carving and subsequent scarring) overcome in the following way. Let the adjacent soft parts be very freely separated from the bone, then some portion of the margin of the wound will be found more movable than others; let this be drawn, tongue-like, towards the centre of the gap, and fixed there with stitches. Opposite this tongue, or at some other point, tho sides of the circle can be partially brought together with stitches, so that when the parts are all approximated, the