159 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Unusual Abscesses. Curious abscesses from caries of the ribs.—Nothing is more instructive than to note the various localities, various forms, ancl various clinical histories of abscesses. I have lately seen two chronic abscesses in the abdominal wall, both below the umbilicus, which were unmistakeably due to caries of the ribs. In another case an abscess from caries of the ribs was single and in the vicinity of the inguinal canal, and had been diagnosed as a hernia. A chronic ab- scess from caries of the ribs, when of long duration (I have known them of twenty years’ duration and upwards,) is often diagnosed as a fatty tumour. In another case there were the depressed openings of sinuses connected with nearly every rib of the right side. An abscess with permanent opening and shin-like lining. —I once saw a young woman who had had an abscess just above the sternal notch, which had never healed in the ordinary way. There was a cavity the size of a large marble, and an opening into it the size of a sixpence. The deeper wall was near the trachea. It was lined with what seemed cicatricial skin, and what was certainly con- tinuous with skin. It may have been the modified lining membrane of a sebaceous cyst—a cyst the suppuration of which constituted the original abscess. I thought it possible the cicatrisiug process had entered the cavity of the abscess, which had not healed in the ordinary way because of the constant movements of the trachea and its muscles. The interior of the cavity was too sensitive to handle freely, indeed the opening to the cavity only permitted the en- trance of the tip of a small finger, and she strongly ob- jected to any examination. The pale, thin, skin-like lining was very clearly seen, but was somewhat soiled with dust, which she would not take any steps to remove. Pedunculated periosteal abscess.—About two years ago I saw a peculiar pedunculated enlargement on the outer aspect of the lower jaw, below and behind the last molar tooth. It was near the base and was hard, but I thought it yielded slightly to firm pressure. A grooved needle showed