Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 89 In acute periostitis of the shafts of bones, as seen in the young, suppuration and detached periosteum, and consequent death of bone, are usually accomplished facts before a surgeon is called in, and incisions are immediately demanded. If at the first onset of deep tenderness, and pain, and general fever, iodiue could be freely and extensively applied to the limbs, suppuration and necrosis might be spared in some cases, and would be greatly restricted in all. In such cases the greater portion of the surface of the affected limb should be covered with iodine, repeated, twice or thrice, daily, and then at longer intervals. In later stages its use is much diminished, and it should not be used so as to arouse by need- less movement the exquisite tenderness which characterises these cases. In chronic periostitis, or node, notwithstanding that the condition is a specific or diathetic lesion, the utility of counter-irritation is very marked. A free application of iodine to the back of a leg will almost invariably and in- stantly remove the pain of a tibial node. It is an important adjunct to the use of iodide of potassium, and relieves pain more quickly. In osteitis, and caries, and abscess, the progress of the inflammation is slow, and it is not pretended here that counter-irritation should be made the leading step in treat- ment. The occasional use of iodine, when splintage or other apparatus is readjusted, or changed, has certainly some benefit, but it is neither rapid nor conspicuous. If observation tells us that in some cases drawing blood to the skin palpably and conspicuously removes it from a deeper inflammation, reason tells us the main change goes on, though less strikingly and much more slowly, in other cases. While in the slower osteal inflammations counter-irritation plays a less important part than other measures in the group of remedies which it is the object of these pages to urge, such slow inflammations, nevertheless, very clearly illustrate the benefit of the system of treatment as a whole. In caries the presence of sinuses should not prevent the treatment being carried out. It is commonly taught that