inquiries in Surgery Generally. 56 the circulation had been arrested; a little sluggish move- ment in some of the supplying arteries. No apparent movement of blood in the capillaries. At the moment the head was crushed, not the slightest motion, either of a convulsive or tremulous character, occurred in the limbs. This indicates that the anaesthesia of the nervous system was complete. Twenty-four minutes after the operation, slow movements of the blood-corpuscles were still observable in the arteries. In one of the arteries I observed a to-and-fro motion of certain groups of corpuscles. These movements I attributed to irregular contractions of the vascular coats; but to make sure that the heart had no part in their production, I removed the skin from the parietes of the chest; but, on careful and prolonged examination, could not detect the slightest cardiac impulse. I then completely exposed the heart; and, although quite quiet at first, it soon com- menced (as usual on exposure) to beat at irregular intervals, and continued to do so for about an hour. It is clear, therefore, that the action of the heart was arrested by the injury suddenly done to the nervous system.” In the following experiment, no ether or chloroform was used. “ A vigorous frog was taken, and the webs examined microscopically. The circulation was proceeding in a normal manner. • The head was now, at 9.38 a.m., completely crushed with a hammer. In a second or two, the webs were again examined, and the arteries and capillaries were already exsanguine. A little movement of corpuscles in the veins was still observable. Two minutes having elapsed since the injury, scarcely a perceptible movement could be detected in the webs; the veins have also become pale and indistinct. On the whole, I am struck with the general exsanguine appearance of the webs, which seems more marked than in the cases in which chloroform was used. No reflex movements could be induced by irritating the periphery. 10.30. Slight movements occasionally occur in the veins. No return of reflex power.” The difference in the result of the two experiments just