Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 51 death. Thus, while iu death from other causes molecular death is delayed for some time, as indicated by the con- tractility of the muscular tissue on the application of the electric stimulus, in death from shock, acting through the medium of the nervous system, the irritability of the muscular fibre ceases with the cessation of the circulation and respir- ation, and the chemical forces at once assume that activity which, in other cases, comes into operation at a later period. This peculiar simultaneity of somatic and molecular death, and the more rapid accession of decomposition, illustrate most forcibly the potent effects of violent impressions on the nervous apparatus. The Pathological Appearances in cases of Death from Shock. Those which are obvious to the unassisted eye, may be due to the injury which preceded the shock, or possibly to the shock itself—in many cases we cannot tell which. Of the changes which occur in the intimate structure of the nervous ap- paratus, we have no certain knowledge, and consequently not infrequently in cases of death, especially from the operation of psychical causes, no lesion can be detected after death. It by no means follows, with our imperfect means of observation and research, that we are justified in concluding that no change has taken place. It has been affirmed, and it is difficult to see how any other opinion can be entertained, that there is no kind of death which leaves the animal organisation unchanged. I have already had occasion to refer to this subject. I may add, however, that the effects usually attributed to shock which are detectable demonstrate how powerful the effects of shock may be. A current of electricity passed through an egg in process of development ruptures the vessels in the vascular area. A similar current passed through a snail coagulates its albumen. We have experimental proof that violent im- pi essions conveyed through the medium of the nervous ap- paratus give rise to chemical change j and it cannot be doubted that less violent impressions give rise to pro-