Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sf Abdomen. 249 and (curiously) lower down. Elsewhere 1. have spoken at length of the method of treating stricture of the rectum by continuous dilatation—a method I should always try first and patiently; should it fail, vertical division of the rectum seems to me the next alternative. After using the knife, the occasional continuous retention of a male catheter would probably best prevent material relapse. On Ring-like Cancer and Abscesses op the Rectum, SIMULATING HYPERTROPHY OP THE SPHINCTER AnI. Here before you is a woman with cancer of the rectum, having a peculiar shape, and bearing a peculiar relation- ship to the sphincter ani. Her general and local symptoms were not very clear, and her medical attendant, Professor Bassett, sent her here for me to examine and for such surgical suggestions as I might be able to give. You see that her general appearance, complexion, stoutness, and strength, are those of good health; but she complains of some difficulty and pain in defecation. When the finger is put into the rectum, the first impression is that there is little the matter. The anal opening, where it is surrounded by the sphincter, seems prolonged into a tube, as it were, and the finger has to pass to a greater distance to reach the expanded part of the bowel. The swelling is uniform, not strikingly hard, not nodular, not yet fixed, and the mucous membrane is not firmly glued to the subjacent structure. But a further search brings into view other symptoms. There is pain at other times than during defecation. Occasionally a little blood and some ill-smelling fluid come from the rectum. But there is another and a very conclusive symptom, which would be hidden from us if our patient were a male. A finger in the vagina discovers that the lower end of the rectum is lost in a firm and rather large globular mass. We find, further, that the rosiness, stoutness, and strength, although marked to us who are strangers, are said by her friends to be notably less than they were. I know no more painful duty of a surgeon’s calling than to have to