Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 104 in twenty-four hours, and tho discharge in forty-eight. Remarks.—Blisters I now use only in exceptional cases. Acetum lyttm or iodine liniment over a large surface is better. Gonorrhoea and consecutive orchitis : Counter-irritation : Recovery in three days.—Henry A., aged 17, had gonorrhoea ten days and orchitis one day. Two broad stripes of iodine liniment over femorals, and nitrate of silver over testis, re- moved the orchitis in twenty-four hours, the gonorrhoea in three days. Gonorrhoea, of six weeks’ duration: Counter-irritation : Rapid recovery.—Alfred E., aged 22, had gonorrhoea six weeks. Had two attacks before. Discharge too copious, and scalding too severe to permit the use of the bougie. A circle of iodine-irritation, of a mild character, was ordered. In fourteen days the recovery was complete. Remarks.—Where there is a slight stricture, the counter-irritation should be mild; but, even in these cases, until the bougie can be used, it is the best remedy. Bubo of gonorrhoea: Counter-irritation : Entire subsidence without opening.—Robert L. aged 58, widower, had a large bubo, with unmistakeably fluid contents. A broad horse-shoe of iodine paint was applied around it, and directions given for a daily application, so as to maintain a moderate degree of soreness. Four days afterwards the swelling had almost dis- appeared. Gonorrhoea, implicating the uterus : Striking result of counter-irritation.—A woman came to the hospital with old- standing gonorrhoea. Her appearance was pale and haggard. Sacral and abdomiual pains were frequent. A narrow stripe of blister was put over each femoral. She was to rest as much as possible. In six days, she came again, and it was difficult to believe she was the same woman. She was rosy, stout, well, and looked ten years younger. Double acute orchitis (very severe) : Counter-irritation to scrotum and femorals : Recovery in twenty-four hours.—A man, with severe double orchitis, unable to stand upright, and in great agony, applied for admission into the hospital. The scrotum was covered with a solution of arg. nit., and iodine