Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 271 edged near the point, is carried by the index finger into the rectum; the finger directed forwards passes into a depression between the anal sphincter and the prostate; this depression corresponds with the membranous (dilated as a rule, in such cases) urethra. The bistoury is then thrust forwards at right angles to the axis of the rectum, exactly in the median line, and about an inch and a quarter from the anus, and in front of the apex of the prostate, which the finger can readily feel. The bistoury is then drawn forwards to an extent sufficient to allow the tip of the finger to be introduced into the urethra. This step of the operation requires to be boldly done. The finger can now be carried backwards to the bladder or forwards to the stricture. The finger being directed towards the stricture a soft French bougie is directed forwards along its concavity, through the stricture, and out at the meatus. The rectal end of the instrument is then carried into the bladder, and the stricture is treated on the principle of continuous dilatation. In twenty-four hours a larger instrument can be introduced from before backwards, and in another twenty-four hours one of the largest size. I have performed the operation four times, and in every case the rectal wound healed quickly and completely. Mr. Stromeyer Little of Shanghai, and the late Mr. Maunder, both performed the operation. In Mr. Maunder’s case the method was effected with great ease (see Addendum to Notes on Vesical Calculus). The operation I have just described relieves the retention and cures the stricture at the same time, and I am unable to see that it can be followed by any untoward consequences. With a large finger it may not be the easiest of operations, but in the subject I have always cut readily into the membi'anous urethra. (See Plate IX., Figs. 5, 6, and 7). Since the above was in type I have had a remarkable case bearing on the utility of this operation. A middle aged man was sent into hospital with an extremely tight stricture. With no kind of instrument and no amount of perseverance could the stricture be traversed. The bladder began to rise more and more above the pubes. I performed