85 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. A weak disinfectant application occasionally, especially as a later dressing, if there be time and need for it, will do no harm. In my experience, following Paget’s views, incisions are not needed and are not attended with any benefit. In the treatment of carbuncle or boils, or of almost any inflammation, when these occur in old and highly irritable persons, or in other persons of extremely irritable or querulous temperament, counter-irritation should be either very mild, or used uuder anaesthesia, or refrained from altogether. Such persons often prefer a longer convalesence, and they should have their own way, especially when time only is the question. Cases of the treatment of carbuncles and boils are cited together. BOILS. A large boil singly, and numerous boils particularly, give rise to great depression and discomfort. The treatment should be conducted on a similar principle to that of carbuncle, and indeed of all inflammations. A zone of counter-irritation should be made which will vary in width in proportion to the extent and severity of the furunculoid inflammation. In a case cited below, a boil on the back of the forearm was ac- companied by a swelling which involved two-thirds of its surface. In a case like this the iodine is put on the whole of the dorsum of the forearm, except an inch or two of the apex of the induration, and also over a portion of the flexor surface. When there are several scattered boils, a zone of counter-irritation is placed around each. When they occur in a cluster the iodine may be painted between them, and a wider zone established around the whole number. Carbuncle on neck: Counter-irritation: Recovery in seven days.—Eliza W., aged 48, came to hospital with large car- buncle on the back of the neck. Sloughingr had not actually occurred. A band of iodine paint was placed around it, and in three days suppuration had taken place in the centre, and an opening had formed. The band was made broader, and in four days there remained only a small dry scab, all the swelling, induration, pain, tender-