Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. 299 sometimes a loosened or detached nail gives trouble for a long time ; but any of these conditions may eventually usher in gangrene. A publican, intemperate, and infected with syphilis, came to me occasionally from the country with a few scabs on his foot. They were apparently ecthymatous in character. No treatment had any effect on them. One on the metatarsal joint of the great toe was the most obstinate, and it was surrounded by a shining red zone. I told his wife my fears. After seeing him occasionally for a period of longer than two years, I was called to confer with his family adviser respecting a sudden and extensive gangrene of the foot, which took him off in a few days. A lady of sixty, but who appeared to be eighty, a free eater and drinker, had pain in her toe—the nail became loose and fell off. Over the matrix of the nail were one or two clean, small, inconspicuous ulcers, but they were extremely painful, and were not relieved by elevation. The loosening of the nail and the small ulcers extended over a long period, but eventually they proved fatal. A stout woman about sixty, a free liver, had an abscess over the inner side of the os calcis. This opened, but the opening persisted many months, and an experienced hospital surgeon very naturally suspected the presence of bone disease. I saw it later and pressed out ci small slough (which apparently kept up the suppuration) after which the opening slowly closed. Soon after, however, and after an invaliding of between two and three years, senile gangrene seized the heel and inside of the foot, and she soon sank. A man old, but not in years, had an abscess between the second and third toes, a little slough as well as matter escaped, and when I saw him with his family physician, there appeared a small opening only between the two toes, but a small piece of tendon adhered to one side of the opening. After a prolonged invaliding, unmistakeable gangrene brought a fatal end. Abscess, and sloughs, and ulcers, and eruptions, in the lower limbs of the old are, then, especially dangerous. They