Enquiries in Surgery of Trunlc, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 251 I, you, and others, might profitably learn. The lesson is this: Do not in any case hastily say thero is a cancer, but do not too hastily say there is no cancer of the rectum, merely because the finger within its cavity detects no great alteration in its shape. The caution I urge upon you is more especially needed in the case of men; in women, the rectum is almost as much before you as if it were on the table. On Excision of Cancer of the Anus and Rectum, and on the Accessibility of the Female Rectum for operative PURPOSES. There are certain distinctions which should always be drawn in cancerous diseases of the lower end of the gut. One of these is commonly made. There is another which is not commonly, or at any rate, not specifically made. 1 will shortly put before you a few facts which will enable you to judge for yourselves whether it should be made or not. The distinction which as a rule is not lost sight of is, that the rectum proper is the seat of various kinds of malignant disease, while it is rare for other than epithelial cancer to begin at the anal opening. Scirrhus starting in the rectum may, it is true, quickly reach the anus, and epithelioma of the anus may as readily crawl up the rectum. Why it is well to draw a line between the tube and its outlet is seen in many ways. The anus is very accessible; no canal, or cavity, or big vessel, or big nerve lies very near to it, Above all, the cancer which seizes upon it is of all cancers the most local in its origin, the mildest in its course, the least likely to return after removal. Bear in mind that I am speaking now of epithelial cancers generally. I do not say that epithelioma of the anus is less grave than epithelioma elsewhere. On this point I have little to say, save that site goes a long way in determining the career of a cancer. I once saw an epithelioma seated over the sternum which had grown for thirty years, and seemed likely to grow another thirty; on the other hand, I have seen an epithelioma of the tongue run as rapid a race as an cncephaloid cancer.