187 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. au advance on previous operations, necessitates extensive incisions and careful dissection, and is followed by more or less conspicuous scars. I liave now in several cases restored the whole of the mouth by removing one lip completely, bringing the cheeks together in the middle line and turning the remaining lip round in such a manner as to form a new and efficient opening. The alfected lip is removed by a simple but bold Y shaped incision, or some modification of it. The adjacent cheeks, or soft parts, are freely separated from the bone, and the cut margins are then brought and kept together. The simple interrupted suture answei’s every purpose. The silver wire should be very thick so as not to cut so readily, and plenty of tissue should be taken up. In bringing the edges of the wound together the movability, vitality, and uniting power of the soft parts may be counted upon. In speaking of hai’e-lip I stated a fact which the surgeon may test on himself— that the angles of the mouth may be easily brought together over the closed jaws. It would be quite possible to unite the commissures of the lips, and thereby produce two mouths. To return to the operation. The mouth thus made from one lip is at first small and circulai*, but it quickly acquires a more shapely form. In nearly all cases it will be desir- able, and in some really needful to increase the size of the aperture, as well as to secure a more natural appearance, by making an incision at each side (see Plate VI., Fig. 1 and 2.) where the angles would naturally be situated. These latei’al extensions of the mouth may be made at the time, or after the first operation has been followed by firm union. Ten or fourteen days even may be attended by such change in the shape of the mouth as to suggest a natui’al site for the incisions. If there be any doubt about the propriety of anmsthesia all the steps of the operation should be taken at one time. When the lateral incisions are made, the skin and mucous membrane should be appi’oximated by silver stitches (not thick) carried across the margin of the new lip near the new angle. I can say vex-y positively there need be no