Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 102 well as an inflammatory condition, is present, which will require other treatment than that directed to the inflammation. Supposing the case before us to be a first attack, and there is simply inflammation, no matter how acute it may be, it may almost invariably be cured in two or three days by counter- irritation. Acetum lyttm should be applied in small patches over both femorals, and with this should be combined a disc, or broad zone, of iodine liniment applied daily. A larger surface of iodine liniment will suffice. The diet should be free from stimulants, and an alkaline drink may be taken before meals. If, after scalding and other active symptoms have passed away, there remains a little thin discharge, the iodine zone should be maintained for a short period. The advantages of counter- irritation in such cases have already been demonstrated more than once. The failures in stricture cases have probably prevented its wider use. If the attack is not the first, but a third or sixth, the counter-irritation should be less active, and when active inflammation has subsided, a large bougie should be passed at regulated intervals. In such cases, where there is some organic change in the mucous and submucous tissues internal remedies are useless. Purgation (counter-irritation to intestinal canal,) is often of use in inflammation of the urinary organs. Injections are a teazing and inadequate method of treatment which I rarely use. Now and then, if the discharge remains abundant after the acuter stage has passed, the oil of sandal wood or preparations containing it are clearly beneficial. ACUTE ORCHITIS. This gives, in its treatment, one of the most favourable illustra- tions of the principles here taught. Curiously also, the treat- ment has been more widely adopted by surgeons (a large number have been good enough to communicate to me their gratifying experience) in acute orchitis than in any other inflammatory ailment. Curiously, because the intelligent, free, and uniform use of counter-irritation is as beneficial in many other acute inflammations as in epididymitis. Or, perhaps not