94 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Acute synovitis of Tcnee from injury : Subsidence in twenty- four hours. A medical gentleman brought his right knee into forcible contact with a piece of iron. In a few hours the joint was much swelled, with pain, tenderness, and fluctuation, but without marked constitutional disturbance. The joint, and portion of thigh and leg, were freely moistened with a strong solution of nitrate of silver ; cotton wool and a bandage were then applied. In twenty- four hours, the swelling disappeared. Remarks.—The treat- ment of recent and acute, or subacute synovitis, with arg. nit. applied not only on the knee, but the thigh and leg, for a third or half their length and their whole circum- ference, is rapidly successful. In more chronic cases, with thicker coverings, iodine is perhaps preferable. Treatment or Inflammatory Diseases of the Vascular and Absorbent System. Whether phlebitis, as the German pathologists have shown, is or is not an inflammation altogether secondary to thrombosis or embolism, it may be treated locally by stripes of counter-irritation, so also may the very rare inflammatory affections of the vessels generally. Inflammation of the lymphatics, as indicated by the red lines in the superjacent skin, is a condition which does not require treatment so much as the prior and severer disease upon which it depends. If it should seem to possess any independent importance, a stripe of skin may be painted with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. If the glands to which they lead are also inflamed, the same solution should be carried over them, and for some distance around them. The treatment for suppurative inflammation, in or around the glands, is similar to that described in the next paragraph. Inflammation of the lymphatic glands is one of the commonest oi surgical diseases, and may present any stage of severity, from the most acute to the most chronic inflam- matory action. The great majority of cases, however, are those in which the inflammation is very chronic, and present