Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 134- removed, and easily renewed dressing, a persistently antiseptic sponge is most useful. Perhaps it may be more clearly seen where it is useful by looking at the cases where it is not suitable. In opening large cavities such as the abdominal (or the thoracic) cavity for the purpose of exploration or for tho removal of tumours or fluids, the method of Mr. Lister, whose name is indelibly stamped on the surgery of operations and wounds appears more suitable. The moist dressing is of especial service where at the operation the helping hands are but few, and when a simple dressing is a matter of compulsion. This remark is especially applicable to operations in private practice, where the facilities for operations are not great, but where the whole nursing energy is directed to one patient. In removal of the breast and of tumours generally, the constantly moist antiseptic sponge dressing has special advan- tages. The sponge should be large (in all operations it is better too large than too small), say, in a woman of average size, ten or twelve inches long, five or six inches wide, and four or five inches thick. It should be placed directly over the stitches or strapping. If strips of plaster be needed to relieve tension, they should be very long, reaching from over the shoulder to near the groin; their utility is thereby increased and their adhesion is not impaii*ed by the moisture of the sponge. The sponge may be fixed with a few neat firm turns of broad thin bandage, and suitable holes made for the frequent reception of a mild antiseptic fluid. If it be necessary to extend the operation into the axilla, and there is bleeding not easily checked, from many vessels, a bit of sponge fixed in the wound for a few hours is very useful. When it is necessary to retain dressings within wounds, as in the kind of case just named, or in the removal of the upper jaw, terebene is a suitable antiseptic and agreeable moistening fluid; it is the most perfect dressing for a surface other than cutaneous. In the removal of a breast I rarely tie a vessel; one or two may be twisted, or compressed a few minutes by spring forceps; but patient pressure for a time with relays of well-wrung sponges rarely fails to stop