132 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. should bo thick enough to givo clearly elastic pressure, aud big enough to cover the wound in all directions; not the incisions only, but a little more than the whole area of the wound. Indeed, pressure around a wound is more important than immediately over the incisions. Tho prepared sponge is then put on with suitable adjustment and pressure, and fixed firmly by a few turns of bandage, or one or more broad strips of adhesive plaster. The way in which the sponge is applied is not unimportant. The bandage should be thin and broad, and only a very few neat turns used—enough, however, to cover the wounded area. In many cases a very broad and a very long strip of plaster is the most convenient fastening agent; it should be so arranged that the two ends of the strap may meet over the sponge, the two ends overlapping. A pin or a stitch may usefully help the adhesion of the plaster. A glance at the diagrams will save more lengthened detail. When the two ends overlap, the centre of the strip lies, of course, at the other side of the limb, or trunk, or head, as the case may be. In some cases, as in most amputations, and in the removal of large tumours, two sponges may be better than one, the two being more or less approximated when put on. After the sponge is put on, the next step is all important: care must be taken that some portions of it are uncovered, so that fluids may be freely and frequently poured into it. This is best effected by taking the point of the scalpel and cutting out holes over the sponge after the dressing is properly arranged. The holes should not be less than an inch across, and may be elliptical, or four-sided, parallel with the length, and not on the edge of the bandage or strap. The kind and strength of fluid, the need for careful renewal night and day in the earlier days, the vessel of fluid and tho little jug have been already spoken of. A word more about the sponges. For large operations and wounds the honey-comb sponges do very well, although the Turkey sponges are better, because they arc fiuer and softer. In examining a number of sponges the different degrees of softness is striking; some are actually hard, and should be