Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. 181 should seriously think of tying tho common carotid on tho injnrod side. Later on I should side with those surgeons who in desperate cases would trephine at tho fractured fissure (as it may only he), and who, if no wound were present aud no fracture could be found, would make an exploratory incision in search of it. If we do not remove all the clot we may so increase the capacity of the skull-cavity as to give sensible relief. In this as in the other classes of cases needing the trephine we are certainly justified in regarding the operation as a different and a safer one when performed under antiseptic precautions. With such precautions I should venture to remove bone more freely in the attempt to remove clot. The fourth class is that where there is paralysing pressure from inflammatory products. Of all the cases were it is proposed to use the trephine these present the greatest difficulties—difficulties touching the locality, extent, compli- cations and results of the inflammatory process. Even an “opposite hemiplegia,” a defined fracture, and a puffy tumour are uncertain guides, and the operation can only be advised in quite exceptional cases. The fifth class of cases, where there are later sources of irritation leading to epilepsy and enfeebled intellect, is one where, with antiseptic dressing and clearer diagnosis, there is a prospect of the • more frequent use of the trephine. While I revise these notes my colleague, Mr. West, has in the hospital a case which strikingly demonstrates the utility of the trephine (with Listerism in his case) in hopelessly pro- gressive epilepsy. The case was under the care of Dr. Heslop, who suggested the propriety of operative relief. Thus we have some nearly half-dozen cases in which the trephine may or must be called for: when bone fragments clearly perforate, when bone-fragments hopelessly paralyse, when blood paralyses, when pus paralyses, and when at a later period bone fragments irritate. These classes may further be said to fall under three leading principles which regulate the operation of trephining—namely, where pieces of bone pass through the meninges and enter the brain, where there is paralysing pressure of bone, or blood or pus, and where later sequelaa threaten intellect and life.