66 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. wliicli reason and experience point to as the most trustworthy remedies; it is more especially urged that the best remedies for inflammation, whatever they are, should be used in all inflammations. Gounter-irritation -is a term which has excited much dis- cussion. The word itself is impeached. It is no part of this enquiry to consider the accuracy of the word, or even the way in which counter-irritation acts. These facts simply will be used, that two inflammations do not flourish together. That over and over again a patch of inflamed shin has removed adjacent inflammations which no drug could touch. I have repeatedly known in my own person a smart, early, catarrhal bronchitis, relieved in sixty minutes by the application of a large mustard plaster. I have several times seen an acute synovitis of the knee completely disappear in twenty-four hours after the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver. I have frequently seen an acute orchitis entirely relieved in twenty-four hours after counter-irritation to scrotum and thigh. These are the most rapid cases of the cure of inflammatory disease that I know. Drugs can do nothing in such inflammations; can they in any do more than obtain some collateral and less direct benefit ? In the synovial cases the nitrate of silver did not draw the fluid out of the joint into vesicles on the surface, because there were no vesicles. A few years ago an eminent physician, who derided the utility of counter- irritation, advanced the extraordinary view, that when a blister cures a synovial effusion, the fluid itself passes through all the tissues and myriad capillaries, with their swift currents of blood, into the cutaneous vesicles, still remainiug synovial fluid. Illustrations of the powerful effects of diversion of the blood current are numerous both in physiology and path- ology. With active brain work digestion flags; with disturbed digestion brain action flags. All the symptoms of a severe cold (tears, and nasal discharge, &c.,) will vauish for a time in a person who makes a speech or gives a lecture. Purgatives relieve cerebral symptoms, because they take