Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 27 If a person with such a temperament meet with an injuiy, the results are all more marked than in a person with a different nervous constitution suffering from a precisely similar injury. The first may appear on the point of death; the second may seem almost free from shock. It is in the nervous temperament that syncope is so prone to occur. The “ sight of blood/’ or a trifling injury, especially if acutely painful, will suddenly so act on the heart that it fails to send sufficient blood to the brain, which, in warm-blooded animals, requires incessant nutrition for the uninterrupted manifestation of nerve force. Although syncope from loss of blood may occur in many different nervous constitutions, if the loss be sufficiently copious, and especially if it occur in the upright posture, it is chiefly met with in the “nervous” of both sexes. The nervous susceptibility of men, and the frequency of hysteria (if such a term may be used) in men, is, I believe, not fully recognised; it is in such men that syncope from mental or corporeal causes is most likely to occur. Besides the degree of sensitiveness of the nervous system generally, it is well to consider the influence which states of mind that are present during the reception of an injury exert on the degree and nature of shock. It has been already remarked that, in certain temperaments, wrought into a state of extreme excitement, a comparatively severe injury may not be attended with that degree of shock which, under other circumstances, would be seen. In those cases, however, shock is usually deferred, and not altogether averted; and it may be all the more severe, seeing that reactionary mental exhaustion, itself a kind of shock, is superadded to the effects of bodily injury. In the great majority of cases of shock, it is probable that an extreme and indefinable dread accompanies the injury and greatly aggravates the intensity of the shock. In cases where it is possible to obtain a hopeful and calm state of mind, as m certain surgical operations, a most favourable influence on the phenomena of shock is seen. Pain, when severe and protracted, affects the mind in a manner similar to powerful emotions, and, like them, is at once a cause in some cases