Enquiries in Surgery of Trunh, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 239 on five different occasions, for as many relapses, he took ether for the purpose of having incisions, neither short nor superficial, made in the neighbourhood of the first one; and that finally, six months after the commencement of his illness, he was well, the wounds having all healed, no fistula resulting.” The perusal of the above cases, mine and Mr. Jackson’s, led Dr. Blaikie Smith, of Aberdeen, to publish in the Lancet the following case. It is so characteristic that I give it here in Dr. Blaikie Smith’s own words. It shows that the disease is not confined to one district, and therefore it is the more remarkable that, so far as I know, there is no reference to it in surgical literature. “Towards the end of March, 1877, I was in attendance on a gentleman suffering from delirium tremens. He was upwards of forty years of age, of large and stout build, and for many years had led a most intemperate life. From past experience of this patient, I had learnt that nothing was of such service to him, when suffering from delirium tremens, as large doses of morphia injected under the skin • and accordingly this remedy was freely used for a day or two, with the result of alleviating all his symptoms. “On March 23rd he complained that when he got up to pass water it came with difficulty—a symptom which was hard to understand, as a careful examination of his urinary organs failed to elicit any cause for its occurrence. The only theory I could entertain was, that the morphia which had been administered was exhibiting in the person of my patient one of its physiological actions. Next day, however, threw more light ou the matter, for he now began to complain of pain near the right verge of the anus, where the skin was found on examination to be swollen, hard, slightly red, and tender a state of matters which led me to suspect a different cause for his difficult micturition. My suspicions were amply con- firmed on March 25th, on which day the swelling increased largely; and was accompanied by much pain, radiating to the coccyx and loins. Defecation, as well as micturition, was now both difficult and painful. The temperature reached 102-4° Three days afterwards the swelling had involved the whole of