121 inquiries in Swnjery Generally. damental, that the terms “ constitutional ” and “ local, inadequate as they may be, cannot be given up until better are offered in their place, The invariable return, as a rule, of cancer after removal points to some mode of origin very different from that of the innocent tumours. A number of cancers have been removed at the earliest periods, and if caneer were a local disease surely by this time a certain proportion of undoubted cures could be referred to. They do not exist; we do not expect them. More than this, it is not only conceivable but probable that if we could know that a given woman were to have a cancer of the breast twelve months hence, we could not save her by removing her breast to-day. In the course of time the next favourite locality would be attacked. Indeed, it is not improbable, that if we could remove every part in which cancer could appear, what was left of her would probably, in time, die of cancerous cachexia. Constitutionalism is no argument against removal, especially early and wide removal of cancers. If it take many years to develope a cancer in the most favourite locality, and this be removed, it will probably take a few more (how many will depend on the intensity of the constitutional “ taint ”) to grow one in the next most eligible site. The contention here made is by no means weakened by the fact that there are intermediate growths; growths with characters, it may be so uncertain that it is difficult to say whether they are malignant or innocent. Because the colour grey exists, it does not show that white and black are not at the antipodes of each other. Whether the intermediate growths have special modes of origin and character and histories, or whether they are embodiments of a mild or struggling, or dying malignancy, we do not know. Here continuity in pathology may be profitably remembered. Mildness—extreme mildness of a so-called constitutional state is often seen. A gouty man has merely pain in his toe for ten minutes once in ten years. A syphilitic man may have after twenty years of sleeping syphilis a single tertiary ulcer near his knee joint. The mildness of a non-local taint