101 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. clear that there is no stricture from a previous gonorrhoea or gleet, if there be, the use of large bougies is of even more importance than the counter-irritation. Where a fiist attack of gonorrhoea implicates the bladder, the treatment would simply be a slight extension of the counter-irritation adopted for the cure of the gonorrhoea. In the cystitis of children, simulating stone in the bladder, there is perhaps always a mechanical obstruction to the urinary flow, a phymosis, or a small meatus, or a congenital narrowing of some portion of the urethra. This should be relieved, if possible, for the persistence of the cause renders all other treatment nugatory. The Prostate. In acute 'prostatitis, the perineum, and the adjacent surface of the thigh, should be painted with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or iodine liniment, and at the same time a stripe of counter-irritation may, with additional utility, be established over the femoral arteries. Yery hot hip baths for short periods, eight or ten minutes, as directed by Sir H. Thompson, add to the relief, acting, of course, as mild counter-irritants. Abscess of the prostate must be treated as acute inflammation. If spontaneous opening be delayed the surgeon must open the abscess in the usual manner. In chronic prostatitis, the counter-irritation should be a little less extensive and may be confined to the perineum. Iodine, however, may be advantageously applied to the adjacent portions of the thigh, in addition to the perineum and the thighs. Much must be determined by the degree of chronicity. The Urethra.—Cases of Gonorrhoea and acute urethritis should (as I have found from considerable experience) be devided into two classes for purposes of treatment, namely, those in which the disease is present for the first time, and those in which it has occurred once or oftener before. The ground for the distinction is this : when the disease has been present before, we can never be sure that some degree of stricture is not present; in other words, that a mechanical, as