142 Enquiries in Suryery Generally. fourth', or fifth day will maintain a very mild but all-sufficient influence which may be kept up for very many months—twelve, eighteen, or twenty-four. The guiding rule should be :—give the smallest dose at the longest interval which will show and keep up mercurial action. The red soft fine on the gum, or some increased saliva, or a coppery taste, are together or singly the signs of such action But cases sometimes, though not commonly, come before us where the evidence of the influence of mercury is difficult to get; in such cases large doses do not succeed better than small ones. One of three methods of treatment may be used in such cases. If the progress of the case is satisfactory with the small doses twice or once daily let well alone; if secondaries however appear, or appear more severely, or relapse, let the mercurial be given more frequently—three or four times a day, or oftener. Or, and perhaps better, a little blue ointment spread on lint (the size of a florin), may be worn inside the upper arm, and frequently renewed, or a little fresh ointment added every day or two. It is extremely rare (never in my experience) with these small doses, to find either abdominal pains or diarrhoea complained of—if they are, the mercurial ointment on the arm is sufficient. I have known a disc of mercurial ointment the size of a sixpence keep up mercurial action for many months. The Treatment of Specific Sloughing, or Phagedenic Ulceration. In destructive inflammations of any kind attacking tertiary lesions, as also in suppurative action when occurring in constitutional syphilis, it is frequently taught that mercurials should be avoided. In my experience these are grave incidents in which mercury is eminently satisfactory. From time to time, cases of severe destructive inflammation ensuing on the deep tertiary ulcer in the vicinity of the joints, have been sent into the hospital for amputation. In one case the ligaments of the ankle were exposed, in another the cavity of the knee was in great danger of being opened. In these and in similar cases, minute and