72 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. ment could liave given. It cannot undo confirmed structural changes, but it can often arrest these, or reduce them to their narrowest limits. If sloughing has commenced it will, by rapidly removing the inflammation around, reduce the slough to its smallest size, and effect its rapid sepai’ation. If suppuration has occurred, it will lessen its area, disperse it, or quickly expel its products from the living body. Treatment of Imminent Inflammations and some Non-inflammatory Diseases. It is well known that the chief danger after certain injuries and operations is inflammation. After a wound of the abdomen, oi’, but in much less degree, after the operation for ovariotomy, or the operations for strangulated hernia, there is danger of peritonitis. This, I believe, I have sometimes pre- vented and sometimes diminished by the free application of iodine to the abdomen and front of the thighs. In injuries to the joints, especially perforating wounds, which are frequently followed by destructive suppuration, does it not seem in the highest degree probable that a vigorous excitement of the tissue elements of the skin tends to lessen the excitement of the tissue elements of the wounded synovial membrane ? In an injury of the head an artificial inflammation of the ueck tends to divert pathological action from the intra-cranial contents. There are a few non-inflammatory diseases in which derivation of blood by means of counter-irritation is of more or less service. In spermatorrhoea, which is frequently due to congestion of the prostatic portion of the urethra (and often from the presence of indigestion and highly acid urine), counter-irritation to the perineum and thighs I have found much more successful than any other treatment. In enlarged prostate and internal morbid growths of various kinds, a stripe of irritation over the next large artery will often relieve discomfort. As an example of the delay of inflammation from traumatic causes the following case is of interest. In merely relieving paiu counter-irritation was of the greatest use.