99 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. in the size of the tumour. The treatment was continued, with occasional intermissions, for live weeks, at the end ol which time the swelling had completely disappeared. The Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases of the Digestive Organs. In affections of the nose, the face is not a convenient locality for counter-irritation; the same remark applies to the lips, the mouth, and the tongue. Many, if not most, of the diseases of the organs referred to are specific, and are to be cured mainly by specific treatment. These, how- ever, may often be somewhat influenced, and simple inflam- mations may be considerably influenced by counter-irritation. The back of the neck is a good site for seton, iodine, or cantharides, in a large number of inflammatory affections of the structures which lie at the front of the head and neck. Gancrum oris is so serious a malady, that I should cover the face and neck with iodine pigment or liniment, and give a few inspirations of chloroform during the few minutes smarting would last. In many affections, mild anmsthesia may be induced with benefit, in order to establish efficient counter-irritation. In inflammations of the tongue and tonsil, especially in acute inflammation and abscess of the latter, smart counter- irritation over the angle of the jaw, carried backwards and forwards over the neck, will frequently give marvellous relief. In abscesses of the abdomen, in pelvic cellulitis, inflamma- tion of the hernial sac, or peritonitis following operations and injuries, a surgeon who believes in the utility of the principle of counter-irritation will see opportunities of apply- ing it in detail. Where the patch shall be, how large it shall be, what the degree of intensity of the irritation, and what the agent shall be, may well be left to the surgeon in any individual case. Acute tonsilitis: Iodine liniment to neck and angles of jaws, with complete relief in forty-eight hours.—Sarah C., 21, came with all symptoms of acute inflammation of tonsils.