Ill Enquiries in Surgery Generally. than the detection and discrimination of pathological states. If diagnosis as an art is to make progress, it must be in a great measure because our knowledge of pathological changes makes progress, and our knowledge of clinical, rough, non- microscopic pathology, is more likely to be kept crisp and ready for use the more closely it is related to correct microscopic knowledge of tissue changes. Diagnosis at present is merely the detection of groups of clinical phenomena; we cannot diagnose the real essential elements in disease until we know what they are. Continuity in Pathology. It is meant here that there are intermediate pathological states. It is well understood that there are morbid growths which stand midway between innocent growths on the one hand, and malignant growths on the other. There are also morbid growths which are sometimes wholly innocent, and which in other cases are entirely malignant. It is acknowledged also that a sharp line cannot be drawn between the tuberculous and inflammatory processes. May not cancer and inflammation merge into each other by intermediate gradational steps. I have held and taught this view for many years, and I expressed it in the first edition of this volume. Since then somewhat similar views have been stated by various, and especially by German observers. I can at present speak only in brief terms of the continuity of inflammation and cancer. Abscess is not infrequently seated in or in close proximity to cancer; cancer occasionally follows abscess, it may be after an interval of apparent local health, or it may be that one induration does not subside before the other appears, whether by gradual change, or by substitution, or by succession, or by a combination of these we cannot tell. The diagnosis between inflammatory indura- tion, and cancerous induration is from time to time one of great difficulty—of greater difficulty than is usual between innocent growths and cancerous growths. Long continued in- flammations, as in sinuses, ulcers, and carious bone often merge