Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 84 hours. The pain is instantaneously removed, all discomfort disappears in two or three days, and frequently, in a few days longer the carbuncle is practically well. If the treatment be adopted when the first hard x’ed swelling appears, the hardness, redness, swelling-, pain, tenderness, frequently all subside in a few hours. The wider and smarter the zone of counter- irritation the more rapid the subsidence. A strong solution of nitrate of silver would probably answer the same purpose ; a circular blister is tardier in its action, but the acetum lyttae is very rapid, and is accompanied by only a short period of smarting. If the cai'buncle has proceeded so far that more or less cellular tissue is already dead, the slough more rapidly separates from the living tissue which is suddenly deprived of its inflammatory action by counter-irritation. The appear- ance of a carbuncle at this moment is often striking; the yellow slough in a few hours is protruded in a comparatively dry state, the ordinarily copious liquids which indicate severe inflammation being conspicuously absent. A healthy granu- lating surface only remains. Where the carbuncle is very large, the inflammation at its height, and the sloughing has just commenced, the treatment is no less remarkable in its efficiency and rapidity, although its duration is naturally longer than is required under more favourable circumstances. This simple treatment, a broad belt of iodine, will cure car- buncle in a fourth, or a sixth, or an eighth of the time required by ordinary measures. In addition, a thick linseed meal poultice should be applied, large enough to cover the site of actual inflammation, but within the zone of iodine, as .the water of the poultice dis- advantageously dilutes the artificial irritant; a hot poultice over an iodine surface is also apt to cause smarting. Over the poultice a bandage should be applied, or a shot mattress, as heavy as can be tolerated. Rest, at least of the site affected, is desirable, and as much elevation as is convenient. Happily carbuncles occur mostly at the upper parts of the body, and thus are naturally elevated. Scarcely any dressing is required; the counter-irritation separates the slough better than scissors, and dries up the liquids better than a sponge.