301 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. The tumour was congenital and had grown only at the rate of the growth of its owner. It rested on the anterior two thirds of the left foot, and forcibly suggested the idea of a foot-ball poised on the foot at the moment of kicking. The foot-ball was living however and attached to the foot. The tumour was irregularly spherical and deeply lobulated, but the lobulation did not seem deep because the lobes were flattened against each other. The growth entirely enveloped and disguised the four outer toes, but a certain rough proportion existed between the toes and the lobulated mass. No portion of any toes was visible except the great toe, which was thrust inwards and partially surrounded by the fatty mass. The figure in the plate is an exact copy of the photograph, and the sound leg and foot are also exactly given from a photograph, so that the dimensions are easily seen and calculated. In the lower part of the leg and about the ankle of the affected foot were some smaller, flattish, and also irregular masses of fat, which gave an irregular and unsightly appearance. It will be seen that the length of the tumour was nearly that of the sound foot, and the depth rather more than two-thirds of the length (see Plate X, Pigs. 4 and 5). No attempt was ever made to have a leather covering of any kind. She had from birth moved about rather freely even out of doors, the only protection of the foot being several layers of thick bed-ticking; that this should often be very wet and dirty was looked upon as a matter of course, and the only complaint was that in winter the snow melted and got between the lobes and gave rise to slightly inflamed and excoriated patches—chilblains in short. She contrived to kick her long skirt before her, and her walk was attended with the slightest possible limp. In removing the mass (the flat, smaller ones about the ankle were left untouched at her own reasonable request) I made no attempt to save the toes, an effort that, it was subsequently seen, would have been entirely fruitless. An upper and a lower semi-circular flap were made, and all the parts in front of the metatarsal bones were removed.