Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 116 first, if the injury be, say a fracture, or a dislocation, before he says where the fracture is or what is the nature of the dislocation. The So-called Immediate Union op Wounds. This is probably nothing1 more than a rapid and favourable union by methods which are present in the process of union generally. Whether this process be one depending on an exuded fluid, or a proliferation of cells, or an emigration of cells, or on some other action, it is probably the same process, although with modifications, in all kinds of union and under varying conditions, The uniting medium, whether slight or abundant, thick or thin, transitory or persistent, is apparently some form of connective tissue. This uniting layer is not only found by careful observation in some, by cursory observation in others, but it explains certain histological difficulties. If on any grounds we could accept a hypothesis of “ union without time, or material, or process,” the histological difficulties would seem to be insuperable. Can a capillary instantaneously become organically continuous with a nerve fibre, or a muscular filament with a globule of fat? In cases of extremely rapid and favourable healing there is probably first of all mechanical union. If two moist but clean surfaces are brought together in close contact, all haemorrhage having ceased and all air squeezed out— atmospheric pressure helps to keep them together—as it keeps the femur in the acetabulum. Boys have an amusement bearing on this point. At the end of a piece of string is a bit of stout leather, the under surface of which is wetted and kneaded on to a stone with a smooth surface; the stone is then lifted and carried about merely by atmospheric pressure. In cases of the early healing of wounds mechanical union is followed by rapid organic and vital union without pain, or tenderness, or redness, or induration. Whether at any future time a kind of glue (or liquid gut) can be devised which will assist mechanical union and not retard organic union, which will not be a foreign body incapable of absorption,