2 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. which is induced by the state of the nervous system. The manifestations of vitality in the body generally are Largely dependent on the circulation of arterial blood—all are diminished in a degree proportionate to the lowered action of the heart. Every cause, the operation of which gives rise to shock, whether through the intervention of the nervous system or not, acts upon the central organ of circulation and diminishes its force. With unimpaired cardiac action, shock is impossible. It will be seen later that, in a few exceptional cases, shock may be traced to the operation of agents which act solely on the muscular fibre of the heart, and which have no direct influence on the nerves. It is impossible to approach the question of shock, or pursue its investigation with any advantage, except in the light of our modern knowledge of the structure and functions of the cerebro-spinal and ganglionic nervous systems. It would be out of place, and indeed impossible, to do more here than glance at such facts as more especially appertain to the question of shock. It is characteristic of the vertebrata, that, of all the component parts of the organisation, the nervous system is the loftiest in its functions, and the most complicated and elaborate in its construction. While in the invertebrata the nervous system is subservient to the other organs and structures, every organ and every structure in the vertebrata is subservient to the nervous system. The nervous system is essentially the animal; all else in the individual is destined to contribute to its support, or to carry out its behests. The cerebro-spinal system is the instrument by means of which the will, the intellect, the sensibilities, the sensations, and all the varied modes of action, are brought into operation, and their effects made manifest. With the cerebro-spinal system, the ganglionic nervous apparatus has intimate relations; and impressions made on the one are communicated to the other, so far as is compatible with the more active manifestation of nerve-force in the one and the more torpid action in the other. As shock shows itself particularly in the absence of muscular action, it will be well to notice briefly the several