Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 50 of the contractility of the muscular fibre of the heart. Death occurs in this manner, in most cases of syncope, from tho several varieties of injury or from loss of blood. It may be sudden (the first variety of syncope is invariably sudden) or gradual, as in by far the greater number of injuries where, when death is not immediate, it is often said to be by asthenia. The cavities of the heart contain more or less blood, but not firmly coagulated. In shock, the result of severe injury to the nerve-centres or to the peripheral nervous expansion, death is mainly due to influences transmitted to the heart; but it must not be overlooked that similar influences act directly upon, and en- feeble or arrest, the respiratory function. There is a mode of death from shock following exposure to cold, which not only differs from all other modes of death from shock, but differs from all other modes of death from any cause whatever. When the influence of cold is sudden and severe, the result is coma; but it is much more frequently the case that death occurs from shock, the result of exposure to gradually increasing cold, which acts on all the organs and tissues, and depresses directly the vitality of all. A man was brought into hospital who had been exposed to cold the whole night. There was universal but peculiar bluish pallor, with blueness of the nose, ears, and extremities. There was complete unconsciousness and inactivity of the muscular power. The heart’s action was scarcely perceptible and very slow, and there was no pulsation in the extremities. The breathing, too, unlike the breathing of coma, and irregular sighing respiration of shock through the medium of the nervous system, was regular, but extremely feeble and slow. In such a case as this, it is not the nervous system which secondarily affects the heart, nor the heart which affects the nervous, respiratory, and other organs, but all by the same agency are equally reduced to torpor, inaction, and, unless timely treat- ment be resorted to, death. It is a singular feature of death from violent impressions on the nervous system, that somatic death, or the cessation of circulation and respiration, is simultaneous with molecular