Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 14G marbles embedded in a diffused softer elastic tissue, and give the nose a peculiar frog-like, disagreeable appearance. The discs have no adhesion to the skin. In both nasal cavities there springs from the outer wall, a prominent ulcerated surface, with rather a bright margin, which comes into contact with the septum. On lifting the margin -with a director, the ulcerated surface is of a clean granular character without pus, blood, or other fluid. There is, and has been for some years, a slightly copper-coloured scaly patch on the left cheek. An enlarged but small gland lies under the corner of the left jaw, which she says is of recent origin. During the six years of these slow changes, the general health has remained fair. No mercurials or iodides in any dose, however given, or however prolonged, have had any effect. Several points of interest are seen in this case. On looking at the patient the first impression is that the peculiar, irregular, bulging nose, is the seat of malignant polypus. A sallow and somewhat cachectic ap- pearance favour a view which further investigation negatives. The general elastic fulness of tissue around the gummy nodule, is probably of periosteal origin; in short, there is a diffused node of the nasal bones underneath and around them. We must bear in mind that the periosteum in health gradually merges into the adjacent connective tissue, hence chronic periosteal inflammation or node, also, is gradually merged in the continuous and similar, though looser tissue. I have several times seen gummatous masses seated in an indentation over a convex node. It is very probable that the supposed polypi were gummatous protuberances, and quite unsuited for the ordinary treatment of simple polypi. The history of the treatment of the polypi is far from clear, but as all the syphilitic phenomena begin coincidently with the “polypi,” the inference is fair. So unusal a measure as the intro- duction of a seton through the cheek (bony wall included) shows that the case was not one of ordinary polypus. It is unlikely that the operation was merely the exciting cause of the local manifestation of a latent constitutional disease.