250 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sf Abdomen. say to sucli a patient’s friends that what remains of rosiness, stoutness, and strength must come to but one end. Unless much care be taken in the examination of a rectal cancer of the conformation I have described to you, or if it occur in the male, a mistake may readily be made, especially in the earlier stages of its existence. Recently I saw, with his medical attendant, a gentleman about fifty-five, with the following histoi’y and symptoms. Nine months before I saw him, he noticed that a little blood escaped from the bowel—not always with defalcation, and that his linen was soiled with an ill-smelling, reddish, watery fluid. Six months later, defecation was attended with difficulty. Occasionally there was some loss of control over the sphincter. There was some loss of flesh and strength, but cachexia was not marked. The patient walked out, and the appetite and sleep were fair. On introducing the finger into the rectum, an uniform ring-like mass was felt, beyond which the finger discovered the expanded rectum. There were no nodules and no irregularity, and the hardness was not extreme. There was, however, one symptom, in addition to the encircling mass, which was very significant— the anus was somewhat fixed. Now before this fixity, which was probably of recent date, the physical characters of the rectal lesion were quite consistent with the presence of a greatly enlarged sphincter, or a ring of inflammatory products. I once saw (with his medical attendant, a hospital surgeon and an able writer) a gentleman who suffered from severe paroxysms of rectal pain, from whose anus reddish and ill-smelling fluids escaped, whose general health was affected, and whose rectum at its lower part was surrounded by a ring-like mass, which was found to be a ring-like abscess. The ring began as a smooth nodule, probably of gummatous origin, which extended around the rectum above the sphincter, and appeared as in riug-like cancer, to be part of it. In this lecture, I have dwelt on a question of diagnosis only. The cases I have cited, with others that I have seen, seemed to me to have iu them a lesson, which