95 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. themselves as cases of “enlarged glands.” It is of the treatment of these cases that I shall now speak, as the treatment of acute suppurative inflammation of the glands is the same as that of abscess. Indeed, the difference between the treatment of any inflammatory diseases is one of detail— detail, however, of no slight importance. A broad zone, or semicircle, or adjacent patch of iodine paint is the one essential feature of the treatment. The paint should be moderately strong, or the liniment may be used where the skin is thick. In the very young, the paint should be correspondingly weaker. In these cases it is desirable that no paint should be applied over the glands. Enlarged glands, as every surgeon well knows, are often extremely obstinate, and often refuse to yield to any treatment hitherto known. I have met with more success from the treatment described here than from any other. It does not cure them in a few days, as it often does an acute inflammation, but it removes them in a few weeks, it may be a few months, when the accepted modes of treatment have been tried for years and failed. Pressure with a shot bag for limited periods during the day, the patient lying on a couch or bed with the glands uppermost, is also of service. Internally, I give iron or iron with iodide of potassium. Local treatment, in the cases described, is more important than the general treatment. It is the reverse with enlarged glands from syphilis. Great enlargement of the cervical glands : Counter-irritation at the back of the neck : Recovery in three weeks, after three years’ failure with every other known treatment.—Dr. Hickin- botkam has informed me of the case of a young man, Avith great enlargement of the cervical glands of three years5 duration, who had been to many surgeons, and tried every known treatment without benefit. A patch of iodine irritation was kept up at the back of the neck, and in three weeks the whole enlargement disappeared. Many other remedies had previously been tried. Strumous enlargement of glands in groin : Counter-irritation : Rapid improvement.—George W., aged 13, enlargement of cluster of inguinal glands, of long duration, associated with