Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 129 mechanical pressure. Protracted pressure with lint or cotton wool, sufficient to arrest haemorrhage, would cause sloughing; it is not so with sponge pressure. One great feature of sponge pressure is its elasticity when moist. Without elasticity there can be no gentleness, no adaption, no equable and diffused uniformity of pressure. The difference between elastic pressure on the one hand, and dead mechanical pressure on the other, is fundamental—a difference of principle, not of detail. Sponge “bites” the skin, and thus materially helps to keep the superficial parts in place. The advantages of deep and maintained adjustment in obtaining deep union are so great that any dressing which secures them has no common merit. Even putrefaction loses much of its evil, if it be putrefaction of merely surface fluids. But the pressure which secures deep adjustment not only prevents accumulation of fluids, and thus produces effectual deep drainage—it does more. Moist sponge pressure so acts that lodgment of fluid on the surface is also prevented. The use of drainage tubes is easily combined with the sponge dressing; but cleanliness and drainage are so constantly obtained by the soft, moist sponge pressure, that I do not always use them. In case after case I found that the space occupied by the tube was the only spot not united. This was especially so in the removal of the breast and other tumours. The use of the drainage tube may be left to individual judgment. The drainage of a sponge is diffused, uniform, and complete. Only a sponge can do two things at once—drive fluids to the surface and take them from the surface. In short, a proper sponge, or sponges, properly applied, constantly squeezes out on the one hand, and sucks up on the other, whatever (if any) of fluid—serous, sanguineous, or purulent—there may be. This is not the time to consider the questjpn of inflam- mation, or the conditions which prevent its origin and retard its progress; but I am of opinion, as I have elsewhere and many years ago urged, that ample space is needed for a prosperous inflammation, and that gentle, uniform, and quiet compression discourages it. Neither ought wo to lose sight of i