Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 268 not let off so easily. With the cares, indigestion, gout (disguised or open), aud other ailments which increase the acidity ol urine, there come one or several of the results of stricture. In fact there is not one of the sequelae of stricture, with the exception perhaps of extravasation of urine, which I have not known to follow the presence of an unusually small urinary meatus. One such effect is urethritis, which, by continuous extension, may lead to prostatitis, or cystitis, or epididymitis. There are some surgeons who, under these circumstances, would affirm that the urethral inflammation had been caused by the contact of some noxious fluid. I will not here discuss the merits, or demerits, of a policy of uniform incredulity. My answer is this : Often in cases of diminutive meatus the bladder is affected first, then the prostatic urethra, then, perhaps, the inflammation may extend along the vas deferens, setting up consecutive orchitis, and from first to last there is no urethral discharge. I remember that in one week there came under my notice, by curious coincidence, four cases of epididymitis having no other cause than small meatus, and resisting all treatment except the enlargement of that aperture. Very frequently the symptoms are confined to the bladder. Frequency of micturition, supra-pubic pain, mucus or blood in the urine are, singly or combined, the subject of complaint, It is remarkable how single symptoms of cystitis may exist, especially when due to the milder causation of a small meatus. A clergyman was sent to me with a very obstinate ailment, but it consisted of one symptom only, supra-pubic pain. A young man during a period of ill-health, marked by great acidity of urine, had one bladder symptom only, hematuria. Both men had a small meatus. In one man who had slight attacks of haematuria, the symptoms were mostly confined to the spring of the year. The easterly winds and cold producing in all probability very acid urine. The acid urine with a large urethra would matter little, aud a narrowed urethra or meatus with normal urine would probably give no trouble. A diminutive urethral orifice aggravates and prolongs a gonorrhoea, or gleet, or stricture, and their ordinary sequelae.