Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 179 trephine in cut and punctured fractures, and trephine when depressed bone causes hemiplegia and coma. In the several injuries of the head which destroy life in different ways and at different times I wish it were possible so to strip off col- lateral and minor circumstance, and so to strip off controversy, that the trephining formulae might be simplified and reduced in uurnber. In cases of paralysing pressure—of bone, or blood, or pus—possibly increasing knowledge will enable us to adopt, say, this proposition in lieu of several: trephine in hemi- plegia and coma when they are the results of traumatic causes which can be known in time, be got at, and which can be removed. The operation of trephining is, no doubt, in itself a very serious wound; but in performing it we hope to change a fatal into a serious wound—a hopeless wound into one not hopeless. I go on to look, from a point of view suggested by my own experience and reflection, at the classes of cases in which the trephine must or may be used. And I cannot but think that the order of such classes should be mainly decided by the urgency and the clearness of the need for operative action. The first class of cases in which the trephine should be used stands alone the ‘ perforating bone class. Symptoms are not considered. Cut and puuctured fractures are neces- sarily compound, and fragments piercing the membranes lead to most serious results. I think it would simplify classification and improve treatment if this class were made more compre- hensive. It is not desirable to look merely at the sharpness of the edge or point of the injuring body, but at the nature of the fracture. Was the body which broke the skull sharp enough or pointed enough to drive bits of bone through the membranes into the brain ? The importance of this question we shall shortly see. Detached pieces of bone are practically foreign bodies; but other foreign bodies in cases of fracture with perforating bone or paralysing bone, occasionally need to be removed. I he second class is that of paralysing bone pressure (whether the fracture be simple or compound is unimportant) where hemiplegia is unequivocal and persistent. Another class,