182 jEnquiries in the Surgery of Hoc Head and Neele. Lot my last remark bo to remind you that antiseptic methods of treatment promise to have important bearings on the operation we are discussing, and to greatly widen the sphere of its utility. On Ligature of the Common Carotid in Eupture of the Middle Meningeal Artery, from Fracture of the Skull. In a preceding clinical lecture on the principles which should guide us in the use of the trephine, the question of paralysing blood pressure was briefly touched upon. I there stated that if I were at hand in a case of clear meningeal hcemorrliage, in which unequivocal hemiplegia and coma were becoming more and more apparent, I should seriously consider the propriety of putting a ligature on the common carotid artery. It is no doubt quite true that op- portunities for such a proceeding—a clear diagnosis and an operating surgeon within reach must be very few; but they do happen and are understood in hospitals where the resi- dent officers are intelligent and on the watch. The diagnosis cannot be regarded as clear where the symptoms of concussion, laceration, bruising, arachnoidal haemorrhage, or cerebral haemorrhage, are unusually severe, or prolonged, or mixed, even though there are signs of ex- ternal injury in the vicinity of the meningeal vessels. Yet there are a few cases of injury to one side of the head where the symptoms of concussion (if present) pass away quickly; an interval of consciousness and freedom from any kind of paralysis follows; then, in a variable number of hours from the injury, when reaction comes on with flushed face and fuller pulse, incoherence of speech, drowsiuess, a tottering walk or inability to stand, plainly show the onset of coma and hemiplegia. Tho symptoms at this stage strongly resemble the state of intoxication. The application of a ligature to the carotid artery on the side of the injury would appear to be altogether a less serious operation than that of trephining. It would probably not merely arrest the hsemorrhage but, by checking the