130 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. the fact that the evils which retard the favourable progress of wounds are in a great measure due to inflammation. Putrefaction is a powerful enemy, but it is not the only one that meets the surgeon. That putrefaction much aggravates and frequently causes inflammation, there is no doubt. It is significant, however, that abscess, erysipelas, and cellulitis are inflammatory in origin, and may be of the gravest character while remaining in entirely subcutaneous localities. I cite these as practical clinical facts, and have no desire to draw from them abstruse and controversial inferences. I do not say that living organisms may not reach such changing tissues; but I contend that we must not forget that there is an actual inflammatory process, and that it plays an important part in wounds quite inde- pendently of putrefaction. The most complete antisepticity may be kept up by a moist, medicated sponge. It would seem that septicity could scarcely reach a wound which, while still everywhere moist with antiseptic fluid, is immediately well covered with a constantly moist antiseptic sponge. For antiseptic or medicative purposes there is a choice of agents—carbolic acid, terebene, thymol, zinc salts, and others. These, in solution, should be weak enough to prevent irritation to the skin, but still unequivocally antiseptic. Should exceptional circumstances require the sponge dressing to be retained more than, say seven to fourteen days, there will be no difficulty with the skin. If after the first few days there is domestic or nursing difficulty in the renewal of the fluid, then oily fluids, as terebenised, carbolised, or thymolised oil, added to the sponge, keep up a soft, comfortable, and antiseptic dressing. For the same reason a little glycerine may be added to the watery lotions. Prolonged undisturbance of the first dressing is a real gain to any dressing. In many, especially the larger operations, and under ordinary circumstances, I keep on the first sponge for a week or longer, thus securing rest, avoiding pain, inflammation, mental disquietude, and promoting union. The diminished labour and anxiety to the surgeon are not trivial, though they should not be allowed to weigh in favour of treatment not otherwise commendable.