156 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Nearly all ulcers are syphilitic, or eczematous, or strumous. The presence of syphilis is the essential condition of the origin and existence of one and the largest class of ulcers. If syphilis became extinct, the largest class of ulcers would also disappear. Eczema is essential to the origin and existence of another, and a numerous class of ulcers. If eczema ceased to exist, these also would cease to exist. Struma is essential to the origin and existence of another, but a much smaller class. I have thus, by anticipation, replied to the objection that syphilis, and eczema, and struma, are complications like indolence or inflammation, or haemorrhage or senility. Clinical observation has led me still further. A syphilitic ulcer, or an eczematous ulcer, may bleed, or be subject to neuralgia; they frequently become very chronic or indolent; they may be combined with varicose veins, or become inflamed even to destruction or sloughing. It is the syphilitic ulcer which is mainly liable to destructive ulceration. But, whatever accidental character or complication be super-added to the syphilitic or eczematous ulcer, it is rarely difficult to say which is syphilitic, and which is eczematous. Now and then “ indolence ” may be so marked, and other characters so little marked, that a very careful scrutiny may be needed to discover the syphilitic or eczematous origin and affinities. Excluding the small number of strumous ulcers, and the extremely small number of strumous ulcers on the legs of adults, I never see an ulcer which is not either syphilitic or eczematous, nay more, which is not more syphilitic than indolent, or varicose, or inflamed, or which is not more eczematous than indolent, or weak, or neuralgic. The accidents which form the basis of current classifications are not even common. Indolence and varicose veins are, it is true, not rare, but they are less common than the simple types of syphilitic or eczematous ulcers, while neuralgia, vicarious hemorrhage, and tall granulations are decidedly infrequent. Syphilitic, eczematous, and strumous ulcers may occur anywhere. The ulcers which occur on the legs of adults are, as a rule, either syphilitic or eczematous. The strumous ulcer is so rare after infancy and early adult life, and is