122 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. is no proof there is no taint. A thousand smokers escape cancer; one gets an epithelial cancer on his lip. Is it not probable that there was a very slight tendency to cancer in his case, seeing that so many escape ? A thousand sweeps escape cancer; one becomes the subject of epithelial disease. Has he not a mild, non-local taint ? But let the non-local taint be a little stronger, and cancer will appear without obvious ex- citing cause—perhaps on the lip, though the man may not smoke, or on the scrotum, though the man may not be a sweep. The facts, at least, are undoubted, whatever interpretation we may put upon them. Note on the Duration of Life after the Removal of Cancer of the Breast. It is a noteworthy circumstance that the length of life after the excision of a schirrus growth from the breast varies very much in different individuals. Statistics help us little in predicting the probable numbers of months or years which may run after an operation in any individual case. One woman may live ten years, another ten months. It is because the experience of operating surgeons is more valuable than a general table of statistics that I now briefly refer to my own experience. I need scarcely say that in the great majority of cases life is not prolonged beyond one, or two, or three years. In this conclusion all surgeons will probably agree. But we get a small minority of cases in which life is singularly prolonged, and it is only just that such cases should be noted. In February, 1872, I removed an unmistakeably cancerous growth from the breast of Mrs. L., aged about 50. For seven years she had good health, and died, her medical adviser tells me, of apoplexy, in August, 1879. No post- mortem examination was made. She was not one of the dry, wiry, thin women, in whom we expect life to be more prolonged. Easy removal, and especially removal with a very wide margin of healthy tissue, probably best explain the seven years. Ill 1870, I saw, with her medical adviser, a lady of 45, with a cancer in both breasts. We told her that very high