Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 245 itself, but if it be looked for early, when trouble is com- plained of, and the treatment of tertiary syphilis be adopted early also, it is possible that we may do more good than past experience would lead us to hope for. In old and neglected gummy disease, where the symptoms are chiefly those of obstruction, I show in another page much relief may be obtained by wearing, for longer or shorter periods, an elastic catheter in the rectum—the benefit being based, probably, on the principle of continuous or vital dilatation. The Treatment oe Stricture of the Rectum by Continuous Dilatation. I mean here the simple annular stricture, and also the contraction due to gummy disease. Next to malignant disease, simple stricture is the most formidable disease of the rectum we are called upon to treat; and with all our care life is frequently shortened in such cases, sometimes by mechanical obstruction, sometimes by a pro- found syphilitic cachexia, sometimes by both, in equal or unequal proportions. The treatment by bougies, or conical, or medicated bougies, or the occasional use of sponge tents for brief periods, will often keep a patient in moderate comfort for a long time. Radiating incisions are now and then of service, but they, and indeed bougies and tents also, are not free from the danger of setting up creeping cellulitis and peritonitis. Several years ago I began to treat severe cases by longitudinal division of the sphincter, the stricture and the rectum between. (See Plate VIII., Fig. 4). Soon after this Verneuil, where fistulas opened above the stricture, divided the parts longitudinally, but by means of the ecraseur. In all my cases, complete relief was obtained. In some the relief has been permanent, in others there has been more or less return of mechanical difficulty; but in no case has the relapse been so severe as the state which existed prior to operation. For a long time I have contemplated a very simple method of treatment, which involves no operation and little trouble.