150 Enquiries in Surgory Generally. were the iliacus, psoas, and quadratus lumborum muscles. Running obliquely across the cavity, and isolated in the purulent fluid, was the external cutaneous nerve in its progress from the lumbar plexus to the anterior superior spinous process. In the upper part of the anterior wall, and not isolated, was the ilio-inguinal nerve. At the inner margin of the abscess, one inch and a half behind Poupart’s ligament, one large lymphatic gland formed part of the wall of the cavity, the centre of the gland and much of its general structure were destroyed, the cavity and its ragged edges were turned towards the abscess. The small intestine in the vicinity of the suppurating cavity, though matted together and bearing a highly congested interior, was no where actually impervious. On the penis were the nearly completed cicatrices of three chancres.” In the light of the history, and post-mortem characters of the case, it seems not rational only, but difficult to do other than interpret the case thus : The young man con- tracted syphilis; an abnormally distributed duct carried the specific virus to an external iliac gland; the gland in- flamed and suppurated; the resulting abscess invaded the adjacent connective tissue, and shortly set up peritonitis, and led indirectly to intestinal obstruction and death. It will probably be admitted that the destruction of the interior of the external iliac gland was the result of an abscess, and that the abscess was produced by a poison carried by a lymphatic duct. I abstain, however, from any discussion on the disputed question of the relationship of the venereal lesion to the suppurating bubo. I presume, however, that no competent observer denies the occasional occurrence of the suppuration of a gland in conjunction with the true indurated chancre. May we not here see the possible risk of a new and fatal danger in syphilis (and in gonorrhoea also,) remote it is true, but possible ? May we not also get another useful hint from such a case ? We may, perhaps, in a doubtful tumour of the breast find an enlarged gland in the posterior triangle of the neck, at the same time that the axilla is quite free. (See plate V. figs. 1 and 2.)