Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 199 seeming to be high up, and the ecraseur put in action. To my extreme disappointment the wire loop quickly came through leaving the great bulk of the attachment evidently undivided. I believed at the moment that I had to. do with a multiple pedicle, and that I had only divided one and a small attachment. I found afterwards that in reality the wire cord had broken, but in so disguised a manner that the break was not seen by or made known to me. The haemorrhage was now very abundant, and the lad who was marvellously courageous, and had begged to have no anaesthetic, was now in distress and danger. Immediately resolving to adopt Syme’s method with all its risks, I took a pair of large strong curved sequestrum forceps, and carrying the blades through the mouth, well up into the pharynx, behind the posterior nares, I got an extensive and firm grip—a grip fortunately well up to the roots of the mass—and resolutely turning the mass round and round again several times with both hands, the whole mass as big as a closed fist came through the mouth. The bleeding practically ceased at once. The finger showed not only that the whole growth was removed, but also that the attachments had been most extensive, for the bony surface was denuded at the roof of the pharynx, the adjacent margins of the posterior nares, and what seemed the under surface of the right orbital floor, but which was probably the inner wall of the antrum which had been pushed upwards and outwards by the growth of the firm tumour. The periosteum removed with the tumour was so thickened and incorporated with it that it could not be distinguished as a separate structure. The recovery was complete—every portion of bone retaining its place and vitality. Although this case ended so satisfactorily I very much regret that the ecraseur could not be used. In the case of a very large mass filling the nose and pharynx, and practically tho mouth (the palate intervening), the reserve measure of a big forceps, and twisting with both hands, is a formidable one— too formidable to propose as a general rule. I venture to append the following suggestions respecting removal of naso-pharyngeal growths. An English elastic