29(3 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. A Case op Excision op the Os Calcis and the Astragalus IN WHICH THE SECOND ROW OP TARSAL BONES WAS DRAWN UNDERNEATH THE MALLEOLI. (EeOM THE CLINICAL SOCIETY’S Transactions.) A girl, Maria G-., aat. 14, came under my care at the Queen’s Hospital, with, apparently, caries of the os calcis. She was sent to me by the authorities of the Middlemore Refuge—an institution which takes children from the gutter, and feeds, clothes, aud educates them for service in Canada. She had been taken from the streets with the ready consent of drunken relatives. When, however, it was found, shortly after admission, that there was disease of the bones of the foot, a difficulty arose: it seemed inhuman to send her back to careless relatives, who were glad to be rid of her; and yet if she lost her foot she could not well be trained for emigrant service. As the disease seemed limited to the os calcis, I gouged out, as I believed, all the carious bone. But the sinuses did not heal. A second more extensive gouging was followed by no better result. Indeed, I feared, as other surgeons have feared before, that each gouging gave rise to further osteitis and further caries. Each operation was followed by careful and prolonged rest, immobility, and elevation. As the direction of the carious area seemed to extend upwards, and new sinuses also pointed to the implication of the astragalus, I determined to excise both the os calcis and the astragalus. In the earlier gouging operations I made the incisions in the sole over the heel in its long axis, and parallel with the outer border of the tendo Achillis. When it seemed desirable to exise the two bones I wished to avoid making another deep cicatrix, and therefore I took the line of the old incision, extending it upwards at each end, so as to make a somewhat semilunar flap, the convexity of which looked downwards. This flap was at the outer aspect of the heel, and, when lifted up, gave ready access to the diseased bones. The. joints having been opened, first in front and then above, the bones were removed.