131 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Some other qualities of the sponge dressing can only be hinted at. It may be kept at any temperature by the application of hot or iced fluids. The sponge should not be thickly covered, and certainly not with water-proof fabrics, unless the action of a fomentation or a poultice be desired— a rare need in treatment after operations and wounds. This dressing may be made of any size or shape. It may readily be put over straps, stitches, drainage tube, acupressure needles, catch forceps, or other apparatus. It may be put over any wound in any position. It is very manageable, and cannot easily get out of place; but if displacement should occur, it is easily rectified. As regards economy, if that were important, much could be said for the sponge. It may be as effectually cleaned as a steel blade, and re-used with as much propriety. How best to secure these advantages may now be considered for a few moments. In the operation—removal of breast, or tumour, or amputation, or what not—the sponges have been used with carbolic or antiseptic water, so that the last step before closing the wound has been the complete moistening of all surfaces with antiseptic fluid. In some cases, say when there is obstinate oozing from small vessels, distension of the wound may be made with cold antiseptic fluid, and a suitable sponge quickly and properly applied. There will then be no further oozing. This result, in moderately skilful hands, may be relied upon, and it is one of the chief merits of the moist elastic dressing. It is, however, needless to say that, whatever dressing is used, the more free the wound from bleeding the more favourable the union. As regards haemorrhage during the operation, time, pressure, cold, or heat (with black cautery or extremely hot water) for the smaller vessels, and torsion or gut for the larger, are, perhaps, best adapted to promote union. The wound may be closed with not too many stitches because of the adjustive properties of the sponge, and very long strips of plaster may be used. The moisture of the sponge over the wound does not interfere with the strips even in the vicinity of the sponge. The sponge about to be put over the wound lies apart, well cleansed, and soaked in antiseptic fluid. Already trimmed to a suitable shape, it