Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 154 When so-called strumous diseases arc combined, as phthisis and articular caries, or vertebral caries and joint disease, or several joints simultaneously, it will be found that the evidence of inherited syphilis is more than usually strongly marked. Struma, we must bear in mind, is, in its local mani- festations, merely a modified form of the inflammatory process, so also indeed is syphilis. Persons having constitu- tional syphilis, whether acquired or inherited, are certainly— on this point I speak very confidently—more than others prone to be attacked by inflammatory diseases. I have repeatedly seen this fact illustrated in cases of cellulitis, cutaneous or pelvic, or other; as also in erysipelatous and suppurative inflammations. It is not common for consecutive orchitis or injury of the testes to be followed by suppuration, but there are frequent exceptions to this rule in syphilitic persons. From cases which have happened within the circle of my own acquaintances, and also from others where I have had personal knowledge of the history, pneumonia is more than ordinarily frequent in syphilitic individuals. Not only does inflammation especially seize on syphilitic constitutions, but it is in them more ready to run on, sometimes with extreme rapidity, to suppuration in the deeper inflammations, and to destructive ulceration in the more superficial. It may be said that many persons with well marked traces of hereditary syphilis go through life with excellent health. Unquestionably. But so do persous with marked struma; so do persons with gout. There is another explanation of this fact: infants with clear signs of hereditary syphilis are usually put through a mild but all-potent course of mercury. The extinction of syphilis, if it could be brought about, would in my opinion be followed by the disappearance of much struma, and many inflammations; and even if all infants born in what I may call syphilitic circumstances were carefully treated with mercury internally, or better, externally, I cannot but think some so-called strumous diseases, especially bone inflammations, would be more rarely seen.