Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 147 seeing that clinical experience furnishes no ground for sup- posing that the injury attending tho removal of polypi from the turbinated bones would givo rise to periostitis of the outer surface of the nasal bones. The improbability is strengthened by the circumstance that the disease in the interior of the nose is on the outer wall of the nasal cavity. A singular feature of this internal tertiary ulcer of several years’ duration is the entire absence of any discharge— purulent or sanguineous. Does the close contact of the ulcerated surface (of extreme chronicity) with the septum give it a kind of subcutaneous character, and thus explain the process of granulation without free fluids ? If the teachino- O of cellular pathology be true that the processes of prolifer- ation, or granulation of tissue elements, short of suppuration, go on under surfaces, the explanation is not unreasonable. Another peculiar feature of the case, but which feature is occasionally seen in other old syphilitic cases, is the entire uselessness of remedies of any kind, in any doses, and for any length of time. I well remember seeing this illustrated in a pale feeble woman a little under middle age, with old extensive specific ulcers of the tongue; the ulcers were present for many years, and no kind or quantity of mercurials, or iodides, exerted the slightest influence on them. In such cases the treatment seems to be such regulation of diet, and habits, and surroundings, as most tend to health. The Diagnosis between Gummatous Disease and Cancer is not Easy. Sometimes a fungous protrusion from the septum of the nose in a middle-aged person, and perhaps attended with some hemor- rhage may reasonably give rise to fears of malignant diseases, and yet be simply gummatous in its character. I have seen such cases, and only watching for a time can give us a certain knowledge of their character. Gummatous masses when softened now and then leave raised margins-a condition so frequently characteristic of cancer. In the tongue