174 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. with a sponge which was kept constantly moist with tere- beno and water. Occasionally the ragged brain surface was gently moistened with pure terebeue. For several days there were frequent paroxysms of clonic spasms on the left side. He lay on the left side with his knees drawn up. After a few days hernia of the brain appeared, which was left to gentle antiseptic sponge-pressure and the later cicatrising forces. His recovery has been favourable, and he will shortly leave the hospital. Having put together the salient features of the case, we will now review them with such comments as may point to the lessons they teach. The steps of the operation of trephining need not detain us now. The instrument was, of course, fixed on a sound margin of bone. The fragments were removed with the utmost gentleness, but a firm hand was needed for some fragments, and other frag- ments were seated very deeply. The inner table of the skull, as is the rule in fractures made by pointed, or edged, or sharply cornered bodies, was more extensively broken than the outer. An irregularly oval gap running forwards and downwards, and lying mostly behind the line drawn from ear to ear, was left in the upper half of the right parietal bone, measuring about two inches in length and rather more than one in breadth. The membranes were much torn. As much blood-stained brain and blood clot as would fill a walnut-shell escaped before and during the operation. The depth to which the brain-substance was in- jured must certainly have exceeded an inch. The bit of felt hat was quite an inch deep in the brain, and only the trephine disclosed its presence. The not improbable existence of foreign bodies in punctured and other compound fractures, where the meninges are pierced, is an additional ground for trephining. During the few days which followed the operation he vomited occasionally. For several days the left arm seemed quite powerless. The elouie spasms diminished in frequency, and ceased on the fifth or sixth day. The pupils were not affected. He never lost his consciousness, but during one or two nights there was slight wandering. His temperature varied from 99° to 1OT.