Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 264 toneal process (from abdomen to testis) saw little that was new in them. It is a sufficient reply to say that Mr. Curling, in the latest edition of his work, and in conversation with me, entirely accepts my views, and accepts my designation as the title of a new chapter in the last edition of his volume on diseases of tho testis. Mr. Curling records my first case in full, and tells me ho himself has never seen one. The case would, therefore, seem to be the first that has been described in this country]. The Radical Cure op Encysted Hydroceles, and also The Treatment op Certain Cysts. A More Effectual Method of Applying Iodine to the Interior of Encysted Hydroceles and Certain Cysts.—I have found that there are in practice two classes of scrotal hydroceles, in which the ordinary methods of treatment are either difficult to use or uncertain in their result. In boys and men there are occasionally encysted hydroceles of the testis, or the cord, which continue to increase in size, or in which treat- ment is urgently requested. In such cases, except in early infancy, acupuncture, or the use of a fine trocar, often fails to cure. The walls of the cysts are usually thin, and collapse so much when their contents are withdrawn that the injection of a fluid is uncertain. The end of the canula may be outside the cyst, and the iodine solution be consequently injected into the connective tissue at its exterior. In such cases the following is a reliable method of treat- ment :—The cyst being well isolated, made tense, and brought near the surface, I pass through its centre a stout needle, armed with silk, and leave the threads hanging. The fluid quickly oozes away, especially if a little traction be made on the threads. I then, at one opening, wet the threads with iodine liniment (liniment because the quantity required is so limited) and draw the threads so as to leave moistened portions within the cyst. A little gentle friction will help to spread the iodine thoroughly over tho lining membrane of the cavity. An hour later freshly moistened portions may