Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 7 gastric nerves. Several reasons may be urged in favour of this explanation. 1. The sympathetic is intrinsically a sluggish system, and seems to have little susceptibility and little motor power, save that which relates to the organic and vaso- motor functions. 2. The vagus is also distributed to the heart; and, according to Yon Bezold and others, it has for its function that most peculiar and exceptional one, of retarding the muscular contractility of the heart. The inhibitory influence of the pneumogastric is peculiar, because most nerves stimulate to action the muscles which they supply. 3. Weber’s experiments, repeated by others, proved that interrupted galvanic currents suspended the heart’s action. 4. Galvanism (or shock) to the sympathetic increased the heart’s action. It is not denied that a powerful impression on the sympathetic system may give rise to shock, but probably not so readily as is generally supposed. At my request, a most able physiologist, Dr. Norris, performed, with great care, the following experiment. I give it in his own words. “ Having etherised a strong frog to a moderate extent, I examined the web and found the circulation perfect. I now divided the spine and destroyed the lower portion of the spinal marrow, and, to make doubly sure, cut through both sciatic nerves at their exit from the pelvis. The circulation was now very slow and turgid in both webs, owing to a degree of shock connected with the operation. As, however, the frog recovered from the ether, the circu- lation in the webs became stronger, and was ultimately fully restored; the arteries, nevertheless, remaining dilated and containing an excess of corpuscles.. I now, with a pair of strong pliers, crushed the tibia and femur of one side, producing compound comminuted fractures. Tho circulation in the uninjured limb remained wholly unaffected; but, in the web of the fractured limb, tho circulation was, from some cause, entirely arrested, possibly owing to some injury to the artei’y or vein, or to some direct action on the