292 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. are both probably best secured by uon-interference. I am frequently content if one sinus be rather freely discharging to enlarge it under an anmstlietic, and examine with the linger. If an accessible and loose bit of bone is found (an infrequent circumstance) I should remove it. I saw a lady, with her family adviser, with very old sinuses (15 years) in the thigh. She had suddenly become desirous to have something done. I advised exploration of the most trouble- some sinus. Nothing capable of relief was found. The whole femur was the seat of extreme enlargement. This happened three years ago, and she is going on with fair comfort. The trouble of changing dressings is her chief complaint. The family physician of a lady approaching middle age, who had always been very delicate, consulted me as to what should be done for sinuses of many years' standing in the thigh. She was much depressed at the idea of operation, and was suffering no marked inconvenience from them. I said “leave her alone; let her carry her bit of dead bone in its large, and no longer new, case to the end of her days. Her life may be long, or it may not, but her chances are altogether better without operation." It is well known that the lower end of the shaft of the femur on its popliteal aspect is prone to be affected with periostitis and consequent necrosis. This is often neglected for years, and the bit or bits of bone are entangled in thick masses of new bone. In the close vicinity are the knee-joint and the popliteal artery. In such cases, as well as in the more diffused necrosis, I advise scrupulous cleanliness, much rest, light restraining apparatus, and, perhaps, the aid of crutches. In some cases a few days' rest in bed, occasionally, will almost close the sinuses. Several persons to my knowledge are taking this advice with good results and with happier minds, that the evil day is indefinitely postponed, and perhaps will not come at all. I make a point of saying “ if the part gets much worse, and you get, and keep, ill in yourself, surgical measures may be needed." Let me once again say I am speakiug of old,