234 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. drinks deeply. He has been much exposed to cold and wet, and, after more than usual exposure, he came in with a big swelling on the left side of the anus, extending outwards to the tuberosity, forwards to and across the perinseum, and back- wards to the sacrum; it was pale, hard, and painful. Fever and extreme prostration were present. Iodine liniment was freely applied in large patches to the neighbouring skin. Incisions were also made into the swelling, and revealed most strikingly a large black mass of dead tissue, without any suppuration. There have been slight relapses, but in each relapse the black masses have become smaller. There has been no suppuration, and death has been confined to cellular tissue. This typical but mild case (mild, I believe, from early and active counter-irritation) suggests several topics for brief comment. The disease is essentially idiopathic. A. kind of creeping cellulitis, not attended with much swelling, in rare cases, follows operations on the pelvic structures. In this and in other cases which I shall briefly cite, there had been no operation and no injury. The few cases I have seen have been in big, heavy, middle-aged men; in men of continual activity and excitable temperament, always working, or travelling, or eating, or drinking; in men who combined two bad habits— eating much and drinking much; in men sufficiently well- to-do to indulge at will, and who firmly believed that excess of work needed excess of victuals and liquor; in men who were indifferent to weather, and had been notably exposed to cold and wet. All the cases I have seen occurred in cold weather, and I believe they are more frequent with us in the exposed high table-land of mid- England. It is not probable that all the favouring conditions, which have been combined with singular uniformity in my cases, will always be found together. Some causes may be powerful, others feeble, others absent. Probably idiopathic cellulitis occurs in men, chiefly because men combine the several conditions which lead to it. Freely drinking women rarely eat excessively. It is a matter of wonder, not