214 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunlc, Thorax, fy Abdomen. 1. Toe use oe a Pulley before and during the application of a Jacket, or a Jacket and Jury-mast. For nearly two years we have adopted pulley-extension of the spine in the horizontal posture. To a chin-and-occiput sling a weight is attached which passes over the head of the bed, or couch, or table. A bag of shot (or pebbles) allows easy adjust- ment of the weight as regards comfort and increased length of the trunk. In slight and early cases pulley-extension during the application and setting of the plaster apparatus is sufficient. In severer cases a few days or weeks of preliminary extension may be beneficial. In some cases the weight may be attached to the feet as well as to the head, or the head of the couch or bed may be raised. I am indebted to my late house-surgeon, Mr. Brett, for the interest he took in combining pulley-extension with the appli- cation of jackets. In the case of a girl with dorsal caries, whose jacket was put on with a sliding weight attached to the head and another to the feet, we found that she was taller than she was in a jacket put on under the tripod. 2. A rapid and convenient Method of putting on a Plaster Jacket. The use of a continuous splint around the body, as introduced by Professor Sayre, will rank with the leading events in the history of surgery. I, for my part, feel also indebted to Dr. Walker of Peterborough for showing how the benefits of a jacket may be secured by putting it on in the horizontal posture, with little assistance, with complete safety, with no cumbrous machinery, and no mental alarm. Dr. Walker uses a many-tailed bandage, consisting of numerous muslin strips; he takes a little longer time, and delays the setting of the plaster by adding gum to it. The two jackets you see to-day were put on by a simple modification of the Sayre-Walker method. I put on three broad strips only. The strips were compound or multiple, each strip consisting of several superimposed layers of muslin and plaster. In one case honeycomb towelling and plaster were used. When ready to be dipped in water there were practically three rolls. The leisurely application of these three strips did not occupy two