CLINICAL EL MARKS ON THE ACTION OE COLD. When the minds of individuals and communities are intently inclined in one direction, it is natural that all matters in the one direction are exaggerated in importance, and that other matters arc neglected, or are not seen. At present, and for some time past, individuals and communities have become almost monomaniacal on the question of ventilation. Mankind needs, it appears, fresh air only, and everything will be well. It is not enough to be much in the open air; doors and windows, and special apertures must all be constantly open. Indeed a wide-open window gives but a poor supply of air; air hesitates to enter a window as a fly hesitates to enter a spider’s parlour. It is proposed to put a fan near all windows and so arrange machinery that recalcitrant air may be driven into every corner. As it is difficult to admit and to drive fresh currents of air in all directions without diffusing “cold” also, it is believed that cold is not injurious. We are all to become inured to “ cool ” rooms; we are not to neglect the “tonic effect of cold.” Fortunately this is not the language of physiologists, but of sanitary engineers, and uncomfortable enthusiasts, and amateur physicians. In popularising the laws of health it is well to teach not only the need for pure air, but the injurious effect of cold; cold with us is the most powerful, and the most frequent cause of disease. It is the one universal poison. Some poisons act on the nerves, some on the muscles, some on one structure, some on another, cold acts on all—kills all. Of the two evils—impure air and cold—impure air is certainly the less, if we are compelled to choose between the two. Take railway carriages, not a single life was ever lost because the windows were closed; open windows have cost many hundreds of lives. It is proposed here to draw attention to some of the evil effects of cold in surgical cases. It is a frequent cause of surgical ailments, it complicates many, it retards recovery m many. These clinical notes simply pretend to embody the results of my own personal observation. In my experience erysipelas is essentially a disease of L