Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 88 Severe whitlow of thumb : Counter-irritation : Subsidence in twenty-four hours: Relapse and ordinary treatment but no progress: Counter-irritation again, and again immediate sub- sidence.—A young woman, a factory worker, was under the care of an observant house-pupil (Mr. Gilbert Smith) with severe whitlow of the thumb. He treated it according to the method advocated in these pages, with entire subsidence in twenty-four hours. Resuming her occupation too quickly, she had a relapse, the ordinary treatment was adopted. After several days, without any change, she said to Mr. Smith, "You will do no good, sir, without some more of that paint.” With the "paint” immediate and permanent recovery followed. Severe whitlow: Counter-irritation to hand and forearm: Rapid recovery in four days.—Edward P., aged 64, came to hospital with hand and forearm twice their natural size, and a large abscess in the ball of the thumb. All the hand, fingers included, and forearm were covered with iodine liniment, moderate pressure, linseed poultice, and elevation were also resorted to. A few hours after, the abscess opened spontaneously. On the fourth day, the thumb was well, all swelling had subsided, and the discharge had ceased almost immediately after the abscess had opened. Remarhs.—Is it too much to say that this case was cured in one-sixth of the ordinary time ? The Treatment op Inflammatory Affecttons of the Bones. In these affections perfect rest and convenient elevation added to general treatment (which, whatever our views on struma may be, is generally admitted to be of much im- portance, because the affections themselves are so greatly dependent on general conditions), are, perhaps, more important than counter-irritation. Inflammations of bones are as a rule protracted inflam- mations, and singulai’ly insidious in their development. If their earliest stages were recognised the advantage of adequate counter-irritation would certainly be great—rest of course being peremptorily needed as an essential basis for the operation of all remedies.