43 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. present, and that is the failure of contractility in the sphincters. It is common in text-books to find spontaneous evacuation of the feces and retention of urine described as indications of shock, as well as of other lesions of the cerebro-spinal system. The reason of the evacuation of feces, in the case of the rectum, and of the retention of urine, in the case of the bladder, has given rise to considerable discussion; and no interpretation of these phenomena has yet been given which is generally accepted. I have, within the last few years, in a note to an article in one of oui principal journals, given an explanation which I shall repeat here, and which I cannot but regard as a correct and sufficient explanation. Let me first observe, that spontaneous evacuation of the feces, even in the severest cases of shock, is not a constant symptom; and, when it is not present, there is usually constipation of more or fewer days, according to the intensity of the shock and the mode of treatment adopted. In the severer forms of shock, retention of urine is invariably present. The explanation I offer, putting it as concisely as I can, is this. When the rectum is loaded, it requires more muscular power to retain than to expel its contents. When, on the contrary, the bladder is even full, more force is requisite to expel than to retain its contents. It is only when the rectum is full, that the feces are spontaneously evacuated in shock. The vertical position of this part of the large intestine, and the dependent position and large size of its aperture, combined with the weight of the viscera above, are sufficient to permit the fecal accumulation to pass, if the contractility of the sphincter be lost or seriously impaired. With the bladder it is quite otherwise. Here the expulsive must overcome the retentive power, in order that urine may pass; and this may be explained chiefly by the different relative disposition and strength of the muscles of retention and expulsion in the two organs, as well as by the smaller opening of the urethra, its less dependent position, and the longer and more tortuous character of the excretory canal. When the bladder is distended to its utmost, assuming that muscular