69 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. open windows have sent hundreds and thousands to the grave. A very simple and successful mode of effecting counter- irritation, especially where superficial irritants are used, is to adopt the form of circles, or zones, or horse-shoes, or crescents. Where a deep irritant is used the circle must be narrower. A most striking feature of counter-irritation is its quick and certain relief of pain. It frequently happens that patients with carbuncle and other inflammations voluntarily ask for a repetition of a zone of iodine because of the previous relief to pain. Pressure.—I have already remarked that if any given part of the body, including each individual tissue element, could be restrained within its physiological area it could not inflame. Of this fact nature herself furnishes a striking example. In so-called acute orchitis the inflammation is really in the epididymis. The inflammation travels from the urethra to the epididymis by an unbroken surface, and by the same surface might naturally be expected to enter the testis. That it should suddenly break off here, and expend itself in the adjacent connective tissue, can only be explained on the ground that there is no room within the tunica albuginea for sudden acute inflammatory action. The inflammatory process is thwarted and retarded in any part which is by construction or situation naturally subjected to pressure. Like every other important remedy it requires great care in its use. It should not give rise to pain. It should be gentle in acute and early stages of inflammation, it should be especially gentle, if used at all, where destruction of tissue is threatened, it should be firmer in chronic and the later stages of inflammation. Neither pi’essure, nor counter-irritation is here advanced as a nostrum that any one may use under any circumstances. On the contrary, they require judgment and experience as to the method, and the extent, and the agents which shall be used. There is probably not a single accessible acute inflam- matory disease in which some degree of pressure may not