Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 269 The treatment I adopt for small meatus and its resulting ailments is an incision downwards towards the fraenum made with a concealed bistoury. The result has been in all cases— a large number—successful. The success is not always rapid, especially in old standing cases of cystitis, but sooner or later relief follows. It is natural that the shorter and simpler urethra of females should be less frequently associated with vesical distress. Now and then, however, but very much less frequently than in males, both in young girls and women, we meet with cystitis of a seemingly inexplicable character. In such cases I have found a markedly small meatus. Whether the urethra itself has been smaller or not I have not been able to decide; but I strongly suspect that the mischief lies mainly at the orifice. In dilating the urethra with the finger there is a feeling at the meatus as though a thin thread were tightly tied round even a small finger. It would seem that when the urinary outlet falls below a certain (perhaps a relative) size, bladder trouble begins. A small meatus in women, as in men, may give rise to few or no symptoms if the general and uterine health be good. But in women as in men, a constricted urinary outlet is, though rarely, the last feather which breaks the camel’s back. Hysteria is probably present in some of these cases, but it is not likely to affect little girls, and it does not explain all the bearings of the cases of adults. Hysteria is often a lofty and ostentatious fabric, but underneath it there is a real, though a slight, pathological or physiological foundation. I have met with the cystitis now spoken of oftener, but not invariably, in young girls and in adults than in young women. The greater acidity of urine in children, and the greater “ worry ” of women, may perhaps explain this. The symptom which in females overtops all others is frequency of micturition; other symptoms may be slight or absent. In obscure cystitis in women it has occurred to several surgeons (especially to Mr. Teale of Leeds) to dilate the urethra with the finger or a dilator. For several years I have adopted this treatment with fair success. In some cases