Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. 288 way (probably by a similar process) that the skin is frequently glued down to subcutaneous inflammatory in- durations or suppurating cavities. In other pages of these enquiries, cases are recorded of the formation of huge folds of the cutaneous structures, but in them (and I believe in many similar cases) a nmvoid element seems to me to have been the starting point. The collar, I believe, consists of greatly thickened subcutaneous connective tissue. Its origin is in some way probably due to a very slight and very chronic oedema; the continual presence of a small quantity of serum acts as a continuous irritant, and leads to the formation of new tissue by means of a chronic and almost symptomless inflammation. The formation of new tissue in and around the old loose tissue gives firmness to all the tissue of the involved area. But why should the new mass take the form of a ring- like collar surrounding the lower third of the leg ? The explanation I believe to be this: in the lower third of the leg the soft, loose, subcutaneous fascia is not com- pressed by muscular action; because in the lower third of the leg (and here only) there are, as a rule, only bones, and tendons, and loose connective tissue—no ex- panding tissues. The action of muscular pressure in preventing and modifying pathological action is not suffi- ciently appreciated, and it is too large a subject to discuss here. Ischio-rectal and axillary abscesses are, in some measure, due to freedom from pressure. The lungs and certain other structures would not so frequently be the seats of tubercle if they were subject to active muscular pressure. The tendons of the deeper layer of muscles have, it is true, muscular fibres joining them at a lower level, but they aro held tightly down by the deep strong fascia which is attached to the tibia and fibula. In exceptional cases the soleus muscle sends muscular fibres to the under aspect of the tendo achillis almost to its insertion ; such cases we may reasonably infer would be little liable to the formation of a collar, or indeed to the presence of a