Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 37 All the diseases which may be present during the infliction of an injury may be thus classed: 1. Those which affect organs the integrity of which is essential to life, such as the heart and its great vessels, the lungs, the brain, the kidneys, and the liver in less degree, and intestinal canal. Daily observation leaves no doubt that severe injuries or operations on the subjects of cardiac or pulmonary disease are greatly more serious in their results than similar injuries or operations in a state of health. Disease of the kidneys is, perhaps, the commonest cause of fatal shock in many operations; indeed, where it is present, no operation is free from risk. This remark particularly applies to operations on the urinary organs, as the urethra and bladder; although probably this is because operations on the urethra, as in stricture, or on the bladder, as in stone, are more frequent in renal disease—the renal disease itself frequently being a con- sequence of the condition which the operation is intended to relieve. The second class includes those diseases which do not affect the vital organs, such as diseases of the extremities, which merely depress the general sum of vitality, without specifically impairing the integrity of any anatomical system. Protracted joint-disease, for example, gives rise to marked emaciation and undoubted debility of the muscular and nervous functions. It is well known that amputation of the thigh for protracted disease of the knee is much more favourable in its results than is amputation of the thigh for injury. I have already given what appears to me the best explanation of these facts in discussing the character of shock in children. SHOCK IN INJURIES FROM RAILWAY ACCIDENTS. The shock which follows injures in railway accidents presents, both as regards its cause and its results, so many peculiar- ities, that it is well to consider them separately though briefly. The principle feature in railway injuries is the combination of the psychical and corporeal elements in the causation of shock, in such a manner that the former or psychical element is always present in its most intense and violent form. The incidents of a railway accident contribute