277 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. was a lithotomy in a little boy. I held the staff for him. He opened the membranous urethra properly enough; but on making the deep incision, his knife passed (as was subsequently found) by the side of the staff, instead of along the groove, through the roof of the urethra into the space in front of the bladder. On putting his finger into tho wound another error was made: feeling the stone indirectly through the anterior wall of the bladder, he believed his fino-er to be in direct contact with it, and directed the staff to be taken out. The forceps, carried into the artificial bladder, of course failed to seize a stone. After much vain effort he asked me to examine the parts. I found the condition I have described, and immediately inferred the steps which had led to it. I need scarcely tell you that I advised that the lad should be put to bed, and the operation repeated at some later time. But my friend urgently desired, for special reasons, that the stone should be removed there and then. I found that (using the left hand) by putting my finger into the rectum and my thumb deeply into the wound, I could seize the stone with the bladder around it; my thumb was outside the bladder at the front, and my finger was outside the bladder at the back. Instantly realising the fact that no important vessel or nerve, no peritoneum or bowel, was near, I decided to incise the front of the bladder. I passed a sharp-pointed curved bistoury by the side of my thumb, and carefully cut through the bladder-wall, the point of the instrument quickly coming on to the rough stone. The finger in the rectum pushed the stone through the opening; but a forceps was needed to bring it from the front of the bladder through the perineal wound. The boy’s recovei’y was rapid and unbroken. I have been asked why I have not made known this remarkable case before. My friend was sensitive to criticism. A few months ago he died. His friends, who were also mine, who were present at tho operation, will not now accuse me of impatience or unfairness. This case has frequently led me to review the principles