Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 158 for inflammation is of little service. Occasionally, however, acute and even destructive inflammation, as an accidental complication, supervenes on ulcers, especially the syphilitic. The complication (it is nothing more) is a curious one, and like many other complications demands for a time the first place in treatment. It is not intended in this short paper to describe the syphilitic, or eczematous, or strumous ulcers. In the adult leg an ulcer which cannot be traced, by its characters, or attendant phenomena, or clinical history to syphilis, secondary or tertiary, may be very certainly put down as eczematous. It must not be forgotten, however, that the deep, tertiary ulcer is often a very late, and fortunately, often the last event in the history of syphilis. The practical importance of a correct diagnosis in a case of ulcer is obvious. Treatment directed to eczema, or struma, or syphilis, instead of to indolence, or neuralgia, or weak- ness, or inflammation is often more successful than the ordinary treatment based on the ordinary classification. It may, nevertheless, be very needful to support the vessels by gentle compression to obviate the complication of indolence, whatever the origin or the essential character of the ulcer may be. To summai'ise : in dealing with an ulcer we have to consider its origin, its characters and progress, its ending. Of these surely the origin is the most important. Why did it begin ? Avoiding metaphysical subtleties, and regarding practical data only, we have, in any given ulcer, to ask what train of events led to it ? These events or conditions mainly determine its character and progress. Strumous changes culminate in a strumous ulcer; eczema, and a cluster of incidents favouring its appearance, end in eczema- tous ulcer; a series of syphilitic lesions lead to syphilitic ulceration. Ulcers must exist before they can bleed or be indolent, or be inflamed, or bo painful, or heal. All ulcers, for instance, heal; but to establish “healing” as the peculiarity of an independent class is to violate every law of reasoning.