Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 125 was some enlargement of the right face at birth, but a clear account of this could not be obtained the lad s parents and the lad himself were less than ordinarily in- telligent. The enlargement had slowly but continually in- creased in size until a recent date. The eyelids, cheeks, and mouth on the affected side, hung in huge folds (see plate III., figs. 3 & 4) overlapping the neck. The right eye had not been opened for many years, and could not be exposed by any force which he' could, or would, bear. Careful manipulation disclosed the presence of deep, convoluted, firm cylindrical tubes. On this evidence and on my ex- perience of other old naevoid growths, in which no operation had been performed,' I believed the enlargement to be due, in the first instance, to a nasvoid tumour, in which slow inflammatory changes and degenerations had taken place. I removed a large elliptical mass, the incisions being carried very deeply, and the appearance of the parts removed con- firmed the opinion I had previously formed. Very deep in the mass were tortuous bluish white veins, with greatly thickened walls and small channels. The vessels were sur- rounded by rather firm, elastic, greyish connective tissue. A. young man came to the hospital with some com- paratively trifling accident. In size he was of average stature, with one exception, the radial half of the forearm—the radius thumb and forefinger bones, skin, and nails, were those of a giant (see plate III., fig. 1.) The forefinger was curved near the end so as to lie on the back of the other fingers. The integuments on the radial margin of the forearm were not only greatly thickened, but they hung not quite in folds, but in fold-like masses. To the fingers these masses gave in some degree a feeling like that of the folds in the face of the youth previously described. Since my brief note on this case in the first edition of these enquiries, the man has again turned up, and was brought to me by Mr. Wright Wilson, who has given much attention to the case in the way of descriptive measure- ment and photographs. Mr. Hutchinson has a photograph, which he obtained, I believe, in Vienna, of a very similar,