Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 28 and a serious modifying agent in others, of depression or metamorphosis of nerve-force. SHOCK AS INFLUENCED BY THE LOCALITY OF THE INJURY. Injury to the head gives rise to a variety of shock which is very peculiar. As might be anticipated, direct injury to the large nervous centres has results different from those which follow injury to the peripheral nervous expansion. In the first case, in a degree proportionate to the severity of the case, there is much more marked impairment or suspension of cerebral action. Consciousness, intelligence, and the emotions, are more in abeyance, while the sensori- motor and the excito-motor functions are slightly, or, it may be, not at all, impaired, although in the severest injuries even these are implicated. In an injury to the peripheral or sentient nervous expansion, the cerebral functions are less affected, and the consensual and reflex functions more than in direct violence to the nerve-centres, and yet, in such cases, the injury may be of a much graver character. A stun to the nerve-centres themselves may thus give rise to apparently more intense shock, while a crushed limb, with less impairment of the intellect, may be a more fatal injury. At the same time, injuries to the head, because of the vast importance of the nerve-centres to all the actions which constitute life, are among the most important injuries which can be inflicted. The outward manifestations of injury are alarming, even when the injury is slight; but it is the one essential part of the animal which is injured. Injuries of the head, having peculiar characters because they are inflicted on the nervous centres directly, have been considered first and separately. In other localities, the results of injury are more, but not absolutely, uniform as regards the character of shock. One of the profouudest forms of shock is that which attends extensive injuries to the skin. This is perfectly consistent with our knowledge of the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system. The immediate effects of an injury are unquestionably exerted on the nerve-centres through the medium of the afferent or