29 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. sentient nerves., and tliese are especially numerous on the integumentary system. Surgeons well know, practically, that by far the most painful part of all operations is that which involves the skin. Mr. G-. H. Lewes has shown that, in the frog, if the brain be removed, sensation is not affected; but, if the skin be removed also, no trace of sensation is left, so completely is the sentient nerve-apparatus vested in the skin. Injuries of the lungs, and particularly of the heart, are accompanied by great shock. Injuries of the abdomen, whether perforating or implicating the viscera, or both, are marked by extreme shock—shock more severe, as Mr. Longmore has pointed out, than an injury which opens the thorax or involves the lungs. This can only be explained by the impression made upon the cerebro-spinal system through the medium of the sympathetic. It has already been pointed out, that shock from blows on the epigastrium, when the stomach is distended, can be best explained by referring it to a sudden and violent impression on the pneumogastric nerves, seeing that physiological experiment establishes the fact, that the influence of the vagus upon the heart is of an inhibitory character. THE INFLUENCE OF SEX ON SHOCK. It is commonly supposed, that females suffer from a severer form of shock than males—the injuries in the two cases being similar. This seems not unnatural, when we consider that the health of women, during the child-bearing period, is subject to varying physiological conditions, which are very prone to pass over the line which separates physio- logical from pathological action. It is reasonable to suppose, also, that the more emotional character of the female renders her more susceptible to the influence of the several causes of shock, and particularly those which operate upon the psychical functions. At the same time, the views commonly taught are rather those of surmise and opinion than the results of careful observation. I do not hesitate to say, that there is no evidence to show that a woman of good