258 Enquiries in the Surgery of tlLe Pelvis. whiter tliau ordinary gonorrhoeal fluid, made its appearance, and with it micturition becamo a little painful and a little more frequent. This is the first case I have been able to show you, and I have myself seen very few. Recently I saw a case of epididymitis, also from injury, of much interest, and having a direct bearing on our subject. A gentleman, aged fifty, in fair health, came, in the dark, with his right testicle against a key in a door. Scrotal ecchymosis and considerable epididymitis followed. The cord became much enlarged, running like a rope up into the inguinal canal. Later, an abscess formed and broke at the front of the scrotum. Now in this case, from first to last there was no urethral discharge. There was undoubtedly inflammation of the epididymis, and as undoubtedly the inflammation ran up the cord—probably to the urethra. The question naturally suggests itself, albeit parenthetically, Why does inflammation of the mucous surface yield a muco- purulent discharge in one case and not in another ? Why, in one case of inflammation of the bladder or bronchial tubes, is there abundant pus and mucus, and in another case little or none? I reply, We do not know. You frequently hear me use the expression “We do not know.” I think it better to say plainly we do not know than to cover our ignorance with sounding phrases. It may seem paradoxical to you, perhaps, but I often silently contemplate the benefits of a negative system of surgery—if we could get it: I mean a systematic review of what we do not know. The author would be a man of no ordinary courage; he ought to be a man of learning, experience, and judg- ment equal to his courage. The case I have just told you proves the conclusion I wish to bring before you—namely, that inflammation may run upwards from the epididymis—more forcibly, in one respect, than if a discharge had followed. You are aware that at the height of a consecutive epididymitis the urethral discharge often disappears, only to return a little later; but here it was clear we had no hypocrite trying to hide a clap, because there was at no time any clap to hide.