283 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. Since the above was written, 1 have had two other cases. A boy of five, who left the hospital well in a fortnight. The sixth case was in an extremely feeble and delicate lad, who sank and died from peritonitis. Unfortunately, in this case, I was compelled under peculiar circumstances to operate with very imperfect instruments. I have spoken in a hopeful manner of the operation above described, and I believe there are circumstances in which it will be, at least, of great service. Nevertheless, still further experience of my own, or of others, is needed before it can be made clear whether the operation is destined to be of general or exceptional utility. In one case above recorded it served me well when no other step was open to me. NOTES ON VESICAL CALCULUS. The Treatment of Calculus in the Female Bladder.—A little time ago I was asked by the family attendant to see a lady getting on in years with stone in the bladder. We were not allowed under any circumstances to resort to any cutting operation. I found a stone of extreme size so grasped by the bladder that it was quite impossible, even under full anaesthesia, to apply the blades of a lithotrite to it. Left to my own judgment, I should certainly have performed some kind of lithotomy. I had previously stretched the urethra with my fingers. I now put in a strong pair of lithotomy forceps, and slowly but firmly exti’acted it. The long diameter of the stone was two and a half inches, the shorter, one and a half. The stone was caught in a fortunate position. She held her water the first time for half an hour, and speedily completely recovered. This case suggested to me the advantages, in ordinary and small calculi in the female, of simply slow extraction without the previous use of dilators or with only such use as will permit the introduction of the finger. The secret of the operation is, with full anaesthesia, to occupy half or three quarters of an hour or even longer in the process of extraction. The stone should be “ delivered ” patiently, as a first child is through