93 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. (sinuses 12 months, osteitis several years). Four stripes of eschar (5- in wide) were made with the actual cautery, from the middle of the forearm to the clefts of the fingers, one at the dorsal surface, another at the palmar surface, one at the radial border, and another at the ulnar border. In one month, the symptoms had subsided and the sinuses had healed. Old osteitis of wrist: Actual cautery : Complete recovery. —Mary B., aged 25, of intensely earthy complexion, came with symptoms of old and severe osteitis of right wrist. The forearm was wasted, starting pains were frequent and severe. The general health was failing. The disease had made constant progress for eighteen months. The actual cautery was applied in stripes over the 'wrist. The pain immediately ceased, and the symptoms entirely disappeared in eight to ten weeks. Even in a wrist with numerous and old sinuses, I should make two narrow lines of cautery irritation, and trust to rest and time. Hip disease: The actual cautery in a long stripe at the front and hack of the joint: Good recovery, followed by ostitis of wrist: Iodine to ivrist and forearm : Recovery.— Sarah A. H., aged 13, came into hospital with severe symptoms of hip disease, of 12 months' duration. Her general health was quite broken down. The actual cautery was applied so as to produce two stripes of eschar (narrow) one at the front and upper two-thirds of the thigh, over the femoral artery, another at the back, from a few inches above the joint to the middle of the back of the thigh, passing between the trochanter and ischial tuberosity. Rest was secured by a splint. The joint symptoms quickly sub- sided, but the general health only slowly recovered. Three months after admission, the left wrist suddenly became the subject of osteitis, for which the hand, and part of forearm, were covered with iodine. She left the hospital cured, in four months. Remarks.—Recovery here was longer than usually required with this treatment. The profound struma explains this.