232 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sf Abdomen. fatty change in the suspected structure. Dr. Wood did not content himself with the appearance of the fatty intestine; he examined portions of healthy intestine, and found a striking contrast. Not long ago, I had two cases of lithotomy, both of which ended fatally within twenty-four hours, after several hours of incessant vomiting. The cases were singularly alike, and a description of one will serve for both. A big fat “drinking” man of sixty had enlarged prostate and a large vesical calculus. There was no tangible evidence of renal or other visceral disease. There was no peculiarity in the operative steps to account for the result. I could not to-day alter any single step in the operation—the ordinary lateral—for the better. He was free from haemorrhage or marked shock. His condition for a few hours was quite comfortable; then occasional vomiting set in, and tympany of the abdomen appeared. The vomiting became frequent and was associated with great ex- haustion, and ended fatally. In a subsequent examination, a description of the appearances would answer for both bodies. The internal organs were loaded with fat; the heart was some- what pale and soft; and the kidneys were not healthy. The intestinal canal was singularly and uniformily yellow, and everywhere enormously distended. There were no signs any- where of inflammation, or peritoneal injury, or extravasation of blood, or infiltration of urine. I believe the operation here destroyed the vitality, so far as contractility was concerned, of the bowel. Flatulent distension followed, and irretrievably spoiled the gut. This condition, affecting all or a large portion of the canal, and affecting it even to the vicinity of the stomach, was practically a condition of acute, high-up, and complete obstruction. Here the question naturally arises, What are the customary explanations, now and heretofore, of the causes of death after continuous vomiting which follows the reduction of strangulated hernia, which follows also operations for uncomplicated herniaa, which follows lithotomy and other operations on the pelvis and abdomen ? The very variety of the explanations testifies to their improbability. One says