194 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Ulead and Neele. and usually limited caries. Even where caries sets in the disease is mild, and for the most part limited in extent. The discharge may contain some pus, or a few drops of blood now and then. Where slow molecular loss of bone goes on, some authorities appear to consider that lupus is present, In the cases which I have seen and known to have been regarded as lupus by eminent surgeons, I have failed to find grounds for putting them into a separate class. Returning to ozasna it is a singular circumstance, unless my experience has been a series of curious coincidences, that in the variety which is due to hereditary syphilis, and which rarely proceeds to caries, the subjects are usually girls about the period of puberty. Such girls are frequently red-cheeked, and otherwise seemingly robust; sometimes they show signs of so-called struma in the glands or in the bones. The smell is the chief complaint, as it occasionally not only keeps them from society but even more or less from the domestic circle. In such cases the external parts of the nose and the bridge are in little or no danger. In the treatment I wish to lay special stress on the great benefit of a seton (of few threads) on the back of the neck. If this be strongly objected to, a patch of iodine irritation may be maintained with good, but less good, results. The thread, or threads, are persistent in operation, not liable to be overlooked, and give little trouble. The foetor and discharge are best treated by Thudiclium’s nasal douche with tepid water containing Condy’s fluid. Once a day will mostly suffice to keep away all foetor. Iuternally, in cases of acquired syphilis, the iodide of potassium made alkaline and well diluted, should be given. In the ozoena of hereditary syphilis, the syrup of the iodide of iron with or without a little cod- liver oil, must be given for a long period. In more than usually refractory cases I believe a single minute dose of mercury, daily, to be decidely beneficial. It is well to bear in mind that this ozrena and caries are quite distinct from the severe (and also syphilitic) disease, spreading periostitis of tin? upper maxillary and nasal bones. In some cases, especially in cachectic middle aged persons