1^0 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. generally seem to have resolved themselves into a committee of dressing, and the epitaph on the present race of surgeons will be “ it was a generation of superior dressers.” The practical tendency of the time is well seen in the efforts to improve the treatment of operative wounds and injuries. Poetical surgeons dwell on the danger of cancer. Matter-of- fact surgeons dress wounds. Possibly our children’s children may smile at our pathological gropings—at our views of exu- dation, or proliferation, or migration—they cannot smile at anaesthesia, antisepticity, bloodless operations, aspiration, spinal splintage, and a legion of new operations and appliances. The explanation of the succession of transitory pathologies is obvious. Clinical investigation and treatment are processes of direct observation; microscopic research is a process of interpretation. In clinical matters we read, in microscopic we decipher. Six trained observers would describe the clinical origin and progress of an abscess or a cancer in similar terms. Six trained microscopists would give six different accounts of the origin and progress of the same diseases. In thus lifting ourselves out of the stream of current microscopic detail and custom may we not learn this lesson ? Better microscopes are wanted, better appliances, other methods of enquiry, practical advances in optics, a larger and truer knowledge of physiology. We must know more of the origin, development, structure, changes, and action of the healthy tissues, before any real step onward can be made in the minute structure and origin of diseased tissues. No doubt physiology and pathology tend to throw light on each other; but the next great move rests with physiology. It is well that pathologists should continue their labours, and it is inevitable that some generalisation will accompany observation; but it is not well that surgeons should say ffat length we have a clear view of pathological truth.” A tissue element may be seen to be dividing, or a cell may be seen passing through a vascular tissue; but how far are such appearances essential, how far accidental ? Can “ systems ” of pathology be built upon them ? It is surely of the utmost importance to make advances in minute pathological knowledge. Diagnosis is nothing more