Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 15 whole, remains unaltered. The researches of Wunderlich, Parkes, Simon, and others, have shown that in inflammation, in febrile and other conditions, a considerable elevation of temperature above the normal heat of the blood is un- doubtedly experienced. The same observers have also arrived at the conclusion, that diminution in the temperature of the body is rare, and much less extensive in its range. In several cases in which I have used the thermometer after severe operations, such as amputation of the thigh, the temperature has descended to 97° Fahr., more commonly to 97° and a few tenths; its descent below 97° is not frequent. A most interesting and striking fact, which I have found to occur in all amputations of the thigh, is this : that when the saw is applied to the bone, the moment it comes into action, the temperature of the body suddenly falls a fifth of a degree, a little more or a little less. No change is seen when the soft parts are cut; and I have carefully investigated this point by the use of the thermometer in many cases of amputation of the thigh—an operation in which the cut surfaces of the soft tissues are perhaps larger than in any other operation. That the thermometer should register a diminution in the temperature when the saw is dividing the bone, is most remarkable, because of its comparatively scanty supply of nerves; while the skin, so abundantly supplied with sentient or afferent nerves, gives rise, when cut with a knife, to no change in the temperature. The most probable explanation of this singular phenomenon is, the greater laceration of the nerves, smaller and fewer as they are, which instantaneously gives rise to shock, as indicated by depressed cardiac action and lowered temperature. No change is seen in the thermometer on the adminis- tration of chloroform. After the period of shock which immediately supervenes on a serious operation or injury, the temperature gradually rises, if the shock be not fatal, to a point above the normal standard corresponding to the degree of intensity of the fevei of reaction. If the shock be fatal, the thermometer