261 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. above the testis. Curiously enough the “ diffused hydrocele of the cord ” of remoter days has not been seen by any living surgeon, and “independent cysts” in the neighbourhood of the cord are extremely rare. Although the process of obliteration of the peritoneal extension usually becomes complete it begins at two points— one at the ring and another near the testis. It follows naturally that if there be any incompleteness of effacemont it will be between these two points. In the unobliterated space fluid may collect, having the characters of that which is found in simple vaginal hydrocele. The accumulation of fluid forms a spherical, tense, and circumscribed enlarge- ment, which is very movable, and readily separated from the testis. The cord as a rule may be felt above, and runs with its vessels behind, the swelling. Transparency is present, but the enlargement cannot always be made so prominent as to give clearness to this important symptom. In seeking for transparency I have repeatedly, especially in the very young, found great assistance from the lithotomy position—the head of the child being turned towards the light. Pain and tenderness are usually, but not always absent. The disease is more frequent in, but not confined to early life. This collection of fluid is called “ encysted hydrocele of the cord,” probably to distinguish it from the so-called “ diffused ” variety, but if the diffused variety should be proved to have no existence, the simpler name of “ hydrocele of the cord ” may perhaps come into use. I have met with two peculiar varieties of hydrocele of the cord, of which I believe surgical literature gives no account. The peculiarity of the first variety is this: a so-called encysted hydrocele of the cord is connected with the abdominal cavity by means of a long fine tube. The peculiarity of the second variety is in the existence of an encysted hydrocele of the cord having a fine tubular prolongation upwards, which ceases near the external ring; the tube is there, but it does not communicate with the abdomen. Mr. L., aged 23, was sent to mo from Northamptonshire,