64 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. said to bo conditions which are essential to its existence. Some of these conditions can be more or less removed; the difficulty of removing them completely is the practical difficulty in the treatment of inflammation. We do not know exactly what life is, but we know the conditions under which it exists; we know that the removal of any one really essential condition, as air or warmth, or food, will put an end to life. What are the principal conditions which are needed for the prosperous beginning and progress of an inflammation ? An inflamed part must have room to swell in, it must have more blood, it must have no rest, it must not be near any other inflammation. Inflammatory action, whatever its nature may be, needs more space. If it were possible to keep any part of the body within its physiological pre- cincts, it could not inflame. Mechanical pressure it is true, is but a rude method of restoring an inflamed part to the area of health, but clinical experience as well as pathological reasoning clearly attest its value. Another essential condition of inflammation is increased quantity of blood or “ ministering ” fluid. No part of the body can be inflamed if the “ health quantity,J only of blood be present. Local diminution (general loss of blood means loss of repairing power) can be effected by pressure and elevation where practicable, and especially by exciting a second inflammation over another, say the next vascular territory. Some local depletions and pressure upon or oc- clusion of the feeding artery act on the same principle. A condition which keeps up and aggravates inflammatory action is unrest. Movement is as mischievous to an in- flamed microscopic tissue element as it is to an inflamed joint or eye. Rest is a remedy so necessary as a founda- tion to all other treatment, that it can only be regarded as an evidence of the slow progress of therapeutics that it should have been left to a surgeon of the nineteenth century (Mr. Hilton) to enforce its universal need. At the risk of some repetition, I venture to give a summary here which I have given before. "Before looking