Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 191 gained by a second operation, which shall remove the old scar, and bring bulky portions of lip together. It is not necessary to dwell on the steps of the operation, but free separation from bone, and free removal of defective parts are the fundamental steps. As there is no tension whatever on the margins of the wound, they may be brought to- gether by simple interrupted stitches of thickish silver wire. When adolescence is reached, the lip tissues are often singularly abundant. I have seen in cases where no oper- ation has been performed, the thick margins of the cleft not merely in contact, but actually overlapping each other. Personal experience justifies me in saying that an excellent full lip with certain union and early disappearance of the traces of an operation may be counted upon. A second operation is especially desirable where the old cicatrix is markedly imperfect in its whole extent, or at the nostril, or at the margin of the lip. But there is another class of cases, the most numerous of all, and to speak of these is my express object at present, where the scar is good and the lip fairly full, but where there is, nevertheless, a decided notch in the lip at the lower end of the cicatrix. This notch is most noticeable at the junction of the mucous membrane and the skin. It is the upward encroachment of the red lip which strikes the eye. A notch simply at the free margin of the lip would scarcely be observed, and not at all when the mouth was shut. In these cases, and in cases where the severer (but very safe) step of a second operation is objected to, or where improvement is sought after a few years, but before adole- scence (a second complete operation should not be done before growth has ceased) I have devised and performed an operation which I believe to be of great use, and which I now submit to the judgment of others. Its leading principle is this : make another notch on the other side of the middle line, make it as far from the middle line on the opposite side as the first notch, and make it as like the first notch as possible. It must be a fundamental rule that the new notch shall invade the true skm, so as to permit the red mucous membrane to run upwards