167 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. a rack aspirator to remove a teaspoonful of pus liom the broad ligament.” The rising surgeons are different. In pathology progress is slower, for, as is seen in the origin of cancer say, or in the influence of germs, many surgeons are still subtle metaphysi- cians; others in practice aim mainly to be superior dressers and ingenious mechanists. A few minutes ago I said I had no statistics to offer; let me offer an explanation. Statistical enquiry in the inexact sciences has misled as often as it as led. There are more avenues for errors to creep into statistics than there are avenues for errors to creep into the opinions of trained observers. If six competent surgeons tell me one thing, and the statistics of six hundred hospitals tell me another, I believe the six surgeous. If experienced surgeons tell me they see as much (proportionately) erysipelas and pytemia in private practice as in hospital practice, and that the worst cases of erysipelas are brought into, and do not arise within, hospital wards, I refuse to believe the statistics which call it a hospital disease. Errors so readily creep into both opinions and statistics, that it may not be without profit to look at a few examples. In any given large town there are, at a certain period, one or more general hospitals; then an eye hospital arises, altering a little its practice and statistics. Then a children's hospital, or a women's hospital, or a skin hospital, or an orthopaedic hospital, or a lock hospital, change the practice and the statistics very materially. These, and dispensaries, workhouse infirmaries, new hospitals in smaller country towns, affect not only the kinds of cases, but the degree of severity of all cases which enter the general hospitals. Let me cite another element, among many, which affects hospital figures. It is the varying character of the reputation and energy of the hospital staff. One surgeon or staff of surgeons is active, in- formed, and conscientious, another surgeon or staff of surgeons is less informed and indolent. In one decade operations are numerous, in another there are, practically none. One surgeon finds in his cases many in which an operation relieves or saves life. Another surgeon never finds suitable cases