153 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. (especially slow osteitis) in the adult, is the product of syphilis in the parent, say father, and that struma in children is the product of the union of two persons both, or one strongly, the subject of hereditary syphilis. In late struma the fathers seem to blame, in early struma the two grandfathers. In some cases of struma, especially occurring between childhood and adult age, I have found evidence of acquired syphilis in one parent, and hereditary syphilis in the other. To return to the osteitis of the young adult, the in- flammation is very slow; there is deep tenderness and pain, in some cases slight, in others severe. It may subside under favourable circumstances, leaving sclerosed bone, or it may proceed to molecular death. In the progressive cases, abscess in the adjacent soft parts, and sinuses, form not always after but frequently before actual caries or molecular death of bone. A circumstance of considerable interest in the treatment of these cases is, that if in addition to local measures, minute doses of mercury be given, the favourable progress of the case is distinctly accelerated. At this point an important question may be asked. It has already been remarked that certain signs of hereditai-y syphilis have been accepted as reliable; but suppose that out of twenty cases, say two showed no signs of inherited disease, does it follow that the eighteen cases are cases of a curious coincidence merely, or is it not more likely that the common ordinary signs of hereditary mischief are absent in two? It has not been shown, and it is extremely improbable, that in every case of hereditary syphilis there are peculiarities of teeth, skin, Kps and eyes. A node of unmistakeable character may occur in a child or young person, and yet there may be no other clear sign of hereditary syphilis. May not an osteitis likewise be possibly the sole indication of an inherited fault? In inflammation of the bones in children, in the spine, and in the joints, the fathers in several cases have volunteered to me a history of syphilis in themselves, but the spine, or joint, or bone ailment, has been the only evidence (presuming it can be admitted as such) of inherited syphilis in the child.