208 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Tlead and Neck. There wore signs of cellular inflammation over the whole front of the neck. At the front of the neck, and descending around the trachea into the anterior and posterior mediastina, there was a thick stratum of varying depth of wholly dead, black, foetid, connective tissue. In the vicinity of the ti’achea this was moistened by a small quantity of diffused black foetid pus. There was nowhere an abscess. The striking circumstance of the case was this : a stratum of unquestionable dead, black, stinking, cellular tissue, extended along the pericardium and the pleura, a considerable distance. The heart was enveloped in a pericardium, the upper half of which was dead as regarded its sub-serous tissue. In the same way the upper half of each lung was surrounded by a parietal pleura the sub-serous tissue of which was entirely gangrenous. The layer of gangrenous cellular tissue under the serous membranes varied in thickness from a quarter to half an inch or even more. In the mediastina, and around the trachea, it was still more abundant and surrounded the structures lying in those spaces. There was some but not abundant serous fluid in the pericardial and pleural cavities. The serous surfaces of black and deep purple colour had not lost their polish. The bronchial mucous membrane was in some degree congested, but not excessively so. The other organs were healthy. (See Plate VIII., Fig. 8.) I have seen other cases, less severe, where cellulitis has existed in the form of a large patch on the back or side of the neck, and when the constitutional symptoms were slight. A woman married, aged forty-seven, came to the hospital with a large hard, white, and somewhat tender and painful swelling at the left side of the neck. It stretched from the lobe of the ear to the posterior middle line, and extended upwards in the scalp towards the occiput, and downwards to within two inches of the clavicle. It had been coming on three weeks, and there were no active constitutional symptoms. Unfor- tunately I have no note of her habits. A broad horseshoe of skin, below and on each side, was painted frequently with iodine liniment. In a fortnight the swelling subsided. I saw, with his family adviser, a gentleman at Aston