133. Enquiries in Surgery Generally. avoided; soft and velvety sponges may and ought to he obtained. With such, some delay or forgetfulness in the moistening process would be less important. A hard sponge allowed also to get dry is an actual irritant. As a fact of practical bearing, I affirm that in the experience iiow of several years I have found no difficulty in getting the antiseptic jug used regularly by the clock. Regularity is, however, more certain in the operations in the private practices of my medical friends where there is a separate nurse than iu hospital practice. Keeping up autisepticity is not a practical difficulty. The friends who are told the importance of the matter keep a watchful eye open. A nurse, a watch, and an antiseptic jar are the three things a surgeon leaves behind him, and the friends will look after them. To the question, How long should the sponge dressing be used ? the reply will be—not very long; a period to be measured by days; but then, the number of days will depend on the size, and kind, and locality of the wound, and the healing or vital power. It should be retained until all danger of primary and recurrent bleeding has ceased; until deep union is fairly established and there is little fear of the separation of parts and the discharges (if any) have become slight. All these results I usually find on removing the first sponge in three, four, six, eight, or ten days. The lmpoi tant fact to which too much attention cannot be given, that a fluid, while antiseptic need not be irritating, puts it in the power of the surgeon to use the sponge as long as he chooses. Where it is kept on beyond a number of days a slightly oily character may be given to the antiseptic fluid, especially if the nursing forces are not all that could be desired. A constantly moist antiseptic sponge dressing may bo used in nearly all surgical operations where a soft, antiseptic, draining, rest-giving dressing is noeded, such as the removal of the breast and tumours generally, amputations, resections, herniotomy, castration, amputation of the penis, trephining] and many others. In certain localities, as at the mucous outlets, where functional exigences demand a singlo, easily