279 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. Touching the details: the first incision may be made as in the median or in the lateral method. The latter seems to me to give easier access to the apex of the prostate. I put a little angle in the outer wound, so that the concavity is towards the rectum, and all parts of it are more equally distant from the rectum. The membranous urethra should be freely opened. The well-oiled finger should then be gently carried along the staff through the uncut prostatic urethra, and brought into contact with the stone. The staff having been taken out, the finger firmly depresses the neck of the bladder downwards and backwards, while a straight blunt-ended bistoury is passed flatwise along its dorsum until the bladder is reached. The instru- ment, having its edge turned upwards, is carried by a quick movement a short distance into the bladder, and with the edge still upwards, withdrawn in contact with the dorsum of the depressed finger. This proceeding gives a fairly uniform diameter to the wound. As a rule, pressure of the knife upwards is not needed; the urethra, being stretched on the finger, is incised to a sufficient degree by a single sawing movement. (See Plate X., Fig. 1.) If the stone be known to be very large, free incision upwards is easily made, and in a direction which readily allows a large stone to be removed. The forceps is next slid along the surface of the still retained and still depressed finger, and the operation is concluded in the usual way, save that all manipulation by finger or instrument is directed downwards to the floor of the neck of the bladder and to the prostatic urethra. The staff in this operation should not be largo (especially if the operator’s finger be large). A staff large in the membranous urethra, and prolonged probe-like into the bladder, might be pai’tially withdrawn while the finger was insinuated into the bladder; or a probe might bo run into the bladder, as in the median operation, prior to the withdrawal of the staff. A very simple expedient may bo adopted where the urethra is small, which is especially useful in children. It is an expedient which some surgeons may prefer in all