Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 71 where it is practicable, should bo used together. In many inflammations, as prostatitis, cystitis, urethritis, &c., pressure of course cannot be used. Where they can be used in combination they may require to be used in very unequal proportion; in an acute inflammation, an abscess, or an erysipelas, counter-irritation should be the principal treat- ment in the earlier stages and pressure in the later. A very convenient and successful combination is that of pressure to the inflammation, and counter-irritation over the next artery. In inflammations of the mammary gland, or the testis, the inflamed organ may be compressed, and the brachial or the femoral “ lines ” be irritated. It will be useful to remember that in the group of remedies which are here advocated, one measure will predominate in one inflammation, another measure in another. Counter-irritation may be the leading item of treatment in one case, pressure in a second, elevation in a third, rest in a fourth. But although one measure becomes paramount the others should be added.- To determine the relative importance of each principle of treatment and to arrange the detailed application of each furnishes ample scope for judgment and experience. It requires that all these remedies should be used with thoroughness and care. It is easy to carry out the treatment in a perfunctory manner, or adopt it in some case where there is some mechanical or marked specific cause for inflam- mation, and express disappointment with the result. I do not wish to claim too much for the method now advocated. There are many inflammations which are really adjuncts to some irrepressible visceral disease for which treatment is of little avail. Of diathetic inflammations I have previously spoken. I contend, koivever, now from many years experience, that the treatment is more successful than any other. It leads to recovery often in a mere fraction of the time required by ordinary treatment. Where the treatment is long, it is, nevertheless, the shortest and best. Where it fails, as in this world every kind of treatment must, it has at least given a better chance than any other treat-