262 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. with an enlargement in the right scrotum of twelve years’ duration, about which various opinions had been given. The swelling was the size of a walnut, and was situated mid- way between the inguinal ring and the testis. It was globular, moderately tense, circumscribed, and well defined above and below. Clear spaces intervened between it and the ring above and the testis below. The cord was readily felt above, but seemed thickened to the size of a straw. The swelling unquestionably transmitted light. There was some impulse on coughing, and the swelling became a little larger, but remained wholly transparent. During the act of coughing, there was a sensation to the finger and thumb of fluid passing downwards through a fine tube connected with the seemingly thickened cord. The rustling sensation was precisely similar to that given to the finger by the india-rubber tube of a feeding bottle when a baby is taking its meal. The swelling was a little larger during the day. It could also be lessened by pressure, and by continued pressure it could be made to slowly disappear. During pressure the sensation of fluid passing upwards through a tube was very striking. On the removal of pressure the globe slowly refilled. There was no hernial protrusion on coughing. There was no history of any such protrusion. There was no tenderness. There were, however, occasional attacks of pain which led to his seeking surgical aid. A light truss was applied. When seen twelve months later it was found that the truss had entirely relieved the pain, but there was only slight diminution in size. There are several points of interest in the above case which may be briefly touched upon. I believed it to be a case of so-called encysted hydrocele of the cord, communicating with the abdominal cavity by means of a fine tube of unobliterated serous membrane. If it be objected that cysts are closed cavities, I reply that they are not always so. The contents in some cases may ooze or be squeezed out of a mammary cyst, a ranula, a sebaceous cyst, yet the name “ cyst ” is in all these cases properly retained. Nevertheless, herein is another reason why the expression “ hydrocele of the cord ” is perhaps