22G Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. work as follows :—“ I have some times thought that a very small incision in the linea alba above the hernia might permit the huger to reach the abdominal aspect of the umbilical hernia, and draw back into the abdominal cavity the last protruded intestinal coils the expulsion of which had given rise to strangulation. If this should prove impossible, an appropriately curved herniotome would make precisely the same incision as could be made from the sac side of the structure. I am not sure that such a proceeding might not be occasionally of service in the more complicated hernise of the lower part of the abdomen.” Mr. Annandale has recently recorded a case in which he put the proposal into operation, and although the case proved fatal, other conditions existed which sufficiently explained the result. In strangulation of old and clearly irreducible herniae, whether femoral, inguinal, or umbilical, my experience leads me to give a general preference to the operation which consists in making, at first, a very short incision into the body of the sac as already described, and in adding other steps as may be needed. Note on Apparently Irreducible Hernia. It is well to note that the mere fact that a hernia has been unreduced for a long time is not in itself sufficient evidence to prove that a hernia is really irreducible. This remark is especially applicable to women and timid men. A case which I will briefly report impressed this very strongly upon me. I was called by the medical adviser (also a relative) of a maiden lady of about forty, to confer with him on her condition. She was suffering undoubtedly from strangulated femoral hernia. The hernia was naturally regarded as irredu- cible seeing that it had been uninterruptedly “ down ” for seven years. I divided the margin of Gimbernat's ligament with- out opening the sac—making, indeed, only a sufficient incision in the cutaneous structures to permit the finger to reach the ligament. All I hoped to effect was the relax- ation of a fibrous margin of the femoral ring, and, perhaps, tho return of some newly discarded bowel—the protrusion of which had probably given rise to strangulation. To my