86 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. ness, and discharge having subsided. Constitutional syphilis was present. Very large boil: a broad belt of iodine: cured in four days.—William P., aged 19, came to hospital with a very large boil on the left forearm—its extensor surface. The swelling was three inches in diameter. The induration, paiu, and tenderness were marked. It had been present eight days. The whole of the forearm, except the boil, was covered freely with iodine paint. In twenty-four hours the centre sup- purated and burst, the discharge ceased entirely in forty-eight hours. In four days the boil was well, only a small dry crust covering the centre. Remarks.—This certainly remarkable case was not a “ coincidence/5 simply because such a boil as this never did get well before in so short a time with or without any other treatment. Large carbuncle on the neck: Counter-irritation : Very rapid recovery.—Ellen S., aged 37, married, came to hospital with a large carbuncle on the right side of the neck. The hard- ness, pain, tenderness, and almost purple skin, were striking. A broad horse-shoe of iodine liniment was freely applied in front, below, and behind the swelling. In consequence of some misunderstanding, she did not repeat the application. After the single application, however, the pain immediately ceased, and the tenderness and discharge and swelling rapidly diminished. When she came on the fourth day, a small yellow slough, without discharge or swelling, projected through an opening in the skin. A second application of iodine was made, six hours after which the slough fell out, leaving a healthy ulcer, which quickly healed. Remarks.—I am surely justified iu speaking strongly here : No case, having reached the same stage, ever got well so quickly before. Carbuncle : Circle of counter-irritation : Rapid recovery.— George P., aged 55, had a large carbuncle, of fourteen days5 duration, on right forearm, with no tendency to separation of slough. The application of iodine to the forearm and hand was followed, in three days, by clean separation of the slough. In six days, only a simple healing ulcer was left.