Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 281 as there is here. I have had five supra-pubic operations: three in little girls, one in a boy with traumatic stricture; all these recovered. One, a man with fatty viscera und with a stone that could not be removed through the perinseum, died. In no case was there urinary infiltratiou. Here, in fact, the urine drains away from and under the deep cut, not over aud into it, as in the lateral method. The upward incision in women, whatever other drawbacks it may have, is not attended with urinary infiltratiou. The advantages of the operation seem to me obvious and numerous. The floor of the pathway to the bladder is uninjured, and underneath this floor lie the main dangers. The route to the bladder is more direct, is less angular, and its diameter is more uniform. The operation is simple in principle, more definite in detail, more easily performed. In the lateral method, the far end of the deep cut is necessarily an uncertain point. If the knife stop short of the end of the staff, there is uncertainty; the position of the end of the staff itself is a variable one. The floor of the bladder is practically on a level with its neck, and therefore the vesical end of the deep incision is inevitably an unfixed and an unfixable spot. The front of the bladder on the contrary, is at a sharp angle to the prostatic urethra, aud furnishes a natural, definite, and measurable limit to the vesical cut—a cut which begins at the angle and comes forward. The incision may be made larger at will by definite and clear steps. Where the prostate is enlarged, it is a great gain not to leave large cut surfaces in its substance—surfaces which heal slowly or not at all. It is possible that an upward cicatrix might give unexpected relief iu some cases of pi’ostatic difficulty. I have told you of my first case of several years ago. The next case was in a man near sixty, with enlarged prostate, but spare and temperate. Three years before I had cut him by the lateral method, and removed a large stone. On the second occasion, I operated by the method I have described— treating the neck of the bladder somewhat after the fashion of the neck of the sac in strangulated hernia, and notchiug it