303 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. possible by Esmarch’s elastic bandage and by position. A straight incision was made, and the trochanters and upper part of the shaft were freed from their muscular attachments, after which the capsule was opened, and some early, but un- mistakable, bony union was broken through. Next the shaft was cleared downwards from all its attachments (which are here mostly loose and cellular) for a considerable dis- tance, and then a few free sawing movements, with a long- bladed knife, through the thigh from which the bone had been removed, ended the operation. The integuments were simply drawn upwards, and the soft parts were cut straight through. No bone being left, the muscles quickly retracted, and were easily covered by the skin. Very little blood was lost. The larger trunks were tied with catgut. It was so important to save every drop of blood, that some oozing between the acetabulum and the gluteal region was instantly checked by putting a sponge, soaked in terebene, on the parts, and leaving it within the wound. Adjustment was effected by deep silver sutures. The stump was then dressed by two very large sponges (subsequently kept moist with terebene and water), firmly and evenly held in place by broad long strips of plaster, one strip being so carried over the opposite shoulder that the two ends overlapped the stump. The improvement was so sudden and marked that the next day he said he was “very well.” There had been neither shock nor haemorrhage. The “interior” sponge was left for three days. When the dressing was undone the whole stump had united, even over the sponge, the united parts requiring to be partially broken through for its removal. The later steps of progress were as favourable as the earlier. The principle of the operation which I have done now, and on previous occasions, may be thus described :—First enucleate the bone, then cut through the limb at any desired spot—the middle of the thigh, or below, or even near the knee. . Compared with the ordinary operation of two large flaps (see Plate X, Fig. G), the wound is less severe, the cut surfaces are less extensive, and, in a manner,