Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 13 contractility of the sphincters lost. The urinary secretion and glandular activity generally is arrested or retarded. The special senses are rendered more or less unimpressible. Articulation is imperfect, and the voice feeble or altogether lost. Respiration is feeble; but it becomes quickened with the pulse, though not in any fixed ratio. Its chief peculiarity is irregularity. Most of the inspirations are shallow and of the most varying degrees of rapidity. Sighing inspirations are frequent, but with no regular order of succession. Respir- ation may be so feeble as to be with difficulty detected. Deglutition is mostly possible as to fluids, and to solids thrust within the reach of the constrictors. Nausea and vomiting may also be present, but rarely in the most marked periods of shock. If the rectum be loaded at the occurrence of the injury, the contents will be spontaneously evacuated. The contents of the bladder are retained. In the slighter forms of shock, the surface is cold, and the recipient of the injury complains, often repeatedly, of feeling cold. Muscular action is much impaired, but not suspended; indeed, impaired muscular action and enfeebled circulation are the most apparent characteristic indications of the slighter forms of shock. The pulse is feeble, intermittent, fluttering, and irregular. Respiration is shallow, with irregular sighs; the sighs being every second or third inspiration at one time, at the fifth or seventh at another, at the ninth or tenth at another. The brain, unless the injury have been direct to the head, is apparently active, especially if the position of the body be recumbent, but quite unequal to the higher efforts of the intelligence. Digestion, the intestinal peristaltic action, and gland-secretion, are all i-etarded. Nausea and vomiting often occur in this degree of shock. Shock is not always proportionate in its intensity to the severity of the wound. It may be severe when the injury is slight, or it may be slight when the injury is severe. Many circumstances contribute to this apparent inequality in the operation of given causes. But this remark applies chiefly to the varieties of shock other than the most severe. In the most intense form of shock which is compatible with (he