Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 45 diminished. There is good reason to consider that the accelerated action of the heart, which is commonly regarded as a symptom of shock, is really a sign of reaction, how- ever early it may set in ; and reaction is properly recognised by the increasing acceleration of the heart’s action—the degree of reaction also corresponding to the degree of accelerated cardiac contraction. It is quite true that reaction may commence in the heart, and yet be long delayed in its other manifestations. For a longer or shorter time, the contractions of the heart, although increased in frequency, are insufficient fully to supply the nervous centres. Here, however, I am chiefly desirous of drawing attention to the slowness of the pulse as the immediate result of a severe accident. I ascertained this in the following cases, in which I made a special examination of the heart’s action: a case where the upper extremity was greatly lacerated, and torn olf at the shoulder-joint; three cases in which the lower limb, including the knee, was crushed so as to require amputation; one case where the leg was crushed by the passage over it of a railway truck; twenty-six cases of strangulated hernia; nine cases of concussion of the brain, with unconsciousness (in the latter two classes of cases, the slower action of the heart is unusually prolonged) ; in five cases of fracture of the skull; and in two cases of severe injury to the abdomen. Sooner or later—in some cases remarkably soon, in others not for hours or days—the pulse gradually succeeds in the attempt to compensate for its weakness by increase of action. In operations for inflammatory disease, or for injury of some duration, the pulse being already accelerated, the diminished frequency of the pulse is only relative, and may be very slight and of brief duration; but the greater and more sudden the shock, the more marked will it be. Where degeneration or other pathological change has taken place in the muscular structure of the heart, the influence of shock is much more intense in proportion to the severity of the injury, and is also much more frequently fatal. I may mention here another sign of reaction, which is not infrequently described as one of the phenomena of shock;