Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 65 at the means which will best remove an inflammation, let us look at the circumstances which will make it worse. If a part be inflamed, give it plenty to do—small print to read for an inflamed eye, long walks for an inflamed joint and so on. See that the inflamed part has plenty of blood; keep it hot, and the rest of the body and the surrounding air cold. Especially see that no second inflammation interferes with the prosperity of the first. Give the inflamed spot abundant space and free opportunity to swell, and let its vessels gorge to their utmost dimensions. Let the inflamed part hang well down, and add to the general discomfort by introducing a splendid combination of drugs into the stomach. To adopt the exact and extreme opposite of all these means is, I think, the best way to cure inflammation. Complete rest is not so much a remedy as the essential foundation of all other remedies. A second and a smart inflammation in an adjacent patch of skin, over an independent vascular region, will vigorously divert the blood stream from the primary in- flammation and develop a new outlet for pathological force. The more vigorous a second and separate and safe inflam- mation, the less vigorous the first and more dangerous inflam- mation. Countei’-irritation is also the best reliever of pain. Active elevation and suitable pressure are important aids in the treatment of inflammation. A diluted solution of iron internally, and a mild, unstimulating diet, are not unim- portant.” THE REMEDIES FOR INFLAMMATION. THEIR SELECTION. The true basis for the selection of remedies is, of course, success. Further, if the remedies which are known to be best in some, not specific, inflammations are not in practice also the best in all, the object of this enquiry entirely fails. But if, reasoning on physiological and pathological grounds, we infer that certain remedies ought to be the best, and it is found that they are the same as those which are, in fact, also most successful, our trust in them is greatly strengthened. It is urged here that counter-irritation, gentle compression, elevation and rest, are the remedies