Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. 29o The Scarification of Intra-articular Loose Cartilages. Five years ago I saw, with his family adviser, a gentleman who had suffered on three different occasions within eighteen months, from synovitis in consequence of a loose cartilage having got between the articular surfaces of the right knee. I proceeded to remove it under Listerian precautions. It was small, not easily found, and when fouud it presented at the lower and outer side of the patella. I cut down upon and in dividing some firmish fibrous tissue over it to a sufficient extent to permit its extraction, it suddenly slipped from beneath our fingers. I had freely scarified its surface in two or three longitudinal lines in cutting through some extremely tough coverings before it slipped away. A moist, antiseptic sponge was fastened over the wound before the spray was removed, and he was directed to walk about (he had no anaesthetic) with the object of again bringing the loose body within reach. Our efforts were fruitless. The wound was antiseptically dressed, and as the wound was small and there was no haemorrhage, the dressing was retained several days. The wound was fouud perfectly healed. His knee was kept immovable and he himself also for a fortnight. The movements of the knee were restrained for some months. He has been perfectly well since. No doubt the cartilage slipped into a remote and quiet corner, and there formed firm adhesions. In such a recess those adhesions are not likely to be torn through. Fully granting the safety of opening the knee joint under Listerism, it is nevertheless still an excellent rule in surgery to accomplish results with a minimum of operative effort. Probably most surgeons would prefer, in their own cases, if the prospect of success were fair, to have a tenotome so used that a loose cartilage might be freely scarified by a subcutaneous method and with the least possible cutting of the coverings of the knee, followed by a short period of entire rest, and subsequently by a longer period of restrained movement. If so simple and entirely safe a pro- ceeding should fail, as I think it unlikely, it in no way interferes with more radical steps at a later time.