Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 5 organism are also derived from the. forces of the inorganic •world, and are also given back finally in the form of the chemical forces which are evolved in the decomposition of the body after death. Both the matter and the forces pass through new shapes and new manifestations, but neither admit of increase, or diminution, or destruction. • The effects of shock in antagonising or changing nerve- force will be considered later; yet some introductory reference to the important beai’ings of the subject has been deemed useful at this point. A given amount of nerve or of any other force is interchangeable with (in shock we may perhaps say replaced by) some other force, but the quantities of the forces are always equivalent, and the second force is capable of being again converted into the first without loss and with- out addition. The operation and the interchange of force are invariably effected through the medium of a material sub- stratum. Certain forces admit of conversion through the instrumentality of any kind of matter; others require for the same purpose special substances. The highly complicated structure, nerve-substance (nerve-force arising in the vesicular matter and being transmitted along the tubular), is the material substratum or medium, by means of which the operations of nerve-force are made known, and by means of which also nerve-force may be interchanged or converted. It is not surprising, therefore, in accordance with the require- ments of the animal well-being, that it is characteristic of the structure of nervous tissue that every precaution is taken for the isolation, the preservation, and the non-convertibility of that force, the exercise of which is its special attribute. Under powerful influences, however, as we shall see, nerve- force is capable of interchange—with what forces and in what manner is a question of extreme obscurity, to which reference will again be made. The fact of the convertibility of nerve- force itself is, however, beyond all doubt. The experiments and researches of physiologists have led them to the opinion which is thus expressed by Dr. Carpenter: the correlation of electricity and magnetism is “not more complete than the correlation of electricity and nerve-force may be shown to be.”