Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 118 In emphysema following thoracic injury, air, it is well known, will permeate all the softer or looser varieties of connective tissues, but it probably does not enter tendon, or dense facia or bone. Inflammation, while more limited in its total area, will extend from the loosest areolar to the densest osseous tissue. The skin of a limb is in reality continuous with the marrow in its central bone. Observation leads me to believe that a severe surface inflammation, erysipelatous or carbuncular, or other, extends to periosteum, bone, and marrow. Extension of inflammation from marrow, bone, and periosteum to the skin is frequently seen. From a synovial surface to the bone in a joint there is no break of continuity. A well timed examination would probably show that there is never an acute synovial inflammation which leaves the bone unaffected. A woman, several years ago, sank from the exhaustion of acute purulent puerperal synovitis of the left hip. I made a careful examination of the parts in consequence of previous reflection on allied cases. I determined to make a section of the head of the femur and the trochanters on both sides. The result was startling. While the right femur presented on section through its centre a healthy pinkish appearance, the section through the left femur showed a deep crimson—almost a port wine colour. In amputating near joints it occasionally happens that synovitis follows with effusion. Quite recently, after amputation below the knee, in a hospital patient, acute synovitis of the joint followed. The formation of healthy (skin) flaps necessitated removal of the bone within an inch and a half of the joint. The amputation healed solidly, and only at the margin of the flaps was there a limited amount of suppuration. The mild inflammation of repair running along the periosteum sufficed to set up synovial inflammation. The extension by continuity of tissue in joints here spoken of is commonly recognised. I wish to suggest its frequency and its importance in other localities. In an old and persistent inflammation of one part of a limb, every structure in the limb may gradually become involved. In an osteitis of the femur, of very long duration which H came