11 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. The causes which operate purely ou the corporeal organ- isation are extremely rare, particularly if we exclude the influence of mental conditions which follow injuries. Yet there are cases where, with no mental alarm or despondency, shock is suddenly induced, as when a large or habitually distended bladder is completely emptied; also in cases of internal and unsuspected haemorrhage, as in rupture of an internal aneurism, or the rupture which occurs in extrautenne fcetation. It may also be seen in injuries, or loss of blood, or the action of certain poisons in enthusiasts and in the insane, whose attention is drawn away from the injuiy. Under these circumstances, also, it is well to remember, it is often seen that severe injuries are accompanied by, it may be, trivial shock. Symptoms op Shock. In describing shock, it is desirable to select a case where the intensity of the condition is of a striking and well marked character; for shock, like other deviations from health, presents every degree of intensity, from a condition so slight that its existence may be doubted, to one in which it can scarcely be distinguished from death. Suppose then, that a limb has been crushed—possibly the knee-joint opened, or a large portion of the skin of the trunk has been burnt, or the uterus has been extensively ruptured, or a small hernia has become suddenly strangulated, or the thigh has been amputated in the upper third or at the hip-joint: on examin- ing the recipient of any such severe injury, we should in some cases find him as pale, as motionless, as indifferent to the outward world, as if the injury had already terminated in death. The pallor of the skin has the sickly white hue which only bloodless human skin is capable of presenting. The ruddiness of the lip has gone, and is replaced by a clearer and whiter tinge than that of the skin. The corneas, in severe cases, are directed upwards, so that the whites of the eyes only are seen; but the altered axis of the eye is more apparant than real, because the upper lid is more or less depressed. The conjunctiva is lustreless, or even "glazed.”