Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 14 continuance of life, the nature of the injury, or the importance of the part injured, are usually of the gravest character. In cases of shock from mental emotion, if the result be not immediately fatal, the recovery from the severer symptoms is usually, though not always, rapid. There has been an anta- gonism of the nerve-force, which possibly may be recovered from before interchange of nerve-force has resulted in positive physical or chemical change, or, at least, before such physical or chemical change has rendered a return of nerve-force impossible. In the severest forms of shock, from causes which act chiefly on the corporeal organisation, the injury is of the most serious, and often of a fatal character; and the shock, whether the injury be necessarily fatal or not, not unfrequently terminates in death. In such cases, several of the symptoms already described as occurring in the severer forms of shock are greatly aggravated. Coldness, palor, immobility, and insensibility, are extreme. The pulse and respiration are scarcely, if at all, perceptible. The excito-motor functions are gravely impaired. The lids do not close when the conjunctiva is irritated. Deglutition is not possible to fluids or solids placed within the grasp of the constrictors. The sphincters are completely relaxed, and the urine is retained. Under such circumstances, especially when the fifth and glosso-pharyngeal nerves fail to excite any response in the nerve-centres, the gravest fears may be entertained that respiration itself will momentarily cease. The Thermometer in Shock. In order to give greater precision to, and, if possible, to extend our knowledge of, the phenomena of shock, I have in numerous cases, a few of which I shall cite, made use of the thermometer by the axillary method, the advantages of which have been so ably enforced by Wunderlich.* It was long a tenet in physiology, that variations in tem- perature affect the surface only; and that the blood, as a * When these words were first penned, it was more common than it is now to acknowledge the services of Wunderlich.