200 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. catheter, strengthened if needful, with a fine wire stilet, carried first on one side and then on the other may be made, with patience and care, to carry a cord behind and around the tumour. The cord may be followed by the ordinary chain (perhaps better than wire) of an ecraseur, and the chain with finger and forceps may bo, and ought to be, resolutely carried well up to the pedicle. (See Plate VII., Fig. 1). The nostril may be freely incised (if the ecraseur does not easily pass through it) downwards to the bony palate or even in some other direction also. The bleeding is the most important question. Before the operation a long strong cord should be carried along the floor of the nose and brought out of the mouth; to the part hanging out of the mouth a very small round Turkish sponge, squeezed out of an antiseptic fluid and large enough to well fill the upper part of the pharynx, should be attached. If, during the use of the ecraseur haemorrhage should become really serious, let the chain be rapidly worked through, the already seized tumour brought through the mouth, and the sponge quickly and firmly drawn up to the upper pharynx. When the pedicle is quite divided, the bleeding becomes very manageable. A good light is indispensable. The utility of letting the head hang over the table should be remembered. Every preparation, in this as in other operations for naso- pharyngeal polypus, should be made for opening the wind- pipe, but it need not precede the steps now described and in all probability will not be needed. Should the growth reappear the facial operations might be discussed. It seems that the naso-pharyngeal growth is peculiar to early life, and this period passed over recurrence need not be feared. It is even said that spontaneous disappearance has been known. It would be unwise to wait for it. Elsewhere the injection into the substance of the ordinary soft nasal polypi is described—whether such a method of treatment -with a long needle would be successful in the fibrous polypus only trial can show. Would it not be worth trying while the growth is not yet very large or very vascular ?