286 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. ancles upwards for a fourth or more of the leg; the collar- like swelling is convex, from above downwards, being more prominent in the centre, and merging neither very suddenly nor very gradually into the leg, above and below; it is not painful, or tender, or red, or obviously oedematous; the skin seems natural, but cannot be glided over the swelling; the swelling is moderately firm, and elastic, and immovable. The depth of the swelling at the centre is about an inch— frequently less, sometimes a little more. It is little amen- able to treatment, but it probably, after some years, slowly diminishes in size. The disease, although uncommon, cannot be extremely rare, seeing that I, and Mr. Williams, and Professor Yanzetti, have seen above a dozen cases. The essential facts are that the patient is a young woman of rather feeble circu- lation, and clearly deranged catamenia; but the patient is also single; if it be present in the married state it has probably come on before marriage. There is no organic disease of the heart as a rule; one of my cases, however, had mitral disease, and it is very conceivable that cardiac mischief might favour the development of the ancle collar. (Edema of the leg is not usually seen, but it was present in one of Mr. Williams’ cases; it was not present in my cases, or in Vanzetti’s. Of the relation of the pathology of the swelling to oedema I shall speak shortly. The lower margin is not limited by the pressure of an ordinary boot, as simple oedema frequently is, because cases have been observed, here and in Italy, where boots half-way up the leg have been worn. There are no varicose veins of the leg; and women with varicose veins are not liable to ancle collar. That it gradually diminishes in size (it probably does not altogether disappear) may be gathered from the circum- stance that it is not seen in any marked degree in women of middle or later age. Treatment has little effect on it—at least treatment by strapping and ordinary pressure. Should any case come under my notice in future I should try Martin’s bandage, the