202 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. tongue, or the part operated upon, not only in order that the division of the structures may be more carefully designed and accomplished, but also in order that haemorrhage, if there be any, may be under more direct control. I desire also to remove the cancer (the accessible tongue in short) freely, but not to remove the extrinsic muscles which form the floor of the mouth in order that repair may be more rapid, and that speech, and chewing, and swallowing, may be preserved as far as is possible. I desire especially to attain the needful objects with the least severe operative steps. Touching the details: First the cheek is divided back- wards from the corner of the lip to the vertical ramus of the jaw—a step which has been taken by others also. It gives sufficiently fair access to the back of the mouth, and yet leaves a wound that heals by the first intention, and leaves little scar—a trifling matter in a person past middl6 age. This method is unmistakeably less severe than that of dividing and separating the two halves of the lower jaw. Then the root of the tongue is seized well down and far back, between the finger and thumb of one hand, while the other hand passes a needle (curved, with handle) through the structures from the end of the thumb on one side, to the end of the finger on the other. The needle carries two strong cords, which are left in the channel made by the needle which is now withdrawn. Next the chains of two ecraseurs are drawn, one after the other, through the channel by means of the cord. The front cord should be drawn first and care taken that it does not interlock with the other cord before the chain is drawn through. The first chain being held forwards, the second is drawn through. The two chains are then fixed and tightened in this wise: the front chain is pressed well to the floor ot the mouth in front of the tongue, and the backward chain is pressed well down behind, in close contact with the anterior pillars of the fauces (see Plate VI., Fig. G). The two ecraseurs are then worked slowly, and simultaneously by two persons. With the check well divided, and tho ecraseurs slowly worked,