164 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. tho upper border of the calf to the ankle, and both of them reached half way round the limb. The closing of these abscesses caused lameness for a time which gradually passed off. In an ailment so apparently diathetic as gout, cold would be expected to play a minor part; yet, in the person of one of ray intimate acquaintances, it is quite otherwise. His gout is of a minor character, taking the form of langour, restless nights, and eczema, and only occasionally of pain and redness in the great toe. The basis of the gout is apparently feeble action of liver and stomach, but the feeble action is so much influenced by colds, that he declares if he never caught cold he should have no gout. He is singularly sensitive to cold, and each cold produces a red patch on the nose; before one patch is well another frequently comes, so that he can often count the number of recent colds by the number of red spots on the nose. The spots are not due to alcohol, for he is from necessity and choice an entire abstainer. To return from this deviation on the effects of cold in certain medical states which have come under my notice in my own family, or intimate circle of friends, I close these notes with a brief remark or two on the aggravation of other surgical ailments by cold. This is especially noticeable in diseases of the urinary tract. Cystitis and urethritis, and all the sequelse of stricture, tight phimosis, small meatus, or enlarged prostate are in many persons clearly increased in severity in cold weather. More than this, a few individuals with no local disease are liable to have cystitis when the cold winds of Spring blow. The steps are these :—fii'st, bleak cold winds, and probably lessened clothing, then impaired action of liver and stomach, thon highly acid urine, then cystitis with frequent and painful micturition. Occasionally a decided urethral discharge and scalding will appear, and such cases are frequently called cases of gouty urethritis; sometimes the gouty state is clear, in othei’s it is less clear, or remains solely a vesical or urethral ailment. This “ spring cystitis,” as I sometimes call it, is of course all the more readily induced if there exist any co-operative cause however slight it may be, any, even apparently trifling, impediment at the prepuce, or meatus, or urethra, or prostate gland.