53 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. them, with beef-tea or other nutritive fluid, into the rectum. I believe collapse to bo a condition completely under control? when the subject of it can be made tipsy with brandy or sleepy with opium. If these conclusions are correct, their influence on prognosis is obvious. In the gravest cases of shock, these remedies appear to have no influence whatever. External heat is always of the greatest service (in cases of shock from cold, heat should be very gradually applied, friction and cold being the earliest remedies) and is con- veniently supplied by hot Avater-bottles, not to the feet only; but to many parts of the body. It is in the severest cases of shock—those, namely, in which shock itself threatens a fatal result—that the greatest promptitude and care are required in the treatment. I have no hesitation in saying, on grounds of experience, of philo- sophical deduction, and of physiological experiment, that by far the most important remedy is immediate and extreme ex- ternal heat. Death in such cases occurs from cold, and there is no time to wait; indeed, it may be impossible to secure the generation of internal heat by means of brandy. External heat, where it is practicable, as in hospitals, where the majority of these cases are treated, is best supplied by the hot-air bath. Chossat’s experiments on pigeons are pertinent to this question. In pigeons that were on the point of death from starvation (in which cases death is also from cold) the muscular and nervous functions being completely in abeyance —a condition very little removed from death itself being present—manifestations of comparatively active muscular power were obtained by placing the pigeons in a heated atmosphere.* In addition to the external heat, brandy, opium, hot milk, beef-tea, and other nutritious fluids, will be desirable, either by the stomach or by the rectum. If any coma be present, opium should not bo given; neither should it bo given in slight shock; nor in direct injuries to the head, except strongly indicated by restlessness, sleeplessness, and delirium. * This paragraph was written and printed sixteen years ago, and further experience confirms me in its teaching. Quickly obtained extreme heat is beyond all other measures the treatment for shock.