Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sq Abdomen. 225 enable the finger to dilate the neck—if it should prove to be needful—without any incision in it; a proceeding that would at any rate prevent the entrance of a single drop of blood into the abdominal cavity. In femoral hernia for instance, after failure of the taxis and failure also of the extra-peritoneal method, a small incision into the body of the sac would permit the finger to reach the neck, and probably (now that the fibrous structures no longer compress it externally) to dilate it so as to secure a successful taxis. The Treatment of Strangulated Umbilical Hernia. The treatment of this variety of hernia which is mostly also irreducible is always a question of anxiety. The extra-peritoneal operation, from the thinness of the coverings and their close prox- imity to each other is scarcely expedient. The ordinary operation of freely opening the sac is very fatal. A few years ago it occurred to me and to one, if not two, Edinburgh surgeons simultaneously, to give the operation more of a subcutaneous character. A small incision is made over the body of the sac, just large enough to admit the finger which is in- sinuated through the contents to the neck, in the upper margin of which a small incision is made. I have now in four cases operated by this method, and in three with successful results. In one pregnancy was present which went on its natural course; in another all the bowel was reduced, only omentum was left, which of course contributed to a favourable result. In the fourth case, in a very fat Jewess, some bowel was reduced, and the skin was curiously super- ficia1 v ulcerated, but recovery followed. I have several times seen xtensive superficial ulceration over the umbilical sac, in two fiocal fistulae existed, yet both recovered without operation of any kind. This ulceration does not seem to be caused by any particular dressing, but rather by tension and impaired nutrition of the cutaneous coverings. In the fatal case inflammation extended from the sac to the abdomen. Curiously enough an idea which I had for some time enter- tained, occurred also to Mr. Annandale. When I was unaware of Mr. Annandale’s views, I wrote in the first edition of this p