44 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. contractility is not recovered, tlie urethra itself is gradually opened and distended; and thus, quite from mechanical causes, the urine commerces to dribble away. The urine also continues to dribble away, at least as much as is secreted in excess of the capacity of the bladder when fully distended. It is not correct, as Sir Henry Thompson has pointed out, to call this condition incontinence; it is really “overflow”—the engorgement of the French. The Action op the Heart in Shock. No principle in physiology is more certain than that the heart's action is not necessarily dependent on the influence of centrifugal nerve-force, as proved by the fact that the heart beats in the foetus before the nerve-centres are developed, by the existence of anencephaloid monsters, by experiments on animals consisting in the careful and gradual removal of the cerebro-spinal system, and by the contraction of the heart when removed from the body. At the same time, a principle of equal importance is this—that the action of the heart is susceptible of great modification, and even arrest, by means of influences conveyed through the nervous system. Its movements are regulated through the medium of the pneumo- gastric, spinal, and sympathetic nerves; and the researches of eminent physiologists justify the conclusion that shock may be communicated to it through either the cerebro-spinal or sympathetic systems. rThe physiological action of the pneumo- gastric seems to be, most singularly, to retard or inhibit cardiac action, and thus to oppose the influence of the ganglionic and spinal nerve-stimuli. Experiment shows that the sympathetic stimulates the heart to increased action; while interrupted galvanic currents along the pneumogastric nerve, as Weber showed, arrest the heart's action. The bearing of the latter fact on death from blows on the epigastrium I have already referred to. The effects of shock may be conveyed through the medium of the cerebro-spinal system to the sympathetic, and also through the sympathetic to the cerebro-spinal. I have already stated that the action of the heart in pure shock is retarded, the number of beats per minute being