90 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. when sinuses are present it is too late to resort to counter- irritation. Apart from the fact that sinuses often occur in osteitis prior to caries, I believe this teaching has done great mischief, especially in cases of wrist and ankle disease. Granting that counter-irritation occasionally fails, why should we relinquish a powerful means of subduing inflammation, unless we are prepared to relinquish all treatment except operative measures ? If the state of the caries is not such as to justify surgical interference, why should we avoid counter-irritation more than we should avoid rest? It is true that counter-irritation, where there are sinuses, often fails, but it is equally true that rest also often fails. Is it logical that, because the disease is more severe, the treatment shall be made less vigorous ? The Treatment of Diseases of the Joints. In many of these diseases the benefit of counter-irritation, pressure, elevation, and rest, is very striking. In acute and sub-acute synovitis, especially when of trau- matic origin, the benefit of counter-irritation added to complete rest is unquestionable. Rest alone here, and in most inflam- mations, is much tardier in its effects. Iodine (or acetum lyttae, or nitrate of silver) may be used—more freely above and below the joint than over it, especially if it be a thinly covered joint, as the knee. DISEASES OF THE JOINTS DUE TO OSTEAL INFLAMMATION. The remarks on osteitis on a previous page are especially applic- able to these. The benefit of the “ group ” of remedies is again seen, but the changes are comparatively slow. Counter-irri- tation—mild, occasional, and with judgment, should not be forgotten. The use of the actual cautery, as a persistently acting and powerful counter-irritant, is the subject of much difference of opinion. I shall not enter into any controversy, but simply state the result of my own observation and reason. It is a remedy of great value, I believe, in exceptional cases. Its use is best seen in deeply-seated or thickly-