Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 77 or erysipelas) in the axilla, or in the thorax, near the axilla, a stripe of couuter-irritation may be carried along the brachial artery to the elbow. In abscesses of the hand or fingers, all the M/iinflamed part of the hand and the whole of the forearm (or half, or two-thirds, in small abscesses), should be covored with iodine. At the same time a linseed poultice, thick and hot, should be applied to the abscess, and over it should be placed a bandage, or a shot-mattress—which of the two convenience and locality may determine. In either case the object is to secure pressure, which should be moderately firm, but which also should never give rise to pain. Real trouble should be taken to elevate the part by light wood apparatus, or pillows, or both. In abscess in the hand, or fingers, the hand should be held up to the chin by a sling, if the patient be not confined to bed. With mauy surgeons the main question in the treatment of the more acute abscesses is—when shall they be opened? When the treatment now described is carefully carried out, it is frequently a superfluous question. A zone of adequate cutaneous inflammation immediately removes the inflammation, and thereby immediately removes the pain, the pressure on adjacent parts, the tendency to either extension or diffusion, and the danger oj opening into important cavities. In a large proportion it is possible to obtain the absorption of pus. In others spontaneous opening quickly and readily occurs. In a small proportion, however, where the inflammation (perhaps diathetic) is obstinate, or the pain and tension severe, or there is no marked tendency to spontaneous opening, an incision may be made in the usual way. Uniform and moderately firm pressure is a mode of opening an abscess, which is sometimes useful and rapid. The pressure may be arranged in a zonular form with a ring of quoit-like super- imposed layers of wet lint. The abscess will open through the uncompressed centre very rapidly. Even medical men are well pleased to dispense with the knife in their own persons. I he effect of counter-irritation on abscesses is very striking. It takes away the diffused swelling and hardness