91 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. covered disease, as in the shoulder and hip. It is protraoted in its operation, gives little trouble in dressing, and is less painful than the frequent use of more superficial irritants. If suppuration threatens to set up, and in thinly-covered joints, as the knee, the cautery, if used at all, should be used in one long line over the popliteal space. In one case, where I used the cautery along each side of the patella, some extra-articular suppuration having already occurred, the suppuration seemed accelerated, and other centres of suppuration formed, all external to the joint. The joint eventually did well, and I am not sure the exti'a-articular abscesses did not really tend to the good result. In caries of the ankle and wrist, with or without sup- puration, I have long been convinced that long narrow strips of actual cautery-irritation with light splintage, free exit of dis- charges, and time—it may be a wearisome time—give better results than excision and render it unnecessary. Professor Sayre, I am pleased to see, puts forward a similar opinion in his work on joint diseases. Elbow bone disease stands apart rather from other disease, because anchylosis is frequently considered a sufficient cause for excision, and because the results of excision of the elbow are mostly satisfactory. In the inflammatory affections of Bursae, sheaths of tendons and fasciae, the use of counter-irritation produces, with more or less of rest, better results than any other treatment. Sprains may perhaps be considered here as appropriately as anywhere. Those of the ankle are the most frequent and the most formidable. The ankle should be immediately com- pressed by strapping with adhesive plaster. If this does not give relief, a starch or a plaster case may be needed. Just above the strapping, a ring of counter-irritation (with iodine liniment in the first instance) will not only retard and diminish subsequent inflammation, but will also relieve the severe pain. Another successful method, in the ankle and other joints, is first to compress with a domette bandage, and then outside this to apply very hot fomentations; strapping or “case” may follow. Whatever joint be affected, it is most important that it be elevated for a time and completely rested.