Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 263 preferable to tbe ordinary one of “ encysted 55 hydrocele of the cord. That the case was really one of hydrocele of the cord seems clear. It certainly was not a vaginal hydrocele. It was not a hydrocele of the testis. It was not a hydrocele, true or spurious, of the hernial sac. Neither bowel nor omentum could have passed through so long and so fine a tube—a tube not larger than a straw. Water Bottle Hydrocele oe the Cord. The peculiarity of the second variety, as already stated, is the existence of a tubular prolongation running upwards, but ending in a blind extremity outside the inguinal ring. Abraham W., aged 18, came to me at the hospital with a circumscribed, globular, transparent enlargement, rather larger than a marble, of two years5 duration, and seated in the right side of the scrotum. Its movements were free and independent of the testis and the inguinal ring. Above the swelling the cord seemed thickened for about an inch and a quarter. On pressing, however, on the swelling, it became apparent that fluid passed from the swelling into a tubular prolongation—distending but not passing through it. On pressing the tubular prolongation the globe below became a little more tense. There was, in this case, slight but defined bulging at the ring on coughing; but the impulse did not reach the swelling and the cord was not concealed. As there was no communication with the peritoneum or doubtful proximity to it, acupuncture was resorted to and proved successful after two or three repetitions. I have seen another case, in a boy, precisely similar to the one which has just been described. A globular collection of fluid which has an upward neck-liko prolongation so much resembles a minature water-bottle that I venture to suggest for it the name of ff water-bottle hydrocele of the cord.55 (See Plate VIII., Figs. 5 and 6). [When I brought these cases before the Medico- Chirurgical Society, sevei’al speakers, confounding them with the well-known condition of imperfect obliteration of the peri-