198 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. more impeded. Then the bones of the face were made more prominent, giving the nose a flattened appearance, at the same time the palate was being thrust down towards the mouth and larynx. A growth of firm character, and dark red colour was visible at the right nostril, while the septum was pushed to the left in such a manner that the new growth tended to occupy a central position. It was also readily felt in the pharynx as a large mass interfering both with breathing and swallowing. When the growth was touched, as in examination, very free haemorrhage followed. The symptoms increased in severity and at length became so distressing and the breathing so retarded, that it was clear that there were not many days of life left unless something was immediately done. Sleep was only possible in fits and snatches with the head stooping forwards. I laid before the lad’s father (a physician and scholar of high repute) the various operative methods at our disposal. He so strongly objected to any interference with the face, and especially the bones of the face, that 1 did not continue to urge it—the more so because one high authority, the late Mr. Syme, had preferred and carefully described the method of avulsion. I was fully alive to the dangers of the method; the risk of extreme haemorrhage, and even the possibility of fracture of the base of the skull, as in Mr. Cooper-Forster’s well-known case. But, while holding the avulsive method in reserve, I resolved to try other less forcible methods first. I purposed putting a wire ecraseur around the growth as high as its attachments would permit, working the ecraseur through the nostril (enlarging this for the purpose), and bringing the tumour when separated through the mouth. I found little difficulty in passing a stout cord by means of an elastic catheter along one side of the tumour into the mouth, and leaving it there I passed the catheter, armed with another cord, along the other side of the mass, the two cords were withdrawn in the mouth, firmly tied, and the resulting loop carried by means of the fingers (with some traction on the cords in the nostril) behind the growth. The cord was then made to draw a wire cord around the growth—the loop