9 Enquiries in Suryery Generally. Cold will be moro fully referred to in describing the modes of death in shock; it is sufficient at present to say of cold that it depresses equally and primarily all the manifestations of vitality. I have not deemed it necessai-y to make a separate class for those poisons, or causes of shock, which act directly on the muscular tissue, because they may, with sufficient accuracy, be classed under the first head. By far the larger number of cases of shock come under the third head, where more or less of mental influence is added to a severe bodily injury. Depressing mental influ- ences are mostly called into operation in those cases where, for a longer or shorter period, the injury is forseen. But this prior knowledge is not essential, although it undoubtedly aggravates the effects of the injury. The mental causes, when consciousness is present, may operate simultaneously with the corporeal. I have observed that, if mental causes come into operation before an injury, and of themselves produce marked shock, such shock is not seriously aggra- vated by the injury. The nervous system is already in a condition in which its susceptibility to further depression is diminished. If, again, a man be the subject of severe shock from bodily injury, the psychical causes of shock are less active in their operation. A man whose leg has just been crushed hears with absolute and equal indifference the most terrible or the most joyful news. The mode in which the causes of shock act will be more advantageously considered when it becomes necessary to treat of the causes or conditions which, to an important degree, modify the phenomena of shock. The relative importance of psychical and corporeal agencies will be more freely examined when railway accidents come under notice. A more correct estimate of the effects of railway accidents— which differ in important particulars to all others—will depend on the proper appreciation of the mental and bodily influences which come into play. An effort will be made later to ascertain what is peculiar, and why there is any- thing peculiar, in those most fearful catastrophes which from time to time strike terror into the public mind.