266 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. of the penis, and attachment of the scrotum to the fraenum, are not very rare. When the curvature is markedly present during erection, sexual union is impossible. A case of a severe character was brought to me where marriage had been a rite only, not a fact—where many surgeons had been con- sulted and many kinds of advice had been given and taken, but in vain. I regarded the “ dissecting operation ” as complicated in method and unsatisfactory in results, and as necessarily in- creasing the hypospadias, and thus lessening the chances of fertile marriage. Having explained to the patient, without giving too hopeful a view of the result, the nature of the operation I am about too describe, he readily gave his consent. I cut a large wedge-shaped slice out of the centre of the dorsum of the penis, and freely removed portions of the cavernous bodies. (See Plate IX., Fig. 1.) I assumed, and justly, as the event proved, that the portions of the cavernous bodies left below the excision would suffice to preserve the power of erection. I put in a few deep stitches, and directed the penis to be kept against the wall of the abdomen—a now possible and easily maintained position. The bleeding at the time, and some recurrent bleeding, were not more than is to be expected in severe wounds of the penis. The stitches cut their way out before union was obtained, but strapping and position were followed by an excellent result. The man's surprise at the new position of his penis was even greater than his delight. He left the hospital, saying, to those interested in his case, that his penis during erection “turned upwards instead of downwards." In young children the free removal of the redundant prepuce on the dorsum of the penis, in such a manner that the scar may shorten the upper surface of the penis, and lengthen the under surface, is a useful pi'oceeding. An Operation for Congenital Phymosis. I have more than once brought before the notice of medical readers—on the first occasion, upwards of twenty years ago, in the Medical Times and Gazette—a simple operation for congenital phymosis, which I have performed for many years.