270 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. it fails or succeeds only for a time. In future, I intend in those cases to incise with moderate freedom the meatus, and, if need be, the adjacent portion of the urethra. I purpose making the incision upwards with a concealed bistoury, the blade being projected after the bistoury is introduced to a fixed and definite degree, aud drawing the blade along the whole urethra. The urethra will be divided only where it is contracted, if indeed it be contracted at all. An Operation Through the Rectum eor the Treatment of Impassable Stricture and Retention of Urine, It is not often that we meet with a case of retention which we cannot relieve by other than operative means. Now and then, however, all our efforts fail. I do not wish to under estimate the value of the means at our disposal, but I have always felt, and indeed seen, that puncture of the rectum did not, at any rate actively, treat the stricture, and that perineal operations were difficult and disappointing, although I willingly admit that of late the method and the instruments for carrying it out have been much improved, especially by Mr. Wheelhouse, of Leeds. I have often thought how much easier it would be, in the use of urethral instruments (as in many other affairs in this life) if we could go with the stream instead of against it. I thought if we could get behind the stricture, and pass soft bougies from behind forwards, we should, as it were, follow the difficulties and not meet them. My first idea was to make a small incision into the bladder close to the base of the prostate gland, and pass a bulbous- pointed bougie from the vesical meatus onwards to the external meatus. Now and then, when the distended bladder is very much depressed in the pelvis, I still think this may be the more practicable method. In the dead subject, however (aud so far in the living), I have found it easier, and when easier it is certainly safer, to enter the membraneous part of the urethra. The steps of the operation are these : A well curved bistoury, covered Avitli adhesive plaster except three quarters of an inch at the point, very sharp, and, it may be, double