81 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. The various forms of .gangrene are as a rule rarely due to excess of purely inflammatory action. The Treatment of Erysipelas, Simple and Phlegmonous. Cellulitis. There are two points in the prevalent treatment of erysipelas which require a few words of comment. A favourite treat- ment with many surgeons, and one as successful at least, if not more so than any other, is that of the ring of nitrate of silver—the ring alone or the ring and the covering also. The method of treatment is a curious because unrecog- nised illustration of the value of counter-irritation. It is supposed that a ring of skin moistened with nitrate of silver offers a 'physical impediment to the spread of erysipelas. It would be more correct to regard the belt, narrow as it usually is, as a circumscribing counter-irritation—a counter- irritation having a beneficial influence on the erysipelas as it would have on an abscess or a sloughing ulcer. The broader the zone the more useful it is, and a belt of aceturn lyttse, or a broad belt i of iodine irritation is quite as useful, if not more so, .than one of nitrate of silver. A zone of aceturn lyttae with a few inhalations of ether, is most serviceable in these cases from its more rapid effects. The value of incisions must be kept clearly in sight— it is greater here than in the treatment of carbuncle and some abscesses. A poultice on the lower limbs, where the circulation is feebler, and an evaporating lotion on the head, neck, trunk, or upper limbs, with mild pressure (shot or bandage), should be applied to the directly erysipelatous parts; or weak iodine, or nitrate of silver solution, may be put over the affected surface, and then cotton wool, with gentle support. Cellulitis should be treated in a similar manner. Both in erysipelas and in cellulitis in adults we cannot too strongly suspect the presence of diabetes or visceral disease generallyj especially of the liver and kidneys; it is the condition of the internal organs, aud the habits of the individual, which mainly determines our prognosis. F