Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 100 Deglutition was very difficult and painful. The iodine liniment was freely applied to the neck over the carotids, and especially at the angles of the jaws. In a few hours, the relief was very marked; in forty-eight hours, it was complete. Remarks.— This is but one of many cases in which I have seen sudden and marked benefit on the application of counter-ii’ritation. Inflammation of the sac of a large irreducible umbilical hernia, with symptoms of strangulation: Instantaneous relief from a circle of counter-irritation.—I was called to see, in consultation with her medical attendant, Mrs. N., aged 60. An irreducible umbilical hernia had been present several years. For last three days there were vomiting, constipation, and exhaustion. The hernial tumour was not tense or enlarged. In the wall of the abdomen, close to the tumour, and encircling its lower two-thirds, was a crescentic mass of inflammatory induration, which was tender and painful, and of the size of a man's open hand. A circle of acetum lyttas was applied around the tumour, and opium given internally. All the symptoms quickly subsided; and in twenty hours, nine- tenths of the induration had disappeared. The Treatment of Diseases of the Urinary Organs. The Bladder.—Inflammation of the Bladder is perhaps always a symptom of some other disease, or an extension of some other inflammation. The success of the surgeon in treating cystitis will entirely depend upon the success which attends his efforts to discover the prior disease, and on the possibility of removing that disease when discovered. When cystitis depends on a cause that can be removed, as stone in the bladder, or stricture, the treatment is obvious. When it depends on causes that are persistent, as enlarged prostate, or paralysis, or atony, or tumours which prevent the egress of urine, the proper treatment is, as a rule, to secure the complete periodical emptying of the bladder. In the cystitis which depends on the extension into the bladder of gonorrhoeal, or other urethral inflammation, a state which is not common, counter-irritation is the best treatment; but befoi’e this is used with vigour, it must be made perfectly