291 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. Irish labourer, when sixteen years of age, had acute periostitis of the right tibia, involving the greater portion, if not the whole of the shaft, but leaving the epiphyses. No operation was performed, and he gradually got about, turned to work, and carried the dead bone in his limb for thirty years. He came to hospital and was very desirous to have an operation performed. This happened some years ago, aud I had not then formulated any conclusions of my own, but accepted the current teaching. There were several sinuses over the dead diaphyses, and some ill- smelling but not abundant pus escaped from them. I operated. There was a dense thick irregular case of en- casing, but not now new, bone. The dead bone was in fragments and shreds, and of brownish yellow colour. The interior of the (new ?) case was a tangled patch-work of new and old bone. I removed all I could and determined to err on the side of removing too much rather than too little. A long, apparently clean trough remained. His convalescence was very slow, fitful, and unsatisfactory. Suppuration was abundant and unhealthy. Febrile attacks with high temperature occurred from time to time. After a wearisome time in the hospital he went out with the wound much smaller, but far from healed. He attended some time as an out-patient but made little progress, and was in reality a helpless invalid. Eventually he ceased to attend, and I lost sight of him. I came to see that we had done no good, and I decided that if any at all similar case came before me in future, I would recommend patience, cleanliness, with antiseptics, and such rest as could be obtained, but no operative interference, or at least no interference except amputation. Amputation here was distinctly rejected, and, indeed, to advise amputation in a person of active habits and occupation is a proceeding of no little l’esponsibility. Each individual case must be judged on its own merits. It is in very old-standing necrosis of the femur that it is most important to weigh well the propriety of surgical proceedings. If the disease bo of several years' standing, and the local and general symptoms quiet, life and comfort