NOTE ON THE TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA. The advantages of the locality chosen by Bowditcli for opening the thorax cavity, whether by the needle for pleuritic effusion, or by the knife for pus, seem so clear, that it is curious to hear of examiners asking how the space between the sixth and seventh ribs may best be found, and still more curious, that openings should bo made through it. An opening below and in a vertical line with the angle of the scapula, and at a point distinctly above the breathing line on the healthy side is based on anatomical and practical grounds so obvious as not to require argument. The question whether there should be one or two openings in empyema is not so clear, but I suggest an answer to it, founded on the experience of many cases. A collection of pus depresses the diaphragm more or less. If, when a free incision is made, the finger is passed in, as it mostly may be, and it is found that another inter- costal space lies below the incision, a second opening may be made on the end of the finger. If the opening be ak’eady well dependent a second opening is not necessary. If the patient keeps the recumbent posture until he is well, any opening below the angle of the scapula is a dependeut opening, and indeed where a single opening is made, it is perhaps better that the patient should be kept iu bed a little longer than would otherwise be needful. The method of keeping a channel open for drainage is important. I find this a convenient one: take a good sized India rubber tube, with suitable openings, and along its interior draw a spiral gilt wire drainage tube. The length of the tube will of course be adapted to the double or single opening. When I introduce my finger through the first incision to see if a second be desirable, I wind a piece of cord (to be ready if needed) round the end of it, if a second is needed, I simply put a pair of forceps through the second opening and draw out the cord from the finger inside. A firm cord readily draws the prepared (rubber