2G0 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. sexual, origin. The views now before you may occasionally have (I speak from personal observation) important domestic or legal bearings. The treatment I adopt here is that which I am in the habit of adopting in inflammations; but which, seeing that it is exceptional, and strange to examining boards, I rarely take up your time in explaining. My creed is brief: I believe that the inflammatory process is much the same everywhere. I believe that the best remedies in one inflammation are the best in all. I believe that the best remedies are removal of cause (where it is removable), rest, adjacent and not too near counter-irritation, suitable pressure, elevation, and a few simpler matters. I therefore in each case try to find out the best way of using these remedies. In acute epididymitis I enjoin counter-irritation lightly over the scrotum, sharply in the groin and front of thigh; pressure, which begins as a delicate support, and goes on to actual compression; rest and elevation, as far as they are practicable. The value of compression is well seen in the circumstance to which I drew your attention a moment ago—namely, the pressure kept up on the testis. If our bodies were mapped out into small areas, and each area were bounded by a firm capsule like the tunica albuginea, we should be free from the dangers of at least acute inflammation. On Congenital Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord. Many varieties of collections of fluid or hydroceles may be met with in the scrotum. There are the vaginal and inguinal hydroceles, hydroceles of the testis, hydroceles of the cord, and hydroceles of the hernial sac. Two or more of these may be found together. One or more may be com- bined with some kind of scrotal hernia. More rarely other combinations are seen. I do not propose to consider the subject of hydroceles generally, their origin, or anatomy, or diagnosis, or treat- ment. I shall limit my remarks to hydroceles of the cord. These aro commonly due to an imperfect obliteration of the peritoneal prolongation, which usually takes place along the cord from the internal^ inguinal ring to a point a little