Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neck. 193 greenish, or greenish yellow masses; there may possibly be limited and slow caries, when some pus or blood will be mixed with the mucus; and usually, there is a peculiarly un- pleasant characteristic odour given out from the nares. Ozcena may be an exceedingly slight or it may be a severe disease. In the slightest forms there is simply an occasional sense of obstruction, followed by the expulsion of masses of green mucus. In this degree it frequently, no doubt, escapes notice. In other cases the sense of obstruction may be greater, and the expulsive efforts in blowing the nose need to be more vigorous and more frequent; even in these the peculiar odour may be absent. In others again, and in most of those which come under treatment, the odour is the symptom most complained of. In a small proportion of such cases, the severer ones, there is some purulent discharge, and occasionally a few drops of blood, and possibly even minute fragments of bone. Observation has obliged me to look upon syphilis, acquired or hereditary, as the root of the mischief. Not only does historical enquiry lead me to the conclusion, but also the entire similarity of the symptoms in adults with confessed syphilis, to the symptoms in very young adults with supposed struma. In regard to the pathology of ozaena, we must remember that not only is the mucous membrane close to the bone, but that the submucous tissue is also the periosteum. In the slighter and vast majority of cases there is not actual destruction, or caries of bone, though, probably, the inflam- matory action implicates it. (See note on “Continuity” in pathology.) The mucous and submucous tissues are chronically inflamed and swelled. The inflammation leading to the increased secretion of mucus, and the swelling causing its retention in spaces left between the septum and the outer nasal walls. The odour is justly attributed to the decomposition of the temporarily bloclced-up masses. In a few cases the inflammation passes on to lesion of the surface—abrasion, and in some cases ulceration. In a still smaller number of cases the inflammation not only involves the bone, but leads to slow u