Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 97 In Syphilitic inflammation of the cerebral membranes, or of the brain surface, tlie same treatment is also applicable. Here, and in all intra-cranial inflammations, the disc at the back of the neck, or the stripe of counter-irritation from the sternum to the mastoid process, should be especially widened and intensified over the mastoid process, where, for obvious anatomical reasons, it must, from every point of view be most efficient. At the mastoid process the two circulations, extra and intra-cranial, communicate most freely, while underneath and below it are all the great vessels and nerves which are connected with the head. In the comparatively x'are inflammatory affections of the nerve trunks, whether due to injury or disease, there is no local remedy of any service which does not act as a counter- irritant. How the counter-irritation shall be produced, and how much of it, must be determined by the depth and locality of the nerve. In such cases, rest should form an important adjunct to the treatment. Inflammations arising from injuries to the spinal column.— When symptoms of inflammation of the cord or its mem- branes occur after concussion or contusion, or compression, or twists, or sprains, they are extremely persistent, and very often progressive, in spite of all treatment. Counter-mutation is often resorted to in such cases, but in an inefficient and perfunctory manner. If such cases are not quickly benefited by two long efficient stripes of iodine (liniment) irritation, the actual cautery should be used on both sides of the affected structures, and, seeing the importance of the issues, in a manner widely different from its ordinary niggardly use. I frequently produce long and narrow stripes of eschar by the actual cautery, in cases where, if they fail, there is no other remedy left, and in no single case have I seen shock, or other ill, result. Indeed, in no single case have I seen any- thing but unquestioned good, if not ultimate cure. Rest, in all spine diseases, is indispensable. The bichloride of mercury is often given internally, with what benefit 1 am not able to say. In revising these sentences, at a later date, I may point out that, in some cases, a Sayre's jacket may take the placo of the above measures, a