240 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. the perinceum to such an extent that the anus could not be seen. The skin was for the most part of a livid hue, hard and unyielding to the touch, with vesicles on the surface here and there; but in the right iscliio-rectal region the lividity had deepened into a darker colour, and the unyielding feeling had given place to a crepitating softness. In a word, gangrene was present. Free incisions accordingly were made on both sides of the perinseum, resulting in an enormous escape of gangrenous debris, attended by an intolerable fcetor from the wound on the right side. The finger passed into this wound discovered a cavity so large that its size could not be made out exactly. The cellular tissue on the left side seemed little affected, and the rectum was free from disease. “ From this date onwards (March 28th), every effort was directed to support the patient’s strength, and promote the separation of the sloughs, by stimulants, opium, suitable nourishment, and antiseptic injections; but the spreading nature of the affection was not to be gainsaid. On March 29th both sides of the scrotum were attacked, and incisions therein gave vent to much gangrenous matter. By April 2nd, the skin covering the right lumbar, right iliac, and' suprapubic regions of the abdomen had become livid and emphysematous, and a sloughing sore made its appeai’ance at the upper and inner aspect of the right thigh, two inches below Poupart’s ligament. The foetor arising from the sloughs was now almost overpowering, filling the whole house, nor did disinfectants, though used lavishly, seem to have much effect in abating the evil. “ Little more remains to be told. The cellulitis of the abdominal wall continued to spread, and with its extension my patient’s strength gradually failed, till, on April 4th, he died exhausted in the struggle with this most loathsome disease. “ The case just recorded is similar in many ways to those narrated by Furneaux Jordan and Mr. Jackson. The disease occurred in an iutemperate stout man of middle age, who (and this I have not mentioned before) had twice during the last ten years of his life suffered from perineal abscess, the second attack of which had left in the right iscliio-rectal