157 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. especially so rare on the leg, that I shall dismiss it and its well-known characters from this short enquiry. Eczematous ulcers are comparatively rare in the middle third of the leg, and very rare at any higher point. Not so with the tertiary syphilitic; they are not infrequent in the middle and upper thirds of the leg, near the knee, often over the patella (where the antecedent gummy products are often abundant, and the succeeding ulceration scanty and abortive), near the elbow and occasionally elsewhere. It is in the lower third of the leg that the complications and accidents of ulcers, namely, indolence, inflammation, and so forth occur. It is here they are most frequent, here also, they are most obstinate. Here by coalescence and repeated sloughings, slight or severe, they often reach such a size that recovery is impossible, and they last for life. Ulcers occur in the lower third of the leg, because there the circulation is feeblest, and the veins, deep and superficial, are little supported by muscular fibre; tendons here taking almost wholly the place of flesh. They occur mostly in the poorest classes and in the weaker sex. But the utmost poverty, the utmost varicosity of veins, exposure and standing occupations are all incapable of producing ulcers on the legs, if there be no constitutional syphilis, and no constitutional tendency to eczema. Given varicose veins and the circumstances which favour varicosity in a syphilitic or an eczematous diathesis, and ulcers on the legs are prone to follow. Eczema is especially prone to occur on legs which are the seat of venous difficulties. But the eczema is the predominating feature (the veins co-operate or prolong) ; it will often pass away without ulceration; very often, also, it leads to ulceration. The eczema may almost completely disappear, but the ulcer remains. In some cases, however, the eczema will be seen in brownish, or reddish, or shining, or cracked, or scaly, or mottled patches, or as margins, or areolte around the ulcers appearing. In none of the three varieties of ulcers does inflammation play a prominent part, and the treatment, local or general,