189 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. the soft parts to the extent already spoken of; then pare each side of the cleft so that a curved notch is left at, or below, or near the centre of each margin. Next each notch is incised outwards, nothing being cut away at this step, in a manner and to an extent suggested by the short dotted lines in the diagram. (See Plate VI., Pigs. 3 and 4). The bit cut away should reach well into the nostril above, and well into the thick of the lip downwards. It is convenient to use a kind of ring forceps—the ring having a point which can be so fixed as to be a guide in making the notch. I use German silver forceps somewhat of a sugar-tongs pattern. Any size or shape can be quickly obtained. The forceps should be adjusted on the margin of the cleft before any traction is made, or the cut- off paring will not be of the intended shape. A narrow knife, transfixing the lip, is carried with a fine sawing movement along the margin of the forceps. Freo removal is the great secret of success. The notches should be made opposite to each other. An assistant must draw down with toothed forceps each corner of the cleft, and so stretch the margins that the notch is unfolded while the stitches are put in. The first stitch is the most important, and must bring the apices of the notches together and bear the chief strain. The stitch must be single, made with thick silver wire, and plenty of tissue must be taken up. Those who prefer it may put a button at each end of the central stitch. A stitch near the nostril and another near the margin of the lip, so arranged as to leave the greatest possible symmetry of lip and nostril, complete the opei'ation. The single interrupted stitch of thick silver wire is much better than the twisted suture. In this, as in other operations, I have the silver wire soldered to the needle, so that there is no tug in drawing the wire through. A single tie of wire suffices, the cut ends being curled up with forceps. If tension be at all marked, the soft parts must be more freely separated from the bone. The labial artery should be torsioned or tied with fine gut; no oozing should interfere with delicate adjustment.