Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, 8f Abdomen. 253 The case before you, was one of epithelial cancer, beginning at the anus, it is true, but involving the rectum for some distance. Through the vagina there could be felt a globular hard mass at the lower end of the rectum; the vaginal wall itself was free. There was loss of blood, with severe pain, and very difficult defecation; some kind of operative relief was earnestly besought. I decided to remove the parts very freely, in obedience to the principles I have just placed before you. It was not necessary in this case to invade the vaginal canal, but I removed a mass, which, with the healthy tissue around it, extended from the vulva to the coccyx, and from one ischial tuberosity to the other. Three inches of bowel were taken away; a full-sized cricket ball could have been put into the cavity. The shock which followed was not severe, and the subsequent recovery, as you see, has been good. A singular and unlooked for feature in her recovery was the facility with which she acquired sphincteric power in the cut extremity of the bowel. The ordinary circular fibres of the gut proved themselves able to obey the will and hold back the faeces. Excision of the Outlets of the Pelvic Oeqans. This is a branch of surgery in which I have had the opportunity of gaining much experience. In a case of epithelioma of the vulva I excised both labia, the clitoris, and two-thirds of the urethra, with a recovery of several years to my personal knowledge—the patient eventually passing from under my notice. The urine was completely under control. Our guiding principle should be : only to excise those cancers the extent and area of which we can clearly ascertain, and then to excise these very freely. A Simple Plug for Rectal ELemorrhage. Two years ago, under somewhat urgent circumstances, I devised a plug for the rectum, which I have found ready, simple, and efficient in checking haemorrhage from the rectum, whether recurrent or secondary. The tip of the fore-finger thrusts the centre of a thin white pocket hand-