246 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. Knowing how quickly in urethral strictures generally, and perhaps moro markedly in tight ones, the retention of a flexible bougie, however fine or thread-like, will dilate the contraction, I concluded that a similar plan of treatment would be of service in stricture of the rectum. I have recently had a case, the record of which will show the utility of the proceeding. A poor woman came into hospital with mechanical obstruction of the lower bowel. We knew the woman well, as she had been to hospital before with similar symptoms. There was much gummy growth in the rectum, but there was also a tight, linear, thread-like stricture, through which the end of the finger could not be passed. During her first stay in the hospital, the occasional use of a sponge, for an hour at a time, gave her most relief, so much that she decided to go out without waiting for more complete relief. On entering the hospital a second time after an interval of eight months, she was worse, and we feared that colotomy would be required. I determined first to try continuous dilatation. My house surgeon passed a number twelve English gum-elastic catheter, and on the first occasion kept it in twenty-four hours. The benefit was marked. Instead of a constant diarrhoea she began to pass solid motions, not, it is true, in large cylinders, but so as to secure comfortable relief. She was an intelligent woman and she took the catheter into her own hands and kept herself comfortable by wearing it a few hours at a time. She did not wear it after the first few days so long as I believed to be necessary. She took the catheter out with her twelve months ago, and has not returned to make any complaint. I recently caught a glimpse of her in the street, and she seemed in fair health. The catheter should be small—small enough to pass quite easily, and to be retained without any tightness or pain. It will, as in the urethra, probably produce for a time, a feeling of impatience and weariness, but this, habit and time remove. The length of time the instrument should be worn during the first days of the use and subsequently also, will, no doubt, vary iu different cases. A little watching will decide the matter. I should say that during the night would be a convenient time to wear the instrument for some women;