Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 137 old and extensive tarsal disease. There were good grounds for suspecting mesenteric disease also, but the tarsal mischief kept her in bed, was getting worse and could be removed. The stump was put into a cup-like, soft Turkey sponge, which was held (gently here) in place by means of a broad strip of plaster (see diagram), and kept antiseptic and moist with very weak carbolic lotion for eight days. In this case with a necessarily hollow flap I put in a piece of drainage tube. When the sponge was taken off union was everywhere complete except the singularly well-defined space occupied by the tube. Not a drop of blood or pus or other discharge could be anywhere traced. The sponge, even at its internal surface, ' was as clean as when put on after the operation, eight days before. The canal left by the tube was closed when the sponge was next taken off. The sponge was reapplied in this case at the suggestion of the family advisers as the most convenient as well as the best dressing. Considering the resently sawn cancellous surface of the tibia and fibula on one side of the wound and a cup of soft parts on the other, I was greatly struck with a result I had never seen before with any other kind of dressing. There is one drawback in using sponge in some ampu- tations—as on the thigh low down—the sponges are not easily adjusted and held in place. The question is one of mechanism and merely applies to some amputations only. After operations for hernia a large soft sponge under a few firm turns of spica bandage, to which the antiseptic jug’s contents can have free access through suitable openings, is an ideal dressing. It gives at once a dressing, elastic truss-pressure, drainage, antisepticity and rest. I do not say that it will always prevent discharge, or keep vitality in injured structures, but it gives admirable adjustment and keeps off putrefaction. In cases of castration the moist antiseptic sponge dressing is of great service from the proximity of mucous outlets. Not long ago where the diseased testis was of extreme size the wound became in a few days quite superficial. The patient was walking about in less than ten days. A T bandage here is convenient. In this and some other operations