254 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. kcrcliief well into the rectum, large marbles of compressed cotton wool (or rag) are then gently pushed into the pouch in the rectum until it is amply distended, and of a balloon shape. (See Plate VII., Fig. 7.) Expulsive efforts, or moderate traction on the handkerchief, increase its haemostatic efficiency. The wool marbles may be moistened with the perchloride of iron if it be deemed necessary. A plug saves the necessity of pulling down the rectal wall with a vulsellnm forceps and tying the bleeding point—not a pleasant alternative, especially without chloroform. In twenty- four or forty-eight hours the rectum converts the balloon into a cylinder which is readily withdrawn at pleasure. Mr. Allingham describes a method of using sponge pressure for the arrest of rectal bleeding which is well worth attention. The surface of a sponge is singularly effective, as I elsewhere endeavour to show. Should an opportunity arise, I purpose modifying the method I have used by pushing a piece of net (from a ladies or servant's cap or handkerchief) into the rectum, and then distending it with small pieces of sponge. I have long used washed and soft net as a covering to pads of carbolised tow. I do not see why it might not so cover sponge fragments as to make them more convenient and shapely as surgical dressings. Since I described the above plug in the first edition of this work, I find that Billroth uses one entirely similar in principle. I do not on this account withdraw the proposal. A proceeding which two surgeons have adopted, indepen- dently of each other, is the more likely to have some value. Exostosis of the Sacrum. I was asked to see a lady in the country with some mechanical difficulty in defecation. The difficulty amounted almost to obstruction on some occasions, but could be relieved by the repeated use of aperients. The appetite was indifferent, but there was no sickness. The temperature and pulse showed the absence of fever. The abdomen was not tender or tympanitic. The mechanical difficulty at the lower bowel, the indifferent appetite, and a feeling of being out