Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Abdomen. 223 contents arc adherent, or that some omentum has increased in size or as assumed a shape which prevents reduction. In inguinal hernia, where the sac is well defined and free from signs of inflammation, my method may be tried as a preliminary step. In a goodly number of cases it will succeed, and if it fails it is merely the harmless beginning of the larger and ordinary operation. The fixed immovable neck should be made out with great care, and the button-hole for the finger made directly over it. The constricting margin should now be sought for and divided upwards, pressure on the incised margin, gentle dilation, and taxis follow. The practical difficulty in inguinal hernia lies here: a firm, compressing margin (external ring or internal oblique say) is felt to be apparently the seat of stricture when in reality it is not so—the real constriction being still deeper, as at the internal ring. When the inguinal canal in such cases is densely packed, and the surgeon's finger perhaps not very small, it would be better to open the sac at once. It is true the canal has still the same contents, and the finger is still as large, but the pathway is smoother, clearer, and lighted up. With a small finger, a sensitive finger-tip, and an experienced hand, even deep strictures may not rarely be reached and divided, but in all such cases if the taxis, moderate in energy and time, does not reduce the hernia with ease and gurgling, the sac should be immediately opened. In both femoral and inguinal hernia it is sometimes found that reduction fails after the operation has beeii per- formed, in consequence of thread-like bands which surround the neck of the sac externally, and which have been probably torn from the margins of the fibrous opening’ by too vigorous efforts at the taxis. These should be sought for by the pulp of the finger (see Plate VII., Figs. 5 aud°6), when found, the finger nail and the kerniotome readily deal with them. It is a curious circumstance to be romembered in all methods of dealing with strangulated hernia, that the relationship between the size of a hernial outlet and its