Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 59 to the moment of the operation. Here again a week in bed with drowsiness or partial anaesthesia would have been a better protection against the accidents which are directly or indirectly connected with shock. In conclusion I venture to repeat a few salient facts connected with shock, which appear to me to have great importance. Shock is attended with a diminution of nerve force, and the amount of shock may be estimated by the amount and kind of diminution of nerve force. Shock is a measurable quantity. All nerve functions may be placed under the following heads. I state them in the order of their importance—volition, ideation, emotion, sensation, and motion. One degree of shock, mental or bodily in its cause, will paralyse the will; a severer degree will suspend the ideas; another destroy the emotions. It is when they impair sensori-motor and reflex actions that they interfere with those nerve functions which are absolutely essential to life. Shock is always most marked where nerve function is highest in character and most intense in action. The maximum of shock is in the adult man, whose will and ideas predominate over all other functions. The minimum of shock is in the very young, the feeble, and the old, whose nerve forces are blunted or converted into some other forces. I have elsewhere given this as the ex- planation of well-known facts. An adult man has his knee crushed. Amputation in the thigh is needed. He dies. Another man, long bed-ridden, and worn out with the pain and discharge of old knee disease, requires amputation of the thigh. He lives. The lower the nerve force the less the shock. Before birth a foetus may have every limb am- putated ; and live. Not so after birth. A hybernating animal can scarcely be killed. The nervous skilled artisans of towns bear shock worse than the more blunted nerves of workers in mines and fields—a fact which hospital statis- ticians usually note. As regards the prevention of shock.—If I were going to have my thigh amputated, without the protection of long disease, 1 would ask that ether should be given to me