204 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Read and Neele. past middle life, tending to stoutness, bald and grey, of clear pink skin, no corneal arcus. The skin was thin, dry, and on the hands of a slightly scaly character. He had been formerly a somewhat free liver, but there was no history of syphilis, and he usually had fair health. While in his customary health and making no complaint appertaining to strength, flesh, appetite, or sleep, he complained of some difficulty in swallowing, and in the course of two days this difficulty became very marked and distressing. In this state I saw him. He was quite unable to swallow solids. The attempt to swallow fluids was extremely painful, and accompanied by much spasm of the neck and face. Sometimes a little passed on to the stomach, but frequently the whole of the fluid was returned. There was a most copious secretion of mucus of a frothy character, which was almost continually regurgitated, but most freely so when efforts were made to swallow. It appeared to be unmixed with blood or pus, but mixed with portions of masticated food. His able and attentive medical attendant could discover no intra-thoracic lesion, no aneurism or thoracic cancer. There had been no history of ulceration. Corrosive fluids had not been drunk. All the parts accessible to the eye and the finger were healthy. We, I think naturally, took a serious view of the case and communicated it to the friends. We saw him again, together, on the following day when he complained very much of pain in the mouth on taking anything into it. He said he had as much distress in putting liquids into the mouth as he had difficulty and distress in swallowing. In fact, when he took anything the face was quite contorted, and there was some writhing of the body. A careful examination of the mouth now showed a couple of patches of eruption on the naturally rather pale soft palate, one on each side of the middle line. Each patch seemed a cluster of vesicles which were flat, and had the appearance of having recently burst. There was not a red base common to all the cluster of vesicles, for the pale palate was visible in pale lines among them. The oesophageal symptoms continued unabated.