6 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. It is desirable now to pass to a brief consideration of the anatomical and physiological bearings of those cases of shock which do not arise from a primary and violent impression on the nervous system. It is assumed, in surgical writings, that the phenomena of shock are invariably produced through the agency of the nervous system, directly or indirectly, as in its influence on the circulatory system. This statement is no doubt true in the great majority of cases, but it is not absolutely true. Certain poisons (and poisons admittedly rank among the causes of shock), such as the upas poison and the cyanide of potassium, if injected into the blood, act directly on the muscular fibre of the heart, and impairing its power of contractility, give rise to those numerous secondary effects of shock which depend on an imperfect, or arrested, supply of arterial blood. In the operation of such poisons, the nervous system is not impli- cated. The motor filaments are capable of conveying the exciting stimulus; but the muscular fibres, to which they are distributed, are unable to answer to the wonted call. This class of poisons is the exact opposite of that class which, as in the case of the woorara poison, acts on the nerves only —the action being first on the filaments of distribution, and then on the larger trunks. It is a question of great interest, whether shock would follow as the effect of injuries (say compound fracture or amputation of the thigh) on a part cut off from all communication with the cerebro-spinal system, as in complete hemiplegia or paraplegia. I am not aware that any recorded cases illustrate this point. Could a sufficiently powerful influence be exerted on the cerebro- spinal system through the medium of the ganglionic system to produce shock? That the sympathetic system is capable of being greatly influenced by direct injury, is supposed to be con- clusively shown by the effect of a blow on the epigastrium when the stomach is distended. Every author who repeats this view, appears to me to have forgotten that the terminal distribution of the pneumogastric nerves is in the stomach. The effects of blows on the stomach may, I think, be more correctly referred to the impression made on the pneumo-