124 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. of the relationship of this growth to the nerves, or to compare or contrast it with the neuromata. There may be some difference between the attachment of a painful subcutaneous tumour, or a neuroma to the nerve trunks, or cylinders, but we must bear in mind that if the painful subcutaneous tumour were not in relation- ship with the nerves it certainly would not be painful. Only nerve structures convey a painful sensation. My object in this note is to record a few curious coincidences in regard to the painful subcutaneous tumour. Several years ago I saw three cases. They came under my notice within a limited number of months. They all occurred in men who were between early adult and middle age. The men were all rather thin and of a highly nervous temperament; they all drank to excess, and when not in a state of delirum tremens, they were constantly on the verge of it. In all the cases the painful subcutaneous tumour was seated on the lateral aspect of the trunk. In all the growth was small, and was the subject of calcareous degeneration. In all the cases the pain and tenderness were very severe— how far the severity was due to temperament or to alcoholism, or to both, is an important question, needing for its solution further experience. All the growths were removed (two by myself) and all were followed by recovery from the symptoms complained of. Two of the men I have lost sight of; one I occasionally see in the streets, but of his habits or health I cannot speak. As already remarked one or two questions suggest themselves. Had these three cases nothing to do with alcoholism, being merely coincidences, or did alcoholism promote calcareous degeneration and pain? Or had the degeneration nothing to do with the pain? Are such tumours more frequent than is supposed, and painful in only highly nervous or alcoholic temperaments ? ON THE N2EV0ID ORIGIN OF SOME CONGENITAL HYPERTROPHIES. Some years ago, a youth about 16, came to me at the Queen's Hospital, with seemingly great hypertrophy of the cutaneous structures of the right side of the face. There