298 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. the patella to the centre of the heel, fourteen inches on one side, and fifteen and a quarter on the other. In concluding I wish to ask two questions. Assuming that it is desirable to bring the scaphoid and the cuboid under the malleoli, in excision of the os calcis and the astragalus, can any special operation, or dressing, or position facilitate such a result ? The next question is perhaps less important. Why should we fear to make incisions in the sole of the foot ? I have repeatedly made free incisions into the plantar surface in operating for caries of the os calcis ; the resulting cicatrices have always contracted so as to form deep fissures, and in no case has the weight of the body given rise to later inconvenience. In the cast which is before the Society the deeply indented scar is very marked, and, curiously, seems to be at the outer border of the sole, notwithstanding that it was really made in it. ON LONG-THREATENING SENILE GANGRENE. It is a truism to say that old age is relative; but one man at fifty is as old as another at sixty. It is con- sequently sometimes difficult to say when any given man is old. But a man of intemperate habits, a fat man, a man of weak circulation, or a very lean and shrivelled man, or a man with signs of atheromatous change, may be called old, whatever the number of his years may be. A man, or a woman less frequently, with signs of age cannot have an ailment of the foot, especially of an in- flammatory character, which if at all persistent is not serious. The ailments may be slight, and they may be of very long duration—one or more years say, but they are of serious omen. After a time unmistakable senile gangrene is likely to set in. Sometimes in the old, an eruption; sometimes apparently an obstinate chilblain ; sometimes a persistent ulcer of perplexiug diagnostic characters ; sometimes an abscess which refuses to heal, or which heals and reforms more than once ; sometimes a sinus as of bone disease;