Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 278 on -which wo baso our operations on the bladder, and this question has been forced upon me: is not the front of the bladder its safest aspect; is it not the aspect most sedulously avoided. We prefer to open the apex, which touches the peritoneum, or the base which touches the rectum. Lot us imagine what may seem at first sight a singular group of circumstances. A surgeon is about to cut for stone for the first time in the history of surgery. The patient is a man whose external genital organs and the triangular ligament itself have been swept away—say by an accident. The finger in the membranous and prostate urethra can draw the neck of the bladder well down towards the sacrum. The stone is large; in order that it may be removed, the bladder must be cut somewhere. The smallest, simplest, and safest incision, will be one that enlarges the natural orifice in one direction or another. Now, is it conceivable that a surgeon unfettered by habit and tradition would think of cutting in any downward direction—of cutting towards the rectum or the delicate genital apparatus, and in a direction where safe space is most limited ? But such a man, devoid of external genitals and of triangular ligament, is practically before ns every time we operate for lithotomy through the perinasum. Such a man is not like a woman, in whom it may be objected that the upward incision is not generally accepted as the best. Quite otherwise. The urethra and prostate gland are deeper in the pelvis, are close upon the rectum, and above all, are not held up firmly to the pubic arch by the triangular ligament. The proposal, then, which I make is this: the mem- branous urethra being opened behind the triangular ligament, the deep incision—the incision in the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder—shall be made upwards and to an extent suited to the size of tho stone. The extent, I believe, need rarely reach the capsule of the prostate. Where the firm fibrous submucous tissue is divided, and the substance of the prostate scored, the dilatability of tho parts is singularly great.