Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 49 phenomena. The frequency of the cardiac and respiratory actions is extreme. Thirst and the other phenomena of fever are all present in an exaggerated degree. Vomiting may occur, or delirium, or a too acute sensitiveness of the special senses. The thermometer placed in the axilla will rise to 103° or 104° (Falir.) If a trace be taken of the pulse by means of the sphygmograpli, the line of descent will be more or less concave, and the dicrotism especially marked. In the majority of cases, these apparently alarming symptoms gradually subside, and the case progresses to a favourable termination. In the severer cases, the fever is probably dependent, partly on the local injury and subsequent local inflammation, and also, it may be, dependent on the blood it- self, which has been altered by shock, and as is now com- monly believed to the entrance of septic agents, where the shock and reaction are attended with an open wound. Reaction occasionally increases the effect of the prior injury by inducing extravasation of blood from vessels which did not bleed so long as shock only was present. This result is mostly seen, and, unfortunately, is most disastrous, in injuries of the head. When the middle meningeal artery is torn in fracture of the skull, hemorrhage comes on with re- action to so great an extent as to constitute, from the pressure of the clot, a frequent cause of death.* Modes op Death in Shock. The great majority of cases of death from shock may be attributed to syncope and asthenia. Of deaths from syncope, there are two kinds. In one, there is a sudden and extreme spasmodic contraction of the heart, which leaves it empty or nearly empty, and which is not followed by relaxation. These cases appear to result from a sudden and violent impression on the nervous system. The subject of such a form of shock is pale, unconscious, muscularly powerless, and dead in a moment, and almost simultaneously. Very much more frequently, the cause of fatal syncope is the sudden cessation *For this condition, when in progress, and permitting diagnosis, as it often does, I have elsewhere proposed to ligature the common carotid. D