Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 119 discussion unnecessary. In all directions in which human observation can go, we know only a succession of phenomena —a chain of events. We have no self-sufficient causes, or causes of causes, no spontaneously arising causes, except in the domain of “ faith.” Antecedents and sequences follow each other in inevitable order. Malignancy is not a new, sudden, spontaneous event; it is a link in a certain chain of events; the events or states which lead to cancer, can lead to cancer only, just as the changes which lead to in- nocence lead to innocence only. In one sequence of events something tends to malignancy—this something we say is constitutional, or specifically constitutional. A man of twenty-five has a fatty tumour in the subcutaneous fat which lies in the line of his braces; another man of fifty- five has a cancer in his rectum. Is it possible to suppose that the states, or succession of states in these men, were alike before or at the time their morbid growths came into existence. To some minds the question may be made clearer by the use of another kind of phraseology. A man has a malignant growth in his rectum: Why ? Because of the action of certain causes, which are not, at present understood, but which nevertheless unquestionably exist. These causes, or train of causes, are so fundamentally different, that we call them constitutional. These causes are so deeply operative in the system, and control so strange and deplorable a clinical course, that we should still cling to some phrase that would startlingly map them out from all other pathological causes and effects. To my mind, it is singular that any experienced observer can deny that, even on practical and clinical grounds, there is evidence of an altered constitutional state prior to the appearance of a local growth. In my experience it is the rule for failing health to appear before any tumour. It may be said that a local change may be arising which is not obvious to our senses; but this is a mere assertion, and its negative does not need to be proven. A man withers slowly—he becomes thinner, weaker, and frequently acquires a greenish- yellow colour; then a cancer appears on the hand. During