Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 274 In a clinical lecture, reported in these pages, on a method of performing lithotomy, I have ventured to state the principle that the front of the bladder should be more utilised for operative purposes. Acting on that principle I make the following suggestions. Let it be supposed that a case of prostatic retention is before us. An expert and experienced hand cannot pass an instrument—not a frequent occurrence unless an inexperienced hand has previously injured the parts—nevertheless it sometimes happens. Here I would pass down a curved grooved (lithotomy) staff well into the membranous urethra, indeed as' far as it will go without force. Next I would incise the perinaaum in the middle lines, so that the finger should readily come into contact with the staff. The finger remaining firmly in the membranous urethra the staff should be withdrawn. The next step is an important one. The finger being clearly in the urethra it should carefully find its way into the bladder. A sensitive, intelligent, pliable, and not very large finger will probably do this when an instrument cannot. A finger may push obstacles to one side, or downwards, or upwards. Such obstacles may be too firm to be overcome by a soft instrument; they may be too tortuous and angular to be overcome by a hard one; a sensitive and a confident finger will probably overcome both. When the finger is in the bladder, a soft catheter should be passed by its side fairly into its cavity and fastened in. When the catheter has been worn a little time it will probably be taken out and put in again with ease. It might, be well to have in readiness for exceptional cases short catheters open at the ends which could be withdrawn and put in over a German silver stilet—the stilet being passed through the catheter already in the perinseum and bladder, next, the catheter being drawn out over the stilet, lastly another, or the same cleansed, may be put in over the stilet. The stilet must of course be without handles or have a movable handle only. After some days' rest in bed the patient, if going on favourably, might have a urinary receptacle fixed to the catheter in the perinmum and also attached to the thigh.