Enquiries in Suryery Generally. 16(3 of these operations; twenty years ago a still larger number. The character of my surgery is changed. It has no less, per- haps, of diagnostic care or operative precision; but it has more of habits, of hygiene, of dressing, of mechanism. I am rather an artist in sticking plaster, pulleys, plaster of Paris, spray-producers, and injecting and exhausting syringes, than a master of the catlin, the saw, or the gorget. My operations are changed,” the ideal surgeon goes to say, “1 am aspirating serous effusions and deep abscesses in the cavities. I am operating for meningocele and spina bifida. I excise bronchoceles, inject the substance of numerous growths in various localities. I am not less bold. I open the abdomen for diagnosis. With Listerian precautions I open cavities and joints, and make exploratory incisions. I open the abdomen for many operations; if things do not go on well after an operation, I re-open it to see what is the matter. I make the incision of lithotomy as the best drain in rupture of the bladder, and for other diseases than calculus. I excise the spleen, or kidney, or larynx. I cut a calculus from the kidney. I stretch the brachial plexus and other nerve trunks. I saw through the neck of the femur subcutaneously. I use the saw or chisel through other bones. If I cannot, in certain cases, pass an instrument through a stricture from before backwards, I make an opening in the urinary track, and pass an instrument from behind forwards. In prostatic retention, where no instrument can be passed, I open the membranous urethra and feel my way into the bladder, and if I cannot do this, I puncture the front of the bladder from the perinatal wound. I crush and remove at once large calculi. Thus my experience teaches me not only that the relative amount of surgery is less, but that its quality is altered, and that its range is wider, and that it is still extending.” Our ideal surgeon has still a few more words to give. He says:—“ My instruments are changed. A few years ago I lopped off big limbs with a few instruments in a lady’s reticule. Now I am in danger of needing a waggon to carry spray producers and antiseptic wares generally, an electric ccraseur to lemove a clierry-sized mevus from the tongue, or