135 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. primary haemorrhage. It frequently happens to me, especially in cases occurring in the practice of my medical friends, to find when the moist antiseptic sponge is taken off at the end of the week, a row of bright silver stitches, entire union, a pale skin, and not a drop of pus. Ihe geneial directions for the use of the constantly moist antiseptic sponge dressing have been purposely given with so much completeness as to render a description of its use in individual operations less necessary. For similar reasons I need not detail every operation in which the dressing is of benefit. In amputations of the limbs sponges may be readily made to cover the incisions, support the deep parts, check haemorrhage, drain, and secure rest. Several months ago I had a case of amputation of the hip-joint in a youth of sixteen. There was old disease of the shaft of the femur with implicatiou of the hip-joint and bony anchylosis. In a previous severe and extensive operation much dead bone had been removed, but sinuses remained; the limb was a useless burden, preventing locomotion, and the general health was being periously reduced. The debility and emaciation were so great that, although I began the opera- tion with two or three alternatives before me, I resolved beforehand to quickly remove the limb at the hip rather than lose much blood. In the hope that I might find one or more necrosed fragments, I made a longitudinal incision over the trochanters and upper part of the femoral shaft. In exposing the bone the vessels of the enormously thickened and dense periosteum bled so vigorously and from so many rigid and uncontrollable tubes that I feared, even with instant amputation at the hip, I should not get the patient to bed alive. The abdominal circulation being arrested, I instantly broke down the osseous union at the hip; a few strokes of the knife, added to what had al- ready been done, enabled me to turn out of the wound the upper third of the femur. I sawed this off, and then a circular sweep by the circular method, with a long knife (at hand in case of need) removed the limb. No more blood was lost. The principal vessels were tied, and a sponge