196 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. Those single, accessible, and easily removed polypi are unfortunately in a minority. I have found the parenchymatous method serviceable under the following circumstances: where the nares are narrow or so constructed that the use of instruments is difficult; where the position of the polypi causes operative difficulty; where the polypi are multiple especially if the nares are also narrow and perhaps both crowded; where there are relapses, whether from unavoidably imperfect operations, or from a local tendency to reproduction; where the patient shows marked timidity. No polyus should be subjected to treatment which is not fairly seen and reached with ordinary appliances, but it can be treated at an earlier period with a hollow needle and a few drops of iodine tincture, than by the forceps or snare. The apparatus needed is very simple—the hypodermic syringe, with its longer needle, and a little tincture of iodine. A director, a probe, or more complicated mechanism if the surgeon prefers it, serve to keep the nostril open. It is useful to be able to attach the number one aspirator needle to the subcutaneous syringe. A small German silver connecting link (Mr. Salt made one for me at a trifling cost), kept in the hypodermic case, will be found very convenient for this and other purposes—as for deep diagnosis or deep parenchymatous treatment. When the polypi are numerous and lie towards the posterior nares, this longer needle, which commands the whole nostril is highly serviceable. The needle should be carefully passed right into the substance of the polypus, and five, eight, or ten drops, injected according to the size of the growth, and its capacity for holding fluid. The needle may be passed on and a few drops inserted at a greater distance, or it may be passed through one into another, stopping on its journey occasionally to leave a few drops of iodine. As a rule it will probably be more convenient and efficient to take out the needle and reintroduce it, carrying it at a lower level for the deeper polypi.