192 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. in the samo pointed manner as in the old notch. (See Plate VI., Fig. 5). The operation is no doubt one of delicacy, but of less anxious delicacy than is needful in operations on the eye. The marginal strip of lip should be carefully mapped out and a few marks made with the assistance of anaesthesia, if the child or young person bo restless. The mapped out piece will begin at the skin in front, cross the lip and take in little of the posterior aspect; this should deeply be out- lined with a small sharp knife and then cut out; with it may be cut a varying amount of subcutaneous and sub- mucous tissue. The size of the strip of skin and mucous membrane, and the amount of underlying tissue, which it is desirable to remove, must be detennined by the size of the notch which is the intention of the operator to imitate. The mere removal of a strip of mucous membrane and a point of skin, would produce great improvement. Cold and pressure should be kept up until the bleeding stops. Neither stitches nor dressing are needful, but it is very possible that surgeons who adopt the principle of the operation—the making a second notch—will use their own judgment in detail, and probably suggest improvements on the method I have used and now describe. When should the operation be performed ? Not too early. Not immediately after the first operation. When the child is a few years old, or any time later, the bony frame- work will have settled into place, and the notch will have acquired its permanent character. I have performed the operation in three cases, and with unmistakeable improvement. The Nature and Treatment of Ozcena, In the following remarks I speak of ozoena solely from personal experience. I purpose refraining from controversy and from a discussion of the various definitions which have been given of it. Ozoena, as I understand it, is an ailment of the nose in which there is an increased secretion of mucus, with frequent retention of it so that it dries in