12 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. The features are smaller, especially the nose, the tip of which is constricted, and occasionally of a dusky colour, presenting a singular contrast to the rest of the face. The nostrils appear dilated. The lips are parted, and thin as well as pale. The whole countenance is so much changed, that recognition may be difficult to near relatives and friends. The surface of the body is everywhere cold to the touch; and, if conscious- ness be partially present, cold is also complained of. Small drops of moisture lie on the skin, especially of the forehead. The hands are blanched like the face; the Augers and nails exhibit a bluish colour, and are shrunk so that the skin on the palmar aspect lies in loose folds. Those parts of the body which are usually covered, though presenting less change of colour, are perceptibly whiter. There is marked inaction of the whole muscular system, the position of the body being either on the back, or, in extreme cases, in the position in which bystanders have placed it. In less severe cases, muscular action is impaired, but not absent. In cases where the shock is due to great but not sudden loss of blood, the stillness of the muscular system will be replaced by the toss- ing restlessness, and possibly delirium, so characteristic of unchecked hemorrhage, either internal or on the surface of the body. It is commonly said, that the action of the heart is accelerated; it is certainly enfeebled, the pulse being also irregular and intermittent. Hut the pulse is not rapid in all cases. (I do not hesitate to say—and this question I shall examine later—that in every case of shock there is at first, and for a longer or shorter time, diminished frequency of the heart’s action.) In strangulated hernia commonly, and in some injuries of the head, the pulse is often remarkably slow, descending' to 40 or even 30 beats; yet in these cases wc have the purest examples of shock, as regards the depression of the nervo-muscular force. In some cases the action of the heart may be so feeble, that neither it nor the pulse at the wrist can be detected. Consciousness, the intellect, and the sensi- bilities, are blunted, and the will paralysed; or it may be that consciousness, the intellect, the sensibilities, and the will, are extinguished for a time. Deglutition may be difficult, and the