294 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Limbs. It is an important and legitimate question how far hysteria exists in those cases. It is difficult to say, but that it is present and materially modifies progress is probable. Such “huddling up” of the lower limbs, with acquired rigidity, is not seen in youths or men. Then again, the pain and tenderness are greatly in excess of all the organic changes which can be recognised. If the hysteria could be detected in the early stages in any case, its management would be an easier task. All the cases I saw were old and confirmed when I first examined them. I suspect, in such cases, “ the doctor ” is not called in until much mischief is done. In some of these cases the fever of acute joint mischief is mistaken for typhoid or rheumatic fever, and the huddling is not correctly interpreted uutil much mischief is done. There is another class of cases in which, with little or no hysteria, the symptoms are unusual. They also occur in young women. The patient stands or walks with pain, and therefore keeps in bed, but there is no “ huddling up ” or much pain even on examination. In the case which I best remember the limb was extended and somewhat everted, but there was neither abduction nor adduction. There was pain on moving the joint, and movements were very limited. After a very prolonged invaliding with occasional but unsuccessful efforts to get about, a large abscess was opened at the upper and outer aspect of the thigh. With no new or special symptoms, and after two three years ailing, she sank exhausted. Her death happened without my knowledge, and no post-mortem examination was made. I infer there was in this case, and probably is in allied cases, some periostitis or osteitis, possibly some necrosis or caries, in the pelvis and in the vicinity of the acetabulum. Such inflammatory action may exist at one spot only, at the margin of the articular cup, or possibly surround it more or less, or it may involve the joint, much or little, or early or late. Such manifold expression of pathological action will produce manifold variety in symptoms.