Enquiries in the Surgery of the Pelvis. 275 If the difficulties are such that neither catheterism nor the finger through the perinosum can overcome them, and unequivocal retention is present, I should for my part puncture the front of tho bladder through the roof of the urethra. I am now presuming that the membranous urethra is open in the manner just described, and that the finger has failed to reach the bladder. The route is not longer than by the rectum, and does not interfere with defalcation. It is perhaps longer than the supra-pubic route; but it is further from the peritonaeum, is more dependent and direct. The membranous urethra being open there, I should puncture the front of the bladder with a trocar—pushing the trocar upwards and backwards. When the trocar is in the bladder I should pass a small elastic catheter through it, and leaving the catheter take out the trocar. The catheter should be open at the end to permit of introduction and withdrawal on a stilet. My own experience in the methods of treatment here suggested is not great, and time and experience only can determine their value. I have not yet punctured the front of the bladder from the perinasum. Not long ago, in a case of epithelioma of the neck of the bladder, closely simulating in position and form and symptoms an enlarged prostate, I opened the membranous part of the urethra, and passed a soft instrument into the bladder and kept it there. Want of sleep, and food, and loss of blood, from prolonged cystitis, had already so exhausted the patient that he only lived three days. The operation, nevertheless, gave marked relief. The night before it was done he was up every ten minutes (previous nights had been little better), and expelled a few drops of urine and blood, and was so entirely worn out as to be practically moribund. I need scarcely say that keeping a catheter in the bladder, through an opening in the perinaaum, is not at all an unusual proceeding. It is not infrequently adopted in external urethrotomy in the treatment of urinary fistulas. What is here new is this—in prostatic retention, when an instrument cannot be passed at all, or when it cannot be passed with the needful frequency,