41 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. complex and otherwise inexplicable conditions are due. My own observation has led me to entertain a strong conviction that the embolic as well as the ichorrhaemic forms of pyaemia are often traceable to shock, rather than to any other cause. CHRONIC SHOCK OR ASTHENIA. This is a condition which occasionally follows injury, the degree of which, as in shock generally, is not always in propor- tion to the severity of the injury. It appears to be a permanent, often a constantly increasing debility, which can be referred to no cause other than injury; in other words, it appears to be shock, the phenomena of which are less intense, but more persistent. In fatal cases, a post mortem examination throws no light on the cause of death. The following case was one of the kind. The injury was severe but the shock was never of au intense character. A poor weak woman, prematurely old at fifty, was barbarously assaulted by her husband, who beat her with a poker, and fractured the upper jaw, so that a large portion was loose and moveable in the fingers. She never regained her previous health, but very gradually became feebler until she died, about ten weeks after the injury. No effort was made at repair in the fracture, and at no time was there any febrile action. It is not improbable that further knowledge will discover some specific cause of death in many of these cases; but it is also equally probable that many cases will remain which can only be regarded as cases in Avhicli shock is not instantaneously fatal, but only gradually though uninterruptedly passes to a fatal termination. It is not contended that no physical changes are present in the nervous or other structures, because it will not be contended in these pages that any change of force, nervous or otherwise, can be manifested in an unchanged material organ; but the changes in the prolonged shock are probably similar in character to those which occur in the more rapidly fatal forms. The Physiological and Pathological Examination op the Symptoms oe Shock. This requires consideration, not only because of its intrinsic importance and interest, but because also this part of our subject will furnish the most philosophical data for treatment.