175 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. His pulse came down from 120° on the second day to 99° on the third day. Except the hernial protrusion there were no signs of inflammation or other change in the wound. Having described his condition during the first few days, I will briefly summarise the weeks of his recovery. The brain-surface granulated cleanly, the corners of the scalp smoothed down, and the hernial protrusion gradually sub- sided as the cicatrising margins closed over it. Look now at this scar. The former hernia has become a deep de- pression—a fortunate depression, as it is his best protection against injury. The scar is thin, and consists of the mem- branes of the brain and the scalp tissues, which have merged into one common layer of connective tissue, over which the epidermis of the neighbouring skin has grown. On three occasions during his convalescence we were made uneasy by a temporary rise of temperature. On the third occasion the thermometer reached 104°, and was attended with great listlessness. The formation and the confinement (one or both) of a few drops of pus in or near the thin scar and under a small scab explained these alarms. We will now look at the paralysis. From the first day, the tongue when put out turned to the left. The condition of the upper limb has all along improved, and at present the impaired movement is chiefly seen in the forearm, wrist, and fingers ; the power of supination and pronation is very feeble in the wrist and fingers; flexion is enfeebled, but extension is much more so. In the lower limb flexion and extension of the knee are not much affected; but the extensors of the toes, which are, I need scarcely say, also the flexors of the ankle, are much weakened. The heel is slightly elevated, and when he first began to walk he threw the lower limb forwards with a kind of semicircular outward swing • gradually this movement has become more of a jerk, such as is seen in the slighter forms of equine talipes which arc left after infantile paralysis. His water required to be drawn on one occasion only, on the third day. With all this favourable recovery I must not conceal fiom you the fact that his future is not altogether an un- clouded one. When I stated the chief facts of the case to