238 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunlc, Thorax, Abdomen. “ On the evening of June 27th, 1878, I was requested to visit a gentleman who had just arrived from Windsor. I learnt that my patient, previously the proprietor of a large hotel, was engaged upon the turf, and regularly attended all the important race meetings throughout the kingdom. He was a large-made, full-blooded, and well-to-do looking man, never iutempei’ate, but living upon the best, eating of every- thing in season, drinking champagne and claret-cup, and now and then enjoying port wine and nuts. “ The weather was intensely hot, and he had been much exposed to the sun’s rays, which, producing a feeling of fatigue, had induced him to sit down on a very hard- bottomed chair two days previously. At the time, he felt pain on the left side, between the ischial tuberosity and the anus; hardness soon followed the pain, both being accompanied with a feeling of great malaise. Upon examination, I found pyrexial symptoms well marked, a distressing one being intense frontal headache; the local trouble was shown me. I observed that the soft parts between the anus and the left tuber ischii were swollen; to the eye, the skin was shining, red in its centre, and to the feel it was tense and hard. The bowels had been, by medicine, freely relieved; the urine, which was not abundaut, was loaded with pinky-brown litliates, but it was free from albumen and sugar. My advice, of having a free incision made into the brawny tissues, was not followed, although I carefully explained the good that it would do, and the dangerous harm that it might possibly prevent. “ The next day, everything was worse. The patient had not slept; the pain, before great, was now torture. He said he was sure he was mortifyiug. The swelling and hardness had much extended; the red spot was now a black one, and its large areolar was of a dusky red colour. As soon as it was possible, ether was given, and a large incision exposed a gangrenous mass of cellular tissue, and let loose an ichor of a most putrid but non-feculent odour. “ The daily notes of the case it is unnecessary to report. Suffice it to say that he battled bravely for his life; that