54 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. Whore there is reason to fear that respiration is about to cease, and the injury is not of a necessarily fatal character, artificial respiration may be desirable, although, in most cases, external heat (which in these cases is possibly interchange- able with nerve-force) will answer better. In cases where death threatens from loss of blood, transfusion offers a chance of recovery, which, when it is practicable, should not be neglected. In all cases of shock, and in every operation where it is possible, the recumbent posture should be pre- ferred to any other, and should be maintained until all fear of failure of the heart’s action has passed away. Can anything be done when the circulation has actually ceased ? There is now no doubt that it is quite possible for the heart to resume its action after complete cessation of all movement. How to secure a return of action is a question of almost oppressive responsibility on the part of the surgeon. From facts which have been observed in animals, it has been inferred that opening the external jugular vein, when it is found turgid, would enable the heart to act more vigorously. In experiments on animals, is it not the 'puncture itself which stimulates the heart to action, rather than the escape of blood from any given cavity ? I have not observed in the human being the turgid condition of the jugular veins referred to; and post mortem examination in cases of fatal shock reveals only a moderate quantity of blood in the heart. Where the heart has actually ceased to beat, I believe that experiments on animals that have certainly been resuscitated in this way indicate the possibility of restoring the cardiac action by means of a rapid puncture of the heart with a long sharp needle. The Treatment of Reaction, like that of shock, is rather of a negative than a positive character. To watch and assist nature is our chief duty. Some diminution of diet, some purgation, and plentiful supply of bland fluids to satisfy thirst, may be necessary. Under ordinary circumstances, so far as shock and reaction only arc concerned, it can rarely if ever, be necessary to bleed. In wounds of the thorax,