39 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. inflammation; the softening of inflammation; and the softening of deficient nutrition, are removed from the question of shock, which is the more immediate result of the primary injury. It is common in surgical works to find concussion of the spinal cord described as a condition which comes on gradually, and at a variable period after the accident. I venture here to use the word concussion of the cord in a manner analogous to that in which it is used in discussing injuries of the head. There can be no doubt that the cases of so-called concussion of the spine, which do not immediately follow the injury, are iu reality cases of htemorrhage implicating the spinal cord. Shock fi’om severe concussion of the cord high up may prove immediately fatal. The following is a case in illustration. A man, to whom I was called, had discharged a pistol into his mouth, and immediately died. Examination of the body showed that the bullet struck the body of the second cervical vertebra; but, beyond slight laceration of the tongue and of the upper part of the larynx and pharynx, no injury was done; no vertebral or any other bone was broken. The naked eye could detect no change in the upper part of the cord or the membranes. It was supposed that the pistol contained very little powder. Injuries of the cord lower down are not often immediately fatal from shock; but it is a singular feature in these cases, that the shock is remarkably persistent, and this quite independently of any peculiar way in which the injury may have been inflicted, although it is a condition which is frequently found after railway accidents. Probably, however, the physical changes, which undoubtedly occur in all cases of concussion and shock, are followed by othex’s—congestion, inflammation, and degeneration—which, when occurring in the brain or the spinal cord, explain many of the ulterior effects of injuries, especially l-ailway injuries, as insanity, paralysis, spasm, epilepsy, and the more limited lesions of local pain, local paralysis, or local loss of sensation. The Ulterior Effects of Shock. The ulterior effects of injuries to any part of the body are of the greatest importance to the surgeon. They follow at longer or shorter periods after shock. It is necessary to