30 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. health, suffering from the immediate effects of severe injury, is in a worse position than a mau of similar health suffering from a similar injury. I will go further, “other things being equal,” I believe that a woman bears injuries better than a mau. I am now presuming that in the average woman the nervous system is less taxed than in the man. This presumption may not be tenable much longer. I trust, I have shewn enough of the utility of the thermometer and the sphygmograph to lead to the conviction that, with their assistance, we shall, in the future, by careful and repeated observation, be able to arrive at much more definite and precise knowledge of the varying degrees, and characters, and modifying causes of shock. In this way, the influence of sex, age, prior disease, and the locality or nature of any given operation, or injury, may be more completely ascertained. THE EFFECT OF AGE ON SHOCK. It is commonly assumed, that the effects of injury are greater in the young and the old than in the middle period of life. Old age is confessedly a very relative condition, and cannot be measured by years only. One man at eighty, hale, free from disease, will often bear a given injury better than another man at sixty; the latter being practically feebler and more worn out than the former. Merely advanced age, presuming that it is not extreme, with a sound condition of the organs from temperate habits and conditions habitually favourable to health, often bears shock remarkably well. This is often seen in strangulated hernia, where the collapse which attends gangrenous intestine and the formation of an artificial anus often appears less intense in the aged than when these conditions occur in earlier life. Nevertheless, the decline of life is in itself unfavourable to the effects of injury. The effect of prior disease on shock is mostly un- favourable as regards the severity of shock; but it is rare (and consequently very rare in injury) to meet with old age perfectly free from disease. The material substrata (to borrow a phrase from physical science) of the several vital forces