38 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. to form a combination of tho most terrible circumstances wliicli it is possible for tlie mind to conceive. The vastness of the destructive forces, the magnitude of the results, the imminent danger to the lives of numbers of human beings, and the hopelessness of escape from the danger, give rise to emotions which in themselves are quite sufficient to produce shock, or even death itself. Syncope, or concussion of the brain, may destroy consciousness for a time, or possibly altogether; but, if consciousness return, depressing influences still operate, although less injuriously, but on a blunted nerve-power. All that the most powerful impression on the nervous system can effect, is effected in a railway accident, and this quite irrespectively of the extent or importance of the bodily injury. Indeed, if there be no bodily injury whatever, the shock may nevertheless be intense, and be followed by ulterior results, the nature and mode of termination of which it may be difficult to foresee. With the fullest extent of mental shock, the extent of bodily injury may vary greatly—from an abrasion of the skin to the crushing of the body into a shapeless mass. The most frequent complication of local injury, independently of the psychical element of shock, is direct injury to the nervous centres. It is natural that the trunk and the head should be most liable to injury in railway accidents, where the body is thrown, as a whole, violently into contact with surrounding objects. The direction in which the body is thrown, as regards the resulting injury to the spinal cord, appears to matter little. The direct effect is concussion, as indicated in some cases by immediate impairment of its functions of sensation, motion, and control of the sphincters. The effect of the violence to the spine may be something more than concussion ; vessels (and the arterial and venous systems connected with tho spinal cord are peculiarly large and im- portant) may be ruptured; or the substance of the cord, or the nerves at their origins, may be torn. When the vessels are ruptured, the effects are only developed with time—it may be hours, or it may be days. But these lesions, incalculable as their importance is, and their several sequelm,