152 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. In investigating tlio antecedents of strumous cases, I have placed entire reliance on the remarkable discoveries of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, in the field of hereditary syphilis— especially the singly notched upper permanent incisors, the labial cicatrices, earthy complexion, and interstitial keratitis of puberty. But I further personally examined a great number of parents, and even grand-parents, and the historical information I obtained in this way corroborated, it seemed to me, the inferences now drawn. A circumstance which struck me forcibly was this : that where I expected to find syphilis in a parent, that parent was in many cases dead—death being unusually active in syphilitic families. As my enquiries were mainly in the direction of bone disease, I shall almost confine my remarks to them; but I shall at the same time regard them as representing a class of strumous diseases. A young adult from fifteeen, or earlier, to forty, or later, complains of slow enlargement of the end of the shaft of a bone. It is common to find this mainly in the end of the diaphysis, the epiphysis and the joint frequently es- caping any serious change; the trochanters, for example, are slowly inflamed, but the hip-joint remains free; the femur just above the epiphysis slowly enlarges, but the knee escapes. This is a curious fact. Long neglect, or an aggravation of the inflammatory process, or the close proximity of the epiphysis, as in the smallar bones, may lead to joint mischief; even then, when opportunity has offered, I have found the great bulk of the disease to lie on the shaft side of the epiphysial line. In short or irregular bones, vertebral, tarsal, carpal, or pelvic—the neighbour- ing structures are implicated at an earlier period. What- ever the cause of the osteitis of children may be, it is natural that the joint should bo quickly involved, partly because the epiphyses are small, and the joints very near, and partly because the cell changes in the young are active, and physiological readily passes into pathological action. It seems a fanciful conclusion to arrive at, but it has many times forced itself upon my notice, that struma