168 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. for operation. “To day,” lie says, “it is too early to operate, to-morrow it is too late.” I do not speak of any particular hospital, or kind of hospital; hut of all sizes and sorts everywhere. But what of the value of statistics in such cases ? For reasons here suggested, and for others too numerous, complicated, and wearisome to refer to, I give a higher value to the opinion of capable and widely-seeing men than I do to figures. I have said that decrease is not visible along the whole line of operative surgery. Some operations are diminishing in frequency, some are not; some are increasing, some aro going out of use, some are newly coming in. In no branch of operative surgery is a decrease so marked as in amputation. Police and other supervision prevent the gangrene of the feet that occurred when drunkards and idiots slept out-of-doors in winter nights. Drunkenness itself is diminishing. Smashed limbs, though still too frequent, are less common now that machinery is better protected and explosives more carefully stored. Syphilis is less severe and better treated—indeed, I believe with Hutchinson, it is often cured—hence there is less of struma, of disease of bones and joints in the second and third generations. I will not affirm that it is so; but less syphilis may mean less aneurism, and less need of the ligature of large arteries. There are fewer strangulated hernias, because hernias are better looked after and better trussed. In the large field of rectal diseases there is a less apparent decrease of operative need. A more educated public is more anxious about its ailments; but it will not give up its wine altogether, and it will be sedentary. The lithic acid diathesis is treated at an earlier period. Or if a calculus form, it is chiefly among the ignorant, a dwindling class, that it is allowed to grow so large in adults as to need to be cut out. Strictures aro strikingly better cared for than formerly. There are no surgical instruments that have been so denounced as clastic catheters and bougies, to my mind there arc no instruments that have saved so many lives. The occasional use by the patient himself of a bulbous