Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 82 1 have elsewhere spoken of cellulitis, and I have inci- dentally given a striking example of counter-irritation in cellulitis around the rectum. It is needless here to cite ordinary cases of erysipelas. Many medical friends have kindly sent me reports of these and other cases. Their cases and mine justify, I think, the assertion that the above treatment shortens more than any other the duration of these formidable ailments. Syphilis. In constitutional syphilis, from the indurated chancre on- wards, the specific element so greatly predominates over the inflammatory as to require the treatment to be necessarily of a specific character. But there are not unfrequently syphilitic local conditions in which inflammation, as such, largely enters. In the suppurating chancre, a stripe of iodine paint over the femorals will often remarkably curtail the ordinary duration of the disease. Sometimes specific tonsillitis of a very severe form sets in, and will be much relieved by iodine about the angles of the jaw. In the suppurating bubo, a horseshoe of iodine (liniment, or strong pigment), with rest and uniform pressure, by means of a linseed poultice and shot-mattress, will often effect complete subsidence in an early stage, and will rapidly open and heal a bubo at a later stage. Uniform and moderately firm pressure is an excellent and quick means of opening an abscess where opening is unavoidable. I have seen now several cases of absorbed abscess and bubo, and only good results, locally aud generally, have followed. Secondary and tertiary ulcers, iu addition to constitutional treatment, may be benefited by zones of counter-irritation, and the more active the inflammation the greater the benefit. The treatment of destructive ulcerations, syphilitic as well as simple, has been already described. Suppurating bubo (with secondary syphilisJ rapidly absorbed by means of counter-irritation and pressure.—A gentleman, aged 25, came to me with secondary syphilis, and a large