Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 23 of ascent, which commences the trace of a single cardiac im- pulse. It is obvious, however, that where the arterial walls are maintained in a state of tension by any difficulty in the passage of the blood through the capillaries, the ascent of the trace will be correspondingly shortened, and the line of descent also will be made more or less irregularly convex. In experiments which have been made at my request, to illustrate certain questions in the consideration of shock, it was found that in certain injuries, or even under mental emotion, the capillary circulation was arrested in the frog’s foot, together with the circulation in the larger vessels. When reaction occurred, it was found, in the more severe injuries, that for some time the blood only circulated in the larger trunks as far as the capillaries. In shock, the impaired circulation in the capillaries is no doubt due mainly to the weakened propulsive power of the heart. That it is so alto- gether, is doubtful. The coldness which is present in shock probably leads to contraction of the smaller vessels and capil- laries. But, although the capillary circulation is impeded, there can be little doubt that the feebleness of the heart’s action prevents any considerable approach to a state of tension in the arteries. The second pulse-trace given below was taken from a man whose thigh had been amputated half an hour previously. The shock was not severe, and was already becoming less intense, while the nervous system was extremely unimpressible. In a case of shock where the pulse is sufficiently powerful to act on the lever of the sphygmograph, the elevation of the line of ascent may be fairly taken as an indication of the force of the heart’s action, and as an index of the intensity of the shock. The sphygmographic tracings here represented are selected from those taken before operation, shortly after, and also from those taken during reaction. The first traco was taken half an hour before the operation ol amputation of tho thigh. It presents some irregularity,