LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. PLATE I.—Fig 1 shows the application of counter-irritation, in a halo or zone around a carbuncle, or boil, or abscess, or patch of erysipelas, or cellulitis. In this plate and the next, iodine liniment (or pigment) is assumed to be the irritant. Fig. 2 shows a mode of establishing counter- irritation in mammary abscess. The counter-irritation may be confined to the inner side of the arm, or to this and the infra-clavicular region. The inner side of the arm should be more freely covered than the diagram suggests. Fig. 3 shows a horse-shoe of counter-irritation around a bubo, or ingirinal abscess, or inflamed inguinal glands. Page 80. PLATE II.—Figs. 1 and 3 show modes of effecting counter-irritation in inflammatory diseases of the shoulder or knee. The intensity and the extent of the counter-irritation must be determined by the locality and amount of inflammation. Fig. 2 shows a mode of applying iodine irritation in axillary abscess, or inflamed glands, or other inflammatory disease. Fig. 4 shows a mode of applying counter-irritation around a node, or other inflammation. The irritation may be effected in two stripes, one on each side of the node, or, in a node of the tibia, the whole of the back of the leg maybe covered. Page 81. PLATE III.—Fig. 1 shows treatment of enlarged cervical glands by counter- irritation and shot-bag pressure. Fig. 2 shows method of using counter- irritation in a boil or cluster of boils. Fig. 3, congenital hypertrophy of radial half of fore-arm from photographs. Fig. 4, congenital hypertrophy of face. Page 97. PLATE IV.—Shows methods of using constantly moist and antiseptic sponge dressing in removal of breast, injuries of the head, operations for hernia, and amputations at ancle and hip. Page 129. PLATE V—Figs. 1 and 2 show clinical bearings of abnormal distribution of lymphatics. Fig 3 shows a “ cut fracture ” with portions of felt hat deeply embedded in the brain. Fig. 4. A case of destruction of entire scalp, and apparent death of outer table of skull. Figs. 5, G, and 7, suggest a method of excising large cancers from the face. Page 177. PLATE VI.—Figs. 1 and 2 show the formation of a mouth from one lip. Figs. 3 and 4 show a method of operation for hare-lip to avoid a notch. Fig, 5 shows a method of restoring symmetry after old and unsatisfactory operation. Fig. 6 shows a method of removing the tongue. Page 193.