Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, Sf Abdomen. 231 began to vomit. The vomiting, at first occasional, became incessant and ffecal in character, and she sank in two or three days. I examined the body. The intestinal canal was from end to end enormously distended with gas; but there was nowhere any localised obstruction of any kind. The bowel was strikingly yellow in appearance; and the amount of fat, not only on the body, but within the abdomen, could only be described in words that would savour of caricature. After the most careful examination, no other appearances could be found to account for death. Another case, which made a vivid impression on my mind, was that of an exceedingly stout man. He got out of doors a little in a specially made phaeton with a bottom so low that it just cleared the road, and was reached with one short step. Without injury or premonitory incident of any kind, symptoms of intestinal obstruction (sometimes urgent and sometimes with intervals of ease) set in, and in a few days he died. A very yellow distended bowel was seen; indeed, I remarked in this case, as I have in others, “ The bowel seems to be a tube made of fat.” The distension was not uniform, but more in some coils than in others. There was, however, no band, or twist, or stricture, or cause of ob- struction of any kind. I had not yet concluded that death might be caused by fatty failure of the gut. I was merely suspicious, and afraid that it might be so, or I should have called in the aid of the microscope. In a case of strangulated hernia in a very stout mau, the bowel was reduced easily and with marked gurgling, and for a few hours he seemed better; but vomiting returned, and he died. On examination, no inflammation, or gangrene, or apparently adequate cause for death, was found. The abdominal organs were greatly loaded with flit. The heart was somewhat softer than natural. The extreme yellowness of the bowel so struck me, and my reflections and fears had now taken so clear a shape, that I determined on a microscopical examination of the muscular fibre of the bowel. This was carefully made for me by an experienced microscopist, Dr. Wood (one of our staff’), and left no doubt of the marked