242 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. to imagine. Greater troubles, however, were to follow. Symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction arose. These gradually increased, and her condition becoming one of great gravity Mr. Clay was consulted; and when I saw her, at his suggestion, tliero had been complete obstruction for fourteen days. On examination, the finger entered a cavity formed by the anterior wall of the vagina in front, and by the sacrum behind. At the upper and back part of the space was a dense, irregular, cicatricial mass in front of which the uterus was situated. The poor woman was in a state of great exhaustion, and there was clearly no time to loose. Two modes of operative relief presented themselves for consideration. Should we try to pierce the cicatricial mass at the brim of the pelvis, seek for the canal of the bowel, and attempt to establish a permanent opening in it ? or should we open the colon in the left loin ? It would, we believed, be difficult to reach the bowel, difficult to open it, and difficult to keep the opening permanent. But there was something graver than difficulty before us; there was real danger— the danger of opening the peritoneal cavity behind the uterus. Taking into consideration all the bearings of the case, we believed that they were all in favour of colotomy. I at once performed the operation. Improvement was quickly seen, and restoration to perfect health followed. Touching the operation of colotomy, I have a word to say. Not long ago there was a discussion conducted by very able surgeons on this point: should the parts be divided in such a manner as to leave a conical wound, the bowel being at the bottom—a wound, it was said, more favourable for recovery; or should the muscles be divided to the full extent of the superficial incision—a step which, it was said, would facilitate the finding of the bowel. Gentlemen, in this, as in so many other controversies, there seems to be a middle way. Sometimes the muscles are so thin and the wound so shallow, that little deep dissection is needed; sometimes, on the other hand, the muscles are so massive and the wound so deep, that free division of muscular fibre is, in my opinion at least, necessary. I have