Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 96 strumous ulcers. Iodine paint was applied in the form of a horse shoe, and the glandular enlargement disappeared very rapidly. The strumous ulcers were much more obstinate— they had very little inflammatory action about them. Great enlargement of cervical glands of three years' duration, and resisting every treatment: Adjacent counter-irritation : Rapid sidosidence.—Emma H., aged 15, had enlargement of cervical glands for three years, and tried all kinds of treatment without success. A large disc of iodine was applied to the back of the neck, and the enlargement very rapidly subsided. Enlarged cervical glands : Long duration : Counter-irritation : Rapid improvement. — James D., aged 33, had strumous enlargement of the glands many years. A crescent of iodine irritation removed the swellings in three weeks. Enlargement of cervical glands of long standing: Counter- irritation : Immediate improvement.—Ellen R., aged 9, came to hospital with old-standing enlargement of cervical glands, on which much and varied treatment had been expended in vain. A horse shoe of iodine paint was applied around the swelling, with immediate improvement of a very marked character. The subsidence was very rapid until very little enlargement remained, when the progress was not so rapid. Remarks.—Probably the treatment was carelessly carried out towards the end. Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases and of Injuries of the Nervous System. The treatment just described is also a successful method of treatment in the intra-cranial inflammations which come before the surgeon—those, namely, which follow injuries of the head. After concussion or contusion of the brain, or fracture of the skull, febrile symptoms, especially an ele- vation of temperature as indicated by the thermometer, should call forth activo treatment. The counter-irritation does not interfere with elevation of the head and shoulders, mercurial inunction, or active purgation. A common remedy is cold to the head. I question its utility, although I often resort to it. In its stead, the nitrate of silver may be sparingly applied to the shaven scalp.