Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 42 Dynamical pathology can scarcely be said to exist at present. The reason is to be found in the still early state of our knowledge of dynamics as applied to physiology. Reference has already been made to the question of the correlation of nerve to other physiological and even physical forces; but the present state of our knowledge of this subject scarcely jnstifi.es more than an allusion to its great importance. It is common, and certainly convenient, to speak of a “ depression of nerve-force.” Strictly speaking, however, no force can be depressed; it can only be metamorphosed into some other of the numerous forces which prevail, or are capable of prevailing, in the animal economy. A more specific definition, then, of shock is, that it is essentially a metamorphosis of nerve-force. It will, nevertheless, be convenient still to speak of the depression or impairment of nerve-force, using the expression in a general sense. Unconsciousness, complete or incomplete, is due to the injury which acts directly on the nervous system; and the more direct the injury, the more complete will unconsciousness be. It may also be augmented, or protracted, or even produced, by enfeebled action of the heart, which fails to send arterial blood to the nerve-centres in quantities sufficient to keep up that unceasing nutrition which is essential to the continued exercise of the nerve-function. Muscular Inaction is due chiefly to the state of the nervous system. The will, the emotions, and sensation, are all too much in abeyance to call forth a direct muscular action. Muscular contractility also requires the constant and plentiful supply of arterial blood; and, if this be altogether absent, nerve- stimulation itself is incapable of exciting contraction. In ordinary shock, there is simply diminished—it may be greatly diminished—supply of arterial blood. The complete absence of arterial blood could only occur where shock was about to terminate in death. Impaired tonicity, and still more paralysis of the muscular system, gives rise to many symptoms, such as an inability to maintain the erect posture, the falling of the upper lid, and others; one only of which requires further consideration at