177 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Acclc. I have just used the word “symptoms.” Let me say hero and at once what we mean by “ symptoms,” and the equiva- lent expression “symptoms of compression.” lliere is a multitude of anomalous and very momentous phenomena, also, which do not concern us now. We do not speak of shock, or insensibility, or vomiting, or local paralyses, or partial paralyses, or convulsive movements, or restless flexion move- ments, or delirium, or fever, or high temperature, because we are not speaking of stunned, or bruised, or torn, or inflamed brain. By “ symptoms ” we mean a clear and persistent paralysis of one side of the body. This hemiplegia is usually associated with coma, and both are due to undoubted pressure on the brain—pressure of bone, or blood, or inflammatory products. I am in the habit of using brief phrases to denote the varieties of compression of the brain, with their hemiplegia, and coma, and perhaps stertor and whiffing of the cheek. The expressions “ paralysing bone pressure,” “ paralysing blood- pressure,” “paralysing pus-pressure,” seem to have the merit of combining definition and diagnosis. Let me remind you that paralysing bone pressure appears instantly with the injury, that paralysing blood-pressure comes on in a few hours with reaction, and that paralysing pus-pressure comes on after a few or many days with high temperature and fever. In this lecture I desire to deal with leading principles chiefly, and also more particularly with those which bear on fractures of the skull where there are perforating bone frag- ments or paralysing bone fragments—in short, on the position, characters, and probable effects of broken pieces of skull. A number of minor details cluster round the leading features of head injuries. I scarcely regret that I am forced to neglect them to-day. When the anxious moment arrives of action or no action, he is the fortunate man in whose mind essential principles come to the front undimmed by relatively unim- portant details. The when-to-trephine propositions of authors embody much difference of opinion, but as they reflect our present knowledge it is well that I should bring them before you; and remember they relate to the adult skull (with its diploci and laminaa) only. M