216 Enquiries in Surgery of Trunk, Thorax, fy Abdomen. Understand that these three strips may be put on under the tripod as easily as on the bed should the tripod seem to give a better position, and the rapidity, without hurry, of the process is no little benefit when suspension is adopted. If put on in the horizontal posture, the strips are so arranged that the patient is laid down on them; if pulley-extension be used, the multiple strips may be first placed on a sheet of macintosh or paper, and then drawn under the trunk. I am not yet quite clear which answers best—six or eight layers of checked muslin or two or three of thin honeycomb towelling. The towelling is more manageable, the muslin con- tains more plaster. If a loop of twine be drawn through the four corners of each strip the whole strip is readily drawn straight and smooth when taken out of water. I may here suggest the utility of these multiple strips as splints in many cases of fracture, diseases of the joints, talipes, &c. The several strips are cut to the desired pattern, filled with plaster, put one on another, rolled up short-ways or any convenient way in one roll, dipped in water a few moments, unrolled and put along and around the adjusted limb. 3. A Simple and Efficient Plaster Jury-mast. In the case of this girl you see what I venture to call a solution of the jury-mast difficulty. The jury-mast itself is so complete, and is also so immovably connected with the jacket, that the little patient's trunk and head and neck are as fixed as if they were carved out of a single block of wood. We not only turn the head when we turn the body, but when we turn the head we turn the whole body also. If we lift the body we lift at the same time the head without a jar or vibration. The effect is somewhat weird. We could, if we chose, lean her against the wall or roll her along the floor without the slightest movement in any single vertebra. This jury-mast is perhaps stronger than is needful. It is a multiple strip made up of ten layers of prepared muslin ; it is fifty-two inches long and two inches and a half wide. The strips may vary from two to three or four inches in width to fisty or sixty in length, according to age, size of head, and length of neck of the patient.