87 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. It need scarcely be said tbat both carbuncles and boils are the result of some lowered state of health, which should be most carefully attended to; they are, nevertheless, much more successfully treated by local means than are the distinctly diathetic inflammations. Paronychia. Every variety of paronychia should be treated on the same principle. The only difference in the detail is the degree of vigour which should characterise the treatment, and this must be determined simply by the degree of intensity of the inflammation which is present. The deep seated variety is, it need not be said, that in which the symptoms are most urgent and in which the phalanges and articulations are most likely to be involved. Suppose, then, such a case presents itself: the whole finger is swelled, hard, red, and intensely painful, the other fingers and the whole of the hand (dorsal and palmar surfaces) should be freely painted with iodine liniment, or a strong solution of nitrate of silver. The affected finger may be painted or not. A thick linseed poultice should be applied with moderate pressure. The hand should then be carried under the chin and supported there with a sling. In a still more severe case, where the hand also, as well as the finger, is swelled to perhaps twice or thrice its natural size, with suppuration probably present, the forearm, almost to tlte elbow, and the least inflamed portions of the hand, should be freely covered with iodine liniment, followed by poultice, pressure, and the chin-sling. Immediate subsi- dence of pain and of much of the swelling follow; if suppuration have occurred beyond a certain degree, the abscess will probably open within twenty-four hours of the iodine application, and, having opened, will often immediately close without any continuance of discharge. But if there be no subsidence of pain and swelling in a short period, a period measured rather by hours than days, an incision must be made. I he subsequent recovery is greatly accelerated by the counter-irritation.