Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. 209 of middle age, who had formerly lived much in India, and had a markedly sallow complexion. There was a firm, hard, white swelling on the left side of the neck and coming near the middle line in front. There was an incessant and abundant spitting of frothy bronchial mucus. The temperature was 102, and accompanied by great nervous depression and muscular debility. A broad horseshoe of energetic iodine counter-irritation was the chief treatment, next to support. Contrary to my expectation he made a favourable recovery, the swelling subsiding, I was informed, without redness, suppuration, or sloughing. These cases of cellulitis of the neck suggest several items of interest. They occur as a rule in men at middle age; in men who combine much eating and drinking with much mental and bodily activity, and who are also especially subject to exposure to cold. All the acute and fatal cases I have seen have been in males, but I do not say the cases have been numerous enough to justify a sweeping conclusion. It is probable that sex per se has little to do with the matter, but rather a combination of circumstances which is found mainly in men. It is in men we find a union of much eating, much drinking, great mental activity (perhaps worry also), much travelling, and probably long journeys in all weathers. It is not proposed to speak here of the pathology of cellulitis, other than to point out that it has distinctive clinical characters as distinguished from erysipelas or diffused abscess. In acute cases at the front of the neck sloughing of the cellular tissue would seem to be rare; the acute cases die before actual death of tissue occurs, and chronic cases recover without sloughing. The case of the boy, however, should teach us that gangrene of the deepest cellular tissue may be present with no external characters to betray it. The fatal cases being in private practice, and also at a distance, were unfortunately not examined after death. A peculiar feature of the seat of the origin of cellulitis is its occasional, if not invariable, depth. In one case which I saw, an early symptom, before obvious swelling of o