67 Enquiries in Surgery Generally. blood to the intestinal canal. An acute orchitis arrests gonorrhoea. A carbuncle, an experienced observer tells me, at the back of the neck, will cure an obstinate ocular in- flammation when all remedies have failed. When this action is better explained, and a better designation offered, the explanation and the term will both be welcome. Seeing that counter-irritation in some inflammations is so rapidly beneficial, I have often asked myself why it is not more frequently used. Counter-irritation as often used is simply direct irritation. It is possibly so in pleurisy, es- pecially in the early stage. The same may be said of the abdomen, the cranium, of thinly covered bubo or joint. But counter-irritation over another, more or less independent vascular territory, tends to arrest the original inflammation, wherever it may be. I have little doubt that in the earlier stages of pleurisy, a blister covei’ing the inner side of the arm would rapidly subdue inflammatory action. I do not refer, of course, to pleurisy, the result of tubercular or foreign-body irritation. It is not contended that the localities for counter- irritation suggested here are the best. Future experience will probably bring improvement. The principle laid down, however, is clear and definite, and in practice has been shown to give results of an eminently striking and satis- factory character. Counter-irritation should be established over the next, or another, or an independent vascular trunk or territory. In intra-cranial inflammation, counter-irritation should be excited over the branches of the external carotid— over the neck generally, if a superficial irritant be used; over the mastoid process or back of the neck, or both, if a deeply acting irritant be used. In abdominal and pelvic inflammations, deep counter-irritation should be excited over the femoral arteries. In all these instances the inflammation and the counter-irritation may be reversed in locality; in inflammations of the upper extremity, or the thigh, irritation may be excited over the thorax or abdomen respectively. Although only a detail, I believe there is some advantage in putting stripes of counter-irritation over the arteries.