Enquiries in Surjery Generally. 120 the withering process, that hand was for months, or a year or two, in as perfect local health as the other hand. The cancer, amputation or no amputation, eventually kills him. A woman becomes weak, thin, and green, and then a cancer appears in the foot. These cases are not exceptional; I speak from ex- perience. It is true, that occasionally a man or woman comes before us with a cancer, who is at the same time stout and red. Strict inquiry will probably show that the stoutness and redness are less than formerly, and it will certainly show that debility was complained of long before any local symptoms appeared. Stoutness and redness are very un- reliable evidences of the absence of a constitutional ailment. Stoutness and redness are found frequently in all diatheses— in struma, tubercle, gout, syphilis, and cancer—they are found possibly in all these, even when death is not far off. The statement that the cachexia of cancer is due solely to discharges, haemorrhage, and pain, cannot be accepted, because death often puts an end to cases where there is no discharge or haemorrhage, and in which pain is not a marked symptom. Thus it is in many internal cancers, and is not infrequent in the external. Cancer of the testis for example is uni- formly fatal without any breach of integument. In most cases the cachexia is out of proportion to the local disease. Neither is the bulk of the cancer by its large abstraction of blood from the general current a cause of death. An innocent tumour of much greater size leaves the general health uninjured. No doubt loss of blood and discharges shorten life, but seeing that all cancers kill their victims, it is a mere accident, a detail, that bleeding and pain kill some victims more quickly. Now it is a curious and conspicuous circumstance, that no cachexia precedes, or accompanies, or destroys life in inno- cent growths. The apparent and rare exceptions to this rule are accidental and non-essential. Again, then, we are justified in saying that whatever the difference between malignant and innocent growths may be, wherever, when- ever, and however it begins, it is so real, vital, and fun-