Enquiries in Surgery Generally. 118 solids only; nor, indeed, is he a combination of liquid and solid. He is the one constantly passing into the other. He is not a catalogue, or an addition sum; he is a transmutation. The blood is constantly being converted into solids, the solids are constantly becoming liquid. In the race from the maximum of liquidity to the maximum of solidity, and back again, who shall say at what particular step disease begins ? But if the change is constantly going on, disease must begin in and during the change. It is, therefore, impossible to say whether normal blood running through normal solids can become cancerous or cancer-producing, or whether normal solids with normal blood running through them can become cancerous, because probably the moment one is diseased the other becomes so. It is true we are also ignorant of the mode of origin of innocent growths. They are excessive growths of natural structures. Quite possibly they also are of so-called constitutional origin. But here our ignorance stops. We clearly know that wherever, or whenever, or however they begin, they are from first to last, in time, character, methods, and endings, totally different from malignant growths. A difference between two groups of tumours which amounts to death in one group and to life in another, is so vital as to be one of principle. Even if, up to the moment of the tangible appearance of a new mass, it could be proved that the local and constitutional states were similar, the question of life or death from that moment is one that cannot be called a detail, and one that calls for a designation. It has been customary to call the always fife-taking tumour “ constitutional,” and all others “ local.” Granting that the innocent growths are in a certain sense constitutional (as in this sense are nails and hair) the basic difference, even if both are constitutional, is so great that pathological truth is still best preserved by retaining the terms “ constitutional ” and “ local,” until a better phrase- ology is devised—a better phraseology the “ result of time,” will probably bring. The question of constitutionalism or localism, touching the origin of cancers, when clearly stated, seems to render