201 Enquiries in the Surgery of the Head and Neele. A Method of Removing the Tongue. I do not propose to discuss here the general question of the propriety of removing the tongue. I confine myself to one or two remarks. I believe life to be prolonged by early and efficient removal. There are, in my experience, few cases in which partial removal of the tongue is preferable to entire removal; and surely if an error of judgment is possible, it is better to err on the side of too free, rather than on the side of too limited an operation. An operating surgeon rarely regrets the complete step; I am confident that he frequently regrets the less complete proceeding. There are one or two ways in which an operation lengthens life,—by the prevention of haemorrhage, by the removal of pain, and by the absence of difficulty in taking food. But the prolongation of life is not the only consideration. Cancer of the tongue is perhaps the most painful malady which human beings suffer from. The pain, the haemorrhage, the foetid fluids, always in the mouth, the dribbling of saliva, the difficulty of speech and mastication, the fixity of the tongue, combine to keep up an ever present sense of discomfort and depression. Few would hesitate to put in the place of these extreme evils the swelling of sub-maxillary and cervical glands, and a gradually fatal exhaustion. By the method of operating I am about to describe, as also by some other methods, a singular degree of intelligible speech is preserved. To secure the benefits of an operation it must be early, the disease must be circumscribed, and the glands not at any rate conspicuously large. Too anxious a scrutiny cannot be given to an ulcer on the tongue of a middle- aged person. The policy of "waiting” and "watching” in the early stages of cancer is terribly destructive to life and comfort. I have removed the tongue, now many times, by a combination of steps which are simple yet effective, and which, in my opinion, better secure advantages and bettor avoid disadvantages than any other operation which is known to me. I desire to get free access to the root of the