bS Enquiries in Surgery Generally. The arteries are in sheltered positions, larger branches, of course, lie nearer the trunk, and as the larger nerve trunks lie mostly with the arteries, the nerve influence, if any, may be increased by the locality and configuration re- ferred to. It will be seen already that counter-irritants may be roughly classed under two heads—the deep and the superficial. In the agents used for artificially producing inflammation there is room for much improvement, especially is this so as regards certainty, definiteness of degree, and painlessness of action. I have chiefly used iodine, nitrate of silver, and cantharides. Iodine is very convenient because it can be used in so many degrees of strength from the tincture to the strongly acting liniment, intervening degrees of strength being obtained by mixing in different degrees the weak tincture and the strong liniment. The mixture may be conveniently designated a “ pigment.0 Strong solutions of nitrate of silver are also excellent irritants; they are apparently a little more painful than iodine. The acetum lyttae (made with glacial acid) is an excellent application for less extensive surfaces. It is painful, but only for a very short time. Where counter-irritation requires to be maintained for a length of time and over a large surface, an iodine pigment is perhaps the most convenient agent. If the artificial inflam- mation of nitrate of silver or cantharides requires to be prolonged, it may be by new patches, or stripes, or circles, or the use of cantharides ointment after cantharides. Near the urinary organs arg. nit. or iodine is preferable to cantharides. In children counter-irritation should be excited with care, especially in the very young. Slighter agents over a larger surface are better than the deeper irritants. No important irritation should be excited in children with- out the kindly aid of a few breaths of chloroform, which with them is so safe and pleasant. In addition to the agents referred to, mustard, turpentine, hot water, and many others may be occasionally used. A warm bed, a warm room, or a good fire, are mild counter-irritants in cold or other ailments; they have killed nobody, while cold rooms and