NOTES ON SYPHILIS. The Treatment of Syphilis. Whether, in spite of sentiment, prejudice, ignorance and tlieology, syphilis will some far-off day be got rid ot; whetliei dualism will g'ain ground or continuity in local venereal lesions be established; or whether syphilis will be classed among the fevers or not are subjects on which there will be a difference of opinion until we know much more than we now do. Happily in the matter of treatment there is more unanimity of opinion and practice. In my own experience (hospital and private) it is with extreme infrequency that I meet with the soft sore; putting- aside herpetic and other temporai-y eruptions and abrasions, I rarely find local lesions devoid of well defined induration. No doubt this is a curious coincidence, curious certainly, because I have requested our house surgeons and friends to bring me examples of typical soft sores; after efforts continued during several months they fail to do so. In these remarks the treatment of hard chancre and of constitutional syphilis only is spoken of. The methods here advocated are very uniform and simple. In common with many others I adopt this principle:—give mercury in the primary indurated sore as soon as its character is recognised as well as in the secondary stages. Let the mercurial course be mild, continuous, and prolonged. My experience enables me, however, to emphasise a few points in the treatment of syphilis. An extremely small dose of mercury is sufficient. The quarter or fifth or sixth of a grain of calomel, with half a grain or a grain of Dover’s powder, should be given twice or thrice a day until some very slight indication (as on the gum) of its action appears. In the great majority of cases, evidence of mercurial influence quickly shows itself. Then one dose daily, at bed time, should be taken for say some weeks, unless the action on the gums exceeds a mere trace, which is quite sufficient, when the mercurial fraction should be taken on alternate days. In the great majority of cases the quarter-grain dose every third, or