6s6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. half an ounce of butter and about a gill of bechamel sauce, shake over the lire until hot, dish up in the form of a pyramid. Sprinkle over with dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Pommes de Terre a la Bovin. Cut some peeled potatoes into olive shapes, blanch, drain, and cool them, fry them in butter and blended shallots, add finely chopped lemon-rind and seasoning, and finish in a hot oven. Dish up and sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Pommes de Terre en Copeaux {Ribbon Potatoes). Cut some washed and peeled potatoes into half-inch thick slices. Next cut the slices into thin ribbons, strain, and fry in hot fat till a golden colour. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve. Pommes nouvelles sautees au Beurre {New Potatoes with Butter). Peel or scrape twelve to eighteen new round or kidney potatoes (small and even size). Heat 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, add the potatoes, cook over a moderate fire or in the oven. They will take about twenty minutes, and should be of a rich golden colour when done. Season with salt, sprinkle with a little freshly-chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. Pommes nouvelles a la Hollandaise. Boil, drain, and dry about two dozen or more even-sized new potatoes, and put them into a vegetable dish. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stew-pan, add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce. Work up well, add one yolk of egg, the juice of half a lemon, a little white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt, stir a little longer over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour over the potatoes and serve. Pommes de Terre etouffees a la Haye. Wash and scrape some large new Dutch potatoes. Drain and bake them in a hot oven till nearly done. Cut off the top of each, scoop out the interior without breaking the potatoes, and fill the cavities with a mixture of butter, cream, chopped parsley, and potato puree. Replace the tops, and finish the potatoes in the oven. Bake to a golden colour, and serve. Pommes frites a la Julienne {Fried Potato Straws). Cut peeled potatoes into julienne strips, wash well, dry on a cloth, fry them, a few at a time, in plenty of clear boiling fat, shake the frying-basket about in the fat until they are crisp and a good colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle slightly with salt, and serve on a folded napkin. Pommes de Terre hackees au Gratin. Cut eight cold boiled potatoes into small squares, put them in a saucepan containing h gill cream and 5- oz. butter, previously warmed, add salt and pepper, and i tablespoonful grated cheese, and heat up. Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, add the potatoes, sprinkle well with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, place a small piece of butter here and there, bake in a quick oven till a nice light brown, and serve.