THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. 038 flour, beat up three whites of eggs, and mix gently with the mixture. Bake in a flat, oblong buttered tin, whisk the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with them sugar, ground almonds, and lemon-peel. Spread over the surface thickly, cut into small oblong slices. Shape neatly, and bake quickly a light yellow. Dust with sugar before baking. Fruit jam can be spread thinly over the cake before the meringue (snow) is added. Langues de Chat {Cats’ Tongues). 4 lb. fresh butter, t H’- icing sugar, 5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. flour, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and add the sugar, work well for about ten minutes, and incorporate one by one the five whites of eggs. Lastly add the vanilla flavour (about half a teaspoonful) and the flour (sifted). Dress in the form of little tongues (cats’ tongues) on a buttered and floured baking-sheet, and bake in a slack oven. This forms one of the most popular dessert biscuits both here and on the Continent. Champignons {Mushrooms). 4 whites of eggs, a piuch cream of tartar, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz, clrocolate powder, 12 oz. icing sugar, a small quantity of almond paste. Put the whites of eggs into a clean copper bowl or basin, add the cream of tartar, and whisk to a very stiff froth or foam. When firm, gently work in the castor sugar. Put this mixture in a forcing or Savoy bag with a plain tube, force out meringue shapes to the size and form of macaroons {i.e. mushrooms) on to a baking-sheet lined with paper, dredge with chocolate powder, and bake in a very cool oven. For each meringue shape a small stalk {i.e. mushroom stalk) out of almond paste, and dry them in a cool oven. When the meringues are firm, damp the paper, remove the shapes, and glaze the bottom part of each with chocolate icing, made by heating the remainder of chocolate powder with the icing sugar till dissolved ; insert the stalks before the icing has quite set. W’hen cool, dish up, and serve. Pommes de terre {Imitation Potatoes). Prepare a Genoese mixture (see p. 806) and fill up sixteen to twenty rather small oval bouche moulds (buttered). Bake them in a moderate oven, unmould, and let cool on a sieve. Scoop out the centre portion of each (flat side), and fill the cavities with frangipane or confectioner’s custard. Place each two together by fixing a little icing on the edges. Roll out some almond paste and wrap up each shape with it. Give them as near as possible the shape of potatoes, brush lightly with white of egg, and roll in grated chocolate. With a skewer mark in the eyes here and there, and let set on a pastry tray. Gaufres a la Suisse {Swiss Wafers). For wafers : t lb. gromul almonds, J oz. flour, r lb. castor sugar, i whole egg and 2 yolks, 10 drops vanilla essence. For cream filling : 2 whites of eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, -} teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i tablespoonful cream, a lb, icing sugar. Cream the sugar and eggs together ; when perfectly smooth