7i6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. Salade a la Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce-leaves. — a la Monte-Cristo.—This is composed of equal quantities of lobster, truffles, cold potatoes, and hard-boiled eggs, all cut into dice or small cubes ; arranged in a salad bowl with a lettuce heart in centre, sprinkled with chopped tarragon, and dressed with mustard flavoured mayonnaise. — a la Moscovite.—This is made similar to Russian salad (see “ Salade Russe”), only in smaller moulds, and is garnished with small tartlet crusts tilled with caviare. — Napolitaine {Neapolitan Salad).—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beetroot ; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — NiQoise.—Cooked French beans, cut into short pieces, also cold pota- toes cut into dice ; mixed with peeled tomatoes cut into sections; garnished - with capers, stoned olives, and anchovy fillets ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Pauvre Homme.—Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, etc., and chopped parsley. — a la Paysanne {Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing. — a la Polonaise {Polish Salad).—This is prepared with lettuce, endive, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of an- chovies ; seasoned with the usual salad dressing and garnished with minced cooked ham and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Heine {(Jueen Salad).—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, both cut into fine shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, dropped or rubbed through a sieve. — Sahara.—This is composed of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. — a la Sotteville.—Cos or Romaine lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — de Volaille {Chicken Salad).—Make a border of lettuce hearts and slices of hard-boiled egg in salad bowl, fill centre with chicken fillets (cooked), cut thinly, also lettuce-leaves, and dress with mayonnaise. — Waldorf.—Equal proportions of russet apples and celery knobs, or white celery heart, cut into dice, and freshly-peeled walnut kernels, cut thinly ; dressed with mayonnaise. — Windsor.—Cut into julienne strips white celery, truffles, cooked chicken breast, cooked tongue, and mushrooms, blend these with chopped piccalilli, and mayonnaise fiavoured with Worcester sauce ; dish up with lettuce heart in centre of bowl.