386 rilE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. iato 8 pieces of even size, scoop out the centre portion, and place in the cavity of each piece a round slice of beef marrow, and cover with a little ham or mush- room puree. Braise till tender, glaze the surface, dish up on small crou- tons with a little chop- ped truffle in centre. Gar- nish with slices of CONCOMBRE BRAISE A LA MOELLE . OliveS POUI' a little demi - glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Riz a la Polonaise {Rice, Polish Style). I- lb. Carolina rice, 2 oz. butter, i quart chicken or beef stock, 3 small shallots, I small onion stuck with 3 cloves, 4-6 small firm tomatoes, grated cheese, salt ami pepper. Pick the rice, but do not wash it, put it in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the shallots previously peeled and chopped finely, and let brown a little, moisten with the stock or broth, acid onion and tomatoes, the latter peeled, cut into slices, season slowly, and cook for about an hour. A few minutes before serving add 2 oz. of grated gruyere or parmesan cheese, and remove the onion. Dress the rice in pyramid shape on a hot dish. Garnish with a few very thinly cut strips of red pimiento, and serve hot. (Eufs a la Printaniere {Eggs with Spying Vegetables). Butter 8 bouche moulds, and decorate the bottom of each with fancifully cut slices of cooked vegetables, such as carrots or turnijis, peas or French beans, etc. Break a fresh egg into each mould, add a dessertspoonful of cream, and poach them in the oven for about ten minutes. Prepare a rich white sauce, to which add I or 2 yolks of eggs, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Unmould the egg shapes, and dish up ; add a few drops of meat glaze, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil to the sauce, and pour this round the base of the dish. Garnish to taste, and serve hot. Darioles d’CEufs a la Crecy [Egg and Carrot Darioles). Line 8 small well buttered dariole moulds with finely cut round slices of cooked carrot. Shred very finely the red part of 2-3 young carrots, toss in butter over a quick fire, then cook in a