58 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Creme de Raifort, froide {Hoyse-radish Cream, cold) i\ oz. grated horse-radish, i gill thick cream, i tablespoonful white wine vinegar, i teaspoonful castor sugar, teaspoonful powdered mustard, } saltspoonful salt, a pinch of cayenne. Put "the horse-radish in a basin, add the sugar, mustard, salt, and cayenne ; moisten with the vinegar. Stir in gradually the cream, and whisk gently for a few minutes. Serve in a sauce-boat with cold roast beef, etc. Sauce Raifort, fra,pp6e~JTCed Jdgne-radish Sauce). I stick horse-radish, i gill cream orUnilkj^i teaspoonful 'mixed mustard, I teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 teaspoonfulsSimegaTr'''''''''’^^ Grate the horse-radish as finely as possible, put it in a basin, stir in the cream or milk, the vinegar, mustard, and the sugar. Stir well and pour into a sauce-boat. \\’hen milk is used, a tablespoonful of condensed Swiss milk should be mixed with the fresh milk, and the sugar should then be omitted. Freeze till a semi-liquid consistency, serve with trout or other lish. Sauce Reforme {for Cuilets a la Reforme). I gill poivrade sauce, i small glass port wine, i teaspoonful red-currant jelly. This sauce consists of poivrade sauce mixed with port wine and red-currant jelly. Boil well for ten minutes, and strain. The usual Reform garnish, consisting of julienne strips of gherkins, mush- rooms, truffles, hard-boiled white of egg and cooked ox-tongue, is served at the same time. Sauce Remoulade. ^ pint salad oil, 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, i teaspoonful made mustard, tarragon, parsley, buniet, chives, i yolk of egg, castor sugar. Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, burnet, and chives, drain and chop finely. Put in a basin the yolk of egg with salt and pepper to taste, stir well with a wooden spoon, work in gradually half a pint of salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of tarragon vinegar. About two tablespoonfuls of vinegar is required to half a pint of oil. When the sauce is finished add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of castor sugar, and the chopped herbs, Sauce Robert. I small onion, | oz, butter. ^ teaspoonful castor sugar, ^ pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i glass white wine, saltspoonful dry mustard. Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter a nut brown, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, and reduce a little. Stir in the espagnole and cook for ten minutes ; season it to taste, and strain, Sauce Ruisseau {Watercress Sauce). bunch watercress, tablespoonful capers, oz. of butter, i gill chicken stock, pint veloutee sauce (p. i6i)or allemande (p. 141), i hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Wash, pick, and blanch the cresses, put them in the mortar with the egg, capers, and butter, pound until fine, and rub through