792 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Choose bananas of a good colour, wipe them with a cloth, cut off the stems, and split them in halves lengthways. Scoop out carefully the soft portion and put it in a basin, add to it the straw- berries or pulp, which should in each case be well reduced, without being burnt, mash the fruit until quite smooth, pass through a hair sieve, incorporate the liqueur and a few drops of lemon-juice, add a little castor sugar if necessary. Fill the banana shells, place two halves together, tie up with string, and put on the ice. When required for serving, remove the string and tie each with a piece of narrow ribbon. Pains d’Abricots au Marasquin. Preserved apricots mixed with a little mara- schino liqueur, lemon-juice, powdered sugar, and some gelatine dissolved in very little water, pass through a fine sieve, add whipped cream, then pour into masked bouche or dariole moulds, deco- rated and set on ice. Charlotte a la Fougere [Gooseberry Charlotte). 1 pint green gooseberries, i inch cinnamon stick, \ pint cream, oz. gelatine, 2 oz. castor sugar, } gill milk, 12-15 sponge finger-biscuits, -I- gill wine jelly, angelica and glace cherries for garnish. Pick the gooseberries and put them in a stew-pan with a table- spoonful of water, the cinnamon, and sugar. Cook till tender, remove the cinnamon, and rub the fruit through a fine sieve. Warm up the milk, strain in the gelatine, previously soaked and dissolved, and the fruit pulp. Cook together for a few minutes, and let cool a little, whip the cream and stir it gently into the mixture. Line the bottom of a charlotte mould with wine jelly, decorate it taste- fully with angelica and cherries, set this with ,a little more jelly. Trim the biscuits, cut off the tips of one end, and arrange them closely round the inside of the tin. Pour the prepared cream when sufficiently cold into the mould, taking great care not to disturb the biscuits. Put the mould on the ice to set, and turn out when needed for table. Charlotte aux Praises [Strawberry Charlotte). 3 doz. or more finger-biscuits, i-J; pint strawberry pulp, 3 oz. castor sugar, 14- gill cream, i oz. gelatine. Cut enough finger-biscuits into long triangles to form a rosette at the bottom of a charlotte mould. Stamp out a small round in the centre and put in a crystallised strawberry or cherry. Trim the ends and sides of as many biscuits as may be required to line the sides of the mould, place the biscuits close together in an upright position. Bring the pulp to the boil, sweeten with sugar, dissolve and add the gelatine. Pass through a hair sieve, then let cool a little, whip the cream, sweeten with sugar, and mix with the pulp. Fill up the lined mould with this, but not until it commences to set, and put the mould on the ice. When thoroughly set, turn out on to a folded napkin and serve.