GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 343 Garniture a la Napolitaine.—Cooked macaroni, with tomato and cheese flavouring, dressed in the centre of dish, or in tinfliale shapes round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la Nemours (for Meat).—Grilled cup mushrooms and duchesse potatoes. Gravy. — a la NlQoise (for Meat).—Grilled or sauteed tomatoes, French lieans, stoned olives, and Parisienne potatoes. Gravy, — a la Nivernaise (for Poultry or Meat).—Small braised carrots and button onions. Demi-glace. — a la Nivernaise.—Cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans, all cut into julienne-shaped strips, dressed in centre or round the dish, served with supreme sauce, with an extra liaison of yolks of eggs. — a la Normande (for Fish).—Oysters, shrimps, mussels, mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried and glazed croutons. Normande sauce. — a I’Orientale (for Poultry or Meat).—Savoury rice timbales and potato croquettes. Tomato sauce. — a la Palmeritaine.—Flalves or quarters of aubergines, stuffed with savoury meat stuffing or quenelle meat, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish, with potato puree in the centre. — a la Parisienne.—No special garnish can be quoted for dishes bearing this name ; excepting that in the case of flllets of beef, small ball- shaped potatoes fried or baked are serve'd. Dishes richly garnished and highly seasoned are thus specified. — a la Paysanne.—Braised celery, olive-shapes of carrots and turnips, also braised together with small kidney potatoes parboiled and fried in butter, dressed in alternate grouj)s. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Piemontaise.—Cooked macaroni finished in rich stock, butter, and cheese, well blended and reduced ; filled into small buttered timbale moulds, baked, and served round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la Polonaise is generally a])plied to dishes coated with a thick sauce, sprinkled with brown butter, and finished in the oven. Beetroot introduced in some form, either as garnish or flavour in dishes, is also styled a la Polonaise. — a la Portugaise (for Meat).—Small tomatoes stuffed with duxelle puree, and chateau potatoes. Tomato sauce. — a la Princesse.—Asparagus points cooked in salted water and drained, finished in butter. Small croquettes of chicken and beef, to repre- sent two colours, a light and a dark ; dressed in groups round the dish. Sauce demi-glace or tomate. — a la Printaniere.—This, like Jardiniere or Macedoine, applies to a garnish of mixed vegetables ; but there must lie a collection and variety of spring or early-grown vegetables. — a la ProvenQale (for Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and fried aubergines, French beans, and new potatoes ranged in groups. Gravy. — a la Providence (for Poultry or Meat).—Sliced mushrooms and truffles, olives and slices of foie-gras. Madeira or demi-glace sauce. — a la Rachel (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with braised beef- marrow, mixed with chopped parsley. Bordelaise sauce.