24l^ THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into their original shapes, press lightly together, and mask half of them with the prepared white sauce, and the other half with the prepared red sauce. The sauces must, of course, be merely liquid (half-set). When set arrange them neatly on one or more dishes, garnish with sprigs of freshly-picked parsley, and send to table. Denises Suedoise [Swedish Sandwiches). White bread, butter, cream cheese, i gherkin, 6 stoned olives, i teaspoonful capers, t gill stiff mayonnaise sauce, cayenne. Chop hnely the gherkin, olives, capers, and mi.x with it the stiff mayonnaise sauce (p. 152). Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the mtmber of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mi.xture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. For other Sandwiches see Chapter XXXVIII. Canapes aux CEufs farcis [Stuffed Egg Canapes). 4 hai'd-boiled eggs, 6 Spanish olives, 4 oz. tongue, 2 anchovy fillets, a few capers, 2 gherkins, salad oil, lemon-juice, toasted bread, parsley. Cut the eggs in halves across, cut off a small piece of the white, and rub the)yolks through a sieve. Pound half the tongue rather finely and mix w i t h half the yolks of eggs. Stamp out eight nice r o u nds of buttered toast about the size of the cut side of the eggs, cover thick- 1 y with tongue and egg-yolks. Cut the remainder of tongue, olives, and anchovies into fine shreds, season with a few drops of oil and lemon-juice. Add a little chopped parsley and the capers, also a pinch of paprika pepper. Fill up the cups of white of egg with this, inseit a neatly cut fan of gherkin in each and place them on the prepared croutes, dish up, and serve. Tartines a la Cardinal. I small lobster, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchov}^ paste, 2 hard-boiled eggs, V gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), | gill aspic jelly (p. 132), thin slices of lightly buttered white or brown bread, 1-2 French gherkins, i truffle, seasoning. Remove the meat from the lobster, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. Add the butter, anchovy paste.