SOUPS {POTAGES). 97 Consomme Royale. For 2 quarts of consomme : The breast of a cooked chicken, i whole egg and 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of cream, i gill stock, pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the chicken’s breast and cut into small dice. Mix the eggs, cream, and stock, season to taste, pass through a hne sieve, hll into a buttered mould, put it in a stewpan half hlled with hot water, and cook in a slow oven till linn. Let cool a little, then turn out, cut into slices about a cpiarter of an inch thick, cut into dice or stamp out with a column cutter. Put these and the chicken into a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme au Sagou [Sago Soup). 2 quarts consomme, 11 to 2 oz. sago. Put the consomme in a stewpan, let it boil, stir in the sago with a wooden spoon, let simmer for about half an hour, skim, season to taste, and serve. Note.—When a puree or creme is recpiired, to a gill of cream add three yolks of eggs and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir with a whisk, and pour in the above c}uantity of soup, then return to the stewpan, stir over the hre for a few minutes longer, taking care not to let it boil again. A quart of tomato puree added in place of a quart of consomme will also make a good sago soup, pro- ceeding exactly the same as above stated. Crushed tapioca, semolina, Indian meal, or florador may be served in the same manner. Consomme Sevigne. 2 quarts of chicken consomme, I cooked chicken, ?, oz. rice, i gill veloutee sauce, 2 whole eggs and 4 yolks, -1- gill cream, pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, r gill cooked peas, a iew' cooked French beans. Free the chicken from bones, skin, and sinews, cnt it into small pieces and pound in a mortar. Cook the rice in rich stock, and when done strain off and pound with the chicken, add the sauce, mix well, and put in a basin, work in the eggs and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pass this through a hne sieve. Fill eight or ten very small well-buttered timbale or dariole moulds with the mixture. Stand them in a saute-pan half hlled with boiling water. Cook slowly for half an hour. Turn out on a dish or wet cloth. Cut the shapes crossways into three or four ecpial pieces, put them into a hot soup-tureen, with the peas and beans—the latter cut into small dice—pour over the consomme, and serve.. The garniture for this soup is sometimes served separately in a deep round dish, and is handed round as'the consomme is served. Consomme Solferino. 2 quarts of consomme, 2 small ])ofatocs, 2 small turnips, 2 small carrots. Wash and peel the vegetables, scoop out with vegetable scoop, a little larger than a pea, blanch and boil each kind separately in some clear stock, drain, and keep hot in consomme until wanted.