174 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XIV. FLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS (BEURRES COMPOSES), FORCEMEATS, ETC. Flavouring butters are used for numerous culinary purposes ; they were originally introduced for imparting a specially desired flavour to sauces, and for this purpose they are still largely used on the Continent. They are also very convenient and useful to serve with grilled meat and grilled hsh, for sandwiches and toasts. The taste for hors-d’oeuvre and savouries has increased considerably during the past few years, both in this country and abroad. Flavouring butters or heiirres composes, as they are termed in kitchen French, have been largely introduced in many other preparations besides those above named. They are used under the titles hors-d’oeuvre and savouries. They have also proved eminently satisfactory when used for sauces, i.e. “ compound sauces.” Flavouring butter is added to sauces at the last moment before being served, the object being to give a sauce the requisite fresh-butter flavour, which is deemed most essential to a well prepared sauce, as it imparts at the same time the appropriate and distinctive aroma of the condiment from which the butter obtains its name. Most cooks are aware that besides the use of these butters for sauces there are many other ways in which they can be employed, for they are eminently suitable for all kinds of sandwiches and for dainty, savoury croutes ; the addition of a nicely blended butter makes a wonderful improve- ment both in appearance and flavour to such dishes. Several of these butters will be found excellent with cold game, cold duck, cold beef or mutton ; others may be used for spreading toasts, biscuits, etc. For decorating little cold hors-d’oeuvre and savouries these butters are exceedingly useful, as they enhance .the appearance of many such dishes. Take the humble maitre d’hotel butter as an example, and you will have some idea of the many purposes for which flavouring butters can be used. The following recipes comprise the most popular and most useful flavouring butters. Each^one possesses all the essentials of an appetising, tasty, and well seasoned compound. Anchovy Butter [Beurre d’Anchois). 6 Gorgona anchovies, 2-1- oz. butter, lemon. Soak the anchovies in cold water, drain them, take out the bones, wipe dry with a cloth, pound in a mortar with the butter ; add a