ENTRP.es of poultry, etc. (HOT DISHES). 465 about twenty minutes. Stone the olives, put them m a saucepan with the wine, boil up, and add to the above. Simmer a little longer, skim well, dish up, and garnish with a few bread croutons, brushed over with meat-glaze. Canard a la Portugaise {Poriuguese Salmi of Duck). I large fat duck, 4 small tomatoes, i pint brown stock, i bouquet garni, 1 oz. butter, -J- pint Espagnole sauce, pint tomato sauce, 3 thin slices of ox-tongue, i truffle, 6 to 8 mushroom-heads, pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, mashed potatoes for dressing, i glass sherry. Singe, draw, and wipe the duck, joint it neatly, and put the carcase in a saute-pan, sprinkle with salt, place the pieces of wing, legs, and breast on top, spread on each a small piece of butter, and put in a hot oven for ten minutes. Take out the pieces of duck, put the carcase in a stewpan with the stock, bouquet of herbs, stew for half an hour, add the sauces, remove the fat, add the sherry, and reduce a little. Slice the tomatoes rather coarsely, fry them a little in butter. Cut the tongue in julienne strips, slice the truffles. Rub the sauce through a tammy cloth. Put the pieces of duck in a stewpan with the sauce, truffles, and mushrooms, and let stew gently for about half an hour. Toss the tongue in a little butter over a quick hre, just long enough to warm through. Season the salmi with a pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Dish up on a round or oval dish on to a pyramid of mashed potatoes, place the garnish of tomatoes, tongue, and mushrooms in small groups round the dish, sauce over well with the salmi sauce, and serve very hot. Salmi de Canard a la Montreuil. 2 small ducks (trussed), i oz. butter, i pint stock, i mirepoix of vegetables, I glass sherry, i gill Espagnole, pint tomato sauce, 2 oz. smoked cooked o.x-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, carrot, pepper, salt, nutmeg, fleurons or croutons of bread. Partly roast the ducks, let cool, and divide into neat joints. Braise with the mirepoix and butter for ten minutes, then drain off the butter and add the stock, wine, Espagnole and tomato sauce, cover, and let simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour or longer. Remove the pieces of duck to another stewpan, skim the sauce, and strain over the duck. Cut the ox-tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles into julienne shape, put with the duck, and .simmer for another ten minutes. Dress the duck on a fried bread croute, garnish with the julienne strips, and sauce over gently. Decorate with a few fleurons of puff-paste, previously dipped in a little liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. Canard braise a la Paysanne [Braised Duck with Vegetables). Pick, singe, and draw a good-sized duck, and truss it as for roasting. Put it in a stew- or braising-pan upon a bed of sliced onion, sliced fat bacon, and sliced carrot, and a small bouquet garni. Season with salt and pepper, fry or bake (not too slowly) until the duck acquires a hne colour. Pour off the fat and add -J- a pint of rich stock (brown) and a gill of brown sauce. Place the GG