3i8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fastened with a band of paper above the edge, ponr in tfie prepared mixture, as it begins to set, and pack in a tin surrounded with crushed ice and freezing-salt. A properly charged souffle ice-cave or charged ice-box is strongly recommended to be used for this })urpose. When slightly frozen {fvappe), remove from the ice-cave, sprinkle the top with a combination of fine lobster coral and paprika, then remove paper band, stand the lining in its souffle dish, and send to table at once. In cold weather the two leaves of gelatine may be left out. Fleurettes de Turbot a la Hollandaise. l lb. cooked turbot, free from skin and bone, j pint stiff mayonnaise fp. 152), i pint aspic jelly (p, 132), i truffle, i tcaspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, i teaspoonful anchovy sauce, .salt and pepper. Line some oval zephire or dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle to form the shape of a rosette. Mix the re- mainder of aspic with the mayonnaise, coat the moulds with a layer of this. Season the fish with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a sprig of tarragon, mix in anchovy sauce and two large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Three-parts fill the lined moulds with this, finish filling up with the remainder of mayonnaise. Put the moulds on the ice to set. Turn out, dress on a bed of salad or little blocks of aspic. Serve cold. Timbale de Turbot a la Russe. } lb. cooked turbot or any other white lish, 8 to 10 prawns, 2 oz. cooked rice, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoon ful anchovy paste, i dessert- spoonful chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, i tablespoonful rich brown sauce, salt and pepper to taste, pint aspic jelly, :j- oz. gelatine. Free the fish from skin and bones and flake it very finely, mix the anchovy essence, paste, and chutney with the lemon-juice and a tablespoonful of rich brown sauce, stir well and add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and cayenne to flavour. Mix in three parts of the fish and half the rice, and strain in the gelatine, previously dissolved. Whisk up the aspic until it becomes of a frothy appearance, quickly line or mask the inside of a plain savarin mould. Mix the remainder of whipped aspic with the prepared fish, rice, etc., and turn into the lined mould as soon as the coating therein is sufficiently set. Place it on the ice for about an hour. Mix the remainder of rice and fish, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Turn out the mould on to a dish, put the rice and fish loosely in the centre, so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Trim the prawns and arrange them neatly round the top of the timbale. The base of the dish can be garnished with diamond- shaped pieces of aspic. Dariole de Saumon a la Moscovienne. About lb. of cooked salmon, 18 oysters, 3 large truffles, i hard-boiled egg, 1 oz. anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, -I- gill cream, about a pint of aspic jelly (p. 132). 6 filleted anchovies, a few slices of cucumber, a pinch of cayenne, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Flake the salmon. Line a medium-sized dariole mould with aspic jelly, ornament with a few slices of truffles, some nice flakes