FLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS. 175 little lemon-juice, rub through a fine sieve. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and use as required. Devilled Butter {Beurre a la Diahle). oz. butter, -J- teaspoonful cayenne pepper, i saltspoonful black pepper, curry powder, ground ginger. Mix the butter with the cayenne pepper, black pepper, a pinch of curry powder, and a pinch of ground ginger. Spread on a plate, and use for grilled cutlets, chops, etc. Crayfish or Shrimp Butter {Beurre d’ Ecrevisses). 1 pint picked shrimps, 3 oz. fresh butter, 1- oz. anchovy paste. Pound the shrimps or prawns in a mortar till smooth, add the butter and anchovy paste, mix thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. A little liquid carmine or cochineal may be added to colour if found necessary. Spanish Butter [Beurre EspagnoJ). 2 oz. lean ham, 2 tablespoonfuls espagnole sauce, 6 oz. fresh butter, nutmeg. Pound the ham in a mortar till smooth, then add the well- reduced espagnole sauce ; incorporate by degrees the butter, season to taste with pepper and finely grated nutmeg, and rub through a hair sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. Lobster Butter [Beurre de Homard). Lobster coral and eggs, fresh butter. Procure the eggs and coral of a lobster, wash, and dry well ; pound in a mortar with double its quantity of fresh butter. Rub through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required, Ham Butter [Beurre au Jambon) 4 oz. finely chopped lean cooked ham, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful double cream, pepper, cayenne. Pound the ham, add the butter and cream ; season to taste with white pepper and cayenne. Pass through a fine sieve, put it on the ice, and use as required. Chutney Butter [Beurre d la Madras). 4 oz. mango chutney, i tablespoonful French mustard, 8 oz. fresh butter, lemon-juice. Pound the chutney in a mortar, add the mustard, work in 6-8 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. Rub through a hair sieve, place it on the ice, and use as required. Beurre Maitre d'Hotel or Parsley Butter. 1 oz. fresh butter, i teaspoontul chopped parsley, i saltspoonful of chopped mixed tarragon and chervil, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Mix the butter with the parsley, tarragon, chervil, lemon-juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. Montpellier Butter [Beurre Montpellier) 2 OZ. parsle3^ chervil, tarragon, chives and cress, 2 anchovies, g yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful capers, i gherkin. Wash and pick the parsley, cress, and herbs, blanch for three minutes, strain, and cool. Drain well in a cloth, and pound in