951 PASTRY ANT) CONFECTIONERY. Sift the Hour and ground rice into a basin ; rub in the butter. Now add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon and mi.\ thoroughly. Mix the egg with about half a gill of milk ; stir this gradually into the above, and work to a smooth dough or paste. Roll out on a floured board about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out into fingers, rings or rounds by means of a paste-cutter ; place them on a slightly-greased baking-tin, brush over carefully with sweetened milk, and bake in a hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Shrewsbury Biscuits. I 11). butter, I lb. castor sugar, i whole egg ami i yolk, J ih, ground rice, I lb. \’ienna flour, the rind of i lemon finely grated. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one by one, and beat together until light. \\k>rk in the grated lemon-rind, stir in the ground rice and Hour, previously sifted. Roll out very thinly, stamp out into rounds it- to 2 inches in diameter. Place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a golden colour. Almond Macaroons. I lb. almonds (peeled and dried), 2 11). castor sugar, 2 oz. ground rice, 8 whites of eggs. Pound the almonds in a mortar, add gradually the whites of eggs. When finely pounded and smooth add the sugar ; continue to work the mixture till it is cream}" and light. Then lay out the mixture in little heaps on wafer or rice paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Cocoanut Macaroons. Beat up four eggs with half a jtound of fine castor sugar. When stiff enough, add four ounces of finely desiccated cocoanut and a few drops of vanilla essence. Sift in lialf a pound best flour, work well, and put the mixture into a Savoy bag with a plain tube. Force out little even-sized rounds on to sheets of rice or wafer paper placed on a baking-sheet. The rounds should be in little heaps about an inch and a half in diameter, or the size of half-a-crown. Dredge with fine sugar and bake in a fairly hot oven for twenty minutes. Chocolate Macaroons. Prepare an almond macaroon mixture and add to it two ounces of grated chocolate and two more whites of eggs. IMake up into even-sized macaroon shapes on to a wafer-lined baking-sheet. Sprinkle the top with chopjied almonds, and bake in a fairly slack oven. Biscuits au Citron [Lemon Biscuits). 3 eggs, I lb. castor sugar, h lemon rind (grated). \ lb. flour (sifted). Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the egg-yolks with the sugar, and add the lemon-rind. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this together with the flour into the above. Roll out and cut into fancy shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Dress on a waxed or greased baking-tin, brush over with milk, dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about a*quarter of aiPhour.