658 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Great care must be taken not to mash them up while they are being cooked. Cut the truffles into shreds, and mix them with the potatoes. Season to taste, and moisten with Lemco, previous!}' mixed with a little stock. Fill the mixture into a plain buttered charlotte mould, with the cheese sprinkled between the layers. Pour the remainder of butter over the potatoes, etc., and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Unmould, and serve very hot. Pommes de Terre a la Joinville. Wash and peel some even-sized large kidney potatoes, pare them into the shape of large corks, cut them into half-inch rounds, out of each cut a ribbon shape. Drop the potato ribbons into a thin frying batter, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown colour. Take up, drain, season with fine salt, and dish up. Pommes de Terre rissolees {Rissolee Potatoes). Wash and peel thinly some potatoes, cut them into quarters and pare each smoothly with a sharp knife. Plunge them into boiling water, slightly salted, let them come to the boil, then drain them on a cloth. Put them in a saute-pan containing some hot butter, and fry them slightly brown over the fire or in a brisk oven. When done drain off the butter, add a good pinch of fine salt, a little chopped parsley and a tiny piece of fresh butter, shake well, then dish up and serve. Bordure de Pommes de Terre {Fried Potato Border). Wash and peel some potatoes, cut them into thin slices, and then into strips about the size of wood matches. When well washed, drain them on a cloth, and pack loosely in a wire border mould, as POTATO BORDURE WITH WIRE MOULD BY MEANS OF WHICH THE BORDER CAN BE MADE. shown in the illustration. Place the wire cover over and fix with the pin attached. Plunge the whole into very hot fat and fry till a golden brown colour. Take up, drain well, remove the cover and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, seasoned and mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into balls, corks, or croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. ■— a la Rouennaise.—Mashed potatoes prepared as for croquettes, made in size and shape of small eggs or olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin.