THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 9o6 Breakfast Brawn. '2 pickled pig’s head, 4 oz. cooked bacon, i hard-boiled egg, i carrot, I onion, 2 cloves, a small bouquet-garni (No. 2), salt and peppercorns. Wash the head in several waters, remove the brain, veins, and splinters of bone. Cook the head in a stew-pan containing enough water to well cover it, add a little salt, the scraped carrot and onion, peeled and stuck with cloves, the bouquet-garni and peppercorns. Cook for about two hours. Skim from time to time. Remove the meat from the bones, and reduce the liquor with the bones. Cut the meat into small squares or dice. Cut the bacon likewise. Slice the egg and garnish with it the bottom of a small charlotte or cake tin. Fill the mould with the pieces of pig’s head and bacon. Press down the meat lightly. Take about a pint of the reduced liquor and pour it into the mould. Place on the ice or in a cool larder for twelve hours. Unmould by dipping the mould into warm water for a few seconds. Dish up. Garnish with fresh parsley or water- cress, and serve. Potato Coquilles with Eggs. 3 large kidney potatoes, 6 small fresh eggs, | lb. spinach puree, gill of cream, pepper and salt, grated cheese, breadcrumbs. Wash and dry the potatoes, bake them in their skin in a hot oven, when done, cut each in half lengthways. Scoop out the mealy portion and rub it through a sieve. Mix with the cream and season with jteppcr and salt. Prepare the spinach and llavonr nicely. Line the inside of each half of potato with spinach. Poach the eggs separately, trim, and place one in each potato shell, lill up with the prepared potato puree, smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, put a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Finish in a very brisk oven or under the salamander to brown the surface. Dish up, garnish witli parsley, and serve hot. Scotch Eggs. 4 hard-boiled eggs, i lb. sausage meat, i gill tomato sauce, i raw egg, frying-fat, breadcrumbs, and parsley. Remove the shells from the eggs, dip them in flour, cover completely with a layer of sausage meat, brush all over with beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry them a nice light brown colour in hot fat. Take up as soon as done, drain them on a cloth or paper, cut in halves crossways, and place them, cut side up, on a dish (a little mashed potato or mashed peas under each egg will make them stand more firmly). Garnish with fried parsley, pour the tomato sauce (hot) round the eggs, and serve. Egg and Tomato Ramakins. 6 eggs, 3 tomatoes, 6 slices of bacon, 4 pieces of buttered toast, i dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, i tablespoonful finely chopped ham, i oz. of butter. Well Imtter six small china ramakin cases, sprinkle bottom of each with chopped ham and parsley. Break an egg into each ramakin case. Place them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling