HO r.^S IVEE r ENT RE ME TS. 7SI dish, place the apple put aside on top, ornament with a few cherries, and serve with a sweet sauce flavoured with liqueur. Pommes etoufiees a la Polonaise. 4 to 6 sour cooking apples, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, 2 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, teaspoonful cinnamon. Peel and core the apples, and cut them across into slices about a cpiarter of an inch thick. Spread the slices with apricot jam f)r marmalade, and pile up in a dome shape on a round silver or fire- proof china dish, previously buttered, and sprinkled with crushed macaroons. Mix about an ounce of sugar with the macaroons and ground cinnamon, and sprinkle the apple shape with this. vVhisk the wdrites of eggs to a stiff froth, acid about twm ounces of sugar and the remainder of macaroons, mask the surface of apples with this, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven from thirty to forty minutes. Serve as soon as done, placing the dish on a napkin on another dish of similar size. Pommes a la Conde {Apples, Conde Stylo. Pare and core six to eight apples, place in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with pow’dered sugar, lemon-juice, and oiled butter, cook them in the oven, and fill the centre with apricot puree. Dish up in the centre of a border of rice cooked in milk and sweetened to taste, ornament with fancifully-cut pieces of angelica, crystal- lised cherries, raisins, and almonds, and serve with apple syrup. Note.—Almost any kind of fruit can be dressed in the above manner, such as peaches, apricots, pears, etc., and are styled “ a la Conde.” Pommes a la Duchesse [Apples, Duchess Style). Peel some large sour cooking apples, scoop out in small rounds by means of a vegetable scoop, cook them in syrup, arrange them neatly on a layer of apple marmalade, spread thickly upon a crofiton of fried bread, insert a small piece of angelica in each round of apples. Serve with a well-reduced apple syrup. Pommes roties a la Polonaise {Baked Apples, Polish Style). Pare and core some apples, cut them across in thin slices, arrange them on a layer of marmalade on a buttered baking-dish, mask over with well reduced syrup, sprinkle with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven, and send to table in the baking-dish. Pommes a la Portugaise (Apples, Portuguese Style). Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed ill syrup, flavoured wdth maraschino liqueur ; fill the cavities of the apples with red-currant jelly, and place a glace or a crystallised cherry on top of each. Serve with the syrup. Grisette de Pommes {French Apple Amher). i- lb. apple compote (use sour apples), 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, i tea- spoonful grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. sultanas, 3 oz, crushed macaroons or biscuits.