OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 679 Omelette aux Anchois {Anchovy Omelet). Prepare a plain omelet (see p. 675), adding one teaspoonfnl of anchovy sauce and three filleted gorgona anchovies, cut into small strips or dice, to the egg mixture, and cook as directed. Omelette aux Sardines {Sardine Omelet). Proceed the same as for anchovy omelet, using four boned and skinned sardines in place of the anchovies, but allowing the anchovy essence to be incorporated. Omelette a Plndienne {Curry Omelet). Peel and mince finely half a small Spanish onion, fry it a light brown colour in one ounce of butter, add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and one tablespoonfnl of bechamel sauce. Cook for ten minutes, remove the fat, if any. Fill fhis into a plain omelet. Turn the omelet on a bed of boiled rice dressed on a hot dish, and surround with curry sauce. Omelette au Homard {Lobster Omelet). Prepare a plain omelet (see p. 675), fill it before folding in the sides with creamed lobster, or with minced lobster warmed up in a little bechamel sauce. Omelette aux Oignons {Onion Omelet). Proceed the same as for curry omelet, omitting the curry and rice. The onion can be cooked in white or brown sauce. Omelette a la Bearnaise. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before turning in the sides with a mixture of artichoke bottoms and mushrooms cut into dice and heated up in tomato and bearnaise sauce. Pour a little sauce round the base of the dish. Omelette a la Bayonne. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before folding in fhe sides with cooked ham and Spanish pimientos cut in strips and heated up in tomato sauce. Pour a little of the latter round the omelet. Omelette a la Cervelle {Brain Omelet). Prepare and cook a plain omelet filled with cooked calf’s brains cut in small pieces and stewed in seasoned white sauce. Omelette aux Champignons {Mushroom Omelet). Cut twelve to eighteen preserved mushrooms into slices, cook them in Madeira sauce. Fill into the centre of a plain omelet, fold in the sides, and turn out on a hot disli. Omelette aux Concombres {Cucumher Omelet). Peel half a cucumber, cut it in half lcngthwa3^s, scoop out the seedy part, cut up into slices and stew in cream sauce. Fill with it a plain omelet. Omelette aux Epinards {Spinach Omelet). Rub half a pound of cooked spinach fhrough a sieve. Heat it up with a little bechamel or brown sauce, season to taste, and fill