THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 594 Dress it on an oblong entree or releve dish, glaze it again with the reduced liquor, freed from fat, garnish the dish with stuffed French or Spanish olives, each being placed in a little crust of puff-paste. Insert one or two hatelets (garnished) and serve. This dish can also be served hot with a nice sauce Gibier or Reforme. Filet de Boeuf a la Henri IV. {Fillet of Beef, Henry IV. Style). About 4 lb. fillet of beef (a nice piece), larding bacon, bouquet garni, I carrot, i onion, i gill claret, ^ lb. streaky bacon, i pint good stock, sauce Tartare, pint well-reduced demi-glace sauce, meat glaze, 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, -} pint macedoine of vegetables, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, I oz. coarsely chopped lean ham. Trim the fillet of beef, pare off the fat and skin, lard the top side with strips of bacon, tie up neatly here and there with string, so as to retain its shape. Place the vegetables, bacon, herbs, and I ounce of butter in a braising-pan, put the meat on top, and season lightly. Put it in a quick oven or over a brisk fire just long enough to slightly brown the surface of the fillet, then moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper and the lid, braise slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove, basting frequently. Take up the fillet before it is cooked through, take off the fat, add the demi-glace sauce, reduce to the desired consistency, then strain into a saute-pan, remove the string from the fillet, and place it in the pan with the sauce, and keep hot. In the meantime heat up the fonds d’artichauts (artichokes) in a little stock, drain well, and coat the interior with liquid meat glaze, heat up the macedoine, saute them in a little butter, add the ham, some chopped parsley, a pinch of sugar and pepper and salt, toss lightly, and keep hot. Dish up the fillet on a crouton of bread (this is far better for carving than placing it on the dish without a bed), larded side upwards, fill the artichoke bottoms with the macedoine, arrange these neatly on either side of the fillet. Put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce on top of the macedoine, with a tiny pinch of red pepper to finish. Pour a little sauce over the fillet, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. If the fillet needs it, brush over the larded side with meat glaze as it leaves the oven. Filet de Boeuf a la Louis XV. {Fillet of Beef, Louis XV. Style). Procure a piece of fillet (middle cut) about four to five pounds in weight, pare off the fat and sinews, trim neatly, lard it lengthways with small strips of fat bacon, and put it in a baking-tin with one glass of sherry wine, a tablespoonful of dripping, a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip. Season with salt and pepper, roast it in a quick oven from forty to fifty minutes, or longer if you wish it to be well done, and baste it well meanwhile. Take out the fillet, pour off the fat left in the tin, add to the liquid a pint of thin brown sauce and a teaspoonful of extract of meat, let simmer for a few minutes, skim, and strain. Have ready a croustade of bread large enough to hold the fillet, fix same on an oblong dish, glaze the surface of the fillet with dissolved meat glaze, place it in the centre of the croustade, garnish round the dish with groups of stuffed fried potatoes, and serve the sauce separately with the dish.