THE NEW CENTUEY COOKERY BOOK. 222 Potage Dame Blanche.—This is white chicken puree with cream, similar to Potage a la Keine. Flavour with sweet almonds, and garnish with cooked pearl barley and royal custard. Bagration {Cream).—A light cream made of veal stock, similar to Potage de Veau, with small chicken quenelles as garnish. — Bonne Femme.—Prepare a Sorrel cream soup as directed on p. 212. When finished add small chicken forcemeat quenelles as garnish. — a la Creme de Ble Vert {Green Corn Soup).—Blend a pint of green corn with I oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of Brown & Poison’s corn- flour, moisten with 3 pints of stock and cook for thirty minutes, strain, and add i gill of cream and 3 yolks of eggs ; re-heat, and serve. — Creme Sevign6.—This is a light chicken puree (Potage a la Reine) prepared as directed on p. 216, with royal custard made with eggs and chicken cream as garnish. — Castelaine.—Prepare a thick brown soup made with beef stock and lean beef fried in butter, thickened with brown “ roux ” and tammied when fully cooked. — Puree de Canard (Duck Soup).—Prepare a thick soup as directed on p. 217, using I duck in place of pheasant. ■— Clementine.—Light chicken cream (see Potage a la Reine, p. 216), and add three-coloured royal custard cut out in small cubes. — Puree a la Chasseur (Hunter's Soup).—Prepare a game puree according to Potage de Faisan, adding minced mushrooms and small dice of cooked game as garnish. — aux Cerises {Cherry Soup).—This is made with sour cooking cherries and a liaison of potato flour mixed with milk and cooked with the cherries, flavoured with cinnamon. Bread croutes as garnish. — a la Capri.—Prepare a thick game soup according to Potage de Faisan, garnish the soup with dice of quail fillets and cocks’ combs. — Dumonteuil.—This is a bisque of crawfish made as directed in Bisque d’Ecrevisse. The soup is blended with tomato puree, egg-yolk, and cream, and is garnished with small fish quenelles. — a I’Espagnole {Spanish Soup).—This is a^ brown beef or mutton soup blended with Espagnole sauce (p. 148) and onion puree. — a I’Ecossaise {Hodge-podge Soup).—National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton broth, finely cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, sprigs of cauliflower, and green peas. — a la Favourite.—White chicken puree (see Potage a la Reine, p. 216) diluted with consomme. Finely minced carrot, turnip, and leek are tossed in butter, cooked in stock, and added to the soup. — a la Gentilhomme {Gentleman’s Soup, Brown).—This is a puree of rabbit, pork, and ham, garnished with minced sausages and mushrooms. — Gounod.—This is a light green pea puree made with rich chicken stock, otherwise the same as Potage St. Germain, garnished with cooked chicken fillets cut into fine julienne strips. — Prince de Galles {Prince of Wales Soup).—This is a thick mock turtle made as directed in recipe Potage Fausse Tortue (p. 217), garnished with small veal cjuenelles.