OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 691 (Eiifs a la Comtesse. Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hollandaise, and chopped truffle on toj). (Eufs a la Creme de Volaillec Egg-shells lilled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock. Top of egg-shells cut off, dished up, and garnished with a slice of truffle on each. (Eufs a la Coque en Surprise {Cold). Fresh eggs are carefully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise, dressed on a bed of crisp celery shreds or endive. (Eufs a la Pache. Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated up in tomato sauce, dressed in the centre of a rice border. (Eufs a la Pasqual {Cold). Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaud-froid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce foundation. (Eufs poches a ITmperiale {Cold). Poached eggs dressed on artichoke bottoms ; garnisbed with macedoine of vegetables and julienne of tongue and tomatoes ; sauced over with remoulacle sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER EGG DISHES, (Eufs a I’Americaine.—Shelled, soft-boiled eggs, ranged on a bed of chou-croute and sliced ham ; sauce Madere. — a I’Ancienne.—Poached eggs, with grilled mushrooms and grilled tomatoes ; tomato sauce poured round. — a I’Andalouse {Cold).—Poached eggs, coated with mayonnaise aspic, placed in halves of tomatoes, and decorated with aspic cubes and anchovy fillets. — a TArlequin.—Poached eggs, dressed in fried bread croustades, covered with shredded ham and truffle and chopped parsley ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a I’Aumale.—Scrambled eggs, placed in centre of a border of sauteed kidneys ; tomato sauce. — a I’Aurore.—Poached eggs, placed in rounds of pastry rings, coated with aurore sauce. — a la Bearnaise.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced and heated up in rich bechamel sauce, dished up, coated with grated parmesan cheese, and browned in oven. — a la Bedford.—Eggs cooked in cocotte pans or cases lined with a puree of calf’s liver and cream, and covered with chopped tongue and truffle. — a la Belle-Helene.—Poached eggs, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with asparagus croquettes.