165 S.4 UCES. Sauce Carlet.—A wliite cream-like sauce, made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar. — Castelaine.—Demi-glace with Spanish pimiento and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon-juice. — Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. — Chantilly.—Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. — Choron.—Bearnaise sauce blended with tomato puree. — Crevettes {Shrimp Sauce).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. — Cornichons {Gherkin Sauce).—Poivrade or brown pepper sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. Curry Sauce.—A pale brown or fawn-coloured sauce, made with veloutee sauce, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and strained. Sauce a la Creme {Cream Sauce).—Bechamel or supreme sauce finished with fresh cream as liaison. — Cussy.—Espagnole sauce, blended with tumet of pigeon, reduced with sherry. — Czarine.—Demi-glace sauce with chopped gherkins, caper, and Ifleached raisins. — Daumont.—Fish sauce made like Hollandaise, using oyster liquor, egg-yolks, lemon-juice, with sliced oysters, 'mushrooms, and truffles. — Demi-Deuil.—Veloutee sauce, blended with cream and mixed with finely chopped truffles. — Demidoff.—Mad^re sauce with sliced truffles. — Duxelle.—A brown sauce with finely chopped truffles, mushrooms, cooked ham, parsley, and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon-juice. — Duglere.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Duchesse.—A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. — Diplomate.—A fish sauce consisting of bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. — Echalote {Shallot Sauce).—A brown gravy or demi-glace, with finely minced shallots (blended in butter), lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. — a I’Essence {Game or Salmi Sauce).—A brown sauce with essence of duck or game, carefully blended and well reduced with port wine. — Epicure {Epicurean Sauce).—A white fish sauce, consisting of a rich white sauce, mixed with a little essence of crayfish, chopped truffles, chilli vinegar, and cayenne pepper. — Estragon {Tarragon Sauce).—A thin brown sauce flavoured with tarragon-leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles.