i8o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or pot-au-feu broth. Put one yolk of egg into each cup, add a tiny grate of nutmeg and stir up, pour in slowly some strained hot beef- broth, sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chives on the top, and serve. The egg-yolk may, if liked, be omitted. Bouillon aux QEufs [Beef Broth with Eggs).—Prepare a stock with beef, shoulder flank or sticking, allowing i lb. of meat and bones to each quart of water. Place it on the fire, adding a little salt, let it come gently to the boil, and remove the scum. Add the soup vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, three leeks, pre- viously cleaned and peeled, also a few peppercorns and a couple of bay-leaves. Cook gently from 2h to 3 hours. Beat up one or two eggs in a soup-tureen, add to it a tablespoonful or less of finely chopped parsley and chives, and pour into it some of the strained stock, which is known as broth or bouillon, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and serve. Allow one egg to every quart of broth. Consommes in General, Method of Clarification. I gallon of stock, i lb. lean beef, i onion, i carrot, leek, 2 clove.s, \ bay- leaf, r head celery, a few sprigs parsley, i sprig thyme and marjoram. 12 peppercorns, 2 sprigs tarragon and chervil, 3 whites of egg and shell, 1 glass sherry, i of brandy, -t lemon or i dessert.spoonful French vinegar, salt, sugar. The stock should be cold for clarifying. Remove all the fat. Prepare the vegetables, wash and cut into thick slices. Put the stock vegetables, herbs, cloves, bay-leaves, and peppercorns in a well-tinned stewpan. Pass the meat through a mincing machine several times, or chop finely. Whisk the whites of egg a little and put with the meat, moisten with a tablespoonful of cold water, add the egg-shells, and put the whole into the stewpan containing the stock. Stir over the fire until it commences to boil, then add the wine and brandy, and let simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste with salt and a pinch of castor sugar. Strain through a cloth ; it is then ready for use. Royal Custard {as Garnish for Clear Soups). 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of egg, i gill white stock, i tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs and pitt into a basin, add the stock and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, strain and fill into a well-buttered plain mould. Cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan or saute-pan three-parts filled with hot water. Cook gently on the stove or in the oven until set, take out, let cool, turn on to a plate, cut into diamonds, lozenge- shapes, rounds or small dice. Serve in clear soups or purees as directed. Parmesan Croutons {as Garnish for Clear Soups). 2 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, a pinch of cayenne. Mix the flour and grated cheese together on a paste-board, add a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper, rub in the butter ; when well mixed