146 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. spoonful of mushroom liquor, lemon-juice, and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. Let the whole boil, season to taste, then add one tablespoonful of cream, and serve, Sauce Champignons, brune {Brown Mushroom Sauce) 1 pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, 10 champignons. Chop finely the preserved mushrooms (champignons), put them in a small stewpan with a little of the liquor and the sherry, cover and allow to reduce well. Now add the demi-glace or thin espagnole sauce ; boil up, skim, season to taste, and use as required. Cumberland Sauce {a Cold Game Sauce). 2 shallots, I orange, i lemon, i dessertspoonful mustard, gill port wine, ground ginger, 2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Mince the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the thin rinds of the lemon and orange cut into fine Julienne strips. Add half a gill of water and cook for ten minutes, then strain and return to the stewpan, adding the mi.xed mustard, port wine, a pinch of ground ginger, red-currant jelly, the juice of the lemon and orange, and the \'inegar. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, boil up, strain, and serve cold with any kind of game or ducks. A gill of espagnole sauce added improves this sauce. Cambridge Sauce {Cold Meat or Salad Sauce). 4 eggs, 4 fillets of anchovies, i tablespoonful capers, i dessertspoonful French mustarci, i teaspoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, i table- spoonful tarragon vinegar, tarragon and chervil, cayenne, parsley or olives. Pound in a mortar the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, anchovies, capers, a sprig of tarragon and chervil ; then add French mustard, English mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with the olive oil and tarragon vinegar. Rub the whole through a fine tammy or hair sieve, stir in a little more oil and vinegar, and work to the desired consistency ; keep it on the ice till wanted, and add a little chopped parsley or olives just before serving. No salt is needed, on account of the anchovies used in making this sauce. Sauce Chevreuil ( Venison Sauce). i pint espagnole sauce, i glass port wine, i dessertspoonful red-currant jelly, I 02. lean ham, i oz. butter, } gill vinegar, i small onion, 12 pepper- corns, I bay-leaf, small carrot, thyme, parsley. Mince finely the onion and ham, fry these in the butter, and add the vinegar, crushed peppercorns, bay-leaf, minced carrot, and a little thyme and chopped parsley. Cover and boil for ten minutes. Then add the espagnole sauce (p. 148), port wine, and the red- currant jelly. Cook for ten minutes, skim and strain, season to taste, re-heat, and use as required. Sauce Colbert aux Fines Herbes {Brown Herb Sauce). gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), i glass or Madeira wine, i tablespoonful of meat glaze, oz. of fresh butter, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil—one dessertspoonful in all. Put the sauce into a small stewpan, stir over the fire until hot, add the wine, and let boil a few minutes. Remove to the side of the stove, and stir in gradually the butter and the meat glaze. Beat