620 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Drain the artichoke bottoms on a cloth, fill them with well- seasoned chicken or veal farce, and shape neatly. When the farce has sufficiently set, wrap each stuffed artichoke in unsweetened savarin dough, place them on a floured board,' and set them aside to rise from one to two hours. Plunge in hot fat, fry gently to a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of demi-glace sauce containing a good pinch of paprika pepper. Fonds d’Artichauts en Cocotte. 10 to 12 artichoke bottoms (preserved or Iresli), 4 potatoes, i oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, i glass white wine (Chablis or Saiiterne), i gill veal stock or consomme, seasoning. Stamp the edges of the artichokes with a fluted cutter, wash and peel the potatoes, scoop out as many rounds (ball shapes) as possible by means of a round vegetable-cutter. Cut the bacon into dice, melt the butter in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place in the artichokes, potatoes, and bacon in alternate layers, season with salt, mignonette pepper, and paprika, moisten with the wine and stock or consomme, cover the pan, and place it in the oven for about half an hour, basting frequently. When all the ingredients are well cooked, remove the fat from the top, and send to table very hot in the pan in which they were cooked. Fands d’Artichauts a la Monaco. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, 3 hard-boiled eggs, i raw egg, gill cooked asparagus points, i teaspoonful of finely-chopped herbs (tarragon, chervil, and parsley), aromatic spice, salt, 3 tablespoonfuls tomato sauce, bread- crumbs, I tablespoonful cream, -V oz. butter. Procure preserved artichokes, wash and drain them, chop finely the hard-boiled eggs, put these in a basin. With the yolk of the raw egg mix the herbs, cream, and tomato sauce, season with aromatic spice, a little salt, and cayenne. Fill up the artichoke bottoms, smooth over with the blade of a knife, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and place them in a buttered baking-tin or saute-pan, pour a little dissolved butter over each, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Arrange them neatly on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Mornay. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i small tin or terrine foie-gras, about a gill Mornay sauce, some chicken (p. 178) or veal forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, sherry, \ oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Turn out the foie-gras, take out the pieces of truffles, and chop them rather finely. Pound the foie-gras, add the forcemeat, rub through a wire sieve, put into a basin, and mix with the chopped truffles and a tablespoonful of sherry or Madeira. Fill the bottoms with this, smooth the surface, and coat with a thick layer of Mornay sauce. Spread over with grated cheese and a few fried bread- crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter here and there, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or place under a hot salamander, to brown the toj), and serve. Panurette can be used in place of fried breadcrumbs,