243 HORS-D 'Ui UI 'RE (A PPE RISERS). Thon Marine (Tunny Fish). The tunny is fish preserved in oil, and it is not unlike cod. The flesh is firm, with a delicate flavour, and resembles cooked veal. It makes a highly-esteemed hors-d’ceuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. It is served in thin slices, on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another, garnished with little heajis of chopped capers and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. Barquettes Suedoise. Fill 8-10 small buttered boat or other suitably shaped patty pans with unsweetened choux paste, and bake them to a light brown in a moderate oven. Remove the interior soft portion of the pastry, and place the pastry shells on a sieve to cool. At the bottom of each put a thin layer of caviare, and upon this a layer of lobster puree mixed with a little mayonnaise cream. Mask the surface with a thin layer of pink chaucTfroid sauce. When set, decorate tastefully with strips of gherkins and lobster spawn butter. Keep on ice till required for serving, then dish up. Caisses d’Ecrevisses a la Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise of Crayfish). 12 to 18 crayfish, some cold salmon (or other fish left over from a previous meal), i head of lettuce, a small handful of mustard and cress, a tablespoon- ful of capers, 2 to 3 French gherkins, i hard-boiled egg, mayonnaise sauce, and seasoning. Wash and trim the lettuce, and break the leaves into small pieces. \Vash the small cress, and drain w^ell. Have ready 6 to 8 small china or silver souffle cases, put about a dessertspoon- ful of mayon- naise sauce into each, and fill up w i t h alternate layers of lettuces, cress, slices of hard-boiled egg, cold fish, and crayfish,'"pile up each case rather high, season to taste, and c(tat the surface of each with mayonnaise sauce. Decorate prettily with fancifully cut slices of gherkin and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Keep the cases on the ice until recpiired for table, then dish up on a silver dish with folded napkin. Croutes aux Ecrevisses a la Tartare [PraionCroutes, Tariarc Style). 6 or 8 round farthing rolls, 18 large prawns, i large gherkin, 6 fillets of anchovy, i hard-boiled egg, tartare sauce, mustard and cress, aspic jelly, lobster butter, parsley. Cut the rolls in equal halves, scoop out the crumbs, and allow' the crusts to dry. Mince and mix the prawns, gherkin, anchovy fillets, and the white part of the hard-boiled egg. Season with a