296 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or vert-pre sauce. In place of crumbing the fillets, they may be dipped in a frying-batter. Fillets of soles or whiting done in this fashion are also very nice. Rougets a la Portugaise [Red Mullet, Portuguese Style). Clean the required number of small red mullet, wipe and dry them, and arrange them on a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper and lemon-juice, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Cook them in the oven for ten minutes. Have ready a tomato puree, flavoured with a little meat glaze, and let it reduce to the consistency of a half-glaze. Arrange the red mullet on a buttered silver-plated dish. Pass the prepared sauce through a tammy cloth, and cover the fish well with the sauce. Put the dish in a fairly hot oven for another ten minutes, and send to table. Rougets a la Venitienne [Red Mullet, Venetian Style). 4 or S red mullet, i dessertspoonful each of chopped parsley, onion, mush- rooms, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, a small glass sherry, white stock, J pint brown sauce (p. 144), anchovy essence, sugar, large Spanish olives, fish forcemeat (p. 177), truffles. Clean, wash, and dry the fish, put into a saute-pan the parsley, onions, mushrooms, oil, and sherry. Lay in the mullet, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about half an hour. When done, remove the fish, take off the oily substance from the pan, add the brown sauce, one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of sugar ; let it boil for a few minutes, and pass through a sieve. Garnish the mullet with olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom-heads, and truffle. Put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, sauce round the dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. The remainder of the sauce can be served separately in a boat. Rougets a la Nantaise.—Grilled red mullet, served with demi-glace sauce, flavoured with shallots, wine, and puree of fish roes, garnished with slices of lemon. — a la NiQoise.—Grilled red mullet, garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, anchovy fillets, olives and capers. — a la Marseillaise.—Red mullet broiled in butter, then finished in tomato and onion stew, suitably flavoured, and served like Bouillabaisse. — a la Villeroi.—Marinaded red mullet, dipped in villeroi sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — en Papillotes (Red Mxdlet in Papers).—The fish, after being pre- pared for cooking, are wrapped up separately in oiled paper, the ends being twisted ; they are then broiled or grilled, dished up, and served with a brown sauce, “ aux fines herbes.” — au Fenouil.—Red mullet with incisions cut across on each side, then marinaded in olive oil, lemon-juice, chojqrcd fennel, parsley, and l)acon slices. The fish is tlien wi'ajqred vvifb the bacon in oiled paper and is thus grilled.