THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 664 Melt the butter, stir in the flour, let it cook without browning, and add the boiling milk and cream. Boil up the stock with the onion and peppercorns, let it reduce to half its original quantity, and strain into the sauce, add the ham, cut into dice, let the whole simmer until well reduced, and rub through a fine sieve, stir in the tomato puree, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture with the seasoning. Three-parts All some souffle cases, and bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to flfteen minutes. Tomates sautees {Tomatoes tossed in Bnttey). Cut some ripe but Arm tomatoes into slices, peel and chop some shallots, fry them in butter in a saute-pan, add the tomatoes, season and fry them in the oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. Tomates a la Napolitaine [Baked Tomatoes with Eg^s). Cut eight large ripe but Arm tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, and place them, cut side upwards, in a saute-pan containing an ounce of oiled butter or an equal quantity of best olive oil. Season the tomatoes with salt and pepper, and bake in a hot oven for six minutes. Break carefully a fresh egg on each half of the tomatoes, return the pan to the oven, and bake for another six minutes, long enough to set the egg. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre of each egg, pour some hot demi-glace or tomato sauce, well seasoned, round the base of the dish, and serve at once. Tomates a la Rentiere {Stuffed and Jellied Tomatoes). Immerse some firm tomatoes into boiling water, skin them, scoop out the centre and fill the cavity of each with pounded ox- tongue, cream, picked shrimps, and mayonnaise cream (mixed with a little aspic), mask each tomato thus prepared with tomato aspic cream, and garnish with slices of truffle. Dish up and decorate with macedoine salad, etc. Tomates farcies aux Asperges {Tomato Creams with Asparagus). Line some tomato moulds with aspic cream, fill them with a mixture composed of cooked asparagus points, bechamel sauce, tartare sauce, and aspic jelly seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace. Place the moulds on the ice to set. To serve, unmould, dish up, and garnish with a small mixed salad and sprigs of parsley, etc. Tomates a la Bock {American Dish).—Sliced tomatoes broiled in butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. ’’ — a la Caroline.—Baked tomatoes stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned, and mixed with a little grated par- mesan cheese. — a la Creole {Cold).—Ripe firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard-boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves.