THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 854 CHAPTER XXXVI. AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX—BONNES BOUCHES. Savoury dishes belong to the so-called Entremets course, which includes Dressed Vegetables, Sweet Dishes, as well as After-dinner Savouries or “ Bonnes bouches,” under which names savouries are often inserted in menus. A well-chosen savoury or “ bonne bouche ” adds much to the success of a dinner, which epicures and others who know how to dine would not consider complete without. Some kind of savoury dish makes the most suitable hnish to a dinner, for it adds considerably to the enjoyment, being the final stimulus or piquancy of a meal. Most savouries are served hot, but many dishes are served cold, especially in the summer ; their number affords a boundless choice of variety, and provides an immense amount of scope in design and arrangement in their preparation, so that there should be no diffi- culty to have an ample choice for selection, no matter what season of tile year. Savoury dishes have always been popular, but their popularity has considerably increased during recent years, and a large number of new dishes have in consequence been introduced. The most popular and favourite savouries are those made from oysters, caviare, lobster, smoked fish, and cheese. Savoury vege- tables are sometimes included, but this depends as to the number of vegetables which are served with preceding courses. Strictly speaking, the gastronomic rule does not admit eggs, omelettes, and other egg preparations to be served as after-dinner savouries, though many persons prefer an " omelette aux fines herbes ” or some kind of dressed eggs as a savoury. Omelettes and other egg dishes have therefore been classified in a separate chapter. This, as well as the chapter devoted to ‘‘ Breakfast and Supper Dishes,” contain many recipes suitable for the savoury course. As a general rule, all savouries should be made and served in very small portions ; they ought to be ‘‘ bonnes bouches,” just a mouthful. A substantial dish served as savoury is never a success, and should therefore be avoided. The most successful savouries are small, dainty, well-seasoned, and pretty in appearance. Huitres gratinees en Coquilles [Baked Oysters in Shells). 18 oysters, i oz. butter, 4 lemon, 3 table.spoonfuls bechamel, white bread- crumbs, cayenne or krona pepper, parsley for garnish. Open the oysters and remove the beards ; preserve a little of the liquor and eighteen round shells. Wash the shells and wipe dry, butter the inside. Put a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce in