105 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. with cold or hot stock, but as soon as mixed it must be stirred constantly over the hre till boiling ; or, if mixed hot, the liquid should be poured by degrees into the roux away from the hre, and then stirred over the hre till it boils. Special precaution must always be exercised, in making a sauce with a roux thickening, that the temperature be lowered, or in other words that the roux be allowed to cool a little before the liquid stock or gravy is added. This will prevent the sauce from getting lumpy, and will do much towards making a sauce perfectly smooth. All roux must be stirred constantly during the process of blending and cooking. White Roux {Roux Blanc).—This is a mixture of hour and butter cooked in a stewpan over a moderate hre, without allowing it to attain any colour ; it must be blended without browning. Bloiid or Fawn Roux {Roux Blond).—This is made by melting a certain quantity of butter, by stirring in the same or a less quantity of sifted hour, and by cooking it over a slow hre or in the oven until it has acquired a light blond or fawn colour. Brown Roux {Roux Brun).—This is the so-called stock-roux, which can be prepared in large quantities to be used cold as required. It is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, with the exception that it is cooked until it becomes a darker colour, a chest- nut brown or russet brown. It is best to hnish the roux in a slack oven, for the slower the process the better the blending and the hner the aroma of the sauce will be. Roux Liaison.- -This liaison is made by pouring prepared strained stock slowly into the stewpan containing the roux, which, as before explained, must be allowed to cool a little. The mixture is then stirred over a slow fire until it boils, and allowed to simmer until it attains the desired consistency. With brown and blond sauces the roux employed is usually made up with a “ mirepoix ” to introduce the necessary flavourings. This item “mirepoix” is more fully explained on the following page. Egg Liaison.—This is a thickening composed of yolks of eggs beaten up and diluted with a small quantity of cream or cold white stock. Cream is more often used than stock. The sauce to which this liaison is added must be boiling. A ladleful of sauce is stirred into the egg mixture, then the whole is poured into the sauce, and stirred by the side of the fire for several minutes, without permitting it to boil. Every sauce or soup which is thickened with eggs should be passed through a tammy before it can be used. This liaison is used for blanquettes and fricassees as well as soups. Butter and Cream Liaison.—Butter and cream are incorporated in equal proportions into sauces and soups, just before they are wanted for serving. Stir vigorously without re-heating. The flavour of any sauce would be spoiled if butter or cream were added too soon, or if a sauce were again allowed to boil. The same may