DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 257 put in the fish, season with salt, cover with the remainder ot vege- tables, add the peppercorns and savoury herbs, moisten with a pint of fish stock and the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. Wash and peel the potatoes, peel thinly the cucumber, scooj) out as many round balls as possible. Blanch them separately, drain, cook them in some white stock or salted water until tender, then drain and keep till wanted. Take up the salmon, cover, and keep it hot. In the meantime prepare a white roux with one and a half ounces of butter and one ounce of flour, strain in the stock left from the fish, add the milk (boiling), also the trimmings of the cucumbers, previously blanched in salted water. Let the whole come to a boil, and simmer for twenty minutes, adding more stock as the sauce reduces. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream, season with a pinch of white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Pour the sauce over the slices of fish so as to mask them completely. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, garnish the sides with groups of the prepared potatoes and cucumber, and serve. Cotelettes de Saumon a la Danoise [Salmon Cutlets with Danish Sauce). 2-J- lb. middle cut of salmon, anchovy paste, egg, breadcrumbs, fried parsley, Danoise sauce. Cut the salmon into half-inch-thick slices, and each slice in two lengthways. Trim neatly into cutlet shapes, season each with pepper and salt, spread a little anchovy paste on each side of the cutlets, dip them in flour and brush over with beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat for about ten minutes, or until the fish has acquired a golden colour. Drain on paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and hand Danoise sauce (p. 147) separately. Filets de Saumon a la Duchesse. 2|-3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), i t- oz. butter, a small glass white wine, 12 pre- served mushrooms, mushroom liquor, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i gill well-reduced espagnole sauce (p. 148), 2 ripe but firm tomatoes, chopped parsley, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, mashed potatoes, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fish, cut off the fillets, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven from 15-20 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready some mashed potatoes, mixed with a little butter and one or two yolks of eggs, and nicely seasoned. Place a bed of this on an oblong silver dish, and arrange the fish neatly on it. Put the espagnole sauce into t^^‘ saute-pan containing the liquor with which the fish was cooked? Add the trimmings of the mushrooms, tomatoes, and the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until sufficiently reduced. Pass through a fine strainer, season to taste, and use as directed. W R