1003 iHE CONSTRUCTION OR MENUS. given by the Duke of Brunswick it was observed that he had a long piece of paper by the side of his plate, to which he occasionally referred. One of the guests asked the Duke what the paper was for ; upon this his grace explained that it was a jirogramme of what was being served for the banquet, and by consulting it he could preserve his appetite for the dishes he liked best. The idea was so much admired that it became very pojmlar, and the plan was soon adopted, and has since developed into the present state of perfection. Whatever may be said for and against menu or bill of fare com- pilation, to compose a menu is an art, and the style in which this is done adds considerably to the popularity and success of a repast. The dinner is unquestionably the most important as well as the most substantial meal of the three or four ser\^ed daily. Brillat Savarin’s verdict in the matter of menus is very curt, but nevertheless to the point. It is : Menu nial fait, diner perdu, meaning that if the menu is badly composed the dinner is sure to be a failure. A menu gives one, as it were, a foretaste of the cook’s ability, and if the bill of fare be well and carefully compiled, and, needless to say, the cooking all that could be desired—perfect in every way—the confidence of the diner is at once inspired. To order a dinner is to be able to put together a list of dishes, which rec^uires thought, invention, and combination. This is the essence of the art of menu compilation, for it involves four important things : novelt}^ simplicity, originality, and taste. A well-balanced menu must be original, seasonaWe, and characteristic in every sense ; the old-fashioned and dull routine must as much as possible be avoided. The first consideration in making up a menu must be paid to the occasion, season, and the magnitude of the repast to be given. There are menus for quiet-living families, w'ho require but simple and jdain meals : the principal object in this case is to escape monotony, to vary the composition of dinners from da}^ to day, while avoiding too much diversity in the same meal. Dinners to be given to a party of friends are not as a rule quite so simple as those served in the ordinary way ; but even here there should be moderation in the selection of dishes, for most people will enjoy a meal with few courses, plain but good, far better than an elaborate spread with a lot of un- necessary, over-decorated, and richly prepared dishes. This, how'cver, is a rule which must be regulated, as it were, on the sliding