500 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poulet marine frit.—Boiled chicken, cut into pieces, steeped in lemon- juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. — a la Mascotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in Madere sauce, with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — a la Montmorency.—Braised chicken stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded and glazed, dished up with a garniture of slices of sweetbread and mushroom-heads. Served with sauce Madere. — a la Mousquetalre.—Chicken cut in joints and sauted in butter and chopped ham, drained and cooked in a tomato sauce, flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon-juice. Garniture : cubes of foie- gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — frit a I’Orly.—Par-boiled fowl, cut into neat pieces, and marinaded ; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter ; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — a la Paschallne.—Braised fowl, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloutee sauce, and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with veal forcemeat, and fried. — a la Paysanne.—Chicken, jointed, par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with olive-shaped carrots, turnips, and celery root. — a la Polenta.—Braised fowl (white), finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — a la Pondlchery.—Sauted chicken, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped ; served in a border of boiled rice. — a la Prlntanlere.—Chicken, cut up, par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans. — au Rlz gratlne.—Chicken (jointed) par-fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce, with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. a la Romalne.—Braised fowl, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala ; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and mac- aroni timbales. a la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled fowl ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue and barded ; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. a la St. George.—Chicken, cut up, fried in oil, and stewed in veloutee sauce, with sliced mushrooms ; surface glazed with meat extract. a la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken, with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine shreds of truffle and ham or tongue. frit a la Tartare.—Boiled fowl, when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — a la Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole, in fireproof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with Chablis ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas.