THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK, 332 in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable wax or other hgure as standard in the centre, around which dress the hllets. Surmount with a hatelet and a truffle, and serve. Anguille en Aspic {Ed in Savoury Jelly). I eel about 2 lb. in weight, giU vinegar, ^ lemon, i small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), 2 slices of onion, i hard-boiled egg, i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), I raw egg, a few picked shrimps. Clean the eel, remove the head, take out the bones, sprinkle the inside of the hsh with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and tie up in a muslin-bag or thin cloth. Place it in a stewpan with the vinegar, a slice of lemon, herbs, and onion, add enough water to cover, and cook from thirty to forty-hve minutes. The bones.and head should be put in with the fish whilst cooking. Take out the fish, let it cool, remove the cloth, cut into convenient slices, and put on one side. Reduce and strain the liquor in which the fish was boiled, add to it the aspic, whisk lightly the white and shell of an egg, stir this in, let it come to the boil (stirring all the time), allow the stewpan to stand for ten minutes on the side of the stove, then strain through a jelly-bag or cloth. Mask the inside of a plain mould completely with the prepared jelly, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with slices of hard-boiled eggs and shrimps. When set put in the slices of eel, with a layer of jelly between the layers of hsh and eggs. Fill up the mould with more jelly. Allow the. contents of the mould to set. When quite hrm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish to taste, and send to table. In hlling the mould great care must be taken to allow each layer of hsh and jelly to set before a second layer is put in. Note.—Aspic of lobster, prawn or hllets of soles is prepared in exactly the same manner. Chaud-froid d’Huitres a la Montpellier. 12 large oysters, i dessertspoonful vinegar, i bay-leaf, i slice onion, i gill aspic jelly, i tablespoonful spinach puree, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil chopped finely, -1 gill cream, 3 sheets of gelatine, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i gill bechamel (p. 142) or veloutee sauce (p. 161). Remove the beards from the oysters and put both with their liquor into a stewpan, add the vinegar, bay-leaf, and onion, and heat up slowly (the oysters must not boil). Take up and put the oysters on a sieve to drain and cool. Strain the liquor, dissolve in it the gelatine, previously soaked in water, add the spinach puree, heat up and stir in the sauce, chopped tarragon, and chervil. Mask twelve oyster-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix the remainder of aspic with the prepared sauce, and pass through a tammy cloth. When nearly cold, coat the oyster-moulds with a layer of this sauce, place an oyster in each, sprinkle over each a few drops of lemon-juice, and season with salt and white pepper. Fill the moulds with chaud-froid sauce, and put them on the ice to set. Have ready on a dish a border of rice masked with white or red chaud-froid sauce, unmould the oysters, and place them neatly on the prepared border. Fill the centre with green salad, and send the dish to the table.