406 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. it boils, season to taste, and cook gently for another five minutes. Place the ramequin cases in the oven to get hot, put a thin round of fried bread in each, fill up each case with kidneys, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the top of each, dish up, and serve quickly. Rognons sautes aux Champignons [Kidneys with Mushrooms). 3 to 4 sheep's kidneys, i oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 6 to 8 preserved mush- rooms, I gill demi-glace sauce, a glass Madeira, parsley, bread croutons, and seasoning. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys, and cut the latter into thin slices. Season with pepper and salt. Mince finely the peeled shallots and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the shallots, allow them to get fawn colour, then add the kidneys, and shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes. Add the champagne, cover and draw aside the pan for five minutes, then put in the sauce, previously well reduced, and the mushrooms. Heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to boil, else the kidneys will become hard. Dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread sprinkled with chopped parsley, and serve. Calves’ kidneys or calves’ liver may be prepared in the same manner. Rognons grilles [Grilled Sheep's Kidneys). Steep as many sheep’s kidneys as are required in tepid water, remove the skins and split each in half without quite detaching them. Fasten them on to wooden or iron skewers, season with salt and pepper, brush over with sweet oil or liquefied butter, place them on a greased gridiron, and broil on both sides from five to eight minutes. Dish up on toasted or buttered bread, and serve with a small cpiantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF MUTTON. Carbonades de Mouton a la Chartreuse.—Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce demi-glace. Casserole de Mouton a I’Anglaise.—Neck or loin of mutton, boned and freed from fat, cut into small fillets, stewed in an earthenware fireproof pan (use rich gravy) with a suet crust on top. Cotelettes de Mouton a I’Avignonnaise.—Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, drained, dressed in a circle on a baking-dish, masked over with a rich veloutee sauce, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven [graiin style). — a la Bardoux.—Breaded mutton cutlets, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsely chopped fried ham previously tossed in a little butter. — a la Choiseul.—Mutton cutlets spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with fine herbs and chopped mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s caul or lamb’s leaf-fat, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried. Serve with suitable sauce.