ISO THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce GoufTe. I gill cream, i gill wine vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, i bay-leaf, 6 crushed peppercorns, salt, 2 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i tablespoonful chopped lobster meat. Put the vinegar, bay-leaf, and peppercorns in a stewpan (covered) ; let it reduce a little. Add the yolks of eggs and stir over the hre until the sauce begins to thicken, then remove and put in a saucepan containing boiling water, or in the bain-marie. Work in the butter a little at a time, also the cream, stir vigorously with a small whisk. Pass through a hne strainer or tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, add the chopped lobster and a pinch of salt, stir again, place a tew bits of butter on top, and keep hot until required for serving. Sauce Hollandaise {Dutch Sauce) 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, i gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), J gill stock, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper. Boil up the sauce, remove to tlie side of the stove and whisk in the yolks of eggs, add the stock (hsh, chicken, rabbit or veal), mix thoroughly and add the butter gradually, season with pepper and salt and the lemon-juice. Pass through a tammy and use. Before adding the butter the sauce should be sufficiently heated to bind the eggs. Great care must be taken to prevent it curdling. Another way to make this sauce is to omit the bechamel, and to use 4 yolks of eggs to h a gill of stock, which is hnished with 4 oz. of butter. The hrst is the most convenient and most popular way. This sauce, when hnished, is to be just hot, and on no account must it be allowed to reach the boiling point. Sauce Homard {Lobster Sauce). Take half a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142), add to it two heaped-up tablespoonfuls of hnely chopped lobster, including a little coral or spawn ; mix, and heat up carefully whilst stirring; season with a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, and serve when hot. Sauce aux Huitres {Oyster Sauce). 12 oysters, i oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, i yolk of egg, f of a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142). Open the oysters, remove the beards and put them, with their litpior, in a small saucepan, with the butter. Cover with the lid, and cook for four minutes (they must not be allowed to boil). Put the oysters on a sieve, cut them in halves or quarters, allow the liquid to reduce to half its original quantity. Strain, return to the saucepan, add the bechamel sauce ; when hot bind with the yolk of egg, then put in the oysters and lemon-juice. Stir till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Season to taste and serve. Sauce Indienne {Indian Curry Sauce). \\ oz. butter, oz. flour, ^ small onion, i tablespoonful curry-powder, 5 pint good stock, salt, i tomato, a few savoury herbs, ^ glass sherry or Marsala. Melt the butter, add the onion, finely chopped ; when of a nice light brown stir in the flour and curry-powder, blend well, and cook