THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8s8 Batons de Caviar {Caviare Slices). This dish consists of baked puff-paste fingers split open, filled with seasoned caviare, and decorated with savoury butter and anchovy cream, or cut toasted and buttered bread into neat slices and spread with a layer of caviare, then decorate with creamed savoury butter, as shown in the illustration. Bouchees au Caviar {Caviare patties). Prepare six or eight very small puff-paste patty-cases {bouchees). Remove the lid, scoop out carefully the centre portion, and keep hot. Peel and chop a shallot very finely and put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, stir over the fire long enough to slightly warm the shallot, put in the contents of a small pot of “ hygienic ” caviare, stir gently with a wooden spoon, add two tablespoon fuls of tomato sauce (well reduced), and a few drops of lemon-juice ; let it get thoroughly hot. Fill up the pastry cases with this, place them on a dish, put on the little lids, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Caviar a I’Andalouse. Select eight small, even-sized onions, peel them, and cook lor ten minutes in salted water, drain them, and when cool cut. or scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill the openings with a mixture of “hygienic” or astrachan caviare mixed with a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of soft breadcriimbs, a small piece of butter, and a pinch of black pepper. Put the stuffed onions on a buttered baking tin or pan, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven. Have handy eight rounds of fried croutons, spread with anchovy butter, and put a baked onion on each. Range them neatly on a dish, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. Caviar sur Croutes {Caviare on Toast). Bread for toast, 3 oz. of Russian or “hygienic” caviare, \ a lemon. of a teaspoonful of shallots, a pinch of cayenne, parsley for garnishing. Toast some slices of bread and cut out eight rounds about two inches in diameter and spread over with butter. Mix the caviare carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne, then spread them with the prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve.