THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Free the chicken from skin and bone, and cnt the meat into small portions, cut the ham, mushrooms, and gherkins in slices. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, drain, and rub through a fine sieve, put them in a stewpan, mix with the butter and cream, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; when thoroughly hot, mix in the egg-yolks, and keep hot. Bring the sauce to a boil, put in the chicken, ham, and gherkins, stir gently, and let it get hot, and season with pepper and salt. Fill a buttered border- mould with the potato puree, turn out on a dish, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Serve the chicken, etc., in the centre, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. Poulet a la Hongroise {Chicken, Hungarian Style). I fat tender chicken, 4 oz, butter, 3 oz. flour, r gill white wine, | pint milk, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i lemon, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg, 3 oz. rice, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, t pint stock. Cut the chicken into neat joints, the same as for “ Poulet a la Cabello,” saute brown the pieces slightly on both sides in a saute-pan, with about two and a half ounces of butter. Season with paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Drain off some of the butter, sprinkle over the flour, brown a little, then add the wine and milk (previously boiled), stir well, and simmer very gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Add the parsley last of all. Wash, blanch, and cook the rice with stock. Season with nutmeg, salt, and paprika, add remainder of butter, ham or tongue, cut into small dice. Butter a border-mould, fill up with rice (pack firmly), turn out on a round flat dish. Dress the chicken in the centre of the border, strain the sauce, reduce again, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a little more butter. Pour over the chicken, and serve. Poulet en Cocotte [Fowl in Pipkin). 1 fowl, trussed for boiling, 8-12 small button onions, 4 oz. bacon, streaky, 2 oz. butter, 12 new jjotatoes, i gill demi-glace sauce, i glass mar.sala or sherry, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the bacon into dice and fry in a saute-pan with the onions, previously peeled, take out the onions, and put them on a plate, put the fowl in a fireproof pan (casserole), pour over the bacon and fat, also a little butter, season with pepper and salt. Let the fowl brown over the fire, then cover and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Meanwhile, wash and scrape the potatoes, blanch and drain them, finally saute them in butter in a saute-pan. Pour the fat off the fowl. Add the wine, sauce, and button onions, return to the oven and cook for another fifteen minutes. Take up the fowl, untruss, and dish up, surround it with the button onions and potatoes. Season the sauce to taste, and pour a little over the fowl. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and send to table with the fowl. Fricassee de Poulet [Fricassee of Chicken). Simmer a young fowl for three-quarters of an hour, closely covered, then untruss and cut into neat joints. Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoon fills of butter and two of flour for a few