VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 659 Pommes de Terre Allumettes.—Peeled raw potatoes, sliced thinly and cut into very fine strips like matches ; fry till crisp in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a folded napkin, or use as a garnish. — a la Bordelaise.—Peeled potatoes, thinly sliced, fried lightly in deep fat ; then drain, season and finish in a saute-pan containing enough oiled butter and finely chopped fried onions to toss the potatoes. — a la Bourgeoise.—Thickly sliced potatoes blanched, drained, and stewed in a rich brown sauce, flavoured with thin slices of fried onions. — a la Brabancjonne.—Mashed potatoes mixed with finely chopped and blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Dressed in the form of a pyramid in a deep dish, sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a few bits of butter ; bake till brown in a hot oven. — a la Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares or large dice, fried slightly in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley; add enough brown sauce to moisten at the last. — a la Chateaubriand.—Peeled potatoes cut into quarters, pared to the size and shape of large olives ; par-boil in salted water, drain and fry in butter or bake in a sharp oven ; dish up and serve with a few small pieces of parsley butter (beurre maitre d’hotel) placed on top. — a la Colbert.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into squares, seasoned with pepper and salt, tossed in butter, and stewed in a little rich brown sauce ; a little fresh butter and chopped parsley are also added at the last. — a la Comtesse.—Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a well- buttered timbale mould, moistened with very little seasoned veloutee sauce, and baked in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. — a la Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, together with an equal quantity of slices of cold sausages ; fry carefully in butter, season, and serve with a light brown sauce. — fris^es.—Shapes of curls or small ribbons cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in clarified butter. Season with salt, dish up, and serve. This makes a capital garnish for entrees, etc. — a la Garfield.—Potatoes cut into small dice, par-boiled, drained, and fried in clarified butter. Season and serve. — au gratin.—Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dressed on a well-buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few small pieces of fresh butter. Bake in a very hot oven. — a la Hanovrienne.—Peeled raw potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock just enough to cover ; finish with fresh butter and chopped pamley. — a la Hongroise.—Plain boiled or steamed small potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon-juice.