THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 200 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. Bouillon Alsacienne.—Beef and ham broth, garnished with dice shapes of potatoes, julienne of leeks and cabbage, and sippets of bread. — Ancienne.—Beef broth with small pieces of beef and vegetables as garnish, small crofitons of bread served with cheese (gratine). — de Boeuf,—Beef broth, plain or garnished with soup vegetables. — Bonne Femme.—Beef broth with usual vegetables, garnish and dice shapes of cooked potatoes. — Ecossaise.—IMutton broth with small pieces of lean mutton and vegetables, and pearl barley as garnish. Henri IV.—Beef and chicken broth, garnished with pieces of fowl, cooked rice, and soup vegetables. — Hotchepot.—Beef broth, garnished with small pieces of ox-tail and ox-palate cooked in the broth, and the usual garnish of vegetables. — Marmite or Petite Marmite is a simply-made, but rich, broth of beef and fowl or mutton cooked in an earthenware soup pot (marmite), and as a rule served in large or small hreproof earthenware soup pots. — aux (Eufs.—Beef broth with beaten egg, usually served in cups. — Parisienne.—Beef broth, enriched with chicken boiled in it, garnished with usual soup vegetables—cabbage, etc., and pieces of beef ; baked breadcrumbs handed separately. Consomme a I’Africaine.—This is a rich clear chicken soup flavoured with curry before being clarified ; when ready, garnish it with cooked rice and small shreds of cooked artichoke bottom. — a I’Alexandra.—Chicken consomme with tapioca liaison, small chicken quenelles, fine strips of hard boiled egg-white, and lettuce. — a I’Ambassadrice.—Chicken consomme, garnished with three different kinds of royal custards cut into round cubes—i.e. tomato, truffle, and green pea purees, also shreds of mushrooms and chicken fillet. — a I’Ancienne.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles and fried bread croutons coated with cheese. — a I’Andalouse.—Clarified chicken stock with tapioca (i quart to | oz. tapioca). Garnitures : small rounds of tomato, cucumber cubes, and small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — a I’Aurore.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomato, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with finely cut chicken fillers. — a la Bagration (Maigre).—A richly flavoured clear soup, garnished with small fish quenelles, vegetable, and prawns. — a la Baviere {Bavarian).—A clear soup with very small semolina dumplings. — a la Belle-Fermiere.—Rich clarified chicken stock, garnished with lozenge shapes of cabbage, French beans, and nouille paste (poached). — a la Benjamin LeQois.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with green peas, small cubes of truffle, and royal custard containing chicken puree. — a la Bohemienne.—Clear soup with cubes of royal custard and foie-gras, also small profiterolles.