LIGHT ENTREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGERES. 35' Bouchees a la Princesse. Fill puff-paste cases with a salpicon of minced ortolan lillets and truffles moistened with browm sauce. Bouchees a la Toulouse. Fill pnff-paste cases with cooked veal and chicken hllets, cocks’ combs, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice, moistened and heated up in white sauce. Bouchees a la Suedoise. Prepare and bake some small bouchees made from puff-paste (p. 133), fill them with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon, all cut into small slices and heated up in veloutee sauce, sprinkle the top of bouchees with grated cheese, bread- crumbs and lobster butter, and brown them in the oven before serving. Bouchees a la Moderne. lb. of mashed potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, i gill ol cream, 2 yolks of eggs, i truffle, 6 mushrooms, 6 to 8 oz. cooked chicken, veal, pheasant or other game, i gill of veloutee sauce, i gill of bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, i oz. panurette. Remove skin and sinews from the meat, cut it small or mince coarsely, put it into a small stewpan, with the mushrooms and the truffle finely chopped, and sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten, add a small piece of butter, and stir over the hre until hot. This forms the salpicon. Rub some cooked potatoes through a hue sieve, mix them with a piece of butter and a little cream, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, let this puree ^et thoroughly hot, add the yolk of an egg, and w'ork it w^ll. Butter 10 to 12 small bouche moulds, sprinkle with panurette and line them with potato puree, hll the moulds with the prepared salpicon, cover the top of each with the potato puree, smooth over with the blade of a knife, and bake in a moderate oven for about hfteen minutes. Heat up the bechamel sauce, add the remainder of veloutee sauce and the yolk of egg, and stir W'Cll over the hre, wfflen hot, add a little cream, and w'ork in bit by bit the remaining butter. Turn out the bouche moulds neatly on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. BOUDINS, COQUILLES, CROQUETTES, ETC. These are, as a rule, small oblong, sausage, round or border shapes of souffle-like mixtures (farce) of hsh, meat, poultry or game, steamed or poached, aud served with a suitable sauce, Boudins de Volatile a la Reine.—Small sausage shapes oi chicken farce, poached, and served with supreme sauce. Boudins de Volaille Blanc.—White chicken boudins, centre filled with chicken saljiicon, and served with white sauce. Boudins de Gibier a la Perigueux.—Small oblong or oval shapes of game farce mixed with chopped truffle, steamed, and served with a rich truffle sauce.