462 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fry*to a light'brown^^roux, put in the meat, ju'eviously drained and fried lightly in butter. Add half the vinegar, also a bay-leaf, half-pint stock, one tablespoonful of chutney, and one gill tomato puree. Season with salt, and let it simmer for about half an hour, or until the meat is quite tender. Dish up in a casserole dish, and serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Indian Dry Curry. lb. lean beef, mutton, or pork, 3 oz. butter, i onion, i tablespoonful "Empress” curry powder, 2 chopped gherkins, 1 tablespoonful mango chutney, ^ lemon, pint thin brown or demi-glace sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion (peeled and sliced), and fry for a few minutes. Then add the meat, cut in small pieces, and fry all together for about five minutes. Now sprinkle over the curry powder, season with salt, and stir the contents of the pan over the fire for another five minutes. Next add the gherkin and chutney, also the sauce, and allow to cook gently for about an hour ; by that time the meat should be quite tender. Add the juice of the lemon, and dish up. Serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Curried Mutton or Lamb. ij to 2 lb. lean mutton or Iamb, i small onion, 2 oz. pork fat or lard, I des'.ertspoonful "Laxami” curry powder, 1 oz. flour, 2 ripe tomatoes, i|- pints stock or water, boiled rice, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small cubes or dice shapes. Peel and chop the onion, melt the fat and fry in it the meat (lightly), add the onion and fry a little, then sprinkle over the curry powder. Stir all over the fire for a few seconds, then add the flour and let it take colour, a pale brown or fawn. Next moisten with the stock, stir till it boils, season"] to taste with salt and pepper, add the tomatoes cut into slices,'_and cook the whole gently until the meat is tender. Take up the meat and strain the sauce. Re-heat again, skim, and dish up in a fireproof dish. Serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Curried Tripe. Mince finely a small onion and fry in a stew-pan with i oz. of bntter, to a light-brown colour, add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a tablespoonful of flour, and fry a little, then add a pint of white stock. Stir over the fire until it boils. Cut ly lb. of cooked tripe into small slices and cook slowly in the sauce for half-hour. Skim, season to taste, and serve on a hot dish with boiled rice. Note.—For directions to boil rice for curry, see Auxiliary Recipes at end of book.