VEGETABLE AND FA BIN AGE ENTREES. without browning, and add the stock. Ihjil gently for about forty minutes, then stir in the remainder of the meat glaze, the tomato pulp, grated cheese, and the truffle. When sufficiently reduced, fill up a buttered border mould and turn it out on to a round dish. Dress the artichokes in the centre, pour over a little tomat<; or brown sauce, and serve. Coupes de Concombre a I’Algerienne. 1 cucumber, 3 oz. cooked ham, i teaspoonful meat glaze, i gill bechamel sauce, V pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, 2 tablespooufuls curry sauce, 8 pre- served mushrooms, and chopped truflles. Cut an even-shaped cucumber into 8 pieces about id in. thick, and with a fluted paste-cutter stamp out each piece so as to remove the skin and obtain a neat shape. Place them in a buttered saute- pan with a gill of white stock. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about ten minutes, then take up the cucum- ber, stamp out the cen- • tre part of each piece, and put them on a wire sieve to drain. Chop the ham and pirn i e n t o, mix them with the curry sauce and the meat glaze. Fill the cucumber shapes with this, and place a mush- room head on top of each. Place the shapes in buttered china cassolettes or souffle cases with a little chopped truflle in the centre of each, and re-heat in the oven for a few minutes, then dish up, and serve. Riz a la Hongroise {Rice, Hungarian Style). Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it), put it into a stewpan with lid. Add 2 oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of paprika, and a teaspoonful of salt ; mix well, cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and let co(jk slowly on the stove or in the oven from one to two hours. A very small bunch of savoury herbs can be added while the rice is cooking, but must be removed before it is served. Serve in little well-buttered ramakin or souffle cases. Concombre braise a la Moelle (Cncuinhcr with Beef Marrow). Peel and prepare a cucumber the same as for stuffing, cut it BB