362 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. same as for an omelet, add the cream, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Divide this mixture equally into the moulds, and poach slowly in the oven. Put the forcemeat, previously seasoned, in one or two well-buttered flat moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. Let cool a little, then stamp out as many rounds as there are moulds, and the same size as the moulds. Turn out the egg moulds, and place one on each of the forcemeat socles, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle on top of each, dish up, keep in the oven till hot, and serve with tomato sauce. Pilau or Pillaw a ITndienne. Braised, boned, and stuffed fowl, cut into small slices, dressed with minced fried onions, mangoes, on small rice shapes. Served with curry sauce. Pilau a la Turque. Minced chicken and ham mixed with cooked savoury rice, seasoned with savoury herbs, flavoured with sherry. Dressed neatly and served hot. Quenelles de Rognons a la Parmentier [Quenelles of Kidney with Potatoes). 3-4 sheep’s kidneys, 6 champignons, i shallot, oz. butter, J glass Marsala, 2 tablespoonfuls Espagnole sauce, a little chopped parsley, seasoning, tomato sauce for border, 3 medium-sized potatoes for bouches or quenelle lining, frying-fat, 6 oz. pounded chicken meat, 2 oz. choux paste, 2 egg- yolks, I tablespoonful cream, salt, and nutmeg, panurette for crumbing. Scald, skin, and slice the kidneys very finely, also slice the mushrooms, peel and chop the shallot, fry the latter a little in the butter, put in the k i d n e ys, and toss (saute) them for some minutes over a quick fire. Next add the wine and the Espag- n o 1 e sauce. Season to taste, and cook quickly for a few minutes. Lastly, add the chopped parsley, and keep till wanted. To prepare the chicken mixture: Pound and sieve the chicken meat, mix with the choux paste, stir over the fire in a stewpan, adding the cream and yolks of eggs, and season to taste. Butter 8 to lo small bouche or egg moulds, sprinkle them with panurette, and line them with the mixture, nearly fill with stewed kidneys, etc., and cover well with more of the mixture. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little