THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 14 cookery and varied cookery are alike economical. The more per- fectly food is cooked the better it is assimilated, and the more satisfactory will be the digestion ; whilst, on the other hand, the more varied it is, the more successfully does it provide for the requirements of our complex bodies. Food that is cooked badly, or food that is unsuitable, too heavy or too rich of its kind, is sure to provoke that dreaded enemy, dyspepsia. All that appertains to the delicate and valuable science of cookery, in its highest and most artistic form, is the result of study of the masters of that craft, who, we are bound to admit, have of late produced marvellous improvements by providing what “ is pleasant to the eye and good for food.” Those cooks who rank as chefs are at once artists and physicians : they appeal to our senses of coloui', of fragrance, of form, and of taste. Recognising that the condition of our souls is largely dependent on the state of our stomachs, their inventive genius is displayed in multifarious schemes for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutriment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar ; they can fashion all the flowers that bloom in the spring ” out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots ; they can form all the delicate pieces of a table decoration, and the judicious composition of a well-balanced bill of fare ; they work like dramatists and think like doctors ; for, after all, the “ secret ” of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the com- pany ; hence the culinary artist may justly be termed the real physician of modern life. Cooking, then, in its higher signiflcance, has become a fine art. A cook’s business does not merely consist of preparing dishes, nourishing and digestible : it also requires a high degree of skill in blending colours and condiments. So much for the artists and the “ haute cuisine ” ; but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking be likewise recognised in every- day life. It is here that cooking is often shamefully mismanaged, owing to lack of better knowledge ; and as the extravagances and discomforts resulting from bad cooking are well known, the importance of good cooking becomes at once apparent. Cookery is eminently experimental; our knowledge is increased through our daily experience and practice in the art. As the widest