THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 840 carefully, so as not to injure the rind. Cut some glace fruit into fine shreds or dice, and steep in maraschino liqueur. Mix these with orange ice (p. 829), hll the oranges with it. Put on the covers, and place the oranges in a freezer (sorbetiere) ; surround the latter with ice and salt for two hours. Take them out and dish up on vine-leaves or on a folded napkin. Fruits glaces {Iced Fruits), Any suitable fruit may be iced by dipping, hrst, in the beaten white of an egg, then in coarse or granulated sugar. Do this until the sugar coating is sufficiently thick. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet juicy pears are treated in the same way. Cherries, strawberries, and other small fruits are iced with the stems on, only the largest being chosen. Pineapples should be cut into thin slices, and these again divided into quarters. Oranges and lemons should be carefully pared and all the white pith removed. Lemons are cut into horizontal slices, and oranges are divided into quarters. Compote de Poires en Surprise. Line an oval-shaped jelly or pudding mould with halves of preserved red pears, hll the centre with a good vanilla cream ice and turn out quickly on to a dish. Pour some red fruit syrup round the dish, and serve, MOUSSES, SOUFFLES, AND PARFAITS. Mousses, souffles, and parfaits are light ice cream preparations made from custard, cream, fruit or syrups, whipped whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names given. They are served in souffle cases or souffle dishes, in which they are frozen. Other compositions for mousses and souffles will be found among the compound ices. Mousse de Framboise frappee [Iced Raspberry Mousse). I lb. ripe raspberries, pint double cream, il pint port-wine jelly, angelica and pistachio nuts for garnish, i small glass of kirsch. Pass three parts of the raspberries through a hue sieve, and mix the pnree with half a pint of port-wine jelly. When partly cold add half the cream, previously whisked, and about half an ounce of castor sugar. Three-parts freeze this mixture and fill with it a bomb-mould, leaving a cavity in the centre for half the remainder of raspberries, which should be cut up small, sweetened, and flavoured with kirsch. Cover the surface with more of the frozen mixture, place the lid on the mould and keep it buried in ice till wanted for table. Fill up with alternate layers of raspberries, angelica, and jelly, a number of little dariole-moulds. Whip the cream and sweeten it with vanilla sugar. Turn out the large mould on a round dish, decorate it with whipped cream, pistachios, etc., and set round it the little moulds.