570 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. rabbit in a mortar with the white sauce till quite smooth, adding the latter by degrees. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Work in the cool liquid the aspic, stir in a cool place till nearly set, then add the cream, pre- viously whipped stiff. Mix about a fourth part with a little spinach or green asparagus puree, and put this in each half of the mould to form the asparagus-tops, fill the remainder of the mould with the white puree previously mixed with the asparagus puree, close up the mould, wrap up in paper, and place on the ice for about one and a half hours. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish with a folded napkin. Decorate the dish with cooked prawns and diamonds of set aspic jelly, and serve as a cold entree. Dormettes de Volaille a la Janette. Prepare a chicken farce as directed on p. 178, poach it in a mould and let cool, then pound in a mortar, adding white chaud- froid sauce, aspic, and cream ; test the farce and fill up the required number of coquille moulds. When set s;asasfi55^ unmould and place them on a dish or small plates, one or two on each, with clear chicken consomme slightly stiffened with gelatine, decorate with tarragon leaves^ green peas, pimiento, and gherkins, according to taste. Mosaic de Foie-gras a la Diplomate. Pound half a pound of cooked fowl, pass through a sieve, mix while hot with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, and with one- third of the farce incorporate a little liquid aspic. Have ready some ox-tongue, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and black truffles. Place a round or oval mould upon some crushed ice, with clear aspic jelly mask the bottom and sides. When set, ornament the bottom and sides as shown in the illustration with tongue, hard-boiled white of egg, and truffles. To do this it is neces- sary to dip each dice shape in a little liquid aspic jelly, so as to make it adhere to the side of the mould. As soon as the de- coration is finished and well set, line the mould with the chicken puree, stiffened with aspic, place an appropriate-sized pate de foie-gras, freed from crust and fat, in the centre, and fill up side