396 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES OF LAMB. Blanquette d’Agneau a la Romaine.—A white stew of lamb (shoulder and l)reast pieces), enriched with egg-yolks, lemon-juice, and meat glaze ; garnished ith small baked timbales of puree of artichoke bottoms. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, rolled, stewed in rich white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a cylindrical mould alternately in rows with braised green lettuce-stalks cooked “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — a la Constance.—Breaded lamb cutlets fried in butter, with financiere ragout as garnish in centre of dish. — aux Concombres.—Broiled or grilled lamb cutlets, with slightly fried or braised cucumbers cut in cubes. — a la Cussy.—Breaded and fried lamb cutlets ; served with veloutee sauce, mixed with chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. — a la Duchesse.—Braised lamb cutlets, masked with duxelle sauce, egged, crumbed, fried. Dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree of green peas in centre, served with sauce Supreme. — aux Epinards.—Grilled or fried lamb cutlets, dished up with spinach in centre of dish and served with gravy. — a la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried lamb cutlets; served with stewed spring vegetables in centre of dish. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked lamb cutlets, pressed, and coated with Villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed and fried in butter ; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce demi-glace. — d’Agneau a la Maltaise.—Fried lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed, served with Maltaise sauce, composed of veloutee sauce, sherry, lemon- and orange-juice, and finely shred orange-peel. — a la Princesse.—Par-fried lamb cutlets, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg ; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus ; sauce Mousseline. — d’Agneau a la Robert.—Lamb cutlets, breaded and fried in butter, served with brown onion sauce. — a la Royale.—Grilled lamb cutlets dressed en couronne, with foie-gras puree and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes soufllees ; sauce Madere. — d’Agneau a la Sainte-Menehould. — Lamb cutlets stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; then braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled lamb cutlets, served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree in centre ; sauce demi-glace. — aux truffes.—Grilled or broiled lamb cutlets ; served with truffle