6i4 the new century COOKERY BOOK. truss like fowls. Mix some butter with a little pepper, and put a piece about the size of a nutmeg inside each bird, hang before a brisk lire or place in a tin if done in the oven, the former method, however, ii the better and more correct way. Baste very liberally with either oiled butter or hot bacon fat. Well-hung or high game should always be well cooked. Grouse take from thirty-five minutes to three-cjuarters of an hour, according to size. If cooked in the oven, a thick piece of toasted buttered bread should be placed under each bird, and served with it. When done, take up, untruss, place on a hot dish, garnish with watercress and fried breadcrumbs, and serve with gravy and bread sauce. Becasses aux Huitres {Woodcocks with Oysters). One brace of woodcocks, i8 oysters, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, I oz. butter, \ gill cream, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, mace, pint demi-glace. Pick, draw, and wipe the woodcocks, beard the oysters, and cut them into quarters. Mix the breadcrumbs with the egg-yolks, cream, and butter, add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of ground mace, pepper and salt to taste, mix with the oysters and stuff the birds with this, sew up and truss for roasting. Put the birds in a roasting-tin with a little dripping and bake in a quick oven from thirty to forty minutes, basting occasionally. When done, untruss, dish up on two pieces of toasted bread, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Perdreaux rotis a I’Espagnole {Roast Partridge, Spanish Style). Procure a pair of partridges ready trussed for roasting. Put two well-wiped gorgona anchovies into the body of each bird. Line a small roasting-tin with a few rashers of bacon, put a layer of sliced tomatoes on top, place in the partridges. Add sufficient salt and pepper to season, also a few sprigs of parsley, baste well vuth oiled butter, and roast in the oven for a good half-hour. Baste occasionally. When done, take out the birds, untruss, dish up on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy. Add a teaspoonful of soy to colour it, also a gill of good stock. Boil up and cook for a few minutes, then strain over the birds and serve. Perdreaux a la Crapaudine {Partridge, Crapaudine Style). Fresh-killed partridges are best for this dish. Split each bird down the back, spread open, wipe the inside, flatten with a cutlet- bat, and skewer them flat. Brush over well with sweet salad oil, season with salt and pepper, dip in fresh breadcrumbs, sprinkle over some more oil, place them on a gridiron previously cleaned and rubbed with a piece of fat bacon. Grill on a brisk Are at first and finish more slowly, on no account must they be too brown. They will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the birds. Remove the skewers, dress the partridges on a hot dish, pyramid fashion, and send to table with a boat of remoulade sauce.