508 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Faisan en Cocotte (Pheasant in Ter vine). Proceed to prepare and cook a pheasant the same as directed for “ Poulet en Casserole,” with a gar- niture of small braised button onions, mushroom (champignons) heads, and small olive shapes of truffles—the latter are often replaced by noisette potatoes (small bell-shaped potatoes, blanched and fried, or tossed in butter). Faisan en Robe de Chambre. I pheasant ready for trussing, i lb. lean pork, t lb. calf's liver, ^ lb. lean veal, ^ lb. larding bacon or ordinary fat bacon, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, I large or 2 small truffles, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue, 3 yolks of eggs (raw), seasoning, i lb. puff-paste. Bone the pheasant, cut up the pork, veal, and bacon hnely, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Cut the liver into thin slices, peel and chop the shallots, fry both lightly in a saute-pan with the butter, pound well, mix with the meat, and add the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, aromatic spice, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub through a fine sieve. Lay the boned pheasant out flat on a board, skin downwards, spread the prepared farce evenly over the bird, upon this put the tongue (cut into strips), and the truffles (cut into slices). Roll up carefully, tie up in a cloth as for a galantine, and cook for about forty-five minutes in the stockpot. When done take up, let cool, untie, and enclose the roll in puff- paste. Put it on a baking-sheet, mark the top of the paste artisti- cally, brush over with egg-wash, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up and serve hot or cold. If the former, serve with a boat of gravy or demi-glace sauce. If served cold, garnish with plenty of aspic jelly. Terrine de Faisan a la Cossart [Braised Pheasants with Chestnuts). I plump pheasant, I lb. calf’s liver, i shallot, 4 oz. bacon, a bouquet of savoury herbs, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, 2-3 tablespooiifuls of rich Espag- nole sauce, 4 slices of lean bacon, raw ham, i terrine or tin of foie-gras, I glass of white wine, pint of demi-glace sauce, 12 chestnuts, and seasoning. Bone the pheasant, slit the boned bird down the back, and place it cut side upwards on a board. Have ready a farce made by slicing the liver, and tossing it in a saute-pan with the butter and finely minced shallot. Add the bonquet garni, add also the bacon finely sliced, and fry with the liver, then moisten with a little stock and mushroom liquor. Pound whilst hot in a mortar, removing the herbs ; when smooth, add the sauce, and season to taste. Rub this through a fine sieve, and spread over the pheasant. Cut the foie-gras, freed from fat, into fairly thick slices, and place them on top of the farce, roll up the bird neatly, and tie up with string. Put it in a fireproof terrine or casserole, lined with fat bacon, spread a little butter over