867 A FTER-DINNER SA VO URIES. Cassolettes d’Ecrevisses Richelieu {Praw>n Cassolettesj. Make a batter with two ounces of Hour (sifted) diluted with half a gill of tepid water, quarter of an ounce of melted butter, two yolks of eggs, and the white of one whisked to a froth. Have ready some hot fat in a deep pan, dip a greased fritter mould into the prepared butter so as to completely coat the outside ; plunge it into hot fat for a few minutes, remove the paste crust, and con- tinue thus until eight to ten cassolette cases are produced. For the filling of these use twelve prawns, three tablespoonfnls bechamel sauce, half ounce lobster butter, one egg, half ounce grated parmesan cheese, one tablespoonfnl cream, one tablespoonfnl anchovy essence, and cayenne or paprika to season. Remove the tails from the prawns and chop them rather finely, incorporate the sauce, heat up, and add the cream, lobster butter, anchovy essence, grated cheese, and lastly the yolks of eggs. Season with pepper, and mix the whisked white of egg in lighthu Fill the cassolettes with this, and bake them in a moderate oven for five minutes. Surmount each with a prawn head. Dish np, and serve. Cassolettes d’Issigny {Butter Cassolettes). Shape a pound of best fresh or salt butter into small timbales or other suitable cassolette shapes. Put them on the ice for half an hour, then egg and crumb them twice. Fry them in very hot deep fat to a golden colour, take up and drain them. Cut out a small round of the crust of each and drain off the liquid butter contained inside. Fill the cassolettes thus formed with a delicate mixture—i.e. fine salpicon of chicken or sweetbread, prawns or lobster, blended with suitable sauce. Dish up, replace the little lid on each, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Petits Pates de Crevettes {Small Praivn Patties). I- lb. short-crust paste or puff-paste trinimiugs, i doz. prawns, i gill Hollandaisc sauce, it oz. butter. Roll out the paste, line six to eight small dariole-moulds, fill up with rice, and bake a nice colour. Take out the rice and place on a sieve. Pick the prawns; cut the tails in neat pieces. Prepare a little prawn butter with the shells and the half-ounce of butter. \\"arm up the hollandaise, add the prawn butter and the prawns, fill the cases, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Petits SouiTles au Thon {Tunny Fish Soufflh). 4 oz. preserved tunny-fish, 6 boned anchovies, i hard-boiled egg, 3 boned sardines, 2 i- oz. grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i oz. butter, 4 table- spoonfuls reduced bechamel, oz. panurette or breadcrumbs, pepper and cayenne, i white of egg, 8 china or paper souffle cases. Pouncl in a mortar the tunny fish, anchovies, and sardines, add an ounce of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of cream, two table- spoonfuls of 3vell-reduced bechamel sauce, hard-boiled egg, and the butter ; work tvell till smooth, season with a little pepper and pinch of cayenne. Rub through a wire sieve, and fill the souffle cases, previously buttered, three-parts full. Put them on a baking- tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. In the meantime