758 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. giving it a dome-shaped appearance. Dredge liberally with castor sugar, and bake well in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the syrup in a stew-pan, add the apricot jam and a little water, reduce, strain, and coat the border. Decorate with fruit and send to table. Timbale a la Pompadour. Prepare sufficient “ baba-paste ” {see “ Baba au Rhum,” p. 757) to fill a well-buttered copper pudding-mould, bake it in the usual way, turn out on a sieve, when cold, cut off the top carefully, scoop out the centre, and fill with a macedoine of fruit. Reduce the syrup well with as much apricot marmalade and a little kirschwasser as will make a stiff syrup, pour some of this over the fruit, put the top on it, and turn over on a dish. Have ready some small rounds of apples, some cooked in white and others in red syrup, also a nice peach. Ornament the top with the fruit, garnish with angelica and dried cherries. Glaze over with the reduced syrup, warm in the oven, and serve. Timbale a la St.-Petersbourg. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, i glass kirschwasser, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. best Vienna flour, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot or quince marma- lade, the whites of 2 eggs, i oz. of pistachio nuts. Break six eggs into a copper egg-bowl, add the sugar, beat with a whisk over a very slow fire for about fifteen or twenty minutes, then add the ground almonds, and beat a little longer. Melt the butter, mix it and the flour alternately and in small quantities with the above, and add the liqueur (kirsch). Fill a well-buttered mould with the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a sieve and let cool. Mean- while beat the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to it the pistachios, previously peeled, blanched, and chopped, and the marmalade previously warmed. Place the cake on a dish, and fill the centre with the white of egg preparation piled up high, and dredge with a little castor sifgar. Bake in a hot oven long enough to heat the cake and brown the surface. Pour some hot rum or other syrup round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Timbales aux Fruits a la Metropole. Mix 4 oz. butter (melted) with about ^ lb. brioche paste (p. 137). Put this into a buttered charlotte mould, and allow it to stand in a warm place for about thirty minutes. Bake it in a moderately- heated oven. Meanwhile prepare a compote or macedoine of peaches, prunes, pears, or any other fresh or preserved fruit. If the former are used, cook them in syrup. Drain the fruit, reduce the syrup with some apricot marmalade, and mix again with the mace- doine of fruit, flavoured with a glass of kirsch. Scoop out the centre of the baked cake, and fill tlie hollow with the prepared fruit. Decorate the top with pistachios, glace fruit, etc., and serve not too hot.