A FTEli-DlNNER SA VO URIES. 869 cheese, bake a nice colour in a moderate oven. Put the meat of the lobster in a mortar and pound well, add the remainder of the above-named ingredients. When smooth, season to taste, and put through a fine sieve. Split open the baked slice of paste, sj)read each half with the prepared puree, place them together and re-heat. Dish up on a dish with a folded napkin or lace-paper. Garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot or cold. Croutes de Homard {Fried Lobster Crofdes). Cut some freshly-toasted slices of bread into even-sized pieces, fry them very slightly in a little butter, and drain them. Have ready a mixture composed of lobster puree moistened with bechamel or other good white sauce, egg-yolk, cream, and the needful seasoning. Put a dessertspoonful of this on each bread croute, spread it neatly with the blade of a knife, egg and crumb them carefully, and plunge into very hot fat for a few minutes. Take up, drain, and dish neatly on a hot dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Ballons de Saumon fume [Smoked Salmon Rolls). I tin preserved lax or 6 oz. smoked salmon. 6 to 8 small round rolls, 2 lianl- boiled eggs, a teaspoonful chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives, j table- spoonfuls sweet oil, i ditto of French vinegar, a few capers, pepper and salt, parsley. Rasp the rolls all over, cut them into halves, scoop out the crumb, and put the crusts to dry in a cool oven. Cut some neat strips of the lax or smoked salmon, chop the remainder rather coarsely, chop up the eggs, and put both in a basin ; add the chopped herbs, season with the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix w'ell, and fill the rolls with this; arrange the strips of salmon over the filling of the rolls in the form of lattice-work, put a caper in each cavity. Dish up on a ’ folded napkin or dish-paper in a pyramidal form, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Croustades de Saumon a la Diable [Devilled Salmon). \ 11). of smoked salmon or 1 tin lax, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tea- spoonful chopped shallot, V oz. butter, curry powder and cayenne, } lb. short-crust paste or puff-paste. Roll out the paste and line with it ten small tartlet-moulds, prick the bottom wdth a fork to prevent blisters in baking, fill up with some rice or dry peas, bake a golden colour, take out the