VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 661 Pommes de Terre a la Vaudoise.—Sliced peeled raw iK)taloes, ranged in layers on a buttered baking-dish ; season each layer with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruyere cheese. Sprinkle grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter over the top, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Viennoise.—Raw potatoes cut into fairly large dice, par-boiled, drained, and stewed in seasoned beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves. Dish up and sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. — a la Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, stewed in a little stock,' some cream, and a little fresh butter. — a la Worlitz.—Potato purfe prepared as for croquettes shaped into oblongs or squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese on one side only, adding a small piece of lobster butter on the centre of each. Bake in a very hot oven to brown the surface. Quenelles de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks, shaped into quenelles and poached in salted water or seasoned stock, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs fried in Initter. Salsifis a la Villeroy {Fried Salsify). ^^'ash a bundle of salsify. Scrape the roots carefully and trim them, put each in a basin of water seasoned with lemon-juice as they are cleaned. Cook till tender in salted water, and drain when done, put them in a pie-dish and season with oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. At the end of half an hour drain, dip in frying batter (p. 135), drop into boiling fat, fry to a golden brown colour, drain on paper, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Salsifis a la Poulette. Salsify cooked, i.e. boiled, as above directed, can be hnished in a parsley sauce—that is, bechamel and chopped parsley flavoured with lemon-juice—and cooked for ten minutes. Beignets de Salsifis.—Boiled salsify prepared as directed above, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Drained on a cloth or paper and dished up. Salsifis a la Bechamel.—Wash and scrape some salsify and cook in milk and salted water acidulated with lemon-juice. Drain when done and finish in a well-prepared bechamel sauce. — au Beurre fondu.—Wash and scrape the salsify, cook till tender in salted water acidulated with lemon-juice ; drain and dish up, pour over some melted butter, and serve. — Hollandaise.—Salsify boiled as directed above, then stewed in stock and served with Hollandaise sauce. TOMATES TOMATOES. Tomates a I’Americaine {Iced Stuffed Tomatoes). Choose six to eight even-sized ripe but linn tomatoes, hollow out as much as possible of the soft centre portion of fhe tomatoes. Remove the seeds and mix the pulp with an equal quantity of