HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 729 Pouding de Bananes [Banana Pudding). 2 bananas, lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i gill milk or cream, 4 oz. Coombs’ self-raising flour, i oz. butter. Cream the sugar and butter, work in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the flour (sifted), then stir in the milk or cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Peel the bananas, and cut in thin slices. Stir both gently into the mixture. Have ready some buttered clariole-moulds or one pudding-mould, three-parts fill with the preparation. Steam or bake for one hour. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a syrup or sw-eet sauce. Pouding Cabinet [Hot or Cold). 4 sponge cakes or other plain cake, 6 macaroons, a handful of ratalias, 4 eggs, t pint of milk, i glass of sherry, 2 oz. almonds, i gill cream, a few glace cherries, angelica, a few drops vanilla e.ssence. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom wdth halves of cherries and strips of angelica. Blanch, peel, shred, and bake the almonds a light brown colour. Sprinkle the sides of the mould with these, then fill it wdth alternate layers of slices of sponge cakes, macaroons, and ratafias. Beat up the eggs, mix wdth the milk, cream, and wdne, and flavour wdth vanilla. Pour this into the mould, cover wdth buttered paper, and let it stand for about an hour. Steam for tw'o hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve wdth German sauce or fruit syrup. This pudding is exceedingly nice served cold, in wTich case it should be garnished wdth more fruit, and sent to table wdth a border of w'hipped sweetened cream round the base of the pudding. Pouding a la Cambaceres. t- lb. beef suet, 6 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. Hour, 4 oz. stoned raisins, 4 oz, crushed macaroons, i oz. angelica (cut into small dice), I small glass of rum, t gill cream. Pound the suet in a mortar till fine, then rub it through a sieve into a basin. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar, and work to a light mixture, adding the cream at the last. Add the raisins (chopped), almonds, macaroons, angelica, and rum. ^^’hisk the wTites of eggs to a stiff froth, sift the flour, and mix both carefully in. Have ready one or tw’o w’ell-buttered moulds, three-parts fill them wdth the mixture. Cover wdth a buttered paper and steam for tw'o and a half hours or longer. Serve hot wdth a sw'eet sherry sauce or a w^ell-flavoured hot custard sauce. Pouding a la Cannelle {Cinnamon Pudding). 1 pint milk, 3 oz. sponge biscuits, 4 eggs, lb. castor sugar, -j lb. ground almonds, an inch of cinnamon or \ oz. ground cinnamon, 2 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, i tablespoonful flour. Boil the milk and cinnamon together for one minute, break up the sponge biscuits, strain the milk over them. Cream il oz. butter wdth the sugar, add the yolks of eggs, one at a time, stir in the almonds, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the biscuits and milk. Beat the wdrites of eggs to a stiff froth, add them and the flour gradually to the mixture. Butter a pudding-mould, sprinkle well wdth breadcrumbs, fill three-parts full wdth the above, and bake