426 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Soeik and blanch the SM'eetbread, and cut in slices about half an inch thick. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely, add the onion, finely chopped, breadcrumbs, and powdered savoury herbs, mix with the egg-yolks and parsley butter, season with pepper ancl salt, and cover the slices of sweetbread completely with this mixture. Put a slice of truffie and a bearded oyster on each slice and enclose separately in buttered paper. Melt a little butter in a saute-pan, put in the papillotes, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up in the papers on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of sauce Madere. They may also be baked in china or paper cases with a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Ris de Veau a la Milanaise {Sweetbread, Milanese Style). I pair heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, a mirepoix, a few slices of carrot and turnip, onion, savoury herbs, and bacon trimmings, i pint rich white stock, seasoning, demi-glace sauce, i gill sherry for garnish, 3 oz. spaghetti, I bread croustade, i oz. grated parmesan, i oz. butter, i truffle, i oz. cooked o.x-tongue, 6 mushrooms, i gill allemande or veloutee sauce. Proceed as directed for “ Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere,” and dish on a fried bread croustade and keep hot. To prepare the garniture Milanaise, break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, cook till tender in slightly salted water, cool, and drain. Heat the sauce, add the grated cheese and the macaroni. Place a few tiny bits of butter on top and keep hot. Cut the tongue, truffle, and mushrooms into fine shreds. Heat the remainder of butter in a stewpan, put in the garnish, toss a few minutes over a brisk fire, season with a pinch of cayenne and a very little nutmeg. Moisten with a little demi-glace, if needed. Arrange the macaroni and the above preparation in alternate groups around the dish. Ris de Veau a la Benevole [Sweetbread with Chestnut Puree). Proceed as directed in “ Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere,” put the chestnut puree (see below) into a forcing-bag, and force out a pretty border on to an oval dish. Let it set in the oven for a few minutes. Dress the sweetbreads in the centre of the border, and serve with Madere sauce. Chestnut Puree [Suitable as Garnish for Entrees, etc.). Boil a pound of large chestnuts for about twenty minutes, remove both skins, boil again in a little stock, and when quite tender rub through a fine wire sieve. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a very little brown sauce, tomato sauce or rich stock. Ris de Veau a la Villeroi [Fried Sweetbread or Sweetbread Fritters). Cut one or two cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into slices, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, coat them with some well-reduced cold veloutee or bechamel sauce. When set, dip them into a well-made, light frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat a golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato or piquante sauce.