HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. 447 Cut the ox-tail into joints about 2 inches long. Soak them'^in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, and fry the ox-tail carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, bacon, celery-root, onion, and herbs. When blended, add the brandy, season well, and cook in stock for if hours. Skim off the fat, take out the ox-tail, and pour off some of the liquor. Add the sauce, season well, reduce, and strain. Cook the ox-tail in the prepared sauce for another hour, or till cpxite tender. Dish up neatly, sauce over, garnish the dish with grated horse-radish and fried sausages cut into pieces. Serve hot. Langue de Boeuf aux Epinards {Braised Ox-tongue with Spinach). Procui'e a salted, pickled or smoked ox-tongue, remove the wincl- pipe and the fat at end. Soak pickled or salted tongues for two hours and a smoked tongue for ten to eleven hours. Cook the tongue in a large stewpan with enough water to well cover it, add one onion, stuck with two cloves and a few peppercorns. Cook gently for about two hours take up, remove the skin whilst hot, and place the tongue in another stewpan with + pint of tomato sauce and i- pint of Espagnole sauce, also a little gravy or stock. Cook this slowly for another hour in the oven. Meanwhile wash, pick, and cook the spinach with very little water and salt. Drain it, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a stewpan, fry in it I to 2 hnely chopped shallots, put in the spinach, and two table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Heat up, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Cook for a few minutes. Cut the tongue into slices. Dish up on a bed of spinach. Sauce round it with some of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately. Note.—For other ways of cooking and dressing ox-tongue, see abbreviated recipes on page 453. Steak and Kidney Pie [A Luncheon or Supper Dish). Make a paste crnst (see “ Pastry”), cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices, dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt, and pepper, and roll a slice of kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a pie-dish, pour in enough water or stock to come half-way up the dish, wet the edges of the dish, and line with a strip of paste, brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the'centre of the paste, and decorate with a few fancifnlly- cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk, and bake for about one and a half hour. Veal and ham, pigeon, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies. Steak and Oyster Pudding. I lb. flour (sifted), 8 oz. beef suet, i gill milk, 14 lb. buttock or rump steak, 18 sauce oysters, 4 gill stock, salt and pepper, 4 lemon. Free the suet from skin and chop it very finely, sprinkle a little flonr or breadcrumbs with the suet when chopping it, put the flour