107 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. the other hand, quite a different effect as to its flavour, and I cannot speak too highly of it. Essences of Meat, etc.—Essences or extracts of meat, hsh, poultry, and game are largely employed in the various sauce preparations. These are concentrated liquids containing as much as possible of the flavours, which by certain processes are reduced to the consistency of half-glaze. To make an Essence.—The ingredients from which the essence takes its name are put in a stewpan with a quantity of rich stock, wine, vegetables, and herb flavouring. When sufficiently simmered the liquid is strained into another stewpan, and when thoroughly skimmed and freed from fat it is reduced to the consistency needed and put by for use when required. The following essences are those most frequently used in high- class kitchens : Ham essence. Truffle essence. Fish essence, Mushroom essence. Chicken essence. Rabbit essence. Pheasant essence, woodcock, snipe, partridge, and lark essence, etc. These essences are, of course, used to enrich certain sauces, so as to make their characteristic flavour more conspicuous. It is needless to add that the use of essences is only adopted for very rich sauces, etc. Fumet.—A fumet is very much the same preparation as an essence, but much richer, being reduced with sherry or madeira. Fumet, in other words, may be termed the flavour, for it is the condensed steam which rises from certain cooked and raw meats, game or poultry, whereby a concentrated flavour is obtained. For a fumet the raw ingredients required are usually sauted in the first instance, after which a bouquet of herbs, stock, and wine are added for reduction. Foundation Sauces.—All the great sauces, or sauces mire, as they are called in France, have either well-reduced stock or essences for their foundation. Espagnole, veloutee, allemande, and bechamel are the names of the four sauces known as Les grandes sauces, though the actual leading foundation sauces are a brown and a white sauce. Espagnole and Bechamel.—These are justly termed the Adam and Eve of all the other preparations, because from these an endless variety of sauces can be made. If we look into the above statement concerning the four grande sauces more closely, we find that espagnole is a brown sauce, whilst the other three are white sauces. This must strike the uninitiated as somewhat odd, because only one brown sauce is recognised, whereas in cookery a brown sauce is used at least three times as often as a white one. It is furthermore curious, or apparently so, that the brown sauce which the French cuisine recognises as the sance should be called Spanish (Espagnole). The white sauce has two varieties, the bechamel and allemande