^8 ENTRIES or POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). fowl with salt and pepper, moisten with a ladleful of rich gravy or a tablespoonful of licpielied meat glaze, put it in the oven for about ten minutes, and baste it well with the liquor. Take up the fowl, untruss, place it in an earthenware pot, strain any liquid remaining in the pan over the fowl, and serve. The fowl may also be dressed on a bed (jf rice, which should be cooked in good stock to the desired consistenc3^ This mode of cooking a fowl is known in France as “ poeler,” and is usually performed upon burning embers or charcoal, the pan used being a fireproof earthenware casserole. It would then be more correct to send the fowl to table in the casserole. Poulet en Casserole {Anothev way). I plump chicken, trussed for roasting, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 10 small button onions, i oz. butter, 1- gill rich stock or gravy, i glass white wine, gill demi-glace .sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the bacon into dice shapes, melt the butter in an earthen- ware braising-pot, put in the bacon and the fowl. Allow it to lightly brown over a fairly brisk fire, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock or gravy and the wine, cover the pan, and let the contents cook gently for half an hour or longer. Peel and blanch the onions in boiling water, drain them, and fry in the fat left over from the fowl. Take up the fowl, untruss, cut it into joints, replace the pieces in the pot with the bacon, add the onions and the sauce. Cook for another twenty minutes, skim well, season to taste, and send to table in the earthenware pan. Note.—When cooking the chicken in the second stage the lid of the pan may be sealed dov’n with a paper or paste band to ensure hermetical sealing ; this is said to produce a still finer flavour to all dishes cooked ai casserole. Poulet a la Duchesse {Chicken, Duchess Style). I boiled chicken (small), 6 oz. lean ham, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 French gherkins, 1 pint veloutee or bechamel .sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, i 11). potatoes, I oz. butter, gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. HH