SAUCES. 173 a little cold milk in a basin, and pour on it the hot milk, return to the saucepan, boil up, and cook for eight minutes. Vanilla Sauce [Sauce a la Vanille).—Proceed in the same manner as above directed, omitting the lemon-rind and using vanilla pod in its place. A little cream may be added just before serving. Raspberry Sauce [Sauce aux Frainboises). I gill raspberry pulp, i oz. sugar, i tablespoonful cornflour, milk or cream, rum or brandy. Heat up the raspberry pulp (or raspberry jam) with the sugar. Mix the cornflour with milk, cream, or water, and stir into the above. Boil for eight minutes, strain, and add rum or brandy to taste. Strawberry Sauce [Cold). I gill strawberry pulp, i oz. castor or iciug sugar, i dessertspoonful corn- flour, I tablespoonful sherry, i tablespoonful cream. Boil the strawberry pulp with the sugar. Mi.x the cornflour with a tablespoonful of sherry and stir in the above. Cook for eight minutes, strain, add a tablespoonful of cream, and serve. Marmalade Sauce. oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, i tablespoonful marmalade, 1 oz. castor sugar, the juice of half a lemon, f pint water, i tablespoonful sherry. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water in a saucepan, add to this remainder of above-named ingredients, and place on the lire, stir till it boils and cook for ten minutes, then strain. Sweet Chaud-froid Sauce. t- oz. gelatine, i gill cream or milk, flavouring, whipped cream. Soak the gelatine in cold water, strain and dissolve in a saucepan with the cream or milk, reduce a little whilst stirring, and add the desired flavouring, such as fruit pulp, vanilla, kirsch, maraschino or rum. Cook for a few minutes, strain, and add a little whipped cream, stir in the ice till nearly cold, and use for coating fruit : peaches, pears, apricots, apples, etc. Sweet Melted Butter Sauce. I oz. fresh butter, -J- oz. flour, i f gill of milk, i tlessertspoonful castor sugar, a lew drops of vanilla essence. Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown ; then add by degrees the milk, stir till it boils, add the sugar, and cook for ten minutes. Just before serving add vanilla cream.