921 C H A P T 1^ R XXXIX . SANDWICHES. Sandwich-making, in tlic ordinary sense, is simple enough, for almost anything edible can be made into a sandwich, but ]>lacing slices of cooked meat, hard-boiled egg or salad between slices of buttered bread by no means completes this culinary branch, which has of late years been carried to a fine art by thoughtful chefs and maitres d’hotel. In addition to the simple sandwiches, I have included a number of more or less unknown “ fancy sandwiches,” useful for cold collations, supper and lunch parties, receptions, etc., where they figure prominently as a rule. On special occasions, where a variety of sandwiches are served, it is advisable to place a neatly-written label on each dish, which indicates the name of the sandwich. Fancy sandwiches are usually richer than so-called plain sand- wiches ; the former, as a rule, are made up in smaller portions than the latter. Dainty-looking and daintily-prepared sandwiches do not cost much more than the coarsely-prepared, dry-looking sandwiches which one frequently meets with. What is wanted (more than additional outlay in materials) is a little more care and attention in the preparation. It matters little as to the shape of the sandwiches ; they may be cut into square, oblong, round or crescent shapes. They should be dished up on lace-paper or a folded napkin, arranged in a row or circle, so that each piece of sandwich overlaps the other. The best way to keep sandwiches fresh and moist is to place a damp napkin over them until they are required for table. Simple or Plain Sandwiches. Cut some slices of bread (one day old tin loaf) about an eighth of an inch in thickness, knead some fresh butter with a little made mnstard (mustard mi.xed with water to a paste), spread one side of each slice of bread with a thin layer of butter. Cut the meat to be used into thin slices (freed from skin and gristle), cover the buttered side of half the number of slices of bread with one or more slices of meat, season to taste, and put the buttered side of the other slices of bread on top of those co\'ered witli meat. Press them together firmly, trim the edges, cut off the crust, cut each sandwich into even-sized portions any shape desired, dish up neatly, and garnish with a few sprigs of cnrly parsley. Sardine Sandwiches. Use boneless sardines (sardines sans aretes), and carefully wipe off the skins from tlie sardines with a damp cloth. Divide each sardine in halves longways, lay out on tliinly-cnt slices of bread