THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK [048 5. —Countersign, “ We won’t go home till morning.” By Order, A. Muncher. MENU OF A DINNER GIVEN BY PRINCE LOUIS DE BOURBON CONDE IN PARIS 9 Aoiit, 1652. 14 POTAGES MaiGRES dont uu aux ecrevisses du Rhiii et vin d’Espagne, et un aux hiiitres d'Angouleine et oeufs de perdrix rouges servis aux deux c6t& de son Altesse. 14 Plats de Poissons. Un sauinon de 20 ecus. Brochet de 19 livres. Carpe aux cEufs de Charnplastreux. Truite de Suisse, 24 livres. Turbot de Havre de Grace. Matelote de lamperoyes d’Angers. Hoche-pot de gibier de riviere. Gibelotte de poissons meles. Anguille a la broche, 9 livres 16 sous. Pate de barbottes de Rhone. Fricassee de lottes aux asperges. Morue fraiche aux groseilles vertes. D’aloses du Rouen grillees. D’esperlands farinnfe au cedrat. 14 Plats de Rot. 5 de poissons cui'.s au bleu. 4 de poissons cuits a la poisle. 4 de gibier de riviere a la broche. 14 Salades. 3 de legumes cuits. 3 d’herbes vertes. 6 d’oeufs accoinmodes diversement. 2 de citrons niusques, 10 ecus. 14 Assiettes Gaufrees. 7 de patisseries a fonds de creme. 7 de patisseries a fonds de fruit. 28 Jattes de Fruits et Autres, Desquels. 6 agaanats touts cntiers. 12 parquettes de fleurs de jonquilles a coiifire. A CONFIDENTIAL MILITANT DINNER. SPECIAL IDEA FOR NIGHT .A.TTACK. For 2ND May, 1903. I.—At 8.30 p.M. the forces will rendezvous at Lodge “ Victoria.” The enemy’s position will first be carefully reconnoitred by a detachment under Lieutenant Caviare. Mounted on toast, closely supported by Clear Soup and Salmon Mayonnaise. The front will then be rapidly cleared, and the first line, consisting of Chicken and Tongue in Aspic Ham, will advance and endeavour to effect a lodgment in front of the enemy’s position, where it will await the advance of the main attack under General Sir Loin of Beef, supported by Colonel Curry. Every attempt should be made to drive this main attack well heme. The third line will consist of Gooseberry Tart. The pursuit of the enemy will be carried out by the rst Light Prancing Gorgonzola. 2. —During the engagement every opportunity should be taken to preserve connection between the various units by means of drafts of Glenlivet and Bass. 3. —On the command “ Open Fire ” pouches will be opened, and the whole line will open fire indepen- dently with cheroots, cigarettes, and pipes. This ammunition will not be carried on mules. 4. —All casualties will remain under the table until picked up. Ambulances at ii p.m.