649 - VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. Fritot de Poireaux [Leek Fritters). 8 large young leeks, i gill milk, -1 pint stock. -1- blade mace, a sprig of young thyme, I- bay-leaf, i egg, salt, pepper, and a gill of well-reduced white sauce, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, parsley. Cook the leeks as directed in preceding recipes. Dip each piece separately into thick white sance, place on a wire rack to set. Coat with egg and breadcrumbs, when set repeat the crumbing. Fry in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper, dish up on a hot dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The cooked pieces of leek may, if liked, be dipped into frying batter in lieu of egging and crumbing. POMMES DE TERRE—POTATOES. Boiled Potatoes. Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to well cover them, add a little salt, and boil till they are tender. Pour off the water, and put the saucepan with potatoes back on the stove to dry for about hve minutes. Shake the pan frequently, to prevent them from burning.. They usually take about half an hour to cook. New potatoes should be put on in warm water. Pommes Puree {Mashed Potatoes). Prepare and boil the potatoes as directed above ; when cooked, drained, and dried, mash them with a fork or rub through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, and add butter, salt, and pepper, allowing an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes. Beat up well over the fire until thoroughly hot, and work in a little milk or cream. Crumbed Potatoes. Wash and peel thinly a pound or more new potatoes of even size, boil them carefully till tender, but not overdone. Drain them, cut them in halves, place them on a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over them some melted butter, and dip each in brown breadcrumbs. Melt some butter in a Yorkshire pudding tin, put in .the potatoes, and bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, dish up in the form of a pyramid on a round dish, and serve hot. Potato Chips. Wash and peel thinly as many even-sized potatoes as may be required, cut them across into very thin slices, and drain them in a cloth. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into boiling hot fat. When almost cooked, remove them from the fat for about three minutes, to allow the fat to get hot again. Then plunge in a second time for a few minutes to acquire a nice golden brown. Take up, shake well, and sprinkle with fine salt. Dish up, and send to table at once. Pommes de Terre Anna {Anna Potatoes). Procure a cylindrical-shaped timbale mould, if possible, if not, an ordinary timbale mould, and brush the inside well with clarified