PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 963 Marsh Mallows. 4 oz. white gum arabic, i ])int water, 4 oz. crab-apple ji'Hy, i gill syrup, 2 whites of eggs, some orange-ltower water. Dissolve the gum in the water and strain it. Add to it the syrup and jelly and boil carefully till quite thick. Then wmrk in the stiffly whisked whites of eggs, and flavour to taste. Pour on to a slab, well sprinkled with a mixture of icing sugar and confectioners’ starch. Make it smooth on top, and dredge with sugar and starch. When cold cut into rounds, diamonds or squares. Toss in starch and sugar and pack between wax paper layers. Fruit Candy, Fresh cocoanut, citron, glace cherries, laisins, figs, 2 lb. loaf sugar, i pint water, small pinch cream of tartar. Take about i lb. (mixed) of cocoa- nut, cherries, raisins, figs, and citron, and shred them rather coarsely. Mix thoroughly, and spread on a greased tin. Boil the sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310 degrees, or until it is a light brown colour, then pour it over the fruit. When half cold, mark into st^uares. When cold, divide the sections, and wrap each in wax paper. (Keep in a tin.) Sugar Candies, I lb. loaf sugar, half a level teaspoonful of cream of tartar, i gill water, a tew drops tartaric acid, colouring, and flavouring. Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310 degrees. Then pour it on to an oiled slab, sprinkle with tartaric acid, colouring and flavouring to taste. Fold over and over till cool enough to handle. Then pull into strips and cut into pieces about i in. square, wrap in wax paper and keep in air-tight tins. Note.—These candies should be pulled as hot as possible. Walnut Molasses Candy. 1 lb. Demerara sugar, i oz. fresh butter, 4 oz. golden syruj) or treacle, I gill water, 8 oz. walnuts, 3 droj)S acetic acid, small pinch cream of tartar. Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar until clear, then add the golden syrup and butter, and boil to 3/0 degrees. Pour on to an oiled slab, add the acetic acid and the walnuts finely chopped, fold over and over until cool enough to handle, then pull into strips. Cut into about i-in. square pieces, and wrap in wax paper. Chocolate Toffee. 2 oz. Kohler’s unsweetened chocolate, 4 oz. almonds, 4 oz. icing sugar, I oz. fresh butter, a little more than i- gill of cream, vanilla flavouring. Blanch the almonds, cut them into quarters, and brown them lightly in the oven. Grate the chocolate, melt it over a slow fire, add the cream and let it boil. Remove the jian from the fire, add the butter by degrees, then the sugar, last of all the almonds and flavouring. iMix well and when the mixture begins to thicken, turn it on to a slightly oiled dish or slab ; it should be about -J-inch in thickness ; when set, di^ude it into sections, and wrap in wax paper when cold. Everton Toffee, I 11). best loaf sugar, i gill water, 4 oz. fresh butter, small pinch of cream of tartar. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a sauce- ])an, let it dissolve, then boil carefully to 300 degrees. Remove the ])an from the fire, add the butter by degrees, allow ng it to melt without stirring the toffee. When all the butter is added in this way, boil the toffee up again to 300 degrees, then pour into slightly oiled small square or oblong tins. When cold wraji each j)iece in wax pa])er, then in tin-foil.