THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 802 of cream till stiff and add the jelly when nearly cool, flavonr with vanilla essence and a little more sugar, if needed, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, stir on the ice until it commences to set, then cover each peach croute completely with this. Let them set on a wire tray and repeat this operation. When set, dish up neatly on a round dish, and serve. The base of the dish may be decorated with chopped wine jelly. Peches a la Ninette. Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in mara- schino, sauced over with cold custard sauce. Peches Orientale {Iced). Halves of peaches stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. Peches a la Pompadour. Make a custard with one pint milk, three ounces vanilla sugar, three whole and three yolks of eggs, and steam it in a buttered charlotte mould. When cooked, allow the cream to cool, and then unmould it on to a round dish. Biuld round it some biscuits dipped or soaked in kirsch and apricot marmalade. Immerse the peaches (cooked) in a good syrnp flavoured with vanilla, and fix the fruit on top of the biscuits. Decorate with some crystallised fruits, and ser^’e with a strawberry sauce or a kirsch creme. CEufs en Surprise {Imitation Eggs). Choose ten to twelve halves of cooked apricots, large size, drain them well, and place them on a well-tinned baking-sheet. Whisk some lemon-jelly on the ice till frothy, when about to set cover each apricot with this, adding as many layers as are necessary to give them the semblance of whites of eggs. Allow to set on the ice. Cook some semolina or florador in milk, flavour with sugar and vanilla, fill up a border mould, and let cool. Unmould the border on a cold dish, dress the prepared apricots on top, sauce over with a thick syrup, and serve. Dattes aux Amandes (Dates Stuffed with Almonds). Pound four to six ounces of peeled almonds with a few pistachio nuts in a mortar. Add sufficient syrup to form a stiff but smooth paste. Roll this out on a sugared board and cut into oblongs the size of dates. Stone a number of dates and fill with almond paste. When this is done, dip each prepared date into sugar boiled to the crack, i.e. 285 degrees on Senids saccharorncter. Serve as dessert. Note.—Green almonds or French plums can be treated in the same way. Croutes aux Fraises {Strawberry Croiites). 4 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. fecule (potato flour), ;) pint cream, t pint crushed strawberries. Beat the eggs and sugar together in a copper bowl over hot water, until creamy and fairly stiff, then add by degrees the butter