700 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade de Crabes {Crah Salad). Take the meat of two or three small crabs, cut it into convenient- sized pieces, put it in a basin, and mix with about one-third its quantity of shredded celery or endive. Season with salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of sweet salad oil (olive or Lucca), three table- spoonfuls of wine or malt vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Serve on little plates on lettuce-leaves, decorate with slices of hard-boiled egg, capers, and stoned olives ; stuff the latter with anchovy butter. Cold salmon may be treated in the same way, in this case include some sliced cucumber in the garnish and mixture. Salade a la Demidoff. 8 to 10 new kidney potatoes scraped and cooked in salted water, 2 large truffles, 3 young spring carrots, 2 young spring turnips, i lettuce (cabbage), salt, pepper, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped herbs, salad oil, French wine vinegar. Drain, cool, and slice the potatoes, and put in a basin. Cook the trufiies in a little Marsala wine, drain, cool, and slice also, mix these with the potatoes, adding a little chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of oil, and the same of vinegar. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnips, cook them separately in salted water, drain, cool, and cut into slices. Season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and arrange a neat border in a salad bowl, put the prepared potatoes and truffle salad in the centre. Garnish with lettuce-leaves, previously dressed, and send to table. Salade a la Dieppoise [Artichoke Salad). 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms (preserved), i large truffle, -J head white celery, 6 oysters or mussels, I' gib mayonnaise sauce, a few anchovy fillets, i bunch watercress. Cut the artichokes into strips, shred the truffle, wash and clean the celery and cut into shreds, blanch and beard the oysters, or stew the mussels, cut them into dice. Mix all carefully in a bowl, and add the mayonnaise, so as to thoroughly mask the whole. A pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg may be added, if liked. Dish up neatly in a glass bowl or china salad dish, garnish with anchovy fillets, well wiped, and some little tufts of watercress. Salade aux Epinards et CEufs [Spinach and Egg Salad). A delightful cold dish can be prepared by cooking the spinach in the usual manner, but without mashing it. When cold, season with sweet salad oil and lemon-juice, and press into one or more moulds. Have ready also two hard-boiled eggs and mayonnaise or remoulade sauce. Arrange a bed of shredded lettuce on a dish (border shape), turn the spinach from the moulds in the centre of the dish, cut the eggs into slices and arrange them tastefully on top of the spinach. Mask over the whole with mayonnaise or remoulade sauce, garnish with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed through a sieve, and sprigs of watercress, and serve.