BREAKFAST AND SUFFER DISHES. 905 Cornish Cutlets {Lwichcoii or Supper Dish). About ;; lb. of cold meal, i lb. of potatoes, i tablcspooiiful of ketchup. I teaspooiiful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, chopped lemon-rind, fat for frying, salt and pe])j)er. Cut the meat into slices a quarter-inch thick, trim them into heart-shapes, put the slices on a dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley, and pour over the ketchu}). \\'ash, peel, and boil the potatoes, dry them and rub through a sieve, beat up one egg and mix with the mash, season with pepper, salt, and add the lemon-juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes, shape and smooth with a knife. Beat up the other egg, dip each cutlet in the egg, and crumb well, when set, egg and crumb again. Fry the cutlets in hot fat a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, and garnish with crisp ])arslcy. Devilled Chicken {Poulct ii la Diablc). Take the remains of a cold fowl, divide it into neat joints, trim off the bones and remove the skin. Mix together a teaspoonful of mustard with a little anchovy essence, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, a tablespoonful of salad oil, and a little cayenne pepper. When quite smooth cover the pieces of chicken with this mixture. Grill them for about ten minutes over a moderate lire, turning them frequently till they are thoroughly hot and brown. Dish up, and serve at once. Note.—Cold turkey or goose may be treated in the same way. Devilled Game. Any kind of cooked game can be used for this dish. Cut it into neat slices, free from skin and bone. Season the slices with cayenne, salt, and paprika, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dip them into oiled butter and cover with brown breadcrumbs. Place the slices neatly on a well-buttered baking-tin, and put them in a sharp oven for a few minutes to get browned. Care must be taken that the meat does not get dried up. Dress them in a circle on a dish with a lace-paper, and hll the centre with crisp, fresh watercress, previously seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. Serve very hot. Cold poultry can be served in the same way. Chicken Spatchcock {Poulct Crapaudinc). I young chicken, chopped parsley and i shallot, 2 oz. butter, breadcrumbs salt and pepper. Split the chicken through the backbone, flatten it out, and wipe the inside with a damp cloth. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley and shallots. Insert two skewers. Brush it with oiled butter, and grill till half cooked. Then sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, finish cooking it over or in front of a brisk fire. It will take about twenty minutes. Remove the skewers. Dish up, and serve with some piquante sauce. Pigeons and game birds may be cooked this way.