430 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a border of mashed potatoes, and serve a jardiniere of vegetables in the centre of the dish. Note.—The portion of meat used for tendrons is situated near the thin edge of the breast, and may, in other words, be called the gristly portion of the breast-bone. The tendrons, when cooked, should be quite soft, and the gristle portion should have become almost transparent. Tendrons de Veau a la Palestine. \ breast of veal, ^ carrot, I turnip, t- onion, i bouquet garni, 3 cloves, a few peppercorns, i quart stock, i glass sherry, 4 pint Espagnole sauce, 6 small artichoke bottoms, i lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i tablespoonful white sauce, J oz. butter, pepper and salt. Remove the skin and bone from the breast, cut the tendrons into squares or heart shajfes, and blanch them in salted water. Drain well, and place in a stewpan on a bed of carrot, turnip, onion, and bouquet of herbs. Add peppercorns, cloves, stock, and wine, cover, and cook very slowly for about two hours. When done, take up carefully and place between two boards or dishes, and let them cool. Reduce the stock, add the sauce, season to taste, and reduce again to half glaze. Trim the tendrons, and re-heat in the sauce, previously freed from grease. Wash, scrape, and slice the arti- chokes, cook till tender in milk and water, drain, rub through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little butter and the sauce. Heat up, bind with a yolk of egg, and pile on the artichoke bottoms in the form of a dome. Sprinkle with white breadcrumbs, put a small bit of butter here and there, place in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up the tendrons in a circle, garnish the centre with the artichokes, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Spinach, green peas or any other suitable vegetable may be served in place of artichokes. Roulade de Veau au Madere.—Rolled fillet or boned loin of veal stuffed and braised ; served with Madere sauce. Ragout de Veau {Brown Veal Stew).—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal, fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce with some musli- rooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. ROGNONS DE VEAU—CALF’S KIDNEYS. Rognons de Veau aux CEufs brouilles. I large or 2 small calves’ kidneys, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, i gill Madeira sauce, I teaspoonful finely chopped parsley or chives, 4 eggs, salt and pepper. Remove skin and fat, cut the kidney into very thin slices, and season with salt and pepper. Fry the shallots in an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add the kidney slices, and toss over a quick fire for five minutes. Add the Madeira sauce, and let cook gently for ten minutes. Beat up the eggs, add about a tablespoonful of milk, season to taste, and put it in a stewpan with the remainder of butter. Stir over the fire till it thickens, dress the kidney in a circle on a hot dish, pile the scrambled eggs in the centre, sprinkle with chopped parsley or chive, and serve at once.