GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 339 Garniture a la Doria [for Meat or Poultry).—Braised cubes of cucumber and noisette potatoes. Rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Dubarry {for Meat).—Breaded and baked cauliflower (au gratin). White or lirovvn sauce. — a la Dubouzet.—Small kidney potatoes, the centres of which are ^ scooped out, stuffed with forcemeat, either fish or meat, according to the kind of dish it is served with. The potatoes are partly friecl and braised in the oven, arranged round a dish of meat, poultry or fish, or put in the centre. Sauce tomate. — a la Duchesse [for Meat).—With duchesse potatoes. Madere or demi- glace sauce. — a la Duclair.—This is characteristic with braised ducks, stuffed with a liver forcemeat seasoned with savoury herbs. Rounds of toasted or ftied bread, well buttered on one side, and covered with liver forcemeat, are dressed round the dish. The sauce consists of a demi-glace well reduced with claret and orange-juice. — a la Dufferin {for Fish).—Blanched scallops, cut into quarters, bearded oysters cooked in a rich Genoise sauce. Anchovy fillets are added to the garnish the last moment. Sauce Genoise. — a la Durance {for Fish).—Crayfish tails, and slices of lobster meat cut into convenient shapes. The sauce consists of Hollandaise, tinted with lobster butter. — a I’Ecarlate.—Cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into slices, dice, and sometimes chopped. Sauce tomate and Espagnole in equal quantities, well reduced. — a I’Ecossaise.—Small timbales lined with thin pancakes, made with savoury batter, filled with lamb forcemeat, baked in the oven, and dressed round the dish. Sauce demi-glace. ■— a I’Espagnole.—Small stripped tomatoes and baked stuffing, savoury meat, ham, mushrooms, carrots, etc., braised onions, and stoned olives. Sauce Espagnole, reduced with sherry and gravy. — a la Favorite {for Meat or Poultry).—Braised lettuce, artichoke liottoms, small potato timbales and mushroom heads. Rich gravy. — a la Fermiere {for Meat).—Young carrots braised, braised lettuce, and olive-shaped potatoes. Rich gravy. — a la Financiere.—Blanched sweetbread cut into small slices or dice- shaped pieces, mushroom heads, stoned olives, chicken forcemeat or Godiveau quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of truffles. Sauce Madere, reduced. — a la Flamande.—Alternate groups of carrots and turnips, scooped out, parboiled and braised, or boiled, cooked green and Erench beans, and braised savoy cabbage. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Flamande {for Meat).—Braised cabbage, young carrots, turnips, marble or egg-shaped potatoes, and small pork sausages, Demi- glace sauce. — a la Florentine {for Fish or Meat).—Spinach timbales or savoury semolina; pastry cassolettes or croquettes. Veloutee or demi- glace sauce-