THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 904 Curried Mince (Cold Meat). Chop finely one pound of cooked cold meat free from gristle and fat. Fry a minced onion in two ounces of butter or dripping to a light brown. Stir in half an ounce of flour and a dessertspoonful of curry powder, then moisten with half-pint of stock. Season with salt and pepper, and add the meat. Cook gently for about thirty minutes. Have ready some boiled, well-drained rice, range this as a border on a hot dish, put the mince in the centre, and serve. Frizzled Beef on Toast. Cut some hung beef (Hamburg or dried beef) into very thin slices of uniform size ; blanch and drain. Melt enough butter in a frying or saute-pan, and in it toss the slices over a quick fire. Serve on toasted and buttered bread. Scotch Collops [Luncheon or Supper Dish). I lb. lean beef (steak), 1} oz. butter, -J- small onion (finely minced), i table- spoonful flour, salt and pepper, gill stock. Mince or shred finely the meat, free from fat or skin. Melt the butter, fry the onion a nice colour, stir in the flour and cook a little longer, then add the minced meat, and lastly the stock. Season lightly with pepper and salt, simmer gently for about forty minutes. Dish up, surround the dish with toasted bread sippets or bread croutons, and serve hot. Mirliton or Cold Meat Pie (Pate a la Mirliton). I lb. cold meat free from bone and gristle, -J lb. mashed potatoes, medium- sized onion, -J- gill stock, i oz. butter or dripping, 1 tablespoonful currants, I egg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mince the meat rather finely, peel and mince finely the onion, fry it in the butter or dripping, put in the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper it, fry for a few minutes, then add about half the stock, and the currante previously cleaned. Beat up the egg, and mix three parts of it with the mashed potatoes, season, and line a greased pie-dish with it, reserving some of the puree to cover the pie. Fill up with the prepared mince, add the remainder of the stock, and cover with about an inch layer of potato puree. Smooth over the surface neatly. Brush over with egg kept for this purpose, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Roman Pie. Line a large pie-dish, previously buttered, with boiled macaroni, have ready some cooked cold meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, tongue, ham or cold game, cut it up rather small, and place in layers in the pie-dish, pour a little white or brown sauce over each layer, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. When the dish is fnll, sauce over with a good layer of rich bechamel. Sprinkle over some grated parmesan cheese, and cover neatly with boiled macaroni. Pour a little melted butter over the macaroni, and strew over some more grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, see that the surface is nicely browned, and serve at once.