154 THE HEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. slowly for twenty minutes. Season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of aromatic seasoning. Pass through a tammy ^ cloth or hair sieve, heat up again, and whisk in the rest of the j butter. Marinade Sauce, or Marinade Cuite. J pint stock, -J gill vinegar, i tablespoonful flour, i oz. butter, i small carrot, 3 shallots, thyme, i clove, parsley, bay-leaf, chives, flour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sliced carrot, sliced shallots, a sprig of thyme, and the clove. Fry a little, then add a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, some chives, and a tablespoonful of flour. • Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the vinegar and stock, season with pepper and salt. Allow to simmer for half an hour, strain or pass through a tammy cloth, and serve as required for releves, roast or braised game, etc. Mint Sauce [Sauce a la Menthe). 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped green mint, i dessertspoonful brown sugar, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Put the mint into a basin, add the sugar and pour over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar, cover and let cool, then add the vinegar, stir well', and pour into a sauce-boat. Sauce Mirabeau. I gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), gill fish stock, small onion, ^ small carrot, J gill Burgundy wine, ^ gill mushroom liquor, i-J- oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil, and parsley. Prepare the fish stock from the bones and trimmings of the trout. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; fry them in a little butter to a nice colour, drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil quickly for a few minutes. Add the mush- room liquor and the stock, reduce to about half the original quan- tity, then stir in the espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about five minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the remainder of the butter, about a teaspoonful (in all) of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, also a few drops of lemon-juice and seasoning if found necessary. Whisk over the fire until thoroughly hot [not boiling), and use as directed. Sauce Mornay. J pint bechamel (p. 142) sauce, J gill mushroom or Italienne sauce (p. 151), ^ gill cream, ^ oz. meat glaze or 2 tablespoonfuls half-glaze of chicken stock, I oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. fresh butter. Put the bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it well, then add the Italian or mushroom sauce. Let it boil up, skim well, and add the cream. Place the stewpan in a vessel of boiling water, stir the sauce with a whisk, adding the grated cheese, butter, and meat glaze ; work in these ingredients little by little, and stir or whisk till the sauce has acquired a creamy texture. Do not allow the sauce to boil again. This sauce is usually served with fish—in which case a little fish essence should also be incorporated before serving.