4i6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. little, dilute with a small glass of sherry and rather more than a gill of Madere sauce, boil for a few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir well, and work in an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Return the hllets and mix well with the same, but do not let it boil again. Dish in a circular row, place a heart-shaped slice of fried bread between each hllet. Fill the centre with small round potatoes (Pommes de Terre a la Parisienne), sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce over the hllets, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Fermiere. Veal hllets cooked the same as in the foregoing recipe. Garnish with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, caulihower, and small round fried potatoes. Serve with sauce demi-glace. Petits Filets de Veau a la Garibaldi [Small Veal Fillets). lb. fillet of veal, i to 2 shallots, 2 oz. butter, i gill veloutee sauce, i glass Chablis, J lb. short crust paste, ^ lb. spaghetti (cooked), ^ oz. grated cheese, I small lobster, -h gill cardinal sauce, 2 truffles, seasoning. Cut the hllet of veal into rather thin slices, hatten, and cut into small heart shapes. Line a han mould with the paste, prick the bottom, hll with dried peas or rice, cook a golden colour. Un- mould and let cool. Melt the butter lightly, fry in it the hnely chopped shallots, put in the veal, and cook over a quick hre for a few minutes. Pour off fhe butter, add the wine, reduce a little, and moisten with the sauce veloutee. Season and cook gently for ten minutes. Cut the meat of the lobster into dice shapes, and heat up in the cardinal sauce. Season to taste. Heat up the spaghetti in a little white sauce, add the cheese and seasoning. Cut the truffle into thin slices, one for each veal fillet, chop the remainder, and mix with the spaghetti. Fill the paste-crust with the latter, dress the veal fillets in the form of a crown, place a slice of truffle on each fillet, and arrange the ragout of lobster neatly in the centre of the dish. Dish up, put it in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Hongroise [Hungarian Veal Cutlets). 11- to 2 lb. fillets of veal (knuckle or cushion part will do), 6 new potatoes, 6 anchovy fillets, i hard-boiled egg, i fresh egg, i tablespoonful capers, gherkins, i lemon, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, gill Espagnole sauce, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, paprika, breadcrumbs. Cut the meat into thin slices, beat them with the blade of a chopping-knife or cutlet-bat, and chop lightly so as to thin them. Trim, season with salt, pepper, and paprika, roll in flour, dip in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Clarify the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets and cook them a nice golden brown. Dress them flat in a circle on a hot dish, on each fillet place a slice of hard-boiled egg, and on these arrange symmetrically some fillets of anchovies and capers. Fill fhe centre of the dish with cubes of new potatoes, blanched, drained, fried in clarified butter a golden colour, freed from fat, and seasoned with white pepper and paprika. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, surround the border of