784 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. crush the shell and add also. Boil up slowly, stirring frequently. As soon as it boils draw the pan to the side, pour in a tablespoonful of cold water, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Strain through a cloth or jelly-bag. Pour into a mould and let it set on the ice. Immerse in lukewarm water, wipe the mould, and turn out on to a dish. Gelee au Citron [Lemon Jelly). Proceed the same as directed for “ Gelee au Vin ” (p. 786), using the juice of six lemons. No wine flavouring need be added unless desired. Praises en Gelee [Jellied Strawberries). Prepare a jelly as directed in “ Gelee au Vin.” Keep it as bright as possible, and colour with a few drops of carmine or spinach greening. Mask a mould with this, when set fill it gradually with layers of jelly and layers of freshly picked ripe strawberries. See that each layer is set before the next layer of fruit is added. Set in a cool place till firm. Turn out and dish up. Framboises en Gelee [Jellied Raspberries). Prepare a pint of wine jelly (see p. 786), and colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, or with a little spinach greening, to give it either a pale pink or else a pale pea-green tint. Select about a pound of fine ripe raspberries, pick them carefully. Remove the stems, and insert in their place thin strips of angelica. Mask the inside of a suitable mould with half-set jelly, and set the raspberries with alternate layers of jelly, repeat till the mould is filled. The last layer should be of jelly. Do not attempt to set a fresh layer of fruit till each layer of jelly is firm, otherwise the effect of the mould when turned out will be spoilt. When firm enough take up the mould, dip it into lukewarm water for a moment, then wipe on a cloth, and turn on to a hot dish. Gelee aux Praises [Strawberry Jelly). Pick half a pound of small reel strawberries, pulp them a little, and j:)ut them in an earthen pan. Prepare a pint of syrup with half a pound of sugar and a pint of water, let it cool a little, pour it over the fruit, cover with strawberry-leaves, and put aside for an hour. Put two ounces of soaked gelatine into a stew-pan, add one pint of watei, the juice of a.lemon, and the strawberry syrup strained, clarify with two whites of eggs, strain through a jelly-bag until transparent, mask a mould with a little jelly on the ice, then orna- ment with large ripe strawberries and angelica or ])istachio strips. Fill the mould with jelly when the latter is cold enough to allow the strawberries used for ornamenting to set. Gelee Isabelle. Soak and dissolve half an ounce of leaf gelatine, to this add a gill of fruit pulp, such as raspberry, strawberry, peach or apricot, boil it up and reduce a little, sweeten to taste, strain, and let cool. Mix with it about a gill of whipped cream, and pour the mixture on