769 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. Mix the creme de riz with a little cream. Boil up the milk and cream in a stew-pan, add one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz. Whisk the wlade over a gentle fire to bind the eggs, but the mixture must not boil or it may cinxlle. Pour into a well-buttered souffle dish, sprinkle over a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover tlie surface. Brown the surface in a brisk oven. If the surface is not browned at the end of ten minutes, hold the dish under a sala- mander for a few seconds. Note.—Cornflour, potato-flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of crMne de riz. Creme Zabajone {Mexican Custard). 8 3^olks of eggs, 4 oz. moist sugar or granulated sugar, X pint marsala. Beat the egg-yolks and sugar till quite light and creamy. Add the wine, and place the vessel containing the mixture over a pan of boiling water. Stir till it thickens. Serve hot in small glasses, and sprinkle a pinch of ground cinnamon on the top of each. Croutes au Madere. Various kinds of compote of fruit may be used for this dish. Dress the fruit tastefully on fried bread or cake crofites or croutons. Garnish with angelica and glace cherries, and ])our hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira, kirsch or rum, over the dish. Croutes a la Normande. Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice, and sherry, dressed on fried croutes (crusts) made from bread or GGioise cake. Coat the whole with dissolved peach or apricot marmalade. .Serve with hot fruit syru]). .(Eufs vanilles a la Neige. .[ lb. castor sugar, i plat milk, i gill cream, 6 whites of eggs, vanilla essence or pod. Boil up the milk, cream, sugar, and vanilla in a saute-pan, and beat the whites of eggs to a still froth, and drop them, a shaped tablespoonful at a time (like quenelles), into the boiling milk ; dip the spoon into boiling water each time it is used, and avoid putting in too many at a time. Turn the shajfes as they are being poached, each will take from three to four minutes to cook. When done, arrange them nicely in a deep dish. Make a custard of the milk and yolks of eggs, strain it over and round the quenelles, and serve. Dattes farcies frites {Fried Stuffed Dates). Select some large dates, remove the stones, and fill each with a fairly firm confectioner’s custard flavoured with vanilla. Brush over with beaten egg, and roll in crushed macaroons. Fr}/ in clarified butter a golden colour, drain them on white blotting-paper to remove the grease. Dish up in little paper cases, and serve with a cold vanilla cream. Pain Perdu {French Bread Fritters). X stale tiu-loaf, i quart milk, i pod of vanilla, 2 eggs, teaspoonful ground cinnamon, castor sugar, frying lard or clarified butter. 3C