PASJNY AND CONh'ECl lONERY. 957 Some shredded almonds and bake in a very cool oven. l\Ielt some apricot marmalade, ilavour it with a few drops of maraschino or other licpienr. Spread the flat side of each petit four with this and place each two together ; dip in fondant icing, and when set place them into little paper cases. Icing for Petits Fours and other Dessert Biscuits. Pnt half a pound of icing sugar into a copper saucejxm, add the strained juice of a lemon, and stir over the hre till hot ; flavonr with a few drops of kirsch or nun and stir till nearly cold. Dip the articles to be iced in this, and place them on a pastry tray to set. For other directions for making fondant icing, see p. 138. Dough Nuts [Berlinois). t lb. flour, I teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. blitter, I egg, a tablespoonful milk, apricot or raspberry jam, vanilla sugar. Sift the flour with the baking-powder into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and rub in the butter ; then add the sugar, beat up the egg with the milk, and work into a smooth but fairly firm dough. Divide it into eight or nine portions, shape each into a ball ; make an incision and put a teaspoonful of jam in the centre of each, close np and shape into balls again. Fry in very hot fat at hrst, and flnish frying in cooler fat. Take np, drain, and dredge with vanilla sugar. Brandy Snaps or Wafers. 3 oz. golden syrup, 3-I oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, 3!- oz. castor sugar, 1 tea- spoonful brandy, i teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind. Melt syrup, butter, and sugar together, mix in gradually the flour and other ingredients, and stir well. Drop the mixture in even- sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin, place them about two inches apart so as to give plenty of room to run. Bake in a quick o\-en ; watch them carefully until they are done, as they are liable to burn cjuickly. Roll up on an oiled wooden spoon handle or pastry roller ; this must be done cjuickly, else they will break. Bale Leckerlis (Sir'iss Honey Cakes). t lb. Swiss honey, 4 oz. Jordan almonds, i oz. orange and citron peel, I oz. ground cinnamon, a saltspoonful ground cloves, 3 oz. castor sugar, 10 oz. flour, I teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, i tablespoonful kirsch- wasser. Bring the honey to the boil in a clean stew-pan, skim it, add the almonds previously blanched, peeled, and chopped coarseljq peel, cinnamon, cloves, and the sugar. Let this stand for live to six hours. Then stir in the flour, baking-powder, ;ind the kirschwasser. Roll out the paste about a cpiartcr of an inch thick and cut it into even-sized pieces, oblong or square. Lay them on a floured baking- sheet, and bake in ti moderate oven till firm and lightly browned. IMix some icing sugar smoothly with a little hot water ; brush over the top of the little cakes whilst they are still hot. Return to the