nORS-D'CEUVRE (A PPETISERS). 227 which is considered the most popular hors-d’oeuvre. Only the best kinds, natives—W’hitstable or Colchester. Oysters should be served “ an naturel,” i.e. raw. All they need after being opened is to place each oyster on the upper shell with a little of the liquor ; they are then ranged on a dish, garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley, and, if possible, surrounded \vith shaved ice. Some very thinly cut slices of buttered brown bread and quarters of lemon are handed round at the same time ; also Nepaul or cayenne pepper. Caviare is best served iced, but it is sometimes mixed with finely chopped shallots and lemon-juice ; both these ingredients must be used sparingly, and the mixing must be done with a wooden fork or a wooden skewer. Caviare should never be brought in contact with metal. Both oysters and caviare thus served are classed as plain hors-d’oeuvre. Other articles belonging to this class are cucumbers, radishes, olives, pickles, sardines, anchovies, prawns, crayfish, lax, herring-fillets, tunny, smoked salmon, roes, smoked sausages (such as salami, Gotha, Strasburg, Lyons, Brunswick), smoked ham (raw), and other fish and viands of the smoked or pickled description. Many of these, especially the fish, are dressed on canapes (fried or toasted slices of bread daintily cut), but when such is the case they are classed as dressed hors-d’oeuvre. All kinds of sandwiches, daintily prepared, also adapt themselves as hors-d’oeuvre. Butter {Beiiyye).—Fresh butter is usually served at most dinners as an accompaniment with hors-d’rnuvre. It is served in little pats, in the shape of small shells or little rolls (thin slices rolled). Serve in little glass dishes or boats ; in hot weather put a little ice in each boat ; garnish with tiny sprigs of curly parsley. Radishes (Radis).—Choose small, round, and firm radishes of a light red and white colour. Trim and wash them in plenty of water (the outer skins should be scraped off and the leaves cut to an inch in length). Dish up in little boats or glass dishes, wdth a little cold water. Gherkins (Coynichons).—Choose these small, firm, and green, and serve in little glass dishes neatly dressed, moistened with a little French wine vinegar. Olives.—Both Spanish and French olives are suitable as hors- d’oeuvre, the Spanish being the most esteemed ; they should remain on the table until the dessert is served. It is claimed that olives destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten, hence they are so popular a relish. Choose them firm, and of a nice green colour, steep them in cold water before serving ; dish up on small dishes or boats with a little cold water. Never use a metal fork or spoon to dress them. Those left over from a meal should be rebottled at once with salted water, else they will turn black.