THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 302 bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Place the gratin dish on another dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Monies a la Poulette [Mussels, Poulctic Style). Cook the mussels, after they are thoroughly washed, in fast boiling salted water for about fifteen mimites. All the shells should then open. If, hcjwever, one or more remain closed, it may be taken as an indication of a poisonous mussel being present, in which case it is best to throw away the lot. Granted the mussels may be safely used, remove one shell of each, and fill the others containing the bivalve with a well seasoned and well reduced poulette sauce. Cover the surface with breadcrumbs and a tiny bit of butter. Place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Moules a la Californie {Mussels, California Style). Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, finely chopped cooked onions, parsley, and veloutee sauce, Blanchailles [Wkitchait). I quart whitebait, flour, salt, and pepper, lard for frying, lemon, brown bread, and butter. Keep the whitebait on the ice until the last moment, drain thoroughly. Sprinkle a good handful of flour on a dry cloth, put in the fish, flour well, fold and shake gently, but sufficiently well to separate each fish. Shake out into a wire basket and plunge into boiling. lard, fry a pale golden colour (two minutes is suffi- cient to cook them), and shake gently all the time they are cooking. W'hen done, put on to a clean cloth or paper to absorb the fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (a little cayenne if liked), dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, and serve with slices of lemon and thinly-cut brown bread and butter. Melettes [Sprats). Although not considered a fine fish, sprats are highly appre- ciated and enjoyed by many. It is an inexpensive and dainty little fish, and in flavour not unlike sardines. In fact, many cheap, so-called sardines are sprats preserved in oil. They can be grilled, fried, pickled or smoke-dried, but grilling is the best and most popular way. Owing to their oily nature, they require no other preparation beyond cleaning and flouring. They are often broiled in an omelet or frying pan, but it is best to dredge them with a little flour before cooking them. They require from six to eight minutes to cook, grilling or broiling. Serve them with quarters of lemon and thin slices of brown bread and butter. Melettes frites [Fried Sprats). Wdpe the fish well with a cloth, dust with flour, and broil in a frying-pan over a clear fire for about ten minutes, season with salt, dish up, and serve with quarters of lemon and thinly cut buttered slices of brown bread.