ENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 501 Poulet frit a la Vaudoise.—Boiled chicken jointed, immersed when cold in veloutee sauce, then egged, crumbed, and fried. Dished up and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaj-ied. Served with bechamel sauce. — frit a la Versailles.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and llattened, marinaded in savoury herb saumure or pickling, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Boiled fowl served with veloutee or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — frit a la Viennoise.—Boned fowl, cut into small portions and llattened, marinaded, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Vigo.—Braised chicken, hnished in Madeira wine sauce, dished u]i and garnished with small ripe tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. Cotelettes de Poulet a la Chinoise.—Pounded chicken meat free from skin and sinews, seasoned with salt, ]iepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg- white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter ; served with tartare sauce. Cuisses a la Clementine.—Legs of chicken fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parme- san cheese, fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. Epigrammes de Poulets aux Truffes.—Boned and skinned chicken, flat- tened and shaped like collops, fillets or cutlets, larded with truffles, and cooked in butter. Served with truffle sauce. Escalopes de Poulet a I'Anglaise.—Minced chicken (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de Poulet a I'lmperiale.—Larded breasts and wings of fowl, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancifully cut slices of truffles, braised, and glazed), dished up with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs. This dish is garnished with small fried chicken croquettes. — a la Havelock.— Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised, and glazed, and decorated with rings of ox-tongue. Dished up and garnished with groups of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — a la Reine.—Fricasseed chicken, dished up in a pyramidal form, gar- nished with chicken forcemeat quenelles, mushroom-heads, sliced truffles, and fried sippets of bread brushed over with meat glaze. — a la Saint-Lambert.—Fricasseed chicken dished up in a pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. Supreme de Poulet Jeanette.—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold, coated with white chaud-froid sauce and aspic ; decorated with tarragon leaves.