DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 293 GRONDIN—GURNET. Grondin a la Talleyrand. Scale and clean a fair-sized gurnet, remove the fillets and cut them in convenient pieces, put them in a well-buttered sante-pan with a small onion cut in slices, some parsley, two or three cloves, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt, and a sufficient quantity of white stock and wine (Chablis or Sauterne). Cover with a buttered paper, cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, drain it well, and serve it in an entree dish with the following sauce poured over it : Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, when melted mix in a dessertspoonful of flour, add the liquor from the hsh, a gill of fish stock, and stir till the sauce is quite smooth. Add two teaspoonfuls of cream, continue cooking, but be careful not to let it actually boil. Lastly, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and flavour with pepper and salt, strain over the fish, and serve hot, Grondin farci etouffe {Baked- Gurnet, stuffed). I gurnet, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i egg, 2 finely chopped shallots, i oz. chopped beef meat, teaspoonful mixed herbs (powdered), 3 chopped mush- rooms, I oz. butter, 1 glass white wine, sauce matelote (p. 152), anchovy essence. Scale and clean the gurnet, wash, and dry it inside and out with a cloth. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the above-mentioned ingredients with about half an egg, or more if found necessary, and season to taste. Stuff the inside of the lish with this, and sew it up. Truss with its tail in its mouth, place it in a well-bnttered saute-pan or baking-tin, brush the surface with egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Place a few tiny pieces of bntter on top of the fish, moisten with the wine. Bake in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes. Place the fish on a croCiton of fried bread, untruss it, and round the base of the dish pour the sauce, previously mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the liquor of the fish. MERLAN—WHITING. Filets de Merlans au Gratin {Whiting Fillets, Gratin Style). .3 small whitings filleted, 8 preserved mushrooms, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, 2 oz. butter, choppied parsley, i gill sauce Italienne (p. 151), -f- lemon, pepper and salt, breadcrumbs. Trim the fillets neatly, lay them on a buttered silver-plated gratin or fire-proof china dish, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon- juice, season with pepper and salt, add the wine and a little mush- room liquor if handy, put in the oven for ten minutes. Take out, pour oft the liquor, and pnt into the sauce. Boil up the sauce, cut the mushrooms into slices, and lay neatly in a row on the fillets. Sauce over carefully, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place a few little bits of butter here and there, and bake for another ten minutes. Place the gratin dish on amfiher dish, and serve.