COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 319 of salmon, and a few cooked and bearded oysters, set the garnish well with a little aspic and put to cool. Pound the remainder of the lish in a mortar together with six cooked oysters, the hard- boiled egg, and the anchovy paste. Season with cayenne pejiper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a line sieve, add the tarragon vinegar, cream, about half a pint of aspic jelly, mix well, and fill the mould with this mixture, putting the anchovy iillets, a few slices of truffles, and a few bearded oysters between layers (jf farce in filling. Should the mixture not cpiite fill the mould, fill up with aspic jelly, and put it on the ice until required. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round dish, garnish round the sides with chopped aspic and a few fancifully cut slices of cucumber. Darne de Saumon a la Ravigote. About 2-|- Hi. middle cut of salmon, i onion, i caiTot, a small bunch of parsley, i gill French wine vinegar, ravigote butter (p. 176), aspic jelly, (p. 132), I oz. fresh butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, \ pint cooked jieas, i truffle, and some French gherkins for garnish, peppercorns, .salt. Wipe the fish, salt it well, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient hot water to cover, add the vinegar, peppercorns, sliced onion and carrot and parsley. Bring to boil slowly, and simmer until tender. Let the fish remain in the water until cold, then strain carefully, place it on a cloth, remove the skin and put on a small board. Mask the surface with a layer of ravigote butter, put it on the ice to set, then cover with a layer of half-set aspic jelly. Carefully place the fish on an oval dish, decorate the sides with ravigote butter and fresh butter, by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet, ornament with green peas, fancifully cut slices of gherkins and truffles, and lobster coral. Fill the centre of the salmon with a little green salad or a macedoine of cooked vegetables. Cut the eggs into quarters and garnish the sides with them alternately with little heaps of green peas and chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a boat of tartare sauce (p. 160). Epigrammes de Saumon a la Diplomate. I to i f lb. salmon, i oz. butter, lemon-juice, lobster farce, pink chaud-froid sauce, seasoning, i small cucumber and a little mayonnaise, aspic, chopped truffles or pistachios for garnish, border for dressing. Skin and bone the salmon, cut it into slices about ;^--inch thick, flatten out evenly and stamp out into rounds or ovals to the size of the paper cases (these must be ver\^ shallow). Arrange the salmon in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, and put a tiny piece of butter on the surface of each, sprinkle with lemon-juice, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. W’hen done, take up, place the slices carefully on a sieve ; mix the lobster farce with a little cream and aspic, just sufficient to bind, and spread one side of the salmon slices with it. Put them on a wire tray, and sauce over carefully with pink chaud-froid sauce. Besprinkle the edges with chopped truffle or pistachio and place a star of truffle in the centre of each. Shred finely the peeled