ji6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. slightly salted, till tender, strain off the water, drain the rice, and let it cool. Split the lobster, remove the meat, cut it into small pieces, put it in a mortar with the anchovies, pound until smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, and mix thoroughly. Add the wine, chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, and about half a pint of aspic, season to taste, mix well, rub through a sieve, stir till nearly cold, and mix in a little whipped cream. Fill with this mixture a border mould previously masked with aspic and taste- fully decorated with truflie, white of egg, etc. Put the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water, and turn out on a cold round dish. Mix the rice with the remainder of cream (whipped), season to taste, and dress in the centre of the border, pile up high, and decorate it with strips of truffle and hard- boiled white of egg, sprinkle over a little paprika pepper, and serve. Bordure de Homard, froid {Cold Border of Lobster) 2 small lobsters, i small lettuce, i small endive, i gill aspic (p. 132), 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (p. 152), I pint cream, t- oz. sheet gelatine, I gill tomato sauce (p. 160), lobster coral and pistachios for decoration, krona pepper, seasoning. Split the lobsters, crack the claws, remove all the meat, reserve the best pieces for centre of dish, and chop the remainder rather finely. Pick, wash, and drain the lettuce and endive. Mask a plain border nio u1d with a thin layer of aspic, sprinkle the sides with chopped pis- tachio kernels and lobster coral. Soak the gelatine, d i s - solve it in the tomato sauce, then strain it. When cold, add the chopped lobster. Whip up the cream, stir in the mayonnaise and the dissolved, but almost cold, aspic jelly, mix this with the lobster mixture. Season this well with krona or paprika pepper, and a little salt if needed. Fill up the prepared border mould and set it on the ice. To serve, turn out the mould on a round dish. Season the salad with salt and pepper, and a little oil and vinegar, arrange this with the remainder of lobster meat in the centre of the shape. Serve cold.