648 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY’ BOOK. Souffle de Pols Verts {Green Pea Souffle). Rub a quart of blanched young green peas through a sieve, incorporate half an ounce of fresh butter, three yolks of eggs, two to three tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel sauce, a little sugar, salt, and pepper, and lastly the whites of two eggs whisked stiffly. Should the mixture not be green enough, add a little spinach puree or spinach greening. Three-parts fill some small, well-buttered, bomb-shaped moulds, and steam in the usual way. Have ready some thin fried croutons of bread in shapes of leaves, sprinkle the surface with fine sugar, and glaze under the salamander. Unmould the shapes on these, dish up, garnish with the crotitons, and serve hot. OIGNONS ET POIREAUX—ONIONS AND LEEKS. Oignons d’Espagne braises {Braised Spanish Onions). 4 Spanish onions, 2 sheep’s kidneys, pint brown gravy, salt and pepper. Wipe and skin the kidneys, slice them finely, add salt and pepper. Peel and blend the onions, scoop out the centre portion (i]- inch across), fill with the kidneys. Place them in a stew-pan, pour the brown gravy over, and simmer slowly for about two hours. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Oignons d’Espagne bouillis. Boiled Spanish onions, served with white or brown sauce. Oignons a la Demi-glace. Boiled small Spanish and other large common onions drained and stewed in brown sauce. Poireaux a la Diable {Devilled Leeks). 6 young le('ks, oz. butter, 3 slices of toasted bread, i pint stock (well flavoured), i gill white sauce (bechamel), 2 yolks of eggs, i gherkin, chopped finely, i saltspoonful mustard, salt, cayenne, panurette or breadcrumbs. Wash, trim, and cook the leeks in the stock, then drain and cut them into three- or four-inch lengths. Heat up the white sauce, put in the gherkins, mustard, and a little salt if needed, stir in the yolks of eggs and allow the latter to bind, taking care that the sauce does not curdle. Spread the buttered toasted bread with a little of the sauce. Arrange the leeks neatly on top, and cut into finger-shapes. Mask each with a thick layer of the sauce, sprinkle over with panurette or breadcrumbs and a pinch of cayenne or Oriental salt, placo a tiny piece of butter here and there. Put them in a very hot oven or under a salamander to brown, dish up, and serve. Poireaux au Gratin {Leeks, Gratin Style). Wash and trim about ten young leeks, boil in salted water for five minutes, drain, and finish cooking in white stock, drain again, and arrange neatly on a well-buttered gratin dish. Season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg, sauce” over with well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle over with grated parmesan and bread- crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the top.