541 COLD ENTREES. Ris d'Agneau en Caisses, Pont Neuf. Soak for two hours, then blanch, pare, press, and braise eight small lambs’ breads, and let them cool. Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases used, china or silver cases are best for this purpose. Make a rich ragoat of artichoke bottoms, cut in fine shreds and seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small tablespoonfnl of this into each of the souffle cases. Upon this place a lamb’s bread. Put the case on the ice for a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the prepared demi-glace sauce to almost cover the breads. Again })ut them on the ice to set the sauce. Put a fancifully-cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, decorate round the edges with green peas, and lastly coat with a layer of well-flavoured aspic jelly. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Vallorbes {Mutton Cutlets). 3 lb. best end neck of mutton, 4 lb. liver farce (p. 178), 8 leaves gelatine, I gill aspic jelly. 4 pint tomato sauce, pint bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; salad of shredded celery and truffles mingled with tartare sauce for the centre. Trim and braise the neck in the usual way. Prepare the li\’cr farce as directed. Let the meat cool, then cut it into cutlets, trim them, season with jiciiper and salt, and cover one side with a thin layer of liver,farce. Dissolve the gelatine and incor- jforate with the sauces, thus allowing four leaves for the tomato sauce and four leaves for the bechamel sauce. W’hen sufficiently cool, coat the covered sides of half the cutlets with white sauce and the remainder with tomato sauce. Keep on the ice until quite set, then coat with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes mixed with an equal quantity of mashed green peas, put the dressed salad in the centre of the chsh, place frills on the cutlet bones, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. This dish is made exactly the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, with the exception of the centre, which consists of a plain salad decoration in place of celery and truffles. Filets de Boeuf a la Madrid {Cold Fillets of Beef). 2I lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, i small carrot, i small turnip, I bay-leaf, 6 peppercorns, i sprig of thyme, i sprig of marjoram, meat glaze, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, l tablespoonful horse-radish mustard, grated liorse-i'adish, mayonnaise cream, salt and pepper, i gill of aspic jelly, water-cress. Free the fillet from skin and superfluous fat, cut it into about half-inch slices, flatten each slice by means of a cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Prepare the vegetables, and cut into slices. Melt the butter in a saute-pan. M'hen hot put in the vegetables, the bay-leaf, peppercorns, and herbs, fry a golden colour nvev a quick lire, put in the fillets, brown them nicely on both sides, but leave them rather underdone, add jiepper and salt, place them on a wire tray, and at once brush them over with licj^uefied meat glaze, ^^ffien