THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 338 Garniture a la Chateaubriand.—Fine large button mushrooms breaded and baked au gratin, or preserved mushroom heads, sauce Madere, with slices of truffles, or sauce Perigueux, for tournedos or fillets of beef. — a la Chesterfield {for Fish).—Small black truffles and crayfish tails, sauteed and finished in a little glaze, dressed in groups ; sauce Genoise. — a la Chevaliere.—Mushrooms, truffles, and cocks' combs. Salmi or demi-glace sauce. — a la Chipolata.—Young carrots and turnips, size and shape of olives^ parboiled and braised, boiled and glazed chestnuts, dice of boiled bacon, mushrooms, and slices of Italian sausages. — a la Chivry {for Fish).—Small oyster bouchees or patties, mussels tossed in white sauce, and small potato croquettes. Chivry sauce. — a la Clamart {for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms filled with puree of green peas ; rich gravy. — a la Clamart.—Green peas (either whole or in puree) as a border or in centre ; usually served with laml) or poultr}^; sauce tomato and demi-glace blended. — a la Clermont {for Poultry).—Finely shredded slices of preserved mushrooms and ox-tongue. Sauce Veloutee, enriched with yolks of eggs and fresh butter or cream. — a la Clermont {for Meat).—Small stuffed onions, and slices of fried artichokes. Demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Cloud.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, decorated with truffles, poached in stock, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels. Sauce Alle- mande. The meat with which the above is garnished is larded with strips of truffles, and braised. — a la Conti {for Poultry and Veal).—Fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised, garnished with slices of ox-tongue and gherkins. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Crapaudine {for Poultry).—Crumbed and grilled, stoned olives and truffles round the sides. Sauce demi-glace and tomato. — a la Cressy or Crecy usually denotes a garnish of carrots in the form of puree or otherwise. — a la Cumberland {for Pork or Game).—Small tartlet crusts filled with apple puree. Venison sauce, with port wine flavour. — a la Dartois {for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades filled with green peas. Mad&re sauce. — a la Dauphine.—This signifies a special mode ot cooking, i.e. braised, then coated with thick sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried. The garnish consists of small croquettes made of potato puree and choux paste. — a la Dieppoise {for Fish).—Mussels, mushrooms, crayfish or shrimps. Fish-flavoured veloutee sauce. ■— a la Don Juan {for Poultry).—Puff-paste cases or bouchees, filled with salpicon of chicken fillets, truffles, and mushrooms. Demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Doria {for Fish).—Olive shapes of cucumber, braised, and tossed in sour cream, also thin rounds of lemon. Cream sauce.