443 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the mean- time the juice of one large lemon, one shallot, a sprig each of tarragon, chervil, chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine, season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about two ounces new kidney potatoes, previously scraped, drain, and fry them a good colour in butter, season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the tournedos, brown quickly on both sides, season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, pnt the potatoes round the tournedos in rows, and a dessertspoonful of the prepared butter on the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze ; serve quickly. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Moscovienne. Prepare the tournedos as directed above, and lard them in alternate rows with small strips of larding bacon, raw ham, and truffles. Place the tournedos in a flat stewpan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock. Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a dessertspoonful of grated horse-radish to the liquor. Let all reduce well, and strain into a small stewpan. Remove all fat, finish the sauce with a pinch of castor sugar and an ounce of fresh buffer, worked in bit b}^ bit, and keep it warm. Glaze and dish up the tournedos, garnish with alternate groups of button mushrooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and medium- sized stuffed onions (see below). Pour the sauce over the garnish (not over the meat), and serve. Stuffed Onions a la Moscovienne. Peel eight to ten medium-sized onions, parboil them in salted water, with a small piece of butter, drain on a cloth, and cool. Carefnlly scoop out the centre part of each onion, and chop very fine, with about half its quantitv of mushrooms. Put it in a stew- pan with a handful of breadcrumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with a little Espagnole sauce, mix well, and stuff the centre of the onions with same. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the top with fresh breadcrumbs, put a small bit of butter on each one, and bake in a moderate oven a golden colour, which will take about half an hour. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Napoleon. 2 to 3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter. 4 oz. calves’ liver, 2 oz. foie-gras, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. fat bacon, i shallot finely chopped, i egg, i oz. meat glaze, stoned olives, i oz. panade, salt and pepper, bordelaise sauce, marrow-fat. Trim fhe piece of fillet, and cut it in very small pieces. Grill or broil them in a little butter for about six minutes (they must be