THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 322 anchovy butter in a paper cornet, ornament the tops to taste, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. A few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement, and a little dissolved aspic jelly will give additional stiffness to the mixture. Souvenirs de Saumon a la Gelee {Salmon Fillets in Savoury Aspic). i-J- lb. salmon (tail end), pint aspic, i oz. butter, i glass Chablis, seasoning, I gill pink chaud-froid sauce (p. 145), i lettuce, 2 truffles, i carrot, a bouquet garni. For paste: \ pint water, 2 oz. butter, and lb. flour. Skin the fish and cut it into slices, and then into heart-shaped pieces. Use the trimmings of fish for fish essence. Spread a saute- pan with butter, put in the carrot, cleaned and cut into thin slices, also the bouquet garni. Upon this range the slices of salmon, season with salt and pepper, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. When done take them up and place on a sieve or wire tray to cool. When cold mask each with chaud-froid sauce, well flavoured with fish essence and suitably coloured with tomato or pimiento pulp, place a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each, and coat over the whole with a layer of aspic. Have ready an open-work border of paste baked to a golden brown, fixed on to a round dish, and provide a cone-shaped support of bread, dipped in batter and fried, for the centre of the dish, cover this with chopped green aspic. Lay each slice of salmon in a heart or kite-shaped case, having its bottom covered with a little shredded and seasoned salad. Range the cases round the support, points upwards, leaning them against the border, insert a garnish hatelet in the centre of the support. Fill the cavities between the cases with chopped green asparagus, and surround the edge of the dish with chopped green aspic jelly. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle-Vue. lb. cooked salmon, i gill plain aspic jelly for lining, tarragon and chervil leaves, | pint mayonnaise, stiffened, |- gill well-reduced aspic (p. 132), I large truffle. Line six to eight small oblong or square moitlds (sandwich or Neptune shape) with dissolved aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle and leaves of tarragon and cher\’il, when set, coat with a layer of prepared mayonnaise. Flake the fish, season with mayonnaise, and add the remainder of truffles, coarsely chopped, three-parts fill the moulds with the dressed salmon, finish filling with some mayonnaise and aspic. Let the moulds remain on the ice till wanted, then turn out, dish up, garnish with green salad, and .serve. Truite Saumonee a la Norvegienne. A salmon trout, i oz. grated horse-radish, i gill aspic, ^ gill cream, i gill mayonnaise (p. 152), -J- cucumber, tarragon and chervil leaves, i small onion stuck with a clove, i small bouquet garni, a glass white wine, bechamel sauce (p. 142), border of cooked rice or puree of potatoes with peas, chillies, salt, peppercorns. Wash and clean the fish, half fill a fish-kettle with water, put in the wine, onion, bouquet garni, a small handful of salt, and twelve peppercorns, when warm, pnt in the fish on a tray, let it come