THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Stamp out some rounds by means of a plain paste-cutter one and a half inch in diameter, spread each round with butter, and cover the buttered sides with a layer of chutney, place on this a round of ham the same size as the bread, and press together lightly. Dip each slice into frying batter and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Beignets a la Residence. Prepare and fry 6 thin unsweetened pancakes ; par-boil, drain, and cut into small dice 2 oz. of beef marrow ; chop finely 6 mush- rooms and 3 truffles, and mix together with sufficient Madere sauce to bind the mixture into a puree. Cut the pancakes into i-V inch wide strips, and spread over one side with this preparation, then roll up each strip and skewer, and let it get cold. Dip the rolls into a light frying or pancake batter, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. Drain carefully, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve. Beignets, Strasbourgeoise [Ham and Foie-gras Fritters). 6 to 8 slices of raw ham, i tcrriue or tin of foie-gras pate, parsley, frying batter (p. 135), frying fat. Stamp out some rounds of ham with an inch or i-|--inch cutter. Remove the lard from the foie-gras, cut it into convenient slices, stamp out each slice about the size of the ham. Spread a little of the frying batter with a knife over each slice of ham, place a slice of foie-gras between each two, and make up like sandwiches, the batter being, as it were, used as butter and the ham as bread. Coat each sandwich well with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve with a small boat of tomato sauce. Beignets a la Venitienne {Savoury''Fritters). Prepare a choux-paste and incorporate one slice of ox-tongue, one slice of ham, four mushrooms (champignons), and one ounce of cooked chicken meat, all cut into small dice. Season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready a sufficient quantity of hot fat. Spread the mixture on a dish, and cut out some even-sized rounds by means of a paste- cutter or spoon, drop them into the fat and fry, slowty at first, till a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot with a boat of suitable sauce, such as piquante, tomato or poivrade sauce. Petites Croustades a la Medicis (Croustades, Medicis Style). ^ loaf stale bread, i raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i tin of lax, 2 French gherkins, i oz. butter, small cress, 4 fdletcd anchovies, i teaspoonful French mustard, Nepaul or paprika pepper. Pare the crust off the bread and cut it into .slices rather more than half an inch thick. Stamp out eight to ten ovals, about 2;f inches by 1 inch. Put the bread-trimmings through a wire sieve, and use for crumbing. Scoop out as much as possible of the centre of the ovals, immerse these in a little milk for about ten minutes.