AFTER-DINNER SA VU DRIES. «S5 each of the shells, also a few drops of oyster liquor and lemon-juice ; lay the bearded oysters on this, season with a dust of krona or cayenne, put a little more sauce on top of each ; sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and lay a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Place them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven for ten minutes or less, just long enough to slightly colour the top ; arrange on a hot dish on a folded napkin ; garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Huitres a la Tsarine {Oysteys, Kitssian Style). 12 oysters, 12 rounds of sliced cooked o.x-tongue, i oz. anchovy paste, 3 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 1 lemon. 3 oz. llonr, i-t oz. butter, i yolk of egg, salt, and cayenne. Sift the flour, mix it with two ounces of grated cheese, and rub in the butter ; add a pinch of salt and a dust of ca^^enne, and work into a stiff paste with egg-yolk. Roll out, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake a golden colour. Put the oysters, after having removed the beards, with some of the liquor in a saute-pan ; sprinkle with lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne ; toss over the lire till hot, but do not let them boil. Mix the anchovy paste with the remaining cheese, spread on one side of the baked biscuits. Heat up the rounds of tongue in a little butter and place one on top of the paste, or place the tongue on the biscuit and spread a layer of the paste on the tongue. Put an oyster in the centre of each ; bake a few minutes ; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Huitres en Caisses a la Diable [Devilled Oysters in Cases). Prepare a ragoiit of oysters, using the oysters whole (bearded), and add a well-flavoured white wine or veloutee sauce, incorporate cayenne, lobster butter, and parmesan cheese to taste, fill a number of small souffle cases, cover each with panurette or fresh bread- crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter, and bake for a few minutes in a very hot oven. Coquilles d’Huitres a la Suedoise [Cold). Open eight to ten large oysters, ancl beard them. Clean the deep shell of each oyster and place them on the ice to get quite colcl. Meanwhile mix two ounces of best Russian caviare with a small finely-chopped shallot and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put a teaspoonful of this into each oyster-shell and place an oyster upon it. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, dish up, and keep on the ice till wanted for table. Hand a plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter along with this dish when serving it. Croquettes d’Huitres au Jambon [Oyster and Ham Croquettes). 12 oysters, J lb. lean ham, | lb. chicken farce (p. 178), a few pistachio kernels, I egg, I lemon, breadcrumbs a round croiite of fried bread, tomato mayon- naise, clarified butter for frying and parsley for garnish. Beard the oysters, cut the ham into thin slices, mix the chicken forcemeat with a little cream and add a few chopped pistachios, then spread this over the oysters. Roll each oyster in a slice of