THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for moulding the desired shapes of meringues ; this may be effected with a dessert or tablespoon, or with a cornet or piping-bag. Place some foolscap paper on a baking-sheet or on a baking-board, shape the meringues on it in rows, keep them about an inch apart from each other, dust them .with sifted sugar, place them in a very moderate or cool oven for about two hours. When done, take up each meringue, break in the bottom carefully with the thumb, put back on the baking-sheet, and allow them to dry overnight in a warm place. Meringues au Citron {Lemon Meringues). Proceed as before, add the rind of half a lemon finely chopped and mixed with the sugar ; when baked, cool, fill with whipped cream slightly sweetened. Meringues aux Amandes {Almond Meringues). Proceed as before, adding a quarter of a pound of peeled, dried, and pounded almonds to the sugar, and proceed as previously described. Meringues aux Pistaches {l^istachio Meringues). A quarter of a pound of pistachio kernels, peeled, dried, and pounded with two whites of eggs ; make a stiff froth of five whites of eggs, and mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; whisk all over the fire until it becomes cold, then add the pistachios, and mix carefully. Shape the meringues, and bake. If liked, two ounces of ground almonds and two ounces of pistachios may be used in ])lace of the four ounces of pistachios. Genoese Cake {Gateau Genoise). 6 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. Hour, the thin rind of a lemon finely chopped or grated. Break the eggs into a basin or into a copper egg-bowl ; beat up with a whisk and add the sugar ; whisk these together over a stew- pan of boiling water for about fifteen minutes till it appears like a thick cream, then stir in by degrees the flour (sifted) and the butter (melted) ; lastly add the lemon-rind ; pour this mixture into a well-buttered saute-pan or fiat cake-tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minntes.- Turn out, let cool, and use as required. Genoise au Chocolat {Chocolate Genoese). Prepare the same mixture as given for plain Genoese, but incor- porate with the yolks and sugar two ounces of ground almonds and one ounce of grated chocolate. Genoise au Cafe {Coffee Genoese). Add a dessertspoonful of best coffee extract with the yolks of eggs and sugar, and prepare the same mixture with the given ingredients as for Genoese. Genoise decoree {Fancy Genoese Cakes). Prepare the Genoese mixtirre (adding any desired flavour), and pnt it into a square buttered baking-sheet, with the sides turned