279 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). wine and a little fish stock. When done, take up, carefully remove them from the carrots, and fill each with the prepared Mornay mixture. Arrange them on a border of potato puree, and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Cut the fillets of plaice (previously skinned) into very fine strips (about 2 inches long), dip them in milk, and then in flour. Shake well, and fry in deep fat (very hot) for about four minutes. Fill the centre of the dish with these. Pour some Mornay sauce, into which the lk|uor of the fillets of soles, the cream, and the fish stock have been incorporated and then well reduced, round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Timbale de Filets de Sole. 2 small soles, lobster or shrimp paste, cardinal sauce, whiting forcemeat (p, 177), I yolk ot egg, cream, supreme sauce, trufttes, paniirette. Skin and fillet the soles, spread inside of each with finely pounded lobster or shrimp paste blended with cardinal sauce (p. 144), roll them u]) separately and poach them for a few minutes in the oven. Let them get cold, and cut each into slices. Butter a timbale mould, and place the fillets against the sides of the mould. Add the yolk of egg and a little cream to the whiting forcemeat, fill the moiilcl with this and steam it for one hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, sauce over with supreme (p. 160) or veloutee sauce (p. 161). Decorate the surface with finely chopped truffles and panurette, and serve. Chartreuse de Filets de Sole. 2 medium-sized thick soles, 3 whitings, 2 eggs, 4 oz. pairade, cream, spinach puree, grated cheese, truffles, flour, butter, meat glaze. Skin and fillet the soles. Prepare a well-reduced fish stock with the bones, and make a farce with the whitings, eggs, panade, and enough cream to work it to a smooth consistency. Butter a flat border-mould, fill it with the whiting forcemeat, duly seasoned, and poach it in the bain-marie or in a sautApan containing a little boiling water. Roll out some short paste (p. 133), stamp out a round the size of the bottom of a round flat entree dish, bake it and fix it on the dish with a little batter or egg-white, upon this turn the border of forcemeat. Fill the centre with alternate layers of fish forcemeat, and seasoned spinach jnirck, sprinkle the layers over with grated cheese. Fold the fillets, season and trim them neatly, arrange them in a circular row in the centre of the dish.