645 VEGETABLES—LkGUMES. NAVETS—TURNIPS. Puree de Navets au Gratin {Baked Mashed Turnips). 2 lb. young turnips, 3 oz. butter, oz. flour, i gill bechamel sauce, 1 pint rich stock, i medium-sized onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, breadcrumbs. \Vasli, peel, and slice the turnips, put them into cold water with a little salt. Peel and blanch the onion, chop it finely, cook for a few minutes in an ounce of butter, then add the turnips, previously drained, and stir over a slow fire for about fifteen minutes. Melt an ounce of butter, add the flour, and cook a little without brown- ing, moisten with the stock, and boil up while stirring, cook for ten mhiutes, then pour it o^"er the turnips, and simmer for about half an hour. Pass all through a sieve, season to taste with a pinch of sugar, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Arrange in a pile on a gratin dish. Mask with the white sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and divide the remainder of butter in little bits on top. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes in a hot oven, and serve very hot. Navets a la Bourgeoise.—Par-boiled turnips stewed in brown parsley sauce. — braises.—Turnips peeled, cut in quarters, cubes or olive-shapes, blanched, fried in butter, and braised. — a la Veloutee.—Par-boiled young turnips stewed in white sauce veloiitee. Petits Paniers a la Jardiniere {Small Vegetable Baskets). \ lb. short paste, 4 pint of macedoine of vegetables, oil and vinegar, lemon, I tablespoonful aspic jelly, i small truffle, pepper and salt. Line eight small patty-pans, and shape some twisted slips of paste, bake them, and fasten each end crossways, with some yolk of egg and flour mixed, to the sides of the patty-pan. Fill the patty- pans with raw rice, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out the rice, and let them cool. Have ready some cooked and drained macedoine of vegetables, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, moisten with a tablespoonful of aspic, fill the baked crust with the mixture. Mask the surface of each with aspic, ornament with fancy shapes of lemon-rind or truffles, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. Dish up and serve. The trimmings of truffle can be mixed with the macedoine. Puree d’Oseille {Mashed Sorrel). Wash and pick about i lb. of sorrel, boil till tender in salted water, strain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a stew-pan, add a dessertspoonful of flour, cook a little, and add the sorrel, moisten with a gill of cream or stock, season with pepper and salt, stir and cook until it has the desired consistency. Sorrel puree makes a very nice garnish for fricandeau of veal, veal cutlets, paupiettes, poached eggs, etc. If served with the latter, the dish should be garnished with croutes of fried or toasted bread. PETITS POIS—GREEN PEAS. Petits Pois {Green Peas). Shell the peas, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, to which salt and a small quantity of moist sugar have been added ;