623 VEGETABLES—iJiGUMES. Souffle d’Artichauts a la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke puree, niixed with chicken souffle mixture, the centre being garnished with cham- pignons or mushroom puree. Cooked (steamed) in artichoke- shaped moulds and served hot with supreme sauce. Topinambours a la Creme.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed in white cream sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed and served with brown sauce. -- a la Georgienne.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs and baked a light brown (gratm style). — a I’Indienne.—Parboiled Jerusalem artichokes stewed in curry sauce, served with boiled rice. — au Gratin.—Stewed Jerusalem artichokes, sliced or mashed, prepared with white sauce, dished up and baked in gratin style. ASPERGES—ASPARAGUS. How to Prepare Asparagus for Cooking. Select the asparagus of even size if possible, remove the buds with a sharp-pointed knife, and scrape or peel thinly each shoot from the tips downwards. Cut the stem-ends to an ecpial length, carefully wash and drain them, and tie into small bundles of about twelve to fifteen in a bundle. Keep them in water or in the ice till wanted. Boil in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon-juice, till the soft parts are tender. When once cooked, asparagus should not be left standing in water, as it is apt to turn sour in a very short time. The pan in which asparagus is cooked must be large enough to hold it, and the water must be sufficient to well cover it, and must be boiling before the asparagus is put in. Asparagus usually takes from twenty-five to thirty minutes to cook. Asperges au beurre fondu [Aspayagus with Melted Buttey). Prepare the asparagus, boil in salted water till tender, place them on a sieve to drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread, place on folded napkin, and dish. Serve with a boat of oiled butter. Asperges a la Hollandaise. Prepare and boil the asparagus in the usual way, drain, and dish up, and serve them with hollandaise sauce. This may, if liked, be poured over the tips, but it is best handed round in a sauce-boat. Asparagus a I’Huile. .Asparagus is called the queen of the kitchen-garden. There are several varieties—green, white, and violet—but the first is the most esteemed. Scrape the white part of the asparagus, and cut the sticks the same length. Wash and tie up into a bundle, then put it into boiling water, adding a little salt. \Mren sufficiently boiled, drain, and allow to get cold. When served hot, the sauce which should accompany is made as follows : Dissolve a spoonful