555 COLD ENTREES. Souffles de Jambon en Casseroles {Ha}n Souffles in Casseroles). 8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, i gill rich Madeira sauce, il gill aspic jelly, pint cream, t slice ox-tongne. seasoning. Cut the ham into small slices, pound till smooth in a mortar, add the brown sauce gradually, mix w^ell, and rub through a line sieve. IVIelt the aspic and whisk it over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of ground mace. \Mhp the cream till stiff, and w'ork into the mixture. Continue whisking for some minutes, then hll up some small silver casseroles. Place a star-shaped slice of tongue on top of each, and put them in a charged ice-cabinet for about 2I hours. Dish up, and serve. Souffle de Jambon a I’Espagnole [Spanish Ham Souffle). -J- lb. cooked ham (lean), i oz. butter, i shallot, I pint Espagnole sauce, I gill aspic jelly, oz. leaf gelatine, i gill cream, i white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper, and paprika. Cut the ham into dice. i\Ielt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallot, peeled and minced hnely, and fry a little, then put in the ham and fry over a rpiick hre for h\'e minntes, put it in a mortar and pound linely, adding a little Espagnole sance to moisten. Rub the whole through a line sieve and put it in a stew’-pan with the sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, season to taste, add the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dissolved and strained. Whisk the egg-white to a stiff froth, and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. \Miip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned with a good pinch of paprika or krona pepper, and serve at once, Mousse de Jambon en Gelee [Ham Mousse in Savoury Jelly). • Prepare a ham souffle in a charlotte mould as directed on p. 458. When cooked, i.e. poached or steamed, set it on the ice for one or