6i I ROT IS—ROASTS. When nearly done, remove the bacon and let the surface of the turkey get nicely browned. Untruss the bird and dish up. Serve with a thin brown sauce, containing hnely chopped truffles. Canard braise aux Navets [Braised Duck with Turnips). I large duck, 6 rashers of bacon, i onion sliced, i carrot sliced. 3 slices of lemon, a small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i glass of whife wine, 4 medium-sized young turnips, -V pint demi-glace sauce, 2 oz. butter, i gill rich gravy, salt and pepper. Truss the duck. Line a braising-pan (braisiere) with the rashers of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and lemon, place the duck upon this, season with salt and pepper, add the bouquet of herbs, moisten with the wine, and cover with a sunken lid. Put the pan on the fire, place some burning embers on top of the lid, and cook thus for forty minutes, basting occasionally. When half done, add the sauce, and continue to cook till the duck is quite tender. Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, pare neatly, blanch in salted water, drain well, and fry in butter. Pour off the butter, add the gravy, season to taste, and simmer till done, taking care that the pieces are not broken. Take up the duck, untruss, and place it on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, skim, reduce it a little, and pour round the dish. Arrange the turnips round the base of the dish, and serve. Canard roti a I’Orange [Roast Duck with Orange Sauce). Roast one or more ducks, trussed neatly, till done, baste fre- quently during the process of roasting. Cut into the usual number of joints and dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with small bunches of watercress and quarters of oranges from which the pips have been removed, pour a little gravy round the base of the dish, and send to table with a boat of orange sauce. Caneton roti [Roast Duckling). Remove the liver and heart, carefully wash, and put again inside the bird. Truss neatly, put it on a baking-tin with a little dripping. Roast it in the oven or in front of the fire for about forty minutes. Remove the strings, dish up on a hot dish, pour the dripping from the tin, add about half a pint of stock or gravy, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and strain over the duckling. Garnish with some picked and washed watercress, and serve. Apple sauce is sometimes served with this roast, but it is not essential. Caneton a la Rouennaise [Duckling, Rouenese Style). I good-sized Rouen duckling, 3 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, I bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls fresh breadcrumbs, i teaspconful chopped parsley, -1- liqueur glass of cognac, i gill claret, -V pint stock, If lemon, salt, pepper, and a little spice, i small onion, i dessertspoonful flo”ur. In drawing the duckling, remove the gall, save the heart and liver, wash and chop finely, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground spice. Boil the onion in stock or water, chop finely, mix it with the liver, add the cograc, chopped parsley, and breadcrumbs, moisten with an ounce of oiled butter and a little stock, and stuff the duckling. Fasten both ends with string and truss them. Melt two ounces of butter in a braising-pan, fry the shallots a little.