331 COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. minutes, moisten with a tablespoonful of sauce, season to taste, and spread on a plate to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture on each fillet, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven lor ten minutes. When done take up and let cool. Mask six small zephire moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the bottom of each with some fancifully cut slices of truffle. Mix the remainder of bechamel sauce with the mayon- naise, stir in half the aspic jelly, and strain ; coat the moulds with this, place one of the prepared fillets in each mould, and fill up with another layer of the white sauce, etc. Put the moulds on the ice till set. Unmould wfflen required for table, dish up neatly on a cold dish, garnish with some kind of dressed salad, thinly cut slices of lemon, and chopped aspic, and serve. Turban de Filets de Soles a la Montpellier. lo fillets of soles, i oz. Montpellier butter (p. 175). i gill aspic mayonnaise (p. 142), aspic jelly (p. 132), i teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, ^ lb. of cooked whiting, i tablespoonful white sauce, pepper and salt. 3 hard-boiled eggs, i glass of white wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of spinach puree. Line a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, when set, decorate the sides with thin slices of hard-boiled eggs, mask the inside with a layer of aspic mayonnaise, mixed with Mont- pellier butter. Pound V lb. of cooked whit- ing freed from bones, add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. When smooth add a table- spoonful of spinach puree, rub through a sieve, mix with about -1- pint of liquid aspic mayonnaise, and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Fill the border mould with this and place on ice. Divide the fillets of a large sole into very small neat ffllets, flatten a little with a cutlet-bat, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saiite-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook in a slow oven until tender, ^^dfen done, take them out and put to cool. Mask the ffllets of sole with aspic mayonnaise mixed with a little spinach greening, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mould