DISHES FOR lA'VALlDS AND CONl'ALESCENTS. 9'3 Fried Sole, I sole, I tablcspoonful of ilour, i egg, breailcruinbs, fr^’iug fat. Wash, skin, and trim the sole. Dip lightly into ilnnr, and season with very little pepper and salt. Egg and cruml) the sole. Fry in hot fat. Drain well and dish np ; garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon. Grilled Sole, Procure a nice fresh sole about three-quarters of a pcnind in weight, skin it, trim off the hns and wipe the fish with a clean cloth. Season with a little pepper and salt, then butter it all over ; place it on a grill and cook over or in front of a nice clear hre. Dish up temptingly, and serve either plain or with parsley butter or witli ordinary white fish sauce. Steamed Sole, Skin a fresh sole, remove the head portion, cut off the hns ; season with a little salt and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have a steamer or a saucepan of boiling water, put the hsh in the steamer on a strainer or on a plate placed on a colander into the saucepan, and steam until the flesh will come easily from the bone (it will take about ten minutes). Put the flsh on a hot dish, pour over it some light white sauce, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Fried Whiting. Procure a skinned whiting, wipe it with a damp cloth, dip lightly in flour and egg, and crumb it. Fry in hot fat, drain, dish up, and garnish with quarters of lemon and fried or fresh parsley. Fish Cutlets. i lb. cooked fish (free from skin and bones), 2 oz. mashed potatoes, i oz. butter, I yolk of egg, pepper and salt, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat. Chop the fish flnely, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flsh and potatoes, bind with a yolk of egg, and season to taste. Form into cutlet shapes, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish, and serve. Baked Fish Pudding. i lb. cooked hsh (free from skin and bones), | lb. cooked potatoes, i oz. butter, I egg, i tablcspoonful milk, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Remove the skin and bones from the flsh, and break the flsh into small flakes, rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, mix it with the flsh, add pepper and salt to taste, melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the flsh mixture, mix well, and stir in the egg (well beaten), the milk, and parsley, and pour the mixtui'e into a buttered mould or pie-dish, or gallipot, cover with crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes, turn out on to a dksh- paper, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve. Light Fish Pudding. 6 oz. raw or cooked hsh (free from skin and bones), i oz. breadcrumbs, 1 gill milk or stock, i egg, mace, nutmeg, salt and pepper. 3.M