432 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Tete de Veau a la Tyrolienne.—Proceed the same as directed for “ Calf’s head en Tortue,” then cut it into slices, dip them in frying batter and fry in clarified butter. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon quarters, and serve with tomato sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. — a ritalienne.—Boiled calf’s head cut into slices or small pieces, then stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms, shallots, white wine, and tomato puree. — a I’Americaine.—Blanched, boiled calf’s head, boned and stewed in tomato sauce with peeled tomatoes, chopped parsley, and fennel. — a I’Anglaise.—Calf’s head stewed in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and sippets of bread. — a la Destilliere.—Calf’s head stewed in brown sauce, with sliced ox- tongue, gherkins, and mushrooms ; garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and slices of pickled beetroot. — en Escalopes.—Boiled and boned calf’s head, cut into slices, steeped in oil and vinegar, sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in frying batter or egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat or clarified butter. — frite a la Tartare.—Boiled and boned calf’s head cut into small pieces, pickled in oil and vinegar, drained, then egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tartare sauce. Timbale de Veau a la Cardinal {Veal Timbale). I lb. veal, 3 whites of eggs, salt, pepper, i pimiento, 12 prawns, i|- gill veloutee sauce, i oz. crayfish butter, 4 gill cream, 2 oz, ox-tongue, 6 mush- rooms, I oz. butter, i shallot, i new kidney potato, lobster coral or spawn, 8 glazed lieurons, i liatelet. Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut one-fourth of it into line shreds, and pound the remainder in a mortar till smooth, adding to it by degrees the whites of eggs and a little cream. Work in enough lobster coral or spawn to give the farce a pink tint, season well with aromatic herbs, etc., and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a timbale mould, spread the farce thickly on the inside, keep on the ice till wanted. With the shredded veal make a Hungarian Goulash ; fry the meat in butter with a blended chopped shallot, add the tongue, cooked potato (cut in dice shapes), pimiento, and mushrooms, all cut into dice, also 8 of the prawn tails ; moisten with a little veloutee sauce. Put this mixture into the coated mould and fill up with the remainder of the farce ; poach for forty minutes. Prepare a rich sauce with the veloutee sauce and crayfish butter. Unmould the timbale on a hot dish, sauce over carefully, and surmount the shape with the remaining four prawns and a small hatelet in the centre. Garnish with fleurons, and serve. Timbales de Veau a la Marechale. 6 oz. lean veal, 3 to 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, 3 to 4 slices of cooked o.x-tongue, i truffle, seasoning, 4 oz. butter, tomato sauce. Cut up the veal, pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade, the egg-yolks one at a time, the cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, stamp out some rounds of tongue about the size of the bottoms of