OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 685 Remove the shell from the eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, scoop out the yolks and put them in a mortar, add the boned an- chovies and picked prawns, and pound very line. Rub all tln'ongh a wire sieve, return to the mortar, add the butter and bechamel sauce, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Fill up the hard-boiled whites of egg, place a prawn-head in the centre of each, sprinkle the surface with a little grated parmesan cheese, put them on a buttered dish or saute-pan, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, sauce round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. (Eufs a la Carnot. Trim neatly some artichoke bottoms of a nice w'hite colour, cut the edges into a fancy border, keep warm in some dissolved meat glaze. Have ready some rather thick chicken puree, blended with a little fresh butter over the lire. Poach a new-laid egg for each fond, put a tablespoonful of chicken puree in the fond, trim the eggs nicely, place on top, dish up, sauce over with gravy, and serve. Croquettes aux CEufs {Egg Croquettes). Cut six to eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Mince coarsely a dozen preserved mushrooms, and slightly fry them in an ounce of butter. To this add the egg puree, stir well, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Moisten with sufficient well-reduced bechamel sauce to form a bind- ing. When thoroughly hot, pour the mixture on a plate and let it cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, even-sized balls, or cork shapes, dip each into beaten egg, and cover well with coarse- grained florador or semolina, the former is preferable. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, dish up neatly, and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—The above, dressed around a bed of cooked spinach, nicely seasoned, makes a very tasty dinner or supper dish. Cromesquis aux (Eufs (Kromeskies of Eggs). 3 hard-boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of eggs, | gill bechamel sauce, 1- tea- spoonful finely chopped truffle, -1- oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes (unsweetened) or bacon, seasoning, frying-batter, frying-fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely, put them in a stew-pan, moisten with the sauce and the egg-yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake or bacon, dip into frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley. (Eufs en Chaud-froid. 6 or more new-laid eggs, i J- gill bechamel sauce, 1 gill tomato sauce, i gill aspic jelly, i oz. leaf gelatine, i large truffle, slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, salad and dressing. Poach the eggs carefully in slightly salted water containing a little lemon-juice, when set take up and trim and set them on a sieve to cool. Heat up the white sauce, add to it the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Season to taste and mix with a couple of tablespoonfuls of aspic. When nearly cold mask half the