834 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Fill the centre with a light custard containing crushed crystallised violets, complete filling with souffle mixture, pack in a charged ice cave or freezing-pot for three hours, then unmould, and decorate with glace violets. Glace panachee en Surprise. Freeze fairly firm three varieties of ice, viz. vanilla cream, pistachio, and strawberry cream. Pack them into three plain moulds. About five minutes before serving unmould them on a deep silver dish, cover them quickly and completely with a stiff meringue mixture, decorate the surface a little, dredge with fine sugar, and put the dish quickly in a very sharp oven just long enough to set the egg meringue. Send to table immediately. Glace Tutti-Frutti [Italian Ice Pudding). 5 yolks of eggs, i pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, vanilla flavouring (pod or essence), 2 whites of eggs, 1- gill maraschino, ^ pint double cream, i oz. pistachios, I oz. glace cherries, i oz. candied fruit (mixed), i oz. glace apricots. Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, pour over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire till it thickens, and strain into a basin, and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalga- mate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard in a freezer and commence to freeze, when partly done stir in the fruit, and lastly the whipped whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen, add the mara- schino. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve piled up rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. Glaces Fantaises [Fancy and Dessert Ices). These ices are made in almost endless varieties. Fashion demands novelties in ices, therefore each season introduces a number INDIVIDUAL MOULDS FOR DESSERT ICES. of new compositions and shapes. The talented confectioner and cuisinier exercise considerable ingenuity in devising original prepara- tions, and in this direction they are helped by the new shapes and