ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). l^acon. Cut up the two ounces of bacon, put it in a saute-|)an with an ounce (h' butter, fry a little amt season, then put in the slices of larded hare, larded sides upwards, try lightly, add the bouquet garni and the wine, cover, and place the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Cut the best portion cf the remainder of the hare into neat joints, fry these in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter until nicely browned, add the brown sauce, parsley, onion, cinnamon, red-currant jelly, and the sultanas, previously picked and soaked in tepid water. Cook slowly until tender, then take out the parsley, onion, cinnamon, carefully remove the fat, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Cut the glace cherries in halves, heat up in some rich gravy, and mi.x with the ragout of hare. To dish up, place each slice on a heart-shaped fried bread crouton, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pile the ragout of hare and cherries in the centre, reduce the sauce, skim again, and pour it carefully over the meat. Serve hot. Turban de Lievre a la Bohemienne [Border of Hare). I small hare, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. liacon, i small carrot, i onion, 2 cloves, I inch cinnamon-stick, i gill well-reduced Espagnole .sauce, i glass ]iort wine, about 8 oz. panade, aromatic spice, salt, pepper, i gill demi- glace or Madere sauce, about 12 glace cherries, 18 to 24 marbles of potato croquettes. Remove the filfets of the hare, cut them into neat dice of even size. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add to it the bacon, the sliced carrot, and onion, cloves, and cinnamon, fry a little, then take out the bacon, put in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire, and finish cooking in the oven until they are quite tender. Take up the pieces of fillet and keep them hot. Fill a well-buttered border-mould with a farce made of 12 oz. hare, the bacon, panade, wine, and Espagnole sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam in the usual manner. W'hen done unmould on to a hot round entree dish, dress the pieces of fillet in the centre of the border. Reduce the demi-glace sauce, pour this over the whole, arrange the potato croquettes in a row on top of the border, place the cherries (cut in halves and heated in a little port or sherry) tastefully in the middle. A conple of teaspoonfuls of meat glaze or Lemco added to the farce is a great improvement. Pate de Lievre a la Cumberland [Raised Hare Pic). 1 small hare, lb. calf’s liver, 4 oz. bacon, 1 shallot, f a tlove of garlic, 2 oz. butler, seasoning, thyme and marjoram, b teaspoonful of each, I glass port wine, i egg, herbs, spoonful of red-currant jelly, a little stock. Suitable paste cru'-t. Skin, wash, joint, bone, and slice the hare. Put the carcase in a stew-pan with water, flavour with cloves, bay-leaf, and salt, skim, and cook gently for one hour. Fry the hare in the butter, take it out, add the shallot (peeled and chopped), the calf’s liver, previously sliced thinly, and two ounces of the bacon, fry for a short time and pound all in a mortar till smooth. Rub this through a wire sieve and mix with a well-beaten egg. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Line a raised pie-mould with