THE ART OF COOKERY. definition of the objects of cookery, Di'- Thudichum gives “ the preparation of food in such a manner that man shall derive the greatest nutrition and cesthetical advantage from its consumption.” “ In all latitudes,” he says, ‘‘ cookery has to accommodate itself in an infinite variety of ways to the ages, conditions, and fortunes of men ; it has to consider not only the mere nutritive value of its products, but their aesthetic value, which may be defined as value arising from the liking or disliking that various persons with certain natural or acquired tastes manifest toward certain products and preparations.” The difficulties are only increased when we consider the nature and composition of the several kinds of food, the combinations necessary to produce desired effects—how different articles need different methods of treatment, and exposure to heat and moisture, in different ways and at varying degrees of temperature. The action of heat, chemical action, the processes of fermentation, dis- integration, and concentration—all are of concern in the preparation of food. Small wonder, then, that failure marks so often our crude attempts to provide suitable nutriment for delicate organisms. A certain amount of theory from the scientific side is good. We might, however, be able to get along wfithout it, but we should get on very badly without the practical part. I am sorely afraid that some of the students of cookery attach too much importance to the science and philosophy of cookery at the expense of fhe practice, for it is that most assuredly which makes the master of the art of cooking. We have, just now', enough philosophy in cookery and gastronomy to carry on the world’s cookery for the next twenty years, and only enough real practical science to carry on the world’s work from day to day, Cookery being an exact science, satisfactor}^ results can onlv be obtained by methodical operation or w'ork; but results good, bad, and indifferent are sometimes produced by accident. Such as these are not, however, satisfactory, and cannot therefore be relied upon, because a knowdedge based on mere chance, which produces results without substantial ground or reason, must, to say the least, be regarded as extremely disappointing. It is of course essenfial that a student of cookery should be well versed in fhe knowledge of the composition of fhe different foods.