DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 273 cayenne or paprika. Put this into a well-buttered souflle tin, cover with a greased paper, and steam or bake hjr about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. This may be poured over the shape or round the base of the dish. Cabillaud recrepi bouilli {Crimped Cod, boiled). 2j lb. crimped cod (middle cut), i medium-sized ouioii, i clove, lo pepper- corns, 3- wineglass French wine vinegar. Wipe the fish with a cloth, place in a fish-kettle, cover completely with cold water, season with a small handful of salt, add the onion, clove, peppercorns, and the vinegar. Let it come to the boil quickly, and allow it to simmer very gently for about five minutes, when the fish will be sufficiently cooked. Drain it well, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve on a hot dish with a suitable sauce. Cabillaud a la Provenpale {Braised Cod with Cream Sauce). About 2\ lb. of cod (middle cut), I pint veloutee sauce (p. 161), i gill of white wine, 2 small shallots (chopped line), 2 oz. of butter, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 teaspoonfuls of capers, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 8 to 10 small lish quenelles, r small bunch of parsley and herbs (bouquet .garni, p. 122). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, add veloutee sauce, white wine, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to braise slowly until the fish is done, basting occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a tammy. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy essence, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire. Dish up the fish, garnish with small fish quenelles, previously poached in stock, sauce over carefully, and serve, Cabillaud a la Dieppoise {Fried Cod, Dieppe Style).—Slices of cod, dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, garnished with parsley, and served with white matelote sauce. — a la Portugaise {Cod, Portuguese Style).—Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy, and mussels. — grille a la Colbert {Grilled Cod, Colbert Style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. Brandade de Morue aux Olives {Salt Cod Pudding with Olives). I lb. salt cod, 2 large mealy potatoes, 2 shallots, i gill best olive oil, i gill cream, a. little milk, seasoning, 12 large Spanish olives, 12 small pnff pastry rings, fish farce, and piiniento for stuffing olives. Soak the fish for several hours in water, drain and wipe it thoroughly, and then skin and bone it. Heat up the oil in a stew- or saute-pan, and fry in it the fish for a few minutes, take up and drain, and cook the fish till tender in milk and water, and drain well. Peel and cook the potatoes as for mashed potatoes. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry in oil. Pound the fish in a mortar, s