179 CHAPTER XV. SOUPS (POTAGES). (See also Chapter IX. on Stocks and Soups.) General Stock for Consommes and other Soups. I lb. of veal (knuckle part), 2 Ib. shin of beef (or .shoulder part), 3-J lb. bones (beef or veal), 2 gallons of water, 2 oz. salt, some poultry giblets (cleaned), 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, i head of celery, 2 cloves (stuck in the onions), i parsnip, 12 peppercorns, i small bunch of sweet herbs, bay- leaves, thyme, and plenty of parsley. Remove all bones from the meat and tie up with string, break the bones into pieces with a chopper. Put both together with the giblets in the stock-pot, add the salt and water (cold), and let it come gently to the boil. VTen nearly boiling remove the scum which will have risen to the top, pour in half a gill of cold water, and skim again. Have the above-named vegetables and herbs prepared, and add them to the stock with the peppercorns. Let the whole come to the boil, skim again, remove the pot to the side of the stove, or if a gas-stove is used lower the flame, and let it simmer slowly for five hours. The fat which rises to the top during the process of simmering should be carefully taken off with a spoon. This fat should be put aside in a basin and used up with other fat when clarifying for frying purposes. As soon as the broth or stock is cooked sufliciently, take out the meat and put it on a dish, to be used up in some form or for second stock. Strain the broth through a wet napkin, colour it with a few drops of caramel if required for brown stock or soup. Add a little more salt or pepper if it be required. If rec|uired as stock it is best to keep it without any additional seasoning, and in its natural colour. Remouillage {Second Stock).—This is prepared by adding the same quantity of water to the meat, bones, and vegetables after being used for general or first stock. Any remains of meat or bones which cannot be used otherwise should And their way to the second stock. Let it simmer for four or five hours, keeping it well skimmed. Salt or other additional seasoning should be omitted, for this stock is only used for filling up others, already seasoned, or else for purees, sauces, etc. When ready, pass it throngh a cloth, and use when required, or boil it down for meat glaze. Stock made from veal makes the best meat glaze, but any kind of meat, poultry or game stock can be reduced to glaze. Bouillon en Tasses [Broth in Cups).—To produce a good cup of bouillon, it rec;[uires only a rich and well-flavoured beef-stock,