935 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Milk Scones. 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. Initter, i oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, teaspoonful carbonate of soda or i oz. of Paisley flour, i oz. sultanas or currants, -5- pint milk. Sift the flour into a basin and rub in the butter till thoroughly mixed ; add the sugar, also the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda, or in their place the Paisley Hour. Pour in the milk and mix (juickly into a smooth dough. Ilivide it into four portions, sha] e each into a round Hat cake ; place them on a greased or Houred baking-sheet, cut into quarters, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Brush them o\’er quickly with sweetened milk and return to the oven for anotlier ten minutes. Scotch Scones. T2 OZ. best flour, 2 oz. fine oatmeal, i oz. ground rice (creme de riz), -h tea- spoonful carbonate soda, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, J gill milk, i egg, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, a saltspoonful salt. Dry the flour, sift it into a basin, add the salt and rub in the butter with the oatmeal and ground rice ; now add the sugar, soda, and cream of tartar. Mix with the egg and milk, and work quickly into a stiff dough. Make up into three-cornered shapes. Place them on a greased baking-tin and bake in a quick oven for half an hour ; when half done, brush over with yolk of egg diluted with a little milk ; return to the oven and bake a nice golden ('olour. Small Cream Scones. 10 oz. flour (sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking-powder, i-J- gill milk, r gill cream. Put the Hour into a basin and rub in the butter, then add the baking-powder and a pinch of salt (if liked sweet, add a little castor sugar). Stir in gradually the milk and mix with a fork ; lastly add the cream, and work—i.e. knead—into a smooth paste. Roll cut on a floured board, about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a round (2-inch) cutter. Place the rounds on a greased baking- tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. When nearly done, brush over with sweetened milk, return to the oven, and finish baking. Bath Buns. Prepare a brioche paste as directed on p. 137, work in two more eggs, also two ounces of finely shredded orange and citron peel. Shape into even-sized buns and place them on a floured baking-tin. Allow them to rise in a warm place ; when sufficiently risen, wash o\’er with egg-yolk and milk. Sprinkle over some granulated sugar and caraway comfits. Bake in a hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Meringues {Shells). J lb. sifted castor sugar, 6 whites of eggs, a pinch of salt. Whisk the whites of eggs (adding a pinch of salt) in a copper egg-bowl until they represent a very stiff froth ; mix lightly with the sugar ; be careful not to stir the mi.xture too much, otherwise it will become too soft for shaping. The preparation is then readv