231 HORS-D’CEUVRE {APPETISERS). Season with paprika and mignonette pepper, and rub all through a fine sieve. Spread the prepared puree thinly on to a tin, and place on the ice to set. Next stamp out the required number of domino-shaped slices, and fix them by means of a little liquid aspic into the prepared moulds. In a similar way cut very thin slices of black bread (pumper- nickel), which must be cut to the exact size of the dominoes. Unmould the shapes, and place each on a slice of black bread. Have ready some very finely shredded and seasoned salad (Batavia or Belgian endive) in the form of a bed on a round flat dish. Dress the dominoes on this, and serve as hors d’ceuvre or cold savoury. Hors-d’CEuvre a la Russe. These usually consist of a selection of sardines, anchovies, herring fillets, smoked sausages (cut into thin slices), radishes, etc., neatly arranged in hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and thus handed round at the beginning of a dinner. The dressed dishes are also served under the same name, and consist of fish, such as cold salmon or turbot, cold chicken or cooked smoked sausages ; the former, i.e. the fish, are shredded finely, whilst the latter are minced rather coarsely. The dressing or seasoning used in each case is either oil or vinegar (vinaigrette), salt and pepper, or mayonnaise dressing. They must be carefully mixed with just enough dressing to moisten, and dished up in a heap on tiny glass dishes, little china or paper cases. Finely shredded lettuce, pickled gherkins (chopped finely), small white or red radishes, etc., are frequently used as garnish for these dishes, the success of which largely depends upon the taste shown in the dishing up and garnish. Hors-d’GEuvre a la Suedoise. Cut into fine shreds or small dice 4 oz. cooked cold chicken, two smoked herring fillets, one large cold boiled potato, and three to four., slices of pickled beetroot; season this with a little mayonnaise sauce, mix well, and dish up on little hors-d’oeuvre dishes. Decorate tastefully ’ with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg chopped finely, and ser\'e.