COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Make a syrup with the sugar and one gill of water, add the gelatine, previously soaked, and the apple puree, flavour with the cinnamon, stir till cool, add the cherries cut into dice, the jelly, liquid but cold, and hnally the cream whipped. Fill the paste crust with this, place on the cover, and stand on the ice. FInmould on to a cold dish. Mask over the shape with dissolved apricot and marmalade mixed with a little jelly, then decorate with angelica slices and halves of glace cherries, and triangular slices of set jelly. Gateau St. Georges au Marron. I lb. marrons glaces, ,J gill maraschino. 1 lb. peeled muscat grapes compote, 1- pint cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill syrup, a cake shape round of Genoise (p. 806). Prepare a light cream (mousse character) with about half the chestnuts (marrons), the cream, and egg-yolks. Stir the egg-yolks into a gill of boiling syrup and allow to bind, then mix in the chestnut puree, flavour with maraschino, and add enough sweet jelly to stiffen the mixture a little, when cool incorporate about two-thirds of the cream, previously whipped and sweetened with vanilla sugar, finally stir in gently half the grapes, reserving the rest for garnishing. Keep this preparation on the ice for two hours. Hollow out the centre of the Genoise cake, soak or sprinkle the inside of the cake shape with maraschino syrup. To serve, fill the cake shapes with the prepared cream, giving it a dome-shaped appearance, cover the top with peeled and stoned grapes, and decorate the edge with chestnut glace and whipped cream forced through a fancy forcing tube. The dish is then ready, and should be served with a boat of rich fruit syrup. Gateau Trois Freres. -h lb. castor sugar, 8 large eggs, -J- lb. butter, i lemon, 6 oz. flour, blanched and peeled almonds, pistachios, angelica, and glace cherries, apricot marmalade. Put the sugar in a clean basin or a copper egg-bowl, add gradu- ally the yolks of eight eggs and the butter, work till it resembles a creamy substance, add tlie finely-grated rind of a lemon and half its juice (strained). Whisk the whites of egg till stiff, and stir (fold) in carefully with the flour, which should be previously sifted. Pour the mixture into a trois freres mould or, failing this, use a fancy cake mould, and bake in a moderately hot oven from forty to forty-five minutes. Coat the cake, whilst still warm, witlr some dissolved apricot marmalade, using a brush for the purpose. Decorate with strips of almonds, pistachios, angelica, and cherries. Timbale Rustique aux Praises glacees {Iced Strawberry Timbale). Prepare a Genoese cake mixture with 7 yolks and 2 white of eggs, 5 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. flour, i oz. cornflour, i dessertspoonful of vanilla essence, 2 oz. of ground almonds (made on the hot Genoese principle). Butter two or three plain cake tins, fill them with the mixture, and bake the cakes. When cold cut out the centre part of one cake, leaving the bottom intact, and cut out the centre of the other cakes completely. Fix them together on the top of the first cake with a little royal icing. Brush over the outside of the cake with