j’ASTRY AND CONFECIIONERY. 059 BON-BONS AND OTHER SWEETMEATS. Syrup for Sweetmeats, &c. Dissoh'e i 11). loaf sugar in 1 pint water, then boil np quickly, remove the scum and continue to boil to 220 deg. on Senn’s saccharometer, and skim. When cool store in bottles. Fondant. 3 lbs. loaf sugar, \ pint water, { lb. glucose. Put the ingredients in a perfectly clean copper or brass pan. Dissolve very slowly, then boil to 245 deg. or soft ball. Skim carefully while boiling. When ready, pour on to a marble slab lightly sprinkled with cold water. As soon as the edges begin to set work the fondant uj) and down with a spatula until cool enough to handle. In this condition it can be put away in a covered jar for twelve or twenty-four hours, when it becomes soft again, or, if required for immediate use, continue kneading until it becomes soft. Fondant Covering. Put some fondant, as above directed, in a doulile pan, and heat up very gently. Flavour with vanilla and add a little plain syrup. Heat up gently, and add more syrup if necessary. Dip the centres into this cream with a dij)ping fork, and place them on grease-proof paper to dry. A nice finish can be put on these by ])utting some fondant into a cornet and forcing a small curl on top of each. Vanilla Fondants, Take some fondant, as above directed, knead it thoroughly, flavour to taste with vanilla, and form into small rounds or ovals. Allow these centres to dry for some hours, then dip them in a fondant cream covering. Rose Fondants. These are made exactly the same way as Vanilla Fondants, using some carmine and rose essence liavouring instead of vanilla. Fruit Fondants. The most suitable fresh fruits for fondants are strawberries, cherries, and grapes. The fruit should be perfectly fresh, ripe, and dry. Fresh fruit fondant should be ])repared only a short time liefore serving. Pre- pare some fondant cream as before described, flav'our with some nice liqueur. Leave a short' stem on the fruit. Dip the fruit into liqueur. Let it stand a little, then dip into the fondant cream. Place on grease- proof paper until firm. Serve in fancy paper cases. Moulded Fondants. Fondants are generally moulded in fancy moulds ; for this purpose a starch tray or rubber moulds must be used. Pre})are some fondant icing the same as for coating cakes (see page 138), heat up, then put into a paper cornet, and fill up the moulds. When cold pick out. These fondants require to be crystallized. For crystallizing it will be necessarv to have a saccharometer or “ pese sirop ” (see ])age 65) and a crystal- lizing tray. Crystallizing Syrup. Dissolve carefully 6 llis. best loaf sugar in a cjuart ol water, then boil till the syru]) registers 36 deg. by the syrup gauge (see p. 65). Let it