OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 689 mask them with aspic, and set each in one of the prepared crusts. Decorate with chopped aspic tinted with a little spinach greening. Dish np tastefully, and serve cold. CEufs a la Medicis. Drain a handful of slices of pickled beetroot on a cloth, and sante them in a saute-pan with fresh butter over a moderate lire. To this add four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, season with pep))cr and salt, add a good teaspoonful of chopped parsle}^ and moisten with half a gill of cream, cover the pan and place it in tlie oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. CEufs a ITndienne [Curried Eggs). 4 eggs, I oz. butter, oz. tlour, i onion, i apple, 2 teaspoonfuls cuny powder, 1gill stock, salt, boiled rice. Boil the eggs ten minutes, shell them, and put into a basin of cold water, then cut two of the eggs into four rounds, and each round into two, cut np small the other eggs. Peel the apple and onion, and chop each hnely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onion and apple a golden brown. Put in the curry powder, flour, and a little salt, stir over a hre a few minutes, then add the stock gradually, and simmer gently about ten minutes. Put in the chopped pieces of egg, and allow to get hot. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, arrange the sliced egg round it, and a small border of boiled rice. CEufs en Feuilletage [Eggs in Puff-pastry). 5 hard-boiled eggs, 1- lb. puff-paste, i raw egg, pepper aud salt, lireadcrunibs, clarified butter or lard for frying. Remove the shells from the eggs when hard, mi.x a little white pepper with some hue dry salt, roll four eggs in this. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, wrap up each egg in the paste, brush the edges of the paste so as to close the ends securely, egg and breadcrumb over twice, place them in a wire basket, and fry in hot butter or lard a nice light brown (this must be done very carefully to ensure the paste getting done through). Cut some rings about a quarter of an inch thick of the remaining hard-boiled egg. Take out the yolk, put each fried egg on a ring so that they may stand upright ; dish up in a circle on a napkin ; fry a handful of picked, washed, and dried parsle}^ in the centre, and serve. CEufs a la Tripe. Make a rich onion sauce, and add a gill of cream. Boil four to six eggs hard, shell them and cut up into slices, heat these up in the sauce. Dish up, and sprinkle with hnely chopped parsle}^ CEufs mollets a la Bechamel. Boil six new-laid eggs in water for hve minutes. Shell them and place them on fried croutons of bread, pour some rich bechamel sauce over them. Dish up carefully and serve. CEufs au Beurre Noisette. i\Ielt half an ounce of bntter in a hreproof dish, break four to hve eggs into it, place in a hot oven for about hve minutes. Then XX