• S33 GLACES—ICES. or nouille paste, dry the shape in a cool oven and set to cool. Pre- pare a custard with i pint of milk, 6 yolks of eggs, i oz. of chocolate, and \ gill of strong Mocha coffee. When strained add if gill of syrup and i gill of whipped cream, and allow to cool. Freeze this in the usual manner. To dress the ice : Scoop out large table- spoonfuls and arrange them in pyramidal form round the column of the plaque, ])reviously placed on a suitable dish. Sprinkle the ice here and there with finely chopped pistachios, pour a small quan- tity of rum, kirsch or brandy into the top portion of the tube, in it also place some very finely-cut strips of angelica. Ignite the alcohol, and serve at once. Note.—If liked, the base of the dish can be garnished with mushrooms made from small round meringues and almond paste. Glace Dame Blanche {White Lady Ice). Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately one pint of cream and four whites of eggs, add four ounces of castor sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely-shredded blanched almonds, and pour into the prepared mould. Replace the mould in the charged freezer, and let it remain for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. Glace a la Florentine. Line a bomb-shaped monld with filbert-cream ice, and fill the centre with strawberry-water ice. Wrap up the mould, and freeze. Glace a la Georgette. Make a pineapple ice (p. 829). Mix it when partially frozen with pounded French almond rock. Mould in small fancy shaped pewter ice moulds, wrap them up in paper and bury in crushed ice and salt from one to two hours. Unmould, and serve as dessert ices. Glace a la Havanne. Line an ice mould with coffee-cream ice, mixed wifh pounded burnt sugar almonds (pralines), and fill up centre with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze in the usual way. Glace a la Madeleine. line a pewter ice mould with vanilla ice, fill the centre with minced pineapple, moistened with syrnp and kirsch flavouring. All up with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. Glace a la Mexicaine. Line a bomb mould with vanilla-cream ice, and All the centre with grated chocolate or a rich chocolate custard, cover with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. Glace a la Sarah Bernhardt. Prepare a light souffle mixture as directed on p. 843, flavour it with rose water, freeze it a little, and with it line a bom'be-mould. 3G