6io THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poussins rotis {Roast Chic-Chickens). Prepare three or more chic-chickens (baby chickens), truss them the same as fowls, and roast them in front of an open fire, basting frequently with dripping or butter. When done, take up, untruss, and dish them up on a hot dish. Garnish with watercress, and serve with gravy and bread sauce. Dinde farcie aux Matrons {Roast Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts). I medium-sized tender turkey, \ lb. fresh pork, \ lb. lean veal, 6 mush- rooms, 36 chestnuts, 3 to 6 truffles (if liked), i small onion, herbs, parsley, and spice, salt and pepper, -1- gill good stock, lb. dripping. Draw and singe the turkey, cut off the legs and neck, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and break the breast-bones gently. Pass the veal and pork twice through a mincing machine or pound in a mortar. Cook the chestnuts till tender in stock or water, drain, and break up small. Mix the chestnuts and meat together, add the mushrooms hnely chopped, the onion, previously blanched and chopped finely, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a dessert- spoonful in all of chopped olives ancl savoury herbs. Season to taste with pepper, nutmeg, and salt, moisten with a little stock, mix thoroughly, then add the truffles, cut into slices, completely fill the breast and body from both ends, truss neatly as for roasting, and sew up with twine. Baste well with dripping, and roast it in front of a fire or bake in the oven from one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. \\'hen done, take it up, untie, and dish up. Serve with gravy in a separate boat. The dish is more effective if garnished with groups of chestnut puree, stoned olives, small braised onions, and mushroom-heads. Dinde rotie aux truffes {Roast Turkey with Truffles). Prepare a stufflng consisting of finely chopped cooked chicken meat, savoury herbs, 3 large chopped truffles, and 6 chopped mush- rooms, season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, and moisten with a little brown sauce. Fill the neck of a turkey (trussed for roasting) with this, sew it up with thin string. Cover the breast with fat bacon slices, and roast it in front of a brisk fire or in the oven.