S3! ENl'REES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). Friandines de Gibier a la Perigueux. Prepare about one pound of salpicon (p. 124) of any kind of cooked game, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Take one pound of puff-paste, roll it out thinly, stamp out some rounds with a fluted pastry-cutter, put a small heap of salpicon mince in the centre of half of the rounds, wet the edges with a brush, cover with remaining rounds, press gently, taking care to keep the mince in the centre. Brush over with beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made breadcrumbs mixed with a small handful of chopped ham or a dessertspoonful of chopped truffles, fry in clarihed butter, drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramidal form, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of sauce Perigueux. Mousses de Gibier a la Lion d’Or [Mousses of Game). About I lb. of raw game, pheasant, partridge, or any other bird (freed from skin and bones), 6 oz. pork (fresh), 3 raw eggs, 3 oz. panadc, i No. 12 size jar foie-gras, i gill brown sauce, pepper, salt, and aromatics, i gill supreme sauce, i oz. fresh butter, i oz. meat glaze. Cut the game and pork into small pieces (the pork must consist of equal parts of lean and fat), pound in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade. Work in the yolks of eggs and the foie-gras (take out the pieces of truffle in the foie-gras and chop coarsely). Add the brown sauce, season to taste with pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning, and rub the whole through a hne wire sieve. Test the consistency of the farce in some boiling water. If found too stiff add a little more sauce, if too thin add a little more panade, then stir in the chopped truffles. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff Iroth, and add to the mixture. Fill up several buttered small-sized lion moulds, shaking well, so that the farce sets well into the shapes. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about thirty-hve minutes. Warm up the supreme sauce, add the meat glaze, whisk in the butter, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn out the moulds on to a hot dish. Sauce over carefully and serve. LIEVRE—HARE, ETC. Civet de Lievre a la Bordelaise [Jugged Hayc). I tender hare, i onion. 2 cloves, thyme, 2 bay-leaves, 12 small button onions (glazed), 4 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, t glass white and 4 glass red wine, pint stock, I oz. flour, seasoning, 8 croutons, and 8 Godiveau quenelles. Skin and neatly draw the hare (if there is any blood left, preserve it, mixed with a little vinegar). Preserve the liver carefully, removing the gall. Cut the hare into twelve to fourteen neat joints, place in a deep dish or jar, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sliced onion, two cloves, one sprig thyme and bay-leaves. Add the wine, let it stand for live or six hours