744 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and becomes a smooth paste. Let it cool a little, and beat in four yolks of eggs, and the stiffly-whisked whites of three eggs. Three- parts fill a buttered souffle mould, and steam for about forty minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Souffle aux Amandes Pralinees {Burnt Almond Souffle). 1 oz. butter, i oz. Vienna flour, i oz. castor sugar, i-| gill milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. burnt almonds or best French almond rock, 10 drops of vanilla essence. Dissolve half the sugar with a few drops of water in a stew-pan, stir till it acquires a light brown colour, then pour in the milk and boil up, stir frequently. Melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon, and add gradually the prepared milk. Stir till it forms a smooth paste, then mix in the remainder of the sugar. Pound the almonds or almond rock till fine, and add to the above. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in one by one the yolks of three eggs, beat the mixture well, and add the vanilla essence. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, incorporate this carefully but thoroughly. Pour into a well-buttered mould, provided with a buttered paper band round the edge of the mould. Steam in the usual manner for about forty minutes, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Souffle au Citron {Lemon Souffle). I OZ. butter, i oz. fioiir, i gill milk, 3 eggs, ^ a lemon, \ oz. castor sugar. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, when blended add the milk, sugar, the lemon-rind grated, and stir until boiling. Remove from the fire, beat in the yolks of eggs, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly in. Pour the mixture into a well-greased plain mould, and steam very slowly for about forty minutes. Turn on to a hot dish and pour round it a lemon-flavoured custard sauce. Cornflour souffle. \ oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, ^ pint milk, i oz. sugar, teaspoonful of vanilla, 2 eggs, short crust or puff paste to line pie-dish. Line a pie-dish thinly with the paste, decorate the edges with pieces cut with a fancy cutter. Blend the cornflour smootltly with a little milk, and strain it into the half-pint of milk when boiling. Cook for two or three minutes, then add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and vanilla essence. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. Pour into the lined dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. Dredge a little sugar over the top, and serve with a boat of chocolate sauce. Souffle Grand Marnier. 5 oz. butter, 5 eggs, i lemon, i orange, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. castor sugar, I oz. flour, I gill milk, i liqueur glass Grand Marnier liqueur. Put 4 OZ. butter and 4 egg-yolks into a stew-pan with the juice of half a lemon, and let melt. Rub the loaf sugar into the lemon and orange-rind, so as to extract the zest, then pound the sugar finely in a mortar, adding the above mixture, butter, etc., and stir