COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 80s cream when nearly boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, and work o\^er the fire till it begins to thicken, then strain. Dish up the chestnuts and pour the prepared sauce over them. Serve cold with whipped cream, if liked. Timbale de Marrons a ITmperatrice {Chestnut Timbale). Boil half a pound of peeled chestnuts in milk, flavoured with vanilla and sugar. When tender, pound and pass through a fine sieve. Mix the puree with half a gill of syrup, slightly strengthened with gelatine—2 to 4 sheets. Have ready a mould coated with wine jelly and decorated. Mask the interior thickly with the pre- pared puree and fill the centre with rice cooked in milk, flavoured with cream, fruit, and vanilla sugar. Place on the ice for two hours and serve with whipped cream. Flan aux Fruits {French Fruit Tart). Any kind of fruit can be used for this dish, but strawberries, apricots, prunes, plums, pears, and apples are the most favoured. Roll out about half-pound short-crust paste or pate duchesse (pp. 133-4), not too thinly, and line with it a flan ring or pastry hoop, placed on a baking-sheet, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, shape and flake the edges with a paste-clip. Fill with dried peas or rice, and bake partially, remove the peas or rice, and arrange the fruit as neatly as possible in the crust. Strawberries and other soft fruit are put in whole, plums and apricots are cut in halves or quarters, whilst pears and apples must be peeled and cut into slices or quarters. Bake long enough to cook the fruit, sprinkle freely with sugar, or glaze over with a suitably flavoured reduced fruit syrup. Flan de Fraises meringue a la Parisienne {Open Strawberry Tart with Meringue). I lb. of small, firm, but ripe strawberries, 3 oz. of castor sugar, about -1 lb. of short crust, the whites of 2 eggs. Line a pastry ring (6 inches in diameter) with the short crust, place on a baking-sheet, fill with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. Wipe and prepare sufiicient strawberries to fill the ring, arrange the fruit closely in one layer in the baked crust (being careful to remove previously all the rice