THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 460 Cotelettes de Pore aux Haricots Blancs.—Grilled or fried pork cutlets served with puree of w^hite haricot beans, flavoured with brown onion sauce. — aux lentilles.—Braised pork cutlets with a puree of lentils ; brown sauce. — marinees.—Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, stewed in marinade sauce blended with tomato sauce. — a la Navarraise.—Pickled pork cutlets, drained well and fried in butter, finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a bed of stewed rice. — aux Pommes.—Fried pork cutlets or pork chops with apple sauce. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate.—Braised spare-ribs of pork, garnished with small groups of stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Jambon a I’Alsaeienne.—Braised ham, with sourcrout (sauerkraut) cooked in casserole, dished up with mashed potatoes, and garnished with Strasbourg sausages, braise or demi-glace sauce. — braise au Champagne.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced) with cham- ])agne sauce. — braise a la Choucroute.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced) with stewed sourcrout (sauerkraut). — braise a la Clamart.—Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace, garnished with puree of green peas. — braise a la FranQaise.—Parboiled ham Irraised in Espagnole sauce, flavoured with sherry or Madeira wine. — braise a la Lyonnaise.—Braised ham, with slices of fried onions, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages ; demi-glace sauce. — bouilli, Sauce Madere.—Boiled ham, served hot (sliced) with Madeira wine sauce. — braise aux Nouilles.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced), garnished with cooked nouilles, braise or demi-glace sauce. — grille aux Petits Pois.—Slices of grilled ham with green peas. — a la Polonaise.—Braised ham served hot (sliced), garnished with small timbales of peas, choucroute, and small smoked pork sausages. — a la Russe.—Braised ham (sliced), with small stuffed lettuces or spring cabbages, braised with the ham ; dressed on stewed rice ; sauce demi-glace. Jarrets de Pore marine a I'Allemande.—Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stewed sourcrout, forcemeat dumplings (godiveau quenelles), “and white sauce. Langues de Pore a I’ltalienne.—Braised pork tongues, with brown sauce mixed with chopped preserved mushrooms. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled and braised pork tongues with fried sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de Pore aux Champignons.—Boiled pig’s palate stewed in brown sauce with sliced mushrooms.