728 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. pensive. Unfortunately simple dishes often suffer at the hands of careless cooks, who are prone to regard them as unworthy of much attention. An intelligent, educated cook knows that careful treat- ment is quite as necessary in the simplest operation of cooking as in the most elaborate. This is a truth which must be grasped by all who wish to succeed. Hot Sweets may be further classified as follows :—puddings, boiled, steamed, and baked, comprising souffle puddings, fruit puddings, custards, caramels, savarins, fruit fritters, beignets, pancakes, omelets, souffles, fruit tarts, charlottes, etc. HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. (For Sweet Sauces suitable for Puddings, etc., see end of Sauce Chapter, p. 170.) Pouding a I’Ambassadeur. Prepare a savarin paste (p. 756), and three-parts fill a buttered charlotte mould. Bake it in a moderate oven and let cool. Cut the cake into slices, and spread each slice with confectioner’s custard (p. 137) mixed with finely cut dice of preserved or fresh pineapple. Arrange the slices in a buttered timbale mould, a little larger than the first mould used, and so give the cake its original shape ; fill up with a custard, made with three yolks of eggs, pint of cream, and sugar to taste. Steam the pudding for two hours, turn out and pour over an apricot syrup flavoured with kirsch, Pouding a I’Autrichienne {Austrian Pudding). 4 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. cake- crumbs, J gill cream, 2 oz. glace cherries, pint fresh or preserved raspberries. 1' Put the raspberries in a buttered fireproof china souffle dish (quart or three-pint size). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl on the ice. Stir the sugar into the yolks and beat up to a cream, adding the ground almonds and cake-crumbs gradually. Melt the butter and stir it into the mixture, also the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them carefully into the above preparation. Turn this into the souffle dishes containing the fruit. Put the glace cherries, previously cut in halves, on top, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour. Serve very hot. If fresh raspberries are used they must be previously stewed in a little syrup. Pouding de Bananes {Banana Pudding). 6 bananas, not over ripe, ^ lb. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i teaspoonful Royal baking powder, 6 drops vanilla essence. Peel and chop finely the bananas, put them with the other dry ingredients into a basin and mix well. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and vanilla essence, and mix gradually with the above. Pour the mixture into a buttered pudding mould and steam for about 2\ to 3 hours,