ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 519 Cailles a la Tosca {Quails, Tosca Style). 4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 or 3 truflles, risotto for border (see below), 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, carrot, onion and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, Madere sauce. Bone the breasts of the quails, cook the bones in the stock to flavour it. Fill the empty space of the quails with game forcemeat, and insert the truffles cut into slices. Truss them and place them in a saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon, slices of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix). Add a gill of stock and half a gill of sauce, and cook in a brisk oven for half an hour, baste frequently. Fill a border-mould with risotto (see below), and keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use preserved ones) with forcemeat of game, poach them in stock. Lift out the quails, strain and skim the sauce, add to it the remainder of the sauce, reduce well, and season to taste. Unmould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each quail in two, and dress them pyramidically in the centre of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on top of the risotto border, pour the reduced sauce over the quails, and serve hot. Game Forcemeat [for Cailles a la Tosca). -!f lb. game, free from skin and bone, ^ lb. calf's liver, i oz. butter, some bacon, i shallot, p lb. soft bread (French rolls) soaked in milk, i whole egg and 3 yolks, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut the bacon into thin slices or dice. Melt the butter, add the shallot, peeled and chopped, and saute the liver in this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the minced game, and pound both together till smooth. Extract all the liciuid from the soaked bread, add it to the meat in the mortar, and continue to pound. Add the eggs, mix thoroughly, and season to ta^te with the above-named con- diments. Rub all through a fine sieve, poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to test its consistency, and use as directed. Risotto {for Cailles a la Tosca). 4 oz. butter, I oz. onion minced, 4 oz. rice (Italian), iV pint white stock, I tablespoonful glaze or meat extract, i oz. grated parinesan cheese, I small trufSe chopped finely, gill tomato pulp. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add the onion, fry for a moment, then put in the rice, picked, but not washed, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, then cover with stock, and add more from time to time. Cover and cook gently for about an hour, stir occasionally with a fork. When nearly done add the remainder of the butter, the truffle, and the tomato pulp, also the necessary seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover again, and put it in the oven for another ten minutes. By this time all the moisture should become absorbed. Stir in the grated cheese, mix well, and use as directed. Supreme de Cailles a la Lucullus {Supreme of Quails) 4 quails, i lb. veal forcemeat, gill cream, 2 truffles, i oz. butter, seasoning, truffle sauce, Doria potatoes for centre of dish. Singe and truss the quails, cut them in halves, season with salt