738 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for an hour and a half. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a sabayon au rhum {see p. 171). Primrose Pudding. lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, 5 eggs, 4 oz. flour (sifted), the rind of a small lemon grated, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Work the butter and sugar in a basin till creamy. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, adding a little flour, to avoid curdling, ^^brk the mixture for at least twenty minutes, then add the lemon-rind and vanilla, the remainder of the flour, and a pinch of salt. Butter one or two timbale-moulds, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about two hours. W’hen done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce, vanilla custard or sabayon sauce. Note.—If liked, a tablespoonful of finely chopped primrose petals may be stirred into the mixture just before adding the flour. Pouding Prince George. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. whole-meal breadcrumbs, 8 oz. Genoise cake, crumbled, 2 oz. finely crushed macaroons, 6 oz. preserved pineapple cut into dice, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 4 oz. preserved ginger, chopped finely, i small glass rum, glass,kirsch, 5 eggs, 2 oz. sugar, 4 lemon. Mix the sitet with all the dry ingredients in a basin. Put the pineapple and ginger in a small basin, pour over the rum and kirsch, cover, and let soak for an hour, beat up the eggs well, and add by degrees to the dry ingredients. Work this thoroughly, then add the fruit, etc. If found too stiff, a little fruit syrup or milk can be added. Fill one or two well-buttered pudding-moulds with the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam for two hours or longer. M'hen done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a hot custard sauce or fruit syrup, flavoured with some kind of liqueur. Pouding a la Prince Henri. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, 7 eggs, 4 oz. glace cherries, i oz. candied peel, 6 oz. flour, i glass kirschwasser, finger biscuits, sweet sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together in a basin, stir in gradually the yolks of seven eggs, add the cherries cut into small dice, the peel, finely chopped, the kirschwasser liqueur, and beat well. M'hisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this and the flour in gradually. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with the finger biscuits, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about 2 or 2|- hours. Serve with any kind of suitable sweet sauce. Pouding Royal. Geiioise mixture (p. 806), red-currant jelly, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill milk, vanilla pod, 4 lumps loaf sugar, 3 eggs. Spread the Genoise mixture thinly on a buttered paper-lined baking-tin, and bake in a moderately-heated oven, turn it on to a paste-board, remove the paper and spread the cake with dissolved red-currant jelly, roll it carefully like a Swiss roll, and let cool. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little. Boil the milk