THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 230 Bonnes Bouches de Crevettes a I’Avondale. J pint aspic jelly (p. 132), oz. leaf gelatine, pint picked shrimps or prawns, i tablespoonful chutney, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i tea- spoonful mixed mustard, -1- teaspoonful chilli vinegar, i gill tomato aspic (p. 142), salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. Dissolve the gelatine and strain it into about half a pint of liquihed aspic, put it into a basin, and whisk over some broken ice until it becomes spongy in appearance ; fill up quickly a number of small bouchee cup moulds (dariole or timbale shape), and allow them to set firmly on the ice. Cut the shrimps or prawns into small dice, put them in a stewpan with the chutney (chopped finely), the anchovy essence, mustard, vinegar, and tomato aspic ; heat up while stirring, season to taste, and turn into a basin. Scoop out a portion of the centre of each mould with a hot dessertspoon, fill up the cavity with the prepared mixture as it becomes cool. Set the mould on the ice for about an hour, turn out, dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines. , 2f OZ. of sardine paste, a handful of small cress, i dessertspoonful of sweet oil, I teaspoonful of vinegar, 3 oz. butter, brown bread, salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 hard-boiled eggs, watercress for garnish. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, put 2 oz. of sardine paste in a mortar, and pound with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and ik oz. of butter. Rub through a fine sieve. Spread this over the slices of bread. Wash the cress and cut up small, season with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle over the layer of paste. Place another slice of bread on top, and press together, spread the top with butter, and sprinkle over thickly with finely-chopped whites of hard-boiled egg. Cut them into fanciful shapes or strips about an inch wide, mix some sardine paste with a little cream or butter, and ornament the surface by means of a forcing-bag, accord- ing to taste. Dish neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with some picked watercress. Cassolettes de Betterave [Beetroot Cassolettes). Cut 8 or more cassolette shapes from cooked beetroot, scooping out the centre, and steep them in vinegar marinade. Prepare a salpicon composed of anchovy fillets, hard-boiled white of egg, and gherkins, all cut into dice or julienne strips. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and mix with finely chopped parsley, and other herbs. Drain the cassolettes and fill them with the salpicon. Dish up, garnish, and serve very cold. Dominos a la Rochelais. Coat I doz. small domino moulds with a very thin layer of white aspic jelly (made with chicken or veal stock). Decorate with dots of truffles to represent dominoes. Upon this put a thin layer of mayonnaise cream, and let it set on the ice. Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cooked ox-tongue, when smooth add I tablespoonful fof anchovy paste and 2 tablespoonfuls of double cream ; incorporate also about ^ gill of chicken or veal aspic.