THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 642 number of Fleurons round the base of the dish. Serve hot. If liked, a few drops of lemon-juice and a few thin slices of carrot can be mixed with the flageolets just before dishing. Haricots panaches a la Poulette. r pint cooked kidney beans, -h pint cooked flageolets (both these can be procured in tins or bottles), i oz. butter, gill poulette sauce, salt and pepper. Drain the vegetables, cut the beans into short pieces, melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the French beans and flageolets. Season to taste, toss over the fire for about five minutes, add the sauce, which should be hot. Allow the vegetables to get thoroughly hot in the sance, dish up, and serve. Sauce Poulette. Heat up half-pint allemande sauce, reduce with a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor, and add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and lemon-juice to taste. Haricots verts a I’Albion. String xY lb. of French beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, boil in plenty of salted water till tender, drain, and let them cool. Melt if- oz. of butter in a sautApan, toss the beans over the fire for a few minutes. Season with pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of meat glaze, and a tablespoonfnl of veloutee or bechamel sauce. Make quite hot, pile high on a dish, and garnish with triangular-shaped fried bread croutons and quarters of artichoke bottoms, previously sauted in butter. Sprinkle the beans with finely-chopped parsley, and serve hot. Haricots verts sautes {French Beans tossed in Butter). Prepare and cut about i lb. of small French beans, boil till tender in salted water, drain, and let cool. Melt if- to 2 oz. butter in a sautApan, put in the beans, season with a pinch of pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. Toss over the fire until the beans are thoroughly hot, dish up, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Flageolets a la Poulette, il pint French flageolet beans, il oz. butter, gill white sauce, i teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, i tablespoonful cream. Put the flageolets in a stew-pan, with a little salt and oz. of butter, add a quart of water, and cook till tender (if preserved flageolets are used, boil only for a couple of minutes). Drain in a colander, and put them while hot in a saute-pan with I oz. of butter, toss over the fire for a few minutes, then add the white sauce, chopped parsley, and cream. Season with pepper and salt. Mix well by tossing, not stirring. Cook for a few minutes longer. Dish up, and serve hot. Haricots Blancs {Haricot Beans). J- pint haricot beans, 2 oz. streaky bacon, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, I i oz. dripping or butter, gill stock or gravy, pepper and salt.