THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 980 brandy and a little maraschino, mix with two bottles of soda water, and add some broken ice. Cider Cup (No. 2).—Put a quart of iced cider into a large jug, add a s])rig of green mint, six lumps of sugar previously rubbed on to the rind of a lemon and then poundecl, a wineglassful of sherry and one of Curasao, and lastly two bottles of iced soda water. Bacchus Cup.—Pour into a clean jug one bottle of champagne, half pint of sherry, quarter pint of brandy, one wineglassful of noyeau, a few slices of cucumber with rind left on, 4 oz. of castor sugar, and some crushed ice. Before serving, add two bottles of seltzer or potash water. Fruit Punch.—Boil a quart of water with | lb. of loaf sugar and half a chopped pineapple for twenty minutes, add one cupful of orange-juice and half a cupful of lemon-juice. Strain when cold, and serve with crushed ice. Port Wine Sherbet.—To half a pint of syrup add a handful of stoned Malaga raisins and a small piece of cinnamon, also the juice of two oranges and that of a lemon. Boil up, and add a pint of port wine. Strain and let cool, then freeze in the usual manner. Just before serving stir in an ounce of chopped and peeled almonds slightly browned in the oven. Mulled Wine.—Port or claret is usually selected for this j)urpose. To a bottle of either allow half-pint of water, two cloves, an inch of whole cinnamon and a good grate of nutmeg, and two strips of lemon-rind and sugar to taste. Boil the water and spices in a clean saucepan, add the sugar (2 oz. of loaf sugar being the average proportion). Add the wine, and after allowing it to boil up it will be ready to serve. Thin wafer biscuits or shavings of toasted or baked bread should be served with it. Milk Punch.—Boil a quart of milk with J lb. of loaf sugar. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and add a little cold milk and nutmeg. Stir this into the boiling milk and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens. Add a glass of brandy and a tablespoonful of noyeau. Pour it into a basin or jug and let cool, and add some crushed or pounded ice. Christmas Punch.—To one pint of hot tea (use green tea for preference) add half a pint of lemon-juice, one pint of rum or half brandy and rum, one quart of syrup, three cloves, one orange (cut into slices), and one pint of water. Bring the whole to the boil and serve in a punch bowl. Brandy Punch.—Put a gill of water into a large glass, add two teaspoon- fuls of castor sugar, a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup, the strained juice of half a lemon and orange, and thin slices of pineapple and a gill of brandy. Fill up the glass with shaved ice, and serve. Banana Liqueur.—Three-parts fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with sliced ripe sound bananas. Fill up with good brandy, cork the bottles tightly, and infuse for a month, shaking occasionally, then strain. Boil half pint of water and i lb. of pure cane sugar together for five minutes, skim, and let it get cold. Sweeten the brandy to taste with the syrup, then store in air-tight bottles. Banana Ratafia.—Put three pints of peeled and thinly sliced bananas into a jar, add i oz. of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, half an inch of bruised cinnamon, two quarts of pure rectified spirits of wine, and I lb. of crushed sugar candy. Cover the jar closely and infuse for three months, then filter and bottle.