COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EEEECTS. 83 roasting in Iroiit of an instrnment like ROASTING BEFORK A CLOSE EIRE (ECONOMICAL. ) well in the centre or at one Roasting.—There are two methods of a lire—viz. Roasting on the spit, which is a bayonet rnn through the ? centre of a joint, supported on two forks, and is turned before the hre. In the second place, there is roasting by the jack or hottlc-jack —so called on account of its shape. It is wound up like a clock, and the spring turns the meat, suspended at its lower end, as is seen by the illustration. The spring of the jack should not be wound up until the joint is rightly placed. The heat is concentrated by means of a tin screen. All jacks are pro\’ided with the means of raising and lowering the joint at will. The basting tin should have of the corners, and must be put under the roast with a ladle in readiness for basting. The round tin meat-screen usually has a door in the back through which the handle of the dripping ladle protrudes conveniently handy for basting. Oven Roasting.—Roasting in the oven of ordinary coal stoves or ranges is considered less satisfactory than roasting before an open fire, although this is the means most usually resorted to. It appears also to be the most economical method, for experiments show that the meat loses less weight when cooked in the oven than when roasted before the open fire. A modification of this method, and a very satisfac- tory one, is the use of the gas oven, in which the joint is roasted under a sheet of flame from a number of burners constructed on the Bunsen system. At the present day these ovens are usually so con- structed that a continuous current of fresh air cir- culates through them, and this fact, by ensuring one of the principal advantages of roasting in front of the fire, has undoubtedly been a factor in the growth of the popularity of the gas oven. Elementary Rules for Roasting.—By way of supplementing the former remarks, it cannot be LA. ., , i5UllEi''..JALK. sumciently insisted upon that the excellence of a roast depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. Basting should be performed at least once every 15 minutes. A little dripping should be added at first, to be