137 ELEMENTARY METHODS. Almond Paste (No. 2), li lb. lump sugar, saffron, i gill water, 3 drops almond essence, |- lb. ground almonds, i egg. Put sugar and water in a copper pan ; when dissolved place on the fire and let boil to the small blow degree ; add the almonds and essence, also saffron to give it a yellow tint; turn on a slab and work in one whole egg ; work to a soft paste, Pate Madeleine. I lb. flour, -J- lb. butter, i lb. castor sugar, i teaspoonful orange-flower water, the juice and rind of a lemon, 6 eggs. Sift the flour and put it with the sugar and butter (previously oiled) in a stewpan ; add the orange-flower water, lemon-juice, and the lemon-rind finely chopped. Work in the yolks of eggs ; beat the whites stiffly and incorporate with the mixture. Creme patissiere {Confectioneds Custard). pint milk, 4 oz. sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, \ oz. potato flour (fecule de pommes de terre), 3 sheets French gelatine, flavouring essence. Boil the milk, add the sugar and flavouring. Beat the yolks of eggs with the fecule, pour the hot milk gradually on to this, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Dissolve the gelatine and mix with the above, strain through a fine sieve, let cool, and use as directed. Creme Frangipane. •J lb. flour (sifted), 2 oz. butter, J lb. castor sugar, i pint milk, 4 eggs, a pinch of salt. Put into a small stewpan two whole eggs and four yolks, add the flour, the sugar, almonds, and a tiny pinch of salt, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Add the milk little by little, stirring well. Put in the butter, and stir continuously over a gentle fire, taking great care that it does not burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. Cook for about ten minutes, add flavouring essence, and turn into a basin. Use as required. Creme a Gateau de Pithivier. J lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. butter. 6 oz. sweet almonds (blanched), 2 eggs, I gill double cream. Pound the almonds with the sugar and add one egg. When the almonds are in a smooth paste add the other eggs. Mi.x thoroughly, and add the cream last. Add any desired flavour and use as required. Creme a Gateau fourre {Cake Cream filling). J lb. sugar, \ lb. sweet almonds (blanched), J lb. butter. Pound the almonds to a paste with the sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice ; put this paste into a stewpan, add the butter, and work all together over a slow fire. To this put an equal quantity of erhne frangipane (see preceding recipe). When well mixed put it into a jar to keep for use. Pate a Brioche {Brioche Paste). I lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 or 4 eggs, ^ oz. yeast, gill milk, i teaspoonful castor sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water ; add sufficient flour to make a sponge paste, and allow to stand for an hour or so. Put