842 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mousse de Praises a I’Americaine, Strawberry pulp, mixed with gelatine, sugar, and cream, lilled in dome-shaped moulds, and frozen. Garnished with fresh ripe straw- berries and whipped cream. Mousse a la Madrid. Vanilla cream mixed with hnrnt sugar hlberts (noisettes pra- linees), centre filled with whipped cream, flavoured with maraschino or other white liqueur. Mousse a la Nansen. Vanilla-cream ice, flavoured with noyeau liqueur, suitably shaped and decorated with spun sugar. Mousse a la Sultane. Xhis consists of vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, and decorated with whipped cream. Parfait au Marasquin {Maraschino Parfait). 4 yolks of eggs, i lb. loaf sugar, i pint water, gill maraschino, J gill kirsch- wasser, about i- pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the sugar and water, skim and boil until it becomes a syrup registering 36 degrees by the saccharometer. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the two liqueurs, whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water for about six minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents while cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould lined with white paper, add the cream, well whipped, to the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper, close up with a lid so as to hermetically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt. Let it remain for at least two hours. Parfait au Cafe {Coffee Parfait). 4 oz. freshly-roasted coffee, pint vanilla syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the syrup and pour over the freshly-roasted (not ground) coffee, so as to make an infusion. Allow it to stand a few minutes, then strain into a basin, whisk the yolks of eggs in a clean stew-pan, stir in the syrup, set it on the fire and whisk until the yolks begin to bind, strain into a basin, add a few drops of caramel if needed, and let cool on the ice. Freeze in a sorbetiere surrounded with crushed ice and salt, when half-frozen, add the cream, previously whipped to a froth. Put the mixture into a cylindrical-shaped mould, well covered, place in a pail of ice and salt for two hours, turn out and serve. If more convenient, the parfait maybe served in goblets. Parfait a la Neluski. Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, and decorated with small chocolate macaroons. Parfait a la printaniere. Bomb of vanilla and chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc.