the new century cookery book. 488 in a saute-pan, fry the bacon a little, add the chicken, together with two finely-chopped shallots, and fry over a brisk fire until nicely browned. Mix a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mild curry - powder, and a dessertspoonful of finely desiccated unsweetened cocoanut. Sprinkle this over the chicken, stir well over the fire, moisten with a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brandy, rather more than a pint of white stock or water, and add a small bunch of parsley and half a bay-leaf. Bring it gently to the boil, season, add also a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly, and the juice of half a sour orange. Let it simmer slowly from about thirty to forty minutes. Skim off the fat, remove the herbs, and if too thick add a little more stock or water. Dress the pieces of chicken neatly in the centre of a plain rice border, together with the garniture and sauce. Sprinkle on the thin rincl of half an orange, finely shred and warmed, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste, and serve. Poulet saute a la Savoyarde. I large tender fowl. 4 oz. fresh fat pork, i oz. butter, i glass marsala or sherry, i dessertspoonful finely chopped herbs, t pint demi-glace sauce, pint of chestnut puree (nicely seasoned and cooked in rich stock), seasoning, 8 to 10 croutons of fried bread cut into half-moon shapes. Proceed with the fowl, pork, and butter as directed in preceding recipe. When nicely browned add the sauce and herbs, and simmer till the fowl is tender. Let the chestnut puree be hot and rather stiff, half fill a wide timbale mould with it, turn on to a dish to form a bed, and dress the fowl upon it. Boil up the sauce, skim, season to taste, and pour over the fowl. Garnish with the bread croutons, which must be previous!}/ dipped in liquefied meat glaze. Poulet grille a I’ltalienne [Grilled Chicken). Split the chicken down the back, spread out and flatten well, rub both sides with lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Insert two or three skewers so as to keep the chicken quite flat, immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and grill it over or in front of a bright fire. Fry two chopped shallots in butter, add a finely-chopped anchovy, freed from bone, one glass of marsala wine, and a gill of tomato puree. Cook for ten minutes, then add one fresh slicecl tomato and a table- spoonful of meat extract. Boil again, skim, pass through a sieve, re-heat, and season to taste. Dish up the chicken, remove the skewers, garnish with cauliflower bud and artichoke bottoms cut into strips, pour the sauce round, and serve. Poulet saute a la Cavour Cut up a large fowl into neat joints and saute it the same as directed in " Poulet Saute a la Carnot.” Finish cooking it in a rich brown sauce flavoured with curry and saffron, garnish with small timbales of rice similarly flavoured.