THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 880 Batons a la Gruyere {Swiss Cheese Batons). 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i pint milk, 3 eggs, i oz. grated pannesan cheese, 1 oz. gruyere cheese. Sift the flour. Put about half an ounce of butter and the milk into a stew-pan, add salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg to taste. When it boils, stir in the flour and work vigorously over the fire until the paste is smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Let cool a little, then work in one by one the yolks of three eggs and the grated cheese. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and incorporate also, together with the remainder of the butter, previously oiled. Pour the mixture into a well buttered baking- ‘sheet or saute-pan, and sprinkle over with a layer of finely shredded gruyere cheese. Bake in a moderately‘heated oven, cut it into convenient oblong slices (baton shapes), and serve as hot as possible. Biscuits de Fromage a la Creme {Cheese Biscuits with Cream). 3 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. pannesan cheese (grated), h lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, gill cream, salt, and cayenne pepper. Put the flour into a basin, mix it with about a quarter of a tea- spoonful of salt and a pinch of cayenne, rub in the butter until quite smooth, then add three ounces of grated parmesan cheese, the juice of half a lemon, the two yolks of eggs, and work into a stiff paste. If too short for rolling, add a few drops of milk, but the less the better. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some round shapes, place them on a baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. Whip the cream, add the remaining ounce of cheese and a pinch of cayenne, put a little pyramid in the centre of each biscuit by means of a forcing-bag or cornet, and serve cold on a folded napkin or dish-paper. Boules au Parmesan {Parmesan Balls). 6 oz. fine breadcrumbs, 6 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 eggs, cayenne, panurette (red breadcrumbs), frying-fat. Mix the fresh breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter well together. Add a pinch of cayenne, beat up the eggs and add enough to form a paste. Shape this into balls about the size of walnuts, brush over with beaten egg, roll in red breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice colour. Drain, dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve hot. Kish au Parmesan a la Pouard. Beat up eight yolks of eggs, add a gill and a half of milk or cream, an ounce and a half of grated parmesan cheese, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into small silver or china soifffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. Quenelles au Parmesan {Cheese Quenelles). 4 oz. breadcrumbs, 6 oz. butter, a pint good stock, 8 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 4 eggs, bechamel sauce, grated nutmeg. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the breadcrumbs, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, and work over the fire until the