789 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. little. Meanwhile decorate a plain charlotte monlcl, previously lined with jelly, with cherries, angelica, and Savoy fingers, put in another layer of jelly to set the decoration. Whisk the remainder of jelly until frothy, and line the decorated mould with this. Fill the centre with the prepared custard, set the mould on the ice, and serve when set. Riz a I’Imperatrice {Rice, Imperial Style). 2 oz. Carolina rice, i pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, J- pod vanilla, 5 yolks of eggs 1 gill cream, 3 sheets French leaf gelatine, 6 oz. glace fruits, apricots, cherries, etc., i glass kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. Wash the rice well, and drain it. Boil up the milk with the vanilla pod, add in the rice, a pinch of salt, and let it cook very gently for forty-five minutes. Take out and wipe the vanilla, and put away for further use. Soak and dissoh’e the gelatine in tepid water and strain it into the rice. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar, keep stirring over the fire until the eggs begin to set, remove quickly from the fire and let cool a little. Cut the fruit into dice, whip the cream. Mix the fruit, cream, and kirschwasser with the rice, fill up one large or several small moulds. Put some crushed ice in a flat tin or large basin, stand the mould or moulds in this, and keep them in a cool place for at least two hours. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish'. Garnish with a few fancifully- cut pieces of crystallised fruit, and serve. Riz a la Maltaise {Rice, Maltese Style). 2 oz. Carolina rice, f pint milk, i inch vanilla pod, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i f gill whipped cream, i gill port wine jelly (p, 785), i orange, angelica, and glace cherries to garnish. Wash and blanch the rice, boil up the milk with the sugar and vanilla, add the rice and cook till tender, stir the contents of the pan frequently. Remo\-e the vanilla when the rice is cold and stir in the whipped cream. In hot weather a sheet or two of gelatine previously dissolved should be added to the rice whilst the latter is hot. Mask a plain charlotte mould with jelly, decorate the bottom with glace cherries and angelica. Mix the rice with the remainder of jelly and slices of orange, previously freed from the skin and white pith. Fill up the mould with this and place it on the ice to set. Turn out when firm and decorate round the- base of the dish with chopped jelly. Omelette a la Meringue. 4 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, vaniUa essence, 1 tablespoonful mara- schino liqueur, i gill cream, pistachios and almonds for garnish, a table spoonful red-currant jelly. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and beat up in an egg-bowl till quite firm, add a few drops of vanilla essence and 2 oz. of castor sugar. Arrange the mixture on a buttered baking- sheet in the shape of an omelet (half-moon or cushion shape), dredge over with castor sugar, and bake in a very slow oven for about forty minutes. Be sure the oven is not too hot, else the meringue will become too brown, it should be of a delicate golden brown when finished. When done, remove the meringue-shape and let