THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 272 Brochet a la Cavour {Pike, Cavour Style).—Grilled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horse-radish, and cubes of carrots, served with rich veloutee sauce. — a la Remoulade.—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Brochet pique a la Colbert {Fillets of Pike, Colbert Style).— Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce. — a la Lyonnaise {Fillets of Pike, Lyoncse Style).—Fillets of pike-cooked in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. CABILLAUD—CODFISH. Cabillaud frit a I’lndienne {Fried Cod, Indian Style). About 11 lb. cod (middle cut of tail end), 2 eggs, 3 French gherkins, lemon, 2 tatilespoonfuls piccalilli, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, salt, cayenne. Cut the fish into five or six neat scallops about half an inch thick. Season with salt and a little cayenne, beat up one egg, boil the other till hard, dip the slices of fish in egg, cover well with bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, and dish up. In the meantime prepare a garnish consisting of gherkins, hard-boiled white of egg, and piccalilli, all cut up into julienne strips. Warm up in a little butter, moisten with fish stock, garnish the dish taste- fully with alternate groups of the above and fanciful-cut slices of lemon. Send to table with sauce Indienne (p. 150). Cabillaud a la Maltaise. About 2| lb. codfish (middle cut), pint veloutee sauce (p. i6i), i gill white wine, 2 small shallots (choppeef fine), i gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 ymlks of eggs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch parsley and herbs (bouquet garni, p. 122). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Simmer slowly until the fish is clone, basting occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. Mousseline de Cabillaud. 12 oz. codfish, free from skin and bones, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, i gill cream, 2 oz. flour, I gill fish stock, seasoning, cardinal sauce (p. 134). Pound the fish in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and mix over the fire for several minutes without letting the flour brown. Moisten with the fish stock and continue to stir until the mixture becomes a smooth paste. Return the pounded fish to the mortar, add the above preparation, mix thoroughly, and work in the eggs one by one, also gradually the cream, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and