576 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mousses de Foie-gras a la Reine. Procure a terrine or tin of foie-gras, size No. lo, remove the lard, cut the liver into slices, cook in a buttered saute-pan with a small mirepoix for a few minutes, season with a little aromatic spice, moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. Mask eight to ten small dariole or fluted timbale moulds with aspic jelly, decorate them with fancifully-cut slices of truffles. Pound the prepared foie- gras well, pass through a sieve, stir in two tablespoonfuls of dissolved meat glaze and two tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly, stand the basin on some crushed ice and work the mixture with a wooden spoon until it commences to thicken, add by degrees a little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock, last of all work in about half a gill of whipped cream, fill up the masked moulds and stand them on the ice. Dress the mousses in a circle, placing each on a round of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked asparagus-points or cooked green peas, well seasoned with a little mayonnaise aspic jelly, garnish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly and parsley. Keep in a cool place until required for table. Zephires de Foie-gras. t medium-sized tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, i pimiento, ^ gill tomato sauce, I gill mayonnaise sauce, i pint stiff aspic jelly, a few sprigs of tarra- gon and chervil, 2 sheets of gelatine. Have ready six to eight small zephire (oval) moulds. Trim the foie-gras, cut into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there are moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Coat the moulds thinly with aspic, decorate with strips of pimiento and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of aspic while still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie-gras, pound the latter till smooth, season to taste, add th^e sauce in which the two leaves of gelatine have been dissolved. Pass through a fine sieve, coat each piece of foie-gras with this and set into the moulds, fill up with the puree, mixed with a little chopped pimiento, and place the moulds on ice. When set, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. Mousselines de Caneton a la Moresco {Small Creams of Duckling, with Green Peas). I small duckling, i pint cooked green peas, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2-3 tablespoonfuls cream, gill bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 oz. cooked ham, 11- gill aspic, seasoning. Truss and braise the duckling in the usual manner, remove the skin whilst warm, cut off the nicest parts of the flesh and pound them, with the minced ham, till quite smooth. Incorporate the egg- yolks, cream, and a gill of cooked peas, season to taste, rub through a fine sieve, work in -I- gill of aspic and the white sauce. Mask the inside of 12 pea-pod-shaped moulds with a thin layer of aspic, let them set on ice, then fill them with the prepared farce, and keep on ice for about three-quarters of an hour. Cook enough semolina or