COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. 89 As for utensils, modern cooks hav'e advanced beyond the savage’s stock, and usiially employ a clean, well-greased gridiron, though some use a frying-pan. In using a gridiron care should be taken to keep the fat from falling into the fire, for should this happen it may give a smoky and unpleasant taste to the meat. The use of the grill is not confined to meats, but under proper and competent management it may be used with great advantage in the cooking of fish, mushrooms, tomatoes, chickens, etc. A charcoal furnace is considered the best heat for grilling or broiling purposes. The value of the gridiron, its advantages as well as its abuses, is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially in relation to chops, cutlets, steaks, kidneys, fish, chickens, bones, mushrooms, tomatoes, etc. If properly managed by careful and competent hands, nothing can be made more tasty than a grillade. Frying.—The process of frying is in the truest culinary sense “ boiling in fat or oil.” Fat is but oil solidified, and oil is liquid fat ; nevertheless the conditions of boiling in oil are altogether different, and the effects to a certain extent con- trary to the mode of boiling in other liquids. For frying, the fat usually registers from 300 to 360 degrees, whilst boiling oil is about three times as hot as boiling water. In consequence of this, if articles of food are plunged into boiling fat or oil, they offer the very opposite results to what they do in boiling in liquid stock or water. By the latter method, meat, vegetables, fish, etc., become soft, and in some cases dissolved ; they become solid boiled meats, etc., or are reduced to the condition of piirees (pulp), while in frying they become firm, and ultimately brown on their outside, and if left too long in boiling fat they become black. When anything becomes dry through long frying, the cause is that the continued heat of the fat drives out all the moisture in the state of vapour. DEEP FRYING-PAN, ' WITH DRAINER. It is not generally known that when burnt fat is eaten in any form it causes great trouble in the stomach, etc. ; for soon after it enters the stomach it produces butyric acid, which is the most FRYING BASKET.