THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 214 Puree de Topinambours {Palestine or Artichoke Soup). 2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i turnip, i small onion, small head of celery, 2 quarts stock (white), 2 oz. butter, i pint milk, i lemon, a handful of fried bread croutons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash, scrub, and peel thinly the artichokes, put them in a basin of water containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon, peel the turnips and onions, cut them into slices, wash the celery, and cut up small. Melt the butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the turnip, onion, and celery, fry a little without burning, strain the artichokes, and add them. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for about an hour. When tender put through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean stewpan, re-heat, add the milk (boiling), season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Serve with the fried bread croutons. POULTRY, MEAT, AND GAME PUREES. Garbure Fanchonette. I pint broad beans, 2 small cabbage lettuces, i handful sorrel, 4 oz. bacon, I leek, 2 oz. butter, i oz. ground rice, 3 pints chicken stock, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i dessertspoonful tarragon, chervil, and parsley, 2 .slices cooked ham, seasoning. Shell the beans and boil them in salted water, then drain. Trim and wash the lettuces, leek, and the sorrel, shred the former. Mince the bacon and heat up with the butter, add the lettuce, leek, and sorrel, and cook a little, then add the broad beans. Mix well, and stir in the ground rice. Moisten with the stock and a pint of water, stir till it boils, and let cook gently for ^ of an hour, or till the vegetables are tender. Skin, and rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, re-heat, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Beat up the egg-yolks with the cream, and stir into the hot soup. Stir for a few minutes over the fire without letting the soup boil, then add the chopped herbs, and the ham cut into small fillets or shreds, and serve. Potage Demidoff {Brown Chicken Soup). I fowl, I oz. dripping, 2 quarts espagnole sauce, a mirepoix, i pint stock, I glass Madeira wine, 12 very small braised button onions, i small carrot cut into julienne strips, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, seasoning. Prepare the fowl as for boiling, and cut it into joints. Have ready a mirepoix, consisting of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon, and bouquet garni, fry this in a deep saute-pan for a few minutes, then add the dripping and put in the pieces of fowl. Fry quickly to brown the latter, cover, and cook in the oven till the meat is done. Take up the pieces of fowl, remove the skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar till fine. Pour the fat off the mirepoix, and put this with the fowl puree in a stewpan containing the espagnole. Cook for thirty minutes, adding about half the stock, or more if needed. Tammy the soup, return to the stewjian, season to taste, add the wine, and re-heat. Cook the carrot strips in stock, strain