THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 196 ' heaps with a i-inch cutter, place these on a pastry board, and let stand in a cool place for an hour. Cook in salted boiling water for ten minutes, drain on a cloth, and put in a soup-tureen. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of meat glaze, pour over the consomme, and serve. Ravioli Farce. 4 oz. cooked chicken, i oz. cooked ham, t oz, grated parmesan, i yolk ot egg, I tablespoonfiil cooked spinach, r tablespooniul double cream, chopped parsley, cayenne, nutmeg. Pound in a mortar the chicken, ham, parmesan, yolk of egg, spinach, cream, and season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and chopped parsley, rub through a hue sieve, and use as directed. Consomme Renaissance. 2 quarts of clear consomme, i turnip, i carrot, about 6 oz. chicken force- meat, spinach greening. Wash and peel thinly the carrot and turnip (if very small use two of each), cut into slices and stamp out some star shapes, a quarter of an inch in diameter, by means of a vegetable-cutter. Blanch separately in salted water, and cook separately until tender in some consomme. Mix the forcemeat with a few drops of spinach greening, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube ; make some small rings on to a buttered saute-pan, poach these in boiling con- somme, strain and put in a soup-tureen with the other garnish, pour in two quarts of hot consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Richelieu. 2 quarts game consomme, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots (small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, i gill royal custard (p. 180) cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into hne shreds or julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling water or consomme for about fifteen minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim and season to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme des Rois. 2 quarts clarified doulile stock (i.e. chicken consomme), 3 fresh truffles', the breasts of six quails, i gill cooked asparagus points, a plate of parmesan croutons (p. 180). Wash, brush, and peel thinly the truffles, cook them in a little stock with a small quantity of sherry or Madeira, keeping the stewpan well covered. Cook the quail fillets in a saute-pan with a little butter in the oven. When done take up both the truffles and the quail hllets, and cut them into hne strips (julienne shapes). Put these with the asparagus points in a well-tinned copper stew- pan, add the consomme, and let cook gently for about ten minutes. Remove the scum, season to taste, and pour into a soup-tureen. Hand a small plateful of parmesan croutons with the soup.