SA LA DESS A LA DS. 71S Salade Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — a la Flamande {Flemish Salad).—This consists of a mixture of fillets of herrings, chopped apples, slices of beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and sprigs of cooked cold cauliflow^er, seasoned with ordinary salad dressing or mayonnaise. - Franpillon.—Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, bearded and blanched oysters or mussels, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard. — Georgette.—Thinly peeled cucumber and pickled beetroot, cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in hearts of young artichokes ; garnished with truffles. — a la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil ; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Henriette.—Sprigs of cold cooked cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — ■ d’Hiver {Winter Salad).—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse-radish, and boiled potatoes ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. ■ - Hollandaise {Dutch Salad).—This consists of smoked lax or salmon, and cold potatoes, both cut into dice shapes, mixed with finely chopped chives or spring onions, oil, lemon-juice, and salt and pepper ; garnished with caviare. — a ITtalienne {Italian Salad).—Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch-thick round slices, ranged in pyra- midal form in a salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans and sprigs of cauliflower ; dressed with ravigote sauce. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mushrooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise ; garnished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs- — a la Judic.—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or sausages (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunnyfish, anchovies, olives, and capers ; seasoned with tartare sauce. — au petit Lard {Bacon Salad).—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, previously fried, and seasoned with vinegar, etc., then poured over the salad. — de Legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — Mariette.—Piccalilli or mi.xed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over- ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise.