361 LIGHT ENTRllES (HOT).—ENTREES LIiGERES. a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about one and a quarter hours. Turn out on a round dish, sauce over with some hot Madeira sauce, and send a small boat of the same sauce to table with the dish. Petits Pains or Darioles. Pains or darioles are made with certain kinds of preparation forcemeat, which are placed in suitable small buttered moulds, and poached in the oven ; usually served with rich white or brown sauces. Pains are made in plain, and darioles in fluted, moulds. Petits Pains a la Dumas. 3 slice.s of cooked ox-tongue, i large truffle, a little butter. Duxelle pune, 4 oz. bacon, 2 shallots, i champignon, parsley and truffles, seasoning, and brown sauce to moisten, 2 yolks of eggs, -t lb. chicken farce (forcemeat), sauce ravigote; 2 anchovy fillets, 2 gherkins, i shallot, parsley, tarragon, chervil, i oz. butter, ^ gill cream, 3 egg-yolks, i tablespoonful bechamel, I tablespooiiful spinach, and seasoning. Butter 8 small timbale moulds, and decorate them in any of the styles shown below, or follow this : Place a thin round of tongue in the centre of the bottom of each, and at equal distances arrange thin strips of tongue in the form of triangles on the sides of each mould, fix small rounds_of truffle between the tri- angles. Put the moulds on the ice till required. To prepare the Duxelle ])uree, chop the bacon, fry it, and add the shallots finely chopped, blend well, add the mushroom, also chopped, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the trimmings of truffle chopped finely, season to taste, and moisten with a little brown sauce. Beat up thoroughly, add 2 yolks of eggs, and let the mixture bind. Mask the sides and bottom of each mould with a well-prepared light chicken farce, and fill the centre with Duxelle puree, cover with more forcemeat. Place the moulds in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and poach in the oven for twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour the ravigote sauce, made with the ingredients named, round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Petits Pains de Cailles.—Small darioles of quail forcemeat ; truffle sauce. Petits Pains de Foie-gras.—Small goose-liver and truffle timbales ; Madere sauce. Petits Pains de Volaille a la Creme.—Chicken cream souffles baked in china or paper cases. Palmettes a la Gambetta. I lb. chicken or veal forcemeat, 6 eggs, i- gill cream, i truffle, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little clarified butter, tomato sauce. Butter 8 to lo small round dariole moulds, beat up the eggs the SUGGESTIONS FOIl DECORATING PETITS PAINS TIMBALES AND OTHER SMALL PLAIN MOULDS, USING SLICES OF TRUFFLE, HAM, TONGUE, OR GREEN PEAS AND PIMIENTOS.