THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S90 CEufs de Penguin a la Carola [Mayonnaise of Penguins’ Eggs). 4 penguin eggs (hard-boiled), 4 oz. boiled rice, j small lobster, gill bechamel sauce, -1 gill cream i gill mayonnaise, i dessertspoonful curry powder, | oz. butter, i desser!spoonful pimiento cut into fine strips or small dice, seasoning : lemon and beetroot for decoration. Melt the butter in a small stew-pan, and put in the curry powder, fry a little, then add the bechamel sauce and a little lemon-juice ; boil up and cook for six minutes, let cool, and add the half-gill of cream. Cut the penguin eggs into slices, reserving a few for decora- tion, and cut the rest into dice shapes or strips. Cut the meat of the lobster into small dice and mix both with the rice, season with salt, pepper, and paprika or Krona seasoning; add also the chopped pimiento, then moisten with the prepared sauce and about half the mayonnaise ; keep this on the ice until required. Shape the mixture neatly on to a round dish, piled up in dome fashion, then coat the surface with whipped cream and mayonnaise, blended together. Decorate with slices of penguin eggs, thinly-cut lemon, and beetroot slices. Put a little of the mayonnaise cream into a cornet or forcing bag, and ornament the top according to taste, then serve. Chartreuse Moderne a PEdouard VII. Mask the inside of an E.R. mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; place the mould in a pan of crushed ice. Chop very finely a large black truffle, and mix it with enough half-set aspic to form a paste- like mixture. Stir it till nearly cold, put it in a paper cornet and fill with it the letters E.R. in the mould. Next mix a hard-boiled egg (rubbed through a sieve) with a little aspic, and fill in the crown shape. Blend together pint supreme sauce, flavoured with curry powder and paste, with gill of aspic, pour a layer of this into the mould so as to cover the bottom and sides of the mould. Pre- pare a salpicon of cooked fillets of chicken, lobster meat, and sweet-