THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 710 nate layers of cooked French beans, garnish with cooked beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil, so as to form a nice design ; season with pepper, salt, oil, and chilli vinegar just before sending to table. Salade a la Riisse {Russian Salad). This consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horse-radish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in a cylindrical-shaped mould. Set it in a deco- rated border of aspic jelly filled with above mixture, and nicely seasoned fresh caviare, Salade Russe (Maigre) {Russian Salad). li pint mayonnaise, i gill cooked green peas, li cauliflower, 3 new potatoes, 2 tomatoes, i truffle, i gill mixed vegetables (carrot, turnip, and French Ijeans), 2 gherkins, and garnishing. Cook separately in slightly salted water containing a little fresh Imtter the various vegetables, previously prepared, the carrot, turnip, cut into dice or stars (the mixed vegetables may be used preserved), the cauliflower divided into sprigs or buds. Cook the potatoes, when cold cut into neat short strips. Peel the tomatoes and slice them. When the vegetables are cooked, drain them well, and put in layers in a salad bowl. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar, arrange the whole of the ingredients, includ- ing the gherkins and truffles, also cut into fine shreds, in several distinct sections or layers. Cover each layer with mayonnaise sauce and arrange in pyramidal form. Smooth over the surface with mayonnaise. Decorate according to fancy with various small groups of shredded smoked salmon, hard-boiled white of egg cut into quarter-inch dice, chopped or shredded beetroot, stoned or stuffed olives, anchovy fillets, capers or truffles. Salade a la Saint Jacques {Si. James’s Salad). Cook six ounces of rice in well-seasoned white stock till tender, when cold, add to it two finely chopped truffles, six preserved mushrooms cut into dice or shreds, and two finely chopped shallots. Season with mayonnaise, and arrange neatly in a salad dish. Sprinkle over with grated parmesan cheese, and garnish with olives, slices of lemon, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Salade de Sardines a I’Espagnole {Spanish Sardine Salad). Remove the skin and bones from twelve to sixteen sardines, cut them into short pieces, and mix in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of capers. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and mix with some finely shredded lettuces. Arrange this in a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives filled with anchovy butter, i Salade quatre Saisons {Four Seasons Salad). '' Prepare a salad in four parts, consisting of {a) thinly-sliced radishes, {h) shredded lettuces, (c) thinly-sliced cucumber, {d) sliced tomatoes. Season each appropriately and in moderation. Rub