ENTRliES OF RABBIT {HOT DISHES). 505 with folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with tartare sance. This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried bacon. Lapin a la Catalane {Rabbit, Caialane Style). I rabbit, \ gill oil, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz, lean ham, i small onion (minced), 4 oz, rice, 3 ripe tomatoes, 2 pimientos, i small bouquet garni, i gill white wine, I pint rich seasoned stock, seasoning. Cut the rabbit into neat joints, trim and wipe them, and fry in hot oil over a quick fire, take up, and drain. Fry the ham and cut into dice in the butter in an earthenware casserole. To this add the onion, fry it to a golden colour, then add the rice and fry. Put in the tomatoes and pimientos cut into quarters, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook gently for half an hour. Take out half the rice, and arrange the pieces of rabbit in the remainder of rice in the casserole, adci the bouquet garni, and season to taste. Cover with the remainder of rice, place the lid on topy and cook in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes. The dish is then ready for table, and should be served in the casserole in which it is cooked. Souffles de Lapin [Small Souffles of Rabbit). 1 small rabbit, 2 oz, finely chopped ham or tongue, 2 yolks of eggs, ip gill of well-reduced bechamel .sauce, i oz. hutter, i lb. mashed potatoes, season- ing, pint of supreme sauce. Cnt the rabbit into small pieces, pound in a mortar till quite smooth, add the yolks of egg and the bechamel sauce, work well, and mix in the ham or tongue. Season with very little salt, a piinch of pepiper and a grate of nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Butter about eighteen fancy moulds (dariole or small ham-shaped moulds), fill them with the prepared farce. Place the moulds in a saute- or stew-pan, containing boiling water to reach half-way up the moulds. Cover with buttered paper, boil rqy put in a moderate oven, and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Have ready on a dish a border of nicely seasoned mashed potatoes. Arrange the souffles neatly on top^ of the border. Sauce over with hot supreme sauce, and serve. The centre of the dish should be filled with either peas, French beans or flageolets, pire- viously heated in a little stock or gravy, flavoured with a small piece of butter, a pfinch of sifgar, p4ep:>per, and salt. Gibelotte de Lapin a la Bourguignonne [Stewed Rabbit). The same as directed for “ Gibelotte de Lapin,” using claret in place of Chablis. Cooked in brown sauce, with small braised button onions. Darioles de Lapin a la Reine [Davioles of Rabbit). p lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 oz. lean pork, i oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, -1- gill bechamel sance, a small tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of caj^enne), supreme sauce. Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until quite smooth, then add by degrees the panade, eggs, bechamel sauce, about three-