8iS COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. with lemon-juice, cook the pears in this till tender, drain and cool on a sieve. Have ready some vanilla ice. liavoured with pear-j)uree made with the pulp of pear removed. Insert a stem of angelica into each pear, and place them on the ice for a while. When ready for serving fill the hollow parts with the prepared ice ; dish u]) tastefully and serve. Note.—Peaches, nectarines, and large apricots may be treated in a similar way. Poires a la Florentine. This dish consists of compote .of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. Dariolettes a la Chantilly, Prepare a light frying batter (p. 135) or a thick pancake batter. Have ready some hot clarified butter or dripping, dip a dariole fryer (that is, a small copper dariole-mould fixed on to a handle) into the fat and then into the batter so as to completely mask the outside of the mould. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour, then take up and remove the case carefully, continue until the necessary number are fried. Put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade, fl.rvoured with a little maraschino or kirsch, into each case or dariolette. Mix an ounce of ground almonds with half a gill of thick syrup and a gill of whipped cream, and fill the cases with this. Dredge with grated chocolate or ground cinnamon, and serve. Denises a la Jalousie. 1 lb. rough puff or puff (feuilletage) paste, confectioner’s custard flavoured with almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade. Cut the paste into three parts, roll out rather thin into oblong strips, about two and a half inches wide. Trim the edges, and see that the strips of paste are of equal size. Place one piece on a baking-sheet, spread over with a thin layer of dissolved apricot marmalade, cover with the second piece, spread the centre of the paste with a layer of confectioner’s custard, being careful to leave about half an inch margin all round. Cut the third piece of paste into narrow strips, lay them across in two ways, in the form and shape of lattice-work, fix the ends of paste with a little water or egg, and run a narrow band of paste round the edge to form a border, pinch the edges with a paste-notcher or gauffre tool, in order to decorate the border. Bake in a fairly hot oven, when done and still hot brush over with liquefied marmalade. Cut into convenient slices when cold. Parfaits de Biscuit en Gelee. I pint wine jelly, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls double cream, i small Genoese cake (p. 806), i tablespoonful kirsch liqueur, glace cherries and angelica. Take six to eight dariole moulds, mask the insides with a thin coating of jelly, and decorate with some fine strips of angelica and glace cherries. Mix the cream with sufiicient cold liquid jelly to