nor SWEET ENTREMETS. 747 the centre. Shape some small balls with the remainder of rice, egg, crumb, and fry them, and place them round the edge of the dish. Serve with a boat of vanilla sauce. Pyramide de Poires a la Conde. J lb. Hour, 1- oz. yeast, i gill milk, i oz. candied fruit, maraschino syrup, 4 oz. butter, i oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, chojiped almonds (roasted)—for savarin ; a pinch of salt, 4 oz. rice, i oz. shredded almonds, i oz. currants, 2 apples, pint of milk, 2 oz, sugar, i vanilla pod—for rice shape ; 6 stewed pears and syrup, glace fruits, apricots, cherries, angelica, etc.—for garnishing. Prepare a savarin (see p. 756), butter a suitably shaped fluted mould, round or oval, and sprinkle the inside with coarsely chopped, roasted or baked almonds. Cut into small dice the candied fruit, and mix with the dough. Three-parts fill the mould with it, and bake in a moderate oven from thirty to forty minutes. Cook the rice in the milk till tender, with the sugar and vanilla pod, the latter to be removed when the rice is cooked. Cook the ajfples, with an ounce of butter, in the oven, rub through a sieve, and mix with the cooked rice. Clean the cur- rants, sh r e d the almonds, and add both to the rice. Cut the pears into sections, and keep hot in the syrup. Cut a portion out of the centre of the savarin cake, and put in its place a timbale shape of cooked rice, putting it on a suitable dish. Sprinkle the cake portion with well reduced maraschino syrup, fix round the outside even-sized strips of angelica, previously dipped in sugar boiled to the crack. Upon each of these place half a glace cherry -- this will form the border. Build up next the sections of pear round the rice shape, and insert on top triangular-shaped pieces of an- gelica. Upon this place a smaller shape of rice, with another border of angelica, and surmount the top with a small pyramid of glace cherries. Heat up the dish before serving, and send to table with a boat of nicely flavoured fruit syrup.