PASTRY AND CONFECTTONERV. 037 up all round. Bake it in a quick oven to a nice pale br(uvn colour : when cold, cut it into fancy or plain shapt's, then ice them with different-coloured fondant or royal icinp (glace royale) ; when the icing is set, ornament with apple and red-currant jelly. Biscuits d’Epernay, t lb. castor sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz, sifted Hour, the grated rind of i a lemon, I oz, of ground almonds, 2 oz, butter. Put the sugar into a basin, stir in the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, and beat ttntil it resembles a thick cream ; stir in half the flonr, the lemon-rind, and almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, melt the bntter, work in gently the whites of eggs, the remainder of the flour, and the melted butter. The mixing inust be done very carefully, so as to retain as much as possible the frothy consistency of the wdiites of eggs. Three-parts till some well- buttered and floured biscuit tins. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Sponge Cakes. 6 oz, flour, 6 oz, castor sugar, 6 yolks and 5 whites of eggs, ] to gill milk. Sift the flour and dry it ; cream the sugar and egg-yolks, and beat or whisk for at least twenty minutes ; now add the milk and the flour, stir in previously the whites of eggs whisked to a stiff froth ; work in the latter very lightly and by degrees. Three-parts All some well-buttered and sugared or floured sponge-cake tins. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about thirtv minutes. Sponge Fingers. Prepare a mixture as for sponge cakes, as directed in the fore- going recipe, put it into a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized and even-shaped fingers on to a greased baking- sheet (or fill the mixture into slightly buttered and floured finger biscuit tins). Dredge them with castor sugar and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Pain d’Epice {French Gingerbread). lb. flour, t lb. ground rice, oz. baking-powder, i oz. ginger (ground). 8 oz. honey or treacle, i gill milk, i egg, 4 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. bntter, I lemon, i saltspoonful grated nutmeg, i saltspoonful ground clove. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and ground rice, and mix together. Pnt the honey or treacle and butter in a warm jar, and put in a warm place until the butter is dissolved. Peel the lemou thinly, and chop the rind finely. Stir the liquids with the beaten egg inbt the flour, add the chopped lemon-rind, ground almonds, ginger, nntmeg, and cloves. Beat for fully twenty minutes. Form into balls or put the mixture into a well-greased baking- tin, bake in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes, let cool, cut into convenient shapes or slices, and serve. If desired, the cake can be glazed with transparent icing before it is cut up. Tranches a la Neige {Snow Cakes) \ lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, t lb. flour, 2 oz. icing sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds. lemon rind. 4 yoiks of eggs. 5 whites of eggs. Work the butter with the egg-yolks and castor sngar ; add the