292 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Soles a I’Orly (Fillets of Sole, Orly Style).—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce, and fried jiarsley. — a la Pagani.—A dish similar to “ Sole au Vin Blanc,” finished with a rich veloutce sauce, garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned in a sharp oven. — en Souchet [Soitchel of Soles).—Boiled soles with finely cut strijis of carrot and turnijis and chopped parsley. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled fillets of soles, egged and crumbed, fried in butter. Dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on fop of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Sully.—Fillets of soles folded, egged, and crumbed, slighfly fried in butter, dressed with a mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around the base of the dish with anchovy sauce. — a la Venitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter, and parsley ; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads; sauced with hollandaise sauce. — a la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cider and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon.—Fillets of soles, folded, and braised with a little rich stock, wine, etc., dressed on a l)order of savoury rice, centre of dish filled with a ragout of oysters and mussels. Sauce Supreme. Filets de Soles Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns ; poached in white wine ; garnished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce Normande. — a la Dauphifte.—Fillets of soles, spread over with whiting or other fish farce mi.xed with finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, folded, and braised in the oven. When cold, trimmed, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Small lobster claws are inserted at the end of each fillet. Served with lobster sauce. — a la Neuville. — Fillets of soles, folded, seasoned, and cooked in a saute-pan with a dash of white wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, dressed in gratin style with white sauce, mushrooms, and oysters, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cheese, and browned in oven before serving. Hatelets de Sole a la Villeroi.—Fillets of soles, spread with forcemeat and rolled up, fastened on silver skewers, egged and crumbed, and baked with plenty of butter in hot oven. Served with a rich tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Soles Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes ; poached in Sauterne and fish stock. Garnished with truffles, anchovy butter, and new potatoes tossed in butter. Sauce cardinal. SoulTle de Soles.—Fillets of soles set in a buttered fireproof dish and seasoned with an ample proportion of Mornay sauce, surface covered with seasoned beaten egg whites, and baked. Timbale de Filets de Sole a la Savoy.—Poached fillets of sole finished in rich white wine sauce, mi.xed with truffle, macaroni and crayfish, served in a baked paste crust made of pate a foncer (p. 133).