268 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. shallot, arrange the lillets neatly in the pan, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with the white wine, cover, and cook in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Take up the fillets and dress them on a buttered oblong silver or gratin dish. Put the sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, reduce a little, then add the cream, and work in about half the remainder of butter. Pour this over the fillets in the dish, so as to completely cover them, sprinkle over some grated Swiss cheese, and divide the rest of butter, in little bits, here and there. Brown in a qiuck oven for a few minutes, and serve quickly, Souffle de Turbot a la Senn. (Recipe by P. Heuline, M.C.A.) A medium-sized turbot, Chablis, rich white .sauce, truffles, champignons, 1 egg, pint dcmi-glace sauce, i small glass sherry, i teaspoonful finely chopped ox tongue. Poach the turbot very carefully in Chablis, let it cool, then divide the best part into escalopes, and pound the trimmings, adding the egg, a little well-reduced rich white sauce, and the necessary seasoning. Spread half this farce on the escalopes, add a thin layer of chopped truffles and champignons mixed in equal quantities, cover with the remainder of the farce, and spread smoothly with a palette knife. Steam gently for twenty minutes. Meanwhile reduce the demi-glace sauce with the sherry, skim, add the chopped ox- tongue, and season to taste. The fish is served masked with this ecarlate sauce. Turbot bouilli a la Victoria. .Xbout 3 to 4 lb. of turbot, i small onion stuck with a clove, a small bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, lO small lobster croquettes, 6 prawns, salt, Victoria sauce (p. 162). Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, place it in the fish-kettle, cover well with water, put in the onion and clove, also the parsley, vinegar, and sufficient salt to taste. Let it come to the boil quickly, and simmer until the fish is done, which will take about twenty minutes, more or less, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, drain it and slide on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with the croquettes, prawns, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with a boat of Victoria sauce. Turbot aux Aubergines. 2 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, the juice of \ lemon, i tablespoonful finely chopped parsley, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, 3 aubergines (egg plants), salt, pepper, flour, milk, olive oil, and clarified butter. Remove the dark skin from the fish, free it from the bones, and cut into 6 or 8 even-sized slices. Trim these neatly, season with salt and pepper, and dip into milk and then in flour. Melt about i-l- oz. of butter in a saute-pan, place in the fillets of turbot, cover with a buttered paper and cook for fifteen minutes or longer, if needed, in the oven, basting frequently. Remove the skin from the auber- gines, cut them into neat pieces or slices, dip them into flour, and fry a golden brown in a frying-pan containing olive oil and clarified butter in equal proportions. Drain them and season with salt.