540 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. neatly with a knife dipped in hot water. When set, glaze over with aspic and meat glaze, pnt a small piece of cock’s comb in the centre of each, and keep on the ice till wanted. Mask thinly with aspic the same number of small flat round cassolette pans, sprinkle them with finely chopped truffle, then line with a row of green peas, and next with a la}^er of pea puree mixed with a little mayonnaise and aspic. Prepare a salpicon of financiere, cut into fine shreds, moistened with a little Madere sauce fortified with aspic and cutlet (‘ssence, and fill up the prepared moulds with this. Prepare the artichoke puree, also fortified with aspic, pour into a flat mould, and when set stamp out into ovals the same size as the meat fillets. Arrange these as basis with the fillets in the form of a crown or border on an entree dish, unmould the small round shapes, and place one on the top of each fillet, surmounting each with half a stuffed olive and a sprig of chervil or parsley, or, if preferred, serve the aspic shapes on a separate dish. Fill the centre of the dish with a salad composed of the remainder of peas and truffles, peeled and sliced tomatoes, and strips of pimiento or beetroot, suitably seasoned with mayonnaise. The dish is then ready to serve. Ris d’Agneau a la Sevigne [Lambs’ Sweetbreads in Cases). Parboil, trim, and braise the breads with a mirepoix flavoured with a glass of Madeira. Take them up and press each into round pastry rings about the size of the breads. Cover with a well- reduced Villeroi sauce, to which a sufficient quantity of aspic or dissolved gelatine has been added to make it fairly firm. When quite set remove the breads from the rings, and place them in paper souffle or ramakin cases. Decorate the top of each with thin slices of truffles cut into pretty shapes, and mask with aspic jelly. Force some cold green pea puree round the edge of each sweetbread, and serve. A little mixed salad can, if liked, be put at the bottom of each case before the sweetbreads are placed in. A boat of green moTisseline sauce should be handed round with this dish. Bonnes Douches de Ris d’Agneau. 1 pint green peas, 2 pairs lambs’ breads, t- pint vclontee .sauce, gill cream, 2 egg-yolks, i trntlle, 6 mushrooms, seasoning, i oz. bnlter, mircpoi.K for braising lambs’ breads, aspic and tongue. Cook, drain, and pass the peas through a fine sieve. Heat up the pea puree with the butter, a little cream, and a gill of veloutee sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and bind with the yolks of eggs. Line the inside of six to eight small dariole moulds with the puree, and fill the centre with a salpicon of lambs’ breads, made as follows : Blanch, trim, and braise the breads in the usual manner, cut up into small dice, and mix with six preserved mushrooms, trimmings of truffle, and moisten with veloutee sauce. Cover the moulds thus filled with a layer of pea puree, poach them for twenty minutes, unmould, let cool, place a ring of truffle on top of each, and a star of beetroot or pimiento, and then mask the whole with aspic. Dish up, and garnish with cress or small salad.