SA UCES. 149 sauce. A smaller quantity can be prepared by reducing the quantities in proportion. It is, however, advisable to have at all times an ample supply of this sauce. Wash and peel the carrot, turnip, and onion, cut up small and put in a stewpan with the bouquet, peppercorns, cloves, and the veal and ham, both cut into pieces. Adel an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour ; this forms a true mirepoix. Pour off the fat, moisten the mirepoix with the stock, claret, sherry, and tomato pulp, boil gently for about an hour. Skim occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare a brown rou.x by melting 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook very slowly over a moderate fire, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon until it acquires a chestnut-brown colour ; or place the stew- pan in the oven and let it cook, stirring from time to time to prevent it from burning, and to blend the flour better. Allow the rou.x to cool a little, pour in gradually the prepared stock, etc., stir over the fire until it boils, let simmer slowly for another hour, skim well, and pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve. If found too thick, add a little more stock. To prevent a thick crust forming on the top of the sauce, stir occasionally until cpiite cool. Keep the sauce in a stone vessel or pan until wanted. Be sure and boil up the sauce each day if not used up at one time, adding a little stock if necessary. Sauce Genoise {Rich Bi'own Fish Sauce). I sliced onion, i shallot, J clove of garlic, i oz. butter, small bouquet garni (p. 122), I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i glass red wine (Burgundy), i pint espagnole sauce (made from fish stock if desired), a pinch of mignonette pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry onion, shallot, garlic, and bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the onions are done, then add the sauce, and let simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use as directed. Sauce Gibier {Game Sauce). Game bones and trimmings, i pint espagnole or brown sauce, ^ gill sherry, onion, carrot, turnip, parsley, thyme, marjoram, bay-leaf, mace, clove. The trimmings, carcases, etc., of any kind of game may be used for this sauce ; those of grouse or woodcock are preferable. Chop small the trimmings of game, put them in a stewpan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip all cut in slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and one clove, moisten with the sherry, cover and put on the fire to cook for five minutes. Now add the espagnole or brown sauce, let it come quickly to a boil, and keep simmering for fifteen minutes longer. Pass through a tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, season with a little salt if necessary, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for serving.