THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 890 rounds of fried or toasted and buttered bread, similar in size to mush- rooms. Range them on a round gratin-dish, and cover with a glass ball or shade. Allow to cook for about thirty minutes at the mouth of the oven or near the lire, then serve. (Eufs garnis a la Volga [Cold Egg Savoury). Boil six small eggs till hard ; when cooled cut them in halves and carefully remove the yolks. Rub the latter through a sieve, and mix with a gill of remoulade sauce. Prepare a salpicon of a quarter jar of Russian caviare, three to four anchovy fillets cut into small dice, twelve prawn-tails cut into small dice. Add sufficient remou- lade sauce to bind this mixture, and fill the cavities of eggs with this. Place each on oval-shaped croutons of bread fried in butter. Sauce over each carefully with remoulade sauce, dish up, and garnish neatly with prawns and cress or parsley. Serve as hors-d’oeuvre or side dish. When a large quantity of eggs dressed in this style is needed, it is advisable to incorporate a sheet of dissolved gelatine into each gill of remoulade sauce. Woodcock Toast. h lb. of chicken or duck livers, 2 small gorgona anchovies, i teaspoonful castor sugar, i oz. butter. ;j teaspoonful spiced pepper (paprika or krona), a pinch of salt, 3 yolks of eggs, about i- a gill of cream. Wash and clean the livers, removing carefully any gall that may be left on. drain them in a cloth, and pound till quite fine in a mortar. Bone and skin the anchovies and pound them to a paste. Mix all thoroughly, and add the butter, sugar, and seasoning.' Put through a fine sieve and incorporate the egg-yolks and half the above-men- tioned quantity of cream. Stir this in a saucepan over the fire until it is sufficiently cooked. Have ready a small dish with a piece of buttered toast ; just before serving, add a little more cream and seasoning if needed, pour the mixture over the toast, and send to table hot. Yorkshire Rarebit. Prepare a Welsh rabbit mixture, spread it on portions of but- tered toast cut into scpiares, upon each piece of toast place a small rasher of fried bacon, with a poached egg laid on top. Biscuits au Parmesan {Cheese Biscuits). 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful of lemcn-juice, a pinch of cayenne and salt ; whipped cream for garnish. Sift the flour and cayenne on to a board, rub in the butter, and mix with the grated cheese. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks, lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of water, and work to a smooth stiff paste. Roll out the pastry very thinly, stamp out some small rounds, place on a floured baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake in a cool oven for a few minutes. Before serving, place a small quantity of whipped cream mixed with parmesan and a pinch of cayenne, in the shape of a pyramid, in the centre of each biscuit.