153 SA UCES. sauce is stirred on ice. The following are the exact ingredients and quantities necessary to produce a perfect sauce ; If found too thick, dilute with a little raw cream or cold water. Cold bechamel is sometimes used as a foundation for mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Cream. 2 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful of French mustard, J teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, about f pint best salad oil, 2-3 tablespoonfuls of cream. Put the yolks into a basin, add the mustard (raw, not mixed), salt and pepper ; stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding, drop by drop at hrst and gradually more, the salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of vinegar ; the vinegar is added when the sauce appears too thick. By stirring well, the mixture should become the con- sistency of very thick cream. At last add the raw cream, stirring all the while. A little cold rvater may be added if found too thick. In hot weather the basin in which the mayonnaise is made should be placed in a vessel of crushed ice. Lemon Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise an Citron). 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 2 lemons, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls nut oil, i gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Put the egg yolks into a basin with half a teaspoonful of salt, stir with a wooden spoon and add drop by drop the oil; when creamy, add the vinegar and gradually the cream, then incorporate the lemon juice (strained), continue to stir the mixture for another hfteen minutes, then add the seasoning and a little grated lemon- rind. Lastly, stir in a dessertspoonful of boiling water. It is then ready to serve. Note.—The mixing of above ingredients should be done on the ice or in a very cool place, else it is apt to curdle. Sauce Mayonnaise tomatee. To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. Mix gradually, and season to taste. Sauce Marseillaise. I lb. ripe tomatoes, i carrot, i small onion, i oz. raw ham, 2 oz. butter, I oz. flour, I bay-leaf, i pint chicken stock, i oz. bacon (fat), salt, pepper. Remove the stems of the tomatoes, cut them in halves, cross- ways, take out the pips and mash up, and put them in a stewpan with the stock and vegetables ; the latter should be washed, peeled, and cut into slices. Cook slowly until tender. Cut up the bacon and ham, put them in a stewpan with i oz. of butter, stir over the hre for hve minutes ; add the flour, and cook long enough to blend the flour (do not let it get brown) ; now add the tomato puree, the bay-leaf, the stock, and the chicken. Allow to cook together 2 yolks of eggs I teaspoonful pepper ^ teaspoonful salt I pint oil Vinegar, i teaspoonful to every 8 tablespoonfuls of oil