925 SANDWICHES. a layer of foie-gras and chicken puree, made as follows : Pound ecpial quantities of cold chicken breast and foie-gras, season and rub through a hue sieve and mix with mayonnaise. Cover the bread thus prepared with a second slice of buttered bread, pare them neatly and cut into neat shapes pressed chjsely together, and dress them on a glass or silver dish on a folded napkin. Sweetbread Sandwiches, Cut some cold sweetbread, boiled or braised, into thin slices, and lay them between thinly-cut buttered bread, or use smaller pieces of sweetbread, chop or pound to a paste and mix with a fourth its quantity of green pea puree, season with pepper and salt, and add a little mayonnaise dressing and lemon-jihce. Spread on thin slices of lightly buttered bread, sandwich together and cut into desired shapes. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Asparagus Sandwiches. pint asparagus points (cooked), I gill mayonnaise sauce, h gill aspic, t gill whipped cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, bread and butter. In the first instance, make sure that the asparagus points, i.c. green part of the stalk, are thoroughly cooked in salted water, con- taining a small piece of loaf sugar. Drain and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the puree in a basin to cool, then stir in gradually the mayonnaise sauce and the aspic jelly—the latter must be liquid, but on no account warm ; add the cream as the mixture begins to set. Season to taste, cut some thin slices of bread, butter them lightly and spread some of the prepared puree on each slice, tlien place them together as for ordinary sandwiches and cut into rounds, oblongs, or squares. Arrange them on a dish or plate, fill up the centre with crisp salad, and, if liked, some slices of hard-boiled eggs. Olivette Sandwiches. 4 chicken livers, i small shallot, I oz. butter, 6 large stoned Sjianish olives, salt, pepper, mayonnai.se sauce, thin slices of liread and butter. Clean the livers, peel and chop the shallot, fry in tlie butter a golden colour, then add the liver previously cut into slices, season with salt and jiepper and cook over a quick fire for about five minutes, pound in a mortar with the olives, and nd) through a sieve. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce and put between thin slices of buttered bread, cut into convenienth^-sized fancy shapes, dish up on small glass dishes, and serve, Denises a I'Epicurienne {Epicurean Sandwiches). il oz. fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful Colman’s mustard, 3 boned anchovies, i table- spoonful piccalilli, a sprig of tarragon, thin shoes of bread. Cream the butter in the mortar, add the egg-yolks and anchovies, pound till smooth, moisten with the mayonnaise, chop the piccalilli and tarragon very finely, and add to the above. Mix thoroughlv, adding the mustard and a little more seasoning if needed. Spread one side of the slices of bread with this, press them together in the usual way. Cut into crescents, fingers, or other fanciful shapes, dish, and garnish to taste.