580 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. some aspic jelly with it, fill the cavities of the mould with this, and place the moulds on the ice to set. Arrange a cooked rice border (cold) on a dish, unmould the shapes and range them neatly on the border, setting one in the centre on a rice shape. Insert a hatelet of financiere, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. Cailles farcies en Caisses aux Petits Pois {Stuffed Quails in Cases, with Green Peas). 6 quails (boned), 8 to lO chicken livers (cleaned), i oz. butter, 2 shallots (small), 4 oz. lean bacon, i small tin foie-gras (size No. 12), i small bouquet garni, pepper and salt, a mirepoix, pint cooked green peas, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, a little aspic and meat glaze, gill white wine, \ gill brown sauce (demi-glace or Espagnole), 12 quail cases. Slice the livers, bacon, and shallots, put altogether in a saute- pan with the butter, add the bouquet of herbs, season with pepper, and let cook over a quick fire for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, pound the remainder till smooth, add the foie-gras (freed from fat and cut into small pieces), and rub through a sieve. (The truffles in the foie-gras should be removed, chopped rather coarsely, and mixed with the farce when finished.) Stuff the quails with this, shape each bird neatly, place them in a braising-pan on a bed of mirepoix, moisten with a little of the wine, cover with buttered paper, and braise in the oven ; when half done add the sauce and the remainder of the wine. Let the birds cool, strain the liquor from the braising-pan into a small stew-pan, remove the fat, reduce'to the consistency of glaze, and coat the quails with this. Mix a little aspic with the meat glaze, and let dissolve over the fire. Cut the quails in halves and place them (cut sides down) on a wire tray. Glaze each with meat glaze and aspic. Season the green peas with pepper, salt, and a little mayonnaise, half fill the quail cases with peas, place the quails on top, and garnish with chopped aspic or rows of green peas round the edge of the cases. Dish up and serve. Cailles en Caisses a 1’Aspic {Quails in Cases with Savoury Jelly). 2 or 3 quails, lb. liver farce, aspic jelly, a mirepoix, i glass sherry, 2 table- spoonfuls meat glaze, souffle cases. Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up each bird securely and neatly in a piece of muslin, and tie each end with string. Put the mirepoix in a saute-pan, with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut each bird in two lengthways. Have ready at hand some oval souffle cases, line each with a little dressed salad. Mask the surface of each bird with dissolved meat glaze, and when set coat over with a thin coat of aspic jelly. Place each half (cut side down) on to the') papercase. Garnish round the sides with chopped aspic jelly, and serve.