ENTRILES OF POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISHES). 473 PIGEON—PIGEON. Pigeons braisee a la Valence. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 chicken livers, 2 truffles, 8 preserved niushrooius, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, a small sliced carrot, a small sliced onion, a small bouquet of herbs, i dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, i egg, i table- spoonful breadcrumbs, 2 oz. larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, i small glass of sherry or marsala, -J pint stock, \ pint demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. Make a forcemeat of the breadcrumbs, parboil the livers, half of the mushrooms, one truffle, salt and pepper. Fill the pigeons with the forcemeat, truss them, and lard the breast portion with strips of larding bacon. Put the onion, carrot, and herbs into a saute-pan with a little stock, place the birds on top, and braise them in the oven for about thirty minutes. Toss the remaining mushrooms and truffle minced in the butter. Add the rest of the stock and the sance, simmer for fifteen minutes, dish up the birds and keep hot. Remove the fat from the sauce, boil up ; add the lemon-juice and wine, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the pigeons into neat portions and dish up, pour over the prepared sauce and serve. Pigeons Sautes aux Salsifits {Stewed Pigeons with Salsify). Truss two Bordeaux pigeons and put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of butter and 2 ounces of minced bacon. Season with salt and pepper, and cook them over a quick fire long enough to nicely brown the pigeons. iMoisten with a gill of gravy, co\-er the pan and cook the birds in the oven for half an hour or till tender. Wash and scrape a bundle of salsifv, cut them into three-inch lengths, and cook them till tender in plenty of salted water containing a tablespoonful of fiour. When done, drain them, and re-heat in a little butter, season with a little pepper and finely chopped parsley. Untruss the jfigeons and cut them up into neat joints. Dress them in the centre of an entree dish, and strain over the sauce previously freed from fat. Range the salsify neatly round the pigeons, and serve hot. Pigeons en Casserole a la Beige. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 oz. butter, i gill gravy, I gill brown sauce, i gill Marsala or sherry wine, i small cabbage, 6 thin slices bacon, i small onion, seasoning. Truss the pigeons as for roasting, put them in an earthenware stewpan containing the butter (heated), brown them quickly, cook in the oven for ten minutes, take them up, untruss, and cut them into neat joints. Peel the onion, fry a nice brown in the butter, and pour off the butter. Blamh the cabbage and divide it into six portions, fry the bacon, roll up each slice of bacon in a portion of cabbage, arrange these in a layer in the earthenware pan, place the joints of pigeon on top, moisten with the stock, sauce, and the wine. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, cover the pan, and set it in the oven to cook for about half an hour. Remove any fat that may float on the surface, and send the casserole to table as it leaves the oven.