SOUPS (POTAGES). 225 Potage Sylvestra.—Prepare a chicken consomme, as directed on p. 187, blend it with veloutee sauce (p. 161), cream, and egg-yolks ; acid asparagus points and small chicken quenelles stuffed with spinach as garnish. — Bisque de Crevettes [Shrimp Soup).—Prepare a cream-like puree of fish stock and shrimps and prawns. For directions follow recipe for Bisque on p. 205. Substitute shrimps or prawns for lobster. — Sultane.—This is a white chicken puree as directed on p. 216. To this add pounded pistachio kernels and chopped truflles as garniture. — de Sante (Health Soup).—This is a light cream soup, made with finely shredded cabbage, lettuce, and herbs [see Potage Veloutee au Riz). — Semoule [Semolina Soup).—Proceed the same as directed on p. 212, using semolina in place of barley. — aux Truffes.—This is a light puree of fresh truffles, made with veal stock thickened with espagnole (p. 149), enriched with yolks of eggs and cream. — Tyrolienne.—This is barley cream soup made as Potage Veloutee au Riz, to which is added a mixture of hnely minced onions and carrots. — au Velours ( Velvet Soup).—This is a chicken cream soup made as Crfeme de Volaille (p. 215), omitting the flour, and using rice and tapioca as thickening ingredients. — de Veau ( Veal Soup).—Prepare a thick soup with lean veal cut up small, tossed in butter, and cooked in allemande sauce (p. 141), diluted with veal or other white stock. Strain and season. — de Pieds de Veau [Calf’s Feet Soup).—Bone the calf’s feet. Blanch them, and cook in white stock, strain, thicken liquor with white roux (p. 104), add dice or snips of calf's feet, and cook for one hour. Season and finish with cream. — de Vermicelli au Lait ( Vermicelli Soup).—This is a milk soup, prepared as Soupe au Lait, to which is added a handful of blanched and drained vermicelli. — Reine Victoria.—This is a puree of potatoes made as Potage a la Jackson, with sprigs of cooked cauliflower added as garnish. — Valencienne.—This is a white rice cream soup, with a liaison of sago previously cooked in consomme. — Waldstein.—Prepare a rich puree of pheasant made according to Potage de Faisan, mix with it an equal quantity of consomme flavoured with white burgundy, and season with paprika, etc., garnish with chopped truffles and pine or pistachio kernels. — Wellington.—Chicken cream soup, blended with celery puree and rice as garnish. — Reine Wilhelmine.—Prepare a rich chicken puree as Potage a la Reine, using rice for thickening in place of flour. Add cream and egg- yolks, also a garniture of asparagus points and julienne strips of cooked carrots and truffles. — a la Windsor [brown).—This is a thick soup made with lean mutton and beef cut up and fried in butter or dripping, to which is added brown roux (p. 105) and stock. Cook for one Hour, strain, and serve. Add boiled rice as garnish. — Xavier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with chicken puree, garnished with royal custard and chicken fillets cut in dice. P