HORS-D '(E U VRE (A FEE RISERS). 24S as “ Triscuits ” lends itself admirably for canapes and croutons, and can advantageously be iised in place of ordinary bread. In most cases canapes or croutes are best if fried in butter to a golden colour. They nmst be well drained before using. Canapes a I'Arlequin. Prepare some oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered brown bread ; cover each with strips of tongue, smoked salnum, gherkins, and truffles, arranged in harlecpiin style. Canapes a la Coquelin. Prepare croiitons of fried bread, spread over one side with a paste composed of cooked pounded ham and chicken, butter, and grated cheese ; garnish with fancifully cut slices of gherkins and beetroot. Canapes a la Diana. Arrange neatly some layers of chopped ham, truffles, and hard- boiled egg-yolks (placed alternately) on croiitons of fried bread ; dish up and decorate with chopped aspic. Canapes a la Darvelle. Prepare oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread one sicle of each with anchovy paste, and hnish with alternate layers of ham and caviare ; decorate with hard-boiled eggs and aspic. Canapes de Foie-gras a la Russe. Rounds of toasted bread, foie-gras, hard-boiled eggs, anchovy fillets, caviare. Spread one side of each round with foie-gras puree, place a dice of hard-boiled yolk of egg on top, and garnish with anchovy hllets and caviare. Canapes a la Genevoise. Prepare some oblong croutons of fried bread, spread them with a paste composed of anchovy butter, sardine, and ham ; garnish with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg and parsley. Canapes Hambourgeoise. Stamp out some oval-shaped slices of bread, and fry them in butter, then drain on a cloth or paper. Chop very finely some smoked beef or ox-tongue, and arrange a neat border of this on the prepared canapes. Prepare a foie-gras puree blended with whipped cream and suitably seasoned, put it in a forcing-bag furnished with a fluted tube, and fill the centre of each canape. Decorate each with whipped cream, and place a tiny star of pimiento or truffle on top, then dish up and serve. Canapes de Harengs a la Russe, Prepare some hngers of fried bread, spread them with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; arrange very small hllets of kippered herrings on top of each ; and garnish with thin slices of gherkins. Canapes de Sardines a la Frangaise. Prepare some small fried bread croutons, mask them with sardine paste or butter, upon this place layers of sardine hllets, chopped parsley, and coat the surface with remoulade sauce.