HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 735 lemon-rind, salt, cinnamon, and stir in the well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a well-oiled pudding-mould and steam or boil for about four hours. Mincemeat Pudding. 1 lb. mincemeat (page 822), lb. breadcrumbs, juice i lemon, and peel, chopped fine, i glass brandy, 4 eggs, well beaten. Mix the ingredients thoroughly and boil in a cloth or buttered pudding-mould for about three hours or longer. Unmould and serve with marmalade or brandy sauce. Pouding a la Minute [Hasty Pudding). 2 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, -1- teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or other flavouring, 2 oz. flour (sifted), -J- teaspoonful of baking-powder, i heaped-up tablespoonful of jam (raspberry, strawberrjr or apricot). Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat up cjuickly. Mix the flour with the baking-powder and stir the eggs, etc., into this. Beat up to a light batter, add the flavouring essence, and pour half the mixture into a flat buttered cake-tin. Dissolve the jam, and pour it over the mixture, then add the remainder. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn ont on to a warm dish, dredge with sugar, and serve at once. Pouding a la Moelle [Baked Marrow Pudding). 6 oz. beef marrow, 6 oz. breadcrumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied peel (lemon and orange), J gill brandy, gill sherr3^ 2 oz. crystallised cherries. Chop the marrow very finely, put into a basin, and mix with the breadcrumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the yolks with the sugar, adding one at a time. Shred the peel very finely, cut up the cherries into small pieces, add this to the yolks and sugar, stir in the marrow and crumbs, and mix in' the 'brandy and sherry. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle carefully with the mixture. Fill up a well-buttered cylindrical-shaped cake-mould with this, stand on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Turn out on a hot dish, dredge witfi sugar, and serve hot with German or jam sauce. Pouding Mousseline [Mousseline Pudding). 2 oz. butter, i lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, about oz. flour, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, mousseline sauce. Cream the butter, add the sugar, work together for ten minutes, then stir in the finely chopped lemon-rind, the yolks of eggs one at a time, the juice of half the lemon, and vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix carefully the wFites and flour (previously sifted) with the above preparation. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, well buttered, and fined with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, cover with paper, place in a saucepan three- parts filled with boiling water, cover the pan, and steam the pudding for a little more than an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, remove the paper. Whisk the mousseline sauce until quite frothy, and pour round the pudding. Note.—This 'being a very light souffle pudding, it is necessary that it should be served immediately.