FLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS. T77 Truffle Butter {Beurre au Truffe). Pound about li- oz. of truffles in a mortar with 2 oz. of fresh butter, and i tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, when fine, rub through a tammy or sieve. FORCEMEATS (FARCES). Bread Panade [for Farces). Soak ^ lb. of bread, free from crust and cut up small, in i pint of boiling milk, and season with salt to taste. Press out some of the moisture and cook the bread on a stewpan with i oz. of butter ; let it cool and use as required. Fish Quenelle Forcemeat {Farce a Quenelle de Poisson). lb. white fish (whiting, haddock, pike or cod, tree from bone and skin), it oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i gill cream, 3 eggs, i- gill fish stock, .salt, pepper, nutmeg. Make a panade by melting the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, then add the fish stock, stir the whole well over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean. Spread this on to a plate to get cool. Pound the fish, previously freed from skin and bones, in a mortar, when quite smooth add the panade and gradually the yolks of two eggs, and one whole egg. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; mix in half the cream and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, incorporate this and the cream into the forcemeat, shape into quenelles, or use otherwise as directed. Whiting Forcemeat {Farce de Poisson). I large whiting, 4. oz. panade, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, I whole egg, 2 yolks of eggs, nutmeg. Remove the meat from the whiting ; put into a mortar and pound with the panade and butter. Rub all through a sieve, return to the mortar, and work in gradually the stiff bechamel sauce (cold), the whole egg, and yolks. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Godiveau Quenelles. 1 lb. lean veal (cushion), -1 lb. veal suet finely chopped, 2 eggs, 2 oz. panade, 3 oz. soaked bread, salt and pepper, grated nutmeg. Free the meat from skin, fat, and sinews, and cut into very small pieces ; pound the veal and suet together in a mortar until perfectly smooth, then add the eggs one at a time, also the panade or soaked bread, the latter to be mixed in only in small quantities. Moisten with about a gill of iced water, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Test the consistency in a little boiled water ; if found too soft, add a little more bread or panade, and a yolk of egg ; if too stiff, add a little more water, stock or cream. Shape into quenelles the required shape, poach in salted water or stock, and use as required for garniture, etc. Veal Forcemeat {Farce de Veau). l- lb. lean veal, lb. beef suet, 2 oz. fat bacon, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, mushroom, onion, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, aromatic spice. M