THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 7/6 place in the cool to set. Turn out on a cold dish, and hll the centre with whipped cream mixed with some ground almonds and a little sugar to taste. Bordure a la Pierre le Grand. \ lb. almonds, J lb. castor sugar, 12 eggs, 3 oz. potato or rice flour, 4 oz. butter, I teaspoonful orange-flower water, gill cream, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. pistachios, fruit compote, i lemon, custard sauce. Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, pound them in a mortar, adding about two tablespoonfuls of water and the juice of a lemon. When quite hne, put this into a basin, add the yolks of twelve eggs, fecule butter (melted), orange-flower water, and finally the whites of ten eggs stiffly whisked. Three-parts fill two savarin border moulds previously buttered and floured, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice golden brown. Unmould and let cool, cut them in half and fill the centre with whipped cream suitably flavoured. Place them together in the original shape and mask each with dissolved apricot marmalade. Sprinkle over with chopped pistachio nuts and dish up. Fill the centre with any kind of fruit compote, pears, peaches or apricots, and send to table with a cold cffstard saifce. The above ingredients are sufficient for ten persons. Chartreuse de Bananes {Banana Chartreuse). Proceed in the same manner as for chartreuse of grapes, using ripe, but firm bananas, peeled and cut into r 0 u n cl slices, in place of the grapes. Note.—Straw- berries, r a s p- berries,apricots, and other fruit can be used and treated in the same way. Chartreuse a la Baronne {Baroness Chartreuse). § pint wine jelly, i pint prune cream or chocolate custard, 6 halves of preserved apricots or other fruit (see Note), i tablespoonful of shredded pistachio nuts and almonds. Mask the inside of a jelly-mould with jelly, decorate the bottom with a few slices of apricot and shreds of almonds and pistachios, and set them with jelly. When set, place a small tumbler in the centre of the mould, leaving about three-quarters of an inch all round the side of the mould, fill the side of the mould alternately with jelly, apricot slices, pistachios, and almonds, allow each layer of fruit to set before adding the next. Place the mould on the ice to get the jelly firm. Put some tepid water in the glass to loosen the jelly, take the glass from the mould, and fill the cavity with