726 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Artichauts en Surprise. 12 small Jerusalem artichokes, i small terrine foie-gras, 6 mushrooms, i gill bechamel sauce, frying batter, seasoning, frying fat, parsley and lemon to garnish. Wash and scrape the artichokes, peel each to a neat round or oval, and cook in salted water till nearly tender, then drain and scoop out the interior of each. Pound the foie-gras, previously freed from fat, moisten with the white sauce, and season to taste ; then add the mushrooms finely chopped, and fill the artichokes with the puree thus obtained. Dip each into a light frying batter so as to completely cover or coat the artichokes, and fry them to a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon and fried parsley. Croutes a la Darvelle. 6 oz. tunny fish, 2 oz. potato puree, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 egg- yolks, J gill cream, white pepper and cayenne to taste, lo neatly cut anchovy fillets, lO oval-shaped fried bread croutes, a few walnut kernels and chopped pistachio nuts for garnish. Drain the tunny fish from its oil, cut it up small, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the potato puree and the grated cheese. Amalgamate the egg-yolks with the cream, and season to taste with paprika or krona pepper. Spread this mixture thickly over the previously prepared bread croutes, and shape each neatly. Place an anchovy fillet on top of each croute, bake in a moderate oven for about five minutes. Dish up, and place half a walnut kernel, peeled and dipped in glaze and besprinkled with pistachios and paprika, in the centre of each croute. Laitances de Hareng a la Lucullus. 8 soft roes of herrings, \ lemon, i oz. butter, J oz. flour, i gill milk, 2 eggs, I tablespoonful Lucullus puree, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Butter eight china souffle cases. Poach the soft roes in seasoned milk. Mix the Lucullus puree with the cream, and season with paprika or krona pepper. Put about a tablespoonful of this in each souffle case ; next put a herring-roe in each case. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir a little over the fire, then moisten with the milk and stir over the fire till it boils ; stir in two egg-yolks, season with salt and pepper, and lastly add the stiffly whipped white of an egg. Spread this mixture over the herring-roes contained in the souffle cases, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Bouillon d’Asperges en tasses. Clean a small bundle of green asparagus, cut off the soft, i.e. green, portion, and cook this in chicken stock containing a blanched onion and a small bunch of freshly-picked parsley. When the asparagus is tender strain the broth through a fine hair sieve and press the asparagus gently. Re-heat the broth, skim, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Serve hot or cold in cups. If served hot, a liaison of arrow- root should be added. A fourniture of finely shredded tarragon, green mint leaves, and chervil should be added last of all.