874 the new century COOKERY BOOK. yolks of eggs, and put on a dish to cool. Chop up the ham, game or poultry, and mushrooms, and pound in a mortar till smooth ; add two yolks of eggs, the mustard, the sauce, and the grated cheese, season with pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, and mix well. Butter some oval-shaped plain or fancy dariole-moulds, sprinkle well with panurette or breadcriimbs, fill up with the prepared potato puree, and bake in the oven a nice golden colour. Scoop out the interiors, and fill up with the pounded preparation. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt, cover the surface of each roughly with a little of the stiff whites of eggs, and return again into a qiiick oven, so as to colour the surface. Unmould carefully, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and serve very hot. Tartelettes a la Polenta. lb. short-crust paste, 2 oz. polenta or cross-grained florador, ^ gill milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked phea.'ant or chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 3 preserved mushrooms, i table- spoonful bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Roll out the paste very thin, stamp out some rounds with a fluted cutter, large enough to line eight to nine tartlet-moulds. Prick the paste with a fork when lined. Put the milk and half a gill of water in a stew-pan, add the butter and a pinch of salt: when boiling, stir in the polenta or florador. Cook over the fire ; while stirring for ten minutes, add the parmesan, remove from the fire, and work in the yolks of eggs. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, and let cool. Chop the chicken, tongue, and mushrooms finely, mix with the sauce, and season with pepper. This forms a salpicon. Half fill the lined tartlet-moulds with polenta mixture, put a dessertspoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each, and fill up with polenta mixture. Smooth over with a knife, brush over with oiled butter, sprinkle the surface well with grated cheese. Bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, unmould, and dish np on a hot dish. Flans de Crepes aux Epinards {French Spinach Pancakes). 4 lb. cooked spinach, 2 yolks' of eggs, i tablespoonful cream, i white of egg, breadcrumbs, |- pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter, 10 small rashers nacon, salt, pepper, nutmeg, pinch of sugar. Put the spinach through a sieve. Heat up in a stew-pan with the cream and a little stock or gravy ; when hot, stir in the yolks of eggs, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Take off the fire and let cool. Prepare a number of thin pancakes (fried in butter). Spread some of the prepared spinach on one side of each pancake, placing them together in twos ; stamp out some rounds by means of a plain two-inch cutter, dip in beaten white of egg, and crumb. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up in a row, place the rashers of bacon, nicely fried crisp, on each side, garnish with a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato or piquante sauce.