5o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quarters of an ounce of butter, season to taste, and rub through a line wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds, sprinkle the inside with hnely-chopped hard-boiled yolks of egg, and line with a layer of forcemeat. Put a piece of foie-gras in the centre of each, and hll up with forcemeat. Cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about twenty minutes in a saute-pan with hot water to reach half-way up the moulds. To serve, turn out the moulds on to a hot round entree-dish with croustade border. Arrange the darioles neatly, and pour the supreme sauce over them. Cotelettes de Lapereau [Ciitlets of Wild Rabbit). Take four legs of large wild rabbit, cut each in two, remove the bones (reserve the knuckle-bones for further use), and flatten with a cutlet-bat. Prepare a forcemeat with 6 oz. of rabbit meat, one egg, 2 oz. of fat bacon, three tablespoonfuls of white sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. When pounded pass through a sieve. Fry a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil leaves in a little fresh butter, and add to the farce. Spread the cut side of the rabbit legs with this farce, shape them neatly in the form of cutlets, season with a little salt and pepper, wrap each in a piece of pig’s caul, fry a little on each side in butter. When cold, insert small bones to imitate cutlet bones, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in clarified butter or fat, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Croquettes de Lapereau a la Maintenon. Minced cooked rabbit, prepared into a salpicon with chopped mushrooms, ham, egg-yolk, and bechamel sauce, then shaped into croquettes (cork or cutlet shapes), egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, clrained, and served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. Lapereau frit a la Tartare {Rabbit Fritters with Tartare Sauce). Wild rabbit boned, pickled in a marinade, drained, cut into neat joints, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot clarified butter or deep fat. Served with tartare sauce. ENTREE DISH WITH CROUSTADE BORDER, SHOWING HOW A PASTE BORDER, AFTER BEING BAKED, SHOULD BE FI.XED.