SOUPS {POPAGES). 189 and chervil, and cut into fine shreds. Add this to the soup, and cook a few minutes longer. Remove the scum. Cut the bread- crust into dice, toast slightly, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Consomme Fleuri.—Prepare a “ Jardiniere Consomme” (p. 190), put three tablespoonfuls cooked rice into the soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme over it, and seiu'e. Consomme Florador. 2-3 quarts consomme, gill milk, i t oz. butter, 2 oz. medium-grainetl tlorador (or Indian maize), 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Melt the butter in the milk, let it boil, and stir in quickly the florador. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let cool a little, then work in the yolks of eggs. Shape some tiny quenelles by hlling a small tea- spoon previously dipped in hot water, smooth over with the blade of a knife also dipped in hot water, scoop out with a second teaspoon and drop into salted boiling water ; proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Poach the quenelles for six minutes until firm, strain on a sieve, trim a little, and serve with the hot consomme. Consomme a la St. Galle. 3 or 4 pints chicken consomme, 2 tomatoes, 10 large Spanish olives, veal or chicken farce, paprika pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls Italian paste. Carefully stone ten large Spanish olives, stuff them with the veal or chicken farce (p. 178), seasoned with enough paprika pepper to give it a pink colour. Poach the olives in stock for ten minutes. Drain, and when cold cut them into slices. Put them into the chicken consomme flavoured with fresh tomatoes (before being clarified), boil up, remove any scum, add the boiled and drained pates d’ltalie (Italian paste), and serve. Consomme Grisonne.—Have ready some consomme. Prepare a pancake batter (see “Consomme Celestine,” p. 185), leaving out the herbs and using cream instead of milk. When the consomme is boiling force the preparation through a colander quickly into it, let it boil gently for a few minutes, when the soup will be ready for serving. Consomme de Gibier, St. Hubert {Clear Game Soup). J- lb. cooked breast of pheasant, grouse or partridge, giblets of game, carcase, etc. ; 3 lb. knuckie of veal, lb. lean ham or bacon, i large onion, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, i bouquet garni, 1 small head of celery, 3 cloves, I blade of mace, 12 peppercorns, i oz. butter, a handful of cooked green peas, salt, a pinch of castor sugar. Remove the flesh from the bird, take off the skin, and cut into small, even-sized dice. Put the bones of game and poultry, and the giblets (previously washed), in a stock-pot lined with the bacon or ham cut in slices, add a carrot, a turnip, and the onion, all cut into slices, the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and bouquet garni. Broil over a quick fire for about fifteen minutes (if found too dry add i oz. butter). Cut up the veal, put it with the above and broil a little