SH THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. with the prepared farce, hll the centre of each with a salpicoii of truffles, champignons, and ox-tongue, blended with a little Madere sauce, then fill up with more farce, and poach in the oven for about forty minutes. Unmould the shapes on a hot dish. Insert two lark legs in each, also a glace cherry. Sauce over carefully with a rich game sauce, and serve hot. Mauviettes a la Rentiere. Boned larks stuffed with beef farce, mixed with chopped truffles ; then flour the birds and fry them in clarified butter. Dress the birds on paste croustades lined with grilled bacon, and serve with Madere sauce. Mauviettes a la Bonne Femme. Larks broiled with butter, bacon cut in dice, button onions, and mushrooms ; finished in demi-glace sauce, enriched with meat glaze and lemon-juice. Mauviettes farcies aux TrufTes. Larks boned, stuffed with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. Boned larks stuffed with foie-gras pur4e or farce and braised, placed in china souffle cases, and served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes farcies a la Madrid. 6 larks, boned, 2 eggs, 2^ oz. butter, 2 oz. soft breadcrumbs, i oz. chopped ham, teaspoonful curry paste, 3 oz. lean veal, leek, ^ head celery, i small carrot, i small onion, i bouquet garni, i gill white wine or sherry, ^ pint brown sauce, meat glaze, pepper and salt, fried parsley, 6 paper cases. Pound the veal and ham in a mortar till fine, add the curry paste, one ounce of butter, breadcrumbs, and eggs, mix well, rub through a wire sieve, and season with a little white pepper. Fill up the boned larks by means of a forcing-bag, wrap each bird in a small piece of muslin cloth, and tie up the ends. Chop up the carcase of the birds, put them with one and a half ounce of butter, the carrot, onion, leek, and celery, all cut in slices, in a stew-pan, fry for ten minutes, put in the larks, moisten with white wine, add the bouquet garni, and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Baste the birds occasionally. When cooked, remove, unwrap the birds, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and keep hot. Skim off the fat from the mirepoix in the pan, add the brown sauce, and a little stock, simmer for ten minutes, strain, and skim, put a table- spoonful of meat glaze with half a gill of the sauce, and boil up. Place each bird in a paper case, sauce over with a little of this sauce, garnish round the edges with some fried parsley, dish up, and serve the remainder of the sauce, seasoned with pepper and salt, separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred the birds may be dressed on a border of mashed potatoes instead of serving them in paper cases. Partridges or quails can be cooked and served in the same manner.