THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 882 Stir in the flour, and work the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides of the pan clean. Allow to cool a little, and add one by one the eggs. Stir or beat up well, incorporate the grated cheese (keeping a little back for sprinkling over the aigrettes), and season with a little pepper and, if liked, salt. Drop the mixture by means of a dessertspoon into fairly hot fat, which must not be quite boiling at first. Fry gradually until they attain a golden colour. Drain the aigrettes on a paper or a cloth. Dish up, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve hot. Attereaux a rimperiale [Cheese Cubes on Skewers). 3 oz. semolina or coarse-grained florador, J pint milk, i egg, 2 yolks of eggs, lb. gruyere cheese, seasoning, oz. butter, breadcrumbs, frying-fat. Put the milk in a stew-pan, add a small blade of mace, one small bay-leaf, and the bittter ; when it boils, stir in the semolina or florador. Let it cook while stirring for about ten minutes, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg ; remove the mace and bay-leaf, add the two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Stir over the fire until the liaison of egg is formed ; then turn out on a plate or dish and let cool. The cheese should be cut into quarter-inch thick slices and into rounds about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. When the mixture is cold stamp out some rounds the same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the latter with alternate rounds of cheese (three) on to a skewer, and proceed thus until all the mixture and cheese are used up. Beat up the eggs, dip each skewer sepa- rately in egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. As soon as the frying is completed, remove the shapes from the skewers, and fasten them on to silver-plated skewers, fix these on a ronnd of toasted bread placed ready on a dish, and serve at once. Copeaux Favorits. 6 thin slices of streaky bacon, lb. of gorgonzola cheese, t lb. puff-paste, grated parmesan cheese, krona or paprika pepper, i egg. Cut each slice of bacon in two lengthways, and flatten each with a cutlet-bat as thinly as possible. Roll a small piece of gorgonzola cheese in each slice of bacon (the cheese must be of same length as the bacon, but cut in the shape of a strip so that it will roll up well). Season the cheese with krona or paprika. Roll out the puff-paste.