891 AFTER-DINNER SA I'OURlES. Amandes a la Diable ( Devilled Almonds). ! 11). almonds, i cz. butter, t gill sweet oil, salt, cayenne pc])per. Scald and peel the almonds, place them on a baking-tin, tind dry in a cool oven. Clarify the bntter, add the oil, when hot, jiiit in the almonds, and keep stirring gently nntil they are equally sliglitly browned. Put them in a frying-basket, drain and shake well, then ]rut them on a cloth, sprinkle liberally with hue salt and cayenne pepper, fold the cloth, and shake them a few seconds. Dish np and serve hot. Amandes salees {Salted Almonds). Blanch and peel some whole almonds, spread them on a paper- covered board or baking-sheet, and bake to a golden colour. Dis- solve a little gum arable in very little water, just enough to obtain a syrup consistency. Sprinkle the almonds while hot with this, shake well, and dust over with hue salt by means of a salt-dredger. Shake np the almonds from time to time until they are cool ; they will then be ready for serving. Salted almonds, the same as pista- chios, hlberts or bazel nuts, which can be done in the same way, are dished irp in fancy paper cases, and are handed round with the dessert. They should remain on the table during the whole of the dinner. Salted Peanuts, Procure some large shelled peanuts, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake slowly till the skin of the nuts begin to loosen. Take them out of the oven, and remove the skins as soon as the nuts are sufficiently cool. Cover them with a damp cloth, and allow to stand thus for about half an hour, sprinkle with a mixture of hue salt and krona pepper seasoning, and allow to dry in the oven Serve in small paper cases. Marrons a la Diable ( Devilled Chestnuts). Boil some peeled chestnuts till tender, remove the inner skin, drain and fry them in sweet oil, take nj), drain, and shake well with fine salt and cayenne or paprika pepper. Place each chestnut in a paper case. Dish up neatly, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER SAVOURIES. Allumettes (Matches).—This name is applied to thinly-cut strips or ■'t’match shapes of baked puff or rough puff-paste, usually flavoured ’^with cheese, in addition to which some kind of savoury fish or , game puree is frequently introduced, by being spread thinly over the paste before baking. Beignets Malakoff (Cheese Fritters).—These are oblong slices of gruyere cheese, seasoned with paprika or cayenne, coated with frying batter, and fried in deep fat to a golden colour. — Souffles. - In the preparation of savoury beignets souffles, the choux- paste is flavoured with grated cheese, and dropped in very small portions into hot fat and fried to a golden colour.