THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 978 a ])int of boiling water. When cold dip each egg into this solution, let them dry, and store them on egg-racks in a dry and airy place. They will thus keep fresh for six to eight weeks. How to Keep Yolks of Eggs.—\^'hen whites of eggs are used for clearing jellies, consommes or other pnrposes, and the yolks are not wanted till the next day, beat them up with a little cold water, and put them away in a cool place ; they will thus keep good. To Keep Truffles.—The contents of a bottle or tin of truffles once opened, should be put in a gallipot with enough sherry or marsala to well cover them, and may thus be kept for some days. To Keep Mushrooms.—Preserved mushrooms, tinned or bottled, once opened, should be kept covered with salted water or vinegar. They will thus keep good for several days. Dishing up.—In dishing up hot preparations, always use warm dishes. Where there is no hot closet or plate-rack, steep the dishes in hot water and wipe them. It is not wise to use the oven for heating dishes. Make it a practice to always wipe a dish before using it. Baking Hint.—Avoid slamming the oven door whilst a cake or delicate pastry is being baked. Remember that opening the door too often during the baking process has the tendency of pre- venting pastry or cake from rising. Hint on Boiling Fish.—Large or bulky hsh should be put on in tepid water, and smaller hsh, such as haddock, sole, trout, whiting, etc., in warm water, and so brought gradually to the boil ; one tablespoonfnl of salt should be added to every two quarts of water. Wasting Fuel.—Economy in fuel for cooking is not always prac- tised by cooks. It is a great mistake to hll up a grate to the top with coal and heat the stove so as to make the top red-hot. Keep the hre well burning, and add only a shovelful at a time. If this is done at the proper time, the oven will be in prime condition for baking, and the top will be hot enough for other cooking processes. Boiling Milk.—If milk is boiled before being used it is to render it free from germs and the possibility of causing infection. Too much attention to this cannot be paid. Milk is very apt to take up any poisonous germs that may be in the air, and boiling has provecl a sure preventative. Keeping Butter.—Butter can be kept perfectly sweet and cool by being wrapped in a damp muslin cloth and placed in a shallow dish containing a little cold water. The cold is produced by evapora- tion, the cloth absorbing the water. Egg-shells.—Where a stock-pot is kept a few egg-shells should be saved, washed, crushed, and allowed to simmer in the stock, as this will help to clarify the broth or liquor of the stock-pot. Stale Bread for Crumbing.—Scraps of unsoiled bread should be saved up and dried or baked to a very pale brown colour in an