454 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Paupiettes de Bceuf a la Richelieu.—Thin slices of fillets of beef stuffed, rolled, and braised, garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms. Serve with Richelieu sauce. Tournedos* a 1’Alexandra.—Larded tournedos braised and glazed ; dressed on croutons with a slice of truffle on each ; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce Perigueux. — a I’Arlesienne.—Tournedos broiled in butter, dressed on croutons sauced over with demi-glace containing finely cut julienne strips of celery. — a I’Armand.—Grilled tournedos dressed on fried bread croutons covered with foie-gras puree ; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce Bordelaise. — braises au Celeri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce ; dressed on fried bread croutons in a circle, with celery in centre ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Slightly marinaded tournedos, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — a la Choron.—Grilled tournedos (small), dressed on glazed croutes of fried bread, garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas tossed in butter, and cube shapes of new potatoes baked in oven ; centre filled with bearnaise sauce flavoured with tomato. — a la Colbert.—Small round fillet steaks seasoned and fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter. Dish up en couronne, fill the centre of the dish with small rounds of fried potatoes, garnish with bread croutons, and ser've with shallot sauce reduced with sherry. — a la Drexel.—Grilled tournedos dressed on fried bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, and a slice of truffle in centre of each ; surround the tournedos with straw potatoes (pommes pailles). — a I’Elysee.—Grill the tournedos, and place a slice of braised sweet- bread and mushroom-head on each ; dish up with a border of bearnaise sauce. — a la Favorite.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points; sauce Madere. — a la Gabrielle.—Saute the fillets in butter, dress them on rounds of puff-pastry of similar size, cover with light chicken puree, and braise. Garnish with sliced truffles, green peas and straw potatoes ; sauce Bearnaise and demi-glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled tournedos, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, garnished with slices of foie-gras and asparagus points ; sauce Madere. — a la Helder.—Broil the fillets in butter, dress on croutons of bread, with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedos, and tomato puree in centre ; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — a rimperatrice.—Tournedos broiled in butter, dressed on tried bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and small piece of grilled marrow on each ; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes ; sauce Perigueux. * Tournedos are rather small oval-shaped fillets, cut from the fillet part of beef.