948 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. strips of paste crosswise on each tartlet, dredge with castor sugar and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cheese Cakes. 4 eggs, 2 lemons, i lb. sugar, 4 oz. butter, rough puff-paste. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and work to a cream ; then add the grated rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, and the butter previously melted. Place the basin in a stew-pan containing boiling water, add the whisked whites of twi) eggs to it, and stir the mixture until it thickens, and allow it to cool. Line some tartlet-tins with a good rough puff-paste made with eight ounces of butter and three-quarters of a pound of flour, etc. Three-parts fill them with the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Brush them over with beaten whites of egg, dredge with castor sugar, and return to the oven for another five minutes to acquire a fawn colour. An ounce of ground almonds added to the mixture will be found a great improvement. Shortbread. 1 lb. Vienna flour, lb. ground rice, I- lb. cornflour, lb. butter, 2 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, lemon peel, and caraway comfits. Mix the flour, ground rice, and cornflour in a basin, rub in the butter, beat up the eggs with the sugar, and work it gradually into the flour, etc. ; knead well into a smooth but compact paste. Divide into desired portions and shape into round flat cakes. Place on a baking-sheet and pinch the edges of the cakes with the thumb and forefinger or with a pastry pincher. Garnish the tops of each with fancifully-cut thin slices of lemon peel and caraway comfits. Bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Dominoes. Genoese pastry, -} lb. icing sugar, i white of egg, apricot marmalade, desiccated cocoanut or almonds, brown vegetable colouring. Cut the pastry into shapes of dominoes, coat the sides with a thin layer of marmalade, and dip into finely chopped desiccated cocoanut or almonds. Prepare some royal icing with the white of egg and sugar, and coat the top of each domino with this. Put them aside to set. Add sufficient ground chocolate to the remainder of the icing, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Mark out a thin dividing line across the centre of each, and force out little dots to make them resemble dominoes. Madeleines d’Espagne. , Prepare a mixture as for “ Biscuits d’Epernay ” (see p. 937), to which finely grated lemon-rind has been added. Fill up the re- (juired number of buttered and floured madeleine-moulds, and bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, let cool on a tray or sieve, dip the surface in transparent icing previously flavoured with a tablespoonful of rum or maraschino, and decorate with glace cherries and angelica.