OTO DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. Gruel. Mix gradiuilly one heaped-up tablcspoonfnl of “ Patent ” (iiaxits with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, when snKxjth pour into a stew-pan containing f ])int of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel over the hre i:ntil it boils, and allow to cook for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter or, if more agreeable and allowed, sweeten with a little castor sugar. Baked Milk. Baked milk is sometimes recommended as a drink for invalids. Put the milk in a stone jar, cover it closely, and let it bake very slowly several hours in a fairly hot oven, when it should be thic'k and of a creamy consistency. The flavour is unique, and reminds one somewhat of Devonshire cream. It may be served with fruit or as custard. Milk Porridge. I pint milk, ]- teaspooulul salt, i tablespooiiful Hour. Heat the milk in a clean saucepan, saving enough cold milk to moisten the flour. Mix the flour to a thin smooth paste. Add this gradually to the hot milk and cook for half an hour or until the raw taste has disappeared. Stir until it thickens, then cover and cook over hot water (in a “ bain-marie ”). Strain and serve with fresh milk or cream. If nutmeg is liked, grate a little over the toju Bread and Milk. Rub some breadcrumbs through a fine sieve, let soak with boiling water in a cup, place saucer on top, allowing the crumbs to steep fifteen minutes, drain off the water, and pour on instead some warm milk. Beat well up, and then put the bread and milk into an enamelled saucepan, then boil gently for a minute or two, stand it aside to cool a little, and, before giving to the patient, stir it and see that it is nice and smooth, adding a little sugar and more milk, if liked. (This can always be warmed again if wanted later on.) Egg Coffee. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a cup and pour in slowly two parts of boiling milk and one part of freshly-made coffee. Sweeten to taste or serve without sugar as desired. Egg Tea. Cream the yolk of an egg with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar and add to it the stithy wliisked white of an egg ; pour on half a l)reakfastcupful of boiling milk and a little freshly-made tea, just enough to flavour. Strain into a smaller (Uip, juit a suspicion of grated nutmeg on top, and serve. Egg Nog. Whisk up the white of a new-laid egg, when stiff add a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar. Mix the yolk with a tablespoonful of iced water and three of milk, flavour witli a small glass of sherry or marsala. Pour this into a tumbler or cup, tlieu add tlie whisked wliite of egg. Stir gently and serve.