6o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cover, and braise it gently until quite done. Let the ham cool in the braise liquor, then take it up, carefully remove the skin, leaving part of it near bone erid neatly trimmed. Cut off neatly a slice from the top portion of the fat, cut out part of the centre of the ham, about lb., chop and pound it with three tablespoonfuls of cold bechamel sauce, and rub through a sieve. Boil up the remainder of the sauce, and add it to the ham puree, season to taste, and blend when quite hot with the egg yolks. Let cool a little, then mi.x with the stiffly whisked whites of egg. With the prepared souffle, hll the cavity of the ham, and so give it again its original shape. Cover with the slice of fat previously removed, place the ham into the braising-pan, cover, and steam for about forty-five minutes. Take up the ham carefully, dish it up, fasten a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve with a boat of matignon sauce, made with the liquor left over from cooking the ham, as follows : Carefully remove the scum and fat, reduce well and strain. Re-heat, add to it a small glass of port wine, and about eighteen peeled muscat grapes. Give it another boil, season with a good pinch of paprika, and serve hot. Hanche de Venaison a la Dominique {Haunch of Venison). Remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, trim it and put it in a braising-pan with a mirepoix of two carrots, one onion cut into slices, a head of celery, and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, twelve peppercorns, three cloves, and two blades of mace, add half pint of claret and sufficient stock to cover the venison, cover with buttered paper, bring it to the boil, cover with the lid, and cook in a moderate oven for about three hours. Baste the surface of the venison with its own braise from time to time, when it is done put it into a baking-pan with about a gill of its own liquor well reduced, and brush it over with meat glaze (keep hot). Strain the remainder of the braise stock, add a small glass of port and a pint of demi-glace sauce, reduce well and skim occasionally, season to taste with salt and cayenne. Place the haunch of venison on a hot dish, garnish with groups of stoned prunes stewed in a little of the sauce, and potato croquettes, pour some of the prepared sauce over it, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Roast Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venison of moderate size, trim off the chine bone and the end of the knuckle, wrap it in buttered paper to prevent the fat from burning, roast it before the fire or in the oven from 2h to 3 hours, basting it frequently. Half an hour before serving remove the paper, baste the haunch with butter, and lightly brown the surface. Serve with a well-flavoured gravy, made from the trimmings of the venison, and stock. Red-currant jelly is handed round with this dish. Venison ought to hang from four to six days before it is cooked.