THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 242 Stamp out eight to ten oval pieces of bread about two inches long, f of an inch wide. Cream the butter and mayonnaise sauce together, spread one side of each slice of bread with this, put a layer of caviare on top. Remove the heads from the prawns, free them from skin, split open, and place one on each. Rub the yolk of hard-boiled egg through a sieve, put a little in the centre of the canapes, ornamented with little sprigs of washed small cress, dish up on a dish-paper in a pyramidal form, place the heads of prawns on the top, and serve. Brissolettes de Caviar. 6 small stuffing rolh, mayonnaise sauce, a.^pic jelly, Russian caviare, filleted r nchovies, parsley. Cut the rolls in halves, and trim the edge to make them stand firmly, scoop out the crumbs and stand in a cool oven to dry. To the mayonnaise sauce add enough liquid aspic jelly to stiffen, line the inside of the rolls when cold with this, and let set. Put a dessertspoonful of Russian caviare in the centre of each roll, place a little chopped aspic jelly on the top of each, or fill up with a layer of half-set aspic. Ornament the surface with small strips of filleted anchovies, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve when quite set. If unable to get the rolls small enough, stamp out some rounds of bread, half an inch thick, scoop out some of the crumbs, fry in butter, let cool, and proceed as above directed. Caviar en Salade, 2 tablespooufuls best olive oil, i tablespoonful vinegar, i .smal pot Russian caviare, i hard-boiled egg, 2 ripe tomatoes, cayenne, parsley. Put the oil and vinegar in a salad bowl, stir in with a wooden spoon the Russian caviare. Slice the hard-boiled egg and tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt if needed. Dish np neatly on little glass dishes, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley. Ornament the dishes with some slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. Caviar a la Creole, Triscuits, Astrachan caviare, double cream, parsley, tarragon, chervil, pistachio nuts. Stamp out some triscuits with a round cutter if- inch in diameter. In the centre of each round put a teaspoonful of fresh Astrachan caviare. \Vhisk up some double cream, add a little herb flavouring, put it in a forcing-bag or cornet, and force out a neat border round the edge of the caviare crotites. Sprinkle each with a pinch of finely chopped pistachio nuts, dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and serve. Croutons a I’Espagnole. Bread, butter, i8 large Spanish olives, stiff tartarc sauce, fillets, of anchovy, hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, parsley. Cut eighteen round croutes of bread about an inch and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch thick, fry in butter, drain. Stone the olives with a sharp cube cutter, fill with tartare sauce (p. i6o) ; place one in the centre of each crouton, curl an anchovy fillet round it, garnish with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and sprigs of parsley. Dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and serve.