356 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. bread, etc., as directed on p. 124. Fill the cases with this. Whisk up a white of egg and add, when stiff, a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, some chicken farce, and a little bechamel sauce. Put this mixture in a forcing-bag and force out neatly on to the top of each cassolette, as shown in the illustration. Place them in a hot oven for about ten minutes, dish up, and serve hot. Note.—In plate of paste the timbale shapes may be made of bread or rice or semolina, scooped out when cooked, i.e. fried or baked, and filled as directed. Cassolettes a la Perigourdine. Fried rice cassolette crust filled with small game quenelles, slices of sweetbread, cocks’ combs, kernels, and truffles ; sauce Madere. Cassolettes a la Richelieu. Baked paste cassolette crusts filled with small chicken quenelles, poached and fried, mushrooms, and truffle sauce. Cassolettes de Venaison ( Venison Cassolettes). Stewed fillets of venison minced coarsely, moistened with rich brown sauce, and baked in paste-crust cases. Cassolettes de Volaille a la Perigueux {Chicken Cassolettes). Stewed fillets of chicken with sliced or chopped truffles and brown sauce, baked in paste-crust cases. Croustades aux Huitres. Oyster croustade filled with poached oysters, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and veloutee sauce. Croustades a I’Imperiale. Baked rice croustade filled with a ragout of chicken fillets, foie- gras, mushrooms and truffles (supreme sauce). Croustades de Macaroni. Macaroni croustade filled with cooked macaroni, ham cut in dice, cheese and tomato sauce. Croustades de Gibier a la Vatel {Game Croustade, Vatel Style). Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried bread croustades. Croustades a la Montreux. 4 oz. calf’s liver, 2 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, 8 oz. chicken, freed from skin and bones, 2 oz. panade, 3 whole eggs, salt, mignonette pepper, aromatic seasoning, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, i truffle, about -|lb. short crust paste, Madere sauce. Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices and season to taste. Peel and chop the shallots finely, ffy them slightly in the butter, put in the bacon, fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, together with a very small amount of thyme and marjoram. Remove the herbs, pound the remainder in a mortar, pound the chicken separately, add the panade and three yolks of eggs, when smooth and thoroughly mixed season with a little aromatic spice, and salt and pepper if necessary. Add the liver farce, mix it well together with the truffle chopped finely, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Should the farce be found too stiff, add