OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 693 (Eufs a la Czarina (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs hollowed out, filled with caviare, and placed on to croutons dished up (crown shape), masked with cardinal sauce, decorated and coated with aspic, with smoked salmon slices and anchovy fillets, and Russian salad ranged in centre of dish. — a la Diable.—Fried eggs (sur plat), fried on both sides, sauced over with brown butter (beurre noir) well flavoured with chilli vinegar and cayenne. — a la Duchesse.—Poached eggs placed on to potato cassolettes or croustades, sauced over with veloutee cream. — a la Elisabeth.—Eggs poached and placed on to artichoke bottoms, sprinkled with minced truffles, coated with Mornay sauce and grated cheese browned in the oven. — a I’Espagnole.—Scrambled eggs filled into hollowed-out tomatoes, previously fried in oil, and garnished with fried onion rings. — a la Florentine.—Poached eggs on hollowed-out bread croutons, previously filled with spinach puree, coated with Mornay sauce sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and browned in oven. — a la Forestiere.—Savoury eggs moulded and steamed, dished on brioche croustades. — a la Gambetta.—Poached eggs, sprinkled with chopped parsley, each placed on fried egg, surmounted by a slice of truffle garnished with choron sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes ; bechamel sauce, paprika, and grated cheese, coated with white sauce, breaded and browned in the oven. — a la Hussarde.—Poached eggs placed in halves of tomatoes, previously filled with duxelle and ham puree, sauced over with veloutee, highly seasoned. — a la Khedive.—Poached eggs, dressed in tartlet paste crust, previously filled with chicken puree, garnished with spinach and chopped hard eggs ; sauce veloutee. — a la Lorette.—Poached eggs, neatly dressed on rings made of potato puree, like croquettes, garnished with asparagus points and egg- rings, decorated with truffles ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Lucullus.—Cocotte pans, lined with foie-gras puree, then each filled with raw egg, a little truffle, and Madere sauce added, then poached in the oven. — a la Mireille.—Oval-shaped bread croutons fried in oil, filled with savoury rice (saffron flavoured), with poached egg on each crouton, sauced over with paprika sauce, dish garnished with delicate tomato stew. — a la Monaco.—Poached eggs, coated with lobster sauce, then glazed, and decorated with small fried lobst^ escallops or cutlets. — a la Mornay.—Poached eggs on toast, coated with Mornay sauce, breaded with cheese, and slightly browned in the oven. — a la Mosaique (Cold).—Poached eggs, masked, when cold, with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated (mosaique style) with ox-tongue, truffles, French beans, carrots, etc., neatly dished in a border of Russian salad.