MARKETING. 25 Soles, when fresh, are of a cream-like colour on the under-part, and when stale their appearance is bluish and flabby. Lobsters are at their best when oysters are out (d' season, in the summer ; in winter male lobsters only are in good condition. The hen lobster is known by her coral spawn, which is used for garnishing white fish, turbot, cod, etc. The quality of the lobster is judged by its weight ; a light lobster is not a good one. If the lobster is stale, the tail hangs limp, while if fresh it is drawn under the fish, and if pulled out will spring back again when let go. Crabs, also, are to be judged by their weight and stiffness. If light and limp, they are bad. Oysters, if fresh, will close forcibly on the knife wJren opened. If the shell gapes the least bit, the oyster is losing its freshness. When dead the shell remains open, and the oyster should not be consumed. Meat.—The most popular kinds of meat are beef, mutton, veal, and pork. Of these, beef is considered to be the most nutritioirs, mutton the most digestible, whilst veal and pork, though nourishing, are not nearly so digestible as either beef or mutton. Meat that has an excessive amount of fat is not economical to buy. Joints with undue proportion of bones are very unprofitable. In buying meat always remember the kind best suited for your purpose, whether for boiling, roasting, braising or stewing : as many advantages and disadvantages are thereby gained or lost. The following characteristics must be looked for in good beef and mutton : A. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint ; for the former is generally considered as sign of disease, whilst the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. B. It has a marbled appearance from the ramifications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. C. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and scarcely moisten the fingers—bad meat being wet and sodden and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. D. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable ; diseased meat has a sickly, unpleasant smell, and sometimes a smell of phvsic. Good meat will neither shrink nor waste much in cooking. Beef (that is, o.x-beef), when young and tender, should have a fine open grain, and a deep red colour. It should be elastic to the touch ; that is, if pressed with the fingers, the flesh should rise again and leave no mark. When the meat is clammy or flabby, and has a faint smell, it is a sign that it is stale and unfit for use. The fat must be white or yellowish-white, and firm to the touch.