950 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Lemon Cake. 4 oz. Brown & Poison’s cornllonr, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. castor sugar 4 eggs, grated rind of a lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes, or till thick and creamy. Sift in the cornflour very lightly and gradually. Add the lemon-rind and Paisley flour. Pour into the prepared cake-tin, buttered and lioured, and bake in a hot oven for about an hour. Cool on a wire tray. Paisley Rolls. i:J OZ. Paisley flour, 8 oz. ordinary flour, i yolk of egg, I- teaspoonfnl castor sugar, 2 oz, butter. J- teaspoonfnl sail, i gill sweet milk. Rub the butter into the flour. Add the salt, sugar, and Paisley flour. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the yolk of egg, add it to the milk, and mix in liglitly to the dry ingreclients, making a moderately soft dough. Turn this on to a floured board, roll out till about one- eighth of an inch thick, cut into pieces about four inches square, roll these up into rolls, brush over with milk, and bake in a very quick oven for about twenty minutes. Croissants [Crescents). 8 oz. ground rice, 8 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, flavouring essence. Mix the flour and sugar together and sift. Beat the whites and yolks separately, then beat again to a cream, using np the sugar and flour. Flavour with vanilla or almond essence. Mix well and spread thinly on a paper-lined baking-sheet ; bake for twenty minutes. Cut with a crescent-cutter iuto cakes, ice each with fondant or royal icing. Decorate with glace fruit according to taste and fancy, and set in the oven for a few minutes to dry. The icing may be of different colours and flavonrs. Lemon Jumbles. Cream ^ lb. castor sugar with lb. fresh butter ; add four eggs beaten to a froth, the hnely grated rind of half a lemon, and a little rose-water. Work in about f lb. flour to make a stiff dough, and roll out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut in strips half an inch wide and four inches long. Roll each, and form into an S or ring by joining the ends. Lay on flat buttered tins and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Ginger Nuts. 4 oz. butter, .4 oz. moist stigar, 4 oz. flour, i tablespoonful ground ginger, I teaspoonful ground cloves, i teaspoonfnl ground cinnamon, the grated rind of -J a lemon, 11- gill of treacle or golden syrup. Cream the butter and sugar, rub in the flour, spices, and lemon- rind, then the treacle or golden syrup. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon, and make into a fairly stiff dough ; roll into a sheet half an inch thick. Cut into rounds one inch in diameter or shape into round balls and flatten each a little, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Rice Biscuits. i II). best Hour, 4 oz. ground rice, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, } lemon,- I egg, a little mdk.