37 MAKKEl ING. Asparagus,—A bundle contains from 50 to 150 heads, according to season or size. Broccoli.—A crate, according to size, or by tally, if loose. Mushrooms.—A punnet holds about i lb. Peas.—A sieve, equal to one bushel, contains 10 gallons. Potatoes are sold by the bushel, sack or ton. Radishes.—A hand from 12 to 30 in number, according to the season. Turnips.—A bunch from ig to 25. Cabbages and Lettuces.—A tally of five dozen. Carrots,—A bunch from 24 to 30. Greens. -A bunch as many as can be tied together by the roots. Celery.--A bundle, according to size, from 6 to 10 heads. Apples and Pears are put up in bushels, sieves or half-sieves, the sieve being equal to a bushel. Cherries, Currants, and Gooseberries.—Sieve equals about 48 lb., half 24 lb., a peck about 12 lb. Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots.—Baskets or boxes of 6 or 12. Rhubarb.—A bundle from 20 to 30 stems, according to size and season. Strawberries are sold in boxes of punnets of varying size, holding from f to i lb. : handled baskets 4 to 6 lb. ; and trays. Lard.—The best lard is made from the kidney fat of the pig, melted and poured into bladders. When pure, lard has scarcely any taste or smell ; it should be of a pure white, not too opaque ; firm, but not hard. If, when it is melted, it splutters, it is a sign that water has been added to it when prepared. Cheese.—The richness of cheese depends on the quantity of cream left in the milk used for it. Skim milk forms the poor and salt cheeses (as Dutch cheese, etc.). They contain casein and little else, but are nourishing. Eggs.—Hold up to the light ; if fresh they will look clear : or mix two tablespoonfuls of salt in half a pint of water, and put in an egg ; if stale it will float, if fresh it will sink. A bad egg will float in fresh water? Tea.—This article requires the most careful attention on the part of the buyer, because in most cases the dealer or purveyor must be relied upon. There are several varieties of tea, but two kinds should be ample for any first-class house—viz. Ceylon and Indian, or Oolong and Young Hyson ; the latter two mixed in different proportions make excellent blends. Coffee.—It is best to buy coffee freshly roasted each day and grind it as required from day to day. Mysore and Jamaica, or Java and Mocha, mixed in the following proportions, three-fourtlis of the formerand one-fourth of the latter, make a very satisfactory beverage. Coffee for breakfast should be made rather stronger than for after dinner. It is desirable to obtain both tea and coffee from a reliable firm, and to avoid changes, if the blends supplied give satisfaction.