HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 737 into very thin strijJs, loosen them and drop them into slightly salted fast-boiling water containing the butter. Allow it to boil rapidly for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a perforated ladle or slice, and put them on a sieve to clrain. Meanwhile cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar, and add the fiavouring essence. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Butter a plain timbale- or ordinary pudding-mould. Mix all the ingredients care- fully together, adding also the peel, cut into fine shreds, and three- parts fill the mould. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for i:^ hour. Serve hot, with a suitable sauce. Pouding a 1 Orientale. 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. cornflour, 1 tablespoonful coffee extract ; sweet sauce or syrup. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former into a basin, the latter into an egg-bowl on the ice. Cream the butter and sugar together for about ten minutes, add the egg-yolks gradu- ally, and beat up thoroughly, then mix in the coffee extract. Mix the two kinds of flour and rub through a sieve, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir the Hour and egg-whites lightly into the mixture. Three-parts fill a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously well greased. Steam in the usual manner for about id hour. Turn out on to a hot dish and sauce over with a fruit syrup or some kind of sweet sauce. Pouding au Pain noir {Brown Bread Pudding). 6 oz. brown breadcrumbs, t pint milk, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. mixed candied peel, grated nutmeg, i teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. A glass of sherry, if liked. Boil up the milk and pour over the breadcrumbs, add the cinna- mon, candied peel (finely chopped or shredded), and a pinch of salt. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, mix in the soaked breadcrumbs, and add a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould, co\^er with a buttered paper, and steam for about two hours, if wine is used it should be added last of all. Unmould the pudding on a hot dish, and serve with fruit syrup or custard sauce. This pudding is equally nice served cold. Pouding a la Paysanne. 6 oz. white breadcrumbs, 2J oz. butter, about i pint milk, 5 eggs, J lb. sultanas (cleaned), i heaped-up tablcspoonful apricot jam, 2 oz. castor sugar, gill rum, i teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind. Soak the crumbs in the milk for half an hour, drain off the superfluous milk, put the crumbs in a stew-pan, add two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Let cool a little, then add the sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, sultanas, jam, and rum. Mix well, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in gradually. Butter the pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stew-pan three- parts full of boiling water, let it come to the boil, and bake in the