I HE KITCHEN. 49 every day, and especially after the day’s work is done, in order to disperse all unpleasant smells. The hrst thing to do in the morning is to open both the kitchen door and windows to admit a thorough airing. THE SCULLERY WORK. Every kitchen should be provided with a properly equipped scullery. It should be efficiently ventilated and lighted ; the floor should be level, smooth, and watertight, and in its construction precautions should be taken to ensure proper sanitation. The tanks for washing up should be made of teak for crockery and iron for saucepans, and they should be provided with a plentiful supply of both hot and cold water. There should be a conveniently placed receptacle into which waste scraps, etc., can be thrown. How to wash Dishes, etc.—The washing and cleaning does not fall to the cook’s lot as a rule, but it should nevertheless be under- stood by all cooks, so as to enable them to direct those under their charge whose duty it is to do the scullery work. Scullery work is by no means a pleasant occupation, but it has to be done. It need not be dirty, sloppy work, unless it be made so by the carelessness and untidiness of the women or men in charge of this department. The following rules for washing up will be found useful : Have a good supply of boiling water with some soda in it. Remove all scraps from the plates and dishes and pack them neatly together. Wash the spoons, forks, and knives first, placing them ready for cleaning, after the washing up is done. As the things are dried they should be put away. The stewpans and saucepans should be washed in a separate tank. Use boiling water with some soda dissolved in it ; thoroughly wash the saucepans inside and out. Have a saucer with a small quantity of silver sand by your side, and after washing the saucepan, soap the dish-cloth, dip it in the sand, and scour the inside of the saucepan to remove all stains ; rinse it well in warm water, and thoroughly dry it before placing it away. Note.—If a saucepan has been burnt, put some cold water in it and a lump of soda ; let it stand on the stove to boil for an hour, and then scrub it out with a saucepan brush. To clean Copper Moulds, etc.—The following is a simple yet satisfactory method of cleaning copper moulds, copper stewpans, etc. : Wash, scour, and scrub them inside and outside with hot strong soda water, then rinse in cold water. To brighten the copper, put some silver sand into a soup plate or large saucer, mix it with a handful of salt and a little flour, and moisten with vinegar. Dip a dish-cloth in the sand and rub the outside of the pans and moulds with this, or dip half of a used lemon into the sand : the latter is better than using a cloth. Clean every part of the outside of copper utensils in this way, and as each utensil is cleaned rinse D