6y6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Petits Souffles a la Gramont. Prepare a number of cassolette cases, made by lining very small moulds with nouille paste. When baked and cold, till them with the following : a layer of chicken souffle, then a layer of duxelle puree, on this a slice of royal custard, sprinkle with a little meat glaze, and put a thin slice of truffle on top of each. Cover with buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven. Serve hot. Petits Souffles a I’Agrasienne. Line some small bouche or deep tartlet moulds with thinly rolled-out nouille paste, prick the bottom and fill with dried peas ; bake them a nice colour and let cool. Prepare a mixture of cooked sweetbread, truffle, and mushroom, all cut into small dice. Moisten this with a rich curry sauce. Three-parts fill the pastry cases with this, then fill up with a choux-paste mixture, well flavoured with cheese. Bake the cases thus prepared in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Petits Choux en Surprise. For choux-paste ; i gill water, i oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, i egg aird i yolk, oz. grated cheese. For cream mi.xture : 6 oz. smoked haddock, i oz. butter, gill whipped cream, seasoning, meat glaze, and chopped pistachios. Boil up the water, adding a pinch of salt, and the butter, sift the flour, and stir it into the water when boiling. Work it vigorously over the fire till quite smooth, next add the grated cheese, and let cool a little, work in the eggs, the whites of which may be whisked if liked. Put the paste in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe and press out little heaps on a greased baking- sheet about an inch or so apart from each other. Bake in a moderate oven to golden colour. Heat up the had- dock, finely chopped, with the butter, pound it in a mortar and rub through a sieve, add the cream and seasoning, salt and pepper, and cayenne or paprika. Slit the baked souffles and fill them with this mixture, brush them over with a little dissolved meat glaze, and besprinkle with chopped pistachios. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. Petits Choux a la Suedoise. Make a choux paste with a gill of w'ater, i oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of sifted flour, i oz. of grated cheese, and 2 eggs. Put the paste into a savoy bag and force out small even-sized heaps on to a buttered baking-sheet, then bake in a moderate oven and let cool. Make an incision on the side of each choux, and remove .some of the interior. Fill them with a puree made of 8 anchovy