5‘o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Faisan aux Epinards [Pheasant Fillets with Spinach). A young pheasant, lb. raw or cooked rabbit meat, J lb. ox-tongue cut into strips, 4 preserved mushrooms, lb. sliced ham, i large truffle sliced, I oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 cooked chicken-livers, a little cream or white sauce, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, onion, carrot, bouquet garni, etc., I i- gill white wine, i pint stock, i gill tomato sauce, seasoning, potato puree, panurette, spinach puree. Bone the pheasant. Pound the rabbit meat, chicken-livers, and the ham, add the yolks of eggs (these may be hard-boiled, if liked), white sauce or cream sutheient to moisten the farce. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, rub through a wire sieve into a basin, and work in the mushrooms and truffle. Lay the boned pheasant on a board, skin downwards, spread the forcemeat on evenly, put the strips of tongue evenly on the farce, roll up care- fully, and sew up the ends and sides. Fry the carcase of the bird with the butter, add and fry brown the mirepoix ; lay the stuffed pheasant on this, allow the surface to take colour, moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, braise gently in a moderate oven for about an hour, when done untie, glaze over the top with meat glaze, and keep hot. Remove the fat from the mire- poix and liquor, add the tomato sauce, boil for a few minutes, then strain and reduce to a nice consistency. Butter a border-mould, sprinkle with panurette, and hll up with potato puree enriched with one or two yolks of eggs, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or so, and turn out on a hot dish. Have the spinach puree ready and hot, well seasoned, and richly flavoured. Cut the pheasant into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these neatly on the prepared border, dress the spinach in the centre, sauce over the slices with a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. Faisan a la Bonne Femme.—Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions. Served with a brown sauce mixed with some Indian chutney. — en Casserole.—Pheasant braised in earthenware casserole, with bacon, small onions, and potato cubes (par-fried) ; demi-glace or Madere sauce. — a la Cavour.—Roast or braised pheasant dressed in casserole with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; demi-glace sauce. — en Coquette,—Puree of cooked pheasant prepared as farce and filled into shapes of hard-boiled white of egg placed on artichoke bottoms, heated up and coated with supreme or veloutee sauce. — a la Llvournalse.—Pheasant barded and braised in casserole, with cepes, mushrooms, and slices of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — a la Richemont.—Fillets of pheasant larded with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — a la Rossini.—Pheasant braised white, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of foie-gras and truffles. Cotelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold egged, crumbed, and fried in deep clarified butter. Served with a rich perigueux sauce.