COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 779 Boil the milk and pour it, whilst stirring, over the egg-yolks. Return to the stew-pan, add sugar, and cook till it is of a cnstard- like consistency. Strain it into a basin, add the syrup and the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Decorate a jelly- mould, previously masked with wine-jelly, with small pieces of ginger and glace cherries, and let it set on the ice. Whip the cream, cut the remainder of ginger into small pieces, and mix both with the prepared custard. Lastly, add the kirschwasser, stir well, and fill up the decorated mould. Turn out when set. Creme de Groseille verte {Gooseberry Cream). Proceed as above, but substitute the orange with half a gill of gooseberry puree and a little lemon-juice. Add a few drops of spinach greening, and mould. A little more gelatine (i or 2 extra leaves) should be added during the hot weather to all creams, etc. in which gelatine is used. Creme a ITmperatrice {Empress Cream). i-r pint milk, pint cream, 3 oz. ground rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, oz. leaf gelatine, vanilla essence, glace cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts, and jelly for garnish. Boil the milk, stir in the ground rice, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk or water, and strain it into the rice cream, stir in the sugar and half a tea- spoonful of vanilla essence, let cool a little, then add a few glace cherries (cut into small dice) and a tablespoonful of blanched, peeled, and coarsely chopped pistachios. Whip the cream and stir gently into the above. Have ready a fancy border or jelly mould, masked with jelly and decorated tastefully with glace cherries, pistachios, and angelica, pour in the prepared mixture, and put the mould in a cool place to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn the contents on a cold dish, decorate with coarsely-chopped jelly and some fruit compote. Creme a la Monaco. i pint apricot pulp (well reduced), i pint cream, oz. gelatine, pint maraschino jelly, pint milk, a few drops almond essence, 4 oz. castor sugar, ^ lemon, glace cherries, almonds and maraschino biscuits for garnish. Heat up the apricot pulp and add enough sugar to sweeten, also the thin rind of half the lemon and a teaspoonful of its juice. Dissolve the gelatine and add half its quantity, and strain into a basin. Boil up the milk, add sugar to sweeten and the remainder of gelatine (strained), flavour with almond essence. Whip the cream and stir half into the milk and the other into the apricot puree. Pour into separate moulds, and put on the ice to set. These creams must be of respectively yellow and white tint. A few drops of licpiid saffron may be added to the apricot cream if found necessary. Mask two plain charlotte moulds (pint size) with a coating of maraschino jelly, decorate the bottom and sides taste- fully with slices of cherries (not too thin) and slices of blanched almonds. Cut out by means of a spoon or knife small pieces, of