SANDWICHES. 023 each two slices of bread ; trim, and press gently one on top of the other. Cnt into squares, triangles, or fingers ; if cnt in squares, pare off the corners. Dish np neatly and garnish tastefully. Foie-gras Sandwiches. Pound in a mortar some foie-gras pate free from lard and truffle, add a little butter (say one and a half ounce to a small terrine or tin of foie-gras), season with half a teaspoonful of aromatic spice and a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper ; mix well and spread this over a number of slices of buttered bread. Cut the truffle found iu the foie-gras into thin slices, and place one or more slices on toj) of the puree. Place each two together and press well. Cut out some crescent, oblong, round, or oval shapes ; dish up neatly and garnish to taste. Denises de Fromage a la Creme [Cheese Cream Sandwiches). 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese, 2 large tablespoonfuls double cream, a little cri.sp celery or a few shelled and peeled walnuts, bread and butter, cayenne. Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them slightly, shred either celery or walnuts very finely, and mix this wifh the cheese and cream. Spread the buttered side of the bread slices with this, place them together like sandwiches, cut them into pretty shajies, squares, oblongs, crescents, or stars. Dish up, garnish with S]U'igs f)f parsley, and serve. Cheese Sandwiches. Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg through a sieve or strainer, put it in a basin and mix till smooth with two tablespoonfuls of oiled butter, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar (white wine vinegar is best), add also a small teaspoonful of mixecl Colman’s mustard and a cupful of grated cheese. Stir well and season with a little salt, some white pepper and cayenne. Spread this mixture be- tween thinly-cnt and buttered slices of brown bread. Press together lightly, trim the edges, and cut into desired shapes. Egg Sandwiches. I’repare a paste with the following ingredients : 3 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, 2 teaspoonfuls of ancliovy or .shrim]i essence. Mix all the ingredients well together and rub tlirough a sieve to make the paste perfectly smooth. C^se ou brown or wliite buttered bread, and proceed as directed in other recipes. Roquefort Cheese Sandwiches. Fresh roquefort cheese, with thick cream, mixed into a paste, and spread on thin slices of buttered bread pressed and cut into neat shapes. Gruyere Cheese Sandwiches. Cut thin slices of brown bread, and butter them. Spread thin slices of gruvere cheese with a little French mustard. Dust with salt and }ie))iipr. Make into sandwiches, with a little tlunly-sli('ed cucumber laid ou the cheese.