THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 682 Fricassee d’CEufs {Fricasseed Eggs). 6 eggs, i-J- oz. butter, i gill cream, t gill bechamel sauce, a small shallot, pepper, salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, fried bread croutons, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, lay them in cold water, take off the shells, cut them in halves crosswise, take out the yolks for garnish. Peel the shallot and chop finely. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Add the sauce, let it come to the boil, mix in the cream, when hot put in the whites of eggs, add the seasoning. Stir gently, or, better, shake the pan so as not to break the slices, and keep on the fire until hot. Warm up the yolks in a little thin white sauce, dress them in the centre of a dish, put the whites round the yolks as neatly as possible, sprinkle over with some chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. (Eufs a la Dreux. 6 eggs, lb. lean ham (cooked), i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, oz. butter, J gill cream, salt and pepper, cayenne, six rounds of buttered toast. Butter thickly six deep patty-pans, chop the ham finely and mix with the parsley, sprinkle well the patty-pans with this, so as to completely cover the inside of each pan, break an egg carefully into each pan, season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, divide the cream equally on top of each egg, and put a tiny piece of butter in each. Put the tins in a saute-pan three-parts full of boiling water, place in the oven, and poach until the whites are completely set. Have ready some rounds of buttered toast as nearly as possible the size of the patty-pans, turn out the eggs and dress them carefully on the toast, dish up, and serve very hot. (Eufs a la Milanaise. 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls grated parmesan cheese, i tablespoonful cream, toasted bread, pepper, about | gill tomato sauce, oz. butter. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up well with a tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese and the cream, add a pinch of pepper. Divide this into four equal parts. Melt a little butter in an omelet- pan, pour in one part and make into a small omelet, taking care that the omelet is of a nice cushion shape. Proceed thus until four omelets are made. Roll each in parmesan cheese, put them on oval shapes of buttered toast, sprinkle the surface with more par- niesan, put them on a baking-sheet, and place in a hot oven for two minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. (Eufs a la Boston. 6 eggs, 11- oz. butter, large onion, i tcaspoonful Hour, i gill milk or cream, 2 oz. chopped cooked ham, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. ^ gill Madere sauce. Peel and slice the onion, fry it in an ounce of butter to a golden colour, sprinkle in the iiour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with the milk or cream, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and put the yolks with the onions, etc., stir