i68 THE NEW_CENTVRY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Medicis.—Bearnaise flavoured with tomato puree and very little red wine. — Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. — Menthe {Mint Sauce).—Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint-leaves, and sufficient moist sugar to flavour. — Miroton.—Demi-glace blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar, and mustard to flavour. — aux Moules {Mussel Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels cut into dice. ■— a la Moelle de Boeuf {Beef Marrow Sauce).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef-marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar, and red pepper. — Nantua.—Bechamel reduced with fish essence and finished with cray- fish butter. — Napolitaine {Neapolitan Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horse-radish ; flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. — Nicoise.—Demi-glace blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. — Noisette {Nut Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce mixed with baked, pounded, and sieved hazel nuts, finished with double cream. — Norvegienne {Norwegian Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with hard- boiled egg-yolks (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs. — Nonpareille {Nonpareil Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mush- rooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles, all finely chopped. •— aux Olives {Olive Sauce).—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon-juice. Served with ducks, fowls, and beef. — aux (Eufs {Egg Sauce).—A white sauce with finely chopped hard- boiled eggs. — aux Oignons {Onion Sauce).—A white sauce with finely chopped boiled onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made, the onions fried in butter and cooked in demi-glace or poivrade sauce. — a I’Oseille {Sorrel Sauce).—A thin gravy sauce (demi-glace) with finely chopped blanched sorrel-leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls, etc. — Parisienne {Parisian Sauce).—A rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Serve with entrecotes, steaks or fillets of beef. — Paprika.—Veloutee or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika or red Hungarian pepper. — Pauvre Homme {Poor Man’s Sauce).—A plain brown sauce, con- taining some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce.