584 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mask the inside of eight or ten little timbales or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate with little fancifully cut pieces of gherkin and chillies, put on the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the sauce, soak the gelatine, and let it dissolve in the sauce, mix the sauce with the pounded meat, add the lemon-rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put through a fine hair sieve, when cooled a little whip the cream and add to the mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place on the ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with chopped aspic, and serve. Ortolans en Chaud-froid. Braised stuffed ortolan shaped into galantine, masked with fawn chaud-froid sauce. Cut into halves or slices, dished up, garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic jelly. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. Boned and stuffed larks, braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaud-froid sauce, and decorated with truffles in souffle cases, dished, and surmounted with a thin border of green peas. Mauviettes a 1’Aspic {Larks in Savoury Jelly). Bone from eight to twelve larks, fill them with liver farce, wrap up each lark tightly in a small piece of muslin, braise in a rich stock, and put to cool. Line as many small oblong moulds as there are larks with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, also a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Allow the decoction to set. Unwrap the larks, put one in each mould, fill up the rest with aspic, and place on the ice to set. Unmould, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Galantine de Perdreaux {Partridge Galantine). Carefully bone three or four plump partridges, and in doing this see that the skin is in no way torn. Cut open each bird length- ways down the back, and spread out on a board (skin downwards), season with salt and pepper, and spread with a layer of chicken forcemeat. Upon this place long strips of cooked ham and tongue, peeled pistachio nuts, and rather thickly-cut slices of truffles. Add another layer of forcemeat and roll up each carefully, tie up in. napkins or pudding-cloths, and cook in stock for about one and a quarter hour. When done, press the galantines between two boards, and allow to get cold. Remove the cloth, coast or mask the galantines with meat glaze or brown chaud-froid sauce (p. 144). Decorate to taste and fancy, dish up, garnish with cold aspic jelly round the base of the dish, and serve. Gradins de Faisan a la Mancelle. The meat of half a pheasant (cooked), i pint aspic, 2 truffles (large), 4 oz. chestnut puree, 4 gill brown chaud-froid sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls meat giaze, melted, .seasoning, socle of rice. Salad and set aspic for garnish. Coat eight or ten very small bouche or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate the sides and bottom of each with strips of truffle.