429 HOT MEAT ENTREES. ETC. VoI-au-Vent de Ris de Veau. I lb. pufY-pastc or Icuilletage (p. 133), i large heart sweetbread, i ox. blitter, 18 small preserved mushrooms, 2 slices ox-tongue, i gill Madeira sauce, salt and pepper, i egg. The puff-paste must be prepared with special care for this dish, and should have at least hve turns. Roll it out to about an inch in thickness, then, with the help of a dessert plate, cut the paste with the point of a sharp knife to the size required. Turn it on to a baking-sheet, brush the surface very carefully and evenly with beaten egg-yolk, mark the centre with a large round paste-cutter by making an incision about an inch from the edge of the paste. \Vith the point of a knife trace a few lines in the centre ring, and bake in an evenly heated but not too hot oven from thirty to forty minutes. When done, lift up the co\’er, and take out some of the interior of the pastry. Keep the vol-au-vent warm till wanted. \\'ash, trim, parboil, drain, and pare the sweetbread, cut it into convenient slices, fry them in the saute-pan with the butter, pour off the butter, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, etc. Add the Madeira sauce, the tongue, cut into dice or strips, and the mushrooms cut into slices. Cook this for some minutes. Fill the vol-au-vent with this preparation, place it on a hot dish, put on the lid, and serve immediately. Souffle de Veau (]^eal Souffle). I lb. lean veal, i gill bechamel sauce, i gill double cream, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, i small truffle, supreme sauce. Free the meat from all skin and gristle, cut it up very small, and pound in a mortar until quite smooth, add gradually the butter, yolks of three eggs, and one white of egg, also the sauce (cold), season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Whisk two Avhites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat up the cream a little, and mix both carefully with forcemeat. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered timbale or ;[)lain charlotte mould, with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped truflies, and three parts hll it with the preparation. Steam gently for about an hour. Unmould and serve with supreme or other good w’hite sauce. Tendrons de Veau a la Jardiniere {Tendrons of Veal). About 3 lb. neck of veal, 8 to 10 thin slices of bacon, i carrot, i onion, I bay-leaf, a few sprigs of pai'sley and thyme, i oz. butter, t pint white stock, I glass Chablis, meat glaze, salt and pepper, jardiniere of' vegetables. Free the meat from the bones, pare off the skin, cut into scallops or small hllets a little larger than oyster-shells, blanch, press, and let cool. Trim neatly into shape, season lightly with salt and pepper, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, place in a saute-pan with the butter on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, and herbs. Moisten with the stock and wine, cover with a lid, and stew' gently in the oven or on the stove for about an hour. When done, drain off the liquor into another sante-pan, remove the fat, add some meat glaze, and reduce to about half the original quantity. Put the tendrons in with the glaze, and allow’ them to get well coated. Dish up on