440 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Trim the fillet and cut into eight neatly-shaped pieces, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, insert in each a few strips of larding bacon, season with pepper and salt. Lay them on a bed of sliced carrot and onion, and the herbs, moisten with Chablis and oil, let remain to soak for about one hour or more. Cook the rice in a little stock, season, and keep till wanted. Prepare the potato croquettes, egg, crumb, fry, and keep hot. Drain the flllets on a cloth, fry in butter over a quick fire for about six minirtes, leaving them underdone. Take up the fillets, and keep hot. Pour the butter from the pan, add the sherry, reduce to half, then add the tomato sauce, and cook a few minutes. Chop the chicken meat and trirffle, moisten with a little sauce, season to taste, and fill the artichoke bottoms with this mixture. Cover the surface well with cooked spinach, previously rubbed through a sieve and sea- soned, place a tiny piece of butter on each, and put in the oven for about ten minutes to get hot through. Arrange the rice neatly on a dish, and on it dish the fillets. Garnish the sides alternately with a stuffed artichoke and a potato croquette, pour a little sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets Mignons a la Genoise. lb. fillet of beef, beef marrow, 3 to 4 large potatoes, 2 oz. butter, meat glaze, Genoise sauce. Cut the fillets into eight or nine very small rounds, about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten, pare, and season. Peel the potatoes and scoop out some small marble shapes, blanch, and finish cooking in hot fat or in the oven with a little butter. Blanch and broil the marrow. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the little fillets, fry over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Pour off the butter, brush the fillets with liquid meat glaze, dish up in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes or peas, put a small piece of cooked marrow on top of each. Arrange the potatoes in groups round the dish, sprinkle with some chopped parsley, sauce over the fillets with Genoise sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a bowl or boat. Filets de Boeuf a la Quirinal. 8 small fillets of beef (weighing about 5 ounces), i tin foie-gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 2 small carrots (young), I glass sherry, 8 champignons, i tablespoonful Lemco (Liebig Co.’s extract of beef), i gill demi-glace sauce, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes. Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them round. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Saute eight neat slices of foie-gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie-gras escalopes alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Prepare the sauce as follows : Cut the red part of the carrots, champignons, and one shallot into small dice. Cook the carrot and shallot dice in a little stock, mince finely the other shallot, and fry in butter.