THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8oo Peches a la Montrose {Peaches, Montrose Style). 6 fine ripe peaches, i-} gill syrup, i glass kirsch, i flat Genoese cake, | pint strawberry cream ice, angelica, glace cherries and whipped cream for garnish. Skin and halve the peaches, poach them in the syrup for a few minutes, add the kirsch and a little liquid carmine or cochineal to give the fruit a rose tint. Take up the peaches and drain them on a sieve. Cut out as many rounds of Genoese cake as there are halves of peaches, scoop out the centre of each a little to receive the ice. Sprinkle them with syrup, and keep on the ice till required. Put a tablespoonful of the strawberry ice in the centre of each round of cake, upon this place half a peach, and let them remain for some time in a souffle ice-box charged with crushed ice and salt. When required for table, dish up, garnish quickly with halves of cherries, strips of angelica, and whipped cream. Salade de Peches [Peach Salad). Peel carefully four to six nice ripe peaches, halve them, and cut them into slices by means of a fruit knife. Arrange the fruit in a salad bowl, dredging each layer with vanilla-flavoured sugar. Pour over a couple of small liqueur glasses of kirsch and one of maraschino liqueur, cover the bowl and place it on the ice for at least an hour, longer if possible. Dress the fruit on a compotiere or fruit dish, pour over the syrup, and serve. Peches a la Cardinal. Select some firm, not over-ripe peaches, dip them into hot water for a few seconds and carefully remove the skins. Prepare a syrup flavoured with vanilla and cook the peaches in this till tender. Take them up and place them on the ice. Reduce a little of the syrup with red-currant jelly and mix with it some fresh strawberries. Mask the peaches with this. Serve in a glass bowl placed in a deep dish filled with crushed ice. Turban de Peches a la Moderne. Ingredients for border.—3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. sifted flour, 4 oz. butter, a little grated lemon-riud or a few drops of vanilla essence, peach or apricot marmalade. Ingredients for custard.—i yolk of egg. gill milk, 2-3 lumps of sugar, 2 leaves of gelatine, i pint wine jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, peaches, apricots, or other stewed or preserved fruits, glace cherries and angelica for decoration. Beat the eggs and sugar to a creamy consistency, stir in the flour by degrees, and add the flavouring. Melt the butter and stir it in when nearly cold. Fill this into a well-buttered turban or border mould, bake in a moderate oven, place on a wire tray or sieve, and brush over with dissolved apricot or peach marmalade. Now take a similar border mould, only a little larger in size, place it on some crushed ice, mask it with a thin layer of wine jelly, and, when set, decorate the bottom with strips of angelica, trellis-work fashion, and in each cavity place a small round of glace cherries. Boil up the milk with the sugar, pour this on the egg-yolk, stir uver the fire for a moment, add the dissolved gelatine, flavour to taste, and strain. When nearly cold, and just before it sets, pour