THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 946 with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar. Place a glace cherry in the centre of each, finish with a few strips of cut angelica. Dish up and serve. Tuilles {Dessert Macaroons). Pound three-quarters of a pound of peeled almonds with four ounces of sugar, add the whites of six eggs, and work into a light paste. Flavour w’ith vanilla, and incorporate two or three stiffly- whisked w'hites of eggs. Dress on a buttered baking-sheet like macaroons, with shreds of almonds on top of each. Dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a slack oven. When done place each macaroon on oiled rolling-jflns and let cool. Tartelettes aux Oranges. 2 Jafta or St. Michael or 4 tangerine oranges, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks and i white of eggs, ^ tea.spoonful vanilla essence, about 4 lb. puff-paste (see p. 133). Peel the oranges very thinly, without cutting any of the white })art ; chop the rind finely. Cream the butter and sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs, stir in the vanilla essence, chopped orange- rind, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-juice. Add a pinch of salt to the white of egg, whisk to a stiff froth, and fold into the mixture. Roll out the jiaste, line from eight to ten tartlet-moulds, prick the paste wdth a fork, and three-parts fill them with the mixture. Put them on a baking-tin, bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, then dust with sugar, and finish baking. Turn out, cool, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, Tartelettes a la Parisienne. t lb. of sborf-crusf for bniug (see p. 133), 2 small eggs, i oz. ground almonds, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. fresb butter, i oz. patent cornflour, 2 oz. crusbed cake-crumbs, Geuoi.se or sponge cakes, i dessert.spoonful lemon-juice, t teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Roll out the paste, stamp out into rounds the size of the tartlet- moulds, line these with the paste, and prick with a fork. Cream the butter together with the sugar, work in the eggs gradually, and beat w'ell for some minutes, then add the ground almonds. Moisten the cornflour with the cream, then mix with the above. Now ^Id the cake-crumbs (previously rubbed through a sieve), the lemon-juice, cinnamon, and the ground almonds. Fill the lined tartlet-moulds with this preparation, dredge the top with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Tartelettes aux Amandes {Almond Tartlets). 41b. sbort-crust (see p. 133), ] lb. almonds (ground), lb. castor sugar, oz. cornflour, i oz. butter, a grate of nutmeg, i whole egg and i yolk, 2 table- spoonfuls raspberry or strawberry jam. Roll out the paste about one-fifth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet-moulds or patty- pans. Prick the bottom of each mould with a fork to prevent blisters in baking. Mix the cornflour with one whole and a yolk of egg. Add the sugar and work in the ground almonds, add the nutmeg and butter (| oz. melted), put about half a teaspoonful of