THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i6o of egg and the butter. Rub this throiigh a sieve and incorporate, in small quantities, with the sauce. Whisk the sauce en hain-maric whilst this is being done. Season with a pinch of cayenne, and use as directed. The sauce must not be allowed to boil, and when finished should be similar in consistency to Bcarnaise. Sauce Soubise. 2 onions, i gill white stock, \ pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), white pepper, salt, a pinch sugar. Peel the onions, parboil in salted water, strain, drain, and chop very finely. Return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the stock and cook till tender. Now add the sauce and reduce to the desired consistency, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Sauce Supreme. 1 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i pint chicken stock, i small onion, i clove, Pbay- leaf, 3 oz. fresh butter, i tablespoonful cream, i yolk of egg, p lemon. Make a white roux with the butter and flour, and dilute with the chicken stock. Boil up, add the onion, clove, half bay-leaf, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Skim well, and work in the butter, cream, yolk of egg, and the juice of half a lemon. \Vhisk well, and pass through a tammy cloth. Shrimp Sauce [Sauce crevcttes). } pint white fish sauce, pint picked shrimps, vinegar, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, i small blade of mace, i bay-leaf. Boil the shells and heaxls of the shrimps in enough vinegar to cover : to this add a small blade of mace and a bay-leaf. Strain the liquor into the sauce, add the picked shrimps, and boil up. Finish with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and serve with boiled or grilled fish. Sauce Tartare, 2 yolks of eggs, cayenne, mustard, i pint salad oil, P gill tarragon vinegar, bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped gherkins, i tablespoon- ful of chopped capers, i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of mixed tarragon and chervil finely chopped. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice, add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; stir well together, and add, gradually, the salad oil and tarragon vinegar. When the sauce is smooth and creamy stir in a good tablespoonful of cold bechamel (p. 142) or veloutee (p. 161) sauce, add the gherkins, capers, parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, etc., until the sauce is finished, as it is likely to cause the sauce to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added if the sauce is found too thick. Sauce Tomate [Tomato Sauce). i-|- pint stock, I oz. streaky bacon, i oz. butter, i small onion finely chopped, I lb. tomatoes, i oz. flour, peppercorns, herbs, parsley, i oz. fresh butter, castor sugar. Put into a stewpan the butter and onion, fry a little, and add the tomatoes cut into slices. Stir over the fire a little longer, then