DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENEREes (HOT). 263 thin collops of lobster, garnished with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Grenadins de Saumon a la Venitienne.—Larded hllets of salmon, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped fried bread croutons, sauced over with sauce Venitienne. Hiire de Saumon a la Provencale. —Braised head-piece of salmon garnished with stoned parboilecl olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, soitpcon of garlic, and lemon-juice. Paupiettes de Saumon aux Huitres (Paupiet/es of Salmon with Oysters).— Rolled fillets of salmon stuffed with a salpicon of oysters, braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — a la Regence {Salmon Paupiettes, Regent Style).—Rolled fillets of salmon, stuffed and braised. Served with Periguenx sauce. TRUITE—TROUT. Truites a la Cambaceres. 2 small trout, | lb. lean bacon, small bunch of herbs and parsley, i gill white wine, i- pint white stock, 1 oz. butter, i-t gill well-reduced espagnole (p. 148), 8 olives stuffed, i large "truffle, 8 mushrooms, tleurons, salt, pepper, femon-j nice. Clean and wash the fish, put it on a bed of slices of bacon, herbs, and parsley, in a braising or saute-pan, moisten with wine and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done lift out the fish carefully and dish up, reduce the liquor, skim and strain, add sauce and reduce again. Flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice, finish with half an ounce of fresh butter, warm up the garnish—i.e., the slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, and stuffed olives—in a little stock or sauce. Garnisli the dish tastefully with the above, sauce over carefully, put a few tleurons round the dish, and serve. Petites Truites a la Divonnaise, 4 small river trout, 4 -|-iuch-thick slices of bread, 3 oz. butter, -t gill Chablis or Sautenie, I gill fish stock, 18 small button onions, 12 champignons, oz. meat glaze, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 tablespoonfuls Genoise (p. 149) or brown fish sauce (p. 144), seasoning. Clean the fish, and trim it. Butter the slices of bread and bake them till light brown in the oven. Place the baked bread in a buttered saute-pan, on each slice place a trout, season with pepper and salt, and put a few tiny bits of butter on top of each fish. Moisten with the wine and fish stock, cover with a buttered paper and bake in a brisk oven till done. Peel the onions, fry them a golden brown in butter, add some gravy, and cook and glaze them in the oven. Use the heads of mushrooms only, heat them up separately in a little stock or gravy. Now take up the trout, arrange them in an oblong dish, and keep hot. Into a stewpan put two pieces of the bread and the liquor of the fish, add the remainder of butter, break up the bread with a whisk, add the sauce and the meat glaze. Stir the whole over the fire, season to taste, and cook