THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 922 (buttered), season with a pinch of pepper, strew over a small quan- tity of finely shredded lettuce or small cress, or some thin slices of ripe tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper, cover each with a plainly-buttered slice of bread, press lightly, trim neatly, and cut into conveniently-shaped portions. Dress on a dish and garnish tastefully. Salmon and Lobster Sandwiches. 12 thinlv-cut slices of bread and butter, 3 oz. of cold salmon, 2 oz. lobster (free from bone), 2 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise (p. 152), 2 French gherkins, I teaspoonfnl of anchovy paste, i tablespoonfnl double cream, salt and pepper. Pound the salmon and lobster in a mortar, add the mayonnaise and anchovy paste, chop finely the gherkins and add also, mix well and work in the cream. Season with salt and pepper. Spread the buttered sides of all the slices of bread rather thickly with this preparation, and place in twos one on top of the other (spread sides together, of course). Take a cutlet cutter, plain or fluted, stamp out carefully as many cutlet shapes as possible, dress them in a circle on a dish with folded napkin or lace paper, pointed end up. Fill up the centre with a plain salad. Thinly-sliced tomatoes or shredded celery makes a nice change, dressed in the centre. Anchovy Sandwiches. Wipe and bone six to twelve gorgona anchovies, pound them, mix with three to four hard-boiled yolks of eggs and an ounce of bntter. Season with paprika pepper and chopped parsley. Spread between thin slices of bread and butter, or between water biscuits or triscuits. Caviare Sandwiches. Prepare some thinly-cut slices of brown or white bread, mix a little butter with a few drops of lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and butter the bread with this. Spread each slice with hygienic caviare or else fresh Russian caviare, strew over with very little finely chopped washed shallots, place together in the usual manner, press lightly, cut into triangles or crescent shapes, decorate with creamed butter tinted with paprika or krona pepper or left plain, dish up in rows or in a circle, garnish with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of lemon, and serve. Game Sandwiches. Prepare several slices of toasted bread, slit each slice in two, have ready some stiffly-prepared tartare or remoulade sance, put a thin layer on the cut sides of the toast, lay between finely shredded celery thin slices of cooked game (pheasant, partridge, or other bird). Press together, trim the edges, and cut into fingers. Dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of watercress and quarters of lemon. Chicken Sandwiches. Remove the breast of a chicken (cooked, roast or boiled), and cut into thin slices. Have ready some thinly-cut slices of bread slightly buttered, spread with stiff mayonnaise ; place the chicken between