30 s DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). with a little beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Serve the dish as soon as it leaves the oven. Huitres a la Salamandre {Breaded Oysters). 1 doz. large Colchester or Whitstable oysters, supreme sauce (p. 160), parmesan cheese, butter, breadcrumbs, lemon-juice, cayenne. Take the oysters from the shells and jint them in a fireproof saucepan with their liquor and a few drops of lemon-juice, and let them get hot, but not boiling. Remove from the fire and let them get cold, then drain them on a cloth, and remove the beards, \\kash the upper shell of each oyster, let dry, and place them in a baking- tin. Put a teaspoonful of supreme (p. 160) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce in each shell, place the oyster upon this, cover with more sauce, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne or Nepanl pepper. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a little oiled butter. Brown the surface by means of a salamander or sharp oven, dish up, and send to the table immediately. Fricassee d’Huitres {White Oyster Stew). 2 doz. large oysters, 2I- oz. butter, J oz. flour, i gill white stock, f- gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful of lemon-juice, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, 10 small heart-shaped slices of fried bread. Open the oysters, preserve the liquor, remove the beards, put the oysters into a stewpan, add one ounce of butter, a little oyster liquor, a pinch of salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Stir over the fire for two minutes, and strain. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning, dilute with the liquor from the oysters, the remainder of the oyster liquor and the stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for about ten minutes. Add the cream, yolks of eggs, lemon-juice, and stir over the fire a few seconds longer, so as to bind the yolks. Pass the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, pour it in a saute- pan with the oysters, heat thoroughly, but on no account allow it to boil. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with croCites of fried bread and a few sprigs of })arsley Quenelles aux Huitres {Oyster Quenelles). 18 large oysters, 4 gill bechamel sauce (p. 142). i lb. raw white fish, 2j oz. butter, 4 oz. panade, yolks of 3 eggs. J gill cream, 4- lemon, meat glaze, salt, pepper, cayenne, aromatic seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Free the fish from skin and bones, pound in a mortar till smooth, add two yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, and the panade, season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning. Work in about two tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters (preserve the liquor), butter eight small quenelle moulds, line well with the quenelle mixture, place an oyster in the centre of each, and fill up with the same. Put them in a saute-pan with a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Shape a dozen small quenelles (small egg or ball shapes), poach them in a little stock, put them with the re- mainder of the oysters (previously cut in dice) in a small stewpan, u