BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. 899 Ham a la Minute. Cut some raw ham into slices, fry them nicely with butter in a saute-pan over a quick lire, pour off the fat, and add a small glass of marsala or slrerry wine, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of finely chopped mushrooms. Let this cook quickly for a few minutes, add a tablespoonful or more of brown sauce and a few drops of liquid meat glaze. Re-heat, dish up, garnish with small mushroom heads, and serve. Frosted Ham {Jambon a la Neige). 5 oz. of lean ham, 4 eggs, | gill milk or cream, teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs, I- oz. butter, a pinch of aromatic spice, and a pinch of Colman’s mustard. Chop the ham very tine, mix it with the savoury herbs, spice, and mustard, beat up two whole eggs and two }a:)lks of eggs. When well beaten, add the milk or cream and all but a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, melt the butter, grease a deep round plated dish with same, and put the remainder with the mixture. Sjtrinkle the buttered part of the dish with a few brown breadcrumbs, put the mixture in the disli, and place in a moderate oven for ten minutes (leave long enough to set). Beat up the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, pile it on the dish, cover it over, and bake for another five minutes. Brain Fritters (Beignds de Cervelles). Thoroughly wash one or more calf’s or pig’s brains, removing the blood ancl skin. Put them in a stew-pan with sufficient water to cover, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a few peppercorns, half an onion, and a bouquet-garni. Boil for five minutes, then take out the brains, place in cold water, and drain. Cut them iuto neat pieces, season with jieifper, salt, one tablespoonful of oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready some frying batter, dip each piece into this, and drop into hot fat ; fry a golden colour, drain, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with pifluante sauce. Beef Fritters [Beignets deBceuf). 10 oz. of cold beef, 3 oz. of flour, gill of milk, 2 oz. of butter, i egg, pepper and salt, frying-fat, parsley. Prepare a nice light batter as follows : sift the flour into a basin, stir in the milk, the yolk of egg, and the butter (previously warmed). Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, add a pinch of salt and mix with the batter, which must be well worked before the beaten white is added. Chop the beef very fine, season it a little with pepper and salt, and mix with the batter. Have the fat for frying very hot, drop in the mixture in small quantities with a tablespoon, and fry a nice light brown. Drain the fritters on a. cloth, dish them up in a pile and garnish with parsley which has been picked, washed, drained, and fried, and serve quickly, as the fritters become heavy if left standing.