nORS-D’CEU VRE (A FPERISERS). 249 and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Should the mi.xture be found too stiff, add a little white sauce (cold) before it is passed through the sieve. Clean the mortar and pound a little lobster coral till smooth, add this to the mayonnaise ; failing this, add a few drops of liquid carmine, so as to impart a deep pink colour. Mi.x the aspic last of all—fhis will form the sauce for coating. Spread the prepared puree betweeu the slices of buttered bread, and press them a little. Stamp out as many rounds as possible (about the size of a live-shilling piece). Mask these care- fully with the prepared sauce. When nearly set, decorate them tastefully with fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled white of egg, gherkin, and truffle slices. Dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a dish, put a handful of crisp salad in fhe cenfre, and serve. Tartines a la Lucullus. J lb. puff paste, parmesan cheese, anchovy paste, and Spanish olives. Give the paste three consecutive turns, sprinkle it each turn with finely grated parmesan cheese. Roll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch fhick, and cnt in two crossways. Mix a tablespooniul of anchovy paste with sufflcient anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares or oblong strips, place on a baking sheet, prick the surface of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked put aside to cook In the meantime pound two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a tablespoonful of veloutee or bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a hire sieve, and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine. Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy hllet or lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of cornichons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. Tartines de Caviar en Chaud-froid. A small jar Russian caviare, i finely chopped shallot, brown bread, butter, 1 oz. meat glaze, 2 tablespoonfuls rich brown sauce, aspic jelly, i lemon, 2 taI)lespoonfuls doulile cream, dressed salad for garnish. Put the caviare into a basin, add a hnely chopped shallot, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, butter them, and spread one side with the prepared caviare, close up two slices and press together tightly. Stamp out some rounds with a pastry- cutter an inch and a half in diameter. Dissolve the meat glaze in the brown sauce, add a gill of aspic jelly and a few drops of caramel, and pass through a hue strainer. When cooling, mask thickly one side of each sandwich with this sauce. Dissolve a gill of aspic jelly, and add two tablespoonfuls of double cream and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it cool a little, and mask the other sides of the