428 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Escalopes de Ris de Veau a la Parmentier [Sweetbyead Cidlcts with Potato Croquettes). I pair of sweetbreads, gill white sauce, bechamel or allemande, i gill tomato sauce, 2 tablespooiifuls finely-chopped cooked lean ham, i dessert- spoonful finely chopped truffles, i dessertspoonful finely chopped preserved mushrooms, 3 eggs, breadcrumbs, lard or butter for frying. For cro- quettes : I lb. mashed potatoes, i teaspoonful parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Wash, blanch, cook, and drain the sweetbreads, and cut them into neat scallops or cutlets. Put the white sauce in a stewpan, add the chopped ham, truffles, and mushrooms, also a couple of tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and spread on a dish to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture over each slice of sweetbread, egg and crumb them twice, and shape them neatly. Fry them in a hot lard or clarified butter a golden brown, drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a border. Have the Parmentier croquettes ready, and range them in the centre of the dish, pour the previously heated tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Parmentier Potato Croquettes. Put the mashed potatoes in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, when hot add the cream and chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly stir in one or two yolks of eggs, and allow to bind. Spread the mixture on a dish, when cold shape into small balls, egg and crumb them, fry in hot fat a light colour, and drain. Rouladines de Veau {Small Veal Rolls). Cut 2lb. of lean veal (fillet to cushion part) into 8 to 10 thin slices, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim them, and season with salt and pepper. Have ready a mixture of finely-chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, butter, and aromatic spice. Spread one side of the veal slices with this, upon this place a thin slice of streaky bacon, roll up each as neatly as possible, and fasten on to skewers. Heat about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and fry the rolls rather quickly. Pour off the butter, add demi-glace sauce or rich gravy to cover the bottom of the pan, place a piece of buttered paper on top, and finish cooking in the oven. Allow about twenty minutes for this, and baste frequently. Serve in a deep entree dish, and garnish with cubes of fried potatoes and groups of green peas or French beans. Rouelles de Veau ( Veal Cubes, Larded). Cut id lb. of lean veal into even-sized cube shapes, insert a few strips of larding bacon in each cube. Melt 2 oz. butter in a saute- pan, put in the meat, fry over a quick fire for a few minutes, then add 6 chopped mushrooms, 2 finely chopped shallots, and blend together. Sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour, stir, and moisten with a gill of beef stock or a’ glass of Chablis, bring to the boil, simmer for twenty minutes, season with salt and pepper, add chopped parsley, half gill of cream, and two yolks of eggs. Keep on the hot stove for another twenty minutes, and serve.