449 Hot MEAT ENTRliES, ETC. Hachis de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise {Beef Hash, Bourgeoise Style). 1 lb. cold beef (roast sirloin, rib or top side), 4 oz. preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 2 finely chopped shallots, i oz. butter, i gill demi-glace sauce. 4 gill tomato puree, seasoning, 4 potatoes scooped out in marble shapes, parboiled, and fried in butter. Cut the meat into neat square slices about an inch in size, cut the mushrooms into thin slices, and the ham into dice. Fry the shallots in the butter without browning, then add the ham, fry a little, then the mushrooms, lastly add the meat, and stir the whole carefully over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten with the brown sauce and tomato puree, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook slowly for half an hour without letting it boil. Arrange the hash in the centre of a hot dish, surround it with the fried potatoes, and serve. Saute de Boeuf a la Zeppelin. Slice thinly i lb. of fillet of beef, and toss them in 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. Season with salt, pepper, and paprika ; then add 3 crushed rij)e tomatoes, J a small onion, \ eeled and chopped, i gill beef stock, I gill tomato sauce, and a sliced German gherkin (Salz Gurke). Put all in a casserole, cover, and cook in the oven for about forty minutes. Skim the top carefully before serving, and send to table in the casserole dish, and serve hot. Tripe braise a la Fermiere {Braised and Stuffed Tripe). Procure about iV lb. of tripe, wash and wipe it thoroughly, and blanch it in the usual way. Drain, and spread it out on a board, cut it into even-size oblong strips, 2-t by 4 inches. Prepare a light mixture as stuffing, consisting of 3 tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped beef suet, 2 chopped shallots, I dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, seasoning, and half a beaten egg. Moisten further, if necessary, with a little stock. Spread each slice of tripe with this stuffing, and upon this place a very thin slice of streaky bacon. Roll up each carefully, and tie with a piece of thin string. Place these rolls in a stewpan upon a bed of mirepoix, that is, pieces of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and a small bouquet garni ; moisten with a pint of brown stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour. Then pour off the liquor, and blend it with half a pint of piquante sauce, strain it over the tripe, and again cook it for twenty or thirty minutes longer. Take up the tripe, remove the string, and dish up neatly on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and send to table. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF BEEF. Beefsteaks a I’Anglaise.—Small steaks cut off the sirloin or tenderloin of beef, pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, and broiled. Dished up with parsley butter on each, garnished with small round chipped }X)tatoes. — a la Bardoux.—Thinly-cut round fillet steaks, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, finely chopped beef- marrow and parsley, salt and pepper. Fried briskly in butter, and served with maitre d’hotel sauce. FF