762 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. as possible, shape the sides with the blade of a knife, and make a deep incision in the centre. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dust with sugar, and serve. Omelette soufflee en Surprise. A thin piece of Genoise pastry for foundation, the whites of 3 eggs, i yolk of egg, 2 oz. fine castor sugar, vanilla flavour, i pint cream or water ice. Trim the Genoise pastry to an oval or round shape, according to the shape of dish to be used. Scoop out the centre and fix it on the dish. Cream the yolk of egg with one ounce and a half of sugar, add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and whisk them in an egg-bowl till quite stiff. Add the flavouring essence or vanilla sugar to the creamed egg-yolk, and work in gradually the stiff whites of eggs. The ice must be well frozen and placed in the cavity of the Genoise. Cover completely with the above prepara- tion, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, garnish with angelica strips and glace cherries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a fierce oven for four to five minutes. Serve at once. Much of the success of this dish depends upon the swiftness of the operator. Omelette SoufUee a la Stephanie. Prepare a souffle mixture with 3 egg-yolks, i oz. vanilla sugar, and 6 whites of eggs. Cut out an oval shape of Genoise cake hollowed out in the centre, sprinkle it with a little kirsch, and fix it on a dish by means of a little marmalade or batter. Fill the centre of the cake shape with peach cream ice, mixed with slices of fresh peaches, cover the whole with the souffle mixture, dredge with icing sugar, and bake in a sharp oven to a golden colour. Serve the omelet immediately it leaves the oven. Omelette soufflee au Chocolat. Proceed the same as directed in “ Omelette Soufflee,” omitting the cornflour, and add in its place a tablet of grated chocolate (unsweetened preferred). Bake as directed, and serve as soon as it leaves the oven. Sabot d’Oranges au Curasao. Peel two small seedless oranges, remove the white pith, cut them into slices crossways, and cook them in syrup flavoured with cura^oa for about ten minutes. Select about two dozen of the best slices, drain them on a sieve, with these line the bottom of a plain charlotte mould, previously coated with caramel sugar. Three-parts fill up the mould with layers of thin slices of Genoise or %ponge cake, and thin slices of apple, and between each layer spread a little apple puree flavoured with ground cinnamon and rum. Have ready the following preparation : Boil np \ pint of milk, sweetened with \ oz. sugar, and stir in J- oz. cornflour, pre- viously blended with a little cream, cook for ten minutes whilst stirring, then whisk in four egg-yolks and a little vanilla flavouring. Allow to cool, and add the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs and pour into the mould, and steam or bake for three quarters of ah hour in a fairly hot oven. Serve hot, with orange syrup made with