io6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. be said of butter liaisons. By this process a quantity of cold fresh butter is added in small bits to sauces the moment they are taken off the fire, they are then stirred with a whisk and served without being re-heated. Kneaded Butter Liaisons.—To incorporate or knead as much flour into butter as it will absorb to form a soft paste, and to mix it in small portions into a hot, thin sauce, stirring it constantly until all the butter is melted, constitutes what is called a kneaded butter liaison. Blood Liaison.—This is mostly used with game and poultry entree sauces. It is made by reserving the blood of poultry or game, to which is added a little vinegar to prevent it from coagu- lating ; it is then strained through a line sieve, and stirred gradually into sauces a few minutes before serving. Arrowroot, Cornflour, etc.. Liaison.—Arrowroot, cornflour, potato- flour, fecule or other similar farinaceous preparations are frequently used for thickening sauces. Blend one or the other of these with a little milk, cold stock or water, pour it through a strainer into boiling liquid, stir continually until it boils, then simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes longer. Mirepoix.—Although the word “ mirepoix ” is a common term in culinary matters, it does not in the least imply or make clear what it constitutes. It is one of the many words which the gastro- nomic authorities ought to abolish, and substitute a more appro- priate term that conveys clearly the meaning of the composition. History tells us that Mirepoix was a duke whose wife, being a clever cook, became a favourite with Louis XV. I, however, fail to see what this has to do with this culinary adjunct used in the preparation of sauces and soups, braises and stews. To come to the point, let me explain that a mirepoix is nothing else than an essence or extract of meat and vegetables, one of the most useful preparations to impart flavour of exquisite richness to various kinds of sauces, soups, and other culinary preparations. To make a mirepoix properly, use the following ingredients ; I lb. bacon (or ham) cut into small pieces 1 carrot (slices) 2 bay-leaves A sprig of thyme 2 small onions (sliced) A clove of garlic 2 shallots Fry these carefully without actually browning, and the mirepoix is made. It will afterwards, according to requirements, be diluted and boiled up with wine—sherry, chablis, sauterne or claret— which will be added to stock or to sauce to simmer in it and to give it the desired flavour. Many chefs do not consider a mirepoix complete without a certain quantity of veal, lean meat, being added. This I maintain to be waste, as the stock employed should contain the necessary flavour of meat needed. The addition of bacon or ham has, on