S73 AFTER-DINNER SA VO DRIES. then drain, dip in beaten egg, and crnmb all over, fry them a golden colour in hot fat and drain. Pound the anchovy fillets, the yolks of eggs (hard-boiled), and a small handfnl of cleaned small cress when line ; add the butter and mustard, season with a pinch of pepper, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the cavities of the croustades with this puree, place one or two slices of preserved lax on top of each, garnish with hard-boiled white of egg and gherkins in a tasty style, heat up quickly, and serve. Brioches a la Rochefort. For Savarin Paste.— i lb. Hour, oz. yeast, 2 egg-yolks, 2 gills milk, i oz. parmesan cheese grated, i pinch cayenne, salt ; | lb. rice, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, 4 oz. lioquefort cheese, 1 small terrine toie-gras, i gill beef stock, I gill tomato puree, salt, mustard, and paprika. Prepare a savoury savarin paste with the first-named ingredients, when this has sufficiently risen, fill up six to ten small buttered bouche moulds, and let tliem prove for ten minutes, then bake in a fairly hot oven for ab 0 u t t w e n t y m i n u te s. U nm o u 1 d the £ ;hapes as soon as baked, 1e t t h em cool a 1 i 111 e, then scoop out the cen t re of each, and keep hot. Clean the rice, toss it in a stew-pan in the butter ; add the stock and tomato puree, and season with salt, paprika, and mustard to taste. Chop the truffles coarsely, and the cheese finely; add both to the rice, and stir well, let it cook in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Free the foie-gras from fat,' and cut into eight to ten rounds about if- inches in diameter. Chop up the trimmings, and mix with the rice mixture. Heat up the foie-gras, place a slice on top of each brioche croustade, sur- mounted with a slice of truffle. Glaze over with liquefied meat glaze. Dish up in a circle, and put the remainder of the savoury mixtirre in centre of dish. Serve hot. Zephires a la Parmentier. it lb. potato puree, 4 eggs, it oz. butter, i oz. potato flour, i oz. panurette or breadcrumbs, i oz. gruyere or parmesan (grated), 2 oz. lean cooked ham, I oz. cooked game or poultry, 2 preserved mushrooms, t tcaspoouful mi.\ed mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls E^pagnole or brown sauce, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put the mashed potatoes with an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir until hot, season with a little pepper and salt, bind with two