436 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. vegetables with some carrots, turnips, cut with a vegetable scoop, together with some French beans and peas, cook separately in salted water, strain, moisten with bechamel sauce, and season to taste. Pile the macedoine on the artichoke bottoms, and place them on a saute-pan in the oven to get hot. Cook the egg-plants, cut into thick slices when cold, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Have ready some cooked rice, nicely seasoned, put a layer of the rice in the centre of an oblong dish, dress the hllets neatly on this, surround with lilled artichoke bottoms and fried egg-plant. Pour a little well-reduced sauce over the fillets, and serve the remainder separately. This dish can be served as remove or joint by leaving the fillet whole. Coeurs de Filets de Boeuf a la Careme. Cut six to eight half-inch-thick slices from a fillet of beef (middle cut), flatten them a little, trim into round shapes) and season with salt and pepper. With the thin blade of a knife make an incision sufficiently large to receive a slice of truffled foie-gras pate. Heat about one and a half ounces of butter in a sautffipan, put in the fillets and saute them over a cjuick fire. At the end of this process add a finely-chopped shallot and lightly fry. Have ready a pint of cooked asparagus points, finished in a little butter and nicely seasoned, also about a gill of perigord sauce. Dress the fillets on croutes in a circle in the centi'e of a round dish, sauce over carefully with perigord sauce, put the asparagus points in the centre of the dish, and serve. Filets de Boeuf a la Chateaubriand. 3 double fillets, each weighing about i6 oz., sweet oil, Parisienne potatoes, maitre d’hotel butter, Chateaubriand sauce, seasoning. The name Chateaubriand is given to a double fillet, cut from the centre of a fillet of beef, the weight varying from sixteen to twenty ounces. Trim and pare the fillets neatly, and flatten slightly so that each is about three-quarters of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, baste freely with oil, and broil over a slow but regular fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to taste— if wanted rare sixteen minutes will suffice. Place them on a hot dish and serve with maitre d’hotel butter, or surround with “ Parisienne potatoes,” and pour Chateaubriand sauce over the meat, and serve. The latter is the correct v\my if the above-named dish is required. A plain Chateaubriand is served with maitre d’hotel butter only. Filets de Bcsuf a la Colbert. About 2 lb. fillet of beef, 3 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet oil (Provence), 3 shallots, I' glass Marsala or sherry wine, i4gill Espagnole sauce, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne or paprika, Parisienne potatoes, fried bread croutes. Trim and pare the piece of fillet, cut it crossways into about eight slices, flatten them slightly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the oil, when hot put in the small fillets and fry over a brisk fire for a few minutes. They must be fried quickly on both sides, and must be underdone.