HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 767 Take up and drain the fritters. Dredge tliem with castor or icing sugar, and dish nj). Serve hot with a sance-boat full of cherry syrnp or sauce to be handed round along with the dish. Beignets a la Milanaise {Milanese Fritters). Put into a stew-pan half a pint of milk, one ounce of loaf sugar, and half a vanilla pod, and boil up. Stir in whilst boiling two ounces of semolina, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add half an ounce of fresh butter, and cook slovvdy for twenty minutes. Take out the vanilla, add two yolks of eggs, i oz. chopped almonds, and the finely grated rind of half a lemon, re-heat and spread the mixture on to a buttered tin. Let it cool, stamp out into rings about the size of apple rings, brush over with liquid ajnicot jam mixed with a little maraschino. Dij) the rings thus prepared into a light frying batter, and fry a golden brown in clarified butter. Take up, drain' the fritters, dish up, dredge with icing sugar, and serve with hot chocolate sauce. Beignets a la Polonaise {Polish Fritters). Make ten to twelve thin pancakes in the usual manner. S]>read one side of each with a thin layer of apricot marmalade, roll up, cut off the ends, and divide in two. Egg each piece and I'oll in a mixture of breadcrumbs and crushed macaroons. Fry them in deep fat, clarified lard or butter for preference, to a golden colour, take up, drain, sprinkle with castor sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot or cold. Beignets souffles a la Vanille ( Vanilla Fritters). Prepare some choux-paste, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of \-anilla essence. Have ready some hot lard 0 r clarified butter, drop in the paste with a dessert or tea spoon, fry (rather slowly at first) until a nice golden colour is obtained. Drain well, dredge with castor or icing sugar, and serve hot. Beignets a la Tyrolienne, Prepare a choux-paste mixture (p. 135), put it in a forcing-bag with a star tube or pipe, and force out some round or oblong shapes on to an oiled baking-sheet. Drop these into hot fat and fry a golden colour. Drain, brush over with apricot marmalade.