166 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Fermiere [Farmhouse Sauce).—A French sauce, consisting of espagnole sauce, with hnely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. — Flamande [Flemish Sauce).—Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thickened with yolks of eggs, and flavoured with prepared mustard. — Fleurette.—A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter, and fleurette (this is the name applied to the first skimming of milk, which is very sweet) ; the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. — Financiere [Financiere Sauce).—A very rich brown sauce (madere), well reduced with sherry, meat extract, and mushroom liquor. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cocks’ combs, etc., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. — Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. — Fenouil [Fennel Sauce).—A white sauce mixed with finely chopped fennel. Served with boiled or grilled fish. — Genevoise [Geneva Sauce).—A brown fish sauce, flavoured with madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence ; and finished with fresh butter liaison. — Gibier [Game Sauce).—A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game essence (fumet de gibier) reduced with red wine. Gloucester Sauce.—A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayon- naise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarragon, French mustard, and cayenne pepper. Gooseberry Sauce [Groseille Verte).—Gooseberry puree, blended with syi'up, with or without cream, served with grilled mackerel or roast goose. Sauce Gourmet—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns, arul truffles. — Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pejjper. — Garibaldi.—A brown sauce for meat or fish, flavoured with a sus- picion of pounded garlic, capers, curry powder, mustard, anchovy paste, and chilli vinegar. (Careful blending of flavours essential.) — Generate.—A rich brown sauce made with madeira or demi-glace as foundation, lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange-rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured, with a suspicion of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt, and pepper. (Careful blending of flavours essential.) — Granville.—White wine sauce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps, and truffles. — Gribiche.—Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs. — Hachis or Hachee.—Brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, capers, and gherkins.