SALADES—SALADS. 705 Salade Mercedes [Endive and Celery Salad). Trim and wash two Belgian endives, which should be quite white. Cut the white portion of a head of celery previously washed and trimmed into julienne strips, put them in a basin of cold water, well flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut likewise into julienne strips one cooked beetroot, and two-three truffles. Make a dressing as follows : Rub the yolk of an egg through a fine sieve, and add to it a teaspoonful of chopped chervil, half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon. Stir in three tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, and the strained juice of two lemons. Mix well, adding a good pinch of krona pepper, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Season the endive lightly with this, and dress it in the centre of a dome-shaped salad bowl, cover it with thin slices of tomato peeled and freed from seeds. Arrange the celery (well drained), beetroot, and truffle in neat little groups round the salad to form a border. Serve the salad dressing separately in a boat. Salade a la Meuniere [Oyster and Celery Salad). 1 dozen large oysters, i large head white celery, gill cream, \ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 teaspoonful made mustard, h oz. butter, salt, cayenne pepper, i tablespoonful mayonnaise or tartare sauce, i hard- boiled egg, parsley. Beard the oysters, cut them into quarters, and blanch in their own liquor without allowing them to boil. Heat up the cream, vinegar, and butter, add the mustard, stir until quite hot, then add the egg-yolks, and stir and cook gently, until the liaison is formed. Put in the oysters, heat again, and set on the side to get cool. Wash and trim the celery, shred the white portion and put in a bowl, season to taste with salt and cayenne, add a little of the dressing from the oysters and the mayonnaise or tartare sauce, then mix in the oysters, etc., mingle gently the whole, and dish up in a salad bowl. Pile up high, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and garnish tastefully with slices of hard-boiled egg. Salade Mignonne. 2 medium-sized potatoes boiled in their jackets, i head celer\', 3- pint preserved small button mushrooms (those preserved in white vinegar are best adapted), pint cooked green peas, pint pickled button onions, 2 small cabbage lettuces, a few sprigs of chry^santhemum bloom and blos- soms (shredded very finely), about a gill of stiff mayonnaise sauce, salt and pepper. Peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized small dice, wash the celery, and cut the white part into fine shreds, pare the stalks from the mushrooms (champignons) and cut them in halves, leaving out a few for garnish ; halve the pickled onions, trim and wash the lettuces, reserve the hearts for garnish, and tear the remainder into small pieces, put these, together with the potatoes, celery, onions, mushrooms, and green peas, in a basin, season with salt and pepper according to taste, and mix with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to flavour the salad. Dress neatly in a salad bowl, pile up high or YY