870 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. rice or peas, and the crusts on a baking-tin. Cut the salmon into tine shreds. Melt the butter in a small saute-pan, put in the shallot, and fry a light brown, then add the salmon or slices of lax, toss over the fire, taking care not to mash up the fish. Season with a good pinch of curry powder and a pinch of cayenne. Shake well and mix in the parsley. Fill up the crusts with this, bake for a few minutes, and serve. Duchesses de Lax a la Haakon. Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing-bag with plain tube and force out on to a greased baking-sheet 10-12 little bee-hive shaped heaps. Bake them in a fairly hot oven. Scoop out the soft part from the bottom, whilst hot, and let cool. Cut into"fine shreds the contents of i tin of lax or lb. of smoked salmon. Mix'"with finely shredded cucumber and a little mayonnaise sauce, and fill the little choux with this. Keep them on the ice, and mask over with semi-liquid aspic. Dish up, garnish with finely shredded celery and endive, and serve. Filets de Lax a la Diable {Devilled Lax). I tin of lax, i oz. butter, i saltspoonful of curry powder, a pinch of cayenne, file yolk of a hard-boiled egg, brown bread, parsley, watercress, and lobster coral. Cut about six slices of stale brown bread about half an inch thick, toast them nicely, and trim. Mix the butter and yolk of egg into a puree, add curry and cayenne, and spread the toast with this mixture. Open a tin of lax, lay as many of the fillets as are required in a cloth to drain. Range the fillets on the pieces of toast so as to completely cover them, put them on a buttered tin, cover with a piece of buttered paper, place them in a hot oven for five minutes. Cut them into fingers, sprinkle each alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral, and dish up. Garnish with sprigs of watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar, and serve. Losanges a la Baltimore. r lb. flour (sifted), 5 oz. buffer, 2 oz. parmesaii or gruyere cheese, i egg, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, a teaspooiiful cream, a little milk, i oz. anchovy paste, I tin preserved lax.