THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 862 the prepared puree, place the foie-gras upon this. Dish up and garnish with a few sprigs of freshly-gathered watercress. This dish may be served hot or cold. Croutes de Foie de Volaille {Chicken Liver Cronies). Cliicken livers, 6 to 8 thin slices of bacon, i oz. butter, cayenne, 6 to 8 oval- shaped croutes of fried or toasted bread, i saltspoonful mustard, meat glaze. Clean the livers, cut them in halves, sprinkle with pepper, roll each piece in a thin slice of bacon, broil over a brisk coal fire. Mix the butter with the mustard and a pinch of cayenne, spread the croCites with this, dish up, and place the broiled liver and bacon on the croutes, brush over with liquid meat glaze, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly. Croutes au Jambon {Ham Croutes). 8 or 9 fried bread croutes, 6 to 8 oz. cooked ham, | oz. butter, i shallot, 2 yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, gill cream. Cut some slices of stale bread, stamp out round or oval shapes by means of a paste-cutter, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Fry a finely chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, put in the ham, finely chopped, and stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolks of eggs and the cream, season with pepper, and stir until it thickens. Pour about a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the croutes, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. Croutes a la Jubilee. Oval croutes of fried bread, spread over with puree of lobster, with a bearded oyster on top of each, and glazed in a sharp oven. Croutes a la Prince de Galles. These are small croustade shapes of fried bread, hollowed out and filled with hot cheese cream flavoured with curry. Croutes a la St. Georges. t dried haddock, \ pint milk, 2 eggs, i shallot, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. butter, brown bread, seasoning. Scald the fish, remove the skin and bones, break up the flesh into very small pieces, and put it in a saute-pan with the milk. Cook till tender, take up the fish, drain, and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the shallot (peeled and finely chopped) and the parsley ; blend a little, but do not let it get brown, then add the fish and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs, add about a couple of tablespoonfuls of the milk the fish was cooked in, season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir this into the pan containing the fish ; when it commences to set, remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly-shaped croutes of fried brown bread, dress the mixture upon these ; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. Croutes de Merluche fume {Smoked Haddock on Toast). Smoked haddock minced, mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg-yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked.