44 r HOT MEAT ENTREES. ETC. add the wine and vegetable dice, cover, and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half a tablespoonful of Lemco. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon-juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze the slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole carefully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes. Coeurs de Filets de Bceuf a la Rossini. About 21- lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, i truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, gill Lucca oii, i shallot, 2 oz. foie-gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely- chopped shallot in butter, put in the liver, toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie-gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve. Pare the fillet, cirt it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. \Mren hot put in the fillets, cook over a quick fire, leaving them rather nnderdone ; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most, and season with salt and pepper. Divide the farce equally, spread a portion on top of each fillet, place them on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and'serve with demi- glace sauce. Filets Mignons a la Rothschild. 2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, a little meat glaze, a tablespoonful of finely grated horse-radish, h gill cream, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, bread- crumbs, I sour cooking-apple, clarified butter for frying purposes, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, tomato sauce. Trim the fillet of beef and cut crossways six to eight even-sized slices, pare them neatly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan, and fry the fillets on both sides over a brisk fire, but let them be rather underdone in the centre. Mix the mashed potatoes, horse-radish, and cream in a stewpan over the fire. When thoroughly hot work in a couple of egg-yolks, stir until the latter begin to bind, then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and spread the mixture on a dish or plate. Shape the same number of even-sized balls as there are fillets, flatten to about the same shape and thickness as the fillets. Egg, crumb, fry them in clarified butter, drain and keep hot. Remove the stalks of the preserved mushrooms, and toss them in the butter irsed for frying the fillets. Peel and core the apple, and cut it into thin slices, dip them in milk and flour, and fry in hot clarified butter. Place the ]iotato shapes on a hot dish, put a fillet upon each, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and place a slice of fried apple on top of them, with a mushroom-head in the centre of the apple slices. Ponr some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve.