1 lO THE CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. (i) Chaud-froid. (2) Salad. (3) Sweet, necessarily be an improvement. This practice, I need hardly say, is a much mistaken one, for such additions often overpower the essential, natural flavour of their plain sauces, by overloading them with ingredients which are unpalatable. A plain sauce, as a rule, needs nothing in the way of seasoning, except salt and pepper, to bring out the flavour and to stimulate or awaken the palate. Those who wish for piquancy of flavour will always And means to satisfy their wants from the cruet. Characteristic of Sauces and Seasoning.—No matter what the character of a sauce may be, remember that in all compound sauces, whether plain or rich, the rule for seasoning and flavouring is the same in every case ; that is, the ingredients used for this purpose should be so proportioned that no flavour predominates over the other, so that by a careful and judicious combination of flavours the sauce or sauces prepared will not fail to be acceptable to the palate of the most refined gourmet. Cook’s Duty regarding Taste.—Furthermore, remember that it is a cook’s duty to study the likes and dislikes as to seasoning and flavouring of those for whom she or he works, whereby certain ingredients for every sauce must necessarily be increased or lessened according to taste. If this is done, no one need fail to become master of the art of sauce-making, so far as the extraction and combination of flavours in sauces are concerned. On the Reduction of Sauces.—We reduce or boil down sauces to give them the necessary strength. This is usually the case with the compounds into which stocks, essences, fumets, etc., have been incorporated : these are added for the express purpose of reduction, and should be in a concentrated form, so as to lessen as much as possible the labour of boiling or simmering. All sauces which need to be reduced mirst be strained and freed from fat ; they must be put on a quick fire at first, and mirst be stirred with a wooden spatula or spoon to prevent the sauce from adhering to the bottom of the saucepan in which the sauce is put. The necessary quantity of stock, etc., required for its improvement is next added ; it is then allowed to boil until it has acquired the desired consistency: when this is effected the sauce is passed through a tammy cloth. Various Kinds of Sauces.—Having explained the difference between white and brown sauces, and having given minute details of the various thickenings (liaisons), as well as other im- portant points concerning sauces and their preparation, I will now give a list of the various sauces most frequently used in cookery. There are two groups of sauces : I. Hot Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (i) Plain. (2) Savoury. (3) Sweet. II. Cold Sauces.—These are divided into three sections :