VEGETA BLES—LJzGUMES. 663 Coat each tomato several times with half-set aspic, or line some little moulds with aspic and set the tomatoe^s in the same. Have ready the lettuces, washed and divided into small ])ieces, season with salt and j)cp])er, dress with mayonnaise, and put in the centre of a dish. Arrange the prepared tomatoes round the salad, garnish with sprigs of parsley and blocks of aspic jelly. Lobster or any other kind of cooked fish may be used for the stuffing in place of the anchovies. Tomates farcies a Tltalienne (Stuffed Tomatoes. Italian Style). Cut out the centres of 8 or 9 tomatoes, making the openings as small as possible, and remove the pulp. Fry a chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, add two ounces of finely chopped cooked ham, fry a little longer, next add the tomato pulp, a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, six.chopped mushrooms, and a small handful of fresh breadcrumbs, mix well over the fire, season with pepper and salt, and bind with one ladleful of veloutee sauce and two yolks of eggs, stir again over the fire for a minute or two. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, drop a little oiled butter on top of each, bake in the oven for half an hour. Dish up on a hot dish, reduce a little brown sauce with the gravy from the tomatoes, pour over, and serve. Tomates farcies a la Suisse (Stuffed Tomatoes, hot, Swiss Style). 8 to 10 small, lipe, and firm tomatoes, a small terrine foie-gras, 4 preserved mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, I tablespoonfnl grated Swiss cheese, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut it into very small dice, chop finely the mushrooms, put the ham, mushrooms, and foie-gras in a basin, moisten with the sauce, add the cheese and a little chopped parsley, season to taste, and mix well. Remove some of the pulp from the tomatoes, and fill them with this preparation, place a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Place them on rounds of buttered toast, a little larger than the tomatoes. Place the tomatoes on these, dish up, and serve. Okra aux Tomates. I lb. fresh tomatoes or a quart can of preserved ones, i tin or bottle of preserved okra, a couple of slices of onion, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, a slice of toasted bread, seasoning. If fresh tomatoes are used, remove the stems and cut the fruit into slices. Fry the chopped onion in butter for a few moments, add the tomatoes, simmer for about three-quarters of an hour, season slightly with pepper and salt, and add the contents of a tin or bottle of okra, and stew gently for at least half an hour longer. Dish up tastefully, garnish with neat slices of toasted bread, and serve hot. Souffles a la Tomate (Tomato SouffUs). I oz. butter, 1 oz. Hour, i oz. ham. i pint white .stock, i gill milk and cream, I small onion stuck with one clove, 6 peppercorns, ^ whites of eggs, i gill concentrated tomato puree, a pinch paprika pepper and salt, souffle cases.