Sauce [Mousseline {White Moussclinc Sauce). I gill cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 crushed long xieppercorns, i oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Put cream, egg-yolks, and pepper in a stewpan, place this in a bain-marie half filled with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a short time, then add gradually little pieces of butter ; stir all the while, but do not add any more butter until each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving finish off with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should be added during the process of whisking. Served with souffles, fillets of veal or fowl, asparagus or artichokes. Sauce Mousseline Verte {Green Mousseline Sauce, cold). I gill mayonnaise, + gill cold bechamel sauce {p. 142), i tablespoonful of pickled parsley, a few sprigs each of tarragon, chervil, and burnet, 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked spinach, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2 anchovy fillets, I gill of cream. Wash and pick the green herbs, steep them in boiling water for a few minutes, drain well, pound in a mortar with the spinach, and rub through a fine sieve. Pound the yolks of eggs and anchovy fillets, mix with the green puree, add the cream, and rub the whole through a sieve. Dilute with mayonnaise and bechamel sauce, add a little seasoning and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Melted Butter Sauce {Sauce Anglaisc). I oz. fresh butter, J oz. Hour, | pint cold water. Put the butter in a saucepan, when melted stir in the flour (sifted). Cook for a few moments whilst stirring, add gradually \ pint of cold water, continue to stir till the sauce boils, and allow to cook for at least ten minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste, and strain if necessary. Mustard Sauce {Sauce Moutarde, for Herrings or Mackerel). I oz. butter, oz. patent cornflour, ^ oz. flour, i dessertspoonful of Knglish mustard, gill vinegar, ^ pint fish stock. J gill cream, pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the cornflour and flour, and blend over the fire without browning. Add the fish stock and bring it to the boil, cook for ten minutes. Mix the mustard with enough vinegar to make a smooth paste, stir this into the sauce with the cream, boil up again. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and add a little more vinegar just before serving. Sauce Normande {Normandy Sauce). 2\ OZ. butter, i oz. tiour, white stock, fish liquor, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon- juice. Melt i-|- oz. of butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with about a pint of white stock and a little fish licpior. Allow to boil for ten minutes, skim well, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs. Stir in gradually the re- mainder of the fresh butter, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Whisk well aud pass the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth.