COLD FISH AND FlSH ENTREES. 3'S round dish, (ill the centre with the remainder of lobster meat and tomato cut into dice. Garnish with chopped aspic and })arsley. Keep in a cool place till required for table. Mayonnaise de Homard {Mayonnaise of Lobster). 1 large lobster, 4 filleted Gorgona anchovies, i hard-boiled egg. 6 stoned olives, 4 pickled French gherkins, a small handful of capers, i large or 2 small lettuces, a few slices of pickled beetroot, mayonnaise (p. 152). Cut the lobster lengthways, take out all the meat—if there is any coral chop it line and reserve to ornament the surface. Break the claws, take out the meat intact, if possible. Cut the remainder of the meat into neat pieces. Wash and dry the lettuce, tear the good leaves into convenient pieces. Put the cut lobster meat and salad into a basin, add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to season, mingle gently, and j)lace in a heap in the centre of a round dish in the form of a dome. Mask it with very stiff mayonnaise sauce, surround it with the pieces of claws, alternately with quarters of hard-boiled egg, garnish systematically according to taste with long strips of hllets of anchovy, capers, fancifully cut pieces of beetroot, chopped coral, stoned olives, slices of gherkins. Keep on the ice until required, and serve as cool as possible. Petites Dormes de Homard a la Creme. J hen lobster (small), i gill aspic jelly (p. 132), i gill cream, i gill tomato pulp, I tablespoonful mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), 2 sheets French gelatine, salt, pepper, a few sprigs of tarragon and red chillies for garnish. For pastry 2 oz. flour, i-|- oz. butter, 2 oz. grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere). i egg, cayenne. Line some very small square fluted patty or tartlet moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and decorate tastefully with tarragon- leaves and thin strips of chilli pods. Cut the meat of the lobster into very small pieces, dissolve the gelatine in the tomato pulp, then strain, and add to it the remainder of aspic jelly, whip the cream till stiff, and mingle with the above. Add to this the mayon- naise sauce and the lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the little moulds with this mixture and place them on the ice to set. Meanwhile prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour, grated cheese, butter, and egg, rnb the butter into the flonr, then add the cheese and a pinch of cayeime pepper. Moisten with half an egg well beaten np, mix into a paste, roll out to about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut out some squares a trifle larger than the moiflds, place the sciuares of paste on to a greased baking-tin, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and bake in a very moderate oven for about ten minutes. Take up, and when cool turn out the moulds, and place each cream on to one of the paste crusts. Dish up on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve. Bordure de Homard a ITndienne. I hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 boned anchovies, \ lemon, i tablespoon- ful Madeira, i dessertspoonful chutney, i pint aspic, i small truffle, 2 oz. best Patna rice, 1 pint cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Wash the rice, blanch it, drain, and cook in boiling water,