COLD SERVICE DISHES. 589 large pie-dish with beef and bacon, season to taste and sprinkle with parsley, place the birds on this, arrange them neatly, lill np the dish with the remainder of bacon and beef, season again, and moisten with the stock. Cover the dish with puff-paste, ornament the centre tastefully (allowing a small incision in the middle for the steam to escape while cooking), brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. Raised Game Pie [Pate de Gihier). i J lb. Hour, it gill milk, 6 oz. butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt’ cayenne, and nutmeg, i lb. veal, i lb. fresh pork, all kinds of game, such as : pheasant, grouse, or pigeons, larks, or else quails—some of each ; ^ lb. ham, liver farce, or foie-gras, i tablespoonful chopped mushrooms, i table- spoonful chopped truffles, i teaspoonful chopped parsley and pistachios, t pint good stock, chopped aspic. Make a paste of the flour, mixing the butter and milk into it hot, add the yolk of egg, a little salt, mi.x and knead well. Line a raised pie-motdd with this paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Mince the veal and pork together, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg, and place the mince all round the mould inside the paste. Fill in the centre with fillets of pigeon, and pheasant, or grouse, or else use strips of ham, larks, and quails stuffed Muth liver farce, sprinkle in the chopped mush- rooms, truffles, pistachios, and parsley, a little pepper and salt, and cover over with mince. Wet and lay on the top the paste round cover, close it 'veil round the edge, trim it, and work up the trimmings of paste to make an ornament for the top. Tie a band of buttered paper round the mould about three inches above the top, and bake in a steady oven for three hours. When the pie is f'nearly cold, move the top ornament of paste, and pour in about half a pint of good stock—not too liquid, or it will soak through the paste—replace the ornament, and when quite cold dish up the pie. Garnish it with chopped aspic and parsley. CEufs de Pluvier en Aspic [Plovers' Eggs in Savoury Jelly). Plovers’ eggs (boiled and shell removed), set in aspic or savoury jelly, in small moulds (egg or dariole or timbale moulds), suitably decorated with vegetable macedoine or green peas and truffles.