404 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CERVELLES—SHEEP’S OR LAMBS’ BRAINS. Cervelles a la Dreux [Sheep’s Brains with Mushrooms). 4 sheep’s brains, a tiny bunch of parsley, some mushroom trimmings, I onion, 4 yolks of eggs, i V oz. panade or \ gill well-reduced white sauce, I oz. butter, paprika, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, 18 preserved mushrooms, Madere sauce. W^ash the brains several times in salted water, remove the skin and wash a second time in fresh water. Peel and slice the onion, put it, with the brains, parsley, and fresh mushroom trimmings, in a stewpan half filled with water, let them boil for about five minutes, then drain carefully, and rub the whole through a wire sieve into a basin. Put the panade or sauce into a mortar and work in the yolks of eggs, add this to the brain puree, stir well, and season to taste with a pinch each of pepper, paprika, salt, and nutmeg. Butter eight to ten small dariole moulds, and fill with the prepared puree. Poach about ten minutes in a saute-pan containing boiling water. W'hen done, turn on to a hot dish, arrange in a circle, pile the pre- served mushrooms, previously heated in brown sauce (Madere sauce), in the centre of the dish, pour some hot sauce over and round the darioles, and serve. Cervelles a la Rosita.—Small croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain in each, sauced over with Mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded trufties in centre of dish. — au Beurre noir.—Blanched lambs’ brains, boiled and drained, with nut-brown butter poured over. — en coquilles.—Sheeps’ Inains stewed in white sauce, baked, and served in shells. — frites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote.—Braised sheep’s or lambs’ brains with a led wine sauce, served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. Beignets de Cervelles a la Turque.—Sheep’s or lambs’ brains parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served w'ifh tomato sauce. Irish Stew [Ragout a 1’Irlandaise). yVbout 3 lb. neck of mutton, 4 lb. potatoes, i large onion, 12 blanched button onions, li pint stock, salt and pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the neck, into convenient pieces, trim off some of the fat, wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, peel and slice the onion, peel the button onions, and blanch. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, put a layer of meat over that, season with pepper and salt, strew over a few' slices of onion, repeat until the meat is used up, interspersing the button onions. Cover the top