THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 164 ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER SAUCES. Sauce a I’Amiral {Admiral Sauce).—A white sauce (veloutee or allemande) with chopped capers, parsley, lemon-rind and juice, and anchovy essence to flavour. — Albufera,—Rich white sauce (supreme) flavoured with meat extract or glaze. — Americaine {American).—Tomato sauce blended with lobster butter (whisked in). — Avignonnaise {Avignonese Sauce).—Consists of bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan, and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. — Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon-juice. — Bartarde Anglaise.—English melted butter sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. — Bartarde (cold).—Bearnaise, flavoured with fish essence (stock) enriched with tomato puree and anchovy butter. -- Bavaroise.—Hollandaise (Dutch) sauce, enriched with whipped cream and crayfish butter. Beefsteak Sauce.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze, and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon-juice. Sauce Beurre Cremeuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg-yolk and butter stirred into boiling stock. — Bohemienne {Bohemian Satice).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, milk-white stock, butter, and grated horse-radish ; seasoned with pepper and salt. — Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon-juice. - Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef-marrow are incorporated. - Bourguignonne {Burgundy Sauce).—A brown sauce composed of espagnole sauce, finely minced onions and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine ; flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. — Bretonne (Brown Haricot Bean Sauce).—A brown onion sauce thickened with a little haricot puree. - Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. — Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. — Cambridge (cold).—Mayonnaise, mixed with parsley puree, capers, and anchovy paste, flavoured with mustard. — Canopere.—A hot fish sauce made with fish, court-bouillon, and blond roux, enriched with crayfish butter. — aux Capres brune {Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper.