HOT MEAT ENTIH'HCS, ETC. 437 Pour off most of the tut, put iu the chopped shallots, try lightly, add the wine aud the sauce. Stir and boil for a few minutes, gradually add in little bits about an ounce of butter, season with cayenne or paprika pepper, salt it needed, half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Return the fillets to this sauce, mix well, but avoid boiling again. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with small round fried potatoes (pommes Parisienne), surround the base of the dish with six to eight heart-shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter, and send to table hot. Filets de Boeuf a la Garibaldi. 2i lb. fillet of beef (middle cut), about | lb. beef marrow, i large truflie, ^ lb. ham, 3 eggs, i oz. butter, tomato or piejuante sauce, salt and pepper, nutmeg, macaroni croquettes for garnish. Cut the fillet into slices about a ciuarter of an inch thick, beat them a little with a wet knife, and stamp or cut out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Cut a corresponding number of thin round slices of marrow, blanch, and keep till required. Re- move skin and fat from the trimmings of the fillet, cut up small, pound in a mortar till smooth, add suet and marrow, about half the quantity that there is meat, pound together thoroughly, mix in the yolks of two eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Season the fillets, put a thin slice of blanched marrow and a slice of truffle on each, placing a thin layer of beef farce between them. Put a thin slice of bacon, as nearly as possible the size of the fillets, on the top of each fillet, and press the whole slightly. Cover over completely with a thin layer of farce, chop finely the trimmings of truflie, dip the fillets in white of egg, sprinkle the surface with chopped truffle. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the fillets and broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, then cover with a buttered paper, and finish in a hot oven. When clone, take up, dress in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over with well-reduced tomato or piquante sauce, garnish the sides with fried macaroni croquettes, and serve hot. Filets de Boeuf piques a la Reyniere {Larded Fillets of Beef). Middle cut of fillet (about 3 lb.), i large truffle, i glass sherry, i small carrot, i small turnip, i small onion, 10 peppercorns, i bouquet garni, larding bacon, 4 even-sized tomatoes, 8 small potatoes, 2 oz, butter, I Spanish onion, 2 oz. parmesan cheese, i oz. breadcrumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 8 rounds of bread croutes, i quart of stock, i gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, meat glaze. Free the fillet from skin, sinew, and fat ; trim a little, and cut into eight even-sized slices or fillets. Lard one side of each fillet with strips of bacon and truffle, butter thickly a saute-pan, place the fillets in it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover with sliced vegetables, herbs, peppercorns, and trimmings of bacon. Broil both sides of the fillets a little, add the sherry and stock, cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the fillets, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Remove fat from the lic]uor, add the brown sauce, boil gently for