HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 439 Trim the lillet, cut it crossways into eight even-sized slices or hllets, pare these into round shapes, season with pepper and salt. Broil both sides in butter over a quick tire lor about eight minutes, take up, glaze over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Choj), blanch, drain, and fry the onion without browning in the butter in which the hllets were cooked, add the cream, stir till hot (not boiling), add the yolks of egg and let bind, rub through a strainer, and keep hot. Peel the bananas, split each in two and divide in halves, crossways, dip in Hour, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish up the hllets on a hot dish, mi.x some hnely grated horse-radish with the sauce, and put a spoonful of it on top of each hllet, sprinkle over with liquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish with fried bananas, and serve with brown sairce. Filets Mignons a la Beaufremont. 2 lb. fillet of beef, i egg, 2 oz. fresh butter, fresh breadcrumbs, lb. macaroni, i oz. grated cheese, 3 truffles, 2 oz. meat glaze, i pint tomato sauce, I gill Madere sauce, pepper and salt. Cut about eight small slices from the hllet, trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and crumb them. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the hllets, and bake in a hot oven for about hfteen minutes, turning them occasionally. Have ready some macaroni blanched in salted water, boil in a little stock until tender, and hnish with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Dress the hllets cii coui'oiuie on a round dish, place the macaroni in the centre. Cut the truffles into thin strips, sprinkle over the macaroni, reduce the remainder of tomato sauce with the Madere sauce and meat glaze, and serve with the dish. Filets Mignons a la Castelaine. 6-8 very small fillets of beef, i J oz. fresh butter, 2 finely chopped shallots, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i glass Chablis, 8 to 10 neat slices lobster (meat), pepper and salt, sauce Pompadour, meat glaze for garnish, small fish quenelles (p. 177), stuffed olives (olives farcies), and slices of truffles, glazed. Flatten the hllets a little, trim them into neat round shapes, season to taste. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the hllets, fry quickly over a brisk hre to slightly brown both sides. Boil the shallots in the wine for hve minutes, add this with the parsley to the hllets, cover the pan, and cook c^uickly for about hve minutes. Dress the hllets on a dish, warm the slices of lobster in the liquor left from the hllets, place a slice between the hllets, and keep hot. Pour the sauce into the pan containing the liquor, re-heat, skim off the fat, and pour over the hllets. Garnish with slices of truffles, stuffed olives, heated up in liquehed meat glaze, also a few very small hsh quenelles, poached in hsh stock ; sprinkle a little meat glaze over the latter, and serve. Filets Mignons a la Dauphine. 2-},- lb. fillet of beef, i small onion, i small carrot, i bouquet of herbs, i glass Chablis, gill oil, i ?, oz. buffer, pepper and salt, larding bacon, lb. potato puree, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, i truffle, a handful cooked spinach, I gill tomato sauce, 6 potato croquettes (a la Dauphine), i glass sherrv, a handful cooked rice, 6 small artichoke bottoms.