THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2i8 Remove the fillets from the partridges, cut two of them into small dice. Take off the leg parts of the birds and put away for further use. Chop up carcase. Fry the bacon with a little butter, add the liver finely sliced. Season with pepper and salt, pound in a mortar, add the sauce, season, and rub through a sieve (the two fillets remaining may be pounded with the above if the soup is desired specially rich). Fry the carcase with the bouquet garni in a little bacon fat and the remaining butter. Sprinkle over the flour, stir in the stock. Skim well as it begins to boil. Simmer for about half an hour, stirring occasionally, strain through a tammy, and return to the stewpan with the puree previously prepared, boil up, add a glass of sherry or port, season to taste. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, bind with two yolks of eggs, and add the minced breasts just before serving. Potage de Perdreau, Grand Due [Partridge Puree). t partridge or any other small bird. 4 oz. oatmeal, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 4-6 fresh mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 quarts white stock, seasoning, gill cream. Remove the fillets from the partridge, cut up the remainder and roast it with a little dripping for about twenty minutes. Fry the oatmeal and butter to a nice colour, add the roasted carcase, etc., fry for a few minutes longer, and moisten with sufficient stock to produce the consistency of a puree. Cook gently for if hour, then season and pass through a fine sieve. Meanwhile pound the fillets of partridge, add the panade and a little white of egg, season to taste and rub through a sieve. Make some little quenelles about the size of small marbles with this, and poach them. Prepare a Royal garnish, which consists of fresh mushrooms cooked in stock and passed through a sieve, mixed with the eggs, steamed in a butter mould, and cut into small rounds. Put these and the quenelles into the prepared puree, add the cream, let the soup get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, then serve. MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS. Beef Tea. I lb. lean beef, i gill cold water, a teaspoonful of Lemco. salt to taste. Shred the meat finely, removing any particle of fat and skin, put it into an earthenware jar with the water and salt and let it stand for half an hour, add the Lemco extract of beef. Cover the jar closely, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for two hours—the water surrounding it must boil all the time. Strain off the beef tea, remove any fat on the top with a piece of clean white paper. The beef tea must not be allowed to actually boil. Cockle Leekie. I small fowl, 2 oz. butter, i bunch leeks, parsley, i bay-leaf, and a few aromatic herbs tied together in a bunch, 2 quarts of clear consomme stock, .salt and pepper. Boiled rice for garnish. Singe and draw the fowl, wipe it inside and out with a damp cloth, and cut it into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stew-