;86 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Unmould and cut the custard into small diamond blocks or cube shapes. Set these in a fancy border mould in layer with the jelly. When the mould is full, put it in a cool place to set. Turn out, dish up, and serve, Gelee au Punch {Punch Jelly). lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, ij oz. best gelatine, a wineglassful of kirsch, a wineglassful of rum, a wineglassful of sherry, inch cinnamon, i egg, 20 coriander seeds, i gill of cream, -} oz. castor sugar. Put the sugar in a copper stew-pan, add a ])int of water, and boil to a syrup, add tlie thinly-peeled rind of the lemons, and the gela- tine previously soaked, when the latter is dissolved, put in the liqueur and wine, cinnamon and coriander seeds, also the juice of the lemons. Bring it again to a boil, let it cool a little. Beat up the white and shell of one egg, stir in, bring slowly to a boil, strain through a jelly-bag, and pour in a mould to set. When turned out, fill the centre of the jelly with whipped cream, sweeten with castor sugar, and serve. Gelee panachee a la Russe [Rtissian Ribbon Jelly). Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin coating of wine jelly coloured with liquid carmine or cochineal, prepare a punch jelly as directed in “ Gelee au Punch,” using rum for flavouring. Whisk till quite frothy a sufficient quantity to half fill the mould. Fill the mould with alternate layers of plain and whipped jelly. Let each kind set before the next is added. Note.—A pretty sweet, similar to this in appearance, can be made by setting vanilla and chocolate cream in layers in a mould. Gelee au Vin {Wine Jelly). 2 quarts water, f pint white wine or sherry, 5-^, to 6 oz. best gelatine, 2 oranges, 3 lemons, 4- oz. coriander seed, 10 oz. loaf sugar, 2 whites of eggs and shells. Put the water, sugar, the rinds of oranges and lemons, thinly peeled, into a stew-pan, and allow it to boil up. Add the juice of the fruit, wine, and coriander seed, allow the syrup to cool a little. Whisk the whites of eggs and shells, and stir into the syrup, then add the gelatine, previously soaked in cold water and strained, stir over the fire until it boils, simmer until the gelatine is melted, then pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth (previously rinsed in boiling water). Strain two or three times until quite clear. Pour