040 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a moderately heated oven. When of a pale brown colour, take out and twist quickly, cut carefully into cornet shapes, or roll them on greased cornucopia tins, so as to shape them more evenly. Put about a teaspoonful of jam in each, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. Queen Cakes. ;J- lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. currants (cleaned), 2 oz. glace cherries (cut in dice), a grate of nutmeg, the thin rind of ^ a lemon (chopped finely), the juice of i lemon, J tablespoonful brandy, lb. Vienna liour, I oz. Paisley flour. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and work with a wooden spoon to a cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it resembles a light sponge. Mix in a separate basin the fruit, lemon-rind, and the Vienna and Paisley flour. Stir this into the beaten eggs, etc., then add the nutmeg, lemon- juice (strained), and the brandy. Stir the mixture for several minutes longer. Have ready some buttered and floured queen- cake tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Unmould the cakes and place them on a sieve to cool. These cakes may be coated with chocolate icing, water icing or royal icing, or served plain, according to taste. Gateau a la Portugaise {PoHuguese Cake). ;j- lb. almonds (peeled), orange, ^ lb. castor sugar, 3 whole eggs, i oz. fecule, glace royale, crystallised cherries, and angelica. Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs in a basin, pound the almonds in a mortar, incorporate the juice of oranges and peelings finely chopped. Work well in the mortar for a few minutes ; work this mixture in with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and add the fecule. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the mixture, and fill into an oblong mould well buttered ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Turn out on a sieve to cool, glaze neatly with a coating of glace royale, ornament with crystallised cherries and angelica. Serve whole or cut into slices. Gateau de Paques [French Easter Cake). For crust : lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, 2 yolks of eggs; a pinch of salt. For filling : 3 oz. rice cooked in milk, 6 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (browned in the oven), 4 gill cream, fondant icing, vanilla flavouring. Sift the flour, rub in the butter till quite fine, then add the salt and work into a smooth but fairly stiff paste with the two egg-yolks and a little water. Roll out the paste and line two con- venient-sized flan-rings, and prick the bottoms of the paste with a fork. Cream the six egg-yolks with the sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, and stir in the cooked rice and the almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, incorporate both into the mixture. Fill up the lined flan or pastry rings with this, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Allow to cool, then remove the rings and cover the surface of the gateau with fondant icing.