THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8i6 make it set, put an equal portion into each mould to cover decorated part of the moulds. Cut out the Genoese cake into slices the shape of the mould, only somewhat smaller, divide each into three or four thin slices, and spread both sides with a mixture of apricot mar- malade and kirsch, the former should be made liquid before the kirsch is added. Place two slices together, and set into the moulds alternately with a thin layer of jelly. Continue thus until the moulds are filled. Pour some half-set jelly round the sides of the moulds, so as to completely fill them. Set on the ice for an hour or two. Immerse in tepid water, unmould, and dish up on a I'ound dish, surround with a little chopped red jelly, and serve. Jambon de Careme (Imitation Ham). This cold sweet, made in the shape of a ham out of Genoese pastry, is very popular in France during Lent. Several layers of Genoese are fixed together with apricot marmalade and whipped cream between some layers. The whole is then cut to resemble a ham and coated over with chocolate icing. The bone is imitated with almond paste or marzipan. The dish is garnished with wine jelly, chopped up or cut into fanciful shapes. Medallions de Peches a la Sirdar. Prepare a pint of claret jelly, strain and put it into a fancy border mould, and place on the ice to set. Line ten or more medaillon moulds with a thin layer of wine or maraschino jelly, decorate each with a star-and-crescent shape of angelica or hard-boiled sweetened white of egg (cut rather thinly), mask this with a layer of strawberry or raspberry cream. Cut out some slices of Genoese cake (p. 806) as near as possible the size of the moulds, mask each slice with puree made from fresh peaches, sweetened and flavoured with a little kirsch, place them in the moulds and fill up the centres with jelly. When set, unmould. Dress them upon the border of claret jelly, the centre of which having been previously filled with a fruit salad, pipe some whipped cream neatly over the top, and sprinkle with chopped pistachios. Huitres en Surprise. Line eight to ten small oyster moulds with a thin layer of mara- schino jelly, coat the inner shape, viz. the oyster, with a layer of sweet chaud-froid sauce (p. 173), blended with a little peach or apricot puree, upon this place a macaroon, as near as possible the shape of the oyster. Sprinkle a little maraschino or benedictine liqueur on each macaroon and mask with more chaud-froid sauce. Finish filling the little moulds with a rather pale coffee or moka cream or, if preferred, a chocolate bavarois (p. 771), and place on the ice to set. To serve, unmould the oyster shapes carefully, and hand them round on oyster plates, with thinly-cut slices of chocolate cake (buttered), or arrange them on a dish, which garnish with quarters of lemons and sprigs of crisp parsley. OYSTER MOULD.