19 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. in a sauce, stew or soup, it will yield enjoyment even to those who would carefully avoid it if they knew it was there. Whenever onion is used as a condiment or seasoning, and the article is properly treated as a flavouring substance should be, much of the objection of an unpleasant smell is removed. Too much attention cannot be bestowed upon its preparation. Garlic.—This is one of the alliaceous plants. It consists of a group of several bulbs called cloves, all enclosed in one membranous skin. When used judiciously and sparingly, garlic is a most excellent condiment ; but with the English taste it seldom finds favour, although many without knowing it partake of dishes where it is cunningly concealed. Rubbing the dish once with a clove of garlic cut in half imparts quite sufficient flavour ; but in Italy and other countries it is used on a larger scale— in fact, it enters into the composition of nearly every dish. Garlic is considered to be very wholesome, and to act as a slight stimulant and tonic. j Shallot.—This bulbous root resembles garlic, and belongs to the same genus. It is a native of Palestine, and was introduced into England by the Crusaders. The place in Palestine where it was first found was Ascalon : hence its botanical name. Allium ascaloniciim. The shallot is extremely useful in cookery, especially for flavouring sauces, vinegar, etc. It is more pungent than garlic, but of more delicate flavour, and consequently more popular than the former. Carrots and Turnips.—Next to the onion, the carrot and turnip are considered the most important flavouring vegetables for soups and sauces. Carrots were known in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were looked upon as most uncommon and as a luxury, so much so that ladies wore them as a decoration in place of feathers upon their hats and sleeves. Besides their use for flavouring, carrots and turnips are largely used for garnishing certain dishes, such as ragouts, boiled meats, etc. They are also served as vegetables by themselves, also as purees for soups, etc. It will thus be seen that the humble onion, carrot, and turnip are most important in the preparation of many dishes ; and in addition to these there is the bouquet garni, the parsley root, so-called pot-herbs, and numerous others, each of which has its special value, the character- istic of which every cook should be fully acquainted with. But, let me repeat, strongly flavoured herbs, as well as so-called pot or soup vegetables, should always be used with moderation and judgment. Vinegar.—Vinegar is derived from a variety of sources. The best vinegar is the Erench vinaigre d’Orleans. It is made from white wine ; but common vinegar is mostly prepared from malt in this country. The uses to which vinegar is applied in cookery are very numerous ; itTforms the foundation of many sauces, and if taken with food in small quantity it is said to assist digestion. If taken, however, in excess, it is highly injurious. Owing to its anti- CHILLIES