1013 Dessert. Dessert. DINNER MENUS. DINNER MENUS. The word “ dinner ” is supposed to Ire derived from a corruption of dix heurts (10 o’clock), indicating the hour at which in the time of the Normans this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the “ Household Book,” it is stated that the family rose at 6 o’clock, breakfasted at 7 o’clock, dined at 10 o’clock, supped at 4 o’clock, and closed the gates at 9 p.m. Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day, the most important meal. The working and middle classes take this meal at midday, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between the hours of 6 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses eaten at a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess ; but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served with each course has decreased, for in comparing old Irills of fare we see that they are now being gradually reduced. To be able to plan successfully a correctly arranged dinner, or indeed any other meal, is regarded as an accomplishment which every manager’s f/ui/should acquire and be proud of. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and one that cannot be attained in a day. It is the arrangement of the various parts in connection with each other, as well as a whole (ensemble), which chiefly characterises a really good dinner. The composition of the dishes should be excellent in themselves, well cooked, neatly dressed, but bearing no harmony or relation to each other. Each dislr must be distinct from the other. A perfect dinner includes only a judicious selection from the food that is in season. DINNER MENUS IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH. POTAGE. Sour. Consomme aux champignons. Clear soup with mushrooms. POISSO.NS. Fish. Filets de sole a I’lndiennc. Fillets of sole, Indian style. Entree. Entree. Cronstades de ris de veaii. P.asiry crusts, with sweetbread. Releve. Joint. Rpanle de mouton braise. Braised shoulder of mutton. Choiix-fleur, sauce a la crfeme. Caulitlower, and cream sauce. Ron. Roast. Oie farcie rdtie i I’.Americaii e. Roast goose, stuffed. Cranberry sauce. Entremets Sucres. Sweets. Charlotte de pommes. Apple charlotte. Gelee a la Russe. 1- Russian jelly. Entremets Savoureux. ■ Savoi rv. Crcutes de Laitarce. Herring roes on toast. Creme de chiccree. Cream of chicory. Filet de sole Bruxelloise. Fillets of sole, Brussels style. Cronstades i la Castillaine. Small cronstades with chestnut puree. Poulet frit a la Villeroi. Fried chicken, Villeroi style. Canard sauvage roti. Roast wild duck. Salade d'oranges. Orange salad. Cardons braises a I’Espagncle. t Braised cardoons with brown sauce. Crfeme glacee aux baiianes. Iced banana cream. Quenelles au Parmesan. Parmesan cheese quenelles.