657 VEGETA BLES—LliG UMES. Pommes de Terre sautees a la Suisse {Tossed Potatoes). Slice as thinly as possible about eight cold potatoes of medium size. Melt i oz. butter iu a frying or omelet pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt. Cook over a quick lire for hve minutes, toss very frequently, put them on one side of the pan, so as to give it the shape of an omelet. Allow them to colour nicely, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve. Pommes de Terre sautees a la Parisienne, Choose eight medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Heat about oz. butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and toss over a bright fire until a golden colour. Dish up, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. Pommes de Terre Noisettes. Select about 1^ lb. of very small new potatoes, wash and scrape them, then blanch them in salted water, and drain on a sieve covered with a cloth. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the potatoes, and fry over the hre for a few minutes, then hnish cooking them in a fairly quick oven. Season with salt, take up the potatoes, and dress them in a paste or potato basket, be- sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve. Timbale Parmentiere {Potato Timbale). ^ lb. mashed potatoes, t gill cream, 3 to 4 raw potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, chopped parsley, 3 tomatoes, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill of bechamel sauce, panurette or brown breadcrumbs, tomato sauce, seasoning. Mix the mashed potatoes with half the cream, heat up, season to taste, and add one yolk of egg. Mix well, butter a charlotte or timbale mould, sprinkle with panurette or brown breadcrumbs, and line with potato puree. Peel, drain, blanch, and slice the onions. Slice the tomatoes, heat up the bechamel sauce, and bind with two yolks of eggs. Wash, peel, and slice the raw potatoes, fill the lined mould with alternate layers of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes, season each layer with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, and moisten with a little of the pre- pared sauce : the latter can be mixed with a little cream or milk if found insufficient. Cover the mould with potato puree. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Timbale de Pommes de Terre a la Mirette. 8 kidney potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, 1 tablespoonful Lemco (extract of beef), I oz. grated parmesan cheese. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized dice, and drain on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt one ounce and a half of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the potatoes and cook them to a nice golden colour, either over a quick fire or in a fairly hot oven. TT TIMBALE MOULD.