THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 662 stiff mayonnaise (p. 152). To this add finely-chopped celery and ripe pine-apple in equal parts. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture and })lace them in the ice-box for at least two hours. To serve, put each tomato on a lettuce-leaf, dress neatly on a silver-plated entree dish or glass dish, and garnish with watercress and radishes, the latter should be so arranged as to form a wreath round the dish, with the tomatoes in the centre. Tomates a la Bouquetiere {Cold Dish). 8 medium-sized tomatoes, i tablespoonful salad oil, i gill cooked macedoine vegetables, i truffle, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, -J- lemon, i oz. French capers, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Immerse the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, peel them carefully, and scoop out the centre. Cut the tongue, chicken, and truffle into fine shreds or dice, put these with the macedoine in a basin, season with oil, lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix with the capers and chopped parsley. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dish up on a glass dish, and serve. Tomates aux Champignons {Tomatoes with Mushrooms). 8 medium-sized ripe but firm tomatoes, 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms or 6 large fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls white breadcrumbs, \ teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls rich demi-glace or Madeira sauce, 8 rounds of fried bread (croutons), seasoning. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, wipe them with a cloth. Scoop out carefully a portion of the pulp, taking care not to break the tomatoes. Chop the mushrooms and shallots finely, fry them lightly in an ounce of butter, add the breadcrumbs and parsley, moisten with the sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Fill the cavities of the tomatoes with this, put a tiny bit of butter on top, and cook them in a well-buttered saute-pan in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dress them on the bread croutons, dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. Serve hot. Beignets de Tomates {Tomato Fritters). 6 ripe but firm tomatoes (small), i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i table- spoonful salad oil, 1 lemon, pepper and salt, frying batter (p. 135), and fat. Cut each tomato across into three slices, season lightly wflth pepper and salt, sprinkle over the parsley, oil, and lemon-juice. Drop each piece of tomato into the batter, so as to coat it com- pletely. Take out with a skewer or fork, drop into the hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain on paper or cloth, dish up, and serve hot. Tomates farcies a I’Aspic {Stuffed Tomatoes in Jelly). 6 even-sized ripe and firm tomatoes, about i pint aspic, 4 gorgona anchovies (filleted), I dessertspoonful capers, i hard-boiled yolk of egg, mayonnaise sance, parsley, 2 lettuces. Wipe the tomatoes, carefully scoop out the centre oy means of a colnmn-cutter or a teaspoon. Chop the capers, yolk of egg, and anchovy fillets, mix with a gill of mayonnaise and a gill of aspic, stir over the ice until nearly set, then fill the cavities of the tomatoes, cover with a sprig of parsley, and put on the ice to set.