88 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. The poele is a deep l'rying-])an, or earthenware fireproof pan, which is for cooking birds on a mirepoix. The bird is trussed and prepared as if intended for an entree, put into the pan, and then moistened with stock. The pan is next placed on burning embers or coals, and the contents are allowed to cook gently till the bird is tender. It should be frequently basted, and the stock replenished as it evaporates, so as to always keep the same amount in the pan. fituver.—This is another word of the French cuisine, the meaning of which is not clearly understood in this country. “ Smothering ” is the only English substitute which can convey the culinary mean- ing. To Hiivey or smother meat is to cook it slowly in a little stock without evaporation taking place, so that it cooks entirely and retains its natural flavour. This mode of cooking is always per- formed in the oven, and meat cooked in this style must always be thoroughly well done. Grilling.—Grilling, or to employ the more ancient but still used term, “broiling” (Fr. briUer—to burn), is cookery reduced to its loM^est terms, being indeed the method usually adopted by savages, who string pieces of meat together on sticks and hold them over or in front of a fire. But in spite of ifs elemen- tary character, perhaps, indeed, as a result of it, grilling is not infrequently badly carried out. G r il 1 i n g differs from roasting mainly in the fact that the pieces of meat thus cooked are much smaller. It should be done over or before a clear fire, a charcoal furnace giving the best results. The time em- ployed is always short: a chop or steak of average size should take from 15 to 20 minutes, and should be turned hve times during that interval. The heat of the hre closes the cut ends of the hbres, and browns the outer surface, so that the meat es- sences are retained. This brown crust once formed, the inside may be cooked to suit indivi- dual taste. On no account should the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, for by so doing the essence will escape, and the flavour of the grill will be impaired. • A COKE GRILL WITH PLATE WARMER. The grill is constructed of fluted bars suspended on swinging racks, and has a gravy pan. The firebox is remov- able for cleaning purposes.