6i8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. they will absorb water, which no amount of draining and pressing will remove. If the vegetables are done and have to wait for the the right time, although they might attribute it to some difference in quality of the article itself, to its being fresher and liner, not knowing that the finest and freshest, if improperly cooked, are little better than the poor ones. Artichauts a la Chambery. 6 large preserved artichoke bottoms, i oz. of butter, 6 rounds of toasted buttered bread, i gill Perigueux sauce, salt and pepper. Drain the artichoke bottoms on a cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, fry the artichokes gently on both sides, and season to taste. Arrange them neatly in the saute-pan, the hollow parts upwards, carefully break a small egg in each one, and poach in a fairly hot oven. Dish up on rounds of toasted bread, the size of the artichokes. Sauce over with a well-seasoned hot perigueux sauce, and serve at once. Artichauts entiers a la Chasseur. 3 globe artichokes, i small onion, i shallot, i oz. butter, ^ lb. fresh button mushrooms, -}- gill Espagnole sauce, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, about 6 thin slices of fat bacon, I gili of white wine, | gill of good stock or gravy, h gill rich tomato sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a bouquet garni, a few slices of carrot and turnip. Prepare and blanch the artichokes as directed in the preceding recipe. Choose three of the largest mushrooms, pare and trim neatly, trim, wash, and chop the remainder. Lightly brown the chopped onion and shallot in butter, add and cook the chopped mushrooms, then stir in the breadcrumbs, parsley, a pinch of nut- meg, season with salt, pepper, and moisten with enough sauce to well bind the mixture. Fill the centres of the artichokes, place a button mushroom on the top, and tie on slices of bacon. Line a saute-pan with bacon, a bouquet garni, carrot, turnip, add the wine, stock, and artichokes, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven till tender, basting occasionally. Lhrtruss the artichokes and dress them on a hot dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, remove the fat, add tomato sauce, and a little Esjiagnole sauce, if needed, reduce to half-glaze, finish with a small piece of fresh butter, season to taste, and pour round the dish. Serve h(A. meat, let them be drained, covered, and kept hot. The custom of over- boiling vegetables, or putting them to cook in a haphazard way some- where about tlie time, is very general, for few understand the effects of so doing, but the least experienced would quickly see the superiority of vegetables just cooked VEGETABLE COLANDER. ARTICHAUTS—ARTICHOKES.