247 HORS D’CEUVRE (APPETISERS) bread, press together, cut into fingers, half-moon or heart shapes. Heat np the chand-froid sauce, mix it with snlficient curry powder to give it a greenish tint. When nearly cold mask the slices thus prepared, and when the sauce is set glaze them with a coating of half-set aspic. Dress the rice on small round silver dishes in the shape of pyramids ; dress the tartines neatly round each dish. Have ready some set aspic jelly, cut out diamond shapes, and garnish the dishes with these, some sprigs of green salad, and some of the puree left over, which is best done by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag. Keep the dishes on the ice until re([nired. Filets de Hareng a la Nignon, Pare and trim the required number of smoked herring fillets, and roll \ip each neatly. Have ready a thin as])ic tomato border placed on a round flat dish, upon this range the herring rolls, with a thin ring of pimiento on top of each and a small round of hard- boiled egg in the centre. Fill the centre of the dish with a well-seasoned cooked vegetable macMoine, such as peas, beans, asparagus tips, cauliflower sprigs, etc. These should be neatly arranged and dressed as a salad. Denises a la Princesse [Princess Sandwiches). 4-6 oz. cooked chicken, meat I'recil from skin and bones, i oz. butter, I teaspoonful lemon-juice, 4 shelled walnuts, i dessertspoonful double cream, salt, paprika pepper, thin slices buttered bread. Pound the chicken meat in a mortar till smooth, mix the butter thoroughly, add the cream, lemon-juice, and season with salt and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Work the mixture until quite smooth, and put on a plate. Blanch, drain, and skin the walnuts, cut them into thin slices. Spread the prepared mixture upon thin slices of buttered bread, add the sliced walnuts. Press the slices together in the usual way, cut out into desired shapes, dish np, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. Denises a la Turque [Turkish Sandwiches). I loaf of white bread (stale), 3 hard-boiled eggs, 6 prawns, 4 boned anchovies (Gorgona), i tablespoonful chutney, 3 oz. butter, one saltspoonful made mustard (Englisli), 1- pint of aspic, 4 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (p. 152), I tablespoonful white sauce (p. 163), i tablespoonful tomato pulp, a few drops of carmine, paprika pepper, parsley for garnish. Cut the bread into slices, 4- inch thick, stamp out some heart shapes or rosettes by means of a pastry-entter, fry them slightly in hot fat or clarified butter, drain well, and split them in halves with a sharp knife. Pound the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, the anchovies and prawns (picked) in a mortar, when smooth add the chutney, pound again, add the butter, seasenr with the mustard, and about a saltspoonful of paprika pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stir the mayonnaise sauce into the aspic (made liquid, but it must not be hot). Stir until it begins to set, then divide into two equal parts, mix one lot with white sauce (bechamel), and the other with tomato pulp—add a few drops of carmine to the latter to give it a more pronounced red tint. Spread the cut sides of the croiites with a thick layer of the prepared puree, place them together