790 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cool. Whip the cream till stiff and sweeten with sugar, add the maraschino and put it in the centre of an oblong sliver-plated dish, press in the bottom of the meringue and place it on top of the cream. Insert some strips of almonds and pistachios, previously blanched and dried, into the meringue crust, and serve. Apple puree, pear puree or thick custard may, if liked, be used in place of the whipped cream. Pommes meringuees a la Creme. 8 small sour cooking apples, lO oz. loaf sugar, lemon, i inch cinnamon, 2 cloves, pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 8 crystallised cherries, angelica. Peel and core the apples carefully. Put the loaf sugar, half- pint of water, cinnamon, cloves, and lemon-juice in a copper stew- pan, and reduce to a syrup. Skim well and strain into a saute-pan. Arrange the apples neatly in the syrup, cover with a buttered pa- per, cook in a hot oven until tender, strain care- fully, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix 2 oz. of castor sugar. Put the meringue mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain piping tube, cover each apple com- pletely with the mixture, dust with siigar, and bake in a cool oven a fawny colour. Put them on the ice to coo). Whip the cream, add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, when the apples are cold fill the centre of each with some of the wdiipped cream. Dish up on little heaps of whipped cream in a cold dish. Put a crystallised cherry and lozenge-shaped slices of angelica on the top of each, and serve. Ananas meringue {Frosted Pineapple). Scoop out the centre portion of a preserved pineapple without breaking the shape, place it on a plated dish, and fill the cavity with a macedoine of fruit flavoured with liqueiir. Mask the whole with a meringue mixture (stiffly whisked whites of egg and sugar) ; dredge with castor sugar. Bake slowly for fifteen or twenty mimdes, and serve hot or cold. Bombes de Praises a la Macaire. lb. small ripe but firm strawberries, i pint wine jelly, i glass maraschino, I gill double cream, liquid carmine, angelica. Line a number of small bomb-shaped moulds with jelly pre- viously coloured with a few drops of carmine. Cut some of the smallest strawberries into slices, put a small piece of angelica in