461 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Oreilles de Pore frites, Sauce Tartare.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dijiped in frying liatter, and fried in clarihed butter, served with tartare sauce. ““ en Menus Droits.—Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely sliced fried onions. — en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pigs’ ears, dressed with vinaigrette sauce, garnished with harebboiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and stoned olives. Palais de Pore gratine.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, a few sliced mushrooms, fresh bread- crumbs, small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Pieds de Pore au Champagne.—Pickled pig’s feet stewed in champagne sauce. - en Fricassee.—Fricasseed pig’s feet boiled and stewed in white sauce and sliced mushrooms. — Sauce Piquante.—Pickled pig’s feet boiled and stewed in piquant sauce. Pieds de Cochon a la Sainte-Menehould.—Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in seasoned frying batter, fried in clarihed butter, served with piquante or Robert sauce. Saucisses* de Pore a la Lyonnaise. ^Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. — - a la Puree de Pommes de Terre.—Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes; served with, gravy. — aux Truffes.—Fresh German pork sausages (bratwiirste) fried or grilled ; served with truffle sauce. Souffles de Jambon a la Gastronome.—Souffles of ham mixed with cepes, morelles or large sliced mushrooms, and steamed. Cover with chopped truffles, with a whole truffle on top. Sauce Madere. — a la Milanaise.—Ham souffle, centre Filed with salpicon of cooked macaroni, cubes of ham, tongue, truffles, and champignons. Garnished with cheese-flavoured macaroni cut short. Sauce tomate. Tete de Pore a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head (previously boned), hnished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, slightly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Poulette.—Boiled pickled pig’s head stewed in and served with parsley or poulette sauce. — trite, Sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, boned, pressed, and cut into square pieces. Season, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with remoulade sauce and fried parsley. CURRIED MEAT DISHES. Curried Pork. Cut about iF lb. of lean pork into dice-shaped pieces, and steep them for a few hours in a gill of wine vinegar mixed with a clove of crushed garlic. Put a dessertspoonful of curry powder and half an ounce of flour in a stewpan containing an ounce of hot butter, and * “ Saucisses ” denote fresh sausages, whilst “ Saucissons” stand for smoked sausages.