632 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. china ramequin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes, arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. Celeri a la Bechamel.—Boiled celery, served with white sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Celery boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. — a la Fermiere.—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, par-boiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork, finished in a rich brown sauce ; dished up alternately with celery heads and slices of pork. Sauce poured over and round the dish. — a la Genevoise.—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, par-boiled, drained, seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stewed in a saute-pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock. When done, drained, arranged in a baking-dish, sauced over with veloutee sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and browned in the oven. — a ritalienne.—Parboiled celery heads, drained, seasoned, and stewed in rich broth or stock, covered with a layer of thin slices of bacon, served with Italienne sauce. The bacon should be served with the celery. — au Jus.—Celery stewed in and served with gravy. — a la Paysanne.—Boiled celery cut into five-inch lengths and stewed in brown sauce. — frit a la Tomate.—Boiled celery (cut into four-inch lengths) drained and seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Veloutee.—Stewed celery finished with veloutee sauce, into which a little fresh butter or cream has been incorporated. — a la Villeroi.—Boiled celery cut in four-inch pieces, drained, dipped in veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat ; served plain or with tomato sauce. Puree de Celeri aux Croutons.—Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well-reduced bechamel sauce and fresh butter, and served with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread (croCitons). Celeriac a la Bechamel.—Parboiled celery knobs stewed in and served with white sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Parboiled celery knobs stewed in and served with lu'own sauce. — a la Joinville.—Celery knobs boiled, cut into thick slices, immersed in veloutee sauce, set to cool, dipped in egg and crumbed, fried in hot fat, garnished with fried parsley. CHAMPIGNONS—MUSHROOMS. Champignons a la Bechamel [Miishrooms in White Sauce). 5 medium-sized white cup mushrooms, 5 eggs, i oz. butter, i dessert- spoonful flour, I gill milk, toasted bread, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Wash, peel, trim, blanch, and drain the mushrooms on a cloth. Mix the butter and flour together, put it in the saute-pan with the