LIGHT ENTRIiES iHOT).—ENTRtES U'LgIzRES. 371 Zephires de Foie-gras. Sauce Supreme. Make sufficient chicken forcemeat to line eight zephire moulds (Hat oval-shaped fluted moulds), butter the moulds well, ornament the bottom of each with truffles, put them on the ice to set firm, line bottoms and sides with forcemeat, in which a cjuantity of foie- gras puree has been incorporated. Place a nice piece of foie-gras naturel in the centre, season with a little aromatic seasoning, and fill up with forcemeat. Place them in a saute-pan half filled with water, bring to the boil, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Dress them in the form of a star on a round entree dish, sauce over with supreme sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Petits Choux a la Lorraine {Braized Cabbage Rolls). Blanch 3 well washed and trimmed spring cabbages, divide them, and select the best leaves, .placing 2 or 3 t.jgether, and lay on flat. Have ready a mixture composed of sausage meat, chop- ped ham, s a \ o u r y herbs, chop- ped suet, bread- crumbs, and mixed with beaten egg. Make this up into rolls, enclose in cabbage leaves, tie with string, and place in an earthenware stewing-pot containing a mirepoix of bacon, carrot, and onion. Moisten with rich stock, and braise for twenty minutes. Remove the fat aud add 3 to 4 spoonfuls of brown sauce. Continue to cook for another twenty minutes. Take up the cabbage rolls, untruss, and dish up, reduce the sauce, and pour over or round the base of the dish. Omelette de Ris de Veau a I’Allemande {Sweetbread Omelet). Prepare a rich ragout of sliced braised sweetbread re-heated iu veloutee sauce. Beat uj) 8 to 10 eggs, season with pepper and salt, and add 2 tablespoonfnls of cream. Melt 2 oz. of fresh butter in a large omelet pan, when hot pour in the eggs, stir, and make an omelet in the usual manner, when ready for folding, put in the ragout of sweetbread, fold in the ends of the omelet, and let it take colour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with veloutee sauce.