HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 76s Beignets de Pommes {Apple Fritters). 3 or 4 large sour cooking apples, castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful ground cinna- mon, i dessertspoonful brandy, i dessertspoonful kirsch, frying batter, clarified fat or lard. Prepare the batter as directed on p. 135. Peel the apples thinly, cut into slices about :}- inch thick, cut out the cores by means of a column - cutter. Put the slices on a plate, pom- over the brandy and kirsch, cover over with another plate, and shake to- gether for a few minutes. D i p the slices of apple into the batter, fry a golden colour in hot fat, and drain on a cloth. Mix a little ground cinnamon with castor sugar, sprinkle it over the fritters, dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Beignets de Groseilles vertes {Gooseberry Fritters). K pint of large goo.seberries, i white aud 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 table.spoonfuls water, castor sugar, a pinch of salt clarified butter or lard. Sift the flour into a basin. Add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually the yolks of eggs, cream, and water, and work into a smooth batter. Let it stand for half an hour. Pick the fruit, beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. Heat the butter or lard, dip the gooseberries into the batter, drop into the hot butter or lard, and fry a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle with castor sugar, dish up, and serve. Beignets de Reines-Claude {Greengage Fritters). Proceed the same as described for Strawberry Fritters (p. 764), using ripe but firm greengages, previously stoned, in place of strawberries. Beignets de Cerises Parisienne. Prepare a light frying batter and allow it to stand for an hour or longer. Stone the required quantity of cherries, put them on a SOU]) jrlate, pour over enough syrup and kirsch or maraschino to flavour and cover. After filling the cavity of each cherry with a little soft almond paste insert a small wooden skewer, then dip into frying batter and drop into hot fat, being careful not to fry too many at the same time. When of a golden colour, take them up, drain carefully, remove the wooden skewers, and insert in its place a stalk of angelica. Dredge with fine sugar, and pile the fritters in a nouille croustade-shaped basket. Serve hot