582 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chartreuse de Cailles a la Reine Eugenie. 4-5 quails, mirepoix, chicken farce, i oz. butter, stock, hard-boiled white of egg, truffles and pistachios, i pint aspic jelly, cooked ham or tongue, French beans and pimientos for garnish, seasoning. Bone the quails and lay out flat on a board skin downwards, season with salt and pepper, then spread over with a layer of chicken farce, put some strips of white of egg and trufiles and peeled pistachio kernels on the farce, then roll up like small galantines, and wrap each bird in a piece of muslin. Cook in mirepoix and butter, and then in stock till tender. Take up, press, and let cool. Mask the inside of a charlotte mould with aspic and decorate fancifully with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, trufiie, and ham or tongue, also cooked French beans and pimientos. Cut the prepared galan- tines of quail into slices, and fill the mould with these and alternate layers of aspic jelly. Allow each layer of aspic to set before adding the next. When the mould is filled, place it on the ice for 1-2 hours, then turn out on a cold dish, garnish the dish tastefully and serve. Chartreuse de Cailles en Surprise [Chartreuse of Quails). 4 quails, 2 large truffles, 3 chillies, i tin natural foie-gras, i pint stock, chicken farce (p. 178), 2 hard-boiled eggs, champignons, peas, and carrot for garnish, seasoning, chand-froid sauce and aspic. Bone the quails, make a fumet of the carcases, add the stock to it, reduce well and strain. Stuff the boned quails with chicken farce and a good-sized piece of foie-gras, wrap up each in a small piece of muslin cloth, cook in the stock for thirty minutes, let cool, remove the muslin, and cut them in halves lengthways. Line eight small quenelle shells with a thin layer of aspic, decorate with fine strips of truffle and chilli or red capsicum ; mask with a brown or white chaud-froid sauce, lay in each half a quail, surround the sides with sauce, and place on the ice to set. Dress on a dish with a