334 CHAPTER XVIII. GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. The main object of garnishing a dish is to make it effective, for in cooking it is quite as essential to please the eye as to charm the palate. All garnitures should be composed of edible materials, and be appropriate* to the dish. In serving fish or meat, entrees and releves, the garnishing invariably forms an important part of the dish. The objects of garnishing are, therefore, two-fold, one being to provide a dish with an appropriate or suit- able adjunct, and the other to increase its attractiveness. A dish may be prepared and cooked ever so carefully, and taste delicious, but if its appearance or its garnish and dressing are not pleasing and inviting, its success is very often marred. A dish is often not enjoyed because its appearance is against it. Everything connected with the garniture of any dish depends to a very large extent on the good taste and skill of the cook, and, in a lesser degree, on the materials a cook may have at command. Success depends upon an artistic combination, and over-decoration and over-loading should be carefully avoided. The principal garnishes used for both hot and cold dishes consist of vegetables, of which almost HATELET SKEWERS, evci'y kind may be adapted—either sliced, cut GARN°sHiNG shrcds or fancy shapes, buds or whole (small vegetables). Besides these, forcemeat made up into various forms, quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, financieres, lambs’ or calves’ sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, etc., are very often employed for garnishing hot meat dishes, while for fish dishes and releves, crayfish, prawns, oysters, cockles, scallops, fried smelts, etc., are also used for that purpose. In addition to this, sauces are likewise used in garnitures, and in some cases, such as lobster, oyster, crayfish or shrimp sauces, they form the only garnish of a dish. Simple garnishings, such as fried parsley, croutes and croutons, sippets, fresh parsley, small cress and cresses, cucumber, beetroot, eggs (hard-boiled, fried and, poached), olives, capers, gherkins, lemon, aspic, etc., may be mentioned en passant. These decorations, most of which are applicable to cold meats.