HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 757 butter, a little milk, and four eggs (two at a time), beat u]) well lV)r about ten minutes, then add the prepared yeast, together with a tahlespoonful of sweet cream. Work it again for a few minutes, and put it into a border-mould it will rather more than half-till. The mould must be well buttered, and the interior sprinkled with line sugar and ground rice or finely-shredded almonds or cocoanut. Cover the mould, and let stand in a warm place, to rise, from one to two hours, by which time the contents should have risen to fill the mould. Bake in a hot oven. Baba au Rhum. I- lb. sifted flour, a pinch of salt, rather more than I oz. yeast, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. butter, 5 eggs, if oz. cleaned currants, i gill cream, about it gill milk. Put four ounces of the flour in a small basin, make a well in the centre, put in this the yeast diluted with a little tepid milk, work it to a smooth dough, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place. Put the remainder of the flonr in a large basin, make a well in the centre, add the salt and sugar, work in the eggs, the butter (melted), and a little milk, and beat for fifteen minutes. When the dough has well risen, add it to the above, knead well for another fifteen minutes, put in the cream (just tepid), also the currants, and mix thoroughly. Ha\’e ready six to eight small or one large well-buttered baba-mould (these are cylindrical-shaped copper moulds). Sprinkle the bottom and sides with a few currants, let rise for fifteen minutes in a warm place, and bake in a moderately- heated oven. When done, turn out on to a dish. Baste well, while hot, with rum syrup, dish up, sauce over witli the syruji, and serve hot. Timbale a la Bardaloiise. 4 oz. flour, 8 to 10 chestnuts, f glass sherry, i gill milk, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, } glass maraschino, t- oz. German yeast, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, lemon. 2 inches vanilla pod, fruit for decoration. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put the yeast (previously diluted with a little tepid water) in the centre, mix with a little of the flour to form a sponge, and allow it to rise. When the sponge is risen work in about one gill of tepid milk, i- oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. Work the whole (flour and licpiid) for about twenty minutes, then put it in a warm place to rise. As'soon as the paste is sufficiently risen three-parts fill a well-buttered and floured border-mould, allow it to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare a syrup by boiling the loaf sugar with 1- gill of water, the juice of half a lemon, one glass of sherry, and the vanilla pod. Skim, and let it infuse well. Remove the vanilla, and keep the syrnp hot. Peel and cook the chestnuts until tender, rub through a sieve, add 2 oz. of castor sugar, mix with a glass of maraschino. Whisk the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the puree. Turn out the border when baked, trim, and saturate well with the pre- pared syrup, then place it on a dish, fill the centre with the puree,