35 ELEMENTAR V METHODS. add enough water to make a smooth yet stiff paste. Roll out, fold in the remainder of the butter, and proceed in the same manner as directed on page 134. Roll and fold four times in all. This paste is used for meat or fruit-pie crust, tartlets, etc. Pate a Choux [Choiix Paste for Sweet Dishes). 4 lb. butter, i pint water, i lemon, 2 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 or 3 eggs, about 4 oz. flour. Put the water, butter, lemon-rind finely chopped, sugar, and salt in a stewpan on the fire, when at the boiling point stir in suffi- cient flour to form a stiff paste, and work over the Are till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs according to size. Choux Paste for General Use. 3 oz. butter, i-J giU water, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 whole and i yolk of eggs, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Put the water and butter in a small stewpan, add a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of sugar ; bring it to the boil. Stir in the flour, work vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon, continue to work on the stove until the paste leaves the sides of the stewpan clean. Let it cool, and add by degrees the eggs. Use as directed. Note.—When choux paste is used for savoury or soup quenelles the sugar must be omitted. Pancake Batter. ^ oz. flour (sifted), 2 eggs, i3 giU of milk, a pinch of salt. Beat up the eggs in a basin, stir gradually into the flotir, beat up thoroughly, adcling the salt. Continue beating whilst the milk is added by degrees. Strain if necessary, and let it stand for at least an hour before using. Frying Batter [Pate a Frire). 4 oz. flour, 2 whites of eggs, i yolk of egg, i tablespoonful of cream, oz. oiled butter. Sift the flour into a basin ; add the oiled butter, a pinch of salt, the yolk of egg, and the cream; mix well with a wooden spoon, and dilute gradually with about half a gill of lukewarm water, tvork it well uhtil the paste becomes quite smooth. Allow it to stand for about half an hour or more, and when required whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix gently. The batter is then ready for use. If intended for fruit fritters, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; if for fish or meat, a few drops of lemon-juice added to the batter will be found an improvement. A thinnish batter is preferable to a thick one. Yeast Batter for Fritters, etc. 8 oz. of flour, -1- oz. compressed yeast, i t oz. oiled butter, milk, salt, sugar. Mix the yeast with a little tepid milk, work in gradually 2 oz. of sifted flour, and adding more milk or water, make into a light dough. Let it rise in a warm place for about an hour. Work in the butter, 6 more oz. of flour, a pinch of salt and sugar, with