9o8 THE NEW CENTUkY COOKERY BOOK. Season with salt and pepper, re-heat, and stir in the yolks of two eggs to bind the mixUire. Dish np, garnish with thinly cut slices of fried bacon, and serve. Baked Cheese Pie. Place a layer of thinly cut slices of buttered bread in a pie-dish, sprinkle over thickly with any grated cheese, and a seasoning of made mustard, salt, and cayenne. Repeat till the dish is full, and pour over a custard made with two eggs beaten up in a pint of milk. Bake in a very slow oven until cpiite set. Serve with an accompani- ment of grated cheese on a separate small dish. Hot Breakfast Cakes. Take a pound of Coombs’ “ Eureka,” or other good self-raising flour, add to it a pinch of salt, and rub in by degrees 4 oz. of butter, work this till it resembles oatmeal, then moisten with about f pint of milk to a smooth dough, which must not be too stiff. Roll out about ^ inch thick, and stamp out with a two-inch paste cutter into rounds. Place on a buttered baking-sheet and bake in a moderately heated oven. Split the cakes whilst hot, butter them lightly, and serve at once. PLANKING FOOD. Planking food is a form of cooking of American origin, effected by means of baking or cooking food on a plank in the oven or in front of a hre. Planks are made for the purpose about two inches thick and of various sizes, and may be oak, ash, cedar or cherry- wood. Oak planks ai'e considered best. These planks must be specially seasoned before using by brushing them repeatedly with olive oil, then placing in a very hot oven until the oiled surface is slightly charred. Some jilanks have wire loops fastened on them by means of which the food is secured to the board ; when this is not the case tacks may be used. The lower part of a gas oven answers the purpose admirably for cooking planked food. It is said that nearly every kind of hsh or meat is improved in the })rocess of planking. Chicken is delicious planked, and as far as fish is concerned no other method of cooking can equal it. Make sure that the plank used will lit the oven. The plank should never be washed with soap and water ; sandpaper it, then rub it clean with brown paper and salt, and put it away in a clean bag until again required. Planked Fish. W'ash and dry a fresh hsh weighing about three pounds. Remove the head, then split the fish from head to tail, so that it can be flattened oiit on the plank. Heat the plank and brush it with oiled butter, place on the fish, skin side down, and tack it on hrmly. Put it into a hot oven. Mi.\ together half a cup of butter, one cup of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of pej)j)er, and one teaspoonful of salt. Baste the hsh with this mi.xture every ten minutes for about thirty minutes. Remove from the oven, place the plank on a dish, and garnish with lemon slices and parsley.