COLD SWEFA' ENTREMETS. 82s Gateau de Peches a la Rejane. 5 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, i oz. ground almonds, i oz, conillour, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz, butter, 6 drops vanilla essence, 6 jieaches (compute), apricot marmalade, i gill cream, frangipanc custard, red-currant jelly, chopped grilled almonds, raspberry syiaip, kirsch. For spun sugar : b lb. loaf sugar, lemon-juice, glucose. Cream the yolks of eggs with the castor sugar, add the almonds and the butter, and continue to whisk till the mixture is quite cream- like, then whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add this and the flour, also the vanilla essence. Put it into a well-buttered and floured flat cake tin and bake off. When cold, cnt out neatly the interior of the cake so as to obtain a shell-shaped cake case, bake this further so as to har- den the in - side. Brush over the in- side with dis s o 1 ved apricot and peach mar- malade, also the outside, and cover with coarse- ly chopped a 1 m 0 n d s. Line it with fi'angip a n e c u s t a r d mixed with a little whipped cream ; place in the peaches cut into neat slices (sectional) and coated slightly with well-reduced raspberry syrup flavoured with a little kirsch. Cover the whole with custard and cream ; cream the red-currant jelly, put it into a cornet, and decorate the top with a trellis-work pattern, and garnish with spun sugar, which is made as follows : Dissolve the loaf sugar with a gill of water, add a dessertspoonful of glucose, and cook to 250 degrees Fahr., then add a few drops of lemon-jnice. Let cool a little, and spin the sugar by means of a three-pronged fork into flne shred; gather these np carefully, and place over the gateau. Creme de fruits a la Montfleuri. \ pint cream, i gill milk, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. peeled pistachios, I teaspoonful orange-flower water, \ oz. leaf gelatine, 4 oz. stoned cherries, glac > cherries or angelica for decoration, 8-10 triangular-shaped glace biscuits, 8 yolks of eggs, i b gill wine jelly. Pound the pistachio kernels with a little cream, and rub it through a flne sieve. Boil up the milk, add half the cream, and heat np, then add the pistachio puree. Cream the egg-yolks aud sugar together ; when fairly stiff add the orange-flower water, and