ENTREES OE FOULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 487 curry-powder in -J- oz. of butter, chop the apple hnely and add to the curry and butter, stir over the hre and add the veloutt'e sauce. W'hen boiling, skim, and cook gently until the apple is tender, then strain and re-heat, add the egg-yolk and cream, also the juice of half a lemon, when hot and blended. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and paprika, place in the pieces of chicken and the garniture, onions, champignons, cocks’ combs and kernels, and keep hot till rec]uired for table. Toss the rice in butter for a few minutes, and moisten with a little rich chicken stock. With the pastry shapes hx up a neat border on a round flat dish, put the rice as a bed in the dish, and dress the cooked fowl, etc., neatly on the rice. Sauce over carefully, garnish the edge of the disH with thin slices of lemon, and serve hot. Poulet saute a la Duroc. Joint the chicken in the usual manner for sauteing, season, and fry in oil, drain, and cook till tender in a rich tomato sauce. Dish up and garnish with slices of mushrooms, stuffed olives, sauted chicken livers, and fried bread croutons. Poulet saute a la Marengo. I good-sized chicken, i gill best salad oil, i gill brown sauce (Espagnole, p. 148), I gill tomato sauce (p. 160), i shallot, i glass marsala, 8 preserved mushrooms, i truffle, salt and pepper, 3 eggs, and puff-paste Fleurcns for garnish. Cut the chicken into eight neatly trimmed joints, and put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the oil, fry tjuickly to slightly brown the outside of the chicken, now add the shallot, finely chopped. Pour off the oil into a smaller stewpan, add the two kinds of sauce, the’’mush- rooms, the truffle, both being cut into slices. Cover the pan, season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven to stew for about forty minutes. Fry the eggs in the oil — they must be shaped just like poached eggs (not flat). Pile the pieces of chicken neatly on a silver dish, and arrange the mushrooms, eggs, cock’s comb, and truffle round and on top of it. Strain over the sauce, previously freed from fat, garnish with tleurons, i.c. half-moon or crescent shapes of baked puff-paste, aud serve. Poulet saute a la Plombieres. Cut up into neat joints two tender chickens, and a cpiarter of a pound of streaky bacon into dice. Dissolve two ounces of butter