THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 136 sufficient milk to form a smooth paste. Beat up thoroughly and allow to rise again before using. Pate brisee a I’Anchois {Anchovy Paste Crust for Savouries). 6 oz. flour, 2^ oz. butter, i egg, i tablespoonful milk or cream, i table- spoonful anchovy essence or anchovy paste. Sift the flour, rub in the butter, add the anchovy, the egg, and sufficient cream or milk to work it into a stiff but smooth paste. Line moulds, etc., as directed. Hot-water Crust {Pate a Pate, or Raised Pie Crust). I lb. flour, I gill milk, 4 oz. lard. Sift the flour, put the milk and lard into a small stewpan, and heat up. Mix a small quantity of water with this, and work into the flour to produce a firm but smooth paste. Use the paste for lining, and covering for raised pies, pork or game. Macaroon Paste. 4 oz. ground almonds, i lb. castor sugar, 3 whites of eggs, 3 drops almond essence. Pound the almonds and sugar in a mortar ; add the whites of eggs one at a time ; pound well, so as to thoroughly mix it; last of all add the essence, and use as required. If placed in a jar and covered it will keep good for some time. Creme d’Amandes {Almond Cream). I lb. ground almonds, ^ lb. sugar, i oz. flour, ^ pint milk, i yolk of egg, vanilla essence. Mix the ground almonds with 4 oz. of castor sugar ; when fine enough pass through a sieve. Then make a cream with 4 oz. of sugar, milk, and flour (sifted). Cook for ten minutes ; add the yolk of egg, and a few drops of vanilla essence. When the mixture is sufficiently creamy, incorporate the almond paste and use for filling. Cassolette Paste. 6 oz. flour, ij oz. butter, i egg, a little water, one teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt. Put the flour in a basin, add the salt, and rub in the butter until quite smooth. Then moisten with the egg, the lemon-juice, and a very little water. Mi.x the whole thoroughly, and work into a smooth but stiff paste. Use for lining of small cassolette timbale or zephire moulds. Pate d’Amandes {Almond Paste). 3 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. loaf sugar, i white of egg, cream of tartar. Put the loaf sugar in a stewpan, add a pinch of cream of tartar and about a tablespoonful of water, bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and boil to the ball degree—i.e. 235 degrees by Senn’s Saccharometer, then pour it into a basin containing the ground almonds, mix thoroughly with about half the white of an egg. When well worked turn ont on a board and use as required.