770 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cut the bread into slices about half an inch thick, trim off the crust, cut into fancy shapes, round, diamond or half-moons. Boil up the milk and vanilla, sweeten to taste, when nearly cold, pour over the pieces of bread and let them soak. Beat up two whites and one yolk of eggs, add a pinch of salt, immerse the pieces of bread, fry in hot butter or lard to a light colour, drain on a paper or cloth, sprinkle with castor sugar mi.xed with the ground cinna- mon. Dish np in a pile and serve with a boat of custard, made with the remaining yolk of egg, the milk, and a teaspoonful of cornflour. Baked Bananas. Select large and not over-ripe bananas for this dish. Strip off about a third of the skin lengthways, and loosen the remainder of the skin from the fruit by means of a teaspoon. Lay the banana in a buttered saute-pan or baking-dish, place a few very small pieces of butter on the top of each, and besprinkle freely with castor sugar, pour over each about half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. Gaufres a la Carnival {Carnival Wafers). 2 eggs, I oz. castor sugar, \ gill cream, a pinch of salt, i oz. fresh butter (oiled), \ lb. flour (sifted), clarified butter for frying. Whisk the eggs, sugar, butter, and cream together, add the salt, and work into a fairly stiff paste with the flour. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, allow the paste to stand for half an hour, then roll it out in small portions on a floured board as thin as paper. Cut out small rounds by the help of a saucer and a pastry wheel, and fry them in clarified butter to a golden colour. When done, drain well on a cloth or paper, and dredge with cinnamon or vanilla fiavoured sugar. Dish up, and serve hot or cold with vanilla or chocolate sauce. Cremes frites {Cream Fritters), Prepare a fairly firm frangipane or confectioner’s custard (p. 137). Spread it evenly on a dish, and put on the ice or in a cool place to set. Stamp out some round shapes with a paste-cutter, egg them over and crumb them in crushed macaroons and breadcrumbs. Fry in sufficient very hot clarified butter to well cover the shapes. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve with hot or cold fruit syrup. SUNK SWARIN.. BISCUIT MOULD. SAVARIN MOULD.