90 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. longer, stirring all the time to prevent it from burning. Moisten with 6 quarts of water, let it come to a boil, take off the scum as it rises to the surface, and simmer gently for about 4 hours. Wash the remaining carrot, turnip, and celery, scrape and peel, scoop out as many little rounds as possible, and cook them separately in salted water until firm and yet tender. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into the stock. Season the stock with salt to taste, strain it through a cloth, and clarify in the usual manner. Strain the cooked vegetable shapes, add them together with the peas to the clarified soup, and simmer for a few minutes. Put the dice of game in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. Consomme a I’Imperiale. 3 quarts of consomme, 4 lb. raw or cooked chicken meat, 2 whites and 1 yolk of egg, i tablespoonfvd of cream, i tablespoonfiil of bechamel sauce, 2 oz. fat bacon or shred beef suet, about i gill white stock, pepper anci salt, 3 small carrots, a handful asparagus points. Prepare the consomme in the usual way. Butter a small flat tin mould or pan, spread evenly with a thick layer of forcemeat made as follows : Chop finely the chicken meat, bacon or suet, pound together in a mortar, add gradually the eggs and sauce, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and add the cream and as much stock as is required to make a nice creamy farce, and season with pepper and salt to taste. Place the mould in the oven till done ; this will take but a few minutes. Cut out some thin rounds about the size of a shilling-piece, put in a soup-tureen together with a handful of small rounds of cooked carrots, and the same quantity of cooked asparagus points, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme Jardiniere. For 2 quarts of consomme : i carrot, 2 small turnips, 6 small button onions, cucumber, ^ of a lettuce, of a stalk of celery, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Scrape, peel, and clean the vegetables, scoop out "the carrot, turnips, and celery into the shape of peas and small olives. Wash the lettuce and pull into very small pieces, cut the tarragon and chervil into fine shreds, blanch these and the lettuce-leaves. Cook the onions, carrot, turnips, celery, and cucumber separately in salted water, drain, and put all together with lettuce and herbs in a stewpan. Fill up with the clear soup, add the seasoning, boil gently for about ten minutes, and serve hot. Note.—Toasted bread cut into small sippets may be served with this soup, but should be handed round separately. Consomme Julienne. To 2 quarts of consomme : 2 small carrots, turnip, i leek, onion, 4 stick celery, i oz. butter, 4 small cabbage, a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt. Pare and wash the vegetables, slice them thinly and cut into very fine, long shreds, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire to blend well and cook a little, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper. Add the clear soup, cook gently