DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 297 Rougets a la Marechale.—Fillets of red mullet dipped in oiled butter and coated with finely-chopped truffle, then broiled in clarihed butter and served with slices of truffle placed on each hllet. — a la Polonaise.—Red mullet slightly coated with Hour and fried in clarihed butter. Dished u]i and sauced over with hsh essence, thickened with egg-yolks and cream, garnished with croutons and slices of lemon. ANGUILLE—EEL. Anguille a I’Espagnole {Eels, Spanish Style). I or 2 eels (skinned), 2 tablespoonfuls flour, -t gill sweet oil, 12 sweet abnonds, I clove of garlic, 3 peppercorns, a pinch of saffron, salt, i glass port wine, small fried bread croutes for garnish, chopped parsley, lemon-juice. Clean, wash, and dry the fish, cut off the heads and tails, and divide into neat pieces ; with the Hour mix one teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip in the fish, fry a nice colour in hot oil, and drain well. Put them in a stewpan, add the garlic, previously 'fried in oil, saffron, peppercorns, wine, fish stock or water, to cover the fish. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred coarsely, bake a light colour in the oven, add these to the stew, and let it simmer slowly till tender. Dish up neatly, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, garnish with croutes, and serve. Anguilles en Matelote {Matelote of Eel). Skin two large eels, and cut them into convenient sized pieces ; wash, drain, and wipe them, dip each piece in seasoned flour and place in a saute-pan containing a mirepoix of two finely sliced onions, a clove of garlic, 10 peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a small bouquet of herbs, and 2 oz. of butter. Fry the fish in this over a quick fire, then add a glass of claret and a tablespoonful of brandy ; cover the pan and cook thus for a few minutes longer. Transfer the pieces of eel into a stewpan and add 2 doz. par-fried peeled button onions, I doz. mushroom heads (champignons), and 3-4 rashers of lean bacon cut in dice shapes ; strain over the liquor left in the saute-pan, also about a pint of Matelote or Bordeaux sauce, and cook gently for another half an hour, or till the eels are quite tender. Skim occasionally and season to taste ; dish up in a casserole dish with glazed croutons on top, besprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. Fritot d’Anguilles ala Remoulade {Eried Eel, Rcmouladc Sauce). I good-sized eel, 3 yolks of egg, i teaspoonfiil oiled butter, breadcrumbs, a few sprigs of parsley, i- teaspoouful sweet herbs, pepper, salt, fat for frying, 4 lemon, remoulade sauce (p. 158). Wash and clean the eel, remove tail and head, split open and take out the bone, cut into neat pieces about li- inch long, dry well on a cloth and dip in a little flour, previously mixed with sufficient salt and pepper to season. Beat the yolks of eggs, add the oiled butter, savoury herbs, and parsley finely chopped. Coat the pieces well with this, then roll in lu'eadcrumbs. Fry in hot