COLD ENTR/iES. ScSi Timbale de Cailles en Gelee {Quails Timbale) Bone three or four quails, stuff them with foie-gras and truffles, and braise in the usual manner. When done, take up and let cool and' cut them into slices. Mask a timbale mould with aspic. Range the quails in layers alternately with aspic, and so hll the mould, allow i n g each layer to set on the ice before the next is added. When set, turn out on a round dish, gar- nish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve. Faisan en Aspic {Pheasant in Savoury Jelly). Take the remains of a roast pheasant, and cut the meat into neat slices, freed from skin and sinew. Put a layer of aspic jelly in the bottom of a timbale mould, decorate it with stars or crescent shapes of slices of truffle and white of egg, leaves of chervil, and stars of red chillies or slices of ox-tongue. When the garnishing has set, arrange the slices of cold pheasant in layers and mask each layer with aspic jelly. The last layer should, of course, be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice to set. W'hen hrm, turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Chartreuse de Faisan a la Balmoral {Chartreuse of Pheasant). lb. cold pheasant (freed from skin and bone), 6 or 8 small chicken quenelles, 3 large truffles, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 or 4 cooked cocks’ combs. I j pint aspic jelly, seasoning, i gill Espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 02. meat glaze, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce, i gill cream, i hard- boiled egg. Line a charlotte or large timbale mould with aspic. Ornament the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and white of egg, hx the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, reduce to one-third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the inside of the mould. Cut the pheasant meat, mush- rooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices or hllets, mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint of aspic, and meat glaze, reduce well, and mix with meat, etc. ; when cooling season the whole to taste, and fill up the mould. Stand on the ice until perfectly firm, immerse in tepid water, and turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve.,