i8i SOUPS (POTAGES). add the egg-yolk and work to a smooth stiff paste. Roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds about the size of a sixpence, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake a golden brown in a moderately hot oven. Put them on a sieve to cool, and serve on small fancy dish or plate, covered with a pretty lace paper. Chicken or Veal Farce Quenelles. 8 oz. chicken or lean veal, 3 oz. bread, milk, i egg, nutmeg. Soak the bread in milk, free the veal or chicken from bone, skin, and gristle, pound until smooth, and add the soaked bread, previously freed from moisture. Mix thoroughly and pound well, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, incorporate a well-beaten egg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Shape into small marbles and poach them in stock. Pot-au-feu [French Family Soup).—The pot-au-feu is what would here be termed the stock-pot. It figures as “ a standing dish ” in every household in France, Germany, and Switzerland, as well as in other foreign countries where thrift is, so to speak, ingrained in the national character, and where cooking, as an art is not mono- polised by the rich alone. The pot-au-feu is on the simmer from the early morn until dinner-time, and many loose, unconsidered trifles and scraps find their way to the stock-pot, or pot-au-feu. The art of culinary blending, however, produces a highly wholesome soup, which is at the same time nutritive and savoury. The following is a recipe which will produce a first-class soup with meat^and vegetables, the same as is served on theXontinent : 4 lb. brisket of beef, i large onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, 3 cloves, t leek, a piece of celery, -1- cabbage, a small bunch of soup herbs, 12 peppercorns, salt, I French roll, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i-l- gallon cold water. Wash the meat in cold water (shin of beef may be substituted for brisket, but it will not be so useful for ser\-ing), cover it with the water, place it on the fire and let it come gently to a boil.