425 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. centre with spinach, previonsly heated and well seasoned, give them a pyramidal shape, pour the sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. Ris de Veau a I’lndienne [Sweethread, Indian Style). 1 pair heart sweetbreads, i- pint good stock, border of chicken quenelle meat (p. 178), curry sauce. Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, blanch, cook until firm and round without being hard, remove from the water, and press till cold. Fold separately in buttered ]taper, braise in half pint of good stock for half an hour, and take them up. When cool cut them in slices with a sharp knife, dish on a border of chicken cptenelle meat, re-heat in the oven, and pour the curry sauce over. Serve plain boiled rice in the centre of the dish. Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere {Bvaised Sweetbread with mixed V egctables). 2 heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, 2 slices streaky bacon, a small bomiuet of herbs, i onion sliced, i carrot sliced, 2 cloves, a few peppercorns, aromatic seasoning, salt, i gill rich stock, meat glaze, -1- oz. butter, jardiniere garnish, a croute of bread. Blanch, cook, and press as directed in preceding recipe, and lard the best sides with strips of larding bacon. Pnt the bacon (cut small), the onion, carrot, butter, herbs, cloves, and peppercorns in a braising-pan, place the sweetbreads on top. Heat over the hre for several minutes, then add the stock, salt, pepper, and aromatics to taste, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from thirty to forty minutes. Baste frequently, and sprinkle the top of the sweetbreads occasionally with liquehed meat glaze. When done transfer the sweetbreads to another pan, remove the fat from the liquor, add a little more meat glaze, reduce to half glaze, and strain over the sweetbreads. Dress the sweetbreads on a fried bread croute, sauce over carefully, garnish with vegetable jardiniere, and serve. Ris de Veau a la Stanley. Cut a large blanched heart sweetbread into slices, and fry them in clarified butter. Dress in a flan-shaped baked paste-crust, previously lined with a thin layer of veal farce, between the slices of sweetbread place a slice of cooked ham, and sauce over with a veloutee sauce flavoured with onion puree, termed veloutee snubisee. Garnish the surface with slices of truffles, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels, heated up in a rich brown sauce. Put the dish in the o\'en for about five minutes, and serve. Ris de Veau a la Toulouse. Braised larded sweetbread, served with slices of tongue, truffles, chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, prepfared in allemande sauce. Garnish with fancy shapaes of fried bread croutons. Ris de Veau a la Louis Philippe {Sweetbread in Cases). I large or 2 small sweetbreads, 6 oz. ham, i oz. butter, i oz. parsley butter, 8 mushrooms, i small onion, i teaspoonful powdered herbs, 2 tablespoon- fuls breadcrumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, i large truffle, 6 oysters, pepper and salt, I pint sauce IMadere,