879 AFTER-DINNER SA VOURIES. a golden colour, drain, and fill with the cheese mixture ; heaj) nji, and smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, put it itr the oven for a few minutes, or hold under a hot salamander long enough to brown the top, and serve on a folded napkin. Diablotines a la Gruyere. Line a dozen small dariole moidds with very thin ordinary paste ; boil up a gill of milk in a stew-pan, add one ounce of butter, mix with half an ounce of cornflour, also three ounces of grated gruyere cheese ; stir well over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs, season with a little salt and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this'preparation, put a small quantity of anchovy or bloater paste in the centre of each, cover with the remaining mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin. Petites Marquises a la Suisse. l lb. puff-paste trimmings, pint milk, i oz, flour, i oz. butter, i bay-leaf, 1 small onion, i clove, salt, mignonette pepper, parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. grated gruyere cheese, 6 oz. choux-paste. Peel the onion, stick in the clove ; put this, the milk, bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley in a small stew-pan and boil for a few minutes ; melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook for some minutes without letting the flour take colour ; moisten with the boiled milk ; stir until it boils. Add half an ounce of cheese, season to taste, and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; then strain through a pointed strainer, and add the yolks of eggs, mix well, and let cool. Roll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line six or eight bouche, cup or small tartlet moulds ; prick the bottoms with a fork, put a tablespoonful of the prepared sauce into each, sprinkle with grated cheese ; upon this put a layer of choux-paste forced through a cornet or forcing-bag ; dredge the surface with grated cheese, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Lhr- mould, dish up on a foldecl napkin or lace-paper covered dish, and serve hot. Marquises au Parmesan. About I lb. of brioche or choux-paste, 4 eggs, i J- oz, grated parmesan cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of meat glaze, i tablespooiiful of chopped parsley, I oz, of butter, i tablespoonful oi cream, pepper and salt. Blitter eight oval boat-shaped moulds, fill three-parts full with brioche paste, let stand in a warm place for about an hour, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. Turn out of the moulds ; cut carefully round the edge of the surface, and remove the top. Scoop out tile soft part of the inside ; melt the meat glaze, mask the interior of cases and lids with the glaze, and place them, hollow parts downwards, on a sieve to drain. Put the butter, eggs, cream, and grated cheese in the stew-pan, beat up well and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then add the parsley and seasoning. When suffi- ciently set, fill up the cases, replace the lids, put in the mouth of the oven for a few seconds, dish up on a hot dish, brush over the surface with meat glaze, and serve.