421 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Proceed as directed in “ Olives de Veau.” Enclose each roll in a slice of bacon, and place the stewpan in the oven instead of on the stove. Prepare a garnish of cooked buds of cauliflower, carrot, and turnip, cut a la jardiniere, also some green peas and French beans, toss theni lightly in a little butter over the lire. To 8 or 10 oz. of veal forcemeat add 3 oz. of mashed potatoes and I tablespoonful of cream, put into a buttered plain border mould, bake for hfteen minutes, and turn on to a hot dish. Dress the panpiettes on the border, pour over the white sauce well reduced, lill the centre with vegetable jardiniere, and cover with liquid meat glaze, and serve. Papillotes de Veau a la Maintenon. Boned veal cutlets fried m butter, stufted with forcemeat and sawmry herbs, wrapped in paper, and baked ; served with fried parsley. Paupiettes de Veau a la Toscane [Rolled Veal Fillets). to 3 lb. fillet of veal, i oz. butter, 4 even-sized ripe tomatoes, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. fat pork. 4 oz. panadc, 3 yolks of eggs, 10 peppercorns, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, | gill white sauce, i- pint stock, c pint tomato sauce, I bouquet garni, i carrot, f turnip, i onion, meat glaze, pepper, salt, and cayenne, pint cooked green peas, i tablespoonful breadcrumbs, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley. Cut the veal into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick, flatten, trim into heart shapes, and place a thin slice of bacon on each. Pound the trimmings of veal, the bacon, and pork. Add the panade, yolks of eggs, jfepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix tho- roughly, and rub through a sieve. Put a layer of this farce on the slices of veal and bacon, roll up, enclose in pieces of buttered paper, and tie with string. Put in a deep saute-pan, add i oz. butter, the peppercorns, bouquet garni, carrot, turnip, and onions, cut into slices, place the paupiettes on top, cover, fry over a quick hre for a few minutes, then add the stock. Braise for about one hour. Baste occasionally. When done, strain liquor into small stewpan, free it from fat, add tomato sauce and necessary seasoning, and reduce well. Cut the tomatoes into halves, scoop out a little of the pulp, chop the truffles and mushrooms finely, mix with the remainder of the farce, add breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Stuff the tomatoes, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Remove string and paper from the paupiettes, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and put in the oven on a baking-tin for a few seconds. Put each paupiette in the centre of a stuffed tomato, dish in a circle, pour sauce round, with peas in centre, and serve. Spinach, by way of a change, can be served in place of peas. Pieds de Veau a I’Orly [Fried Calf's Feet). I pair of calf’s feet, i carrot, i onion, -1- oz. flour, gill vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, i egg, breadcrumbs, fat for frvdng, tomato sauce. Wash and scald the calf’s feet, remove the shank-bone, slit them in two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours, and