■ 640 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Puree de Crosnes.—Blanched stachys drained and cooked in stock, then rubbed through a sieve and mixed with a little potato puree. ENDIVES. Trim, wash, and cook Endives the same as Spinach. Endives a I’Ardennaise.—Par-boiled endives, cut in sections and sauted in the oven with slice of bacon. Served in timbale with butter. — a la Creme.—Par-boiled or blanched endives cooked in cream sauce. ! — au Jus.—Par-boiled or blanched endives drained and cooked in gravy. ^ — a la Mornay.—Boiled endives, drained and put in a buttered gratin dish with Mornay sauce, and glazed in oven. EPINARD—SPINACH. Epinards a la Bechamel. Pidv and wash about 3 lb. of spinach, boil it in salted water, rinse and cool in cold water, drain and p)ress well, then pass it through a wire sieve or chop it very hire. Melt in a stew-pan two ounces of butter, add one ounce of Hour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the spinach, also one gill of fresh cream and a small ladleful of bechamel sauce, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stir until thoroughly hot, stand in the bain-marie. When wanted, dish up on a deep round or oval dish, smooth the surface with a knife, and garnish with fancifully-cut croiitons of fried bread or Fleurons. Epinards a la Creme. Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, omitting the sauce, and adding rather more cream. Epinards a la Colbert. Puree of spinach, served with neatly trimmed poached eggs on top, and garnished with fried croutons of bread or Fleurons of puff-paste. Epinards a la Forestiere. Pick, wash, and drain 3 lb. of spinach, chop or shred it finely and blanch it in salted water, drain it again, and cook till tender with 2 oz. of butter and i gill of cream. Lastly add the yolks of 2 eggs, and season to taste. Put it in a buttered gratin dish, and besprinkle with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven and serve. Epinards a ITtalienne. Cook the spinach as directed for “ Epinards a la Bechamel,” and chop it finely, then stew it with a little butter blended with a clove of hnely chopped garlic, and add 4 chopped anchovy fillets. Fill up a number of puff-pastry cases, sauce over with a little bechamel. Re-heat and serve hot. Epinards aux CEufs a la Vert-Pre {Spinach and Eggs with Green Sauce). Wash and pick about 2 lb. of spinach. Cook it in salted water till tender, drain, and rub it through a sieve. Melt an ounce ^