14 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. flavour from all eatables, such as meat, vegetables, etc. ; it acts as an appetiser, and promotes digestion. The average quantity of salt required by each person being, according to medical authority, from i to ^ an ounce per day, it becomes a necessary adjunct for the preservation of health. When added to food it excites the supply of two important agents in the processes of digestion and nutrition, viz. the gastric juice and the constituents of the bile. Salt, like all seasonings, must be used with judgment. When added to boiling water, it raises the boiling-point and liberates the oxygen. Salt acts further as a great preserving agent for meat, vegetables, and other substances. Spices, such as white and black pepper, cayenne, cloves, nutmeg, paprika (Hungarian pepper), coriander, cinnamon, mace, etc., cannot be considered to have any nutritive properties. They are used for the purpose of imparting certain flavours to improve the taste of various food substances. In adding the seasoning and flavouring to dishes, it is of the greatest importance for a cook to remember that the exquisite sensibility of a cook’s palate can best be judged and admired by his or her cooking. Allspice.—This well-known and useful spice is the berry of the Eugenia Pimenta, a small tree growing in the West Indies. The fruit is gathered when green and unripe, and put to dry in the sun, when it turns black. Large quantities of it are employed in the manufacture of the sauces sold in shops. The berries combine the flavour of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, hence the name allspice. It is also called Pimento or Jamaica pepper. Cloves.—Cloves belong to the order of myrtles. They are the unopened flower-buds of a plant called the CaryophylUis aromaticus, a native of the Moluccas. Owing to their resemblance to a nail they derive their name from the French word clou. They form a well-known spice, and are much used in cookery both in sweet and savoury dishes. To a stew or I'agoCit, etc., an onion stuck with cloves is almost indispensable. Nutmeg.—Used extensively for various seasonings, both sweet and savoury. It is the seed of the nutmeg- tree [Myristica moschata), a native of the Molucca Islands, but is now cultivated in Java, Cayenne, Sumatra, and some of the \Vest Indian Islands. The fruit is surrounded by a husk {arillus), which is known as mace. The nutmeg is pear-like in appear- ance, and is usually grated for culinary purposes. Nutmegs should never be used in large proportions for seasoning because they are supposed to contain nar(^otic properties. NUTMEG