COLD ENTREES. 545 Petits Souffles glaces a I’Ecarlate {()x4onguc Souffles) \ lb. cooked ox-toiigue, i shallot, i pint gooil brown sauce, i bouquet garni, tomato, I oz. gelatine, i gill cream, i slice of trullle, 2 table- spoonfuls sherry, 1 gill aspic jelly, cochineal, seasoning, 8 small souffle cases. Chop the shallot hnely, )nit it in a ste\v-j)aii with the sherry, reduce a little, then add the tomat(t cut in slices, the sauce and bouquet garni, cook together lor ten ininntes or longer, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine, and add the abcn’c whilst hot. Cut the tongue into small pieces, jiound in a mortar till smooth. Add a little of the sauce and the cream, mix well, and rub thnmgh a line sieve. Whisk the brown preparation on the ice or a cold place until it becomes spongy, then add the pnree, season to taste, and colour with a few drops of cochineal to give it the desired tint. Fill the souffle cases, previously fastened with small jiaper bands, about half an inch above the cases, with the mixture. Freeze in a charged ice-cave for about an hour, garnish the surface with fanciful cuts of truffle or white of egg, mask well with a layer of aspic, and return to the ice-cave. Before serving remove the bands, and sprinkle the sides with panurette. Petites Langues a I’Espagnole {Ox~tonguc Shapes). 1 lb. cooked o.x-tongue, 3 oz. cooked chicken or veal, V gill Espagnole sauce, I glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 oz. French leaf gelatine, a few drops liquid carmine, white pepper and nutmeg, 1 pint cookctl macMoine of vegetables, about 4 pint as})ic jelly, -4 oz. meat glaze. Soak the gelatine, boil up with the sauce and sherry, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the tongue and chicken, or veal, into small pieces, put in a mortar and pound till smooth. Add the sauce and cream, mixed thoroughly, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, colour with a few drops of the carmine, and rub through a sieve. Put the mixture into eight or ten little tongue-moulds, and set on the ice. Mask a small bombe or other suitable mould with aspic, and decorate the sides tastefully with little stars of cooked carrot, turnip, etc. (macedoine). Season the remainder of mace- doine to taste, mix with aspic jelly, put it into the mould when it begins to set, and till up with aspic. Turn out on to a cold dish when set. Turn out the little moulds, brush them over with meat glaze, previously mixed with a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Arrange the little tongues round the macedoine shape, point upwards. Decorate neatly with chopped aspic jelly, and a few small sprigs of parsley between and ronnd the tongues, and serve. Cotelettes de Veau froides {Cold Veal Cutlets). Cut as many cutlets from the neck of a small calf as necessary, trim and pare each neatly, season with salt and pepper, fry in blitter, drain on a cloth, and let them get cold. Cut as many thin slices of cooked ham as there are cutlets, and of the same size as the cutlets, place one on each with a fancifnlly-cut slice of truffle in the centre of the ham. Place them on a wire tray and mask over well with one or two layers of well-reduced aspic jelly into which a glass of IMadeira wine has been incorporated. Dish MM