203 SOUPS (POTAGES). Consomme Milanaise.—Prepare a consomme soup, garnish it with plainly cooked rice, dice shapes of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes ; the latter should be boiled in the consomme. — Moelle de Boeuf {Beef Marrow Soup).— This is a clear soup containing small marrowfat quenelles poached in stock. — Monaco.—Prepare a clear soup and garnish it with fried bread quen- elles, the interiors of which are stuffed with chicken farce. — Napolitaine.—Prepare a game-flavoured clear soup, “ Consomme de Gibier,” as directed on p. i8g. Garnish it with boiled macaroni, fine shreds of celery, and cooked lean ham. — Nouveau Regne.—Prepare a rich chicken consomme (p. 187), also a special kind of chicken quenelles made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf introduced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — d’Orleans {Maigre Soup).—Prepare a rich fish stock, clarify it in the usual way, and garnish with small fish quenelles (p. 177) and green peas. — aux CEufs files.—Prepare a consomme (p. 180), beat up an egg, and run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling, cook for a few seconds, and serve. — Olga.—This is clarified chicken soup (p. 187) containing as garnish julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue, aud truffles, also green peas. — au Pain de Foie.—This is clear soup (p. 180) garnished with small liver quenelles (p. 178), which must be poached after being shaped. — aux Petits Navets.—Prepare some consomme (p. 180), garnish it with olive-shaped young turnips, par-boiled, strained, and braised. — Pierre le Grand.—This is a kind of julienne clear soup, with julienne strips of lettuce, turnips, celery, and champignons. These are blended with a little butter before being cooked in the consomme. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—This is consomme clear soup, garnished with cooked asparagus points. — Printaniere {Spring Soup).—This is a richly flavoured vegetable consomme, garnished with finely cut spring vegetables, cooked separately, and added to the soup half an hour Irefore serving. — aux Profiteroles.—This is consomme or clear soup with very small cheese choux-paste fritters, shaped like small marbles, fried in deep fat. They must not be added to the soup until the last moment ; they are frequently handed round separately. — aux Queues de Boeuf {Clear Ox-tail Soup).—Prepare a rich beef stock, and clarify it in the usual way. The ox-tail is cooked with the stock and added as garnish with the consomme and cooked in it for some time : flavour with sherry, and garnish with vegetable macedoine. - Rachel.—This is a richly flavoured clear soup with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue, and truffles. — Renaissance.—Clarify some consomme stock in the usual way, and add as garnish cooked sliced white mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). See p. 180.