567 COLD ENTRliES. sieve. Mask one side of each cutlet thickly with this farce, S(j as to give them a neat appearance. Place them on the ice to get linn. Lastly coat one half of the cutlets with white chaud-froid sauce, and the other half with red chaud-froxl sauce. When set, mask with aspic. Have ready a suitably carved rice socle, place it on an entree dish, and hll in pyramid form with Melba salad, round it dress the cutlets as neatly as possible. Surmount the whole with a suitable hatelet, with several very small peeled tomatoes hlled with salad and aspic. Round the base of the dish put fancifully cut slices, triangles or other shapes of set aspic. (Adapted from M. C. J. Corblet's MSS.) Salade Melba. This consists of plainly boiled rice cooked in salted water with the addition of a little lemon-juice. M'hen the rice is drained and cold enough, season it with pepper, and mix with the necessary proportion of oil and vinegar. Add to it some peeled ripe tomatoes, freed from pulp, and cut into very small julienne strips. Lastly mix with the salad a good dose of paprika, and if liked a little pimiento cut in very tiny strips. Bouchees de Volaille a I’Andalouse {Chicken Bouchies with Aspayagiis tips). lb. puff-paste trimmings, i small chicken free from skin and bone, i gill asparagus points cooked and drained, ^ gill veloutee sauce, 4- pint white chaud-froid sauce, i truffle, 2-3 slices tongue, 2-3 tablespoonfuls cream, gill mayonnaise sauce, seasoning. Roll the paste out thinly, stamp out 8-9 small rounds, line small bouche moulds, prick the bottom, hll with dried peas or rice, bake them to a golden brown, and let them cool on a sieve. Pound the chicken meat hnely in a mortar, add a little veloutee sauce and cream, just sufficient to bind, season to taste, and rub through a hire sieve. With this hll 8-g small buttered cups or dariole moulds to ht the paste-crusts, introduce into the centre of each a teaspoonful of asparagus points moistened with mayonnaise. Poach them in the oven for thirty minutes, unmould, and when cold mask them with chaud-froid sauce. Decorate with truffle and fancifully cut slices of tongue, coat them with a layer of aspic, keep them on ice till required, and place them in the prepared crusts. Dish up in a circle and hll the centre with asparagus. Decorate to taste, and serve. Darioles de Volaille a la Chartreuse. 6 oz. cold chicken {freed from skin and bone), 6 preserved mushrooms, rt- pint aspic jelly, i gill Espagnole sauce, 4- oz, meat glaze, i gill cream, I hard-boiied egg, 6 to 8 small chicken quenelles (p. 178), 3 or 4 cooked cocks’ combs, seasoning, r gliss sherry, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce. Line about eight or ten small dariole moulds with a thin layer of aspic. Ornament the bottoms and the sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg, hx the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, reduce to one-third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tamni}’. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the insides of the moulds with