LIGHT ES TREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGIiRES. 359 breadcrumbs, and a little melted butter. Just before serving put the croustades in a sharp oven for a few minutes. Domes a la Viennoise. I lb. lean veal or chicken meat, ^ small lobster, i chopped shallot, i oz. butter, I tablespoonful flour, i gill” gravy, salt, pepper, and paprika, 8 arti- choke bottoms, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs and frjdng-fat, tried parsley. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pass it twice through the mincing machine, season with pepper, salt, and paprika. Remove all the meat from the lobster shell and chop it hnely. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it the shallot, put in the minced meat and fry it for a few minutes over a quick lire. Sprinkle in the hour, cook for a few minutes, moisten with the gravy, boil up, add a well-beaten egg and the lobster, cook until the egg binds, and spread on a dish. Make up into small, round, hat cakes the size of artichoke bottoms, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain carefully and dress them on the artichoke bottoms, previously heated in well-seasoned stock or gravy. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley and serve hot, with any suitable sauce. Friandines. These are made of puff-paste, rolled out thinly with a 2-inch huted round cutter, with a portion of prepared mince or salpicon of meat or game placed in the centre of each round. This is covered with a round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. Friandines de Ris d’Agneau. .} lb. puff-paste, 2 oz. tongue, i truffle, seasoning, vermicelli, i gill tomato sauce, I tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 2 lambs’ breads, 4 champignons, \ gill Allemande sauce, clarified butter for frying, i French gherkin, -| oz. butter. Trim, blanch and braise the lambs’ breads with a good mirepoi.x, when done let cool and cut into hne dice. Chop the tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles rather finely, and mix with the lambs’ breads ; season to taste. Tfeat up the Allemande sauce, put in the above ingredients, let them get thoroughly hot, then put them on a dish and let cool. Roll out the puff-paste rather thinly, stamp out as many rounds as are required, using a 2t-inch paste cutter for this purpose. Place a dessertspoonful of the mixture (salpicon) in the centre of a round of paste, on this put a slice of truffle, wet the edges, and place a second round of paste on top ; press the edges together, and continue thus till the mixture and paste are used up. Egg them, cover them with a mixture of crushed biscuits, vermicelli, and parmesan cheese, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce made by infusing finely chopped gherkins in the vinegar, to which add the tomato sauce ; boil up, and send to table. Friandines de Volaille.—Chicken friandines. Friandines de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver friandines. Friandines de Gibier.—Game friandines. Friandines de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread friandines.