VEGETABLES—LfLGUMES. 627 Aubergines Anglaises au Gratin {Baked Vegetable Marrow). 2 small vegetable marrows, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 chicken livers, i shallot, i oz. butter, J gill brown sauce, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Peel the marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, cook in salted water until tender, take up, drain, and lightly scoop out the seedy portions. Cut the livers into thin slices, chop the shallot, and fry lightly in the butter, add the livers, toss over the hre for a few minutes, then add the mushrooms, chopped hnely, and the ham, season to taste, and moisten with a little sauce. Fill the cavities of the marrows with this, pour a little sauce over each, and place them on a buttered saute-pan. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, add a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up carefully, and serve very hot. Great care must be taken not to overcook the aubergines in the hrst instance, else they will break in dishing up. Aubergines farcies {Stuffed Egg-plant). 2 medium-sized egg-plants, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, 2 chopped shallots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. suet, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, i egg, salt and pepper, i gill demi- glace sauce. Cut the egg-plants lengthwise in twos, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stufhng. Chop the bacon, mushrooms, and suet hnely. Put the butter and bacon in a stew-pan, when hot add the shallots, and fry a little. Mix in a basin the suet, parsley, breadcrumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt, add butter and shallots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put this stuffing in the aubergines, arrange them in a buttered sautffipan, sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. Place some nicely boiled and well-drained slices of vegetable marrow in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and cover completely with a well reduced cold white sauce, sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a hot oven to brown the surface. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. 2 medium-sized vegetable marrows, 3 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 3 table- spoonfuls chopped suet, 4 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i egg, pepper and salt, i oz. butter. Peel the marrows, cut them in half lengthwise, remove the seeds from the centre. Prepare a marrow stuffing from the above ingre- dients. Boil the marrows for ten minutes in salted water, drain and cool, lay them in a buttered tin, put the prepared stuffing in each half, sprinkle over a few breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter on top, bake in a well-heated oven for hfteen minutes, dish up, and serve hot. Cucumbers can be cooked in the same way.