THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 472 goose. Cook first in rather a fierce heat to brown the surface nicely, and subsequently in moderate heat, basting frequently during the process. When nearly done take up the goose, cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Have ready about a gill of rich brown sauce, into which incorporate a small glass of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, place the pieces of goose into this, and cook gently till quite tender. Meanwhile prepare a celery sauce by mincing finely the white part of a cleaned and washed celery-head, fry this with an ounce of butter for a few minutes over the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, cook while stirring for five minutes, and moisten with about three-quarters of a pint of white stock, stir till it boils, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Pass it through a sieve, re-heat, season, and serve with the goose. Oie a I’Anglaise.—Roast goose stuffed with sage and onion filling, and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separately) and gravy or brown sauce. Remove (Releve). — sautee a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled or par-roasted goose stewed in brown sauce, cut into joints, and garnished with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed goose with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). Served as Remove. — a la Chipolata.—Roast or braised goose dished up with chipolata garnishing {see “ Dinde a la Chipolata”); served with apple sauce. — braiseaa la Dauphinoise.—Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a brown sauce mixed with some orange-juice and finely shredded orange-peel. — a I’Etouffade.—Goose stuffed with boiled chopped onions, sausage meat, breadcrumbs, and seasoning ; braised in oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips, bi’own sauce. — a la Mont-Vernon.—Roast goose stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions finely chopped, and mashed potatoes, dished up with a border of halves of apples, baked in the oven till brown with goose- fat,. and served with thin brown sauce flavoured with a little red- currant jelly. — a rOrange.—Par-roasted goose, cut up in joints, stewed or braised, garnished with sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. — braisee a la Polonaise.—Braised goose garnished with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal quenelles, and small smoked pork sausages. Boudins de Foie-gras a la Parisienne.—Small goose-liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, served with Madere sauce. Quenelles de Foie-gras a la Perigueux.—Goose-liver (foie-gras) quenelles poached ; served with truffle sauce. Timbales d’Oie aux truffes.—Goose-liver (foie-gras) timbales, poached in the oven and served with perigord sauce.