COLD FISH AM) FISH FXTFEFS. X 3^1 I)repared mayonnaise. Flake the lish, season with mayonnai-r, and add the remainder of truffles, coarsely chopped, three-parts lill the QUENELLES DE SAUMON A LA ROYALE. monlds with the dressed salmon, and complete with mayonnaise and aspic. Let set on the ice. Turn out, dish up, garnish with small green salad and chopped aspic, and serve. Zephires de Crabes a la Royale {Zephives of Crab). Remove the flesh from a large crab, flake and put aside a portion for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till quite smooth, then add a gill of bechamel sauce (p. 142). Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix rvell, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic (p. 132), and fill the mixture into very small savarin moulds, which have been previously masked with aspic and decorated with fine strips of truffles, pimiento or red chilli. Place the little monlds on the ice for about two hours, turn them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with the flaked crab, decorate with lobster coral or chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of mayonnaise (p. 152), whipped cream, a little French mustard, and a little grated horse-radish. The sauce must be kept on the ice until required for table. Petits SoufTles de Saumon a ITndienne. lb. cooked .salmon, i teaspoonful curry powder, tcaspoonful curry paste, 2 oz. butter. 2 small tomatoes. 2 small onions, r pint lish stock, 1V oz. anchovy paste, i iles.sertspoonful chutney, 1- teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, 1 oz. gelatine, -1- gill cream, cochineal, 10 to 12 small souffle cases. IMelt the butter in a small saute-pan, and fry the sliced onions until lightly browned. Add the currv powder and cook for a few seconds, 'then the sliced tomatoes, curry paste, anchovy paste, and seasoning, moisten with the fish stock and simmer for ten minutes. Now ]:)ut in the fish, finely minced, and the chutney, dissolve the gelatine with a little water, add it to the mixture, rub through a fine sieve, and put in a few drops of cochineal to give a pinkish tint. Whip up the cream, and mix with the puree when cool. Fasten a paper band about an inch broad round each souffle case, fill with the preparation, stand on a tin on the ice until re- quired, then remove the paper bands, put some previously prepared