THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6/2 crown piece, put about a teaspoonful of farce (liver or fish forcemeat richly seasoned and mixed with parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste, press the edges well together, drop these into fast-boiling and slightly salted water, boil for about fifteen or twenty minutes, and drain on a sieve. Dress them on a dish in layers with tomato sauce and grated parmesan cheese between the layers. Sauce over well with tomato sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter here and there. Set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes, and serve quickly. Risotto a ritalienne {Italian Risotto). i lb. Italian or Patna rice, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, I pint tomato sauce, about i pint good stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg, -3- teaspoonful saffron. Well wash the rice, drain, and dry it. Chop the onion finely, fry it in hot butter in a stew-pan until a light fawn colour, add the rice, and shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes. Add the seasoning, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron,’moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice begins to swell. When the stock is used up, gradually add the sauce. As soon as the rice is tender mi.x in the grated cheese. It is then ready to serve. In preparing this dish remember that the rice should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor too moist. Riz a rindienne {Curried Rice). 4 oz. rice, i dessertspoonful curry powder, 2 shallots (chopped), il oz. butter, it gill brown sauce, i tomato, i hard-boiled egg, i tablespoonful cream, seasoning, watercress for garnish. Pick, wash, and drain the rice. Fry the shallots lightly in butter in a stew-pan, stir in the curry powder, fry a few minutes longer, stirring all the while, then add the rice, and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream, and a little stock if found necessary. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice, and add also. Cook gently till the rice is tender. Be careful that the rice is kept moistened as it swells in cooking, and stir frequently but gently, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, and nutmeg. Dish up, surround the base with slices of hard-boiled egg and a tuft of water- cress between the slices of egg. Serve very hot. Riz a la Tomate {Tomato Rice). 4 oz. rice, i small onion stuck with a clove, i small bouquet garni, 3 shallots (chopped), 2 oz. butter, i gill tomato sauce, 2 to 3 .small firm but ripe tomatoes, i oz. grated cheese, seasoning. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice in salted water, and drain. Put it in a stew-pan with the onion, bouquet, and tomato sauce, cook gently till tender, adding a little stock if the rice gets too dry as it swells. Remove the onion and bouquet garni. Fry the shallots in half the butter to a pale brown colour, add this to the rice, season with salt, cayenne, and a tiny pinch of ground mace. Mix in the cheese and keep hot. Cut the tomatoes into neat slices, fry them carefully in the remainder of butter, and season to taste.