S\4 LA DES—SA LADS. 697 basin, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinegar and oil, and let it stand for a while. Cut the orange slices into quarters or eighths. Wash and trim and drain the lettuce and the cresses, line a salad bowl with the leaves of the lettuce, then put in the cresses and the orange, moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce, add the mixture above referred to, cover with a thin layer of mayon- naise, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and chives. Salade a la Capucine (Barb Salad). 2 Roinaine or cos lettuce, a handful of monk’s-beard (or barb salad), small beetroot (cooked), a piece of cucumber, 2 slices of streaky bacon, 2 table- spoonfuls of French olive oil, and 2 of wine vinegar, tarragon vinegar to flavour, I pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, etc., to season. Remove the outer leaves from the lettuce, wipe the remaining leaves well, split lengthwise, then cut into inch pieces. Split the heart in four, and reserve for garnish. Wash these and the monk’s- beard salad leaves thoroughly, and drain on a cloth or in a salad basket. Cut the bacon up into very small strips and fry in a little butter, pour in a little tarragon vinegar, and add this to the cleaned salad. Mix in a bowl. When ready for serving add the seasoning, also enough oil and vinegar. Arrange neatly in a salad bowl with the lettuce heart in the centre. Garnish tastefully with the beet- root and cucumber, both cut into fine shreds, also slices of pimiento and hard-boiled eggs. Salade de Cardon [Cardoon Salad). Trim and wash one or two stalks of cardoon, cut off the root and leaves, and cut into two- or three-inch lengths. Boil these in slightly salted water until they can be peeled easily. Put them on a sieve to drain and cool. Cut the cardoons in halves across, and shred into julienne strips. Prepare a little mayonnaise sauce, flavoured with garlic vinegar, put it in a salad bowl, and dress the shredded cardoon on top of this. Garnish tastefully with hard- boiled white of egg and shreds of gherkins. Send to table to be mixed when required. Salade a la Caroline {Rice and Shrimp Salad). 4 oz. Carolina rice, 2 large truffles, 6 mushrooms, about pint of picked shrimps, i hard-boiled egg, i glass chablis, pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, , parsley. W’ash, blanch, and cook the rice the same as for curry, drain and dry, and let cool. Cut the truffles into hne shreds, and put in a stew-pan with the wine and mushrooms, cover and boil for a few seconds, mix these with the rice, add the shrimps and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Prepare the dressing, consisting of three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar (best French wine), a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little French or English mustard, pour the dressing over the above, mingle well but carefully, dress in a heap in a deep dish or in a salad bowl. Ornament the surface with slices of hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, chopped parsley, a few small stars of truffle, etc. Serve separately or with a dish of sliced tomatoes.