THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 298 fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve with a boat of remoulade sauce. Fried eels should always be served with an acid sauce ; lemon- juice squeezed over the fish just before serving will improve the flavour. Anguille a la Beaucaire.—Boned eels stuffed with whiting farce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, dressed in spiral form in baking dish or casserole, and braised with white sauce, small onions, and mushrooms. — a la Broche.—Grilled eel with parsley butter. — en caisses.—Braised eel served in small china souflle cases. — a la Durand.—Boned eels, stuffed with whiting farce, curled up and trussed, braised with butter and vegetable mirepoix. — a la Florimond.—Marinaded eels, wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven, served with parsley butter and echalote sauce. — glacee.—Rolled fillets of eel, broiled, and glazed with a rich brown sauce and meat glaze. — a ritalienne [Stewed Eel, Italian Style).—Stewed eel with small savoury rice timbales. — a la Maconnaise.—Eel stewed in Burgundy wine sauce, with crayfish tails and oysters. — a la Menagere.—Split eel, grilled, spread over with maitre d’hotel butter and mustard. — a la Meuniere.—Boned eel, cut in portion pieces, dipped in flour and fried in butter, served with noisette butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. — a I’Orly.—Fillets of eel, egged and crumbed or dipped ia frying batter, and fried in deep fat, served with tomato sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Boiled eel, coated with white sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried ; egged sauce or choron sauce, and small potato balls. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed eel in parsley sauce. — a la Romaine.—Small piece of eel stewed with butter sauce, green peas, and finely cut lettuces, served in casserole. — a la Rouennaise.—Boned eel, cut in portions, stewed in matelote sauce, garnished with oysters, soft roes, champignons, and fried smelts. — a la Tartare [Fried Eel, with Tartare Sauce).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter, fried, dished up en couronne with Tartare sauce in centre. — a la Venitienne.—Rolled eel fillets, cooked [i.e. poached) in court- bouillon and glazed in oven, garnished with dice cut champignons and fish roe ; sauce Vraitienne. EPERLANS—SMELTS. Eperlans au Citron [Fried Smelts with Lemon). Frying is undoubtedly the best way of cooking this delicious fish. They may be coated with egg and breadcrumbs or frying