THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 28o with slices of truffles, sauce over with a little white fish sauce made with fish stock, flour, and butter, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Before serving sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a I’Americaine. 2 soles of medium size, white wine, 2 shallots, tomato pulp, veloutee sauce (p. 161), breadcrumbs, lobster butter. Skin the soles, take off the fillets and fold them neatly, after trimming the edges. Season with pepper and salt, and arrange them in a row on a buttered gratin dish (china or plated dish). Moisten with a little white wine, and sprinkle over two small finely chopped shallots. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for five minutes, then pour the liquor from the dish into a previoifsly prepared rich tomato sauce (made with tomato pulp and veloutee, and well reduced). Pour this carefully over the fish so as to com- pletely mask it. Sprinkle over some freshly made breadcrumbs, and place tiny pieces of lobster butter (p. 175) on each fillet. Finish in a sharp oven, allowing about eight minutes to brown the surface, then send to table at once. Filets de Soles aux Aubergines. 2 good-sized soles. 3 aubergines (egg plants), i oz. butter, -J pint olive oil and clarified butter (half of each), tire juice of half a lemon, i teaspoonful meat glaze, i small glass white' wine, salt and pepper, about i oz. Carolina rice, cooked in rich stock, i teaspoonful chopped parsley. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten, pare, and fold them, season with pepper and salt, place them in a well-buttered saute- pan, moisten with lemon-juice and white wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Mean- while cut the aubergines, freed from skin, into cubes or olive shapes, dip them in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in olive oil and clarified butter. When done, take up and drain, cook the rice until it is almost dry, and shape it in the centre of a dish, dress the fillets of soles round the rice shape. Melt an ounce of butter and let it get a nut-brown colour (this is called Beurre Noisette), then put in the chopped parsley and pour over the dish, garnish round the base with the fried aubergines, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Blanchaille {Fillets of Soles, Whitebait Style). I large or 2 medium-sized soles, flour, fryiiig-fat, parsley, salt, cayenne. Skin and fillet the fish, shred the fillets as finely as possible or cut them into fine strips the size of whitebait. Put them on a cloth, sprinkle over with flour, shake well, and put them in a frying- basket. Heat up the fat, plunge the basket with about half the quantity of fish into the hot fat, and fry over a quick gas fire a pale golden colour. Take up, drain well, season with salt and cayenne, and fry the remainder of fish in exactly the same manner. Dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot.