207 SOUPS {POTAGES). until tender. Add the hour, stir well for a few minutes, moisten with the stock, and add the milk (boiling), put in the chopped scallops, stir over the hre until it boils, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, rub through a fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and a little more milk if found too thick, give it another boil, pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with fried bread croutons. VEGETABLE PUREES AND CREAM SOUPS Creme d’Asperges, Printaniere {Asparagus Cream). I bundle asparagus, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Hour, 3 pints white stock, i pint milk, pepper, nutmeg, salt, sugar, i gill cream, a handiul of cooked green peas and beans. Clean the asparagus, cut off the tips, cook separately and put aside, as they will be required for garnish. Cut the stalks, as far as tender, into small pieces, wash thoroughly in salted water, boil till partly cooked in salted water, and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the flour, cook a little, stir in the stock and milk, let it boil up, skim, add the asparagus stems, season with saltNpepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of sugar. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to stewpan, add cream, and a little more milk if needed. Put peas, French beans,'and cooked asparagus tips (about a handful of the latter) in a soup tureen, pour the puree over, and serve. Creme d’Artichauts {Green Artichoke Soup). 4 green artichokes, i onion, i quart white stock, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. creme de riz (or ground rice), | pint milk, -i- gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley. Cut off the stems of the artichokes, trim off some of the green leaves, cut each in four, and wash well. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, add the onion, peeled and sliced, fry a little, put in the arti- chokes, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let them take colour. Add the stock, season with salt and pepper, and let simmer until tender. Rub all through a hair sieve. Mix the creme de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the re- mainder of the milk, and add to the rice-flour. Put this and the artichoke puree in a stewpan, let it boil up, take off the scum, stir frequently to prevent it from burning. Beat the yolks of eggs a little, incorporate with the cream, and add to the soup when the latter has sufficiently boiled. Add a grate of nutmeg, stir long enough to bind the eggs, but on no account allow it to boil again. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve. Puree de Betterave {Beetroot Soup). I quart stock, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i small onion, i or 2 cooked beetroots (according to size), i gill cream, salt and pepper to taste, mustard and cress as garnish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry in it the onion (peeled and sliced). Do not allow it to brown. Stir in the flour, and fry for a few