THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i86 cool a little, then turn out and cut into neat slices ; place these in a soup-tureen, pour in the hot consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Conde.—Clarified game stock, garnished with very small quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of cooked partridge. Consomme Colbert.—The garniture for this soup consists of poached eggs neatly trimmed (reckoning one for each person), a handful of cooked ball shapes of turnips and carrots, and a few cooked green peas. Choose the eggs very small, poach them in salted water containing a dash of tarragon vinegar. Consomme aux Petits Choux farcis [Clear Soup with Stuffed Choux-paste Fritters). 3 pints to 2 quarts of clear soup (consomme) for choux ; i oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, I egg, a pinch of salt, about 2 oz. chicken or veal forcemeat. Put the butter in a medium-sized stewpan, add about a gill of water and a pinch of salt, let it come to the boil, then stir in the flour and work vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until a smooth paste is obtained (the sides and bottom of the stewpan mifst be left perfectly clean by this time). Allow to cool a little, then stir in the egg. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and press out some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin about an inch apart. Bake these in a fairly quick oven. Cut out a small portion of the bottom of each choux and scoop out some of the inside ; fill the cavities with forcemeat, replace the crust removed for the purpose of filling, and place the choux in a buttered saute- pan : cover them with a greased paper, and place in the oven for about twelve minutes, in order to cook the farce. To serve the soup, put the choux in a soup-tureen, and pour the consomme (previously heated) into the tureen. These little choux may be filled with almost any kind of farce. Fish, game or vegetable purees make a nice change. Consomme de Volaille a la ChifTonade [Chicken Consomme). A small fowl, 3 quarts of white stock, 2 leeks, 3 oz. butter, a bouquet garni, parsley, i long lettuce, i handful of sorrel, i- handful of chervil, salt and pepper. Cut the fowl into small joints. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, and fry slightly brown, add the stock, boil up, and skim. Now add a bunch of parsley, the bouquet garni, and the leeks (previously cleaned). Simmer gently for two hours. Wash the sorrel, chervil, and lettuce (use the tender leaves of the latter only), cut all into very fine strips, put them together with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir gently over the fire for ten minutes, moisten with some of the broth, skim, and cook for fifteen minutes, strain the remainder of the broth into this, and season to taste. Cut some neat pieces of chicken and put in a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve.