THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 512 MAUVIETTE—LARK. Pate chaud de Mauviettes [Lark Pie). 12-18 larks, stuffing farce, -J- pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, i gill consomme or gravy, bacon, 2 eggs, seasoning, lb. flour, i oz. chopped beef suet, oz. butter, f gill water, a pinch of salt. Prepare a paste and work it the same as ordinary short paste. Line an oval raised pie mould, about three inches high and six inches long, then take twelve to eighteen larks, bone and stuff them with forcemeat (p. 177), and shape neatly. Prepare a thin sauce with the bones, brown sauce, sherry, and consomme or gravy, and reduce well. Roll a slice of bacon round each stuffed lark, line the bottom of the mould with thin slices of bacon (streaky), then place in a layer of the birds, and here and there the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and proceed thus until the mould is full. When hlled, cover the mould with paste, ornament tastefully, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake for about two hours in- a moderate oven. Pluck and clean a few of the heads of birds, and fry them in a little butter (to be set in at the edge of the pie just before serving). When baked, remove the cover carefully, and having reduced the sauce sufficiently, pour over the interior, replace the cover, ornament with the birds’ heads, and serve, Mauviettes a la Parmentier {Stuffed Larks, Parmentier Style). 8 to 10 larks, boned, 4 oz. bacon, i carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, i small bouquet garni, i stalk of celery (white), seasoning, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, \ lb. puff-paste, i egg, 2 large potatoes. Chop the celery, previously washed and trimmed, very finely, season with salt and pepper, and fill the larks with this, bard and truss them, and place them on a bed of bacon, carrot, and onion, cut small ; add the butter and bouquet garni, and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently. Take out and let cool. Enclose each in a piece of puff-paste, so as to hermetically seal each bird in the paste, giving them the shape of small eggs. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for hfteen minutes in a moderate oven. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into very fine strips, like straw potatoes, fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Drain and arrange in the shape of a nest on a hot dish, place the baked larks in the centre, and serve with a thin sauce or gravy. Mauviettes a la Pompadour {Larks a la Pompadour). Prepare the following and place alternately in layers in a stew-pan :— q lb. streaky bacon (cut in slices), lb. lean beef, f lb. ve^l, i carrot, 3 cloves, 10 peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 2 blades of whole mace. Cover the stew-pan closely, set it on the fire and allow it to draw until the gravy is extracted, then add a pint of boiling stock, and simmer for half an hour or more. Remove the fat, and strain. Draw and bone six larks. Pound in a mortar three ounces of lean beef, add three ounces of breadcrumbs, one yolk of egg, the rind