877 AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. fillets, I oz. of butter, 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and 1-2 tabic- spoonfuls of cream. When the choux are hlled brush over with liquid aspic and besprinkle with chopped lobster coral and chopped truffle. Dish up and serve. Biscotins au Fromage [Cheese Biscotines). 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, gill of milk, J- gill cream, 2 oz. grated gruj^ere cheese, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, oz. butter, seasoning, \ lb. choux-paste. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk and cream and half an ounce of gratecl cheese, and season with very little salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Fill ten to ttvelve small tartlet- moulds (previously buttered) with this mixture, put them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Mix the choux-paste with one ounce of grated cheese. Meanwhile roll out the choux-paste and stamp out as many rounds as there are tartlets, and of similar size ; put them on a buttered baking-tin and bake a golden colour. Place them on a hot dish, dress the cooked custards on these croutes, sprinkle them freely with grated cheese, hold the dish under a red-hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve at once. Niokis a la Nantua. Mix or blend J lb. cooked rice with a little cream, crayfish butter, prawns, and truffles, cut up into very small dice. Prepare eight egg-shaped niokis, and poach them in seasoned milk. Arrange the rice on a gratin-dish, place the niokis on top, sprinkle over bread- crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and serve. Niokis au Gratin [Gnocchi, Gnokis, or Noques). 2 oz. butter, -h pint water, 3 oz. flour or 2 oz. florador, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated cheese, 3 oz. chopped ham, li gill bechamel sauce, salt, and paprika pepper. Put the water and butter in the stew-pan, add a pinch of salt, stir in when boiling the flour or florador, and work over the fire until it becomes perfectly smooth, like a pate a choux. Remove the pan from the fire, let the paste cool a little, then add the eggs one at a time, and work in at the same time a handful of grated