i84 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme Bouquetiere.—Use the same vegetables as for Pot- au-feu, omitting the cabbage. Cut them into slices and stamp out by means of vegetable or column cutters some fanciful-shaped dice. Proceed the same as in the foregoing, and add one gill royal custard (p. i8o), cut into small diamond shapes just before serving. Consomme Brunoise. For 2 quarts of consomme : ^ onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, i leek, i oz. butter, a pinch sugar, pepper and salt. Peel the onion, pare and wash the carrots, turnip, and leek, cut all into very small dice, the smaller the better. Put the vegetables in a stewpan, add the butter, season with very little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover and keep over a fire for a few minutes, shake the pan well to prevent burning. See that the vegetables get well blended, bnt do not let them take colour. Pour in the clear soup, and boil gently for about half an hour. Take off the fat, and serve. A few sippets of toasted bread may be served in this soup, and, if liked, a handful of finely-minced lettuce and sorrel may be added alone with the above-named vegetables. Consomme Brunoise au Riz.—Proceed the same as in the fore- going recipe, adding a handful of well-washed, blanched, and cooked rice about ten minutes before serving. Consomme a la Brisse. 3 eggs (whole), 6 egg-yolks, 4 cooked cauliflower, a cupful of cooked spinach, 6 small French carrots cooked, a little stock, 3 quarts consomme, a handfui of boiled rice or royal custard (p. 180), pepper and salt. Prepare three distinct purees of the vegetables, mix with a little stock over the fire. Add to each one whole and two yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, press through a hair sieve, fill up three equal-sized timbale moulds, well buttered, and cook in a saute-pan in boiling water. When done turn out on a napkin, cut into small sqnares, put them in a sonp-tureen with a handful of boiled rice, pour over the boiling consommeh and serve. Consomme Careme {Clear Soup, Careme Style) Prepare a stock with 3 quarts of water, i lb. of lean veal, i lb. of shin of beef, some roast beef-bones, a small roast chicken, and a small handful of salt. Let it boil up gently, skim well, and add the following : one onion stuck with a clove, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, a small head of celery, and a few peppercorns. Let all simmer gently from four to five hours, removing fat and scum from time to time, next strain the broth carefully through a napkin. Cook separately in two quarts of broth, until done, one small carrot, one small turnip, one leek, a few lettuce and a few sorrel leaves, all cut into small round slices about the size of a shilling-piece ; when done add it to the prepared broth, together with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus points. Before serving, place a handful of small rounds of bread-crusts, stamped out the same shape as the vegetable, into the tnreen. Season the sonp to taste, add a pinch of fine sugar and the vegetables, pour into the soup-tureen, and serve. This