THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 622 spoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each. Cover each with another round of paste, bring together the edges, and trim with a fluted paste-cutter, arrange the rissolettes on a baking- sheet, about an inch apart from each other, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up neatly on a hot dish containing a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of hot piquante sauce. Topinambours a la Creole [Jerusalem Artichokes, Creole Style). IJ lb. good-sized Jerusalem artichokes, 2 oz. butter, J gill rich stock, -1- lb. cooked game puree, salt, pepper and aromatic spice, demi-glace sauce or rich brown sauce. Wash, scrape, and peel thinly the artichokes, drop each as finished into a basin of cold water containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Cook them for about twenty minutes, covered with water in which they were soaked. Drain them, and scoop out the centre of each by means of a vegetable or column cutter. Fill the cavities with a well-flavoured game puree seasoned with aromatics, etc. Place the stuffed artichokes in a buttered saute-pan, add-the stock, put a little brown sauce on top of each. Bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Dish on a hot dish in a row or circle, pour a little hot demi-glace or other good brown sauce over and round them, and serve. Artichauts a I’ltalienne.—Stewed artichokes with brown sauce and chopped mushrooms, previously blended in a little marsala wine. — a la Bruxelloise.—Globe artichokes boiled, inside stuffed with a rich mushroom mixture and braised, served with allemande sauce flavoured with white wine. — de Jerusalem a la Bechamel.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes with bechamel sauce. — a la Reine.—Green artichoke puree and chicken cream mixed with aspic and set in fancy moulds, served cold. — sautes.—Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and tossed in butter, served with or without sauce. — a rAlice.—Jerusalem artichokes boiled, drained, and tossed in butter, dressed on croutons with a small round of cooked beef marrow in each, and sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Artichoke bottoms tossed in butter, and fried shallots cooked in red wine or Bordeaux sauce, and beef marrow-fat as garnish. — a la Florentine.—Braised artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus tips and bechamel sauce, sprinkled over with grated cheese and butter, and browned in oven. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Provenpale.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with onion puree (soubise) stewed and served in a rich brown sauce. — a I’Americaine.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken slices, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre, served hot with sauce, or cold with aspic.