HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 753 hot, stir in the yolks of eggs and let bind. Butter a pie-dish, line the top and edge with pnff-paste, decorate the edges, put the preparation of apples, etc., in the pie-dish, and bake till the mixture is set and the pastry lightly browned. Meanwhile whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a tablespoonfnl of castor sugar, and spread this roughly on top of the pie, sprinkle over some sugar, decorate to taste with candied fruits, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set and colour the surface. Chestnut Amber, 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls chestnut puree (puree cle marrons), 2 eggs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. castor sugar, i small lemon, i oz. butter. \'auilla flavouring. Boil the milk with the thin rind of half the lemon, and pour over the breadcrumbs ; take out the Icmon-rind after a while. Beat the egg-yolks, sugar, and butter to a cream, and add to it the chest- nut puree. Mix all the ingredients together, add the strained juice of the lemon, and pour into a well buttered pie-dish. Bake till firm and slightly brown in a moderatel}/ hot oven, then cover with a meringue formed of the whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth and sweetened with sugar. Dredge the top with castor or icing sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is nicely browned. This dish can be served hot or cold. Banana Amber. Proceed the same as directed for “ Apple Amber,” using four large bananas and one sour apple, but only 2 oz. of sugar instead of 3 oz. Pannequets a la Mancelle [Pancakes, Mancdle Style). Fry some thin pancakes, slightly browned, spread them over with a layer of sweet chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino liqueur, roll up, dust with sugar, and glaze them in a hot oven. Dish up and serve hot. FECHES—PEACHES. Peches au Riz meringue [Peaches with mcvingucd Rice). I quart preserved peaches, 6 oz. rice, the rind of I- lemon, 4 eggs, 10 oz. castor sugar, about i quai't milk, i oz. butter, red-currant jelly, i glass maraschino. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice welt, put it in a stew-pan with the milk, boil gently, add 3 oz. sugar, the butter and lemon-rind. Let it cook slowly for about thirty minutes, remove the lemon- rind, work in the yolks of three eggs, put into a buttered timbale mould, turn out immediately on a hot dish, drain the peaches on a hair sieve, and arrange them in a pyramidal form on top of the rice. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gently 3 oz. castor sugar, cover the whole completely with a thick layer of this, put the remainder in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, and decorate the surface to taste. Dust well with sugar, and bake a golden colour, which will take about twenty minutes. Cut some diamond shapes of red-currant jelly, and garnish the sides of the 3B