THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 390 CHAPTER XXII. HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. (For Cold Entrees, .see Chapter XXV.) AGNEAU—LAMB. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Bonaparte. 8 lamb cutlets, i oz. butter, a small onion, carrot, a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, i-J pint of white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of creme de riz, ^ oz. meat glaze, i glass champagne, pepper and salt, mashed spinach for garnish, a gill of tomato sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a sante-pan with the butter, fry a little on both sides, add sliced onion, carrot, bay-leaf, and parsley, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with the champagne or Chablis wine, and about a gill of stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Mix the creme de riz with a little cold stock, boil up a pint of the stock in a small ^ saucepan. Mix both together and stir until it boils, season to taste. Let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour into little cutlet-monlds slightly greased, or in one rofuid mould. Stand it in a cool place to set. 1/®' A Turn out and put a cutlet on each of these shapes. If the round mould is used it should be turned out, the rice.shape cut into slices, and trimmed into rounds the shape of cutlets. Dish the cutlets with a rice shape in a circular row, and keep warm. Strain the A CORRECTLY ghavy from the cutlets, take off the fat, put it in a TRIMMED .V saucepan with the meat glaze, and let it reduce until CUTLET... mask the cutlets. Have ready a puree of spinach nicely flavoured, put it in the centre of the cutlets, sauce round w'ith tomato sauce, and serve. The tomato sauce should be allowed to boil up in the saute-pan after the gravy is strained oft in order to impart the essence to the sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Cahors. 8 to 10 lamb cutlets (neatly pared), i oz. butter, 2 shallots, 3 truffles, 1 tablespoonful meat glaze, ^ gill sherry, teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, i whole egg, i gill tomato sauce, seasoning, breadcrumbs, clarified butter. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them lightly in i oz. butter, add the truffles finely chopped, moisten with the sherry, cover, and let it reduce well. Stir in the meat glaze and parsley, bind with the yolks of eggs, stir until it thickens, and put in a forcing-bag. Make an incision on one side of each cutlet through the whole of the width, but without cutting the sides, fill the cavity with the