THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 824 custard (chocolate or lemon). Fill the glasses with the froth, sprinkle some crushed macaroons or grated chocolate on the top, and serve. Gooseberry Fool. I quart unripe gooseberries, :} lb. loaf sugar, i pint cream. Put the gooseberries in a clean stew-pan with the sugar and about half a pint of water, let it boil gently for half an hour, rub through a fine sieve and keep the pulp on ice. Add a little more sugar if needed. Whip the cream and mix with the fruit pulp a few minutes before serving. Fill up some little ice glasses or serve in a glass or silver dish. Canary Cream. H pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i lemon, | oz. leaf gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs. Boil the milk, add the sugar and the thin rind of the lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm milk, and add it to the above. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the strained juice of half the lemon, mix with the milk, etc., and stir until it thickens, but it must not boil. Strain into a wetted mould, and place on the ice or in a very cool place. Turn out when set, and serve with fruit compote or jam. Chocolate Mould. 4 oz. of chocolate, 3 oz. patent cornflour, i quart of milk, 2 oz. sugar, vanilla. Blend the cornflour smoothly with a little milk. In the re- mainder of the milk dissolve the chocolate, add the sugar and the blended cornflour, and boil for eight minutes, stirring meanwhile. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence, and pour into a wetted mould. Turn out when set, and decorate the dish with whipped cream. Cobourg Trifle. Cut half a dozen sponge cakes into slices, spread them with rasp- berry or apricot jam, and place them together like sandwiches. Arrange them neatly in a glass dish, pour over one glass of good sherry or marsala, and let them soak for about ten minutes. Cover the whole with macaroons, which should be arranged in the form of a pyramid, pour over a gill of rich custard, and garnish with halves of glace cherries. Whisk half a pint of cream till stiff, and cover the whole with it by means of a forcing-bag, decorate tastefully with peeled and shredded sweet almonds, angelica, and cherries. The dish is then ready for serving. Praises a la Melba [Strawberries, Melba Style). Procure a basket of large ripe strawberries, remove the stalks and place the fruit in a basin, pour over a little rich raspberry syrup and keep on the ice for an hour. Three-paits fill a souffle dish with rich vanilla-cream ice and range the strawberries neatly on top of the ice. Decorate to taste, and serve,