6oo THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Carre d’Agneau froid a la Bohemienne {Cold Neck of Lamb). Remove the skin, shorten the ribs, saw off the spine portion, pare and trim nicely, put it in a saute-pan with a handful of sliced vegetables, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour or more, according to the size. When done, take out the neck and put in a cool place. Add a little more stock to the vegetables in the saute-pan, reduce to half, skim off the fat and pass through a sieve, stir in sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set, also half a pint of tomato sauce and a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, when nearly cold, but still liquid, mask the neck with the sauce, and when set coat with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish i:p on a crouton of bread or socle of boiled rice, garnish the sides with six aspic timbales of peas. Have ready two silver hatelets decorated with a cock’s kernel and comb at the top, a slice of truffle and a plover’s egg beneath, insert them into each side of the top of the neck. The dish is then ready to serve. Selle d’Agneau a la Hollandaise [Saddle of Lamb, Dutch Style). Remove the skin of a fine saddle of lamb, and bard it with slices of fat bacon, truss the joints as for roasting, and place it on a roasting-tin with a few slices of onion, carrot, and a little dripping for basting. Cook it in a rather quick oven at first, so as to nicely brown the surface, then reduce the heat and finish cooking till quite done, basting it frequently. Remove the bacon and moisten the joint, place it on an oblong joint-dish, and glaze the surface with liquefied meat glaze. Garnish the sides with small new potatoes, baked in the oven, and put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish. Insert two hatelets, suitably garnished, at each end of the joint, and serve with a boat of rich gravy or thin demi-glace sauce. Selle d’Agneau a la Duchesse [Saddle of Lamb, Duchcsse Style). Trim and skewer a saddle of lamb, roast it carefully in front of a good fire, next cover the surface with a layer of well-reduced soubise sauce or white onion puree, then besprinkle it with grated