COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 32; while mask some cockle-shell moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate each tastefully with strips of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Mi.\ about half a pint of cold liquid aspic with the mayon- naise sauce, line the decorated moulds with this, place the prej^arcd fillets into the moulds, hll up with mayonnaise aspic (p. 142) and put them on the ice to set. To ser\-e, dip the moulds into warm water and unmould quickly on to a dish, garnish with asjuc jelly, aird serve. Filets de Sole en Aspic {Fillets of Sole in Savoury Jelly). 2 soles, I lobster, i t oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill cream, gill stock, chopped parsley, 2 truffles, i quart aspic jelly (p. 132), lemon-juice. Skin the soles and remove the hllets, chop the lobster meat finely. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, w'hen cooked add the lobster, moisten with cream and stock, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemoir-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly, and put on a plate to cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up, tie with string, place on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Line a plain border mould with aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffles, pour over another layer of aspic, set the hllets wfflen cold, whole or cut in halves, hll up with aspic, and put on the ice to set. Serve with a nice salad in centre. Chaud-froid de Filets de Sole a la Capucine. I large sole, -1- small lobster, 8 prawns, i truffle, 4 gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), r teaspoonful anchovy essence, |- pint aspic (p. 132), a little white sauce, I gill cream, 2 sheets French gelatine, a few drops of liquid carmine, pepper and salt, i oz. butter, i lemon. Remove the meat from the lobster, chop hnely, pound in a mortar, add the anchovy essence and sufficient white sauce to form a smooth paste, and season to taste. Fillet the sole, flatten the hllets, and spread the above farce on one side, roll up or fold in tw'o, place them on a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done take up and set aside to cool. Mask the inside of a border or large dariole mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, deco- rate the sides artistically with picked prawns and fancifully cut slices of truffle, and a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Stand the mould on the ice, dissolve the gelatine in the remainder of aspic, stir when cooling into the mayonnaise, add the cream and a few drops of carmine to give a nice pink colour, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper, and coat the inside of the mould. Cut the hllets into neat slices, and set these into the mould with alternate layers of sauce. Add a little more aspic to the sauce if needed, and hll up the mould with this. Allow it to stand on the ice until quite hrm. Immerse in tepid w-ater, turn out on a round entree dish, and serve. If a border mould is used, a little dressed salad should be served in the centre.