THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 734 Pouding de Marrons a la Creole {Chestnut Pudding). J lb. cooked chestnuts rubbed through a sieve, lb. castor sugar, lb. butter, 6 eggs, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, add the macaroons and the yolks of eggs one at a time, the vanilla flavouring, and mix in the chestnut puree. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix the whole carefully. Fill up a well-buttered mould, and steam for ik to if hour in the oven or in a covered stew-pan on the stove. Dish up and serve with vanilla custard sauce. Pouding a la Mercedes. 3 oz. Jordan almonds, 3-4 bitter almonds, i lemon, 4 oz. loaf sugar, pint milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. glace cherries or other glace fruit {such as apricots or pears), about ^ oz. ginger biscuits, 3 macaroons. Blanch and peel the almonds, then pound them in a mortar, and add to it a little milk, and boil up. Put the almonds into a napkin and press out as much of the liquid as possible, and add it to the rest of the milk. Beat up the eggs, and strain them into the milk, add also the strained juice of the lemon. Cut the biscuits and macaroons into small pieces, put them into a well-buttered and floured pudding mould, and between each layer of biscuits put a little of the glace fruit, which must be cut very small. When the mould is thirs filled, pour in the milk and eggs, cover with buttered paper, place it in a saute-pan containing boiling water, and steam gently in the oven for about one hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sauce, Pouding au Miel {Honey Pudding). lb. honey, 6 oz. soft breadcrumbs, i small lemon, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground ginger, i oz. butter, i oz. florador, i gill milk. Mix the honey and breadcrumbs in a basin, cook the florador for ten minutes in the milk, add it to the above, and when well mixed stir in the warmed butter, rind of half a lemon, finely grated, ginger, yolks of two eggs, and beat well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate gently. Three-parts fill a buttered mould with the mixture, and steam from if to if hour. Serve hot, with a suitable sauce or syrup. Milk Puddings. Wash, blanch, and drain 2 oz. of rice. Cook gently (preferably in a double saucepan) until tender in about if pint of milk. Stir in a well-beaten egg, sweeten to taste, pour into a buttered pie-dish, grate over a little nutmeg, and bake for about half an hour in a moderately-heated oven. Sago, tapioca, macaroni, and vermicelli can be used in place of rice, but will not require to be washed. Motsa Pudding. 3-4 Passover cakes, 2 oz. currants, 2 oz. raisins, 2 oz. suet, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 apples, teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, a pinch of salt, I teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 eggs. Soak the Passover cakes in cold water, then press them dry. Pare, core, and slice the apples. Chop the suet finely, clean the currants, and stone the raisins. Mix all together, add the sugar.