629 VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. GAROTTES—CARROTS. Garottes a la Berlinoise [Carrots, Berlin Style). [ large bunch oi young spring carrots, pint gravy or rich stock, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, :] gill cream. -1- gill demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Wash and scrape or turn the carrots, blanch in slightly salted water and drain, melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the carrots and sugar, toss over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with gravy or stock. Cover the pan and simmer gently until the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Add salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shake the pan well, so as to thoroughly blend the carrots with the seasoning. Butter a pudding-basin, sprinkle with chopped parsley, line the basin neatly with carrots, fill up tightly with the remainder of carrots, place the basin in a hot oven for a few minutes, and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Heat up the demi-glace saifce, add the cream, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. Garottes a la Bruxelloise [Carrots, Brussels Style). I buuch of youug spring carrots, i oz. butter, ^ teaspoonful chopjied parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, pepper, and castor sugar. Trim, wash, and scrape the carrots, cut them into halves or quarters, blanch them in slightly salted water, drain, and put them in a stew-pan with the butter. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to get brown, then add a gill of good stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar, and cook till tender. Mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and pour into the stew-pan containing the carrots, stir till the liaison is formed, then add the parsley, mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. Garottes farcies aux Epinards [Stuffed Carrots with Spinach). 3 good-sized tender carrots, 4 oz. cooked game, poultry or rabbit, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 3 or 4 mushrooms (champignons), i tablespoouful breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful bechamel or Espagnole sauce, i yolk of egg, seasoning, i pint spinach puree. Wash and peel thinly the carrots, cut them into two-inch lengths, and pare each to about the same thickness all through. Boil in salted water till nearly tender, drain, and cool. With a column- cutter stamp out the yellow (centre) part from each. Mince finely the game or poultry, ham or tongue, and mushrooms. Season with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fine herbs, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with sauce and the egg-yolk. Cook over the fire till hot, then add the breadernmbs. Fill the cavities of the carrots with this, place them on a buttered saute-pan, and bake for fifteen minutes in a fairly hot oven. Heat up the spinach puree, season to taste, dress in the shape of a pyramid on a round entree dish, surround with the baked stuffed carrots, pour a little hot gravy or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. If liked, a small braised button onion or a fried button mushroom can be placed on top of each carrot to improve the appearance of the dish.