3«9 VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTRLES. Bordure de Noix e* Celeri a la Monaco {Border of II and Celery with Mayonnaise). I gill mayonnaise, J pint aspic jelly, i head white celery, \ ]iint shelled walnuts, 1 blade mace, i bay-leaf, i slice onion, i pint tomato pulp, i oz. gelatine (sheet), i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, paprika, I French gherkin, a few tarragon leaves, and chillies for garnish. Mask a ])Iain border-mould (pint size) with a thin coating of tispic, decorate the side with fanciftdly-cnt chilli and tarragon leaves. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with enough liquid aspic jelly to make it set, and line the decorated mould with this. Put it in a cool place to set. Meanwhile put the walnuts in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt, the mace, bay-leaf, and onion, and boil for ten minutes or so. Drain them and put them in cold water, remove the skin and shake them gently in a clean cloth. Cut them into shreds. Dissolve the gelatine and add to the tomato pulp, season with pepper, salt, and half a teas})oonful of paprika, iiavour with the \’inegar, boil up, and strain. M’hen almost cold, mix with it about half the shredded walnuts, hll the border-mould with this preparation, and put the mould in a cool place until required. Wash and dry the celery, and cut the white part into julienne strips. Mix them in a basin with the remainder of the walnuts. Add pepper and salt to taste. M'hen ready for serving, unmould the border and dress on a round dish. Season the salad with mayonnaise, and place it in the centre of the dish, pile up high, sprinkle with a little chopped gherkin, and serve. A little green salad, lettuce, or endive, may be mixed with the celery and walnuts, if liked. In that case it should be cut into shreds or else torn into very small pieces. Macaroni aux Huitres {Macaroni with Oysters). Cook a quarter of a pound of spaghetti (macaroni) in stock or salted water, drain, and finish with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and the needed seasoning. Toss, some blanched oysters, eight to ten, in a little butter, and mix with the above. Dish up, and brown under the salamander, then serve. Tomates a TArgenteuille. Select about 8 or g even-sized roimd tomatoes (not over ripe), cut out the centre portion of each, then dip the tomatoes into boiling water and skin them carefully. Have ready a delicate ragout (nicely seasoned) of asparagus tips and veloutee sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this, place them on a baking sheet, be- sprinkle with a little oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, and serv^-e.