457 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. sweet oil, allow them to remain in this for half an hour, turning frequently. Drain, and broil over a clear fire. They should be well done, and will take from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve with sauce Robert. Cotelettes de Pore a la Soubise {Poyk Cutlets imth Onion Sauce). Prepare the cutlets in the same manner as the foregoing, broil them with a little fresh butter in a saute-pan or on the gridiron. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, put a well-reduced soubise puree in the centre, and serve sauce demi-glace round the base of the dish. A few drops of liquid meat glaze or meat extract (Lemco) put over the soubise just before serving, will be found an improvement. Pieds de Pore a la Duxelle {Pig's Feet with Duxellc Puree). Procure two pairs of pickled pig’s feet, braise them in richly- flavoured stock until tender. When done take up, remove the bones, and cut each foot in two, lengthwise. Have ready some duxelle puree, spread over the inside of each piece with a thick layer of this. When set, cut each in two, egg and ctumb twice, and fry in clarified butter a golden colour. Drain on a paper or cloth. Dish up en couronne, fill up the centre with duxelle puree and a few heads of mushrooms tossed in butter ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with poivrade sauce. Zampins farcis {Stuffed Pig’s Foot). This dish is made from the foot of a young porker, including a part of the leg. It must be salted in brine for some days before it is used. Remove a portion of the bone, and stuff with farce de champignons {see Recipe below). Prick the rind with a larding- needle, to prevent breaking whilst cooking, wrap in a cloth, tie both ends, and cook till tender in stock or water. Unwrap, dish up, sauce over with well-reduced chamj)agne sauce {see Sauces), garnish with groups of French beans, and serve hot. Mushroom Forcemeat or Stuffing {Farce de Champignons). 2 to 3 large fresh mushrooms, or about 3 oz. preserved mushrooms, small onion, i small French roll, milk, oz. butter, 4 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), i heaped-up teaspoonful powdered herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and bay-leaf), 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Wash the mushrooms, drain, and chop them very finely, peel and chop the onion, fry the latter a golden colour in the butter and pour over the chopped mushrooms, mix in the cheese and herbs. Soak the bread, previoifsly freed from crust, in a little milk, add this to the above and work into a smooth paste, adding the yolks of eggs to moisten it. Season with salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of nutmeg and ground mace, and use as directed. If liked, a little chopped ham may be added to the mixture—it will improve the flavour of the forcemeat considerably. Petites Chartreuses au Jambon {Small Ham Chartreuse). Line the sides of eight small plain timbale moulds, previously buttered, with thinly cut heart-shaped slices of cooked lean ham,