KEMO VES—RELEI ’I'iS. 599 Soak the haricots for two or three hours, cook them in slightly salted water till tender, drain, add the butter and seasoning, toss them over the hre for a few minutes, and moisten with a little demi- glace sauce. Bone the leg of mutton, and tie up into its original shape with thin string. Insert a tiny piece of garlic in the centre of the leg. Melt the dripping in a braising-pan. x\dd the onion, stuck with a clove, and bouquet garni, place the meat on top, brown well over the lire. Pour off the fat, add the stock, season with salt and pepper, cover, place in the oven, and cook from two and a half to three hours, basting frequently. Add the remainder of demi- glace sauce to the meat about twenty minutes before serving. Skim the sauce and strain it over the meat. Surround with groups of haricot beans and serve the remainder in a vegetable dish, to be handed round with the meat. Gigot de Mouton roti {Roast Leg of Mutton, French Style). Bone and trim a small leg of fat mutton. Season with salt and pepper, chopped' parsley, one finely chopped shallot, and a bruised clove of garlic (garlic introducecl into raw meat loses its objectionable acidity and odour, and it imparts a very fine flavour). Tie up the meat, and place it in a baking-tin with a few slices of carrot, one sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Bake it in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently, and finish baking or roasting in a slacker oven until tender. When done, dish up, pour off the fat from the tin, and add some thin brown sauce (jr stock for the purpose of making the gravy. Season it, and pour round the meat. Ballotine d’Agneau aux Petits Pois [Boned and Braised Shoulder of Lamb with Green Peas). I shoulder of lamb, 6 oz. veal, 4 oz. pork, 3 oz. cooked ham, i dessertspoon- ful chopped parsley, 2 truffles, larding bacon, 3 slices of streaky bacon, I onion, i carrot, i bay-leaf, parsley, i pint green peas (cooked), i pint stock, I pint Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper. Bone the shonlder of lamb, but let the end or knuckle bone remain. Prepare a stuffing with the veal, pork, ham, and parsley, all finely chopped and seasoned to taste, and press it into the cavity, distributing slices of trullle evenly. Shape neatly, and sew up tire opening. Put the shoulder in the stock-pot for about five minutes to harclen the surface, let cool and lard the top with larding bacon. Line a braisiere or deep saute-pan with bacon, sliced onion, and carrot, bay-leaf, and a small bunch of parsley, place the shoulder on this, and brown slightly over a brisk fire. Moisten with the stock and sauce, cover, and cook in the oven from fifty to sixty minutes. Take up the shoulder, skim the sauce, strain it, and reduce a little, add peas, a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper if needed, boil for five minutes, and serve with the meat. If required as a releve (remove), serve it whole, and put the peas round the dish as a garnish; if as an entree, put a bed of peas into the dish, cut the ballotine into slices and place on top, sauce over a little, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately.