ENTRtiES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). S'7 prepared fillets. Spread each with forcemeat (the same as made for fillets) giving them a dome-shaped appearance, smooth over with a wet knife, put them in a hot oven for ten minntes, jnst long enough to get thoroughly hot and to colour the top. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them np alternately with the crohtes on a thin border of mashed potatoes, stand the dish in the oven for a few seconds longer. Put the remainder of forcemeat in a stew-pan, add a little game sauce, previously well reduced, when hot, add a yolk of egg, stir over the fire nntil it begins to thicken, dress it in the centre of the dish, piled np high, sauce over quickly, and serve. Becassines braisees aux Choux [Bvaised Snipe with Cabbage). Truss twelve snipe, par-fry them in a little butter, drain, and add game sauce, and one glass of white wine, and braise for twenty minutes. Blanch and afterwards cook in stock two firm spring cab- bages. Drain off the stock, and finish cooking in a stew-pan, lined with bacon and moistened with a little rich stock, place the snipe on top of this. Cover the pan, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes longer. Press the cabbage lightly into a buttered basin, unmould on to a hot dish, arrange the snipe round the cabbage, surmount with a silver skewer or hatelet with whole truffies. Sauce over with the sauce in which the snipe were first cooked, and serve hot, Becasse a la Careme. Par-fry the required number of boned snipe in a saute-pan, in oil (Provence), and cut each in half. Dip the sections in a mixture composed of French mustard, lemon-juice, and white wine. Make a fumet of the carcases, etc., adding to it a small glass of brandy. Strain this and re-heat the snipe in it. Dish up in a terrine lined with slices of fried bacon, and serve. Capissantes de Becasse aux trufles.—Minced snipe with truffles, mixed with game sauce, filled into shells, covered with a rich game sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in a sharp oven till browned,