HOT MEAT ENTRfiES, ETC. 445 the lire until of a nice golden colour ; pour oft the superfluous fat, mix with the meat, cover over, and allow to simmer gently until the meat and potatoes are cpiite done. Stir from time to time, remove the caraway seeds, dish up on a hot dish, and serve very hot. Note.—Coarsely-minced apples are sometimes added, and cooked with the meat. Entre-cotes grilles, Edouard VII. [Grilled Sirloin Steaks). 2-3 sirloin steaks, 2 oz. maitre d'hotel butter, olive oil, salt and pepper, I gill well-reduced tomato puree, 2 egg-yolks, 1 lemon, tarragon and chervil, parsley, fried potato baskets, cucumber garnishing, i gill veal gravy. Flatten and slightly trim the meat, brush it over with olive oil and season with salt and pepper, then grill the stetdcs over or in front of a good fire, allowing about eight minutes for each side ; the steaks must be decidedly underdone, juicy, and quite tender. Cream the maitre d’hotel butter, put it in a forcing-bag with a rose tube and force out 8-12 small rosettes on to a plate, put them on\the ice. Cut 8 large p o t a t oes into shapes of baskets, a 11 cl f r 3^ them in hot fat. Peel a large cucumber, cut out as many little ball shapes as possible, blanch them in salted water, drain, and toss in fresh butter, season, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Dish up the steaks, cut them iuto sections, sauce over carefully with a ribbon of tomato puree, enriched with egg-yolks and herbs : upon this place the maitre d’hotel butter. Surround the steaks with the potato baskets filled with cucumber balls, and serve with a boat of gravy flavoured with a little tomato puree. Porterhouse Steak a la GoufTe. Cut two steaks from the sirloin about one inch in thickness. Each steak should have the undercut left on, and must be cut from the chine-bone portion. Flatten and trim a little, lard one side of each with strips of larding bacon; season with pepper and salt, brush over well with oiled butter, broil over a brisk fire (rather under- done), dish up, garnishing a la Gouffe, and serve with demi-glace. Olives de Boeuf [Beef Olives). I:t to i4 lb. of fillet of beef or rump steak (cut thick), i egg, 2 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, i|- oz. beef suet, chopped finely, \ oz. chopped ham, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful aromatic spice, a pinch of pow- dered sweet herbs, 4 teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, f pint brown sauce.