39 I-VUDS IN SEASON. Grapes, French Greengages . Grouse . Halibut Hares . Grey . Herrings, Fresh . Indian Corn . John Dories Kale Lamb . Landrails Larks . Lettuces, English Lettuces, French Leverets Lobsters Mackerel Maize . Medlars Melons, Rock ,, Water Mulberries . Mullet, Grey and Red . Mushrooms , Mussels Nectarines . Oranges ,, Seville Ortolans Oysters Parsnips Partridges . ,, Foreign Peaches Pears . ;, Califor- nian . Peas, English green Perch . Pheasants Pigeons, Bordeaux Pike Pines, St. Alichael’s. Pintail . September to October July to September .August to December May to January August to March October to December July to February August to December July to April December to March January to July October to February August to February April to September December to Alarch August to March July to September April to December (See Indian Corn) September to October August to September ' October to March August to September July to October March to October August to March August to October November to June February to March June to August September to April September to April September to Februar}" February to June August to October August to December November to April August to September July to February October to February August to September Jidy to February October to April September to March Plaice . Plovers’ Eggs Plovers, Gol- den and Grey Plums, English Plums, French Pomegranates Pork . Potatoes, New Kidney Ptarmigans . Prairie Hens Prawns Pumpkins Quinces Raspberries . Red Cabbage Reeves . Rhubarb, Forced ,, Natural Ruffs Shrimps Salmon . Salsify . Savoys . Scarlet Runners . Scallops Skate . Snipe Spinach Sprats . Strawberries Sturgeon, Royal . Tangerine Oranges Teal Tench . Tomatoes Trout . Turkeys Vegetable Marrow Venison Walnuts Wliitcbait Whiting Widgeons Woodcocks .May to January .April to Alay August to Alarcli August to Alarch July to August October to November September to April Alarch to Alay December to May F'ebruary to April April to August September to October October to November June to September September to January August to September December to Alay April to July August to September April to September February to October December to Alarch October to Alarch July to October October to April October to Alay .August to Alarch Alarch to December November to April June to September September to Alarch November to February September to Alarch July to February March to December February to September September to February yAugusl to October Alay to October September to December February to August Alay to January August to Alarch August to Alarch