760 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fully remove the pulp, so that the skin remains intact, rub the pulp through a sieve, and add to it the wine and liqueur, and thicken this syrup with macaroons. Mix in the fruit, hll up the orange- rinds, smooth over with the blade of a knife, cover the surface with meringue mixture, ornament to taste, pyramid fashion, dust with sugar, and bake in the oven a golden brown. Dish up, and serve quickly. Charlotte de Cerises {Cherry Charlotte). ^ lb. cooking cherries, the rind of a lemon, 4 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, I teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, about i-^- lb. Genoise cake or German zwieback. Stone the cherries, put them in a stew-pan with very little water, add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the cinnamon, also two ounces of butter, steam over the hre gently until the cherries are tender, shaking the pan from time to time. If Gtmoise cake is used, cut it into neat slices, and bake both sides a golden colour. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with these or German zwiebacks, each piece should be dipped in oiled butter so as to make them hold fast, fill up the mould alternately with baked biscuits (GGioise) or zwiebacks and the cherries, lay them in tightly, sprinkle a little oiled butter over the top, and bake for half an hour in the oven. Serve with kirsch syrup. Charlotte a Tlmperiale. Fill a well-buttered plain charlotte mould with Genoise paste, and bake it evenly in a fairly hot oven. When done, unmould, cut off the top, and remove the soft part of the interior. Place the cake-crust on a dish and hll it with a rich cream composed of six egg-yolks, one pint of cream or milk (boiling), half an ounce of corn- flour, four ounces of sugar, a quarter-gill of apricot pulp, and one small glass of rum. Replace the top and mask the whole with a meringue mixture—i.e. two wdiites of egg wLisked till stiff and sweetened with one ounce of castor sugar. Garnish with glace fruits and bake in a slow oven for thirty minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup (apricot or peach). OMELETTES-OMELETS. Omelette sucree [Sweet Omelet). A real French omelet should never be ready before it is required for table. The guests should wait for an omelet. Fresh eggs and fresh butter are indispensable for making a really good omelet. Break six to eight eggs into a basin, add to them a tablespoonful of cream or milk, beat well with a fork for four or hve minutes and add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a clean omelet pan, when hot (not burning hot or smoking) pour in the beaten eggs, stir with a spoon over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set, then shake the pan and fold the contents tow'ards the side opposite the handle of the pan. Let it take colour, i.e. a golden brown (if jam is desired, put it in the centre of the omelet before folding). Give it the