70 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Soyer.—A white fish sauce fiavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon-juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. — Stragotte.—A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and madeira wine, flavoured with soup vegetables, celery and parsley roots, shallots, cloves, and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. — Texienne (Texas Sauce).—A kind of curry sauce with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, finished with fresh butter as liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. — Tortue (Turtle Sauce).—A brown sauce made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon-juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon-rind ; seasoned with very little cayenne pepper. — Universelle ( Universal Sauce).—A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies. — Valoise.—Finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream, and butter; whisked in bain-marie ; seasoned with salt and Worcester sauce. — Villeroi.—A white sauce with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — Vincent.—Mayonnaise mixed with green herb puree (tarragon, chervil, chives, and parsley). — Viennoise.—Poivrade (pepper sauce) blended with lemon and orange- juice, reduced and finished with cream. — Verjus.—Espagnole sauce with mashed unripe green grapes, or goose- berries cooked in stock, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast duck or pork. —York (Yorkshire 5fluc£j).—Consists of espagnole sauce, finely shredded orange-rind, red-currant jelly, port wine, orange-juice, and a little ground cinnamon (careful blending essential). Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. SWEET SAUCES (SAUCES SUCREES). Curaqoa or Maraschino Sauce. I oz. fresh butter, -t oz. flour, i gill milk, i oz. sugar, i whole egg, tea- spoonful vanilla essence, -t oz. finely chopped pistachios, oz. finely chopped lemon-peel, i tablespoonful red curayoa or maraschino. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and blend over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten slowly with the milk, add the sugar, and stir well over the fire ; beat up the egg and add also ; strain the sauce into another saucepan, let it get hot, but not boiling ; stir in the lemon-peel, pistachios, and cura^oa or maraschino, and serve as directed. Brandy Sauce (Sauce aii Cognac). 4 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. cornflour, gill brandy, i pint water. Put the sugar and rather more than a gill and a half of water in a copper stewpan, boil a few minutes, take off the scum, and