198 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme a la Talma. 3|- pints consomme (clarified double broth), i-J- oz. Jordan almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, pint of milk, 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, a little butter, _i oz. rice, and seasoning. Blanch and peel the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound till quite fine, add the milk, mix thoroughly, and press through a tammy cloth or strong napkin. Break the eggs into a basin, add the yolks, and whisk well. Strain the eggs into the almond milk, season with pepper and salt, mix well, and pour into well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould. Put the mould into a stewpan containing boiling water to about half the height of the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and let simmer until the custard is firm enough to turn out. Let it cool in a mould, then turn on to a wet cloth, and cut the custard into half-inch squares or dice. Meanwhile blanch the rice, par-boil in slightly salted water, drain, cool, and finish cooking the rice in clear stock. Put a handful of boiled rice and the custard in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling consomme over, and serve. Consomme a la Tomate. pints of good stock, 3 good-sized ripe tomatoes, a small carrot, turnip, onion and celery, J lb. of lean beef (shin or leg), a bouquet garni, consisting of thyme, parsley, marjoram, bay-leaf, a few peppercorns, and allspice, 1 lump of sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs ; a little carmine if found necessary to bring up the colour. Free the stock from fat and sediment, put into a clean stewpan, and add the carrot, turnip, onion, celery (previously prepared), the tomatoes cut up in quarters, the bouquet garni, and allspice. Chop the meat or pass it through the mincing machine, mix with a little cold water, and put it with the other ingredients, and add the whites and shells of eggs slightly beaten. Whisk frequently until it begins to boil, allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about three-quarters of an hour ; then strain, re-heat, and serve. Grated cheese is generally handed with this soup. As a garnish, macMoines of vegetables may, if liked, be added to the soup. Consomme a laTortue [Clear Turtle Soup made with Dried Turtle). J; lb. best sun-dried turtle, ij gallon good stock, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 sticks celer^q i leek, 3 onions, 4 cloves, 20 peppercorns, 2 blades of mace, a bouquet of herbs consisting of parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, and marjoram, ^ lb. lean beef, J lb. veal, 4 whites of eggs, ^ lemon, 2 glasses of sherry, i glass of brandy, salt, cayenne. Wash the turtle in cold water, and put to soak in cold water for three or four days, changing the water each day. Prepare the vegetables, tie up peppercorns, mace, and cloves in a piece of muslin. Put the turtle in a large stewpan with the stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and muslin bag as soon as the stock boils and the scum is removed. Let it cook gently from eight to ten hours. Remove the fat, strain off the stock, put the turtle on a dish, and, when cool, cut it into convenient pieces. Cut off the skin, fat, and sinews from the beef and veal, chop it very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine. Mix thoroughly with the whites of eggs and the shells of three, add the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of tarragon and