157 SJ UCES. quantity of liquor. Strain into another stewpan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, moisten with the sauce, add the anchovy essence, boil a few minutes, and serve. Sauce Pompadour. 2 oz. butter, 1 pint velontee (p. 161) or allemaudc (p. 141) sauce, i shallot, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, J gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Peel and chop the shallot, and mince finely the mushrooms. Blend the shallot in an ounce of butter, but do not let it take colour ; put in the mushrooms and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and parsley, stir into the sauce, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; finish with the remaining ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in the bain-marie until required for serving. Sauce Princesse. 1 j- gill of bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespooiifuls French wine vinegar, i oz. fresh butter, i lemon, i teaspoonful of grated horse-radish, nutmeg, 8 peppercorns, parsley. Put the grated rind of the lemon and the horse-radish in a small stewpan with the French wine vinegar, add a little grated nutmeg and the crushed white peppercorns, boil for several minutes, then add the bechamel or veloutee sauce. Cook for ten minutes, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Re-heat, season with salt and more pepper, if needed, work in by means of a whisk the butter and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve with any kind of friture of poultry, fish or meat. Sauce Poivrade {Peppey Satice). f pint of espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. of butter, small carrot, I- small onion, 18 peppercorns, i bay-leaf, i sprig thyme, 2 cloves, 4- oz. of raw ham or bacon. Mince the onion and carrot, cut the ham or bacon into small pieces ; fry the above in the butter for three minutes, add the peppercorns (crushed), herbs, etc. ; skim off the fat, moisten with the sauce, and boil for ten minutes or longer ; skim, strain, and serve as required. Sauce Rouennaise. 2 shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, i glass claret, i pint demi-glace sauce, 2 or 3 ducks’ livers. Infuse the finely chopped shallots, bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme in the glass of claret. Add the demi-glace sauce and the finely chopped ducks’ livers, and let reduce, season to taste, and strain. Sauce Raifort, chaude [Horse-yadish Sauce, hot). 2 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish, 4- pint bechamel (p. 142) sauce, | tea- spoonful castor sugar, pinch cayenne and salt, teaspoonful vinegar. Moisten the horse-radish with the vinegar, mix with the sauce, and boil up whilst stirring. Add the sugar and cayenne, allow it to simmer a few minutes, taking great care that the sauce does not curdle ; if found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream or milk. Served with hot roast beef, etc.