46 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cellar wall, produce work which falls short of the standard of excellence in cooking. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook, and con- ducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators. When the windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the top ; but as some kitchen windows open from pantries, or entries, or passages, some form of independent ventilation should be adopted. It is desirable that the kitchen of an establishment, whether private or otherwise, should be large enough for the purpose of cooking, and adapted to the number of people to be provided for at one time. This is too often disregarded by architects, who sacrifice the kitchen to enlarge other rooms. Ample space should be provided for the range or stoves, tables, chairs, sink, cupboards, etc., and yet the room should not be so large as to necessitate much running to and fro. From a sanitary point of view, the drainage should be as perfect as is possible. There should be windows on two sides of the room, to allows the sun free access, and to allow frequent change of air, which is most essential in a kitchen. An excellent plan has been adopted by a number of business firms, who have placed the kitchens at the top of the house, where there is i:sually ample ventilation to take away all odours with which boiling, roasting, and other cooking •processes invest the kitchen and other parts of the house. Persons about to build houses should direct the attention of the architect to these matters ; it would save much annoyance and disappointment. In many houses and hotels the first thing that goes wrong is something in the kitchen, and the cook is often blamed for the fault of others. In planning the kitchen of a good house an expert cook should always be consulted. Kitchen Floors and Walls.—The floor of a kitchen should be of concrete coated with cement, or laid with tiles, so as to make it impervious to moisture. If the floor is made of wood, birch makes the best flooring, though liable to shrink. Maple is also considered a suitable wood. A plain brown linoleum makes an excellent covering for a kitchen floor. Wooden floors are best if saturated with hot linseed oil, which must be well rubbed in, so as to give polish to the surface. The boards miist, of course, be closely joined together, before oil is applied. The walls of a kitchen should be either entirely lined with white- glazed tiles or else have a high tiled dado. They can be kept much cleaner than distempered walls, which show every mark. Kitchen Furniture.—The furniture of a kitchen should be plain, neat, and w'ell made, yet not cumbersome ; it must be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. The stoves, ranges, grills', and ovens, being the all-important fittings upon which so much of the success of a kitchen depends.