CHAPTER XXXI. S A L A D E S—S A L A D S. The word “ salad ” is generally defined as a dish of raw herbs or plants (salad plants) eaten with salt, or dressed with vinegar and oil. They are served as an accompaniment to other dishes as a rule, but they may also form a separate course. Oil and vinegar supply all that is necessary as a salad dressing, but many other and more elaborate dressings are used, and in effect often take from, rather than add to, the excellence of the salad. Salad- making or salad-mixing is an art, if not a gift, which is granted to but few. Most people can, however, with study and a certain amount of judgment, achieve success in this branch of the culinary art. Salads are prepared in such a variety of ways, and from such a large number of materieds, that the subject is broad enough to fill a separate volum?. Almost anything under the sun in the way of eatables can be converted into a salad. Nearly all succulent vegetables can be brought into requisition when making salads. The variety of salads is therefore almost endless - raw products, acetarious plants or succulent plants, hot and cold cooked vege- tables, fish and meat, are indifferently mixed or blended together. In a typical plain salad the lettuce is generally the foundation, whilst the Russian salad—Salade Russe—is regarded as the most recherchs of dressed salads or fancy salads. So-called French salads take the lead in popularity, and these are served to be eaten with the roast or separately. A true French salad is dressed with vinaigrette and the fourniture d’herbes ; the mixing of this salad could be tabulated in at least fifty ways, the one rule being that a typical French salad should, in addition to the herbs used, consist but of one kind of vegetable—i.e. of lettuce, endive, batavia, tomato, or escarole. This is frequentl}/ dis- regarded in this country. A French cook or housekeeper will on no account mix any two of these plants together for a salad, because it is claimed that their delicate flavours become thereby impaired, if not entix'dy destroyed. The secret of a perfect salad is good materials, correct methods of blending, intelligent direction, and delicate service. No matter what a salad is composed of, it should always look cool, inviting, refreshing, and dainty. Note.—For salad dressings and salad sauces refer to Salad Mixture, Vinaigrette, Tartare, Mayonnaise, French salad dressing, Aspic Cream.