453 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Filets de Bceuf a la Sicilienne.—Grilled lillets of beef, served with Sicilian sauce, which is corn-posed of a well-reduced i\Iadeira wine sauce with finely shredded onion, previously fried in clarified butter. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillets of beef, marinaded in sherry wine, and braised, garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with green asparagus puree, sauted artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes and mushroom-heads ; sauce Madere. — a la Therapia.—Broiled fillets of beef, dressed on a bed of mushroom puree, sprinkled with finely-chopped herbs, garnished with olive- shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut-brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled fillets of beef, cooked rather underdone, gar- nished with sauted fresh mushrooms and Spanish pimientos, tomato sauce. — aux Truffes.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, served with brown sauce flavoured with sherry and containing sliced truffles. — a la Wellington.—Small fillets of beef tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled-out puff-paste, with a layer of finely chopped herbs spread over the fillets ; brush over the paste with egg-yolk and bake in moderate oven ten to fifteen minutes : dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. Langue de Boeuf (Ox-Tongue) a la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, gar- nished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage, sauced over with the brown sauce with which the tongue was braised. — au Gratin.—Slices of boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking or gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and sent to table on the dish in which it is baked. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesau cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. — a la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongne served with sauce Romaine, composed of Espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), chilli vinegar, and a little powdered sugar, all well reduced, and passed through a tammy. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or rump (centre cut) of beef larded, finished in a richly-flavoured brown sauce, to which a little tomato puree has been added. Garnish with braised carrots and button onions, and serve with the above-named sauce well reduced. Palais de Boeuf grille.—Pickled ox-palates, boiled, pressed, and cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled. Serve with a piquante tomato sauce. — a I'Orly.—Stewed ox-palate, spread over, when cold, on one side with forcemeat mixed with a little savoury herbs, then rolled, and dipped in cold white sauce. When set, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce.