1056 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. of this fruit are highly esteemed in this country. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, the young capsules of the okra plant, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hache, /. Minced meat, finely sliced meat heated up in brown or white sauce. Hatelet, /. Small silver skewers, used for ornamenting fish and remove dishes. Hors-d’oeuvre, /. Appetisers. Small side dishes, dainty relishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. Icing, e. Glasnre, /., or glace. A covering for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Irlandaise (a 1’). /. Irish style ; applied to dishes containing potatoes in some form. Isinglass. Gelatine. The former is pre- pared from the sound, or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon and other similar fishes. Both isinglass and gelatine are used for giving firmness' to liquids, but cannot be regarded as an article of nourishment. Italienne (a 1’), /. Applied to dishes containing macaroni or similar paste, together with cheese and tomato. Joint, e. Releve, /. The grosse piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees. Jugged. A brown stew, of hare or some kind of game. Kromeskis. Polish word ; same meaning as croquette in French. Krona pepper. A mild red pepper sea- soning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation. Lait, /. Milk, e. Au lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Laitance, /. Soft roe of a fish. Larder or Piquer, /. To lard, e. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding pin (lardoire, /.) small strips of bacon (lardoon, /.) into a piece of meat, fish, poultry or game. “ Lemco.” The registered name of Liebig Co.’s Extract of Meat—a per- fectly prepared Beef Essence used to enrich soups, gravies, and sauces. Liaison, /. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, &c., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit, /. Thin slices of meat spread in layers for culinary purposes. Lunch, e. Dejeuner a la fourchette, /. A repast between breakfast and dmner. The word is derived from the Welsh llwne, lunching or hurrying. Robert Burns, in his Holy Fair, says, “ An’ cheese an’ bread, frae women’s laps, was dealt about in lunches.” Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in various-shaped dice, &c. The name is also applied to a collection of ripe fruit set in jelly in a mould, or a fruit salad flavoured with liqueurs and syrup. Marinade, /. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Maitre d’Hotel (a la), /. Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavour- ing butter, mixed with chopped par- sley and seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes thus generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Marmite, /. The stock-pot. Matelote, /. A marine dish, usually prepared from fresh-water fish. Mayonnaise, /. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been in- vented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu, /. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Pronounce ‘‘menu ” “ mehneu,’’ so that the second syllable is sounded as something be- tween ‘‘ new ” and ‘‘ noo.” Meringue, /. Light baked froth shell shapes, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Meringue, /. Anything frosted or coated with meringue mixture baked long enough to set and colour. Mirepoix, /. Foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats. Mousse, /. A light ice-cream.