THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 78 Slice the veal, free it from skin and sinews, together with the beef suet, and the bacon. Pound all well in a mortar, pass through a sieve, put back to the mortar, season with salt and aromatic spice, add the parsley, mushrooms, and onions, and a small handful of fresh breadcrumbs. Work all well for a few minutes longer, bind with two well-beaten eggs. This, like all other forcemeat, should be first tried in boiling water, and, if firm, light, and well flavoured, it is ready for use. Chicken Forcemeat [Farce de Volaille). -i lb, raw chicken meat, i oz. flour, i oz. butter, V gill chicken stock, i egg, salt, pepper, iiutineg. Boil the stock and butter, stir in the flour, cook for six minutes, stirring all the time ; the mixture should then appear quite smooth. This is a panade. Spread it on a plate to cool. Free the chicken from skin and sinews, cut up small, and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade, a little at a time, the egg, and a little cream if liked. Mix thoroughly, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the whole through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the forcemeat befoi'e shaping into quenelles, etc. Use as directed. Game Forcemeat [Farce de Gibier). I lb. raw game, free from skin, bones, and gristle, lb. lean fresh pork, 1 pint well-reduced game sauce, i yolk of egg, i chopped shallot, i tea- .spoonful chopped parsley, i bay-leaf finely chopped, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Cut the game and pork into small pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth ; add the yolk of egg, chopped shallot, parsley, bay-leaf and sauce, work it till perfectly fine, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, rub through a fine wire sieve, and use as directed. Pheasant Forcemeat [Farce de Faisan) , y, lb. pheasant, 2 tablespoonfuls espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 2 oz. foie- gras, I oz. panade, 2 oz. sausage meat, i egg, aromatic spice. Put in a mortar the pheasant freed from bone and skin, pound well, and. add the reduced espagnole sauce, the sherry, foie- gras, panade, egg, and sausage-meat. Work well, season with pepper and salt and a little aromatic spice, and pass all through a fine sieve. If you find the farce too stiff, work in a little cream or more sauce. Some chopped truffles may be introduced after the farce is passed through the sieve. Liver Farce [Farce de Foie de Veau) 111. calf’s liver, lb. bacon, i small carrot, i small turnip, i small bunch savoury herbs, 1 small onion, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cut up the bacon, and fry it. Slice the liver and fry with the bacon, chop the vegetables fine and put with the liver, add herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir over the lire until sufficiently cooked. Remove the herbs and pound the rest in a mortar. Then run through a fine sieve. The farce is then ready for use. NoTE.—For other Forcemeat and Stuffings see Miscellaneous Recipes at end of book.