424 the new century COOKERY BOOK. the slices into this, cover well with breadcrumbs, repeat, shape, and fry in boiling fat. Drain, serve on toast or a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round, not over, the sweetbreads, and serve. Ris de Veau en Hatelets [Sweetbread on Skewers). Cut some cooked sweetbread into small slices ; cut as many thin slices of bacon of the same size. Season the breads with a little pepper or aromatic seasoning. Pi;t three slices of sweetbreads and of bacon, alternately, on small skewers, and repeat until the breads and bacon are used. Egg and crumb twice, or dip into frying- batter. Have ready some hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Ris de Veau a la Chartreuse [Chartreuse of Sweetbread). Blanch, trim, and lard two or more heart sweetbreads, braise them in the usual manner, and glaze them when finished. Dress them on a croute of fried bread, and garnish with a chartreuse of vegetables, previously heated (green peas, asparagus tips, young carrots, and beans), place three poached quenelles of chicken on each side of the dish, decorated with stars of truffles, etc., and a few mushroom heads, and then sauce over with demi-glace sauce, and serve hot. Ris de Veau a la Conti, 2 heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, mirepoix, seasoning, demi-glace or Madere sauce, a few slices of ox-tongue, 2 large truffles, -J pint stock, chicken or veal quenelles for garnish (p. 178), meat glaze. Blanch, truss, and press the sweetbreads. Lard the best side with strips of larding bacon and strips of tongue, stud the centre with truffles. Line a saute-pan with a mirepoix, lay the sweet- breads on it, moisten with stock, season with salt, whole peppercorns, and cover with a buttered paper. Boil up, and finish cooking in a slow oven—it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Baste frequently during the time. Brush over with meat glaze, let it acquire a nice golden colour, and take it up. Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, reduce to a glaze, mix in the Madere sauce, and heat up. Dish up the sweetbread on a bread croute. Garnish round with some well-shaped chicken or veal quenelles, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle, pour some of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. Ris de Veau frit aux Epinards [Fried Sweetbread with Spinach). I large or 2 small sweetbreads, | pint thick bechamel or allemande sauce ij lb. cooked spinach (puree), piquante or Robert sauce, salt and pepper I egg, breadcrumbs, and frying-fat. Blanch the sweetbreads, trim, parboil for ten minutes in slightly salted water, cool, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, trim (avoiding waste), season, and coat with well-reduced white sauce, and put on ice. When set, dip in egg and breadcrumb. Place them in a frying-basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the