666 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. folded napkin or dish-paper. Serve with a suitable sauce or use as garnishing. Note.—The interior of the trnllles removed must be saved, as it can be used for sauces, etc. TrufTes a la Perigourdine. 12 small fresh truffles or preserved truffles braisecs, i tin or terriiic foie- gras naturel weighing about lb., 2 oz. fresh butter, i small glass Marsala or Madeira wine, i liqueur glass cognac brandy, about 2 gills aspic (p. 132), I small bouquet garni, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, 12 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), tartare sauce. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles (if fresh truffles are used) ill tepid water. Put them iu a stew-pau with the wine, cognac, and bouquet garni, and a pinch of salt and pepper, cover, simmer tpiickly for ten minutes, and let cool. Pouncl the foie-gras in a mortar, add to it the butter (not melted), the liquor from the truffles, and a little cream if needed, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, mix well, rub through a fine hair sieve, and place on the ice on a plate. Peel thinly the truffles. Chop the peelings as finely as possible (the latter are required for crumbing, and if found insufficient use some tinned truffle peelings to make up the required quantity). Divide the foie-gras puree into twelve portions, shape them round, and place a truffle in the centre of each ball. When set, cover the surface completely with chopped truffle peelings, place them on a tin or wire tray, and mask them with semi-set aspic jelly. Stamp out the artichokes with a fluted cutter, place them on a silver or china dish, put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce in each, place the prepared foie-gras and truffle balls in the centre, garnish with fresh parsley, keep on the ice for half an hour, and serve. TrufTes au Champagne. I lb. fresh truffles of medium size, 3 to 4 thin slices bacon, 2 oz. butter, I oz. raw ham, i oz. carrot, i oz. onion (stuck with i clove), i bay-leaf, I sprig of thyme, pint champagne, a little stock, seasoning. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles, wrap up each in a thin piece of bacon. Cut into dice the ham, carrot, and onion, fry together with the herbs in an ounce of butter, then add the truffles, cover the stew-pan for a few seconds, moisten with the wine, skim, and simmer for about fifteen minutes. Take up the truffles, remove the bacon, skim the stock, strain it, and work in by degrees the remainder of the butter, wliicli has been previously kneaded with a teaspoonful of flour. Boil up, add a little stock if needed, season fo taste. Dish up the truffles, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. TrufTes sous la Cendre. Wash and brush some fresh truffles, butter one or two sheets of white paper, line the buttered sides with thin slices of fat bacon and thin slices of onion. Put the truffles upon this, season them with salt and aromatic spice. Cover them with slices of raw ham, and wrap up carefully in one or fwo sheets of buttered paper.