156 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Orange Sauce {Sauce a VOrange). 2 shallots, I orange, lemon-juice, raw ham, cayenne, 2 glasses port wine, meat gravy. Chop the shallots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind of the orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with the port wine, and a little meat gravy ; set the essence to simmer gently on the lire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. Sauce au Jus d’Orange. -V pint espagnole sauce, | pint good stock or gravy, i orange, lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. Peel the orange thinly, and cut the peel into julienne strips, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, boil for hve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Put in a stewpan the espagnole sauce, stock or roast meat gravy, and half the juice of the orange. Allow all to reduce to half its quantity, strain, and add the orange- peel, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, the red-currant jelly, season with pepper and salt, boil up again, and serve with roast wild duck, wild boar or other game. Onion Sauce {Sauce aux Oignons). 2 onions, i oz. butter, -I- oz. flour, -J- pint milk, nutmeg. Peel the onions, cut them in halves and blanch them, drain and cook them in salted water till tender, drain again and chop hnely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, cook a little and add gradually the milk ; stir till it boils and put in the chopped onions, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes longer. Note.—When Brown onion sauce is required, mince the onions and fry a light brown colour in butter, drain off the butter and add half a pint of brown sauce, cook for fifteen minutes Oyster Sauce (see “ Sauce aux Huitres,” p. 150). Parsley Sauce {Sauce Persil).—Prepare half a pint of bechamel, or other white sauce, to this add i dessertspoonful of finely chopped and washed parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice. Sauce Perigueux {Truffle Sauce). I gill brown sauce, i gill tomato sauce, i glass sherry, i teaspoonful anchovy sauce, I oz. butter, 3 truffles. Chop finely three large truffles, put them in a small stewpan with the sherry, reduce to one-half (covered) ; add the brown and tomato sauce (p. i6o) ; boil for a few minutes, finish with a tea- spoonful of anchovy essence and the butter. Sauce Piquante {Sharp Sauce). t onion or 4 shallots, 3 gherkins (chopped), i tablespoonful chopped capers, I gill vinegar, teaspoonful anchovy essence, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, |- pint espagnole sauce (p. 148). Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar, bay-leaf, and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the