2i6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Potage a la Reine [Puree de Volaille, or Chicken Cream). I medium-sized chicken, 3 quarts stock, 4 oz. bacon, i carrot, i onion, I bunch parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, 3 oz. butter, i oz. almonds, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, quenelle meat, seasoning, 1- pint of milk. Slice the bacon and put in a stewpan together with the vege- tables, herbs, etc. Place the chicken, previously trussed as for boiling, on top, season with pepper and salt, pour in a quart of stock, cover with a lid, and let it reduce slowly. Add the remainder of stock, boil .slowly, skim, and continue to boil until tender. Remove the chicken, free it from skin and bones, and pound in a mortar with breadcrumbs. Season with salt and nutmeg, moisten with the stock, rub through a fine sieve, and return to the stewpan. Peel and pound the almonds, boil in milk, and rub through a napkin. Add this to the soup, along with the broth, just before serving. Serve the soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, bead shapes, made with the cornet and poached, also with a handful of freshly-cooked peas or asparagus points. Creme a la Bayonne [Ham Soup). i lb. lean cooked ham, i good-sized Spanish onion, t pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), I oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart good second stock, i gill cream, I glass sherry or Marsala wine, a little grated nutmeg, salt, pepper. Peel and slice the onion, melt the butter, and fry the onion for a few minutes without browning. Stir in the flour, fry it to a light fawn colour, add the stock, and stir over the fire till it boils. Let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Season to taste, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy cloth. Return to a clean stewpan and keep hot. Pound the ham and espagnole sauce in a mortar, pass through a hair sieve, and add it to the soup. Bring to the boil, stir frequently, and add the cream. The soup is then ready to serve. Small fried bread croutons should be handed round with this soup. Potage de Lapin a I’Oseille [Rabbit Soup with Sorrel). 1 large tender rabbit, ^ lb. shin of beef, i lb. knuckle of veal, J lb. lean bacon, i carrot, i onion, 3 cloves, i leek, i blade of mace, 10 peppercorns, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill of cream, i handful sorrel-leaves, lemon, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, bone the back, and put the two fillets in a sautApan with a handful of bacon cut small and a little butter, fry a little, and cook in the oven till done. Cut the fillets into small dice and keep for garnish. Prepare the vegetables, stick the cloves into the onion, put these together with the pieces of rabbit, bacon, beef, and veal, peppercorns, and mace, into a large stewpan, pour in six quarts of water, boil up, skim, and cook slowly for about three hours. Take off the fat and strain. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little, moisten with three quarts of stock, add the cooked pieces of bacon and about f lb. cooked rabbit meat. Boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Rub the whole through a wire sieve. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Wash the sorrel, cut it into line shreds, blanch, strain, and put with the soup. Mix the