809 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. of the “gateau.” Ha^'C some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, s])read botli upper and nnder surface of the rings with apricot jam and fix them together to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set, and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with royal icing to taste. Do mfi fix on the top piece. Fill the cornets with a previously prepared custard (creme patissiere), sprinkle the tops with chopped pistachio kernels, fasten them, by means of a little icing, in a row round the gateau. When the dish is wanted for table, remove the top piece and fill with well-frozen strawberry cream ice, replace the top, and serve. The chocolate icing can be substituted by strawberry fondant or orange fondant icing. Gateau Czarina. Weigh half a pound of honey and put it in a copper egg-bowl with eight fresh eggs. Beat this over a pan of boiling water till it becomes creamy. To this add two ounces pounded sweet almonds, also one ounce baked and pounded hazel-nuts. Incorporate gradu- ally two ounces of rice-fiour or finely ground rice, two ounces fine oatmeal, and four ounces nut-brown butter, flavour with orange- flower water. Pour this into a buttered flat cake mould and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is cold cut it open and fill with a layer of burnt almond cream custard, flavoured with ktimmel, ice it with deep coloured orange fondant icing, and decorate it tastefully with glace royale. Gateau St. Emilion. Prepare a Genoese paste mixture, see that it is well beaten, and add one ounce of chopped baked almonds. Three-parts fill a well- buttered fancy cake mould with this, bake it in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes or longer, according to the size of the mould. Set the cake on a sieve to cool, then cut off the top slice and scoop out the centre part of the cake. Fill the cavity with a rich caramel bavarois (p. 771), flavoured, in addition to vanilla, with half a table- spoonful of kirschwasser and a tablespoonful of maraschino liqueur. The bavarois must be on the point of setting, and just before adding it stir in a few blanched or shredded pistachio nuts and some glace cherries cut in quarters. Allow it to set in a cool place, replace the top slice of cake, and mask the whole with a moka icing. Decorate taste- fully, and ser-\^e as cold dinner or luncheon sweet. Moka Icing for Gateaux. Sieve about ten ounces of icing sugar through a sieve into a