41S HOT MEAT ENTRllES, ETC. two boards until cold. Strain the butter, and keej) for further use. Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound well in a mortar, add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, egg-yolk, and a small j)iece of butter. When thoroughly pounded, season with pepper and salt, rub through a hue sieve, and cover one side of each scallop thickly with this farce. Add a few fried breadcrumbs, sprinkle with oiled butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Strain the cepes, saute them in a little butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Dish the scallops in a circle on a hot round dish, and put the ragout of cepes in the centre. Escalopes de Veau a la Savoisienne. Broiled veal collops or thin slices of fillet of veal dressed in the centre of a border of small rice timbales. Sauce demi-glace, blended with tomate sauce. Escalopes de Veau a la Viennoise. Veal hllets or collops egged, crumbed, and fried, served with a thin brown sauce, garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled eggs, Fricandeau de Veau a la Regence. Larded cushion of veal, braised whole, and glazed with its own gravy reduced, dished up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce Madere. Fricandelles de Veau, Sauce Tomate. Small veal forcemeat dumplings or quenelles made the same as veal quenelles, boiled in stock and drained. When cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sance. Fricandelles de Veau au gratin. Veal forcemeat dumplings or quenelles made same as veal c][uenelles, boiled in stock and drained, then placed in a buttemd dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs, and sprinkled with butter ; browned in the oven. Fricassee de Veau a I’AHemande. Pieces of breast, fillet or neck of veal freed from skin and bones, and stewed in white sauce, garnished with crayfish quenelles, crav- fish tails, cooked asparagus tips, and sprigs of cooked caulillower. Fricassee de Veau a I’Anglaise, Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms ; similar formula as “ Blanquette de ^Vau.” Served with thin slices of fried or grilled bacon as garnish. Filets de Veau a la Colbert. Cut about two pounds of lean fillet of veal into eight slices, flatten, trim, and season with pepper and salt. Heat two ounces of butter and two tablespoon fids of sweet oil in a santApan, fiy the fillets on both sides quickly, drain, and put them on a jdate. Pour off most of the fat, add three finely-chopped shallots, fry a