^73 FARINACEOUS DISHES. Dish up the rice on a hot dish, garnish with slices of tomatoes, and serve. Riz a la Florentine {Kicc, Floyentinc Style). This dish consists of rice cooked in rich stock; when done mix the rice with picked shrimps, crayfish-tails or prawns, flavoured with cnrry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely-chopped fried onions. An excellent breakfast dish. Riz a la Turque {Rice, Turkish Fashion). Stew'ed rice seasoned and flavoured with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and finished with fresh butter. Riz a la Beige {Rice, Belgian Style). Thinly sliced fried onions and finely shredded cooked ham are mixed with rice, cooked in meat stock, and allowed to evaporate. Season and flavour with pa})iika pepper and grated cheese. Riz a la Piemontaise {Rice, Piedmontese Style). Stewed rice made savoury with finely chopped fried shallots, grated parmesan cheese, and cayenne pepper. Dish i.p in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, and serve hot. Riz a la Milanaise {Rice, Milanese Fashion). Stewed rice mixed with finely chopped cooked meat, such as fowl, game, tongue or ham, flavoured with grated parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Riz a I’Espagnole {Rice, Spanish Style). Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil. mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sw'eet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. Risoletti {Savoury Rice Croquettes). These are croquettes made of stewed rice, flavoured with rich brown or savoury tomato sauce. Some prepared mincemeat (sal- picon) is enclosed in the centre of the croquettes ; they are then dipped in egg and breadcrumbs, fried in deep fat, drained, and served for breakfast or supper, or as a garnish for entrees. Riz a la Reine {Rice, Queen's Style). This is a delicious breakfast dish, and consists of stewed rice mixed with finely-chopped hard-boiled white of eggs and the white part of cooked haddock finely shredded, seasonecl, and mixed with grated cheese. Dished up in a pvramidal form, and allowed to brown in a quick oven. Fried Hominy Cakes. Boil up k pint of white stock and milk with a pat of butter and half a bay-leaf. Stir in 2 oz. hominy, cook for ten minutes whilst stirring. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, remove the bay-leaf, and add the yolks of two eggs. Spread this on a buttered plate and let cool. Divide the mixture into eight por- tions, shape into round flat cakes, egg and crumb them, and fry in very hot deep fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve hot. uu