459 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. forty to forty-five minutes. To serve, unmonid ejuirkly on to a hot dish, and pour some hot Madeira sauce round the base of the dish. Jambon a I’Anglaise. Parboiled ham, wrapped in a crust of paste made of flour and water, set to roast in a braisiei'e (braisiug-pan) with white wine, butter, and seasoning. The crust and skin are then removed, and the ham cut into thin slices, dished up, and served with a well- reduced brown sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine. Jambon a la Bayonnaise. Braised ham, with finely-chopped fried onions, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages. Serve with demi-glace sauce. Petit Sale Piemontaise {Sparc-ribs). Soak a piece of the spare ribs of salt or pickled pork in water, and wash it. Boil it very gently in stock till tender. Cook some rice in rich brown stock till the latter is almost absorbed in the rice, flavour it with parmesan cheese and tomato puree, and dress upon a dish in the form of a bed. Cut the spare rib into neat slices, and arrange neatly upon the rice. Serve with Colbert sauce. Pieds de Cochon a la Perigord [Grilled Stuifed Pig’s Fed). Cook some salted or pickled pig’s feet in stock, richly flavoured with vegetables, till quite tender. Cool and bone them. Cut each foot in two lengthways, stuff each half with a mi.xture of sausage- meat and chopped truffles and liver forcemeat (p. 178). M’rap separately in pieces of pig’s caul, brush over with oiled butter, and roll in brown breadcrumbs. Grill over a moderate fire for about fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve with perigord sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER DISHES OF PORK. Carbonade de Pore a la Franijaise (Breast or belly part of Pork).—Slices of fresh pork, par-fried with vegetable garnish, stewed in brown sauce. Carre de Pore a I'lndienne.—Neck of pork cut into fillets, braised and cooked in curry sauce ; served with boiled rice. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised neck of pork with glazed button onions and cubes of turnips. — braise, Sauce Piquante.—Braised neck of pork with piquante sauce. Cervelles de Pore a la Demi-Glace.—Blanched pork brains stewed in demi-glace sauce. ^ — a ritalienne.—Blanched pork brains, stewed in Italian sauce, garnished with cooked savoury macaroni. Cotelettes de Pore aux Fines Herbes.—Broiled pork cutlets served with a white wine sauce containing chopped parsley and a small quantity of mixed savoury herbs. — a ITndienne.—Par-fried pork cutlets stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice.