900 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sweetbread Fritters {Beigncts de Rls dc Vcau). Cut the remains of cooked sweetbread into neat slices, season with salt, pepper, and leinon-jnice, pour over some sweet oil, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Drain the slices and dip each into frying batter. Fry a golden brown in hot fat. Drain, dish np, and sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese and a dust of cayenne or krona pepper. Veal Fritters (Beigncts de Vcau). Proceed the same as for beef fritters (see page 899), using cooked lean veal in place of beef. Green Corn Fritters. I till green corn, 2 eggs, 3 tablcspoonfnls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning, oil or frying fat. Drain the green corn, put the flour into a basin, and mix well together, beat the eggs, add them and the green corn to the flour, and mix well, then add the cream, season with salt and pepper, and shape into fritters. Fry in boiling oil or deep frying fat to a light brown colour. Dish up and serve hot. Curry Croquettes. 4 oz. of rice, 1 lb. of cold meat, i teaspoonful of curry powder, i teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, -J- oz. of flour, i gill of stock, I oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of choppetl onion. The remains of any cold meat will do for this dish. Free the meat from skin, gristle, and excess of fat, and chop it very fine. Wash, blanch, and boil the rice, drain, and dry it in front of the Are. Put the butter and onion into the saucepan, fry it, but do not let it get brown, then stir in the curry powder and flour. When this is cooked, but not browned, add the meat and lemon-juice, let this cook a little longer over the fire. Mix in the boiled rice. Beat up one egg and add it to the mixture, stir just long enough to bind the egg, add a pinch of salt if required, and spread the mixture on a dish. When cold, shape into balls of even size. Beat np the other egg for the purpose of egging the halls, then dip them in breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat to a nice light brown colour. Drain on to a paper or cloth, dish up in a })ile, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pheasant Croquettes. i pouiul of cold pheasant, 4 oz. of cooked chopped ham or tongue, i des- sertspoonful chopped parsley, oz. butter, 6 preserved chopped mushrooms (if liked), i chopped shallot, salt and pepper, i oz. of fat for frying, yolks of 2 eggs, breadcrumbs. Fry the shallot in the butter to a pale brown, mix this with the sauce, heat up and add the chopped pheasant (free from skin or bones), the ham, mushrooms, and parsley. Add the yolks of eggs and heat up the mixture. Spread it on a plate or dish to cool. Divide into even portions, and shape into corks or cutlets. Beat up the whole egg, brush the croquettes over with it, cover with crumbs, shaj^e again and fry in plenty of hot fat. Take them up