845 GLACES—ICES. Charlotte glacee Florentine {Iced Charlotte, Florentine Style). Line a charlotte mould bottom and sides neatly with finger biscuits, hll with orange-water ice (p. 829) mixed with a sufficient quantity of whipped cream to make it very light, and freeze for two hours in a charged souffie case. Serve it on folded napkin. Charlotte glacee a la Creole. Line a plain charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoese slices, covered with different-coloured royal icing. See that the icing has got quite hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining the mould. Arrange the biscuits just the same as for “ Charlotte Russe.” Mix a pint of vanilla custard ice with a gill of sweetened chestmit puree and a handful of fruit (pineapple, peaches, etc.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little mara- schino liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the prepared mould ; this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice cave or souffle ice case. When wanted for table, unmould the charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace-paper or a folded napkin, garnish to taste, and serve immediately. Charlotte glacee de Poires a l lmperiale. 10-12 small pears cooked in syrup, pint vanilla syrup, made with 6 oz. sugar, 5 yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, i lemon, i gill maraschino jelly, I glass cognac brandy, 18-20 ice wafers, -I- gill whipped cream, angelica. Peel the pears neatly, and cook them in the usual manner in a syrup flavoured with lemon-rind and juice. When done, select the best six-eight for garnishing purposes, glaze them with the syrup well reduced, and keep on the ice. Pound the remainder in a mortar, add the brandy, and pass through a fine sieve. Mffirk up the egg-yolks, pour on the hot syrup cooked to the small thread degree, stir over hot water till the eggs bind, then add the jelly, t he pear puree, and finally the 1} gill of c r e a m whipped. Freeze the mixture . Line the in- terior of a plain charlotte mould with closely fitting ice wafers, fill each wafer with ice by means of a cornet, then quickly fill the centre part of the mould with the prepared ice. Place the mould in a charged ice cabinet for an hour or two. To serve, un- mould the charlotte on a dish with folded napkin, halve and