712 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. tomato puree, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix well, and work in gradually two table- spoonfuls of salad oil, one of French wine vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, add the prepared vegetables, and mix carefully. Dish up in a clean salad bowl in a pyramidal form, place the heart of a nice French lettuce in the centre, ornament with chopped hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil and parsley, and a few French capers, Salade de Volaille {Chicken Salad). I boiled chicken, 2 heads lettuce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i gill mayonnaise, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 12 stoned olives, i tablespoonful capers, 2 stalks white celery, salt and pepper. Bone the chicken, cut up into neat small slices. Wash the lettuce, wipe the leaves. Wash the celery, and cut into small pieces. Put chicken, lettuce, and the celery in a basin, season with pepper and salt and vinegar, transfer into a salad bowl, pile up in the centre, garnish with alternate groups of lettuce-leaves, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stoned olives, and capers. Pour the mayonnaise dressing over the centre salad, decorate the top with hard-boiled yolk of egg, finely chopped, capers, or gherkins, etc., according to fancy and taste. Salade Wilhelmine. I small head white celery, -J- pint peeled walnuts, cucumber, i sour cooking apple, gill stiff mayonnaise, salt, white pepper, i tablespoonful double cream, and Krona pepper. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into small shreds or julienne strips, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Cut the walnuts (previously shelled and peeled) into small pieces, peel the cucumber and the apple, core the latter and cut both into fine shreds. Mix these with the celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream, and mix thoroughly. Dress the salad in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small flat salad bowl, and besprinkle with Krona pepper. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes. Serve with roast game or poultry. Salade de Mandarines {Mandarin Orange Salad). Peel a dozen mandarins, and quarter them, taking out the pips. Put them into a bowl with some castor sugar and cognac brandy. Let them steep in this for about an hour, and serve in a salad bowl or fruit-dish. In the latter case they should be decorated with candied or glace cherries. Mayonnaise de Celeri et Noix {Walnut and Celery Mayonnaise). I head white celery, ^ pint peeled walnuts, i gill stiff mayonnaise, salt and pepper, i tablespoonfiil double cream. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into julienne strips, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Shell, peel, and cut the walnuts into small pieces, mix celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream. Dress