6i2 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. brown the surface of the duckling, take it out, put in the flour and brown a little, pour in the claret and stock, let it come to a boil. Replace the duckling, add the bouquet garni and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cover, and braise in the oven until tender. Take out the duckling, joint it, but keep in shape, and dish up on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, reduce a little, strain again, and pour over and round the duckling. This dish may be served as remove or entree. Note.—As a roast, ducks can be served in the same manner by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter. Oie roti farcie [Roast Goose, Stuffed). 1 goose weighing from 5 to 6 lb., i oz. dripping, 3 onions, 18 sage-leaves, 2 oz. chopped snet, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, i egg, pepper and .salt. Pick, draw, and singe the goose, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and stuff in the usual manner with a stuffing made as follows : Peel the onions, blanch together with the sage-leaves, strain, and chop finely. Chop the suet, mix it with the onions and sage, add the breadcrumbs and the egg, previously beaten, season and mix well. Truss the goose, and roast before the fire or in the oven from ik to 2 hours, basting occasionally. Sprinkle with a little salt just before it is taken up. When done, untruss, and place on a hot dish. Strain off the fat from the dripping-pan, and take care of it. Add some stock or gravy to the pan, season, boil for a few mimites, pour on the dish, and serve. Pintade roti au Cresson [Roast Guinea-Fowl with Cress). Singe, draw, and wipe two guinea-fowls, place a piece of fat bacon inside each, truss for roasting, and wrap them separately in buttered paper. Roast in front of a brisk fire for half an hour or a little longer, and baste well with butter or dripping. When done, untruss, dish up, surround with freshly picked and washed water- cress, seasoned with salt, pepper, a little vinegar, and oil (two table- spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar). Serve with fried breadcrumbs, bread sauce, and gravy. Poularde rotie [Roast Capon or Pullet). Singe, draw, and truss a large poularde (pullet or capon), which is a large spring chicken that has been fattened up. Cover the bird with butter or dripping, and roast in front of a brisk fire or in a hot oven. Baste well with fat, turn frequently, and dredge with a little flour when almost done. Take up, pour off the fat from the dripping pan, add sufficient brown stock to make the gravy, boil up, season with pepper and salt, and strain. Garnish the dish with small cress, endive or watercress salad, and serve with a boat of bread sauce (p. 143). Faisan barde au Cresson [Roast Pheasant). Prepare one or more pheasants. Over the breast tie a thin slice of fat bacon, roast it for thirty to forty minutes, according to