373 LIGHT ENTRI^ES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGtiRES. from fat, reduce to a half-glaze, add some of this to the sauce, and mix with the meat mixture. Make this up into oblongs or scpiares. Wrap each in a small piece of pig’s caul, spread the outside with chopped truffle or puree, then saute in butter,for about fifteen minutes. Dish up, garnish the sides with groups of cooked green asparagus, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escallopes de Foie-gras, Lucullus. Take trvo large, firm, fresh geese-livers, well iced, and cut them into scallops about ^ inch thick, season them lightly with salt and paprika, dip them in beaten white of egg, and crumb in a mixture of flour and fresh breadcrumbs. Fry a pale golden colour in a saute-pan with plenty of clarified butter. Drain well, and dish up on croutons of fried bread in the form of a border or crown. Have ready a ragout composed of Desh truffles, washed, peeled, cut into slices, and cooked in Chablis wine, cooked sweetbread cut into dice, seasoned with a little rich demi-glace sauce. Serve the ragout in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of iMadeira, demi-glace, or thin tomato sauce. Timbales de Risotto, Milanaise. Fry lightly, in i oz. of butter and 2 oz. of finely chopped cooked ham, 6 oz. of picked rice, add a pinch of saffron and paprika anti moisten gradually with i pint of stock ; cook till tender, then let it evaporate. Next toss in butter two peeled and shredded ripe tomatoes, three peeled and shredded fresh mushrooms and 2 oz. of ham cut into fine strips, and season to taste. Butter 8 timbale moulds, coat them with panurette, and fill with the cooked rice with the tomatoes and mushrooms in the centre. Bake them in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, then turn out, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de Pols a la St. Germain [Green Pea Cutlets). Prepare a mirepoix of carrot, celery, leek, turnip, and bacon, and toss it in butter in a stewpan, adcl a pint of green split peas (soaked in water), cover wdth seasoned stock. Re-heat in a stew- pan, and cook for about half an hour or longer. When done, imb all through a sieve, add 3 yolks of eggs, 3 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, and 2 tablespoonfids of cream; season with salt and pepper. Spread on to a dish and let cool. Sha})e neatly into cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them carefully and fry them to a golden colour in clarified butter. Drain, dish up neatly, fill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus tips or sprue drained and tossed in butter. Pour some rich tomato sauce containing a little finely chopped gherkins round the base of the dish, and serve.