THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 434 a strip of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and put on the cover. Trim oh the edges, make a hole in the centre of the paste, and decorate with leaves and a rosette in the centre. Brush over the whole with egg, bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half to one and three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot or cold. If this pie is to be served cold, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, mix with a teaspoonful of “ Lemco ” or meat glaze, and pour this into the pie as it leaves the oven. BCEUF—BEEF. The diagrams on page 435 show the various joints of a prime ox, as divided or cut up in England and on the Continent. The diherent fillets—filets mignons, tournedos, ordinary fillet, Chateau- briand, sirloin steak, entre-cote, and contre-filet—are included in the illustrations to show their respective shapes and sizes. Special Note.—It will be well to remember that the same method of cooking and garnishing can be applied to either filets tournedos or filets mignons by adopting the styles mentioned. Aiguillettes de Boeuf a la Brazza. 2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut longwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, 4 pint claret, 4 pint stock or brown sauce, i tin or bottle of cepes or morels (morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze. To prepare this dish succes.sfully a fireproof earthenware casse- role is necessary. Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each with strips of bacon, put the meat in the casserole, add pepper and salt, wine, garlic, and bay-leaves, and let it stand covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim, and simmer very gently in the oven or on the stove for one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, glaze the top with meat glaze. Skim the gravy, reduce well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little gravy, garnish the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a sauce-boat. Filets de Bceuf a I’Athenienne. About 2 lb. fillet of beef, larding bacon, a pint of mirepoix (carrot, turnip, onion, bay-leaf, bacon, etc.), -1- gill Marsala, i oz. butter, 8 small cooked artichoke bottoms, 2 egg-plants (aubergines), macedoine of vegetables, -J- gill bechamel sauce, 4 pint Espagnole sauce, gill brown stock, a little stewed rice for dishing up, salt and pepper. Trim the fillet, cut into even-sized slices about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten and trim a little, lard them with small strips of larding bacon. Put the mirepoix and butter in a saute-pan, when hot, lay in the fillets, larded side upwards, season with salt and pepper, put them in a hot oven until they take colour, then add the wine and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and continue cooking in the oven until tender. Take out the fillets, remove the fat from the mirepoix, add the brown sauce, cook over the fire for ten minutes, skim, and strain. Prepare the macedoine of