669 FA R IN A CEO US DI SUES. Macaroni a la Dieppoise. -2' lb. Naples macaroni, i quart stock, i gill bechamel sauce, h lb. chicken forcemeat, \z fresh prawns, 2 oz. butter, lobster spawn, if oz. grated parmesau cheese, seasoning. Blanch and drain the macaroni, par-boil in salted water, drain again, and cut into pieces about an inch long. f\dd the stock, butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, let simmer until tender, stir in half the cheese, and season with pepper. Mi.x the force- meat with sufficient cooked lobster spawn to colour, and remove the tails from the prawns. Butter a silver-plated gratin-dish, put a little bechamel sauce on the dish, spread a thick layer of macaroni, next put on a layer of forcemeat, then another layer of macaroni, sprinkle a little grated parmesan between the layers, use forcemeat for the next layer, coat well with bechamel sauce, cover with par- mesan cheese, arrange the prawns round the edge of the mixture in a circular form, sprinkle with a few fresh breadcrumbs in the centre, also a few drops of oiled butter. Bake in a moderately- heated oven for about half an hour, garnish with the heads of the prawns and a few bits of curly parsley, and serve hot. Macaroni a la Milanaise. Blanch, boil, and cut into inch pieces d lb. macaroni, and finish as directed for “ Italienne.” Add a garniture Milanaise, consisting of mushrooms, truffles, and ox-tongue, cut into julienne strips, and moisten with tomato and Madere sauce. Another way is to fill a timbale mould with the cooked macaroni, and, introducing the garniture in the centre, steam or bake the monld for twenty minutes, and serve with tomato sauce, Macaroni a ritalienne. Cook d lb. macaroni in plenty of fast-boiling, slightly salted water. When done, drain off, mix or toss carefnlly with two ounces of butter (previously heated) and three ounces of grated parmesan or gruyere cheese. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Macaroni au Gratin. Cook the macaroni as above directed, mix with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, and arrange on a well-buttered hreproof or gratin dish. Sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and little bits of butter here and there. Bake in a sharp oven long enough to brown. Macaroni Croquettes. 2 oz. cooked macaroni, 2 oz. chopped ham, i gill bechamel sauce, i oz. grated parmesan c-heese. i egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat. Cut the macaroni into short pieces, heat up the sauce, stir in the macaroni and ham, add the cheese and season to taste, mix well and spread on to a plate to cool. Make it up into small croquettes, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Drain, and dish up. Macaroni a la Sicilienne, Cook d lb. medium macaroni for twenty minutes in salted water, cool and drain them, dress them in a buttered gratin-dish, with alter-