ENTRIES OF POULTRY. ETC. {HOT DLSHES). 40,S slices of bacon into heart shapes, and fry slightly. Press the cooked chicken legs a little, trim, and pnt each on to a jnece cjf buttered paper (strong white paper should be used), previously cut out into heart shape. Lay a slice of bacon on the chicken, spread over a layer of spinach puree, and pnt a slice of ham on top, wrap the buttered paper well round each leg thus prepared, twist it on the ends so as to well fasten it. Place in a buttered saute-pan and bake for about lifteen minutes. Strain the liquor left from the chicken, skim off the fat, pnt the Espagnole sauce with this, and cook a few minutes. Season if necessary, and serve separately. Note.—The paper used for papillotes should be cut large enough to completely enclose the legs. They are sent to table in the papers. A cutlet frill may be put on each bone. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine {Chicken Legs). Chicken legs boned and partially fried in butter, when cold immersed in supreme sauce, then egged, crumbed in fresh bread- crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in darihed butter. Served with tomato sauce. Filets de Volaille a la Cecile {Chicken Fillets, Cecil Style). I spring chicken, i 02. butter, J- onion, i bay-leaf, 6 oz. foie-gras, 2 oz. beef-marrow, i slice bacon, 2 yolks of egg, 6 oz. cooked asparagus points, I tablespoonful white sauce, potato puree, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, I truffle, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Remove the fillets from the chicken, take off the skin, lard each fillet with small strips of tongue and truffle, place them in a buttered saute-pan lined with a slice of bacon, slices of onion, and bay-leaf, put a few bits of butter on top, moisten with a little white stock. Season with pepper and salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook slowly for about twenty minutes, basting frequently, and when done take up, and glaze the top with liquid meat glaze. In the meantime, pound the foie-gras, asparagus points, and beef-marrow (previously blanched) in a mortar till smooth, add one yolk of egg, the sarree and seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Arrange a neat border of mashed potatoes on a well-bnttered silver dish by means of a forcing-bag with a rose tube, brush over lightly with yolk of egg. Pnt the prepared farce in the centre of the dish, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Arrange the cooked fillets neatly on top of the farce, glaze, and serve very hot with a boat of demi-glace sauce. Pheasant or pigeon fillets may be prepared in the same manner. Kari de Volaille a la Madras {Curried Chicken). I chicken, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, i dessertspoonful IMadras currv- powder, i tablespoonful Empress mulligatawny paste, 3 cloves, i small piece cinnamon, i gill demi-glace, J gill tomato pulp or puree, i dessert- spoonful freshly grated or else desiccated cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon, salt, boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, peel and chop finely the onion. Brown the chicken lightly in hot butter in a stew-pan, fry the onion in the same butter, add the curry-powder and fry a little, stirring