THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1058 Salpicon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Salsify, c. Salsifit, /. Oyster plant, belonging to the same class as the chicory. Sauter (ee), /. To toss over the tire, in a saute- or frying-pan, in little butter or fat ; anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. Sherbet. A cooling drink consisting of | water, lemon-juice, and sugar. The word ‘‘ Sorbet” is derived from sherbet. ! Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into 1 different forms, fried or toasted, served I as garnishes with meat entrees, or ! savoury dishes. j Socle, /. Base pedestal made of rice, bread, fat, sugar, &c., and used in cookery and confectionery. Sorbet, /. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liqueur flavour ; usually served in goblets. Soubise, /. A smooth onion pulp, served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal during the reign of I.ouis XIV. of France. As a surname to dishes, a la soubise is generally applied when onions enter largely into the composition of the dish ; the term implies a strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souchet. Often used with jareli.x ‘‘ water,” as, water-souchet. Fish, cut in slices, boiled in salted water, and served with finely-shredded roots and herbs. Souffle, /. Literally, “ puffed up.” \ very light baked or steamed pudding, an omelette. Also applied to light, sweet or savoury creams. Souffle Glace, /. A very light, sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. Table d’Hote, /. The table at which the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests ; com- mon table for guests ; an ordinary. Tailler la Soupe, /. A culinary expres- sion. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup-tureen are called tailler. ‘‘ Tremper la soupe ” is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Tamis, /. Tammy, e. Silk or woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tartare, /. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, &c., served with fried fish or cold meats ; also a salad dressing. Tartine, /. Slice of bread. French name for sandwich. Timbale, /. Literally, " kettle-drum” ; a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Tomber a glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appearance of a thick syrup. Tournedos, /. Small thin fillets of beef served as entrees. Trifles. A second-course sweet dish of sponge cakes, biscuits, jams, &c., flavoured with cream, custard, and liqueur. Tutti-Frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits or fruit ice. Vanille, /. Vanilla, e. A most delicate flavouring derived from the capsules of an orchidaceous plant, native of tropical America. Veloutee, /. Velvet-like, e. Name of a rich white sauce. Foundation sauce. Vol-au-vent, /. A light, round, puff- paste crust, filled with delicately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweet- bread, &c. Zeste (Zest). Outer skin of the orange or lemon cut thinly or grated. Zwieback, g. Literally, twice-baked. Toasted bread or cake.