949 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Milanais [Milanese Dessert Biscuits). 1 lb. butter, \ lb. castor suf'ar, lb. Hour (sifted), 5 yolks of eggs, J lemou- riiid (grated), glace cherries and angelica, and strips of almonds for decoration. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the egg-yolks and work with a spatula t>r spoon for ten minutes ; add the lemou-riud and work in the flour. Put the paste on the ice for an hour, then roll out a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out into fancy shapes, ronnds, crescents, stars, etc., with a biscuit-cutter. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, ornament with glace fruit and almonds, and bake for hfteen minutes. Biscuits de Bordeaux (IVi/ie Biscuits). 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. Hour, i egg, i teaspoonful orange- juice. I small glass old jiort wine, a pinch of salt, ground cinnamon. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the egg and Hour and the other ingredients, knead into a firm paste, roll out, on a Ihmred board, about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut out some oblong pieces two inches long by three-cpiarters of an inch wide, jdace them on a llonred baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Ginger Cake. i lb. butler, j- lb. castor sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, -J lb. Hour, i oz. ground ginger, ;j- teaspoonful lemon essence, j gill of milk (more or less), a tea- spoonful Royal baking-powder. Cream the butter, sugar, yolks, ginger, and essence together, then add the milk ; mi.x it in, then add the flonr with the baking- powder, and finish mi.xing, adding the milk as needed. Bake in buttered and paper-lined tins in a hot oven. Before baking, brush over the top with water and dredge with castor sugar. Gingerbread Cake. I oz. Paisley flour, 8 oz, onlinary flour, 2 oz. butter or lard, i oz. treacle. 3 oz. brown sugar, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cinnamon, and mixed spice, i oz. candied peel, i oz. almonds, a ])inch of salt. Butter a one-pound cake-tin or two half-pound cake-tins. Blanch the almonds, and cut the peel into small pieces. Melt the treacle, sugar, and lard together. l\Ii.x the flour, spices, almonds, peel, and salt well together in a bowl, make a hole in the centre, pour in the melted treacle, etc., and stir well, add the beaten eggs, sufficient milk to make a soft batter, and beat well. Mix in the Paisley flour lightly, and pour at once into a buttered cake-tin. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When baked, take out of the tin and allow to cool on a wire tray. Scotch Gingerbread. lb. flour, :j- lb. oatmeal, 8 oz. butter, i oz. ground ginger, 4 oz. shredded lemon peel. 12 oz. treacle. ?, gill cream. Ifeat the butter to a cream, mix with it the flour, oatmeal, and cream. Stir in the treacle, ginger, and the lemon peel cut into very fine shreds. Wmrk the whole into a light dough. Put it iu a well-greased tin and bake for forty-five minutes.