] 'EGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 655 puree to make them stand firmly, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve as soon as done. Soufllees de Pommes de Terre a I’Autrichienne {Potato Souffles). Prepare eight potatoes as directed in preceding recipe. To the potato puree add one tablespoonfnl cream, half ounce butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg to taste, and work in four yolks of eggs. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. Fill the potato shells with this, and bake slowly for about half an hour, or long enough for the mixture to rise, and the surface of it to brown. If liked, a little grated cheese can be incorporated with the mixture and sprinkled over the top of the potatoes just before baking the second time. Pommes de Terre soufTlees {Souffle or Puff Potatoes). The best puffed or souffled potatoes are obtained from the so- called Dutch or Flolland potatoes, but any large and sound kidney potatoes should, when correctly treated, produce desired results. Peel the potatoes rather thickly, trim into ovals of even size, and slice them lengthwise. The slices should be about three-sixteenths of an inch thick. Put them into a pan of cold water and let soak for about thirty minutes. Heat up a pan half full of clarihed beef suet (the fat should register about 260 deg. of heat). Have the potato slices well dried on a cloth, and plunge them into the fat. Let them cook, whilst shaking the pan gently, until they are ciuite soft, but not coloured. Now take them up and drain them on a sieve for a few minutes. Meanwhile re-heat the fat, which should be almost smoking hot this time, plunge in the potatoes, tossing the slices to and fro, remove those that do not puff up. Take the potatoes up again, and set them to drain. Return them into very hot fat a third time, to finish frying. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and dish up. Pommes de Terre soufflees (No. 2). W'ash and peel si.x to eight good medium-sized mealy potatoes, cut them into slices (lengthwise) a quarter of an inch thick. Plunge them into a friture of moderately-heated fat for about six minutes, lift out, let cool a few moments. Let the fat get c^uite hot, plunge in the potatoes, move the basket about, the potatoes should then swell. Drain, season with fine salt, dish on a folded napkin. Marble or Parisian Potatoes. Wkish and peel i lb. of potatoes, scoop them with a vegetable- cutter into small balls, blanch them carefully in salted water, and drain them. Heat up two ounces of clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, season with salt, and bake them in the oven for ten minutes. Pommes de Terre a la Chancerelle. Wash and peel eight to ten large kidney potatoes, scoop out by means of a vegetable scoop as many balls as possible. Cook them gently in salted water, drain, and place in a stew-pan, add