337 GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. Garniture a la Bourguignonne {for Meat or Poultry).—Braised and glazed button onions, mushroom heads, and rolled lean bacon, grilled brown ; Burgundy wine sauce. — a la Bourguignotte [for Fish).—Small quenelles, made with whiting forcemeat poached in fish stock. Sauce matelote. — a la Bretonne.—Stewed haricot beans (whole or puree), brown onion sauce, flavoured with mustard, horse-radish, and chopped parsley. Usually served with mutton. — a la Brillat Savarin (for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades, filled with tomato puree, sliced truffles, and sliced artichoke bottoms. — a la Brisse.—Border of mashed turnips, sauce demi-glace and tomato reduced. Served with fillets of beef or duck. — a la Bristol (for Meat).—Savoury rice croquettes or risotto timbales, flageolets and Parisian potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bruxelloise (for boiled, or braised Aleat).—Brussels sprouts, and braised chicory or endive, olive-shaped boiled potatoes ; gravy. — a la Cambaceres.—Small, even-sized truffles, mushroom heads, olives (stoned), and Madere sauce. Usually served with fish removes. — a la Camerani (for Meat).—Braised sauerkraut (choucroute) and rolled bacon, grilled ; Madeira sauce, with chopped truffles. — a la Cancale (for Fish).—Oysters and shrimps, or prawns; Normande sauce. — a la Canova (for Meat or Poultry).—Slices of foie-gras (escalopes), cocks’ kernels, and truffles ; demi-glace. — a la Cardinal (for Fish).—Shrimps, prawns or lobster dice ; cardinal sauce. — a la Castelaine (for Fish).—Lobster meat, tails and claws, cut into slices, slices of truffles, bearded oysters, and white fish sauce. — a la Cavour.—Steamed or poached nouilles, thin round slices of carrots, cooked in rich white stock. Sauce veloutee, enriched with yolks of eggs, and extra quantity of fresh butter. — aux Cepes.—Cut 6 to 8 preserved cepes into shreds or quarters, place in a small stewpan with i large tablespoonful of sweet oil (do not use the oil out of the tin in which the cepes are preserved) ; add a crushed clove of garlic, season with salt and pepper, and fry a few minutes. — a la Chambord (for Fish).—Small quenelles made with forcemeat of fish, mushroom heads, bearded oysters, sliced truffles, cooked in brown fish sauce or Genoise. — a la Chartre.—Olive-shaped young carrots, parboiled and finished in demi-glace sauce, reduced in glaze and glazed. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Chartreuse.—Small timbales of mixed vegetables or spinach, dressed in groups with heaps of green peas, French beans, ends of cauliflower. Sauce Espagnole. If served cold the mixed vege- tables are set in timbales with aspic jelly, and the cooked green vegetables, slightly seasoned with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Fillets of game cut into dice, also preserved mush- rooms, cut likewise, cooked in salmi sauce or chasseur, well blended with port wine. In some cases the garnish is chopped very finely. Y