277 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). soles as directed. Decorate the lish with fancihdiy cut slices of truiile and gherkins, cover witli a buttered paper, and place in the oven for another ten minntes. Warm up the garniture—truffles (sliced), cocks’ combs, and mushrooms (whole)-—in a little white wine and sauce. Arrange these neatly in groups round the hsh as it leaves the oven, and send to table on the dish in which the soles were cooked. Soles au Vin Blanc. 2 medium-sized soles, i glass Sauterne or Chablis wine, 6 mushrooms (preserved) i small blade of mace, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 small shallots (peeled and chopped finely), -1- gill fish or meat stock, pepper and salt, 1 gill bechamel (p. 142)01- veloutee sauce (p, 161), the juice of I- lemon, parsley for garnish. W’ipe, skin, and trim the soles. Butter a saute-pan, sprinkle over with the chopped shallots, lay in the soles, season with pepper and salt, add the mace, moisten with white wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes or longer. When done, take np the lish, put on a dish, and keep hot. Reduce the lish liquor, add the sauce, a few drops of lemon- juice, and tails of mushrooms finely chopped, boil up, season to taste, and strain over the hsh. Garnish with the heads of mush- rooms slightly tossed in a little butter, and a few sprigs of freshly picked parsley. Serve hot. Paupiettes de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu. 2 large soles, i whiting, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, 3 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. lobster meat, i oz. lobster butter (p. 175), 2 tablespoonfuls cream, I finely chojiped sliallot, i gill white wine, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, 8 small croiites of fried breatl, 8 mushroom-heads, i truffle, b oz. flour, J pint white stock. Skin the soles, remove the hllets, and flatten a little, put the bones in a stewpan with half a pint of water and the stock, reduce to half, and strain. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, moisten the breadcrumbs with the cream, add to the pounded fish with the shallot and lobster meat, pound and mix thoroughly. Add' one and a half ounce butter and three yolks of eggs, season with pejiper and salt, add a teaspoonful of chopped jiarsley, mix well, and rub through a sieve. vSpread one side of each fillet with the forcemeat, roll up, trim a little, and wrap each lillet in a piece of buttered paper. Place them closely in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few' drops of lemon-juice, cook for five minutes in the oven, then add the wine, baste well, and cook another ten minutes, or longer if needed. Spread one side of each croute with a little of the remaining forcemeat, and bake for a few' minutes. Take up the fillets, remove the paper, place each upright on the croutes, put a mushroom-head on each, and keep hot. In the meantime, knead one ounce butter with the Hour, stir over the lire for a few' minutes, add the liquor of the hllets and the reduced stock, stir until it boils, simmer for lifteen minutes, and put in the