PASTRY AND CONPECTIONERY. flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i tablespoonful of orange-flower water, 94 S Tartelettes au Chocolat [Chocolate Tartlets). ■l lb. tartlet paste (see p. 133). i4oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, rasp- berry jam, i l- oz. grated chocolate, 4 teaspoonful cinnamon, i tablcspoonful cornflour. Roll out the paste, and line with it some tartlet-moulds, put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in each. Make the hlling mixture as follows : Cream the sugar with the butter ; when cream}^ add one yolk of egg, the chocolate and cinnamon, beat up the two whites of eggs, and mix together With the cornllour. Fill up the tartlets, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Ice over the top with chocolate icing, and decorate with royal icing (see p. 139). Angel Cake [Gateau d'Anges). 12 whites of eggs, lb. flour, lb. cornllour, i lb. castor sugar, i level teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonfnl vanilla essence. Add a pinch of salt to the whites (jf egg and whisk them to a stiff froth, and work in one-third of the sugar; whisk well for another ten minutes, then add by degrees the remainder of sugar ; also the two kinds of flour, which must be previously sifted and mixed, with the cream of tartar. Lastly add the vanilla essence. Bake in a clean but not buttered angel cake tin in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Turn the mould upside down on to a sugar dredged paper, and allow' it to stand till the cake comes out easil}'. It should not be turned out of the tin till quite cold. Dames d’Honneur [Maids of Honour). 2 oz. of Jordan almonds, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, oz. Paisley puff-paste for lining (see p. 133). Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound W'ith the castor sugar until fine, add the yolks of eggs one by one, stir in the cream, the orange-flower water, and the Paisley flour. Line some tartlet-moulds with the puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Tartelettes a la St. Cloud. J lb. short-crust (see p. 133), | lb. puff-paste, 4 lb. greengage jam, -J- gill cream, glace cherries and angelica, vanilla sugar (see p. 139), castor sugar. Roll out the short-crust ; line six to eight tartlet-pans, brush over W’ith beaten egg, dust wdth sugar, fill the centre with greengage jam, previously rubbed through a coarse sieve, and bake in a mode- rate oven for about fifteen minutes. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rings fully half an inch smaller in diameter than the tartlets, brush these over with milk, turn the w'et side on to castor sugar, and place on to a baking- sheet, sugared sides upwards. Bake in a quick oven, and place a ring on each of the baked tartlets. When cold fill the centre ANGEL CAKE TIN.