958 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. mouth of the^oven tor a few moments, and place on a sieve or ]:>astry tray^to jcool. Note.—The icing used must be liquid enough to enable one to brush the cakes lightly. A little grated nutmeg and one teaspoon- fnl of hnely chopped lemon-rind added to the above is considered an improvement by many. Schenkelein {Swiss Tea Cakes). f. lb. flour (sifted), lb. castor sugar, 2 whole eggs, and i yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, the grated rind of 1 lemon, clarified butter for frying. Break the eggs into a basin containing the sugar and lemon-rind, work this to a cream, stir in by degrees the butter (melted) and the flour. Let the dough thus produced stand for a few hours. Make it up into small cork shapes on a floured board. Drop them, a few at a time, into hot clarified butter, and fry them to a golden colour. Drain them, sprinkle with fine sugar, and serve hot or cold. Fruit Marzipan ( Dessert). Roll out a pound of almond paste (see p. 136) in sheets about a quarter of an inch thick, cut out small rounds with a crinkled cutter. In centre of each place a small piece of glace cherry, apricot, or a round of glace green fig; fold over the paste in half- like rissoles, pinch edges together ; shape as desired ; brush them over with pink or other coloured water or fondant icing. Marzipan Aimond Paste. Pound in a mortar one pound of ground almonds with one and a quarter pounds of castor or icing sugar ; add one tablespoonful orange-flower water and sufficient plain syrnp to make it into a stiff paste. Marzipan Biscuits. Proceed as above directed, but roll out the paste rather thinner ; use apricot marmalade to be spread between the almond or marzipan paste. Ice over with vanilla-tlavoured icing. Cut into oblong, round or crescent-shaped biscuits, and decorate the tops with thin leaves of angelica and peeled pistachio nuts. Hazel Nut Macaroons. Blanch and peel 3 oz. of hazel nuts and i oz. Jordan almonds, dry them, chop up and pound in a mortar with the whites of 3 eggs ; when smooth add l~ lb. castor sugar and h oz. of rice flour, work well. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with plain tube, and force out small heaps on to wafer paper, placed on a baking-sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. Raspberry Fingers. Roll out some almond j)aste a quarter of an inch m thick- ness ; cut in half, and spread one half with raspberry jam. Place the other on top ; trim the edges. Ice over with fondant or water icing and cut into strips, then into fingers. Place half a cherry and one or two angelica leaves on each. The icing should be set before cutting up the paste.