gS2 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Silver Dream.—Mix together a wineglassful of good unsweetened gin, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the beaten white of an egg, a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a tablespoonful of shaved ice. Fill up the tumbler with iced seltzer water. Silver Fizz.—Well beat the white of an egg, add a wineglassful of gin, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour on to half a tumblerful of shaved ice, shake well, strain into a glass containing a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a good pinch of carbonate of soda, and serve quickly. Sloe-gin Cocktail.—Half-fill a glass with shaved ice, add a wineglassful of sloe gin, and a dash of orange bitters, and serve. Strawberry Fizz.—Crush four large ripe strawberries, and put them into a glass with a few drops of lemon-juice, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a wineglassful of gin, then fill up with iced soda water. Sunrise.—Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add a teaspoonful of Angostura bitters, a large tablespoonful of brandy, two of sherry, and sugar and vanilla essence to taste. Shake well and serve with a strip of lemon-rind on the top. Whisky Sour.—Mix together equal quantities of good whisky and lemon-juice, and ice well before serving. Whisky Cocktail.—Put two large tablespoonfuls of whisky and a tea- spoonful of Angostura bitters into a glass, add sugar to taste, and two drops of cinnamon essence, and 6 oz. shaved ice. Brandy Cocktail.—Half-fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add half a gill of brandy, half a gill of curayao and ginger syrup mixed, and two teaspoonfuls of orange bitters. Brandy Mint Julep.—Put two small lumps of sugar into a tumbler with a wineglassful of brandy, and when dissolved add two sprigs of fresh mint and a little shaved ice. Place a thin slice of pineapple and orange on the top, and serve. Ching-Ching.—Put a gill of Jamaica rum into a large glass, add a slice of orange, two drops of essence of cloves, one drop of essence of pepper- mint, and fill up with iced soda water or shaved ice. Jamaica Toddy.—Soak the thinly peeled rind of a large lemon in a gill of water for six hours, then strain, add a thin slice of pineapple, five ripe strawberries, 2 oz. shaved ice, and a gill of Jamaica rum. Lemon Squash.—Half-fill a glass with shaved ice, add the strained juice of a large lemon, and castor sugar to taste, fill up with iced soda water, and serve. Manhattan.—Put half a winegiassful each of whisky and vermouth into a glass, add a dash of Curasao and Angostura bitters, and sugar to taste. Fill up with shaved ice shake and serve with a thin slice of lemon on the top.