HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 74' Add 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. glace cherries, cut in quarters, 2 oz. sultanas, picked, the hnely chopped rind of half a lemon, and its juice, a small glass of sherry or marsala, and a gill of cream. When thoroughly mixed, fill into a well-buttered pudding mould. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot custard or fruit syrup. Pouding a la Wellington. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. flour, 4 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 4 oz. sultanas, i oz. finely chopped candied orange-peel, 4 oz. castor sugar, I tablespoonful caramel, 5 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i small glass marsala or sherry, i gill milk, chestnut puree for garnish, apricot sauce. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, add the caramel and the eggs, one at a time, moisten with sufficient milk to produce a light consistency, add the wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and mix the whole well. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, cover it with buttered paper, and steam for about three hours. Meanwhile prepare a chestnut puree, flavour it well with cream, vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Unmould the border on a hot dish, pile the puree in the centre of the dish, pour round the apricot sauce, and serve hot. Pouding souffle aux Amandes {Burnt Almond Pudding). ^ pint milk, i dessertspoonful creme de riz, a pinch of ground cinnamon, I oz. burnt almonds, pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, 14 oz. vanilla sugar. Boil up the milk and cream in a stew-pan, pound and add the almonds, and one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz, whisk the whole over a gentle fire to bind the eggs, but the mixture must not be allowed to boil, or it may curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered, plated souffle dish, sprinkle with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the surface, and serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the top, hold the dish under a sala- mander for a few seconds. Note.—Cornflour, potato flour or Vienna flour may, if preferred, be used in place of “ creme de riz ” or ground rice. Pouding souffle a 1’Ananas [Pineapple Souffle Pudding). 6 oz. fresh or preserved pineapple, 4 pint milk, 2 inches vanilla pod. ^ oz. butter, 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. \'ienna flour, angelica for garnish. Let the milk and vanilla-pod infuse by the side of the fire for about half an hour. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, strain the milk into this, work vigorously over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Stir in the sugar and a handful of cut pine- apple, let cool a little, then add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom with slices of pineapple and angelica, stamped out with a plain round cutter. Add the whites of four eggs, previously whipped to a stiff froth, to the mixture, pour it into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about forty-five or fifty ^minutes. Garnish tastefully with a few fancifully-cut slices of pineapple, and serve with a sweet sauce or syrup.