520 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and pepper, and cook them in a casserole with the butter for ten minutes or so. Remove the breast-bone of each half, and press them lightly. Mix the farce with the cream, season well, and incorporate the truffles, finely chopped. Three-parts fill eight small buttered cutlet-moulds with the farce, place half a quail in each, and cover with farce. Poach them in a saute-pan containing boiling water for about thirty minutes. Fill up a small buttered border-mould with the remainder of the farce, and poach likewise. Unmould the border on to a hot dish, upon it dress the supremes, sauce over carefully with truffle or perigueux sauce, and fill the centre of the dish with Doria potato balls. Send a boat of sauce to the table to be handed round with the dish. Doria potatoes are made by mixing half a pound of potato puree with half a pound of savoury choux paste and one ounce of grated cheese. This is made up into marble shapes, and fried in clarified butter, Souffles de Cailles a la Marechale. 6 quails, t lb. of lean veal, lb. of calf’s liver, i gill Espagnole sauce, 2 eggs, I tablespoonful brandy, i tablespoonful Marsala, salt and pepper, i oz. butter, mirepoix of bacon, carrot, onion, etc., pint of cooked asparagus tips or broad beans, 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, i gill demi-glace or Madere sauce. Bone the quails, make a fumet with the carcase, and boil up with the stock, then strain. Cut the breast portion from the birds, and braise them with a mirepoix and butter in the usual manner ; toss the calf’s liver in a little butter. Remove the skin from the remainder of quails, pound the meat in a mortar with the liver and the veal, add the egg-yolks and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Add the wine, brandy, and whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Butter six oval dariole moulds, and place in each a braised breast of quail, then fill up with the prepared farce, and poach in the oven for about forty minutes. Blanch and cook the rice in stock, finish it in butter, and season to taste, mix carefully with the asparagus or broad beans, and pile in the centre of a hot dish. Place the quail souffles round it, sauce over with demi-glace or Madere, and serve hot. Escalopes de Cailles a la Princesse {Quail Cutlets). 4 quails, 2 oz. butter, t lb, gratin farce, h pint small rissole potatoes, I bundle sprue (small green asparagus), i gill Madere sauce, a little cream, 8 small nouille cups, i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, chopped parsley. Remove all the bones, excepting the leg bones, from the quails, then cut each in half ancl flatten ; fry lightly in butter, and press. When cold, spread each half with gratin farce (make into cutlet shape) ; season well, egg and crumb, and fry to a golden colour in clarified butter. Have ready the rissole potatoes (pea-shaped potatoes tossed in butter) and asparagus or sprue cut into small pieces and cooked in salted water and re-heated in a little butter and cream, and season. Fill the small paste cups with the prepared potatoes, range the sprue in the centre of an entree dish.