the new century cookery book. 4i8 them with the bouquet of herbs in the pan. Put in the meat and butter, fry over a sharp fire, turning the meat frequently until it acquires a nice golden-brown colour, then moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. When done, take up and let it cool. Cut it into half-inch-thick slices. Chop the mushrooms, and mix them with the white sauce. Mask each slice of veal thickly with the sauce, as soon as the sauce has set dip into beaten egg, and cover well with breadcrumbs. Fry the crumbed slices in a saute-pan containing clarihed butter or dripping. Drain and dish up in a circle on a hot dish, the centre of which may be filled with a ragout of mushrooms and truffles, spinach or green peas. Pour some hot piquante sauce round the hllets, and serve. Foie de Veau braise {Braised Calf's Liver). Take a small calf’s liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then drain and wipe it with a cloth. Insert small thin strips of larding bacon into the surface of the liver. Prepare a mirepoi.x of vegetables, fry them brown in i|- oz. of hot butter, put in the liver, let it brown gently, pour off the fat, add about half a pint of rich brown sauce and a gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer gently for about an hour. Add a glass of port wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely chopped parsley. Boil up, take up the liver, let the liquid reduce, strain, and remove the fat. Dish up the liver, sauce over carefully, and serve whole. Foie de Veau a la Clermont [Fried Calf’s Liver). I large Spanish onion, 2 oz. butter, pint stock, ^ pint Espagnole sauce, lb. calf’s liver, a tablespoonful flour, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Peel and blanch the onion, cut it into very fine dice, fry a golden colour in about an ounce of butter, then add the stock, and cook slowly until reduced to a thick puree. Add the brown sauce, and reduce further. Mix the Hour on a plate with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the liver into slices about three-eighths of an inch in thickness, pare each slice to the shape of a neat fillet, and dip in the prepared flour. Heat the remaincler of butter in a saute-pan, put in the liver and fry the slices on both sides until they are firm to the touch. This should not take more than six or eight minutes. Dress the puree on a hot dish, drain the slices of liver, place them neatly on top, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and serve. Foie de Veau a I’Echalote [Stewed Calf’s Liver) I lb. calf’s liver, 2 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, 2 finely chopped shallots, I teaspoonful lemon-juice, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, jrepper and salt, gill brown stock, i glass of Chablis wine, a few half- moons of puff-pastry (lleurons). Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, cut it in very fine short slices, season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the chopped shallots, fry a light colour, put in the liver, and toss over a quick fire for about five minutes. Sprinkle in flour, toss