THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 778 skin and seeds from large black and white hot-house grapes, and place them alternately with layers of jelly into the prepared mould (allow each layer of fruit to set before the next is added). When thus hlled, put the mould into the ice to set. Unmould the char- treuse into a suitable dish, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream, and serve. Creme d’Ananas a la Villeneuve {Pineapple Cream). pint double cream, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, 3 slices fresh pineapple, lb. nouille p^.ste (p. 134). Cut the paMe into strips about half an inch wide. Plunge them into hot clarified butter, fry to a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dredge with vanilla sugar whilst hot. Whip the cream till quite stiff, to this add the pineapple, cut into small dice, and sweeten with an ounce of vanilla sugar. Dress the cream neatly in the centre of a round dish, and range the fried nouilles round its base, which should be hot. Serve immediately. Creme Caramel {Caramel Cream). 4 oz. loaf sugar, i pint milk, 2 eggs, i oz. castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar in a copper saucepan with a few drops of water and cook until it becomes a dark amber colour, and has the con- sistency of treacle, then pour into a dry charlotte mould ; turn the mould round and round until it gets completely lined with the caramel. Put the milk in a saucepan, and boil up with half a vanilla pod, then add the eggs, well beaten, and the castor sugar. Take out the vanilla and strain the custard into the prepared mould, cover with a piece of bifttered paper, and steam until firm (about thirty minutes) ; then unmould carefully on to a hot dish. No sauce is required, for the caramel in cooking becomes liquid. This cream is equally delicious served cold. Creme a la Genoise {Genoese Cream). I pint milk, i gill cream, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. glace fruit, 4 yolks of eggs, | orange, glass cognac brand3'', \ oz. gelatine. Pour the brandy over the macaroons in a basin, and let soak. Rub the loaf sugar on the rind of orange to extract the zest, put the sugar and milk in a stew-pan, and bring to the boil. Beat the yolks of eggs a little, add the boiled milk, return to the stew-pan, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken, then put aside and stir in the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little milk. Strain through a pointed strainer, mix in the macaroons and brandy, and let cool a little. Shred the fruit, lemon, and orange rind. Whip the cream, mix it with the preserved fruits, stir until it begins to set, then pour into a mofild, and put on ice. When set, immerse it in tepid water, turn out and garnish with a little chopped jelly. Creme au Gingembre {Ginger Cream). I pint milk, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. preserved ginger, \ gill ginger syrup, i glass kirschwasser, i oz. castor sugar, i gill wine jelly, about |- oz. gelatine.