RECHERCHiL BALL AND THEATRE SURFER DISHES. 719 Petites Cremes de Poisson aux Olives [Small Fish Creams, with Olives). Pound in a mortal" h lb. cold salmon free from skin and bones, add to it I gill encumber puree, i gill reduced bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper. When well mixed and smooth, rub the mixture through a fine sieve ; put it in a basin and mix with I gill well-reduced aspic, and ^ gill of cream, also about ^ a gill of chopped lobster. Line a number of small savarin moulds with aspic, besprinkle with chopped lobster coral and truffies (mixed), when set, fill up the moulds with the above mixture and put them on the ice. Turn out the shapes on to a cold dish ; in the centre of each place a large Spanish olive, stoned, and stuffed with lobster puree seasoned with a little mayonnaise, insert a sprig of parsley in each, and serve. Supreme de Volaille, Velours. I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, gill stock, i- gill cream, gill bechamel sauce, seasouing, 2 whites of egg, i-J- gill white chaud-froid sauce, truffles and pimiento for decoration, meat glaze, 8 china kite-shaped souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, cover with a buttered paper, and poach the fillets in the oven for about ten minutes. Take up, drain and press the fillets. \\dth the remainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, and whites of egg (previously whisked) and seasoning. Put this into a buttered plain mould (flat shape) and cook in bain-marie in the oven. When done nnmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets to the shape of the china cases, and cut the chicken souffle in similar style and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask each carefully with white chaud- froid sauce and decorate afterwards with’^thinly cut fanciful slices of truffle and pimiento leaves. Place a little small cress or other