THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 898 mix with abotit one gill of cold water, knead lightly, and roll out thinly. Line a flat dish with it, and lay the bacon slices in the centre of the dish, and season with pepper. Break the eggs care- fully in the basin, and add the cream, season to taste, beat slightly, pour over the bacon, cover with the remainder of the paste, orna- ment the top, and brush over with egg. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour, and serve hot or cold. Bacon Toast. Cut some streaky bacon into rather thin slices, put them in a saute-pan with just enough water to cover, and boil for a few seconds. Then drain the slices of bacon carefully, and place them in a frying-pan, and fry until crisp over a quick fii'e to a delicate brown. Have ready some oblong slices of toasted brown bread, butter them well, and trim the slices to the size of the bacon. Place a slice of bacon on a slice of toast, and dish up ; surmount each with a small round slice of fried tomato (these can be fried in the bacon fat), and serve hot. Ham and Rice Croquettes. I lb. cooked ham, 1- lb. cooked rice, i oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i shallot, I gill cream, gill veloutee sauce, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, clarified fat or lard, parsley, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sage. /'Chop flnely the ham and rice separately. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, finely chopped, and fry a little, add the ham and rice, season with pepper and powdered sage, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then add the sauce and cream. When on the point of boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then remove from the fire and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into even-sized balls, corks or cutlets, dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Mashed potatoes may be substituted for the rice, but less ham and more potatoes should be used than the above quantities. Jombalayah {an American Breakfast Dish). 4 oz. Patna rice, 4 oz. cooked ham, .salt, cayenne pepper, : lettuce. Boil the rice in slightly salted water (the same as for curry or kedgeree), so that each grain is intact when the rice is tender. Drain and cool the rice when done. Mince the ham as finely as possible, and mix both ham and rice carefully in a basin, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, wash the lettuce, place a layer of leaves on a cold dish, dress rice and ham upon this, and garnish neatly with the heart of the lettuce. Serve cold. Grilled Ham with Cucumber Puree. Prepare a tasty jniree of cucumbers—which must first be peeled, sauted in butter, and cooked in a small quantity of rich stock. Arrange the puree of cucumber on a hot dish, and dress some nicely grilled slices of ham on top, garnish the dish with a few very small stuffed and braised lettuces, sauce round with demi-glace sauce, and serve.