745 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. all with the pestle till quite creamy. Melt the remainder of butter (i oz.) in a stewpan, stir in the Hour, and cook a little, without browning, then add the milk and stir vigorously over the fire for a few minutes; next mix in the castor sugar and stir again. Cool a little, and incorporate the previously made mixture, also the stiffiy whisked whites of 5 eggs. Last of all add the Grand Marnier liqueur. Put the mixture into a well-buttered souffle dish, be- sprinkled with crushed macaroons, and cook, i.e. bake in a fairly sharp oven. Serve with Sabayon sauce flavoured with Grand Marnier liqueur. Note.—Any other kind of liqueur or flavouring essence for variation can be used in place of Grand Marnier, Souffle de Marrons {Chestnut Souffle). Slit twenty-four sound Italian or French chestnuts, put them in the oven long enough to enable one to remove the outer and inner skins or cook them in water. When peeled put the chestnuts in a stew-pan. Cover them with about a pint of milk, add a small piece of vanilla pod, and cook slowly till the chestnuts are tender. Remove the vanilla pod. Rub the cooked chestnuts through a fine sieve. Return the puree thus obtained to a clean stew-pan, and boil up, adding to it 4 oz. of castor sugar. Whisk stiffly the whites of four eggs and incorporate them with the puree. Butter a souffle dish and three-parts fill it with the above preparation. Bake it in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. Dredge the top with vanilla sugar and glaze the surface, then place the souffle dish on a round, flat dish, covered with a folded napkin. Serve quickly. Souffles d’Oranges a la Gilbert {Oi-ange Souffles). 6 oranges, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i glass ciira9oa, 2 oz. butter, i table- spoonful cornflour, a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Select oranges of even size, firm and juicy, cut the top off each and carefully remove the inside. Pass the pulp through a fine sieve, and add to it the liqueur. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a small stew-pan, and the latter into a basin or copper-bowl, and keep on the ice. Add the sugar and butter to the 3/olks, stir over a gentle fire until the liaison is formed, then add the cornflour, previously blended with the liqueur and orange pulp. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly into the mixture, adding, at the same time, a few drops of orange-flower water. Arrange the souffle cases on a baking-tin, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Souffle aux Prunes {Baked Prune Souffle). 1 lb, good-sized prunes, i lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i tablespoonful flour, -h oz. fresh butter, 4 oz. sweet almonds blanched and peeled. Wash the prunes, place them in a basin, cover with cold water, and let them soak for a few hours. Cook them over a slow fire