THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 952 Lemon Rings. 2 eggs, double their weight in flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 lemon. 1 oz. ground almonds. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and rub in the butter. Beat one whole and one yolk of egg and the sugar to a cream and mix with the flour, etc. Add the almonds and the grated rind of the lemon, add also half the strained iuice of the lemon. Roll out, on a floured board, about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out some rings the desired size (this is best done by means of a couple of paste-cutters of different sizes), place the rings on a gi'eased baking-tin, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Duchesses [Dessert Biscuits). 12 oz. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i oz. ground almonds, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, \ orange-rind (grated), i lb. flour (sifted), royal icing. Warm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, beat up to a cream, work the eggs one by one in the almonds, cinnamon, and orange- rind. Beat well for ten minutes, then add the flour. Put the mix- ture in a Savoy bag with a fancy tube, and force out three to four rows, close together, the whole length of a greased baking-tin ; continue thus till the tin is full. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about thirty minutes. Mix the royal icing with the juice of half an orange and ice the pastry whilst hot. Return to a cool oven for ten minutes. When cold enough, cut into desired sized pieces. Almond Rings. Prepare a paste similar to that used for almond biscuits (see p. 951), roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out into rings by means of two paste-cutters. Range the rings on a buttered baking- tin, lined with wafer or rice paper, brush over with egg and milk, and besprinkle with chopped almonds. Bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Palets de Dames (Dessert Biscuits). t lb. flour (sifted), -J- pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence. Whip the cream, stir in the flour, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and incorporate with the sugar. Mix both together very carefully, and add the vanilla flavouring. Put the mixture in a Savoy bag and force out round shapes, the size of half-a-crown, on to a waxed or greased tin. Dust with icing sugar. Bake in a slow oven at first, and finish in a quicker heat. Princesses [Dessert Biscuits). 2 eggs, lemon-rind (grated), 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, } lb. flour (sifted), transparent icing (see p. 138). Beat up the eggs, cream the butter with the sugar, and mix the eggs with the latter. Add the lemon-rind, and work in the flour. Fill into a Savoy bag with a star tube, and force out oblong strips of even size on to a waxed baking-tin. Bake in moderate heat, and mask or glaze with transparent icing.