THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6g6 Salade d’Asperges [Asparagus Salad). Arrange the green soft parts of cooked asparagus neatly on a few lettuce-leaves, and pour over a French dressing or vinaigrette sauce. This is a simple but excellent salad. Salade d’Asperges, Neva [Asparagus Salad, Neva Style). I bundle green asparagus, \ gill vinaigrette, i gill asparagus points, \ gill aspic cream. Clean a bundle of green asparagus, cut off the tender part of each stem. See that they are of even lengths, and tied up in bundles. Cook them in salted water. When done, drain, and let cool on a sieve. Cook the asparagus points in salted water, and rub them through a sieve. When cold mix the puree thus obtained with the mayonnaise aspic, a little cream, and seasoning to taste. Put this into a dariole or other suitable mould (this can be masked with aspic, and decorated, if liked), and keep it well buried in ice till required. Unmould, and dress in the centre of a round dish. Arrange the asparagus neatly round the shape, pour over the vinaigrette, garnish tastefully with small garden cress. Place the dish on a larger one, surrounded with finely chopped ice, and serve at once. Salade a la Beauvilliers. 1 carrot, i turnip, cooked beetroot, i small cooked cauliflower, a handful of cooked peas, the same of French beans, stick celery, 6 anchovies filleted, ^ lb. Lyons sausage cut into thin slices, lO stoned olives, French capers, salt, pepper, cold ravigote sauce. Prepare the raw vegetables, cut into half-inch cube shapes, and cook separately in salted water, drain, cool, put in a basin, add the cauliflower, divided into small sprigs, the peas, and the beans, cut into short lozenge shapes. Cut the anchovy fillets into strips about an inch long, cut the white part of celery, the slices of Lyons sausage, and the beetroot into hue shreds. Mix gently, season with pepper, salt, and a little ravigote sauce, and dress neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with groups of capers, olives, and hnely chopped beetroot, and serve. Note.—The ravigote sauce may be substituted by a vinaigrette (p. 162) or mayonnaise sauce. Salade Beige [Belgian Salad). For this salad use well-bleached Belgian endive or batavia, or equal quantities of each. Trim and wash thoroughly, and break up the leaves into convenient-sized pieces. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar in the usual proportions, and as directed in other plain salad recipes. Mix with this some preserved red pimientos, dish up, and serve. Salade de Canard [Duck Salad). h a cold duck, stick white celery, i tablespoonful Orleans vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls Provence oil, i teaspoonful each of chopped olives and parsley, 2 thin slices of sour orange (unpeeled), i cabbage lettuce, seasoning, bunch cresses, mayonnaise sauce. Cut the duck into inch dice or cubes, wash and clean the celery and cut the white part into fine strips or shreds, mix both in a