THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 912 Trim and wash the celery, cut it small, and cook in the stock till tender with the onion peeled and sliced and the ham, then rub all through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the hour, ancl fry it carefully a nice brown. Next add the puree and stir it over the lire till it boils, skim, and season to taste. Simmer for hfteen minutes longer. Serve with small crofitons of fried bread. Chicken Cup with Egg. 1- pint chicken broth (p. 911), 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of sherry. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and pour over the chicken broth, boiling. Return it to the stew-pan and re-heat whilst whisk- ing, but do not allow it to boil. Add the sherry at the last, season lightly, and serve hot in a cup, with a slice of toasted bread. Barley Cream Soup. Put I oz. of butter into a stew-pan with a small piece of finely chopped onion, add a tablespoonful of “ Patent ” Barley mixed into a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add about one pint of chicken or veal white stock. Stir until it boils, and let it simmer for about half an hour. Then beat up a yolk of egg with half gill of cream, stir this into the boiling soup. Stir it until it thickens, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Strain and serve with a little finely chopped parsley, if the latter is allowed. Milk Soup. Soak a small cupful of soft breadcrumbs in a pint of milk, and boil it for fifteen minutes with a little finely chopped cooked celery, then strain, beat up an egg in a basin, and add it to the soup ; re-heat it, but do not allow the soup to boil again after the egg is added, or it will curdle. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg if allowed. Rice Soup. Take a pint of chicken stock without cereal thickening, add two tablespoonfuls of rice previously washed and blanched. Simmer slowly for about an hour ; strain, and add half a gill of cream, season to taste. Re-heat, and serve hot. The cream may be omitted. Stewed Oysters. 12 oyster.s, i oz. of butter, | oz. of flour, i gill of oyster liquor or milk, I gill of cream, i yolk of egg, i teaspoouful of lemon-juice, a small blade of mace. Blanch the oysters and remove the beards, and cut each oyster in two. Make a sauce with the brttter, flour, milk, and oyster liquor. Bring to the boil, add the mace and cream. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Add the oysters and yolk of egg to the sauce. Re-heat without boiling ; remove the mace, add the lemon-juice, and serve. Oysters a la Poulette. Blanch one dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain and reserve half the liquid. Beard the oysters. Take half a gill of bechamel sauce and the saved liquor in which the oysters were blanched, add a little salt, a little pepper, and let boil. Stir in the yolks of tw'O eggs and some chopped parsley. Add the oysters, re-heat, and serve.