THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 250 sandwiches. When set run a little half-set aspic jelly over the surface of each, and put them on the ice to set. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the sandwiches in a circle round the toast, alternately one white and one brown ; a handful of dressed salad, such as lettuce, endive, cress, and radishes, in the centre ; put the remainder of the caviare neatly on the top, keep on the ice until required for table. Poivrons d’Espagne. 1 pint can oi Spanish pimientos, mayonnaise sauce, i tablespoonful tomato puree, chopped parsley. Drain the pimientos on a sieve, and cut into hue shreds like julienne strips. Mix with mayonnaise and a tablespoonful of tomato puree, dish up, and sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley. Nids a la Chartres. 2 hard-boiled eggs, i J- oz. butter, -1- teaspoonful made mustard, i small tin or terrine foie-gras, salt and pepper, stale bread. Cut the bread into slices inch thick. Stamp out eight rounds if inches in diameter, scoop out a little of the centre portion of each, fry in clarified butter a golden colour, and drain. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut out some small cubes with a J-inch cutter. Pound the trimmings of foie-gras (without any pieces of fruffles) in a mortar, together with the butter and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, add the mustard and season to taste, mix well, and rub through a coarse wire sieve on to the croutes of bread, so as to cover the hollow side completely with the puree as it comes through the sieve. Dish u}) carefully, place a cube of foie-gras in the centre of each, garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg, trufiles, and a little chopped aspic if liked. Olives farcies {Stuffed Olives). 10 or 12 large Spanish olives (queens), white bread, 4 oz. foie-gras pate, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i oz. butter. There are numerous ways of stuffing olives, but the following method will be found the most suitable for hors-d’ceuvre. Cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast one or two slices of bread ancl stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Pound the foie-gras, yolks of eggs, and butter, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve. Spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the puree in a forcing-bag, and fill the olives. Place an olive on each croute, decorate taste- fully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, and dish up on little glass dishes. Olives farcies a la Gelee [Stuffed Olives set in Aspic Jelly). I bottle stuffed olives (olives farcies), \ pint aspic jelly (p. 132), tarragou- leaves, 3 red chillies, spinach greening, 10 to 12 rounds of fried bread, i oz. anchovy paste, i oz. fresh butter. Take about a gill of aspic and dissolve it in a small stewpan, add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Mask the inside of 10 or 12 small olive or cup moulds with this, decorate them tastefully with tarragon-leaves and fancifully cut shapes of chilli skin. Wipe the olives carefully with a clamp cloth, and set