829 GLACES—ICES. Glace aux Peches {Peach-Water Ice). I pint peach piilji (puree), i pint syrup, the juice of 2 small lemons, I oz. peach kernels, peeled and jiounded. Mix the fruit pul]) with the syrup, boil up, then add the lemon-juice and the peach kernels, strain, freeze, and mould in the usual manner. Note.—The kernels may be omitted if the flavour they impart is not cared for. A few drops of liquid carmine will imjtrove the ('olour. A glass of kirschwasser and half a gill whipped and sweetened cream,' added when partly frozen, are considered an im- jirovement. Glace a 1’Ananas {Pineapple Ice). I small ripe pineapple, i pint syrup, the juice of I large lemon. 1, gill of cream. Rub the fruit through a hue sieve into a basin, add the lemon juice and the syrup, strain, freeze a little, then add the cream and finish freezing. Mould as usual. Glace an Citron {Lemon-Water Ice). 6 lemons, 1 11). loaf sugar, i pint water. Rub the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the lemons so as to obtain some of the zest, put the sugar in a clean stew-jian, add the water, and boil for rather more than ten minutes. Skim, test the consistency by the saccharometer (it should register 220 degrees). Strain the syrup into a basin, add the juice of the lemons (strained), and set aside to cool. The mixture is then ready for freezing, and will make rather more than a pint of ice. Glace a I’Orange {Orange-Water Ice). Peel thinly four lemons and four oranges, pour one and a half pint of hot syrup over the rind, add the juice of both lemons and oranges. Strain, and freeze when cold. A tablespoonful of liqueur, such as cura^oa or benedictine, added to the above will greatly improve the flavour. Freeze and mould as required. Glace au Marasquin {Maraschino Ice). I pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, ] pint cream, 2 glasses mara- schino, ice, and freezing salt. Boil the milk and add the sugar. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, mix thoroughly, and stir in the hot milk. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and let it cool. Beat the cream to a froth, and mix with the above, together with the maraschino liqueur. Freeze the preparation in the usual manner. Fill up a mould, cover hermetically, and bury in crushed ice and coarse salt for about two hours. Immerse in cold water, wipe the mould, turn out quickly, and serve on a folded napkin.