COLD ENTREES. 5 59 Poulet decoupe en Chaud-froid [Chaud-fyoid of Chicken). Cook a tender chicken, trussed for boiling, in seasoned white stock, when done, take up, drain, and let cool. Cut it into neat joints, and remove the skin. Coat each piece with white chaud- froid sauce, and place on a wire tray. Repeat this so as to com- pletely mask each piece with sauce, then decorate with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimientos, and cucumber-rind, mask with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up on a bed of small salad, and serve. Darioles de Volaille a la Diplomate. I Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, foie-gras, i tablespoouful of cream, i yolk of egg, saJt, and aromatic spice, i oz. of ham, truffles, 1 pint chaud-froid sauce, i pint aspic jelly, aspic border with vegetable macedoine. Remove tlie fillets of a large fowl, taking off the skin and sinews, broil them in a saute-pan with a little fresh butter, let them get cold, then cut up finely. Pound the rest of the meat in a mortar with about one-third its quantity of foie-gras, add a little cream and the yolk of one egg. Season with some aromatic spice, and pound until the whole is fine enough to pass through a fine sieve. Butter well six to eight egg-shaped dariole moulds, line them with this farce, place a spoonful of chicken and ham salpicon, mixed with minced truffles, in the centre, fill up and cover with the remainder of the farce, and place them in a saute-pan, two-thirds filled with boiling water. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, unmould and put them on the ice to cool. Mask them with a thin white chaud-froid sauce, decorate with truffles, and coat with aspic. Dress them on an aspic macedoine border on a round dish, put some small mixed salad in the centre of the dish, and serve. (See illustration on p. 591.) Poularde a la Dauphine. I poulartle or large Surrey fowl, cooked lean ham, f gill bechamel sauce, 1, gill cream, i-J gill aspic jell}^ trulfies, white chaud-froid sauce. For decoration : 1 jiint firm chicken aspic, i large truffle, slices of ham, and chilli or pimiento skin. Truss the bird as for boiling, rub the surface with cut lemon, cook till tender in seasoned white stock, drain, and let cool. Pound the ham finely, add to it the bechamel sauce, rub through a fine