353 LIGHT ENTRI^ES (HOT).~ENTREES LEGE RES. Canolettes a la Montglas. \ lb. puff-paste trimming, 2 lambs’ sweetlireads, i small piece of celery, 1 gill white sauce—Allemande or bechamel, 2 mushrooms, 1 truflle, i egg, breadcrumbs, fried parsley, pepper and salt. Roll out the paste, cut it into strips, butter the exterior of some cornet tins, roll the strips of paste round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half the other at each turn, keep all of even size. Egg over the surface, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and bake on a greased baking-tin in a hot oven. Blanch and cook the sweetbread and celery, cut into small dice, warm up in the sauce, season to taste, add the mushrooms and truifles, also cut in dice. Remove the paste-crust from the tins as soon as baked, hll them with the above mixture, place a star of truftfe in the centre of each, dish them neatly on a dish with folded napkin, pointed ends inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Crepinettes. These are small square or oblong-shaped savoury meat mixtures, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter or dripping or grilled without being crumbed. Crepinettes de Gibier {Game Crepinettes). A roast partridge or other game, i oz. of chopped ham or tongue, i truffle, 2 eggs, about a gill and a half of veloutee sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, pig’s caul or veal udder, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, tomato sauce. Bone the bird, remove the skin and gristle, and chop the meat hnely, likewise the truffle. Put these together with the ham in a saute-pan, add the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, stir frequently, bind with the yolk of one egg, and spread on a dish to cool. Divide into six or eight parts, shape oblong, wrap each in a piece of veal udder or pig’s caul. Dip in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, when set, egg and crumb again, shape neatly, and fry in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Crepinettes de Ris de Veau en Caisses {Hot or Cold Entrees). 6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, I small shallot, i dessertspoonful flour, i egg, a little stock, lemon- juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, pig’s caul 8 to 10 oval paper souffle cases. Chop finely the ham or tongue and the mushrooms. Cut the sweetbread into very small dice or chop coarsely. i\Ielt T oz. of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of rich stock, let it come to the boil, then add the chopped meat, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Heat thoroughly, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into even- sized oval shapes a little smaller than the paper cases, wrap each carefully in a thin square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them stand for a few minutes to set. Butter z