681 OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. return to oven until a delicate brown. Turn it out on to a hot dish, or send to table in the souffle dish, if such is used. Serve at once. PLATS D’CEUFS—EGG DISHES. (Eufs poches au Vin blanc [Poached Eggs in White Wine). Poach carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, lla\'onred with white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have ready as many fried bread croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly, and place them on the croutons, then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of reduced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze, and one ounce of butter, the latter must be whisked in in very small quantities, and must not boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to coat them nicely, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each egg, and serve. (Eufs aux Nouilles a la Carola. Prepare some nouille paste (see p. 134), cut it into very thin strips, and blanch in salted water for three minutes, drain and toss in butter. Season with nutmeg and pepper, and put some on a buttered fireproof dish. Dredge well with grated cheese. Upon this range a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of nouilles, and lastly a layer of fresh mushrooms, seasoned, and tossed in butter. Cover with a well-reduced bechamel sauce, strew with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. (Eufs a la Suzette. Cut some baked potatoes in halves lengthwise, scoop out the mealy part and mix with bechamel sauce, grated cheese, and seasoning. Line the potato crusts with this and put in each a poached egg (neatly trimmed). Spread some of the mixture over each, and sprinkle with cheese and breadcrumbs and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven and serve hot. (Eufs a la Princesse [Egg Darioles). 4 to 6 eggs, I oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. butter, a haudlul cooked asparagus points, preserved la.v, salt, paprika pepper, tomato sauce, toasted bread. Butter four to six small dariole moulds, sprinkle with grated cheese and a few pinches of paprika pepper, break an egg carefully into each mould, and season with pepper and salt. Place the moulds in a saute-pan, containing enough hot water to reach half- way up the mould, and cook on the stove or in the oven until the whites of the eggs are set. Stamp out some rounds or ovals of toasted bread about the size of an egg, butter them well on one side, and lay a slice of lax on each. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season to taste, and put in la5^ers on the buttered toast. Turn out the moulds on top of the asparagus, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat of tomato sauce.