377 VEGETABLE AND EARINAGE ENTRl'iES. in a little milk, when soft squeeze out the moisture, and mix with the oysters, adding also the eggs, anchovy, and chopped parsley. Season to taste, and mix well. Spread the mixture between each two slices of celeriac, and sandwich them together. Dip each into a light frying batter, and fry in deep oil and clarified butter till of a nice golden brown. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Cassolettes de Celeri a la Napolitaine {Celery and Macaroni). Trim and wash 2 heads of white celery, boil them till tender in milk and water, seasoned with salt and a bay-leaf. Drain the celery, and cut it into i-inch lengths. Cook likewise 2 oz. of macaroni (spaghetti) in salted water, and when done drain on a sieve, and cut into short pieces. Heat up i f gills of rich white sauce (bechamel or veloutee), put in the celery and macaroni, season with white pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and let the whole simmer gently for fifteen minutes or longer. Great care must be taken so as not to break the celery or macaroni. Have ready g-io oblong or oval cassolette cases lined with thin nouille paste and baked (blind) to a golden brown. Fill these with the above preparation. Dish up on a hot entree dish, and serve. Crepinettes de Courge [Vegetable Marrow Crepinettes). I vegetable marrow, f lb. sausage meat, i pig’s caul, seasoning, butter, demi-glace sauce, i egg, potato puree, fried parsley. Peel the vegetable marrow, cut it into htdves lengthways, scoop out the soft portion and cut the rest into neat oblong or round slices (medallions). Blanch them in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Pound the sausage meat in a mortar till smooth, adding the beaten yolk of an egg, and a little cream or stock. Season to taste if found necessary, and rub through a hue sieve. With this farce envelop the pieces of vegetable marrow, and then wrap each piece so jirepared in a piece of pig’s caul, fixing the ends with a little white of egg. Place them on a griller and baste with butter. Grill over a bright fire, allowing about six minutes each side. Brush over with butter occasionally. Dish up neatly in the centre of a potato puree border, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. Timbales de Ble Vert [Green Corn Timbales). Beat up three eggs, season with salt and paprika or cayenne, add a gill of milk, f gill of cream, and i pint of cooked green corn. Fill up 8 well-buttered timbale moulds, and stand in a saute-pan of boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. Turn the moulds out on to a hot dish, and serve with hot bechamel sauce, enriched with a little cream, containing some lemon-juice, finely chopped parsley, and chervil. Souffles glaces a I’Argenteuil [Iced Asparagus Souffles). Boil in salted water the heads or soft parts of half a bundle of best English asparagus, previously scraped and washed. When