HOT MEAT ENTR/'ES, ETC. 419 again, add the chopped parsley, lemon-juice, stock, and wine. Let it simmer whilst stirring for another hve minutes. Pile np on a hot dish, garnish with half-moons of puff-paste, and serve. Grenadins de Veau a la Marchand de Vin. 11 to 2 lb. lillct of veal, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 finely chojiped shallots, -J- gill tomato sauce, 1- gill brown sauce, i glass claret, .seasoning, mashed ])otatoes, 3 to 4 slices of lean bacon. Cut the veal into suitable slices, flatten them a little with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim into shape, and insert by means of a larding- needle a couple of rows of thin strips of bacon in each slice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallots, and fry a little without browning. Drain off the butter, and put the shallots in a small stewpan. Return the butter to the saute-pan, put in the grenadins, and fry a nice golden colour on each side. Add the claret to the shallots, cover the stewpan, let it reduce well, then add the two sauces and parsley, season with pepper and salt, and reduce to about half the original cpfantity. Pour the butter from the grenadins, add the sauce, cover the saute-pan with a lid, and allow contents to cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Take up the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with strips of lean bacon previously fried in a little butter, pour the sauce over the grenadins, and serve. Grenadins de Veau a la Jardiniere. Trim a piece of cushion of veal, cut it into twelve slices, flatten them, trim, and give them the shape of hearts as near as possible, and lard them rather closely with strips of fat bacon. Prepare a layer of sliced vegetables and bacon in a buttered saute-pan, place the meat on this, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a glass of white wine and white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about an hour, basting from time to time. Fill a well-buttered flat border mould with veal forcemeat (p. 177), steam in a stewpan, turn out on a dish and keep warm. When the grenadins are done, arrange them in a circular form on the border of forcemeat, fill the centre with a preparation of jar- diniere of vegetables, mixed with a little demi-glace. Sauce over the grenadins with their own stock, well reduced. Goulache de Veau a la Viennoise {Veal Goulash). il lb. lean veal, J lb. cooked new potatoes, 2 oz. butter, J small onion, t pint cream, paprika pepper, and salt. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and cut it into dice. Cut the potatoes into cubes. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the meat and fry lightly for several minutes, then add the onion, finely chopped, stir over the fire for about five minutes, season with salt and pepper, and add the potatoes. Pour off the superfluous fat, moisten with the cream and a tablespoonful of rich white stock, season with suftreient paprika pepper to impart a pink tint, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. It is best to cook the goulash