324 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mayonnaise de Turbot a la Moderne. Remove the skin and bones from id lb. of cold boiled turbot, and flake the fish. Have ready some green salad, washed, picked, and cleaned, also some mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), made rather stiff and mixed with stiffly whipped cream. Sea- son the salad with a little oil and vine- gar, pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in a round dish, upon this place layers of salad and fish, with alternate layers of mayonnaise, arrange the whole in dome shape, as shown in the illustration. Mask the whole carefully with mayonnaise, decorate the top portion with rings of cucumber or beetroot, and place halves of hard-boiled eggs round the edge of the dish. Very little dressing must be used for the salad, but the whole must be suitably seasoned, especially the mayonnaise. The dish .should be served as soon as dressed. Truite a la Malvoisie. I small iTout, I cucumber, i gill white wine, i bay-leaf, -i- carrot, 4 onion, salt, I gill aspic, i gill mayonnaise (p. 152), tarragon vinegar, parsley, gill cream. Clean and wipe the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with enough warm water to cover, add the wine, bay-leaf, carrot, onion, and salt to season the water. Cook till the fish is tender, then take it up carefully, and drain on a cloth. When cold, remove the skin and put the trout on a dish. By means of a vegetable-cutter, scoop out some small rounds of cucumiber—the latter must be thinly peeled beforehand—put the little rounds on a plate, and season with a few drops of vinegar and chopped parsley. Mix half the mayonnaise sauce with half the aspic, stir it on the ice until it begins to set, then mask the surface of the fish carefully with this. Finely chop enough cucumber to fill a tablespoonful. Whisk the cream, and mix the latter with the chopped cucumber, the remainder of aspic and mayonnaise, put all in a sauce-boat, and send to table with the fish. Surround the trout artistically with the rounds of cucumber. These may, if liked, be masked with a little aspic jelly. Garnish to taste, and serve. Truites a la Nansen. . 2 trout, weighing about i lb. each, i carrot, i onion, i lemon, 4 pint Chablis, i bouquet garni, ) pint consomme, ij- oz. French leaf gelatine, the white and the shell of 2 eggs, i gill aspic {p. 142), i pint tomato cream (p. 160), \ pint cold horse-radish sauce, half-frozen (p. 158), i sniall cucumber, a handful Brunoise garnishing.