417 HOT MEAT ENTRhES, ETC. the dish with thin slices of gherkins and slices of lemon, the peel of which has been notched. Send to table with Espagnole sauce llavoured up with a few drops of lemon-juice. Filets de Veau a la Milanaise. Fried fillets of veal, garnished with boiled macaroni stewed in white sauce, mixed with grated parmesau cheese and finely shredded ox-tongue ; served with tomato sauce. Mignons de Filets de Veau a la Princesse, 8 very small fillets cut from the neck part, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, 2 table- spoonfuls chopped parsley and chives, a little tarragon, chervil, truffle, and lemon-rind, |- lb. puff-paste (p. 133), i cucumber, pint asparagus tips, bechamel sauce, sauce Princesse, 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i egg. Flatten the fillets rather thinly, and trim them neatly into ovals or rounds. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them cpiickly in butter to a pale colour. Take up, and press them till cold. Mix the parsley, chives, herbs, lemon-rind, and truffles, and moisten with enough bechamel to form a paste. Spread the fillets with this, and enclose each one in thinly rolled out puff-paste. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven, from ten to fifteen minutes. From the peeled cucumber, cut six one-and-a-half inch pieces, stamp out the centre, blanch them, place them on the artichoke bottoms, fill with seasoned cooked asparagus tips, moist- ened with white sauce, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dress the fillets on a bed of pea purtie, and arrange the cucumber garnish round the dish. Pour some hot Princesse sauce round it, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Talleyrand [Fillets of Veal, Talleyrand Style). I lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part), i-^- oz. butter, 2 small shallots, i des- £_sertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, 6 small preserved ^mushrooms, i gill white sauce, i teaspoonful meat glaze (p. 140), salt and pepper. Cut the meat into six equal-sized slices of even thickness, pare them neatly into round or oval shapes, and flatten with a cutlet-bat. Heat the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them a light-fawn colour, and take up. Add to the butter in the pan the chopped shallots, fry without browning, add the mushrooms, also chopped finely, cook while stirring for a few seconds, mix the yolks of eggs with the hot sauce, and stir this in. Season to taste, add the chopped parsley and a few drojis of lemon-juice, place the fillets in this, and shake the pan gently over the fire, but the sauce must on no account be allowed to boil, else it wall curdle. Dish up the fillets in a row' on a thin bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over carefully, sprinkle over a few' drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Victoria. .\bout 3 lb. cushion or kernel of veal, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, i carrot, i turnip. I onion, i small bouquet of herbs, i oz. butter, gill white wine, l gill white stock, pepper and salt, 4 pint well-reduced bechamel sauce, 6 pre- served mushrooms, i egg, breadcrumbs, clarified butter or dripping for frying, piquante sauce. Trim the meat, free it from skin and sinew'S, line a braising-pan w'ith slices of bacon. Prepare the vegetables cut into slices, put DD