THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. 8o4 Whip half pint of cream and mix with a similar quantity of vanilla ice. Put the ice in a silver fruit bowl, and range the strawberries neatly on top. Garnish with a few crystallised violets to form a neat border, and send to table quickly. Flan de Praises a la Suisse {Swiss Strawberry Tart). Roll out some puff paste (feuilletage) about one-eighth of an inch thick. Line with it a flan ring, place it on a baking-sheet, ornament the edges, prick the bottom of the paste to prevent blistering whilst baking. All with raw rice or dried peas, and cook till done. Pick some ripe straw- berries — scarlet or forest straw- berries are best —mix them care- fully with a few drops of kirschwasser and some castor sugar. Remove the rice or peas from the baked tart crust, and fill with the prepared fruit, and force a neat lattice design of meringue on top, bake for about ten minutes. When cool, force out some red- currant jelly in the centre of the decoration. Bordure aux Praises a la Madrid {Strawberry Border). I pint vanilla bavarois (p. 771), -3- pint whipped cream, i oz. vanilla sugar, I oz. best rice, cooked in milk, a small punnet of scarlet strawberries, I gill of well-reduced wine jelly. Cook a handful of strawberries in a jar without water, sweeten, and strain two to three tablespoonfuls of this into the well-reduced jelly. Wash and cook the rice in milk, add a little sugar, and stir into the bavarois. Mask one or two border moulds with the prepared jelly (the latter must be a pretty red colour), decorate with picked strawberries and angelica. Stir about half the cream into the rice and bavarois custard, and when cool enough pour this into the prepared border moulds. Place it on the ice to set. To serve, unmould it on a round entremet dish, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream mixed with the remainder of strawberries, and send to table. Marrons au Moka {Chestnuts with Coffee Cream). 3 dozen large chestnuts (Spanish), 4 oz. sugar, 4 pint black coffee, i gill double cream, 3 egg-yolks, i inch vanilla pod. Slit the chestnuts, boil them long enough to remove the shells and inner skins, put them in a stew-pan with enough water to cover, add the vanilla pod and three ounces of sugar, cook until they are quite soft without breaking, and drain on a sieve. Put the vanilla pod in with the coffee, add the remainder of the sugar and the