VEGE TA BLES—L tG UMES. 625 bouchee cases with the mixture. Put them iu the ovcu for a few minutes to get hot, then dish up ou a folded uapkiu, garnish with parsley, and serve. Croquettes d’Asperges {Asparagus Croquettes). Cook a pint of asparagus points in salted water till tender, then drain. Put two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced allemande sauce in a stew-pan, add half a gill of cream, when thoroughly hot incorporate three yolks of eggs, add the asparagus points, season with pepper and grated nutmeg. Cook till the liaison is formed, then spread on to a plate and let cool. Shape into croquettes of even size, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up, and serve hot. Petits Pains aux Asperges {Asparagus in rolls). 8 small stuffing rolls or little dinner rolls, -i- pint asparagus points, l gill bechamel sauce, i tablespoonful cream, i yolk of egg, salt and pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the tops off the rolls, scoop out the soft part of the crumb, and place them in the oven to get dry and crisp. Boil the asparagus points in salted water until tender, drain, heat up the sauce, put in the asparagus, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, beat up the yolk with a little cream, and add to the above. Stir gently over the hre, long enough to bind the yolk, lastly add just a drop or two of lemon-juice, fill up the rolls with this, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. Pointes d’Asperges a la Royale. Cooked asparagus tips, re-heated in a rich allemande sauce, mixed with cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into julienne shapes (very fine strips), dished up, and sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. Ragout aux Pointes d’Asperges {Steioed Asparagus Points). Cut off the tops (green part only) of about eighteen sticks of asparagus previously cleaned, boil them in salted water for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put half an ounce of butter in a stew- pan, add the tops, toss a little over the fire, moisten with a table- spoonful of bechamel sauce, and one of cream, season v’ith pepper and grated nutmeg, shake continually over the fire until quite hot, and serve. Asperges a la Bernoise.—Freshly-boiled asparagus dressed on an oblong dish with alternate layers of grated gruyere cheese with some finely minced onions fried in butter put on top ; then sprinkle with grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven, and serve hot. — a la Fribourg.—Boiled asparagus, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese, and sauced with hot oiled butter. — a la Melba.—Giant asparagus, tied in bundles and cooked in salted water ; served with sauce Melba (p. 168). — a la Ni(joise.—Boiled asparagus, dished up cold and served with a specially prepared salad sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg- yolks passed through a sieve, vinegar, and seasoning. RR