624 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of salt in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Add a little pepper, some French mustard, and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Serve this in a sauce-boat. If cold, it can also be ser\^ed with a mayon- naise or vinaigrette. Asperges a I’lndienne. Cook the asparagus in the usual way, and serve it with a well- made mild curry sauce. Dress the asparagus on a hot dish, pom- over the sauce, and serve. Asperges a la Milanaise {Asparagus, Milanaise Style). Dress the cooked asparagus, after being well drained, on toasted bread on a dish. Arrange them so that all the heads are at one end. Cover the head portions with grated parmesan cheese mixed with an equal quantity of gruyere. Melt some fresh butter, season it with salt and pepper, pour this over the cheese-covered part of the asparagus. Place the dish in the oven for a few seconds to take colour, and serve at once. Asperges a la Vert-Pre {Cold Asparagus, moulded). Clean a small bundle of large green asparagus, peel the stalks lightly, and throw them into cold water. Tie them up into bundles of about twenty-five stalks each, cutting the ends evenly. Have ready a stew-pan half filled with boiling water slightly salted. Put in the asparagus and cook till tender. Take them up, and drain on a cloth or sieve, and let cool. Prepare a vinaigrette with sweet oil, tarragon vinegar, finely chopped parsley, tarragon leaves, and chervil, and incorporate this with aspic jelly. Set the asparagus, when cold, into a suitable flat mould, with alternate layers of pre- pared aspic—the first and last layers should be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice for about two hours. Turn out on to a dish with a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. Asperges a la Vinaigrette {Asparagus t&ith Vinaigrette Sauce). Cook the asparagus in water, place it on a sieve, and let it get cold. Dish up and put the dish on the ice till wanted. Serve with a vinaigrette sauce, composed of 3 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, I tablespoonful of best French tarragon vinegar, i tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon, i teaspoonful of finely-chopped gherkins. Season with salt and pepper, mix well, and use as directed. Bouchees d’Asperges a la Princesse {Asparagus Patties). Boil a pint of green asparagus points in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated lemon-rind, stir in the asparagus points, season with nutmeg and pepper, also a pinch of sugar, moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, and simmer for ten minutes. Just before serving bind the mixture with a yolk of egg previously mixed with a little cream. Stir gently until it sets, but do not let it boil. Fill some small puff-paste