6/8 THE NEW century COOKERY BOOK. Omelettes Duchesse a I’Ecarlate {Small Omelets sUiffcd with Tongue). 8 eggs, I tablespoonful rich chicken essence, a tiny pinch of ground mace, 5 slices of toasted bread, 8 oz. minced chicken cooked, mushroom and tongue trimmings for salpicon, meat glaze, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i table- spoonful grated cheese, salt and pepper, i pinch paprika pepper, 5 slices of cooked tongue, 3 oz. fresh butter, truffles, veloutee or other good white sauce for the salpicon, demi-glace or Madere sauce. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cream and chicken essence, and whisk till all ingredients are well amalgamated. Next stir in ■ the cheese and seasoning. Make hve small omelets of even size in the usual manner, using only just enough butter to keep the mixture from sticking to the pan. When ready for folding, place a tablespoonful of chicken salpicon in the centre of each, then fold and shape, let each take colour, and turn out on a slice of neatly- trimmed glazed ox-tongue. Place this on a similarly-cut slice of toasted and buttered bread. Proceed thus with the remaining four omelets. Glaze each with some dissolved meat glaze. Dish them up, pour some demi-glace or Madere sauce round the dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. Omelette aux Huitres {Oyster Omelet). 8-10 large oysters, i tablespoonful cream or milk, i oz. butter, 5-6 eggs, salt and pepper. Cook the oysters in their own liquor, drain them and remove the beards, and cut into small dice, beat up the eggs and add the cream or stock, season to taste with salt and pepper ; then add the oysters. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick hre till the eggs begin to set. Fold over and shape neatly (cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour, and turn out into a hot dish. Omelette a la Gordon. Prepare a plain omelet simply seasoned with salt and pepper, before folding put in the centre a few slices of truffle and a few slices of beef-marrow, previously blanched and cooked in Madere sauce. Now fold and shape the omelet, let it set and take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. Pour a little Madere sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Omelette Savoyarde. Beat up four to five eggs, add a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, and season with salt and pejqrer. Cut into small dice two cold potatoes, and fry in rather more than an ounce of butter in an omelet-pan, when nicely browned, stir in the eggs, etc., and shape into an omelet over a quick fire. Omelet au Jambon (Ham Omelet). Mince, not too finely, about 2 oz. of lean cooked ham, and mix with 6 well-beaten eggs, 1-2 tablespoonful of milk, and seasoning. Melt I oz. butter in an omelet-pan in the mixture, and finish as directed for savoury omelet (see p. 675).