STOCKS AND SOUPS. All thick soups owe their distinction and names to the materials used in the preparation, the thickening, which is either meat, game or poultry, in addition to flour, arrowroot, and other suitable liaison. The most popular thick soups are : Chicken (a la reine), Windsor (mutton and beef), real turtle, and mock turtle, ox-tail, mulligatawny, game soups, velou- tees (veal), duck, pigeon, turkey, etc. Purees are thickened by the ingre- dients of which they are mainly com- posed, principally vegetables, including carrot (Crecy), artichokes (Jerusalem), potatoes (Parmentier or Jackson), peas, cauliflower, marrow, cucumber, spinach, Brussels sprouts, etc. The latter are, as a rule, served without garnish. Creams and Filtered Soups.—Almost every puree or thick soup, with the exception of brown soups, may be converted into creams by using cream in place of some of the butter and yolks of eggs. On the other hand, many creams can be made into purees by omitting the cream and yolks of eggs, and stirring in just before serving a small quantity of fresh butter. The following are some of the most popular creams known : Asparagus Artichoke Barley Lettuce Peas Sorrel Cucumber Cauliflower Tapioca Semolina Oatmeal Leeks Bisques or Shell-fish Soups.—These are prepared with fish stock or meat stock, shell-fish, and the usual thickening. History shows that bisque soups were made between the years 1700-1730, though they were not in the modern form of a smooth puree, but more like stews, for, in addition to fisli, quails and pullets were used in the preparation, whilst the modern bisque is simply a puree thickened with flour or rice, accompanied with various garnishings. Bisques are usually made of one of the following : 1. Lobster. 2. Cray-fish or shrimps. 3. Crabs or craw-fish. 4. Mussels or oysters. They are usually highly seasoned, slightly coloured, and less thick than either a puree or thick soup. The garnishing as a rule consists of a simple accompaniment. Fish Soups.—These are generally more acceptable in the sick room than for the ordinary dinner - table. Oyster soup is the only kind of fish soup ever served in the ordinary way under this heading, although there are other fish purees or fish Celery Turnips Sago Etc., etc.