7or> THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in the form of a pyramid, pour over a little mayonnaise dressing, so as to thinly cover the surface, garnish with the lettuce hearts, sprinkle over with shredded chrysanthemum, and serve. Salade Mikado. Prepare the required number of cucumber cups cut out by means of a lluting-knife ; they must be made as thinly as possible. Cut three to four young cooked carrots into julienne strips, and a similar quantity of peeled ripe tomatoes, also about one-third of th« quantity of cucumber cut into fine strips. Season all carefully with salt, pepper, and tomato mayonnaise, then hll the prepared cucumber cups with this. Garnish to taste and dish up. Salade Mirette. This salad consists of very young lettuce-leaves, the heart of young celery cut into shreds, and hard-boiled white of egg. The whole is seasoned with mayonnaise, and when dressed covered with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse sieve. Salade a la Monte-Carlo. 4 ripe, firm tomatoes, 2 truffles, pint cooked asparagus points, 6 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), 2 lettuces, mayonnaise dressing, Krona pepper. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices, cut the truffles into thin slices, and the artichoke bottoms into shreds. Wash and trim the lettuces, mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with pepper and salt and a little oil and vinegar. Dress the whole in pyramidal form on a deep dish or shallow salad bowl, garnish round the base with groups of asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce, seasoned with krona pepper over the whole, and serve a boat of this dressing with the salad. Salade Monseigneur. I cucumber, i head white celery or endive, i apple, 2 truffles, i pimiento, 6 shelled walnuts, barb or capucine salad, vinaigrette, mayonnaise, cream, and seasoning. Peel the cucumber thinly, and cut it into eight or ten even-sized portions ; peel each in spiral fashion, being careful not to break the slices, the centre portion to be omitted. Shape each to its original size, and place in a pie-dish with a little vinaigrette. Cut the celery or endive and barb salad, after being trimmed and cleaned, into very small shreds, peel the apple and skin the walnuts, and cut these, with the truffles and pimiento, into hue strips. Season all carefully with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, and just enough mayonnaise and whipped cream to bind. Range the curled-up pieces of cucumber round the edge of a deep dish to form a border, put the prepared salad in the centre in pyramidal form. Besprinkle the salad with a little finely chopped chives, and place a small round of pimiento on top of each cucumber, then serve. Salade Murger (Calfs Head Salad). This is composed of calf’s head or calfs feet, boiled in stock, and cut into small shreds when cold. Mix this with small salad or shredded lettuce. Then season with a dressing made with oil, vinegar, salt,