539 COLD ENTRl'iES. aspic, and when this is thoroughly set partly fill the cavity with the dressed macedoine, iinish nj) with a layer of aspic, and turn ont on a round dish when quite set. Cat or stamp ont the cutlets, dish them up cn couronne on the aspic border. Heap up the re- mainder of dressed macedoine in the centre, finish with a few leaves of lettuce or endive, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Renaissance. 8 or 9 lamb cutlets, 6 oz. calf’s liver, 2 oz. butter, 12 preserved mushrooms, 4 oz. bacon, I small onion, I- pint aspic cream (p, 147), 3 tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, salt, nutmeg, aromatic spice, aspic jelly, salad for garnish. Trim, fry, drain, and press the cutlets. Slice the liver, bacon, and onion, and fry in the saute-pan containing the butter left over from the cutlets. Pound well, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spice, and rnb through a fine sieve. Return this to a basin and add the chopped mushrooms, and enough tomato (about two tablespoonfuls) to moisten the farce. Cover one side of each cutlet with this farce, smooth it well with the blade of a knife. Mix the aspic cream (liquefied) with about a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, season to taste, and coat the covered side of each cutlet with this sauce just as it begins to set. Place the masked cutlets on a wire tray on the ice. \Vhen set, dress the cutlets in the form of a crown on a round or oval dish. Adjust a paper ruffle on each cutlet bone, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely dressed green salad, and serve. Chaud-froid de Cotelettes d’Agneau (Lamb Cutlets). 1 best end of neck of lamb, carrot, -1- turnip, i onion, i small bunch of herbs, pint stock, i glass sherry, -} pint aspic, 4 leaves gelatine, gill cream, i gill velontee or bechamel sauce, -t gill tomato puree, salt, pepper, salad for centre. Trim, pare, and braise the neck of lamb, when cold divide into cutlets, trim, and pare them neatly, and coat with the following sauce ; Melt the gelatine and strain into the hot white sauce, add rather more than half the aspic, divide this in two lots, mixing one with tomato puree and the other with the cream, season to taste, and pass both separately through a tammy cloth. Coat half the cutlets with the white sauce and the others with the red sauce. Dish up the cutlets when set (en couronne) ; fill up the centre of the dish with seasoned salad. Noisettes d’Agneau a la Pompadour {Lainh Fillets). 2 lb. leg of lamb (kernel part), | lb. calf’s liver, foie-gras farce, 2 oz. butter, mirepoi-x, gill tomato puree, ]- gill Madere sauce, bottle finan- ciere garniture, i gill artichoke puree, 3 truffles, seasoning, pint aspic, 6 olives stuffed, ^ pint cooked green peas, gill mayonnaise, tomato and beetroot or pimiento salad as garnish for centre. Cut the meat crossways into slices, flatten them a little, and shape into neat oval fillets. Season with salt and pepper, and cook in butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. Take up and place the slices under press. Prepare the farce, first tossing the calf’s liver in a mirepoix of bacon, etc., and then pound with the foie-gras. Add a little tomato puree, and then rub through a fine sieve. After incorporating a little aspic, spread the surface of the cooked, pressed, and trimmed lamb fillets, smooth over