2CJQ DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). batter. Fried smelts are excellent cold as well as hot. The follow- ing method is a good one : \\'ipe the smelts with a damp cloth (on no account empty them), dip them in flour seasoned with salt, shake them, brush over with beaten egg, and then roll in panurette. This is a special kind of red breadcrumbs (a Continental preparation, which may be obtained at most high-class grocers), or, failing this, roll in ordinary breadcrumbs. Have ready some smoking hot fat, and fry the fish until golden brown. Drain on paper or cloth, dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and slices or quarters of lemon. Thinly-cut brown bread and butter should be handed round. Eperlans en Brochettes [Fried Smelts on Skewers). I dozen smelts, i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, clarified dripping or lard for frying. Wipe the smelts with a wet cloth, dry with a clean dry cloth. Dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Curl them up, and fasten each on a small skewer. Put them in a frying- basket and plunge into a pan of very hot fat. Fry the smelts a delicate golden brown. Turn them on a cloth or some kitchen paper and drain well, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Eperlans a la Celestine [Baked Smelts, CeUstine Style). I dozen smelts, -t pint pancake batter, lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), I truffle, 6 small prawns, i oz. butter, remoulade sauce (p. 158). Prepare very thin pancakes, spread one side of half the pan- cakes with whiting forcemeat, well seasoned and mixed with a little cream, press the plain pancakes on top lightly, and cut into triangles. Split the smelts longways, take out the bones, leaving the heads, but remove the eyes from them. Mix the remaining forcemeat with some chopped truffle, and fill the inside of the smelts with this. Cover one side of each triangle of pancake with a layer of forcemeat, place on them the smelts rolled up. Stand on a buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow <jven for fifteen minutes, dish up, garnish with prawns, and serve with remoulade sauce. Eperlans farcis a la Pouraine [Stuffed Smelts, Pouraine Style). 12 large smelts, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 6 mushrooms, parsley, butter, flour, bechamel sauce (p. 142). Clean the smelts, make an incision the whole length of the fish and remove the centre bone. Fill them with the forcemeat well mixed with the finely chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley. Close them up neatly, dip each in flour, place on a well-buttered dish ; pour over some oiled butter, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, cover with hot sauce bechamel. Brown the surface in the oven or under a salamander, garnish with lemon cpiarters and parsley.