ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 497 vegetable puree into two lots, add a yolk of egg and some forcemeat to one and rather more forcemeat to the other, so as to give botli two different shades of green, resembling asparagus tops. Butter thoroughly an asparagus mould, fill up with the darker green puree, then the lighter green, and lastly the white forcemeat. Place the mould in a stew-pan containing some hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about one hour or more, \^'hen done, turn out on a hot dish. Pour some hot supreme sauce round the base (jf the dish, and serve. The same dish may be served cold, omitting the supreme sauce, and adding a garniture of aspic jelly. Pillaff de Volaille (Chicken Pill an). I chicken or small fowl, i carrot, 6 black peppercorns, i piece green ginger (whole), I blade of mace, 3 oz. butter, i to 2 lb. scrag end of mutton, 3 small onions, i clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, salt, 2 cloves, 4 to 6 oz. Irest rice (Patna), i large tablespoonful curry or mulligatawny paste. Free the fowl from bone and skin, and cut into small conveniently- sized pieces. Put the carcase and bones in a stew-pan with the mutton, previously cut in pieces, add water and soup vegetables to make a stock, which should be allowed to boil for at least two and a half hours. Onion, garlic, green ginger, bay-leaves, and pepper- corns should be added, and the stock should by the time it is finished and strained produce about three pints of broth. Fry the pieces of chicken in butter to a nice pale brown. Pour off the butter, and put into a deep stew-pan, add the remainder of fresh butter, stir in the rice, allow to fry for several minutes over a moderate fire, then add the stock, stir over the hre until it begins to boil, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove. Mince finely one small onion, fry in butter a golden colour, add the curry-paste and mace, 'also a little good stock, mix well, add the chicken pieces, and mix the whole with the rice. Stir the rice, etc., occa- sionally, to prevent burning. Season with salt and pepper at the last. Just before dishing up fry a thinly-sliced onion in butter until nicely browned. Dress the pillau in a pile on a hot dish, strew over with thin strips of fried onion, and send to table. Poulet a I’Arlequin.—Breast and wings of chicken skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with tinanciere ragout. — saute a la Bayonnaise,—Chicken cut into joints and fried in butter, then stewed in brown sauce with coarsely minced ham, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes. Dressed in the centre of a border of stewed rice. — saute a la Bearnaise.—Saute of chicken finished in a veloutee sauce with the addition of meat glaze, white wine, chojiped parsley, and tarragon-leaves, thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — a la Beaulieu.—Chicken prepared like “ en Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added.