206 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. let cook for ten minutes ; moisten with the wine and stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns, stir until it boils, let simmer slowly for twenty minutes. If found too thick, add a little more stock. Pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the meat of the claws of lobster into neat dice, put them in a soup-tureen, together with half a gill of cream. Heat up the bisque, season to taste with salt, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne, stir into the tureen, and serve. The remainder of lobster meat will come in for cutlets, croquettes or bouchees. Bisque aux Huitres {Oyster Souf). 2 dozen sauce oysters, i oz. butter, i shallot, i slice of onion, i saltspoonful curry powder, 3 pints fish stock {or mutton or veal broth), i large table- spoonful cornflour, 2 egg-yolks, -f- pint cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Blanch the oysters in a small saucepan with their liquor, then drain, preserving the liquor. Beard half the oysters, and cut them into quarters, pound the remainder with the beards in a mortar to a smooth paste, and rub through a sieve. Chop the shallot and onion. Fry them in butter, just long enough to blend, without taking colour, add the curry powder, cornflour, and oyster puree, and moisten with the liipior of the oysters and the stock. Stir till it boils, simmer for about twenty minutes, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Now mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and incorporate with the soup, stir long enough over the fire to bind the former. Pass the whole through a tammy cloth. Return to the stewpan, add the quarters of oysters, re-heat, and serve. Puree aux Huitres {Oyster Soup). 2 dozen large sauce oysters, 2 yolks ot eggs, 2I quarts stock (white or fish), 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. blitter, i pint cream or milk, C lemon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Beard the oysters, preserve the liquor, cut them into halves or quarters, and put in a basin with a little cream. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and cook a little, moisten with the stock, add the beards of the oysters and the liquor, stir over the fire until it boils, skim and let simmer for half an hour, season with a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of ground mace. Put through a sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream or milk. Mix the yolks of eggs with the oysters, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and put with the soup. Heat up, but do not let it boil again. The soup is then ready for table. Bisque de Petoncles {Scallop Soup) 18 scallops, 4 oz. of butter, i small onion, 2 oz. Hour, i bouquet garni, 1 gill of cream, il quarts fish stock, i quart of milk, salt and pepper, 2 blades of mace, fried bread croutons, 6 peppercorns. Put the scallops in a stewpan with the fish stock, bouquet garni, half a dozen peppercorns, and the mace. Boil for twenty minutes, strain off the stock, and save for further use. Put aside the parsley and herbs, mace, and peppercorns, and chop the scallops finely. Peel and chop the onion, cover with boiling water, boil for five minutes, strain, put them in a stewpan with the butter, and cook