VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 647 of a vegetable cutter about -J- pint of small marble shapes, cook them iu salted water, drain well, place them in a stew-pan with a tablespoonfnl of liquid meat glaze and a pat of fresh butter. Put in the peas, a teaspoonfnl of castor sugar, a little stock or cream, cover, and steam very gently for about fifteen minutes, shaking the pan occasionally. Season to taste, add another pat of butter, dish up, and serve. Petits Pois au Jambon a la Fran(?aise {Green Peas with Ham). Put three ])ints of peas into a stew-pan with a sprig each of green onion, mint, and parsley, a tablespoonful of sugar, salt, and a pint of water, cover, and stew gently from twenty minutes to half an hour. Remove the herbs, if much liquor is left, pour off a little, and allow the remainder to boil down. Have ready about half a pound of lean ham, coarsely cut, fry it in an ounce of fresh butter, sprinkle with a dessertspoonful of flour, add this to the peas. Toss over the lire, dish up, and garnish with Fleurons (small lialf-moon shapes of puff-paste). Petits Pois a la Nantaise {Green Peas, Nantaise Style). Put a quart of young green peas in a stew-pan with two small |)eeled button onions and a cabbage lettuce tied iqr with string. Moisten with a gill of water and half an ounce of butter. Cover the pan, and cook quickly until the peas are tender. Take out the onion and lettuce, cut the latter into very fine shreds and return to the peas after draining off the water. Season with salt and pepper and half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Add a tablespoonful of butter to the peas, shake the pan well, and re-heat the peas, which are then ready for serving. Petits Pois a la Romaine {Green Peas with Lettuce). I pint cooked green peas, 2 button onions, i small cabbage lettuce, i oz. butter, a tew sprigs parsley tied in a bunch, a saltspoonful castor sugar, I- teaspoonful flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Peel, blanch, drain the onions, and chop \’ery finely. Wash and trim the lettuce, and cut the white leaves into very fine shreds. iMelt the butter in a stew-pan, fry the onions a pale golden colour, then add the shredded lettuce and fry for a few minutes. Add the peas and the parsley, stir or toss carefully for several minutes over a moderate fire, sprinkle over the flour, moisten with a few drops of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Add also the sugar. Allow to simmer very gently for ten minutes, remove the parsley, and serve. Puree de Pois Verts {Green Pea Puree). Boil a quart of shelled peas in slightly salted water till tender (a small pinch of soda or a teaspoonful of moist sugar should be added to preserve the green colour). When done, drain off the water, rub the peas through a sieve. Put the puree in a stew-pan with enough milk or cream to moisten, also a small piece of fresh butter. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till quite hot. Serve as a vegetable or as garnish for cutlets, etc.