so THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. it in cold water and allow it to drain. Rub thoroughly with a clean dry cloth and put them in their usual place. To keep copper articles bright for several weeks, an immersion in boiling ale used to be recommended in olden times. Steep the outside of the copper in hot ale and put-them near the fire to dry. Utensils thus treated must not be wiped after being immersed, STORE-ROOM AND LARDER. It is hardly necessary to state that both the store-room and larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; if this be neglected, they are apt to harbour disease germs. Both places should be large and airy, especially the larder. The store-room is intended for keeping dry goods, preserved provisions, etc., whilst the larder is used for storing perishable or fresh goods, such as meat, fish, and vegetables. Stores or dry goods bought in large quantities are usually cheaper, and it is advisable to provide ample room for proper storage of such articles. Groceries should, where possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at others. All these details should be carefully noted, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and prices paid. A dry room should be chosen for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves, and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, biscuits, etc., and a net for lemons and oranges. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Soap should be bought by the bar, cut up, stored with spaces between the pieces, turned at frequent intervals. Starch must be kept very dry. Rice, tapioca, and sago must be kept in covered vessels, or insects will get into them. Bread is best kept in earthenware pans fitted with a lid that has holes to admit air. If no pan is used, bread should be covered with paper or a clean cloth. Onions, shallots, leeks, etc., are best kept in the larder. Dried herbs in separate bags may be conveniently suspended from the ceiling or walls. Flour should be kept in an air-tight tin or flour bin ; it must be raised from the ground to prevent any damp causing rust. Butter should never be closely covered, or it will soon become x'ancid. It may be kept in an earthenware jar and covered, but the lid must be perforated. Milk absorbs germs of disease more quickly than any other food. Vessels, basins or jugs in which milk is to be kept, must be first washed and scalded in boiling water. The vessels containing milk should be covered with a clean muslin cloth or a piece of perforated paper. The floor and shelves of a larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; no stray bits of food should be permitted to remain in the