HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 405 with a layer of potatoes, add the stock, let it simmer for about two hours. This stew should not be skimmed, as the fat will be absorbed by the potatoes ; any scum on the top before it commences to simmer should, of course, be removed. When done, dish np neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. The stew, properly cooked, should not look watery. A tea- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added when the flavour is liked. Ragout de Mouton {Haricot Mutton). 3 lb. loin of mutton, 4 oz. butter, i oz. Hour, 2 pints stock, 2 gills haricot beans, 2 carrots, 8 to lO small button onions, i bouquet garni, a clove of garlic, 2 turnips, salt and pepper, \ glass claret. C-ut the meat into neat pieces, pare off the skin and fat, fry the pieces in the butter, let them brown, then drain. Prepare the vegetables, cut the carrots into olive shapes, and the turnips like pigeons’ eggs, peel the onions, fry each lot in the butter until well browned, and drain. Pour off some of the butter, put in the flour, fry a nut-brown colour, then add the stock, claret, bouquet (clove of garlic must be first fried a little), boil up whilst stirring. Skim, put in the meat, cook for about half an hour, add the haricot beans and fried vegetables, season to taste, and simmer gently till tender. When ready, dress the meat in the centre of a dish, surround it with groups of vegetables, reduce the sauce a little, and strain carefully over all. Rognons de Mouton a la Chinoise. 6 small sheep’s kidneys, 6 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, ^ pint cooked asparagus points, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel or veloutee sauce, chopped parsley, i gill tomato sauce, gill of oil, pepper and salt. Skin and wipe the kidneys. Split each without dividing entirely, and fasten on skewers. Season with pepper and salt. Melt one ounce of butter, and coat the kidneys thoroughly on both sides. Broil them over a clear fire from six to eight minutes. In the meantime put the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the asparagus points, toss over the fire till hot, moisten with the white sauce, and add a little pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Fry the yolks of eggs separately, in hot oil, and drain. Take up the kidneys, put a tablespoonful of asparagus points in the centre of each, place the fried yolks on top, dish up, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. Rognons sautes en Caisses {Sheep's Kidneys in Cases). 4 large sheep's kidneys, i shallot, i^- oz. butter, i dessertspoonful (level) flour, I gill rich brown stock or gravy, i small glass Madeira, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 8 rounds of fried bread to fit the bottoms of eight china ramequin cases. Immerse the kidneys in boiling water for a few seconds, remove the skins, split in halves, and slice them as finely as possible. Season with pepper and salt. Peel and chop or mince finely the shallot, fry in hot butter, add the sliced kidneys, toss frequently for about five minutes. Sprinkle over the flour, and stir a few moments longer over the fire. Add the stock or gravy, and the wine, stir until