THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 256 name, for which no corresponding term in English has ever been adapted. The recipe is as follows : 1 lb. of fish (skinned and boned—cod, salmon, turbot, or any other suitable fish), 2 small onions, i oz. butter, i small tablespoonful flour, i gill claret, ‘2‘ gill vinegar, pint stock, 2 or 3 ripe tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Peel and slice the onions, fry them lightly in a stewpan with the blitter, add the flour, fry a little, moisten with the stock, vinegar, and wine, stir, boil up, and skim. Put in the fish and tomatoes in alternate layers, both being cut into slices, simmer for about half an hour, season to taste, dish up, and serve. SAUMON—SALMON. Cotelettes de Saumon a ITndienne {Salmon Cutlets).^ 2 to 25- lb. middle cut of salmon, 2 oz. butter, about \ pint of piccalilli or mixed pickles, i gill Indian sauce (p. 150), i egg, a few small lobster claws, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Slit the piece of salmon down the back in two, take out the bone, remove the skin, and divide each half into three or four cutlet-like pieces. Trim neatly and season with pepper and salt, egg and crumb each cutlet twice. Heat the butter in a saute-pan ; fry the cutlets rather briskly on both sides. Drain carefully on paper or a cloth, insert small lobster claws in the ends, dish up in a circle on a thick or thin border of mashed potatoes. Have ready the piccalilli cut into fine julienne strips, and heated up in the sauce. Put this garnish in the centre of the dish, pour the same round the cutlets, and serve. Saumon a la Chambord. 4 lb. salmon, i| pint stock, ^ pint espaguole sauce, pint tomato sauce, pint white wine, i carrot, i clove, i oz. butter, 2 pats of fresh butter, a bouquet garni, 10 peppercorns, i teaspoonfulanchovy paste, juice of i lemon, 24 small fish quenelles, 12 small mushrooms, 8 crayfish, 8 oysters, 3 truffles. Wash and dry a middle cut of salmon weighing about four pounds, put it in a stewpan with the stock, carrot, onion stuck with the clove, white wine, one ounce of butter, bouquet garni, and peppercorns, season with a little salt, cover it over, and simmer slowly over the fire for about an hour. When done take up the salmon, strain the stock into a small saucepan, add the espagnole sauce (p. 148), and tomato sauce (p. i6o), let boil for ten minutes, skim well, stir in the fresh butter, anchovy paste, lemon-juice, and pass through a tammy cloth. Have ready the poached fish quen- elles, made with whiting forcemeat (p. 177), mushroom heads, crayfish tails, cooked oysters, and sliced truffles. Dish up the piece of salmon, remove the skin on the surface, garnish top and side with the garniture and a decorated hatelet skewer; and sauce over gently, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Darne de Saumon a la National. About 3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), i carrot, i onion, i turnip, a bouquet of herbs, i small piece of celery, 6 peppercorns, i quart of fish stock, 2 small cucumbers, i gill Chablis, 3 or 4 potatoes, salt, parsley, 3 oz. butter, i oz. flour, I gill of milk, grated nutmeg and pepper, i tablespoonful of cream. Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick. Line a buttered saute-pan with the thinly sliced carrot, turnip, celery, and onion.