THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 32 How to Mask or Coat Moulds.—See that the mould to be used is perfectly clean and dry, place it on the ice or in a small vessel containing enough crushed ice to keep the mould well surrounded. When the mould is cold pour in some cold liquid jelly or whatever is to be used for coating the inside of the mould. Now move it round on the ice, so that it (the jelly) reaches all sides of the mould, then pour the liquid portion out of the mould. This will coat or mask a mould with a thin layer ; if, however, a thicker coating is wanted, the operation must be repeated. Cutlet and other small fancy moulds are treated in the same manner for masking purposes. Aspic, wine jellies, sweet cream, chaud-froid sauces, etc., are used for coating or masking moulds. Aspic or Savoury Jelly {for Cold Entrees, Savouries, Hors d'ceuvres, etc.) I quart clear stock or water, 2J oz. gelatine (French leaf), the juice of 1 lemon and its rind, Jgill sherry, igill tarragon vinegar, ^ gill French wine or Orleans vinegar, i small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i small onion sliced, I bay-leaf, 10 peppercorns, 10 allspice, i blade of mace, a few celery leaves, ^ small carrot, sliced, ^ teaspoonful salt, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. See that all the ingredients are ready and the vegetables clean. Whisk up lightly the whites of eggs with the shells, and put them, together with the remainder of the above-named ingredients, into a well-tinned stewpan, stir with a whisk over the fire, and bring it thus slowly to the boil. Remove the whisk and draw the stewpan away from the fire, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a clean cloth previously steeped in boiling water and tied over a soup stand or the legs of a stool turned upside down ; or pass it through a warm jelly-bag ; if not clear at first, pass it through a second or third time. The aspic is then ready for use. This aspic is suitable for borders or decorative purposes ; if required for other purposes, 2 ounces of gelatine will be found sufficient. Socles of Rice for Cold Entrees, etc.—Wash some Carolina rice in several waters, put in a well-tinned stewpan, with about three times its quantity of cold water, heat up slowly and bring to the boil, then cook at the side of the stove or in the oven gradually until the rice is done ; the liquid by this time should be almost absorbed in the rice. Pound it in a mortar while warm, until it has the appearance of a smooth paste. Add a little salt to flavour, and press into a wetted mould. Set the mould in the ice for two to three hours. To unmould it immerse in hot water, turn out, and carve the side with a sharp knife to give it a more artistic appearance. Dress and use as foundation of cold dishes as required. Spun Sugar.—Weigh half a pound of best cane sugar and put it in a clean copper sugar-boiler (pan), add a gill of water and allow it to dissolve. Bring it to the boil, remove the scum and continue to boil till it registers 280 degrees on Senn’s Saccharometer ; this is called the small crack or hard feather. Now take a fork or spoon