THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S66 this the aspic and the gelatine, previously soaked ; when dissolved, strain and put back on the fire in a small stew-pan. Then add the egg-yolks, stir over the fire till the liaison is formed ; then add the chicken meat and ham, both chopped finely, also the capers (these may be left whole). Season to taste with a few drops of chilli vinegar, aromatic spice, and cayenne pepper. As the mixture begins to set, fill the bouche cases ; set them on the ice to cool, dish up, and garnish with small salad. Bonnes-Bouches a la Riviera. Prepare a choux-paste in the usual way with i gill of water, \ oz. of butter, 2 oz. of Vienna lioiu', i whole and i yolk of egg, and I oz. grated cheese. When finished, put the paste into a forcing- bag with a plain tube and force out small heaps of even size on to a greased baking-tin. Bake them in a fairly hot oven, cut a small piece off the top of each, and remove the inside soft part. Next prepare a mixture composed of one whole and one yolk of egg, beaten with a quarter gill of cream and six bearded oysters cut rather small. Mix this well ; season with salt and cayenne, and fill the choux-paste crust with it ; on top of each place a round of thinly cut gruy^re cheese. Bake in a slow oven from six to eight minutes, then dish up, and serve hot. Eclairs d’Anchois {Anchovy Eclairs). Bone eight to ten gorgona anchovies and wrap each in puff or rough puff-paste, or coat with choux-paste. Brush over with egg- yolk, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven. Petites Condoles a I’Anchois {Anchovy Gomloles). Line a nxnnber of little boat moulds with cassolette paste, fill them with anchovy custard. Sprinkle the top of the gondoles with brown breadcrumbs or pannrette, and bake in a very hot oven for fifteen minutes ; nnmould, dish up, and serve. Anchois a la Vatel (Baked Anchovy Savoury). 10 or 12 gorgona anchovies, lb. chicken forcemeat, a teaspoonful of finely chopped fine herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil—of the latter two only a very small quantity), about -V teaspoonful chopped shallot, | oz. of butter, 6 small preserved mushrooms, a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brown breadcrumbs, 12 fingers of toasted bread, 1-oz. of grated cheese. Wipe the anchovies carefully with a cloth, open the middle of each without dividing them entirely in halves ; trim off the head and tail portions, remove the backbone. Mi.x the forcemeat with the chopped herbs and shallot, and fill the inside of the anchovies with this ; press the fish together and put into shape. Butter a round silver or fireproof china dish, put each fish on a finger of toasted bread, and arrange them neatly on the dish so as to form a pleasing pattern. Chop the mushrooms very finely, sprinkle over the fish ; put the grated cheese and breadcrumbs in a similar way over the surface, place the remaining butter in little bits here and there ; wipe the edges of the dish, bake in a moderately-heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve at once.