AFTER-DINNER SA VO DRIES. «75 Pannequets Moscovite {Riissia)i Pancakes). \"ery thinly fried small pancakes (unsweetened), cut into squares, spread over with caviare, seasoned with cayenne, and rolled iq). Dish nj), and serve with quarters of lemon. Rissolettes a la Solferino {Austrian Pancake Fritters). 1 pint pancake batter, i oz. butter, 4 oz. foie-gras (potted), 4 mushrooms preserved), 2 oz. cooked sweetbread, i gill veloutee (p. 161) or bechamel auce, I egg, seasoning, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, and about 2 oz. chicken orcemeat. Fry some very thin pancakes, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows : Cut the foie-gras (with truffles), mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice, put this in a saute-pan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the yolk of an egg ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put it on a plate and let cool. Then shape into little balls, place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each, and fold over the same as rissoles. Brush over with egg, dip in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden colour. Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Friandines a la Westphalienne. About f lb. puff-paste, i oz. anchovy paste, 6 thin slices of raw Westphalian ham, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, -J gill bechamel sauce, gill cream, -J- oz. butter, the breast of a cooked pheasant or fowl, 2 small gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 3 slices pickled beetroot. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, cut into strips about two inches wide, spread half the strips with anchovy paste, and cover with the other half. Stamp out eight rounds two inches in diameter, also the same number of rings, but somewhat smaller than the rounds. Place these on a baking-sheet, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and let cool. Pound the cooked veal or rabbit in a mortar till smooth, add the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, the cream, sauce, and butter, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, work well so as to mix the ingredients thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread the large rounds with this puree, place the rings on top, put some of the puree in a cornet, cut the point, and shape a circle on top of the rings with the puree. Cut the slices of ham conveniently so as to form each into a roll, place on the puree (upright), hll the centre with ragout of pheasant or chicken, beetroot and gherkins, all cut into small dice and seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the top and sides with the remainder of the puree, by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a fancy tube, dish up, and serve. Petits Souffles a la Mirabeau. Make salpicon of foie-gras, sweetbread, cocks’ combs, and trntile. Moisten this with a well-flavoured Madeira sauce, and half fill with it a number of china or plated souffle cases (buttered). Put a dessertspoonful of cheese-flavoured choux-paste on top of each case, spread it over smoothly, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve hot.