SS6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. two hours. Mask a larger-sized charlotte mould with half-set aspic, garnish the sides and bottom of the mould with diamond- shaped slices of cooked ham and truffles, and coat with a thin layer of pink chaud-froid sauce flavoured with ham or tongue puree. W'hen set, place the ham mousse in this, fill up the sides with aspic, and set on the ice. Unmould and serve cold. Pates de Dinde ou Volaille {Turkey or Chicken Patties). Prepare a good light puff-paste, and make some small patty cases. A convenient plan is to order as many patty cases as may be needed from the confectioner—any good shop will be able to supply them at a few hours’ notice. The cases, whether home- made or ordered from the confectioner, must be empty, i.e. the soft portion must be removed from the centre of the pastry. To make the mixture for filling proceed as follows : Mince (not too finely) six to eight ounces of cooked turkey or chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinew (a little cooked veal may be mixed with it if needed), three to four ounces of cooked ham or tongue, and a few preserved mushrooms cut into dice. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, blend this over the fire without brovaring, then gradually add not quite half a pint of stock and milk. Allow it to boil whilst stirring. Cook for ten minutes, then strain, and add the minced meat, etc. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, also add a tablespoonful of cream and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and let the whole stew very gently for another ten or fifteen minutes. Re-heat the patty cases, and fill them with the prepared mixture. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. These pates are delicious either hot or cold. Galantine de Volaille {Chicken Galantine). I large fowl, i lb. veal forcemeat (see forcemeats) or i lb. sausage meat. 1 hard-boiled egg, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue and ham, 2 large truffles, 2 gherkins, 1- qz. pistachio nuts (peeled), meat glaze, aromatic spice, salt and pepper. Bone the fowl carefully, so as to remove the carcase completely without tearing the skin of the fowl (see p. 127), the skin of the legs and wings should be drawn inside. Slit the back of the boned fowl, and lay it out on a board, skin downwards. Season with aromatic spice, salt, and pepper, and spread the forcemeat or sausage meat evenly upon the fowl. Upon this put the tongue, ham, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and truffles, all cut into cubes or strips, distribute the pistachios evenly, and put a thin layer of the forcemeat over all. Form into a roll, sew securely, wrap up in a clean cloth, and tie the ends with twine. Cook in good second stock for about two hours or more, according to the size of the fowl, press till cold between two weighted boards. Remove the cloth and the twine, then glaze the galantine. Dish up, and garnish tastefully with aspic jelly and parsley.