768 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. arid roll in castor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon. Dish up, and serve with a hot or cold vanilla sauce. Beignets de Crepes {Pancake Fritters). 2 oz. flour, gill milk, i egg, i lemon, a pinch of salt, vanilla sugar, 4 oz. butter or lard for frying. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and stir the milk in gradually, beat up well and stir in the yolk of an egg. Grate half the rind of the lemon, and add it together with a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix gently with the above. Heat up the butter (clarified) or lard in a frying or omelet pan, when quite hot drop in the mixture by means of a dessertspoon, and fry a golden colour. Too many must not be fried at one time. As soon as they are fried drain on a cloth or paper, dredge well with vanilla sugar, dish itp, and serve hot with a lemon sauce or sauce citron. Crepes {Pancakes). 4 oz. of flour, I whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, -V oz. oiled butter, i t gill of milk, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt, beat up the eggs, and stir gradually into the flour, add a little of the milk and beat to a smooth paste, then pour the remainder of the milk in gradually, and the oiled butter, mix well, strain through a pointed strainer into a jug. Let the batter stand for some time before using. To Fry Pancakes, To fry pancakes successfully proceed as follows ; Put a very small piece of butteri in a pancake pan, when hot pour in a small quantity, say two tablespoonfuls, of the batter, to barely cover the bottom of the pan. Fry over a clear fire till one side is coloured, then toss it over and fry the other side, when done turn on to a clean board, dust with sugar, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, roll up or fold, and serve up on a hot dish. Pannequets au Confiture {French Pancakes). 3 eggs, I oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. flour, the grated rind of a iemon and its juice, a pinch of salt, i pint milk, clarified butter for frying, 3 tablespoonfuls of jam. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and beat to a cream. Add the flour, lemon-rind and juice, a pinch of salt, beat the mixture for ten minutes, adding gradually the eggs and milk. Continue beating for another ten minutes after the flour is added, and let the mixture stand for about an hour. Put a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in about a cupful of the pancake mixture, bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, when done, turn out on a board dredged with sugar, spread some hot jam on one half, and turn over the other half. Repeat until the batter is used. Creme brulee {Burnt Cream). i pint milk, pint cream, i dessertspoonful creme de riz, 6 yolks of eggs, i l oz. vanilla sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon.