240 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of cayenne ; fry the croutes in hot butter a nice light colour, drain well on a cloth ; when cold, fill up the prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. ’ Duchesses au Caviar. Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and force out little heaps of paste on to a greased baking sheet. Bake in a sharp oven to a light brown colour. Make an incision from the bottom of each little “ choux,” and scoop out some of the soft part. When quite cold, fill the little choux with Astrachan or hygienic caviare, previously “ iced.” Brush over with aspic mixed with meat glaze ; besprinkle with chopped pistachios, and dish up. Note.—There are many varieties of Duchesses, for in place of caviare they can be filled with savoury purees, such as ham, chicken, game, tongue, foie-gras, anchovy, sardine, lobster, smoked salmon, etc. The name given must, of course, vary in accordance with the puree used. The same remarks apply to ” Carolines.” See recipe for Carolines a la Reine. Caviar a I’Allemande. Cut some cold potatoes into thick slices and stamp out each with a fluted cutter, cover the edge with a thin strip of anchovy fillet, and fill the centre with caviare, then cover with coarsely chopped hard-boiled white of egg. Dish up and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Caviar a la Dauphine. Prepare some unsweetened choux-paste and force out little heaps (choux) on to a buttered baking sheet. Bake them in a sharp oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and scoop out the centre, soft part, of each. When cold, fill the cavities with caviare and place on the ice. When required for using, coat each with partially set aspic jelly. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Caviar de Biluga Glace {Caviare in Ice-shape). Half fill a plain shallow basin-shaped copper mould with water. Line the sides with sprigs of fresh watercress, and place the mould on well salted crushed ice. When the water in the mould is partially frozen (say about half an inch thick) pour away the liquid water from the centre. Dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds and turn out the shape, which then represents an iced dish or bowl. Place it on a folded serviette on a silver dish, and put in one or two pots of very cold Biluga caviare or other good Russian caviare. Garnish tastefully with thinly cut slices of lemon, and serve with thinly cut toasted bread or wafer biscuits. Caviar sur Canapes. Slices of buttered toast, Russian caviare, Spanish olives, parsley or watercress. Stamp the toast into rounds about one and a half inch in dia- meter, spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig of