THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 22 The first and most essential })art of cooking—no matter what process or method of preparation be adopted—is that the food treated by any culinary formula, simple or elaborate, must be capable of furnishing nourishment to the body and supplying new vital force to replace that w'hich is constantly being used up by the processes inseparable from life. It is not what we eat, but wfiiat we digest that keeps the body in health. The late Sir Henry Thompson \vas very clear about his opinion in this respect, for he said that more than half the disease which embitters the middle and latter part of life is due to avoidable errors of diet. It is evident that the business of a cook \vho know^s his or her profession thoroughly, must have a three-fold purpose in view, all of which are so important that, if one or the other is neglected or imperfectly understood, the result wall suffer. The dishes produced must be easy of digestion, capable of affording the full amount of nutrition that can be got from the food treated. They must be made pleasant to the palate, and toothsome in a high degree. And lastly, pleasing to the eye— indeed, the food must be so dished or dressed as to be acceptable to the eye and inviting in appearance. The cook’s business is by no means complete unless she or he knows how to make dishes presentable ; for a dish, even if w'ell cooked, if badly dressed and repulsive to the eye—is likely to produce disappointment and dissatisfaction to the diner ; and the success of an otherwise well prepared dish may become marred. WHO DISCOVERED FIRE? Strange as it may seem, no one has as yet been able to give the exact date wTen cooking proper was first introduced, for there was a time when man and woman ate their food raw. Both of them own an irredeemable debt to that primitive ancestor who first discovered how^ to make a fire and produce heat wherewith to cook —for without heat there could not have been any cooking. This discovery alone w^as and still is of inestimable value and lasting benefit to mankind. It is indeed not too much to assert that the real dawn of civilisation did not begin until that ingenious, though prehistoric, person first put twn and twn together—that is to say, raw food and the fire—and thereby discovered what may, in spite of its primitiveness at that period, be called the beginning of the art of cooking. No one will ever be able to dispute the fact that cookery is not only the oldest art, but unquestionably one ol the most useful and beneficent to humanity. So ancient an art should be, and deserves to be, duly honoured and not despised.