THE iV£I(' CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. chaptp:r XI. SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. The business of an intelligent cook is twofold : he or she must know how to please the eye, but above all the palate must be flattered as well, for “ where pleasures to the eye and palate meet, such work is done and the dishes are complete.” The best chefs de cuisine regard seasoning and flavouring ingre- dients as absolute necessities to carry out their object, because the success of their cooking depends largely upon their aid. But condiments for seasoning and flavouring must be used with skill, and above all sparingly. All palates do not crave for highly spiced foods, or for condi- ments, yet the majority of people demand that the food should be moderately seasoned with some kind of condiments, for the flavour of insipid food can be very much improved by the use of some suitable condiment. To flavour or season rightly is an accomplishment of no mean order. Consider how much food is spoilt through being over- seasoned, and how much of it is made insipid through lack of proper and sufficient seasoning. Almost everything we cook has a flavour of its own, the natural flavour, and to retain this becomes often a difficulty, because the great secret lies in bringing out the natural flavour, rather than imparting a new one. All those who have been initiated into the rudiments of cookery, as well as connoisseurs, must know that the success of any dish, whether plain or elaborate, depends to a very large extent upon its seasoning, and everyone who desires to master this art must care- fully study and observe all the rules pertaining to this important branch of cookery. Intelligence, carefulness, thought, sound judg- ment, a steady hand, and a keen perception of palate are qualifica- tions which every cook must possess in order to prepare food so as to make it appetising, pleasant to the taste, and in every way perfectly palatable. Well cooked and well seasoned food is admittedly more digestible than the unpalatable. An erroneous idea prevails that ” plain cookery ” requires no other flavouring or seasoning beyond salt, pepper, and, say, Worcester sauce or ketchup. It can easily be proved that there are a variety of inexpensive seasonings besides these which may with advantage be used for imparting a better flavour, whereby the monotony of plain dishes becomes considerably alleviated. It is most difficult to give any precise directions for seasoning ; experience alone will teach a cook. Tastes differ considerably.