2/1 Dh’I'SSJCI) I-ISll .1X1) I-1 SI I l-XIh’l-ES {IIOI the sauce boil again. I’nt tlie garniture in tlie centre ot the disli, sprinkle witli a little chopped parsley, and pour the sauce round the base ot the dish. When brill is not obtainable, plaice or tnrbot may be substituted. Filets de Barbue a la Madeleine (/'///c/.v of Brill. Madeleine Style). I t)rill, \ It), wliitiu.u; forccincaL (]>. 177). 1 tcaspooni'ul liiu-Iy choppril y'lvni Iht1)s, r 07.. l)uttc'r, .seasoning. ' f?ill I'ich white .stock, i c’"". " panui'ette ” for enunhiuE;. fryinsj-fat. fi'ied parsley. Sauce Marseillaise (p. 153). Fillet the brill, remove the skin, Ihitten the thick ends of the tillets, and cut into eight or ten nc;it oblong pieces of e\-en size. Season and cover one side with hsh forcemeat mixed with the herbs, roll np, place them in buttered paupiette rings, tind arrange them in ;i buttered saute-ptm containing the white stock (the latter must be well lia3'ourcd, otherwise add a small mirepoix). Co\'er with a buttered pa}ier, and cook for about lifteen minutes in the o\’en. When done, take up, let them cool a little, and then remove the rings. Dip each jxmpiette in beaten ('gg and roll in panurette or brown crumbs. Fry in dee]) fat, drain, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, place in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of hot Marseillaise sauce. Barbue braisee a FAmiral [Braised Brill). A large brill, mirepoix. \ pint Chablis. white stock. 12 oysters, 12 mussels, cardinal sauce, potatoes, truflles, lemon. Cut the tins and tail off the brill (or large ]daicc, if the former is not obtainable), place it on a bed of ^•egetables (mirepoix) in a turbot kettle, dark skin downwards. Moisten with half a [unt of Chablis wine and white stock, season with salt, cover, and braise over the hre till done, lieard the ovsters, egg and crumb them ^ in white breadcrumbs, and fry them in deep fat ; egg and crumb the mussels in red breadcrumbs (panurette), and fry likewise. Take np the fish, place it on a dish, arrange the ovsters and mussels alternately round the sides, sauce over with a nicelv flavoured cardinal sauce. Put a group of round potatoes (pommes Parisiennes, fried) on each end of the dish, and decorate the centre of the fish with thin slices of truffles and lemon ; ser\-e with a boat of cardinal sauce (p. 144). Barbue a la Russe. - Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with mushroom or Italieuue sauce, and glazed under the salamander. Brochet a I’Ancienne (Pike. Aiicie)il Sivlc).—Boiled pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. — a la Castelaine {Pike. Castelaine Sivlc).—Pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon, all finely minced, braised, served with white sauce, and garnished with dice of lobster, slices of truffles, and oysters.