79 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. WHERE ACTUAL BOILING HEAT IS REQUIRED. I3oiliiig heat is required for only live purposes : 1. In the hrst place, as a preliminary step in the cooking of meats in general. 2. For all green, and most other vegetables. 3. For rapid reductions of stocks. 4. For evaporating water from a sauce, an infusion or a decoction from vinegar, from wine or from milk. 5. For syrups of all kinds. For these purposes, and these alone, a cook should resort to what is known as quick boiling. Quick boiling can be brought down to slow boiling or simmering by the addition of cold water or cold stock. It is thus seen that boiling and simmering are quite distinct from each other. Quick and constant boiling will never yield, as far as meats, soups, ragouts, and some sauces are concerned, such good results as slow boiling, simmering or seething, as it is some- times called, will produce. When we speak of a boiled leg of mutton, or a boiled fowl or turkey, it is really not boiled at all—with the exception of the first stage, which occupies at the most from hve to ten minutes—but merely simmered. In boiling meat, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities is sure to escape into the water and steam, for which reason the quantity of water should not be more than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than is necessary to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its tenderness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior remains underdone. This is the reason that when the meat has been kept at the boiling-point about hve minutes, the temperature should be reduced, and the rest of the process be more slowly conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmering, and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum which rises to the surface of the water should be carefully removed while the water is near the boiling- point, as otherwise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Genuine boiling at the stated temperature must, therefore, be described as a temporary j^rocess, being as a complete process only available for the hve purposes already mentioned. “ Simmering,” on the other hand, is an operation with a varied scope in cookery, and as such can justly be described as the middle point of culinary heat applied for cooking certain foods.