THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 486 centre so as to receive the slices of truffle previously prepared, place these tastefully on the baked cases, and dress them round the croute. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Note.—These croustades or timbales make a very pretty second course or savoury dish, served by themselves or as a garnish. Poulet saute a la Chasseur. I fat chicken or fowl, -f oz. butter, ^ gill salad oil, i glass sherry, i small onion, 2 oz. raw ham, 6 oz. rice, i gill salmi or game sauce, } pint Espagnole sauce, 10 preserved mushrooms, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Draw, singe, and cut the fowl into neat joints. Put the oil and butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with pepper and salt, fry a light brown over a quick Are, add the onion, finely chopped, and the ham, cut into slices or squares. Fiy a few minutes longer, drain off the fat, add the sherry and Espagnole sauce, and let simmer slowly for about half an hour. Wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, and cook till tender with a little stock and the game sauce, season with pepper and salt. Put the rice in a buttered plain-border mould, pack tightly, and turn out on a hot dish. Chop the mushrooms finely, put with the chicken, add a few drops of lemon-juice, cook a few minutes longer. Dish up the chicken in the centre of the rice, slip a little cutlet frill on each end of the legs before the sauce and garnish are added, and serve. Poulet a la Chevriot. 1 Surrey fowl, 2 quarts veal stock, 12 small champiguoiis, 6 cocks’ combs aud kernels, 8-10 small button onions (peeled and blanched), 2 oz. butter. 2 slices sour apple, 2 oz. cooked rice, i pint veloutee sauce, 2 egg-yolks, I gill cream, i lemon, Fleurons (half-moon shapes of pastry), i teaspoonful curry powder. Truss the fowl for boiling, cook in seasoned veal stock till tender, cut it into neat joints, and remove the skin. Prepare a rich sauce. Blend the onions in a little butter, and cook in stock. Blend the