828 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the actual operation of freezing a mixture can l^e commenced. It takes from lo to 14 lb. of ice and about 4 lb. freezing salt to make from one to two quarts of ice. Glace a la Vanille ( Vanilla Cream Ice). I pint milk, pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, -J- vanilla pod, 3 to 4 oz. castor sugar. Boil the milk with the vanilla pod, add the sugar. Beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gradu^ly into the eggs, return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the custard clings to the spoon, but do not allow it to boil. Strain, when cool add the cream, and remove the vanilla pod just before freezing. Freeze the custard in the usual way. Vanilla Cream Ice {Another Method). IJ- pint of milk, i heaped-up dessertspoonful cornflour, 4 whole eggs, 5 to 6 oz. castor sugar, I teaspooniul vanilla essence, i gill cream, the juice of i a lemon. Boil the milk, add the sugar, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, beat up the yolks of eggs, and add to the cornflour. Pour the hot milk gradually on to this, stirring all the time. Return all to the stew-pan, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it thickens without boiling, then strain, and let cool. Add the strained lemon-juice, the vanilla essence, and the cream. Lastly, wliisk the whites of eggs and add to the mixture. It is then ready for freezing. Glace Napolitaine [Neapolitan Ice). 4 pint of .strawberry or raspberry pulp, i oz. chocolate, 6 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, 3 pints milk, i pint cream, 6 oz. castor sugar, cochineal, crushed ice, and freezing salt. Work the yolks of eggs with three ounces of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the remainder of the sugar, and pour on to the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Return to the stew-pan, stir over a slow fire until it thickens, and strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stew- pan with a tablespoonful of water, when dissolved, mix about one- third of the custard, work well and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of the custard, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the cream into equal })roportions with the three kinds of preparations, and freeze each lot sei)arately. Pack in layers in a mould. Cover closely and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. LTnmould, cut into convenient pieces, and serve. NEAPOLITAN ICE MOULD.