5 5 I CO/./) ENTRfiES. the slices of bacon, moisten with the stock and wine, })ut on a lid, and cook in a moderate oven from thirty to thirty-live minutes. Baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. When cooked take up, let cool, and cut into quarter-inch slices. W'arm up the tomato and veloutee sauce, add to it the strained liquor from the sweetbreads, dissolve the gelatine in a little water or stock, and strain into the sauce, which should be of a pale pink colour, add a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal if necessary. Strain the sauce into a basin, when cool mask both sides of the slices of sweetbread with it. Decorate one side of each slice with crown or star shapes of truffle and chilli skin. Fix the garnish with aspic, and when set mask over the whole with a thin layer of aspic jelly. On a cold silver dish have ready a socle or flat border of cooked rice, coated with the remainder of sauce and aspic, on it dress the prepared slices of sweetbread on the border, and serve as a cold entree for luncheon, dinner, or ball supper. Ris de Veau a I’Amiral (Chaud-froid of Sweetbread). Blanch, trim, and cook two or three nice heart sweetbreads in well-flavoured white stock till tender. When done, wrap them in a clean cloth and press them lightly between two boards. Ha\*e ready a white chaud-froid sauce, cut the sweetbreads into neat oval slices of even size, and mask each well with the chaud-froid sauce, decorate one side of each tastefully with thin slices of truffle (cut into fancy shapes). Prepare beforehand a daintily-decorated border of aspic, using plenty of vegetables for garnishing it. When set, turn out on a dish and dress the prepai'ed sweetbread slices round the border. Fill the centre with a richly-dressed prawn salad —i.e. a salad composed of lettuce, endive, prawns, and dressing. Ris de Veau a la St. Michel [Sweetbread, St. Michael Style). 2 heart sweetbreads, i terrine foie-gras, 2 truffles, mirepoix, etc., 6 to 8 cooked artichoke bottoms. Blonde chaud-froid sauce, macedoine of vegetaffles, mayonnaise, aspic, and seasoning. Blanch, trim, and press the sweetbreads. Insert some strips of bacon, and braise them with a mirepoix, etc. When cool, cut each in two lengthwise, and stamp out as many rounds of sweetbread as there are artichoke bottoms, and as near as possible to the size of the latter. Incorporate the essence of sweetbread with the chaud-froid sauce, and mask the rounds of sweetbread with the sauce as it cools. Stamp out some round slices of foie-gras some- wfflat smaller than the sweetbread, place these in the centre of the latter, and coat them also with chaud-froid sauce. Trim the artichoke bottoms, season them with aspic flavoured with lemon- juice, place the sweetbread on these. Stamp out star-shaped slices of truffle, and put one on each of the tops of foie-gras. Mask the whole with half-set aspic, and dish up in a circle on a round dish. Season the macedoine of vegetables with a little mayonnaise and aspic, and arrange in the shape of a dome in the centre of the dish. Garnish suitably and serve,