THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S30 Tetras d’Amerique a la Chasseur.—American goose stewed in brown Madeira wine sauce, with chopped mushrooms and shallots previously blended in butter. Andouillettes de Gibier* en Caisses. 4 oz. cooked game, freed from skin and bone, 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. lean bacon or ham (cooked), 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, i dessertspoonful flour, I egg, a little stock, lemon-juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, pepper and salt, nntnieg, pig’s canl, round or oval souffle cases. Chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms, fry the finely chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, stir in the Hour, and cook, while stirring, for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of stock, let it come to the boil, mix in the chopped meat, add a teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind w i t h the yolk of one egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of nut- m e g, a n d spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly- shaped, flat r o u n d s about the size of jiaper cases, enfold in pig’s caul, and fasten the ends with a little white of egg. Let stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases, fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, fry the andouillettes a golden colour over a moderate fire or in the oven, and drain on paper or cloth. Brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze. Pass in the oven for a few minutes, and put on beds of fried parsley in paper cases. Dish up and serve with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. Croustades de Gibier a la Gambetta. A CROUSTADE CUP. Prepare a rich ragoCit of game, the joints being cut rather small, and freed from bones. Add 2 to 3 sliced truffles and fill into croustades paste. Garnish the dish with small stuffed tomatoes and serve hot, ♦ Any kind of chicken, veal, pork, or any other meat may be substituted for game, but the name then changes; as, Andouillcltcs cic Volatile, .Indouilletles dc Vcaii, etc