463 CHAPTER XXIII. ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). (For Cold Entrees see Chapter XXV.) CANARD AND CANETON—DUCK AND DUCKLING. Filets de Canard a la Castillane {Fillets of Duck). 1 large duck, ^ lb. raw rabbit or chicken meat, 2 oz. panade, i} oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of demi-glace or Espagnole sauce, glass sherrj^ pint well-reduced tomato sauce, 2 oz. rice, 18 large Spanish olives (stoned), 2 truffles, pepper and salt. Remove the fillets from the duck, flatten each a little, cut out some rounds, pare neatly, and put in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with a very small quantity of sherry, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, just in time for serving. Pound the trimmings of the duck with the rabbit or chicken meat in a mortar until fine, add the panade, mix thoroughly, pound till smooth, adding butter, brown sauce, and a little of the tomato sauce if needed to moisten the farce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Pass through a wire sieve and fill up a small border mould (previously buttered), steam or poach for twenty minutes. Stuff the stoned olives with the remainder of the farce, poach them in a little stock and keep hot in the tomato sauce. Blanch the rice, cook in a little stock and tomato sauce, keeping it well moistened until quite cooked, then reduce until fit for moulding, season, and fill up a cylindrical-shaped buttered mould. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a dish, put the rice shape in the centre, dress the fillets of duck alternately with slices of truffles round the top of the border, arrange the stuffed olives tastefully round the rice shape, sauce over and around well with hot tomato sauce, and serve quickly. A salpicon of cooked duck, truffles, and mushrooms, all cut into small dice, and finished with a little tomato sauce, can, if liked, be introduced in the centre of the forcemeat. Filets de Caneton farcis a la Legumiere. Remove the backbone from a large-sized duckling, lay it out flat, and take out the other bones ; have ready some veal force- meat (p. 177), spread the stuffing over every hollow place of the interior, lay a few strips of raw ham in between the forcemeat, tie or sew up the duckling with string. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, together with a small bouquet garni and a few slices of onion, lay the duckling in the pan, season