THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. JOIO LUNCHEON MENUS, (DEJEUNERS A LA FOURCHETTE.) The word “ lunch ” is said to be derived Irom the Welsh “ llwnc,” which is a variation of “ lump.” In bygone days lunch or luncheon meant simply a lump of bread and cheese partaken between meals—a frugal bit—but now the lunch, more especially among the upper classes, has become a fashionable meal, and one quite as important as the dinner of former times. To an intelligently minded chef or cook-housekeeper few meals offer better opportunities for composing smart little dishes at comparatively little expense than the lunch or luncheon. There are many dainty dishes, which can be prepared with little trouble, suitable for luncheon. The following specimen Menus will give ample information as to the kind of dishes best suited for luncheon or a French ‘‘ dejeuner.” It will also be noticed that no hard-and-fast rule exists in the composition of these menus ; although the gastronomic rule which is strictly observed for dinners is jiractically ignored in the case of a luncheon bill of fare, it recpiires some judgment to introduce the right kind of dishes, SPECIMEN DEJEUNER OR LUNCHEON MENUS. French. CEufs pochfe aux epinards. Coquilles de turbot i la creme. Rognons sautes en caisses. Champignons 4 la Reine. Pommes de terre Anna., Creme en tapioca. Dessert. Thou marine, celeri-rave. Saucisses au riz. Chateaubriand a la moelle. Puree de pommes. Chaud-froid de perdreau. Souflle a I’arrowroot. Omelette au jambon. Blanquette de veau. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Cdtelettes de pre-sale. Haricots verts. Compote de fruit. English. Poached eggs with spinach. Shells of lobster, cream sauce. Sauteed kidneys in cases. Mtishrooms, Queen style. Anna potatoes. Tapioca mould. Dessert. Tunny fish and celeriac. Grilled sausages with rice. Double fillet of beef with marrow fat. Mashed potatoes. Chaud-froid of partridge. Baked arrowroot souffle. Ham omelet. Stewed veal in white sauce. - Potato croquets. Grilled mutton cutlets. French beans. Fruit compote. Croquettes d'huilres. Foie de veau saute. ^, Pommes chateau. Terrine de lievre a la gelee. Souffles a la vanille. Oyster croquets. Calf’s liver saute. Castle potatoes. Hare pie in jelly. Vanilla soufflfis.