THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 714 Salade a la Bagration.—Finely shredded white celery, artichoke bottoms cut into small dice, and cooked chicken fillets and macaroni, cut very small, blended with tomato flavoured mayonnaise ; decorated with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, ox-tongue and truffles, and finely chopped pai'sley. — de Bananes [Banana Salad).—Sliced peeled bananas, dressed with salt, pepper, sugar, and white wine, or with mayonnaise. — a la Beaucaire.—Finely cut strips of white celery, russet apples, endive, preserved mushrooms, cold potatoes and ham blended with mayonnaise flavoured with tarragon and chervil, then dressed in salad bowl with a border of beetroot and cold potatoes. — a la Brissane.—Cooked French beans, raw tomatoes, peeled and cooked artichoke bottoms, all cut in julienne strips ; dressed with oil and vinegar. — a la Cazanova [Cazanova Salad).—Prepare some finely shredded celery, truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs ; season with mayon- naise sauce and finely chopped salad herbs and shallots. Dish up neatly in a salad bowl and serve. — a la Chasseur {Hunter’s Salad).—Cooked chicken fillets, cold potatoes, tomatoes, celery, beetroot, and sour apples, all cut in thick julienne strips ; dressed with tartare sauce. — de Chou-rouge [Red Cabbage Salad).—This salad is composed of pickled red cabbage, and is garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — Cressonniere.—A nicely-seasoned potato salad, mixed with small slices' of lobster, watercress, and hard-boiled eggs (chopped), also finely chopped parsley. — Danicheff.—Blanched celery knobs, cold potatoes, artichoke bottoms and mushrooms, cut in thin slices, seasoned with mayonnaise and mixed with crayfish-tails, garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs and truffles. — Danoise [Danish Salad).—Sliced peeled tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, green peas, pickled button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — Demi-Deuil.—This consists of equal quantities of cold potatoes and truffles, cut in julienne strips, carefully blended in layers with whipped cream flavoured with mustard. — a la Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroot, gherkins or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixtui'e of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce-leaves. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums, stoned, and stuffed with rather firm tartare sauce. — d’Estrees.—Finely cut strips of white celery and truffles in equal proportions, seasoned with mayonnaise, flavoured with mustard and cayenne. ■— d’Ete [Summer Salad).—This is a kind of lettuce salad, a mixture of lettuce and cucumber, cut into thin slices, seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with small radishes.