ENTRliES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). S2I dress the escalopes round this, and range the pasted- cups with potatoes round the base of the dish. Sprinkle a dittle chopped parsley over the potatoes and the sprue. Pour a little sauce round the base of the dish and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. Cailles poelees a la Parisienne {Quails in Casserole). 6 quails, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper ami nutmeg, parsley, 3 or 4 chicken livers, i gill demi-glace or sauce Madere, i gill milk, a handful of bread- crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, i shallot, about 6 slices of bacon. Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the milk in a stew-pan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, when boiling stir in the breadcrumbs and simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg- yolks. Cut up the chicken livers small, saute them in butter in which a hnely-chopped shallot has been blended, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the liver, etc., through a sieve. Mix the puree with the breadcrumbs, etc., and stuff the birds with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in a casserole with the remainder of butter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi-glace or Madeira). Cailles Farcies aux Nouillettes (Stuffed Quails with Nouilles). 4 cpiails, mirepoix, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful Indian chutney, ] lb. chicken farce, i oz. butter, i terrine or tin foie-gras naturcl, 2 oz. ham, i glass port wine, I gill demi-glace, i dessertspoonful Lemco, i teaspoonful red-currant jelly, i lb. nouille paste, seasoning. Bone the quails, season the inside, and coat with a very light chicken farce, to which a little rich cream has been added. Insert a fair sized piece of foie-gras in the centre of each, and truss the birds for braising. Braise them on a bed of mirepoix in the usual way, and when done glaze them and let cool. To the mirepoix add the bones of the quails, and fry them a little over a quick fire ; pour off the fat, and add the demi-glace sauce and a little stock. Reduce well, and add the Lemco, strain into a small stew-pan. To this add the port wine, red-currant jelly, and chutney, reduce again, and strain. Keep hot with the quails. Make a neat border of nouille paste, fix it on a round entree dish, brush over with egg, and bake. With the remainder of this paste make very small nouilles (cut into fine shreds), cook these in salted water, and drain. Next fry or saute them in butter, season to taste, and mix with finely shredded ham or tongue. Arrange this in the form of a pyramid in the dish with prepared border. Dress the quails on top, sauce over carefully, and send the remainder of the sauce to the table. Cailles en Feuilletage [Quails in Puff Pastry). Bone four cjuails, stuff them \w\ih. liver farce (p. 178), and braise them in a mirepoix with a little rich and well-flavoured stock. Take up, let cool, and cut each bird in two. In boning the quails do not remove the legs or feet. Enfold each quail in a round piece of good puff-paste, leaving the foot out, brush over with egg, and