233 IIORS-D'CE U VRE {A PPETISERS). Eclairs a la Sevigne. Prepare a choux-paste (unsweetened). With this paste prepare a number of small finger-shaped rolls and place them on a greased baking-sheet, then bake them in a fairly hot oven. Slit the side of each eclair, and take out some of the soft portion of the pastry, and let cool. Fill each with foie-gras ci'eam, mixed with chopped truffle and champignons. Mask the eclairs with brown chaudfroid sauce, and glaze with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Frivolites Bohemienne. This consists of a variety of hors-d’oeuvre dishes, one being made of very small timbales coated with aspic and asparagus cream, then filled with smoked salmon cut into fine shreds and blended with mayonnaise. The moulds should first be decorated with thin strips of truffle. Another dish is composed of herring fillets, a third A SELECTION OF HORS-D’cEUVRE, FRIVOLITE STYLE. dish of plovers’ eggs or slices of hard-boiled egg, yolk removed and centre filled with caviare garnished with crescent shapes of beetroot ; a fourth dish consists of small foie-gras canapcA, triangular, square or oblong shapes, garnished with very small red radishes. A dish of sardines, smoked lax or tunny fish, suitably garnished, completes the selections of Bohemian or Russian Frivolites. Feuilles de Laitue aux Crevettes. 2 cabbage lettuces, i gill picked shrimps, i gill vegetable macedoine, i gill mayonnaise, 8-10 prawns, seasoning, capers and beetroot for decoration. Wash and drain the lettuces, spread the best and largest leaves on a cloth, and stamp out into i6 rounds by means of a 2-t-inch and a 2-inch paste cutter, eight of each size. Mix the shrimps and cooked vegetable macedoine with enough mayonnaise to season, then add the prawn tails cut up into small dice, and season with salt and pepper. Put a small tablespoonful of this in the centre of each of the larger lettuce leaves, and cover with the smaller leaves. Force a little mayonnaise in the centre of each top, and place on a prawn head, round this force little dots of mayonnaise, on to which put a small ring of pickled cucumber or beetroot with a few capers in the centre. Dish up, and serve.