THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 690 pour over half an ounce of butter cooked to a nut-brown colour with a dash of tarragon or chilli vinegar. Sprinkle with a few fried breadcrumbs and send to table. (Eufs a la Waldimir. Carefully break six fresh eggs into a buttered fireproof dish, cover with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, add a little grated parmesan cheese, bake slightly in the oven, and send to table with supreme sauce poured round the base of the dish. Cotelettes aux (Eufs {Egg Cutlets). Mince not too finely some hard-boiled eggs, prepare with these a salpicon by adding grated cheese and herb seasoning, raw yolks, and white sauce, re-heat and let cool, then shape into cutlets, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in deep fat. Ragout d’CEufs a la Frangaise. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, with truffles and morels or mushrooms, stewed in brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice and fine herbs. (Eufs en Cocottes. 6 to 8 eggs, a little butter, i tablespoonful finely chopped par.sley, 6 to 8 dessertspoonfuls cream. Butter six to eight small fireproof pipkin pans, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Break an egg carefully into each, with a dessertspoonful of cream. Bake slowly till set. Dish up and PIPKIN pan. serve in the pipkin pans. (Eufs brouilles a ritalienne {Italian Scrambled Eggs). Scrambled eggs placed in centre of a risotto border, i.e. cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; a little tomato sauce poured round the base of the dish. (Eufs brouilles an Jambon, Scrambled eggs mixed with finely-shredded or minced ham. (Eufs a la Creole, Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, slightly poached eggs placed on each, and finished cooking in the oven ; bechamel sauce poured round base of dish. (Eufs a la Mode de Caen. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slices of fried Spanish onion. (Eufs a la Carmelite. Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked in the oven. (Eufs a la Chipolata, Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take the size of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs ; garnished with braised button mush- rooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes. Sauce Madere poured round the base of dish.