159 SA UCES. a sieve. Put the sauce and stock in a stew-pan, let it boil np together, skim, and reduce a little. Whisk in, by degrees, the green puree. Season to taste with pepper and salt, strain through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, and keep hot in a bain-marie until required for serving. Do not allow the sauce to boil again after it has been strained, or else it will become oily, Sauce Russe [Russian Sauce). Chop finely 2 oz. of lean ham, 4 peeled shallots, and fry in butter (about ^ oz.) for a few seconds, then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a glass of white wine ; cover, and let reduce to about half the quantity. To this add about a pint of veloutee or allemande sauce, and allow to cook gently for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, and add a tablespoonful of finely grated horse-radish, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pass through a sieve or tammy cloth. Re-heat, stir in a pat of fresh butter and a tea- spo,onful of meat glaze. This sauce is excellent with grilled fish or fillets of beef. Sauce Salmi, or Salmy. I teaspoonful red-currant jelly, pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i gill of game stock, carcase of cooked game, 2 shallots, i bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some mushroom trimmings, i glass port wine, i tablespoonful sweet oil. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry in oil a golden colour, add the bay-leaf, thyme, and mushroom trimmings, chop up the carcase of game, and fry a little in fat or butter, drain, and put with the above preparation, add the port wine, cover the stewpan, and cook them for five minutes. Moisten with the stock and sauce. Stir well and let simmer for ten minutes. Skim well, strain or tammy, season to taste, add the red-currant jelly, heat up and serve. Sauce Suedoise [Danish Sauce). I gill mayonnaise, f- gill cream, i teaspoonful of French mustard, 2 table- spoonfuls finely grated horse-radish. Whip the cream, stir in gradually the mayonnaise, grated horse- radish, and mustard ; add a pinch of castor sugar, and a little salt if needed. This sauce is especially suitable for salads, roast game, etc. Sauce Suedoise [hot) [Swedish Sauce).—Make a bechamel or other white sauce, flavour it with grated horse-radish and chilli vinegar, and serve with roast poultry or grilled meats. Sauce Spadacini. I gill white wine, t gill vinegar, 2 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of basil. I teaspoonful crushed mignonette pepper, i tablespoonful white sauce—bechamel (p. 142) or allemande (p. 141), i tablespoonful tomato sauce (p. t6o), i small terrine foie-gras (about 3 oz.) freed from fat, i yolk of egg, I oz. butter, 2 pinches of cayenne. Put the wine, vinegar, shallot (chopped finely), herbs, and peppercorns in a stew'pan, cover, and reduce to one half of its original quantity. Add the two kinds of sauces, boil up, and pass through the tammy. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolk