\ ’EGET. 1 BEES—LEG UMES. 667 Place them in liut cinders and allow to cook for abont an hour. \Mien the truffles are cooked, dress them on a hot dish, co\-ercd with a folded napkin, send to table with a boat of light brown sauce llavoured with champagne. Truffes a I’ltalienne. Slices of truffles, tossed in fresh butter, with linely-minced shallots and parsley, moistened with brown sauce and lemon-juice. Season with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Heat up well before serving. Truffes en Belle Vue. Peeled fresh truffles cooked in rich stock, Madeira or cham- ])agne, and meat extract, served in small, thin, pastry-crust cuji shapes. Truffes a la Rothschild, Peeled fresh truffles, coated entirely with light chicken farce, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, dressed in pyramid form, and garnished with fried parsley. Truffes a la Serviette. Large fresh truffles, brushed, peeled, and cooked in white wine and stock, drained and served cold on a neatly folded napkin. Buisson de Truffes a la Royale. Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, then cooled, drained, and served on an oval-shaped bread- crust, dished on a folded napkin, decorated with silver skewers stuck with slices of truffles and sprigs of parsley. Puree de Truffes {Truffle Puree). ■ iMashed or finely chopped truifies, tossed in butter, and served with very little brown sauce. How to heat up Preserved Vegetables. Tinned or bottled vegetables are frequently used, especially during the winter months, when fresh vegetables are scarce anti dear. The best way to heat up preserved flageolets, macedoine, peas or French beans, is to put the contents of a tin or bottle into a pointed strainer or colander, hold it under the water tap, and let the water run freely over the vegetables for a few minutes. Shake the strainer or colander so as to drain the vegetables, then put them into a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling, slightly- salted water. In the case of peas a little green or dried mint should be added. Boil c}uickly for at least five minutes and drain off the water. Add pepper and a little salt to taste, also a pat or two of butter according to the quantity of vegetables used, and shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes longer. The vegetables are then ready for serving.