THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 484 Draw, singe, and wipe the chicken, and cnt it into small joints. Beat up the eggs, melt the butter, mix both together, add the chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Dip the pieces of chicken in this, cover with breadcrumbs, when set repeat this operation. Fry in hot lard or butter a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramid form, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Unless the chicken used be young and tender, and the joints be cut small, this dish will not be a success. Cold pieces of fowl or game can be served in the same way, but should be skinned before being egged and crumbed. Poulet frit a la Villeroi [Fried Chicken). I fowl, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, 2 cloves, and savoury herbs, i pint stock, 2 oz. butter, \ oz. flour, i glass white wine, 3 yolks of eggs, i whole egg, lemon-juice, l>readcrumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, parsley. Braise the fowl in the usual manner, and cut it into neat joints. Put the carcase into the stewpan in which the fowl has been cooking, remove the fat beforehand, add the wine, and boil up. Strain or reduce the stock a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (i oz.), but do not allow it to brown, stir in the stock, add the juice of half a lemon, and let reduce to a moderate consistency. Stir in the egg-yolks, and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled, cover each piece completely, and put in a dish. When set, brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Quenelles de Volaille [Chicken Quenelles) I fowl, weighing about il lb., i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill milk or white stock, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning, bechamel sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, dilute with the milk or stock, stir until it becomes a smooth paste, that leaves the sides of the stewpan clean, spread on a plate to cool. Pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar till smooth, work in by degrees the panade, eggs, and cream, season with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a saute- pan, shape some quen- elles by means of two spoons, dip one spoon into hot water and fill w i t h forcemeat, smooth its surface with a knife dipped in hot water, and remove the quenelle with the second spoon, and place on to the saute-pan. Pour boiling stock or water carefully around the quenelles, and poach them for about fifteen minutes. When done, take np, drain