THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 502 Timbales de Poulet a la Meridionale.—Chicken timbales, prepared with finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce, and panade, flavoured with a little Worcester sauce. Filled in well-buttered timbale moulds with some well-reduced tomato puree in the centre. Steamed in the oven, and served with Madeira wine sauce. Blanquette de Volaille en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed chicken, garnished with shredded truffles and mushrooms. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Montpensier.—Chicken fillets chopped finely, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Wellington.—Chicken legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Epigrammes de Volaille a la Villeroi.—Fillets of chicken seasoned and slightly broiled; immersed in veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried served with tomato sauce. Filets de Volaille a la Marcelle.—Chicken fillets, crumbed and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce Godard, flavoured with paprika. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets made into a light farce, filled into quenelle moulds, with cooked chicken and sweetbread, salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Quenelles de Volaille a I’ltalienne.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, with chopped preserved mushrooms in centre of each, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown sauce, containing truffles, slices of mushrooms, chopped parsley, and chopped cooked ham. Souffle de Volaille a la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched witli cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Supreme de Volaille a la Royale.—Stewed chicken fillets dished up in the centre of a vegetable border, garnished with fancifully cut slices of ox-tongue, truffles, and macedoine of vegetables. Served with supreme sauce. Poussins a la Giscour.—Braised poussins (chic-chickens). This form of braising is known as “ poeler.” Sauce demi-glace, flavoured with port wine, garnished with artichoke bottoms and cepes previously fried in oil. DINDE—TURKEY ; DINDONNEAU-YOUNG TURKEY. Dinde a la Florentine [Turkey, Florentine Style). Truss a small young turkey the same as for boiling, cover the breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham, upon this place 2-3 thin slices of lemon and a small bay-leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper, and place the bird breast upwards in a stew-pan large and deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery, and a little savoury herbs. Add an ounce of butter, a pint of well-seasoned stock, and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place it in a hot oven and cook