349 CHAPTER XX. LIGHT ENTREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGERES. (For Cold Entrees, see Chapter XXV.) Under this title a selection of recipes are given of typical light entrees, but there are many dishes in the other sections of entrees that can be included under this heading—notably Quenelles, Boudins, Mousses, Timbales, Beignets, Souffles, and other light dishes. When two entrees are served, the light dish should take the lead. Beignets de Ris de Veau en caisses [Sweetbread Fritters in Cases). Cut a cooked sweetbread (boiled or braised) into convenient sized slices, season them, egg and crumb them, or dip each in a light frying batter (p. 135). Fry them in clarihed butter or dripping to a golden colour, drain, and place them into oblong ramakin cases, garnish with fried parsley (p. 122). Dish up and serve with tomato sauce (p. 160), Beignets de Volaille [Chicken Fritters). Cut a boiled or roasted chicken into small joints, remove the skin and bones, place the pieces in a deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, chopped parsley, a little oil and vinegar, and let them stand for an hour or longer. Drain the pieces, coat them with frying batter (p. 135), and fry in hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a suitable sauce. Beignets de Cervelle de Veau [Calf’s Brain Fritters). Boiled calf’s brain, drained, divided in pieces, and dipped in frying batter, then fried in deep, hot fat. Drain, dish up, and serve. Beignets de Pied de Veau [Calf's Foot Fritters). Cooked calf’s foot cut in strips, marinaded in oil, vinegar, parsley, etc., coated with batter, and fried in deep, hot fat. Drain, dish up, and serve. Petites Bombes a la Milanaise. I lb. veal, rabbit, chicken or game, 2 oz. paiiade, 3 yolks and i white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls white or brown sauce, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful sherry or Madeira wine, i dessertspoonful of chopped truffle peelings or truffle trimmings, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord or tomato sauce. Cut up the meat, which must be freed from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade, eggs, and sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix in d oz. of butter, and pass through a line wire sieve. Butter some little bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with tips of