382 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. spinach leaves, and make np into ball shapes with the sausage or farce meat, being careful that the latter are well enclosed in spinach. Range the shapes thus obtained in a buttered saute - pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten with the gravy, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter on top. Cook this in the oven, covered, for about thirty minutes. Blanch the beef-marrow, and drain on a cloth,’^' then put in a baking-tin, and re-heat in the oven. Melt the meat glaze and remainder of butter together, add i teaspoonful parsley and lemon-juice, with this glaze the slices of marrow. Dish up the spinach in a suitably shaped dish, place a slice of marrow in each shape of spinach. Pour the remainder of gravy and glaze round the base of the dish, garnish with ileurons, and serve hot. Condoles aux Epinards {Spinach Gondolas). Pick and wash 2 or 3 lb. of spinach, blanch it, and cook it in very little water (salted) till tender, then drain and rub through a fine sieve. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, fry in it a shallot finely chopped, and stir in a scant tablespoonful of flour. Then add the spinach, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; stir till cpiite hot, and add half a gill of cream and a little gravy. Keep hot. Line 12 boat-shaped moulds with thinly rolled-out short crust or rough puff paste, fill them with rice, and bake to a golden brown. Take out the rice and fill them with the prepared spinach. Put a fancifully cut piece of hard-boiled egg on each end of the little boats, and a triangular shaped piece of baked nouille paste (to imitate sails) in the centre of the spinach. Dish up, and serve with the lamb brochettes. Souffles aux Pols nouveaux {Souffles of Green Peas). Rub 3 pints of cooked green peas through a sieve, incorporate with this puree 2 oz. of fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 or 3 Mablespoonfuls well reduced bechamel sauce, and lastly the whites of 2 eggs whisked stiffly. A little sugar and salt should be added to season before mixing the whites of egg. Should the mixture not be green enough, add a little spinach puree or spinach greening. Butter 8 fluted timbale moulds, place a thin round of lean ham in fhe bottom of each mould, and fill np with the puree.