COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 777 chocolate custard or prune cream. When set, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, garnish with chopped jelly, and serve. Note.—By way of a change, bananas, peaches or otlier choice fruit can be used in place of apricots. To facilitate the setting of each la}^er, it is best to place the mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice. Ice placed in the tumbler is also helpful. Chartreuse aux Praises {Strawberry Chartreuse). I small punnet of ripe strawberries, |- pint clear wine jelly, f pint cream, I glass chartreuse, J- oz. angelica, 4 leaves of gelatine. iMask a fancy or plain mould with jelly. Pick out a few of the best fruit, halve them, remove the stalks, and for them substitute small strips of angelica. Decorate the bottom and sides of the mould with these, mask well with jelly, to keep the fruit firm and in position. Cut the remainder of strawberries in slices. Let the jelly be cold and liquid, put in the sliced fruit, melt the gelatine in a little jelly, and strain into this. Whip the cream, and stir it in ; add the liqueur, and stir over the ice until it begins to set, then pour into the decorated mould. Stand it on the ice until firm, then turn out, and serve. PLAIN CHARTREUSE MOULD. Chartreuse de Pommes a la Princesse. 6 small cooking apples, -I oz. gelatine, 2 cloves, the rind of 1 lemon, 2 oz. angelica, about 3 oz. sugar, a few drops carmine or cochineal, i pint jelly, I oz. glace cherries, .J gill of cream, f oz. pistachios. Peel, core, and slice the apples, cook them in a stew-pan with half a pint of water, the sugar, lemon-rind, and cloves, and pass through a fine sieve. Dis.solve the gelatine and stir in with the puree while hot. Divide the jiuree in two, mingle one part with a little thick cream, and the other with a few drops of cochineal, pour into separate saute-pans, and put on ice. Wdien perfectly set, stamp out some half-moon and diamond-shape pieces. Stand a charlotte mould in some ice, mask the sides with liquid jelly, dip each piece of apple puree into the jelly, and arrange these, together with fancifully-cut pieces of angelica, tastefully at the bottom and sides of the mould. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this, so as to leave about an inch of space all round, fill this carefully with half-set jelly and allow it to set firmly. Dissolve separately the trimmings of the puree used, add the remainder of cream pre- ^•iously whipped, sweeten to taste, mi.x equally with about a gill of jelly. Remove the mould in the centre and fill the cavity by degrees with layers of this preparation. Be sure you allow each layer to set before you put on the ne.xt. Between the la^^ers sprinkle the pistachio nuts, previously blanched, peeled, dried, and chopped. Stand on the ice until required, then immerse in tepid water, turn out, and serve. Chartreuse de Raisins {Chartreuse of Grapes). Line a deep fancy border or other suitable mould with a thin layer of wine jelly (champagne or maraschino jelly). Remove the