223 SOUPS (POTAGES). Potage au Pauvre Homme {Poor Man's Soup).—This is brown meal soup, rather thinner than an ordinary puree. The flour is roasted with butter or dripping to a chestnut-brown colour, equal quantities of flour and butter being used ; it is then diluted with stock or water and cooked for one hour. — Istrienne.—Puree of chestnuts and tomatoes, flavoured with juice of pomegranates, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and cream (Austrian origin). — a ITtalienne {Italian Soup).—A light mutton or lamb puree, as directed for Potage a la Windsor, p. 225, garnished with cooked macaroni, slices of cooked fowl, fillet or breast, and vegetable macedoine. — Japonnaise.—Puree of crosnes, with cream liaison and Japanese pearl barley. — Jeanette.—Puree of salsifits, enriched with cream and egg-yolk liaison, garnished with rice and small chicken quenelles. — Judic.—Tomato puree with cream and mushroom essence, finely shredded mushrooms and ham as garnish. — Krupnick {Polish).—Cream of pearl barley with chicken puree, gar- nished with small dice vegetables and chicken fillets. — de Langoustes {Crawfish Soup, Pink).—This is a cream-like puree of sea crawfish or large lobsters, made the same as Bisque de Homard. — de Lentilles a la Brunoise.—This is a lentil soup made the same as directed in Puree de Lentilles. Tinely cut vegetables, carrot, turnip, leek, etc., are tossed in butter, strained, and then cooked in the soup. — de Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup made with veal stock, roux, and braised larks, gai'nished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — a la Marie Louise.—This is a pearl barley soup made as directed in recipe CiTme d’Orge, p. 212 ; it is enriched with cream and garnished with small chicken quenelles. — a la Marechale.—This is a milk soup (niaigre), thickened with soft white bread and garnished with small lobster quenelles. — a la Marie Stuart.—Prepare a white chicken cream similar to that given in recipe for Potage a la Reine (p. 216), to which are added as garnish small cubes of foie-gras pate, cooked carrot dice, and green peas. Potage or Puree Mercedes.—This is a Jerusalem artichoke puree (Puree de Topinambour) enriched with cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — Montblanc.—A thick soup made of capon, enriched with cream, with shredded truffles and mushrooms. — Montmorency.—Chicken cream soup with grated parmesan, braised lettuce, and vermicelli as garnish. — Montpensier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with cauliflower puree (fried croutons). — Morilles.—Puree of morilles (a species of mushroom), with cream and morilles cut in fine strips. — Mozart.—Puree of French beans blended with game puree and cream (croutons).