968 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cook. Juicy fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries, and cherries require about ten minutes longer. The times specified are reckoned from when the jam actually boils. In wet seasons or with very ripe fruit, less or no water can be used, and under the same conditions full amounts of sugar are required. The best way to test the consistency of jams is to put a little on a clean plate or saucer, and if it sets when cold it is done ; if the syrup remains liquid, boil it a little longer and then test again. Many fruits may be kept whole by straining them from the syrup when sufficiently cooked. When the syrup has been boiled rapidly until it jellies when tested, the fruit should be replaced for a final gentle boil. Directly the jam is cooked, have ready some clean dry jars ; fill them, and tie them down. Vegetable parchment damped in cold water, wiped with a clean cloth, stretched over the jar and tied dowm, keeps the jam very air-tight. If the parchment is not procm'able, dip some thin paper in milk and press it over the top of the jar until the heat from the jam causes the milk to evaporate, and the paper sticks firmly to the jar. TABLE FOR JAM MAKING. Kind of Fruit. Season. Amount of Sugar. Amount of \Vater. Apple Sept, to Nov. lb. to I lb. fruit peeled & cored One gill to i lb. Apricot Aug. to Sept. Equal weight after stoning One gill to i lb. Blackberry Aug. to Sept. Equal weight None Cherry June to July -|- lb. to I lb. fruit I gill of red-currant juice to each lb. Currant, Red June to July Equal weight None Currant, Black June to July Equal weight -J-gill to each lb. Damson Sept, to Oct. Equal weight None Greengage Aug. to Sept. |- lb. to each lb. before stoning None Gooseberry June to Aug. Equal weight 1-2 gills to each lb. Plum Aug. to Oct. f lb. to each pound None, or very little Raspberry June to Aug. Equal weight None Rhubarb Mar. to May Equal weight J-gill to each lb. Strawberry June to July Equal weight None N.B.—Rhubarb or raspberry juice may, with great advantage, be used in the place of water. Orange Marmalade, 12 Seville oranges and their weight in cane sugar, i lemon (or i lb. frnit, lb. sugar, and i quart water). Take the w^eight of the oranges in loaf sugar. Cut the orange and lemon into quarters ; put them into a preserving-pan with enough cold w'ater to cover, and let them boil until tender. Divide the fruit into sections, remove all the pulp, and put the skins and pips into a quart of cold wmter. Preserve the w'ater in w'hich the fruit w^as boiled. Cut the rind into thin shreds about an inch long. Allow a pint of w'ater for every dozen oranges, using the strained liquid from the pips and skins and that in wiiich the oranges w'ere