358 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Croquettes. This name is given to oval, round, ball, cutlet or cork shapes of minced, cooked, savoury hsh, meat, poultry or game, the ingredients are usually mixed with chopped mushrooms, truffle, ham or tongue, moistened with white or brown sauce, and egg to bind. These shapes are egged, crumbed, and fried in clarilied butter or dripping. The following are the names of some of the most popular croquettes :— Croquettes de Volaille.—Chicken croquettes. Croquettes de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver croquettes. Croquettes de Gibier aux truffes.—Game croquettes with truffles. Croquettes de Perdreau.—Partridge croquettes. Croquettes de Riz au Salpicon.—Cooked rice and minced chicken, ham, etc., made into croquettes and fried. Croquettes de Rognons de Veau.—Calf’s kidney croquettes. Croquettes de Veau.—Veal croquettes. Petites Cremes a I’Ecarlate [Small Chicken Creams with Tongue). 8 to 10 oz. chicken, 2 oz. paiiade, \ gill bechamel sauce, 3 yolks and i whole egg, I oz. butter, salt, mignonette pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, 2 oz. ox tongue (cooked and chopped very finely). Pompadour sauce, macedoine or green peas for garnish. Cut the chicken or veal into small pieces or shred it finely, removing skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar, add the panade, bechamel sauce, and the eggs one at a time. Season to taste, and mix in rather more than half the butter. When the farce is well pounded, rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Butter eight to ten tongue moulds, cover the inside with finely chopped tongue, and fill up with the prepared farce. Stand the moulds in a saute- pan containing a little boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for about twenty minutes. Turn the moulds on to a cloth, dish the little tongues in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, fill up the centre with prepared vegetable macedoine or green peas, pour a little Pompadour sauce round the base of the dish and serve. Dormes feuilletes de Ris de Veau. I large or 2 small sweetbreads, pint rich stock, i gill supreme or Allemande sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms, \ lb. puff-paste, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, t oz. butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Blanch, trim, and cook the sweetbread in the stock till tender. When done, take up, cut it into dice shapes and put in a stewpan with the mushrooms and truffles, cut into small dice or slices, season with a little pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the hot sauce and keep hot till required. Line some small round bouche moulds with puff-paste, prick the bottom of each, to prevent blister- ing whilst baking, fill them with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake them in a hot oven to a golden colour. When done take out the rice, unmould and fill the croustades with the sweetbread ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated cheese, a few