489 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Poussins frits a la Lyonnaise { Fried Chic-Chickcns). 2 or 3 (according to size) very small spring chickens (baby chickens), the juice of 2 lemons, 2 bay-leaves, i teaspoonful of chopped chives, a few sprigs of chervil, pepper and salt, clarified butter, frying-batter, i or 2 small Spanish onions, tomato sauce. Singe, draw, and quarter the chickens. Blanch them in slightly salted water, dry them with a cloth, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the chives, chervil, bay-leaves, and lemon-juice, and cover with another dish. Let stand for two hours, then drain the pieces of chicken, dip them in frying-batter, and cook a light brown in clarified butter or butter and lard mixed in ecpial proportions. Drain and keep hot. Peel the onions, cut them into thin slices, di\'ide into rings, dip them first in milk and then in flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till crisp and of a golden brown. Dish up the chickens, and garnish tastefully with the fried onion. Serve with hot tomato sauce. Poussins a la Hambourg. Very young chickens (baby or chic-chickens) stuffed with chicken quenelle meat and braised ; garnished with Parisian potatoes, trufties, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce, Poussins a la Portugaise. Young chickens par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes, braised, and cubes of cucumber. Poussins a la Turenne. Young chickens cut up, browned in butter and stewed in an earthenware stew-pot in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles. Poussins bardes, Hambourgeoise [Chic-Chickcns, Hamburg Style). Draw and truss 4 small chic-chickens, known as poussins, cover the breast of each with a thin slice of larding bacon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place them in a saute- or roasting-pan, pre- viously lined with slices of streaky bacon, a sliced onion, and bay- leaf. Spread over each bird a little butter, brown quickly in a hot oven, then untruss the birds and transfer them to a fireproof casserole containing 2 ounces of fresh butter, a gill of chicken stock, and the strained juice of a lemon. Cover, and finish cooking the birds in the oven, basting frequently. Dress the birds on an oblong dish, with the li jiior, previously enriched with -t gill of gravy, and reduced, skimmed, and seasoned, round the dish, and garnish the sides with fried potato ribbons and cress or cresses, Poussins Pooler a la Madrid, 3-4 chic-chickens (poussins), 12 very small button onions (pecleil), 2 oz. butter, 12 small veal quenelles, 4 oz. lean bacon (cut in dice), seasoning, 8 mushroom-heads, i carrot (scraped), i small onion, 1 bay-leaf, 2 stripi lemon-rind, l pimiento, i gill tomato sauce, i gill demi-glace, -J- glas; marsala. Truss the chic-chickens as for braising, cut the carrot in quarters, peel the onion, and cut it in half, stick a clove in one half. Melt the butter in a fireproof earthenware pot. Fry the button onions