THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 548 lUivoured with veal essence and cream. Cook the whites of eggs in a timbale mould. When cold, cut into slices, and then into ^Marguerite shajies, with a dot of trullle in the centre of each. Place them on the veal hllets, also tarragon leaves, and thin cucumber rind, to form the stalk. Coat the whole with thin aspic. Dress on a dish containing a layer of set aspic, and garnish with heaps ol tinely-shredded celery and cooked ham. Noix de Veau a la Viart [Cold Remove or Relcve). I small cushion or kernel part of veal, larding bacon, and lean ham lor larding and basting purposes, mirepoix of bacon, carrots, onion, and herbs, I small glass white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), i pint rich stock, 3-4 sheets of gelatine. Cooked, braised, and glazed chestnuts, small carrots, and cardoons or celery. For garnish: green herb butter, ^ gill tomato puree, I gill mayonnaise sauce. Trim and pare the meat, removing the skin and sinews, then insert in two neat rows on the surface strips of larding bacon and ham. Cover with a few thin slices of fat bacon or larding bacon, and tie this with string. Have ready a good mirepoix in a braising- ])an, containing about an ounce of butter. When hot, place in the prepared meat on top, and cook in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes, then add the wine and stock, also some savoury herbs, including half a bay-leaf and two cloves. Cover the pan, and cook till the meat is tender, basting it occa- sionally. Take up t If e meat, remove the larding bacon, and glaze over slightly, then let it get cool. Skim the gravy, free it from fat, then strain it and reduce it to about one-third of its volume ; lastly add the gelatine, previously dissolved. As the sauce cools, coat with it the meat; when set, place it on a suitable dish. Have ready the chestnuts and vegetables for garnish ; these may be glazed with the remainder of the liquor left over from the meat, enriched with a little meat glaze. Range these neatly in groups round the base of the dish. Decorate the side or in between the vegetables with herb butter. Fill four small glazed paste cassolettes with green peas, and place them round the meat. Insert hfitelet in the centre on aspic. Mix the two sauces, tomato and mayonnaise, adding, if found necessary, a little lemon or lime-jui('e, and hand this round in a sauce-boat wlnu serving the joint.