914 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chop the hsh and heat it up in the butter, add the breadcrumbs, previously soaked in halt a gill of milk or veal stock. Season with salt, ])epper, a pinch of ground mace and a grate of nutmeg, and add the egg beaten up. Steam in a buttered mould for about forty-five minutes. Serve with a little white light sauce. Fish Souffle. I whiting, 4 oz. of butter. | oz. of flour, | gill of milk, i egg, gill of cream. Skin and bone the whiting, melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and cook till it leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. (This forms the panada.) Pound the fish well in a mortar, then add the egg panada. Season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Add the cream, whipped. Steam in buttered small dariole moulds for twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve with white sauce. Any other kind of white hsh may be used in this way. Fricassee of Fish. l lb. of white fish {turbot, sole, whiting, cod or haddock), i pint of water, a blade of mace, a few sprigs of parsley, grate of nutmeg ; sauce—1- oz. of butter, I oz. of flour, pint fish stock, gill of milk, i teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Skin and hllet the hsh, cook it for a few minutes in the water with the mace and parsley. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and a gill of the fish stock. Season with lemon-juice, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Add the milk and hllets of hsh, and cook for ten minutes. A border of boiled rice may be served with this dish. Stewed Eel. Wash an eel in cold water and salt, drain it, cut off the head and tail, trim off the hns, and cut up into small pieces. Put it into a stew-pan with enough cold water to cover, and blanch it to extract some of the fat. While the eel is blanching, make the sauce. Eel is particularly suitable for a convalescent who is ordered fat. It is an oily hsh. It can be made into either a brown or white stew : Brown by cooking in brown sauce, adding half a glass of port wine ; White by stewing it in bechamel or parsley sauce. Strain off the liquor from the eel, and put the hsh into the prepared sauce. Season with pepper and salt, and cook for about an hour, or until the eel is tender ; stir occasionally, and keep covered with a lid. Dish up the hsh neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. Fish Eggs [Scrambled). 3 eggs, 2 to 3 oz. cooked white tish (liaked), pepper and salt, i tablespoonlul cream or milk, 2 oz. butter, buttered toast. Beat up the eggs, add the cream or milk, season to taste. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flaked fish, fry for a few seconds, stir in the eggs, etc. ; and continue stirring over the Are until the mixture begins to thicken. Have the buttered toast placed on a hot dish or plate, })ile the mixture on to it, and serve, Chicken Croquettes. 3 oz. of cooked chicken, l oz. of cooked ham, oz. of butter, | oz. of Hour, I yolk of egg, ] gill of stock or milk, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat.