HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. 409 Langues de Mouton a la Dreux.—Boiled sheep’s longues, skinned and split open, ranged on a dish, spread over with a mixture of bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley or mushrooms, egg-yolks, and seasoning, sauced over with duxelle sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven. — braisees a la Frarujaise. —Blanched sheep’s tongues skinned and braised, split in half, and garnished wifh puree of turnips, braised button onions, and turned carrots ; brown sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised sheep’s tongues with stoned French olives ; served with rich brown sauce. panees.—Blanch some sheep’s tongues, trim them or cook them till tender in seasoned stock. Remove the skins and split them length- ways, season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, cover well with breadcrumbs. Dry-fry them in butter in a saute- pan until they acquire a golden colour. Dish up round a bed of spinach or green pea puree, pour some piquanfe sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. — en Papillotes.—Braised sheej)’s tongues dressed in pa])er cases, and glazed over with liquefied meat glaze. — grillees a la Suisse.—Parboiled or braised sheep’s tongues, split in halves, seasoned, dipped in butter and breadcrumbs, and grilled; served with piquante sauce. — en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton braised in a richly-flavoured game stock with plenty of savoury herbs, carrots, onions, pepper- corns, and juniper berries. Served with port wine or Reforme sauce. Noisettes de Mouton a la Maintenon.—Small slices from neck or loin of mutton, free from bone and skin, breaded and fried, dressed on croutons of bread, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with green peas ; sauce demi-glace. — de Pre-sale a la Chatelaine,—Braised mutton noisettes (fillets of mutton) dressed on halves of braised lettuce ; garnished with noisette potatoes and artichoke bottoms fllled with chestnut puree ; sauce Madere. Pieds de Mouton farcis et braises.—Boiled sheep’s trotters boned, stuffed, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — frits a rOrly.—Sheep’s trotters cooked in stock, boned and cut in slices, marinaded in oil, vinegar and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — a rindienne.—Boiled sheep’s trotters boned, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a la Poulette.—Sheep’s trotters cooked in stock, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and lemon- juice. — a la Rouennaise,—Boiled sheep’s trotters, boned and stuffed with sausage-meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. Served with piquante sauce. — frits a la Tartare.—Sheep’s trotters fried as above ; served with tartare sauce.