BREAKFAST AKD SUPPER DISHES. 907 water, cover with buttered paper and steam in the oven lor about live minutes, or till the eggs are set. Cut the tomatoes in halves, season, and put them in a saute-pan in a hot oven, jnit a very little piece of butter on each, and cook till they are tender. Toast the bread and cut into rounds, fry the bacon, and lay half of a tomato on each round of toast. Unmould the egg ramakins on to the tomato. Arrange these neatly on a hot dish with the fried bacon around the tomatoes, and serve. Mayonnaise of Eggs. 4 hard-boiled eggs, 4 ripe but linn tomatoes, salt and pepper, i pint stilt mayonnaise sance, a truffle, pickled beetroot or pimientos (Spanish pepper ])lant), aspic for garnish. Shell the eggs and cut them in halves lengthways. Peel and cut the tomatoes in halves, put them on a baking-tin and bake them in the oven till they are just tender, then let them get cold. Arrange them in a row on a dish, season with salt and pepper. Place half an egg, cut side downwards, on each tomato. Have the mayonnaise sauce well flavoured with tarragon vinegar, and coat the eggs and tomatoes smoothly with it. Decorate the dish with truffle, beetroot or pimientos, cut in small fancy slices, and garnish the base of the dish with chopped aspic. Tomato and Sausage Croutes. 8 large even-sized tomatoes (ripe, but (juite lirm), 1 lb. sausages, bread- crumbs, chopped parsley, a little stock, i egg-yolk, 8 fried bread croutes. W’ipe the tomatoes, remove the stems, cut off the top portion of each and scoop out some of the pulp portion, without breaking the skin. Skin the sausages, put them in a basin with the tomato pnlp, a handful of breadcrumbs, and a little chopped parsley, mix with the egg-yolk and a little stock. Fill the tomatoes with this, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up on croutes of fried bread, garnish with parsle}y and serve. Rice au Gratin. WAsh, blanch, and boil in veal stock six ounces of rice. Drain and moisten the rice with bechamel sance, add a handful of grated cheese, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne and krona pepper. Dress on a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven to brown the top. Serve in the same dish. Savoury Lentils. Soak half-pint of lentils for two hours in tepid water, put them into a stew-pan with id pints stock or water, an ounce of butter, and a little salt, and boil them for about two hours. Drain the lentils, return them to the stew-pan with a small peeled and clujpped onion, previously fried iiUan ounce of butter ; cook gentl}^ and moisten with a little bechamel sauce and two tablespoonfnls of cream.