57 COOKING-STOVES. and historical kail-pot for cooking their food. A similar metal pot was also used for baking bread and pies. It was closed nj) and buried bodily in burning peat and hot ashes. In the ordinary way the “ kail-pot ” consisted of a large caldron of brass or other metal. The tripod and the caldron are the earliest cooking apparatus mentioned. The former consisted of three rods of iron or hard wood, which were fastened together at the top with an iron hook, serving at the same time to hold the handle of the kettle or caldron. In connection with these a kind of frying-pan was also u.sed, which, according to tradition, served for cooking certain delicate cakes and hsh. In the days when there were no cooking ranges, and consequently no boilers, caldrons were i;sed for heating water, and also for boiling hire articles of linen or muslin, such as the kerchiefs of the mistress and the babies’ caps and robes. In royal households these caldrons A BROCHE SPIT, TURNED BY A " TURNSPIT DOG.” were sometimes of gold or silver, and pompously adorned the great carved dressers of the day, hanked by tall chased silver candle- sticks.^ Frying-pans were gradually evolved from small caldrons or marmites, and the long handles were at hrst called tails. Roasting before a radiant heat has been known for many cen- turies. Roasting spits were in general use in England during the fourteenth and hfteenth centuries. Spits were then, as now, used for supporting joints and birds before the lire. These spits were at hrst turned by hand ; but for a long time after, in large kitchens, dogs, known as “ turnspits,” were specially trained to do the duty of turning the spit. The breed of these useful dogs has long since become extinct. The smoke-jacks, which are still found in the kitchens of some old mansions, were next introduced. These were turned by means of the smoke from the old-fashioned open coal range. They were the prototypes of the clock-work bottle-jacks. The next part with which I wish to deal is that of cooking