574 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Foie-gras glace a la Hongroise [Iced Foie-gras). I fresh goose’s fiver, i small Spanish onion, 2 bay-leaves, paprika or krona pepper, 2 slices bacon, i oz. butter, i pint aspic jelly, aromatic seasoning. Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, and pare it, peel and slice thinly the onion, and put it in a saute-pan or hreproof earthenware casserole containing the butter (melted), add the bay-leaves, fry a little, and dredge with a teaspoonful of paprika. Put the liver on this and cover with some of the onions ancl the bacon, season with aromatic spice [epice culinaire), cook in a fairly hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, then put it in an oval tureen or souffle dish. Strain the liquor from the pan over the liver (foie-gras) and let it cool. When cold, fill a tureen or other suitable dish with half-set aspic jelly, and put it on the ice to set. When wanted for table, decorate the top smartly with truffle slices, white of eggs, etc. Pains de Foie-gras a la Georges Sand. I tin or terrine foie-gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), i gill veloutee or supreme sauce, I pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles (large), i hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of cooked tongue, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Mask or coat six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre of a ring of truffle, with an outer ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffles, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie-gras, take out the truffles and chop finely, pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles, fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set. Turn the timbales out on to an entree dish, garnish tastefully, and serve. Petites Bombes a I’Alsacienne. I tin or terrine foie-gras pate, i gill cream, 2 eggs, i gill well-reduced veloutee sauce, gill chicken stock, oz. gelatine, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), I gill aspic, \ endive, aromatic seasoning. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs, mix each lot separ- ately with a tablespoonful of cream, season with a pinch of salt. Steam slowly for ten minutes in separate moulds, and when cold cut into slices, and stamp out into fanciful shapes. Open the tin or terrine of foie-gras, remove the lard from the surface, turn out, take out the pieces of trifflle, wash them, and cut into suitable shapes for garnish ; also prepare a decoration of ham. Line six to eight little square or oblong-shaped moulds with aspic jelly, garnish the] bottom with shapes of truffles, yolks ancl whites of egg, and ham, in some symmetrical design. Put the foie-gras and trimmings of ham into a mortar, pound until smooth, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar and work in the veloutee sauce and the re- mainder of cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the chicken stock and