THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 278 yolk of egg. Strain, work in the lobster butter, and season to taste. Dish up the paupiettes, sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, place a star of truffles in the centre of each, and serve. Paupiettes de Soles a la Nipoise. 1 or 2 soles, fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), i teaspoonful finely chopped fresh herbs, i teaspoonful of anchovy paste, tomato sauce, i tablespoonfnl parrnesan cheese, i oz. fresh butter, gherkins. Skin the soles, fillet them, and spread each fillet with fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), mixed with the herbs, and anchovy, paste. Roll up the fillets, place them on a buttered baking-sheet or pan, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Add the parrnesan cheese to the tomato sauce, pass through a fine tammy cloth, and stir in an ounce of fresh butter. Dish up the fillets (paupiettes), pour over the sauce, garnish with small blanched and braised gherkins {gourgeons ronds de Nice), cut in two, sprinkle the fish with grated cheese, and brown in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Paupiettes de Soles a I’Empereur. 2 medium-sized soles, 4- lb. turbot or whiting forcemeat {p. 177), i dessert- spoonful chopped chives, chervil, and parsley, i small head celery, i small onion, 2 oz. butter, i gili cream (.sour), 8 small potato cassolettes (made by lining 8 dariole moulds with mashed potato, or puree Duchesse, carefully baked), sea.soning, bechamel sauce (p. 142), grated horse-radish, i small truffle, anchovy essence. Skin the soles, fillet them, trim the fillets and spread them with turbot farce (fish quenelle forcemeat), season them, and roll up as paupiettes. Put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, also the celery and onion, cut into small pieces or slices, fry a little, and place the paupiettes on top of this. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Heat the cream, add about half a gill of bechamel sauce, season with paprika pepper and a little anchovy essence, whisk in the remainder of butter, and pass through a tammy. Put the cassolettes on a baking-sheet and place a paupiette in each. Sauce over each carefully with the prepared sauce. Bake for a few minutes in a quftk oven. Dish up, sprinkle the top of each paupiette with a little finely-chopped truffle and horse-radish, and serve. Cendrillons de Filets de Soles a la Parisienne. 2 soles, I small glass white wiue, 2 fillets of plaice, i oz. butter, ^ gill cream, J pint sauce Moruay (p. 154), 2 eggs, salt aud pepper, mashed potatoes for border, fryiug-fat. Skin and fillet the soles. Put the Dones and trimmings in a stewpan with a little water and bouquet garni, and simmer until well reduced. Pare the fillets, twist each round the pointed end of a small raw carrot, previously buttered, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and season. Reduce half the Mornay sauce to half its original quantity, incorporate 2 egg-yolks and the whites of eggs whisked into a stiff froth. Cook the fillets in the oven with the