THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 896 cut off the heads. Divide each fillet into three or four neat pieces. Mix the frying batter with an ounce of finely grated cheese, dip each piece of bloater into the batter, so as to completely cover it, drop into very hot fat, fry a golden colour, take up, drain well, and dish up. Sprinkle over some grated cheese, and serve very hot. Rolled Herring Fillets {Paupiettes dc Harengs). 4 to 5 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 2 hard-lroiled eggs, i lemon, 3 filleted anchovies, 11- oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne; parsley, beetroot, and gherkin for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours. Fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones, cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillets into a mortar together with the anchovies and pound till smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and tlie butter, season to taste (no salt), and mix thoroughly. Put this through a line sieve, spread the inside of the herring fillets with a layer of this puree, and roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon-juice, garnish with thinly-cut slices of lemon, gherkin, beetroot, and parsley ; serve cold. Curried Prawns. Skin about fifty prawns, fry a small minced onion in two ounces of butter, stir in t an ounce of flour, and one dessertspoonful of curry powder, and fry a little, then moisten with half a pint of milk, and let it boil for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain. Add the prawns, and the juice of half a lemon, and boil gently for another ten minutes. Dish up in the centre of a border of boiled rice. Fish Pudding with Rice. Take h lb. of any cold fish, and mix with it 4 oz. of boiled rice, one hard-boiled egg, chopped, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little white sauce and milk, mixed with a well- beaten egg. Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish or pudding mould, and bake or steam lor about thirty-five minutes. Unmould, and serve with anchovy sauce. Fish Salad im Aspic. Mask the inside of a charlotte mould with well-flavoured aspic jelly, decorate it with small sprigs of fennel, then line with slices of tunny fish (this can be obtained in glass from most grocers). Fill the mould with a salad composed of cold fish (shredded) and cold boiled vegetables, such as carrot, cucumber, peas, and beans (the former should be cut into small shapes). Season with a mayonnaise sauce, and mix with sufficient aspic to set the salad. Place the mould, when filled, on the ice till set, then turn out on a dish and serve. Scalloped Oysters. Thoroughly wash and drain some small scallop shells, and butter them when dry. Allow three-four oysters for each shell, remove the beards, and place them in the shells with alternate layers of bechamel sauce or other white sauce and cream, season with salt and pepper,