GLACES—ICES. 840 chop the slices very finely. Put it into a basin, add the castor sugar and t pint of water, and let it remain for an hour or longer. Put if- pint of water in a copper stew-pan, when boiling, add the contents of the basin, boil up, take off the scum which rises to the top, let cool, strain in the juice of two lemons, and freeze in the usual manner. When about half-frozen stir in the beaten whites of eggs, rum, and liqueur. Freeze a liffle longer. \Mien it has a creamy appearance it is ready for serving. Fill up in sorbet cups or in glasses with handles, and serve. Sorbet au Citron [Lemon Sorbet). This is made in the same way as orange sorbet, using two oranges and eight lemons instead of the above quantity of oranges and lemons. In other respects the ingredients and method are the same as in the previous recipe. Sorbet a la Creme [Cream Sorbet). The juice of 2 lemons, i lb. castor sugar, the whites of 3 eggs, \ pint cream, I oz. vanilla sugar, t maraschino. Boil up ifr pint of water, add the sugar and lemon-juice, reduce a little, and skim. Strain this and let cool, then freeze partially ; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the vanilla sugar, whip the cream, and incorporate both whites of eggs and cream into the ice, flavour with the liqueur, and finish freezing to the desired consistency. Serve in the usual manner. Sorbet aux Fraises [Strawberry Sorbet). To a quart of strawberry-water ice (half frozen) add half a gill of sauterne wine and a small glass of cura(joa, colour it with a few drops of carmine, mix thoroughly, and serve when sufficiently frozen. Sorbet de Groseilles au Marasquin [Gooseberry Sorbet). Stir one pint of picked green gooseberries in pint of water, to which add lb. of loaf sugar and the juice of two lemons. Rub through a hair sieve, colour with a little spinach greening, to give it a pretty light green colour. When cold, add ^ gill of mara- schino. Freeze partially, and serve in small glasses. Garnish with a few stoned cherries, previously tossed in a little syrup flavoured with maraschino. Sorbet d’Orange [Orange Sorbet). 8 oranges, 2 lemons, 2 glasses marsala wine, 10 oz. loaf sugar, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan with three pints of water, heat up slowly until the sugar is dissolved, then boil and reduce a little, and remove the scum. Add to it the finely-grated rind of two oranges, the juice of the eight oranges and two lemons, boil up, strain, and let cool. Partially freeze this mixture, whisk up the eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the castor sugar, and stir this with the wine into the ice mixture, freeze to the desired consistency, and serve in glasses or cups. .3 H