SOUPS {POT.ICES). Potage Faubonne {French Lentil Soup). !, ]>int soaked lentils, i gill white haricot beans, 2 cinarts ot stock, 3 oz. blitter, I boiiqiiet garni, i gill cream, a handful of fried bread crofitons, 3 tablcspoonfiil.s cooked jK-as, a ]>inch ]iowdered mint, pepper and salt. Drain the lentils, pnt them with the haricot beans in a stew- pan with the bntter and bouquet of herbs, fry a little, moisten with the stock, and cook until the lentils and beans are tender. Take ont the bonqnet, mb through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and mint, season to taste, heat up (btit do not let it boil), put the peas and croutons in a soup tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. Potage a la Madeleine. 2 oz. blitter, I onion, 6 small tomatoes, i pint haricot beans, i leek, i large carrot, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2J quarts consomme or good lich stock, seasoning. Cook the haricot beans in salted water till tender. Peel and mince the onion and fry for a few minutes in butter, but do not allow them to get brown. Add the tomatoes, previously cut into dice, the haricot beans, and the stock. Cook together for twenty minutes, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Clean and trim the leek and carrot, cut them into julienne-shaped strips and toss in a little butter. Add about a pint of consomme, and cook till the vegetables are tender. Mince finely a few tarragon and chervil leaves and add them to the soup. Mix both soups together, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, boil up, skim, and serve. Puree de Marrons Chasseur {Chestnut Puree). Split 2 pints of large chestnuts across with a sharp-pointed knife, plunge them into a stewpan with boiling water, cook two minutes, drain, dry them on a cloth, put into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter, place over a quick fire for five minutes, cover over with a cloth, and remove shells while hot. Return them to the stewpan with 2 quarts of game stock or dark beef stock. Cook slowly until tender, rub through a fine sieve, return to the stewpan, dilute with more stock if necessary, season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, add by degrees 4 oz. of butter, and bind with 3 egg-yolks and ^ gill cream. Serve with croutons of game and fried bread (any kind of game will do). Puree Nivernaise {Turnip Puree). 2?, quarts white stock, 8 small turnips, 6 small potatoes, 3 leeks, ^ pint cream, 2 oz. butter, 18 small cooked Brussels sprouts, ^ pint cooked jardiniere, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Wash and peel the potatoes and turnips and cut into slices, wash the leeks, trim off the root and the green part of the leaves, and slice thinly. Put the butter and vegetables in a stewpan, and cook over a slow fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring them occasionally. Add the stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, boil gently until the vegetables are tender, take off the scum, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan.