CHAPTER XXVII. ROTIS-RO ASTS. The dishes served under this heading form the so-called second service of a dinner, and are known as the Roast, Rot or Roti course. On the Continent the large joints of butchers’ meat are preferred as releves (remove), while in England, especially when that course is omitted, joints are usually served as Roast. It is highly essential that the meat, poultry or game roasted before the lire on the spit, or else in the oven, should be served with nicely flavoured rich gravy, and other necessary accompaniments. When a meat remove has been served, the Roast usually consists of birds, game or poultry. When game is out of season, capons, poularde, turkey, duckling, duck, pigeon, guinea-fowl, quails, etc., are substituted. W’ith game and poultry should be served bread sauce, brown (fried) breadcrumbs, croiites of bread, garnished with watercress, chipped or other fried potatoes, also a seasonable salad. Roast joints are not again mentioned here, because these have already been exhaustively treated iu the preceding chapter. Horse-radish sauce should be served with beef, and red-currant jelly with mutton. Poulet roti a la Franpaise {Roast Chicken, French Style). Select a plump chicken, weighing not less than two pounds, singe, draw, and truss it for roasting, season with salt. Cover the breast with a large thick slice of fat bacon. In a roasting-pan arrange a dry mirepoix, consisting of sliced carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and bacon, place the chicken upon this, spread over two table- spoonfuls of butter, cook in a well-heated oven from forty-five to sixty minutes, and baste frequently. When nearly done, remove the bacon from the breast, so that it may brown. Untruss the chicken, dish up, and keep hot. Pour off the fat from the roasting-pan, add a gill of stock, boil up, season if necessary, and strain. Pour some round the base of the dish, and the remainder in a sauce-boat. Garnish the dish with watercress or other small salad, and serve. Poulet roti {Roast Chicken). Prepare and roast the chicken before a clear fire or in the oven, and baste it frequently with butter or dripping. Cook quickly for the first ten minutes, then more slowly. A small chicken will take about forty minutes, and a large one about an hour. W’hen done, remove the skewers and string, place it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and pour a little gravy, made as directed in above recipe, round the dish, and serve with a boat of bread sauce. QQ