THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 686 number of poaclicd eggs. This must be done twice, ailowing the first coating to set before the second one is added. Now heat up the tomato sauce and mix in an equai quantity of white sauce and some aspic jelly, when nearly cold, mask tlie remainder of eggs in the same manner. Cut out as many rounds of tongue or ham as there are eggs, the slices should be as near as possible tlae size of the eggs. Place one egg on each slice, mask them over with a tliin coating of aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truifle. Dish up on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill tlie centre of a dish with a nicely pi'epared salad, and serve. CEufs a la Colbert. Take four or si.x new-laid eggs. Break each very carefully in a cup, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over about half a teaspoon- ful of grated gruyere or parmesan cheese, and drop each very gently into a pan of hot fat or frying oil, the latter, if of good quality, is preferable for this purpose. Keep the eggs in shape, and turn frequently by means of a wooden spoon. Fry them to a pretty golden colour, then take up and drain them on a cloth or kitchen paper. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve quickly. (Eufs frits au Beurre noir {Fried Eggs in Brown Butter). Melt an ounce of butter in an earthenware fireproof pan (casse- role), when hot break into it gently three or four eggs, have ready three or four rounds of buttered toast a little larger than the eggs, spread them with a little anchovy paste, take up the eggs one at a time, trim into a neat, round shape, and place them on the toast. Re-heat the butter remaining in the casserole, and let it get a dark nut-brown colour (not black), then add a des- sertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a good pinch of chopped parsley or chives, reduce a little, pour over the eggs on the dish, and serve. CEufs a la Parmentier. 3 large potatoes, 6 small eggs, i gill white cream sauce (bechamel or supreme), I oz. grated cheese, d oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Wash and scrub the potatoes, dry them, bake them in the oven, cut them into halves, and scoop out the mealy parts. Poach the eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with lemon-juice, trim them, put a little sauce in each half of the potatoes, place an egg in each, mix the remainder of sauce with half the cheese, cover the eggs with the sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, divide the butter into little bits and place on top, and brown in a very hot oven. Dish up, and serve quickly. CEufs a I’Ecarlate {Poached Eggs with Tongue). 6 newdaid eggs, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, i gill gravy or rich brown stock, I small glass sherry or marsala, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, about 11- gill supreme sauce. Poach the eggs in boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut the slices of tongue into neat shapes, about