748 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poires au Riz a la Marquise {Pears, Marquise Style). Heat half a quart tin of preserved Bartlett pears in a well- tinned stew-pan, drain on a sieve, and reduce the syrup with 2 liqueur glasses of vanilla liqueur or maraschino. Wash ^ lb. rice, drain, cook in not quite a pint of milk, with 2 oz. castor sugar, ^ oz. butter, and the rind of lemon, chopped fine. When done, bind with two egg-yolks. Butter a fiat pudding-mould, fill in the prepared rice and turn out on a dish. Dress the pears neatly in a pyramidal form on the top, beat up two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sufficient castor sugar to sweeten, spread the surface and sides thickly with this. Ornament a little, dust with sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven for fifteen minutes. Bordure de Poires a la Reine [Border of Pears, Queen Style). 2 lb. small stewing pears, i lb. loaf sugar, i oz. butter, i inch whole cinna- mon, 3 sponge cakes or a piece of Genoise cake, 2 whole and i yolk of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill milk, rind of a lemon. Peel and core the pears, put in a stew-pan with a quart of water, loaf sugar, cinnamon, and a few drops of cochineal, boil up, skim, and simmer until the pears are tender ; this will take about half an hour. Take out the fruit, reduce the syrup to the proper consistency, put the pears in the syrup again, and keep warm. Butter a border- mould with clarihed butter, line the bottom with a piece of buttered paper, beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cas- t o r sugar, milk, lemon- r i n d finely chopped, and a few drops of cochineal. Cut the cake in slices, place it in the mould, fill up with the custard mixture, stand the mould in a baking-tin half-filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, arrange the pears in a row on the border and garnish with angelica leaves. Strain the syrup, pour over the pears, and serve hot or cold. In the latter case, the centre of border may be filled with whipped cream as shown in the illustration. Poires a la Sicilienne. Halves of Bartlett pears stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on croiitons of cake, fried in butter, dredged with icing sugar, and glazed in a sharp oven ; served hot.