85 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. lously clean and well ventilated. Pdjr braising, linking bread, cakes, pastry, puddings, custards, and many savoury meat, vege- table, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in favour. The ordinary oven temperatures are known by the following terms : Very hot, quick, brisk, hot, moderate, slack, slow, gentle. Various Ovens.—There are several kinds of ovens. One of the most primitive forms is used in some countries, and consists of an iron pot with a lid which is slung over a wood or charcoal fire, and then, when the article to be baked has been placed within it, some of the embers are heaped on the lid, so as to cook the top and bottom at the same time. The old-fashioned baker’s oven consists of a large brick cavity, into which fuel is placed and ignited. After the oven has become sufficiently hot the fuel is withdrawn and the bread or cakes put in its place. But these are not particularly clean, and have been superseded by hot air, steam, and gas ovens. Finally, there is the ordinary oven attached to the domestic grates and ranges, in which so-called oven roasting is effected. A gas-lieated confectionery oven, called the “Janus,” has recently been introduced, which, after being carefully tested, has proved to be eminently satisfactory. The heat of this oven is conducted all round the outside by suitably arranged flues. The heat inside is uniform, and is used to the last unit, similar to old-fashioned brick ovens, only more economical and cleaner, for no product of combustion can possibly come in contact with the articles baked therein. Stewing.—It is generally defined as a gradual process of simmer- ing in a small cpiantity of liquor. From the point of economy this form of cooking should be best understood, because it is the least expensive and most nourishing way of cooking. The advantage which stewing can claim over boiling or simmer- ing is that the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separated from, but served up with the meat, etc., the full flavour of which is thereby better preserved. Stewing is one of the most economical methods of cooking meat, because the coarser and cheaper parts of meat, which cannot well be used for roasting or boiling, can by slow, continuous stewing be made tender, palatable, and nutritious. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, or with but little fat. Stewing entails little loss ; all the juices coming out of the meat amalgamate with the gravy or sauce which is served with the meat. Very little fiiel and attention are needed to cook a stew after it has been set off stewing. The heating must be slo\v and gradual, never reaching the actual boiling-point, and the scum must A PASTRY OVEN.