803 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. (melted), the Hour, and the fecule. Three-parts hll a buttered timbale mould with the mixture, and bake iu a moderately heated oven. Unmould and let cool, then cut the cake in half (upright), and cut each half into slices about half an inch thick. Bake these slices in the oven so that they acquire a golden colour. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten, and mix with crushed strawberries. Spread the croLites thickly with this, and arrange them in the form of a border on a round dish. Fill the centre with whipped cream, and decorate suitably. Condoles de Praises [Strawberry Gondolas). Line 12 to 18 small boat-moulds with a paste ihade of 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. icing sugar i dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, 4 oz. butter, and the white of an egg. See that the paste is smooth, and roll it out thinly. Fill the lined moulds with small strawberries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When done and cold, coat them with straw- berry jelly. Cut out as many sails from the rice-paper as there are tartlets, and fix one in the centre of each. Tranches de Praises a la Neige. Roll out some puff-paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, and about four inches wide, of oblong shape. Bake two or more strips of paste. When done spread over with a meringue mixture composed of three whites of eggs whisked stiffly, and three ounces castor sugar, and mi.xed with half a pound of very small and dry forest straw- berries or scarlets. Cut into even-sized slices with a wetted knife, and bake again in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. Praises a la Celestine [Strawberries, Celestine Style). 4 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i orange, i quart milk, i pint wine jelly (p. 786), I basket strawberries, 4 tablespoonfuls strawberry syrup. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and incorporate the finely-grated rind of an orange and the sugar. Bring the milk to the boil, shape some small quenelles with the beaten whites, and poach them in the milk. When done, take them np carefully and drain on a sieve. Meanwhile mix a little strawberry syrup with the jelly, mask with it a border mould, and decorate with whole strawberries (inserting a strip of angelica here and there). Fill up with jelly and more strawberries, and put on the ice to set. Pass the remainder of strawberries through a sieve and boil np with the syrup, which must be well reduced. Unmould the jelly. Dress enough egg quenelles round the edge of the border and fill up the centre with the remainder. Sauce over those in the centre with the reduced syrup when cold, and serve. Praises a la Reine Maud [Iced Strawberry Trifle). Select a pound of large ripe strawberries, renujve the stalks, and put the fruit into a pie-dish ; dredge with vanilla sugar, and add a small glass of kirsch and one of maraschino ; cover, and keep on the ice for about one hour.