652 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pommes Failles {Straw Potatoes). Peel six medium-sized potatoes, cut them into thiu slices, cut these iuto hue shreds about i4- iuch loug. Wash well aud drain ou a cloth. Have ready sufficieut hot fat to cover the potatoes, fry for about six miuutes, drain well, sprinkle with a little fine salt, shake them lightly, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. Pommes Paiisienne {Parisian Potatoes). These are prepared in the same manner as " Pommes Chateau,” I the potatoes being scooped out in little round balls, by means of a vegetable-cutter or scoop. In blanching, great care must be taken ; they should be brought to the boil quickly, else they will be in pieces by the time they are cooked. Ten minutes is ample ' for baking. They are mostly served as a garnish with fillets of beef, steaks, or tournedos. Pommes de Terre a la Crapaiidine {Baked Potatoes, French Style). 8 to 10 potatoes (large), 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. gruyere cheese, salt, paprika pepper, pamirette. Wash and p'eel the potatoes, cut each in half lengthwise, and slice thinly across, cut the gruyere cheese into thin slices. Butter a border mould, sprinkle the inside with panurette. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stew-pan, fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of potatoes and slices of cheese. To each layer i add a little melted butter, a little salt, and a pinch of paprika pepper. | ■Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould into ^ a hot dish, and serve hot. ; Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Dauphine {Potato Croquettes). 10 floury potatoes, 5 j^olks of eggs, 2 whites, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i oz. ; grated parmesan, pepper, salt, nutmeg, breadcrumbs, and frying fat, '■ parsley for garnish. Wash and peel and quarter the potatoes, cover with cold water, ! add a little salt, cook until tender, drain on a sieve, dry thoroughly ■ in the oven, and rub through a sieve. Prepare a choux paste with ^ pint water, butter, flour, and one whole and two yolks of eggs, stir in the potato puree and cheese, season with pepper and a'little grated nutmeg, and spread on a buttered dish to cool. Shape into croquets, egg and crumb in fresh breadcrumbs, fry a golden colour, drain well, and season with a little salt. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Moderne {Potato Croquettes). Cook and dry 2 lb. of potatoes as directed above. To them add two yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, stir over the fire ifntil set, season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and cool. I Chop coarsely ^ lb. lean cooked ham, 2 oz. chicken or veal, and j six mushrooms, mix all in a stew-pan with two tablespoonfuls of well- : reduced bechamel sauce. Roll out the mashed potatoes about a < quarter of an inch thick, cut into square pieces, place a small \ quantity of the prepared salpicon in the centre, fold, and roll in I the shape of a cork, taking care to close up both ends. Dip in I