THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ■ 894 CHAPTER XXXVIL BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. Knowing how important it is to provide suitable dishes for breakfast and supper, but especially the former, and the great difficulty one often meets in hnding a change from the fried eggs and bacon, grilled haddock, and poached eggs, I have thought it desirable to devote a special chapter to this often-neglected branch of cookery. Many of the recipes given in a previous chapter devoted to Omelets and other varieties of egg-preparations form suitable Break- fast and Supper Dishes. Eggs in every form enable the cook to vary the daily breakfast and supper menus, for they provide a valuable aid in cookery generally. Supper dishes may be broadly divided into two classes, the hrst comprising something fairly substantial for those who dine early. The second class includes preparations of a more tempting cha- racter, peculiarly suited to those who dine in the evening and desire a light supper at a late hour. The following recipes provide for many dishes suitable for both occasions. Fish Cakes, lb. cold fish, freed from skin and bones, | lb. cooked potatoes, i oz. bnttcr or dripping, 2 tablespoonfnls milk, salt and pepper, i egg, breadcrnnibs, frying-fat. Chop the fish finely. Mash the potatoes, mix them with the fish, and season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter or dripping in a stew-pan, add the fish, etc., to it, mix all well together with the milk, and heat up. Shape the mixture into small flat cakes of even size. Beat up the egg on a plate, then egg and breadcrumb the cakes and again shape. Ery them a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Fish Pie. 1 lb. cold boiled fish, such as cod, haddock, whiting or turbot, i oz. butter, cupful breadcrumbs (previously soaked in milk), i teaspoonful anchovy essence or paste, i egg, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, a little cream or milk. Free the fish from skin and bones, and shred or chop it finely. Put it into a small stew-pan with the butter, when hot, add the bread- crumbs, anchovy essence or paste, and the egg (beaten). Mix tho- roughly, and add the seasoning. Cook whilst stirring for five minutes, then add the cream. Put it into a buttered pie-dish, sprinkle over a few fried breadcrumbs, bake in the oven till the surface is nicely browned, and serve. Baked Cod a la Menagere. Procure three thin slices of cod, wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and lay the slices on a greased baking-tin. Mix one gill of