977 AUXILIARY RECIPES. the dough into half-pounds and shape into large rolls, place them close together on a floured baking-sheet when proved, bake them from forty to forty-five minutes, and glaze with sweetened milk. This is called milk bread,” and when it is one or two days old it is cut uj) into even-sized slices, placed on wire trays, and dried in the oven till cpiite cris}). They are then called rusks or zwiebach. Piccalilli. Mixed pickles, with the addition of a strongly-spiced condi- ment sauce made with English mustard, are known as piccalilli. After having prepared the vegetables, such as buds of cauliflowers, French beans, small button onions, small gherkins, etc., sprinkle them freely with salt, put them into a large earthenware pan with a cover. Boiling vinegar is then poured over sufficient to cover the vegetables. The vinegar is reboiled on the second day and poured over once again, and on the third day the vegetables are put into bottles. The vinegar is then mixed with English mustard and curry, a little ginger, and a sprinkling of cayenne, and this mixture is poured into the bottles, which are then tightly corked. SOME USEFUL KITCHEN HINTS. To Keep Meat Glaze.—Pour the meat glaze into earthenware pots and cover with a layer of clarified butter. This will exclude the air, and wall keep the glaze good for some weeks. Dried Mushrooms.—Dried mushrooms are most useful for flavouring. They should be soaked in tepid w'ater for at least twelve hours. Stew' them in the same w'ater, and use for stew's or sauces, otherwise much of the flavour will be lost. Remnants of Cheese.—Stale cheese or scraps of Cheddar or Gruyere cheese must never be w'asted ; they should be grated linelv and be put aw'ay in a corked bottle. Grated cheese in a kitchen can be used for numerous purposes : for lla.vouring certain soups and sauces, for various “ gratin ” dishes, cauliflower, macaroni, omelets, savouries, sandwiches, etc. Tinned Goods.—Canned or tinned fish, fruit or vegetables should be removed from the tins or cans as soon as they are opened. It is unwise to keep preserves in tins when once opened. Bread for Thickening Sauces, etc.—Stale breadcrumbs free from crust cooked in certain sauces or stew's wall prove most helpful as a thickening ingredient in place of additional flour. The sauce must, of course, be passed through a sieve before serving. Grated Cheese in Onion Sauce.—Soubise or onion sauce will be greatly improved by the addition of one or two tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan cheese stirred in a few' minutes before serving. Preserving Eggs.—Eggs may be kept good for several weeks if packed in layers of fine salt and kept in a cool place. Another way of preserving eggs is to dissolve a teaspoonful of salicylic acid w'ith 3 Q