THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 284 of the shrimp ragout in each. Slip off the fillets of sole, and fill them with the ragout, then place them in the potatoes, force out a very small border of potato round each fillet, coat with a little white sauce. Re-heat, and dish up round a neatly cut croute of fried bread surmounted with a lemon hatelet. Garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve with sauce Bercy (p. 142). Filets de Soles a la Gastronome. 2 medium-sized soles, lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. crayfish butter (beurre d’ecrevisses, p. 175). i egg, panurette or white breadcrumbs, 8 champignons, salt and pepper, fi-ying-fat. Sauce Vin Blanc fp. r62l. Fleurons for garnish (half-moons of puff-paste baked). Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread with forcemeat, mixed with half the quantity of crayfish butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fold each fillet. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, egg well and crumb with either panurette or white breadcrumbs. Have ready a well-reduced white wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc, p. 162), incorporate the remainder of crayfish butter and the champignons (mitshrooms), finely chopped. Fry the fillets a delicate brown in hot fat. Drain them carefully, and dish up. Pour the sauce round the dish, not over the fillets, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Grand-Due. 2 or 3 soles, Mornay sauce (p. 154), mushroom liquor, truffles, crayfish or prawns, parmesau cheese, butter, asparagus points. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, season them with salt and pepper, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little mushroom liquor (cuisson de champignons), cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce Mornay. Dress the fillets on an oval dish, with alternate slices of truffles and crayfish or prawn tails between the fillets. Mask the whole with the sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese and a few drops of oiled butter. Brown the snrface under a salamander or in a very sharp oven. Garnish with cooked asparagus points—these may be placed in the centre or on each side of the dish. The dish is then ready for serving. Filets de Soles a ITndienne. 2 sole.s, lobster puree (see next recipe), i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, 6 mushrooms, 2 gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, 4 gill mild curry sauce, frying-fat, plain boiled rice. Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread one side with lobster puree, fold them over in half, pare the sides neatly, season them with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. If liked, this operation may be performed twice. Cut the piccalilli,, gherkins, ancl mnshrooms into fine shreds (julienne strips), put them in a small stewpan with the sauce, and heat up carefully. Fry the fillets a golden colour in clarified dripping or butter, drain them, and dish np in a