THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 78 sharply for a few minutes only, whereby the closing up of the pores of cut ends of the soft libres will be effected, for as soon as these ends have become hardened from the coagulation of the albumen the leakage or exudation of the juices will cease. It is stated that albumen coagulates at as low a temperature as 120°, so that a few minutes’ immersion in boiling water which has a heat of 212° should amply suffice to prevent much of the juice from escaping. After this is effected the cooking must be continued at a lower temperature till the joint is thoroughly done. On the other hand, if meat is put in cold water and allowed to boil up slowly, and is then simmered until tender, it will be found that much of the nutritive juices has become incorporated in the water, which is then called broth. If this be carefully done, both meat and broth can be consumed, so that there cannot be much loss of nutritive matter. Salt meats, such as salt beef, salt pork, tongues, ham, and other salt, pickled or smoked meat, should be put on in cold water. The time allowed for boiling meats is from 20 to 25 minutes for every pound, according to the size and kind of meat, and from 15 to 20 minutes over. A leg of mutton weighing from 10 to 12 pounds will require from 3 to 3|- hours, if cooked gently. Fowls take from 40 minutes to i|- hours, according to size and age. Smoked ham and tongue should always be soaked in cold water for at least 12 hours. A large ham requires from hve to six hours to cook. Simmering at 185°, or even 200°, is undoubtedly far better for meat than violent boiling at 212°. With very few exceptions, the heat which is applied to produce more than the smallest degree minute or two, and then allowed to simmer gently for an hour. By this last process it will be found that the same joint is more tender, more juicy, and better flavoured than would be the case by quick boiling. SIMMERING VERSUS BOILING. TURBOT KETTLE. of simmering is practically wasted, the water being converted into useless steam. A fowl or any small joint, which is put into boiling water and is allowed to gallop for an hour or longer, can never be as satisfactory as if put on in boiling water or stock, made to boil for a