455 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Tournedos MacMahon.—Grilled tournedos garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes ; sauce Madere. — Menagere.—Tournedos grilled or broiled, dressed on a border of duchesse potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions, and noisette potatoes sauce demi-glace. — a la Mercedes.—Grilled tournedos, coated with artichoke puree and mushroom-heads ; sauce over with demi-glace or Madere. — Meridionale.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with sorrel puree, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes ; plain gravy. — a la Mikado.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each ; sauce Madere. --- a la Mireille.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of baked or fried brioche paste (p. 137), garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — a la Monaco.—Grilled or broiled tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce; garnished with mushroom-heads and slices of tongue ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Grilled tournedos placed on rice croutons; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with as aragus points; plain gravy. — a la Monte Carlo.—Broiled tournedos, garnished with slice of foie- gras and truffle on top of each. Dish up, and surround with fried slices of sweetbread and fried calf’s brain ; sauce Madere. — a la Nelson.—Par-fried tournedos, finished in an earthenware casserole, with braised button onions, demi-glace or IMadere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. — a la Nesselrode.—Broiled tournedos, garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — a la NiQoise.—Small fillet steaks grilled, served with a demi-glace sauce, blended with tomato puree. Garnish the dish with stuffed olives. — a I’Orsay.—Grilled or broiled tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes ; sauce Madere. — a r Othello.—Place a poached or fried egg on each tournedo, and serve with pGigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled tournedos, with a garnish of asparagus ]ioints, Parisian potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Piemontaise.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of bread, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with a mushroom head on each ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Pompadour.—Tournedos broiled or grilled, sauced over with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy. — a la Prince Murat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie- gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons ; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de champignons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and Madere blended together.