REMO VES—RELE VlzS. 595 Filet de Boeuf a la Metropole [Fillet of Beef, MHropolc Style). A piece of fillet of beef, larding bacon, i glass of sherry or Madeira, i glass of Chablis or Sauterne, i onion, i carrot, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, a few sprigs parsley, i tablespoonful sweet oil, 12 peppercorns, salt, 2 truffles, 4 artichoke bottoms, a few chicken forcemeat quenelles (p. 178), pint Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. rice cooked in stock, 1 pint stock or consomme, dauphine potato croquettes. Pare and trim the fillet into neat shape, lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, put it in a deep dish or pan, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over the wine. Add the carrot and onion, peeled and sliced, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, peppercorns, and oil, cover and let it soak in marinade for twelve hours, and turn it occasionally. Roast the fillet in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, baste well with dripping or butter. It must be still under- done [saignant) when taken up. Use preserved artichoke bottoms, put them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little stock or consomme, and warm up in the oven. Strain the liquor in which the fillet has been marinaded into the stew-pan, boil up, and add the sauces. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and keep hot. Cut the truffles into thin slices or small dice, poach the chicken quenelles in stock or consomme, strain and moisten with a little sauce, add the truffles with the quenelles, drain the artichoke bottoms, and fill them with the above. Place the fillet on a neatly-shaped bed of cooked rice on an oblong dish, garnish with the filled artichoke bottoms and dauphine potato croquettes. Brush over the fillet with some liquid meat glaze, and serve with the sauce, which should be sent to table separately. Filet de Boeuf a la Xeres [Fillet of Beef, Xer'cs Style). About 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, about i lb. cooked ox-tongue, larding bacon, i glass port, i gill stock, 6 artichoke bottoms, green peas, new potatoes, tomato sauce, pepper and salt. Pare the fillet, removing the skin and part of the fat. By means of a wooden skewer make a slit through the centre of the fillet (outside) and insert the piece of ox-tongue, neatly trimmed, into the opening made. Lard the surface of the fillets with strips of fat bacon. Butter a saute or oblong flat braisiere, put in the fillet, larded side upwards, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttei'ed paper and cook in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, until it acquires a nice colour. Moisten with a gill of rich stock and a glass of port wine, continue to cook until done according to requirements, which is usually underdone [saignant). When ready for table, glaze the fillet and place it on a croute of bread or bed of rice neatly shaped. Put about a gill of tomato sauce with the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, let the whole reduce, then strain. Cook the peas and toss them in a little fresh butter. Warm up the artichoke bottoms, fill up each with peas and place them round the dish, also the potatoes, which should be ready boiled and fried whole in butter. The sauce is best served separately.