INTRODUCTION TO THE THIRD ENLARGED EDITION. SOME live years have passed since the hrst enlarged edition of this book was issued. A reprint of the original book was exhausted, and still the demand continued. But five years in a living Art such as Cookery have brought about many changes, and I therefore decided to practically re-cast the whole work. In this enlarged edition much that is trew has been introduced. While the fundamental principles underlying Cookery and Gastronomy, already dealt with in the earlier editions, and the numerous recipes for dishes of the Old School have been retained, the result of present- day practice occupies the main part of the book, which now contains over 5,000 Recipes, Methods, and Menus. As in former issues of this work, I have again availed myself of the kind assistance so readily accorded to me by several of the leading Maitre Chefs of the day. I have further largely drawn upon the long series of practical Demonstrations in High-class Cookery given by me at the National Training School of Cookery, most of the dishes introduced and demonstrated by me there during this and previous seasons being included. This has enabled me to illustrate the text with over 300 photographs, the majority of which are photographic reproductions of actual dishes, a feature which has been so much appreciated in the former editions. Poe- tically all the dishes described will be found to respond to the increasing demand for dainty, nourishing, yet light fare. In further response to this wise change in fashion, I have added chapters on special Vegetable and Farinage Dishes, as well as other dishes suitable not only for those who are professed Vegetarians and Fruitarians, but also for the very numerous class who desire to have some “ maigre ” dishes at all times as well as rigorous Lenten diet in due season. It has been my aim to show in these chapters that the same rules which apply to High-class Cookery generally can be brought to bear on Meatless Fare and Vegetarian Cookery, so that these dishes may be pleasing to the eye and palate as well as nourishing to the system. I have availed myself of this opportunity to introduce various ^ improvements in the text, my aim being to make the work an up-to-date, comprehensive, and thoroughly practical repertory of the Art of Cookery of the Twentieth Century. London: August, 1909.