HOT MEAT ENTRI^ES, ETC. 397 Epaule d'Agneau a la Chevet.—Ironed, rolled, and larded .shoulder of laml:>, braised and glazed. Served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, mingled with cho]>ped shallots and i)arsley. — a la Montmorency.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mush- room heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloutee sauce. — a la Paysanne.—Boned shoulder of lamb braised, served with a garni- ture of stewed sliced carrots, turnijis, and peeled tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, l>raised, sliced, dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over w'ith a rich brown sauce, sprinkled over with brown breadcrumbs, egged, and , browned in the oven. Served with poached eggs on top of bordure. Epigrammes.—Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small portions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to , the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Bearnaise.—Small lamb chops, boned, flattened, pared, and sauted in butter, when cold immersed in veloutee sauce, and dipped in eggs and breadcrumbs. They are then fried in clarified butter or drij)ping, dished up and served with bearnaise sauce in the centre of the epigrammes. — d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Partly-cooked lamb collops or fillets, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread-crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a puree of green peas and suit- able sauce. — d’Agneau a la Macedoine.—Lamb collops, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with a collection of finely shaped carrots and turnips, French beans, and green jieas. Sauce demi-glace. — d’Agneau a la Perigord.—Fried or braised slices of breast of lamli stewed in truffle sauce. Filet d’Agneau a la Venaison.—Rolled boned loin of lamb, jiickled in marinade, flavoured with cloves, funiper berries, pepper, and savoury herbs. Braised in the usual way, and served with brown sauce mixed with a little sour cream. Filets d’Agneau a la Villeroi.—Braised lamb fillets, masked with stiff allemande sauce, egged, crumbed m bread and grated cheese. Baked in a quick oven {an gratin), and served with tomato sauce. Poitrine d’Agneau a la Turque.—Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sausage-meat, liraised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, slightly flavoured with saffron powder, sauced over with demi-glace or a mild curry sauce. — farcie a la Very.—Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served with French beans, sauted or tossed in butter. Serve with demi-glace sauce. Langues d’Agneau a la Duxelle.—Boiled sheep’s tongues, cut into halves and spread over with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, butter, and egg-yolks. Dressed on a dish, sauced over with duxelle sauce, and baked in the oven {gratiii style).