947 PA S TR \ ■ A i\D CON FECI ION RR \'. strawberry or raspberry jam in each lined mould, lill np with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Tartelettes a la Balmoral. PuH-pastc (see j). 133) for lining lartlet-nioiilds, 2 eggs, 2 oz. glacc cherries, 4 oz. blitter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. fecula or i oz. cornflour, 2 oz, crushed sponge-cakes, 2 oz. lemon peel. Beat the butter and the sugar to a cream, add the egg-yolks one at a time ; chop the cherries and peel very small, then acid to the mixture, and beat together with the powdered sponge-cakes. Line the tartlet-moulds with puff-paste. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this with the cornilonr carefully into the mixture ; hll np the lined tartlet-moulds (not (juite full), dust with sugar, place them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven from twenty to twenty-hve minutes. Granville Tartlets. 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. currants, i oz. ground rice, 2 whites of eggs, i oz. candied peel, 3 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sponge-cake crumbs, |- lb. puff-paste, a little water icing, 5 drops oi lemon essence, i tablespoonful cream, i oz. dessert cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar until perfectly smooth, add the ground rice and cake-crumbs, chop the peel finely, and add, together with the currants, cream, and flavouring essence. Beat up the whites and amalgamate. Roll out the paste, cut out some rounds, and line eight to ten small oval tartlet-moulds ; put each in a table- spoonful of the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. ]\Iask the top of each with water icing or fonckint icing, besprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, and serve. Clarence Tartlets. 2 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar 6 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, orange flavouring, crystallised cherries, puff-pa.ste. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a few drops of orange flavouring essence. Dissolve the butter and stir into the mixture ; three-parts hll the tartlets. Place them on a baking-sheet and bake to a delicate brown in a moderate oven. When done, put a crystallised cherry in the centre of each, and ornament round with a few fancifully-cnt pieces of angelica. Tartelettes a la St. Denis. 6 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, i tablespoonful milk, 4 oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, raspberry jam, 2 oz. ground almonds, i tablespoonful cornflour, vanilla essence. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of castor sugar, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out into rounds and line ten or twelve tartlet-monlds, and put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Put two ounces of butter in a basin, cream it with two ounces of castor sugar ; when well worked, add the ground almonds, cornflour, and two yolks of eggs ; beat the white of one egg to a froth, and mix with the butter, sugar, etc. ; flavour the mixture, and hll the lined tartlet-moulds. Place two thin