THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 330 the mould as directed. Pound half a pound of cooked whiting freed from bones, add an ounce of anchovy paste, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and a tablespoonful of cream, when smooth rub through a fine sieve, mix with the remainder of mixture left over from masking, season with “ Krona ” pepper and salt. Take the fillets of half a small turbot, remove the skin, cut each in foftr, fiatten a little with a cutlet-bat, fold in two, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, cook in a slow oven until tender. When done, let them cool and drain well. Line the mould again with the whiting puree, set the fillets of turbot in a row in the border, fill up with the remainder of the whiting puree, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable wax or “ suif ” figure in the centre, surround with a bed of salad, lettuce, endive, cucumber, etc. Filets de Soles a la Regence. 2 small soles, i small whiting, 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, i anchovy, lilleted, 1 oz. marinaded tunny fish (thon marine), seasoning, \ lemon, 1- oz. butter, ^ gill cream, li gill aspic cream (p. 147), aspic jelly, and salad for garnishing. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten them, and trim the edges. Put the bones in a stewpan, add white stock or water, a small onion and a clove, and boil to produce fish stock. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar with the hard-boiled egg-yolks, anchovy fillets, and the tunny fish, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Sprinkle the fillets of soles with lemon-juice, salt, paprika pepper, spread one side of each fillet with the prepared forcemeat, roll up, wrap separately in buttered foolscap paper, put them in a buttered saute-pan with enough fish stock to half cover them, and cook slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take them up, let cool, and remove the paper covers. Coat with a layer of aspic cream, when one layer is set repeat the opera- tion so as to thoroughly mask them. Dish them in the form of a border. Whisk the cream, season it with a little pepper and salt, put it in a forcing-bag with a small rose pipe, and decorate the centre of each fillet with this. Garnish round the fillets with chopped aspic jelly, and fill the centre of the dish with some nice green salad. Filets de Soles en Zephires. I large sole, r small lobster, \ teaspoonful anchovy paste, ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. butter, i-J gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), | lemon, pint aspic jelly, gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), i large truffle, seasoning. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, flatten them carefully with a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare them neatly into six even-sized pieces as near as possible the shape of oval zephires (the shape of the moulds used). Remove all the meat from the lobster shell, chop it finely and put in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, the anchovy pastp, a few drops of onion-juice, and the parsley. Cook for a few