COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 79 the end of each half to form the stalks. Place them neatly around the sides of the mould, so as to line them completely, and put on the ice to set. Cut the remainder of fruit into dice or slices. Boil remainder of jelly, slightly coloured, for a few minutes to reduce its quantity, pour into a basin, stir over the ice to cool, then add the cream, liqueur, and fruit. Mi.v all carefully over the ice, till the centre of the mould. Keep on the ice till required for serving. Unmould, dish up, garnish with a few nice strawberries and chopped jelly, and serve. Pains de Praises {Little Strawberry Moulds). I punnet of strawberries, i pint wine jelly, i glass enra^oa, f oz. leaf gelatine, 2 eggs, i oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, angelica ami pistachios. Dissolve some of the jelly, pick about a dozen of the best straw- berries. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly, when partly set garnish the bottom with pistachios and angelica leaves, coat the garnish with half-set jelly, and put on the ice to get firm. Beat up the eggs, pick the remainder of strawberries, put them in a basin, crush with a wooden spoon, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Make a gill of syrup with the loaf sugar, and put it and the fruit pulp, eggs, and curacoa liqueur in a copper bowl, and whisk over a saucepan of boiling water. Dissolve the gelatine, previously soaked in water, and strain into the pulp, etc. ; keep stirring over the hot water until the mi.xture binds, then beat a little longer over- some crushed ice, and add the whole strawberries. When suffi- ciently cool, fill up the moulds and leave on the ice until quite set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, turn out neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped wine jelly, and serve. Tivoli aux Praises. Mask a plain round jelly mould with a thin layer of maraschino jelly (p. 785), then fill up in alternate sections of rich strawberry cream and vanilla cream, let- ting each section set before adding the next, pour a little jelly on top of each layer and c 0 m p 1 e te 1 y fill the mould. Set it on the ice till quite firm. Unmould, dish up, and garnish with fresh strawberries, angelica, and whipped cream. Bananes farcies aux Praises {Stuffed Bananas with Strawberries).' 8 to 10 bananas (not over-ripe), 1 lb. best scarlet or forest strawberries or a gill of preserved strawberry pnlp, i oz. castor sugar, i glass curagoa, lemon.