352 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Boudins de Lievre a la Richelieu.—Boudins of hare farce with truffle salpicon in centre, steamed in oven, and served with rich truffle sauce. Boudins de Sanglier.—Wild boar farce made into boudins, poached, and served with bigarade sauce. Boudins de Veau.—Veal boudins, poached or steamed in the oven, served with cream or veloutee sauce. Boudins de Volaille a la Richelieu. Prepare a chicken forcemeat, line with it 8 to lo well- buttered boudin or quenelle moulds. Fill the centre with a salpicon made as follows : Cut a cooked sweetbread into dice, mix with it six champignons, one large truffle, and a slice of tongue, all cut into small dice, moisten with a little supreme sauce, and season to taste. Cover each mould with a layer of forcemeat, so as to completely cover the salpicon. Poach the moulds in the oven. (Place them in a saute-pan with a little water, covered with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes.) When done, unmould, let cool, egg and crumb carefully, and fry in hot fat till a nice golden colour. Take them up, drain, and dish on a folded serviette or dish-paper. Serve with a hot ravigote sauce. Petites Caisses. Caisses are small round or oval-shaped pastry—crusts, paper, china or silver cases. These are filled with certain savoury mixtures, the following being some examples : Petites caisses de Ris de Veau.—Braised sweetbread in cases. Petites caisses de Champignons farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms in cases. Petites caisses de Foie-gras aux truffes.—Goose-liver truffled in cases. Petites caisses de Moeile.—Braised beef-marrow served in cases. Petits Pates aux Huitres.—Small oyster patties. Petits Pates aux Alouettes.—Small lark patties. Petits Pates aux Cailles.—Small quail patties. Petits Pates a la Joinville.—Small patties filled with minced lobster, chicken fillets, and truffle, blended with Joinville sauce. Cannelons. Cannelons are small rolls of puff-paste filled with a savoury mince of game, poultry, meats, etc. They are either egged and baked in the oven, or egged and rolled in crushed vermicelli or breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. The follow- ing are a few of the most popular ways of serving cannelons : Cannelons aux Saucisses.—Cannelons filled with fine sausage meat. Cannelons de Volaille.—Cannelons filled with chicken farce or puree. Cannelons aux Truffes.—Cannelons filled with truffle puree. Cannelons a la Puree de Gibier.—Cannelons filled with game pur&. Cannelons aux Champignons.—Cannelons filled with mushroom puree.