SALADES—SALADS. 70 Salade a I’Espagnole [Spanish Salad). Cut six small, firm tomatoes, three cooked potatoes, and one beetroot into thin slices, pnt these in a bowl, add to it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, chopped I'ather finely, and about half a pint of preserved French beans cut into short pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and salad dressing, and serve. Salade Eugenie. Dandelion, endive, Belgian chicoree, a cucumber or lettuce, corn salad, celery, fourniture of herbs, 2 eggs. For dressing : 5 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i teaspoonful mustard, .salt and pepper, herbs, } a teaspoonful sugar, i tablespoonful capers chopped finely. Butter a flat mould, and sprinkle with chopped herbs, put in the whites of two eggs, sprinkle the top with herbs, and poach till firm. Peel the tomatoes and cucumber, and cut into julienne strips, also the celery. W'ash and trim the other salad plants, divide into small pieces and drain well. Prepare the salad dressing, and mix all thoroughly in a salad bowl a few minutes before serving, nse the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve in the dressing, and add the herbs. Cut the egg whites into rings, and arrange them neatly on top of the salad with a tuft of corn salad in the centre of each ring, and serve. Salade a la Franpaise [French Salad). Split some French cos lettuces down the stalk, divide the leaves into three or four pieces, rinse in cold water, shake it well in a light wire basket. Place the lettuces in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over some coarsely-chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, and parsley, mix with two to three parts of salad oil to one part of French wine or tarragon vinegar. The dressing should always be mixed with a wooden spoon or fork in a separate basin, or in a large ladle, a little French mustard may be mixed with it, if liked. Cabbage lettuces, endives, dandelion, and other salad plants are prepared in a similar way. Pickled beetroot is usually mixed with small salads, such as corn salad, chicoree, escaroles, American cress, watercress, etc. Salade de Gibier [Game Salad). The remains of any kind of cold game, r hard-boiled egg, 2 lettuces, pepper, salt, cayenne, mayonnaise sauce. Pickled beetroot for garnish. Cut the meat from the bones of the game, remove the skin, and ent the meat into medium-sized dice. Trim and wash the lettuces, pull the leaves from the stalks, and shred them finely, cut out some star shapes from the white of the egg, chop up the yolk and trimmings, and put with the meat. Dress the lettuces, meat, and mayonnaise in alternate layers, in the shape of a pyramid or dome, in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little seasoning between the layers, cover with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with stars of sliced beetroot and hard-boiled white of egg. Salade d’Hiver [Winter Salad). A small head of celery, t pickled beetroot (well boiled), 3 or 4 cold potatoes, pepper and salt, salad dressing.