224 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Potage d’Orleans.—This is a white chicken juiree with finely crushed tapioca as a liaison. — d’Orleans Maigre.—This is a well-seasoned soup made with white bread and milk, thickened with finely crushed tapioca and enriched with cream. — Ostendaise.—White fish soup with oysters, cream liaison, and quarters of oysters as garnish. — Pluche.—Prepare potato soup as directed in Puree de Pommes de Terre ; to this add finely grated carrots (red part only) and herbs, strain and season. — a la Polonaise.—This is a light brown puree of beef and pork, with roux thickening ; cooked sauerkraut is added as garnish. — Palestine.—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with small fried bread croutons. — a la Parmentier.—A cream-like potato soup made as directed in recipe for Puree de Pommes de Terre, and served with croutons of bread. — Puree de Pois.—This is a-pea soup made like Puree de Lentilles (p. 210), but using dried peas in place of lentils, served with croutons. — aux Queues de Veau a I’lndienne {Indian Calf's-tail Soup).—A thick calf’s-tail souj) made the same as ox-tail soup; but it is flavoured with curry paste or powder and garnished with boiled rice. — Regence {Regent Soup).—Prepare a light chicken puree, similar to that given in recipe for Potage a la Reine ; garnish this soup with mace- doine of vegetables. — de Ris de Veau a la Reine.—This is a white sweetbread soup made the same as directed in Potage a la Reine, using sweetbread in place of chicken. — Riz aux Choux.—This is a light cream of rice, with white cabbage cut in julienne strips, blanched and cooked instock, then added to the soup. — Risotto.—This is a puree of rice, mixed with tomato pulp diluted with rich consomme. — Romeo.—This is a rich Parmentier puree (Potato Soup, p. 212), mixed with half its volume of onion puree (Soubise, p. 160), enriched with cream and egg-yolks ; chervil leaves, poached white of egg, and small dice of ham are added as garnish. — St. Hubert.—Puree of game (hare or other game), with small game quenelles or dice cut fillets of game. — St. Martha.—A blend of green pea, leek, and lettuce purees, with cream liaison. — St. Martin.—Potato puree with sorrel and watercress purees added, cream liaison (croutons). — Sultane.—White chicken puree with pistachios and truffles as garniture. — Suzette.—Puree of cucumber and peas, blended, garnished with poached yolks of eggs. — Souveraine.—Chicken cream soup, enriched with pistachio pounded kernels and butter liaison. — St. Cloud.—Puree of French beans and broad beans, with finely- chopped lettuce.