HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 73^ fectly clean. Cool, slightly work in the egg-yolks one by one, add the sugar, chocolate, vanilla essence, and whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Pour into a well-buttered plain mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for i|- hours or bake for one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. Pouding au Chocolat meringue [Frosted Chocolate Pudding). |- pint milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. corntlour, 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate, vanilla essence, 4 oz. castor sugar. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk with the chocolate and about three ounces of sugar. Stir in the cornflour and work over the fire until it thickens, cook for about ten minutes, then stir in the yolks of three eggs and one whole egg. Add the vanilla essence, and beat up. Have ready a well-buttered pudding or cake tin, pour in the mixture, and cook in a moderate oven in a bain-marie or otherwise. It will take about forty-five minutes to steam or half an hour to bake. Beat the remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the sugar left over, add a little vanilla essence or vanilla sugar to flavour. When the pudding is done, turn out on a dish, let cool a little, cover quickly with the froth of whites of egg, etc., dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes longer. A few shredded almonds may be stuck in the pudding before it is sent to table. Pouding au Citron [English Lemon Pudding). 11). finely chopped beef suet, 6 oz._ flour. \ lb. lireadcrumbs, 8 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 lemons, 3 gills milk, i teaspoonful baking-powder. Mix the suet, flour, breadcrumbs, sugar, and baking-powder in a basin, add the grated rind of one lemon. Strain the juice of both lemons, beat up the eggs and the milk, and stir this with the lemon- juice into above. Mix thoroughly, fill into buttered pudding- moulds, and steam for two hours. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with marmalade or custard sauce. Cornflour Custard Pudding. 3 oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 2 pints of milk, a piece of lemon-rind, cinnamon, bay-leaf or vanilla for flavouring. Blend the cornflour with a little of the milk. Bring to the boil the remainder of the milk with the sugar and flavouring. If lemon-peel, cinnamon or bay-leaf has been itsed, remove it now. Whisk into the milk the cornflour mixture, boil a few minutes, let it cool, then beat in, one at a time, the eggs. Butter a dish, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Note.—All kinds of custard puddings should be baked in a slow oven. Excessive heat curdles the eggs, and the pudding is then generally loose and watery. Pouding a la Crecy [Carrot Pudding). 1 lb. young carrots, J- lb. fine fre.sh breadcrumbs, lb. butter, 2 oz. glace cherries, lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. WMsh and scrub the carrots, but do not scrape them. Cover with boiling water slightly salted, cook till tender, and rub through