9S4 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. buttered baking-sheet, brush over with a little sweetened milk and egg, sprinkle some cocoannt over the top of each. Bake in a mode- rately heated oven for about twenty minutes. If the paste is found too stiff, a little milk or cream should be added. Bonne-Bouche Biscuits. 3 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. Paisley flour, i egg, i tablespoonful cream, lemon oz. castor sugar, i j- oz. butter, salt, oz. almonds. Cream the sugar and butter in a basin, add the egg and the lemon-rind finely grated. Beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Mix the Vienna Hour and Paisley Hour, add a pinch of salt, and rub through a sieve. Stir the Hour into the above mixture, moisten with a little cream at first, work it thoroughly and add the remainder of the cream. Blanch the almonds, cut them into shreds, and dry in the oven. Mix about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and the shredded almonds with the dough. Drop the mixture in layers in wcll-bnttered fancy biscuit tins, dust over with a little castor sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Biscuits a Cuillere {Spoon or Sponge Fingers). 8 eggs, } lb. castor sugar, 6 oz, flour, sifted (or 4 oz. fecule), J teaspoonful vanilla essence. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until qnite smooth ancl creamy. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth (add a pinch of salt before beginning to whisk). Work the flour and whites of eggs in small quantities into the creamed yolks, add the vanilla flavouring (if the eggs are small it will not require more than five ounces of Hour). Fill a forcing-bag three-parts full with the mixture, and with a plain pipe (:j-inch) press out the paste on to a baking-sheet, covered with white paper, in the shape of fingers about three inches long ; keep them about an inch apart. Proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Dust over with castor sugar. Bake in a moderately heated oven a golden colour. Let them cool on the paper, and remove carefully with a palette knife. Pack the biscuits into an air-tight tin, and use as required. Matrons glaces {Glazed Chestnuts). Select some fine sound chestnuts (Spanish chestnuts are best), slit the skins with a fine-pointed knife. Roast them in a frying- pan over a moderate fire or blanch them in boiling water, till the outer and inner skins can be removed. When they are all peeled, drain them and put theuf into a clean stew-pan (copper) with enough syrup to cover ; add a vanilla pod, and simmer very gently till the chestnuts are tender. Put them in a basin and allow them to stand covered till the following day. Reboil them in the syrup the next day. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Meanwhile boil a syrup (one pound of sugar to a gill of water) to the “ crack ” ; work it with a spoon against the sides of the pan till it is nearly cold, and dip the chestnuts into this separately, with a fork or skewer ; place them on trays and let them dry.