637 VEGETA BLES—LI'LG UMES. moist sugar, par-boil for fifteen minutes, strain, and cool in fresh water, press them gently, cut in twos lengthways, remove the stalky parts, and put the cabbages on a cloth. Prepare a stuffing with the sausage-meat, mushrooms finely chopped, breadcrumbs, about a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg-yolks, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir in an ounce of oiled butter, and fill the centre part of the cabbages with the farce. Shape them neatly, enfold them in thinly cut slices of fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stew-pan or deep saute- pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter, set it in the oven, and let braise gently for about an hour and a half, basting from time to time. Drain the cabbages, remove the bacon, and dish up. Take the fat off the gravy, add the brown sauce and reduce to half-glaze, strain over the cabbages, and serve. Choux de Bruxelles sautes au Beurre (Brussels Sprouts). Trim and wash one pound of Brussels sprouts, boil them in salted water in the usual manner. When done, take up, drain, and let them get cool. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh blitter in a saute- or frying-pan, put in the sprouts, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, toss them over a bright fire for about ten minutes, dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Colcannon. I lb. cold potatoes, i lb. cold greens or cabbage, 2 oz. butter, a little milk, salt and pepper. Chop the greens and potatoes together, add the seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes and greens, warm them over a slow fire, then rub through a wire sieve. Press them into a well-greased mould, make very hot in the oven, turn into a dish, and serve very hot. CHOUX-FLEUR—CAULIFLOWER. Choux-fleur au Gratin (Cauliflower au Gratin). 1-2 cauliflowers, li- oz. butter, oz. cornflour, pint milk, it- oz. grated cheese, salt, pepper, nutmeg, breadcrumbs. Trim and w ash the cauliflower, cook it till tender in slightly salted water, drain well, and let cool. Melt one ounce of butter in a small stew- pan, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with the milk, let boil for ten minutes.