THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 562 Tartines de Volaille en Surprise. I large tender chicken. lb. ox;-tongue (cooked). lb. chicken forcemeat, I white of egg, seasoning, i gill aspic cream, i gill a-;pic jelly, a little butter. Carefully remove the fillets of the chicken, flatten them and cut into neat squares, a little smaller than sandwich moulds, which will be required for this dish. Slice the tongue, and cut the slices to the same shape as the fillets. Put half the squares of chicken fillets on a buttered baking-tin, season with a little pepper and a pinch of cayenne, moisten the top well with white of egg, place on each a slice of tongue, brush over with white of egg, spread a thin layer of forcemeat (prepared from part of the chicken trimmings) on this, cover with the remainder of chicken fillets previously dipped in white of egg, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, ^^'hen done, place between two boards and press till cold. Mask as many sandwich moulds as there are sandwiches with clear aspic, when partly set, ornament with a few cooked green peas and some fancifully cut slices of tongue, coat the garnish with a layer of partly set aspic cream, place the sandwiches, previously trimmed, carefiflly into the prepared mould, mix the remainder of the jelly and cream together and fill up the moulds, and put on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish, arrange them in a row in the centre, garnish the sides with a little green salad, and serve. Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses [Capon Monsselines in Cases). Prepare a cream-like mixture the same as directed for " Darioles de Creme de Volaille ” on p. 567, using the remains of boiled capon in place of chicken. Line eight flat bouche moulds with a thin layer of aspic and decorate each mould with a star of truffle placed in the centre, with small clots of trufile around it. Next coat the moulds with a layer of aspic cream, and All when set with the capon mixture. Place the moulds on the ice to set. Put a little seasoned mixed salad, cut very small, into china or paper souffle cases, unmould the mousselines and place each on the salad into the cases. Garnish the edges with sprigs of endive. Dish up, and serve cold. Cremes de Volailles en Tomates [Chicken Cream with Tomatoes). About 1 lb. cooked chicken meat. J lb. ripe tomatoes, 2 oz. cooked ham, -I 07.. butter, -I pint aspic jelly, i gill cream, 2 tablespoonfnls velo\itee sauce, dessertspoonful meat glaze, 8 tomato moulds, parsley, salt, and pepper. Slice and saute the tomatoes in half an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper, rub them through a fine sieve, and incor- porate three large tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly. Pound the chicken and ham in a mortar till smooth, pass through a sieve, mix with it the veloutee sauce and dissolved meat-glaze and about two table- spoonfuls liquid aspic (or substitute dissolved gelatine), stir well, add the seasoning, beat up the cream and mix with it. Line each half of the tomato moulds with aspic jelly, when set mask thickly