282 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. sauce, and cook for a few minutes. Unmould the border on to a hot entree dish, dress the hllets neatly on this {en couronne), place the star of truffles on top of each fillet, put the dish in the oven to get thoroughly hot, fill the centre with the prepared garniture, pour a little sauce Chasseur Royal over the garnish and some round the border, and serve the remainder separately with the dish. Filets de Soles a la Carlette. 1 or 2 soles, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), oysters, truffles, mirepoix, a small glass Chablis, veloutee or bechamel sauce, oysters, mussels. Skin and hllet the soles. With the prepared whiting forcemeat mix the hnely chopped blanched oysters and chopped truffles. Season the fillets and cover one side of each with the prepared puree, fold and frim them neatly, and place them in a buttered saute-pan containing a mirepoix of sliced bacon, carrot, onion, bay- leaf, parsley, and other herbs. Moisten with a small glass of Chablis or Sauferne wine, and poach in the oven. When done, dress them on a hot dish in the shape of a circle, sauce over with veloutee or bechamel sauce (maigre, p. 142), made with hsh stock, hll the centre with fried oysters and mussels, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Czarina. 2 medium-sized soles, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots chopped finely, gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), I tablespooiiful concentrated tomato pulp, i small glass white wine, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, | lb. mashed potatoes, i teaspoonful meat glaze, 2 yolks of eggs, a few sprigs of chervil, i teaspoonful chopped chives, grated horse-radish, salt, paprika pepper. Skin, trim, and hllet the soles, put trimmings and bones in a stewpan with a little stock or water, and reduce, adding a little seasoning. Season and fold the hllets, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and slightly brown each side. Cook the shallots in the wine, add the meat glaze, lemon-juice, sauce, a little chopped chives, tomato pulp, and hsh stock, boil up, reduce, and keep hot. Mix the remainder of chopped herbs with the potato puree, add to it half an ounce of butter and the egg-yolks. Stir well over the hre till thoroughly hot. Spread this on a dish to cool. Stamp out an oval shape for each hllet, and fry them in butter. Dress the cooked hllets on these, dish them up, re-heat the sauce and pour over, put a little scraped horse-radish on top of each hllet, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Diocletien. Fillets of soles, stuffed with hsh quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised), and very small hsh quenelles (poached). Serve with a sauce composed of rich espagnole (p. 148), hsh liquor,' and hnely chopped truffles. Filets de Soles a la Dreux. 2 medium-sized soles, 6 to 8 preserved white mushrooms, i small truffle, I small shallot, i oz. imtter, gill white stock, ^ glass Chablis, a few drops lemon-juice, | gill well-reduced supreme sauce (p. i6o), seasoning.