THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 244 ladleful of tartare sauce (p. i6o) ; put a little mustard and cress at the bottom of each crust and fill up with the preparation, and cover with thin slices of aspic jelly. Fasten the heads of prawns in the centre of each with a little lobster butter, and ornament the edges with lobster butter. Dish up on small round dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cassolettes a TEpicurienne. 2 oz. preserved lax, 2 oz. cooked ox tongue, 6 French olives, i|- oz. fresh butter, 2 French gherkins, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, I- teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, tablespoonful of wine vinegar, i table- spoonful of sweet oil, stick celery, about lb. cassolette paste (p. 136). Prepare the cassolette paste as directed, roll out very thin, and line ten or twelve little round fluted moulds. Place a round of buttered paper in each, fill up with rice, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderately heated oven. Take out rice and papers, replace the cases on a baking sheet in the oven until they become quite crisp, then put on sieve to cool. Cut the lax, tongue, and gherkins into little strips, season lightly with oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and fill the little cases carefully with this. Stone the olives, and place one in the centre of each. Cream the butter, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet with a fancy piping tube, and ornament the edges and surface to taste. Keep in a cool place until required for table, then dish up on little round glass saucers, and garnish with tiny bunches of shredded celery and sprigs of parsley. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses. Cassolette paste, picked shrimps, mayonnaise cream, parsley, lobster coral. Make some cassolette paste (p. 136), line with it 6 to 8 small oval- shaped patty or dariole pans, and bake them. Fill the crusts with picked shrimps seasoned with mayonnaise cream (p. 153), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral, Petites Caisses a la Marquise. 8 oysters, 2 hard-boiled eggs, green herb butter, tartare sauce, i large truffle, 2 or 3 stems of celery. Shred very finely the white and well-washed celery and truffle, season with tartare sauce (p. i6o). Fill up 8 small china cases, place an oyster and a thin slice of hard-boiled egg on top of each, and decorate with green herb butter. Canapes are made of either toasted or fried bread, cut into suitably shaped slices. The new wheat biscuit known and sold