496 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. about thirty minutes. Uumould on to a hot dish, and sauce over with supreme or rich hechamei sauce. Souffle de Volaille a la Perigord. Prepare a chicken souffle from either of the preceding recipes, and mix with two finely chopped truffles. Slice also two more truffles, and add to the souffle mixture. Proceed to poach or steam same in a souffle tin as directed in preceding recipe ; when done nnmould, and serve with a rich demi-glace or Maclere sauce. Attriotes de Volaille a la Vaudoise. 10 slices of cooked ox-tongue, V cooked fowl, 8 mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 glass sherry wine, 11). raw chicken or game, 3 oz. fresh pork, 2 shallots, I whole and two yolks of eggs, parsley, I lemon, gill cream, meat glaze, r gill tomato sauce, i gill alkmande sauce, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, pig’s caul. Mashed potatoes for border. Cut the tongue slices in even-sized rounds or ovals, put the trimmings in a mortar, add the raw' chicken or game, freed from skin ancl bone, and pound till smooth. Cut the pork into slices, and pound likewise, mix both together, add a finely-chopped .shallot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and work in the cream and yolks of eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Pass through a fine sieve, ancl put in a basin. Remove the skin and bones from the cooked chicken, cut it into small dice, chop the mushrooms and truffles coarsely, and mix with the forcemeat. Cover the round slices of tongue completely with this mixture, wrap each piece separately in pig’s caul, and dip them in beaten white of egg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, place in the attriotes, fry over the fire for a few minutes, ancl finish cooking in the oven for another ten to fifteen minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes, ornament the sides prettily with a forcing-bag and a fancy pipe or tube. Brush over with yolk of egg, and brown in the oven. Dress the attriotes on the border, brush over with meat glaze, and serve the following sauce in the centre and round the dish. Chop the remaining shallot finely, fry in the pan in which the attriotes were cooked, pour oft' the fat, moisten with the tomato and allemande sauce and the sherry, reduce a little, add a tea- spoonful of meat glaze and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, season to taste, strain, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The sauce is then ready for serving. Creme de Volaille a I’Argenteuil {Chicken Cream with Asparagus). 1 small fowl, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, \ gill cream, 25 heads of green asparagus, a handful of spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, I- oz. of buffer, supreme sauce. Bone the fowl, remove the skin and sinews, cut the meat into small shreds, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Return to the mortar, add the panade, the yolk of egg, and the cream, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Clean the asparagus and spinach, cook them separately in salted water, rub the spinach through a sieve, cut off the soft portions of the asparagus and pass through a sieve, and mix both purees together. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the forcemeat. Divide the