GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 335 etc., are matters which must be left entirely to the taste of the cook, as very few rules can be given for plain garnitures. 1( is hardly possible to giv^e here a minute description of every cha- racteristic garnish, but the following will convey a general idea of those most commonly in use : Oysters fried, stuffed tomatoes, stuffed olives, mushrooms, potato balls and croquettes, rice crocpiettes, made in tin moulds or done up into cork or ball shapes, chestnuts, cauliflower, purees, peas, macedoine, beans, ragouts. Fried potato straws or strips, thin chips or potato ribbons, also make a simple yet an effective garnish. All garni- tures shoiild be neatly and uniformly arranged, and the colour and design in harmony with the dish. The silver skewers or hatelets are mostly used for decorating cold dishes. As a rule, they consist of truffles, cocks’ combs, mush- rooms, hard-boiled white of egg, and some kinds of vegetables, both cooked and raw. In some cases these are fastened in an artistic manner on to skewers, or else set in various tints of aspic jelly, for which purpose special hatc'et moulds are employed. Hatelets are used as a rule for cold capons, fowls, pressed beef, tongues, hams, galantines, and other meat or fish dishes. The various garnitures enumerated in the following pages refer more especially to removes, releves (hsh or meat), but any of them can, unless otherwise stated, be easily adopted for entrees. The following is a representative description of the best known typical garnishings of various fish, meat, poultry, and game dishes. GARNITURES. Garniture a 1’Alexandra {for Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms cut into quarters and sliced truffles ; supreme sauce. — a I’AHemande Godiveau or German Quenelles.—Mashed potatoes, grated horse-radish, and a sharp white sauce. A VAllemande is also a surname given to dishes prepared after a typical German fashion and garnished accordingly. Served with boiled or l:>raised meats. — a I’Alliance.—Braised spring carrots, artichoke bottoms, and fried button onions, with demi-glacfe sauce. — a I’Alsacienne.—Braised choucroute, mashed peas, slices of braised ham and sausages. Served with removes only. Or, braised spring cabbage, fondante potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a I’Amiral {for Fish).—Mussels, shrimps, and crayfish ; matelote sauce. — a I’Ancienne,—Boiled beans (kidney), hard-boiled eggs, and braised cabbage-lettuces. Served with a rich cream sauce tiavoured wdth spring onions. — a I'Andalouse.—Groups of braised spring cabbages, lettuces, and fried sausages, cut into small j)ieces. Sauce demi-glace, for removes, etc. — a I’Anglaise.—This does not signify any particular garnish. It implies that a dish bearing such a surname is either plain, roast or boiled, or is prepared according to a typical English method.