garnishings and garnitures. 341 Garniture a la Henri IV.—Artichoke Irottoms and noisette potatoes. Bearnaise sauce. ■— a la Hongroise [for Meat).—Small cooked cauliflowers, breaded and baked (an gratin), and fondante rrotatoes ; veal gravy or cream sauce with ])aprika flavour. — a la St. Hubert.—Braised cabbage lettuces, shaped into balls, braised button onions, and demi-glace sauce. Served with roast or braised beef and mutton. a rimperiale ( for Meat or Poultry).—Mushroom beads, cocks’ combs and kidneys, truffles, cpienelles. Veloutee sauce. — a rindienne (for Fish or Poultry).—Savoury rice, with curry flavour. Curry sauce. — a rirlandaise.—This name is applied to dishes which contain potatoes in the form of puree or otherwise. For instance, Irish stew is known in France as Ragout a ITrlandaise. — a ritalienne.—This name is aj)plied to dishes prepared after certain typical Italian ways of cooking ; it generally implies that the dish is made of or garnished with macaroni, nonilles, ravioli, etc., flavoured with parmesan cheese, tomato or demi-glace sauce. (See Milanaise and IsMpohtaine Garnish.) — a ITvoire (for Poultry).—Chicken breasts cut in slices or scallops, and cocks’ combs. Supreme sauce. — a la Japonaise (for Meat or Poultry).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with Japanese crosnes blended with veloutee sauce, also potato croquettes. Rich gravy. — a la Jardiniere.—This signifies a collection of young vegetables cooked after being neatly cut or scooped into shapes, and grouped neatly round the respective dish ; it is adapted for soups, entrees, and removes — a la Joinville.—Truffles, coarsely chopped. Rich vefeutee sauce. Served with poultry and braised meats. — a la Joinville (for Fish).—Slices of truffles and mushrooms. Shrimp or lobster sauce. — a la Judic (for Meat).—Braised lettuces stuffed with savoury ham farce, also sliced truffles. Demi-glace. — a la Jules Verne (for Meat).—Stuffed kidney potatoes, baked, and braised turnips. Rich gravy. — a la Jussien (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces and glazed button onions. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Lavaliere (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus puree. Bordelaise sauce. — a la Lorraine (for Ham or Pork).—Braised red cabbage or chou-croute and potato quenelles. Albert sauce. — a la Louis XV.—New potatoes, centre scooped out, filled with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, baked or braised, served with fillets of beef, tournedos, etc. Sauce MadD'e or tomate. — a la Lucullus (for Poultry).—Financiere, truffles, sweetbread slices, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels. Demi-glace sauce.