THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 848 Cook till tender half a pint of green gooseberries in syrup and put them with the other fruit. Pour off some of the syrup into a stew- pan. Add half a wineglassful of brandy and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, boil up, and add to the fruit. Aad the strained juice of three lemons and let cool. Then freeze in the usual manner, and serve in a glass dish or in cups, and hand round with ice biscuits, wafers or sponge hngers. Imitation Glass Dishes ( Used for serving all kinds of Ices). Special kinds of moulds are required for this, which are generally made'inCtwo, parts. Fill the sides with ,plain or coloured w'ater allowing sufficient room for the ice (crushed ice) and salt to surround it or them. Allow about three hours for freezing. Great care must be taken to prevent any salt water penetrating into the moulds, or the ice which is to be served in them will be spoilt. When ready, unmould them carefully. Sorbets, Granites, Roman Punch, and similar preparations, are ices in a semi-liquid state, they are never moulded, but are served in cups, goblets, stem, or punch glasses, immediately before the roast, their object being to refresh the palate and to prepare the guest for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, viz. the roast and the entremets. Although served separately, the punch or sorbet should not be given an extra heading on the menu, but be simply placed on a line distinct from the other courses. Italian Meringue {Used for Sorbets, Punch, etc.). Dissolve half-a-pound of loaf sugar in about a gill of water, and boil in a copper sugar boiler till it reaches 240 degrees Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer. Stir in by degrees the whites of three eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Whisk this for about three minutes over the hre, and use as required. Sorbet d’Ananas {Pineapple Sorbet). I ripe fresh or preserved pineapple, P lb. castor sugar, 2 lemons, 2 eggs (whites), I liqueur-glassful of kirsch, i liqueur-glassful rum. Peel the pineapple thinly (if fresh fruit is used), take out the eyes, and cut into slices. Core out the centre of each slice, and FROZEN ICE SH.^PED DISHES. (red, yellow, or green tinted). When the shapes are to be opaque, add a little milk to the water. Place the moulds in a charged souffle ice cave, or failing this, pack them carefully into a tin large enough to hold the mould or moulds, and PUNCHES AND SORBETS.