VEGETABLES—lJ-GUMES. 62 Fonds d’Artichauts a la President. Cut the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms as for fancy border, mask them over with some dissoh’cd meat glaze into which a little’aspic jelly has been introduced. Put a little chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, cut off the points evenly, place one half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Reine. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i small onion, i small bonqnet garni. to 4 thin .slices of lemon, i oz. beef suet, peppercorns, 4 oz. cookerl rabbit or veal, 2 slices of cooked ox-tongne, i small tniftle, a small lamb’s sweetbread (cooked), bechamel sauce, breadcrumbs or panurette, pepper and salt, frying fat, 2 eggs, parsley. Trim and wash the artichoke bottoms, put them in a stew-pan with water to cover them, add the onion, sliced, bouquet garni, lemon, suet, a pinch of salt, and a few peppercorns. Cook the fonds till tender, then place on a sieve to cool. Mince finely all the cooked meats and truffle, put all in a small stew-pan with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add one yolk of egg, season to taste, and continue stirring until the egg binds. Fill the artichoke bottoms with this, and shape them as neatly as possible. W'hen quite cold, brush over with beaten egg, and crumb in fresh breadcrumbs or panurette. It is well to perform the egging and crumbing operation twice. Fry in very hot fat a golden brown colour, drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve as a savoury vegetable or breakfast dish. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Reine [Cold Artichoke Bottoms). Stamp the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms with a fluted cutter, mask them with dissolved meat glaze to which a little aspic jelly has been added. Put a little cooked chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, halve some hard-boiled eggs, cut off the points evenly, place one-half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, and serve when set. Rissolettes d’Artichauts [Artichoke Rissolettes). 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ox- tongue, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls weil-reduced veloutee or bechamel sauce. I teaspoonful chopped truffle peelings, seasoning, 1- lb. flour, 6 oz. beef suet, I yolk of egg, piquante sauce. iVIince the artichokes, mushrooms, and tongue rather finely. Put them, with the truffles, in a stew-pan with the white sance. Stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to get cool. Free the suet from skin, and pass twice through a mincing machine. Make a smooth paste with this and the flour, adding a pinch of salt and enough water to bind. Roll out the paste, and stamp out some twenty rounds by means of a paste-cutter. \\'et the edges of half the number of rounds of paste, and place a tea-