SANDWICHES. Tartines a la Sicilienne (Sicily Sandwiches). Drain six to eight sardines, remove the skin and bones, pnt them in a mortar with six hard-boiled yolks of eggs, i \ oz. of fresh bnttcr, and pound till smooth ; season with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, y teaspoonful paprika pepper, and a dash of grated nutmeg. i\Iix well and mb through a line sieve. Spread the paste between slices of buttered brown or white bread, cut out some half-moon, crescent, or huger shapes ; dish up, garnish with mustard and cress, and thin slices of lemon. Fruit Sandwiches. For these sandwiches jdain cake, such as Genoese or Madeira, or milk bread, should be used. It should be at least twenty-four hours old and cut into slices. Cut thin slices of fruit, such as pine- apple, apricot, or peaches, fresh or preserved. Whip some cream and sweeten with vanilla or plain castor sugar. Spread one side of the cake or bread slices with it, place the fruit neatly between each two slices. Trirn off the crust and cut into convenient slices, plain or fancy, as desired. Dish up, and garnish with glace fruit, such as cherries and angelica. Nut Sandwiches. Chop finely some peeled walnuts or other nuts, not too dry. Cut the required number of slices of buttered bread (white or brown) and spread over with mayonnaise, season with krona or paprika ]>epper and salt, then sprinkle thickly with chopped nuts. Sandwich the slices together, press them slightly, trim off the crust, and cut into desired slices or portions. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Turenne Sandwiches (Chicken Liver). Pound in a mortar some sauteed chicken liver, moisten with a little Madere sauce, season and rub through a hue sieve ; then mix with finely chopped pimientos, and use as a sandwich hlling. Tzarina Sandwiches (Horse-radish). Cut some thin slices of white bread, and butter one side of each with horse-radish butter (page 176), then line each with thin slices of cucumber and make up into sandwiches of desired size and shape. Petit-Due Sandwiches (Mushroom). Sjiread a puree of mushrooms, made from finely chojiped pre- served champignons, between slices of brown bread, previously buttered with horse-radish butter (page 176). Press and make up into fancifully-cut sandwiches. Russian Sandwiches. These are made with fresh Russian caviare, blended with mayon- naise sauce and seasoned with pajirika, and then spread between slices of buttered brown bread. i\Iake up into small sandwiches in the usual way.