427 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Ris de Veau a la Senn.* Blanch, trim, press, and braise two or three sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into slices (escalopes) of even size. Prepare a farce of foie-gras, when ready mix one-fonrth of the quantity of duxelle pnree (p. 140), spread it about a quarter of an inch thick on the slices, and poach them slowly in a saute-pan with a little consomme stock, tlavoured with Madeira wine. Select some arti- chokes of the same size as the slices, and fry in a little butter. When so prepared, sprinkle some truffles cut into very hire julienne strips on the sweetbread slices, dish them up, and sauce over carefully, then garnish with prepared nouilles, mixed with tongue, cut into similar strips as the truffles. Serve with a well-reduced demi- glace sauce tlavoured with a little port wine. Ris de Veau a la Montreuil (Braised Sweetbread, Montreuil Style)- I pair heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, 2 truffles (large), i carrot, i onion. I bouquet garni, bacon trimmings, seasoning, i oz. butter, } pint rich white stock, i gill demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry or Madeira, a little meat glaze, i or 2 crohtes of fried bread for garnish, 6 to 8 small patty- cases. sorrel or spinach pnree, ^ hard-boiled white of egg. Steep the sweetbreads in cokl water for about two hours, blanch, cool, drain, and trim them. Place the breads between two tins or boards. Cut some thin strips of larding bacon and truffles, lard the best sides of the sweetbreads alternately with bacon and truffle (three rows), and braise them as directed in “ Ris de Veau a la Jardi- niere.” Wdren nearly done remove the fat, add a little meat glaze to enable the sweetbreads to be nicely glazed by the time they are completed. Take up the sweetbreads, place them on the croutes, dish up, and keep warm. Strain the liquor, reduce well, brush over the sweetbreads, and add the demi-glace to the liquor. In the meantime, have ready some little tartlet or small dariole moulds lined with short crust or rough puff-paste, baked a nice colour. Heat up the spinach or sorrel, flavoured with a little of the sauce, and well seasoned. All the baked crusts with this, using a forcing-bag to produce a dome-shaped appearance, and ornament tastefully with strips of hard-boiled white of egg, arrange neatly round the sweetbreads, pour a little of the sauce over the latter, serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and hand round with the dish. Ris de Veau a la Colbert.—Slices of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh hreadcrumbs, and broiled; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Braised sweetbread garnished with small puff-paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine previously tossed in butter. — a la Matignon.—Parboiled sweetbread slightly marinaded in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi- glace sauce. — en Demi-Deuil.—Larded and braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only and dressed on bread croutes. Served with veloutee or allemande sauce. * This dish was composed by M. Chevriot, chef to her late .Alajesty Queen Victoria, and served at the dinner given in honour of the Khedive’s visit to Windsor, June 28, igoo.