444 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. underdone), and place them between two boards to press and cool. Cut the liver into slices, and mince the bacon evenly. Melt a little butter, add the shallots, fry a golden colour, then add the bacon and liver, toss over the fire for about five minutes, season to taste, and put on a plate. When cool, pound in a mortar, together with the tongue and foie-gras, add the panade and egg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Spread one side of each fillet thickly with this farce, stuff as many stoned olives as there are fillets with the same. Cook the fillets for a few minutes in the oven, brush over with meat glaze. Put the olives in a buttered saute-pan in the oven, and cook for six minutes. Blanch the marrow (cut into very small rounds), drain, and warm up in the sauce Bordelaise. Dish the fillets on a potato border, put again in the oven to heat them thoroughly. Put a stuffed olive and a round of marrow on each fillet, sauce over and round with well- reduced bordelaise sauce, and serve. Note.—For other Tournedos, see page 454. Cotelettes Parisiennes a I’Ecarlate {Ox-Tongue Cutlets). 2 lb. cooked ox-tongue, 4 lb. raw chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 oz. suet, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, i gill demi-glace and tomato sauce, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, I oz. butter. Cut the tongue into eight to ten slices, give them the shape of cutlets, prepare a stiff forcemeat mixture with the remnants of tongue, the chicken, ham, suet, panade, and eggs, pound and pass through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, and the chopped parsley. Butter some small cutlet-moulds, fill them with the forcemeat, and steam them in the oven. Place the tongue cutlets in a well-buttered saute-pan, add a ladleful of gravy or stock, let them get thoroughly warm, glaze them over with dissolved meat glaze, turn the cutlets from the moulds, dish up alternately a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of forcemeat, in a circular form. Have ready the demi-glace sauce, well flavoured with tomato sauce, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Gullasch de Boeuf (Gulias-huis) {Hungarian Beef Stew). I lb. lean beef (sirloin or rib), 4 onion, 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful caraway seeds, i dessertspoonful of flour, i gill brown stock, 2 small potatoes, 4 oz. bacon, 1- wineglassful of Madeira, 4 teaspoonful of salt, a pincb of paprika XDepper. Trim the meat and cut it into small dice, wash and peel the potatoes, cut them likewise in dice, together with the bacon ; tie the caraway seeds in a piece of muslin cloth. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the onion finely chopped and fry a little, just enough to slightly colour them ; add the meat, season with salt and pejiper, and let it cook in a hot oven or over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Sprinkle in the flour, moisten with the wine and stock, add the tied-up caraway seeds, and let it simmer slowly. Melt the remainder of the butter in a frying-pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the potatoes and cook them slowly over