438 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ten minutes, and strain. Boil the Spanish onion in salted water. Peel the potatoes, cut the ends, scoop out the centre with a column- cutter, prepare a mixture with the Spanish onion finely chopped, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, egg-yolks, and one ounce of butter. Fry the potatoes in hot fat or lard, drain and cool, then fill with the prepared stuffing. Cut the tomatoes in halves, broil slightly in butter, put a stuffed potato on the cut side of each tomato, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Dish up the fillets on fancifiilly cut croutes of fried bread, brush their surface with dissolved meat glaze, garnish round the dish with the stuffed potatoes and tomatoes. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise. -lb. lean beef, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, i tablespoonful flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces, chop very fine, or pass twice through the mincing-machine. Mix with it the chopped parsley, savoury herbs, a little flour, one whole and one yolk of egg, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Form some even-sized balls, flatten them with the palm of your hand to produce the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for frying separ- ately. Dis- solve about an ounce of butter in a frying - pan, fry the sliced onions a gol- den colour, put them in a small stew- pan, with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty ’ minutes. Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a saute-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, and again in flour, place them in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour. Dish up the fillets, put a spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Ornament round the fillets with the fried onion rings, sauce over the fillets with demi-glace sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Boeuf aux Bananes {Fillets of Beef with Bananas). 2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 bananas, i small onion, i gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, meat glaze, hor.se-radish, chopped parsley, frying-fat, pepper and salt, flour, breadcrumbs, brown sauce.