578 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Caneton a la Lorraine. This dish consists of hllets of roast duckling, neatly trimmed and spread over with foie-gras and ham puree, and masked with brown chand-froid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on a cold ham mousse border. Filets de Caneton a la Madrid. Duckling braised whole, cut into fillets when cold, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horse-radish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and small cress. Caneton a la Javanaise. Duckling boned, barded and braised (whole) ; when cold, glazed with demi-glace and aspic ; garnished with vegetable macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horse-radish, and tomatoes ; suitable as cold remove or supper dish. Caneton a la Lambert. Boned duckling, stuffed with foie-gras and truffle farce, rolled and braised ; when cold, cut into round slices, coated with brown chaud-froid sauce, decorated with truffles, white of hard-boiled egg, and masked with aspic jelly. Pate a la Strasbourgeoise {Styashourg Raised Pie). Line an oblong greased Strasbourg pie-mould with nouille paste (p. 134) or hot-water crust (p. 136), rolled out about a quarter of an inch in thickness. This must be done very carefully, and the paste must be pressed well against the sides, so that the pattern of the mould is retained when the pie is baked. Prick the sides and bottom of the lined mould with a fork to prevent blistering. Have ready a forcemeat made of veal, pork, and panade, and line the inside of the mould with this. Fill the mould with alternate layers of thin slices of streaky bacon, slices of veal, slices of fresh lean pork, and farce to which a small quantity of foie-gras has been added. Season each layer with aromatic seasoning and finely powdered herbs. Cover tire top layer with slices of fat bacon. Put on the paste to form the lid, wet the edge so as to merely seal the ends, pinch the edges with a paste-pincher, and garnish the top with fancifully cut leaves of paste ; leave a small hole in the centre for evaporation. Brush over with egg-yolk and bake in a moderate oven for two to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. W'hen nearly cold, fill the pie with savoury aspic. Mousse de Caneton a la Tivollier. I good-sized duckling, a few chicken livers, -f pint well-reduced aspic, I pint veloutee sauce, gill cream, 2 oz. cooked tongue finely shredded, I tablespoonful chutney chopped, i oz. butter, aromatic seasoning. For decoration ; Asjiic jelly, hard-boiled eggs, truffle or pimiento, tomato- flavoured aspic, pistachio nuts, small salad. Roast a duckling, remove all the meat, and prepare a fumet with the carcase, the liquor of which is incorporated with the farce, which is made by pounding the meat of the duckling in a mortar, together with the chicken livers, previously tossed in butter.