962 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. To Prepare Popcorn. To make popcorn sweets of any kind the corn is prepared in the following manner. Procure the best Indian corn, ])ut a thin layer of corn into a wire frying-basket, shake it over a very slow fire or low gas till all the corn has “ popped,” when it appears white and floury. If the corn is sprinkled with castor sugar before popping it will improve the flavour and appearance. Americans use a proper “ corn pepper ” for this. Butter-Scotch. I lb. best cane sugar, i gill milk or cream, i gill water, pinch of c eam of tartar, 3 oz. butter, flavouring. Allow the sugar to dissolve very slowly in the milk and water, add the cream of tartar, and when suffl- ciently warm add the butter, a little bit at a time. Then boil it carefully to 280 deg. Add the flavouring and pour on to an oiled tin. When half set mark into squares, and when quite cold separate ; wrap each piece in wax paper, then in tin foil. Caramel Walnuts. Shape some marzipan paste into balls, ])iess half a shelled and peeled walnut on each side, put a small wooden skewer into each and dip in caramel, place them on a lightly greased slab or dish and remove the skewers. When set put each into a round jmper case. Marzipan Rolls. Take some white, junk, and green marzipan j)aste, roll out the white and pink |-in. in thickness. Brush the white lightly over with white of egg, and roll in it the junk till comjfletely covered. Trim neatly. In a similar manner, roll j)ink marzijran into green almond j^aste. Coat over with Kohler’s chocolate which should be grated and dissolved over boiling water. Then roll in desiccated cocoanut. When set cut into neat rolls. Turkish Delight. I lb. loaf sugar, i gill rose water, i gill water, i teaspoonful lemon- juice, 2 oz. wheat starch or confectioners’ starch, colouring, icing sugar. Boil the sugar, water, and rose water, and a small pinch of cream of tartar to 229 degrees, blend the starcl) in a little cold water, strain into the syruj), and let it boil till thick. Then add some colouring and strong rose flavouring, if liked, jrour on to an oiled tin to set a little, then turn on to a })late well dusted with starch and icing sugar, cut into blocks, toss them in icing sugar, and jiack in a tin, with wax jiajier between the layers. Chocolate Pralines. 4 oz. icing sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 4 oz. Kohler’s un.sweetened chocolate. Blanch the almonds, dry them in the oven, then shred them. Put the almonds into a copper bowl, sift the icing sugar, add it gradually to the almonds, and cook carefully to caramel degree (about 310°). Do not keeji stirring, but move the mixture about gently to ju'event it burning. Turn on to an oiled slab, and when cool enough jwund in a mortar till oily. Make into small balls or squares, and coat at once in chocolate coating. Dipped Bon-bons. Simple and delicious sweets may be made by dijnping various centres into fondant cream as follows : Prepare i lb. fondant for d pping by heating it over hot water, then with a wire fork dij:) in half walnuts, .squares of pineapjfle, stoned cherries, any glace fruit and all kinds of nuts. The nuts are nicer if chopped and mixed with some fondant cream, formed into cen res and allowed to stand some hours to set.