THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 28 Pheasant.—A large pheasant A small pheasant A pigeon .... A partridge .... Game.—Black game A woodcock A grouse .... A quail A golden plover . A snipe A fig-pecker.... A teal Ortolans .... Larks . . . . . Requires about f hour. 30 minutes. 20 I hour. 1 25 25 25 20 20 15 15 minutes. Brown meats, such as beef and mutton, whether served as roast or removes, should rather be under than over done. Veal, pork, lamb, and poultry, pheasants and partridges require to be well done, and venison should be underdone. The secret of cooking game perfectly is constant basting. It should be rather under than over done. Just a tint of red in the middle and full of gravy. Fat for Buttering Moulds, etc.—Chop rather finely a pound of kidney suet, freed from skin, put it into a saucepan with about a gill of cold water and cook over a slow fire until quite cl-arified ; stir occasionally to prevent burning. Strain, and add one pound of fresh butter to the clarified fat. Stir over the fire till the substance has become quite clear. Fat thus prepared will be found far more satisfactory and more serviceable than melted butter, which is generally fised for the purpose of greasing or buttering moulds. To Unmould.—Have a basin of lukewarm water (about 115° to 120° Fahr.), dip in the mould quickly for a second or two ; remove it quickly, hold securely, give it a brisk shake, and turn on to a cold dish. Remove the mould as soon as the contents become detached. Hints on Boiling Vegetables.—All green vegetables should be put on the fire into fast-boiling, slightly salted water, so that they may be brought quickly to the boiling point again. They should never be left to steep too long in cold water before boiling, as this will tend to toughen them, and in many cases destroys colour and flavour. Green vegetables, such as greens, cabbage, broccoli, savoys, green artichokes, French beans, peas, etc., also cauliflowers and asparagus, must be boiled in water containing a small piece of soda (about the size of a small filbert) in addition to the salt.' This re- tains the natural colour, extracts some of the strong flavour, and in the case of the greens, etc., the addition of soda is said to rnake these vegetables more digestible. Soda may be substituted by brown sugar. As soon as cooked strain quickly, for as soon as they are sufii-