414 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Scoop out some of the centre part of the rice, and continue to bake the crust, till the cavity is browned. Unmould carefully, and place on to a hot dish. Force a pretty border of potato puree round the edge of the crust, egg this over, and brown in the centre. Divide the brains into portions, well drain them, and heat up in Bordeaux MATELOTE DE CERVELLE DE VEAU EN CRODTE. sauce, add to this about i8 small glazed button onions, and a handful of neatly cut dice shapes of fried bacon, also 12 stoned French olives, and 2-3 gherkins cut into dice similar to the former. Dress neatly into the prepared rice croute, and serve. Note.—Calf’s head, sweetbread or lamb’s bread, can be cooked and served in similar style as above. Escalopes de Veau [Breaded Veal Fillets). About ir lb. cushion part of veal (or neck), 3 oz. butter, i egg, bread- crumbs, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Crtt the meat into six or seven even-sized slices, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly into round or oval shape, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of butter, beat up the egg, add the parsley and melted butter, mix thoroughly, dip in each slice of meat, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets and fry a golden colour on both sides. Dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with prepared French beans, pour a little gravy or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escalopes de Veau a la Russe. About 2 t lb. knuckle of veal, 3 oz. clarilied butter, 4 oz. pork, 4 oz. beef- marrow, 2 oz. anchovy paste, i yolk of egg, i teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 1 pint preserved cepes, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, bread- crumbs. Trim the veal, cut it into eight even-sized collops, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and shape neatly. Make two ounces butter hot in a saute-pan, brown the collops quickly, but do not cook them much, as the meat will afterwards be cooked again. Press between