VEGE TA BLES—LEG UMES. Garottes a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and cnt into quarters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock thickened with velontee sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar and chojiped parsley, served with fried bread croutons placed round the dish. — a la Poulette.—Boiled young carrots, neatly trimmed or turned, finished in white sauce (p. 163), containing finely chopped parsley. — au Saumon fume.—Young carrots and asparagus points stewed, and garnished with slices of smoked salmon. — a la Vichy.—Small, round, young carrots, boiled, tossed in butter, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. Compote de Garottes.—Young carrots scraped and cooked till tender in vanilla-flavoured syrup, dressed and served like fruit compote. CELERI—CELERY. Celeri a I’Anglaise [Stewed Celery). 2 large heads of celery, i oz. butter, f pint milk, t oz. Hour, salt and pepper. Well wash the celery, cut it into convenient lengths, put them with the milk into the saucepan, and simmer gently for about forty minutes. Make a sauce with the birtter, flour, and the milk, add salt and pepper to taste, place the celery on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Celeri a la Demi-glace [Stewed Celery in Brown Smice). 4 heads of celerjr 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, about il gill demi-glace sauce, a little stock, toasted bread. Pare the heads and roots of the celeiy, remove the green parts, cut them into even lengths of three or four inches, and wash thoroughly in salted water. Drain well on a cloth, put them in a saute-pan with the butter and a ladleful of white stock, cover with buttered paper, and let cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes. Take up the celery, dress it on toasted bread slices on a hot dish, reduce the sauce, take off the fat, and pour over the celery. Souffles de Celeri [Celery Souffles). } lb. of the white part of celery, i-t gill milk, bay-leaf, a small blade mace, i slice onion, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, pepper, celery salt, 3 eggs, I oz. grated pai'mesan cheese. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into slices, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay-leaf, mace, and onion in a stew-pan, and boil till tender, remove the mace and bay-leaf, and pass the celery through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stew-pan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the Are, put in the celery puree, let cool a little, and add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg, gradually. W’hisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle with the mixture, season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three-parts All some paper or