S42 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quite cold, coat them with mayonnaise cream into which a table- spoonful of horse-radish mustard has been incorporated. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, remove the skin, cut them into slices, and place a slice of tomato on each fillet. Mask them with half- set aspic jelly, dish up on a round dish in the form of a border, put a little scraped horse-radish in the centre of each fillet, garnish with chopped aspic, and watercress, and serve. Filets Mignons en Chaud-froid [Chaud-froid of Fillets of Beef). 2i- to 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 chopped shallots, i pint brown chaud-froid sauce, } pint aspic jelly, i truffle, i hard- boiled egg, salt and pepper, i pint preserved fiageofets, parsley, etc., mashed potatoes, cream. Free the hllet from skin and fat, cut it crossways into slices about half an inch thick, flatten each slice of hllet with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim them into neat rounds of even size, and stud each hllet with short strips of larding bacon. Melt the butter in a large saute-pan, and fry the shallots lightly, put in the hllets and fry, leaving them underdone. Season, press, and trim neatly. When cold, mask them completely with brown chaud-froid sauce, let the sauce set, garnish one side (top portion) with a rosette of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, cover them with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and put them on a tray on the ice. Drain the hageolets, rub tliem through a sieve, season this with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg, and mix with a little slightly whipped cream. Arrange a small bed of mashed potatoes on an oblong silver dish, arrange the hllets in a row in the centre. Pipe a neat border of puree round each hllet. Ornament the sides of the dish with the puree, in the shape of rosettes, and some hnely-chopped aspic. Serve as an entree for dinner or as a supper dish. Filet de Boeuf a la Ravigote [Fillet of Beef, Ravigote Style). Trim, skin, and lard 2 or 3 lbs. of hllet of beef, braise it in the usual manner, and allow it to get cold. Make a puree with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, i tablespoontul of capers, 3 boned anchovies, i gherkin, 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, i chopped shallot, I tablespoonful of spinach green, and 2 oz. butter. When well pounded rub through a sieve, and season to taste. Dish up the hllet of beef, which may be previously cut into slices, put a little of the green puree on each side, garnish with halves of tomatoes filled with mayonnaise and scraped horse-radish, chopped olives, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Decorate the meat tastefully with the remainder of green butter, and the sides of the dish with set aspic cut into triangles, and serve. Filet de Boeuf a la Javanaise [Fillet of Beef, Javanaise Style). Trim a piece of hllet of beef (centre cut, weighing about four pounds), wrap it in thin slices of larding bacon, and place in a braising-pan on a mirepoix, bacon, onion, carrot, herbs, celery, etc., and braise in the usual way in the oven till done. Take up, remove the bacon, glaze it well, and let it get cold. Dress