861 J FTER-DINNER SA VO URIES. Talmouses de Merluche fumee [Haddock Tahnouscs). 3 oz. Hour (sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of egg, I teaspoonful lemou-juicc, paprika and cayenne pepper, smoked haddock, a tablespoonful white sauce. Prepare a short-crust paste with the Hour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, one ounce of cheese, one yolk of egg, lemon-juice, and a little water. Cook half a small haddock in a baking tin with a little butter in the oven for ten minutes, remove the skin and bones, and chop the hsh finely. Mix with the remainder of butter and cheese, season with paprika, and moisten with the sauce and half a yolk of egg. Roll out the paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds with a two-inch cutter, put a tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of each round, wet the edges, and take up the edges in such a manner as to form a triangular shape similar to a Pope’s cap (talmouse), brush over with egg, sprinkle a tiny pinch of paprika on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot, Croutes a la Badminton. Toast some slices of bread and stamp out into rounds about two inches in diameter, spread with anchovy butter, upon these put a slice of tomato. Twist an anchovy fillet and place on top of each croute, fill the centre with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, yolk or white. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve cold. Croutes a la Baron. Rounds of fried bread (croutons), size of small cup mushrooms, spread with anchovy paste, each surmounted with a grilled mush- room and a soft roe of herring, seasoned and baked in sharp oven for a few minutes. Croutes a la Bedford [Bedford Toast). Cut three or four slices of stale bread of uniform size, toast them nicely, trim them neatly, and butter one side. Cut enough very thin slices of cooked ham to cover the slices of toast. Spread over rather freely with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, butter, and grated cheese. Place the toast in a hot oven for about five minutes to brown the surface. Dish up, and serve quickly. Croutes de Foie-gras a la Dumas. I small tin or tureen foie-gras pate, stale bread for croutes, 2 oz. butter, I dessertspoonful Madras chutney, i teaspoonful horseradish mustard, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, i tablespoonful sherry, i teaspoonful mild mulligatawny paste ; watercress for garnish. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut the foie-gras into oblong slices, stamp out or cut J-inch thick slices of bread and shape into oblong pieces a little larger than the foie-gras. Fry these a golden colour in the butter, drain, and let cool. Put the trimmings of the foie-gras in a mortar with the chutne5g mustard, and the rest of the ingredients named above ; pound till smooth and rub through a sieve. Cover one side of the fried bread croutes with a layer of