219 SOUPS [POTAGES). pan, when hot pnt in the pieces of fowl and fry them a nice brown colour. Pour off all the butter, and add the stock, which must be clear. Add also a pint of water, season with a little salt and pepper- corns, and boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises to the surface. Trim, wash and clean the leeks, cut the white parts into suitable lengths, blanch and parboil in salted water, take up and strain. Remove the pieces of fowl from the soup. Cut these into dice or half- inch lengths, pnt them in another stewpan, strain the broth over it, add the leeks and the bunch of parsley and herbs, cover and let simmer gently for about an hour. Take out the parsley and herbs, skim off the fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Served with a handful of plainly boiled rice, and sometimes with stewed stoned prunes. Soupe au Lait [Milk Soup). I pint of white stock, i pint milk, t onion, i oz. flour, i oz. butter, small fried bread croutons, -t gill of cream, i yolk of egg. Blend i oz. butter with i oz. flour and cook for a few minutes with- out allowing the roux to take colour. Peel the onion, mince it, and boil in the milk. Add the stock, which should be well flavoured, and the milk and onion. Bring the soup to the boil and skim it if necessary. The addition of half a gill of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg should be made at the last moment just before serving, when the soup is taken from the Are. It should not reboil after the cream and yolk are added. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Fried croutons may be served as a garnish ; strips of carrots and leek previously cooked in stock also form a suitable garnish by way of variety. Potage a la MacMahon, I cooked calf’s brain, 2 lioiled onions, i- cucumber, i teaspoonful curry powder, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. butter, i gill cream, 2 quarts of stock, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Peel the cucumber, cut into thick slices, and boil in salted water till tender. Pound the brain and onions in a mortar, add the butter and curry powder, put in a stewpan with the stock. Boil for twenty minutes and run through a sieve. Return to the fire, mix the eggs with the cream, stir into the soup, heat up, season to taste, and serve with the cooked slices of cucumber. Bortsch Polonaise {a Russian Soup). I small duck, i lb. brisket of beef, i bouquet garni, consisting of fennel, marjoram, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and parsley, 2 cloves, 3 fresh cup mush- rooms, 2 oz. butter, i small beetroot, i leek, i cabbage (heart), i small piece of celery, parsley, i onion, 2 quarts clarified beef broth (white con- .somme), J lb. Italian sausage (cipoleta), sour cream, seasoning. Cook the duck in a brisk oven till tender (not overdone), boil the beef in one quart of seasoned water with the bouquet garni, and skim well. Remove the fillets of the duck, cut them into dice, cut the cooked beef into similar dice, and put them in a clean stewpan with the strained broth in which the beef was cooked. Add the mushrooms, previously washed, and cut in dice. Cut the remainder of vegetables