PASTRY AND CON T EC I ION ERY. 943 over the top, and cover with almond jxiste. Let the tin stand in a cool place for about one hour. Unmonld carefully, and cut the shape crosswise into neat slices, according to the thickness desired. Disir nj) tastefully, and serve as a cold dinner sweet or for after- noon tea. As a guide to those who try this recipe, 1 may say that the cake, when cut into slices, should look like parts of a draught-board. Eclairs au Cafe {Coffee Eclairs). 4 pint milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 3 eggs, J tea- spoonful vanilla essence, i oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, coffee or inoka custard for filling, coffee-icing for covering (see p. 138). Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a stew-jtan ; when boiling stir in the cornflour and Vienna flour (previously mixed) ; work it with a wooden spoon over the fire long enough to produce a soft paste which will leave the bottom and sides of the pan clean. Draw' the stew-pan from the fii'e, add the flavouring essence, and gradually work in the eggs (leaving out one white). Beat the paste w'dl for some minutes, then put it in a large forcing or Sac'oy bag w'ith a plain tube, and force out even-sized shapes similar to finger biscuits on to a lightly-buttered baking-tin, about an inch aj)art from each other. Bake to a nice fawm colour in a moderate oven. When done and cool, split the sides with a sharp knife, and fill each W'ith a teaspoonful of moka custard. Have some coffee-icing ready, and dipeach eclair into it, so as to cover the sides w’ell and smoothly. Place the eclair on a wire tray to set, and dish up when required. Eclairs au Chocolat {Chocolate Eclairs). Proceed the same as for coffee eclairs, use whipped cream lor hlling, and mask with chocolate icing (see p. 139). Moka or Coffee Custard for filling Eclairs. I gill milk. I oz. loaf sugar, 4 oz. cornlfour, 4 pat ol fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, I teas])oouful coffee essence, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the milk and sugar in a stew-pan and boil uji. Mix the cornflour w'ith a little cold milk, pour the boiling milk on this, mix thoroughly, return to the stew-pan, and let boil a few' minutes ; add the flavouring essences and the butter, stir in the egg-yolks, continue to stir until it binds, then pour it into a basin and let cool. Gateau Mousseline. 6 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. fecule (potato or rice flour), the juice and rind of 4 lemon, | teaspoonful vanilla essence, i oz. shredded almonds. Separate the yolks of four eggs from the w'hites, put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bow'l, place it on the ice ; add the sugar to the yolks and w'ork to a cream ; beat in the two remaining eggs (w'hole, one at a time), grate the lemon-rind, strain the juice, and add both to the mixture, also the vanilla flavouring. Vdiisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle this and the fecide very carefully w'ith the mixture. Have ready a buttered and floured Genoise mould or flat cake tin. Fill w'ith the mixture, sprinkle the top with the shredded almonds, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes.