HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 407 Cotelettes de Mouton a la Clatnart.—Breaded mutton cutlets, fried in butter, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas and asparagus points in centre ; deini-glace sauce. — a la Dreux.—Grilled mutton cutlets garnished with coarsely minced fried lean l)acon, tongue, and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Sauce : Demi-glace or other thin brown sauce. — a la Financiere.—Larded mutton cutlets, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot, and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shape, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Franpaise.—Breaded mutton cutlets fried in butter ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables ; sauce Madere. — aux Haricots Verts.—Fried mutton cutlets garnished with French beans in centre or side of dish. — a rindienne.—Breaded and fried mutton cutlets served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil, lemon- juice, and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely chopped mush- rooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-rind, powdered mace, and bread- crumbs, fried in clarified butter, and served with Italian sauce. (Use herbs and spices judiciously.) — a la Madras.—Mutton cutlets egged and crumbed in fresh liread- crunibs, mixed with finely chopped tongue and ham, fried in deep fat. Garnished with mixed pickles cut into julienne shreds, and served with a mild curry sauce. — a la Maintenon.—(Mutton cutlets split open, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, slightly broiled and afterwarcls baked in the oven. Dressed alter- nately with heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served with Italian sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and flavoured with parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce is served round the cutlets. — a la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled mutton cutlets with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, and shallots. — a la Nelson.—Parboiled mutton cutlets, covered when cold and pressed with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, liaked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Mutton cutlets, plain broiled ; served with small, young, braised and glaced turnips in centre ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Puree de Pommes de Terre.—Breaded mutton cutlets, fried in butter, dressed round mashed potatoes, served with gravy or demi- glace sauce. — a la St. Cloud.—Mutton cutlets larded with truffles and broiled or braised ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Germain.—Grilled or broiled mutton cutlets, with green pea puree in centre of dish.