713 SA LADES—SA LA DS. in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small liat salad bowl. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes, and serve with roast poultry or game. Tomates a la Remoulade. Choose eight or nine small, ripe, firm, and even-sized tomatoes, steep them in hot water for a few seconds, and remove their skins. With a sharp knife cut a little off the top of each tomato, and care- fully scoop out a portion of the interior. Place them on a sieve to drain. Mix a gill of vegetable macedoine (carrot, turnip, and French beans, all cut very small, peas, etc.) with half a gill of tartare sauce and a similar quantity of liquid aspic. Season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully over the ice until the mixture begins to set. Fill the prepared tomatoes with this, put a small round slice of pimiento on top of each. Place the tomatoes on the ice. Whisk half a gill of cream, and incorporate a tablespoonful of spinach puree, a little remoulade sauce and d gill dissolved aspic, season with paprika and salt. Mask the stuffed tomatoes carefully with the prepared cream, and decorate them tastefully with the re- mainder of cream by means of a forcing bag or cornet. Dish up, garnish with small cress salad, and serve. French Salad Dressing. Mix in a basin one teaspoonful of French mustard, half teaspoon- ful of salt, one saltspoonful white pepper ; add one tablespoonful of French wine vinegar (vinaigre d’Orleans), and about three table- spoonfuls best salad oil (huile de Provence), beat up with a wooden fork or wooden spoon, lastly add a heaped-up teaspoonful of finely-minced olives or else parsley, the former is, however, much more satisfactory. Pour this over the prepared lettuce or other salad. The above quantity is sufficient for a salad for four or five persons. Plain Salad Mixture. Use three parts of oil to one of vinegar. Dissolve the salt required for seasoning in a little vinegar, stir in the oil with a wooden spoon or fork, add a little black pepper, and pour over the salad. More vinegar may be added if liked, this being a matter of taste. Salad Dressing without Oil. As some people have an objection to oil, the following dressing may be found useful. To a gill of cream, add half a gill of light vinegar (French wine). Cream an ounce of butter with three egg-yolks, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and stir the cream and vinegar in gradually. Use thus, or, if preferred, it can be stirred over a slow fire till it thickens, like cream. The latter is a difficult process, as the cream is apt to curdle. Salade a I’Americaine {American Salad).—Finely shredded white leaves of cow cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods and sliced tomatoes, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce.