38 VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES. the pan thus hermetically sealed in the oven for about forty-live minutes. Remove the paste band, and send the cocotte to table hot, placing it on a large dish with folded napkin. Beignets d’Artichauts {Artichoke Fritters). Cut some cooked artichoke bottoms into slices, and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped parsley. Dip these pieces, drained, in frying batter. Fry in hot fat, drain, clish ujy and serve hot with a boat of tomato sauce. Souffle de Haricot Verts a la Duchesse [French Bean Souffle, Duchess Style). Cook the French beans in salted water, drain them well, and toss them in butter over a quick hre. Season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce. Put this into a hreproof dish, and let cool. Prepare a savoury choux-paste mixture, and cover the haricot verts with this ; only a thin layer of paste is needed. Besprinkle with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about hfteen minutes. Place the baking-dish on a fiat entree dish, and serve at once. Note.—Green asparagus or spinach can be prepared and cooked in the same way as above described. Coquilles de Pols Verts a la Suedoise (cold) [Coquils of Green Peas, Swedish Style). Line or mask 6-8 coquil or shell moulds with a thin layer of very clear aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each mould with hnely cut strips of truffle, gherkins, and hard-boiled whites of egg. Mix the remainder of these ingredients with about L pint of cooked green peas (cold), and about 10 preser\"ed mushrooms, cut into small dice, also a handful of pea shapes of circumber previously cooked in salted water, and drained. Blend all these carefully in a basin and add suffleient mayonnaise and aspic to season the ingredients. Fill the prepared moulds partially with this, and pour sufficient aspic in each to completely hll the moulds. Place them on the ice till quite set, then unmould and dish up tastefully in a round or oval dish, garnish the centre with seasoned small salad and chopped aspic, and serve. This is an excellent dish for the warm weather months. In place of coquil moulds, small darioles or timbales may be used. Epinards Farcis a la Moelle [Braised Spinach with Beef Marrow). i-| lb. spinach (large leaves), t lb. sausage meat (or 6 oz. of veal, and 4 oz. pork finely minced and seasoned), i-V oz. butter, lemon. i gill of gravy, I tablespoonful meat glaze, 2 teaspoonfnls chopped parsley, 8-10 small slices of beef marrow, seasoning, tleurons of puff-paste. W'ash the spinach, remove the stems and any withered parts of the leaves, then blanch, and afterwards drain the spinach. Pre- pare the farce meat, if that be used in place of the sausage meat, and make up either into small ball shapes, adding 1-2 yolks of eggs and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Lay out on a board 5-6