THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 410 Pieds de Mouton a la Villeroi.—Boiled sheep’s trotters, Iwned, stuffed, rolled, coated with supreme sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter. Queues de Mouton braisees a la Franpaise.—Sheep’s tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables used in braising, and small marble-shaped fried potatoes. Rognons de Mouton a I’Epicurienne.—Sheep’s kidneys skinned and split, broiled or grilled ; when dished up, the centres are filled with a thick tartare sauce. Garnish the dish with small round fried potatoes, and serve with poivrade sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled sheep’s kidneys, the centres of which are filled with maitre d’hotel or parsley butter. Serve with a little demi-glace sauce. Rognons de Mouton panes.—Sheep’s kidneys blanched, skinned, and split, put on skewers, buttered, covered with breadcrumbs, and baked in a very hot oven or fried in clarified butter. — sautes a la Franpaise.—Sliced sheep’s kidneys, seasoned with salt, pepper, and very little cayenne, grilled or broiled over a quick fire ; when partly done dredge with flour, and finish cooking in a little demi-glace sauce, garnish with fried bread croutons, buttered and sprinkled over with chojrped parsley. — a la Turbigo.—Sliced sheep’s kidneys tossed in butter and finely chopped shallots. Finish cooking in a little white wine sauce, mixed with small pieces of sausages and grilled lean bacon, cut in dice shapes ; served hot in a paste croustade. VEAU—VEAL. Blanquette de Veau [White Veal Stew). if lb. to 2 lb. cushion of veal or fillet, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 8 to 10 small onions, i bouquet garni, f gill white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), f gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon-juice, seasoning. Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, and remove the scfmi. Now add the wine, the bouquet garni, and the onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and remove the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stew- pan, stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, boil up, skim, cook for ten minutes. Add cream and egg-yolks, strain over the cooked veal, add the mushrooms, cut it in halves or slices, re-heat, without letting it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with fleurons, and serve hot. Brisotins de Veau a la Bouquetiere [Braised Veal Rolls). 2 lb. lean veal, 6 oz. larding bacon, -I lb. forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. butter, I sliced carrot, i small sliced onion, f pint stock, i gill Madere sauce, I glass of sherry, macedoine of vegetables, seasoning, mashed potatoes for border.