336 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garniture a I’Arlesienne {for Alaat or PoiiUry).—Auberg^es, tomatoes, and onion rings; tomato and demi-glace sauce, bleudM. — a I’Athenienne.—Larded and braised meat, garnished with short pieces of tried and stuffed aubergines (egg-plants). Sauce Madere. — a la Bayard.—Cooked ox-tongue and artichoke bottoms cut into dice, mushrooms and truffles cut into slices ; the whole boiled for a few minutes in well-reduced Madere sauce. Small rounds of fried bread covered with a thin layer of foie-gras puree complete this garnish. — a la Bayonnaise.—Cooked asparagus points, button onions (boiled), gherkins and anchovy hllets, dressed in groups round braised or broiled meats. — a la Beaufort {for Fish).—Groups of colloped lobster, bearded oysters, mushroom heads, lobster coral, and suitable sauce to go with the fish. — en Belle-Vue {-for Cold Dishes).—Masked with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles and red ox-tongue, tarragon- leaves and chopped aspic jelly. — a la Bigarade.—Finely shredded orange-peel, cooked in salmi sauce (essence of duck), flavoured with a glass of good port wine. Gener- ally served with ducks. — a la Bignon.—Small round or kidney potatoes, scooped out, raw, stuffed with sausage-meat, and baked in butter. — a la Bohemienne.—Small marble-shaped fried potatoes, stoned olives, mushroom heads, and button onions, dressed in groups round braised or roast meats. Sauce Poivrade. — a la Bontoux.—Very small macaroni timbales, tartlets, flavoured with fumet of game, tomato sauce, grated cheese, and slices of cooked meat, dressed with braised meats, and served with demi-glace sauce. Sometimes served with poultry as a remove. — a la Bordeaux.—Signifies the special sauce prepared with Bordeaux wine (claret) ; in its garnish marrow-fat is generally used, especially for fillets of beef. (Also known as Bordelaise.) — a la Bordelaise for tournedos, small steaks, and fillets. Parboiled slices of beef, marrow grilled and placed alternately with the cooked meat when it is dished up. For sauce, reduce finely chopped shallot in claret, add sufficient quantity of Espagnole or demi-glace. Season with cayenne, etc., and pour over the meat. — a la Boulangere {for Meat).—Kidney potatoes baked with fried onions ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bouquetiere {for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms grilled, asparagus tips, with groups of green peas, French beans, young carrots, turnips, and cauliflower buds ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat shapes, parboiled and braised, also button onions, braised and glazed, dressed in groups. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Bourgogne usually signifies that the sauce of a dish bearing such a name has French red wine as a basis, the garnish being generally small braised button onions.