DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRliES (HOT). 267 Bone the fish, removing the dark skin, cut the fillets into con- venient oblong pieces, flatten a little with a cutlet bat, trim, and place the fillets in a well-bnttered saute-pan. Moisten with the wine and mushroom liquor, season with pepper and salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twelve minutes. Take up, dress neatly on a hot dish, and keep warm. Pour the sauces into the pan containing the liquor, boil up and strain into a stewpan containing the mushrooms, kernels, and quenelles. Allow these to get thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish, reduce the sauce, and pour over the fish, decorate with slices of lemon and fleurons, and serve. Filets de Turbot a la Salamandre. 2i lb. turbot, 2 shallots, i oz. Initter, } gill white wine, stock, i gill white sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, grated cheese, breadcrumbs. Remove the dark skin, fillet, trim, flatten, and pare into heart- shaped slices, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the finely chopped shallots, add the butter divided into little bits, moisten with the white wine and a tablespoonfnl of stock. Cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, pour off the liquor and put it in a saucepan with the white sauce (velontee or bechamel, p. 161 or p. 142). Heat up, stir in the yolks of eggs and cream, and cook until it binds. Dish up the cooked fillets in a row on a buttered dish. Strain the sauce over the fish so as to well coat it. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere), and a few breadcrumbs, brown in a very liot oven or under a hot salamander, and serve. Turbot a la Provencale, About 24 11). turbot (middle cut), 4 pint vcloutee sauce (p. ibi), i gill white wine, 2 small shallots chopped fine, i gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonluls capers, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small liunch parsley and herbs (bouquet). Wash and wipe the fish well, cut it into thick slices or leave whole, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add velontee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done, and baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pom- over the fish. Supreme de Turbot a la Royale, About 24 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, 4 pi'it velontee .sauce, I .shallot, I small glass white wine, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 liaiidful of grated Swiss cheese, salt and pepper, nutmeg. Skin and fillet the fish, cut the fillets into heart-shapes, making as little waste as possible. Butter a saute-pan, put in the chopped