SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. 3 What may be agreeable to one may be objectionable or insipid to another. It is the cook’s business to study the taste of those he or she serves, and the seasoning of the food must therefore be used according to the requirements of those to whom the dishes are served. It is in all cases well to remember that seasonings, whatever they may consist of, should be used in small quantities only, as one can always add more if found necessary, but it is im- possible to remove any if too much has been added in the lirst instance. The late Monsieur Ude, one of the most talented chefs of the past, in his culinary work says that “ the best cookery in the world is worthless without seasoning.” We know that cookery acts upon food by diminishing the firm- ness of some articles, and by increasing it in others. We further know that the flavour is altered as well as the aroma and appearance, whilst seasoning and flavouring heighten the savouriness of food, the action of which is increased by the addition of aromatic, pungent, and stimulant ingredients. The so-called highly seasoned dishes must be regulated on a sliding scale as regards the seasoning employed, so as to adapt them to the various palates, which, as before stated, differ considerably. It is quite impossible to specify in any recipe the exact quantity of seasoning materials for each j dish. Not only palates but also stomachs differ as to the amount of salt and spices which suits them. For this reason, if for no other, it is always best to use all seasonings moderately. The object of seasoning, provided always it be added in moderate and reason- able quantities, is to increase the digestibility of food, to flavour food which would otherwise be insipid, and to render it at the same time more palatable and digestible. By seasoning certain food materials, we copy to a certain extent nature, who renders frrflt wholesome and agreeable to the taste by associating insipidness with acids, by combining certain forms of starch with sugar, as well as by the characteristic instinctive longing with which nature animates both man and animal for salt and for the flavour and piquancy of aromatic herbs and spices. While a fine and discriminating taste is natural to a few only, it may be cultivated in some degree by all. It is the fortune of the cook who possesses it ; if not, he or she may, through plenty of experience, accpiire it in some measure. The most important articles used for seasoning and flavouring are salt, sugar, pepper, spices, aromatic herbs, vinegar, vegetables, mustard, butter and other fats, oils, etc. The principal functions which these adjuncts have to perform is, as explained in the fore- going pevges, to render food more palatable, more appetising, and more digestible. Salt is the chief and most important seasoning used ; it is not merely a seasoning, but a necessary of life, for it removes the insipid H