967 AUXILIARY RECIPES. was boiled, stir until it boils, then serve, adding sugar to taste. iMost cocoas may be prepared without boiling, but it is a great improvement to allow it to boil for just a couple of minutes to extract the full strength and to develop the flavour. The above method is especially suitable for Van Houten’s or other best brands of cocoa. How to Make Chocolate. I pint of milk to i- oz. of chocolate per person. Put the chocolate into a stew-pan or enamelled saucepan, add a little water, and stir over the hre with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Boil the milk and pour it over the chocolate, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and allow it to boil for two minutes. Sweeten to taste and serve. How to Make Tea. I lieaped-up teaspoonful of tea to each of freshly boiled water per person : cream or milk and sugar to taste. Heat the teapot, put in the tea and pour the water on to the tea as soon as it hoils. Put the lid on the pot and allow ordinary tea to stand for three minutes. Some high-class teas require a longer lime to extract their flavour. The tea should then be served immediately. An extra heaped-up teaspoonful of tea is generally allowed over the above quantity. Note.—Always use fresh water, and pour on to the tea immediately it boils. Rules on Jam-making. r. Observe the strictest cleanliness. 2. Use fresh, ripe, and dry fruit, and avoid damp, over-ripe or under-ripe fruit. 3. Use best pure cane sugar only. 4. Allow from three-quarters to one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Acid fruits require full weight. 5. Have a steady but bright lire. 6. Boil continuously, stir and skim frequently. 7. Do not All the preserving-pan too fuil. 8. Boil the fruit till it jellies or sets when cold. g. Have the jars or pots perfectly clean and dry before filling. 10. Either cover the jars immediately or leave until the jam is quite cold, and cover with parchment paper, ii. Label the jars or pots with name of jam and date when made. 12. Store them in a cool but dry place, free from damp or draught. Fruit Preserving. To every pound of fruit jiicked and ready for the preserving- pan allow three-quarters of a pound of the best cane sugar. Loaf sugar, of course, should be used, as that is less easily adulterated than castor or powdered sugar. To any quantity of fruit over three pounds put half a pint of water in the preserving-pan. This water prevents the sugar at the bottom of the pan from burning, and keeps the jam from getting stiff and hard. All kinds of fruit jam should be cooked fast, because quick boiling produces a better colour and better flavour than slow befiling or simmering. Most jams require about forty minutes to