96o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. stand till quite cold—two or three hours. Remove the scum. Arrange the sweets in the crystallizing wire tray. Pour over the syrup, and let them stand twelve hours, then drain off the syrup. Leave the sweets for twelve hours longer, then place them on a sieve, and allow them to dry. Chocolate Fondants. Shape some fondant into small rounds or ovals, and allow it to stand for twelve hours. Shred J lb. Kohler’s covering chocolate, jdace in a “ Bain Marie ” and melt it slowly without letting it get too hot. Next dip the fondant shapes by means of a dij)ping fork into the dissolved chocolate, and place on grease-proof paper. Opera Creams. I lb. fondant, i gill double cream, i lb. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring to taste. The fondant for oj)era creams should not be boiled higher than 240 deg. Put the fondant and cream into a saucepan, and melt very slowly, being careful not to make the mixture too hot, just barely warm. Add colouring and flavouring to taste, then sufficient icing sugar to make into a stiff paste. Beat the mixture well. Line a tin with grease-proof paj)er, pour in the mixture to about one inch in thickness. When cold cut into squares. Neapolitan Creams. I white of egg, same quantity of water, about i lb. icing sugar, flavour- ing and colouring, i oz. vanilla-flavoured chocolate, some covering chocolate, 2 ozs. desiccated cocoanut. Beat up the egg lightly, mix it with the water, and work in enough sifted icing sugar to form a stiff })aste. Divide into three pieces. Into one piece work the grated vanilla chocolate ; another colour pink and flavour with raspberry. Leave one white and flavour with vanilla, roll each piece out about \ in., brush very lightly over with white of egg, place on top of each other, brush both sides over with covering chocolate, sprinkle with cocoanut. When dry cut into fancy shapes. Marzipan Paste. I lb. ground almonds, ^ gill orange-flower water, h 11). castor sugar, ^ lb. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring to taste. Mix together the almonds, castor sugar, and orange-flower water, then cook over a gentle heat till it does not stick to the hand. Place on a board or slab and work in the icing sugar, colouring, and flavouring. Marzipan Dates. Remove the stones trom the dates, then fill them with marzij)an paste (kernel shapes slightly larger than the date stones). Dip each in caramel, let cool, and place in oval paper cases. French plums can be treated in the same way. Marzipan Almonds. Roll out some green-coloured marzipan, cut into rounds and j)ress each into almond moulds. Then put a blanched almond on the lower half, close the mould, and press both sides together, then oi)en and allow the marzipan almond to drop out. Caramel. Boil I lb. loaf sugar, i gill water, tiny pinch cream of tartar, and one dro]) acetic acid to caramel, 310 deg., use as directed.