COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 78 into a basin. When cool put into the cream, add the other in- gredients, mix, and let cool a little. Pour it into the prepared mould and place on the ice to set. Turn out and garnish with chopped jelly. Creme a I’Orange {Orange Cream). i\Iask a jelly-mould with lemon or wine jelly, decorate it with glace cherries and angelica, prepare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille ” mixture (p. 772). Add to it the juice and the fmely-grated rind of an orange, also a little well-reduced apricot marmalade. Fill up the mould and place on the ice to set. Creme aux Peches {Peach Cream). 6 preserved peaches, 2 oz. sugar, glace cherries, i gill wine jelly, -h pint cream, -1- oz. gelatine. Mask a fancy jelly mould with a thin layer of jelly, decorate the sides and bottom with a few thin slices of peach and glace cherries. Put the remainder of the peaches through a hne sieve, and mix with it about half a gill of sjnmp. Dissolve the gelatine, heat up the fruit pulp, strain the gelatine into it, and add the sugar. Whip the cream and add it to the above as it begins to get cool. Pour the mixture into the decorated mould, and place it on the ice until required for table. To serve, immerse the mould in .slightly warm water, then wipe it quickly, and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish the dish' with a little chopped wine jelly, and serve. Creme renversee {Btirnt Sugar Cream). 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, -J- gill cream, -J- tea.spoonful lemon essence. Put two ounces of the sugar with half a gill of water in a copper sugar-boiler, boil until it acquires a light-brown colour, or, in other words, until it is a caramel. Quickly and completely mask the inside of a plain mould (one-and-a-half-pint size), and let it cool. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the remainder of the sugar, the milk, cream, a n cl t h e essence of lemon. Strain the whole in- to the lined mould, place in a s t e w- pan, hll up with boiling water to half the height of the mould, and cook in a moderately-heated oven for forty minutes. This dish can be served hot or cold. Great care must be taken in the turning out if served hot, otherwise it should stand for at least one hour and