THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6o4 Westphalia Ham. These hams need to be soaked in water for about thirty-six hours at least. The water should be changed once during the time. When soaked, trimmed, and cleansed, put the ham in a pot with enough cold water and allow to simmer for about an hour, then take np and place in a braising-pan, moisten with sufficient stock to cover, add some sliced carrots, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, six cloves, a blade of mace, peppercorns, marjoram, thyme, and two bay-leaves. Let the ham simmer very gently for about five hours. Allow it to cool in the liquor. Jambon a la Basquaise [Ham, Basque Style). Select a sound smoked ham, soak and partially cook in the usual manner. When about half done, take it out and place it in an earthenware vessel with enough marinade (vinegar, wine, thyme, bay-leaf, onion, carrot, and peppercorns) to cover the ham. Let it remain thus for at least eight hours, then drain, wrap it in several well-greased papers, and roast in front of a moderate fire or in the oven for about two hours. Baste frequently. Remove the paper, skin the ham, trim away the superfluous fat, glaze it nicely with well-flavoured meat glaze, then cut it into slices and place neatly on a hot dish in its original shape. Pour some Madeira sauce over, and garnish the dish with stuffed tomatoes. Serve hot. Jambon en Casserole {Baked Ham en Casserole). Skin a small ham or gammon of bacon (previously soaked), cut off the knuckle part, and rub in a mixture composed of moist or and bake in a slow oven from 2 to 2f hours according to size. Baste it frequently and freely. When done take np the ham, remove the fat and the ham rind from the pan, place it in double fireproof pot and add half a pint of rich gravy or brown sauce (demi-glace) and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Continue to cook for another twenty minutes. It is then ready for serving. Jambon a la Marguerite {Braised Ham, Marguerite Style). 1 small York ham, i carrot, i onion, i bouquet garni, peppercorns, 2 shallots, 2 glas.ses champagne, i oz. butter, i quart stock, i lb. pork sausages, i pint demi-glace sauce. Soak the ham in tepid water for twelve hours, take out the hip-bone, and place in a deep braising-pan with the carrot, onion, and bouquet garni (previously prepared). Cover with water and DOUBLE FIREPROOF POT. brown sugar, half teaspoonful ground mace, one teaspoonful ground ginger, and a teaspoonful of paprika and krona pepper. Place the ham in an earthen- ware double pipkin or roasting pan, lined with fat bacon or ham rind, and a few prunes. Pour over sufficient lard or butter to baste, put on the lid,