504 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Blanquette de Dinde aux Morilles.—Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a species of mushroom). Select a young turkey for this dish, truss it as for boiling, and cut it up when parboiled, then stew like fricassee. Cuisses de Dinde farcies a la Garibaldi.—Legs of turkey boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, ham and tongue, all finely minced. Braised slowly with little gravy. Served with a garniture of stewed macaroni, flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. Filets de Dinde a la Cardinal.—Breasts of turkey stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish-tails and lobster corals. Dindonneau saute aux Champignons.—Young turkey stewed in brown sauce with sliced mushrooms. — braise au Madere.—Braised young turkey finished in Madeira sauce. LAPIN—RABBIT, ETC. Gibelotte de Lapin {French Rabbit Stew). I or 2 Ostend rabbits (skinned), lb. fat bacon, bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, I oz. flour, 18 button onions, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, of a pint of stock, salt, pepper. Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat joints, not too large. Cut the bacon into slices, put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Take out the bacon and put on a plate. Peel the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter, and put with the bacon. Let the butter get thoroughly hot, and put in the rabbit, brown well on all sides, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in the flour, and, when brown, moisten with the stock. Add the wine and bouquet garni, let it come slowly to a boil, skim, put in the onions, and let the whole simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter, keeping the saute-pan well covered. About ten minutes before it is done, put in the liver, well washed, and cut into four. Before dishing up, take out the pieces of rabbit, onion, and liver, put into another saute-pan, and add the bacon. Take off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the rabbit. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the pieces of rabbit neatly on it, and put the garnish over and round it. Boil up the sauce, and pom- over the meat. Lapin frit a la Tartare [Fried Rabbit with Tartare Sauce). I young rabbit, i egg, 2 oz. butter, breadcrumbs, tartare sauce, seasoning, frying fat. Wash, wipe, and dry the rabbit, cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute-pan until three-parts done. Sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put the pieces to cool, then trim. Dip them in beaten egg and crumb, when set, dip in oiled butter, and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a hot dish