350 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cooked macaroni about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stand the moulds on the ice to set, then hll them with the above prepared farce. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and arrange the bombes on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot tomato or Perigord sauce over, and serve. BOUCHEES OR PETITES BOUCHEES. Bouchees are, unless otherwise stated, small puff-paste cases hlled with certain savoury preparations called salpicons (p. 124) of either fish, meat, poultry or game. Bouchees a I’Astrachan, These are very small puff-paste patties hlled with coarse-grained Russian caviare seasoned with echalote sauce. Petites Bouchees, Bardalouse. Line 8 to 10 bouche moulds with short crust, rough puff or cassolette paste, hll them with dried peas, and bake them. Remove the peas and hll the baked crusts with a salpicon of sweetbread, chicken hllets, mushrooms, and truffles, moistened with supreme or Allemande sauce. Decorate the top with green-pea puree, mixed with a yolk of egg, and seasoned ; use a forcer for this. Place the crusts on a baking-sheet and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. Dish up, and serve hot. Petites Bouchees a la Reine [Chicken Patties). About I lb. of feuilletage paste, \ cooked chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 6 mushrooms, 2 truffles, i gill bechamel or Allemande sauce, gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, let it rest in a cool place for ten minutes, then stamp out, by means of a if-inch huted paste-cutter, eight to ten rounds, lay them about half an inch apart on a wetted baking-sheet, and brush the surface with beaten egg. Dip a smaller round plain cutter into hot water, mark the surface of each (this will form the lids), and brush the top with egg-yolk. Bake in a moderately sharp oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes. Remove lids, and scoop out a portion of the inside whilst hot. Have ready a salpicon made by mixing the chicken, ham, mushrooms, and truffles all cut into small dice. Put all in a stewpan with the sauce, when thoroughly hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Keep over, the fire to bind the mixture. Fill up the cases, put on the lids, and serve, Bouchees a la Montglas. These are very similar to the above ; the puff-paste patty cases are filled with chicken fillets and sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles cut in'dice, moistened with white sauce and heated up before filling.