CHAPTER XIII. SAUCES. (See also Chapter X. on the Composition of Sauces.) Sauce Allemande {German Sauce). oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of cream, i tea- spoonful lemon-juice, chicken stock, nutmeg, salt, pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir a few minutes without allowing it to brown, dilute with rather more than a pint of chicken stock, and stir until it boils. Season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and finish with a liaison made of the yolks of eggs, the cream, and C oz. of fresh butter. Stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil ; add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. Sauce Anchois {Anchovy Sauce). I oz. butter, f oz. flour, J pint milk, J pint fish stock, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, mix well, and cook a little. Add by degrees the milk and the fish stock. Stir till it boils, and let cook for lo minutes. Incorporate a small dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, boil up again and strain. Sauce Anchois {another way).—Heat up half a pint of bechamel or hollandaise sauce, and stir in one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Sauce Albert.—Prepare a Sauce Bearnaise (p. 143), but substitute the tarragon with a few finely-chopped leaves of green mint, and add a little finely-grated horse-radish. Sauce Aigre-Douce. J pint poivrade sauce, i tablespooiiful red-currant jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. To the poivrade sauce (p. 157) add the red-currant jelly, boil up and skim, then stir in the cream, re-heat without boiling again, season to taste and use as required. This sauce is especially suit- able for roast game, etc. Sauce Aurora. ^ pint of bechamel sauce, 2 oz. butter, i oz. lobster butter, \ gill cream, I dessertspoonful tarragon vinegar, cayenne. Put the bechamel sauce (p. 142) in a stewpan, add the butter, a pinch of cayenne, cream, tarragon vinegar, and lobster butter. Stir well over boiling water till hot, but without letting the sauce boil.