THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 498 Poulet a la Bourgeoise.—Par-fried chicken (jointed), and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. — a la Cardinal.—Boiled chicken, breast-bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and dished up with a garniture .of small fancy c]uenelles and slices of truffles. Served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Careme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in Madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked) ; centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom, and tongue ; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and Madere sauce round base of dish. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi-glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on croutons of bread; garnished with sauted mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — a la Chivry.—Braised chicken, dished up with rings of Spanish onions, filled with a mixture of chives, boiled onions, and blanched tarragon leaves, all finely chopped, sauced over with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. — en Cocotte or en Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire- proof casserole ; garnished with slices of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — en Compote.—Par-fried chicken, stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions. — frit a la Dauphine.—Broiled chicken, coated with veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Demidoff.—Chicken sauted, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice. — a la Diable.—Spring chicken split open at the back, highly seasoned with devilled butter, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled ; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl is treated in the same manner. — frit a la Duchesse.—Boned chicken, par-cooked, cut into small portions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloutee sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit it la Dumontier.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, steeped in lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and finely chopped onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with duchesse sauce, prepared with veloutee sauce, cream, and minced ham. — a la Duse.—Chicken cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice, dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white piemont triTffle. — a I’Ecarlate.—Braised fowl, garnished with heart-shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue ; served with demi-glace or veloutee sauce.