i82 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Be careful to skim off all the scum which rises on top as the stock begins to boil. Wash and clean the vegetables, stick the cloves in the onion, tie up the leek, celery, and cabbage, and put all in with the meat. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, add the peppercorns, and let the whole simmer gently for four hours. Take out the meat, strain the broth into a tureen, cut the carrots, turnip, and leek into round pieces, and put with the broth ; cut the bread into thin slices, and put it in the tureen, sprinkle the chopped parsley on top, and serve. Before straining the broth it should be tasted, and more seasoning added according to requirement and taste. The meat can be served as a separate^course, or it may be used up in some form for another meal. Petites Marmites Parisienne. This is a high-class pot-au-feu soup, served in small earthenware soup-pots, which hold about half a pint of soup. Each guest is served with a small marmite, which should be handed round on hot soup-plates covered with a folded napkin. It is usual to serve at the same time small sippets of toasted and buttered bread. If marrow-bones are used for this soup, they should be sawn into inch pieces. These are likewise handed round with the soup. Ingredients for Petites Marmites Soup.—4 lb. buttock steak, i t lb. beef- bones, I- lb. knuckle of veal, some chicken giblets if handy, i small leek, 2 cloves, i chicken, J celery root, i small onion, 2 small carrots, i turnip, -t cabbage, 12 peppercorns, salt, parsley (a marrow-bone). Use an earthenware soup-pot or a French stone marmite. Tie up the meat with string, put it in the soup-pot with 6 to 7 quarts of cold water or stock, bring it slowly to a boil, and take off the scum. Wmsh, clean, and trim the vegetables. Roast the bones and giblets and chicken with a little butter in a saute-pan over the fire, drain free from butter and add them to the soup. Tie up the leek and cabbage, add these together with the carrots, turnips, onion (stuck with two cloves), celery, and parsley to the soup, let it come gently to the boil, skim, season lightly with salt, and add a dozen pepper- corns. Let the whole simmer very slowly for about three hours. It is very essential that it should simmer slowly and continuously so as to ensure a clear broth with the needful nourishment, which can only be obtained by a slow process of cooking. Remove the meat and chicken, cut the former into convenient pieces, the chicken into small joints, and put them in a clean stewpan, and pour the broth over them through a fine sieve or strainer. Cut the cabbage, leek, carrots, and turnip into small pieces or slices, moisten them with broth, and'keep hot. Let the soup simmer for another half- hour. Season to taste. Put equal proportions of vegetables, beef, and chicken in little soup-pots (this soup should be served in very small French marmites, sufficiently large to hold enough soup for one person), pour in the broth, sprinkle over each a little chopped MARMITE POT.