THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 464 with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, put it in a moderate oven for about an hour or more until tender, basting it from time to time, then take it up, and keep warm. Take out the bacon and onion from the saute-pan, add half a pint of Madeira sauce and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, let all simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the duckling into neat slices, dish up in an oblong entree dish, garnish the sides with alternate groups of cooked green peas, young carrots and turnips (scooped out in olive shapes), and a few croutons of bread, sauce over care- fully, and serve. Note.—This dish can also be served as a remove (Releve). Salmi de Canard [Salmi of Duck). I large tender duck, 4 oz. bacon, 12 stoned French olives, i oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, f pint stock, i small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), \ small onion, and salt and pepper. Singe, draw, and truss the duck, peel and slice the onion, cut the bacon into dice. Cook the latter in a baking-tin, when crisp take out half the quantitj^ and put it on a plate, put the onion in the baking-tin with the remaincler of bacon and fat, set the duck on this, add the bunch of herbs and put a little butter on top of the duck, season with pepper and salt, and cook in moderate oven for about twenty minutes until half cooked. Take up, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Fry the flour in the remainder of butter (one and a half ounce) to a nice brown colour, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, and add to this the gravy from the tin in which the duck was cooked, pouring off every particle of fat beforehand. Stir the sauce until it boils a second time (a small glass of claret may be added at this stage, if liked). Put the pieces of duck, the olives, and the dice of-bacon into a clean stewpan, strain the sauce over this and add the bouquet of herbs. Simmer very gently for another twenty-five or thirty minutes, season to taste, skim off the fat, and remove the herbs. Dress the duck in the centre of a hot dish, surround with the olives and bacon. See that the sauce is of right consistency, adding a little gravy if found too thick, or reduc- ing it if it is too liquid, then pour over the duck, garnish with fleurons or croutons, and serve. Canard aux Olives [Braised Duck with Olives). I tender duck, 6 oz. streaky bacon, I oz. butter, | gill white wine, t pint brown sauce, i gill gravy, about 2 oz. French olives, i bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt, a few half-moon shapes of bread croutons, meat glaze. Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, put in the duck, previously trussed, season with pepper and salt, spread the butter on top, add the bouquet of herbs, and bake in a hot oven, to acquire a colour (the duck must only be partly cooked), take up, cut into neat joints, and put these in a clean stewpan. Chop the carcase into small pieces, place in the pan in which the duck was baked, fry over the fire a few minutes, pour off the fat, add the sauce and gravy, cook for ten minutes, strain over the pieces of duck, and allow the whole to simmer gently for