24 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Another way is to soak in tepid water or milk some white bread (without crust) for an hour, put it in a cloth to squeeze out the moisture, turn into a stewpan with an ounce of butter to six ounces of bread ; heat up over a slow fire, stirring all the while, add a pinch of salt, turn on to a plate, and use when cool. Roux.—Roux is the French term for a preparation used as a thickening for gravies, sauces or soups. It consists of flour fried in butter to a desired colour or blend. There are three kinds—the white, the blond or fawn, and the brown. The white roux is made with, say, five ounces of butter and four ounces of flour. Melt the butter, sift the flour, and stir into the butter. Cook slowly on the side of the stove for about ten minutes, without allowing it to take colour. Blond roux is made in the same way, but is stirred over a slow fire until it becomes of a fawn or blond colour. White and blond roux are used for veloutee and allemande sauces, the former for bechamel and other white sauces. For a brown roux, leave it on the fire, or put in a moderately heated oven, until it attains a light brown or chestnut colour. Roux shoifld at all times be allowed to cool a few minutes before the moistening is added. It need not be used immediately, for it will keep some time if put in a covered jar and kept in a dry place. The proportion of moisture used is one quart of liquid to four ounces of flour. A Mirepoix.—A mirepoix is the foundation for flavouring sauces, braised meats, and a number of thick soups. Its composition consists of the following ingredients, which must be varied according to the quantity required : 2 carrots weighing about 5 oz. eacli, 2 onions weighing about 4 oz. each, I oz. of parsley or parsley root, 2 bay-leaves, i blade of mace, i or 2 shallots,, t sprig of thyme, 12 peppercorns, 2 cloves, lb. of raw fat ham or fat bacon, J lb. beef or veal trimmings (the latter may be left out), J oz. mignonette pepper. Method.—Prepare the vegetables, cut the bacon, etc., into small pieces ; fry in a stewpan a light brown colour. Add the vegetables cut in slices ; stir over the fire until light brown, then add the herbs, etc. If required for sauce or brown purees, add the needful quantity of roux, and moisten with about two quarts of stock and half a pint of white wine. Stir and cook gently for one hour or longer. Salpicon.—A salpicon is a mince of either chicken, game, foie- gras or veal, with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truffles. The whole is cut into small dice and put into some prepared sauce—allemande, bechamel, or brown sauce. Salpicon is mostly- used for filling bouchees (small puff-paste patties), when it is heated up in the sauce. Oysters and lobsters, shrimps, and fillets of sole are frequently ' used for bouchees, in which case the filling is prepared as above, and is known under the general n.ame of Salpicon, ham or tongue being of course omitted.