THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 24 in England. He says : “ When a house engages a man to buy who is not possessed of the required knowledge it will pay school money, which in some instances amounts to quite a sum, until he has learned. “ A chef-manager or steward in buying should always ask the price of the goods wanted before taking them, no matter how regular he gets the same article or reliable the firm. Prices change on all goods ; they may have advanced to a figure too high, in- which case it would require the selection of another brand. A good firm appreciates the strict business methods in a buyer, and will take better care of his orders than if he comes in, reads off his list of articles wanted in a careless way, with an ‘ I don’t ask prices : my house can pay for them ’ air. The chef-manager or steward should buy just like the merchant, who first figures on the probable profit. The chef or manager on his tour of marketing often meets with what are called bargains, which he should take advantage of if they are staple and non-perishable goods, but, if perishable, should consider well before buying. The goods may be all right if used at once ; but if it is necessary to carry them for several days, and in the meantime they become unfit for use, the bargain becomes a total loss. Among the staple articles which cannot be found at bargains are coffee and flour. When a house has a blend of coffee which pleases, it should be continued right along ; and so it is with flour and other articles : to ensure good bread, there should be kept a brand that runs even the year around.” PRACTICAL HINTS IN CHOOSING FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, VEGETABLES, ETC. The following points and hints are given to assist the inex- perienced ones in the art of buying, but to become perfect in this branch one needs a great deal of practical experience. How to Choose Fish.—In choosing fish the following rules should be observed : The eyes should be bright, the flesh or body firm, the gills a bright red, and the smell should be sweet and pleasant. Fish should never be eaten when out of season, because it often disagrees with the system. The flesh of white fish should always be firm to the touch ; when it is flabby and has a bluish tinge it is a sign of its inferiority and staleness. Cod, when fresh and sound, should be judged by the redness of the gills, the whiteness, stiffness, and firmness of the flesh, and the clear freshness of the eyes. All these are infallible proofs of its being good and fit for use. Salmon, when good, should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh should be of a bright red colour, and the scales should be very bright. Mackerel should not be bought unless quite fresh ; the fish will not keep, and should be cooked the day it is purchased Cod may be kept twenty-four hours, and soles the same. Eels should be bought alive.