>9,1 SOUPS (POTAGES). Consomme Mulligatawny. 2 quarts of clear stock, the legs of a raw fowl, : oz. raw liam, I small onion, I teaspoonful curry powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfnls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, i white of egg. Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until Itrown, add the curry powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for twenty minutes, and strain. When cold clarify with the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. Consomme a la Nantaise.—Proceed the same as for “ Consomme Princesse ” (p. 195), adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the asparagus points. Consomme a la Napoleon. 2 ipiarts consomme, 6 oz. nonille paste (p. 134), i oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, or rabbit, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, i salt- spoonful chopped lemon-nnd, -1- teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with i|-inch cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon-rind, and foie-gras very hnely, mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. W et the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a tea- spoonful in the centre of each, close up by pressing the edges well together, giving it the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock, boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain, and put in a soup-tureen. Pour in the consomme (previously heated), and serve. Consomme a la Nemours. 2 quarts good stock (clarified), i oz. crusheil tapioca, 2 carrots, t gill bechamel .sauce, 3 eggs, j oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner. Add the tapioca (pre- viously soaked in water) when boiling, cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. WWsh the carrots and scrape finely the red part into a stewpan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (bechamel) and a little stock, simmer till tender, and rub thnnigh a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmoidd, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consomme. Re-heat and serve. Consomme a la Nesselrode. 2 cjuarts of consomme, i doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill game stock, I glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, boil in water or milk until tender, and rub through a sieve. Mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds, and poach them in the oven for ten minutes. Let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup-tureen. Add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, let it boil for a few N