771 CHAPTER XXXIV. COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Under this heading various kinds of sweet dishes are inclnded, snrh as cold puddings, bavarois, fruit tarts, babas, savarins, creams, custards, mousses, jellies, tartlets, small and fancy cakes, gateaux, fancy pastry, eclairs, choux-pastry, frnit-croiites, fruit-compotes, charlottes, meringues, nougats, etc. It is here necessary to point out that when hot and cold sweets are served the hot dishes should precede the cold ones. There are a number of dishes named which can be served either hot or cold, including certain puddings, savarins, babas, caramels, pies, flans, and tarts. Other important points io be observed in the sweet course are the projier blending and distribution of colours and flavours, the selection and arrangement of which require some knowledge, taste, as well as judgment. The rule or the order of service in sweet entremets is the same as in entrees and other courses, viz., that the order should be alternately dark and light ; thus two dishes of similar colour and flavour cannot be served in succession. The list of sweets provides a much larger variety than any other course, hence there should not be much difficulty in the selection of suitable dishes. Bavarois an Caramel [Lemon Caramel Cream). 6 oz. castor sugar, i t pint milk, i pint cream, i oz. gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, I lemon. Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar-boiler, add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the hre until it acquires a dark amber colour, add the milk and boil up, then stir in the yolks of eggs two at a time, and the remainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, strain it into the above, let it cool a little, whip the cream, and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool, when set, turn out and serve. Bavarois au Chocolat [Chocolate Cream). I lb. chocolate, 3 oz. sugar, J- oz. French leaf gelatine, i tablespoonful creme clc riz, i quart milk, 6 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk, mix the ground rice or creme de riz with half a gill of cold milk. Put the chocolate, sugar, and remainder of milk in a stew-pan, boil gently, stir until the chocolate is dissolved, add the gelatine and creme de riz, stir