636 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Trim and wash the seakale, put it in a basin with enough water to cover, and add a good pinch of salt. Half fill a convenient-sized stew-pan with water, add the juice of half a lemon and the flour, previously mixed into a paste with a little water (flour and lemon- juice are used to preserve the whiteness of the seakale). Season with salt and boil up. Place in the seakale, tied up in bundles, and cook till tender. Take up, drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread. Whisk the cream, the sauce, and egg-yolks in a stew-pan over the fire till hot, not boiling, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and enough salt and pepper to season. Pour this over the heads of the seakale, and serve at once. Chou-de-Mer glace a la Creme {Cold Seakale with Cream Sauce). Cook the seakale as described in the foregoing recipe. When cold place it in a tin and bury it in ice for about two hours. Prepare the cream sauce as directed in the above recipe, and keep it on the ice till wanted. Dish up the seakale on a cold dish, mix the cold sauce with a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce, and pour over the seakale. This is a most delicious dish for lunch or supper. Chou-de-Mer a la Florentine [Seakale, Florentine Style). Trim and wash a basket of seakale, cook it in plenty of salted water and the juice of one lemon. When done, take up and drain on a sieve. Put a slice of toasted bread on a dish, arrange the cooked seakale nicely upon this. Sauce over carefully with a layer of well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle with equal quantities of parmesan and gruyere cheese, season with white pepper and a pinch or two of paprika and cayenne. Pour over a few drops of melted butter, and dredge lightly with breadcrumbs. Place the dish in a very hot oven long enough to brown the top. Serve at once as vegetable entremets or savoury. Chou-de-Mer a la Hollandaise [Seakale, Dutch Style). Wash, pare, and trim a basket of seakale, put a tablespoonful of flour in a stew-pan, dilute with water, place in it the seakale, add more water to cover, and salt to taste. Boil till tender. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Sauce over with hollandaise sauce, and serve. Choux a la Lilloise. Small portions of par-boiled cabbage, drained, slightly pressed, and fried in butter, seasoned with chopped onions, parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Dished up and served with a suitable brown gravy. Choux farcis au Beurre [Stuffed Cabbages). 2 medium-sized cabbages, | lb. mushrooms, i lb. lat bacon, -pib. fresh breadcrumbs, 4 yolks of eggs, \ lb. sausage-meat, 2 oz. of butter, i onion, I clove, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, etc., i quart of stock, i gill brown sauce. Remove the loose leaves from the cabbages, trim, and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or