THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 688 CEufs a la Messina. Toss in fresh butter as many artichoke bottoms (preserved) as may be required, and drain them. Poach carefully the same number of eggs, and trim them. Range the artichoke bottoms in the form of a border on a round dish, and place a poached egg in each. Mask the whole with a well-reduced bordelaise sauce, put a thin slice of cooked beef-marrow and a slice of truffle in the centre of each egg. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. CEufs a la Carigen. Poach carefully six to eight new-laid eggs, drain them well, and stamp out each with a round cutter. Reduce half a pint of rich bechamel, into which incorporate a tablespoonful of grated par- mesan cheese and three yolks of eggs. Mask each egg with this sauce. When set and cold, egg and crumb them twice. Fry them in deep fat, drain, and dish up on a hot dish covered with a lace- paper or napkin. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce. CEufs a la Gagnor {Cold). Take four or hve hard-boiled eggs, cut them in halves crossways, cut a small piece off the end of each to make them stand, remove the yolks and hll the cavities with Russian caviare. Pound the yolks and mix with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, rub it through a sieve, and put it in a forcing-bag with a fancy tube. Decorate each half of egg tastefully with the butter, etc., place them on small croutons of fried bread, fixed on with a little of the puree. Dish up, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. CEufs poches a la Reine {Poached Eggs, Queen's Style). Mince rather finely half a pound or more of cold cooked chicken or turkey, freed from skin, bone, and gristle. Fry this in a little butter, and moisten with sufficient bechamel sauce to form a light salpicon. Keep hot. Poach in slightly salted water six new-laid eggs, trim them neatly. Put the mince in a round dish, and place the eggs neatly upon this. Glaze them with liquefied meat glaze or Lemco, and surround the dish with eight small half-moon shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. CEufs St. Jacques {Eggs, St. James's Style). Line eight to nine small bouche moulds with puff-paste or rough puff-paste (roll out the paste rather thinly, and stamp out the rounds necessary for lining with a fluted cutter). Prick the bottom of the paste with a fork. Fill them with rice or dried peas, and bake them in a moderate oven to a golden coloiu'. Unmould whilst hot. Brush over the outside and inside with beaten yolk of egg mixed with meat glaze, and return to the oven for a few minutes, then let cool. Poach, in smaller-sized bouche moulds than those first used, as many eggs as are necessary. Unmould them and let cool, then