654 the new century COOKERY BOOK. fat (lard and dripping), strain the potato slices carefrdly, divide into three lots, and fry them separately in a frying-basket to a pale brown colour. Shake the basket several times during the frying process. When done, drain thoroughly, and sprinkle with a little very fine salt. Care must be taken to observe the following essential points, otherwise this dish will not be a success : Cut the slices very thin and evenly. The fat must be smoking hot before they are plunged into it, and must be kept boiling all the time. Potatoes thus fried and carefully strained will keep good for a long time if kept in a covered tin lined with paper. They are often eaten cold as well as hot, and are highly appreciated in the United States. Pommes Gigolette. Wash and boil about 2 lb. Dutch potatoes, when cooked drain and let cool, then remove the skin, slice the potatoes finely, and toss them in fresh butter. Cut lb. ham into dice, broil over a quick fire. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with a couple of layers of sauted potatoes, add a layer of ham, a layer of sliced tomatoes, season each layer with pepper and salt, and repeat until the mould is full. The last layer should, of course, be potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with tomato sauce. Cromeskis a la Jackson {Potato Kromeskis). 8 new potatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), i large truffle, I gill allemande sauce, i yolk of egg, } pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter for frying pancakes, salt, pepper, nutmeg, frying batter (p. 135), frying fat, fried parsley for garnish. Cook and strain the potatoes, and let them cool. Make about ten small very thin pancakes with the batter and the butter. Cut the potatoes, mushrooms, and truffle into very small dice. Put this in a stew-pan with the sauce, season to taste and reduce, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Add the egg-yolk, and cook a little longer, then spread the mixture on a dish, let it cool on the ice, then divide it into ten portions, roll each in a pancake, cut off the ends. Dip in frying batter, and fry a golden colour in plenty of hot fat, drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. Souffles de Pommes de Terre a la St. Louis. 8 kidney potatoes (not too large and of even size), i oz. of butter, -J- gill of cream or milk (about), 2 whites of eggs, oz. grated Cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Scrub the potatoes and bake them in the oven. Make an incision with a round cutter or knife at the ends, and scoop out the contents by means of a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skins. Rub the soft parts thus removed through a wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in the butter while warm, add the boiling cream or milk ; stir well, season with salt and pepper, and mix in the cheese. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix care- fully with the puree. Fill the potatoes with this preparation, stand them on a gratin dish or greased baking-sheet with a little