895 BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. breadcrumbs with a teaspoonful of savoury herbs and parsley, and a beaten egg. Season with pepper and salt. Spread the mixture over the slices of fish and place on toj) of each a rasher of lean bacon. Cook in a moderately heated oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes, and serve with anchovy sauce poured round the base of the dish. Kedgeree au Paprika. 4 oz. rice, 24 picked prawns or an equal quantity of shrimps, .some rich stock, i-l- oz. butter, i hard-boiled egg, salt, paprika pepper, J oz. grated cheese. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain well, put it in a stew-]tan with the butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with stock and cook till tender, adding more stock as recpiired by degrees, and, as the rice swells while cooking, stir frequently to prevent it from sticking. Add sufficient salt to taste, a pinch of grated nut- meg, and enough paprika pepper to give the rice a soft pinkish tint. Chop finely the prawns or shrimps, keeping aside a few for garnish, chop the white of the hard-boiled egg, add both, together with the cheese, to the rice, and stir gently until thoroughly hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a coarse sieve or chopped finely), some prawns or shrimps, and a few sprigs of freshly-picked watercress. Serve hot. Kedgeree of Haddock. 1 small smoked haddock, 4 oz, rice, 2 eggs (hard-boiled), 2 oz. butter, krona pepper, salt, and nutmeg. W'ash and boil the rice, drain and dry. Remot^e the bones and skin from the fish, break into pieces, break the shells of the eggs, and cut the whites into small square pieces. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, put in the rice, add the fish, white of egg, krona pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt. Mix them well together, and serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the yolks of eggs over it. Fish Fritters. Prepare a batter with 4 oz. of sifted flour, 2 yolks and i whole egg, 2 tablespoonfnls of olive oil, and a gill of tepid water, and beat up well. The batter should be like thick cream. Stir in about J lb. of cold white fish, such as whiting, fresh haddock, cod or plaice, free from skin and bones. Drop the mixture from a tablespoon into very hot fat, and fry to a golden colour, then drain, dish up, garnisli with half slices of lemon and parsley, and serve hot. Smoked Fish Fritters. Fillet some smoked fish, such as bloater, haddock, saJmon or kippered herring, cut them into small pieces, season with white pepper mixed with a little curry powder. Dip each piece into some prepared frying batter, fry in hot fat until crisp and of nice colour, drain well on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Bloater Fritters {Beignets de Hareng fume). 2 bloatere, frying batter, oz. grated cheese, frj’ing-fat. Split the bloaters and take out the bones, remove the skins and