9S6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. the cavities with red-currant marmalade (groseilles de bar). Have ready a meringue mixtui'e, one white of egg whisked stiffly with one ounce of sugar. Coat the tops of the tartlets with this or ornament in lattice-work fashion ; dredge with icing sugar, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set the egg-white. Note.—Any other kind of small whole fruit jam can be used in place of red-currant marmalade. Biscuits aux Amandes [Almond Biscuits). 4 oz. ground almonds, 14 oz. castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls orange-flower water, 10 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 8 eggs. Mix the almonds, sugar, and orange-flower water in a mortar ; break in two eggs and work up. M’hisk up the other eggs and stir them gradually into the almond paste. Melt the butter and incor- porate it with the dour (sifted). Fill into very small plain or fancy bisenit-tins (buttered), and bake in a moderate oven. Gateau d’Amandes [Almond Cake). Proceed as above directed, but add four more eggs, the whites whisked to a stiff froth, and six ounces of butter instead of four. Bake in buttered cake-tins. Petits Fours. There are many varieties of petits fours made. A good Genoese usually forms the basis of at least three parts of fhe varieties. The following recipe will be found most serviceable for this purpose : Beat up to a cream four eggs with a quarter of a pound of fine castor sugar. Flavour it with vanilla essence or rose-water, and stir in alternately ten ounces of sifted dour and dve ounces of melted blitter (lukewarm). Have ready a buttered dat baking-sheet, about three-quarters of an inch deep. Spread the mixture on this and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-dve to thirty minutes*; or, if preferred, bake the mixture in little petits fours tins. The cake should be at least a day old before it is used for petits fours. Cut out small squares, diamonds, ovals or rounds, measuring about an inch or less. Split open and spread with some kind of preserve, almond paste or other delicate filling, and ice them over with fondant icing. Decorate with glace fruit, glace royale or butter icing according to taste and fancy. Place them in little paper cases or dish up in the ordinary way. Meringue, chopped almonds, and desiccated cocoanut are also used at times for decorating petits fours, but the success of these depends very much upon the indi- vidual taste and artistic talent disjilayed in decorating them. Petits Fours d’Amandes. Pound in a mortar half a pound of sweet almonds (peeled and dried) ; when smooth, add the whites of two eggs and quarter of a pound of vanilla sugar, mix well, and put into a basin. Whisk stiffly the whites of three eggs, incorporate one ounce of ground rice, and stir this carefully with the almond paste. Shape the mixture into small balls and place them on a baking-sheet. Sprinkle over