764 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Precieuses de Praises. 3 eggs, 2 oz. flour, \ oz. ground almonds, J lb. small ripe strawberries, \ oz. icing sugar, 1-2 sheets of rice paper, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, ^ gill syrup, i white of egg, angelica. Break the eggs one by one into a basin containing the sugar, whisk till quite frothy over hot water, then stir in the butter icing sugar, and cover the surface of the cakes with it. Bake for a few minutes in a fairly sharp oven. Insert a little sail, made of rice paper and angelica, in each. Dish Tip and serve. Baignes de Praises {Strawberry Baignes). 4 oz. castor sugar, 5 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of eggs, 2 oz. flour, i oz. corn- flour, a few drops of vanilla essence, i whole egg, | lb. small ripe straw- berries, I tablespoonful icing sugar, frying-fat. Cream the sugar with the egg-yolks, whisk the whites to a stiff froth, flavour with the vanilla, and add them and the flour and cornflour alternately and in small quantities to the other ingredients. Ihit the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out small bouchee shapes on to a buttered baking-sheet. Dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Remove the bouchees carefully from the sheet and scoop out the centre of each, fill them with the picked strawberries, sweetened with icing sugar, and place each two together with marmalade. Dip in beaten egg, roll lightly in cake-crumbs or line breadcrumbs, plunge into hot frying fat, and fry for a few minutes. Take up, drain well, sprinkle with vanilla sugar. Dish up and serve hot. Beignets de Praises {Strawberry Fritters). Select about one pound of large strawberries, remove the small leaves, but leave on the stalks, place them in a basin, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon. Have ready a small quantity of light frying batter. Warm some peach marmalade, strain, add a small glass of liqueur brandy, dip the strawberries into the marmalade, roll in powdered sponge cakes or powdered macai'oons, immerse each strawberry in the batter, di'op them gently into some boiling fat or butter, and fry till crisp and nicely coloured. Drain, and dish up on a folded napkin, dust with sugar, and serve quickly. Note.—For method of preparing yeast batter see page 135. (melted), the flour (sifted), and the almonds. Fill up as many buttered boat-shaped moulds as nray be required, and bake them in a moderate oven. Unmould and scoop out a portion of the centre of each. Cook the straw- berries to a compote with the syrup, fill the little boat-shaped cakes with this. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, add the BEIGNETS FRITTERS.