955 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Marrons au Chocolat {Chocolate Chestnuts). Prepare some marrons glacfe as directed in the preceding recipe, coat each carefully with chocolate h)udant icing (see ]x 138). Dry them in a cool oven for a few minutes, and brush over with gum as soon as removed. Almond Kisses. i lb. .sweet almonds, 3 whites of eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, i tcaspoonfiil remon-juicc, t teaspoonful vanilla essence, a pinch of .salt. Blanch, peel, and chop the almonds, put them on a jiaper at the mouth of the oven and let them get thoroughly dry. Put the whites of eggs in a clean egg-bowl, add the pinch of salt and whisk to a very stiff froth, stir in gradually the sugar, then add the lemon- juice and llavonring essence. Mix all gently, and fill into a forcing- Itag with a plain pipe. Force (tut some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin. Dredge with sugar, and bake in a slow oven until a pale brown colour. Shavings (Hohelspane). Pound in a mortar four ounces of ground almonds with five ounces of castor sugar and the white of an egg. Mix this with half an ounce of cornflour and enough cream to make it into a thick batter. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain pipe, and force out long or short strips on to a waxed baking-tin. Bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and roll each strip whilst hot round a buttered roller (small round wood or iron stick). They must be so twisted as to give each strip a spiral-like shape. Remove quickly but carefully from the roller, and dish up. Petits Souvarofis {Dessert Biscuits). Cream half a pound of fresh butter with three ounces icing sugar, then add two yolks of eggs and half a pound sifted flour, and flavour with vanilla (W lemon essence. Roll out thinly and stam}) out into small oval shapes. Bake them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven. Sandwich each two together with apricot mar- malade, and dip them in fondant icing flavoured with rum or kirsch. Decorate each with half a glace cherry and two small angelica leaves. Sablets {Sandy Biscuits). l lb. butter, t lb. castor sugar, 2 egg.s, i lemon (rind grated), J lb. corn- flour or potato flour, ;} lb. N'ienna flour. W'arm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and beat up to a cream, put in the lemon-rind, and lastly stir in the cornflour or potato flour and the Vienna flour. Roll out on a floured board and stamp out into fancy shapes, ovals, crescents or rounds. Place them on a baking-tin, dredge with icing sugar and chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Precieuses de Groseilles {Dessert or Tea Tartlets). Butter ten to twelve little boat-shaped patty-pans with Genoese mixture (see p. 036) and bake them in a fairly hot oven. Turn them out when done and scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill