AFTER-DINNER SA ]'OURIFS. 859 Petits Bateaux a I’Epicurienne {Small Caviare Boats). line six to eight small boat-shaped moulds with thinly rolled-ont noihlle paste, which has been made with a quarter-pound of Hour, half an egg, a tablespoonfnl of grated cheese, and a pinch of cayenne. Prick the paste with a fork to prevent blistering whilst baking and lill with rice. Bake to a golden colour, remove the rice, and let the cases of pastry cool. Prepare a mixture composed of four ounces of astrachan caviare, lemon-juice, a hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Mix with a wooden skewer. Fill the little boat crusts with the caviare mixture. Ornament the edg^s with savoury butter or cream, insert in centre of each a sail and mast made with a thin strip of baked nouille paste hxed on to a triangular-shaped piece of rice paper. Heat up in a sharp oven for about three minutes, then dish up and serve. This dish is equally nice served cold. Caviar a la Diable {Devilled Caviare). 3 oz. Russian caviare, i oz. sweet almonds, blanched and peeled, i lemon, bread for croutes, cayenne or Nepaul pepper, -1- oz. butter. Cut the bread into slices about half-inch thick, stamp out some rounds three-quarter inch in diameter, scoop out the centre, and fry in clarified butter or lard a golden colour. Shred the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake a fawny colour. Mix the caviare with the juice of half a lemon (using a wooden fork or spoon), add the almonds and a pinch of cayenne. Mix the butter with a little red pepper to give it a bright colour, spread on a plate and put on the ice. Fill the croutes with the prepared caviare, stamp out some little butter stars, and place one in each croiite. When required for table put in a hot oven for six minutes to get hot through ; dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Crepes au Caviar {Caviare Pancakes). Prepare some caviare as in the foregoing recipe, spread over some freshly-fried thin pancakes (savoury) with a thin lay^er of anchovy butter and a layer of caviare. Roll up, and cut into neat