561 COLD entr^:es. aspic). Whip the aspic jelly to a froth, mix with the puree, adding any trimmings of truffle finely chopped. Finish with a layer of aspic jelly or cream, and put on the ice to set. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Gelee [Chicken Cidlets in Aspic). Prepare a chicken farce as directed on p. 178. When steamed and cold, cut the shape into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp out some cutlets by means of a cutlet cutter. Decorate some cutlet moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic jelly) with cooked green peas, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg. When the garnish is set, place a chicken cutlet in each of the moulds, fill up with aspic jelly, and set them on the ice until required. Unmould the cutlets, arrange them neatly on a cold dish in a circle, fill the centre of the dish with cooked macedoine of vegetables, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce, and garnish round with small cress, Medaillons de Volaille a rimperiale [Chicken Medaillons). 2 chickens, larding bacon, 4 truffles, i white of egg, i gill cream, a mirepoix for braising, i oz. butter, ^ pint white chaud-froid sauce, liquid aspic jelly, and some set for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a salad of asparagus points for garnish, 8 to 10 rounds of cooked ox-tongue. Strip the skin from the chickens, remove the fillets and wings, flatten a little, make up into eight to ten rounds, and lard them carefully with larding bacon. Pound the remainder of the chicken in a mortar until very fine, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and work in the white of egg. Beat up the cream, mix with the forcemeat, add pepper, salt, and grated jiutmeg to taste, and set on the ice until required. Spread the butter over the bottom of a deep saute- or braising-pan, add the mirepoix and a few slices of bacon, arrange the larded fillets on this, moisten with chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about thirty minutes, basting frequently. Strain and preserve the liquor. Press the fillets between two baking-sheets, when cold, trim neatly into round medaillons, cover one side of each with the prepared forcemeat, put again in the saute-pan with the liquor, cover with buttered paper, and poach in a slack oven for ten minutes. Cool, mask with chaud- froid sauce, when the sauce is set ornament the top with fancifully cut pieces of truffles to form a crown or a rosette. Mask the surface with half-set aspic. Dress on croutes of smoked tongue on a round dish, fill the centre with asparagus salad, garnish round with diamond shapes of set aspic, and serve. Medaillons de Volaille, Chevaliere. Chicken breast and wings flattened and poached in white stock, then pressed and cut into rounds ; cut out similar rounds of thin slices of ham and hard-boiled white of egg, and sandwich each three to- gether with aspic and meat glaze, mask with aspic and decorate each with a star-shaped slice of truffle and a sprig of chervil. Prepare a ham mousse, mixed with chopped peeled walnuts, tongue, and lemon mayonnaise, set in a flat rnould. Dress the medaillons on this. NN