COOKING-STO VES. 63 meat roasted by gas has been found to lose less in weight than when cooked in a coal range. In other words, a larger amount of the nutritious juices of meat are retained when it is cooked by gas ; hence it must be accepted as being an economical mode of cooking. Gas can be used for every purpose for which a wood or coal range is used. It involves less trouble, less labour, it is more easily controlled, and can be turned out immediately the cooking is done. The heat of a gas stove can be regulated with minute exactness, the required heat can be got just at the time it is wanted, and it can be. regulated from a slow simmering hre to a brisk boiling or baking heat at a moment’s notice. Hence there is little or no waste or loss. Oil Stoves.—These stoves are also convenient and economical to use, and are especially adapted for small families, for camp and yacht cookery ; but they require special care, as they are also likely to be danger- ous from explosion, which occurs when they are not well looked after. Kit- chens or other rooms where oil stoves are used, must be well ventilated. The wicks must be kept well trimmed, or the burners will smell and smoke—a smoke which is most dis- agreeable, if not dangerous to health. All oil stoves are portable, no flue being required ; they can be carried from place to place at will. They are economical, because they consume about 20 per cent, less in fuel than other cooking-stoves. Oil stoves are constructed on much the same principle as oil lamps used for lighting j)urposes, and require equal care and attention. A well- constructed, cleanly kept, and well-managed oil stove will cook food as well as any other stove, and with due care the cooking should be performed without smoke or odour from the flame, which should in no wise come in contact with the food to be cooked. Electric Stoves.—As already stated, the electric current that serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking, but cooking by electricity has not yet become popular. It is claimed that cooking can be carried on with the production of lar less heat when electricity is used than when coal is employed, for the very simple reason that no fireplace is used, and consequently