THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 40 POPULAR ACCOMPANIMENTS WITH DISHES. Table of Adjuncts served with Principal Dishes. The usual accompaniments served with standard dishes are governed by certain rules and customs which should be more or less adhered to by all cooks, stewards, and housekeepers. Hors d’CEuvre. Oysters.—Quarters or halves of lemon, tliinly cut, buttered slices of brown bread, cayenne or white vinegar. Caviare. -Finely chopped shallots, cut lemoii, and thin slices of brown bread, butter, and caj^enne. Melon (usually sliced).—Crushed ice, sugar, and salt. Other dishes, plain or dressed, according to the directions given with the recipes. Small pats or balls of fresh butter, and French olives, are, as a rule, placed on the table or sideboard, and served as required. Soups.—With clear soups, consommes, etc., a small glass bowl ol- dish of finely grated parmesan cheese is frequently handed round. With most thick soups, creams, and purees, small croutons of fried bread, and for certain soups, especially game purees, very small forcemeat balls are served separately with the soup. Fish.—With all boiled fish a dish of plain boiled potatoes should be kept ready and served when needed. Boiled fish is garnished with fresh parsley, and fried fish with fried parsley. Some kind of hot sauce is served with all boiled fish, and cut lemon as well as some suitably flavoured sauce is served with all fried fish. With grilled or boiled fish, anchovy or parsley butter is spread on top before serving—unless ordered quite plain. Cod (boiled) requires, unless otherwise directed, oyster sauce, egg sauce, shrimp or parsley sauce. Cod (fried) requires anchovy or white sauce, and frequently tartare sauce. Salmon (boiled).—Flollandaise, lobster or shrimp sauce, sliced cucumber, plain, or dressed as salad. Salmon (grilled).—Maitre d’hotel, anchovy or lobster butter, Salmon (cold).—Mayonnaise or tartare sauce and cucumber salad. Soles (boiled or steamed).—White sauce, anchovy sauce or shrimp sauce. Soles (fried).—Cut lemon, and anchovy or white sauce if desired. Turbot (boiled).—Hollandaise, bechamel, anchovy, lobster, shrimp or parsley sauce. Mackerel (boiled).—Fennel or parsley sauce. Herrings (grilled).—Mustard sauce. Trout (boiled or grilled).—Hollandaise sauce or oiled butter. Skate (boiled).—Nut-brown butter (beurre noir) or parsley sauce. Whiting (fried).—Cut lemon, anchovy or plain white sauce.