209 SOUPS (POTAGES). Puree de Choux-fleurs {Caiiliflowey Cyeam). 2 small caulillowers, i oz. ci'usheil tapioca, i-l- oz. ground rice (fecule de riz), oz. fresh Initter, i gill cream, i-|- pint milk. 1 pint white stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Wash and trim the cauliflowers, cook them in salted water until tender, strain (keep the water), and rub through a flne sieve. Bring the water in which the cauliflowers have been cooked to a boil, stir in the crushed tapioca, and simmer for twenty minutes. Mix the fecule de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the stock, stir in the ground rice and cook for a few minutes, stirring meanwhile. Mix all together, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, bring it to a boil, add the cream and the butter, stir a little longer, but do not let it boil again. The puree is now ready for serving. Creme de Concombre a la Reine {Cucumbey Cream). 3 large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pints chicken stock, i pint of milk, I gill cream, 2 egg-jmlks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, let stew for about half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remaining two ounces of butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook it without browning, add the cooked cucumber, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub through a fine sieve. Stir cream and yolks of eggs well together, pour in with the puree, return on the fire, stir until the liaison of egg and cream is formed, then pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with croutons. Puree Crecy au Riz {Carrot Soup with Rice). 10 large French carrots, 3 oz. butter, i onion, i leek, 3 quarts stock, i pat of fresh butter, i dessertspoonful sugar, i oz. fecule, 4 oz. rice. Wash and scrape the carrots, shred off all the red part, parboil them for five minutes, drain, dry, and put them in a stewpan with three ounces of butter, one large sliced onion, and the white jtart of a leek. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, add two quarts of stock, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, and allow it to simmer until the carrots are done. Rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Put it on the fire again, add more stock, the sugar, fresh butter, also one ounce of fecule or cornflour mixed first with a little milk or water. Stir well, allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes, add the rice boiled in beef broth, skim well, and serve with bread sippets either separate or in the soup-tureen. Puree aux Epinards {Spinach Soup). 2 lb. spinach, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart white stock, i gill cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Pick and wash the spinach in cold water, drain it well, and put it in a stewpan, season with salt, and cook with very little water till tender. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little without browning. o