So IHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. STEAMING. Steaming is a pi'ocess very similar to boiling, for it is cooking in the heated vapour of water. This practice as a means of cookery is largely adopted in hotels, clubs, schools, hospitals, prisons, barracks, workhouses, and other large institutions. It is also frequently applied in ordinary household cookery for particular articles of food requiring a very slow process of cooking. The extent of this depends greatly upon the appliances at hand. An ordinary kitchen steamer, fixed to the top of a large saucepan, with a close- fitting lid, is generally all that is required in this direction for simple house- hold cookery on a small scale. If, however, steam- ing is required on a large scale, one or more large steaming apparatuses are needful to carry out this special process. The articles of food which are to be steamed are prepared in exactly the same manner as for boiling. There is probably not an article in the hatterie de cuisine more important for gradual, i.e. slow, cooking than a modern steamer. The experienced and economically-minded cook treasures this utensil most highly. Apart from the old-fashioned potato stea- mers, there are several improved patterns which are . so arranged that several articles, indeed, three or four courses, can be cooked in one steamer ; the appliance is constructed so that each article of food is in its own compartment, so that whilst the steaming operation goes on, the flavour of the other articles does not affect the con- tents of the compartments above or below. This is done by pro- viding each with its own steam-pipe, which is run along the side from top to bottom ; the steam, therefore, does not travel from one to the other. Many puddings, some meats, and some vegetables are con- sidered better if cooked by steam, and inasmuch as the process POTATO AND VEGETABLE STEAMER (main’s patent). This apparatus is adapted for large establish- ments. It is made of cast iron, with mahogany side panels. The compartments are fitted with galvanised wrought-iron trays with wire- woven bottoms.