GL.ICES-ICES. 843 Souffle frappe aux Framboises {Iced Raspberry Souffle). \ sjill raspberry pulp, 6 oz. castor sugar, ttie juice and liiid ot 2 lemons, ] oz. leaf gelatine, 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, 4 pint whipped cream, J gill wine jelly, i tables))Oonful red-currant jelly. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a copper egg-bowl, add to it the sugar and the strained juice of lemon, also the grated rind of one lemon. Stir this with a whisk over a saucepan of boiling water until it becomes a thick, creamy substance. Melt the gelatine, and add it to the raspberry pulp, previously heated (not boiled), and strain this into the above. When sufficiently cooled, add carefully the whisked whites of two eggs and the whipped cream. Pour the mi.vture into a silver-plated souffle dish, pro- vided with lining, and a paper band (fastened round). 1 lace in an ice cave for about two hours. iVbout half an hour before serving dissolve the red- currant jelly, add to it the wine jelly, and when almost cold pour this over the top of the souflle, and allow it to set. To serve, remove the paper band from the dish lining, place the souffle carefully on to the dish, and serve immediately. Souffle frappe a la Reine Isabelle [Iced Souffle). I oz. cornflour, i inch vanilla pod, i gill cream, 2 oz. butter, i oz. gelatine, red-currant jelly, a few drops carmine or cochineal, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2-4 gills milk, 8 oz. strawberries, 4 eggs, i small glass maraschino. ICE C.WE OR FREEZING CABINET. Mix the cornflour with the sugar in a stew-pan, stir in the milk, add an ounce of butter and the vanilla pod. Stir this over a slow fire until it comes to a boil, and continue until the mixture detaches easily from the stew-pan. Let it cool, and remove the vanilla pod. Pass the straw- berries through a hair sieve. Stir the pulp into the above before it is quite cold, and add the remainder of the butter. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the cream, and whisk over the fire until the eggs begin to bind. Dis- solve the gelatine in a little water, add to it a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, and