317 COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. Chaud-froid de Homard a la Diplomate. 2 fair-sized lobsters, pint cardinal sauce (p. 144), : pint aspic jelly (p. 13,2), 2 hard-boiled eggs, tarragon, and chervil, a few sprigs of each, i J- gill cooked green peas, -J- pint macedoine of vegetables, consisting of llageolets, French beans, tomatoes, and peas, i souffle, mayonnaise (p. 152), seasoning. Cut each lobster in two lengthways, break the claws, remove all the meat, reserve the coral for decoration, cut the best pieces of meat into thin slices. Mask about eight small chancl-froid moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate tastefully with thin strips of truffle and sprigs of chervil and tarragon leaves. Upon this place one or more slices of lobster. Chop up the remainder of lobster meat and heat up with enough cardinal sauce to produce a salpicon. Season to taste and incorporate nearly a gill of plain aspic or aspic cream. As soon as the mixture is cold fill the cutlet moulds with it, and place them on the ice to set. Next line a border mould with aspic, decorate its sides with slices of hard-boiled egg, truffle, and lobster coral. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with aspic and mayonnaise, season well, and fill the mould as it begins to set. Place this also on the ice. A column or bomb- shaped mould to fix in the centre of the border must also be lined with aspic and filled with green peas, lobster salpicon, mayonnaise, and aspic, and placed on the ice. Turn out the border on a round flat entree-dish, and fix the bomb of peas in the centre, around this arrange the lobster cutlets after being turned out of their moulds. Insert a neatly decorated silver skewer in the centre, and serve. Homard a la Gelee {Lobster in Aspic). I small hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, tarragon and chervil leaves, i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), parsley, chillies or pimientos, and green salad for garnish. Line a pretty border mould or several little dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate neatly with white and yolk of egg, sprigs of parsley, tarragon and chervil leaves, and fancifully cut leaves of red chilli or pimiento, sprinkle over some lobster coral, and when this is set put in another thin layer of asjfic jelly. Divide the lobster meat into neatly cut dice, and fill up the mould or moulds in alter- nate layers of lobster, aspic, salad, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Allow each layer to set, and finish with a layer of aspic. Place it on the ice or in a very cool place. When required for table unmould the border or darioles on to a cold silver-plated dish, fill the centre of the dish with a tasty salad, and serve at once. Mousse de Homard, frappee [Iced Lobster Mousse). I hen lob.ster, it gill double cream, i gill bechamel sauce (p. 142). 1 gill aspic jelly, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, i gill tomato mayonnaise (p. 153), lobster coral, paprika pepper, and salt. Split the lobster, remove the meat from the shell, and chop it very finely. Stir it into the bechamel sauce, season to taste, heat up whilst stirring. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic and stir into the above puree. Pour into a basin and let cool. Whisk the cream till stiff, mix it with the tomato mayonnaise, and work carefully into the mixture in the basin. Have ready a souffie dish-lining.