SOUPS (POTAGES). 20 T Consomme a la Bouquetiere.—Clear soup, garnished with spring vegetables daintily cut and cooked separately. — a la Bourbon.—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken farce quenelles, lieur-de-lys shaped slices of truffle, and pearl l:)arley. — a la Caroline.—Prepare a rich l)ut rather pale-coloured consomme (as directed on p. i8o), garnish it with Carolina rice, plainly boiled, royal custard (p. i8o) and cooked chicken fillets, both cut into very small dice. — a la Chasseur.—Prepare a clear, game-flavoured soup (p. i8g), garnish it with small game quenelles poached in stock or consomme. — a la Chateleine.—Make a clear soup (p. i8o), flavour it slightly with tarragon leaves, garnish it with royal custard (p. i8o), green peas, and cooked French beans cut into short pieces. — aux Choux farcis.—Prepare a clear soup (p. i8o), garnish it with cooked stuffed Brussels sprouts. — a la Claremont.—Make a clear soup (p. i8o), garnish it with royal custard (p. i8o), and very small fried onion rings. — a la Dante.—Clarify some beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked ; make a garniture composed of very small darioles of chicken farce (p. i8i) in two colours—i.e. white and yellow—the latter coloured with saffron ; serve these with the consomme, which should be garnished with finely shredded truffles and ox-tongue. — a la Daumont.—Clarify 3 pints of beef stock, add to it i oz. of fine tapioca, boil for fifteen minutes, and garnish with preserved mush- rooms and cooked ox-palate cut into very fine julienne strips. — aux Diablotines.—This is clarified beef stock with very small, thinly cut, baked bread-crusts coated with melted cheese and sprinkled with cayenne. — a la Duclair.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), make some small thin pancakes, spread them on one side with savoury forcemeat, place them together in twos, cut in lozenge shapes, and poach in the consomme. — a la Dubelloy.—Clarify 3 pints of chicken stock (p. 187), garnish with royal custard (p. 180), green peas, and a tablespoonful of cooked rice. — a la Duchesse.—Prepare 3 pints of clear chicken soup (p. 187), stir in a tablespoonful of sago and boil for twenty minutes ; add cooked shredded chicken breast as garnish. — a I’Ecossaise (Scotch Broth).—This is clarified mutton broth in which pearl barley and the usual soup vegetables cut into dice have been cooked. — a I’Estragon.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), flavour and garnish it with tarragon-leaves. — Florentine.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), and garnish it with very small parmesan cheese quenelles fried in fat or poached in stock. — Fermiere.—Prepare a consomme (p. 180), cook in it a garnish composed of young carrots, spring cabliage, leek, potatoes, and turnips, cut into thin triangular-shaped slices.