474 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Godard. Bone two or more Bordeaux pigeons. Prepare a forcemeat of veal and pork, mix it with foie-gras pate, cut into dice or cubes, and stuff the birds with this. Trim the pigeons, braise them with a mirepoix of carrot, onion, bacon, and herbs, and Chablis, and when ready cut them into slices and dish up on a hot dish. Sauce over with a rich supreme sauce flavoured with some of the liquor obtained from braising the pigeons. Garnish with mushroom- heads, braised sweetbread cut into dice, and crayfish tails. Serve hot. It is advisable to dress the pigeons on a crouton of fried bread, fixed in the centre of the dish. Pigeons a la Polonaise. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 oz. streaky bacon, 8 oz. ctiicken livers or calf’s liver, I small onion, i egg, i oz. butter, breadcrumbs, seasoning, frying- fat, demi-glace sauce. Bone the pigeons, cut the bacon into small pieces, fry in a saute-pan with a little butter, and when almost done add a finely- minced onion, and fry likewise. Add the liver, previously cleaned and sliced, season with finely-powdered savoury herbs, salt, and pepper, cook over a quick fire for a few minutes, pound in a mortar till fine, then rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve. Fill the pigeons with this farce, truss them, and roast them in the oven, basting them frequently with oiled butter. When nearly done take up and let cool. Brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry them in deep hot fat for about ten minutes. Take up the pigeons, strain, untruss, and dish up. Pour some sauce round the dish, or send some separately to the table. Pigeons en Casserole a la Royale. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 finely chopped shallots, a small bunch savoury herbs (bouquet garni), 8 to lO preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. bacon, i wine- glassful marsala or sherry, 2 oz. butter, 4 pint demi-glace sauce, seasoning, and chicken farce (p. 178), t fowl, 2 oz. panade, i egg, and ]- pint bechamel. Cut the ])igeons into neat joints and fry the pieces in a saute- pan for a few minutes a nice golden colour. In an earthenware casserole fry the shallots a pale brown, with the bacon cut into slices, pour off the butter, and lay in the pieces of pigeon, the mush- rooms (cut into slices), and the bouquet of herbs, season to taste with pepper and salt, and moisten with the sauce and the wine. Put it in the oven and cook for ten minutes, then remove the herbs, cover neatly with chicken farce, return to the oven, and cook very gently from thirty to forty minutes. Send to table in the casserole in which the birds are cooked. Pigeons farcis a la Princesse. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, i bundle of sprue or pint of asparagus tops, 6 large sauce oysters, f lb. lean beef, 4 oz. butter, lt>- of panade, i gill Espagnoie sauce, i-J- oz. meat glaze, 3 yolks of eggs, pint sauce Italienne, mashed potatoes for border, pepper and salt. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast-bones and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Remove fat and sinews from the beef, cut up small and pound in a mortar, add the btttter and