422 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. blanch in salted water. Cover with water or stock, add carrot and onion sliced, a few peppercorns, and cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the hoof-bones, place the meat under press, let cool, and cut into convenient strips. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, pour over the pieces and let them soak for an hour. Mix the Hour with a little pepper and salt, dip in each piece, then egg and crumb in the usual way. Fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Pieds de Veau (Calf’s Feet) frits a la Tyrolienne. Cook the calf’s feet the same as above directed, but instead of being egged and crumbed, coat the pieces with frying batter, and fry in deep fat, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Pieds de Veau en Fricassee. Boiled calf’s feet, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms. The same as fricassee of veal. Pieds de Veau a la Poulette. Boiled calf’s feet, boned, and stewed in white sauce, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley. Pieds de Veau a la Vinaigrette. Calf’s feet blanched, boiled in stock, and boned, dressed, and served with vinaigrette sauce. Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo ( Veal Quenelles, Marengo Style). f lb. veal, freed from skin, fat, and sinews, J- lb. soft bread, 4 oz. bntter, 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs, ^ gill white sauce or veloutee, i oz. small preserved mushrooms, ^ gill tomato sauce, J gill stock, J gill Espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 6 small eggs fried in oil for garnish, salt, white and red pepper, and nutmeg. Soak the bread in cold water or milk for about ten minutes, press out the moisture, and put it in a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir over the fire until it is quite smooth, and leaves the sides of the pan. Add the yolks of four eggs, stir a little longer to cook the eggs, spread on a plate, cover with buttered paper, and let cool. Chop and pound the veal till smooth, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar, add bread panade, the remainder of butter, work in the white sauce and two whole eggs, one at a time, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it on a plate or dish, and keep on the ice till wanted. Shape the forcemeat into quenelles by means of two dessert-spoons previously dipped in boil- ing water, place them on a buttered saute-pan, about half an inch apart. Pour in gently some boiling water or white stock, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Put the tomato, Espagnole sauce, stock, and sherry in a stewpan, reduce well, skim, and add the mushrooms, cut in slices. Drain the quenelles carefully on a cloth, dish up in pyramid form, mask with the sar:ce, fry the eggs separately in very hot salad oil slightly brown, drain on a cloth, and place them round the quenelles.