835 GLACES—lCES. designs of ice moulds which are being constantly introduced for the production of fancy ices. Many of the designs are the outcome of certain events, social and gastronomic celebrations, as well as the rule of fashion. The principles of ice-making, however, never change—they are the same to-day as they were fifty years ago, and almost every kind and variety of ices can be made up as dessert or fancy ices. Ananas glace a la Reine Alexandra {Iced Pineapple, Qnccn Alexandra Style). Procure a good-sized ripe hothouse pine, cut off the top portion, and carefully scoop out the whole of the interior. Pound this in a mortar and pass through a fine sieve. Boil up a pint of syrup, and add to it the strained juice of two lemons and the fruit pidp, and put it when quite cold into the freezing-pot surrounded with crushed ice and coarse salt. Freeze in the usual manner, but w'hen it begins to get firm, work in a meringue mi.xture made with the wdiite of an egg and half a gill of syrup whisked over the fire till the liaison is formed, and llavoured with a little kirschwasser. Continue the freezing operation until the right consis- tency is obtained. When ready for serving, fill the pineapple shell with the ice, replace the top. Dish up on a Genoese border decorated with halves of apricots or small peaches filled with vanilla ice. The dish may be improved by decorating the fruit with spun sugar. Biscuit glace aux Praises. l\lake a strawberry custard with a gill of milk, two egg-yolks, half an ounce of sugar, and a gill of pulped strawberries to colour and flavour ; when cold, freeze till nearly stiff. Prepare one pint of thick syrup with about twelve ounces of loaf sugar, water, and vanilla-pod for flavouring, while the syrup is warm pour it into a basin containing eight well-beaten yolks of eggs, stir cpiickly over the fire with a wire whisk until the mixture thickens, stir until it becomes cold. Next mix a pint and a half of whipped cream with one ounce of powdered sponge cake, put it on the ice, and freeze