1046 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. A BILL OF FARE IN THE PLAIN OLD ENGLISH STYLE. Ye aimuale Whytebaite Diaiier of hyr Majestye's Miaistcrs on Wednesdaie, ye lath August, 1858, atte ye Hostelrie yclept ye " Shippe,” atte Greenwiche. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn iu playne Englysh, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygae tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and that ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. YE BILLE OF YE FARE. ^'E SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmoime servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Whyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of ye Blue Scale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes with ye sauce inne ye Cyprus fashonne. Ye Whytebaite, befrizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.—Sweetbreades, with ye Mushroomes added thereunto. Y’e Haunche of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Ye Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES, &c.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, after ye Nesselrode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlaiidysh countrees. Ye Dinner will be servyd after ye mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are bydden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Ball, Mastere. A UNIVERSITY DINNER. HONOUR SCHOOL OF NUTRITIVE SCIENCE. Final E.xamination. Gastronomy. Notice to Candidates. “ Permission for the abuse of Cooks by the Candidates in any part of the Examination shall be ai the discretion of the Chairman." Viva Voce Work. For one of the capers printed syllabuses will be supplied at the Examination Schools. Practical Work. The abuse of Cooks will be permitted before the First Course, but not after that or any other. The word ‘‘ Cooks ” shall be taken to imply Head-Cooks, Under-Cooks, and Waiters, but not the Committee, President, or Members of any Scientific Society, nor any Serious-Panjandrum. [Strictly T. T., 1898.] Final Examination. General Gastronomy. 1. The liquid obtained by adding various substances to water has been called at different times —(a) a mess of potage, (6) tortue claire, (c) puree de pois verts. Discuss one of these and determine how far it is adapted to satisfy the requirements of science. 2. Decide the relative advantages and disadvantages of selecting saumon or blanchailles as the unit to which the term Poisson is to be referred. 3. The substance known as cotelettes d’ligneau used to be served with Tomato Sauce ; indicate the advantages of the present mode of serving it aux concombres. 4. What certainty exists in your mind as to the nature and composition of pates des crevettes ? Devote special attention to the Crustaceans as the Piazin. 5. Give an account of the Oxindoles, Eucarvon, and the naturally occurring Potatose. 6. In a certain (hoffentlich) non-reversible alimentary process equilibrium is established when canetons rotis = zero, wherein Canetons Rotis are the articles absorbed. Show that this condition is fulfilled in the presence of petits pois verts. 7. When assorted constituents are heated together ponding Chandler is evolved ; yet when cherries are baked with piecrust they are entirely converted into tartes des cerises. 8. Devise a practical method for arriving at the melting-point of iso’ vanillin. Randolph Hotel, Oxford. Manageress : Miss M. I. Crewe.