THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6;6 towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, and give it the shape of an oval cushion. Allow it to take colour (a golden brown). Turn out on an oval dish (hot), and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic, may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little, if liked. Omelette aux Asperges {Asparagus Omelet). Cut into inch or half-inch lengths the soft portion of twenty-five to thirty heads of cleaned green asparagus. Blanch them and cook in salted water till tender, when done, drain them on a sieve, toss them in a little butter, add a little stock or white sauce, season with pepper, and keep hot. Beat up six or seven eggs, add a table- spoonful of milk or cream, salt and pepper to taste, and pour into an omelet pan containing i|- oz. butter (melted), stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, shape to an oval cushion, placing the prepared asparagus in the centre, fold in the ends of the omelet, let it take colour, and turn out carefully on to a hot dish. Omelette a la Bonne-femme. 6 eggs, I oz. bacon, a boiled potato, a breakfast roll, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful chopped chives, salt and pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up for five minutes, add the parsley and chives, also a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Cut the bacon into small squares, likewise the thin crust of the roll, melt the butter in a frying- or omelet-pan, fry the bacon slightly brown, add the bread-crust and the potato cut into squares, toss over the fire for a few minutes, pour in the egg mixture, and stir with a fork gently over a bright fire for two minutes. Fold up in the shape of a cushion towards the side opposite to the handle of the pan, hold it in a slanting position for a minute over the fire to colour it lightly ; take a hot dish in the left hand, holding the jian with the right, bring the centre of the dish towards the edge of the pan with the omelet, and turn the pan over quickly, so that the omelet will come right in the centre of the dish. Serve hot with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce poured round the dish. Omelette a la Charentiere. Beat up six eggs in a basin, add the necessary seasoning (pepper, salt, and nutmeg), a tablespoonful of milk or cream, ancl a heaped-up teaspoonful of French mustard. Cut two or three ounces of lean bacon into small dice, and fry in an omelet- pan with an ounce of butter for a few minutes. Add two finely- minced shallots and fry likewise, but do not allow them to get quite brown. Pour in the egg-mixture, and stir over a brisk fire till it commences to set, then shape quickly into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. Omelette a la Bernoise. Proceed as above, omitting the bacon and adding about two ounces of gruyere cheese cut into small dice. Fry the shallots in