458 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. range the slices so that they overlap each other a little. Place a small round slice of ham in the centre of each bottom, and around it arrange half-moon shapes of sliced truffle. Have ready a light chicken cream (farce), and mask with it thickly the lined portion of the timbales. Heat np in butter i pint of cooked English PETITES CHARTREUSES AU JAMBON. marrowfat peas, duly seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar, then rub through a fine sieve, enrich with a little cream, and mix with a handful of dice-cut pieces of raw ham. With this three-parts fill the timbales, then cover each with a layer of chicken farce. Steam in the oven for about \ an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with a piquante tomato sauce. Souffle au Jambon {Ham Souffle). 8 oz. lean cooked ham, a small liqueur glass cognac, gill Madeira sauce, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i-|- gill milk, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, tea- spoonful aromatic seasoning, a little salt. Cut about two ounces of ham into small dice of even size, put them into a cup and add the cognac, cover and keep till required. Cut the remainder of ham into small slices, pound in a mortar, adding at the same time about a quarter of the milk. When smooth, rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook for a few seconds over the fire, add remainder of the milk gradually, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and cook for another ten minutes. Allow to cool a little, then put it in a mortar, add the ham puree, mix thoroughly, and incorporate one by one the yolks of eggs. Season to taste with aromatics and salt, and pass the whole through a sieve. Then add the ham and the cognac. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and work care- fully into the preparation. If the latter be found too stiff, add about a tablespoonful of Madeira or bechamel sauce. Three-parts fill a well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould, place it in a shallow pan containing boiling water, and let come to the boil. Cover the mould with greased paper, and steam in the oven from