524 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. braising-pan, put in the birds, larded side upwards, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, put a few slices of lean bacon on top, and set it in a hot oven for about hfteen minutes, then add the port wine and stock. Braise for about thirty minutes, keeping the birds well basted, then take them up, cut them in halves, brush over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Chop up the carcases of the birds, and put this into the pan in which the birds were cooked. Add about half a pint of sauce, boil up quickly, remove the fat, strain the sauce, skim well, and season to taste. Dish up the birds on a border of mashed potatoes or fried bread crouton. Wash, skin, and chop the mushrooms hnely, fry them lightly in two ounces of butter, with two ounces of chopped ham, season to taste, and serve in the centre of or round the partridges, as directed. Celestines de Perdreaux. 3 partridges, 2 oz. panade, 3 large truffles, gill rich stiff brown sauce, breadcrumbs, seasoning, fi-ying-fat, chestnut puree for garnish. Remove the breasts from the birds, skin them, and flatten each breast or fillet with a wetted cutlet-bat. Take the meat from the legs and wings and pound it in a mortar, add the panade, two or three egg-yolks, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mince the truffles, and cook for some time in the brown sauce. Spread each fillet with a layer of truffle ragout, then with a layer of farce. Pare each fillet neatly, brush over carefully with the beaten egg-white, and cover with breadcrumbs (panurette crumbs are particularly well adapted for this purpose), and fry in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain and dish up in the form of a circle on a hot round dish round a pyramidal shape of chestnut puree. Pour a little demi-glace or tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve at once. Perdrix braisees aux Choux (Braised Partridges with Cabbage). 2 or 3 partridges, 2 small cabbages, i carrot, i onion, 8 oz, salt pork or fat bacon, 3 cloves, bouquet gaini, i glass white wine, i pint rich stock, I gill Espagnole sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 oz. dripping. Singe, draw, and truss the birds, with their wings turned in- wards. Put them in a roasting-tin, cover with dripping, roast for ten minutes, and drain from fat. Wash and quarter the cabbages, cook for ten minutes in salted water, and drain. Into a large stew- pan place slices of pork or bacon, carrot and onion, cloves, and bouquet, lay the partridges on this with cabbage on top, and another layer of bacon or pork. Add the wine and stock, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover and cook slowly for thirty to forty-five minutes. Dress the cabbages on a dish to form a bed, place the partridges on this (whole or cut up), garnish with slices of carrot, and bacon or pork. Skim and strain the gravy, add the sauce, boil up and sauce all over. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Financiere (Partridge Cutlets). 2 partridges trussed for roasting, i hard-boiled white of egg, 3 truffles, 18 preserved mushrooms, i small bottle financiere, ^ oz. butter, i egg, i oz. panade, i gill veloutee sauce, i gill sauce Madere, meat glaze, salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, a small quantity of mashed potatoes.