6g8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade de Caviar {Caviare Salad). Put two tablespoonfuls of best olive oil in a salad bowl, to this add a tablespoonful of vinegar, stir in, with a wooden fork or spoon, the contents of a small pot of Russian caviare. Slice one hard- boiled egg, and two ripe peeled tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Dish up neatly upon a bed of lettuce leaves on a glass dish, sprinkle over a little finely chopped herbs, ornament the dish with slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. Salade de Chicoree [Endive Salad). Trim and wash well two or three endives, divide into small pieces, drain and dry in a cloth or salad basket, put it in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, pour over some salad dressing (p. 713), and mix thoroughly. Batavia can be used in place of endive. Finely shredded celery, sprigs of watercress or small cress may be mixed with this salad, if liked. Salade de Chicoree au Lard [Endive Salad with Bacon). 2 heads white endive, 4 thin slices streaky bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls French wine vinegar. Pick, wash, and rinse the endive, using only the white (bleached) leaves. Divide them into short pieces, and place them in a cloth to thoroughly drain them. Remove the rind from the bacon, cut the latter into shreds, toss them over the fire till of a rich light brown colour, then drain on paper to free from the liquid fat. Now mix with the endive, adding salt and pepper, also the vinegar. Mix the whole thoroughly, wipe the side of the salad bowl, and serve. Salade a la Colchester [Colchestev Oyster Salad). I doren oysters, i small head white celery, 3 gill mayonnaise sauce, 2 table- spoonfuls caviare, lobster coral, 2 hard-boiled plover’s eggs, seasoning. Blanch the oysters, beard them, and cut into small dice. Wash and clean the celery, shred the white parts finely, and mix with the oysters. Season with pepper and salt, toss in mayonnaise sattce. Dress neatly in a large glass dish, and mask with more mayonnaise sauce. Cut the plover’s eggs into slices, remove the yolks, place them round the salad, and fill the centre of each with caviare, put a tiny heap of lobster coral in the centre of the caviare. Keep the dish in a very cool place until required for table. Salade de Concombres [Cucumber Salad). Peel thinly one or more cucumbers, cut into very thin slices, and arrange them neatly in a salad-bowl or dish, mix two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add pepper and salt to taste, and a little chopped parsley, stir well, and pour over the sliced cucumbers. Salade de Concombres et Celeri [Celery and Cucumber Salad). Wash some white celery according to the quantity required, cut it lengthways into fine strips or shreds, and put it into iced water for about half an hour. Peel a cucumber very thinly, and