476 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Compote de Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Par-boiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with a little claret, small fried button onions, savoury herbs flavouring. Served with a garniture of cooked young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—Pigeons cut in halves, boned, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, and partly braised. When cold press them between two dishes, egg, crumb, and fry them in clarified butter. Serve with a brown sauce (flavoured with sherry or port wine), and garnish with stewed asparagus points. — a la Rentiere.—Braised, stewed in brown sauce, enriched with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — en Supreme.—Halves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, pressed, pared. Filled with chicken salpicon and truffles, and shaped into the form of cutlets. Egged, crumbed, fried, and served with veloutee sauce, thickened with cream, egg- yolks, and butter. Cotelettes de Pigeons a la NiQoise.—Bordeaux pigeons cut in halves, boned, and spread over with foie-gras farce, shaped like cutlets, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Dressed on a bed of risotto, mixed with truffles, served with demi-glace sauce. — a la ProvenQale.—Bordeaux pigeons boned, excepting legs, cut in halves, and seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, immersed in oiled butter, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with Provengale sauce. Pate de Pigeon a I’Anglaise {English Pigeon Pie).—Parboiled stuffed pigeons cut into halves, filled into a pie-dish, with slices of rump- steak, parsley, seasoning, and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with pie-crust and baked, served hot or cold. Pigeons a la Crapaudine.—Bordeaux pigeons split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed and broiled, served with brown sauce, stoned olives, and sliced truffles. — a I’Espagnole.—Braised pigeons, with dice shapes of fried ham, served with Espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.—Halves of pigeons seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked cooked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with Madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Pigeons cut into joints, seasoned, broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed in a brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried button onions. — ^la Nivernaise.—Stewed, with braised turnips. — en Papillotes {Pigeons in Cases).—Pigeons cut in halves and boned, well seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver forcemeat, chopped shallots, and parsley, and sliced button mushrooms. Dressed in well-buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Braised pigeons (whole) cut into halves, glazed, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in a sharp oven, served with sauce Remoulade.