9 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. The heat emplcjyed in the ease of frying has to perforin the same work as it does in roasting and boiling. Its effect must be in the lirst instance to harden the albumen, or in other words to form a thin crust on the outside of whatever is fried. For this reason the fat must be hot and smoking before anything of the kind named can be successfully fried. The best plan to test the proper temperature of fat is to watch it until it is perfectly still ; a faint blue smoke will then be seen to rise—the fat is then ready for frying. A small piece of bread thrown into the fat is also a good test. If it turns brown immediately, the heat is correct ; if not, the fat is still too cool for frying. The principal causes of failure in frying are ; Putting in things to fry before the fat is thoroughly heated. Insufficient ejuantity of fat in the pan. Too much moisture adhering to the surface of articles to be fried. Sauter or Sauteing.—The exact meaning of the culinary term sauter or saute is not clearly understood Iw’ most English cooks. The translation of this word is “ jump,” but the correct meaning is conveyed in the word “ toss.” For instance, if we wish to translate ‘‘ Pommes de terre sautees an beurre,” “ Potatoes jumped in butter ” would hardly do, so that it is more correct and more ex- pressive if we translate it as ‘‘ Potatoes tossed in butter ” ; and as every English cook knows the meaning of tossing anything over the fire, the culinary term of ‘‘ saute ” is more perfectly explained or dehned in the word ” toss.” Sauteing may also be dehned as dry frying. F'rying proper is effected in a large quantity of fat, oil, butter or lard. This is called wet or deep frying, whilst dry frying is to attempt frying with an alleviated or a less severe heat than the actual frying in deep fat. This is done by using only just enough fat, butter or lard to enable one to toss things in the pan over the hre. The pan used for this purpose is either a saute-pan (sautoire or sauteuse) or an ordinary frying- or omelet-pan. The object of sauteing is partly to stir the contents of the pan and to prevent it from burning. This must, however, not be per- formed with a fork or spoon, but by moving the pan frequently backward and forward over a quick hre. A quick and clear hre is needed, because the article to be tossed must be cooked rapidly and equally throughout. We saute potatoes, beans, etc. Liver, kidneys, chicken, hllets, ej;c., are sauted either in butter, oil or lard. If cut in small, thin pieces, a quick hre is best ; if in larger pieces, a more moderate but well regulated hre is advisable. Twice Cooking.—Twice cooking, or double cooking, is usually employed when preparations on a large scale have to be made, most SAUTE-P.\N.