916 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Grilled Lamb Chop. Lamb chop is treated in the same way as mutton chop (see P- 915)- Steamed Chop. Procure a loin chop, trim oh the fat, and roll round and skewer the end. Place it on a small plate and put it in a stew-pan contain- ing a little seasoned stock or water. If the latter is used, add a little Oxo or Lemco to flavour it, also a sprig of thyme and parsley. Cover the pan and cook for half an hour or until the meat is well done. Serve it on a small bed of mashed potatoes, garnished with parsley, and a thin slice of lemon. Grilled Fillet of Beef. Trim, flatten, and shape a fillet of beef, and proceed to grill it as directed for mutton chop on page 915. Minced Mutton. Remove the bone and fat from a chump or loin chop, and mince it very finely by hand, not machine. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, when hot, put in the meat and cook very gently for ten minutes. Season very lightly with salt and pepper, and serve with small lingers of toasted bread. Puree of Fish, Chicken or Meat. For this either raw fish, poultry, game or meat, according to choice and the doctor’s orders, may be used, the proportion being -1- lb. of puree meat, i gill of cream, 3 yolks of eggs, pinch of corn- flour, Ir pint stock. Stir the puree in an earthenware vessel placed in a bain-marie (hot-water bath) until it reaches 190 deg. Fahr. ; the dish is then ready to serve. Poached Eggs in Milk. Poaching an egg practically means boiling it in water or milk without the shell. To poach eggs in milk, three-parts fill a small saute-pan with milk, add a pinch of salt, break two eggs sepa- rately into a saucer, taking care not to break the yolks, and slip them into the milk when boiling. Boil gently for five minutes. Take up with a slice, trim off the rough edge of each egg, place them on two rounds of buttered toast, pour a little milk on the plate or dish, and serve. Steamed Eggs. This is considered one of the most digestible ways of cooking eggs. Place two new-laid eggs in a warm basin, large enough to hold the eggs and water to well cover them. Pour over boiling water (the usual proportion being one gill to each egg). Allow the basin to stand on the side of the stove or in the oven for six or eight minntes. They are then ready to serve. Invalid jToast. To make a very nourishing toast shred \’ery finely two to three ounces of lean beef, put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of melted butter, and brown over a cjuick fire. Season with very