THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 326 slices of salmon into a shallow pan or dish or tin, and spread over the farce ; let it set, then mask or coat it with a thin layer of red tomato aspic. When quite set, cut out neatly as many cutlet shapes as possible. Dish up round a pyramid of seasoned salad, and garnish tastefully with thinly cut slices of cucumber and pimiento or tomato. Darnes de Truites en Belle-Vue. I small salmon trout, 12 prawns, \ pint aspic mayonnaise (p. 142), 2 trul'tles, : pint cardinal sance (p. 144), 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, aspic jelly (p. 132), claret, seasoning. Cut the trout into slices, put^them in a large stew or saute-pan, cover with warm water, add salt and a little claret to flavour, cook very slowly for ten minutes, and stand the pan on the side of the stove. Take up the fish and let cool. Remove the skin carefully and coat each slice with aspic mayon- naise. Wash, and cook the rice in the stock. When done add a little aspic jelly and the combinecl sauces, mix well, and fill up a large timbale mould. Decorate a small dariole mould, previously masked with aspic and decorated with truffle. Fill up with the rice mixture. Decorate the trout slices with truffle as shown in the illustration. Mask each with aspic, and let set. Turn out the large mould on a round dish, place the dariole shape on top, and surround with prawns. Arrange the slices of trout round the timbale shape of rice, and serve. Coquilles de Filets de Soles a la Favorite. 1 medium-sized sole. I- oz. butter, t- small lobster, i hard-boiled egg, i small truffle, f pint aspic jelly, i lemon, gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), 2 tablespoonfuls white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne to season, mush- room liquor or white wine. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, and bat them lightly with a wet chopping-knife or cutlet-bat. Remove the meat from the lobster and chop finely, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, season to taste, stir over the fire for a few moments, then add enough sauce to moisten, spread the mixture on a plate, and let cool. Cut each fillet of sole in half crossways, season with pepper and salt, spread over with lobster mixture, and fold fip. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon juice, moisten with a little white wine or mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Mean-