333 COLD FISH .IXD FISH ENTRFES. Cotelettes de Homard a la Diplomate {Cold Lobster Cidlcts).— (See Chaud-froid dc Homard a la Diplomate.) Darne de Cabillaud a la Sefton. About 2 111. middle cut of cod, i small carrot, i small onion, i small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), ^ gill Chablis or Sauterne rvinc, a handfid of spinach, J gill allcmandc sauce (p. 141) (using fish stock in place of meat stock), t teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, i f- gill aspic jelly, ] oz. leaf gelatine, } gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), seasoning. Clean the fish, cover it with warm water, add the wine, carrot, onion, peeled and stuck with one clove, the bunch of herbs, and salt. Bring to the boil, simmer very gently until the fish is tender, drain, cool, and remove the skin. Meanwhile wash, cook, and drain the spinach well, and rnb through a sieve. Heat np the allemande sauce, add the vinegar, and about half the aspic jelly, dissolve the gelatine and strain it into the sauce, stir until cool, add enough spinach puree to give it a greenish tint, and lastly add half the cream and half fhe mayonnaise. Season with a little salt and pepper, stir the sauce over the ice until it begins to thicken, then coat the fish completely. When the sauce is set, mask with a [ayer of aspic jelly. Place the fish on a dish, and surround with prettily arranged small salad, chopped cucumber or diamonds of set aspic. Dilute the remainder of the sauce with the rest of fhe mayonnaise sauce and the cream, season to taste, and send it to table with the fish. N'ote.—Salmon is also eminently suitable, and highly recom- mended to be served in this style. TronQons de Truite a la Greque. Procure a good-sized salmon-trout, cut from the centre about one- inch thick slices, and poach them in “ court bouillon ” (i.e., water, claret, bouquet garni, carrot, and onion slices). Take up the slices carefully, and remove fhe skin, mask each with pink chaud-froid sauce and a thin layer of clear fish aspic, and fill the centre with a fish farce (cookecl). Range on a suitable shaped socle made of polenta or semolina, and place a ring of hard-boiled white of egg with a star of truftie in centre on each of the slices of trout. Garnish with small salad and chopped aspic, and serve.