864 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sardines a la Maire. 8 or 9 sardines, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. butter, i dessertspoonful cream, tr teaspoonful lemon-juice, a few tarragon leaves (finely chopped), a pinch of salt, a pinch of mustard, a pinch of cayenne, 9 fingers of toasted bread. Put the sardines on a board and remove the skin carefully with a cloth. (Use boneless sardines, “ sardines sans aretes,” in preference to the ordinary kind.) Place them on a buttered tin and heat up in the oven, to be ready by the time the coating mixture is finished. They must not be heated tod soon, otherwise they will get dry. Beat up the egg-yolks in a small stew-pan, add the butter, cream, and the seasoning, including the mustard and tarragon. Stir over the fire till the mixture begins to thicken, then add the lemon-juice. Keep hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have the fingers of toasted bread ready, place a sardine on each of them, dish up, and pour about a dessertspoonful of the above mixture over each, so as to completely cover the sardines. Serve hot. Canapes a la Jamaique {Turile Savoury). 1 small glass jar or tin of turtle fat, 6 prawns, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 tablespoonfuls panurette (red breadcrumbs), parsley, 2 to 3 slices toasted bread, seasoning. Pick the prawns, pound them in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the anchovy paste and about an ounce of the butter, season with salt and cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut the toasted bread into convenient shapes, oblong, square or round. Spread one side of each with the prepared butter, cut the green turtle fat into slices the same size as the toasted bread slices. Melt the remainder of the butter, add to it about a teaspoonful of hnely chopped parsley, dip each piece of turtle fat in this, and roll in the red breadcrumbs (panurette), then place them on the toast and put in a sharp oven for eight minutes to get thoroughly hot. Sprinkle over a pinch or two of cayenne as they leave the oven. Dish up quickly, and send to table at once. Canapes a la Madras. 3 anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked ciiicken, i dessertspoonful Madras chutney (Empress brand), 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, 2 oz. butter, .seasoning, pistachios, and toasted bread. Pound anchovies and chicken in a mortar till fine, add the chutney and egg-yolks, pound again and mix thoroughly with one ounce of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and rub through a sieve. Cut the toasted bread into oval shapes (by means of a paste-cutter), butter each with a thin layer of butter, and spread over thickly with the prepared farce. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Canapes aux Olives farcies {Stuped Olive Canapes). Stone twelve large Spanish olives, fill the cavity of each with foie-gras puree, lobster puree, anchovy or sardine paste. Stamp out twelve rounds of brown bread one-sixth of an inch thick, fry them in clarified butter and drain, and spread over with lobster