727 CHAPTER XXXIII. SWEET ENTREMETS. The Second Service terminates with the “ Roast,” or the Vegetable Entremets, when dishes of this class follow the roast or are sub- stituted for it. The three divisions of the Third Service are :— Sweets, Savouries, and Dessert. Some authorities class all Third Course dishes as Dessert, but it is more convenient to consider them under their respective headings. Without dwelling upon the fact that the cook’s skill and taste can be displayed to advantage by the delicate manner in which the sweets are prepared, it must be admitted that in an ordinary house- hold of moderate means it is economical to serve sweets with a meal, for when these are not provided a greater quantity of meat must be consumed to satisfy nature’s demands. Moreover, the majority of people require a certain amount of sugar and starch in their diet, and both of these are very largely represented in these dishes. Children always welcome ‘‘ sweets ” and puddings, and these are generally wholesome and nourishing ; young people should certainly not be deprived of this pleasure. Even the poorer classes will find it economical to provide a simple pudding, etc. When planning a dinner which contains one or more substantial dishes of meat, it must be borne in mind that the first principle regulating the ” sweets” course shoifid be that the dishes must be at once light and elegant. On the other hand, if the main portion of a meal is to be light, the sweets may be of a more substantial kind, though elegance of appearance is always to be aimed at. In a recherch’ meal the sweets should show the touch of a master- hand both as regards the quality and the artistic finish. Like the final touches of a picture, the sweet should convey to the palate what the completed picture does to the eye, a certain sense of pleasurable satisfaction. Any suggestion of solidity is out of place in the sweet course of a high-class repast. Sweets are divided into two groups. Hot Sweets and Cold Sweets. If several kinds of sweets are to be served at one meal, the order of service is that the Hot Sweets must precede the cold dishes. There are many plain sweets, especially milk puddings, which come under the heading of ” Invalid Dietary” because they are so simple that they cannot hurt even a delicate constitution. These plain puddings can be made of milk and rice, tapioca, florador, semolina, sago, cornflour, vermicelli, macaroni, flour, etc. If pro- perly prepared, they are palatable and nourishing, as well as inex-