tAi THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Aspic Mayonnaise. J pint aspic jelly, i gill stiff mayonnaise. Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then stir it gently into the mayonnaise and nse before it begins to set, according to direction. Aspic a la Tomate [Tomato Aspic). I pint aspic jelly, 4 small ripe tomatoes or | pint tomato pulp, J oz. French leaf gelatine, i dessertspoonful sherry. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, rub through a fine hair sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and add to the pulp. Put the jelly, tomato pulp, and sherry in a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and simmer for a few minutes ; pass all through a fine hair sieve, and use as directed. Aspic Cream (see Creme a 1’Aspic, p. 147). Sauce Bechamel. oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, pint of milk, and white meat stock, i small onion or shallot, i small bouquet garni, lo peppercorns, J a bay-leaf, I small blade of mace, seasoning. Put the milk on to boil with the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace, and bay-leaf. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir in the milk, etc. (hot), whisk over the fire until it boils, and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve or tammy, return to the stewpan, season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half-pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. Bechamel Sauce [Maigre).—Proceed the same as above directed, omitting the meat stock, and using in its place milk and fish stock or milk and water. Sauce au Beurre-Noir [Black Butter Sauce). oz. butter, i teaspooiiful finely chopped parsley, | teaspoonful vinegar. Put the butter in an omelette pan, fry over a quick fire until it acquires a nut-brown colour, then add the vinegar and parsley. Pour over the article to be served. Sauce Bigarade.—Proceed the same as for “ Orange Sauce ” (p. 156), but substitute a Seville orange for a sweet one. Use only half the rind, and boil at least for ten minutes. Omit red-currant jelly, and add a glass of port wine in its place. Sauce Bordeaux.—Peel and mince finely two shallots, reduce with I gill of claret with ^ a teaspoonful of crushed white pepper- corns, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. When about half reduced, add i gill of espagnole sauce, and boil for 10 minutes, then strain, re-heat, and whisk in i teaspoonful of anchovy or cray- fish butter. Season to taste, and use as directed. Sauce Bercy.—Reduce i-|- gills of fish stock to about one-third its quantity, then add i chopped shallot, previously tossed in butter, I glass white wine, i teaspoonful of meat or fish glaze, and reduce again, and add -J- gill of veloute sauce, and the juice of lemon.