144 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. hot until required for serving. If liked the onion may be cooked longer, passed through a sieve, and added to the sauce ; the cream can be omitted ; if found too thick, a little hot water can be added. Bread sauce is usually served with roast fowl, turkey, and game birds. Brown Fish Sauce {Sauce Bnme). ^ lb. fish-bones, etc., oz. butter, i dessertspoonful of flour, i tablespoon- ful Brown & Poison’s patent cornflour, i gill claret (optional), J pint fish stock or water, i sliced onion, i small bunch savoury herbs (bouquet garni), 4 mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste. Fry the fish-bones, etc., in the butter over a quick fire, add the onion and fry also, stir in the flour and cornflour, and let the flour get brown whilst stirring ; add the carrot, herbs, and mushrooms, and moisten with the claret and the stock. Stir till it boils and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve, season to taste, and serve. If liked the mushrooms may be chopped finely and put into the sauce at the last. Sauce Cardinal. J pint veloutee (p. i6i) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce, i oz. butter, juice of ^ lemon, | oz. lobster coral or i oz. lobster butter (p. 175), i dessert- spoonful meat glaze, } gill mushroom liquor, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; add the lemon-juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster butter or coral, the latter finely chopped. Strain or tammy. Return to the stewpan and add the meat glaze, stir till smooth, and keep hot in the bain-marie till required. Note.—When this sauce is required for maigre dishes use bechamel maigre sauce in place of veloutee. Omit the meat glaze and add in its place ^ gill of cream. Sauce Chaud-froid, blanche {White Chaud-froid Sauce). I pint bechamel or supreme sauce, i gill aspic, 5 or 6 leaves gelatine. I gill cream, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar or lemon-juice. Dissolve the gelatine along with the aspic jelly, warm up the sauce, and mix the two together. Stir over the fire imtil it boils, put in vinegar or lemon-juice, and cook for a few minutes. Strain or tammy ; add the cream when cooling, and use as required. Sauce Chaud-froid, blonde {Fawn Chaud-froid Sauce). i pint aspic jelly, i gill ailemande sauce (p. 141), ^ gill cream, i table- spoonful espagnole sauce (p. 148), | oz. leaf gelatine, a glass of Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Melt the aspic jelly in a stewpan, add the wine, espagnole, and ailemande sauce, let it come to a boil, and skim. Soak the gelatine in cold water, squeeze it well, and put with the sauce ; when dissolved, stir in the cream, pass through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, and use as directed. Sauce Chaud-froid, brune {Brown Chaud-froid Sauce). 4 pint espagnole (p. 148) or salmi sauce (p, 159), i glass Madeira or sherry, 4 pkit aspic, 4 leaves gelatine, cream. Boil up the sauce. Dissolve the gelatine with the aspic, mix both together, add the wine, let simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth ; add a little cream, and flavour to taste.