COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 823 not to stretch it, and trim off the rough edges. P>akc in a moderate oven for about thirty to forty minutes. Beat up the white of the egg and brush over top of the tart, sprinkle with castor sugar, and return it to the oven to set. Serve hot or cold. Cornflour Blanc-mange. 2h oz. Brown & Poison’s “Patent” cornflour, i quart milk, lemon-rind, 1 oz. castor sua;ar, i teaspoonful butter. Mix the cornflour to a smooth cream with a little of the milk. Boil the rest of the milk with the lemon-rind, pour it on to the blended cornflour, stir well, add the butter and sugar, return to the saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the lemon-rind, and pour into a mould. When cold, turn out and serve with jam or marmalade. Banana Pudding. 3 to 3 bananas, 1 glass brandy or I- juice anil rind of a lemon, i:J- oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, i pint of milk, i oz. castor sugar. Peel and slice the bananas, place them in the bottom of a glass dish, put the sugar over, and pour on the brandy or lemon-juice. Blend the cornflour with the milk, boil it for eight minutes, stirring all the time, add the sugar, let it cool, and pour over the bananas. When set, serve. Cream should be handed with it. This prepara- tion can also be moulded, and garnished with sliced bananas. Gooseberry Cheese, 2 lb. of gooseberries (picked), li lb. loaf sugar. Cook the gooseberries with very little water till soft, pass them through a wire sieve, return the pulp to the pan and add the sugar. Stir well, put the pan on the fire, and simmer for half an hour, or till the “ cheese ” looks firm and hard in the spoon. Pour into pots, cover them when cold the same as jam, and store in a dry place. Cherry Tapioca. 2 oz. crushed tapioca, i lb. ripe cherries, 3 oz. sugar. Soak the tapioca for several hours in cold water. Put it in a saucepan with one pint and a half of boiling water. Simmer very slowly till the tapioca is quite cooked. Stone the cherries, add them, with sugar, to the tapioca. Cook till the fruit is tender. Pour it into a glass dish, and when cold serve with custard or whipped cream. Whipped Syllabub. pint of double cream, lemon, 2 whites of eggs, castor sugar to taste, I tablespoonful of brandy or rum. Mix the brandy or rum with the lemon-juice and about half an ounce of castor sugar, add the cream, the whites of eggs stiffly whipped, and a little grated lemon-rind. Set it on the ice for twenty minutes, whisking it all the while, remove the froth as it rises and put it on a hair sieve to drain. Half fill some custard glasses with sherry or marsala wine, or else some nicely flavoured