VEGETABLE AND FA BIN AGE ENTREES. 379 surface with brown crumbs of panurette (grated rusk), place a few bits of butter here and there on top of each. Range the tomatoes on a well-buttered tin or sante-pan, and cook in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Choux au Gratin [Cabbage ait Gvatin). Boil a large cabbage, properly trimmed and washed, and drain it well, chop it finely and toss in a little butter. Butter a round errntin rlic;lT linp if witli thin butter here and there on top, and bake to a light brown colour in^a sharp oven. Serve in the gratin dish. Choux Farcis a I’Espagnole [Stuffed Cabbage). Trim and wash 2 young cabbages, scoop out the base of each, blanch them, and stuff with a well-seasoned meat and breadcrumbs stuffing ; place them in a stewpan lined with bacon, moisten with Espagnole sauce, and braise till tender. When cooked, take them out and press the cabbages into shape. Dish up, cover with reduced Espagnole sauce, sprinkle over some fried breadcrumbs, garnish with slices of lemon and grilled cup mushrooms, and serve. Feves de Marais et Tomates a ITndienne [Curried Broad Beans and Tomatoes). Shell enough broad beans to make a quart, and boil them in plenty of slightly salted water till they are almost tender. Drain them and remove the skin whilst hot. Blanch six ripe tomatoes and remove the skin, then cut them into slices, drain and toss them in butter in a saute-pan for a few minutes ; then put them with the broad beans. Mix them carefully and season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a well-made curry sauce, and let simmer very slowly for about twenty minutes. Arrange a border of plain boiled rice on a hot dish, dress the vegetables in the centre, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Creole [Farced Artichoke Bottoms). 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. lean ham, i oz. cooked ox-tongue, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 small truffles, 6 champignons, i gill veloutee sauce, oz. grated parmesan, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful of cream, chicken forcemeat, seasoning. Drain and wipe the artichoke bottoms. Cut the ham, tongue, mushrooms, chicken meat, and one truffle into fine shreds. Mix with sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten, work the cream into the chicken farce. Place a tablespoonful of this salpicon mixture in each of the artichoke bottoms. Cover with chicken forcemeat, smooth over with the blade of a knife (pyramid shape). Put them