7J6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pouding de Noel {Christmas or Plum Pudding}, i lb. stoned raisins, lb. picked and cleaned currants, lb. candied peel cut into shreds, i lb. moist sugar, i peeled apple (russey chopped, 2 oz. ground almonds, the rind of i lemon grated, |- lb. suet finely chopped, i teaspoonful ground cloves, teaspoonful ground cinnamon, lb. bread- crumbs, lb. flour, a pinch of salt, 5 eggs, i gill milk, gill rum or brandy. Put all the dry ingredients in a large basin, mix thoroughly, work in the eggs one at a time, and the rum or brandy. Butter one or two pudding-moulds, fill with the mixture, tie over with a buttered cloth. Place the moulds in a stock - pot or large stew- pan three- parts full of boiling water, and boil for about four hours, f Add more boiling water when needed. Take off the cloth, turn the pud- ding on a hot dish, ornament the top with crescent-shaped pieces of citron or orange peel, angelica leaves, and glace cherries. Dredge well with castor sugar, pour a little rum or brandy round the dish, and light it as it is sent to the table. Pouding a la Normande {Normandy Pudding). 6 medium-sized sour cooking apples, 3 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fried breadcrumbs, i gill claret, 3 eggs, vanilla essence, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon. For sauce : i tablespoonful apricot jam, i tablespoonful red- currant jelly, I small glass port wine. Peel the apples, cut them into quarters, and core. Put them in a saute-pan with the butter and about two ounces of castor sugar, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven till tender. Put the fried crumbs into a basin, moisten with the wine, cream the remainder of sugar , and eggs together, add it to the above, together with the syrup of the apples, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence and cinnamon, mix thoroughly, and fill into a well buttered and sugared copper pudding-mould, placing the apples in layers between the mixture. Place the mould on a baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. Unmould, and serve with a sauce prepared with the ingredients above stated. Pouding aux Nouilles {Noodle or Nouille Pudding). j lb. nouille paste (p. 134), oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, tea- spoonful of vanilla essence, i oz. mixed peel (candied). Roll out the nouille paste as thinly as possible, fold it and cut