93 COOKIXG PROCESSES AXD THEIR EFFECTS. much has this form of cookery come into fashion that many dishes are sent to table in the pots in which they were cooked, especially so the “ petite marmite soups,” braizes, and ragouts, and all dishes cooked “ en casserole ” style. Cooking in stoneware has no equal where slow cooking is aimed at, and there are many dishes which one would do well to refrain from attempting unless cooked in this fashion. The adaptability of a stoneware cooking-pot deserves to be more fully known in this country when it will be more appreciated. These cooking pots are inexpensive, and certain food tastes decidedly better if cooked in this way. For braising, pot-roasting, as well as stewing, which are slow cooking processes, the casserole has proved its superiority over the metal pans over and over again. It gives its best and almost exclusive service in the baking oven for poultry done in pot-roasting fashion, or for stewing fruit and other articles which need to be cooked slowly under close cover. There are few cooks who do not know that the application of a moderate, even heat for certain food materials - produces far better results than if quick heat is applied. For such cases the use of earthenware cooking-pots is to be strongly recommended, because by their aid an application of heat such as will ensure gentle simmering, steaming or baking is assured. Loss in Cooking Meat, etc.—The average loss in weight by cooking riieat, etc., works out as follows : Grilling . about ro Frying ,, 15 Steaming . „ 15 Boiling ,, 20 Baking M 25 Stewing . 1/ to 20 Roasting . . about 30 Chafing-dish Cookery. The chafing-dish, or so-called “ parlour cookery,” has for many years been extensively used in the United States, and within recent years it has become popular in this country. This handy apparatus is most useful for a number of cooking purposes. It is specially designed for use on the table, in order to prepare light hot dishes suitable for breakfast, luncheon or supper. The chafing-dish is admirably adapted for cooking scrambled eggs, stirred eggs, omelets, pancakes, stewed oysters, creamed lobster ; for broiling cutlets, chops, and fillets ; sweetbread ragout; for stewing tomatoes, mushrooms, etc., etc.