401 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. butter, and strain on a cloth. Dish up in circular form, lill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus points (mixed with a few fresh peas if desired), sauce round with Perigord sauce, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Proven(?aIe. Prepare the cutlets as before, oil them slightly with salad oil. Broil them on one side only, and put them on a "dish to get cold. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Spread the cooked side thickly with puree a la Proven^ale (p. 169), cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese. Put one ounce of butter in a saute-pan, when hot lay in the cutlets raw side down- wards, baste the surface with oiled butter, and cook in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with small rounds of potatoes (pommes Parisienne) {see Vegetable Chapter), pour round some demi-glace, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Reforme {Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style). 6 to 8 neatly cut and trimmed mutton cutlets, a handful of fresh bread- crumbs, I tablespoonful finely-chopped ham, i slice of ham, i raw egg, I hard-boiled egg, 4 French gherkins, i truffle, 6 preserved mushrooms, a small carrot (cooked), i oz. lard, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, Rcforme or pepper sauce. Flatten the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, pare off some of the fat, and free the bones from skin (about an inch down). Season lightly with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and cover well with a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped ham. Shape them neatly and put them on a plate till required. Cut the slice of ham, the white of egg, gherkins, truffle,, and mushrooms into oblong shreds of even size, put them in a stewpan with a little stock and a small piece of fresh butter. Season with a pinch of pepper, and keep hot. Melt the remainder of butter and the lard in a saute- or frying-pan, when hot, put in the cutlets and fry a nice light brown colour. Drain, arrange them in a circle, on a hot dish, put the shreds of vegetables, etc., in the centre, pour some Reforme or pepper sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Riche. 6 or 8 mutton or lamb cutlets, i pig’s caul, i oz. butter, liver farce, i truffle, 1 egg, breadcrumbs, fat to fry, pepper, salt, sauce Perigueux. Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, melt in a saute-pan i oz. butter, fry the cutlets lightly, leaving them quite underdone. Drain, press between two tins, when cold pare and trim neatly. Have ready some liver farce, chop the truffles finely and mix with it. Cover each side of the cutlet with the farce, wrap separately in pig’s caul, egg and crnmb (twice, if neces- sary), shape neatly, and place in a wire basket. Fry them to a golden colour in hot fat or lard, strain, dish up, and serve with Perigueux sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Strasbourgeoise {Mutton Cutlets, Strasbourg Style). 8 ueatly-trimmed and pared mutton cutlets, i small terriue foie-gras (No. 12 size), I shallot, gill brown or Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, 2 oz. butter, I egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. CC