▼ 266 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in two lengthways, and remove the dark skin and bones, trim and shape neatly, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with white wine and a little mushroom liquor. Put a tiny piece of butter on top of each slice, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Cut the truffles into slices, put them with the mushroom heads in a stewpan, add the oysters, previously bearded, and cut in halves, moisten with a little white sauce, and keep the garnish hot till required. Fill a well-buttered border mould with whiting forcemeat, and poach in the usual manner. When done, unmould on to a round dish. Take up the slices of turbot, and range them neatly on top of the border. Strain the liquor in which the fish was cooked into a stewpan, add the remainder of the sauce, also the lobster coral, previously pounded with an ounce of butter and rubbed through a sieve. Stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolk of an egg and about a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk well over the fire, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garnish in the centre of the dish. Sauce over the border care- fully with the prepared sauce, put the picked prawns in the centre, and serve at once. Filets de Turbot a la Florentine, This is one of the most tasty ways of serving turbot or any kind of white fish. Cut some turbot into small fillets, remove the skin, and place in a saute-pan well buttered, season the fish, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Range them neatly on a fireproof dish, put a layer of prepared spinach over the fillets, so as to completely cover them, pour over this a layer of bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient grated cheese to flavour, sprinkle over the top some breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and bake in a very hot oven for about ten minutes. Filets de Turbot a la Cussy. 2 to 3 lb. turbot (small fish), i glass white wine, 6 cocks’, kernels, 6 mush- rooms and liquor, i oz. butter, i truflle, 6 to 8 small quenelles, t- lemon, 1 pint allemancle sauce (p, 141), gill tomato sauce (p. i6o), pepper and salt, puff-paste, lleurons for garnish.