THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 756 of beaten egg with the fruit puree, and with this hll up the centre of the pineapple. Bake in a hot oven till nicely browned and hot through. Decorate the dish tastefully with strips of blanched and peeled almonds and pistachios. Serve hot with pineapple syrup well flavoured with maraschino and previously heated. Savarin a 1’Ananas {Pineapple Savarin). Prepare and bake a border-shaped savarin {see “ Bor dure Savarin ”), place it on a sieve, and soak it well with maraschino syrup. Cook sufficient slices of pineapple to All the centre of the border, in the same kind of syrup. Dish up the savarin and fill the centre tastefully with pineapple slices, decorate with glace cherries, sauce over the whole with a fairly thick syrup, flavoured with maraschino and apricot marmalade. The dish is then ready for serving, and should be sent to table hot, but when preferred it can be served cold. Apricots or peaches are frequently served in a savarin border, the mode of preparation being the same as for pineapple savarin. BORDURES, TIMBALES, ETC. Bordure de Fruits a la Nationale. Prepare some peaches, apricots, grapes, strawberries, and slices of pineapple, blanch them in syrup, peel the apricots and peaches, drain on a hair sieve. Have ready a Savarin border, dish up, dress the fruit in the centre, ornament with fancy-cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, and citron peel. Reduce the syrup until thick with a glass of maraschino, and pour over the fruit. This dish can be served hot or cold as desired. Bordure Saxonnaise a la Kohler. 3 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Kohler’s chocolate, i gill milk, r vanilla pod, 3 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, i oz. chopped almonds, giil cream, whipped, chocolate sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together, then work in one by one the egg-yolks. Melt the chocolate in the oven, and stir it into the above mixture when soft. Boil up the milk with the vanilla, and pour on to the bread and cake-crumbs. Add also the chopped almonds, cover and let stand for half an hour. Amalgamate both mixtures, taking out the vanilla last of all. Whisk the whites of egg stiffly, and fold in to the mixture lightly. Pour this into a buttered border mould, cover with buttered jiaper, and steam for I If hours. Unmould on to a hot dish, pour a little chocolate sauce round and over the border. Fill the centre of the latter with whipped and sweetened cream. Serve with a boat of chocolate sauce. Bordure Savarin {Savarin Border). Sift 2 oz. flour into a small basin, form a hole in the centre, dilute k oz. German yeast with lukewarm milk, add this to the flour, make a light dough, and set it aside to rise in a warm place. Next sift 6 oz. flour into a large basin, add 2 oz. sugar, 3 oz. warm