607 REMO VES—RELE I ’ZiS. Neck and Shoulder of Venison. The neck and shoulder may be roasted without paper ; lard them with thin strips of bacon or ham, make a gravy as directed in the previous recipe, and serve with red-currant jelly. A shoulder of about six pounds will take about two hours to roast. Selle de Venaison rotie [Roast Saddle of Venison). Venison, to be perfect, must be well hung. A small saddle is always preferable to a large one. Carefully remove the skin covering the meat, also the sinews, and trim the joint neatly. Lard the saddle across the grain of the meat with fine strips of larding bacon, then tie it firmly with string. Line a roasting-pan with sliced onion and carrot, season with salt and pepper, add about one ounce of butter, and place in the joint. Cook in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, and roast slowly after that till done. Frequent basting is most essential. A saddle weighing from six to eight pounds requires from 25- to 2I hours to roast. When done take up the joint, untie it, put it on a dish and keep hot. Pour off the fat in the roasting-pan, add some good stock or gravy. Season, and boil up, skim, and strain around the dish containing the joint. A nice piquante or other sharp sauce containing some red-currant jelly is often served with venison. Cuissot de Chevreuil, Sauce Groseilles [Leg of Venison, with Red-Currant Sauce). Carefully remove the skin of a leg of venison, lard it neatly with strips of larding bacon, place it in a deep pan, cover with marinade (p. 130), allow it to remain for eight to ten hours, then take up, drain, and roast it in the usual manner, basting frequently. When done brush over with meat glaze, and place it on a hot dish. Pour off all the fat from the roasting-pan, put in a little marinade liquor, four tablespoonfuls of well-recluced Espag- nole sauce, a large tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, and a small glass of port wine. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Boil up and cook for several minutes, skim and strain, and pour round the base of the dish containing the joint. Insert a hatelet, decorated with a fancifully cut lemon and truffle, in the centre of the joint, put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR REMOVES. Carre de Pore braise.—Braised neck of pork. Cochon de Lait roti (Roast Sucking Pig).—Sucking pig roasted on spit or in the oven, basted with olive oil or beer (the latter is the custom in Germany and Switzerland) ; serve withjpiquante, ravigote or other suitable sharp sauce. — a la broche.—Sucking pig roasted on the spit. Gigot de Pore a la Hongroise [Braised Leg of Pork, Hungarian Style.)— Boned, rolled, and braised, with sauerkraut (white pickled cabbage) garnished with the latter, also with small potato croquettes. — bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled leg of salt pork, served with carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding.