THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 360 Fricandelles a I’AHemande. lb. cooked chicken meat or any other kind of poultry, including a little ham or tongue, i slice of onion chopped fine, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, oz. butter, | oz. hour, 2 eggs, gill of gravy or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, I- pint of pancake batter, breadcrumbs, frying-batter. Chop the meat very fine, fry the onion in half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the flour, cook to a golden colour, stir in the gravy, cook five minutes, and put in the meat. When thoroughly hot bind with two yolks of eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, and let it cool. Make four or more pancakes, put them on a paste-board, spread the prepared meat mixture over the pancakes, roll up neatly, and cut into oblong pieces about two inches long. Dip them in white of an egg, roll in breadcrumbs, when set, egg and crumb a second time. Place the fricandelles in a wire basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Note.—As an accompaniment to this dish a nicely dressed beet- root or celery salad is recommended. Instead of chicken, cold fish or any kind of meat can be used in this way. Miroton de Ris de Veau en Cocotte. 1 cooked sweetbread, 6 champignons, 2 truflles, the breast of a cooked chicken, pint supreme sauce, i pint cooked green peas, | oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Cut the sweetbread and chicken into small slices, slice the cham- pignons and truffles. Butter eight oblong china souffle cases and fill them with the above, sauce over each layer with supreme sauefe, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rub the peas through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the pea puree, season to taste, stir till hot, add the egg-yolks, and cook a little longer. Put this in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out the puree on to the top of the cases, completely covering the surface. Place the cases on a baking-sheet, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and send to table very hot. Timbales de Ris de Veau a la Mirabeau {Sweetbread Timbales). 24 stuffed olives, i cooked sweetbread, lb. lean veal, j lb. veal suet, 3 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, and i whole egg, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, I oz. anchovy paste, a few cocks’ kernels well reduced demi- glace or Madere sauce, seasoning. Butter a large timbale mould, and garnish the bottom with stuffed olives. Pound the veal and suet, separately, in a mortar till quite smooth, then mix together, add by degrees the panade and eggs, and season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly. Add the anchovy paste, and pass the mixture through a fine sieve, and test the consistency of the farce. Line the bottom and the sides of the timbale mould with the farce, cut the sweet- bread, mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ kernels into small dice, and moisten with some well reduced, rich Madere or demi-glace sauce. Put this in the mould, fill it up with the remainder of the farce. Place the mould in a saute-pan containing boiling water, cover with