THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 48 a muddle, and have scarcely room enough to work, a state of affairs which is merely the result of untidiness. With proper management a cook hardly knows what a muddle is. An untidy kitchen is a disgrace to the culinary profession. The kitchen ought to be the very last place where dirt and untidiness prevail. If we aim at being successful in onr cooking, we must remember the importance of keeping everything connected with a kitchen, and especially the utensils, perfectly clean. It is simply wonderful how much labour and trouble can be saved by method. Order and Forethought in a Kitchen.—The great secret of success in this direction is unquestionably cleanliness. Clean and clear np as you go. Keep everything in its proper place. Never put off to the last what can be done beforehand. Do everything at its proper time. These are maxims which every cook should carefully adhere to ; for by so doing they study their own as well as their masters’ interest. VENTILATION OF KITCHENS. The steam and heat from a badly ventilated kitchen disseminates a disagreeable, nnhealthy odour throughout the house. The ventilation of the kitchen should, therefore, be so perfect as to thoroughly remove all gases and odonrs caused by the various cooking processes. When the kitchen is bnilt on the top of the house this evil is to a large extent overcome. A ventilator placed just above the cooking-stove lessens greatly the discomfort from heat, for it carries off much of the superfluous heat, and helps to remove the smoke, steam, and smell from cooking. Where a so-called ventilating shaft is provided, ventilation is all the more effective, for a much stronger draught is then produced. The odour which arises when boiling green vegetables, such as cabbages, cauliflowers, etc., is most unpleasant—in fact, bad enough at times to take away one’s appetite for the meal of which such vegetable is to form a part. A simple and effective remedy for this is, in addition to having the kitchen thoroughly ventilated, to add a little charcoal to the water in which the vegetables are cooked, or failing this, a piece of toasted bread will be found of use. Cabbage water should not be poured down the sink, but should be emptied straight into the drain. To avoid the horrible smell caused from boiling onions, place a vessel of vinegar on the stove. To prevent objectionable smell from boiling fish, add a little vinegar to the water. To remove the smell from burnt milk, sauces, etc., sprinkle some vinegar over the hot stove. Burnt fat causes the worst and most disagreeable smell of all. A good plan to partially remove it is to put a handful of raw potato or slices of onion, or a slice of bread, into the fat, and to sprinkle vinegar on the top of the stove. The windows of a kitchen should be opened as much as possible