REMO VES—RELE VllS. 597 Bceuf bouilli a la Franpaise.—Boiled top or silver side of beef, garnished with carrots, turnips, and cabbage. — bouilli a la Russe.—Boiled rump or top side of beef, served with cucum- ber salad and cold horse-radish sauce. — a la Bernoise.—Braised top side or rump, with stewed nouilles and baked potatoes, brown sauce or gravy. — a la C61estine.—Roast sirloin of beef, garnished with small baked potatoes and rolls of stuffed pancakes cut into one-inch pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — a la Jardiniere.—Parboiled and braised rump or sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with small spring vegetables. — a la Lorraine.—Roast sirloin of beef, garnished with braised button onions, mashed potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. — a la Palermo.—Roast rib or sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with braised potatoes and small pieces of stuffed cucumber or vegetable marrow. — a la Piemontaise.—Roast boned ribs of beef, garnished with timbales of cooked rice or macaroni, flavoured with tomato and saffron, and fried potatoes. Cote de Bceuf braisee.—Braised boned ribs of beef, served with brown sauce or gravy. — a la Normande.—Braised ribs of beef (boned), garnished with mashed potatoes and young braised and glazed carrots. — a la Saint Hubert.—Roast or braised ribs of beef (boned), garnished with stuffed braised cabbages, lettuces, and glazed button onions. Filet de Bceuf a I’Ancienne.—Braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. — a la BrabanQonne.—Fillet of beef trimmed whole, larded, and put in marinade for twenty-four hours, braised slowly, essence of braise used for sauce ; garniture : carrots and turnips, round or olive shapes, baked potato puree in the form of small cakes, Brussels sprouts puree, spinach and soubise (onion puree), all dressed in groups round the base of the fillet ; brown sauce served separately. — en Chevreuil.—Larded fillet of beef pickled in red wine marinade and braised, served with piquante sauce. — a la Clairemont.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with baked kidney potatoes and glazed chestnuts. — a la Palestine.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with braised Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, and button onions ; braise sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Paysanne.—Braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and new kidney potatoes, browned in the oven. — a la Richelieu. — Larded and braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and preserved white mushrooms.