973 AUXILIARY RECIPES. or half a Spanish })imicnto, chopped together, constitute a delicions stuffing for quails or pigeons to be braised or roasted. If roasted, place a slice of toast under the bird when half cooked, and serve this with the bird. Sauerkraut {Chou-crontc). Select the required number of hrin, white, autumn cabbages, trim off the withered leaves, cut each head in half, and remove the stalks. Wash and drain the cabbages, then shred them finely (this is usually effected by means of a large vegetable sheer). Put the shredded cabbage in a large earthenware or oak tub, season each layer liberally with common salt, when the vessel is thus filled place the lid on the cabbage, and press it down with heavy weights. At the end of six weeks, when the fermentation is complete, it should be ready for use. It is generally cooked in its own liquor, with bacon, smoked sausages or pork. Chowder. Cut 2 lb. of fat salt jiork (belly-piece) into slices, and }iut them in a stew-pan with two peeled and sliced onions and a dessertspoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Bone a fresh haddock, or a slice of cod, and cut it into thin slices, and place thenr on the pork ; then put a layer of crushed biscuits (captains) on top ; season with salt and pepper. Add i-J- pint of water, lay a round of suet crust ])aste over the whole, cover the stew-pan, and let the contents cook slowly for about three hours. Skim well, and put it in a dish, pour over a glass of hot Madeira, also a little Jamaica pepper, garnish with stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole, then serve. Potted Meat {made from cooked meat). Free the meat intended for potting from skin, bone and gristle, and fat, mince it finel}^ and pound in a mortar ; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, add butter and pound to a smooth paste. Rub through a hue sieve, and pot into jars. The proportion of butter to be used varies from four to six ounces to the pound of meat. Ham or salmon would require less butter than beef, veal, game or chicken, and so on. Potted Meat {made from raw mcai). The best kind of potted meat, such as beef, chicken or veal, is made by using the raw materials. After bones, skin, fat, and gristle are removed, pass the meat through a mincing machine, and put it into an earthenware hreproof jar, add the seasoning, mace, nutmeg, pepper, paprika or cayenne, and salt. x\llow about live ounces of clarified butter to the pound of meat, cover the jar with it, and place it into a moderate oven from two to three hours, according to quantity. Stir contents from time to time, and if found too dry add a little rich stock or white or brown sauce. When done, pound it whilst hot in a mortar and rub through a fine sieve. Press it next into potted meat jars. When quite cold pour