761 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. shape of a cushion. Turn out quickly on a hot dish, dredge over with fine castor sugar, decorate the top by means of a red-hot iron, and serve at once. Omelette a la Charlotte. 6 eggs, 1 lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, i oz. flour, ]- gill fresh cream, -1- table- spoonful orange-flower water, 2 oz. butter, apple marmalade. Break the eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks with the sugar, add the lemon-rind, chopped hnely, and orange-flower water. W'hisk the whites of eggs and mix them and the flour carefully with the yolks. Whip the cream until stiff and add to the mixture. Melt the butter in two large omelet pans, and divide the mixture between them, let it set over the fire and then pnt them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes to finish cooking. Heat the apple marmalade, spread a thick layer over each omelet, roll them lightly, dust with sugar, and serve. Omelette a la Celestine. 10 eggs, 3 oz, crushed macaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar, 3 kinds of jam, a little cream, 2 oz, butter, a pinch of .salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and cream, beat them up well, and mix with the sugar and macaroons. Make six omelets of equal size with the mixture, in the centre of each jiair insert different jam (about a tablespoonful), roll up, dust them over with sugar, and glaze with the salamander or hot iron. Cut each in two, dish up in a circle, and serve quickly. Omelette aux Fraises. Prepare an omelet with the necessary number of eggs in the usual manner, just before folding it arrange a la}’er of compote of strawberries (previously drained) in the centre of the omelet. Fold it and allow it to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish. Sprinkle over with castor sugar and mark the surface with a red-hot skewer, pour some strawberry syrup, flavoured with a little maraschino liqneur, round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. Omelette au Rhum {Rum Omelet). ■ 6 eggs, 2 oz, butter, small glass rum, i tablespoonful of castor sugar and I tablespoonful of cream, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and sugar, beat up well together with the cream and a little rum. Melt tlie butter in an omelet pan, when hot, pour in the eggs, etc. Stir, cook, fold, and brown the omelet to a light colour, turn carefully on to a dish, dust with sugar, pour the rum round the omelet, light it, and serve quickly. Omelette soufflee (Puffed Omelet). 4 yolks of eggs, 6-8 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, flavouring. Put the yolks and sugar into a basin and work them well to a cream, add the flavouring and, if liked, a dessertspoonful of cornflour. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix carefully with tlie yolks, turn into a buttered plated baking-dish, pile iq) as high