The kitchen. 4/ should be of i;he very best quality. The hxing of these ought to be done by the respective makers of the apparatus, for they will better understand the work, and it is to their interest to see that everything is carefully done. This applies especially to coal ranges, where the flues must, as everyone knows, be correctly fixed ; if the flues do not work properly, the most expensive stove is useless. Next to the stove the most important piece of furniture is the kitchen table. There are many dresser boards, shelves, and flaps, but they are useless to the cook as compared with a good kitchen table. It should be made of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with convenient drawers for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other necessaries. Not only should the table be the most prominent piece of furniture in the kitchen, to which all other fittings must play a subordinate part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too carefully avoided. In such cases, the surface soon becomes scratched and unsightly. Besides the tables, a sufficiency of cupboards and a dresser, with shelves according to requirements, should be provided. For the sake of order, cupboards with sliding doors are preferable to those with hanging doors ; they should be so fixed or placed as to admit thorough cleanliness, light, and ventilation. A good timepiece is also necessary in a well-furnished kitchen, being an aid to punctuality and economy of time. It should be placed in the most conspicuous })lace. A well-constructed sink is another indispensable article in a kitchen. Stoneware or iron-work is very serviceable ; iron sinks, however, soon corrode unless painted or enamelled. In a fully- equipped kitchen at least three sinks are provided, either in the kitchen itself or in an adjacent scullery—one of teak or other hard wood for crockery, one of iron for saucepans, and one of enamel or stoneware for vegetables. All sinks should be so fixed as to allow free access to all sides for the purpose of cleaning. Frequent flushing with hot water is recommended for sinks and sink-pipes ; a solution of soda or potash poured down the pipes once a day will remove the grease and other particles adhering to the pipes. There are many good rules for perfect management of a kitchen, but tire most essential are the following : 1. Maintain scrupulous cleanliness. 2. Methodical order and exactitude. 3. Wise economy and discipline. 4. Sobriety and honesty. It is needless to say that upon the strict observance of fhese rules much of the success of an establishment depends. Some cooks never seem to have finished their work ; they are always in