328 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Soles en Fers a Cheval. I large or 2 small soles, 1- pint picked shrimirs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, | pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), about a pint of aspic jelly (p. 132), -1- lemon, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of butter, f gill white wine, 8 horseshoe-shape moulds. Remove the fillets from the soles, trim them nicely. Chop the shrimps finely, put them in a saucepan with half an ounce butter, when warm add the anchovy paste and parsley, moisten with a little bechamel sauce, put on a plate, and let cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll them up, tie with cotton, place them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon- juice, add the wine, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Set them on a baking-sheet and let them get quite cold. Put the bechamel sauce with about a gill of aspic in the saute-pan containing the fish liquor, stir, and reduce a little, and strain through a tammy. Trim the fillets neatly, and cut them in twos crossways. Mask the moulds with a coating of aspic jelly. Ornament the bottoms with small slices of truffles to represent the nails, etc. Cover with a layer of the prepared chaud-froid sauce, when nearly set put in each mould half a fillet, cover well with chaud-froid sauce, set this again, and fill up with more sauce, finishing with a thin coating of aspic. Put them on the ice till set. Turn out on a dish, place them in border shape, put a little salad in the centre, and garnish with fancifully cut pieces of aspic and parsley. Filets de Soles a la Jeanette. 2 small Dover soles, i oz. butter, Chablis, i gill white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), f gill aspic (p. 132), seasoning, i gill cooked asparagus points, 1-gill cooked green peas, 3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise cream (p. i 5 3), i truffle. Skin and fillet the soles, trim and season the fillets, and fold in the usual way. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a tablespoonful of Chablis or other white wine, and the same quantity of mushroom liquor. Cover with a buttered paper, cook in the oven for about ten minutes, and drain well. To the essence left in the saute-pan add the chaud-froid sauce, strain, and with it mask the fillets when quite cold. Put a small fancifully cut slice of truffle on each fillet and coat them with a thin layer of aspic. Keep them on the ice till wanted. Mix the asparagus and peas, previously dressed, with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise cream. Add also the remains of aspic, ancl fill into a dome or other suitably shaped mould, set this on the ice, and unmould on a round dish. Dress the fillets of soles neatly round the shape. Garnish the latter with small salad, and serve. Filets de Sole a la Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise of Fillets of Sole). 2 medium-sized soles, i oz. butter, \ lemon, mushroom liquor, gill cream, I gill mayonnaise (p. 152), oz. leaf gelatine, i gill aspic. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim and fold them neatly. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with lemon-juice and mushroom liquor, add the