COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 323 to the boil and simmer very gently for about thirty minutes. Let the fish cool in the pan, carefully remove the skin, drain well, anrl dish on a bed of rice. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with the same cjiiantity of aspic, stir on ice until it begins to thicken, then mask the surface of the trout completely. Garnish tastefully with tarra- gon and chervil leaves, encumber rind and slices, and fancifully ent pieces of chilli. Coat with a thin layer of hali^-set aspic, and set on the ice to cool. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped aspic jelly and parsley, and serve with the following sauce : Soak the horse-radish in the cream for several hours, rub through a fine sieve, put it into a basin, and stir in the remainder of mayonnaise sauce, also a tablespoonful of cold bechamel sauce, season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Pour into a sauce-boat and serve with the fish. Note.—If potato puree is used in place of rice for the border, mix the puree with an equal quantity of mashed green peas. As much as possible of the moisture in potatoes and peas must be extracted before the puree is shaped. Truite Saumonee en Chaud-froid a la Rothschild. Procure one large or two medium-sized salmon-trout, about 5 lb. in weight. Wash and dry well, and stuff with the following : 4 oz. of fresh breadernmbs, i tablespoonful of chopped onions, 3 yolks of eggs, L lb. of whiting forcemeat (p. 177), salt, pepper, I oz. of fresh butter, and a tablespoonfnl of coarsely chopped truffles. Sew up the opening, pnt in an oval braisiere or baking- dish well buttered, with a gill of stock and two glasses of white wine, cover with buttered paper, cook gently in the oven, basting it frequently, and put aside till cold. To the stock add a pint of Maclere sauce (p. 151), reduce well, mix with a gill of stiff aspic jelly, and strain. Carefully remove the skin off the fish, mask with the sauce when the latter is nearly set, ornament with truffle, aspic jelly, slices of cucumber, and lemon and parsley. Serve remainder of sauce, diluted with mayonnaise, with the fish. Filets de Truite a la Mayonnaise. I large or 2 small trout, i pint mayonnaise (p. 152), J pint aspic, a few French gherkins, frying-fat or clarified butter. Trim and wipe the fish, brush over with milk, dip in flour, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or clarified butter. Wlten cold, place the fish on a gridiron for a few seconds, take off the crust, and remove the fillets, cut them into neat pieces about an inch long. Line a border mould with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom witlr neatly-cut slices of gherkins, mix the mayonnaise sance with suffi- cient aspic jelly to make it set, put a layer of this sauce in the mould, arrange the pieces of fillets neatly. Fill up the mould with mayonnaise, and put on the ice to cool. When set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and garnish the centre with dressed salad.