145 S.l UCES. Chaud-froid Sauce, Green or Pink. Prepare a white chaud-froid sauce, to which add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a green tint, or a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal to give it a rose or pink tint. Sauce Chateaubriand {also called Crapatidinc Sauce). I gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, 2 cloves, i sprig of thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about i-| gill meat glaze, the juice of ^ lemon, 2 oz. butter, I teaspoonful chopped tarragon. Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stewpan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into another stewpan, add the lemon-juice. Work in the meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stewpan in the bain-marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, ancl serve very hot with fillet steak, Chateaubriand, etc. Sauce Champagne. |- pint of espagnole sauce, i glass of champagne, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, I liay-leaf. Put the cloves, peppercorns, bay-leaf, and espagnole sauce (p. 148) into a stewpan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add the champagne, and the essence remaining from the braised ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and serve with braised ham. Sauce Chasseur {Hunters' Sauce). i pint Madere sauce (p. 151), ^ gill game liquor (fumet) (p. 140), lemon- juice, and 1 to 2 livers of game. Chop the liver finely and cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten minutes, season to taste, add a teaspoonful of lemon- juice and serve. Sauce Chasseur Royal. I small onion, bay-leaf, parsley, thyme, marjoram, 10 peppercorns, i glass port wine, ^ pint espagnole sauce, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 gill of double cream. Chop the bones of the soles, and put in a stewpan with the trim- mings of the oysters, the sliced onion, bay-leaf, sprig of parsley and thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. Moisten with the port wine, let it reduce to half the origina quantity. Keep well covered during the process. Now add the crushed peppercorns, anchovy essence, and espagnole sauce, or I gill of brown stock. Simmer for twenty minutes, remove the scum, and pass through a tammy cloth or very fine pointed strainer. Return to the stewpan, add a little seasoning if needed,, and finish with -4- gill of double cream. Keep very hot, but not boiling, and use as directed. Sauce Champignons, blanche {White Mushroom Sauce). gill bechamel .sauce, gill white stock, 10 mushrooms, i dessertspoonful lemon-juice, white wine, i tablespoonful cream. Boil together the bechamel sauce (p. 142) and the veal stock (or other white stock), and reduce to about half its original quantity. Skim well and add the preserved mushrooms cut into slices, i table- K