971 A U XI LI A R \' RECIPES. take it ^^p, untie the ends, and remove the cloth carefully. Place it on a hot dish and serve, either with a boat of hot gravy or with some treacle or golden syrup. Note.—This crust is also used for meat and fruit puddings, Suet Dumplings. Prepare a suet paste as directed in the foregoing recipe. II required savoury add a heaped-up teaspoonful of savoury herbs and the same quantity of linely-chopped parsley. Make iqr into even-sized balls and place them into a steamer. Cook for two to two and a quarter hours, and serve either with gravy or else with stewed, boiled or braised meat. Suet dumplings served with boiled beef are usually plain—that is, without the addition of savoury herbs, etc. Exeter Dumplings. These are made as above described, containing powdered sweet or savoury herbs, chopped parsley, and a little pepper. The dump- lings should be shaped rather small and placed on top of the meat stew (knowm as Exeter stew). They require about two hours to cook. Norfolk Dumplings. Make an ordinary bread dough with one quartern of flour, one ounce of yeast, a good pinch of salt, and about one and a half pint of water. After the dough has risen a second time, pnt it on a floured board, and make up into round balls, each weighing about three ounces. Drop them into fast-boiling slightly salted water, and let boil for about thirty minutes. When done, take up, drain them, and dish up. Serve with a boat of rich gravy or other suitable sauce. Peas Pudding {served with boiled pork or beef). I pint split peas, 2 oz. butter or drijDping, i egg, salt and pepper. Soak the peas overnight, put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water, and boil till tender (about an hour), rub them through a sieve or colander, add the butter or dripping, pepper and salt to taste, and mix well with the egg. Flour a wetted cloth, put the pudding into it, tie it up tightly, and boil in stock or water for another hour. Pickled Herrings. Put six fresh herrings (cleaned) into a pie-dish with a blade of mace, a peeled shallot, a bay-leaf, ten peppercorns, a little salt, and enough vinegar and water (half-and-half) to barely cover. Place the dish with cover in a slow oven, and bake until the fish are tender. Let them get cold in the liquor. Veal Stuffing {suitable for veal, chicken, turkey or rabbit). Mix carefully the following: 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of mixed herbs, thyme, and marjoram. Add salt and pepper to taste and mix with two well-beaten eggs.