THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 730 for three-quarters of an hour in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a hot raspberry syrup. Pouding a la Berlinoise {Berlin Pudding). 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor or vanilla sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 6 eggs, gills milk. Blanch, peel, shred the almonds finely, and dry them in a cool oven. Sift the flour into a basin, stir in half the milk, and beat to a batter. Put the butter and the remainder of the milk in a stew-pan, let boil, add the sugar, stir in the prepared batter, keep stirring until it begins to thicken, then pour into a basin and let cool. Work in the yolks of eggs, add the almonds, beat well. Whip the whites stiffly, stir them carefully in, and fill into one or two well-buttered moulds. Cover with a buttered paper, and boil or steam for about two hours, according to size. Serve with sweet orange or custard sauce. Castle Puddings. I' oz. Brown & Poison's Paisley flour, 2 eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, and stir in the flour and Paisley flour well mixed together. Bake in buttered darioles for twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve tvith jam sauce round. Jam Sauce. Boil together one tablespoonful of jam, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a gill of water. Colour with cochineal, and strain round the pudding. Pouding aux Cerises {Cherry Pudding). 1 lb. best cooking cherries, 6 oz. loaf sugar, an inch cinnamon, i gill cream, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of \ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, gill milk. Stone the cherries, stew till tender with the sugar, cinnamon, and water barely to cover, and allow to cool. Mix the flour with a little milk and a pinch of salt, boil up the cream, and mix both together, add the castor sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the stew-pan clean. When cool, add the grated rind of half a lemon, separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks, one at a time. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix carefully. Butter a pudding-mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of cherries, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the cherries, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Pouding au Chocolat {Chocolate Pudding). lb. chocolate (Kohler’s), ^ pint milk, i oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, 4 eggs, \ teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Break up the chocolate, put it with the milk in a stew-pan, and boil up. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little without taking colour, add the cake-crumbs, moisten with milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thick and leaves the sides of the pan per-