DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HUT;. 293 Merlan frit a la Richelieu.—Proceed the same as directed for ‘'Whiting a I’Anglaise,” and just before serving place a lew thin slices of truffles on fhe fish. Filets de Merlans a la Comtesse {Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases and served with a garnish of crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls. Sauce bearnaise tomate. — a la Maitre d’Hotel {Fillets of Whiting, Hotel-keeper's Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting served in parsley butter, or poached and served with maitre d’hotel sauce. — a I’Orly {Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned with oil and vinegar, and choppecl parsley, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served wifh tomato sauce. ROUGET—RED MULLET. Rougets grilles a la Maitre d’Hotel {Grilled Red Mullet). 4 red mullet, maitre d’hotel butter (p. 175), salad oil. Wipe the fish with a clamp cloth, and make 3 to 4 incisions across them with a sharp knife. Place on a dish, pour over the salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand thus for about an hour. Grease the gridiron, place on it the red mullet, and cook them slowly over or in front of a bright fire. Turn frecpiently. When done, take up the fish. Put some maitre d’hotel butter on a dish, place the red mullet upon this, spread a little more maitre d’hotel butter on top of each fish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve hot. Rougets a la FranQillon. 4 red mullet, olive oil, flour, bread, butter, anchovy butter, tomato sauce, potatoes, parsley. Clean the fish, make a few incisions on each side of them, dip in oil and flour, and grill in front of or over a clear fire. Have ready four croutes of bread, cut and shaped the same as the fish, and fried in clarified butter. Butter the croutes with anchovy butter, and place one grilled red mullet on each. Dish up and pour a well-prepared tomato sauce, into which a small quantity of anchovy butter (p. 174) has been incorporated, over the fish. Garnish with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley, and serve. Rougets en Filets a la Juive {Fillets of Red Mullet, Jewish Style). 3 to 4 red mullets, 1 gill sweet oil. i teaspoouful chopped parsley mixed with a few leaves of fennel and tarragon, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat or frying-oil, pepper and salt, tartare (p. 160) or vert-pre sauce (p, 161). Carefully remove the fillets from the fish, lay them in a pie- dish, sprinkle over some salt, a good pinch of pepper, and the chopped parsley, etc., pour over the oil and let the fillets lie there for at least one hour. Take up the fillets one by one, drain, but do not wipe them. Dip each into flour, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs or panurette. Fry in hot fat or oil a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with parsley, and send to table with a boat of tartare sauce (p. 160)