THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK: 750 and a glass of Madeira, reduce well, and coat the apples with it. Place the dish in a very hot oven for a few seconds to glaze them, and serve hot. Pommes a la Lexington {Fried Apples). 8 green cooking apples, i oz. flour, i oz. castor sugar, i egg, cake-crumbs, ground cinnamon, pineapple jam, frying-fat. Peel and core the apples, put them in a steamer or in the oven, and cook till nearly done. When cold, mix the Hour and sugar with a good pinch of cinnamon, and dip each apple into this, then in beaten egg, and roll in cake-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden brown, drain, and fill the centre with pineapple jam or grated pineapple. Place a round of red-currant jelly on top of each, dish up, and serve hot or cold. If served cold, chopped wine jelly should be served round the dish. A fruit syrup (pineapple or apricot) should be handed round with the dish in either case. Pommes a la Neige {Snow Apples). 6 sour cooking apples, lemon, 4 to 6 oz. sugar, i tablespoonful cream, V pint milk, 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. \^anilla pod or essence for flavouring. Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them in a stew-pan with some lemon-rind, a little water, and two ounces of sugar, cook till tender, and pass through a fine sieve. Add the cream and let cool. Boil up the milk, adding the vanilla fiavouring and enough sugar to sweeten. Whisk the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gently into this, return to the fire, allow the eggs to bind, then strain. Butter a pie-dish, put in the apple puree, and pour over the prepared custard. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and arrange it in rock-like pieces over the custard, dredge the whole with sugar, and bake in a fairly hot oven till the egg-whites have acquired a light brown colour. Serve quickly. Casserole de Pommes au Riz {Moulded Apple Stew). 6 cooking apples {Wellington or Newtown), 4 oz. rice, i oz. butter, pint milk, 3 oz. castor sugar, \ teaspoonful of salt, i oz. chopped almonds, i oz. orange-peel, i yolk and i whole egg, i f oz. of glace cherries. Peel and core the apples, put them in a saute-pan with two ounces of sugar and a gill of water, put the lid on, and place in a hot oven until tender. Wash and drain the rice, add it to the milk when nearly boiling, and cook slowly until almost clone. Remove from stove, and add the orange-peel, finely chopped, the cherries, cut into small dice, the almonds, chopped and pounded, the butter, the remaining ounce of sugar, and the salt. Mix well together, adding the eggs at the same time. Have ready a round timbale mould, butter it well, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and line bottom and sides thickly with the prepared rice. Place the apples in the centre, leaving out one for garnish, and fill up with rice. Cover with a buttered paper or cloth, stand it in a deep stew-pan half-filled with boiling water, cover over and cook for an hour. Remove the mould, let stand for a minute, then turn out on a hot