HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Quenelles de Veau a la Tyrolienne {Fried Veal Quenelles). 2' lb. lean veal, 6 oz. soft bread. ^ pint milk, 3 whole and 3 yolks of eggs, a couple of tablespoonfuls white sauce (bechamel or veloutee), 3 to 4 oz. lean bacon, J lemon, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 4 small ripe tomatoes, i pint rich stock, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, parsley, fried broad croutons. Prepare the quenelle farce as directed in preceding recipe. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice. Fry the bacon, ent into dice, in 2 oz. of butter, put in the rice, stir for a few minutes without browning, cover with stock, cook gently until tender, stirring occasionally, and adding more stock as required. Slice the tomatoes, toss them in butter over a quick fire, season with pepper and salt, add the juice of half a lemon and a little stock, boil for ten minutes, and strain. Reserve a little of this sance to go round the dish, and put the remainder into the rice, which must be allowed to reduce to the right consistency for moulding. Poach the cpienelles in stock or salted water, when cold dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Fill a buttered border mould with the rice, unmould quickly on to a round entree dish, and place a round croute in the centre of the rice. Arrange the quenelles on top of the border and croute, pour the tomato sauce round, and garnish with fried parsley. Quenelles de Veau a la Villeroi {Veal Quenelles, VUlevoi Style). 8 oz. lean veal (fillet), } oz. flour, i oz. butter, ^ gill stock, 2 eggs, y gill cream, seasoning, ^ pint veloutee sauce, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful chopped ham or tongue, frying-fat, French beans for garnish. Prepare and cook the quenelles as directed in “ Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo.” Mix thoroughly, and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. M'hen cold mask them completely with well-reduced veloutee sauce, let set, then egg and crumb them carefully (mix the breadcrumbs with a little chopped ham or tongue), and fry in clarified fat to a golden colour. Dish up in the form of a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with cooked French beans, tossed in butter. Heat up the remainder of veloutee sauce, and add the meat glaze to it, pour this round the base of the dish, and serve. RIS DE VEAU-SWEETBREADS. To Blanch Sweetbreads. After having soaked the sweetbreads in cold water from two to three hours, put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover. Let the whole come cpnckly to the boil, then plunge quickly into cold water, let them remain for half an hour, and drain well. Ris de Veau frit a I’Americaine {Fried Sweetbread). Cut a blanched sweetbread into slices about half an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, beat up an egg, add a little chopped parsley and half an ounce of melted butter, mix well ; dip