52s ENTRIiES OF GAME, ETC. {HOF DISHES). Roast one of the partridges, bone and pound the other, add the raw egg, panade, and veloutee sance. Season to taste, and rnb through a wire sieve. Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into thin slices. Stamp ont some rounds for garnishing eight to ten cutlet shapes, stamp out some little rounds of hard-boiled white of egg, truflie, and mushroom. Rutter eight to ten cutlet moulds, decorate them with the pre})ared rounds, and put them on the ice to set. Work up the farce, and put a thin layer in each mould, lay a thin slice of cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, press down and smooth over with a wet knife, put them in a saute- pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Heat up the hnanciere ragout in the sauce IMadere, add the remaining mush- rooms and truffles, left whole or cut in dice, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed potatoes. x\rrange the hnanciere as a garniture artistically on the croute, pour the sauce round, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Partridge Hodge-podge. 1 brace of partridges, f lb. streaky bacon, 2 sheep’s kidneys, 6 to 8 sance oysters (bearded), i shallot, 4 potatoes, i gill stock, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Bone the birds and cut them into neat pieces. Cut the bacon into slices, skin the kidneys and slice them, peel and chop the shallot, wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into round slices about ont- eighth of an inch thick. Take a fireproof tureen, or large baking-dish, butter it well, and All np with alternate layers of partridge, bacon, kidneys, and oysters, with a layer of potato slices in the centre. Season each layer with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne, sprinkle the chopped shallot over the top, and pour in the stock. Melt the butter, dip each slice of the remaining I'potatoes in the butter and arrange them on the top of the contents of the dish ; the slices must overlap each other neatly and be arranged in rows, covering the surface completely. Pour the remainder of the melted butter over the potatoes. Sprinkle with a few fried bread- crumbs, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook the dish in a moderately-heated oven for about two hours, ^^dlen done remove the buttered paper, sprinkle the top with parsley, and serve hot. Pate de Perdreaux [Partridge Pic). 2 young partridges, lb. lean veal, lb. boiled bacon or gammon, i gill soubise or onion sauce, i oz. butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, preserved mushrooms, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Puff or rough paste for covering. Procure the birds ready trussed, divide them into halves, and