897 BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. spread a tablespoonful of sauce over the top of each, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and place a few tiny bits of butter here aud there on the surface. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Dish up, garnish to taste, and serve hot. Curried Sardines. Open a tin of boneless sardines, pour from it all the oil into a frying-pan, cut up a shallot finely, and fry to a pale yellow, pour off the oil and add a dessertspoonful of “ Empress ” curry powder and a teaspoonful of Hour, and fry a little. Moisten with one gill of stock or water, and boil for a few minutes. Skin the sardines and place them on a buttered gratin dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, place them in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve with a small dish of plain boiled rice. Baked Whiting. Skin and fillet three whiting, butter a baking-dish, spread over it two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, place in the whiting fillets, sprinkle some minced mushrooms on top, a little oiled butter, some chopped parsley, and a few breadcrumbs. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes and serve hot. Savoury Macaroni with Ham. P lb. macaroni or spaghetti, 4 to 6 oz. lean cooked ham, i oz. batter, i oz. grated parmesan or gniyere cheese, 1 gill cream, salt anti pepper, fried breadcrumbs. Break the macaroni into short pieces, drop them into fast boiling, slightly salted water, cook till tender, drain, and cool. Chop the ham rather finely. Put the butter in a stew-pan, add the macaroni, when hot, stir over the fire for a few minutes, tlien add the grated cheese, a little stock (if handy), and the cream. Spread a layer of this on a well-buttered gratin or ordinary fireproof dish, sprinkle over chopped ham, and proceed thus until the macaroni and ham are used up. Season with pepper. Cover the surface with a few fried breadcrumbs, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven and serve hot. Bacon and Macaroni. 4 oz. Italian macaroni, 8 oz. streaky bacon, 1- pint stock, i oz. butter. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, cook for five minutes, then drain and cool. Boil up the stock, skim, and add the macaroni, cook till quite tender, but not pulpy. Slice the bacon rather thinly, cut it into small dice, and fry a little in a saute-pan. Now add the cooked macaroni and the butter, season with pepper, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg, stir carefully over the fire and cook lor another ten minutes. Let it get a nice brown, then turn on to a hot dish and serve. Baked Bacon and Eggs {Scotch Breakfast Dish). 6 oz. of Hour, 2 oz. of butter, I a teaspoonful of baking-powder, d lb, of bacon, 1- gill cream, ^ eggs, pepper and a pinch of salt. Put the Hour and baking-powder into a basin, rub in the butter, 3 L