THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 290 fish. Fill up each case with the souffle mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Note.—If preferred, this dish may be baked in one large souffle dish. Filets de Soles a la Trouville. 3 medium-sized soles, i gill white wine, stock, 12 champignons, 12 mussels, 12 oysters. -1- pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), 2 yolks eggs, a pat of fresh butter, meat glaze. Skin the soles, take up the fillets, fold, flatten slightly, and trim them neatly. Place in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, moisten with a gill of white wine and a little white stock. Cover, and let cook for about fifteen minutes over a quick fire, drain the fillets, and keep warm. Next put in the saute-pan the mushroom-heads, with a little of their liquor, also the mussels and oysters, and cook until thoroughly hot. Dish up the fillets en couronne, alternating each fillet with one large oyster. Reduce the gravy with half a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142), take out mushrooms and mussels, thicken with the yolks of eggs and fresh butter. Pass through a napkin or tammy cloth, return to the pan with the garnishing, arrange the heads of mushrooms on the top of the fillets, and the remainder of garnishing in the centre of dish, sauce over, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Victoria. Fold the fillets and cook them in a buttered saute-pan with a little white wine. Dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in the oven. Sauce over with a well reduced white wine sauce (sauce au Vin Blanc, p. 162), garnish with chopped truffle and tongue, also with some small fleurons (half- moons of puff-paste). Filets de Soles a la Xavier. 2 medium-sized soles,' 4 gill white wine, \ oz. butter, salt, pepper, enough whiting forcemeat (p. 177) to fill a border mould, Xavier sauce (p. 163). Skin the soles, fillet them, tie each fillet in a knot, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in a quick oven. Butter a border mould, fill up with whiting forcemeat. Cook in the oven in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Dress the cooked fillets in a circle on the border. Cover completely with hot Xavier sauce. Sprinkle a few drops of liquid meat glaze over the surface, and serve. Use fish-bones and essence of the fillets in making the above sauce. Soles a la Bismark.—Fillets of soles soaked in a marinade of oil, vinegar, and parsley, spread with fish farce, and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine and fish stock. Dressed on a border of pota-fo puree, browned in oven, sauced over with sauce Normande, sprinkled with grated parmesan, and browned in a very hot oven. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor. Dressed on dish, sauced over with white mush- room sauce, and baked in a sharp oven.