400 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. reduced. Put some onion pnree or soubise sauce, piled up in the centre, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. 6 or 8 neatly-pared mutton cutlets, 2 oz. butter, gill soubise sauce, i gill pompadour sauce, } pint macedoine vegetables, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, fry slightly in‘butter, drain, and place between two boards to press. Coat both sides of the cutlets with well-reduced cold soubise sauce. Egg and crumb twice. Fry slowly in clarihed fat or butter, drain, and dish up in a circle. Heat up the macedoine of vegetables with a little pompadour sauce, season, put in the centre of the dish, and serve. Lamb or pork cutlets are served in the same style. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Prince de Galles. 4 to 6 mutton cutlets, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 3 oz. ham, 2 yolks of eggs, I large pig’s caul, 2 small shallots, 2 tomatoes, chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, make an incision at the side of each cntlet with a small knife so as to slit the meat without making a wide opening. Pound the veal or rabbit meat and ham (freed from fat, skin or gristle), when line incorporate the yolks of eggs, and a little cream if found too stiff, season well, and rub through a sieve. Put the farce in a cornet or forcing-bag, and press the farce into the cavity of each cutlet. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Heat the butter in a saute-pan, and fry each side of the cutlets just for a minute or so to brown, take up, and let cool. Cut the tomatoes into slices, allowing one neat slice for each cutter. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry a little in the butter wherein the cutlets were partially cooked, also broil the sliced tomatoes, place one slice on each cutlet, sprinkle over some parsley, and a very little of the shallots. Wrap them separately in pieces of caul, the ends of which may, if liked, be moistened with a little white of egg, egg and crumb them carefully and neatly, fry them in hot fat (lard is preferable) for about ten minutes, take up, drain, and dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. The dish may be garnished with macedoine of vegetables or green peas. Serve hot with brown, tomato or piquante sauce. Note.—The cutlets must be trimmed so as to remove all or nearly all the fat and skin. Instead of frying the cutlets in deep fat, they can be placed in a well-buttered pan and be cooked in the oven, when about fifteen minutes should be allowed. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Princesse. Trim ten to twelve small mutton cutlets in the usual way, fry them a little in butter, press between two baking-sheets, when cold, cover one side of them with a thin layer of chicken forcemeat (p. 178), mixed with finely-minced mushrooms and trnfiies. Dip them in stiffly reduced Madere sauce, place them on the ice to set the sauce, dip them in egg and crumbs, fry in clarified