749 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. ABRICOTS—APRICOTS. Suedoise d’Abricots. Choose twelve large apricots, halve them, remove stones, and blanch the kernels. Make a syrup with -J- lb. loaf sugar and })int water, put in the apricots while the sjnmp boils, add a small glass of curagoa, simmer for a few minutes, then drain the fruit cm a hair sieve. Cut a cork-shaped piece of bread about three inches long, also twenty-four round slices, about the shape of halves of apricots, fry these in hot butter, drain, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon and castor sugar, fasten the large crouton on the centre of a round dish with a little marmalade, put each half-apricot on one of the small croutons, and arrange them in rows round the centre piece, hnishing with a fruit on the top. Stand the dish in the oven to get hot, boil up the syrup, pour over the apricots, upon each one put half a kernel, ornament with a few strips of angelica, and serve. Abricots a la Conde.—Prepare a timbale or border of cooked rice, flavoured with cream and vanilla, surmount it with compote of apricots, and decorate neatly with glace cherries and angelica; serve hot or cold, with fruit syrup. — a la Creole {Apricots, Creole Style).—This consists of preserved firm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk and flavoured with vanilla. Coat each with reduced apricot mar- malade, dip in beaten egg, and roll in pulverised macaroons. Fry them to a light brown- in clarified butter. Dish up on rounds of fried cake or bread croutons made to adhere to the dish with a little marmalade; sauce over with a thick apricot sauce, and serve hot. — a la Reine.—Prepare and bake Genoise cake border, fill the centre with apricot compote, and garnish neatly with glace fruit; sauce over with dissolved apricot marmalade, flavoured with kirsch. — au Riz {Apricots with Rice).—Stewed apricots, dressed on a border of cooked sweetened rice ; garnished with glaced fruit ; may be served hot or cold. — au Riz meringue {Frosted Apricots with Rice).—As above, omitting the garnish, and coating the whole with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in a moderate oven. Note.—Peaches and pears can be prepared and treated in the same manner as apricots. POMMES—APPLES. Pommes au Beurre {Braised Buttered Apples). Peel thinly eight or more even-sized reinette apples or other small sour cooking apples, cut out the core of each by means of a column-cutter. xArrange the apples in a well buttered saute-pan, put about a teaspoonful of moist sugar in the cavity of each apple. Pour over them a little oiled butter, sprinkle with lemon-juice, and bake with the lid on the pan in a moderate oven till done. Care must be taken to keep the apples whole. Arrange them neatly on a round dish, and fill the centre of each with red-currant jelly. Have ready a syrup composed of red-currant jelly, one pat of butter.