THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 456 Tournedos a la Rachel.—Grilled tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef-marrow sauce (moelle). — a la Riche.—Grilled tournedos with artichoke bottoms filled with green peas placed on each, and a slice of trufife on top ; sauce choron. — Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casserole, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, champignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Scribe.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons of rice spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce Madere. —Strasbourgeoise.—Broil or grill the tournedos, place a slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each, and serve with Madere sauce. a la Thiers.—Parboiled tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with Sauterne wine. — a la Troya.—Grilled tournedos with an anchovy fillet and a slice of truffle on top of each ; when cold enclosed in brioche paste (p. 137), and baked in a quick oven ; served with sauce Madere containing finely cut strips of truffle. — a la Valliere.—Tournedos sauted in butter and dressed on croutons of fried bread, coated with demi-glace sauce containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms, and tongue. Note.—Rump steaks, porterhouse steaks, tenderloin steaks, sirloin steaks, entrecotes, fillet steaks, beef olives, and tournedos may also be prepared and served in a greater variety by substituting any appropriate garnish or sauce with their respective names as herein indicated. PORC—PORK. Filets de Pore a la Perigueux [Fillets of Pork with Truffle Sauce). Bone a small neck of pork, trim off all the fat, and lard one side with strips of fat bacon. Place it in a deep saute-pan, on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and bouquet garni, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Let it come to the boil, and finish cooking in a moderate oven, basting frequently. When done, take up, skim the liquor and strain into a small stewpan, add about three-quarters of a pint of perigueux sauce, boil up, and let simmer for a few minutes. Dish up the fillets, left whole, or cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, pour over some sauce, and serve the remainder separately. A border of mashed potatoes brushed over with egg, and baked in the oven, will serve well as a base for the fillets, and greatly improves the appearance of the dish. Cotelettes de Pore a la Robert [Pork Cutlets with Robert Sauce). Cut eight to nine small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck of pork. Trim and pare neatly, leaving about half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets in a deep dish, season with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, pour over two tablespoonfuls