THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 522 bake in a fairly hot oven a nice golden brown. Place a little white paper frill upon the foot of each quail, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Cailles en Papillotes [Quails in Paste Cnist). 6 small quails, 2 small onions, i carrot, celery, 2 fresh mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, ij oz. meat glaze, J lb. feuilletage (p. 133) or rough puff-paste, a little sauce Madere, seasoning. Pluck and singe the quails, and bone the breasts from the inside. Shred hnely the onions, red part of the carrot, white part of celery, and mushrooms. Fry all these in a stew-pan with the butter till a light fawn colour, and stir frequently till cool. When done, season and moisten with meat glaze and spread on a plate to cool. Shape the mixture into small balls, insert one into each quail, shape them neatly, and enclose in rough puff-paste, just like a dumpling. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg- yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Dish up on an entree dish on a folded napkin, and send to table with a boat of well-flavoured sauce Madere. Pate de Cailles et Ris de Veau Moscovite [Quail and Sweetbread Pie, Muscovite Style). 3-4 fat quails, 2 oz. rice, i oz. butter, calf’s sweetbreads, mirepoix, i pint rich stock, bacon, 3 cepes, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 4 oz. ham, ^ pint supreme sauce, f lb. flour, 8 oz. butter for paste (rough puff), seasoning, sauce Villeroi. Blanch, trim, and press the sweetbreads ; braise them with the quails on a mirepoix in the usual manner, and let cool. Toss the rice in the butter for five minutes, then moisten with half the stock, add two slices of streaky bacon, previously cut into strips and fried, add more stock with seasoning, and cook till tender. Cut the cepes into slices, and toss in butter. Slice the eggs, and cut the ham into thin slices. Prepare the paste, roll it out, place it in a well- floured napkin, and put this into a pudding-basin, thus lining it. Coat the inside of the paste crust with a layer of rice, then with slices of hard-boiled egg. Next put in the quails, cut in quarters, and the sweetbread cut into slices, the cepes, and the ham. Sauce over each layer with cold supreme sauce and seasoning. When the shape is filled, trim off the paste round the edge, roll it out again, and fix on a cover, wetting the edges. Now turn the shape carefully on to a buttered baking-tin, remove the napkins, brush away the flour, egg the paste, and decorate with fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over these with beaten egg, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Slip the pate carefully on to a hot dish, and send it to table with a boat of hot Villeroi sauce, made as follows ; To h pint of allemande sauce add one tablespoonful each of truffle essence and ham essence, reduce, and season to taste. Cailles en Caisses.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases ; served with perigueux sauce,