SJLADES—SA LADS. 707 pepper, mustard, and finely chopped parsley, other herbs, and shallots. Dish np tastefully. This is an excellent way of using up cooked calf’s feet or calf’s head. Salade Nantoise {Crab and Lettuce Salad). 2 cabbage lettuces, i gill asparagus tips (cooked), i cooked crab, i hard- boiled egg, 2 oz. smoked salmon, vinaigrette dressing and seasoning, parsley and chives. ,Trim and wash the lettuces, divide the leaves into small pieces, drain them well, and mix with the asparagus tips. Remove the meat from the crab, shred it finely and put it with the above. Cut the egg into slices, remove the yolks, and mix the latter with the vinaigrette. Season the salad with salt and pepper, and mix carefully with the vinaigrette, arrange it neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of eggs and smoked salmon cut into fine shreds, sprinkle with chopped parsley and chives, and serve. Salade aux QEufs {Egg Salad). 6 hard-boiled eggs, gill cream, I- gill mayonnaise sauce, chopped parsley, beetroot, red chillies and capers, salt and pepper, i lettuce, toasted bread. Shell the eggs, and cut them across into slices, tvhip the cream till stiff, add to it the mayonnaise and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash and trim the lettuce, place a roitnd of toasted bread in a salad bowl, dress on this a layer of lettuce-leaves, add a layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of slices of eggs, and so on until the eggs and lettuce are used up. Season each layer to taste. Pile up high, sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Garnish tastefully with slices of beetroot, capers, and red chillies, and serve. Salade d’CEufs en supreme. Slice lengthways six hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices foiir good truffles previously cooked in sherry. Stamp out some small rounds from a slice of cooked tongue. Put the three ingredients into a bowl with six small cooked new potatoes cut into slices. Beat up the yolks of three of the eggs with a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little tarragon mustard. Moisten with a little vinegar, and add gradually three tablespoonfuls of oil. Finally add to the salad a little tarragon, chervil, and chives, all finely chopped. Arrange neatly in a salad bowl, and decorate with small lettuce hearts and slices of beetroot. Salade Opera. Cut four-six slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue into fine julienne strips, also two-three truffles, and mix with an equal quantity of small green asparagus. Arrange this neatly in a salad bowl in the form of a border. Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in the centre, and place in quarters of lettuce hearts, and slices of hard-boiled egg or beetroot. Prepare a vinaigrette composed of olive oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, finely chopped gherkins, and herbs, pour this over the salad, and serve.