SOUPS {POTAGES). 215 and put with the soup, and also the truflles and champignons, previously cut into cubes or julienne shapes (strips). Boil up, skim, and serve with the braised onions previously placed into the soup-tureen. Potage a la Duchesse. 2 quarts chicken stock, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 oz. rice, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 tablespooufuls cooked sorrel puree, 4 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the hour and rice, and stir for a few minutes over the hre without allowing it to brown. Add gradually the stock, boil up, and cook gently for half an hour. Stir in the sorrel puree, and rub the whole through a hne sieve or tammy. Return to the stewpan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat up the egg-yolks, and mix with the cream, strain this into the soup ; cut the truffles and chicken meat ■ into small strips (julienne shapes), and add also ; stir over the hre till thoroughly hot, but avoid boiling, else the eggs will curdle. The soup is then ready for serving. Potage veloute au Riz [Cream of Rice Soup) 1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 quarts veal stock, 3 oz. rice, i bouquet garni, i small onion, 2 cloves, i bay-leaf, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Pick, singe, and draw the chicken, and cut into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the pieces of chicken and fry a golden colour, stir in the hour and cook for a few minutes without browning. Dilute with the stock and about a quart of water. Now add the bouquet garni, the onion, and cloves. Bring it to the boil and cook very gently till the chicken is tender. Take out the best pieces of chicken, remove skin and bone, cut the meat into small dice, and put them in a soup-tureen. Blanch the rice and put it with the soup. Continue to cook for another thirty minutes. Pass through a hne sieve, return to a clean stewpan, season to taste, add a little cream if liked, re-heat, and pour over the chicken dice in the soup-tureen, and serve. Creme de Volaille a la Francaise [French Chicken Cream). 2 quarts chicken stock, roast or boiled chicken, 2 oz. rice, i yolk of egg, r gill cream, 2 oz. fresh butter, i oz. flour, salt, pej^per, grated nutmeg. Wash, pick, and blanch the rice, cook till tender in the chicken stock, strain off enough rice to hll a teacup and keep it till required. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and fry a little without browning, dilute with half a pint of water and the chicken stock, adding also the remainder of rice. Cook gently for about half an hour, rub the soup through a sieve, and return to the stewpan. Remove the skin from the chicken and cut the meat into neat dice, put these into the soup, and cook for another ten minutes. Mix the egg-yolk with the cream and stir into the soup. Add the rice (put aside), and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg.