88 I AFTER-DIXNER SA VOURIES. mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan perfectly clean. Add two pinches of grated nutmeg and a ])inch of salt. Allow the mix- ture to cool a little, then stir in nearly all the cheese, tw(^ whole and the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and add also. Put the remainder of stock in a stew-pan with half as much water, season to taste, and when boiling drop in by means of a tablespoon neat shapes of the mixture, boil for several minutes, then drain and dish up. Pour over some hot bechamel sauce, and serve. Failles au Parmesan [Cheese Straws). About 6 oz. putt-paste, 2 oz. freshly grated pariuesaii cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board, use grated cheese in place. When rolling out for the last time sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut the paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a ejuarter in diameter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Failles a la Yarmouth {Yarmouth Cheese Straws). Make some cheese straw’s, as directed in the foregoing recipe, and cut some thin strips of smoked herrings (kippers) the same size as the paste ; place one of each together and twist them like a screw. Fix them on a baking-sheet ancl bake in a sharp o^’en for a few minutes. Dish up neat, and serve hot. Faillettes au Farmesan. These are cheese straws made of ])nff-paste and grated cheese, as directed for “Failles au Parmesan,’’ but the paste must be cut into somewhat thinner strips, and then baked, Fetites Condoles au Farmesan [Cheese Gondolas). Line eight to ten small boat-shaped or oval moulds w’ith ordinary paste-crust, fill with peas or rice, bake in the oven a nice colour, and take out the rice or dried peas. Put in a stew-pan three table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, w'arm up, and add about a gill of savoury aspic, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Allow it to reduce a little. Incorporate with one tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese and tw’o of grated grnyere cheese. W’hen perfectly cool add half a gill of w’hipped double cream. Fill a forcing-bag wdth the mixture and proceed to fill up the baked crusts, sprinkle the tops with grated parmesan, and serve. Aigrettes de Fromage [Cheese Aigrettes). 4 oz. flour dried and sifted, i oz. butter, 1 pint water, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated parmesan and gruyere cheese, paprika or cayenne pepper, frying fat. Put the w'ater and butter in a stew-pan and bring to the boil. 3 K