276, THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for about ten minutes. Have ready a garniture of prepared oysters, mussels, and button mushrooms. Put the sole on a dish, garnish neatly, and sauce over with Normande sauce (p. 155), in which the garniture has been cooked. Garnish the sides with croLites of bread made from rasped French dinner-rolls (buttered slices browned in the oven). Serve the remaining sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Soles au Parmesan. 2 medium-sized soles, i oz. Hour, i tablespoonful muslii'oom-juice, 2 oz. butter, i-^- oz. grated parmesan, i gill of milk, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Skin, trim, and wipe two medium-sized soles, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, pour over them the mushroom-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven until done. This will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. In the meantime put the milk to boil, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir over the fire until it becomes fawn colour ; then add the boiling milk, about an ounce of grated parmesan cheese, and a little boiling water. Stir over the fire until it boils, let it simmer for about ten minutes, add a little more water or fish stock should the sauce appear too thick, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. The soles being cooked by this time, place them on an oblong, flat dish, add the liquor which remains in the saute-pan to the sauce, strain it, pour over the fish, and sprinkle with the grated parmesan remaining. Place the dish in the oven or under a hot salamander just long enough for the top to take colour, and serve in the same dish. Soles a la Vatel, 2 medium-sized soles, -i- lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 3 small truffles, 12 prawns (picked), 12 mushroom-heads, 12 cocks’ kernels, i gill white wine, 2 French gherkins, 2 oz. butter, parsley and savoury herbs, pint white sauce, seasoning. Skin the soles, trim off the fins and heads, slit them down the back, and remove the bones without damaging the fish. Season with salt and pepper, and fill the cavities with whiting forcemeat, the latter having been mixed with a little chopped parsley, chopped truffle trimmings, and a tiny pinch of savoury herbs. Place the soles in a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with half a gill white wine, and a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Take up the soles, put them on a buttered dish, and when cold mask over with well-reduced white sauce, made in the following manner : Chop up the fish-bones and put them in the saute-pan where the soles were cooked, add a small piece of butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add half the remainder of the wine, cover, and let infuse for another five minutes. Add the white sauce, reduce to half its original quantity, stirring occasionally to prevent burning, season to taste, and pass through a tammy. When cold, mask the