THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the latter, being previously set on the ice and unmoulded, can be cut into slices of suitable size. Arrange them on top of each other, the largest round at the bottom and the smallest on top. Decorate the whole according to taste with glace royale, chopped pistachios, and glace cherries, if liked. Place it in a very hot oven for a few minutes only, so as to set the icing. The gateau is then ready for serving. Poires a la Hirondelle {Pears, Hirondelle Style). J lb. savarin paste, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i gill preserved or fresh raspberries, oz. pistachios, 12 small even-sized pears, y pint syrnp, I pint vanilla cream ice, |- gill tvhipped cream, some spun sugar for garnish. Have ready a fairly stiff savarin paste (p. 756), roll it out round about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Butter a set of special nest wire baskets, sprinkle thickly with brown crumbs, place in the paste, and set it to prove for fifteen minutes, then close the apparatus, plunge it into hot clarified butter, and fry to a golden colour. Take up, undo the wire basket, and place the fried nest shape on a tray to cool. Trim off the edges neatly, sprinkle over the whole with icing sugar, coat the edges with dis- solved apricot marmalade, and besprinkle with chopped pistachios to form a pretty border. Peel the pears, and cook them till tender in syrup, then put them on the ice. Mix the raspberries with some of the syrup, and reduce somewhat, flavour to taste, strain, and place this on the ice also. To dress, drain the pears, removing the stems and inserting strips of angelica instead. Fill the basket shape of pastry with the vanilla ice, upon this place a neat layer of sweetened whipped cream, range the pears neatly on top, and sauce over carefully with the raspberry syrup. Garnish to taste with spun sugar or otherwise, and serve at once. Poires a la Princesse. Small pears, stewed whole in a rich syrup ; remove natural stem and replace with strips of angelica. Dress them on a Genoise border, previously masked with apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with spun sugar (p. 132), and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Poires glacees {Iced Pears). Select pears of even size, peel them very thinly and carefully hollow out the centre. Prepare a light syrup strongly flavoured