644 the new century COOKERY BOOK. Jets de Houblon {Hopshoots). Hopshoots or hop sprigs, obtainable during April and May, make an excellent vegetable. They are prepared and cooked the same as asparagus, viz. boiled in salted water till tender ; when drained, dish up and serve with hollandaise or bechamel sauce, or if preferred with vinaigrette dressing. Laitues braisees au Jus {Braised Lettuces). 6 lettuces, 6 slices fat bacon, i small onion, parsley, and herbs, about \ pint of stock (brown), i gill demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. Choose the lettuces of even and medium size, take off the out- side leaves, trim, par-boil, cool, press out the water, but keeping them in shape. Lay them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, slices of onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a spt'ig of marjoram. Moisten with stock, and braise in the oven for about hour. Take out the lettuces, strain on a sieve, pare, shape them neatly, and dish up. Remove fat, etc., from the liquid. Add the demi-glace, reduce well, strain, and sauce over the lettuces. Pains de Laitues {Lettuce Timbales). 8 firm cabbage lettuces, 2 oz. butter, |- oz. flour, 3 eggs, gill rich gravy, -1- gill double cream, gill Madeira sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Trim and wash the lettuces. Boil fast till tender in slightly salted water. Drain, squeeze out the moisture, and chop them very finely. Melt id oz. butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, stir for a few minutes, then add the minced lettuces, moisten with the gravy, stir with a wooden spoon till the whole simmers. Cook for a few minutes, remove the pan from the fire, let cool a little, and add by degrees the yolks of three eggs, the whites of two, and the cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up some well-buttered dariole or timbale moulds. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and poach in the oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with sauce Madere. Marrons au Jus {Stewed Chestnuts). it- lb. chestnuts, i quart stock, i small blade mace, i piece of celery, i small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, \ gill brown sauce, i oz. butter, i oz. meat glaze, the juice of I- lemon, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Slit the chestnuts, put them in the oven for about ten minutes, remove the outer husks, par-boil them in slightly salted water for about twenty minutes, drain, and remove the inner skin. Put them in a stew-pan with the stock, mace, celeryand onion, and boil from thirty to forty-five minutes. When mealy, pour off the stock, drain the chestnuts, return them to the stew-pan, add the butter, and toss them over a brisk fire, taking great care not to break them. Pour off the butter, add the meat glaze and the sauce, when hot, put in the lemon-juice, season to taste, dish up, and serve hot.