COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 775 N’anilla pod. When done take out the vanilla and pass through a wire sieve. (The chestnut puree should weiglrabout eight ounces.) Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan, add about a gill of water, and reduce to a syrup. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain with the syrup, mix the chestnut juice with this, and stir over the fire until it becomes quite smooth, turn into a basin, and let cool. Melt the chocolate with the jelly, strain, and let cool a little, mask the inside of a border mould with this, put on the ice to set, then fill up with the half-set chestnut mixture, and keep cool to set well. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten with vanilla sugar, and put on a sieve to drain. Immerse the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn out on a dish. Dress the cream in the centre in the shape of a pyramid, and place a few glace chestnuts and round shapes of cream on the border. Bordure de Prunes a la Creme {Prune Border with Cream). I lb. prunes, lb. loaf sugar, i gill claret, the rind of i a lemon thinl}' cut, I inch cinnamon stick, 4 oz. leaf gelatine, i gill cream. Stone the prunes, put them on the fire in a fireproof pot or stew-pan with the lemon-rind, cinnamon, claret, sugar, and a pint of water, stew slowl}/ until tender, adding a little more claret if needed, and pass through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain into the prepared pulp, half an ounce is reckoned sufficient for every pint of pulp. Mix well, cool a little, pour into a border mould previously lined with clear wine jelly. When cold and set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, decorate with shreds of pistachio kernels and almonds. Wdiip the cream, sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar, put it in the centre of the mould, and serve. Bordure Japonaise a la Gelee. Prepare a small savarin border (p. 756), and bake a light colour. Mask a larger border mould w-ith maraschino jelly. Coat the cake-border with liquefied apricot marmalade, and when set drop it into the prepared mould. Fill up with maraschino jelly, and