229 HORS-D'CE U VRE {A PPEPISERS). Huitres a la Richelieu. 12 large sauce oysters, small lobster, i gill cream, -} pint aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise sauce, -j- ounce French gelatine, ^ gill tomato puree, tarragon and chervil leaves for garnish, I small head celery, a gill picked shrimps. Beard the oysters, and poach them in their own liquor. Reduce the oyster liquor, and strain into the aspic jelly (great care must be taken to preserve the latter perfectly clear). Chop the meat of the lobster rather finely, melt the gelatine in the tomato puree, strain, and mix with half the jelly. Whisk the cream, and stir it together with a tablespoonful of mayonnaise into the above. Whisk for some minutes, then add the minced lobster. Mask some deep oyster moulds with aspic jelly, decorate tastefully with sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves. Mix the remainder of aspic with the remaining mayonnaise sauce, and pour a thin layer of it over the decorated moulds ; when set, fill each with the prepared puree, and place on the ice until set. Meanwhile, prepare a salad with the celery (finely shredded) and the shrimps, and season to taste. Turn out the moulds, arrange the oysters on a dish in the form of a border, fill the centre with the prepared salad, garnish the dish to taste, and serve. Appetissants Maconnaise. 3 hard-boiled eggs, i truffle, 2 gherkins, 3 red chillies, 6 Cforgona anchovies, J- gill well-reduced bechamel (p. 142), 2 blanched mussels or sauce oysters, I oz. butter, a pinch pepper, bread for toast. Prepare 8 to 10 rounds of toasted bread, about inch in diameter and ^ inch thick, and hollow out the centre portion of each to receive the puree. In a mortar pound the yolks of eggs, 4 filleted anchovies, mussels or oysters, and butter, till smooth, season with a pinch of pepper, adcl the bechamel sauce, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the hollow part of the rounds of toast with this, garnish the surface of each with little strips of truffles, gherkins, chillies, and anchovies. These will look best if put on in the form of lattice-work. Put the remainder of the savoury puree in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, with a fancy tube decorate the edges artistically. Dish up on little glass dishes, and serve. Appetissants a la Suedoise. 4 slices of stale brown bread, 2 harcl-boiled eggs, it oz. butter, i oz. anchovy paste, 4 Spanish olives, 2 gherkins, cooked beetroot, 4 slices preserved lax. Cut triangle shapes from bread about half an inch thick, hollow out the centre of each by means of a sharp-pointed knife, fry in clarified butter a nice golden colour, and drain. Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, butter, and anchovy paste in a mortar, fill the cavity of triangles when cold with this puree. Cut the hard-boiled whites of eggs, gherkins, and beetroot into small strips. Stone the olives, cut in halves, and fill each with some of the above puree. Place half a slice of preserved lax, neatly shaped, on top of this, and arrange the strips of gherkin, egg, and beetroot alternately cross-wise on each triangle so as to form a lattice pattern. Put a half of filled olive in the centre of each, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and dish up.