HOT MEAT ENTltfZES, ETC. 395 Remove the meat from the loin and trim into a neat fillet, paring off the snperliuous fat. Cut the meat into about eight noisettes (fillets), shape each nicely. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and cook the noisettes over a quick hre till done (great care must be taken not to over-cook them), season them before or after cooking. Heat the artichoke fonds in the broth, chop the mushrooms, previously washed and peeled, saute them in butter, add the lemon-juice, meat glaze or extract, and the chopped herbs. Season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Fill the artichokes with this. Dress the noisettes on a hot dish, place an artichoke fond on top of each, garnish with lleurons or croutons of bread, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Noisettes d’Agneau au Chou {Braised Lamb Chops). Procure eight to ten small lamb chops, free them from skin, fat, and bone, toss in butter, and braise them with small spring cabbages made up into small rolls ; serve with sauce demi-glace. Queues d’Agneau a la Russe {Lambs’ Tails d la Russe). 4 or 5 lambs' tails, i glass Chablis, pint stock, i clove of garlic, i bay- leaf, r sprig of thyme and i of basil, 2 cloves, i small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying-batter, and frying-fat. Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small joints, blanch, and drain. Cook until tender in the stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, parsley, etc. Season to taste, allow them to cool in the stock. Chop a little parsley, and mix with the frying-batter, drain the pieces of tail in a cloth, dip them in the prepared batter, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with hot tomato sauce. Ris d’Agneau a la Voltaire {Lamb’s Bread d la Voltaire). 8 lambs’ breads of good size, 8 cooked aidichoke bottoms (fonds d’arti- chauts), I small onion, i carrot, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, i bouquet garni, I- pint rich stock, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce, 3 egg-yolks, seasoning, I oz, parmesan cheese (grated), i oz. butter. Trim the breads, blanch, drain, and pare them neatly. Prepare a mirepoix with the onion, carrot, bacon, and bouquet, put this in a saute-pan, place the lambs’ breads upon it, moisten with stock, season with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and braise in the oven from thirty to forty minutes, basting occasionally. When done, take up the breads and glaze them. Strain the stock and reduce it a little, remove all fat and add a liaison of egg-yolks with two tablespoonfnls of bechamel sauce. As soon as it begins to thicken pass it through a hne sieve and keep hot. Place the artichoke bottoms on a buttered sairte-pan, into each put a teaspoonful of the prepared sauce, put the lambs’ breads upon this, and sauce over well with the above sauce, sprinkle well with grated parmesan cheese, as well as with oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven for six minutes, dish up, and serve with a suitable sauce.