STOCKS AND SOUPS. 97 and game, should never be wasted, but hnd their way to the stock-pot. In using stock for soup, clear or thick, we have to remember that it has the tendency to turn sour when the air temperature rises beyond sixty degrees. Precautions against this can be taken : a. By using the freshest of ingredients, meat, vegetables, etc., in proper proportion. h. By boiling up the stock daily. c. By removing the fat as soon as it congeals on the surface of a stock. The removal of fat is most essential to all hnished stocks and hnished soups alike. Soups, no matter of what kind, should never be greasy. It is strongly advisable that stock for soups should be prepared the day before it is required. If this advice be followed a great deal of labour may be saved, and better results will be obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept for two days, provided it be put away in clean vessels (earthenware pans). Fish Stock, for “ Maigre Soupes.”—This can be made of almost any kind of fish, but oily fish should be avoided. Fish broth, as all know, is particularly nourishing, light, and digestible. Thick-skinned fish always make the best broth. The following is an excellent stock : Take 2 lbs. fish and fish bones, set it in a pot with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with two cloves, a few peppercorns, mace, and a bouquet. Skim as it comes to a boil, and allow it to reduce to about half its quantity by very slow simmering. A little white wine or vinegar is often put with this stock. Wine gives a specially nice flavour to fish broth. Salt must be added at the last moment. Preparations made from Stocks are summarised as follows : First stock (bouillon or broth). Second or general stock (remouil- lage) ; this is a re-fill of the first stock. Essences. Half-glaze [Demi-glace), a reduction of first or second stock ; and lastly, glaze. SOUPS IN GENERAL. Soup is unquestionably the most judicious beginning of a dinner, no matter whether plain or recherche. When properly prepared they are most stimulating, wliolesome, and highly esteemed compounds. No part of cookery seemed until recent years to be so imperfectly understood, especially by ordinary cooks, as the preparation of soups. The upper classes look upon soup as an essential part or course of a dinner. Properly speaking, it is the prelude of a dinner. The middle classes, generally speaking, appreciate the importance of soup as a nutritive and sustaining diet, whilst tlie poorer and labouring classes look upon it with disdain, which, to be quite plain, can only be regarded as a sign of ignorance. There has been a good deal of needless discussion regarding the G