26 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. An ox, when killed and skinned, is generally divided into about twenty parts or joints. The manner of cutting up beef and other meat varies. The diagrams given show the most prohtable method. The fore-rib, mid-rib, and sirloin are best adapted for roasfing whole ; when cut into slices they are very good for grilling or broiling. Entrecotes (sirloin-steaks), contre-filets (rib-steaks), and Porterhouse- steaks are cut from fhe sirloin and mid-rib (see Figs, i and 2 in diagram). Sirloin and rib of beef, when boned, are frequently braised and served as Releve (remove). These, together with the hllet and the rump, are the most expensive joints of an ox. Sirloins and ribs of beef are the best, but rather expensive joints, owing to the weight of bone. The roasfing side of fhe round part of the buttock, and the part called the “ topside,” are the most profitable. The mouse buttock is used for stewing ; shin and neck are used for soup or stewing. The rump and hllet are the most tender and succulent parts ; they are usually braised, or else cut into steaks and grilled. In some parts of England (parficularly in Devonshire and Cornwall) the rump is cut larger than in other parts, and when salted and boiled, forms one of the standard joints ; but as much of the albumen and nourishment of fhis part of meat is lost in the brine, salted meat should be used in moderation. When the fat of beef appears hard and skinny, and a kind of horny texture runs through the rib part of the meat, it is old and of inferior quality. Beef fat is one of the best fats for frying and ofher cooking purposes. Suet is the hard fat which protects the kidneys. MODE OF CUTTING UP BEEF. An ox, cow or heifer is divided (jointed) as follows (see plate) : 1. Fore Ribs, suitable for roasting. 2. The Sirloin, suitable for roasting. 3. The Rump, suitable for roasting, braising, grilling, etc. (best part for steaks). 4. The Aitchbone, sometimes called the round ; it.is below the rumj) at the hind part, suitable for roasting and boiling, or, when salted, boiled or stewed. 5. The Mouse (buttock), which includes part of the thigh bone, suitable for braising, boiling, grilling, and stewing. This piece is also salted at times. 6. The Leg, also called the veiny piece, suitable for stewing. Used for soup stock. 7. Thick Flank, generally boiled or stewed. 8. Thin Flank, generally boiled or stewed. g. Nine Holes, includes part of the brisket, chiefly salted or ])icklcd, and boiled ; also used plain for boiling and stewing purposes. This part is less fat than the brisket proper. 10. Runners, cut close to shoulder and head, used for boiling and stewing, also for pies. The thin end is sometimes salted and boiled. 11. First Runner, used for boiling or stewing.