THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 564 Mayonnaise de Volaille a la Reine Alexandra {Mayonnaise oj Chicken, Queeyi Alexandra Style). I large boiled fowl (cold), 2 truffles, 2 slices of ox-tongue, 2 cabbage lettuces, 4 oz. cooked ham, 2 Spanish pimientos, gill mayonnaise, gill aspic, salt and pepper, li gill green sauce (sauce Verte). Remove the skin and bone from the fowl, cut the meat into pieces, not too small, and mix with mayonnaise. Trim and wash the lettuces, season with salt and pepper and a little mayonnaise. Place a pudding basin on crushed ice and line the interior with a thin layer of aspic. When set, ornament with slices of tongue cut into strips, truffle, and pimientos. Mix the green sauce with the remainder of aspic, and coat the interior of the basin, as soon as the decorative portion is set. Fill up with alternate layers of chicken, lettuce, the ham cut small, remainder of tongue, truffle, and pimientos. Season each layer and coat with sauce and aspic. Place on the ice for an hour and a half, turn out on a round dish, and serve. Sauce Verte {Green Sauce). Blanch a handful of washed sorrel leaves, a small bunch of parsley leaves, and a few tarragon leaves, drain well, and pound all in a mortar with three hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a gill of mayonnaise sauce. Rub through a fine sieve, and blend with more mayon- naise. Care must, however, be taken to retain a pale green tint in the sauce. Timbale de Volaille a la Prince de Galles Line a timbale mould with aspic and decorate the side and bottom with truffle, tongue, white of egg, and green peas—mask with a layer of chaud-froid sauce, then line it with cooked chicken farce, and fill up with a chartreuse of cooked chicken, ham, tongue truffles, and pimiento, blended with aspic to set. Tomates a I’Algerienne {Tomato-shaped Chicken Creams). I cooked fowl (small), pint of aspic jelly, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce, I glass sherry, ij- gill tomato puree (concentrated), i gill cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, -i oz. chicken glaze, 2 leaves of gelatine, 10 tomato-shaped moulds, spinach greening. Line the tomato moulds with aspic jelly, put the tomato puree and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, dissolve the gelatine in the same, boil up, and reduce a little. Add a pinch of sugar, skim, pass through a fine sieve, and when cool line the moulds with a layer of