MARKEriNG. 35 Bacon.—Like pork, good bacon should ha\'c a thin rind ; the fat must be firm and of a good colour. The best bacon, if mild cured, is of a pale colour, ancl the meat adheres firmly to the bones. There should be no so-called yellow streaks in it. To ascertain the good quality of a ham or gammon of bacon, insert a steel skewer or a knife ; if it comes out clean, and no disagreeable smell is detected, it is a sign of good quality ; but if some particles of meat cling to the skewer or knife when withdrawn, and the smell is unpleasant, it is certain that the curing is at fault, or the article is of inferior quality. A short and thick ham is always considered the best. POULTRY AND GAME. Fresh Poultry is known by the following signs ; the feet are soft or moist, the eyes are clear, and there is no bluish or greenish tint round the veins. Fowls, when young, should have smooth legs and combs ; when old the reverse will be observed. Surrey fowls and Surrey chickens are acknowledged to be the best. The cock bird is young when it has a smooth leg and short spurs ; hens when young have smooth legs : the breast-bone should be soft and pliable. Black-legged fowls are best rised for roasting, whilst white-legged fowls are best for boiling. Turkeys, when young, have smooth black legs ; when they are rough and reddish they are old and not likely to cook tender. When freshly killed the eyes of turkeys will be found bright, full, and fresh. Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. The cock bird is best suited for roasting, and the hen for boiling. Geese, when young, have yellow feet and bills ; when old they are of a reddish colour. The feet of freshly killed geese are pliable and soft, but if the bird has been killed some time, the feet are dry and stiff. Green Geese.—Geese are called green until they are from two to three months old. Ducks.—The rules for choosing geese also apply to ducks ; they are known by their feet, which should be supple ; the breast should be firm and plump.. Tam? ducks have yellow feet, whilst those of wild ducks are red. Venison, when young, is usually judged by the fat, which should be clear and bright,in colour. It must be well hung before it is in fit condition for cooking. When it is not wanted very high, a knife or skewer shouM'be inserted into the meat to ascertain its state, as by so doing one is able to judge by the smell whether the venison is of the desired freshness or maturity. Grouse.—This group of birds comprises the grouse proper and the partridge. .Grouse are in season in Augiist, and are then very expensive birds. They are found chiefly in the North of England and Scotland, amongst the heather and morasses. Young grouse are known by a short round spur. Yellow legs and dark bill are