COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Baba a rOrientale. Prepare a rich baba or sa\’arin j)aste (p. 756), into wliich incor- porate some stoned raisins and glace fruit cut into dice. Three- parts till a tinted mould, well buttered, which set to jjrovc, and then bake in a fairly hot oven. Ha\’e ready a syrnp Iku'onred with rnm and orange-jnice (well reduced), and soak the baked shape with this. Let it cool and drain well, coat the outside with dissolved apricot marmalade, then mask with a thin coating of fondant or thin royal icing. Decorate with red-currant icily, angelica, glace cherries, and other crystallised fruit. Fill the centre with whipj^ed cream, sweetened and ilavonred with orange, tinted with carmine or else with orange cream ice, and send to table. Chalet Rustique a la Chantilly. 9 whites of eggs, i pinch of salt, lli. castor sugar, i large square of each Genoese and Swiss roll pastn,9 a little royal icing, i pint of clonble cream, I pint vanilla ice, i oz. vanilla sugar, 24 small choux-pastc profiteroles, pistachios, and marzipan pebbles for decoration. Put the whites of eggs in a clean copper bowl with the pinch of salt, and whisk to a very stiff froth, then lightly mix in the sugar. Butter and sugar some copper baking-sheets, and trace out the patterns required to represent four walls and roof of a simple chalet. Put the meringue mixture into a paper cornet or forcing- bag with plain tube, and force it out on to the baking-sheet to cover the traced pattern completely and evenly. Dredge witli castor sugar, and bake in a very cool oven (it will take about three hours to do this properly). When baked and dry, take off the so-termed frame-work, trim a square of Genoese pastry to the size required as base or floor of the chalet. Cover the edges with plain or royal icing, then fi.x up the sides or walls on a suitably shaped block of Genoese with the help of icing, also one half of the roof, the latter may also be provided with a chimney made of meringue or of marzipan. Whip up the cream, and flavour a little of it with strawberry syrup (Praise Sybel) to fill the cavities of the profite- roles. Mix the rest of the cream with the vanilla ice, and add the vanilla sugar. Just before serving fill the meringue chalet with the ice mixture and the profiterole, and place on the other part of the roof. On a dish have ready a suitably trimmed base of Swiss roll pastry, the edges of it being brushed over with apricot mar- malade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios, and a few small marzipan pebbles. Some of the latter may, if liked, be placed on the roof, which can be so shaped as to imitate thatch. The dish must be served as soon as the ice is put in the chMet shape. Sultane aux Fruits glaces. Prepare a light cake mi.xture (Genoese, p. 806, or Savigny, p. 807), fill it into a buttered plain mould, and bake well. M'hen cold scoop out the centre portion, and place the cake crust near the oven to thoroughly dry it. Mask the outside with white and jnnk icing, as shown in the illustration. Fix the shape on a dish by means