22T SOUPS {POTAGF.S). the soup, pour all into the stewpan containing the soup, boil up and simmer for ten minutes longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Hand small galettes, or, failing this, small fried choux paste balls, seasoned with parmesan cheese and cayenne. Potage a la Vitellus. 2 quarts rich chicken ami veal broth (stock), 2 oz. pearl barlej^, i t oz. pistachio nuts, I oz. pigiioli kernels, 2 egg-yolks, i gill cream, i table- spoonful spinach ]niree or a sufficient quantity of spinach greening to give it the desired tint, a handful of nouille lozenges (nouille paste cut into small squares) for garnish, .sea,soning. Wash the barley and cook it in the stock till quite tender, and mb through a fine sieve. Blanch and peel the pistachios, pound them in a mortar with the pignoli kernels, add a little cream and the spinach, and pass thrortgh a sieve. Mix this with the soup and cook for ten minutes, season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch of paprika. Cook the nouille lozenges in salted rvater for hfteen minutes, drain them, and add to the soup. Mix the remainder of cream with the egg-yolks in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER THICK SOUPS. Potage a I’Americaine {American).—Tomato soup, blended with a little lobster puree (bisque), and thickened with rice or tapioca. — a I’Andalouse.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation) mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles (p. 194) as garniture. — a la Creme d’Avoine {Oatmeal Soup with Cream).—Proceed the same as for Creme d’Orge (p. 212), but substitute pearl barley for oatmeal. — d’Anguilles a I’Allemande {German Eel Soup).—Proceed the same as for oyster soup (p. 206), using 2 small eels in place of oysters and whiting. — des Ambassadeurs.—This is a light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice, and puree of peas. Finely shredded sorrel-leaves tossed in butter are introduced as garnish. — a I’Argenteuil {Argenteuil Soup).—This is a rich cream rice soup, made as directed on p. 215, with asparagus points as garnish. — a la Bergere.—Tapioca cream, with green asparagus tips, cepes, chervil, and sippets of toasted bread. — Bretonne.—This is a puree of white haricot beans, made w’ith brown stock and flavoured with fried onions, in other respects the same as recipe on p. 210. Serve with croutons of fried bread. -- de Queues de Bceuf {Thick Ox-tail Soup).—Cut up into small pieces an ox-tail, fry them in 2 oz. butter and vegetable (carrot and onion), take out the ox-tail, add i oz. flour, and stir over fire till of chestnut brown colour. Moisten with 3 pints of stock, stir till it boils, add the ox-tail, and cook for about 45 minutes. Strain the soup, and select the best pieces of ox-tail as garnish. Put this in the soup with one glass sherry, and add jardiniere or vegetable macedoine as garnish ; re-heat, and serve.