889 AFTER-DINNER SA TO DRIES. Biscuits Glaces a la Tomate {Iced Tomato Biscuits). Wipe and slice 6 ripe tomatoes, toss them in one ounce of butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire, add one tablespoonful of Italian tomato puree, and cook slowly till tender. Pour off the fat, and rub the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and paprika. When cold incorporate half a gill of whipped cream, and freeze in the usual manner. Work the mixture thoroughly with a wooden spatula, and pack into a brick- shaped ice mould. Wrap it in paper, and bury it in crushed ice and salt for about two hours. Roll out some paste, made of flour and milk slightly salted, ancient it into oblong strips, about 3^ by i inch in size. Place these on a baking-sheet, judek them with a fork, and bake in a slack oven. When baked ])ut them on a wire tray to cool. Unmould the tomato ice, cut it into slices the same as the biscuits, and place a slice of ice on each. Dish up, decorate the tops with small rosettes of whipped cream, garnish with parsley, and serve immediately. Cremes de Celeri glacees {Iced Celery Creams). 1 stick white celery, stock, 1- pint milk, -V bay-leaf, i gill bechamel sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesaii cheese, i gill asjiic, pint whipped cream, salt and pepper, chervil, and stars of pimientos for garnish. Wash and pare the celery, cut it into short lengths, and cook in stock and milk with the bay-leaf till quite tender. When done, drain and rub the celery through a fine sieve. Mix the puree thus obtained with the bechamel, heat it up, add the cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Incorporate the aspic and let cool, then work in the cream. W’hisk lightly on the ice till the mixture commences to set, then fill up some paper souffle cases. Decorate the top with sprigs of chervil and a star-shaped slice of red pimiento, run a thin layer of aspic over the surface of each, and place the cases in a charged ice- cave, in order to get them thoroughly iced without being actually frozen. Dish up, and serve when required for table. Betterave a I’Orientale {Beetroot Savoury). I small beetroot, i hard-boiled egg, 8 to 10 aiichovv fillets, i dessertspoonful of capers, i dcs.sertspoouful of gherkins, 2 chives, i dessertspoonful of anchovy paste, a little Orleans or chilli vinegar, brown bread for croutes. Cut the beetroot and brown bread into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick ; stamp out some small rounds with an inch cutter and put a layer of anchovy fillets on each. Prepare the following mixture : One dessertspoonful of capers, one of gherkins, two of chives, all chopped finely and mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy paste and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Spread this mixture over tlie rounds carefully, cut the eggs in thin slices, put one slice on each round, mix a little cayenne with salt and sprinkle over the surface. Dish up, and garnish with parsley. Champignons sous Cloche {Mushrooms under Glass Shade). Select the required number of cup mushrooms (even-sized), peel them, remove the stems, season with salt and pepper, fill each with, a little maitre d’hotel butter and double cream, and j)lace on