COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 813 of eggs, and continue to beat for about twenty minutes. Work in the finely-grated rind of half a lemon, cinnamon, rum, and lastly the Hour. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Half fill a well-buttered and floured cake mould with the mixture, sprinkle over the grated chocolate, then add the remainder of the mixture and smooth the surface with a palette- knife. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Unmould, let cool, and cover with water icing. Decorate tastefully with creamed butter or royal icing and glace fruit. Gateau au Chocolat {Chocolate Cake). lb. fresh butter, lb. castor sugar, lb. grated chocolate, 11’- Vienna flour (sifted), 4 eggs, i oz, ground rice, teaspoonful vanilla essence, chocolate icing. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the grated chocolate, work in the eggs one at a time, add the flour and ground rice, and lastly the vanilla flavouring. Beat the mixture for at least ten m i n u t e s . Fill a well- buttered ga- teau mould and bake for abont three - quar- ters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. When done, turn out on a sieve and let cool, cover with chocolate icing, and decorate to taste with glace royale. Note.—The same mixture put into a buttered pudding-mould and steamed for one and a half honr will make a very delicious pudding. Chocolate Icing. (Duplicate recipe, see p. 139.) Put four ounces of chocolate on a plate in the oven to soften, put it in a stew-pan with half a pound of icing sugar, moisten with half a gill of water, and stir over the fire until quite hot and smooth. This mixture must be very hot, but should not be allowed to boil. Gateau Mille-feuilles. 1 lb. best puff-paste (p. 133). pint vanilla bavarois set in a plain moTilcl, 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls strawberry or raspberry jam, i oz. chopped pistachios, royal icing, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out a number of rounds, the first being about the size of a plate, and the remaining ones gradually smaller in size. Put them on a wetted baking-sheet, mix the royal icing with the ground cinna- mon, and s])read the surface of each round of paste witli a thin layer of this. Bake in a fairly hot oven a golden brown and let ccm)1.