THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 534 hot water or nouille paste, prick the bottom and sides with a fork, line the sides and bottom witli a layer of the prepared farce and thin slices of bacon, lill n}) the inonld with the fried pieces of hare. Sprinkle the powdered herbs and seasoning in between, moisten each layer with port wine and red-currant jelly, cover the top with farce, and firmly fix on the crust. Decorate with fancifully cut pieces of paste in a tasteful manner, and make an incision in the centre of the cover of crust to allow the steam to escape while cooking. Bake in a moderate oven from one and a half to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. As the pie leaves the oven pour a little well-reduced stock into it by means of a funnel. This pie is delicious hot, but, as many prefer it cold, it would be advisable to introchme some aspic jelly instead of the stock. In this case the moidd should not be removed until the pie is quite cold. Rable de Lievre a la Mode (Jugged Have). Small joints of hare or wild rabbit (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fried in blitter and then stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork. Served with its own sauce, well reduced, and fiavoured with a little chilli vinegar. Levraiit frit a I’Orly (Fried Leveret). Boned leveret or young hare, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de Venaison aux Marrons ( Venison Cutlets with Chestnut Puree). 4 to 6 venison cutlets, oz. butter, i egg, breadcrumbs, savoury chest- nut puree, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Flatten and trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, beat up the egg, dip each cutlet in egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets, brown nicely on both sides, then take them up, drain, and dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with chestnut puree, pour a little demi-glace or other thin brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escalopes de Venaison a la Polonaise ( Venison Cutlets, Polish fashion). Cut 8 to 10 slices b an inch in thickness from a leg of venison, flatten each slice with a cutlet-bat and trim neatly. Heat up an ounce of clarified butter in a saute-pan and broil the slices over a brisk fire until they are nicely browned on both sides. Have ready a sauce prepared in the following manner : crush 12 juniper berries and cook them with b ^ ghl of wine vinegar ; to this acid a table- spoonful of meat glaze, b pint of veloutee or allemande sauce, and let simmer gently for ten to fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce, season, and whisk in b an ounce of fresh butter. Arrange the slices of venison^ in an entree dish, pour over the prepared sauce, and serve hot.