344 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garniture a la Radziwyl (forFish).—Soft herring-roe, truffles, mushrooms, French gherkins, and crayfish quenelles. Genevoise sauce. — a la Reforme (for Meat).—Julienne strips of truffles, carrots, hard- boiled white of egg and tongue. Gravy or demi-glace. — a la Regence.—Chicken or Godiveau quenelles, sliced truffles and mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of cooked sweet- bread. Sauce Allemande, well reduced with white wine. If served with fish omit the sweetbread. — a la Renaissance (for Fish or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with macedoine of vegetables, also small cauliflower buds coated with Hollandaise sauce. — a la Riche (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas, and coated with choron sauce, and decorated with truffles. — a la Richelieu. —Tomatoes, small, ripe, and firm, centre scooped out, and filled with a mixture of shallots fried in butter, chopped ham, chopped truffles and mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish. Sauce Perigueux. — a la Richelieu (for Poultry or Meat).—Braised stuffed mushrooms, braised cabbage-lettuces, and artichoke bottoms filled with chicken puree, also chateau potatoes. Demi-glace. — a la Robson.—Chicken livers freed from gall, washed and dried ; fried in l)utter over a quick fire ; add a large truffle cut into dice, moisten with sauce Mad^re or demi-glace, and serve in the centre of the dish. — a la Romanoff (for Meat).—Stuffed and braised cubes of cucumbers, and potato croustades filled with salpicon of celeriac and mush- rooms. Demi-glace. — a la Rouennaise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat olive shapes and button onions sauted in butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; finished in the oven with just enough stock or demi-glace to keep from l)urning (shake frequently) ; dress in groups or serve in the centre of the dish. Sauce Madere. — a la Sarde (for Meat).—Rice croquettes flavoured with saffron and parmesan cheese, also stuffed tomatoes or cucumbers. Tomato sauce. — a la Savoisienne (for Meat).—Braised cucumbers, noisette potatoes, and artichoke bottoms. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Saxonne (for Poultry or Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and braised cucumbers. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Semillante (for Fish).—Quenelles, carp’s roe, crayfishrand mush- rooms. Matelote sauce. — a la Sorel (for Meat).—Slices of foie-gras and croutes filled with puree of mushrooms. Madere sauce. — a la Soubise.—This name is usually applied to dishes which contain onions in sufficient quantity to make it the predominant flavour of a sauce or garnish. Soubise puree is made as follows ;— Cut some white onions into slices, boil in butter without browning, moisten with stock (white), cook till tender, rub througli a sieve, add a little b&hamel sauce ; reduce well, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and grated nutmeg. Usually served with braised mutton or ducks. Sauce demi-glace.