BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. 9^3 the eggs and some milk, mixing all smoothly to a batter, adding gradu- ally the remainder of milk. Cut the meat very small or the sausages into pieces, season, and lay in either a greased tin or pie-dish. Pour over the batter, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Shepherd’s Pie. Mince up any kind of cold meat, season with salt and pepper, add a little butter, also two tablespoonfuls of gravy. Put it in a pie-dish, cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with half a gill of milk. Bake in a hot oven to brown for about half an hour. Savoury Cold Meat Toast. Chop hnely the remains of cold beef, mutton or veal, to each half-pound add an ounce of chopped ham or tongue, put this into a stew-pan with sufficient white sauce to moisten, season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne, and allow it to get thoroughly hot. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and add. Stir until it begins to set, but do not let it boil. Have ready one or two slices of buttered toast, well trimmed of crust, put the mince on it in a heap, smooth it over with a knife. Beat up the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and spread the top of each, sprinkle over with a few fried breadcrumbs and a pinch of cayenne pepper or paprika. Place it in a very hot oven for five minutes to colour the top, and serve quickly. Pepper Pot (H West Indian Dish). Cut half a loin of pork, with the rind left on, into chops, trim off part of the chine bones and fry the chops to a nice brown in saute- pan with a little butter. Cut into neat joints a partially roasted fowl, ])ut same with the pork chops into an earthenware pot, with a large onion, peeled and sliced, six small peeled shallots, and a few dried chillies. To make the sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of moist cane sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper into a saucepan, mix well with a little stock or water. Add a table- spoonful soy or cassareep, and three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, boil up, and strain over the meat in the pot so as to well cover its contents. Cover the pan and cook gently for about one and a half hours. Remove the scum, and set away till next day. Heat it again on the following day and boil gently for another half an hour, then serve. Braised Lambs’ Tongues. Wipe three-four pairs of lambs’ tongues and cook them slowly in salted water flavoured with vegetables until nearly tender. Drain them, trim off the roots and remove the skins. Arrange the tongues, cut in halves, in an earthenware pan, moisten with equal parts of a good brown sauce and a tomato sauce, season to taste, add a few sliced mushrooms or sliced tomatoes, cover closely, and braise in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Send to table in the same pan, placed on a dish with folded napkin.