«3i GL ACES—ICES. MELON MOULD. sugar, stir this on to 4 yolks of eggs, and i whole egg previously Glace ail Melon {Melon Water Ice). I ripe musk melon, i lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, i tablcspoouful orange- flower water, i tcaspoonful vanilla essence. Cut the melon in two, remove seeds, rind, and green portion of the fruit, and cut it into small slices. Boil the sugar in a pint of water to a syru}), remove the scum. Boil the nrelon for about live minutes in the syrup, and strain and ])ass it through a hue sieve. To the pulp add an equal quantity of syrup, the strained juice of two lemons, and the flavouring essence. Freeze in the usual maimer, and serve up in glasses or mould it into shape. If cream is desired, mix about one gill with the above in- gredients just before freezing it. Glace a la Creme de Bananes {Banana Cream Ice). 6 to 8 ripe bananas, 3 lemons, i pint custard (.same as for vanilla ice), -1- pint cream, i small .glasscura9oa or cognac brandy, ice, and freezin.g salt. Peel the bananas, pass them through a sieve into a basiu, add the juice of two lemons and the liqueur, and stir the custard into this. Whip the cream and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile or in cups, or mould it, if preferred. Glace au Caramel {Burnt S^igar or Caramel Ice). 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 oz. castor sugar, i quart milk, i-|- pint cream, i tca- spoonfnl of vanilla essence or i tablespoonfnl of vanilla sugar, ice, and freezing salt. Put the loaf sugar in a copper sugar-boiler with a few drops of water, and cook until it turns dark brown. Boil the milk, stir into the burnt sugar, boil up again, strain, and add the castor sugar. When cool, stir in a pint of cream, and flavour with vanilla. Whip the remainder of cream, and mi.x with the above. Freeze in the usual way. Work the mi.xture well to get it perfectly smooth. Wdien set, pack into one or two moulds, wrap up the moulds in paper, and repack in crushed ice and salt for two hours. Glace Spaghetti en Surprise {Imitation Macaroni Ice). Roll out enough nouille or plain short crust paste to line a dish (buttered), deckle the edges, let dry, then bake in a moderately heated oven to a light brown colour. Remove the crust carefullv fronr the dish, and allow the shape to get cold. Make a custard with I pint of milk boiled up with a vanilla pod, and i oz. of loaf beaten up. Return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire long enough to bind the eggs, then remove the vanilla, and strain into a basin. When sufliciently cold, add half a pint of whipped cream. Freeze this in the usual manner. When ready for seiu'ing, place the jfrepared