413 HOT MEAT ENTRJ^ES, ETC. Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, fried in fresh butter, garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce Allemande. — a la Singarat.—Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox- fongue and bacon, fhen braised, and finished cooking in a rich piquante brown sauce. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets, served with white onion puree in centre or side of dish. Frequently grilled plain, and served with soubise puree and demi-glace sauce. — a la Zingari.—Veal cutlets fried in clarified butter, dished up alter- nately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham, served with Mad&re sauce. CERVELLES DE VEAU.—CALF’S BRAINS. Cervelles de Veau au Beurre noir. Remove the skin from three calves’ brains, wash well, drain, and cook in richly-flavoured stock for about si.x minutes, strain well, dish up, and sauce over with some hot black butter sauce. Cervelles de Veau a la Milanaise. Fried calf’s brain served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. Garnish the dish with strips of ham, tongue, preserved mushi-ooms, and finely shredded truffles. Cervelles de Veau a la Poulette {Calf’s Brains with Parsley Sauce). 2 nice calves’ brains, 1} oz. butter, r oz. flour. -J- pint white stock, -1- gill cream, i yolk of egg, i lemon, i chopped shallot, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. rice, i pint veal In'oth, salt and pepper. Wash and clean the brains in several waters, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, add one bay-leaf, one small onion cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little lemon-juice. Bring slowly to the boil, take up the brains, and cut them into dice. Fry the shallot lightly in butter, add the flour, cook a little without browning, stir in the stock, boil up, cook gently for ten minutes, then strain, season to taste, add the remainder of the lemon-jnice and the cream. Put the brains in the sauce, slowly re-heat, and add the chopped parsley a few minutes before serving. Wash, pick, blanch, and drain the rice, and cook it in stock till tender. When the rice grains are separate but quite tender, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, stir in the yolk of egg, cook a little longer till the egg is set, then fill a well-buttered plain border mould. Shake the mould so as to get the rice well down, then turn out on a hot dish, put the ragout of brains in the centre, and serve hot. Matelote de Cervelle de Veau {Calf’s Brains in Rice CroiUe). Skin two calves’ brains, soak in cold water, then drain, and cook in a richly-flavoured stock, containing the juice of one lemon. Cook some rice in stock, when done season, pound, and press into an oval or round flat mould, previously buttered and sprinkled with panurette. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour.