COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 799 viously whipped. Whisk the whites of eggs, add to it the vanilla sugar, and work carefully into the above. Lastly, add the wine jelly, which must be whisked till almost cold, then stir the whole on the ice till it begins to set. Fill into a souffle-dish or small souffle-cases provided with paper bands, place the souffle in a charged ice-cabinet for two hours. When firm, sprinkle the top with crushed macaroons or grated chocolate, remove the paper bands, dish u]), and serve. Mousse a la Georgette {Iced Chestnut Mousse). I pint milk, i gill cream, i oz. loaf sugar, i box glace fruits (mixed), \ pint chestnut puree, i gill whipped cream, f vanilla pod, i oz. gelatine, s egg- volks, I pineapple and syrup, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, wine jelly. Boil the milk, sugar, and vanilla pod together, beat and stir in the yolks of eggs, cook long enough to bind, then add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and strain the contents into a basin. When a little cooled add the cream, and freeze this in the usual manner. Place a dome-shaped plain mould on some crushed ice, mask the inside with a thin layer of wine jelly, decorate the sides and bottom with glace fruit, such as cherries, sliced apricots, and angelica, dipping each piece into jelly as it is placed in, and cover with a quarter-inch coating of the ice-cream when half-frozen. Cut the pineapple int(j small dice. Mi.x the chestnut puree with remainder of the vanilla cream, and add to it the pineapple, a little of its syrup, also the maraschino, and, lastly, the whipped cream. Pour the whole into the prepared mould, cover it with a lid, and place on the ice for about an hour or longer. Mousse de Praises a la Neige {Strawberry Mousse). 1 lb. small ripe strawberries, it pint maraschino jelly, pint cream, t, oz. pistachio nuts, and angelica for garnish, i small glass kirsch, around slice of Gehoesecake, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz,castor or vanilla sugar. Pass three parts of the strawberries through a line sieve. Fill six or eight very small fluted dariole moulds with mara- schino jelly and strawberries (halves or whole fruit) and strips of pistachio nuts, place them on the ice to set. Imbed a dome-shaped mould in a pan of ice. i\Iix the strawberry puree with a gill of maraschino jelly. Slice the remainder of strawberries, over them sprinkle the sugar and kirsch, and stir this into the puree together with a gill of stiffly-whipped and sweetened cream. Pour this into the mould, and let it set on ice. Fix a round of Genoese cake on to a dish, the former should be a little wider than the open part of the dome mould, and the centre should be slightly scooped out to hold the mousse. Mask the cake with apricot marmalade, sprinkle the edge with chopjfed pistachios. Lhnnould the mousse and place it in the centre of the dish, cover the surface quickly with whipped and sweetened cream, decorate tastefully, and place the little jellies round the base of the dish. Mousse de Framboise a la Neige {Raspberry Mousse). Proceed in the same manner as directed in the last recipe, using ripe raspbenries in place of strawberries.