883 AFTER-DINNER SA VOURIES. using grated cheese in j)lace of Hour for rolling, cut it into oblong pieces, and wrap the paste round the shapes of bacon and cheese in the form of rolls. Idace them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Gaufres au Parmesan {Cheese Wafers). Make a stiff but smooth paste with 6 oz. of flour, i yolk of egg, ^ oz. butter, a little milk, oz. of grated cheese, salt and pepper. Knead it well, and roll out, sprinkle over some grated parmesan cheese, fold in three, and let it rest for half an hour, then roll out again as thinly as possible. Stamp out as many rounds as possible, let them dry on pastry trays, then fry them in clarihed butter to a golden colour. Dish up, besprinkle with cheese, and serve hot. Condes au Fromage. Roll out thinly some puff-paste, using grated parmesan in place of Hour, cut into oblong pieces, and spread over with a thin layer of reduced bechamel sauce enriched with egg-yolks. Season with cayenne, sprinkle with shredded gruyere cheese, cut into finger shapes, and bake in a sharp oven. Dish up, and serve hot. Ballons de Fromage {Cheese Balls). Grate two ounces Cheddar cheese, put it into a basin, and mix with a teaspoonful of finely grated horse-radish, a pinch of cayenne, the whisked white of an egg, and enough fine breadcrumbs to bind the mixture. Make it up into small balls, egg and crumb them, and fry them in deep, very hot fat to a golden colour. Take up, drain, and dish up, and serve hot. Golden Buck. I lb. Cheddar cheese, i oz. butter, a wineglassful of ale, celery .salt, Nepavl pepper, 2 eggs, i tablespoonful cream, -V teaspoonful lemon-juice, } tea- spoonful Worcester sauce, a slice of buttered toasted bread. Mince the cheese and put it in a small stew-pan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs with the cream and stir into the stew-pan. Mix thoroughly and whisk the mixture over the fire till creamy and partly set, flavour with lemon-juice and M’orcester sauce. Pour this upon hot buttered toast, cut into four. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and send to table. Souffles Hongroise en Surprise. 6 medium-sized potatoes of even shape, i oz. butter, i small lobster, gill of tomato sauce, and gill of bechamel sauce well reduced, 1 pint savourv choux-paste, -1- oz. grated cheese. Wash the potatoes and cut each in half. Place them in a baking tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour, then scoop out the interior soft part of each potato. Rub half the potato pulp through a fine sieve, mix it with the butter and the choux- paste ; season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and a little grated cheese, and line each half potato with this. Cut the meat of the lobster into small dice, season, and mix with the tomato sauce. Put