602 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. surface of the meat in the oven. Then moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from one and three-quarters to two hours. When the meat is done take it up, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze, add the sauce, boil up, season to taste. Dress on a hot dish, sur- round with spinach as a garnish, pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and the remainder in a sauce-boat, or cut the meat into thin slices and place again in the original position. Dress the spinach in the shape of a bed on a hot dish, place the meat on top, sauce over lightly, and send to table. Spinach for Garnish.—Cook two pounds of spinach in the usual manner, drain well, and rub through a sieve or chop it very finely. Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stew-pan, put in the spinach and stir till quite hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, cook gently for another fifteen minutes, and use as directed. The seasoning should consist of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Selle de Veau, Prince OrlofT. Procure the best part of a saddle of a young calf. Trim it, and remove the skin carefully ; then with the point of the knife cut along both sides of the backbone, and insert thinly-cut slices of truffle. Lard the surface neatly with small strips of larding bacon and roast the joint with a mirepoix of vegetables and bacon (French fashion). Garnish with braised tomatoes filled with asparagus points, and serve with a gravy richly flavoured with truffle essence. Poitrine de Veau farcie {Stuffed Byeast of Veal, braised). 1 small breast of veal, stuffing, I- lb. soft breadcrumbs, 6 oz. sausage meat, 2 chopped walnuts, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, i teaspoonful thyme, basil, and marjoram (powdered), 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i egg, and a little milk or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a mire- poix consisting of carrots, onion, bacon, and a bouquet garni, 2 oz. dripping, demi-glace or tomato sauce. Done the breast of veal. Prepare the stuffing by mixing all the above-named dry ingredients, and seasoning to taste. Add the egg, butter oiled, and enough milk to moisten. Sew up the end of the breast. Melt the dripping in a braising-pan, fry the mirepoix for a few minutes, then place the breast upon this, brown both sides over a quick fire, add a little stock, and finish cooking in the oven, basting frequently. When done, take up, remove the string, cut the veal into thin slices, dish up, and serve with hot demi-glace or tomato sauce. Carre de Veau garni.—Roast neck of veal, garnished with braised vegetables ; thin brown sauce or gravy. Longe de Veau a la Franpaise.—Roast loin of veal, garnished with stuffed tomatoes and jiotato croquettes ; thin Inown sauce or gravy. — a la Genevoise.—Braised loin of veal with stewed nouilles (ribbon macaroni), mushrooms, and truffles.