ENTIiiiES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 5^9 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. Canards sauvages a la Chasseur. - Braised wild ducks stuffed with a mixture of minced game and chopped mushrooms. Served with a game sauce, into which a little black-currant jelly has been incorporated. Cotelettes de Pluviers en Caisses [Plover Cutlets in Cases).—Boned plovers, stuffed with forcemeat and shaped into cutlets and braised, served in small cutlet-shaped paper cases. Serve cha,sseur sauce separately with this dish. Filets de Canards sauvages aux Truffes.—Fillets of wild duck cooked in butter and finished in a rich brown sauce made of wild duck giblets and finely minced shallots, with sliced mushrooms and sliced truffles as garnish. Salmis de Pluviers a la Chasseur [Salmi of Plovers, Hunter's Style).— Proceed the same as for salmi of duck (p. 464), adding about twelve preserved mushrooms, cut in slices or chopped coarsely, and omit- ting the olives. The dish should be garnished with eight heart- shaped bread croutons brushed over with meat glaze. SARCELLE WIDGEON OR TEAL. Sarcelle a la Moscovite [Widgeon, Moscow Style). I tender widgeon, i small bouquet of herbs, -J- glass sherry. i oz. butter, i- pint Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, i gill stock, 2 thin slices cooked ox-tongue, i large trullle, 6 mushrooms, 8 small Godiveau quenelles, salt, pep))er, nutmeg, fried l)read croiite or croutons. Singe, draw, and joint the bird, chop up the carcase and })iit it in a stew-pan with a little butter, cook over a cpiick lire to brown, add the bouquet, moisten with stock, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Heat up the butter in a sante-pan, lay in the pieces, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook over a brisk fire for six minutes, then add the sherry. Cover, and reduce a little, then add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, and simmer slowly till tender. Cut the tongue and truffles into julienne strips, mince the mushrooms and put them, together with the Godiveau cjuenelles, in a stew-pan, strain over the prepared gra^'y of the carcase, pre- viously skimmed, add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten minutes. Skim the sauce containing the duck. Place the croLite of bread in the centre of a hot dish, on it arrange the duck as neatly as possible, garnish with alternate groups of tongue and truffle, mushrooms and quenelles. Put the gravy with the sauce, boil up, strain, and pour a little over and round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Put paper frills on the ends f)f the wings and legs. If small bread croutons are used, omit the centre croute and place the former round the base of the dish along with the garniture. Sarcelles aux Olives [Teal or Widgeon with Olives).—This dish is l^repared exactlj^ the same as “ Salmi de Canard aux Olives,” using two to three widgeons instead of duclc. — bardees a la Westphalie.—Braised teal barded, served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham, also sliced truffles added to the sauce. LL