6o, REMO VES—RELE VES. cheese (parmesan and gruyere) and oiled butter, and let brown in the oven. Dish up, and garnish with small potato cassolettes, lillecl with a delicate ragout of lamb’s bread and tomato sauce. Gigot de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned leg ol mutton, marinaded lor two to three days in wine, vinegar, and herbs, etc. (mari- nade), then roasted or braised, and served with poivrade (pepper) sauce. — a la Nesselrode.—Roast leg of mutton, garnished and served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. — bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled leg of mutton, garnished with l)oiled young carrots, turnips, sprigs of cauliflower, French beans, and Brussels sprouts ; served with caper sauce. — braise a la Soubise.—Braised leg of mutton (boned), with white onion puree as garnish. — braise a la Turque.—Braised leg of mutton (boned), with stuffed cucumbers as garnish. Musettes d’Agneau a la Frangaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, rolled and braised (usual mirepoix and wliite wine), dressed on a bed of mashed potatoes ; garnished with small potato balls, stuffed tomatoes, dice of ham, tossed in butter, and mush- rooms ; sauce demi-glace, served separate. Poitrine d’Agneau farcie a la Soubise.—Stuffed breast of lamb braised, with onion puree. Quartier d’Agneau a la Flamande.—Roast fore or hind quarter ol lamb, garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Selle d’Agneau a la Bretonne.—Roast saddle of lamb, with puree of haricot beans (or stewed whole). — de Mouton a la Castillane.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, aubergines, pimientos, fried bananas, and duchesse potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. — de Mouton a la Jardiniere.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with spring vegetables. — de Mouton a la Milanaise.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with cooked macaroni flavoured with tomato imree. — de Pre-Sale, Belle-Alliance.—Roast saddle of prime mutton (Welsh or Southdown), garnished with potato puree, braised lettuce, and stuffed tomatoes ; served with gravy. VEAU—VEAL. Fricandeau pique aux Epinards (Braised Cushion of Veal). 4 to 5 lb. cushion or kernel of veal (often called fillet of veal), larding- bacon, i onion, i carrot, i small bunch parsley and herbs, 2 oz. butter, I pint stock, -J- pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper, i glass sherry, 2 lb. or more cooked spinach. Free the meat from the skin and sinew, and lard the surface with four or five neatly arranged rows of strips of fat bacon. Line a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon and veal, sliced onion and carrot, and bunch of herbs, place the meat on top, spread over with butter, season with pepper and salt, and slightly brown the