235 HORS-irCE U VRE {A PPETISERS). and a few sprigs of savoury herbs. Boil up and pour over the cepes. Allow them to soak for 4 hours or longer, then take up, cut them into thin slices and range on a dish, pour over some of the strained marinade and serve. Cepes are obtainable already cooked in glass or tins from first-class grocers. Salade d’Ananas a I’lndienne {Indian Pine-apple Salad). Peel a small ripe pine-apple and cut it into dice, peel and core a sour apple and two heads of white barb, cut both into fine shreds. Mix these with the pineapple, and add enough mayonnaise sauce to dress the ingredients. Place these in a glass bowl and garnish the top with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimiento, and fine sprigs of white barb. Keep the salad on the ice till required for table. Salade d’Asperges, Americaine {American Asparagus Salad). Remove the pulp from two grape fruits and drain. Mix this pulp with h pint of boiled asparagus tips. Mix together 2 table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, one tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, 2 tablespoonfnls of tomato catsup, season with salt and pepper, and mix with cold cooked asparagus tips. Dish up and serve very cold. Salade d’Asperges aux Crevettes ( Asparagus Salad with Shrimps). Prepare and cook bundle of green asparagus ; when cold, cut the tender portion into small pieces, and put them into a bowl with half-pint of picked shrimps. Mix lighfly the asparagus and shrimps with mayonnaise. Serve on a dish in the centre of a border of sliced hard-boiled eggs. Celeriac a la Creme. Slice some cooked celeriac and cut into julienne strips, season with mayonnaise cream, salt, and pepper ; add a tablespoonful of finely shredded truffles to each celeriac root. Dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre plates or dishes, and serve. Celeriac a la Norge. Wash, scrub, peel, and par-cook two celeriac roots, then cut them into fine julienne strips, prepare a dressing composed of 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i teaspoonful of made mustard, i table- spoonful of vinegar, and 2 tablespoonfnls of mayonnaise. Season the celeriac with salt and pepper, and mix with the dressing. Dish up on a crystal hors-d’oeuvre dish, and serve. Celeri a la Rivaz. Cut into fine strips or shreds the white part of 2 heads of celery, which must be tender and thoroughly washed and trimmed. Peel, core, slice, and cut into strips a good-sized pickled beetroot. Mix both together with enough tartare sauce to well season the salad, then range on to a hors-cl’oeuvre dish and serve. Celeri a la Grecque. Shred finely the heart portion of 2 heads of white celery, pre- viously cleaned. Put it into a pie-dish and pour over a well-made “ vinaigrette ” (see Sauces). Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of