183 SOUPS {POTAGES). parsley or chives, and serve with toasted bread sippets. If a marrow- bone is used, saw it into small pieces about an inch long, wrap up in little pieces of linen or muslin, cook with the soup, and serve as directed. If any pieces of meat are left over, make them up into a salad, or use up in some other form. Croute-au-pot. 2 quarts of good first stock, i carrot, i turnip, I- cabbage, 2 oz. Initter, 1 dinner roll, parsley or chives, pepper and salt, nutmeg. The stock should be made from beef and veal and bones, and the usual stock vegetables. It must be kept well skimmed, in which case it is not necessary to clarify it. Cut the carrot and turnip into round slices, drain the cabbage and cut into small pieces ; put all the vegetables in a stewpan with the butter, cover, and cook slowly for about ten minutes. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain the stock on to the vegetables, and let simmer for about thirty minutes ; skim occasionally. Cut the roll into thin round slices, place them on a baking-sheet, bake them on both sides a golden brown in a moderate oven. Put them in a soup tureen, moisten with a little stock, pour the soup over, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. CONSOMMES, ETC. (CLEAR SOUPS, ETC.). Consomme a I’Andalouse. For 2 quarts of consomme : t- gill tomato sauce, i egg, i tablespoonful cream, i small cucumber, chicken forcemeat for (pienelles. Beat up the egg in a basin and mix with it the tomato sauce (cold) and the cream, season with pepper and salt, strain and hll into a buttered timbale mould ; stand the mould in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, and poach in a slow oven till firm. Let it cool a little, turn out, and cut into fanciful shapes ; put these in a small stewpan, moisten with a little clear soup, and keep hot until required. Peel the cucumber, scoop out with a vegetable scoop some little bell shapes ; cook tender in salted water, and strain. Have ready some chicken forcemeat, put in forcing-bag ; form some little quenelle shapes in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little hot clear soup, and poach. Put the garniture in a soup-tureen, pour in the consomme, and serve. Consomme Algerienne. • 2 quarts good beef stock, carrots, turnips, green peas, Perles du Nizam, 5 yolks of eggs, stock. Clarify the stock in the usual way, strain it, and add a garnish composed of carrots and turnips, scooped out in pea-shaped rounds, cooked in stock or salted water, drained, and tosshd in butter, and an equal quantity of cooked green peas and Nizam barley {Perles du Nizam) cooked in stock. As the soup is served, drop the yolks of eggs, slightly poached, into the tureen. A few finely-shredded leaves of tarragon, chives, and chervil may also be added if liked.