391 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. above mixture, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs ; repeat this again. P'ry slowly in claribed butter to a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, pour the tomato sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Creole. A neck of lamb, ^ lb. spinach puree, i egg, cream, salt, and pepper, 1 table- spoonful of bechamel sauce, i pig’s caul, i oz. butter, a little meat glaze, a border of risotto, tomato sauce. Pare the neck of lamb and cut live or six plump cutlets from it, llatten them a little, trim and shape neatly, and season with salt and pepper. Heat up the spinach, add to it the white sauce and an equal cjuantity of cream, reduce well. Lastly add half a beaten egg, and season to taste. Make an incision into the side of each cutlet by means of a small sharp-pointed knife, so as to hollow the centre of the meat. Put the spinach in a forcing-bag and hll the cavities made in the cutlets. Wrap each in a piece of pig’s canl, which must be hxecl on with a little beaten egg. Fry the cutlets over a quick fire to slightly brown the sides, and finish cooking in the oven, which will take about fifteen minutes in all. Take up, drain, and brush over with meat glaze. Dress on a border of risotto, and serve with tomato sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau, Marienbad. 8 to 9 well-trimmed lamb cutlets, 2 oz. butter, | pint tin champiguous, pint endive or chicoree puree, 4 oz. pounded lean lamb, 2 egg-yolks. For croutons ; demi-glace sauce, seasoning, 3 oz. vermicelli, 2 egg-yolks, gill bechamel, cooked asparagus tips for garnish. Flatten the cutlets lightly, saute one side of them in hot butter, and put them under press to cool. Meanwhile prepare a farce by chopping finely the preserved mushrooms, and aclding to it the endive puree, pounded meat, and egg-yolks. Season to taste, and mix thoroughly. Spread the cooked sides of the cutlets with this mixture. Place the cutlets, farced side uppermost, in the saute- pan with the butter, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Prepare croutons by boiling in slightly salted water till tender the vermicelli. Drain and mix with enough bechamel to form a thick puree, to this add the two yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cook for a few minutes, and spread on a plate. W’hen cold, stamp out as many cutlet-shaped croutons as there are cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in deep fat. Drain well, and dress a cutlet on each. Dish up in the form of a crown. F'ill the centre with cooked asparagus tips, seasoned and tossed in a little fresh butter. Pour some demi-glace sauce round, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau grillees {Gnlled Lamb Cutlets). Cut eight or ten lamb cutlets from the best end of a neck, and pare and trim them neatly. Place them on or between a gridiron, over or in front of a good clear fire, and cook them for about ten minutes, during this time the cutlets should be turned at least four times, using the steak tongs for the purpose. Season the