THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. So8 done, unmonld, mask with aj^ricot marmalade, and ice with mara- schino icing. Decorate tastefully. Gateau de Savoie a la Chantilly {Savoy Cake with Cream). Separate seven whites of eggs from the yolks, placing the whites in a copper egg-bowl and the yolks in a white basin, add half a pound of j)owdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence and work well together until it has a light creamy appearance. Sift half a pound of dried flour on to a plate. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, whisk them into a stiff froth, and mix them and the flour carefully alternately in small quantities with the yolks, etc. Pour into a well-greased and sugared border mould, tie a paper band round and above the edge of the mould, and bake in a very slow oven for about half an hour. When done, turn out on a sieve to get cool. When ready for serving, whisk half a pint or more of double cream. Sweeten slightly wath vanilla sugar, place the hordiire on a round dish, dress the cream in the centre, and serve. Gateau de Praises en Surprise {Iced Strawberry Cake). 8 eggs, 8 oz. castor sugar, lO oz. sifted flour, 8 oz. ground and sifted almonds, 10 oz. butter, chocolate icing and royal icing, lo wafer cornets, about i quart strawberry ice cream, i oz. chopped pistachio, custard for filling cornets. Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stew-pan with boiling water and beat vigorously with a whisk for about twenty minutes. Butter and flour a large saute-pan or deep square baking- sheet. When the mixture is sufflcient- ly worked, stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted), mix care- fully but well, pour into the tin and bake in a moder- ately hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cold cut out as many rounds as are required, but they must be cut successively smaller and smaller. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about an inch or one and a half inch broad, leaving the largest and the smallest ones whole. The largest will form the bottom and the smallest the top