COLD ENTRl'iES. 575 incorporate with the puree, add half a tablespoonful of aromatic seasoning, mix well. When nearly cold hll up the centre of the moulds, and place them on the ice to set. Turn out on a dish, surround with a bed of endive salad, or any other kind of green salad, and serve. Petites Cremes a la Mulhouse {Foie-gras and Asparagus). I terrine or tin of foie-gras, i bundle of asparagus or 1 pint asparagus- points, \ pint veloutee or allemande sauce, seasoning, t oz. gelatine, I gill whipped cream, i gill aspic jelly, truffle and red pimientos for garnish. Line the inside of 8-io baba or dariole moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly, decorate each mould according to taste with strips of truffle, red chilli, and some nicely-cooked asparagus-heads. The green part of the asparagus must be cut into short pieces, cooked in slightly salted water, and passed through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, add this to the piiree, season to taste with pepper and salt, also a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne if liked ; let it cool, then mix in the whipped cream and a little spinach greening to improve the colour. IMask the inside of the moulds with a thick layer of the prepared puree. Remove the fat from the foie- gras, and cut it into suitable pieces. Put one or two of these into each mould, and fill up with the remainder of the puree. Should there not be sufficient to fill all the moulds, mix a little aspic with the puree. Let the moulds set on the ice, then dress them in a circle on a round entree dish, fill the centre with green salad or sliced tomatoes, put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. Mousses de Foie-gras a I’Ancienne. 6 oz. foie-gras (preserved), 2 tablespoonfuls allemande or bechamel sauce, I white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, oz. leaf gelatine, 2 or 3 slices of cooked tongue, i truffle, pint aspic, ^ gill white stock. Mix the white of egg with a teaspoonful of milk, poach in a small moidd,- and, when cold, cut into neat strips, stars or rounds. Cut also some strips and stars out of the slices of tongue. Put the trimmings of egg and tongue into the mortar with the foie-gras, pound till smooth, add the sauce, mix well, season with a little pepper and aromatic spice, and rub through a fine sieve or hair sieve. Mask six to eight small timbale moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the inside with tongue, white of egg, and truffle, set the decoration with a little more aspic, and put the moulds in a cool place. Put the prepared puree in a basin. Melt the gelatine in the stock, and strain when almost cold into the puree, mix rvell with a whisk. MTisk in the cream and rather more than half the aspic jelly, and as soon as the mixture begins to set fill up the little moulds. When set, turn them out on to a cold dish, arrange neatly, garnish the centre with crisp salad, celery, and cucumber, decorate with chopped aspic, and serve.