468 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. over the fire or in the oven till quite done, basting frequently. The brown sauce should be added about ten minutes before the duckling is done. Dress on a hot dish with the small onions round. Boil up the sauce in the pan, strain, and remove the fat, reduce to the right consistency, season to taste with pepper and salt, and pour it round the base of the dish or send to table separately in a sauce-boat. Caneton a la Cambaceres {Braized Duckling). I duckling, trussed for braising, a mirepoix, consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and herbs, i tablespoonful sour cream, i oz. butter, i large cooked beetroot, i gill tomato sauce, i gill Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper, paprika. Cook the mirepoix in a braising-pan until lightly browned, put in the duckling, and cook quickly until the surface is nicely coloured, then braise in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take up, and cut the duckling into small joints. Put the carcase and joints into the pan, add the tomato and Espagnole sauces, season to taste, and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dress the duckling on a croute of fried bread on a dish, and keep hot. Cut the beetroot into julienne strips, toss in butter, season to taste, and surround the dish with this. Strain the sauce, remove the fat, add the cream, and let reduce to the desired consistency. Pour some of the sauce over the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Caneton a la Vitellus, Bone a large duckling, fry the liver with a little fat bacon, and pound, add i tablespoonful of brown sauce, 2 egg-yolks and season- ing, rub through a sieve, and spread this over the cut side of the duckling. Roll up and tie with string as for galantine. Place it in a braising-pan containing a mirepoix (onion, bay-leaf, carrot, and bacon or ham), and braise till nearly done. Take up the duckling, add a little butter to the braising-pan, chop up the car- case, and fry in this, pour off the fat, moisten with k gill port wine, i|- gill demi-glace sauce, simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain into a stewpan large enough to hold the braised duckling. Cook the latter gently in the sauce for another ten to fifteen minutes. To dress, have ready an oblong dish with a neat border of nouille paste, baked to a golden colour, cut the duckling into moderately thick slices, placing a warmed-up slice of truffle between them. Sauce over carefully with a little of the prepared sauce, and garnish with a few slices of glace cherries. Send the remainder of sauce iu a sauce-boat to the table. Caneton a la Crapaudine {Duckling, Crapaudine Style). I duckling, tablespoonfuls sweet oil, a bouquet garni (parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and clove), the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt, i fried breati croute. For the sauce : The giblets of the duckling, i oz. butter, t oz. Hour, the juice of half an orange, i ijint good stock, pepper and salt. Draw and singe the duckling, slit it open by cutting it through the back, cut off the wings, and use with giblets. Rub the duckling all over with oil, sprinkle over with lemon-juice, season lightly with pepper and salt, run a couple of skewers through the breast of the