OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 683 Well, and add one ounce of chopped ham. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the above. Butter a round baking-tin or gratin-dish, dress the mixture neatly on it, sprinkle the top with chopped ham, bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, when done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Madere sauce. CEufs brouilles {Scrambled Eggs). 6 eggs, J gill cream, oz. butter, salt and pepjjer to taste, toasted bread (buttered). Break the eggs into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat with a fork until the yolks and whites are thoroughly mixed. Put it in a stew-pan with the butter and cream, stir over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set. Have ready a square piece of toasted bread well buttered, cut each into quarters, put neatly on a hot dish, turn the egg mixture on to this, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Or, instead of dressing the eggs on toast, put the mixture, heaped up, in the centre of a dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. CEufs brouilles aux Pointes d’Asperges. 6 eggs, I gill aspai'agus tips, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Boil the asparagus tips in salted water until tender, drain well, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and saute over the fire for five minutes. Break the eggs in a basin, add the cream, season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, beat up well, put it in a stew-pan with the remaining ounce of butter, stir over the fire for a little while, then add the asparagus, and stir again until the eggs begin to set. Dish up on a hot clish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Slices of cucumber in place of asparagus points will be found a nice change. pinch of castor sugar should be added when sauteing, if cucumber is used. CEufs brouilles aux Anchois {Anchovy Buttered Eggs). 6 eggs, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i-J oz. butter, 2 tablespoon fuls cream, 6 gorgona anchovies, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, toasted slices of bread, parsley for garnish. Wdpe the anchovies with a damp cloth, remove the fillets, and cut into stri])s. Cut the toast in oblong slices about three inches long and two inches broad, and butter them. Beat up the eggs, ])ut them, together with the anchovy essence, an ounce of butter, and the cream, in a small stew-pan, add a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set, put an equal quantity on the buttered side of each j)iece of toast, lay the strips, of anchovies across each in the shape of lattice-work, j)lace a caper in each cavity, dish up, put the dish in the oven for a few minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. CEufs brouilles aux Trufles {Scrambled Eggs with Truffles). 6 eggs, if oz. butter, i large trutfle, f glass marsala, salt, pepi>er, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted breatl. Cut the truffles into fine shreds, put them in a stew-pan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter, cover and reduce the liquid to about