668 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXIX. FARINACEOUS DISHES. Beignets de Gruyere a la Krona {Cheese Fritters). 2 lb. lirni fresh gruyere cheese, free from rind, panurette (grated rusks), I teaspoonful krona pepper, seasoning, i egg, frying fat or clarified butter, gill white sauce. Cut the cheese into oval or round slices about h inch thick, and of even size. Coat them on both sides with a layer of cold white sauce, and place on a wire tray to set. Mix a plateful of panurette breadcrumbs with the krona pepper. Dip the slices in beaten egg, and roll in the crumbs. Place them in a wire frying-basket and fry in hot fat till nicely coloured (it will take about four minutes). Drain, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve quickly. Gnocchi a la Russe. ^ pint milk, gill white wine, 3 eggs, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. sifted flour, 4 oz grated parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and paprika, bechamel sauce. Put the milk and wine in a stew-pan, when hot, add three ounces of butter, stir the flour in gradually as soon as liquid boils. Work the mixture vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides and bottom of the stew-pan. Set the pan on one side for a few minutes to cool the paste, then incorporate the eggs one at a time, about half the grated cheese, and season to taste with a pinch of salt, white pepper, and a little paprika, beat up well, and work in finally the remainder of the butter. Shape some quenelles by means of a table- or dessert-spoon, drop them into fast-boiling salted water or stock, poach them from fifteen to twenty minutes, keeping stew-pan covered meanwhile. Drain, dish up neatly, incorporate the remainder of grated cheese with the bechamel sauce, let it boil, and sauce over the quenelles. Serve very hot. Macaroni a la Rossini. Wash, dry, and pound four ounces of raw chicken livers in a mortar, add the same quantity of truffle and foie-gras, season with salt, pepper, grated cheese, and nutmeg, moisten with one yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of brandy, and rub through a fine sieve. Mean- while cook in salted water some large-sized macaroni, when done, drain well on a cloth. Fill the pipes with the prepared farce, using a paper cornet for this purpose. Place the stuffed macaroni in a stew-pan, pour over sufficient tomato sauce to cover. Cook for twenty minutes in the oven, dish up, and sprinkle over with grated parmesan cheese.