RECHERCHh BALL AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. 725 Flatten the chicken hllets and braise them white in rich chicken stock, when done press between two weighted boards. Cut six rounds of ham one and a half inches in diameter, and a similar quantity of ronncls from the chicken hllets. Mask them on both sides with well-seasoned chicken aspic, cut the white of egg into thin slices same size as the ham, and mask likewise with aspic. Line a plain liat mould with a thin layer of chicken aspic, and decorate the side with strips of tarragon leaves and dice-shaped slices of tongue. Pound the remainder of ham, free from fat, in a mortar, add to it a little mayonnaise, and rub through a sieve, season to taste and stir in a gill of previously whisked aspic. Fill the prepared mould with this and place it on the ice. Cut the remainder of tongue into fine shreds, also the walnuts, previously peeled, and the remainder of whites of egg. Mix all carefully with a little mayonnaise and enough aspic to bind ; season, and fill into a small sunk dariole mould, previously lined with aspic. W'hen set turn it out on to the dish containing the ham mousse. Range the chicken and ham rounds, surmounted by a slice of white of egg, round the base of the mousse, place a small star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each, put the lettuce heart on top of the dariole shapes, garnish with chervil and aspic, and serve. Croustades de Volaille a la Chambord {Cold). For the croustades line eight suitably-shaped zephyr cutlet or heart-shaped moulds with nouille paste, and bake them blind. Place the pastry crusts on a sieve to cool. Prepare a foie-gras puree, flavour, it with sherry and truffle essence and blend with a few roasted and finely chopped hazel nuts, and some dissolved aspic to bind, then line the inside of the paste crusts with it. Mask eight oval-shaped escalopes of cooked chicken fillets with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate each with tarragon leaves and pimiento strips to form a spray. Place these into the prepared croustades and coat them with a layer of nearly-set chicken aspic. Dish up neatly, and , serve. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Chartreuse. Skin and trim a breast of lamb, then marinade it for about three hours in a pan containing sliced onion, sliced carrot, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, slices of peeled lemon, lemon-juice, and salt and pepper. Take up the breast, bone it, and braise it with a rich mirepoix and stock till quite tender, then press it under a weighted board. Pre- pare a puree composed of soubise, i.c. onion puree, bechamel sauce, finely chopped mushrooms, and cooked ham. Fill the cooked breast of lamb with this and press again, lightly this time. When cold, cut into neat heart or cutlet shapes, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in deep clarified butter or lard. Drain and dish up in border form. Fill the centre of the dish with hot vegetable macedoine tossed in butter, surmounted by a sprig of cooked cauliflower. Serve with a boat of sauce Broglie, composed of Espagnole reduced with ham, Madere, and mushroom liquor.