665 VEGETA BEES—LEGUMES. Tomates a I’Espagnole.—Tomatoes stufted with forcemeat, breadcrumbs, finely chopped ham, moistened with cgg-yolk, lirown sauce, and seasoned. Braise in the oven and serve witli demi-glace sauce. — farcies a la Reine.—Fresh tomatoes (firm) scooped out, stufted with chicken forcemeat, baked, and served with Madere sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Tomatoes tossed in flutter, then stewed in gravy or brown sauce, with finely chopjied parsley. — a la Florentine.—Halves of tomatoes stuffed with a mi.xture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, finely chojiped shallots, fried in oil, and white breadcrumbs, moistened with sherry wine and well seasoned. Range on a baking-sheet, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a little oiled liutter, and bake in a hot oven. -- frappees en Mayonnaise {Cold).—Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half-frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — a ITndienne.—Halves of tomatoes stufted with curried rice and baked. — a la Marseillaise.—Halves of tomatoes, seasoned, fried in oil. Spread the cut sides with a mixture of hard-boiled egg-yolks, chopped shallots, chives and parsley, butter, and jrounded anchovies, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Provenpale.—Small tomatoes stuffed with onion puree, flavoured with garlic, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — roties.—Baked tomatoes, cut in halves without detaching them en- tirely. Remove the seeds and put a small ])iece of Imtter and seasoning in the centre of each. Close up, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. — a la Sicilienne.—Select some firm tomatoes, scoop out the centre of each, and fill with a mixture of tomato i)ulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, moistened with a well-reduced Madere sauce. Range on baking-sheet, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a tew drops of oil, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Toscane.—Small peeled tomatoes stuffed with chicken farce, and braised ; served with perigord sauce. TRUFFES-TRUFFLES. TrufTes a la Bernhardt. Wash and brush twelve large fresh truffles. Soak them in fresh water for three hours. Drain and put them in a stew-pan with suffi- cient sherry or marsala wine to cover, add a few crushed peppercorns, cover, and cook for twenty minutes. \Mien this is done hollow out the centre of each truffle by means of a sharp-pointed knife, and till them with a previously-prepared salpicon of finely chopped mushrooms and oysters seasoned with a little white sauce and lemon-juice. Dip each truffle in a rich frying batter, so as to com- pletely cover it. Fry a golden colour in clarified butter and one-fourth of olive oil. Drain them carefully and dish up on a