740 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. about forty-five minutes to cook. When done, turn out. Coat the whole with apricot marmalade, and send to table with some kind of custard or other light sweet sauce. Snowdon Pudding. I lb. beef suet (chopped finely), lb. breadcrumbs, 4 oz. castor sugar, ‘the riud of I lemon finely grated, i oz. ground rice, 2 eggs, gill milk, 2 table- spoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. glace cherries, 4 lb- raisins (stoned), I teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Cut the raisins and cherries in halves, grease a pudding-basin or tin mould, and decorate the bottom and sides vdth the fruit. Put the remainder of the fruit and all the dry ingredients in a basin, mix them thoroughly, add the eggs and milk, stir well, and lastly add the marmalade : this should be slightly warmed, so that it will mix more freely. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, steam for hour, remove the paper, turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour some hot custard or fruit syrup round the base of the dish, and serve. Transparent Pudding. 6 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. butter, apricot jam. Cream the sugar and butter together, add one by one the yolks of eggs, beat up for about fifteen minutes. Butter five or six small timbale or dariole moulds. Divide half the above mixture equally into the moulds, then place about a dessertspoonful of apricot jam in the middle of each mould, fill up with the remainder of mixture, and steam them from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take up, allow the moulds to stand for a few minutes, then turn out into a hot dish, pour round some custard sauce, and serve. Ponding a la Victoria. ^ lb. beef suet, 4 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, 3 oz. flour, 4 small apples, peeled and cored, 4 oz. apricot jam, 2 oz. mixed peel, 3 oz. dried cherries, 3 oz. sugar, 4 eggs, i glass brandy, i-J- gill cream. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely, dry and sift the flour, chop the peeled and cored apples finely, and shred the peel. Put these ingredients into a basin, add the cherries cut into quarters, also the remainder of dry ingredients, and the jam. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the eggs, and mix with the cream, stir this into the basin and work well, aclding the brandy last of all. Fill the mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper or tie over with a cloth (previously buttered and floured), put to boil in boiling water, and cook for an hour and a half, or more. Unmould, and serve with a hot sweet custard sauce, flavoured with a dessert- spoonful of maraschino or curayoa liqueur. Pouding Viennoise ( Vienna Pudding). Trim off the crust from a small loaf of brown bread or use a stale plain cake, cut the crumby part into small dice, and put in a basin. Dissolve 2 oz. ’of loaf sugar in a stew-pan, when of a light brown colour (caramel) put in three gills of milk, and boil up. Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 whole eggs, and stir in the boiling milk, and pour the whole over the bread or cake.