THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Homard a la Suedoise {Lobster, Swedish Fashion).—Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with auchovy sauce. Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinal. I crawfish or large lobster, 6 to 8 prawns, t oz. panade, eggs, salt, pepper, and paprika : i or 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (p, 142), 6 to 8 small eggs, 2 to 3 slices of truffle, fresh breadcrumbs, frying-fat, consisting of half dripping and half clarified butter, cardinal sauce (p. 144). Break the crawfish or lobster (reserve the spawn and coral, if any), remove the meat and mince small. Heat up in a stewpan the panade, a little butter, and enough white sauce to moisten, when hot add two yolks of eggs, season to taste, and stir over the fire till the mixture binds. Spread on a dish or plate and set to cool. Shape six to eight oval croquettes with the ends pointed and the centre of each made hollow (one side only), egg and crumb them carefully, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Take up, drain, dish up in a row on a hot dish, place a small trimmed poached egg in the centre of each croquette. Cover over very carefully with well-reduced cardinal sauce, insert a prawn at each end of the croquettes. Place a star or half-moon of truffle in the centre of each, and serve hot. Filets de St. Pierre a la Genoise [John Dory, Genoese Style). I dory, I gill picked shrimps, 2 smelts, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 egg, about 2 oz. panade, i oz. butter, pepper and salt, i tablespoonful Chablis or Sauterne, Genoise sauce (p. 149). Wash the fish, wipe it, and remove the fillets (the bones, etc., may be used for the Genoise sauce). Pare the fillets neatly and cut them into oblong pieces. Remove the bones and heads from the smelts, pound them together with the shrimps in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade, anchovy essence, and moisten with the egg. Mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub the whole through a sieve. Spread each piece of fillet with this farce, fold over, place them on a well-buttered saute-pan, season lightly, moisten with the wine and a few drops of lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes or longer, according to the thickness of the fillets. Take up care- fully, dish up on a hot dish. Pour some previously prepared Gchioise sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, boil up, and strain over the fillets. Serve hot. Rale a la Bourgeoise {Skate, Bourgeoise Style). 2 lb. skate, bouquet garni (p. 122), ij oz. butter, i oz. flour, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i onion, pint stock, i glass white wine, pepper, and salt. Wash the skate, cut in pieces, put fins and skin into a pan with the stock or water, bring to the boil, and skim, add the onion, sliced, and bouquet, simmer half an hour, and strain. Heat butter, stir in the flour, when brown add stock, lemon-juice, wine, and pieces