DI^ESSED EISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 285 circle on a hot dish. Put the garniture in the centre with a little sauce, and serve with a small dish of boiled rice, the same as for a curry. Lobster Puree for Fillets of Soles a I’lndienne. -J- lobster, t oz. butter, i oz. lloiu', i tablespoontul cream, i talilespoonful stock, I yolk of egR. Take the meat of half a lobster, chop it finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add about a tablespoonful of cream, and the same quantity of milk or stock. Mix thoroughly, and let it cook for a few seconds, then add the chopped lobster-meat, season to taste, mix well with a yolk of egg, let it bind, and use as directed, Filets de Soles a la Marcelle. Fillet two soles, trim them and spread over one side of each with champignon or Duxelle puree (p. 140), fold them and poach in fish stock. Dress them on a round dish in border form, sauce over with Perigueux sauce (p. 156), garnish with pommes Anna {sec Vegetable Chapter) in centre. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Messaline, Fillet two soles, season and fold them, and cook in a buttered pan with a little champagne. Dress them neatly on an oval dish and sauce over with a sauce composed of tomatoes and Italian pimiento, garnish with cpiarters of artichoke bottoms tossed in a little fresh butter, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Montreuil, 2 soles, il oz. butter, i gill Chablis or Sautenic wine, the juice of i lemon, 1 dessertspoonful parsley (chopped finely), i tablespoonful liquefied meat glaze, I gill veloutee sauce (p. 161), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 or 3 potatoes (cut into small marble shapes). Skin and fillet the soles, put the bones in a stewjtan with enough water to cover, a slice of onion, herbs, and about half the wine, season with salt, and cook for twenty minutes, then strain. Season the fillets, fold or roll them neatly, trim and place them in a buttered saute-pan, add the lemon-juice and remainder of wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take them up, put the veloutee sauce into the liquor, boil up and strain. Re-heat the sauce, add the prepared fish stock, and reduce to its original cpiantity. Now add the chopped parsley, season with a pinch of cayenne, and add half the meat glaze. Cook the small potato balls in salted water. Drain well and blend with the re- mainder of the butter. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with the potato balls (heaped up high), pour the sauce over the fillets, and sprinkle some meat glaze over the whole. Filets de Sole a la Montpensier. 2 soles, I Icmou, 1- glass of white wine, 8 large crayfish, i small sweetbread, I small lobster, 12 champignons, i -l- gill cardinal .sauce i oz, butter, i truffle fleurons, seasoning.