THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 204 Consomme au Riz.—This is a consomme or clear soup garnished with plain boiled rice. — Rossini.—Consomme double, garnished with very large macaroni, boiled, drained, and forced with foie-gras cream, poached, and cut into small, short pieces. — Rothschild.—Game consomme, garnished with hnely cut pheasant fillets, chestnuts, and strips of truffles. — Russe (Russian Gravy Soup).—Prepare a clear soup or consomme, add to it finely cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery, and leeks cooked separately and added to the soup half an hour before serving. Flavour with beetroot juice, and season. — au Semoule.—This is clear soup with evenly-grained semolina cooked m the consomme. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Prepare a rich chicken consomme (j). 187), garnished with small chicken quenelles, crayfish tails, fine tapioca, and tiny bits of blanched beef marrow. — a la Santos-Dumont.—This is chicken consomme (p. 187) containing Brazilian tapioca. Garnish it with carrots cut in small olive shapes, French beans cut in julienne strips, and turnips scooped out into ])ea shaj)es. These are cooked separately and added to the soup half an hour before serving. — St. Saens.—This is a delicately flavoured chicken consomme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes known as “ pommes de terre negresse.” — Tortue-Fausse (Clear Mock Turtle).—Clarify a richly flavoured veal stock in which half a calf’s head has been cooked. Cook in the consomme some small, evenly cut pieces of the calf’s head, flavour with sherry or Marsala, and season to taste with turtle, herbs, etc. — aux Vermicelles.—Add to 3 pints of clear soup or consomme I oz. of vermicelli boiled in salted water, and well drained. Bring the soup to the boil, and serve. — Vietrich.—Clarify some good veal stock, and serve with garniture of nouilles (p. 134), carrots, turnips, and French beans, cut in fine shreds and boiled till tender. — Vitellus.—This is a clear chicken-flavoured soup thickened with pearl barley, and garnished with lozenge strips of nouille paste (p. 134), boiled in water or stock before being added to the soup. — froid a la Vivian.—This is a cold chicken consomme (p. 187) garnished with small dice-shaped cooked cucumber, slices of peeled tomato, and lettuce leaves (previously boiled), also cubes of royal custard made with aspic cream (p. 147), and cut out when set.