io8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for I can say with every confidence that the best French cooks or veluutee. It would, however, be much more distinctive to recognise but two kinds of sauces as foundation or grande sauces— viz. the Spanish and bechamel, which are unquestionably the two leading sauces in cookery, and as such is the case they deserve to be recognised. Sauce espagnole, versus Brown Sauce.—There are many people who imagine that espagnole sauce is nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce. The French practically owe much of their advance- ment in cookery to Spain, although they have excelled the Spanish cuisine by a long way. Spanish cookery was at one time the pioneer, when no doubt this sauce was introduced into France, and such being the case, it cannot be wondered at that the French cooks have stuck to the name of so important an item, which they have adopted as their chief brown sauce. The characteristic of this brown sauce is the flavour of ham which is blended into the sauce in such a skilful manner, making it superior to, and distinguishable from, an ordinary brown sauce. Much of the success of a brown sauce, as a fundamental sauce, depends upon the manner in which the flour is blended, or, to be more correct, roasted. The principle of roasting flour is practically the same in every instance, although there are a number of ways of introducing the roast flavour into a brown sauce. To illustrate my meaning, let us take the roasting of coffee as an example, which will give us some idea as to what happens in roasting flour for a sauce. We know that when coffee is properly roasted, its aromatic qualities are developed, whereby certain salts and volatile oils are blended, bringing out an excellent aroma, which by mere boiling of the berry could never be attained. The result obtained by roasting is not merely a change of colour and an access of fragrance, but also the development of qualities which affect the human frame—which exhilarate the nervous system. The process of roasting flour, and the subsequent result in sauces, are to a certain extent the same. To roast the flour to a nut-brown colour develops a fragrance of the most exquisite flavour, which will ultimately be incorporated into the sauce or sauces. Time required for Cooking.—In preparing this, as well as other sauces which require a process of long cooking, it should be remem- bered that a sauce must simmer long enough to clear, and have the fat separated and come to the surface, so that it can be skimmed off. The Introduction of Ham or Lean Bacon, the latter being more often used than ham, into the leading brown sauce is but one out of many other ways of incorporating a smoky or ham flavour, which makes the espagnole so characteristic, and there is no question as to whether this addition really improves the flavour or not,