237 HORS-D'(EUVRE {A PPETISERS). mask with a layer of aspic jelly. When set, decorate with thinly- cut slices of radishes. Dish up neatly, and serve cold. Laitue aux (Eufs et Anchois {Lettuce with Eggs and Anchovies). Cut 12 anchovy hllets into small dice and chop coarsely the hard-boiled whites of 2 eggs, and rub the yolks through a coarse sieve. Mix them carefully in a basin and season with salt, pepper, and a little mayonnaise. Wash and drain some crisp lettuce leaves, and stamp out g-io rounds with a fluted 2+-inch paste cutter. Put a dessertspoonful of the prepared salad in the centre of each, spread over with a little mayonnaise, and place a smaller round of lettuce leaf on top. Decorate with capers and finely chopped encumber or beetroot. Keep on the ice till required for table, then dish up and serve. Feuilles de Laitue a I’Americaine {Lettuce Leaves with Lohstev). Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, but use finely chopped fresh lobster in place of anchovies, and decorate with lobster butter, capers, and tiny sprigs of curly parsley. Gumbos a I’Americaine, Salad oil, 2 tomatoes, a bouquet garni, i clove .garlic, 2 pimientos, gumbos, 1 lemon. Put 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls of best salad oil into a saute-pan, when hot adcl the tomatoes cut in slices, with pulp removed, the bouquet garni, and crushed garlic. Fry a little, and put in the red pimientos and gumbos. Season with salt and pepper, moisten with the lemon-juice, and cook in the oven till the gumbos are tender. This dish is generally served cold as hors-d’oeuvre on deep glass dishes surrounded with crushed ice. Roulettes a la Creole. Brown bread, butter, game puree, capers, anchovy paste, parsley, lobster coral. Butter lightly some thin slices of brown bread and spread the buttered sides with a layer of game or chicken puree, flavoured with capers and anchovy paste. Roll up, trim the edges, and butter the surface of each. Sprinkle half the buttered part of the rolls with finely chopped parsley, and the other half with lobster coral, krona seasoning, or panurette. Dish up the green and red roulettes alternately on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, and serve. Mayonnaise a la Suedoise. Cooked lean veal, fillets of kippered herrings, cooked potato and beetroot, mayonnaise, hard-boiled eggs. Cut all into small dice shape. Season with mayonnaise. Dish up on little glass dishes, and garnish with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Chantrelles en Salade. Chantrelles are a species of mushroom grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing or mayon- naise seasoning. Served as hors-d’oeuvre.