199 SOUPS {POTAGES). chervil, stir in the stock, let it come to a boil, and allow to simmer gently for a good hour. Strain carefully through a cloth, reboil, add the wine and brandy and turtle meat, season with salt and a pinch or two of cayenne pepper, and serve. Consomme a la Toscane. Prepare a chicken consomme well clarihed and not coloured, cook separately in salted water some Perles du Nizam, drain when done, and add to the consomme. Shred also very hnely the red part of a large carrot and some sorrel leaves, toss in butter, and cook in stock. Add these as garnish to the soup a few minutes before serving. Consomme Grand Veneur. 2 quarts rich clear consomme (made in the usual way), 2 whites of eggs, T tablespoonful of cream, 2 large truhies, i small firm lettuce, i small head of white celery, carmine colouring, pepper and salt, tarragon and chervil. Mix the whites of eggs with the cream, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, strain through a pointed strainer into a well- buttered plain mould, and poach in the oven till quite hrm. Let cool, unmould, and cut into hne julienne strips, or very small cubes of even size. Cut the truffles into similar shapes, put them in a saucepan with a little sherry and heat up. Trim and wash the lettuce and the celery, cut the hearts into hne shreds, cook sepa- rately in salted water, strain, and keep hot. Put all the ingredients, together with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, hnely chopped, into the consomme, season to taste, let it come to the boil, skim, and pour into the soup-tureen. Consomme Villars, Prepare 3 pints of rich stock of veal and fowl, and the usual stock vegetables. Clarify with a tomato mirepoix, including the usual clarifying material of lean beef, white of egg. Season care- fully and boil up with a glass of sherry, and about a dessertspoonful of arrowroot to form a light liaison. Garnish with hnely cut asparagus points (new or sprue), carrots (scooped out in pea shapes), shreds of tomato hllets, and very small chicken quenelles mixed with chopped pistachios, and poached. Consomme Xavier. 2 or 3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. flour, i oz. butter, i egg, i oz. grated cheese, 3 gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan, stir in the hour when boiling, stir quickly over the hre until the mixture becomes thick and smooth. Add the cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere is best), season with pepper and salt, work up well, and let cool. Beat up the egg and work into the mixture. Three parts hll a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a plain pipe with this paste, close up the large end, press out some large pea-shapes on to a buttered saute-pan, pour on a little boiling water, and poach for hve minutes. Drain on a sieve, and add to the hot consomme about ten minutes before serving.