APter-dInner sa f’u urIes. 871 Rub the butter into the flour, mix in the grated cheese, moisten with the yolk of one egg, and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk. Roll out the paste, about jV of inch thick, and make it into two strips of about three inches wide. Mix the anchovy paste with a hard-boiled egg-yolk and a teaspoonfnl of cream, spread this evenly over one piece of the paste, arrange a layer of preserved lax on this, and put the other piece of paste upon it. Trim the edges. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, mix it with cayenne or paprika pepper and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence ; spread this thinly and evenly over the paste, and cut into even-sized fingers. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; arrange the fingers neatly on a hot dish, covered with a lace-paper or folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. Allumettes d’Anchois {Anchovy Matches). Roll out thinly some short-paste crust, and spread it with a thin layer of anchovy paste, and cut into thin strips, place on a baking- sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Allumettes de Crabes aux Pistaches. Prepare a puree of finely-pounded crab meat, anchovy paste, a little white sauce, egg-yolk, cream, and the needful seasoning. Roll out two pieces of puff-paste of oblong shape, spread over the prepared puree, place them together and trim the edges. Then cut the paste into thin strips, place them on a greased baking-sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven. Just before they are finished brush them over with beaten egg and besprinkle with chopped pistachios. Return to the oven for another five minutes. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. TroMQons a la Tosca. lb. puff-paste or trimming, 6 oz. tunny fish (thou marine), 2 taltlespoon- fuls chutney, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, i table- spoonful cream, i teaspoonful curry paste, parmesan or gruyere cheese, seasoning, 8 crayfish or prawns, and 8 pimiento rings. Roll out the paste, besprinkle it with a little grated parmesan cheese and paprika or Nepanl pepper, fold it in three, and after ten minutes roll out to about i inch in thickness, and three inches wide. Trim the sides, and place the paste on a baking-sheet, and bake for five minutes. Pound the tunny fish, add one tablespoonful of chutney, curry paste, sauce, egg-yolks, and cream, and rub all through a fine sieve. Season to taste, and spread this over the partially baked paste crust, which must be trimmed neatly and spread over with the remainder of chutney finely chopped. Cut into even sized slices about one inch wide. Sprinkle over some grated gruyere cheese. Bake for about ten minutes in a sharp oven, dish up, place a prawn or crayfish tail on each, in a ring of pimiento, and serve hot. Beignets a la Madras {Madras Fritters). 4 slices of brown bread, 3 tablespoonfuls cliufney, i oz. butter, 4 slices of cooked ham, frying batter, frying fat, parsley.