HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 763 the remainder of cooked orange slices, rubbed through a sieve, re-heated and flavoured, or else serve it with a boat of whipped cream flavoured with orange. This dish is also delicious if served cold. Surprises d’Oranges. Cut eight oranges across in halves. Squeeze out the juice very gently so as not to break the rind, by means of a teaspoon remo\’e as much as possible of the pulp and pith. Strain the orange juice, and add to it the strained jnice of three lemons and it- gill of syrup. Freeze this in the usual manner. When sufficiently frozen, fill each or as many halves of oranges as possible, cover the top of each with an “ omelette soufflee ” mixture. This must be done very carefully indeed, so as to completely cover the ice. Bake them in a very quick oven just long enough to brown the surface. Place each in a wineglass, dish up, and send to table immediately. Rissoles de Cerises {Chcrry^ Rissoles). Stone some cooking cherries, and cook them in a little syrup till done. Roll out some puff-paste, stamp out the required number of rounds, put a dessertspoonful of cherry compote in the centre of each, wet the edge of the paste and fold over, like ordinary rissoles. Bake in a fairly hot oven, roll in castor sugar previously mixed with powdered cinnamon and vanilla sugar. Dish up, and serve. Croquettes de Cerises {Cherry Croquets). lb. cooking cherries (sour), li lb. cake-crumbs (crushed linger biscuits or Genoise), 4 oz. sugar, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, i egg, crushed rusks, fat for frying, 2 glasses noyeau. Stone the cherries, put them in a stew-pan with the sugar and a little water, cook until tender, strain off a little of the juice, add the cake-crumbs and liqueur, grated lemon-rind, and cinnamon, spread the mixture on a dish and let cool. Make up into cork shapes, brush over with egg, roll in the crushed rusks or baked and crushed slices of Genoise cake, when set, egg, and crumb again. Fry in clarified butter or fat to a golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper, dust with sugar, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, garnish top of each with a glace cherry or angelica, and serve. Croquettes de Riz {Rice Croquets). lb. Carolina rice, pint milk, i oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, i whole egg-, 4 oz. castor sugar, lemon-rind, breadcrumbs, frying fat, angelica. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice, put it in a stew-pan with the milk, butter, and the rind of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, cover, simmer slowly until tender, remove the lemon-rind, work in one by one the yolks of eggs and the sugar. Stir over the fire until set, and turn on to a plate or dish. When cold, divide into eight equal portions, shape into croquettes (heart or pear shapes), brush over with beaten egg, crumb, fry golden brown in hot fat, drain on paper, dredge with sugar, and insert a strip of angelica in the end of each croquette. Dish up, and serve with apricot syrup or lemon sauce.