ico6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who may know the technical names of old dishes. Avoid also the nse of pompons names of dishes, especially when fire cost for their preparation is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, countries, etc., are applied in connection with many dishes; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or who have distinguished themselves by their gastronomic or epicurean merits. Hence, we have such names in connection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richelieu, Cai'eme, Maintenon, Conde, Colbert, Villeroy, Tal- leyrand, Nesselrode, Demidoff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, etc. These names, as well as many others which have been incor- porated in this work, are associated with various culinary prepara- tions, and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some narrow-minded cuisimers who are in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they adapt some other high-sounding names, in order to make them- selves famous, but who will only succeed in making themselves look ridiculous and small in the eyes of a real gourmet, who is unlikely to be thus deceived. If, however, the composition of a certain dish is due to the talent and initiative of the cook, then the case is different, and he will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The importance of a well-composed menu is so great that it adds to the success of a dinner in a great measure, whilst a defectively composed menu may compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is indis- pensable to connoisseurs who understand the language of fhe kitchen, for they will then, by analysing the menu, be able to judge the dinner as well as the capacity of the chef according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands. On looking at the various compilations of dinner menus, one will find that there are three kinds of dinners : the solitary dinner, social dinners, and set dinners. All need and merit an equal amount of consideration by the menu compiler and the cook, who should be one person. The last two dinners may be termed society dinners. The success of a dinner does not depend in the least on two soups, two hsh, two entrees, etc., but on having it well cooked, well served, sufficient on the table, and, above all, everything of the best possible quality. It is far better to have one of each and good, well dressed, fhan a large number of dishes badly done. The way to success, in fact, is to have the dishes choice but limited in number. The wines as well as the dishes should be more remarkable for their excellence than their variety. As an illustration of this, take the words of fhe late Earl of Dudley, who used to say, “ A good soup, a small turbot, and a neck of venison, duckling with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and an apricot tart, is a dinner for an emperor.”