DRESSED EISIl AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 31 i tor crust, 12 oz. flour, 6 oz. lard, 2 yolks of egg. of skate, season to taste, simmer abont a quarter ol an hour, or until skate is cooked. Dish up, reduce sauce and strain over. Garnish with a few croutons of bread, glazed over with extract of meat, and serve hot. Rale au Beurre Noir. Wash, trim, and boil the lish in salted water, sufficient to cover, adding a sliced carrot and half an onion, if liked. When done, take up, drain well, and dish up. Fry i-i oz. butter until nut-brown, take off the stove, add a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, pour quickly over the skate, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Note.—Fish stock and sauces of any kind may be greatly improved by the addition of a small quantity of meat glaze or some Lemco. Half a teaspoonful is the proportion used for every half- pint of sauce or weak stock. Croquettes de Poisson [Fish Croquettes). q lb. cold fish freed from skin and bones, i gill of weh-rediiced bechamel sauce (p. 142), I dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i yolk of egg and i whole egg, salt and pepper, panurette or breadcrumbs, parsley, frying-fat. Shred the fish as finely as possible or mince very small, heat up the sauce, add the anchovy essence, season to taste, and stir in the minced fish, ^^'hen thoroughly hot stir in one yolk of egg, let it bind, and turn the mixture on a jilate to cool. Make np into even-sized cutlet shapes, dip in beaten egg, crumb well, either with panurette or ordinary breadcrumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain well, insert a small piece of macaroni at each end of the cutlets, dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pate de Poisson a I’Americaine {American Fish Pie). -h 11). cooked turbot, cod or haddock, lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter,, t pint white sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 volks and i whole egg, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Break the fish into flakes, removing skin and bones, pnt it in a stewpan with oz. butter, stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese, season to taste, and heat up. Heat the potato puree with an ounce of butter, stir well, season to taste, and bind with two egg-yolks. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a half-inch layer of potato puree, add a layer of sauce and the prepared fish, cover with another layer of sauce, and lastly cover all with potato puree. Smooth the surface, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Mark the top prettily with the point of a knife, place the dish in a pan containing a little water, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes or until the top of the pie is nicely browned. Pate de Poisson a la Mariniere (Raised Fish Pie). I sole, I eel, i glass claret, i onion (sliced), 12 button onions, 2 cloves, I clove of garlic, h oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, b mushrooms, 6 prawns or !2 shrimps (picked), pepper and salt, t lemon,