THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Q20 Egg Wine. 1 egg, I glass of sherry, sugar to taste, jiiiit of boiling water. Beat the egg up well, add the sugar and sherry. Pour the boiling water on to the egg. Return to the saucepan, and stir till it thickens. Do not boil or it will curdle. Serve hot. If liked, it can be served when the boiling water is poured on, and need not be cooked in the saucepan. Egg and Soda-Water. Beat up the yolk of an egg with one teaspoonful of castor sugar till frothy. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour this into a tumbler and fill np with soda-water. Lemonade. I lemon, \ oz. loaf sugar, pint boiling water. Peel the lemon very thinly. Put the rind, the juice of the lemon, and sugar, into a clean jug, and ponr on it the boiling water. Cover and let cool, then strain and serve. A little more sugar may be added if needed. Great care must be taken to peel the lemon very thinly and to remove white skin afterwards, otherwise the lemonade will be bitter. Lemon Whey. Boil half a pint of milk in a fireproof china saucepan, add the jnice and the rind of half a lemon. Let it simmer for two minutes, then strain through muslin, flavonr with a tablespoonful of marsala or sherry, and sweeten to taste. Junket. Warm a pint of milk, pour it into the basin, add i oz. castor sugar and i teaspoonful of rennet, and allow the junket to set, grate over a little nutmeg, and pnt a small quantity of whipped cream on top. Iced Drink. Add the juice of a lemon to a pint of water in which an ounce of loaf sugar has been dissolved, mix with the white of an egg, and beat well up. This is delicious iced. Apple Water. Pour a pint of boiling water, sweetened, over two roasted apples. Allow to stand covered for three hours, and strain. Raisin Tea. This is usually made by infusing lb. raisins (stoned) with I pint of boiling water in the same way as tea is made ; or put the raisins and boiling water into a saucepan and cook them slowly for about two hours. Strain it, and serve. Raisin tea is a good, mild laxative, and is often used after abdominal operations, five ounces being given every four hours, alternating with milk.