AUXILIARY RECIPES. 979 open, cool oven, then ponndcd in the mortar or crnshcd as finely as possible by means of a rolling-pin. When sifted these crumbs are always handy for crumbing and breading ])nri)oses. There are also other uses for which dried breadernmbs may be put to. Lemon and Orange Rinds.—Both these should be peeled thinly and dried in the oven, then pounded and sifted. A small cpiantity of lemon-rind added to chicken, veal, and mutton_ stews or force- meat mixtures will improve the llavour. Orange-rind can be used to season brown sauces and in puddings, but only small quantities must be used in either case. POPULAR CUPS, AMERICAN DRINKS, ETC. Hock Cup.—Rub 2 oz. sugar on to the thinly pared rind of two lemons, pound it, and jilace it in a l)owl with the strained juice, a liqueur-glassful each of cura9ao and chartreuse, and a quart of iced hock. Stir well, add two bottles of iced soda water, and serve. Moselle Cup.—Put a bottle of iced moselle into a bowl, add two liqueur- glassfuls of Curasao, the thinly pared rind of half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, a bottle of iced seltzer water, and sugar to taste, then serve. Pineapple Cup.—Peel a pineapple, and put the rind into a pan with 4 oz. sugar and half a pint of water, bring to the boil and skim. Slice the pineapple thinly, sift it with 2 oz. coated sugar, j)lace it in a bowl, strain the pineapple syrup over it, and let it stand on ice for five or six liours, then add a quart of iced hock or moselle, and a bottle of iced soda water, and serve. Chablis Cup.—To two bottles of chablis add half pound of loaf sugar dissolved in one pint water, the thinly cut rind of a lemon, mi.x and add three bottles of iced seltzer water and thin slices of lemon. Claret Cup.—To two bottles of claret add half pound loaf sugar dis- solved in one pint of water, half ounce of cinnamon, half ounce of coriander seeds, three bottles soda water, and thin slices of lemon. Claret Punch.—Put to a bottle of claret two glasses of sherry, one liqueur glass of Curasao, castor sugar to taste, a few leaves of verbena, some cucumber-rind, and very thinly sliced lemon-rind, a few borage and balm leaves, and add two bottles of soda water. Badminton Cup.—Mix a bottle of claret with a bottle of soda water, two glasses of sherry, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and add a spray or two of borage. Maitrank or Moselle Cup.—This is the name of a favourite German drink. It is best made in a punch-bowl with a large piece of ice in it. Pour a bottle of hock or moselle wine over the ice, add two l:)ottles of seltzer or soda water, sugar to taste, and a small bottle of Maitrank, which is a delicious flavouring made from the blossoms of the sweet woodruff (Waldmeister), which flowers in the woods during the montli of May ; hence the drink is known as iMaitrank, Cider Cup.—One quart of cider in a jug, a pinch of balm or borage, three slices of lemon, an orange sliced, a small glass of sherry, one of