THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 420 at the latter stage in a fireproof earthenware stewpan, in which it should be sent to table. Great care must be taken so as not to break the potatoes whilst cooking. Serve very hot. Coarsely- minced apples are sometimes addecl, and cooked with the meat. Noisettes de Veau a la Princesse. About 2 lb. of fillet or cushion of veal, J pint asparagus tips, 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 truffles, \ lb. butter, gill white wine, gill sherry, i pint demi- glace sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 8 rounds of fried bread (size of fillets). Cut the veal into six or eight even-sized round slices, flatten a little and trim neatly. Put the artichokes into sufflcient hot salted water to cover, acidulated with a few drops of lemon-juice, add a small piece of butter, and boil gently. Cook the asparagus points in salted water containing a very small piece of soda, strain, let cool in water, and strain again. Put them in a stew-pan and add a little demi-glace sauce and half an ounce of butter. Slice the truffles, and cook them in a little sherry wine. Season the fillets with pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Saute them in butter in the ffsual way. Put them on a baking-sheet and brush over with meat glaze. Place each on a round piece of fried bread, fill the artichoke bottoms with asparagus points, and put one on’ each fillet. Dress them in a circle on a dish, and put the remaincler of asparagus points in the centre. Arrange the slices of truffles on top of each dressed fillet, so as to form an effective design. Have ready the demi-giace sauce, previously well reduced with the wine, and containing the essence of truffle and fillets. Sauce round the dish, and serve. Olives de Veau ( Veal Olives). I lb. lean veal (cushion or fillet), 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i oz. finely chopped beef suet, t oz. butter, chopped parsley, mixed herbs, lemon-rind and nutmeg, i egg, salt and pepper, brown sauce, J glass sherry. Cut the meat into slices, beat them with a wetted cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Mince the trimmings of the meat finely, add the suet, butter, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, grated lemon-rind, and half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with a little beaten egg. Spread each slice with the prepared stuffing, roll up, and tie with string. Fry them lightly in a little dripping or butter, pour off the fat, add about three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce and the sherry, and stew gently for about an hour, or until the meat is tender. Remove the string, dress the olives on a bed of spinach or mashed potatoes, and strain the sauce round the base of the dish. Beef Olives are made in exactly the same manner, using beef ■ in place of veal, serve with demi-glace or tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Veau a la Jardiniere {Rolled Veal Fillets Stuffed and Braised). lb. of veal, 4 oz. bacon, i onion, \ oz. butter, pepper and salt, i pint of white stock, parsley and spice, 5 pint of allemande sauce, cauliflower, carrot, turnip, green peas and French beans, veal forcemeat (p. 177).