399 HOT MEAT ENTRI'ES, ETC. half an onion stuck with a clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add a little mntton stock, season with pepjjer and salt, and allow to cook slowly for about an honr. A’hen done, drain the cutlets, press them between two boards, and let them cool. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce to the stock, reduce well, and strain. Add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley and three tarragon- leaves to the sauce, immerse the cutlets in this, and let cool again. Dip in beaten egg and milk, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheep’s kidneys, fill the centre with same, put a few warm green peas on top, fasten paper frills on the bones, and sen’c. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Druard. Cut and pare eight mutton cutlets, season, and fry them lightly in butter. Let them get cold and cover them with a salpicon made as follows : Cut into small dice 4 oz. cold chicken, 6 champignons, 4 oz. lean cooked ham, i truffle, put this in a stewpan, and moisten with 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls of veloutee sauce, when hot add 3 to 4 yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire till the eggs commence to set. Mask the cutlets on both sides with this. Egg and crumb them twice, fry to a golden colour in clarified fat, ancl drain. Arrange the cutlets in a circle with fried parsley in the centre, and serve with a sauce-boat of Chateaubriand sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton au Naturel {Plain Mutton Cutlets). Procure the best end of a neck of mntton, saw off the upper part of the rib-bones, so as to leave the bones of the cutlets about three inches long. Saw off the spine-bone close to the end of fhe ribs, cut or trim off the flat bones adhering to the thick end of the neck, cut slantwise into cutlets. Elatten and pare them neatly, cut off the skin on the side of each bone, scrape the ends of the bones, season with pepper and salt, brush over with oiled butter, and grill, or melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets when hot, and broil on both sides over a brisk fire. Dish up and serve with plain gravy. Cotelettes de Mouton aux Petits Pois [Mutton Cutlets with Green Peas). Cut a best end of neck of mutton into cutlets, trim, flatten, and pare them. Season with pepper and salt, mix a plateful of breaclcrumbs wifh an ounce of finely-chopped lean ham, dip the cutlets in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt about 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, cook the cutlets to a nice golden brown, and drain them. Dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes and peas. Pill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little gravy or sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. Proceed to cook the cutlets in the same manner as in the fore- going recipe. Dish up in a circle on a very thin border of mashed potatoes. Sauce round with demi-glace or brown sauce, well