THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i62 pound in a mortar with about i oz. of butter. Rub this through a fine sieve, and mix it with the sauce as above prepared. Whisk in the remainder of the butter, season to taste, and serve. Sauce Verte glacee [Iced Gyecn Sauce). I medium-sized cucumber, a few sprigs chervil and tarragon (blanched), spinach greening, i dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, i gill aspic, i gill cream, i|- gill mayonnaise, a pinch of castor sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Peel thinly the cucumber, cut it in half, remove the seed portion, then slice, and cook in slightly salted water till tender. Strain off the water and rub the cucumber through a fine sieve. Chop finely the herbs, and add this and the vinegar, with a little spinach green- ing, to the cucumber puree. Whisk the cream a little, and stir in the above when sufficiently cool. Incorporate by degrees the mayonnaise and the aspic jelly (previously dissolved, but not hot). Stir over the ice with a whisk for a few minutes, season to taste, and fill up an oblong biscuit-tin ; seal it with paper and lid, and place it in a charged ice-cave for if hour. To serve, unmould as usual, cut the shape into neat slices or cubes, and serve with grilled fish or meat, etc. Sauce Valentine.—This sauce is prepared in the same way as “ Sauce Suedoise ” (p. 159), adding a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and substituting the French mustard with half that quantity of English mustard. Sauce Vinaigrette. 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, i teaspoonful made mustard, olive oil, 1 teaspoonful chopped gherkins, i teaspoonful chopped capers, teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, f teaspoonful chopped shallots. Mix in a basin the tarragon vinegar, mustard (French or English), and ^ teaspoonful of salt. To this add 6 or 8 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, the parsley, shallots, gherkins, and capers. Mix well before serving. Sauce Victoria {for Fish) f lb. fresh butter, 4 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, i table- spoonful lemon-juice, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar, f gill fish stock, oz. lobster butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the butter into small squares, put half the quantity in a stewpan, place the stewpan in a vessel or large stewpan containing boiling water. Stir in the yolks of eggs by means of a whisk, add lemon-juice, tarragon, and chili vinegar, also the stock reduced to half its quantity. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Finish by whisking in the remainder of the pieces of fresh and the lobster butter. The water in which the stewpan is placed should be kept at boiling point during the process, but on no account must the sauce be allowed to boil Sauce au Vin Blanc {White Wine Sauce). f pint white stock, gill chablis or sauterne, -|- oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon, salt, white pepper, some fish liquor if the sauce be used for fish. Melt I oz. butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with seasoned stock, fish liquor, and wine ; boil up and cook for fifteen