717 SA LA DESS A LADS. Salade d’Ananas [Pineapple Salad). Cut half a peeled ripe pineapple into fine shreds (remove the cores before shredding). Mix this with the white part of a small head of celery, cut into small shreds. Place it on the ice till wanted. A few minutes before serving mix it with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to moisten and season the salad. Dress neatly on a deep glass dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve it ice-cold. Salade d’Ananas a I’lndienne [See page 235). Salade de Cerises [Cherry Salad). I lb. sour cooking cherries (fresh or preserved), i tablespoonful salad oil. I teaspooiiful lemon-juice, a few drops tarragon vinegar, i tablespoonful cognac or tablespoonful kirschwasser, a few tarragon and chervil leaves, chopped finely, a teaspoonful castor sugar. If fresh cherries are used, remove the stalks and stones, crack the latter and take out the kernels, put them with the cherries in a bowl. Mix the remainder of the ingredients above given in a small basin, and mingle with the cherries. Serve in a small salad dish or glass side dishes. This makes an excellent accompaniment to roast game or duck. Salade de Fruits [Fruit Salad). This delicious and ever-welcome dish is made by slicing various kinds of fruit, fresh or preserved, such as peaches, apricots, bananas, pineapple, oranges, etc. Arrange the fruit in layers in a salad bowl or deep glass dish, sprinkle each layer of fruit with castor- sugar, and pour over quarter to half a pint of sherry or Madeira, according to the quantity of fruit used, also a small quantity of plain syrup. Place the bowl on the ice for about two hours. J ust before serving add a small glass of liqueur, such as kirschwasser, cura9oa, Benedictine or Chartreuse. This is a most refreshing dish, suitable at all seasons of the year, but more especially for hot summer days. Banana and Walnut Salad. Peel and cut into slices 4-6 ripe but firm bananas, place them in a basin and mix carefully with half a pint of peeled walnut kernels divided into small pieces, season with salt and pepper to taste, and besprinkle with the juice of half a lemon. Range this neatly in a salad-bowl, surrounded by a neat border of water- cress, previously washed, picked, and drained. In the centre of the salad pile 1-2 large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise and serve. Salade d’Oranges [Orange Salad). 4 oranges, i lemon, i tablespoonful sweet salad oil (huile de Provence), I tablespoonful brandy, teaspoonful castor sugar, teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon, free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish.