SA UCES. iSi for five minutes ; pour in gradually the stock, add the tomato, cut into slices, and the herbs ; bring it to the boil whilst stirring, then add the wine, season to taste, cook for twenty minutes, then strain and serve. Sauce Italienne {Italian Sauce). } pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), 4 small shallots, 8 preserved mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, i bay-leaf, i tablespoonful sweet oil, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, ^ gill stock. Peel the shallots, chop them linely, place in the corner of a clean cloth, hold tightly wrapped up under cold water, then squeeze out the water, and put them in a small stewpan with the oil, stir over the hre for a few minutes, to blend but not to colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms (hnely chopped), herbs, and the stock, let it reduce well, and add the espagnole. Boil for ten minutes, take out the herbs, free it from the oil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. Sauce Joinville. 1 oz. flour, 4 gill fish stock, f pint white stock, 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, lobster coral, lemon-juice, salt, ami cayenne. Melt I OZ. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the Hour, and cook a little without browning. Add gradually the hsh and white stock, stir until it boils, and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pound the lobster coral in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh butter, rub through a sieve and stir into the sauce. Stir in the egg-yolks, one at a time. Season to taste with a pinch of cayenne, salt, ancl lemon-juice. Whisk well over a slow hre, or in a bain-marie. Do not let the sauce boil up again. Pass through a line-pointed strainer or napkin, and.serve as directed. Jus {Brown Stock Gravy). 2 oz. beef suet or i oz. dripping, 2 lb. trimmings of meat and bones, i onion, I carrot, ^ head celery, 2 cloves, i blade mace, 6 peppercorns, bouquet of herbs, 2 quarts water. Put the beef suet or dripping in a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot, fry till brown, put in the beef trimmings or other meat, and any bones of meat or carcase of poultry. Let it bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, take up, pour off the fat, and moisten with the water. Add the celery, cloves, mace, peppercorns, and bouquet of herbs. Let the wiiole simmer gently for several hours, take off fat and scum, and strain. Season with salt as required. A few drops of caramel may be added if the gravy is not sufficiently brown. Sauce Madere {Madeira Sauce). Proceed the same as directed for Demi-glace (p. 148). Add one glass of sherry or Marsala ; reduce a little longer, then add a little meat glaze to give it additional richness. Sauce Maitre d’Hotel {Parsley or Fine Herb Sauce). i pint bechamel or veloutce sauce, 3 oz. butter, } lemon, i teaspoonful of chopped, parsley seasoning.