COLD ENTRIES. 5^5 this preparation. Pound the chicken in a mortar till tine. Boil up together the white sauce, one and a half gill aspic and sherry, reduce to one-third part, add the chicken glaze, tammy, and mix with the pounded chicken. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Whip the cream, and mix in. Fill the moulds with this preparation before it is completely set. Close the two halves of each mould lirmly together (care should be taken that the marks of each part of the mould are opposite one another). Place on the ice long enough to set. Tint the remainder of aspic with a little spinach greening, pour into a saute-pan, and, when set, cut out some leaf-shapes. Place them on a dish, arrange the tomatoes on top, turn out the moulds, and decorate with chopped aspic. Cremes de Volaille a I’Ecarlate {Chicken Cream with Tongue). t lb. cooked chicken, freed from bone and skin, \ lb. cooked tongue, ^ gill allemande or velontee sauce, it gill aspic, i gill cream, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, i large ripe tomato, t oz. butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mince the. chicken and tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth. Add the sauce, previously mixed, with L gill aspic, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Cut the tomato into slices, saute them in a little butter, and cook over a quick fire. Rub through a fine sieve or tammy, and mix with a gill of aspic. Line six to eight oval moulds with this and decorate the bottoms with fancifully cut slices of truffle, next mask the moulds one-third deep with white chaud-froid sauce. M’hip the cream and mix with the chicken puree before it is completely set, add two or three chopped leaves of tarragon and chervil, fill the moulds with this mixture, and put on the ice till set. Unmould, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. Mousse de Chapon a la Belle Helene. I capon, 1 11). natural foie-gras, 6 oz. cooked lean ham, i oz. butter, 3 eggs. It gill cream, i|- gill bechamel or velontee sauce, salt, white pepper, Nepaui or cayenne to .season, 2^ gill aspic. Remove the fillets of the bird and other nice portions of capon, free from skin and bone. With the bones and skin make a rich stock. Pound the capon meat in a mortar until quite smooth, and add gradually the yolks of three eggs and the white sauce and two and a half gills of cream. Add the butter, mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. M’hisk the whites of two