AFTER DINNER SA VOURIES. 865 or anchovy butter ; fix a stuffed olive in the centre of each, and twist an anchovy fillet round the olive. Heat up and serve hot, or, if CANAPES AUX OLIVES E'ARCIES. served cold, decorate with chopped aspic or whipped cream, and garnish with sprigs of chervil or tarragon leaves. Canapes a la Romanofl [Tminv Fish Savoury). Pound 6 oz. preserved tunny fish (thon marine), add to it when quite smooth three tablespoonfuls of clotted cream. Season with salt, paprika, and cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix about h 8'ill of aspic jelly (p. 132) with the above, and spread on a clean baking-sheet, and let it set on the ice. Prepare 8-10 neatly cut (oblong, oval or finger shapes) fried bread croutons, drain well ancl let cool, then spread them on one side with anchovy butter. Cut out the prepared tunny-fish mixture to the same shape as the croutons, and place one on each. Cut some thin strips of pimiento and gherkins, and range these in lattice pattern on top of the canapfe. Dish them up neatly and serve. Canapes de Sardines a la Soubise. Prepare a soubise puree (onion puree) ; incorporate a little grated cheese and bechamel sauce, and reduce to a thick sauce ; spread some toasted bread with this and place some skinned and boned sardines upon it. Cut into fingers, cover each with more sauce, and sprinkle over grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Bake in a sharp oven for five minutes, dish up, and serve. Bonnes-Bouches a la President {Cold). About r lb. ]iuff-]iaste, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), | gill aspic, a few drops of chilli vinegar, seasoning, gill bechamel sauce, t- giU tomato sauce, 4 oz. cooked chicken, i dessertspoonful capers, ’ leaves of gelatine, a handful of small cress radishes. Roll out the paste, and line a number of small plain bouche moulds ; prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and fill each with dry peas, barley or rice. Bake them in a quick oven a pale brown. Turn out the moulds, removing at the same time the peas or rice, and set the crusts to cool. iMeantime heat up the sauce, add to 3 I