THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 342 Garniture a la Lyonnaise.—Peeled onions, cut into round slices, dipped in milk and flour, fried and served in centre of dish. Brown sauce. — a la Macedoine.—This also applies to a mixture of vegetables, as for Jardiniere, and is used as garnish for soups and entrees. It is also adapted for fruit. A typical collection of fruit dressed as salad or in jelly. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—This name is applied to dishes garnished with parsley butter, or a white sauce containing finely chopped parsley. (See Sauces and Compound Butters.) — a la Marengo [for Chicken Smite).—Sliced truffles and mushrooms, eggs, fried whole (folded in) in sweet oil. Sauce tomate and Espagnole flavoured with wine. — a la Marechale (for Poultry).—Chicken quenelles, truffles, and cham- pignons. Supreme sauce. — a la Marie Louise (for Meat or Poultry).—Paste croustades filled with pea-shaped carrots, turnips, and green peas. Rich gravy. — a la Marigny (for Meat or Poultry).—Croutons or croustades filled with flageolets beans, also fondante potatoes. Gravy. — a la Mariniere (for Fish).—Mussels, bearded oysters, and crayfish. White fish sauce — a la Marseillaise (for Fish).—Halves of tomatoes tossed in butter, flavoured with garlic, and ribbon potatoes. Brown fish sauce. — a la Mascotte (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms, braised button onions^ and noisette potatoes. Rich gravy. — a la Medicis (for Meat).—Paste or bread croustaaes, with olive-shaped braised turnips. Tomato sauce. — a la Mentonnaise (for Meat).—Small vegetable marrows, stuffed with savoury farce meat, and braised ; also new kidney potatoes, and artichoke bottoms. Gravy. — a la Mignon (for Poultry or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with small green peas, chicken quenelles, and sliced truffles. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise (for Meat).—Macaroni, julienne strips of tongue, and mushrooms. Tomato sauce. — a la Mirelle (for Meat).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with saffron flavoured rice, potato croquettes, and tomatoes. Tomato sauce. — a la Mirabeau (for Meat).—Stoned olives, anchovy fillets, and artichoke bottoms. Demi-glace sauce, with tarragon or chervil flavour. — a la Moderne (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces, potato croquettes, and chicken quenelles mixed with chopped tongue. Demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Montebello (for Poultry or Meat).—Tartlet crusts filled with shredded truffles and tongue. Bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp. — a la Montpensier (for Meat).—Asparagus tips, sliced truffles, and arti- choke bottoms. Deiru-glace. — a la Nantua (for Fish).—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with salpicon of truffle and crayfish. Nantua sauce.