942 THE NEW CENTURY CUOKERY BOOK. of the patterns. Bake in a cool oven for ten niinntes, jnst long enough to dry, cut into convenient linger shapes, and serve cold. Gateau St. Honore {St. Honore Cake). I’uft-paste or pate d’officc, pate a choux, creme St. Honore, glace fruits for decoration. Roll out some puff-paste or pate d’office about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out a round piece about eight to ten inches wide and place on a baking sheet ; wet the edge, put in a forcing-bag some previously prepared pate a choux, and press it out round the wet edge to form a border about an inch and a quarter wide and an inch high. Put also a little choux-paste in the centre and spread out, prick the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Make some small balls with the remainder of the choux- paste, put them on a baking-sheet and bake also. Have ready some sugar boiled to the crack, dip the cake balls and the same number of large glace cherries in the ready-prepared sugar ; place them alternately one against the other on the border, and fill up the centre with creme a gateau (see p. 137). Quillets [Small Dessert Tartlets). Line some very small tartlet-monlds with rough puff-paste, lill them with madeleine mixture, dredge with sugar, and bake in a slack oven. Turn them out of the moulds, scoop out the centre partially, and hll the cavities with almond cream. Decorate with whipped cream, and serve. Tartelettes aux Framboises [Raspberry Tartlets). Roll out half a pound rough puff-paste, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet-moulds ; hll with rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Boil up one gill of syrup, put in hall a pound of large picked raspberries, and cook for a few seconds. Flavour with brandy, and let cool. Drain off the syrup and hll the tartlet-cases with the raspberries. Redirce the fruit-.syrup to about half its quantity. Ponr aboift a tablespoonful over each tartlet, and serve when cold. A little desiccated cocoanut or chopped almonds over the tartlets will be found an improvement. Gateau a la Russe [Russian Cake). Prepare a Genoese cake mixture (see p. 93b), divide it into three eqnal parts ; mix one part with one ounce of chocolate, previously melted or grated, and one ])art with a few drops of cochineal or melted liquid carmine, leaving the third part plain. Bake each lot separately in a well-buttered and honred flat cake-tin. When baked, turn on to a wire sieve and let cool. Carefully line a square or oblong bisenit-tin with almond paste (see p. 136). Melt some apricot marmalade, and rnb it through a sieve. Cut the prepared Genoise into even-sized long strips about half an inch thick. Arrange these in alternate colonrs, and place them in layers neatly into the almond- l^aste lined tin. Spread each layer with apricot marmalade, and proceed thus until the tin is filled. Spread a little more marmalade