EL EMEN TA R Y ME 2'HO D S. 139 flavour with a dessert-spoonful of best coffee essence. Dip in the surface of the gateaux and hnish as directed. It is necessary to remember that if fondant icing is used too warm it will lose its brilliancy, and that it should be stirred until it has reached the desired consistency for icing—in other words, the icing point. Beurre au Cafe (Moka) {Coffee Butter for decorating Pastry and Cakes). lb. fresh butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, i yolk of egg, essence of coffee. Cream the sugar and yolk of egg for about ten minutes ; add a few drops of coffee essence or very strong freshly made coffee, so as to impart a flavour of coffee. Work in by degrees the butter, previously put in a warm place to make it soft. When sufficiently worked put it on the ice for a few minutes, stir again, and use for garnish by means of a forcing-bag and fancy tube or a paper cornet, point cut according to requirement. Glace royale [Royal Icing). \ lb. icing sugar, i white of egg, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Put the sugar in a clean and dry basin, add the lemon-juice ; work these to a creamy substance with the white of egg. Beat it with a wooden spoon until the mixture is a white, shiny, and fairly consistent paste. Chocolate Icing. 3 oz. Van Houten’s chocolate, ^ lb. icing sugar, h gill water. Break the chocolate into small pieces, put it in a clean and dry stewpan with the water, place it on the Are and stir with a wooden spoon until melted ; then stir in the icing sugar. When well dis- solved remove from the fire and use while warm as required. Vanilla Sugar.—Split some vanilla-pod, cut it up into small pieces and pound in a mortar with a quantity of castor sugar (2 lb. of sugar to one ounce of vanilla) ; wffien hne enough pass through a hne sieve, and keep in a well-covered tin or glass jar. Meat Juice.—To extract the juice from meat, a special press is required. The meat intended for this purpose must be very underdone. Venison and ducks, beef flllets and carcases, are frequently treated in this way. Raw lean beef when required for raw beef juice should be well batted, freed from skin and fat, and cut into strips before being put into the press. Pounding Meat, etc.—When pounding meat, poultry or game for forcemeat, use only the lean parts, freed from skin, fat, bones, and gristle, and cut up snlall, or, better, run it through a mincer before commencing to pound in the mortar. Vffien fish is used for similar preparations, free it from skin and bones and cuttings, then pound. Do not attempt to pound too large a quantity at one time, and do not add panada, eggs, and cream, until the meat is fairly smooth. This will make the pounding all the easier.