COLD ENTREES. 547 with the carrots, left whole or cut into^quarters, to which a little shredded beetroot or pimiento caii^be added. Mix with oil and vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Unmonld the shape on to a cold entree dish, arrange the salad neatly in the centre cavity, decorate with a few' sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Cotelettes de Veau en Chaud-froid {Chaud-fruid of Veal Cutlets). Prepare eight small veal cutlets of even size, trim, pare, and flatten them a little. Stud each with a few strips of larding bacon and tongue, and place them in a braising-pan with a mirepoix, add seasoning, an ounce of butter, a few slices of sfreaky bacon, half a pint of white stock, and a gill of white w'ine, Sauterne or Hock. Cover, cook in the oven for one hour, basting occasionally. Press till cold, trim them again, scrape the bones quite clean, and mask each cutlet with a layer of aspic cream or white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), when this is set, repeat the operation. Decorate one side of each cutlet w'ith slices of truffle. Mask them with aspic jelly and put them on the ice. Fix a crouton of bread, column- shape, in the centre of a round dish ; decorate it with green herb butter, and arrange the cutlets round it. Garnish w'ith small salad, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Caroline {Veal Fillets, Cayoline Style). I .' lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 oz. raw ham. mirepoix, i oz. butter, i gill stock, i-l- gill veloutee sauce, i teaspoonful yellow curry powder, seasoning, 1 gill firm aspic, 6 oz. ox-tongue, pimientos, 6 oz. Carolina rice cooked in curry, flavoured stock, silver hatelet decorated with mushroom head, truftie, etc., chopped aspic for garnish. Bone the veal and cut it into seven or eight slices, trim into heart-shaped hllets, season them and braise in the butter, mirepoix, and ham. Moisten with stock, w'hen done press them, and pare w'hen cold. Prepare a chaud-froid sauce, flavoured with curry, and coat the fillets with this. Cut the tongue into slices, and shape them neatly. Mix the cooked rice with a little aspic, and fill a border-mould and a bombe-mould with it. Unmould w'hen cold, and dress on a round dish, arrange the fillets, after being decorated with red pimientos and truffle, round the border, with alternate slices of tongue, mask with aspic, and fix the hatelet in the centre. Cotes de Veau a la Marguerite. I lb. lean veal (fillet), a mirepoi.x of bacon, carrot, turnip, onion and bouquet garni, 4 lemon, i oz. butter, aspic, white chaud-froid sauce, 2 eggs, i trulile, tarragon leaves, celery, and ham for garnish. Cut the veal into rather thin fillets or slices, flatten them a little, arrange them in a well-buttered saute-pan containing the mire- poix, which must be cut small. Melt the butter and pour it over the top, season to taste, cover, and cook quickly in the oven for about twenty minutes, then add the juice of 4 lemon, and continue to cook till the meat is tender. Take up the slices, place them under press till cold, then cut them into neeit rounds or ovals, and coat them with a layer of chaud-froid sauce, which must be richlv