ENTRflES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Sii Filets de Faisan a la Talleyrand.—Fillets of pheasant, larded and Ijraiscd. Served with a daintily ])repared stew of minced pheasant arranged round the fillets. Garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Salmis de Faisan a la Bohemienne.—Stewed pheasant in brown sherry sauce, minced ham, and mushrooms. Garnish wnth fried bread croutons and whole stuffed button mushrooms. Salmis de Coq de Bruyeres [Salmi of Grouse). 2 small grouse, t pint Espagnole sauce, t- gill tomato sauce, -f gill sherry wine, 18 stoned French olives, 12 large preserved mushrooms, i small bouquet garni, 8 small button onions, seasoning, i croute of bread. Pick, draw, singe, and truss the grouse as for roasting ; put them in a* baking-tin, cover the breasts each with half an ounce of butter, and roast them for about ten minutes in a quick oven. Take them up, untruss, and cut the birds into small joints. Cut up the carcases and fry them with the bouquet garni (a small bunch of savoury herbs) in the baking-tin with the butter left over from the birds. Pour off the fat and put the remainder in a stew-pan, add the wine, cover, and let reduce cpiickly. Now add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, boil up, season to taste, skim, and cook for ten minutes. Peel the onions, fry them in butter, and braise in a little of the sauce. Arrange the pieces of grouse in a clean stew-pan or saute- pan, season with pepper and salt, add the olives and mushrooms (sliced), and strain the sauce over this. Allow to simmer gently for tw'enty minutes. Fi.x the 'bread croute (a suitably-shaped, oblong or round, piece of bread fried in hot fat), by means of a little frying-batter or white of egg, on an entree dish. Dress the pieces of grouse on this with the garniture (olives, onions, and mushrooms), pour over the sauce carefully, and serve at once. Spatchcock of Grouse. This is an excellent English dish that can be served for dinner, but it is perhaps more suitable for breakfast, lunch or supper. Pick, draw, and singe the bird, place it on a board, and split it down the back, cut throi:gh the bone, cut off the neck close to the body, and the feet at the first joints. Wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth, flatten it, and season with salt and pepper. Brush over the inside with sweet oil, and sprinkle with finely chopped shallots and parsley, and dredge with a little flour. Skewer it into a flat shape by means of two steel skewers, place it betv^een a well-greased gridiron, brush over with oiled butter or sw^eet oil, and cook before or over a clear fire (charcoal fire in preference to a coal fire). Cook from fifteen to tw'enty minntes, turn the grid- iron occasionally, and baste freely from time to time with oiled butter. When done take the bird from the grill, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve with a well-prepared tomato sauce. Note.—Pigeons, chickens, pheasants, and partridges are equally good prepared in this way. Grives bardees a la Chasseur. Roast fieldfares, barded, served with mushroom sauce, garnished with minced game and fried sausages