AUXILIARY RECIPES. 969 boiled. Put the pulp and the shreds into this, let them infuse for six: hours, then boil them gently with the sugar until the marmalade jellies. Remove the scum. Put it into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Lemon Marmalade. 6 leinon.s or more to make up the weight of 2 It)., 3 lb. loaf sugar. The lemons used must be clear and smooth. Put them into a copper stew-pan and cover well with water ; boil them for about two hours, changing the water two or three times during the pretcess. Drain them ; keep the water the lemons were last boiled in. Cut the lemons into halves longways and slice them as finely as possible, removing all the pips. Take three pints of the lemon water and put it with the sirgar into a copper sugar boiler to boil. Remove the scum and let boil for fifteen minutes. x\dd the fruit and boil again until it becomes clear. Strain off the fruit when cold, boil up the syrup again, add the fruit, give it another boil, then put into jars. Let it cool and cover over in the usual manner. Red-Currant Jelly. Select fruit that is full and large, freshly gathered, and not over- ripe. Remove all dry leaves and poor fruit, but do not remove the stems. W’ash, drain well, and mash the fruit. Bring slowly to a boil, add only a very little water, and boil until the currants are soft. Drain off the juice, and to each pint allow one pound of l(3af or preserving sugar. Measure three pints of juice into the preserving kettle, boil about ten minutes, add the sugar, stir until it is thoroughly dissolved, and boil till it thickens on the spoon. It usually requires from five to ten minutes’ boiling. Pour into pot and cover when cold. Apple J«lly. All sour or tart apples make excellent jelly. Wash the apples and remove all unsouncl parts. Cut them into pieces without pariiif; or removing the core. Place in an earthenware preserving-pan, add enough water to cover, and cook till tender. Drain the juice, and allow J lb. of loaf sugar to each pint. IMeasure three pints of jfficc into the preserving-pan, boil about fifteen minutes, then add the sugar and cook till it forms a jelly when cold. Cranberry Jelly {Gelec aux Airellces). \ lb. cranberries, 6 oz. sugar, a pinch soda, a tcaspoonful lemon-juice, l i- gill water. Pick over and wash the cranberries, put them in a stew-pan with the water and soda. Remove the scum as soon as it begins to boil, then add the sugar, and boil gently for about twenty minutes, and keep covered whilst boiling. Remove the lid and add the lemon-juice, reduce briskly for a few minutes until the liquid stiffens ; strain into a wetted moidcl or any earthen vessel, allow it to set in a cool place, and turn out when required. This is not exactly a sauce, although the Americans describe it as such. -It forms an excellent and most ajqiropriate accompaniment with roast turkey.