732 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a fine sieve. Cream the butter with the sugar well, add the bread- crumbs and the cinnamon. Stir in the yolks of eggs and beat well. Cnt the cherries into quarters and add also. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix the carrot pulp with the creamed butter, breadcrumbs, etc., and add lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for rather more than two hours. Serve with lemon sauce or sweet sherry sauce. Cup Puddings. 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, lemon or vanilla essence, 4 oz. ground rice, i oz. Vienna flour, ^ teaspconful baking-powder. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, add a few drops of flavouring essence, and lastly and lightly the flour, ground rice, and baking-powder. Fill into greased cup or bouche moulds, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out in a hot dish, and serve with marmalade or jam sauce. Pouding a la Dresde {Dresden Pudding). 2 oz. flour, i-J- oz. butter. pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut, 3 eggs, 2 oz. whole-meal breadcrumbs, 2 oz. sugar, -t teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i liqueur glass cnraqoa, the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, add half a gill of water, one gill of milk, stir well whilst cooking. Pleat the remainder of the milk, pour it over the cocoanut, add the brown breadcrumbs, let it stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then add the sugar and lemon-rind. Stir the yolks of eggs into the butter and flour preparation, add the cocoanut and brown bread mixture, and stir well. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them gently in, add the cinnamon and liqueur. Pour the whole into a well- buttered souffle tin or ordinary pudding mould, and bake it for about one hour in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot fruit syrup or some other nicely flavoured pudding sauce. Pouding a la Duchesse (Duchess Pudding). 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. macaroons, 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, i teaspoonful ground rice, i oz. chopped pistachios. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs, incorporate the macaroons (roughly pounded) and the orange marmalade. Whisk the whites of six eggs till stiff, add to them the ground rice and half the pistachios, and mix lightly with the other ingredients. Butter a timbale or plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the bottom with chopped pistachios, and pour in the mixture. Steam for hour in the usual manner, unmould, and serve with a hot sweet sauce. Finger Pudding. 6 oz. almonds, i gill milk, 6 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of ground cloves, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. crushed biscuits (Savoy or finger biscuits). Blanch and peel the almonds, dry and pound them in a mortar, adding the milk little by little. Cream the sugar with eight egg- yolks in a basin, when sufficiently beaten add to it the pounded almond mixture, the cinnamon, lemon-rind, and cloves. Whisk the