DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). beef suet, and pound it in a mortar, to this add tlic lisli, and pound likewise. Next incorporate about two ounces of soft bread, pre- viously soaked in milk. Continue to pound till the mixture is quite smooth, adding two well-beaten eggs. Put this in a basin and moisten with not quite a gill of fish stock or else milk. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Three-parts lill a buttered plain pudding mould, steam for rather more than an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, sauce over with bechamel (p. 142) or ordinary white sauce, sprinkle the top with a little chopped lobster coral or panurette, and serve hot. Vol-au-Vent de Poisson a la Chambord [Vol-au-Vcut of Fish). 2 lb. puff-paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles, 6 mushrooms, i8 small fish cpienelles, and 12 bearded oysters, pint ol (tenoise sauce (p. 149). Make the puff-paste in the usual way, give it six turns, roll out three-quarters of an inch thick, cut it into the desired size of I the voi-au-vent (round or oval), turn the paste over on to a baking- j sheet, brush the top over with beaten egg, make a circular incision (to form the lid) about a cjuarter of an inch deep ; this is best done with a large round cutter or a sharp-pointed knife. Put the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked remove the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush the inside of the crust with egg, and })ut back into the oven for a few minutes. Prepare the garni- ture, warm it up in the sauce, let it cook slowly for hve minutes. Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, lill with the garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot. Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise [Smoked Haddock, Timbale). ' " ''IJ4-6 07.. spaghetti, 2 oz. butter, i whiting, i small smoked haddock, 6 mush- Jrooms, I gill picked shrimps, i gill cream, i egg, salt and pepper, tomato , "sauce (p. i6o). Cook the spaghetti in fast boiling salted water till tender, then drain them and spread them on a cloth. Well butter a large