6S3 VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made breadcrumbs, and fry in l)oiling fat or clarified butter a nice light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as a side dish or with a meat entree. Pommes de Terre farcies {Stuffed Potatoes). Prepare cases as directed in “ Pommes de Terre aux Tomate a la Savarin.” Heat one ounce of butter, add a small boiled Spanish onion finely chopped, a handful of grated parmesan cheese, two egg-yolks, and a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, season and fill the potatoes, and bake for a few minutes in a hot oven. Pommes de Terre Doria {Doria Potatoes). -I lb. potato puree, oz. butter, i gill water, 2 oz. flour, i oz. grated cheese, 2 egg-yolks, seasoning. Put the butter with the water into a small stew-pan, when it boils, stir in the flour, and work swiftly with a spoon over the fire until the sides and bottoms of the pan are left perfectly clean, then stir in the grated cheese, the potatoes, and let cook a little. Lastly, work in the egg-yolks, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, put the mixture on a floured board, form into marble- shaped balls, fry a golden colour in hot fat, strain, and serve as a garnish or vegetable. Pommes de Terre farcies aux fines herbes {Savoury Potatoes). 12 round new potatoes, bi-cadcruinbs, thyme, chives, shallot, and parsley, yolk of egg, I tablespoonful of cream, 2 oz. butter, pepper and salt. Peel or rasp twelve medium-sized round potatoes, cut off a small piece of the top of one side of them, so that they stand steadily, scoop out the centre, but be careful not to break them, and fill them with a stuffing of breadcrumbs and herbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and moistened with cream and yolk of egg. Place them in a buttered saute-pan side by side, brush them with oiled butter, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Pommes de Terre a la Rentiere. 18 new potatoes, ]- lb. lean Imcon, 2 oz. grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere), 2-1- oz. butter, salt and pepper. Wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, cut them into julienne strips, wash, and drain on a cloth. Cut the bacon into small shreds about an inch long, fry these a little in the butter, put in the potatoes, season with a little salt and a pinch of pepper, and toss over a quick fire for several minutes. Butter a deep gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, put in a layer of potatoes, repeat until the dish is full. Let the centre be piled high, and finish with a layer of cheese. Cover with a small quantity of grated rusk or panurette. Sprinkle over some clarified butter, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Potato Flakes or Saratoga Chips. Wash, peel, and slice thinly six large potatoes. Let them stand in water for several hours on the ice or in a cool place, then pour off the water, drain the potatoes, return to the basin, cover again with cold water, and add a large piece of ice. Heat up some frying-