23 CHAPTER IT MARKETING. THE CHOICE OF FOOD. Dr. Kitchener, in his work, “ The Cook’s Oracle,” truly said ” that all the skill of the most accomplished cook will avail nothing, unless the cook be furnished with prime provisions.” A sound knowledge of marketing, and the selection of food, therefore, becomes the first necessity, because nothing can be of more import- ance in cookery than the choice of the proper food materials. So it is necessary to give a few brief instructions for marketing, and explain certain general principles which will be helpful in the selection of food. Rule I. Look over your larder and storeroom, and make a list of what is needed in fresh or perishable food, as well as dry or preserved goods, studying at the same time the bill of fare of that day, and include such articles as will be needed to carry out the plan for the meals of the day. Rule II. Acquire as much knowledge as you can, by personal observation, and by asking questions of shopkeepers. Pretend to be ignorant, and when you know do not make a display of your knowledge, but use it for your own benefit. Rule III. Buy only in the best markets : the more trade clone at a place the more likely you are to get fresh goods. Remember also that the cheapest goods are not always the most economical to use. Rule IV. Study the markets from books and newspapers, make a few notes, and take them with you when you go marketing : this will aid you greatly. Rule V. Learn to understand how fish, meat, poultry, and game should look and feel ; how to judge a joint of meat, and how to tell a young bird from an old one : how to judge fish when fresh or stale, souncl fruit, fresh vegetables, etc. Rule VI. Be prepared to buy your experience at first. After a little time you will by careful observation become accpiainted with those points which denote good quality, and you will soon become proficient in marketing. BUYING FOR LARGE ESTABLISHMENTS. Quite half of the succ^s in cooking depends on the buyer. What Mr. John Tellman says about the method of buying for an hotel or other catering business in America is only too true here