rilE ART OP CARVING. <J«7 way, but it is by no means an economical way. After having carved the underneath, hllet part of a saddle, it should be turned as shown in the illustration, cut with a sharp knife across fhe top line, A to B, close to the bone, then cut into slices, commencing at the left hand, from A to C, kee})ing the knife close to the bone so as to avoid waste in carving ; the slices should be about half an inch tliick. The chump and slices near B need not be cut quite so thick. good gravy and red-cnrrant jelly should always be served with this roast. To Carve an Ox-Tongue.—Commence cutting from the middle of the tongue ; cut the slices not too thin and take them from each side, being careful not to cut the slices through to the bottom part of the tongue. The extreme end of the tip and the lower part of the tongue are generally used up for chopping in salpicons, etc. A little of the fat shoidd also be put on each plate. When rolled tongue is served it must be cut horizontally into rather thin slices. To Carve a Steak.—This is a very simple matter ; rump steak, porterhouse steak or sirloin steak is cut into fairly thick pieces, right across the steak. A little fat, gravy, and scraped horse-radish should accompany each portion. To Carve a Calf’s Head.—Begin by making long slices from end to end of the cheek, cutting cpiite through to the bone, as shown by the dotted lines from A to B. With each of these slices serve a cut of a little of what is called the throat-sweetbread, which lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also slices from C to D— these are gela- tinous and most delicate — a n d serve small pieces with the meat. A little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is best “ 1 C.\r,F S HEAD. served on a sepa- rate plate, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across in rather thin slices. Some iiersons prefer the eyes part, which is removed by a circular cut marked by dotted lines at E. First put the knife in slanting at F, inserting the point at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into the centre