774 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. nearly cold when added. Butter a plain savarin border mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Unmould and let cool. Heat up the marmalade with the maraschino, strain, and brush over the baked border. Next blanch, peel, and chop finely the pistachios. Mix the egg-yolks with the cream and heat up, add the sugar, and dissolve in it the gelatine, add the pistachios, and stir on the ice till it begins to set. Put the mixture into a forcing- bag, force out the flowers in a special mould, as here shown, which must be previously masked with wine jelly and sprinkled with coarsely chopped almonds or desiccated cocoanut. Place on the ice to set, then j)ut in the baked bor- der ; fill the sides of the mould with wine jelly. When set, unmould on to a cold dish, and place half a glace cherry on top of each flower. Have ready some whipped cream sweetened witli vanilla sugar, fill the centre of the border with it, and dress around it, resting upon the cream some very small “ baby ” meringue shells. Garnish round the edge of meringues with red- currant jelly squeezed through a cornet. The dish is then ready for serving. Bordure de Riz aux Prunes {Border of Rice with Primes). 2 oz. rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, i pint milk, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. blanched and chopped pistachio kernels, i glass maraschino, glace cherries, angelica for garnish, 2 dozen stewed French plums, gill whipped cream, a teaspoonful cinna- mon, sugar. Pick and wash the rice, and cook till tender in the milk, add the sugar and lemon-rind, finely chopped, tilt the lid on the pan in which the rice is cooked, put it in the oven for a few minutes to allow some of the moisture to evaporate, then add the egg-yolks and the maraschino. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, stand the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in the oven for half an hour. Unmould on a round silver-plated or china dish. When cold, mask with liquefied apricot marmalade, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Stone the cooked plums, put them in shape again, insert a short strip of angelica into each plum, and arrange them on top of the border of rice, or in the centre of the dish, garnish with a few halves of glace cherries. Decorate the top and sides with whipped cream, using a forcing-bag with a plain or fancy pipe for this puiq^ose. Bordure de Marrons a la Chantilly {Chestnut Border). I pint Spanish chestnuts, half their weight of loaf sugar, about pint of milk, } oz. leaf gelatine, 2 inches vanilla pod, i gill cream, oz. vanilla sugar, I oz. chocolate, i gill sweet jelly. Remove the shells from the chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, and then skin. Cook till tender in milk, together with the