OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES 67 s Season the eggs with salt, pei)])er, and in the case of savonry omelets with chopped herbs; avoid the use of pungent spices. Cooking is the next important item. As soon as the eggs are poured into the pan, shake it by its handle with one hand and with the other (the right hand) stir the contents of the pan, slowly at first and quickly as the eggs begin to set. The Fire must be bright, but not too fierce. Shaping the omelet is the next operation. This is effected by tilting the pan a little, slipping a thin bladed knife under the edge, and so giving the omelet the shape of an oval cushion or plump half-moon shape. Allow it to form a crust—i.e. to brown very slightly over the fire and turn immediately on a hot dish. An omelet should be sent to table immediately it is cooked, and should not on any account be allowed to stand, because it is apt to become tough. Turning out an Omelet. To do this correctly and successfully, hold the pan by its handle with the right hand, the palm of the hand being underneath the handle. Hold an oblong warm dish in the left hand, bring the outer edge of the pan close to the centre of the dish, turn out the omelet by turning the pan upside down, and then quickly remove the pan. The process of making a simple omelet should not take more than five minutes. Kidneys and Tomatoes. Slice six sheep’s kidneys, previously skinned, fry eight thinly-cut rashers of fat bacon, then fry the slices of kidney in the bacon fat. When slightly cooked, add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, and cook all together—i.e. toss in the pan— for another three minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a little hot gravy poured round. Omelette Naturelle {Plain Omelet). Beat up six fresh eggs with two tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, season with salt and very little pepper. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, and cook the omelet as above directed. Omelette a I’Anglaise {English Omelet). Prepare an omelet as above, adding two thin slices of streaky bacon, cut in strips and fried in butter, to the egg mixture, or else garnishing the omelet when made with thin slices of fried or grilled bacon. Omelette aux Fines Herbes {Savoury Omelet). 6 eggs, I tablespoonful cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls chopped parsley, including a leaf or two of green tarragon and a sprig of chervil, a pinch of sweet herbs, i oz. butter, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, beat up well, and add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cnt the clove of garlic and wipe the inside of the omelet-pan with the cnt side. iMelt the blitter in this pan, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then roll