THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 902 Kedgeree of Cold Meat. 6 oz. of cold meat (any kind will do), 4 oz. rice, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i oz, butter, 2 slices finely chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Remove the skin, gristle, and superlluous fat from the meat, and chop it not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate and is intact. Drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the onion, and fry a golden colour, then add the meat, ancl fry for a few minutes, stir in the rice, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs, chop the whites, and mix with the above. Heat up the whole thoroughly, and dish up in a pyramidal form. Rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and sprinkle over the kedgeree. Sprinkle over likewise some hnely-chopped parsley, and arrange the dish as neatly as possible. Place it in the oyen for a few minutes, and send to table. Note.—Cold fish, poultry or game can be prepared in exactly the same manner. Macaroni and Minced Beef. Mince finely by chopping or passing through a mincing machine if lb. of cold beef. Cook 4 oz. of macaroni in boiling water until tender, drain, and let cool. Heat up -f pint of tomato sauce in a large stew-pan, put in the minced beef and the macaroni. Season carefully with salt and pepper. When thoroughly heated, turn on to a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. Meat or Fish Patties. Line a number of patty-pans with puff-paste rolled out fairly thin, wet the edges, and fill with meat salpicon or finely chopped and seasoned raw meat (beef, mutton or pork), or chopped ancl seasoned white fish (whiting, cod or haddock). When raw meat is used add a dessertspoonful of stock or water, whilst for fish add the same quantity of white sauce for each patty. Roll out some more paste and stamp out the covers, place them over the filled patties, press the edges, trim and fiake the border. Brush over with egg and milk, and bake in a fairly hot oven. Meat patties recpnre about thirty-five to forty minutes, salpicon and fish patties from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Cold Meat Gateau. 1 lb. cold meat (minced), i thick slice stale bread, a little milk, i raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley. Cut the bread into small pieces and soak it in the milk, beat up well, and add to the minced meat, parsley, and seasoning, and bind with the egg. Sprinkle a greased pie-dish with breadcrumbs, and line it with slices of hard-boiled egg. Put in the meat mixture, and bake about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn out on to a hot dish, and pour some hot brown sauce round it. Toad-in-the-Hole. 6 oz. flour, 2 eggs, i lb. cooked lean meat or i lb. sausages (blanched and skinned), i pint milk, seasoning. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, and break in