THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 742 Pouding souffle aux Praises {Stvawherry Pudding). Proceed the same as directed in “ Pouding souffle aux Fram- boises,” but substitute for the raspberries half a pound of freshly picked small ripe strawberries, and add also a little red colouring, cochineal or carmine. Pouding souffle aux Framboises [Raspberry Pudding). \ lb. ripe raspberries, 4 eggs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs or fresh breadcrumbs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz, fecula or creme de riz, oz. butter, gill cream. Pick the stalks from the raspberries, put them in a basin with the cream, mash, and add the sugar and crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, put the fecula or creme de riz in a basin, stir into this the egg-yolks, when smooth add to the mixture, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gradually with the above. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, lined with buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as cooked the pudding should be sent to table. Serve a suitable sauce or syrup along with the pudding. Pouding souffle a I’Indienne. 6 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. shredded almonds, li oz. butter, 2 oz. semolina or florador, i gill milk, i tablespoonful castor sugar, 4 eggs, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the loaf sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water, when dissolved place it on the fire and cook till it acquires a light amber colour, then add the shredded almonds, stir quickly over the fire for a few seconds longer, and mask the interior of a plain charlotte mould in the same manner as for a caramel pudding. Boil up the milk and butter, stir in the semolina or florador, cook for a few minutes over the fire, stirring all the while, cool a little, add the egg-yolks, vanilla, castor sugar, and the whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Three-parts fill the prepared mould. Place it in a saute-pan containing boiling water and cook for twenty minutes over the fire, then put it in the oven and bake for another twenty minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and pour over a hot custard sauce. Send to table quickly. Pouding souffle a POrange [Baked Orange Pudding). pint milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, A'oz.' buttef, 3 oz.' cake-crumbs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i orange, i glass of ri'oyeau or kirsch, a few glace cherries. Heat the milk, pour it over the crumbs, cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks and one white of egg, stir until stiff, then add the soaked crumbs, the liqueur, half the orange-rind, finely peeled and chopped, and a tablespoonful of orange-juice. Pile up neatly on a buttered souffle dish, bake a golden brown in a moderately heated oven (about half an hour). Whisk the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, cover the souffle completely with this, dredge with sugar, garnish with glace cherries, return to a quick oven for a few minutes to brown, and serve. This souffle is also very nice served cold.