THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 646 there should only be just enough water to well cover the peas. Let them boil quickly, leaving the stew-pan uncovered, when done, drain in a colander, put them on a hot vegetable dish, place a few small pieces of butter on top, and serve. A few sprigs of green mint added to the water will improve the flavour of the peas. Petits Pois a la Basquaise {Green Peas, Basque Style). I quart green peas, 2 tender cabbage lettuces, i small onion, i small bunch parsley, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, salt, sugar, and pepper. Trim and wash the lettuces, cut them into fine shreds, and put them into a saucepan with the peas, onion, parsley, salt to taste, and a lump of loaf sugar. Add enough cold water to well cover the contents of the pan. Cover it and cook for about twenty-five minutes over a good fire. Remove the parsley and onion. Knead the butter with the flour, add it to the peas, cook for another ten minutes, season with a pinch of pepper and more salt if needed, dish up, and serve. A few Fleurons of puff pastry may be placed round the dish if liked. Petits Pois au Beurre {Green Peas with Butter). Put about a pint of freshly gathered shelled peas in a stew-pan with a pint of boiling water, add a sprig of green mint, a teaspoonful of salt, and ^ teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil till tender. Strain the water from the peas, add a couple of pats of fresh butter, a good pinch of castor sugar, and a pinch of pepper, toss over the fire for a few minutes, remove the mint, and serve as vegetable or as garnish. Petits Pois a la Bonne Femme. Green peas cooked plain, then mixed with small braised button onions and shreds of cabbage lettuce, previously tossed in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar. Petits Pois de Conserve {Preserved Peas for Table). Open a quart tin or bottle of preserved peas, put them into a pointed strainer, hold under a water-tap and let the cold water run freely over the peas for a few minutes. Shake the strainer so as to thoroughly drain the peas. Have ready a small saucepan, three-parts full of boiling water, containing a sprig of mint, green or dried, and a pinch of salt. Put in the peas and boil quickly for five minutes, then drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add the peas, toss over the fire for a few seconds, sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt, and a tiny pinch of castor sugar. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of rich stock or gravy, cook gently for about eight minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Dish up, and serve. Petits Pois a la Flamande {Green Peas, Flemish Style). 14 pint young green peas, mint, a bunch young carrots, meat glaze, 2 pats fresh butter, castor sugar, stock or cream. Shell and cook the peas until nearly tender in water containing salt, a little mint, and a lump of sugar or a tiny piece of soda to preserve the colour. Scrape the carrots, and scoop' out by means