709 SALADESSALADS. dice, fry brown in a frying-pan, drain, and pnt it in a basin \\ith the potatoes and the onion hnely chopped. Season with salt and pepper, mix the mayonnaise sauce with abor:t two tablespoonfnls of French wine vinegar, and pour this over the potatoes. Mingle the whole carefully, so as not to break the potato slices. Dish up in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and serve. Salade a la Rachel. I head celery, 2 truffles, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 French gherkins, t gill mayonnaise sauce, a few slices of cooked beetroot, salt, pepper. Wash the celery, cut all the white part into very hue julienne strips, slice the truffles, and cut them into shreds likewise. Mix both together and season with pepper and salt, dress with mayon- naise sauce, and put in the centre of a glass bowl or china salad dish. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and arrange into a border round the celery and truffle salad, decorate prettily with hnely shredded gherkins and beetroot cooked and pickled. Instead of ordinary eggs, plovers’ or pheasants’ eggs may be used for a change. Salade a la Rejane. Peel and blanch in water well flavoured with lemon-juice 2T0Z. small fresh button mushrooms, drain, and let cool, then cut into fine julienne strips. Cut in a similar manner three truffles, two cepes (preserved in oil), and four ar- tichoke bottoms. Mix all together, and season with salt, pepper, oil, lemon and orange- juice, and French vinegar. Have ready six - eight basket shapes of navel oranges, all the white pith^be- ing well removed, keep them on ice till required, then fill them w i t hi the above salad,! coat the surface carefully with a thin layer of stiff mayonnaise. Decorate with rounds of stoned Spanish olives, with uDittle chopped truffle in the centre of each slice. Dish up on an ice socle or plain, and serve. Salade a la Reyniere. Wash and drain two nice French lettuces, tear into small pieces, toast a slice of bread about one-third of an inch thick, dip it in salad oil, put it in a salad bowl, dress the lettuce on this with alter-