492 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK fillet on top of this, then a few choj)ped and broiled mushrooms, a thin slice of truftfe, and finish up with another layer of farce. Fold in the pig’s caul, press the whole lightly into the moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly, coat the cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread- crumbs. Endeavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes while crumbing. Fry them in hot butter a nice colour, dish up on a narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Pains de Volaille a la Creole [Chicken and Liver Sotifflis). 10 to 12 oz. raw chicken, freed from skin and bone, 2 oz. calves' liver, 4 oz. foie-gras, i small bouquet garni, 2 shallots, i gill white stock, i oz. Diitter, I oz. ground rice, 3 eggs, | gill milk, gill cream, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice ; sauce ftalienne. Cut the chicken into small pieces, slice the liver finely, peel and chop finely the shallots, and fry the latter for a few seconds in the butter. Add the chicken and liver, fry together with the bouquet over a brisk fire till well blended, then remove the bouquet, pound the chicken and liver in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a stewpan, season to taste, add the ground rice, previously mixed till smooth with the milk, and the stock, stir and cook slowly for ten minutes. Let cool a little, then add the cream and the yolks of eggs, together with the whisked white of one egg. Mix the foie-gras, cut into cubes, with the above, and fill up some well-buttered timbale or dariole moulds. Steam for about thirty-five minutes. Dish up, and serve with Italienne sauce. Cuisses de Volaille en Papillotes aux Epinards. 4 to 6 raw chicken legs, 6 slices fat bacon, 1 pint stock, i ^:ill white wine, I bay-leaf, thyme, carrot, -1- onion, i gill well-reduced Espagnole sauce, salt, pepper, 6 heart-shaped slices of cooked ham, spinach juiree. Take out the bones from the legs, leaving a portion of the drum- stick, season with pepper and salt. Line a saute-pan with small pieces of bacon, add the bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, the carrot and onion sliced, lay in this the chicken legs, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook in a brisk oven till tender. Cut some