VEGETABLES—LIiGUMES. 619 Artichauts a la Barigoule. 3 globe artichokes (medium size), | gill sweet oil, 3 oz. fat pork, j lb. raw ham, 6 chopped mushrooms, i tablespoonful chopped shallots, i teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, -h gill Madeira wine, i gill brown sauce, i gill brown stock, small bunch parsley, a few slices of carrots and turnips, onion, 3 slices of fat bacon, seasoning, italienne sauce. Trim the artichokes, cut off the stalks, some of the outer leaves from the bottom, and the tips of the other leaves, wash and drain. Blanch them in salted water, drain and cool, remove the centre parts of the leaves to make a cavity for the following stuffing : Chop ham and pork fat very hnely, add the mushrooms, parsley, shallots, previously fried in butter, and mix together in a stew-pan. Knead the butter and flour together and stir it in, moisten with the brown sauce, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and fill the artichokes as directed. Place a square piece of bacon on top of each, tie with string to keep in shape. Put the remainder of the bacon in a saute-pan, also the carrot, turnip, and onion, all sliced, and the parsley. Lay the artichokes on top, pour a few drops of oil over each, add the wine and stock, cover with oiled paper. Cook in a moderately-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes, and baste occasionally. When done, remove the string and bacon fat, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, add a gill of Italienne sauce, and reduce a little. Dress the artichokes on a hot dish, pour a tablespoonful of sauce in the centre of each, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately, Artichauts a la Lyonnaise (Globe ArticJwkes with Fried Onions). Select four green artichokes, trim and cook them in salted water till tender, drain, cool, and remove the leaves. Toss the bottoms (fonds) in a little butter, fill them with finely sliced onions, fried in butter, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Re- heat in the oven for ten minutes. Dish up neatly, and pour some demi-glace or veloutee sauce round the base of the dish, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and send to table immediately. Artichauts a la Moelle. Heat up some artichoke bottoms, the edges of which have been previously cut into flutes, place a slice of blanched marrow-fat on each, dish up and pour over a hot demi-glace sauce, flavoured with lemon-juice and a good pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper. Artichauts a la Poivrade. Young green artichokes served raw or cooked, accompanied simply by a mixture of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, are styled “ a la Poivrade.” \Mien they are to be eaten raw, young and tender ones must be chosen ; if old, it is advisable to cook them first in salted water. Beignets d’Artichauts a la Viennoise [Ariichokc Frittcys). 12 very small even-sized artichoke bottoms (preserved), about j lb. chicken or veal forcemeat (farce de volaillc, p. 178), i lb. unsweetened savarin dough, seasoning, clarified lard, and beei snet (in equal proportions) for frying, demi-glace sauce, fried parsley.