446 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Free the meat from skin and fat, and cu^ it into thin slices about 4 inches long and i-J- inches wide, and batten them with a wetted cutlet-bat. Prepare the following stuffing : Put the bread- crumbs, suet, ham, parsley, herbs, lemon-rind, and spice into a basin, mix well, and moisten with a well-beaten egg. Season the slices of meat with a little salt and pepper, lay them out flat, and spread a layer of the prepared stuffing on them, roll up neatly, and tie each with a piece of string. Have the sauce heated in a stew- or saute-pan, lay in the prepared rolls, cover, and stew gently from forty to forty-five minutes. Remove the strings from the rolls, and dish them upon a bed of mashed potatoes. Pour over some of the sauce, and garnish the sides of the dish with spinach or groups of braised button onions. Serve hot. Queues de Bceuf braisees a la Polonaise {Braised Ox-tails with Cauliflower). Cut a good-sized ox-tail into sections, blanch the pieces in slightly-salted water, cool and drain them thoroughly on a cloth. Melt about two ounces of butter in a braising-pan, when hot put in the ox-tail, season with salt and pepper, fry them over a quick lire for some minutes, then add one large carrot cut into slices, a sliced onion, a few slices of lean bacon, twelve peppercorns, and a bay-leaf. Fry a little longer, so as to blend the vegetables. Pour oft the butter, moisten with a pint of Madeira sauce, and cook in a covered pan in the oven from one and a half to two hours, or till the meat is quite tender. Meanwhile cook a large cauliflower (previously trimmed and washed) in salted water. Dish the ox-tail pieces on a round dish, sauce over carefully, put the head portion of the cauliflower in the centre of the dish, and place the smaller parts around it. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and pour a little butter (beurre noisette) over the vegetable. The slices of bacon, carrot, and onion may, if liked, be included when dishing up, but the sauce must be strained before being used. Queues de Bceuf a I’Alsacienne. I large ox-tail, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. bacon or ham trimmings, celery-root> I small onion sliced, i small bouquet garni, i small glass brandy, stock, demi-glace sauce, small smoked and boiled sausages for garnish, seasoning.