THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S88 cut it into small slices, also slice the pork and bacon. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallots, finely chopped, brown a little, put in the sliced meat (the liver of hare may also be added if liked), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, saute over the fire until of a nice brown, moisten with Madeira, and, when cool, pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade and the eggs one by one. Cut the truffles into slices, stamp out some fanciful shapes and keep for garnish, chop finely the trimmings, and mix with the farce. Rub the whole through a wire sieve, fill up a well-buttered border-mould, put in a saute- or braising-pan containing boiling water, to reach half-way up the mould. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderately-heated oven for about one and a quarter hour. Let it stand on the ice till cool, then turn on to a cold dish. Mask over carefully with half-set aspic jelly, ornament the top of the border with truffle shapes and fancifully-cut slices of hard-boiled white of egg. Coat the garnish with a little aspic, put a few sprigs of fresh parsley here and fhere, and serve. The remainder of the hare will be found very useful for hare soup, game sauce for stock, etc, Pate de Lievre a I’Anglaise {Hare Pie). This consists of a young hare cut into small joints, placed into a large pie-dish, with alternate layers of veal and pork forcemeat, slices of bacon and liver. Seasoned with salt and pepper and moistened with stock it is then covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in a moderate oven. Pate de Lievre a la Fran^aise [French Raised Pie of Hare), Prepare a raised pie-crust (hot- water paste), and line with it a raised pie mould, and fill it with boned pieces of partially-fried hare and alternate layers of forcemeat, slices of bacon, and mushrooms, season and moisten with stock, then cover and ornament with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Pate de Mauviettes a I’Anglaise [English Lark Pie). FRENCH HARE PIE. I dozen larks, about | lb. lean beef, lb. streaky bacon, i|- gill stock, 5 to 6 oz. breadcrumbs, i small teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind, 2 tea- spoonfuls chopped parsley, i tablespoonful chopped ham, i shallot finely chopped, I yolk of egg, puff-paste, pepper and salt. This is a lark pie made after the true English fashion, and a most highly-appreciated dish, not only in England, but as w'ell in various parts of the Continent. The larks for this dish are best if boned, though this is not essential. Make a stuffing with the breadcrumbs, shallot, half the chopped parsley, lemon-rind, chopped ham, and the egg-yolk, add a little water or stock if found necessary, and season to taste. Roll the birds in Hour, and fill them with the stufflng. Cut the beef and bacon into very thin slices. Line the bottom of a