887 AFTER-DINNER SA WURIES. Camembert frit {Fried Camembert). Carefully pare off the crust from a camembert cheese, and divide the cheese into triangular sections. Season with paprika or cayenne, egg and crumb them with panurette or white breadcrumbs, and fry in deep clarified butter or beef-fat. Drain, dish up, and serve hot. Roulettes de Camembert [Cheese Roulettes). Mix four ounces of camembert cheese with three ounces of fine soft breadcrumbs into a smooth paste, add the yolks of two eggs and a pinch of cayenne and stir over the fire for a few minutes, long enough to heat the mixture. Turn on a buttered plate and cool. Make up into small roulette shapes of equal size. Dip each in beaten egg and breadcrumbs or thin frying batter, and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown. Take up, drain, dish up, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. Swiss Rarebit. Beat up in a cup a fresh egg, season it with salt and pepper, and add to it an ounce of fresh breadcrumbs and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Melt one ounce of butter in a saucepan, when hot put in three ounces of grated gruyere cheese, the breadcrumbs, eggs and cream, and stir till quite hot and of a creamdike consistency. Add a grate of nutmeg and put the mixture on small slices, square or oblong, of toasted and buttered bread. Dish up, and serve hot. Cheese Cones. Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with half an ounce of butter and two ounces of grated Cheddar cheese. Season with pepper and mustard, mix well, and spread the mixture thickly on to toasted triangle-shapes of plain milk scones ; these must be un- sweetened and made very small. Brown them in a hot oven, dish up, and send to table quickly. Welsh Rarebit. Cut into slices 2 oz. Cheddar cheese, put it in a stew-pan with 1 oz. butter, I tablespoonful of milk or beer. Stir over the fire till melted, and pour .over hot buttered toast, range on a hot dish ; sprinkle over with a little cayenne pepper and serve quickly. Croustades aux Champignons [Mushroom Croustadcs). Cassolettes or timbale-shaped crusts of bread or rice, filled with minced mushrooms, supreme sauce, cream, and chopped parsley, thus baked in sharp oven. Laitues a la Genoise [Cold). This consists of lettuce-leaves cut out round and spread with anchovy butter, placed on rounds of toast covered with mayonnaise and chopped hard-boiled egg ; garnished with capers. Bananes sur Croutes [Bananas on Toast). Peel six bananas (not too ripe), ent them in halves lengthways, sprinkle with a little salt and cayenne or paprika pepper, and fry them a pale brown colour in butter. Turn the bananas frequently whilst frying. Prepare thin slices of toasted bread, cut to shape of