THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 598 Filet de Boeuf a la Strasbourgeoise.—Roast fillet of beef (whole), garnished with sauerkraut (pickled white cabbages), slices of rolled braised ham, smoked sausage, and mashed potafoes. — a la Toscane.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished wifh artichoke bottoms, stuffed fomatoes, and small braised Brussels sprouts, tossed in butter ; brown sauce or gravy. Langue de Boeuf braisee.—Braised smoked ox-tongue, usually served with spinach. MOUTON ET AGNEAU—MUTTON AND LAMB. Carre de Mouton braise aux Nouilles {Bvaised Neck of Mutton with Nouilles). A neck of mutton (best end), i oz. butter, i onion peeled and cut into quarters, 3 or 4 slices of streaky bacon, a small bouquet garni, 3 or 4 small carrots (cleaned and cut into pieces), 2 cloves, } pint stock, pint Espagnole sauce, pepper and salt, nouilles (p. 134). Bone and trim the meat, fold in the thin end and tie with twine. Melt the butter in a braising-pan, fry the onion, cloves, and bouquet a little, put in the neck and bacon, and brown the meat on both sides. Add the carrots and stock, season with pepper and salt, let the whole simmer for about an hour, then add the brown sauce, and finish cooking in the oven with a lid over the pan. When done, take up the meat, remove the string, and keep hot. Strain the sauce, skim off the fat, add a glass of sherry, boil up again, and reduce a little. Dress the neck (whole or cut into slices) on a bed of prepared nouilles (boiled in stock, strained and seasoned). Sauce over carefully, garnish fhe sides with groups of nouilles, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. Epaule de Mouton farcie {Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton). I small shoulder of mutton, i small onion finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful chopped savoury herbs, i dessertspoonful chopped jrarslev, 4 oz. of streaky bacon cut up very small, salt and pepper, fat for bakfng, i egg, bread- crumbs. Bone and trim the joint, spread it on the table, sprinkle with salt, pepper, herbs, parsley, and onion, place a layer of chopped bacon on the seasoning, and put the remainder of seasoning over the bacon. Roll up the meat, fasten it securely with string, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours, basting frequently with fat or butter. Half an hour before serving, brush over with egg, and cover with breadcrumbs, and let the surface brown well. When done, remove the string,* and serve on a hot dish, with a nicely flavoured thin brown gravy. Gigot de Mouton braise a la Bretonne {Braised Leg of Mutton with Haricot Beans). I small leg of mutloii, 2 oz. dripping, i oz. butter, i bouquet garni, i small onion, i pint haricot beans (haricot de Soissons), -J- clove garlic, salt and pepper, i l gill stock, \ pint demi-glace sauce.