THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 984 if needed, without moving the dish from its position. The dish should be placed close in front of the carver. The knife used for carving must be light and sharp, and of a convenient size. Such joints as ham, veal, and beef should be cut very thin ; while pork, lamb, and mutton should be cut a trifle thicker. The carver ought also to be acquainted with the choice cuts of each kind of joint. To Carve Fish.—A silver sheer or trowel should be used for this pur- pose; a steel knife applied to flsh often spoils the delicacy of its flavour. Great care must be taken in serving out flsh to prevent breaking the flakes, which ought to be kept as entire as possible. Short-grained flsh, such as salmon, etc., should be cut lengthwise, not crosswise. To Carve Sirloin of Beef.—A sirloin should be cut into thin slices, with a sharp, Arm cut from end to end of the joint. At the upper portion the cut should be clean and even ; then use the point of the knife to loosen the slices from the bones. In carving the under- cut remove the superfluous fat, and cut the slices from end to end in the same manner as the upper portion. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone of a sirloin or rib of beef ; by so doing you will not spoil the appearance of fhe joint, and what remains will look tidy. To Carve a Neck of Veal or Mutton.—See that the neck is properly jointed before it is cooked. Cut the joint diagonally from the left- hand side into slices of moderate thickness. To Carve Loin of Veal.—Cut out the kidney, turn the joint over, and carve into slices of moderate thickness. Serve a slice of kidney and fat with each slice of meat, having first inquired of the guest if the former are desired. To Carve a Leg or Loin of Pork.—In carving either of these the knife must follow in the lines marked out or scored by the cook before fhe meat is roasted o n the skin which forms the crack- ling, the skin when roasted being usually . .... .. ..K.. too crisp to The lines indicate the way in which cutlets oj chops be COllveni- shoiild he divided, e n 11 y C U t through with the knife. It frequently happens that the lines scored on a leg of pork are too far apart for single cuts ; when this is the case the crackling must be raised to enable one to cut thinner slices. Always cut the meat across the grain, not lengthways. A little seasoning should be placed on the side of the plate, also apple sauce, if such is served, which is usually fhe case, but it is better to hand both round in separate bowls.