THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 274 adding the mashed potatoes. When quite smooth, put all into a stewpan, containing the cream previously heated, work up well with a spatula or wooden spoon, and add the fried shallots. Season to taste with white pepper and krona pepper. Dress this in the centre of a round dish in the form of a pyramid, surround the base with olives, stuffed with fish farce and pimiento poached, and each placed in a small ring of puff pastry. The dish is then ready to serve. MAQUEREAU—MACKEREL. Filets de Maquereaux a la Diable {Devilled Fillets of M.ackerel). 2 good-sized fresh mackerel, the juice of J a lemon, i tablespoonful mixed mustard, i oz. butter, i gill poivrade sauce fp. 157), i tablespoonful Worcester .sauce, i dessertspoonful finely chopped capers, salt and pepper, parsley and lemon for garnish. Wipe the fish and cut the fillets from the bones, season the fillets with salt and cayenne pepper. Sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice, and spread the cut side with a little of the made mustard. Dredge with flour, dissolve the butter, brush over the fillets with this, and cook both sides on a gridiron over a quick fire for about five minutes on each side. Boil up the poivrade sauce with the Worcester sauce and chopped capers, add the remainder of lemon-juice, and cook for five minutes. Dish up the fillets, skin downwards. Pour over the sauce, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve hot. Filets de Maquereaux a la Maitre d’Hotel, 2 mackerel, oz. bntter, \ oz. flour, i small shallot, 2 tablespoonfuLs mushroom liquor or fish stock, -I- lemon, i large teaspoonful chopped parsley, i gill milk, stock, pepper and salt. Wipe the fish and remove the fillets. Butter a baking-tin or saute-pan, strew over the shallot peeled and finely chopped, place the fillets on this, skin upwards, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice. Moisten with mushroom liquor or fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a mode- rate oven for about fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, cook a few seconds, pour in the milk, a little at a time, and add a little stock (white), stir until it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes. Take up the fish, remove the skin and dress on a hot dish, put the liquor of the fish with shallots into the sauce, boil up and strain, then add the parsley, a few drops of lemon-jnice, season to taste, and pour over the fillets. Maquereau a la Boulonnaise {Mackerel, Boulognese Style).—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. Filets de Maquereau a la Bonnefoy.—Fillets of mackerel, skinned, seasoned, and floured, then fried in butter, like “ Meuniere style,” served with bordelaise sauce, and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes.