265 DRKSSIU) 1-ISH AST) I-1 SI I I-XTRI-RS (HOT). oil the lillrts, and ])ut lliem skin nj)\vards in a sante-jian containing a quarter of a gill of sweet t)il (rrovcncc oil is j)rcferable). Season with pejqier and salt, S([neeze the juice of half a lemon o\-er the fillets, cover with a piece of buttered j)aper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. \Mien done, remove the skins, take nj> the fillets with a fish-slice, and jdace them on a hot dish. Sauce over carefully with Mirabeau sauce (p. 154), and send to table. This recipe ma}’ be applied to any kind of fresh-water fish. Truite au Chablis.—Braised river trout, hlletcd or whole (mircpoi.x and Chablis), garnished with olive-shaped potatoes, plain boiled, and parsley ; sauce Noisette (see Sauces). — a la Christiana.—Boned trout stuffed with fish farce and hard-boiled egg slices, rolled up, cooked in stock and milk ; skinned when cold and masked with aspic mayonnaise ; garnished with caviare canaj)es, etc. — a la Montgolfier.—River trout boned and stuffed with whiting farce, mi.xed with chopped truffles, jioached in oven {fnmet de poisson), dressed with a mixture of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads ; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce), TURBOT—TURBOT. Escalopes de Turbot a la Dauphine. About 2I lb. turbot, t gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), butler, i tablespoonfu cream, i egg, sauce crevettes (p. 165), i glass Sauterue, puree of potatoes, seasoning. Free the fish from skin and bones, cut eight or nine even-sized escallops of turbot, oval or round, pare them neatl)’, place them in a buttered saute-pan with the wine, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and cornr with a piece of buttered paper. Pound the trimmings, previously freed from skin, etc., in a mortar till smooth, add the white of an egg, and enough bechamel (well reduceci) to form a farce of desirable consistency, add also a little cream, and rub the whole through a fine siet-e. Poach the scallops in a fairly heated oven for ten minutes, take up and cover with the prepared farce, and place each as done on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes longer. Ha\n ready some well-seasoned prawn or crayfish sauce, incorporate the liquor in which the fish was cooked. If there is any fish farce left o\-er, make and poach a few small qifenelles for garnish. Ha\-e read}- a hot dish with a border of potato puree neatlv decorated, place the scallops of turbot on top, sauce o\-er very carefully, and garnish with the fish quenelles, if such have been made. Serve ver}- hot. Note.—Brill, plaice, and John Dory can be treated in the same way. Bordure de Turbot a la Careme. 2I to 3 lb. turbot, 2 oz. butter, i glass Chablis or Sauterue wiue, iS heads of preserved mushrooms, i dessertspoonful lobster coral, iS prawus, -i- pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), 2-3 truffles, 12 .sauce oysters, i yolk of egg, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), seasoning. Cut the turbot info slices about half tin inch thick, cut each