275 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). Filets de Maquereau au Gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Prepared the same as “ Merlan au gratin.” — a rindienne {Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style).—Braised fillets of mackerel, served with plain rice, with a curry sauce, diluted with a little white wine. — en papillote.— Grilled mackerel fillets, placed in oiled oval paper cases, with champignons and Duxelle puree, and finished in a sharp oven. — en Persil.—Fillets of mackerel, poached in rich fish stock flavoured with parsley, then skinned, dished up, and sauced over with parsley sauce. Garnished or served with potatoes cut in sections and cooked in salt water. — au Vin blanc.—Broiled or sauteed hllets of mackerel, served with white wine sauce. SOLE—SOLE. Soles au Gratin. 2 large soles, white wine, lemon-juice, mushroom liquor, parsley, mush- rooms, Italian sauce (p. 151), butter, breadcrumbs. Skin the soles, cut off the heads, tails, and hns. Make several incisions with a knife across one side of the hsh, place it, cut side upwards, on a well-buttered silver-plated gratin dish. Season with pepper and salt, add half a small glass of white wine, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little mushroom liquor, and some chopped parsley. Place a row of sliced preserved mushrooms down the centre of the hsh, and cover with a rich Italian sauce (p. 151). Sprinkle with brown breadcrumbs, put a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the hsh, and bake in a moderate oven from hfteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the sole. Place the dish as it leaves the oven on another (larger) dish, and send to table. Soles a la Colbert. Trim 2 good-sized soles and take off both skins. With a sharp- ])ointed knife make an incision alongside the bone, break the bone at each end, remove it carefully without damaging the hsh. Brush the hsh with beaten egg on both sides, and cover well with fresh breadcrumbs. Fry in deep hot fat a golden colour, drain it well on paper or a cloth, dish up and hll the centre of the hsh (the cavity where the Irone was removed) with well-seasoned niaitre d’hote! butter (p. 175), garnish with sprigs of parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Soles a la Normande. Wipe, skin, and trim two large soles, make an incision about a quarter of an inch deep along each side of the bone of the skinned part. Place in a buttered saute-pan, and season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine, sprinkle with a hnely chopped shallot, place a few bits of butter here and there, and cook it in the