SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. Mace is the outer shell or husk of the nutmeg, and it resembles it in flavour. W’hen good it should be orange- yellow in colour. Used whole or powdered for both seasoning and flavouring. Curry is a condiment and a spice, but is, strictly speaking, a mixture of many others. Perhaps only an Indian can make it to perfection, many of its ingredients being native to the country, whose poorest peasantry look upon curry as a daily necessity. Mustard.—There are two varieties of mustard seeds, Sinapis nigra, the black, and Sinapis alba, the white. These are ground and mixed. The pungency of mustard is more fully developed when moistened with water. It is supposecl to give energy to the digestive organs, and to promote appetite if taken in small quantities. It is used as a table condiment, and for sauces, dressings, etc. Cinnamon.—This substance comes from the bark of a species of laurel, Laurus Cinnamonmm, and is about the oldest known spice in the world. The tree is chiefly cultivated in Ceylon, but cinnamon also comes from Madras, Java, and Bombay. The three-year-old branches are stripped of the outer bark, the inner is loosened and dried, which makes it shrivel up, and assume the quill form in which it is imported. The best cinnamon should not be too dark in colour, and should be hardly thicker than paper. It has a fragrant odour, and its taste is pleasant and highly aromatic. Besides being used extensively for culinary purposes, cinna- mon is much employed medicinally as a powerful stimulant. Turmeric.—Turmeric [Curcuma longa) belongs to the ginger family, and is extensively cultivated in the East Indies as a condiment. The tubers are dried and then ground to a fine powder. It enters largely into the composition of crnuy powder, and gives it the peculiar odour and the bright yellow colour which that compound possesses. Coriander.—This is the fruit or so-called seeds of a plant of Eastern origin [Coriandrum sativum). Coriander seeds are used by the confectioner and distiller, and in the manufacture of curry powder. The leaves have also been used in soups and salads. They are also used for flavour- ing jellies, etc. Aromatic Spice is a mixture of various flavours, con- sisting of pepper, salt, cinnamon, mace, powdered bay- leaf, thyme, marjoram, nutmeg, and cayenne. These are used principally for braised meats, sautes, ragorits, galantines, vol- au-vents, game pies, and numerous other preparations. CORIANDER II5 turmeric