THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 926 Lettuce Sandwiches. Cut the required number of very thin slices of bread, butter them lightly on one side, and spread with a thin layer of tartare sauce, which is made by mixing a little mayonnaise sauce with hnely chopped parsley and gherkins, flavoured with mustard. Wash, trim, drain and shred some crisp lettuce-leaves, place them on the slices of bread, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and sandwich them together. Cnt into conveniently-sized sandwiches, dish up, and garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley. Cucumber and Lettuce Sandwiches. Cut some thin slices of bread, free from crust. Mix a little made mustard with butter, and butter the slices. Peel thinly a cucumber, shred hnely the heart of a lettuce, lay out on half the slices of but- tered bread, sprinkle over some chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and spread with a thin layer of seasoned mayonnaise, and place the remainder of slices of bread on top of these. Press, trim, and cut into convenient sizes, and dish uj). Empress Sandwiches. IMix a gill of fairly stiff mayonnaise with two tablespoon- fuls of whipped cream, and a teaspoonful of hnely grated horse- radish. Peel and split a cucumber, remove the seedy parts, and chop the cucumber hnely. Spread thin slices of lightly buttered bread with this mixture ; sprinkle with finely chopjjed tongue ; cover witli more of the mixture and a slice of bread. Press the sand- wiches lightly, trim and cut into neat portions, dish up, and garnish. Chasseur Sandwiches. Mince some cold game and ham, beef, or mutton, fairly free from fat and skin ; to each lb. allow two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and make into a paste. Mix well, and season with salt and pepper, and a little whipped cream. S})read between thinly-cut slices of but- tered bread. Press them lightly, trim and cut into desired portions ; dish np neatly, and garnish with cress or parsley. Danish Sandwiches. Procure a tin of lax (smoked scdmon preserved in oil). Place the slices of lax on a cloth to be well drained from its oil. Cut length- ways two thin slices of bread from a tin loaf (sandwich loaf), butter them lightly ; lay on one of the slices of bread enough lax to well cover the buttered side. Place the other pieces of bread upon this, and press together lightly. Have ready a mixture of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with half its quan- tity of fresh bntter, season with a little mustard, pepper and salt. Spread the surface of the sandwich with this. Stamp out some crescent or oval shapes by means of a sharp cutter, and continue to prepare as many sandwiches as are required in this way. Mix the remainder of egg-yolk biitter with a little lobster coral, place it in a forcing-bag and force out a roll shape in the centre of each sand- wich. Dish up, and garnish with small sprigs of parsley,