PASTRY AND CUNFRCTIONER\ . 941 Denises aiix Amandes (Pruslcd Aluioiui Sand-wichcs). Kull out sonic puff-paste about a cpuirter of an inch thick. Cut it into two long strips about three inches wide. Place one of them on a w'ctted baking-tin ; prick the paste with a fork and spread with a thin layer of raspberry or apricot jam ; upon this spread a layer of cheese-cake mixture. Place the other half of pastry carefully u})on this, close up the edges with a paste-pincher ; brush over with milk, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Meanwhile beat up to a stiff froth one white of egg, add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, and spread it over the pastry as soon as it has cooled a little. Sprinkle over with blanched and shredded almonds, divide into portions of about one and a half inch wide ; return to the oven and bake for another ten minutes. Talmouses a I’Abricot. Pate d’office (see p. 134), apricot jam, -} lb. choux-paste (see p. 135), i egg. Roll out thinly some “pate d’oftrce ” or “ pate a seche,” and cut out some rounds with a paste-cutter about four inches wide. Place a teas])oonful of apricot jam in the centre of each round, dilute a quarter of a pound of choux-paste with a little rich custard (creme pithivier), spread this thickly over the round pieces, leaving a little space free at the edges ; wet the edges with beaten egg ; fold the paste over on three sides to give it the shape of a three- cornered hat, place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly done, brush over with boiled sugar (same as for trans- parent icing, see p. 138), place half a glace cherry on each, and finish baking. Serve cold. Petits Gateaux Pithivier. ]- lb. almonds (peeled), lb. castor sugar, a few sprigs crystallised orange- flowers, I tablespoonful of cream, | lb. fresh butter, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-peel, i whole and 2 whites of eggs, about lb. puff-paste. Pound the almonds in a mortar together with the orange-llowers ; when quite fine, add the cream, lemon-peel, and two whites of eggs. Put the sugar into a basin, cream the butter with the sugar, add the whole egg, and work until thoroughly incorporated ; now add the pounded almonds and work until smooth. Roll out the puff-paste, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter, stamp out rings of paste three-quarters of an inch wide and fix on the rounds to form the border ; fill with the mixture ; place a few strips of paste crosswise, bake in a moderate oven, when nearly done dust with sugar, and finish baking. Dartois aux Abricots meringues. Roll out some puff-paste (see p. 133) about three inches wide, trim off the edges, place it on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minntes. Spread with warm apricot marmalade ; have ready a meringue mixture, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out in the shape of ribbons across the layer of marmalade, so as to form a lattice-work pattern. Dredge with sugar, place halves of glace cherries and small pieces of angelica alternately in the centre