626 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Asperges a la Polonaise.—Boiled soft parts of asparagus, dished up and sauced over with nut-brown butter, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. — a I’AHemande.—Giant asparagus cooked in chicken stock ; served with cream sauce. — a ritalienne.—Boiled asparagus head or green part; dressed with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under a salamander. — au Veloutee.—Boiled asparagus finished in veloutee sauce. It is best to cook only the soft parts of asparagus for this dish. — en Branches a la Bechamel.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread with bechamel sauce poured over. — en Branches a la Colbert.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread. Sauce over with Colbert sauce, and serve hot with poached eggs on top. — en Branches a la Piemontaise.—Boiled asparagus dished up on toasted bread covered with grated parmesan cheese, and coated with hot white cream sauce. — aux Petits Pols.—Green asparagus points cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. Drain and toss in a little fresh butter, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, dish up and serve. — sautees au Beurre.—Boiled asparagus cut into short lengths (soft parts only), seasoned and finished in butter, dished up neatly on a slice of toasted bread. — a la Flamande.—Boiled giant asparagus dressed with a rich white sauce and slices of hard-boiled egg placed on top. Pointes d’Asperges a I’Argenteuil.—Puree of green asparagus points mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked) or cooked chicken quenelles, set in asparagus-shaped mould so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus. This dish may be served hot with supreme sauce, incorporated and poured round the shape, or cold with aspic jelly incorporated and salad as garnish. — a la Sevillienne.—Asparagus puree prepared from the heads, points or sprue, filled into an aspic-coated mould mounted with cold cooked asparagus, well masked with aspic. Tliis dish is served cold, and is garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre or round the base of the dish. AUBERGINES—EGG-PLANTS AND VEGETABLE MARROWS. Aubergines aux CEufs poches [Egg-Plant with Poached Eggs). 3 aubergines, 6 small poached eggs, i gill tomato pulp, i oz. breaucrumbs, 2 oz. chopped ham, -t oz. butter, pepper and salt, chopped parsley. Cut the aubergines in halves lengthwise, and remove the pips. Cook them till tender in salted water, take up, and drain on a sieve. Mix the tomato pulp with the breadcrumbs and ham, warm up with the butter, and reduce a little, season with pepper and salt, fill the cavities of the aubergines with this, put them on a dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and place in a hot oven for live minutes. Place one poached egg carefully on each half, garnish with parsley, and serve hot.