68o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into the centre of a plain omelet. Ponr a little gravy or brown sauce round the omelet. Omelette au Fromage {Cheese Omelet). Beat up six eggs with one ounce of grated gruyere cheese and two tablespoonfuls of milk. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan and cook the omelet as directed for plain omelet. Sprinkle over the surface of the omelet with a little grated cheese. Omelette au Lentilles [Lentil Omelet). Fry two slices of nicely-minced onion in half an ounce of butter, put in one gill of cooked lentils, stir well, and add half a gill of brown sauce. Cook for ten minutes, and hll with it a plain or savoury omelet (see p. 675). Omelette aux Rognons [Kidney Omelet). Slice thinly two small sheep’s kidneys, season and dredge with flour, and fry in an omelet-pan containing half an ounce of butter and one hnely-minced shallot fried lightly. Toss the kidneys in this over a quick hre for hve minutes, add half a gill of Madere sauce, and cook for another five minutes. Make a plain omelet, fill the above in the centre of it, fold in carefully, and turn out on a hot dish, Omelette aux Tomates [Tomato Omelet). Steep two or three small ripe tomatoes in hot water and skin them. Cut them into slices and toss them in a little butter over a quick fire, season well, and fill with it a plain or savoury omelet. Pour a little tomato sauce round the base of the dish, Omelette aux TrufTes [Truffle Omelet). Proceed the same as for mushroom omelet (see p. 679), using six trufiles in place of the mushrooms. ‘ Omelette Soufflees au Poisson [FishJRiff Omelet). Shred finely one small cooked whiting or a slice of cooked cod, heat it up in a little butter, and season to taste. Stir this into a mixture made as directed below, and bake in a well-buttered pan in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out into a hot dish, and serve with tomato sauce. Omelette Souffle aux fines herbes [Savoury Puff Omelet). Beat up lightly the yolks of six eggs and whisk stiffly the whites of three, stir into the former one tablespoonful cornflour mixed with \ gill of cream or milk, season with salt and pepper, and stir in one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; add the whites of egg last of all. Melt half an ounce of butter in a buttered souffle dish or omelet })an, pour in the mixture, and set the pan into a hot oven. When it thickens add tlie remaining whites of eggs, well whisked with a pinch of salt, and SOUFFLE OMELET DISH.