970 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Quince Jelly. Select the fruit ripe and of hire flavour. The orange quince is considered the best. Wash well and rub the fruit with a cloth. The best part of the quince can be used for bottling and preserving. Make the jelly from the rind and hard knotty parts, with the addition of some of the whole fruit. Remove the seeds or core portion. Cover the fruit with water, stew geutly until tender, and then drain ; f- lb. of cane sugar to each pint of juice is sufficient. Measure three pints of juice into the preserving-pan, boil fifteen minutes, add sugar, and proceed as previously directed. Devonshire Junket. I pint new milk, i gill cream, i tablespoonful brandy or rum, i teaspoonful prepared rennet, 2 oz. castor sugar, grated nutmeg. Mix the rennet with a little cold milk. Warm up the rest of the milk, but do not let it get hot ; add the rennet, sugar, and brandy or rum. When cold and set, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. Cocoanut Junket. I quart milk, i to i i oz. desiccated cocoanut, i saltspoonful rennet or curd producer, 2 oz. sugar, i small glass rum. Use new milk. Add the cocoanut and place in a warm oven for about half an hour. Add sugar, strain, and add the rennet or curd powder while warm. Stir in the rum and let it set. If liked, sprinkle over with a handful of baked cocoanut chips. Pulled Bread. Procure a few French rolls, cut off the crust, pull the crumby part into rough pieces, sprinkle over with a little warm milk, place the pieces on a baking-tin, and bake in a very slow oven until crisp and of a pretty golden colour. Yorkshire Pudding {served with roast beef). 1 lb. flour, 2 eggs, i piut milk, a pinch of salt, i oz. dripping or butter. Sift the flour into a basin. Beat up the eggs with the milk. Stir this gradually into the flour and beat for at least ten minutes. Add the salt and pour into a Yorkshire pudding-tin containing the dripping or butter melted. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out and cut into portions. Plain Suet Pudding. I lb. flour, 6 to 8 oz. beef or mutton suet (the former preferred), i level teaspoonful of .salt, i teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, cold water. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely, place it into a basin and mix with the flour, salt, and baking-powder ; mix the ingredients well together, and add enough cold water to form a fairly stiff paste. Make it up into the shape of a roll. Dip a large pudding- cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and dredge one side with flour. Place the suet paste roll iu the centre of the cloth (floured side), roll it up tightly, and tie the ends loosely with string. Put the pudding into a large saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two and a quarter hours or steam it for three hours. M’hen done.