852 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. “ granites,” as they are sometimes called) may be prepared without being either elaborate or expensive by using various kinds of fruit in season. Granite d’Ananas {Pineapple Granite). I ripe pineapple (peeled), fresh or preserved, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 lemons, I gill cura9oa liqueur, i tablespoonful brandy. Cut about two slices of the pineapple, mince rather coarsely, and keep this on the ice. Pound the remainder of the fruit in a mortar, add to it about half a pint of water, and rub the whole througli a sieve or tammy cloth. Boil up with the sugar, skim, and let cool in a china basin or pan. Proceed to freeze in the usual way. When partially frozen, add the minced pineapple, previously steeped in a little brandy, and sprinkled over with castor sugar. Now add the liqueur, and about a gill of finely-crushed ice. Mix well, and serve. Granite au Champagne. Freeze three pints of lemon water (see p. 829), then add half a bottle or less of champagne. Mix thoroughly, and incorporate carefully about half a pound of soft fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, or peaches, all cut into dice. Lastly, stir in a small quan- tity of crushed ice. It is then ready for serving. Granite de Citron [Lemon Granite). To one quart of partially frozen lemon-water ice add one small glass of maraschino liqueur and half a pint of finely crushed ice. Mix thoroughly, and serve in the usual manner. Granite de Framboise [Raspberry Granite). Mix f lb. of castor sugar with i pint of raspberry pulp, add the juice of 5 lemons, i quart of boiling water, and boil together to the consistency of a syrup, strain into a freezer, and freeze to the consistency of snow, incorporate 2 whites of eggs, whisk stiffly, and pack in rough ice. Serve in glasses or cups. Granite a ia Voltaire. Boil and clarify 6 oz. ol loaf sugar with i gill of water. Extract and strain the juice of 5 lemons and 2 large oranges, pour this on to the syrup and let cool, then freeze partially as is customary for water ices. Whisk 2 whites of eggs to- a stiff froth, and stir in ^ gill of syrup and i small glass of kirsch. Add this gradually to the water ice, and stir up well. Continue to freeze for a little longer, and work to a smooth, semi-frozen cream-like consistency. Peel two ripe peaches, cut them into thin slices. Rinse 6-8 goblets or granite glasses with maraschino, put a few of the slices of peaches in each glass, reserving one for the top, then fill each glass with the semi-frozen mixture. Put a slice of peach and a ripe strawberry on top, dish up, and serve. Cafe glace a la Neige [Iced Coffee). i-} lb. icing sugar, 12 yolks of eggs, i quart cream, i quart coffee. Whisk the yolks of eggs and stir in the sugar, pour in the coffee hot, and let cool. Whip the cream and add it to the coffee when quite cold. Freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses.