628 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Vegetable Marrow aux Fines Herbes. Peel thinly two marrows, cut them in halves longways, remove the seedy portion. Have ready a pan half filled with boiling water slightly salted, put in the marrows, cook till tender—they will take about twenty minutes. When done, take tip carefully with a slice and place them on a sieve to drain, dish up on a vegetable dish on a slice of toasted bread. Melt about three-quarters of an ounce of butter, when hot add a small shallot, peeled and finely chopped, also a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and tarragon and chervil leaves, fry for a few seconds, and pour over the marrows. Aubergines frites.—Egg-plants peeled, cut in slices, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — a ritalienne,—Peeled aubergines sliced, and tossed in butter, seasoned and dressed on gratin dish, with slices of tomatoes, finely minced onions or shallots, grated parmesan and butter, then browned in the oven. — a la Proven^ale.—Aubergines cut in halves stuffed with duxelle or mushroom mixture, flavoured with suspicion of garlic, browned in oven. — sautees.—Peeled aubergines cut in quarters or smaller, and tossed in butter. — a la Turque.—Aubergines cut in two lengthways, scooped out and filled with a mixture of cooked savoury rice, finely minced mutton, and grated cheese, sauced over with Espagnole, and baked. — a la Lyonnaise.—Baked stuffed aubergines or egg-plants, with fried sliced onions placed on top of each. Betteraves sautees au Beurre.—Clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot tossed in butter. Seasoned, dishecl up, and served with a rich gravy or thin tomato sauce. — a la Bordelaise.—Thick slices of cooked beetroot slightly fried dn sweet oil, flavoured with chojiped onion also fried slightly, and finished in a red wine sauce. CARBONS—CARDOONS. Cardons are prepared and cooked similar to Celery. Gardens en Croutons a la Veloutee.—Stewed cardoons dressed on bread croutons and served with veloutee sauce, which should be handed in a sauce-boat. — Sauce a la Creme.—Parboiled cardoons stewed till tender in rich stock, and served with cream sauce. — a rEspagnole.—Cardoons boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. ^— au Jus.—Parboiled cardoons cooked till tender in rich gravy, and served with gravy. — a la Moelle.—Parboiled cardoons braised in demi-glace sauce, garnished with blanched or grilled slices of beef marrow,