COLD ENTrAeS. 571 and top with the remainder of the puree, the last layer should be aspic. Put the mould on the ice until set. When ready for serving, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe round the mould with a cloth, and turn it on a dish with folded napkin or on a socle of rice. Chaud-froid de Foie-gras en Caisses. I tin natural foie-gras (size No. i or No. 2), i gill sherry, \ pint white chaud-froid sauce, i truffle and chervil leaves for decoration, a little small salad, aspic jelly for garnish, 6 to 8 souffle cases. Remove the foie-gras from the tin, trim off all the fat, with a sharp knife cut the foie-gras into slices, about the size of the souffle cases. Have ready some chaud- froid sauce, re- duced with the wine, let it cool, mask the slices of foie-gras before the sauce actually sets, and decorate with slices of truffles and chervil leaves. Mask each with a thin coat- ing of aspic. Pre- pare a small quantity of salad (cut very small), put a little of this in each of the cases, place the foie-gras on the bed of salad, garnish with finely chopped set aspic, dish up, and serve. Parfait de Foie-gras. Use a fine firm goose-liver, insert small cube-shaped pieces of truffles, and poach in sherry (with mirepoix) in oven (25-30 minutes). , Set in aspic in a suitably-shaped terrine, decorate the top with truffles, etc., and place on ice till wanted for table. May be served in terrine or turned out and placed on a dish. Darioles de Foie-gras en Belle-Vue. A large terrine of foie-gras, i pint aspiic jelly, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, i gill veloutee or chaud-froid sauce, 2 large truffles, 2 slices of cooked tongue and pimiento. Line eight small plain daiiole moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffle, pimiento, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each mould with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie- gras, take out the truffles, and chop finely. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a pint of aspic jelly