PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 030 and creamy, mix with a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, hour, and the vanilla essence. Grease a baking-sheet, and place upon it dessertspoonfuls of the mixture about one and a half inch apart from each other, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. W’hen nearly done, take it out of the oven and wrap each gaufre (luickly round a well-greased cornet or cornucopia tin ; put back into the oven and bake a few seconds longer, then remove from the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in gradually the ground almonds, cinnamon, icing sugar, and about a tablespoonful of whipped cream, put this mixture in a forcing-bag, and hll the cornets or the gaufres with it. Lay them on a baking-tin and put in a cool oven long enough to set the hlling. Serve hot or cold. Note.—If preferred, the gaufres can be filled with whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar. In this case they should be served cold. Gaufres a la Vanille {Vanilla Wajers). i- lb. flour (sifted). 3 oz. castor sugar, V teasjroonful vanilla essence, 3 eggs, 3 oz. butter, vanilla sugar. Put the flour and sugar into a basin, mix well, and stir in the eggs one by one. Melt the butter in half a gill of water, and add this to the mixture. Beat up to a light batter and fiavour with the vanilla essence ; a little milk may be added if found necessary ; the batter should be slightly thicker than ordinary pancake batter. Heat the wafer irons or wafer tongs, butter the inside sur- faces; put in a tablespoonful of the batter, close up the tongs. Put the iron imme- diately on a bright fire, coal, coke or char- coal, and bake, turning the iron or tongs frequently to ensure the wafer being of even colour, which should be golden. W'hen done, scrape the outside of the tongs, remove the wafer, and roll quickly on an oiled stick or leave flat, as desired. Continue thus till the batter is used up. Dredge the wafers with vanilla sugar, and g.wfre iron or \v.\fkr serve hot or cold. tongs. Cornets Genevoise [Geneva Cornets). tJ oz. fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. flour (sifted), 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar, 6 drops of vanilla essence, gill milk, 3 tablespoonfnls rasp- beny or strawberry jam, J gill cream. Cream the butter with the sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs and the vanilla essence. When well beaten, add the milk and the flour. Have ready a well-buttered baking sheet ; drop the mixture iu dessertspoonfuls about two inches apart, and bake in