THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 372 sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs and oiled butter, brown the surface in a sharp oven or under the salamander, and send to table immediately. Petits Souffles'de Foies de Volaille {Chicken Liver Souffles). 12 chicken livers, i oz. butter, salt and pepper, t gih bechamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. foie-gras, 12 china souffle cases. Clean, wash, and dry the livers, slice them and fry in the butter over a quick hre. Add the seasoning, pound in a mortar with the foie-gras. Pass through a fine sieve, and incorporate the bechamel sauce and egg-yolks. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the above. With the mixture three-parts fill about 12 china or silver-plated souffle cases (previously buttered), place them on a baking-sheet, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Cretes de Coque a la Demidoff [Cocks’ Combs a la Demidoff). Select a dozen or more large cocks’ combs, blanch them and roll separately in thin slices of bacon. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a little stock, white wine, and lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, cover, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take up and let cool, coat with villeroi sauce ; when the sauce is set, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve with a boat of truffle sauce. Crepinettes de Foie-gras aux Asperges. I large goose-liver, cooked fowl, parsley, onion, 12 white, peppercorns, ^ bay-leaf, thyme (i sprig), i glass Madeira, ^ pint white stock, 3-4 slices bacon, ^ gill bechamel, ^ gill truffle puree, 2 yolks of eggs, i pig’s caul, 2 oz. butter, I gill demi-glace sauce, i bundle green asparagus sprue. Put the liver—i.e. foie-gras—in a saute-pan on a mirepoix of bacon, onion, parsley, and herbs, etc., add the wine and stock, cover, and poach in the oven. When done, take out the foie-gras, let cool, then cut it and thefcooked fowl, previously freed from skin and gristle, into rather coarse dice shapes, and season with salt and pepper, nutmeg, and krona pepper. If liked, some of the bacon finely cut may also be added. Heat up the bechamel sauce, stir in the egg-yolks, and let bind. Free the liquor left in the pan