217 SOUPS {POTAGES); cream with the yolks of eggs and stir into the soup when boiling. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the yolks, but without allowing the soup to boil. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Potage Fausse Tortue [Mock Turtle Soup, Thick). ■J small calf’s head, i lb. veal, 2 lb. lean beef, 6 oz. lean ham or l>acon, 4 oz, flour, 3 quarts stock, i gill Madeira wine, i oz. butter, i small onion, I carrot, i turnip, i stalk celery, a few sprigs parsley, i bay-leaf, 4 cloves, I sprig thyme, i sprig marjoram, 10 peppercorns, cayenne pepper, salt, \ lemon. Bone the calf’s head, blanch it, and cook for three or four hours in stock or salted water. Press it between two boards or dishes. Cut the veal, beef, and ham or bacon into pieces, put them in a large stewpan with the vegetables, cleaned and cut into slices, the butter and herbs, stir the whole over a brisk fire until light brown. Stir in the flour, cook until it acquires a light brown colour, moisten with two quarts of liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled and three quarts of other stock, add the peppercorns, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne, let the whole come to a boil (stir till boiling), take oft the scum, and simmer slowly for three hours. Strain the soup, and let cool. Cut the calf’s head into neat i-inch squares, trim off the fat, put them in a stewpan with the wine, cover with a lid, simmer for a few minutes, then add the strained soup, boil for another thirty minutes, skim well, add more seasoning if needed, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with thin slices of pared lemon. Potage de Faisan a la Diana [Pheasant Puree). I pheasant, i mirepoix of bacon, onion, carrot, and herbs, 2 oz. Initter, 1 oz. flour, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. pearl barley (orge perle), i gill claret, 2 oz. raw ham, i leek, 3 pints good stock, salt and pepper, small game quenelles for garnish (p. 178). Truss the pheasant as for roasting, place it on a roasting-pan with a little dripping and the mirepoix above named. Roast it in the oven till three parts done, then take up the bird, untruss it, and remove the fillets from the breast. Cut the carcase into small pieces and fry in the mirepoix, adding about an ounce of butter and the ham cut up small. Stir in the flour and let it get a chest- nut brown colour, add the barley, and stir the whole a few minutes longer over the fire. Moisten with the wine, and add gradually the stock and about a pint of water. Stir till it boils, skim, and let simmer for about id hour. Pound the fillets of pheasant in a mortar with the remainder of the butter, add the cream, and when suffi- ciently pounded, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Pass the soup through a tammy, return to the stewjfan, add the puree above named, season to taste, re-heat, and serve with some^very small game quenelles. Potage de Perdreaux [Partridge Soup). I or 2 roast partridges, ]- lb. calf’s or chicken livers, 2 tablespooiifuls espagnole sauce. 2 (piarfs of stock, 2 oz. Initter, li oz. flour. 2 oz. bacon, I bo\iquef garni, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning.