THE KITCHEN. 51 larder, or anything stale which might cause a bad smell, and which would be likely to contaminate other food. Meat should be hung up on proper hooks provided lor that purpose. The time meat should hang depends on the heat and the humidity of the air ; if it is not kept long enough, it may be hard and tough—if too long, it loses its flavour. It should always be hung where it will have a thorough draught, and be dried every morning to keep it from damp and mustiness. The cook and butcher often lose their credit by meat being cooked too fresh, as the lishmonger does by fish which he has kept too long. The ice-box or refrigerator must be kept clean and tidy. It should not be left open longer than is absolutely necessary. When meat or fish is placed upon linen direct on the ice, the linen should be changed every day. Sauces, soups, and other liquid food should be kept in earthen- ware pans or basins. These must be kept clean, the sides wiped with a damp cloth, and should be boiled up every day. They should not be put in the larder until quite cold. The shelves should be wiped down every day by means of a damp cloth, and then scrubbed or washed as may be necessary (carbolic soap is an excellent thing for washing larder shelves). No brushing should be done in a larder where uncovered food is stored, for the less dust raised the better. After cleaning the larder, leave the door and windows open to dry it thoroughly, as damp, dirt, and dust are most detrimental to any room where food is stored. KITCHEN ECONOMICS. It is scarcely possible that economy in the kitchen can be success- fully carried out unless the cook has a fair idea of the relative value of the various ordinary (inexpensive) foods and the cost of the same. To go to market and buy foods at a low price can hardly be termed economy, because if they lack nutritive qualities they are dear at any price. True economy means no waste. The French are often referred to as being the most economical cooks and excellent managers. Well, they certainly understand Ics petites economics better than any other nation, and it cannot be disputed that thrift does prevail in their country. May not their careful ways of economising partly account for the culinary accomplishments of the French ? France is not, how- ever, the only country where economy is studied. Indeed, every well-governed kitchen in this or any other country is ruled by the practice of wise economy. It is a subject that may be studied with advantage by every cook and manager. To be economical' means saving money, and saving money means earning money.