788 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pouding a la Marguerite. 5 eggs, pint milk, a gill of cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonfu! vanilla essence, i oz. moist sugar, red-currant jelly, crushed ice, a little butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, whisk the yolks a little, then add the castor sugar and the cream. Melt the moist or brown sugar in a stew-pan and allow it to get an amber colour (not caramel), put in the milk and boil up, then stir it into the basin containing the egg-yolks, etc. Have ready a well-buttered pudding mould (a plain charlotte mould is best), add the flavouring essence to the mixture, and strain it into the buttered mould. Put the mould in a saute or other flat stew-pan containing some boiling water. Let it come to the boil over the fire, then place a buttered paper on top and steam in the oven for rather more than an hour. When done, allow to cool, and set it in a basin, surround the mould with crushed ice, and keep it thus for at least one hour. To serve, dip the mould in warm water for a second or two, unmould on to a cold dish, decorate the top with red-currant jelly. The jelly may be cut into cubes or forced through a forcing-bag. Pouding d’Abricot a la Princesse (Co/d Apricot Pudding). I gill apricot pulp, i gill milk, i gill cream, § oz. gelatine, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i oz. chopped almonds, a few drops cochineal, i orange, I tablespoonful lemon-juice. Soak the gelatine in a little water, dissolve and strain it, boil up the milk, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk, return to the stew - pan over the fire, and stir till it thickens (it must not boil), pour back in the basin, strain in the gelatine, then add the whisk- ed whites of two eggs, the apricot pulp, the orange and lemon-juice. Strain into another basin. When nearly cold, add the whipped cream, mix well, and fill up into plain mould previously lined with wine jelly and garnished with glace cherries. Turn out and serve when quite set. The mould may be decorated with jelly and fruit before it is filled with the above preparation. Pouding a la Diplomate. -I pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, f gill cream, i oz. sugar, 2 oz. macaroons, 4 to 6 Savoy bi.icuits, oz. gelatine, about f pint wine jelly (p. 786), a few glace cherries and angelica ior garnish. Make a custard with the milk, egg-yolks, and sugar, crush tip the macaroons, and jtour over them the hot custard. Add the cream and gelatine, previously dissolved, and allow it to cool a