944 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for about twenty minntes. Tea Bretzels. Prepare a paste with three-quarters of a })ound of flour, six ounces of butter, four ounces of castor sugar, two eggs, a little mixed spice, and a pinch of salt ; knead the paste well and set in a cool [dace for an hour. Make it into bretzels by rolling and twisting the paste as shown in the illustration. Put them on to a buttered baking- sheet, brush over with egg and milk, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate Tourte a la Frangipane. lb. short-crust (see p. 133) or puff-paste trimmiugs, 3 oz. flour, 4 yolks of eggs, 4 pint cream or milk, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, i inch cinnamon, I inch of vanilla pod (split), 2 oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt. Roll out the .paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Place a flan or pastry ring, about six inches in diameter, on a baking-tin, bntter slightly, and line with paste. Notch the edges with the back of a knife, prick the bottom with a fork, and hll with frangipane cream (see p. 137). Bake a golden colour in a moderately heated oven. Dust with castor or icing sugar, and glaze. Serve hot or cold. Canadian Curlers. Cream four ounces of bntter with four ounces of castor sugar ; then add one egg and half a gill of milk, flavoured with half a tea- spoonful of cinnamon ; stir in half a pound of Coombs’ self-raising flour and work into a smooth dough. Roll out about half an inch thick, stamp out with a round cutter ; then cut out a small hole in the centre ; fry in hot clarified butter or lard to a golden colour, drain well, and dredge with sugar. American Sand Cake. Beat half a pound of butter with half a pound of castor sugar ; then add by degrees three eggs, then stir in very gently half a pound of cornflour and one ounce of rice, flour. Have a tin mould well buttered and sprinkled all over with finely-powdered Savoy cake or linger biscuits ; put in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Prussiens or Palmiers. Roll out some puff-paste, dredge it well with castor sugar, and fold as usual. Repeat this twice, then roll up and cut into half-inch thick slices ; place these cut side downwards on to a baking-sheet, and bake a delicate brown. Semelles. Proceed in the same way as above described, but, instead of rolling up the paste at the last stage, roll it out flat, and stamp out some rounds with a fluted two-inch cutter^ then roll them to oblong shapes, place on a baking-tin, brush over with water, dust with castor sugar, and bake to a golden colour. BRETZEL.