S44 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. scum and let simmer gently for about three hours or till the meat is tender. Skim the stock occasionally. Take up the meat and press it for about twelve hours between two weighted boards. Trim the meat neatly with a sharp knife, place on a wire tray, and glaze it twice with dissolved meat glaze, allowing the hrst coating to set before the next is added. Dish up, and decorate it with slices of aspic, or chopped aspic, parsley, etc.; insert, if liked, a silver skewer. Langue de Boeuf a la Gelee {Ox-Tongue with Jelly). Procure a good-sized pickled or salted ox-tongue, soak it for a few hours in cold water, trim it, and cook it till tender in the stock- pot or, failing this, in seasoned water containing a small bunch of savoury herbs. The tongue must cook or simmer slowly—it will require from two and a half to three hours. Remove the scum as it rises to the surface. When done take it up and plunge it into cold water for a few seconds, then remove the skin carefully and trim the tongue. Place it in an upright position on a board and fix it thus with two forks through the front portion so as to keep it in good shape. Prush it over twice or three times with liquefied meat glaze, into which a little caramel may be added if it is not dark enough. Place tlie tongue on an oblong dish, decorate the sides witli creamed butter, forced out through a forcing-bag. Slices of set aspic or savoury jelly should be placed on top of the tongue. Put some chopped aspic round the base of the dish, also some sprigs of parsley. A silver skewer, replete with a nice truffle, preserved mushroom or firm tomato inserted in the root end of the tongue will enhance its appearance. Boar’s Head* {Huye de Sanglier). Slit the head down the throat, cut round and remove the bones, rub well with a mixture of lb. of salt, i oz. of saltpetre, 4 oz. of brown sugar, and aromatic spice. Let it remain in the brine for al)out a week, turning it daily, then wash, drain, and dry well with a cloth. Lay the head on a board, trim the thick parts, place the parings over the thin peirts to form a fairly level surface, and season well. Have ready a meat farce made of equal quantities of veal and j)ork, pounded and seasoned to taste, spread a thick layer inside the head, add strips of cooked ox-tongue, whole truffles, and peeled pistachio kernels. Cover with more farce, and strips of tongue. When the head is well filled, sew iqi the opening with twine, press it into its original shape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie securely. Cook slowly in stock from 3 to 4 hours or until it can be easily pierced with a fork. Take it up and drain. When cold, glaze well with strong liquefied meat glaze, decorate tastefully with aspic jelly and creamed butter, aud, if possible, insert glass eyes and tusks. Dish up and garnish with parsley. * Pickled pigs’ heads are often used in place of real boars’ heads, the mode of preparation being practically the same as that above described.