SAUCES. 147 up with a small whisk, but do not let it boil again. Last of all add the lemon-juice and the chopped herbs. Serve as directed. If desired richer, d oz. more butter may be added in the manner described. Sauce aux Capres [Caper Sauce). •J pint melted Ijutter sauce, i tablespoonful capers, -J tablespoonful vinegar. Mix with the melted butter sauce (p. 155) a tablespoonful of capers and the vinegar. Boil up and serve. j Creme a I’Aspic [Aspic Cream). \ gill bechamel or allemande sauce, i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, \ pint aspic jelly, i gill double cream, cayenne, mignonette pepper. Warm up the bechamel (p. 142) or allemande sauce, add the tarragon vinegar, stir this into the liquid aspic jelly, mix with it the cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and mignonette pepper. Pass through a sieve or tammy cloth, and use as directed. Creme de Celeri [Celery Cream Sauce). I small head of celery, i pint milk, i oz, butter, i oz, flour, a little cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove the best part of the celery, wash well, blanch it, drain and steep in cold water ; cut the celery into small pieces, put in a stewpan with the milk, diluted with a little cold stock, add some salt, boil up, skim, and cook till tender. Meanwhile prepare a white roux, i.e. dissolve the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the latter is cooked without browning ; then add gradually the celery and stock, let boil a little longer, pass throitgh a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, then add a little cream, and keep in the bain-marie until required, Curry Sauce. [Sec “ Sauce Indienne,” p. 150.) Sauce aux Concombres [Cold Cucumber Sauce). j cucumber, j gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), j gill cream, i gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), salt, pepper, spinach greening. Peel thinly the cucumber and cut into small pieces, boil in salted water till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. Return the pulp to the stewpan, add the bechamel sauce ; let it reduce to about half the original quantity, and let it cool. Whip the cream until stiff ; work in the mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold sauce, add a little salt and pepper if needed, also a few drops of spinach greening. The sauce is then ready for use. Sauce aux Concombres, chaude [Hoi Cucumber Sauce).—This is made in the same way as above directed, by omitting the mayon- naise and adding an extra quantity of hot bechamel sauce. Cook for ten minutes- before serving. Sauce Danoise [Danish Sauce). 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i glass sherry, 4 g41 chablis or sauterne, i pint fish stock, ^ oz. grated parmesan, 2 teaspoonfuls meat glaze, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i gill cream, ^ oz. lobster coral, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, let it cook a few minutes without taking colour. Moisten with the wine and fish