138 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the remainder of the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, break and beat up the egg. Melt the butter in a little warm milk. Stir this gradually inta the yeast and then mix with the flour, etc., and work into a dough. Knead well for a good quarter of an hour. Stand it in a basin, and allow to rise for about two or three hours, keeping it in a moderate temperature. Then make up into shapes or mould and bake. Icing for Gateaux, Petits Fours, and Small Cakes {Fondant for Masking Cakes and Gateaux). lb. lump sugar, a good pinch of cream of tartar, about a gill of boiling water. Put the sugar into a copper stewpan, add the pinch of cream of tartar, pour the water (boiling) over, and let stand on the stove until the sugar is quite dissolved. Set it over a quick Are and allow it to boil up quickly for a few minutes. The best way to And out when the sugar has boiled sufficiently is to try the heat with a thermometer, which should register 230 degrees for fondant sugar. Take it from the Are and rub the syrup with a wooden spoon against the sides for a minute or two. After it has stood to cool for a few minutes sprinkle a few drops of cold water over the top and stir until it becomes a white or creamy substance. It is best to turn it into an earthenware basin as soon as it is done. It can be kept for a long time if covered over with a thick damp cloth, which should, of course, be changed and redamped from time to time. When required for use a quantity is put into a stewpan or basin and stood in hot water over the Are, and is worked until it is fit for glazing. A little water may be added if not soft enough. In order to know when the fondant is fit for use it should be just warm enough to bear the finger in it. Any flavouring can be added. Use always the best quality. Chocolate flavour is added by grating a small quantity of unsweetened chocolate or cocoa powder, both of which should be previously dissolved before being added. For coffee flavour use extract or essence of coffee. Water Icing or Transparent Icing. I lb. loaf sugar, ^ gill warm water. Put the loaf sugar into a clean and dry stewpan or copper sugar-boiler, add the warm water, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved, then place it over the fire and boil for about five minutes, or until it is reduced to a thick syrup. It should register 230 degrees Fahr. on the saccharometer. Pour it into a basin and stir till almost cold. Use it for coating or covering cakes and pastry. This icing must be used before it is quite cold, otherwise the covering will not be successful. Glace fondante au Cafe {Coffee Icing). ^ 1 lb. icing or castor sugar, r gill water, coffee essence. Put the pound of icing sugar or castor sugar in a copper pan, add about a gill of water and boil it to the small ball degree ; turn out into a basin and work with a spatula until it becomes Treamy ;