THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 394 Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Soubise. I breast of lamb, 2 quarts stock, i bunch parsley, i bay-leaf, i carrot, I turnip, I onion, 2 cloves, gill allemande sauce or veloutee sauce, salt and pepper, 1 egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, soubise sauce. Trim the breast of lamb, cut it in two, blanch it, put it in a stewpan with the stock (boiling). Let it boil np, skim, and the prepared vegetables, etc., and cook gently till the meat is quite tender. Take up the breast, remove the bones while hot, and place the meat flat under weight. When cold trim, removing all the hard skin and gristle, and cut into convenient pieces. Season with pepper and salt. Coat each with allemande or veloutee sauce. Dip each piece in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, and dress the pieces on a dish in the form of a circle. Put the soubise sauce in the centre, and serve hot. Filets d’Agneau a la Spadacini {Lamb Fillets). I neck of lamb (best end), -] lb. cooked savoury rice flavoured with saffron, I small bread croute (corkshape), i artichoke bottom, i truffle, i egg, 2 oz. clarified butter, flour, seasoning, Spadacini sauce, denii-glace sauce. Cut the meat from the bones of the neck, trim off the super- fluous fat, pare neatly, cut into eight pieces, flatten them, and shape into round fillets. Fix a cork-shaped fried bread crouton ,011 the centre of a round entree dish. Arrange the cooked rice round it as neatly as possible, insert a silver skewer (hatelet) with the fond d’artichaut and truffle previously fixed on. Keep the dish in a warm place. Dip the prepared fillets in beaten egg, then in seasoned flour, and fry a golden coloifr in clarified butter. Dress them neatly round the hatelet on the dish, put a tablespoonful of Spadacini sauce on each fillet, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Navarin d’Agneau en Casserole {French Lamb Stew). I loin of lamb, i spring cabbage (blanched), 12 button onions, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. butter, i pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small chops, trim off the skin and superfluous fat. Melt the butter in an earthenware fireproof casserole, put in the lamb chops, and fry lightly on each side. Take them up and place on a plate. Peel the onions and fry them a nice golden colour in the butter. Divide the cabbage (previously washed, trimmed, and blanched) into eight portions, and wrap each into a thin slice of bacon. Pour the butter off the onions, and place the lamb chops, cabbage, bacon, and onions in alternate layers in the earthenware pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with the sauce, cover the pan with its lid, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Just before serving, skim off the fat from the surface, and send the dish (casserole) to table placed on a dish with a folded napkin. Noisettes d’Agneau a I’Union {Lamb Fillets). I loin of lamb, 8 fonds of artichoke, 2 oz. butter, 18 to 20 small fresh button mushrooms, i tablespoonful meat glaze, or i teaspoonful of Lemco (Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat), i gill stock, i teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, J teaspoonful chopped chervil, teaspoonful chopped chive, a few leaves of chopped tarragon, lemon, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce.