RECHERCHE BALL AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. 7^3 in the bottom of each with half a glace cherry in the centre of each ring. Then hll the moulds with alternate layers of cjnail slices and aspic jelly, allowing each layer of aspic to set before the next is added. Allow them to set on the ice, then turn out the shapes and dish np. Garnish with small salad, and serve. Note.—It is essential that the aspic jelly used for this dish should be flavoured with essence of quail, obtained after braising the birds. Medallions de Poiilarde, Gaulolse. I large poularde or small capon, lb. fat pork, lb. lean veal, i French roll soaked in milk, 2 whites of eggs, -J- gill cream, salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning, i pint white stock, white chaud-froid sauce, a suitably-shaped or carved rice socle, truffles and aspic for garnishing, etc., i hatelet, small salad for decoration, 10-12 Gauloise timbales. Truss the poularde or capon as for boiling, remove the breast portion carefully, then wrap np the bird in a buttered paper, and boil in seasoned white stock till tender. Remove and let it get cold, then take off the paper and coat the sides and surface carefully with white chaud-froid sauce. Ornament the leg and wing portion with thin slices of truffles, and mask with aspic. Keep on the ice till wanted. Flatten the breast part of the bird, ancl cut into round medaillon shapes, poach them in a little butter and stock, press, and let cool. Pound the trimmings with the pork and veal, when fine add the soaked bread, white of egg and cream, season to taste and sieve. Spread over one side of the medaillons with this farce, and poach in stock, in a saute-pan covered with buttered paper ; when drained and cold, mask with white chaud-froid sauce, decorate each with thinly cut strips of truffle and coat with aspic. Arrange the prepared m^aillons neatly on the breast part of the bird, pre- viously placed on a socle on a suitably-shaped dish, and garnish the sides sparingly with tiny sprigs of small salad. Have ready the Gauloise Timbales, and place them in front or round the sides of the bird. Insert a previously prepared hatelet and serve.