THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 48 stock. Stir until it boils, then add the anchovy essence, meat glaze, and grated cheese. Season to taste with pepper and salt, let simmer gently for a few minutes, skim and pass through a fine sieve. Return to a clean stewpan and bring to a boil. Work in the cream and lobster coral or lobster butter. Keep hot, but do not let it boil again. Serve with dressed fish—salmon, turbot, soles or lobster. Sauce Demi-Glace [Half-Glaze Sauce). I pint espagnole sauce, i-t gill good gravy, pepper. Reduce (half-glaze) espagnole sauce (see below), with the gravy (strained and free from fat) ; allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper. Sauce Diable {Devilled Satice). \ pint demi-glace sauce, i tablespoonful mixed mustard, i dessertspoonful Worcester sauce, \ oz. butter, 2 finely minced shallots, cayenne, parsley. Fry the shallots in the butter to a golden colour, add the demi- glace sauce, mixed mustard, Worcestershire sauce, and a good pinch of cayenne. Stir until it boils, skim and pass through a fine strainer, add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve. Egg Sauce {Sauce aux ceufs duvs). Boil an egg for ten minutes, place it into cold water and remove the shell. Separate the yolk from the white and chop each finely. Mix with half a pint of white sauce (p. 163) or bechamel (p. 142), previously heated, season to taste, heat up. Sauce aux Ecrevisses {Prawn Sauce). Proceed the same as for “ Sauce Cardinal ” (p. 144), and include 12 prawns’ heads, which must be cut in quarters and placed into the sauce a few minutes before serving. Sauce Epicurienne {Epicurean Sauce) {suitable for Asparagus, Artichokes or Boiled Fish). I cucumber, i gill mayonnaise, ^ gill cream, i tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, p gill aspic jelly (p. 132), i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i dessert- spoonful chopped gherkins, i dessertspoonful chutney, pepper, salt, sugar. Peel the cucumber, cut it into small pieces, cook till tender in salted water, strain and rub through a fine hair sieve. M’hen cold, stir this puree gradually into the mayonnaise sauce, add the cream, aspic, anchovy essence, the vinegar, and chutney (the latter shorld previously be rubbed thrortgh a sieve) ; season with pepper and salt and a small pinch of castor sugar ; add the chopped gherkins and a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Sauce Espagnole {Spanish Sauce). 3 quarts of rich stock, 4 oz. lean veal, i bouquet garni, 12 peppercorns, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 4 oz. raw ham or lean bacon, i carrot, I onion, 2 cloves, J pint tomato pulp, i gill claret, i glass sherry, some mushrooms (fresh or preserved). This is the chief brown foundation sauce—it forms the basis for a large number of other sauces. It is advisable that particular care and attention be paid to the preparation of this important sauce. The ingredients given will produce about half a gallon of