772 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. until it boils. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, pour on the milk, etc., stir well, and return to the stew-pan, add the vanilla essence, and stir over the hre until it thickens, but do not let it l)oil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, pour into a fancy mould ; when set, tnrn out on a cold dish, and serve. The top of the shape may be decorated with whipped cream, sweetened with a little vanilla sugar, by means of a cornet or forcing-bag. Bavarois de Bananes {Banana Cream). I quart milk, 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs. Boil up the milk, add the sugar, blend the cornflour with a little cold milk, mix with the boiling milk, stir over the hre until it thickens, and add the yolks of eggs and Havouring essence. Let the eggs bind, and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas, cut into thin slices, mix with the above, hll into one or two wetted moulds, and put on the ice to set. When ready, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. Bavarois a la Nesselrode {Chestnut Cream). Prejiare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille,” flavour with cinnamon in addition to the vanilla, and add two tablespoonfuls of chestnut puree. Decorate a jelly-mould with wine-jelly and glace fruit. When set, hll up with the prepared cream, and place it on the ice to get hrm. Bavarois aux Peches {Peach Cream). Prepare a cream as directed in “ Bavarois a la Vanille,” and to it add one and a half gill of peach puree, well reduced, before stirring in the gelatine. Decorate the mould tastefully with wine jelly, peach kernels, and angelica, before moulding. Bavarois a la Vanille {Vanilla Cream). \ pint milk, pint cream, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inch vanilla pod, | oz. leaf gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Put the sugar, milk, and vanilla in a stew-pan, and bring slowly to the boil. Stir the yolks of eggs, pour on the milk, etc., when boil- ing, mix well, return to the stew-pan, stir on the hre un- til it thickens, then take out the vanilla and pass through a pointed strainer orhne sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of water, strain it into the above mixture, let it cool a little, and add the cream, pre-