THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 340 Garniture a la Frangaise.—This surname being applied to a large number of dishes, soups, fish, entrees, omelets, sweets, etc., no special garnish can be quoted as a reliable guide ; a la Frangaise must thus be accepted as signifying certain typical French modes of preparing rich dishes of exquisite flavour. — a la Gastronome {for Meat or Poultry).—Cepes tossed in butter, slices of truffles and fleurons. Rich gravy or Madere sauce. — a la Gauloise {for Poultry).—Truffles, mushrooms, cocks’ kernels, and slices of ham. Demi-glace with tomato sauce. — a la Genoise.—Cut some thin strips of nouille paste, rolled out very thinly, boil in salted water, drain and finish in butter, serve in centre of meat or poultry, garnish with dried truffles and mush- rooms. Sauce Madere. — a la St. Georges.—Prepare small quenelles of veal or Godiveau, poach, cook in demi-glace, dress in groups alternately with mushroom heads. — a la Georgienne.—Stewed rice, cooked in rich stock, and finished with a rich tomato puree, shaped into quenelles or small dumplings by means of a liaison of eggs ; bake the qi:enelles in a buttered saute- pan in a hot oven, and serve round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la St. Germain.—This garniture is of the same character as a la Clamart (puree of green peas), either as a border or in the centre of a dish. Sauce according to dish, usually Madere or Allemande. — a la Gitana.—Spanish onions, boiled and braised, cut into slices, breaded and served over with tomato sauce well reduced, baked and dressed round or in the centre of the dish. Sauce tomate and Madere reduced and seasoned with sweet red Spanish pimientos. — a la Glengarry.—Small round black truffles and heads of preserved mushrooms, finished in a rich meat or chicken glaze, flavoured with game fumet. Sauce Chasseur. — a la Godard {Godiveau Quenelles).—Slices of cooked sweetbread, cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, and quarters of artichoke bottoms, finished separately in sauce champignon, with a glass of Marsala wine added. Dressed in alternate groups. — a la Gouff6.—Small round or oval-shaped bread croutons, toasted or fried, buttered and spread over with parboiled slices of beef marrow, glazed over with meat glaze. Sauce Espagnole. — a la Gourmet.—Artichoke bottoms (preserved), cut into quarters, dice shapes of mushrooms, truffles, and cooked ox-palate, boiled down with a glass of Marsala wine. Served mixed or in groups with Madere sauce. — a la Grecque {for Roast, Braised or Boiled Meats).—Quarters of auber- gines or egg-plants, parboiled in salted water, drained and fried in butter. Dressed in groups round the dish or in the centre. Sauce Madere and Bearnaise, carefully blended. — a la Gudewife.—Peeled and blanched onions, cooked in white stock till tender, chopped very finely, re-cooked with a little bechamel sauce, and flavoured with mango chutney. Served in the centre of the dish. Sauce demi-glace.