THE NEW CENTURV COOKERY BOOK. 694 CEufs a la Nantua.—Fried eggs, neatly trimmed, dished on a salpicon of shrimps or prawns, garnished with Nantna sauce. — a la NiQOise.—Poached eggs, dished on rounds of duchesse puree, garnished with French beans and sauteed tomatoes. — a rOrleans.—Oval tartlet crusts three-parts filled with delicate brown chicken salpicon, with poached egg in each, sauced or coated with bechamel, and hnished with a round of pistachio border. — a la Palestine.—Rounds or ovals of potato puree mixed with artichoke puree, ranged on dish, and each hlled with raw egg, sauced over with a little cream, seasoned and carefully baked in oven. — a la Perigueux.—Poached eggs, dressed in border of chicken puree (farce), and served with rich truffle sauce. — a la Portugaise.—Sauteed tomatoes well blended with onions, fried in oil, ranged on a dish with neatly poached eggs on top. — a la Poulette.—Moulded eggs (hard or soft-boiled), coated with supreme sauce, decorated and sprinkled with fine herbs. — a la Princiere.—Croustades of bread or rice with poached egg in each, garnished with asparagus points ; sauce Veloutee. — a la Rachel.—Scrambled eggs mixed with strips of truffles and asparagus points. — a la Reine Margot.—Scrambled eggs, dressed in croustades of puff pastry moistened with very little rich bechamel sauce. — a la Romaine.—Fried eggs ranged on a bed of spinach sauteed whole (en branches), garnished with anchovy fillets, sprinkled v/ith parmesan cheese, and slightly browned in the oven. -a la Rossini.—Eggs fried on plates (sur plats), trimmed and placed on foie-gras puree, with a border of perigord sauce round each. — a la Sevigne.—Poached eggs, placed on crusts of fried bread, coated with veloutee sauce, each decorated with a slice of truffle, and garnished with braised lettuce. — a la Soubise.—Egg-shaped tartlet paste crusts, lined with soubise puree (onion), with poached egg on top. — a la Turbigo.—Fried eggs, trimmed neatly, garnished with slices of sausages, fried ham, and tomatoes. — a la Vatel.—Cassolette cases lined with a salpicon of sweetbread and scrambled eggs, mixed with shredded tomatoes and truffles. - a la Verdi.—Poached eggs on fried bread croutes, coated over with sauce Venitienne, and decorated with truffle. — a la Victoria.—Fried eggs, placed on lobster and truffle puree or salpicon, coated with lobster sauce. — a la Yvette.—Scrambled eggs mixed with crayfish-tails, garnished with asparagus points, and served with sauce Venitienne. — a la Zingara.—Poached eggs on oval-shaped croutons of fried bread, served with tomato and Madere sauces blended, and decorated with chopped ham.