THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 996 A waiter, when speaking to guests or when handing anything to them, should avoid bringing his face into close contact with that of the guest, this being considered very objectionable. The following is the order of serving the various courses of a dinner :— Hors-d’oeuvre.—These, with the exception of oysters, are usually dished up on little china or glass dishes and placed on the table before the commencement of the meal. As soon as the guests are seated the hors-d’ceuvre is handed from the left-hand side of the guest. When oysters are served the same rule applies : these are accompanied with a plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter, and quarters of lemon, which must be handed round at the same time. The Removal of Plates must be effected from the left, and must be done as noiselessly as possible. Special stress must be laid upon this ; the rule should be strictly observed throughout the meal when the changing of plates takes place. Note.—On the Continent it is customary to effect the removal and replacing of plates from the right. The Soup. —As soon as the hors-d’ceuvre plates are removed the soup should be brought in, and unless served from the side- board or serving table the tureen containing the soup must be placed at the head of the table, with a ladle. The soiip plates, unless a frappe or iced consomme is served, must be hot. The waiter handing the soup should take care to place it in front of the guest from a position on the right, though it must be remembered that all other dishes are presented to the guests from the left. Wine is generally served immediately after the soup. The removal of the soup plates should not be effected till every one has finished, when the changing of plates takes place. The Fish is next served, with or without sauce, according to the style of dish described on the menu. Dressed fish or fish entrees are handed round in the dish, whilst whole fish or large pieces of boiled fish, etc., are frequently carved from the head of the table or from the sideboard ; when such is the case the plates are served to the guests in the same way as the soup. It is usual to hand a dish of plain boiled potatoes with all boiled fish, and lemon with fried fish. The Entrees.—As the fish plates are removed they must be replaced by hot or cold plates, as the case may be. Chaud-froid entrees, cold mousses, etc., require cold plates, whilst for all other entrees the plates must be hot. The entrees, in the order given on the menu, are now served. The Joint and Vegetables.—The joint of roast meat is invariably carved in the dining-room, and the slices are placed on hot plates with a little gravy, and handed to the guests in the same order as