THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of the jelly till frothy, add the cream also whisked, and finally stir in about three tablespoonfnls of orange marmalade and mandarin sections left over, but cut into small pieces. Fill the prepared mould with this, and put on the ice. Trim the Genoese, mask with reduced jelly and orange marmalade, besprinkle the side and part of the edge with peeled chopped pistachio kernels, and place the round of cake on a flat dish. Unmould the orange shape on to the prepared cake, and serve. Napolitaines a la Suisse. l lb. castor sugar, 4 eggs, lb. butter, i gill of milk, pinch of carbonate of soda, a little pounded nutmeg, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 10 oz. best flour, 2 oz. sweet almonds, pnff-paste trimmings, macaroon or almond paste, greengage and apricot jam, i tablespoonful ground chocolate, a few drops of liquid carmine. Cream the butter and sugar well, beat in the eggs one at a time ; add the nutmeg, lemon-rind, carbonate, and flour, and mix well. Divide the mixture into three portions, colour two portions respec- tively pink (carmine) and brown (ground chocolate). Spread the three lots separately, about half an inch in thickness, on a paper- lined baking-sheet, bake in a slow oven, without letting it take colour, and put aside to cool. Roll out into a square strip about half a pound of puff paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, prick it here and there to prevent blistering, bake in a hot oven, cut it in half, and spread over with dissolved apricot jam. Cut the coloured cake into strips the width of the puff paste, lay them alternately across one-half of the puff paste until the whole surface is covered. Roll out some almond paste, and put a thin layer over the strips, spread over with greengage jam, repeat the layers of strips as before, taking care that the strips laid over are of a different colour to those first placed, so that if the first is pink the next should be brown, and if yellow, the next should be pink or brown, and so on. Cover with a thin layer of apricot jam, and, last of all, another layer of almond paste. Put the other half of puff paste on top to cover the whole, press it between two boards with weights on top, let it remain for about two hours, then remove weights and board, spread a layer of meringuage over the surface, sprinkle with shredded almonds, place the cake in the oven long enough to set the meringue mixture, and cut into convenient pieces. Meringues a la Chantilly. 5 whites of eggs, i lb. castor sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls vanilla sugar, about I pint cream. Carefully separate the yolks from the whites, put the latter in a copper egg-bowl with a pinch of salt, whisk slowly at firs-t, increasing the speed until it becomes a hard froth. Mix in quickly, but sparingly at first, the castor sugar and one dessertspoonful of vanilla sugar. Put the mixture into two large paper cornets or a forcing-bag (not quite full). If paper cornets are used, cut off the point ends, close the large end, and press out on to a paper-lined baking-sheet even sized egg-shapes, dust with sugar, and bake in