DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 269 Dress the turbot on an oblong dish, sprinkle over the lemon-jnice, then the parsley, and lastly some nnt-brown clarilied butter. Gar- nish with the fried aubergines. Just before serving sprinkle over the fish the meat glaze, previously heated. Turbotin a la Lussinoise. A small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade (p. 154), then cooked in an onion mirepoix ; upon this a light layer of lisli farce (p. 177) is placed, and then finished in the oven ; sauce anx champignons (p. 145) is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Turbotin a la Reine. I young turbot, fish farce (see ]>. 177), a small glass white wine, mushroom liquor, veloiitee sauce, trullles, champignons, potatoes, egg, breadcrumbs. Procure a very small young turbot known in France as tiirbotin (baby turbot). Wipe it well, trim off the fins, and remove the black skin. Cut an incision down the centre of the fish, loosen the flesh, and remove a portion of the bones, fill the cavity with a light fish farce, and place the fish on a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, moisten — ' with the white wine, Sauterne or Chablis, and some mush- room liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for about twenty minntes. Have ready a rich veloutee sauce, in- corporate into this the liquor from the fish, reduce it a TUKBOTIN A. LA REINE (SHOWING STYLE OF DRESSING). little, and pour it over the fish on the dish. Return to the oven for another ten or fifteen minutes. Garnish the dish with slices of truffles, mushroom heads, and small marble shapes of plainly cooked potatoes and small fish balls made from fish farce, egged, crumbecl, and fried. Serve hot. LIMANDE—FLOUNDER. Limandes a la Janin {Floimders, Janin Style). 2 large flounders, J- lb. fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), i oz. butter, t giU white wine, it gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), 12 crayfish or prawn tails, 2 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, seasoning. Cut the fillets from the flounders, remove the black skin, trim and pare the fillets, spread one side of each with a layer of fish quenelle forcemeat. Fold each in two, or roll them if preferred. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add half the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in