6%7 OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. the size of the egg, when poached. Chop the trimmings of tongue very hnely. Put the slices of tongue in a saute-pan with the gravy and wine, and heat up thoroughly. Take up the eggs, drain and trim them, place each upon a slice of tongue, arrange on a hot dish, season with salt and pepper, sauce over carefully with hot supreme sauce, and serve hot. Put a little cliopped tongue in the centre of each egg. CEufs a la Courbet {Cold). Cut some even-sized ripe tomatoes in halves, scoop out carefully the interior, and hll with scrambled egg, nicely seasoned. When cold, mask carefully with a stiff mayonnaise and a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up in a circle, garnish with gherkins and pickled beetroot cut into fanciful shapes, and hll the centre of the dish with lettuce and tomatoes cut into julienne strips, suitably seasoned with an oil and vinegar dressing. Serve cold. CEufs frits a la Fermiere. Grill or broil eight thin slices of lean bacon or ham, fry the same number of eggs in a little butter or bacon fat, trim each neatly and j)lace on a slice of bacon or ham. Range these in the form of a border round a dish, hll the centre with a mixture of vegetables (macedoine de legumes) heated and mixed with a little white sauce. Garnish the centre with Parisian potatoes (marble-shaped potatoes, blanched, drained, and baked in the oven or fried). The dish is then ready for serving. CEufs poches a la Tomate {Poached Eggs, Tomato Sauce). Boil up a pint of tomato sauce in a saute-pan, skim it if necessary, and drop in carefully hve or six eggs, cook them till the white is hrm to the touch, basting the eggs well with the sauce during this pro- cess. Lift them carefully with a slice or skimmer, trim them, dish up on pieces of toasted bread. Pour over the sauce, which must be suitably seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve hot. CEufs en Matelote {Eggs, Seaman's IPuy). Poach some eggs in a rich meat stock, trim them and dress them on rounds of buttered toast, sauce over with a ricli brown sauce flavoured with savoury herbs and finely minced fried onion. Garnish with strips of fillets of anchovies. Pyramide d’CEufs a la Reforme. These are stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled over with hnely shredded ham and truffles. Sauce over with a rich brown sauce, and bake in a quick oven. CEufs a la Garfield. These are very similar to Scotch eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, and cover them with a layer of farce or sausage meat, egg and crumb them with crushed vermicelli, fry in deep fat or clarihed butter, cut in halves, and serve with piquante sauce.