THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 364 downwards, brush over with beaten white of egg, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven a nice light-brown colour. Remove the wooden rollers. Fill the roulettes of pastry with the above mixture. Ornament the top with green pea puree, by means of a forcing-bag, and fried parsley. Dish up, and serve hot. Rissoles and Rissolettes. The origin of these words comes from the French “ rissoler ”— to brown. Rissoles are generally prepared by rolling out rather thinly puff-paste, rough puff, or short crust paste. The paste is stamped out into rounds about two and a half or three inches in diameter, a teasj)oonful of forcemeat or other savoury mixture is placed in the centre of each round, and after wetting the edges with water or egg they are folded over, pressed lightly, and shaped into half-moons. They are then egged and crumbed, and fried in hot fat. Rissolettes are made on a similar plan, but instead of being folded over they are stamped out in small rounds, much smaller than rissoles, and covered with another round of paste, and so enclose the savoury mixture. It is best to use a small fluted cutter for making rissolettes. They are egged and crumbed and fried the same as rissoles. The garnish consists invariably of fried parsley. Rissolettes de Foie-gras a la Pompadour. 1 small terrine of foie-gras, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked tongue. 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee or bechamel sauce, i lb. puff-paste, frying-fat, parsley for garnish. Prepare a salpicon with the foie-gras, mushrooms, and tongue, put it in a stewpan, and moisten with sufficient sauce to obtain the right consistency for a salpicon, heat up, and put on a dish to cool. Have ready some good puff-paste (six turns), roll out about one-eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out some rounds with a i-f-inch cutter. Put about a teaspoonful of the salpicon mixture in the centre of half the rounds of paste, slightly wet the edges, and cover over with the other rounds of paste, press down lightly so as to close the edges. Fry in very hot fat, drain, and serve on a dish with folded napkin. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, plain or fried. Be careful not to touch the extreme edges of the paste, because this will prevent the paste from rising.