961 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Cream Caramels. I lb. fondant, i gill cream (al)out), i|- 11 >. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring. These sweets should be made from fondant that has not l)een ^ boiled too high, about 240 deg. Melt the fondant very slowly with the cream. Add some colouring and flavouring, and sufficient icing sugar to form a stiff paste. Beat the mixture well. Pour it into a long flat tin box which you have lined with grease-proof paj)er. When set cut into squares with a caramel cutter. Chocolate Caramels. 1 lb. loaf sugar, i gill water, i gill cream, 2 oz. Kohler's covering choco- late, I teaspoonful of cream of tartar, some essence of vanilla. Boil the sugar and water to 245 deg. Take it off the fire, then add the cream, and mix thoroughly. Grate the chocolate, stir it into the sugar, adding the cream of tartar and vanilla at the same time, and then cook to 250 deg. (hard ball). Great care must be taken to get the exact degree. Pour the mixture on to an oiled slab between oiled bars. When cool mark with a caramel cutter and when cold break into squares. Orange Creams. 8 oz. icing sugar, a small pinch tartaric acid, orange-juice, white of egg, yellow colouring. Sieve the sugar and add tartaric acid, mix to a stiff paste with the strained orange-juice and about half of a lightly beaten white of egg, add a little yellow colouring. Mix thoroughly and knead lightly. Form into marbles or ovals, place them on grease-proof paper and allow to dry for two or three hours. Serve in fancy paper cases. Peppermint Creams. Proceed the same as directed for Orange Creams, use cold water in place of orange-juice, and omit the colouring, add sufficient peppermint essence to flavour. Knead the cream thoroughly, roll out about I in. thick, cut into rounds, make a small dent in the centre. Lay out on grease-proof paper from three to four hours. Cocoanut Ice. I lb. loaf sugar, i gill cold water, 3 oz. tine desiccated cocoanut, a little carmine to colour. Boil sugar and water to 235 deg. Remove the pan from the fire, add the cocoanut and stir with a wooden spoon, rubbing the mixture against the sides of the pan till it begins to turn. Pour two- thirds on to a greased dish. Colour the remainder a pretty soft pink with carmine, and spread it over the white. When nearly cold cut into squares or fingers. Popcorn Candy. I lb. sugar, I gill water, \ gill molasses, i oz. butter, tiny pinch cream of tartar, i pint popcorn. Boil the sugar, cream of tartar, water, and molasses to 240 deg. Then let the bubbling cease and add the butter. When it is dissolved, add the popcorn. Stir gently till the corn is coated all over, pour on to oiled tins or dishes, or it can be poured on to an oiled slab, and when cool enough to handle rolled into balls. When quite set, wrap in wax paper. Note.—If wished this candy can be coloured and flavoured. A harder candy can be made by boiling the sugar to a higher degree, being careful it does not burn. It can be boiled safely to 280 deg. 3 P