-/66 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Beignets d’Abricot ( Apricot Fritters). 8 apricots, -i- pint syrup, yeast batter (p. 135), fi'ying fat, castor sugar, and ground cinnamon. Cut the apricots in halves and stone them, cook them in the syrup until tender ; cool, and drain on a sieve. Cover the fruit with yeast batter, and place them on to buttered strips of paper, let them stand for half an hour in a warm place, then drop them into plenty of boiling fat. Fry to a golden colour, take up, drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, mix with finely- ground cinnamon, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. Beignets d’Ananas {Pineapple Fritters). 6 round slices preserved pineapple, inch thick, d pint creme patisserie (confectioner’s custard), i small glass of kirsch or maraschino, frying batter (p. 135), frying-fat, vanilla sugar. Slice the pineapple, trim the slices with a round cutter, put them on a plate, and pour over the kirschwasser or maraschino. When the pieces have been immersed for ten minutes take them up, drain on a sieve, cover each with creme or confectioner’s custard. Let this set well, then dip them in light frying batter mixed with a little cream, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve. A boat of pineapple syrup, heated, and flavoured with kirsch or maraschino, should be handed round with the fritters. Beignets de Bananes {Banana Fritters). Select some bananas, not too ripe, peel them, cut them length- ways into pieces about two and a half inches long, put in a deep dish, and sprinkle over with a glass of kirschwasser. Prepare a batter, dip the bananas into this, and drop into very hot clarified butter, fry them a nice colour, drain on paper or cloth, dredge with castor sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot, Beignets a la Torrijos. 2 French dinner-rolls, pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i glass maraschino, ground cinnamon or nutmeg, clarified butter for frying. Rasp the crust from the rolls, cut them into round slices, about quarter inch thick, and put into a dish. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the milk and liqueur, and about half an ounce of sugar. Stir and pour over the slices of bread and let soak for about fifteen minutes. Drain the pieces and fry a golden colour in the clarified butter. Drain well on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with castor sugar previously mixed with enough ground cinnamon or nutmeg to flavour. Dish up, and serve hot. Beignets au Moka {Coffee Fritters). Cut two or three milk rolls into slices, place them in a large pie-dish, and pour over enough strongly-made coffee to soak them. Make a light frying batter, allow it to stand for at least one hour. Beat up two yolks of eggs, mix them with a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, pour this over the slices of milk rolls. Dip each slice into the frying batter and fry a golden colour in very hot fat or lard.