HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 733 whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, and stir both alternately and in small quantities into the above mixture, lastly add the crushed biscuits. Put this into buttered moulds, and steam for about an hour, then turn out, dish up, and serve with a sweet sauce. Pouding Genevoise {Geneva Pudding). Fill a well-buttered timbale-mould with layers of cooked rice (cooked in milk and sweetened) and apple puree (flavoured with cinnamon), bake for thirty minutes, and serve with hot fruit syrup. Timbale de fruits a la Louis Napoleon. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 whole eggs, 2 uz. Hour, dried and sifted, i-5- oz, corn- tiour, 2 oz. ground almonds, a few drops orange-flower water, i glass maraschino, 2 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of salt, compote of fruit—apricots, peaches, etc.—glace fruits. m;‘ringue for coating ant ornamenting. Cream the egg-yolks with the sugar, and add the flour, cornflour, and butter, previously warmed. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the almonds, the orange-flower water, and mix in lightly. Fill into a buttered timbale mould, and bake in a c^uick oven for about ^ an hour. Cut off the top, and scoop out the centre. Next All up the cake crust with well - drained fruit compote. Sprinkle over with the maraschino, and put some fruit on the top to give it a dome shape. Coat with a meringue preparation made with 3 whites of eggs and oz. of fine sugar. Ornament this with the cornet, and garnish with glace cherries and angelica. Bake in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup. Marmalade Pudding. 6 oz. orange marmalade, 8 oz. breadcrumbs, 6 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 eggs, V teaspoonful baking powder, a pinch of salt. Mix the marmalade, breadcrumbs, salt, and suet in a basin, stir in the eggs one at a time, beat well for a few minutes, and add the baking-powder. If found too stiff, a little milk or cream may be added. Put the mixture in a well buttered pudding-basin, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours or boil for 2-J- hours. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Pouding aux Marrons {Chestnut Pudding). Prepare a mixture the same as for chocolate pudding (p. 730), but use only one ounce of chocolate, and add four to six ounces of chestnut puree. Fill into a buttered mould, and bake or steam for ih hour. Serve with vanilla or custard sauce.