238 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Petites Bouchees a la Caroline. Make and bake eight very small rice cassolettes, scoop out the centre, and fill them with seasoned chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles. Petites Bouchees de Jambon a la Creme.—Fill some small puff- paste cases with minced ham seasoned with mayonnaise and cream. Tartelettes de Saumon a I’Ecossaise {Scotch Salmon Tartlets). 1 small slice salmon, i small carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 2 oz. butter, lemon-juice, i hard-boiled egg, i cold potato, celery-root, beetroot (small), white wine (Chablis or Graves), tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt, mayonnaise dressing, aspic jelly (p. 132), short crust, trutlie, gherkin or chilli for garnish. Prepare the short crust with -J- lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, and water. Line 8 to lo tartlet moulds with these, prick the bottom of each, fill up with lentils or dried peas, bake a golden colour, turn out lentils or peas, and let the crusts cool. Place the .salmon in a buttered saute- pan with the carrot and onion cut into slices, and the herbs. Add a little salt and sufficient water and wine, half and half, to cover the flsh, put in a teaspoonful lemon-juice, and cook over a gentle Are for about ten minutes. When cool, stamp out an equal number of rounds a little smaller than the tartlet crusts. Mask each with a thin coating of mayonnaise and aspic, mingled in equal quantities, ornament one side of each with a star of truffles, chillies or gherkins. Mix the remnants of salmon with the potato, celery, the white of a hard-boiled egg, and a few slices of beetroot, all minced rather finely, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, tarragon, and chervil, and enough mayonnaise to moisten. Line the tartlet crusts with this mixture, lay a dressed round of salmon on top, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve as hors-d’oeuvre or flsh entree. If intended for the latter the crusts and salmon must be of a somewhat larger size than for hors-d’oeuvre. Anchois (Anchovies)—{Anchois a I’kuile). The best and most suitable anchovies for hors-d’oeuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then take out, drain on a cloth, open them, and take out thevbone, trim neatly, dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Anchois et queues d’Ecrevisses {Anchovies and Prawns). Anchovies and prawn or crayfish tails, seasoned with mayonnaise, and dressed in shells or glass dishes. Anchois a la Norvegienne. Norwegian anchovies, 3 hard-boiled eggs, chervil, red pepper, oil, vinegar, I lemon, parsley. Prepare some fillets of Norwegian anchovies, trim neatly. Chop two eggs coarsely, yolk and white separate ; dish up in glass hors- d’oeuvre dishes, season with a little chopped chervil and red pepper, sprinkle with a little oil and vinegar. Place the anchovy fillets