AMERICAN PLANKED DISHES. goc) Planked Sirloin Steak with Oysters. Take a double sirloin steak and trim it neatly ; pnt it on the broiler ; grill for live minutes on one side, turn and grill for live minutes on the other side. Make the planking board very hot while the steak is cooking. Put the steak on, garnish the board quickly with mashed potatoes and put it under the broiler. Turn the steak once. Season with salt and pepper and rub it with butter. Cover the top with broiled oysters, then grill again for a lew minutes. Serve hot. Planked Salisbury Steak [American). Chop finely f lb. lean beef steak ; season with salt, pepper, and onion juice, and shape it into three even-sized cakes. Put these on to a hot plank and place under the broiler or griller. Turn the steaks twice whilst cooking. WTen done, garnish the plank with mashed potatoes, and allow to brown. Have ready a baked banana for each cake. Make a cream sauce, and llavour it with an ample quantity of grated horse-radish ; fill this around the board ; place the baked bananas on top, and serve. Planked Lobster. Split a large lobster, heat the plank board thoroughly. Lay the lobster on the plank shell side down ; put it under the gas for twenty minutes ; baste with b\itter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for ten minutes longer. Garnish with small fried potato balls, grated cucumber, and lettuce leaves. Planked Chicken. Split a plump spring chicken, flatten it a little and dip in oil. Stew six mushrooms in a little stock. Heat the plank, put the chicken on it, boned side down, season with salt and pepper, and broil on the board under the gas or in a sharp oven for about forty minutes. Garnish with rice cooked in stock, the mushrooms, and guava jelly. At each side of the dish place two baked bananas, and serve. Turkish Fish Pilaw. Fry for a few minutes 4 oz. of rice in -f a gill of olive oil, drain off the oil, moisten the rice with water and milk, and cook till nearly tender, season with salt, pepper, and very little grated nutmeg. Cut three slices of cod, free from skin and bone, into small pieces, and fry them in a saute-pan containing 4 oz. of hot butter over a quick fire, pour off some of the butter, season as above, and add the cooked rice, also two small cooked artichoke bottoms, a Spanish pepper-pod (Pimiento), both cut into dice shape. Mix carefully and re-heat, then dish up and serve hot. Note.—Turbot or fillets of sole may be used in place of cod, if the former be preferred.