592 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXVI. REMOVES—RELEVES. The general rule is that roast or braised joints should be served under this heading. Whatever the remove is, the dish demands the accompaniment of a vegetable, which is served separately or else as a garnish. The French bone most of their joints, and usually dish them up with some kind of garniture. Boiled meat is also at times served as remove. The most popular dishes served for fhis course are saddle of mutton or lamb, leg of mutton or lamb, shoulder of mutton or lamb, neck and loin of mutton, haunch of mutton or lamb, fricandeau of veal, sirloin or ribs of beef, fillet of beef, venison, deer, wild boar, ham, braised or baked. In abbre- viated dinners, where no poultry is introduced in other courses, a roast or boiled turkey, fowl or capon is sometimes served as a remove or releve. Common-place joints, such as roast beef, mutton, lamb, etc., are not included in the recipes, as roasting is fully dealt with in Chapter VIII. The correct order of serving the remove or releve is immediately after the entrees, but on the Continent, and occasionally in England and America, these dishes are served after the fish course. BCEUF BEEF. Aloyau de Boeuf a la Godard {Sirloin of Beef a la Godard). About 6 lb. sirloin of beef, lb. bacon, i sliced carrot, i sliced onion, i bouquet of herbs, i gill sherry or Sauterne, pint tomato sauce, i gill brown sauce, i pint stock, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, 3 artichoke bottoms, ^ cooked sweetbread, 8 small chicken quenelles (p. 178), pepper and salt. Remove the bones of the loin, and trim neatly. Cut the bacon into strips about one inch and a half long. Make some holes in the meat by means of a wooden skewer, and insert the strips of bacon. Roll and tie hrmly. Put the onion, carrot, and bouquet of herbs in a braising-pan, lay fhe piece of beef on fhis, moisten with the wine and stock, season with pepper and salt, and braise for fwo hours in a moderately-heated oven, basting the meat from time to time. Skim off the fat, add the tomato and brown sauce, previously warmed, cook for another three-quarters of an hour. Take up the meat, keep hot, free the sauce from fat, and strain, boil for another ten minutes. Add the garnishing of preserved mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, small pieces of sweetbread, slices of truffles and quenelles. When the latter is thoroughly hot, untie the piece of beef, dish up on a small bed of