THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2o8 minutes, add the stock, and stir till it boils. Allow to simmer for abont half an hour. Peel and slice linely the beetroot, sprinkle it with a little salt, pepper, and mixed vinegars (Orleans, tarragon, and very little chilli), just enough to cover the beetroot slices. Add root and vinegar to the soup and cook for hfteen minutes—not longer, otherwise the colour is spoiled. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, but rub only about half the beetroot through it. If too much beetroot juice is added the soup will be too sweet. Then re-heat, pour into a soup-tureen, and put some hnely cut mustard and cress on the soup. Puree de Choux de Bruxelles {Brussels Sprout Soup). 1 i lb. Brussels sprouts, 3 pints of good stock, i gill cream, i tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornllonr, a small piece of soda, salt, pepper, and gflited nutmeg. Wash and trim the sprouts, cook them till tender in salted water containing a very small jhece of soda (to preserve the colour), drain well, and rub through a hne sieve. Put the puree in a stew- pan with the stock and the cornflour—previously mixed with a little cold stock—boil up, and let simmer for ten minutes, take off the scum, season to taste, add the cream. Keep hot until wanted for table ; but on no account let the soup boil again after the cream is once added. Creme de Celeri {Celery Cream). 2 heads young celery, I- small onion, peeled and sliced, 2 oz. butter, oz. Hour, I quart white stock, t, pint cream or milk, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of castor sugar. Wash and trim the celery, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, cool, and cut up into small pieces. Melt the butter, when hot put in the onion and celery and stir over the hre for several minutes. Sprinkle in the flour and stir again for a few minutes, moisten with the stock and cook till tender. Rub all through a hne sieve, return to the stewpan, add the milk or cream, season to taste, and put in a pinch of sugar. Allow it to get thoroughly hot, and serve. A handful of fried bread croutons should be put into the soup-tureen, or else handed round as the soup is served. Creme de Chicoree au Veloute {Chicory Cream). 3 to 4 heads of chicory, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, 4 tablespoonfuls rice, salt, pepper, -J gill cream, i gill milk, 2 egg-yolks, croutons of fried bread. Trim the chicory and wash and drain, cut up rather small and put it in a stewpan with the butter. Cook for several minutes without allowing the chicory to get brown. Wash and drain the rice, add it, and fry a little longer. Now add the stock and cook the whole till the rice and chicory are tender. Rub all through a hne sieve, return to the lire, add the milk, boil up, season to taste, and put in the cream last of all. Whisk up the egg-yolks and add along with the cream. Stir well, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with croutons of fried bread ; these may be put into the soup- tureen or may be handed round.