755 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. ANANAS- PINEAPPLES. Ananas a la Mascotte. Cut a large preserved pineapple into neat round slices, and cook them for a few minutes in a well-tlavonred syrup, then take up and drain the slices on a sieve. In a similar manner cut some fairly hrm Genoise or Savoy cake into slices, the same size and thickness as the pineapple. Sprinkle the cake with syrup, flavoured with benedictine, or other liqueur, then build up a pineapple shape with both the cake slices and pineapple slices on a flat round dish, spreading each layer with a thin coating of apricot marmalade. Mask the whole with dissolved marmalade, and by means of a forcing-bag and plain tube cover with meringue. Bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes to set the meringue, and to warm the contents of the dish thoroughly. Surround the shape with fancifully-cut and baked leaves of wafer pastry, sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts, and surmount with a neat little bouquet of angelica, and serve with a nice-flavoured pineapple sauce. Flan d’Ananas a la Neige [French Pineapple Tart). Half a preserved pineapple, 2 oz. castor sugar, about i lb. of short crust, the white of 2 eggs, confectioner’s custard. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and line a pastry ring (a flan ring six inches in diameter) with it, place it on a baking-sheet, fill up with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven, and remove the peas. Cut sufficient thin slices of pineapple to till the paste crust, arrange the fruit in one close overlapping layer in the baked crust, pour over a thin coat of confectioner’s custard, just enough to cover the fruit, and bake for ten minutes in a fairly warm oven. Meanwhile beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with the castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly and smoothly over the surface, dredge with sugar and a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and return to the oven long enough to brown slightly. This dish may be served hot or cold. Parfait d’Ananas a la Tostini. I good-sized pineapple, fresh or preserved. 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, ^ gill confectioner's custard, flavoured with maraschino, a border- mould of Genoise cake, almonds and pistachios for decoration. If a fresh pineapple is used, peel it thinly. A preserved pine- apple is, however, more suitable for this dish. Cut a small slice off the bottom to make it stand firmly, and by means of a paste- cutter or sharp knife cut out the centre portion of the pineapple. Pound the trimmings in a mortar, pass through a sieve, flavour with a teaspoonful of maraschino, and keep till wanted. Cut the hollowed-out pineapple across into half-inch slices, and fix them together in the original shape by spreading some confectioner’s custard between the slices. Place this in the centre of a GGioise border cake, either on a baking-sheet or, better, into a round silver dish. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and cover the outside of the pineapple with it. Mix the remaindei'