264 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for a few minutes. Lastly add the anchovy essence, and pass all through a fine sieve or strainer. Sauce over the fish with this. Arrange the button onions and mushroom-heads round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Truites a la Meuniere. 3 to 4 small trout (4 to 6 oz. each), 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i tea- spoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it, and wipe with a damp cloth. Season with pepper and salt. l\Ielt half the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till done, turning frequently during the process. Take up the fish, and dish up. Add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon-juice and the vinegar. Lastly add the chopped parsley, then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. Note.—Soles, whole or cut fillets, are served in the same way. Filets de Truite frits a la Milanaise. 2 or 3 .small trout, \ gill olive oil, i lemon, i aessertspoonful chopped parsley, i egg, i oz. grated parmesan, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, lard or olive oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish. Steep the fish in boiling water for about a minute, peel off the skin, split each lengthwise and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a pie-dish or other filat dish, season with salt and pepper, barely cover with oil, add the juice of one lemon, and let it soak for about an hour. Beat up the egg, and mix with the chopped parsley. Mix sufficient freshly-made breadcrumbs with the grated parmesan cheese. Drain the fillets, rub them over on each side with a little flour, dip them in the beaten egg, and cover well with the prepared crumbs. Heat some lard or oil in a deep saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with sauce Italienne. Truites au bleu {Blue Trout). To prepare these correctly the required number of trout should be put into court-bouillon whilst alive, and then poached for about ten minutes. Drain the fish carefully, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with sauce Ravigote (see p. i6g). Truites au Vin rouge {Trout in red wine). Procure 6-8 small river trout and cook, i.e., poach them in court-bouillon consisting of bottle of claret, water, bouquet garni, carrot and onion (sliced). When done, dish up, reduce the fish liquor by one-thircl, strain and thicken with butter liaison (2 oz. of butter mixed with i oz. of flour). Cook for ten minutes, season and strain over the fish. Glaze under salamander and serve. Filets de Truite a la Mirabeau. I medium-sized trout, :}■ gill sweet oil, t lemon, Mirabeau sauce. Remove the scales and wipe the fish with a danqi cloth. Take