THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 254 French beans, all cut very small, peas, etc.), with half a gill of tartare sauce and a similar quantity of liquid aspic. Season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully over the ice until the mixture begins to set. Fill the prepared tomatoes with this, put a small round slice of pimiento on top of each. Place the tomatoes on the ice. Whisk half a gill of cream, and incorporate a tablespoonful of spinach puree, season with paprika and salt. Spread 12 roimds of toasted bread, cut to the size of the tomatoes with the cream, upon these piit the hlled tomatoes, and decorate them tastefully with the remainder of cream by means of a forcing-bag or cornet. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve, Tomates en Surprise. Prepare a tomato cream with i-f- gill of tomato pulp (well reduced), 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, ^ oz. dissolved gelatine, season to taste, and strain. Mask the two halves of 8 special tomato moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; when sufficiently set, coat each well with the prepared tomato cream. Fill them with the following preparation ; Mix about half a pint of cooked asparagus points with i tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of tartare sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and paprika, also gill of strong aspic jelly and a pinch of nutmeg or mace. Close the two halves together, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite each other. Place the moulds on the ice for about an hour, then turn out, and dish i;p neatly on bed of small salad, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Tomates a la Lucullus. Take 8 or more small tomatoes, scoop out the centre, season with salt and pepper, hll in with a little mayonnaise sauce and a pickled walnut in each. Chop up some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, put this in a basin, cover it with aspic jelly, stir it well, and set in a half-inch sheet. Dish up the tomatoes, and ornament the dish with small dice of egg aspic. Tomates a la Nicoise. Pound Mb. of cooked salmon free from skin and bones and add to it half a gill of mayonnaise, season to taste and rub through a sieve, then incorporate ^ gill of liquid aspic (p. 132). Cut 4 even- sized tomatoes into quarters, remove the pulp and reshape with the prepared puree. Dish up on a bed of finely shredded and seasoned green salad, and serve, Tomates a la Monaco. Marinade in oil and vinegar 8 small tomatoes, previously peeled and hollowed out in centre. Prepare a puree of preserved tunny fish and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, and French mustard, and mix with finely chopped fresh savoury herbs. Drain the tomatoes and farce them with the prepared puree. Dish up and garnish neatly, then serve.