f) THE NEU' CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. explained and details of the origin and history of the more interesting are also given. It is chielly to enable those engaged in the practice or in the superintendence of high-class Cookery to compose a menu, and to give each dish its correct name—whether in English or French— that my first book was written. I have always held the opinion that in cases where it is thought necessary to give French names to the dishes this should be done as concisely as possible, by the use of that peculiar French which is the language of Cookery. 1 have therefore given comprehensive descriptions of the French dishes named in this book. The headings to each list of the various kinds of comestibles have been given in French and English, and will assist the inexperienced to compile a bill of fare correctly, enabling them to supersede the French names (often ridiculously spelt) wherever jrossible by intelli- gible English ones, when such a course is ])referred. With a view to rendering the work as complete as possible, a series of some two hundred Specimen Menus for simple and recherche family meals, &c., has been inserted in l£nglish, h'rench, and other languages. These include examples of fixed-price luncheons, dinners, (S:c., such as are served in Lonclon Clubs, Hotels, and Restaurants. few historical and classical Menus, which will interest students of history, have also been added to this collection. A list of (piotations from the works of standard authors, useful in the comi)ilation of menus for special occasions, brings this section to a close. I desire to make my grateful acknowledgments to se\’cral of my confreres who from time to time have afforded me c'aluable informa- tion which has been a groat help to me in the execution of the present work. Among these 1 would specially mention the late IMonsieur Chas. Ranhofer (for thirty years chef of Delmonico’s, New York) ; Monsieur Louis Chevriot (ex-chef to Her late iMajesty Queen Victoria and to H.M. the King of Spain) ; to Monsieur Juste Menager (chef to His Majesty King Edward \TI.) ; to .Monsieur H. Cedard (chef to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales) ; to Monsieur F. Gnoepff (late chef to H.l.M. the Emperor of Austria) ; to the late iMonsieur Urbain Dubois (for many years chef to the Emperor William 1.) ; to Monsieur P. Cubat (maitre d’hotel to H.l.M. the Czar of Russia) ; to Monsieur C. j. Corblet (late chef to Madame Hischoffsheim) ; to Monsieur A. Fscolher (chef, Carlton Hotel, London) ; to Monsieur A. Coste (chef. Hotel Cecil, London); to Monsieur A. iMever (Knickerbocker Club, New York) ; to Monsieur A. Suzanne (for many years chef to the Duke of Bedford) ; to IMonsieur A. iMoser (chef to H.i\I. the King of Norway) ; and to Mr. Arthur Edmunds, B.Sc., F.R.C.S. (who kindly contributed the article on the Science of Cookery). C. H. S. London : March, 1904.