251 ilOUS-irCEUVRE (APPETISERS). one in each of the moulds (these should be very little larger than the olives), fill up the base of the olives with dissolved asjiic, and put them on the ice to set. Stamp out some rounds of bread, about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch in diameter, fry these a golden colour in clarified butter, drain, and cool. Mix the anchovy paste with the butter, spread one side of the rounds of bread with this. Unmould the olives, place them on the rounds of bread, dish up on glass dishes with pretty lace paper, garnish to taste with parsley or sprigs of cress, and serve. Olives a la Madras. 9 Spanish olives, 9 anchovy fillets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, I teaspoonful ol chntney, i dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce or paste, i oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 9 fried bread croutes, or rounds of triscuit fried in butter. Stone the olives, pound the butter, anchovy paste, yolk of eggs, chutney, and seasoning in a mortar. Then rub them through a sieve. Spread a little of the puree on each croute, and })ut an olive hlled with the same puree on each. Decorate with coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy lillet round the base of each olive, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Olives a la Tartare. Brown bread, stiff tartare sauce, -t gill aspic jelly, Spanish olives, shrimps or prawns, parsley. Stamp out some slices of brown bread with a i-inch cutter. Mix together a gill of tartare sauce (p. i6o) and aspic jelly. Dip each round of bread in the sauce to mask completely. Place them on a dish to set. Stone as many Spanish olives as there are rounds of bread, hll each with tartare sauce, place one in the centre of each croute, dish up on little glass dishes, put a shrimp-tail or small prawn-tail in each olive, garnish with parsley, and serve. The rounds of bread must be very thickly masked ; if not satis- factory at hrst, coat for a second or third time. Petites Caisses a la Cazanova. i head celery, i large truffle, mayonnaise or tartare sauce, hard-boiled eggs, oysters, ravigote butter.