THE NE]V CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 354 or oil the inside of the paper cases. Fry sufficient i)arsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of butter in a sautffi pan, put in the croquettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate hre or in the oven. When done take up, drain well on paper, put on a baking-tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze, pass in the oven for another minute or two, and place them on the beds of fried parsley in the paper cases. Dish up when cold, and serve with a boat of tomato mayonnaise. These crocpiettes are equally nice served hot, in which case a hot sauce, either piquante or tomato sauce, should be handed round at the time of serving. Crepinettes de Volaille truffees Finely minced raw chicken mixed with chopped truffles, shaped into crepinettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. Andouillettes are made similarly to crepinettes, but are shaped oval or round, and, in place of being crumbed and fried, are braised in butter and usi:ally served in paper cases. Andouillettes a la Romaine. Minced chicken, mushroom, truffle, grated cheese, and meat glaze made into salpicon, shaped oval, and wrapped in caul and braised, served with truffle sauce, Coquilles—Shells. Coquiiies are small shells, filled with coarsely minced meats, etc., baked in the oven to brown the surface. Coquilles de Volaille truft’ee.—Chicken fillets minced and mixed with truffle and white sauce, baked in shells. Coquilles de Champignons.—Mushroom and white sauce baked in shells. Coquilles de Cervelle de Veau.—Calfs brain, blanched, cut small, and blended with white sauce, then filled and baked in shells.' Coquilles de Trufles.—Sliced truffle with brown sauce baked in shells. Coquilles de Perdreau.—Partridge fillets baked in shells. Coquilles de Poulet a la Cardinal.—Minced chicken and crayfish tails blended with cardinal sauce, filled and baked in shells. Coquilles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread stew baked in shells. Croustades or Cassolettes. Croustades are oval or round shapes of baked or fried paste, bread, rice or potato crusts, which are filled with minced or deli- cately-made ragouts of shell-fish, meat or game. CROUSTADE, CASSOLETTE, AND SOUFFLE CASES. hade of thin paste crust, used for light entrees, vegetable PUREES, SAVOURY and sweet SOUFFLES.