THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 134 Wash the butter in iced water, knead it in a wet cloth, and shape into a flat square. Roll out the paste into a square about twice the size of the butter ; the sides of the paste should be rolled somewhat thinner than the centre. Put the butter in the centre of the paste, fold in the four sides, so as to completely envelop the butter. Roll out very gently and in one direction only, and fold in three ; this is called the first turn. Keep the paste in a cool place, and repeat rolling and folding it as befofe three or four times, allowing the paste to cool for at least ten minutes between the turns. The paste is then ready for use. HOW TO KNEAD PASTE. Pate d’Office [a Useful Paste for Lining Tartlets, etc.). J lb. flour, 3 oz. sugar (castor), i oz. butter, i small egg, i teaspoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a pinch of salt. Mix and work the above ingredients in the usual way ; if too dry, moisten with a little milk. Knead well and use as required. Nouille Paste {Pdte No miles). 1 lb. flour, i-| oz. butter, 2 small whole or 3 yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a little milk or water, if found necessary. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, make a well in the centre. Add the salt, eggs, and butter. Mix thoroughly and knead to a stiff but elastic paste ; a little milk or water should be added with the eggs. Great care must, however, be taken not to make the paste too soft. This paste requires at least fifteen minutes’ kneading. Divide into pieces, roll out very thinly, and use as directed. Pate Duchesse {Duchess Paste). I pint cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, \ lb. butter, i teaspoonful orange-flower water, a pinch of salt, flour, 2 or 3 eggs. Put the cream, sugar, butter, orange-flower water, and salt in a stewpan, and when at the boiling-point stir in enough sifted flour to form a dry paste, and work over the fire till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs. Rough Puff or Half-Puff Paste {Demi-feuilletage). I lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, lemon-juice, and water. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well, and put in half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, the salt, and an ounce of the butter ;