133 ELEMENTARY METHODS. and throw it lightly on an oiled rolling-pin or oiled handle of a large wooden spoon. Move the fork or spoon to and fro ; the sugar will then form the desired threads. How to Make Pastry Roses [Roses de Nouilles, pour Bouquetihe garniture).—Roll out very thinly some nouille paste, cut it into square pieces of even size. Place 3 to 4 pieces, well flavoured, on top of each other, shape it into a pear-like form, cut the top crossways three or four times with a sharp knife, open the leaves so that it resembles a rose. Continue to prepare the remainder of paste in the same way, and plunge the roses into hot fat. Fry a golden colour, drain and use as part garnish for Bouquetiere styled dishes. Roses for meat pies are made in the same style, using short crust or puff paste. Culinary Pastes [Pdtes d’Office).—Culinary pastes are used as a foundation and covering for pies and tarts, lining or Ailing for entremets, etc. There are three varieties, the Paste Crusts, Batters, and Creams. The latter are more commonly known as cremes pdtissieres or cremes d'office ; these are used largely in the prepara- tion of Continental pastry. Short Crust Paste [Pate a foncer). I lb. flour, lb. butter, a pinch of salt, about ^ pint water. Sift the flour, add the salt, rub in lightly the butter, moisten with sufficient water to make the paste, knead it until it forms a smooth paste. Let it rest in a cool place for about an hour before using it. For fruit-pie crust, tartlets, etc., add an ounce of castor sugar and one yolk of egg, proceeding in the same manner, using enough water to work the ingredients into a smooth but not too firm paste. M.^KING A WELL IN FLOUR. PuH-Paste [Feuillctage). I lb. flour, oz. salt, i lb. butter, about t- pint water, i teaspoonful lemon- juice. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, add the salt, make a well in the centre, put in sufficient cold water and the lemon-juice to form a smooth paste, working in at the same time a little butter about the size of a walnut. Knead the paste as little as possible, and allow it to stand for a few minutes before working in the remainder of the butter.