hot meat ENTRIlES, etc. 403 cook them in butter in the oven for about ten minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread on an oblong dish, and dress on it the cooked (illets, .glaze or brush over with liquid meat glaze, arrange the FILETS DE PRE-SALE AU.\ PRIMEURS. mushrooms neatly on each side, Filing them with the various kinds of prepared vegetables. Blend the brown, demi-glace, and tomato sauces together, add the Marsala, and re-heat, pour a little over the hllets, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets de Mouton a la Tyrolienne. About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 4 small even-sized tomatoes, 12 button onions, i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, i gill of sweet oil, -.V gill Orleans vinegar, i minced shallot, i bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, salt, 2 oz. ham, i gill demi-glace sauce, i gill stock, i oz. butter, i egg, bread- crumbs, frying-fat. Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, trim off’ some of the fat, cut it into eight nice fillets, and lay them in a marinade of oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf, garlic, coarsely-chopped parsley, and salt, for twelve hours, turning them from time to time. Cut the tomatoes in halves, and squeeze out a little of the pulp. Fry the button onions a golden colour in the butter, and drain off the butter. Add the stock, boil quickly, skim well, and braise in the oven until done ; the stock should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so as to glaze them completely. Put the butter drained from the onions in the sante-pan, place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry gently for a few minutes. Dry the hllets with a cloth, egg and crumb them, fry them gently in hot fat to a golden brown, and arrange them neatly in a row in the centre of an oblong dish. Have ready the ham, hnely chopped, moistened, and warmed in a little brown sauce. Put a dessertspoonful of ham in each half of tomato, place a button onion on top of each. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the dish, and serve. The demi-glace should be well reduced, and have a tablespoonfnl of the marinade incorporated during the process of reducing.