SOUPS (POT.IGES). 205 PUREES (CREAM AND OTHER THICK SOUPS). FISH SOUPS Bisque d’Ecrevisse [Crayfish Soup). 3 to 4 dozen crayfish, 3 boned anchovies, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, i small onion stuck with 2 cloves, 2 quarts fish stock, i French dinner roll, i gill cream, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail of each crayfish, shell the fish, put the shell and half the tails in a mortar, pound very finely with the anchovies, and add the bntter. Pnt the whole in a stewpan, stir with a wooden spoon till hot, then add the rice, previoitsly washed and drained, fry a little, and moisten with the fish stock. Now add the onion and cloves, and let simmer till the rice is quite tender, stirring frecpiently. Soak the soft part of the roll in a little milk, and add this to the soup. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, season to taste, re-heat and add the cream. Just before serving add the lemon-juice and the crayfish tails, and hand small fried bread croutons or small sippets of toasted bread. A little lobster spawn or lobster butter may be added to the soup if liked. Bisque de Homard Mariniere [Lobster Bisque). 2 small lobsters, 3 oz. butter, i carrot, i onion. 2 stems celery, a bouquet garni, 4 oz. Hour, 2 quarts fish stock, pint oyster liquor, t pint white wine. 2 oz. lolister butter, cream, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i doz. button onions, t doz. oysters. Remove the meat, eggs, and coral from the lobsters, cut the meat into dice and put it aside until wanted. Bruise the lobster- shells in a mortar ; heat up the butter in a stewpan, put in the carrot, onion, celery (all sliced), and the bouquet garni. Fry slightly in the butter for a few minutes, then add the bruised lobster- shell, together with the flour ; moisten with the fish stock, oyster liquor, and half a pint of white wine. Let it simmer for a good half-hour, stir, and skim well, strain, finish with the lobster butter, a little cream, lemon-juice, and anchovy essence. Season with salt and cayenne. Have ready the button onions boiled in fish stock, put them, together with the dice of lobster meat and oysters cut into dice, into a soup-tureen ; pour on the soup, and serve. N'ie.—For ordinary Lobster Bisque omit the garnish, and add a little cream about ten minutes before serving. Bisque de Homard Parisienne [Parisian Lobster Soup). I lobster, \ carrot, -i- turnip. 4 oz. butter, i gill white wine, 2 oz. flour, I bouquet garni, 2 quarts fish stock, seasoning (4- teaspoonful lemon-juice, cayenne, peppercorns, and salt), 1 giH cream. Split the lobster down the back, take out the meat, break the claws, pound the shell in a mortar until quite fine, then add the butter, and mix thoroughly with the pounded lobster-shell. Put all in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until hot, add the flour, and