THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1/6 a mortar. Put this on a plate, and clean the mortar. Wipe and bone the anchovies, poimcl them in a mortar with the egg-yolks, capers, and gherkins. When quite smooth, add the butter, and lastly the green puree. Mix the whole well together. Put through a wire sieve, and use as required. A little spinach greening may be added if the herbs should not colour the butter sufficientl}^ Paprika Butter. 4 oz. butter, paprika pepper. Put a teaspoonful of paprika (Hungarian pepper) on a clean plate and mix with 4 oz. of fresh butter until it resembles a smooth paste, then put it on the ice or in a cool place and use when wanted. Pimiento Butter. Drain a Spanish pimiento, cut up small and pound it till smooth, in a mortar with 4-6 oz. of fresh butter and a little lemon- juice, then rub through a fine sieve and season to taste. Horse-radish Butter (Beurre de Raifort). I stick horse-radish, 8 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Wash the horse-radish, scrape off the outer skin, and grate finely the white part. Mix with the butter, the chilli vinegar, and lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, and put on the ice. Cut into diamond shapes or little rounds, and serve with grilled fillets of beef [toiirnedos) or steaks. Green Herb Butter [Beurre Ravigote). II oz. chervil, 2 oz. spinach, i oz. green chives, i oz. tarragon, -J- oz. parsley, shallots, 6 oz. butter. Wash f and pick the chervil, spinach, chives, tarragon, and parsley. Put this in a saucepan with water and blanch. Drain well, and pound in a mortar. Peel and chop the shallots finely, cook them in a little butter until of a golden colour, and put with the herbs. Work in the butter, rub through a fine sieve ; add a little pepper and salt, and spinach greening if necessary. The butter is then ready for use. Watercress Butter [Beurre de Ruisseau) Watercress, fresh butter. Pick the leaves of the required quantity of watercress, mince them as fine as possible, dry them in a cloth, then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take up, adding a very little salt and white pepper. Put the mixture thus obtained on a plate, spread it out evenly, and place on the ice. Stamp out some little rounds and serve in a glass dish, or use for other purposes as described. Tomato Butter [Beurre au Tornate). Peel and free from moisture 3 small ripe tomatoes, pound them in a mortar with the same weight of butter, then cook quickly over the fire, season with salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve or tammy.