SJ UCES. \6y Sauce Kessoise { Hessiaji Sauce).—A kind of cold horse-radish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horse-radish, and fresh breadcrumbs (previously soaked in milk), seasoned with sugar and salt ; served with roast beef or steaks. — Hollandaise verte {Green Dutch Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce mixed with young ])arsley-leaves, boiled, rubbed through a sieve, and pounded. -— Holstein.—A white sauce for fish, made with bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with lemon-juice and nutmeg. — Horly (or Orly).—A supreme (or other rich white sauce) blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and fresh butter. — Hure de Sanglier {Boar's Head Sauce).—A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange-juice and the finely chopped rind, sugar, red-currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled. — au Jambon (Ham Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely shredded or chopped ham, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, flavoured with lemon-juice. Suitably served with white meats, veal, pork or poultry. Kari.—White sauce flavoured with curry and cream. — Livournaise {Leghorn Sauce).—A cold salad sauce prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. — Lyonnaise {Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with fine shreds of Spanish onions (previously fried in butter) ; finished with meat glaze and lemon-juice. — Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg-yolk and veloutee sauce. — Maltaise {Maltese Sauce).—Veloutee sauce with chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry; flavoured with lemon-juice and finely shredded orange-rind. — Marchand de Vin.—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. — Marguery.—White fish sauce blended with oyster puree and finished with cream. — Mariniere.—White wine sauce, with finely chopped herbs, shallots, and fish essence. — Matelote, blanche {White Matelote Sauce).—A white oyster sauce with mushroom-juice, white wine, and button mushrooms ; flavoured with savoury herbs. — Matelote, brune {Brown Matelote Sauce).—A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms ; flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. — Malaga {Port Wine Sauce).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon-juice ; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. — Maximilian {Maximilian Sauce).—Tartare sauce, with tomato pulp, and finely chopped tarragon-leaves to flavour.