THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 972 Forcemeat Balls. Prepare a mixture as above, shape it into balls of desired size, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Drain, and use for garnishing calf’s head, roast hare or rabbit, etc. Plain Stuffing {for veal, nmlton or rabbit). Mix the following ingredients ; 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 8 oz. of breadcrumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, i teaspoonful mixed herbs, and a piece of chopped lemon-rind. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and mix with one egg and one tablespoonfnl of milk, Sage and Onion Stuffing [for roast pork, duck or goose). Chop finely 2 oz. beef siiet, add to it 2 to 3 oz. breadcrumbs, I teaspoonful of mixed herbs, i teaspoonfiil of sage (powdered). Peel and par-boil a large-sized onion, chop it up finely, and add to the above. Mix well and moisten with sufficient cold milk to bind the mixture. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and use as required. Note.—If liked, the quantity of onion used may be increased. Oyster Forcemeat or Stuffing. Beard twelve large sauce oysters, save the liquor, and bring this and the beards with a gill of stock to the boil, allow to simmer till the flavour is extracted from the beards, then strain. Mix together four ounces freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a little grated lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of salt, a good dust of ground mace, and il- oz. of butter ; work into this the chopped oysters, an egg, and as much of the oyster stock as will bring the mixture to the proper consistency. Use for stuffing fish or poultry. Chestnut Stuffing {puree). Slit and blanch twenty-four Spanish chestnuts, peel them and cook till tender in well-seasoned rich stock, drain them, chop finely, and mix with three ounces of finely chopped fried fat bacon or ham and pound till smooth, adding one ounce of butter, a little rich stock or brown sauce to make it into the desired consistency of stuffing. Season to taste and use as required. Chestnut Stuffing. Slit, bake, peel, and coarsely chop twenty-four to thirty sound chestnuts, add to it four ounces of finely chopped veal suet, two ounces of breadcrumbs. Mix thoroughly, add a little rich stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Used for stuffing fowls, turkeys or other birds. Chestnut and Truffle Stuffing. For directions to prepare this stuffing see Roast Turkey stuffed with chestnuts (p. 610). Tomato Stuffing. A ripe tomato with a slight llavouring of garlic, and one chilli