230 HORS-D '(E U VRE (A PPE TISERS). over the top in the shape of lattice-work, ornament with fancy slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled egg, and parsley. Rosettes aux Anchois {Anchovy Rosettes). 6 filleted anchovies, 8 small mushrooms, i oz. anchovy paste, 1 oz. butter, I hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, green butter for garnish, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying. Cut the bread into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds about 2^ inches in diameter, fry golden-brown in butter, drain, and cool. Mix the butter and anchovy paste, rub the yolk of egg through a sieve, and chop the white finely. Spread one side of the croutes thickly with anchovy butter ; arrange little strips of anchovy on the croCites in the form of rosettes ; cut the stems of 8 small preserved mushrooms, and put the heads in the centre of each. Garnish with the hard-boiled white and yolk of egg and the chopped parsley, decorate by means of a paper cornet with green butter, dish up on little glass dishes, and serve. Caviare as Hors-d’CEuvre, Next to the oyster, caviare is the most favourite hors-d’oeuvre. There are various kinds, the genuine Russian, Astrachan, unsalted, being the best. Elbe, and hygienic caviare are also excellent, though less expensive than the former. It is usual to serve caviare in the original pot, placed on a folded napkin on a dish surrounded with shaved ice. In any case, caviare must be kept on the ice till required. Quarters or slices of lemon or cayenne pepper must be handed round when serving. Batons de Caviar a la Russe. 4 triscuits, Astrachan caviare, cream, green herb butter, shallot, lemon-juice. Spread one side of the triscuits (previously fried in butter) with fresh Astrachan caviare, cut them into finger shapes, place them in a dry tin, put on the lid, and pack the tin in crushed ice and salt for two hours. Just before serving decorate with whipped cream and green herb butter flavoured with finely-pounded shallot and lemon- juice. Dish up neatly on a china or silver dish, and garnish to taste. Note.—Thin slices of toasted brown bread can be used in place of triscuits. Caviar au Blinis. This is a Russian dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set on a block of ice, garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light yeast batter without sugar, baked in small pans or fried like small pancakes, which are sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. Petites Croutes de Caviar. 4 oz. of Russian or hygienic caviare, a lemon, } of a teaspoonful of shallots. Cut out eight round pieces of bread about an inch in diameter and half an inch thick ; scoop out the centre sufficiently hollow to take a dessertspoonful of caviare, mix the caviare carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch