THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 450 Beefsteaks a la Brisse.—Small round fillet steaks, slightly marinaded, then drained and broiled. Served with well-reduced and highly-spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small timbales of mashed turnips. — a la Godard,—Small round fillet steaks, seasoned and grilled. Served with a rich demi-glace sauce, garnished with small slices of sweet- Irreads, mnshroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, and truffles. — a la Soyer.—Small, but rather plump, tender steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, fried in butter or lard, and served with a richly- prepared savoury herb sauce. — a la Suedoise.—Small steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter ; dressed with onion, finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Turinoise.—Small grilled fillet steaks, garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Beignets de Boeuf a la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saute a la Flamande.—Braised pieces of rump of beef, garnished with stuffed spring cabbages ; brown sauce (demi-glace). Boeuf a la Bourgeoise,—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions ; brown sauce (demi-glace).’ Carbonade a la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly-shaped plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. Cervelle de Boeuf frite {Fried Ox-Brain).—Blanched ox-brain, cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, or dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified fat or butter. — au Gratin {Baked).—Blanched, cut in slices and placed in a buttered dish, sauced over with brown or white sauce, breaded, and baked in the oven. — en Matelote.—Blanched ox-brain, stewed in red wine sauce, garnished with braised button onions. Chateaubriand a la Bearnaise.—Double fillet, basted with sweet oil, and grilled or broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. — a la Chipolata.—Broiled double fillet steak dished up and garnished with braised and glazed chestnuts, fried pieces of sausage, and mushroom heads. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Cordon Rouge.—Double fillet steak basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, then broiled gently in clarified butter, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Grecque.—Grilled double fillet ; garnished with fried egg-plants (aubergines) ; Madere sauce, mixed with chopped parsley. — a la Hdteliere.—Grilled double fillet, sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — a la Lombardo.—Grilled or broiled double fillet ; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; Ms.dere sauce. — a la Marquise.—Double fillet broiled in butter, garnished with arti- choke bottoms, filled with small stuffed and braised lettuce.