0^5 AUXILIARY RECIPES. Coffee should be freshly roasted and ground not too finely. The correct quantity of coffee for breakfast coffee is i] ounce or two heaped-up tablespoonfuls to each pint of water. Half-j)int of boiling milk should be allowed to each half-])int of coffee. For family use the best pot to make coffee iu is the earthenware fireproof pot (cafetiere). Pour in some boiling water to get it well heated, then put the gnxund coffee into the perforated receptacle (percolator). Pour in by degrees the boiling water, put the lid on and let the liquid run through. Pour it back and let it pass through a second time. Keep the pot on the stove to ensure its being kept hot. Coffee with Chicory. For reason of economy or otherwise, some people prefer the addition of chicory with coffee. Some say that coffee is more wholesome if mi.xed with chicory. Add one tablespoon ful of ground chicory (using a well-known French or German brand) to every six tablespoonfuls of ground coffee, and proceed as above directed. Water for Coffee Making. Now as to the water: this apparently small item is one of vital importance in the making of coffee. The water must be fresh, and boiled up fully. Water that has been standing should never be used. It must not be allowed to boil long, and should be poured over or on the coffee as soon as it boils. Tong boiling destroys or deadens certain alkaline salts contained in the water, whereby the coffee often loses a great deal of its aroma. On the other hand, it is essential that the water must boil fast before it is used, because the caffeone and caffeine in coffee are only soluble in actually boiling water. Boiled Milk for Coffee. Bring the milk slowly to the boil in a well-lined steel, copper or enamelled pan. Stir the milk with' a clean wooden spoon from time to time to prevent a skin forming on top, which is frcquentlv the case with rich milk, and is objected to bv many. The milk will then be all the nicer. Viennese Coffee {Cafe a la Vieinwise). Prepare some strong coffee, allowing one heaped-up table- spoonful for each breakfast cup of coffee required, ^\’hen strained swTeteu to taste, serve iu small cups with a dessert-spoonful of whipped cream on top. Cafe noir [Black Coffee). Make some coffee as directed on the preceding page ; use rather more ground coffee, to ensure its being strong. Serve in small cups with sugar. Cream and milk are sometimes handed round, but this is not essential, Cafe au Lait [Coffee with Milk). This is strong clear coffee mixed with eciual proportions of boiling milk, as directed on the preceding page,