288 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the mould, cover with hsh farce to completely fill the mould, and steam it for about forty-five miuutes iu the oveu. Roll out the paste aud line with it a flau riug, shape it neatly, aud bake (blind), then place it on a hot dish. Unmould the fish shape, and put it into the paste crust, garnish with small spinach timbales, insert a hatelet composed of truffles and prawns in the centre, and serve with a boat of rich white fish sauce. Filets de Soles a la Piemontaise. Skin one or more soles, remove the fillets, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a small glass of white wine, cover and poach in the oven for ten minutes. When partially cooked, add enough tomato saiice (p. i6o) to well cover the fillets, bake for another five minutes, dish up, pour over the sauce, garnish with small polenta croutons and slices of truffles. Serve hot Filets de Soles en Ramequins. 2 medium-sized soles, h oz. butter, I- glass white wine (Sauterne or Chablis), I gill soubise sauce (puree), i ounce grated parmesan cheese, i white of egg, salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (p. 142), -1 lb. short- crust paste. Roll out the paste to a round shape, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Place a flan ring (pastry ring) on a greased baking- tin, line the ring with the paste, prick the bottom with a fork, fill the shape with rice, and bake a nice golden colour. Remove the rice while the paste is hot, and replace the crust on the baking-tin. Skin and fillet the sole, trim and flatten the fillets, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, fold neatly, and place on a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Spread the bottom of the paste crust with white sauce, place in the fillets. Mix the soubise puree with the white of egg, previously beaten to a stiff froth, add also the grated cheese, a pinch of white pepper, and a little cayenne. Pour this neatly over the fillets in the crusts. Bake in a hot oven for another si.x to eight minutes, and send to table as soon as it leaves the oven, Filets de Soles a la Royale. Skin one or two soles, remove the fillets, season them and spread a layer of finely minced or pounded truffles and champignons moistened with a little bechamel sauce (p. 142) over one side of each fillet, roll or fold them, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a glass of Madeira or Marsala wine, cover and cook till tender. Dish np in a row or circle on a hot dish, sauce over with a hot mousseline (p. 155) or hollandaise sauce (p. 150), and serve. Filets de Soles a la Salisbury. 2 or 3 very small lobsters, 4 or 6 fillets of sole, lemon-juice, white stock, rice, mashed potato, button mushrooms, bechamel sauce. Open the lobsters half-way, remove the tails and claws, and clean the interior of the body well. Prepare a light forcemeat with