COLD FISH AND FISH ENTFFES. 329 remainder of the butter divided into small bits, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and put them on a sieve to cool. Soak the gelatine in water, dissolve over the lire, and strain into the aspic. Let this cool a little, then stir in the mayonnaise, whip the cream, and add care- fully with the above. Coat the inside of a plain border mould with the prepared sauce, when set put in the fillets of soles, pour in a little more of the sauce, place on the ice to set, then hll up with the remainder of the sauce. When hrm turn out on a dish, and serve with a neatly dressed salad in the centre. Filets de Sole a la Norvegienne. 2 soles, I small lobster, i oz. butter, :J- gill of bechamel, a mirepoix (con- sisting of carrot, onion, bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and bacon), gill of white wine, I tablespoonful of cognac, aspic jelly, 8 small even-sized tomatoes, 2 slices of o.x tongue. Skin the soles, and hllet them carefully. Twist each fillet round a buttered wooden stick. Place this folded side downwards in a saute-pan containing the butter (melted), and season with salt and pepper. Add the juice of a f lemon, and a little white wine, and poach them in the oven for about twelve minutes, then take up, remove the fillets carefully—these should be formed in rings—let them get cold. Cook the lobster meat in a saute-pan with the mirepoix, the remainder of wine, and cognac, then pound in a mortar. Add to it a little of the fish stock or essence, and the bechamel sauce, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix with half its volume of aspic jelly. Peel the tomatoes, scoop out the interior, and cut off a portion of the top of each. Place a ring- shaped hllet of sole in each, and hll up with the prepared lobster puree. Put a star-shaped slice of tongue on top of each, and mask with half-set aspic. Dish up, and decorate neatly with chopped aspic and lobster butter, or herb butter. Serve with Salade Norge.” Salade Norge.—Shred very hnely the white part of a head of celery, and put it in a bowl of water containing ice and lemon-juice, and drain when rec|uired. Shred also 18 shelled and peeled walnuts. Peel and cut into line strips half a cucumber. l\Iix all with sufficient mayonnaise cream (that is, mayonnaise sauce with whipped cream) to well season the materials, acid salt, pepper, and paprika to taste. Dish up and decorate with julienne strips of truffle. Bordure de Filets de Turbot a la Mont Blanc. Line an egg border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly (p. 132); when set decorate the side with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, and mask with a layer of chaud-froid mixture, prepared as follows : Pound in a mortar i hard-boiled egg, i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful each of tarragon and chervil leaves, 2 boned Gorgona anchovies, i oz. of fresh butter, and mix with half a gill of mayonnaise cream (p. 153). When well mixed add a dessert- spoonful of cream, season with pepper and salt, rub through a fine wire sieve, dilute with about half a gill of aspic jelly, and mask