GLACES—ICES. «39 a macedoine of fruit, composed of dice-shaped pieces of jiineapple, almonds, and strawberries, tlavoured with a few drops of mara- schino, cover with ras])berry ice, force a tiny ring of lemon ice on top, place a ripe strawberry in the centre of each, then dish up and serve quickly. Hand round some thin wafer biscuits or petits fours of Genoise with the ice cups. Note.—Moisten the edge or rim of each glass with a cut orange, and rinse it in castor sugar before Idling the glasses. Coupes glacees a la Royale, This is a delightful novelty, suitable both as a second sweet and as dessert ice. Prepare two kinds of ice, lemon-water flavoured with kirschwasser, and an apricot-cream ice. When sufficiently frozen for moulding, pour into as many champagne glasses as needed a liqueur glass of champagne, then fill up with alternate layers of the two kinds of ice. Sprinkle some finely-crushed maca- roons between the layers of ice, place a small ratafia biscuit on top of each, and send to table at once. The glasses should be rather small. Praises glacees en Coupes {Iced Strawberries in Cups). 2 lb. ripe strawberries, i pint syrup, -J- pint cream. Pick the strawberries and rub half of them through a hair sieve, add the pulp to the syrup, then pour into the freezer and freeze in the usual manner, but not too firmly. Stir the remainder of the fruit into the frozen mixture and mix carefully with the cream, previously whipped. This ice is generally served up in little souffle cups or glasses, with a whole strawberry placed on top. Oranges SoufTlees a la Javanaise. Take six or eight small Jaffa or Navel oranges, cut off a portion of each, and scoop out the pulp. Rub this through a sieve, and mix with one pint of rich vanilla ice, adding also about half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, a little finely-chopped preserved ginger and syrup, also one tablespoonful of orange curacoa. Con- tinue to freeze to the usual consistency of ice-cream. M'hisk up to a stiff froth two whites of eggs, incorporate a good pinch of ground ginger, and half an ounce of icing sugar. Fill the oranges with the prepared ice, and cover them quickly with the prepared meringue mixture, giving each a dome-shaped appearance, place a small piece of preserved ginger and some neatly cut angelica leaves on top of each, and dredge with castor sugar. Put the oranges quickly on a pastry sheet, stand each orange in a pastry hoop, and bake in a sharp oven just long enough to brown the surface. Dish up promptly on a suitable socle or a dish with a neat border, and, if liked, a bed of shaved ice. Send to table at once. Oranges glacees a la Portugaise, Prepare eight oranges as directed in the foregoing recipe. Steep them in cold water when hollowed out. Drain them and wipe