388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Friandines aux Epinards. Prepare and cook in the usual way about a pound of spinach, rub it through a hue sieve. Melt an ounce of butter, and fry in it two huely-chopped shallots, add the spinach, sprinkle in. a dessert- spoonful of hour, stir well, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. If found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream. Cook for ten minutes, and spread on a plate to cool. Roll out some puff-paste or rough puff-paste. Stamp out some rounds with a two-inch paste-cutter, wet the edges of half of them, and put about a dessertspoonful of spinach in the centre of each. Cover them with the other rounds of paste, and press down the edges neatly. Dip each in beaten egg ancl cover with panurette or ordinary bread- crumbs. Fry in hot fat or clarihed butter a golden colour. Drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a pyramid. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Cornets aux Petits Pois. Roll out some puff or rough paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it into even-sized strips, about an inch wide, and twist this round as many cornet moulds as may be required. Grease the moidds slightly, and wet the end of the edge of the paste a little, so as to fix it. Place them on a baking-sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven from hfteen to twenty minutes. When done remove the cornet-shaped pastry carefully from the moulds and put them on a sieve. Cook some freshly shelled peas in plenty of slightly salted water, containing a very small piece of soda and a sprig of green mint. When done, drain them carefully, and toss them in a saute-pan with a little butter. Add about a tablespoonful of white sauce and a pinch of castor sugar. Season with a little more salt, if needed, and a pinch of pepper. Mix with a small quantity of finely minced parsley. Re-heat the cornets, fill them carefully with the prepared peas. Sprinkle a little krona or paprika pepper on the open top of each. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Spaghetti a la Dieudonet. ■J- lb. spaghetti, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, J- veal kidney, ] pint well-reduced tomato sauce, i tablespoonful meat glaze or Lemco, 6 preserved mushrooms, sliced, chopped parsley, .salt, pepper, and papi ika. Boil the spaghetti till tender in salted water, drain well, and put them back into the stewpan. Add 2 oz. butter and heat up thoroughly, then by degrees add the grated cheese and a seasoning of white pepper. Skin the kidney and cut into fine slices, saute them in butter over a brisk fire, season with salt and paprika, and moisten with the sance. Cook for a few minutes, and lastly add the mnshrooms and the meat glaze, and re-heat. Dish up the spaghetti on a deep round dish in the form of a border, dress the stewed kidney, etc., in the centre, besprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot.