795 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. carefully into the mould. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out, and serve. Charlotte a la Suisse {.Swiss Charlotte). Line a charlotte mould with red-wine jelly about a quarter-incli thick, and place it on the ice to set, then stamp out a cross from the centre of jelly ; remove it and fill the cavity with white cream or bavarois. Line tlie sides of the mould with evenly-cut slices of Genoese pastry or finger-biscuits. Fill up with alternate layers of vanilla cream and strawberry cream. When set, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish the sides of the charlotte with whipped cream, and serve. Compote de Fruits a la Chantilly {Fruit Compote with Cream). 6 to 8 apricots, 2 peaches (peeled and cut in quarters), i gill of strawberiies, I lb. of cherries, i gill of red-currants, i gill of white-currants, lb. of black or white grapes, about 6 oz. of castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls cf chablis, I taldespoonful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino, about I gill of double cream, 1 oz. of vanilla sugar. Prepare each kind of fruit, arrange them tastefully in layers m a glass bowl or salad dish, sprinkle each layer with a little castor sugar, and pile the fruit up to a point, finishing witli a layer of strawberries or cherries. When required for the table, whip the cream, flavour it with the vanilla sugar, and by means of a forcing- bag or paper cornet cover the surface and sides with the cream, endeavouring to give it as pretty a shape as possible. The wine and liqueur should be mixed together, and either poured over tire fruit before the cream is put on or else handed round the table as the fruit is served. It is not advisable to use any more wine or liqueur than the above quantities, for too much of it often tends to injure the delicate and natural flavour of the fruit, while the right quantity will be found agreeable as well as refreshing. Compote de Pommes a la Creme (Apple Compote with Cream). 1 lb. cooking apples, 2 cloves, lemon-rind, lb. loaf sugar, 1- pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. vanilla sngar, i glass sherry, i glass marascliino, ^ pint whipped cream. Peel, core, and stew the apples with the loaf sugar, cloves, lemon-rind, and sufficient water to cover. Strain off the juice and put the apples in a glass dish. Prepare a thick custard by Ifoiling the milk, sweetened with vanilla sugar, flavoured with sherry and thickened with egg-yolks. Let the custard get cold, then pour over the apples. Sweeten the cream slightly before it is whipped, and add the maraschino at the last. Put on a sieve to drain for a short time, then put the cream roughly on the apple and custard, ornament according to taste, and serve. Compote de Peches {Peach Compote). Choose some firm but ripe peaches of equal size, plunge them into boiling water for a few seconds, then drain carefully and remove the skin. x\rrange the fruit in a salad bowl or compotiere and pour over enough boiling syrup to well cover the fruit. Cover the bowl and let contents cool. Pour off the syrup, boil it up and remove