TABLE SERVICE {SERVICE DE TABLE). 005 beautifully cut aucl engraved, is fashionable. The water carafe is now much in evidence. As regards bread, small rolls are usual. They arc j)laced in the napkin, and others handed when asked for. i\fany peoj)le, liowever, only take wholemeal bread or dry toast ; these are cut in thin slices and placed on small plates on the left hand of the guests. Even when a room is lit by electricity or gas, dwarf candlesticks or lamps are often used on the table, the lights being .shaded by .silk shapes of red or some other harmonising tint. As regards the menu, over-elaboration is generally avoided. On ordinary occasions oysters or hors-d'oeuvres, soup, tisli, two meat dishes, vegetables and potatoes, game or poultry ; and perhaps a salad, a pudding, cheese, savoury, and coffee will suffice. The carte du jour in a good house will, of course, comprise a score or more dishes. HOW TO WAIT AT TABLE. Everyone knows how much careful waiting at table adds to the success of any meal, so that I need not here dwell upon its import- ance, but shall at once deal with the practical part and give tlie needed instructions and rules. The style of waiting, whetlier for a private or public dinner or other meal, is practically the same, although the method of execution in the service may differ somewhat. To begin with, the waiter must be well acquainted with the menu and its contents, for this will guide him as to the quantity of table service, etc., needed. An intelligent waiter can well manage to serve six guests properly. He must see that each person is served with bread, butter, beverages as often as these are needed, and they must be kept at hand. Waiters must pay strict attention to the following elementary blit essential rules :— See that every plate, knife, fork, spoon, glass, cuj), saucer, and dish placed before guests is properly clean. Afake it a practice to wipe the bottom of every dish before jilacing it on the table, and when found necessary the edges of dishes should be wiped with a towel or napkin before presenting same at table. Plates and dishes must be cleared with as little noise as possible. Soiled plates, glasses, etc., should never be allowed to aci'umulate in a dining-room. Never place a spoon in a guest's soup-plate, coffee or tea cup, or indeed into any liquid food, because it is the custom that the guest, and not the waiter, should have that privilege. When serving tea, coffee, milk or any other kind of drink, special care must be taken not to spill the contents, so that the under jdate or saucer is clean and dry when placed on the table. In filling glasses with water or wine, do not fill them right up.