36 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. signs by which a young partridge inay be known ; a rigid \-ent shows they are fresh. Old grouse or partridges are tough, and only fit for stewing or braising. The Pheasant, when young, may be known by a short or round spur : in old birds it is long and pointless. Snipe, Quails, and Ortolans may be known as young birds by the short or round spurs. Ptarmigan, or white grouse, mostly come from Scotland, but are also imported in great quantities from Norway, preserved in cold chambers. They ought to be hung as long as possible. Woodcocks are in season in November. Young birds are known by a round or short spur ; when old the spur is pointed, and the feet are hard and thick. If their bills become moist and their throats are muddy, it is a sign that they have been kept too long. Wild Ducks, Widgeon, and Teal are seasonable and often cheap in winter ; but teal are not prohtable even then, as they are very lean. Quails, Landrails, Plovers, and Larks are delicate food. Hares and Rabbits.—When the ears are dry and tough, the haunch thick, and the claws blunt and rugged, it is a sign that they are old. If the ears are soft and thin, and the claws sharp and smooth, they are young and tender. A hare for roasting should be very young ; a leveret is best. Other signs of youth in a hare, or rabbit are : the cleft in the lip is narrow, the body stiff, and the claws smooth and sharp. All game should be hung undrawn and in their feathers for a few days before cooking. The exact time must depend upon individual taste. When, however, the feathers on the lower breast of a bird come out easily, it is considered ready for cooking. Phea- sants can be hung longer than partridges. Water-fowls should not hang more than a day at the most. VEGETABLES, FRUITS, ETC. In choosing vegetables and fruit every care should be taken to ensure perfect freshness and ripeness. Stale vegetables, as well as fruit, are quite as unwholesome and dangerous to eat as bad and putrid meat ; biit, because the smell of stale vegetables is not so unpleasant as that of bad meat and fish, people are not so par- ticular. All vegetables should be as fresh as possible. The fresher green vegetables are the better ; they should be crisp and green. They must be well washed and cleaned before being cooked. Fruit, in addition to being fresh, must be botli ripe and sound before it is fit for table. To anyone unacquainted with the so-called greengrocers’ measures the buying of fruit and vegetables is sometimes a puzzle, as the measures are not so generally known as those of other goods. The following are a few examples of the most important Fruits and Vegetables as they are sold in London markets :