ENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). the bird till tender, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. Baste the bird frecpiently. When done, take up the turkey, remove the paper, and strain the liquor into another pan, add T pint of tomato sauce, boil up, and skim, then put the turkey into the sauce, and re-heat it. To serve as an entree cut the bird into the reejuired number of portions, dish up neatly, and pour over the hot sauce. Dinde en Blanquette.—Turkey stewed in white sauce, with sliced preserved mushrooms (champignons). — en Brioche.—Fricasseed turkey, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. — bouillie au Cel6ri.—Boiled turkey, with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — a la Chipolata.—Roast turkey larded and stuffed with sausage meat and veal forcemeat, dished uji with a ragout of small rounds of sausages, small squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles finished in sauce Maderc. Garnished with a border of small forcemeat quenelles. — grillee a la Diable.—Cold roast turkey, cut into neat joints, covered with beurre diable (devilled butter). Grilled over a slow fire, served with a piquante or other sauce. A little curry paste or curry powder should also be used for flavouring this sauce. — a la Godard.—Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal force- meat mixed with sliced sweetbread and mushrooms. Dished up and garnished with slices of truffles, mushroom-heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and small chicken quenelles. Served with sauce Madere. — a la Provengale.—Roast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, served with tomato sauce. — a la Reyniere.—Roast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in chicken broth. Served with rich brown sauce, in which the liver, previously braised in turkey fat, and chopped finely, has been incorporated. — a la St. James.—Turkey stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted ; servecl with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. — frite a la Tomate.—Cold turkey cut into pieces and pared, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — a la Toulouse.—Boiled turkey cut into joints, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushroom, sliced cooked sweetbread, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs and forcemeat quenelles, heated in allemande or veloutee sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or broiled ; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine, and served with ham sauce. Ailerons de Dinde braises aux Navets.—Braised boned wings of turkey (stuffed), served with mashed turnips. Ballotines de Dinde.—Boned and stuffed legs of turkey, braised, served with spinach, tomatoes or other suitable garnish.