953 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Brandy Biscuits [Biscuits dc Cognac). I lb. flour, 2 whites ot eggs, gill cream, i small glass brandy, 11, oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, i tablespoonful milk. Sift the tlour on to a board, make a well, add the salt and sugar ; mix a tablespoonfnl of milk with the whites of eggs, and work into the flonr, together with the brandy and cream, to a smooth paste. Roll orit very thinly on a floured board. Stamp out into rounds with a paste-cutter, prick them over with a fork, and bake on a floured baking-sheet in a quick oven. Opera Biscuits. 8 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. grouml almonds, 4 oz. glace cherries, i oz. pistachio kernels, 4 eggs, 8 drops vanilla essence. Put the sugar into a basin, add the eggs one at a time, and work to a light cream. Sift the flour, and work in lightly. Blanch the pistachios, peel, and chop small ; cut the cherries into small pieces, and add both to the mixture, together with the almonds and vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a large plain tube. Squeeze out some drops on to a greased tin about the size of a halfpenny piece ; dust over with fine sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven. \\'hen done, remove from the tin on to a sieve, and serve when cold. Water Biscuits. 12 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz. Paisley flour, oz. butter, a saltspoonful of .salt. Mix the^two kinds of flonr in a basin, rub in the butter until the latter becomes thoroughly amalgamated with the flour. Add the salt and mix well, moisten with enough water to form a soft paste or dough. Roll it out, on a floured board, about one-eighth of an inch thick ; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork. Stamp out into round or square biscuit shapes, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, prick them and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked, a little grated cheese can be mixed with the flonr. Cocoanut Biscuits. 6 oz. cocoanut (desiccated or freshly grated), the whites of 3 eggs, il oz. potato flour or cornflour, 4 oz. castor sugar, wafer paper or rice jiaper. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, thoroughly mix the sugar, cocoanut, and flonr, stir into the whites, mix carefully with a wooden spoon. Drop the mixture in little heaps, about f inch apart, on wafer or rice paper laid on to a baking-sheet. Bake in a very slow oven. This mixture may now be laid out for baking by means of a biscuit or forcing-bag, but where only a small quantity is required this mode of dressing is not ad^•isable. Biscuits a I’Africaine. 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. cornflour, 3 eggs, 3 oz. desiccated cocoanut, a little milk. Rub the flour and butter together until very fine, add the corn- flour, sugar, and two ounces of the cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, make a well in the centre, beat up the eggs and add them, work into a smooth dough ; roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, cut or stamp out into oblong biscuit shapes or lingers, place them on a