S-7 ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Perdreaux blancs aux Olives.—Ptarmigan par-roasted and stewed in brown sauce with olives. — a la Pompadour. - Partridge stuffed with liver farce, larded and braised ; served with goose liver (foie-gras) and truffle garnish; perigueux sauce. Chartreuse de Perdreaux.—Stewed partridges, with braised spring cab- bages and young carrots, dressed in the centre of a border of mace- , doine of vegetables. Filets de Perdreaux a la Marechale.—Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato quenelles or croquettes. — a la Princesse.—Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised, and served with Madeira wine sauce. Pains de Perdreaux_ a la Dauphine.—Poached or steamed quenelles of partridge forcemeat, mixed with truffles and mushrooms. Served with asparagus points, button mushrooms, in centre or side of dish, and Madeira sauce. — a la Menager.—Darioles or timbales of jDartridge (game) farce (p. 178), mixed with truffles and mushrooms, poached, aud garnished with asparagus points, potato croquettes, and button mushrooms ; Madere sauce. Salmi de Perdreaux a la Chasseur.—Stewed partridges with cho})ped mushrooms, bordelaise sauce, chopped rind of lemon, garnished with Fleurons or sippets. — aux Truffes.—Par-roasted partridges, then stewed in brown sauce with truffles like “ Salmi.” Canard Sauvage a la Nemrode {Braised Duck). I wild duck, duck's liver and foie-gras, i orange, mirepoix for braising, I oz. butter, demi-glace and poivrade sauces, flavoured with port wine and red-currant jelly, 8-9 croustade or tartlet crusts, asparagus points and mushrooms, bechamel or supreme sauce, seasoning. Bone the cluck, chop up the bones and fry them a little, then put in an earthenware braise pan, tvith the mirepoix and butter. Make a farce with the duck’s liver and foie-gras, frying the former in butter in which two finely chopped shallots have been blended. jMoisten with very little brown sauce, spread the farce over the cut side of the cluck, season with salt and pepper, roll up, and sew up the sides, then braise in the prepared mirepoix till the meat is