262 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. boiled egg and a slice of truffle between the layers. Pour in a little stock (white fish stock is best), put the fish quenelles on top, divide the remainder of the butter, and place it likewise on top. Cover with puff-paste the same as for meat pies, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, ornament with fanciful cut leaves of paste, brush over the leaves, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. Tourte de Saumon {French Salmon Tart). Puff-paste, salmon, butter, mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce, parsley, aromatic seasoning, i lemon, i egg, prawns or shrimps. Remove the skin from a slice of salmon of moderate thickness, then cut it into neat fillets. Pound the trimmings, free from skin and bone, in a mortar, adding to them a few chopped mushrooms and about an ounce of butter. When smooth, incorporate the bechamel sauce (p. 142), and season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Line a “ flan ” or French tart moitld, placed on a baking-sheet, with plain, short crust-paste, prick the bottom with a fork, and spread over the prepared farce. Upon this arrange the fillets of salmon, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and seasoning, and some oiled butter. Cover with a layer of puff-paste (feuilletage, p. 133), ornament the surface, and brush over with beaten egg-yolk. Bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Remove the cover carefully, and take off the fat that has accumu- lated. Flave ready a ragout of prawns or large shrimps, which place on top of the salmon fillets. Replace the paste-crust cover, dish up, and serve hot, Saumon a la Godard {Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables dressed round the dish, served with sauce Genoise. — aux Huitres.—Thinly cut fillets of salmon rolled up with stewed oysters, and braised. Served with a rich brown sauce. — en Tranches a la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Menniere Style).— Braised slices of salmon, breaded and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. — a la Piemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).—Fried fillets of salmon, garnished with small timbale-shaped rice croustades, and served with tomato sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Cold salmon coated with green chaud-froid sauce, garnished witli dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond-cut shapes of set aspic. Served cold, — a la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).—Grilled salmon garnished with stewed oysters and crayfish quenelles, and served with Madeira sauce. Darne de Saumon a I’Amiral.—Boiled middle cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced over with a lightly-buttered Irrown fish sauce and garnished with fried oysters and small lobster croquettes. Escalopes de Saumon a la Nantaise.—Slices of salmon, cut from the tail- piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately with