975 A U XI LI A R \ ■ RRCIPES. Trellice Potatoes, so much admired by all who have si-en and tasted them, are produced by the helj) of this sheer (see illustration on p. 974). Fruits, such as apples, pears, and bananas, if cut with this sheer have a much nicer appearance. Fruit salads or fruit trifles can be made most artistic when so prepared. This sheer can be obtained from best ironmongers ; if any diffi- culty is experienced, write to the Manager of the Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W. Toasted Bread {for dishing up and garnishing). For poached eggs, etc., cut the slices from a stale loaf of bread about hve-eighths of an inch thick; toast it and cut into rounds with a plain pastry-cutter a little larger than the eggs. For small birds or seakale and asparagus remove the crusts and cut into oblong pieces. For garnishing minces, fricassees, etc., cut the toasted bread into small scpiares or diamonds, or cut into inch and a half squares, and then into halves diagonally, making triangles. Lemon Curd for Lemon Cheese Cakes. ^ lemons, lO oz. of loaf su^ar, 2 oz. butter. 4 eKt^s. Grate two lemons hnely with a grater, strain the juice of the three lemons. Separate the whites of tw'o eggs, beat up two whole eggs with four yolks, put these ingredients into a clean dry saucepan, add the sugar and the butter, and stir the whole over a slow lire until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture resembles a thick cream-like syruj). It may be hot, but must not boil. Pour whilst warm into a dean and dry jar, tie it over with parchment paper or with a bladder, and keep it in a cool dry place till required. Note.—It is recommended to dissolve the lemon-juice with the sugar before adding the remainder of the ingredients. Tomato Conserve. 6 lb. tomatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger, -] oz. garlic, i ])int vinegar, I teaspoonful allspice, i talilespoonful .salt, i tablespoonful castor sugar. Procure the tomatoes quite ripe and bake them in the oven until tender ; remove the skin and place the tomatoes in a stone jar with the above ingredients. Mix together thoroughly and keep in a cool place for a few days. Rub the pulj), etc., through a sieve (silk or cotton), boil up in a copper or earthenware pan with a little more vinegar than sugar. Let cool, put it into bottles ; cork and seal well, and store away in a cool but dry place. Capsicums (green and red), shallots, and lemon-juice are sometimes used in the jire- paration of tomato conserve, but by using these it becomes more of a table condiment than a pure and simple tomato conserve with its natural llavour such as the above should }n'oducc. Bottled Mushrooms. Take one to two pounds \'ery small e\'en-sized button mushrooms, rub them with a dry cloth, trim ^ the stalks, peel or turn them if liked, then put them in a basi id sjirinkle over with jilenty of fine salt. Large button or cup mushrooms are treated in a similar