SOUPS (POTAGES). 213 the stewpan, add the bechamel, and cook for another fifteen minutes, stirring from time to time, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. About five minutes before serving whisk up the egg-yolks with the cream and strain into the soup. Stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and add the fried bread croutons ; a pat or two of fresh butter stirred into the soup in little bits a few moments before serving it will greatly enrich its flavour. The soup must on no account be allowed to boil again when once the egg-yolks or butter are added. Potage au Potiron {French Pumpkin Soup). 3 lb. ripe pumpkin, 3 oz. butter, i bay-leaf, -J- lb. stale bread, i onion, I quart milk, i quart stock, -J gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, I pinch of sugar, fried bread croiitons. Cut the pumpkin into thick slices, remove the pips, put in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add salt to taste, and boil for five minutes. Strain off the water, rub the pumpkin through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the pulp, stir for a few minutes over the fire, then add the stock, which should be previously boiled. Soak the bread in the milk, peel the onion, and cut into slices. Boil up the milk, bread, and onion, stir it into the soup, add the bay-leaf, cook slowly for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, and remove the scum which rises on the top. Take out the bay-leaf, pass all through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add a good pinch of sugar, season with salt and pepper, and keep boiling for a few minutes longer. Put the cream in a soup-tureen, stir in the yolks of eggs, pour the soup slowly into the tureen, stirring it with a whisk. Fried bread croutons should accompany this soup, or else some very thin slices of the crust of a French roll should be put in before it is sent to table. Potage de Tomate a la St. Louis. i-t pint tomato sauce, 3 pints clear soup, 2 tablespoonfuls crushed tapioca or I oz. sago. 16 little quenelles of chicken (p. 178), pepper and salt. Boil the sauce and clear soup together, stir in the tapioca or sago, simmer for ten minutes, stirring continually. Season to taste, poach the quenelles, and put with the soup just before serving. Potage a la Tomate maigre {Tomato Soup withoiit Meat Stock). I lb. fresh or preserved tomatoes, fisli-bones and trimmings (those from a brill or plaice will do nicely), if oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, k pint of milk, I onion, i small blade of mace, 3 cloves, i bouquet garni, a tablespoonful of crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Chop up the fish-bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stewpan, add about 3 pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace, and bouquet, let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stewpan, broil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this, stir the milk into the Hour, and put with the soup. Stir until it begins to boil, skim, and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let simmer for another ten minutes, and serve.