THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Si8 Becasses farcies a la Stockholm.—Par-boiled boned snipe stuffed with a forcemeat of beef and pork, mixed witli chopped shallots, mush- rooms, and gherkins, braised in the oven, and served with white wine sauce, Pate de Becasse a I’Anglaise.—Raised pie filled with partially roasted snipe cut into joints with layers of calves’ liver and bacon force- meat, and ham. When baked, remove the cover and fill up with truffle sauce, then replace the cover, and serve hot. CAILLES—QUAILS. Cailles a la Moliere [Quails, Moliere Style). 4 quails, 2 oz. butter, i lb. lean veal, 1 lb. beef suet, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole and I yolk of eggs, J gill cream, pint game sauce, glass sherry, 6 heads of mushrooms, 6 cocks’ combs, 6 cocks’ kernels, 8 small chicken or veal quenelles, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Truss the cjuails for roasting, put them in a saute-pan or tin with the butter, and roast in the oven till three-parts done. Cut the veal into fine slices, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Shred the suet finely, pound well, mix with the veal, add the panade, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, work in the yolks of eggs and a little cream. Put this in a basin. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the forcemeat. Butter a small border-mould, fill up with the above preparation, place it in a stew-pan, with enough boiling water to come about half-way up the side of the mould. Let it come to the boil, cover with a buttered paper, and finish in the oven. Prepare eight small quenelles with the remainder of forcemeat, poach them in a little stock, strain, find put in the game sauce, previously heated. Add the sherry, cocks’ combs and kernels, also the truffles cut into slices, let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and keep hot till wanted. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a round entree dish. Cut the quails in halves or quarters, place them in the hot sauce for about five minutes, then dress them neatly round the base of the border. Dress the financiere garniture in the centre of the dish, boil up the sauce, sauce over the whole, and serve. Cailles a ITndienne [Braised Quails, Indian Style). Bone six small quails, and truss them again. Shred rather finely one small onion, a small carrot, a tender celery stalk, and a few fresh mushrooms. Fry these with the bones in a braising-pan with enough butter, till they are of a pale colour. Place the quails on top, and season ; cover with butter, and braise in the oven till they are done. About ten minutes before taking up the birds, add half a gill of Madere sauce, and half a gill of richly flavoured curry sauce. Dress the quails on a neatly shaped border of rice. Boil up the sauce, skim it well, and strain it over the quails, Serve hot.