THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S86 sauce, I gill aspic jelly, aromatic seasoning. set, must be coated with half-set orange aspic. Dress the orange shapes on a socle of rice, and garnish the dish tastefully with orange salad and pimiento strips. Timbale de Pintade a la Marechale [Timhale of Guinea-Fowl). I small giunea-fowl, -J- pint Espagnole sauce, onion, carrot, 2 oz. bacon, I oz. butter, i bunch herbs, ^ oz. gelatine, f pint aspic jelly, ^ gill tomato pulp, i|- gill cream, 6 stuffed olives (olives farcies), i truffle, tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Braise the bird with the butter, bacon, and vegetables until tender, when cold, remove the bones and skin, and pound the flesh in a mortar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little stock, add it to the Espagnole sauce, strain, and mix with the puree in the mortar. Season to taste, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Meanwhile, mix one gill of aspic (liquid) with half a gill of cream, and pour on a plate to cool. Mix the tomato pulp with an equal quantity of aspic and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and set likewise on a plate. Line a fancy mould thinly with aspic jelly, set the stuffed olives at the bottom by means of a little aspic. Stamp out some rounds, stars, or any other pretty shapes of aspic cream and tomato cream (previously set), and garnish the sides of the mould with these, placing here and there a thin round of truffle. Melt the trimmings of aspic and tomato creams and mix with the prepared puree; when nearly cold, add the remainder of the cream, previously whipped, mix well, and pour into the mould. When set, unmould on to cold dish. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish and serve. Partridge, snipe, grouse or other game may be served in the same manner. Cotelettes de Gibier a I’Etoile {Game Cutlets). 6 oz. cooked game, J oz. gelatine, i pint aspic jelly, i truffle, chilli, i gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. foie-gras pate, li gill salmi sauce (p. 159), a handful of vermicelli stars, endive, cucumber, rice border, and seasoning. Pound the game in a mortar with the foie-gras, add to it the sauce in which the gelatine has been introduced, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. Cook the vermicelli stars in salted water, containing a little lemon- juice, strain, and cool. Line a number of cutlet-moulds with aspic, garnish them with vermicelli stars, filling the centre of each little star alternately with red chilli and truffle. Fill up with the prepared puree before it begins to set firm, and put the mould on ice. Pre- pare a border-mould by lining it with aspic, decorate the sides with stars of cucumber, truffle, etc. Coat with tomato sauce mixed with enough aspic to make it set, three-parts fill with cooked rice (cold), and fill up with aspic. Allow the border to set, turn out on a dish when quite firm, and place a wax figure in the centre. Turn out the cutlets, and arrange them neatly round the top of the border. Garnish with slices of cucumber and endive, and serve. Petits Pains de Gibier a la Chevalier. 6 oz. cooked game (any kind), 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 large table- spoonfuls cream, i truffle, i hard-boiled egg-yolk, i tablespoonful bechamel