SA UCES. i6i add the flour previously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Stir the stock in gradually, add a few peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs and parsley, and allow all to simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub the sauce through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with salt, a pinch of castor sugar and pepper, whisk the butter, and serve as required. A tablespoonful of cream can be used instead of butter, but the sauce should not be allowed to boil again after the butter or cream has been added. Sauce Creme de Tomate {Tomato Cream Sauce). 2 oz. butter, i large tomato, i bay-leaf, 6 peppercorns. Cut up the tomato, put in a stewpan, add the bay-leaf, salt, and peppercorns, reduce to half, add a piece of butter, and when drawn pass through a tammy. Return to a small stewpan, and work in remainder of the butter. Do not put near too hot a place, or else it will go oily. Sauce Venitienne. 1 pint allemande (p. 141) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce, i oz. lobster butter (P- 17s). I dessertspoonful meat glaze, the juice of half a lemon, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, i teaspoonful finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Heat up the sauce, stir in the lobster butter and meat glaze when required for serving, add lemon-juice, sufficient pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and, last of all, the chopped tarragon. Sauce Veloutee ( Velvet Sauce). 1 oz. flour, i t oz. butter, i pint of veal stock, I- gill mushroom licpior, t gill of cream, i small bouquet garni (p. 122), 6 peppercorns, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cook the flour and i oz. of butter together without browning, stir in the stock and mushroom liquor, add the bouquet and crushed peppercorns, boil slowly for twenty minutes, stir frequently, and skim. Pass through a sieve or tammy ; keep on the side of the stove, put a few tiny pieces of brrtter on top to keep from forming a skin. Just before using it add the cream. Stir well and let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, season with salt if necessary, a pinch of nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. The sauce is now ready for use, and will serve as a foundation for any white sauce or as a veloutee by itself. The cream may be omitted if used as a foundation sairce. Sauce Vert-Pre {Green Herb Sauce). 2 shallot,s, 3 oz. butter, 2 large tablespooiifuls white-wine vinegar, pint veloutee (see above) or allemande sauce, a small handful spinach, 6 sprigs of parsley, 2 to 3 sprigs chives, 3 sprigs tarragon, very little chervil, salt and pepper. Peel and chop finely the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar and i oz. of butter, cover with the lid of the stewpan, and allow to reduce to about half its original quantity. Now add the white sauce (veloutee for preference), and let simmer for a few minutes. Wash, pick, and blanch (parboil) the spinach and re- mainder of herbs ; drain and cool, press out all the water, and L