SA UCES. 143 Tammy and return to the stewpan, finish with i oz. of herb butter and serve. A^ote.—The herb butter is made with finely chopped fennef tarragon, chervil, and parsley, and fresh butter. Sauce Bearnaise. gill tarragon vinegar, 3 shallots finely chopped, 6 peppercorns, cruslied, 4 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of white sauce, 4 oz. butter, 1 sprig thyme, meat glaze, lemon-juice. Put the shallots, peppercorns, and thyme with the vinegar in a stewpan, cover and boil until well reduced, remove the thyme, add the sauce and a little dissolved meat glaze. \\Tisk in the yolks of eggs, taking care not to let the sauce boil, remove the stewpan from the fire, and work in by degrees the butter. Only a little butter must be added at a time, otherwise the sauce will get oily. Strain through a pointed strainer or tammy. A little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, and a few drops of lemon-juice may be added after the sauce is strained. Sauce Bearnaise Brune.—Prepare an ordinary bearnaise as above, with the addition of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. Sauce Bearnaise-tomatee.—Same' as above, adding tomato puree in place of meat glaze. Sauce Blanquette.—This sauce is made the same as “ Sauce Allemande,” adding three tablespoonfuls of cream instead of one. Sauce Bordelaise {Claret Sauce). f pint espagnole (p. 148), or brown sauce, i wineglassful claret, 2 finely chopped shallots, i- oz, meat glaze, i teaspoonful chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the wine and shallots in a stewpan, reduce to half, add the sauce, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat glaze. Season with sugar, salt, and pepper. Give it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. Note.—In most cases where bordelaise sauce is used, and especially so with beef, some thin round slices of beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it is served, or else warmed up in the sauce. Sauce Bulgarienne.—This consists of i gill of mayonnaise to which I* gill of boiling cream is added, also a tablespoonful of finely- chopped celery heart, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp. Whisk up over a pan of boiling water to get just warm. Season to taste and serve. Bread Sauce [Sauce au Pain). 4 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, i small onion, i clove, 4 peppercorns, i pint of milk, p oz. fresh butter, salt, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Peel the onion, stick in it the clove, put the onion and milk in a saucepan, boil up, add the bread-crumbs and the peppercorns, cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the onions and peppercorns, stir in the cream and butter, season with a pinch of salt, and keep