THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Break the eggs into a basin, beat a little, and add the cream and stock, season to taste, mix well, strain, and put into a well- buttered plain mould. Place it in a stewpan half filled with water, cook over a slow fire for about half an hour, and, when cool, cut into neat scpiare pieces. Put these, together with the cooked asparagus points and green peas, in a soup-tureen, pour in the clear chicken or game consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Diplomate. 2 quarts clear soup, i carrot, i turnip, i small cucumber, i8 small white button onions, 6 yolks of eggs (raw). Wash and peel the carrot and turnip, peel the cucumber, scoop out, by means of a vegetable scoop, some neat shapes, blanch, and cook separately in salted water or clear stock. Peel the onions, blanch, and cook likewise. Carefully poach the yolks of eggs in slightly salted boiling water. Place the yolks into a soup-tureen together with the vegetables previously strained, pour over the consomme (hot), season with pepper and salt, if required, and serve. Consomme a la Dubarry. 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, i gill stock, Jordan almonds, i cauliflower, t oz. Carolina rice, 3 or .4 pints rich chicken consomme. Prepare a royal custarcl by mixing the eggs and the yolks of eggs with the stock. Strain into a basin, add a few Jordan almonds, blanched and cut into fine shreds, season with salt and pepper, pour into a plain buttered mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam gently for twenty minutes. When set, let cool, turn out on a board, and cut it into small cubes. Cook a handful of very small buds of cauli- flower in salted water, and strain when done. Wash, blanch, cook, and dry the rice. Put all these in a soup-tureen, and pour over the chicken consomme. Consomme Dubourg. The garniture for this consomme consists of neatly cut shapes of royal custard (p. i8o), plainly-cooked rice, and cooked green peas, in equal proportions. Consomme Espagnole. Chicken stock, i egg, pimientos, rice, parmesau cheese. Prepare a chicken stock and clarify it in the usual way. When boiling stir in a well-beaten egg run through a strainer, garnish with a bandful of finely cut pimientos and a little boiled rice. Hand round with the soup some grated parmesan cheese. Consomme a la Flamande. 2 (marts clear soup (consomme), 2 carrots. 2 turnips, i onion, ] of a medium- sized cabbage, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful castor sugar, a few sorrel-leaves, a few chervil-leaves, the crust of half a French roll, pepper and salt. Clean and peel the carrots and turnips, wash the cabbage, and cut into small thin dice, put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a light-brown colour. Add the sugar, drain off the butter, moisten with the consomme (clarified beef broth) and about a pint of water, and cocjk slowly for one hour. Wash and pick the sorrel