THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXXII. RECHERCHE BALL SUPPER AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. Note.—These dishes having only recently been introduced at the special Demonstrations given by me at the National Training School of Cookery, at the time when this book was being printed. The Recipes could not be classified in the sections to which they belong, hence I decided to devote a separate chapter to this small collection of selected dishes. Melon a ITmperiale. Procure a fine rock melon (not over ripe), cut off the top portion, and scoop out the interior seedy part. Place the melon in a pan, surrounded with ice, and put in it 2-3 glasses of tawny port wine. Keep the melon thus for about three hours. Just before serving pour out the liquid, and fill it with stiffly whipped cream, seasoned with a little salt and a liberal dose of paprika. Dish up, replace the top portion of the melon, and keep on ice till required to be served. Serve the melon on a border of plain ice, coloured with a little spinach greening or else put a few sprigs of asparagus fern in the water before freezing the border. Cornets de York a la Gelee. Cut as thinly as possible the required number of slices of York ham (rather under-cooked), then stamp out with a sharp paste cutter in even-sized rounds. Twist each on a cornet tin or on a wooden pastry roll; fasten the end by means of a little liquefied meat glaze, stiffened with a small quantity of gelatine. When sufficiently set or fixed, gently remove the cornets or roll shapes of ham from the tins or wood. Fill with finely chopped aspic mixed with chopped lean ham and pistachio kernels. Glaze over with a little semi-liquid aspic, and dish up on a flat dish round a suitably shaped vegetable macedoine timbale ; garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Karloys d’Astrachan [Caviare Rolls). Roll out thinly some puff paste, and cut it into strips about half an inch wide. Butter the required number of cannelon sticks and proceed to roll or wind the paste ribbons round each stick. See that in winding the paste slightly overlaps each turn. Place them on a baking-sheet and brush over with egg-yolk, then bake to a nice golden colour. Remove the sticks whilst hot, and let the pastry rolls cool. Fill them with Astrachan caviare and force a star of green herb butter at each end. Dish up neatly, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and slices of lemon. Keep on the ice till required for table.