202 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme de Gibier.—This is clear game soup, the same as described on p. 189. When finished add some dice-shaped pieces of cooked game. — d’Abatis de Gibier.—Prepare a good stock, to which add some game giblets previously fried in butter. Cook the stock for another hour or so, skim off the fat, strain and clarify in the usual manner. Strain, and serve with any suitable garnish. — a la Grimaldi.—Clear soup with pronounced tomato flavour and celeriac julienne strips. — a la Hombourg.—Clear soup with small calf’s liver quenelles, round slices of beef marrow, and pronounced paprika flavour. ~ a la Hongroise.—Clear chicken soup with tomato flavour, strips of tomatoes tossed in butter, and paprika seasoning. — a la Imperiale.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with whole poached yolks of eggs and shreds of ham and truffles. — a ITndienne.—This is clear mulligatawny soup (p. 193) served with plainly cooked rice. — a la Juliette.—Clarify some chicken stock (p. 187), prepare a garnish consisting of very small chicken quenelles, green peas, royal custard (p. 180), cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. Add these to the soup a few minutes before serving. — aux Macaroni.—Cook in salted water some macaroni or spaghetti cut into short pieces, and garnish with it the consomme. — a la Magenta.—A rich clear soup flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes (see “ Consomme a la Tomate,” p. 198), to which’macedoine of vegetables is added as garnish. — Maigre.—This name is given to any kind of clear soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables or vegetable stock made with- out meat. The soup is clarified with whites of eggs and vegetables, and garnished according to taste. — Maintenon.—Clear soup with strips of tomato and leeks, served with small toasted cheese croutons. — Mancelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Mercedes.—Rich clear soup with star shapes of cocks’ combs and cucumber, flavoured with Xeres wine. — Messaline.—Clarified chicken broth with tomato essence, garnished with cocks’ kernels, Carolina rice, and Spanish pimientos cut in julienne. — Metternich.—This is clarified beef stock flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked peeled tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets cut into fine shreds. — Mirenmare.—To three pints of chicken consomme (p. 187) prepare the following garnish : Fry one tablespoonful of plainly cooked rice in lobster sauce, six blanched oysters cut in dice, one shredded truffle, and six chopped pistachios, and the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon. With it fill eight very small shell- shaped thin paste crusts. Heat them in the oven, and hand round with the consomme.