HOT MEAT ENTRI':ES, ETC. 45 > Chateaubriand a la Marseillaise.—Grilled double lillet steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and very small cooked pieces of calf's feet, coated with batter and fried. Served wifh bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Double fillet broiled in Imtter, garnished with fried slices of cucumber, and served with poivrade sauce. — a la Veron.—Double fillet stuffed from the side with a mixture of chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled ; served with echalote sauce. Croquettes de Boeuf a I’Anglaise (Beef Croquettes).—Finely minced cooked beef, cork, cutlet or ball shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified fat. - a ritalienne.—Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Boeuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids ; garnished with small timbales of nouilles ; seasoned with soubise and duchess potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Entrecotes de Boeuf a la Bearnaise.—Grilled sirloin steaks served with bearnaise sauce. — au Beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled sirloin steaks, with anchovy butter. - a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled sirloin steaks garnished with grilled pieces of beef-marrow and served with bordelaise sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled sirloin steaks, with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Mobile.—Broiled sirloin steaks with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow. Sauce Madere. — a la Montagne.—Grilled sirloin steak, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes, and artichoke bottoms filled with tossed mushrooms. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Nicolas.—Sirloin steaks, broiled in butter, dressed in casserole, with whole truffles and slices of foie-gras. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Parisienne.—Grilled entrecotes (sirloin steaks) of beef, spread over with a mixture of finely-chopped shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze ; garnished with small round fried potatoes. Serve with rich gravy. — aux Pommes soufflees.—Grilled sirloin steaks, with parsley butter, garnished with puff or souffle potatoes. — a la Rockaway.—Grilled sirloin steaks, served with fried onion rings and grated horse-radish. Sauce demi-glace. Filets de Boeuf a I’Andalouse.—Larded and braised fillets of beef, garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage-lettuces, and small braised tomatoes, sauce demi-glace. — a la Bearnaise.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with bearnaise sauce on fillets, and demi-glace round them. — au Beurre d'Anchois.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with anchovy butter, demi-glace sauce. — a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef served with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. Note.—For other tc’flys of cooking, tlrcfisingy and garnishing Enirc4c0tes see de Bccuf. also Fillets and Tournedos