THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 448 and suet in a basin, add a good pinch of salt, and mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and a little water, if needed, and work into a paste. Cut the beef across the grain into thin slices. Mix about a table- spoonful of flour with a teaspoonful of fine salt and half a tea- spoonful of pepper in a plate, dip one side of the meat slices in this, roll in each a small piece of fat. Beard the oysters. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and line with it a pudding-basin of suitable size. Reserve a piece of the paste large enough for the top of the pudding. Fill the lined basin with layers of beef and oysters. Grate a little lemon-rind between the layers, moisten with well-seasoned stock and a little lemon-juice. Wet the edge of the paste crust, place on the cover, and press down the edges very firmly. Cover the top with a greased paper or tie the basin in a pudding-cloth which has been wrung out in hot water and floured ; in tying the cloth allow sufficient room for the crust to swell in cooking. Put the pudding in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook for two and a half hours or steam for about three hours. When done remove the cloth, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, and serve. Beefsteak en Casserole. Cut a large piece of rumpsteak into four or five round flat fillets, beat a little with a cutlet-bat, trim, and season them with salt and pepper. Fry both sides slightly in a little butter over a quick fire, and set them aside. Peel and chop finely a moderate-sized onion, fry it in a small stewpan with half an ounce of butter to a golden colour. Moisten with a glass of Marsala or Madeira wine and two large tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Boil up, and add a tablespoonful of piccalilli or mixed pickles, two ounces fried bacon cut into dice, cut up small eight to ten small champignons, one small carrot cooked and cut into cubes, one potato cooked and cut into dice. Heat up, and put it in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place the fillets on top. Sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Cover, and cook in the oven for five to ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Curried Beef [Bceuf a I’lndienne). to 2 lb. lean beef, 2 oz. butter or lard, gill grated cocoanut, i gill milk, I onion, i dessertspoonful “ Laxami ” curry powder, ^ oz. flour, pint stock or water, salt to taste, boiled rice. Cut the meat into dice-shaped pieces; soak the cocoanut in the milk for half an hour. Peel and chop the onion finely. Fry the meat lightly in the butter in a stewpan ; take it up and fry the onion to a golden colour, stir in the flour and curry powder, and fry likewise ; moisten with the stock, boil up, skim, and put in the fried meat, also the cocoanut and milk. Season with salt and cook gently for about half an hour. Skim occasionally, dish up, and serve with boiled rice.