306 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. add half an ounce of butter, and toss over the lire for a few minutes. Moisten with the bechamel sauce and the oyster liquor, previously reduced, mix a little cream with a yolk of egg, and add to the ragout, season with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, unmould the quenelles, arrange them neatly on the border, put the little quenelles and oysters above mentioned in the centre, coat over with the sauce, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. It is best to boil up the bechamel sauce and oyster liquor together, adding the egg-yolk and cream, and then strain over the oysters and quenelles, as when once added the ragout must not be allowed to boil again, else it will curdle. Quenelles frites aux Huitres [Fried Oyster Quenelles). Blanch and beard 12 to 18 large sauce oysters, drain them, and mask each with a layer of chicken forcemeat (Farce de Volatile, p. 178). The farce must cover the oysters on both sides. Egg and crumb them twice, and fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of piquante or white wine sauce. Boiichees aux Huitres [Oyster Patties). 1 lb. of puff-paste (p. 133), 2 doz. oysters, I- gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, t teaspoonful lemon-juice, i oz. flour, parsley, salt, pepper, fish broth. Prepare the puff or feuilletage paste in the usual way, roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, put it on the ice for five minutes. Stamp out with a 3-inch fancy pastry-cutter eight or nine rounds, turn over, and place them on a baking-sheet, brush the surface with beaten egg, trace an incision with a smaller round cutter, previously dipped in hot water. Bake in hot oven for about twenty minutes, take out the soft part of the inside, save the lids, and keep the patties warm until required. Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a saucepan, let them come to the boil, drain them, remove beards, and cut each oyster in two (save the liquor). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the floiir, cook a little, dilute with the oyster liquor and sufficient fish stock to form a sauce, and let it boil for about ten minutes. Add the yolks of eggs and the cream, stir well, but do not let it boil again, season to taste with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Heat the oysters in the sauce, fill the puff-paste cases, put on the covers, and dish up on a hot dish, with a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Petites Boiichees a la Suedoise [Swedish Fish Patties). Puff-paste, white fish (cooked), lobster, crayfish tails, broiled bacon, veloutee sauce, parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, lobster butter, parsley. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp some rounds to line ten to twelve small patty-pans, trim the edges, fill them with dried peas or rice, and bake in a hot oven. Allow them to cool a little, take out the peas, but do not take the paste crust out of the patty-pans. Prepare a ragout of white fish, lobster.