7S9 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. Timbale a la Sicilienne. Prepare a brioche paste crust timbale as directed on page 137, and fill it with layers of cooked and sweetened rice and fruit, previously stewed. Serve hot or cold with a suitably llavoured fruit syrup. Timbales de Semoule a la Portugaise. I pint milk, 3 oz. semolina or line-grain liorador, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 whole eggs and i white of egg, i bottle or tin of apricots, angelica, glace cherries. Vanilla pod for flavouring, a few almonds cut in halves or shreds, 2 table- spoonfuls whipped cream, maraschino syrup for sauce. Put the vanilla into the milk for half an hour before boiling, then boil with the milk and take it out. Bring the milk to the boil again, stir in the semolina, boil for several minutes while stirring. Remove from the fire, work in the sugar, the yolks and one white of egg. Whip the remaining whites stiffly and stir into the mixture when cool, adding the whipped cream and a few drops of maraschino liqueur at the same time. Turn into six or eight small buttered timbale moulds, and steam for half an hour. Warm up six to eight halves of apricots, some angelica cut into leaves, almonds, and halves of cherries. Turn out the timbales on a hot dish, place half an apricot on top of each, decorate them tastefully with cherries, angelica, and almonds, pour over a nicely-prepared apricot syrup flavoured with maraschino, and serve. Timbales de Peches Marie-Louise. This dish consists of small timbale shapes of Genoise cakes, hollowed out and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg- white, baked and masked with marmalade ; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch-flavoured syrup. Meringuage, Sicilienne. 12 to 14 meringue shells (small), 2 oz. strawberry or raspberry pulp, 1-]- pint whipped cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, glace cherries. Boil the sugar with a little water to the crack (about 300 degrees Fahrenheit). Grease the outside of a charlotte mould, and stand, opening downwards, on a plate, dip the sides of each meringue in the boiled sugar, and place them in rows against the side of the mould, piling one row on the other until the top of the mould is reached. Carefully unmould, and put the shape on to a dish. Whip the cream, add the fruit pulp, sweeten to taste, fill the centre, garnish neatly with some glace cherries, and, if liked, with a few fancifully-cut leaves of angelica. Serve quickly. If preferred, the top of the cream may be covered with meringue shells. Bonnes Douches a la Washington. 5 blood oranges, 2 Bartlett pears, 2 peaches, 2 slices pineapple, 2 apricots, glace cherries or other fruit in equal parts, i gill claret, gill chartreuse, ^ lb. powdered macaroons, meringue mixture. Stew the fruit as for compote if fresh fruit is used, but bottled fruit will do if the former is not procurable, cut the fruit into pieces about the size of a small cherry. Cut the oranges in halves, care-