526 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fry them slightly in a saute-pan with the butter. Line a pie-dish with thin slices of lean veal and bacon, lay in the birds, season with chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Put a layer of veal and bacon slices on the top, pour the sauce over, and cover with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Roll out the paste and cover the pie in the usual manner. Bake for a full hour in a fairly well-heated oven, and pour a little rich stock or gravy into the pie as it leaves the oven. Serve eithe^r hot or cold. Souffle de Perdreau a I’Anglaise {Partridge Souffle). About 8 oz. cooked partridge, 2 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 3 eggs, gill cream, 1 gill brown stock, butter, 3 large truffles, i oz. panade, pepper, salt, aud cayenne. Free the meat from bone, skin, and sinew^ cut it up finely, pound until smooth, add the breadcrumbs and panade, mix well, work in three yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the seasoning, stock, and cream, mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine wire\sieve. Butter one large or two small plain moulds, decorate the bottonr with fancifully-cut slices of truffles, when set, fill up with the force- meat, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stew-pan containing boiling water, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere or perigueux sauce Salmis de Perdrix blanche a la Regence {Salmi of Ptarmigan). Prepare this salmi the same as that of duck, adding a good half-pint of garnishing (a la Regence) ten minutes before serving. Reckon one ptarmigan for three persons, or three for eight. Perdreaux a la Bateliere.—Braised partridge with button onions, mush- rooms, garnished with fried eggs and crayfish tails ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Beauharnais.—Braised partridges, garnished with stewed asparagus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. Served with truffle sauce. — a la Bernoise.—Boned partridge stuffed with chestnut puree, then braised, and served with brown truffle enriched with tomato puree. — en Casserole.—Partridge braised in an earthenware stew-pan, with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mushrooms, and bouquet garni ; brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. — a la Cedard.—Stuffed partridges larded and braised, served with a daintily-prepared foie-gras and truffle stew, moistened with a rich brown sauce. — a la Chantilly.—Partridges stuffed with foie-gras and braised, garnished with lentil puree in border or timbales ; sauce Madere. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted partridge stewed with chopped mush- rooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon-rind ; garnished with Fleurons or sippets of bread. — a la Danoise.—Partridges split from the back, flattened out, breaded, grilled, and served with Danish sauce. — a la Gambetta.—Partridge hrst broiled and then stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with small stuffed tomatoes dressed on croutons.