THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 402 Heat the butter in a saute- or frying-pan, put in the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, fry cpxickly to brown each side without cooking through. Take up and drain. Free the foie-gras from the lard usually found on the top, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar. Peel, chop, and fry the shallot in the butter left in the pan in which the cutlets were cooked, add both shallot and butter to the foie-gras, mix thoroughly, adding a little brown sauce to form a smooth puree or farce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread one side of each cutlet with a thick layer of this farce, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Drain, dish up, and pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Talleyrand. 6 to 8 mutton cutlets, 4 to 6 oz. cooked chicken freed from skin and bone, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 shallots, ^ gill white sauce, 4 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, I egg, breadcrumbs, i oz, butter, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, partially cook them in a saute-pan with the butter, and place them on a dish to cool. Pound the meat of the chicken until smooth, add the yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of sauce, a little nutmeg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Chop the mushrooms finely, also peel and chop the shallots, and fry the latter a golden colour in the pan in which the cutlets were par-cooked. Add the mushrooms, stir over the fire for a few seconds, and mix with the chicken puree. If found necessary, a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs and a tablespoonful of white sauce can be added to the puree. Mask the cutlets completely with the puree, coat them carefully with beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fry a golden brown in hot fat, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up in a row or in a circle, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Filets de Pre-Sale aux Primeurs {Fillets of Mutton or Lamb with Spring Vegetables). I neck of Southdown mutton or lamb, \ lb. veal and chicken liver, J pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, gill cream, i white of egg, 10 cup mush- rooms, I small glass Marsala, garniture of cucumber, asparagus, flageolets, young carrots and turnips, pint demi-glace sauce, i gill tomato sauce or pulp, meat glaze, seasoning, croute of fried bread as basis for dishing. Cut the meat neatly from the bones, pare, trim, and divide it into fillets, season with salt and pepper, fry lightly in a saute-pan containing 2 oz. of melted butter, then take up and press the fillets. When cold trim each hllet neatly and cover one side with a light farce made with finely-pounded veal, chicken livers, cream, and egg white. Place a star or crescent-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each fillet, range them in a fireproof stoneware pan con- taining the stock, cover with a buttered paper and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Scoop out the vegetables into pea or olive shapes, and cook them separately in salted water, drain them, and keep hot in a little stock enriched with glaze, season with a pinch of castor sugar and better. Wash and peel the mushrooms, and