84' GLACES—ICES. Mousse aux Poires {Pear Mousse). 4 large or 6 small stewing pears, lO oz. castor sugar, lO drops vanilla essence, 1- pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Pare, core, and slice the pears, put them and the sugar in a copper pan or casserole with water to cover, and cook until tender. Pass through a fine hair sieve while hot, add the vanilla essence, and stir t)ii the ice until cold. This should produce about a pint ol pulp. Line a charlotte mould with white paper, whip the cream until stiff, mix with the pulp, fill into the mould, cover with a round piece of paper and a lid fitting the mould, so as to hermetically seal it. Bury the mould in crushed ice and freezing salt for at least two hours. Mousse au Curasao. 3 gills cream, -1- gill cura90a, 2 oz. castor sugar. Put the cream into a china bowl, set in a tub surrounded with crushed ice, beat it with a whisk, at first slowly, until it becomes a stiff froth, adding the castor sugar and liqueur last of all. Fill some little souffle cases, place them carefully in an ice-box charged with crushed ice and freezing salt, or transfer the bowl with con- tents to a charged ice-box. After one and a half or two hours it will be set and ready for serving. In this case dress the mousse by means of a sjfoon in a pyramidal form on a glass dish and serve quickly. Note.—Various lla3'Ours, maraschino, kirsch, or rum liqueurs, may be introduced in place of curagoa. Mousse frappee. Prince Puckler. 1 lb. castor sugar, -i- pint whipped cream, 3 eggs, i gill apricot puree (pre- pared from fresh apricots), 2 \ lemons, i oz. gelatine, i liqueur glass cura5oa, 2 macaroons. Grate the rinds of the lemons as thinly as possible, strain the juice into a bowl, add the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, and sugar, and whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water until thick and creamy. Allow the mixture to cool a little. Melt the gelatine (previously soaked in water and drained) with the apricot puree, strain, let cool, then add to the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat up the cream, stir both carefully into the above, and add curagoa. Turn it into a silver souffle case lining, with an inch-deep paper band fastened round it. Sprinkle some finely- crushed or powdered macaroons on top, keep it on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold chocolate sauce. Mousse au Cafe {Iced Coffee Mousse). With I oz. of ground coffee prepare a small cup of very strong coffee. Cream 3 yolks of eggs with 2 oz. of castor sugar, and add \ pint double cream. Stir in the cold coffee gradually, and flavour it, if desired, with a little vanilla. The whites of two eggs, well whisked, may also be added. Fill up some mousse cups or small silver-plated casseroles, place a star-shaped slice of angelica on top of each. Put them in a charged ice cabinet for about two hours. If found more convenient, freeze the mixture in the usual way, and fill up glasses the same as for sorbet.