291 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOI). Soles a la Bosniaque.— Poached sole in fish hqnor and white wine, seasoned with salt and paprika ; garnished with julienne strips ot carrots, celery and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce avi Vin Blanc, a la Cancale.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor ; dressed and garnished with iioached oysters ; sauced over with maitre d'hotel sauce. - a la Cherbourg.—Rolled or folded fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished np and garnished with oysters, crayfish and mussels ; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — Chevaliere.—Rolled fillets of sole stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopiied truftles ; poached in white wine ; sauced over with crayfish bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — a la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, and devilled sauce poured over or separately. — a I’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce (see Fish Farce), dressed on cassolettes of paste or rice, sauced over with bechamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence ; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and grated horse-radish. j — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on, and coated with, a light spinach puree (see Vegetable Chapter), enriched with cream and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in hot oven. — a la Hambourgeoise.—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce au Vin Blanc. — a la Joinville {Fillets of Sole, Joinville Style).—Rolled fillets of soles poached in fish liquor, dressed with truftles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles, served with Joinville. — a la Louisa-Anna.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor. Dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich, well-reduced tomato sauce, with slice of truffle in centre. — a la Marechale.—Fillets of soles folded or rolled and cooked in reduced white sauce. When set and cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; bechamel sauce is served separately with this dish. — a la Marie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor ; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree ; baked in oven ; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce (add green herb puree), julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets ; served hot. — a la Michel.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns m centre ; sauce Supreme. — a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine and fish liquor. Dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce, flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a la Niqoise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs, and anchovy paste ; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing grated parmesan cheese ; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven.