SA UCES. 69 Sauce Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold with hsh, vegetables or salad. — Polonaise {Polish Sauce).—Veloutee sauce blended with sour cream, grated horse-radish, finely chopped fennel, and lemon-juice. Served with cutlets and steaks. — Portugaise.—Tomato sauce diluted with well-redirced veal gravy, flavoured with onion, blanched, and fried with garlic. — aux Pommes ( Apple Sauce).—A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be served with roast pork, ducks or geese. — Piment.—Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimiento and cayenne. — Prince de Galles [Prince of Wales Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs, and prepared French mustard. Served with grilled or fried fish, or grilled a la Tartare. — Provencals.—Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and choirped parsley ; flavoured with lemon-juice, garlic, and a little cayenne pepper. — Ravigote, chaude {Ravigote Sauce, hot).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with white wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of butter and cream and fine herbs ; flavour. — Ravigote, froid [Ravigote Sauce, cold).—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening. — a la Reine-Marie [Queen Mary Sauce).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy thickened with espagnole, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. — Sauce Regence.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. — Ricardo.—A brown sauce prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, finished with a little meat glaze. Served with game, dishes, etc. — Riche.—Hollandaise enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. — Richelieu.—A brown game sauce with madeira wine, meat extract, and finely chopped truffles. — Romaine [Roman Sauce).—A brown sauce lor fish, prepared with espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine seeds [pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar, all pressed through a sieve before serving. — a la Seville.—Reduced demi-glace sauce mixed with orange-juice and finely cut rind of a Seville orange. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game. — Sicilienne {Sicilian Sauce).—Espagnole sauce reduced with marsala wine, seasoned with cayenne pepper ; thin rings of onions fried in blitter are mixed with the sauce just before serving. Served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc.