964 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XU. AUXILIARY RECIPES. How to Make Coffee. Coffee-making, somehow, is looked upon by many as one of those easy things which everybody, it is supposed, can do. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why so little attention is paid to it, and that good coffee is, in many households, the exception instead of the rule. Very often stale or adulterated coffee is used, and care is not taken that the water is freshly boiled. To make a good, clear liquor, the bean should be freshly roasted, ground while hot, and kept well covered till required. It is therefore best to buy coffee roasted or ground in small quantities and from a well-reputed firm. The kind of coffee to be used is a matter of taste. Java and Mocha make a nice blend, whilst Mocha, Mysore, and Jamaica are well- known and deservedly popular varieties of coffee, b it the source of any coffee does not guarantee its quality, for so much depends upon roasting and brewing. The flavour, latent in the raw beans, can only be fully developed when coffee is roasted in a properly constructed and well-ventilated cylinder. It is a mistake to suppose that all coffee beans lose much of their flavour after being roasted. At the end of three months no material deterioration will have taken place, pro- vided the coffee beans have been properly roasted and kept in an air- tight vessel ; on the other hand, to preserve the full aroma of coffee, grinding should be done immediately before infusion. In order to extract the full strength of the coffee it should be ground rather fine, and the infusion should be well stirred, the stirring being, in effect, a continuation of the grinding process. There is a great difference in regard to the quantity of coffee used in fhis and other countries, so that no hard and fast line can be drawn, but undue economy is responsible for our reputation for poor coffee. In certain parts on the Continent two tablespoonfuls of coffee and a teaspoon ful of chicory is used for every breakfast-cup of coffee, while the Austrians, who are famed for their coffee, rise about four ounces of pure coffee to every litre of coffee produced. The three principles of preparation are : Infusion, filtration, and boiling ; of these the first-named is most generally applied.