THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 252 Cut the celery and truffle into line julienne strips. Season with a little mayonnaise (p. 152) or tartare sauce. About three-parts lill some very small paper cases, lay a slice of hard-boiled egg, cut out to size, on top of this, place a bearded oyster on each, and garnish tastefully with green herb butter (p. 176). This is best effected by means of a paper cornet. Remoulade d’CEufs {Remoulade of Eggs). 8 small fresh eggs, 2 shredded wheat biscuits, 4 or 6 artichoke bottoms, remoulade sauce,_ 2 ripe tomatoes, aspic jelly, triiltle, parsley. Poach and trim the eggs, and place them on a sieve to cool. Cut open two “ shredded wheat biscuits,” cut each half in two crossways, and trim. Toast them slightly, spread the hollow part of each with a mixture of chopped cooked artichoke bottoms mixed with enough remoulade sauce to season, and on top place a slice of ripe tomato. Mask the eggs with remoulade sauce (p. 158), mixed with sufficient aspic jelly to set the sauce when cold. Dress the masked eggs on the prepared croutes, sprinkle over with a few finely cut strips of truffles. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. Lax fume aux' Concombres [Smoked Salmon with Cucumber). I tin of lax, i small cucumber, i tablespoonful of sweet oil, i dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, pepper, and salt, 3 or 4 slices brown bread, butter, a handful of mustard and cre.ss and watercress, i teaspoonfnl chopped parsley. Cut the cucumber into id-inch pieces, as near the same size as possible ; cut the peel so as to form stripes of green and white (crinkled). Scoop out some of the centre and round off the bottom of each so as to give them the appearance of cups. Chop the pulp, scoop out the centre, and put it in a basin, with the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. Stamp out some rounds of bread with a 2-inch cutter, butter them on one side, cover the buttered side with thin slices of preserved lax. Cut some of the lax trimmings into fine strips, and mix with the cucumber pulp, season with pepper and salt. Put the cucumber cups on the prepared rounds of bread, and hll the cavities with the above mixture. Range them neatly on a round dish in the shape of a crown, season the small cress, etc., and put it in the centre of the dish. (Eufs a la Suedoise. 3 hard-boiled eggs, green herb butter. Cut the eggs into halves, remove the yolks, and pound with green herb butter, season, and rub through a sieve. Fill the whites of eggs with this. Decorate neatly, and serve on glass dishes. Petits Nids en Surprise [Little Surprise Nests). Make a short crust paste with | lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, i oz. grated cheese, i yolk of egg, and a little water. Roll out the required quantity and stamp out into rounds about if inches in diameter. Bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven and place on a sieve. Spread on side of each a mixture of Lucullus paste butter. Have ready some cheese choux paste, put in a forcing-bag with a rose tube, and force out a neat border on each