DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 281 Filets de Soles a la Bovin. I medium-sized sole, 2 oz. butter, the juice of i lemon (strained), 3 to 4 potatoes, salt, mignonette pepper, chopped parsley, i tablespoonful double cream. Skin the sole, cut off the fillets and trim them neatly, place them in a saute-pan, previously buttered, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. Great care must be taken to keep the lillets a nice white colour. Lift out the hllets, arrange them on an oblong dish, and keep hot over a saucepan of boiling water. While the sole is cooking wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, and hnish cooking in butter. Add the cream to the fish liquor, stir over the fire till hot [not boiling), drop in a few tiny bits of butter, season to taste, and strain over the hllets. Surround them with the potato olives, sprinkle some freshly-chopped parsley over the hsh, and send the dish to table. Filets de Soles a la Catalane. 8 or 12 fillets of soles, butter, Jerusalem artichokes, cepes, bechamel sauce (p. 142), cream. Trim and pare eight to twelve hllets of soles, fold them neatly, and place them in a saute-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, form into a border on a hot dish, and dress the hllets upon this. Fill the centre with cepes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the hllets with a well-reduced bcAhamel sauce (maigre, p. 142), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incoiq)orated. Filets de Soles a la Chasseur Royale. 3 medium-sized soles, 2 large truflles, i small whiting, l oz. butter, 12 oysters, 12 preserved mushrooms, i glass white wine, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, seasoning, i tablcspoonful cream. Sauce Chasseur Royal (p. 145). Remove the skin from the soles and fillet them. Skin and bone the whiting, pound this in a mortar till smooth, add the jtanade, k oz. butter, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg ; rni.x thoroughly, and work in the cream and the eggs. Rub thiajugh a hue sieve, hll up a well-buttered huted border mould sprinkled with breadcrumbs or panurette, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Flatten the fillets of soles a little, fold over, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with a small glass of wliite wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven; they will take about ten minutes. Blanch the oysters, remove the beards, cut them into quarters, slice the mushrooms, and put in a small stewpan, moisten with the sauce, cut the truffles into slices, stamp out eight nice stars, and keep for garnish. Add the remainder of slices with the above garnishing, strain the liquor of the fillets into this along with the