THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 490 in this, and take them out, put in the carrot and cut onion, bay-leaf, and lemon-rind, and place in the chickens, let them take colour over a brisk hre, and set it in the oven for hfteen minutes. Take up, pour off the fat, onion, etc., and place in the chickens again with the fried button onions, the bacon cut in cubes, and fried, the mush- room-heads, and the veal quenelles pre- viously poached in stock and drained, also FIREPROOF POT (CASSEROLE), pimieiito cut liito cubcs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatics, and moisten with the sauces mentioned, also the wine. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, transfer the whole into an oblong hreproof terrine, which should be placed in the oven for at least ten minutes before sending to table. If liked, the little birds may be cut in halves when at the time of dishing up, half a bird being considered enough for each person. Ailerons de Volaille a la Creole [Chicken Breasts and Wings, Creole Style). 2 Surrey fowls or chickens, 6 oz. rice, i pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 3 truffles (small), 6 artichoke bottoms (small), ij pint cooked vegetable macedoine, i gill sauce aigre-douce, aromatic seasoning, salt and pepper. Carefully remove the breasts of the fowls or chickens, leaving the bones on them, but strip off the skin. Trim into three or four nice portions, toss them in butter in a saute-pan until nicely browned, then cover with buttered paper, and braise for ten or hfteen minutes. Season with aromatics and salt, pour off the fat, and add the sauce. Blanch and cook the rice in the stock, add the butter left over from cooking the chickens, season to taste, and let reduce in the oven till almost dry. Mix with the truffles, previously chopped fmely. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, shake it well down, and unmould on a hot dish. Have ready heated the artichoke bottoms and maccMoine of vegetables, hll the former with the latter, and place them neatly round the top of the border of rice. Dress the chicken breasts in the centre of the dish, pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat to be handed round separately. Place the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to get well heated, and send to table. Turban de Filets de Volaille [Turban of Chicken Fillets). Remove the breasts of two fowls, take off the skins and lard with strips of larding bacon. Braise them on a mirepoix of vege- tables and bacon, and linish in demi-glace sauce. Prepare a border of cooked rice and white mushrooms (champignons), chopped hnely and well seasoned. Dress the cooked fillets on this, mask the fillets with a rich supreme sauce, pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with small lleurons of puff-paste.