4o8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Salvanty.—Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dish up with a puree of green peas in centre ; sauce demi-glace. ■ — a la Soyer.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets or small chops neatly trimmed and seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs. They are then fried in butter, dished up, and served with maitre d’hotel butter, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried mutton cutlets dished up with stewed, plain or stuft'ed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Mutton cutlets stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financiere ragout. — a la Venaison.—Larded mutton cutlets marinaded in red wine vinegar ; flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, peppercorns, and savoury herbs ; braised and served with brown sauce or sauce venaison, enriched with sour cream. — a la Vicomtesse.—Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, then immersed in a well-reduced Mada'e sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried. Dished up in a circle with a mixture of spring vegetables in centre, and , served with demi-glace sauce. Epaule de Mouton a la Sainte-Menehould [Shoulder of Mutton). Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon, and savoury herbs, when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under a salamander. Escalopes de Mouton a la Chipolata. These are fried crumbed mutton fillets or collops, cut from the chump ends of loins of mutton, garnished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages, and fried potato croquettes. Filets de Mouton—Fillets of Mutton. Fillets of mutton are obtained from the loin or neck of lamb or mutton, cut of usual thickness, and must be free from bone and fat. Filets de Mouton braises a I’Anglaise.—Boned loin of mutton stuffed with forcemeat, braised, cut into slices, and dressed ; garnished with French beans. — a la Byron.—Grilled or broiled mutton fillets, coated with onion puree, dished up and served with stewed sheep’s kidneys in centre of dish. — a la Gascogne.—Boned piece of lean mutton (loin or neck) larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. Hachis de Mouton a I’Ecossaise [Mutton Pie).—Hashed mutton laid in a pie-dish, covered with bechamel sauce, a thin layer of mashed potatoes, and breadcrumbs. Baked in a hot oven. — a la Portugaise.—Thinly sliced roast leg of mutton browned slightly in butter, with thin slices of ham, carrots, chopped shallots, a little garlic and chopped pa^rsley. Braised in Madere sauce. Served in a deep entree dish.