304 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. each oyster and bacon into the batter—covering completely—and drop one by one into boiling fat or clarified butter. Fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Cromesquis aux Huitres {Oyster Kromeskis). doz. sauce oysters. 3 yolks of eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls creme de riz, 1 oz. butter, 12 thin slices of bacon, i tablespooniul of cream, lemon, white pepper, salt, and mace ; frying-batter. Lard or dripping for frying parsley. Blanch and beard the oysters, preserve the liquor. Mince them coarsely, put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the oysters, season with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground mace, stir in the creme de riz (ground rice), add the liquor of the oysters, the cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. When hot, stir in the yolks of the eggs, let them bind, and put the mixture on a plate or dish to cool. Divide into twelve equal portions, shape into little rolls, wrap each in a piece of thinly cut bacon, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Souffle aux Huitres {Oyster Souffle). 2 small whitings, 8 large sauce oysters, i-^- oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, about \ pint milk, ^ gill cream, teaspoonful anchovy essence, 3 eggs, seasoning. Skin and fillet the whitings, and pound in a mortar. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and cook a little without brown- ing, moisten with the milk and oyster liquor, stir briskly until quite smooth, add the cream, cook a little longer, stirring all the while. Remove the beards from the oysters, cut the latter into dice, and put them into the mixture, qdd salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, work in the yolks of eggs, the anchovy essence, and the pounded fish. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the mixture. Three-parts fill a well-buttered souffle- tin or charlotte mould, steam for about forty-five minutes, unmould, and serve with a white sauce. Huitres a la Dubarry {Oysters, Dubarry Style). 6 to 8 Dutch potatoes of even size, 18 to 24 small oysters, 2 tablespoonfuls supreme sauce (p. 160), i tablespoonful of double cream, gill Chablis, salt and pepper, i oz. fresh butter, i yolk of egg. Wash and dry the potatoes, cut off a small portion at each end and place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a hot oven till quite done. Remove a portion of the inside of each potato, rub this through a sieve whilst hot, and mix half an ounce of butter, one yolk of egg, and a little seasoning. Beard the oysters, put them in a stewpan with the liquor and the wine, cover, let them get thoroughly hot without actually boiling, then take up, drain off the liquid, add the supreme sauce and cream, season to taste, and mix carefully. Place the potatoes in a row on a buttered metal-plated dish, put four oysters and a little sauce in each. Put the prepared potato puree in a forcing-bag, force out a neat border round each potato, cover the top of each with the sauce mixture, and in so doing endeavour to make a neat garnish. Brush over