ENTRIES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHE.^). 535 ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER GAME ENTRe'eS. Filet de Cerf pique a la Diable.— Fillet of deer, larded and braised in the usual manner, cut into neat slices, dished up, and served with a sharp pepper sauce or sauce a la Diable. Chevreuil braise a la Saint Hubert.—Braised ])ickled venison, larded, finished in a brown sauce, flavoured with claret and cinnamon. Served with a garniture of French prunes whicli have been stewed with the meat. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Turque.—Venison cutlets, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with tomato puree, and garnished with fried parsley. Escalopes de Chevreuil a la Chasseur.—Escalopes or fillets of venison, cooked in butter and finished in a rich chasseur sauce, into which a little red-currant jelly has been incorporated. Longe de Chevreuil a la Puree de Tomate.—Braised loin of venison with tomato puree, mixed with a small quantity of sauce marinade. Salmi de Chevreuil A la Sultane.—Pickled venison cut into small joints and jugged in a rich brown sauce, to which a glass of port wine and picked and blanched sultanas or stoned raisins have been added. Tournedos de Chevreuil a la Milanaise.—Small venison steaks, seasoned and broiled in butter. Served with stewed macaroni as a garnish and tomato sauce. Lievre farci a la Fermiere.—Trussed boned hare, flattened, stuffed with pork forcemeat, and braised. Dish up, and serve with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely minced ham and cho}iped parsle3^ and reduced with Marsala wine. — en Cite.—Potted hare meat, prepared in tureen with sausage forcemeat and hare fillets ; moistened with Madeira wine, and covered with slices of bacon. Baked in the oven, and served hot or cold in the tureen in which it is cooked. Civet de Lievre d la Finnoise.—Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi- glace sauce, to which a small quantity of sour cream has been added. Cotelettes de Lievre a I’AUemande.—Loin of hare cut into cutlets, pared and trimmed ; season, egg, and crumb them, and fry in hot butter. Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and French gherkins. Served with white wine sauce. Escalopes de Lievre marinees.—Marinaded or pickled hare fillets or cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with sauce marinade. Filets de Lievre a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets of hare, braised and finished in reduced Madere sauce, flavoured with cinnamon and parsley. Dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. Florentines de Lievre.—Boned hare legs stuffed with game farce, rolled and braised in the oven in a casserole with demi-glace or garni sauce. Grenadins de Lievre.—Small fillets, larded and braised ; served with tomato or demi-glace sauce. Haricot de Lievre.—Hare cut into small joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and then stewed in brown sauce, with mushrooms and button onions. Longe de Lievre a la Soubise.—Braised loin of hare, with white onion puree and lirown game sauce.