787 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. into moulds and set to cool. When set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve. Macedoine de Fruits a la Gelee {Mixed Fruit Jelly). iX pint wine jelly, strawberries, apricots, peaches, greengages, raisins or other kinds of fruit. Dissolve the jelly. Place a copper jelly-mould in a shallow pan of broken ice, pour in a little jelly, let it set. Arrange a layer of fruit neatly, cover with jelly, and when this is set pour in some more jelly, more layers of fruit, alternating with different kinds. Continue thus until the mould is full, but great care must be taken to see that each layer is quite set before another is put in. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained use bottled or tinned fruits, but dry each piece on a cloth before it is set in the jelly. Keep the mould on ice until set, then immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a folded napkin or on a plain silver dish, and serve. Mousseline de Gelee Napolitaine {Neapolitan Jelly). I quart wine jelly, 3 whites of eggs, i teaspoonfnl vanilla essence, I teaspoonful grated orange-rind, \ dessertspoonful finely chopped pista- chios, a few drops of liquid carmine, and spinach greening. Mask a suitable mould with jelly, and place it on the ice. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, stir in the remainder of the jelly, liquid and nearly cold. Whisk this on ice till it commences to set, then divide quickly into three parts ; flavour the first with vanilla and pour into the jelly-mould ; into the next put the grated orange-rind and colour with a few drops of carmine ; this is then poured on the first layer. The last portion is mixed with the pistachios, covered with a few drops of spinach greening, and poured on the orange mousse. Be careful to see that each layer is set before the next is added. Should the mousse become too firm hm working, re-heat it gently ; commence whisking again till of the right consistency. Pouding a la St. Cloud {St. Cloiid Pudding). i pint strong coffee, 4 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill cream, sponge cakes or Genoise cake, 3 oz. sweet almonds, X oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, angelica, and glace cherries. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds, and bake in a slow oven a fawny colour. Butter a plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the inside with shredded almonds, and fill up with small pieces of sponge cake or Genoise cake-crumbs. Dissolve the sugar in the coffee, let it cool, and add the eggs (previously beaten), the cream, and the maraschino liqueur, mix thoroughly and strain into the mould. Put the remainder of shredded almonds on top, cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and steam in a stew-pan containing enough boiling water to reach half wav up the mould for about two hours. Let cool until set, then turn out on a cold round dish. Warm up the marmalade with a little water and sugar, strain and mask the pudding. Ornament the top and sides with little rings of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Keep on the ice until required for table.