228 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cucumber {Concombre).,—Peel very thin and cnt np into thin slices, lay the slices on a dish, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let them remain for one or two hours. Drain well, dish up on small glass dishes, season with a little salad oil and French wine vinegar. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve. Salami, Bologna, Brunswick, Lyons, Ham, Tongue, and other Smoked Sausages.—Cut the sausage into very thin round slices, remove the skin, dish up neatly, garnish with fresh crisp parsley. Royans a la Bordelaise.—These are procured packed in oil, usually in tins. Dish up in glass dishes, garnish with some curly parsley. Sardines.—Procure an i8-oz. tin of a well-known brand. Take them carefully out of the tin, drain on a cloth or paper, lay them in small dishes, moisten with a little sweet oil, garnish with capers and sprigs of parsley. Never use the oil out of the tin. Other fish preparations, such as lax, tunny (marine), fillets of herring (sour), etc., are served as hors-d’oeuvre in the same manner. Simple Dishes.—A number of simple hors-d’oeuvre may be pre- pared with various kinds of fancy butter, such as Montpellier, an- chovy, lobster, crayfish, shrimp, ravigote, niaitre d’hotel, and horse- radish butter (see Chapter XIV.). Any of the above-named can be shaped into little balls, tiny pats or cubes, served on little squares of crisp toast, very small lunch biscuits or parmesan biscuits. Little balls of butter are sometimes dished neatly on small china or glass hors-d’oeuvre dishes. In that case, little pieces of toast or biscuits are handed round at the same time. Tartelettes aux Huitres et Caviar {Oyster Tartlets with Caviare).— Line the required number of small tartlet moulds thinly with short crust paste and bake them “ blind ” to a golden colour. When cold, put a dessert-spoonful of fresh caviare in each crust so as to spread over the bottom. Upon this place a bearded oyster. Sprinkle over a few drops of lemon juice and a tiny pinch of red pepper. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Huitres en Geiee {Jellied Oysters).—Open the required number of oysters (best natives), beard them and put them in a plate or pie-dish to maidnade, in semi-liquid aspic, well flavoured with oyster liquor, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Clean the lower (deep) shell of each oyster, put in half a teaspoonful of savoury jelly (aspic) ; upon this place a marinated oyster, pour over a little of the aspic so as to mask it nicely. Keep on the ice till required, then dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Oyster Cocktail.—Allow three or more small oysters for each person, open and drop them, with the liquor, into a wine-glass ; add a little lemon-juice, three drops of Tobasco sauce or chilli vinegar, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and one dessert- spoonful of tomato catsup, stir up, and serve. Scraped horse- radish may, if liked, be served on the side.