BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. yui and drain on paper or cloth. Dish np the croquettes on a hot disli with a lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Any other game or poultry can be used up in this way, and tlie addition of either chopped truffles or truffle-peelings is an improvement. Chicken Rissoles [Rissoles ii la Rcinc). Prepare a salpicon of hnely chopped cooked chicken, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, moistened with white sauce and seasoned to taste, spread on a plate and let cool. Roll out some puff or rough puff-paste, stamp out some rounds, place a teaspoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edge and fold over, so as to give them the shapes of half-moons. Press down the edges of the paste well. Egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Venison Rissoles [Rissoles de Chevretiil). Roll out some puff-paste or short crust paste, stamp out circles of desired size, put a teaspoonful of prepared venison salpicon in the centre, brush the edges with beaten egg or water, fold over to form a half-circle, press the edges together, and trim with a sharp cutter. Brush over with egg, dip them in breadcrumbs or crushed vermicelli, and fry in hot fat to a light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Note.—Any kind of cold poultry or meat may be made up as rissoles. Scrambled Brains, W'ash and cleanse either a pair of calf, pig or sheep's brains. Par-boil them in salted water, containing the juice of half a lemon, a slice of onion, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns. Take up, drain, and chop into small pieces. Beat up four or six eggs in a stew-j)an, add about an ounce of fresh butter, a dash of cliilli vinegar, and seasoning. Mix in the chopped brains, and stir over a quick hre till the mixture commences to set. Serve on buttered toast. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Indienne [Curried Kidneys). Fry in a stew-pan a hnely minced shallot in ^ oz. of butter to a g(dden brown, then add a gill of brown sauce, stir over the hre till it boils, now add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, the same cpiantity of chilli vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of chopped chutney, reduce a little and strain. Skin six sheep’s kidneys, split them in the usual way, remove the cores, dip them into warm butter, and dredge them with hour seasoned with a little curry ])owder. Melt 2 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan, fry the kidneys cpii('kly, remove them directly they are done and drain them. Dish up on rounds of hot buttered toast, and lill the centre of the kidneys with the prepared sauce, put a little hnely chopped gherkin on the top of each. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot.