COLD ENTRIiES. 563 with the tomato puree, and hll them up with the chicken puree. Press two halves together tightly and place them on the ice to set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dress neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Palmettes de Volaille a la Valeska. I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, -J- gill stock, t gill cream, t gill bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of eggs, i-J- gill white chaucl-froid sauce, meat glaze, 8 or 9 oblong kite-shaped souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, flatten them, season, and fry slightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, place a buttered paper over, and poach in the oven for ten minutes. Take up, drain, and press the fillets. With the re- mainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, whites of eggs (previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain-marie in the oven. Wdren done, unmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets into the shape of the paper cases, and the farce to correspond, and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat-glaze. Mask each carefully with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate after- wards with thinly-cut fanciful slices of fruffle and tarragon leaves, finally coat them with a thin layer of aspic. Place a little small cress or other salad, previously seasoned, in each of the cases, dress the palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. Chaud-froid de Volaille a la Norvegienne [Chaud-froid of Chicken, Norwegian Style). I plump chicken, white stock, 2 oz. Carolina rice, 4 Spanish pimientos, f gill veloutee sauce, seasoning, truffles, grated horse-radish, pint aspic jelly, I gill stiff mayonnaise (p. 152), t g'il double cream, a handful of mixed salad. Truss the chicken and boil it in white stock till tender; cut up into neat joints when cold, prepare a mayonnaise aspic flavoured with grated horse-radish, and mask with it the pieces of chicken. Cook the rice in stock, enrich with veloutee sauce and cream. Line a border mould with aspic and fill up with the prepared rice, mixed with finely shredded pimiento, cover with more aspic and let set on the ice. Turn out the border on to a dish, fill the centre with seasoned salad, and range the chicken on the border ; sur- mount each with a slice of truffle masked with aspic. Garnish to taste, and serve.