PREFACE. The unprecedented success and the cordial reception enjoyed by my works entitled “ Practical Gastronomy ” and “ Recherche Cookery ” have encouraged me to produce the present volume, in which these former publications have been embodied in a greatly enlarged form, and most of the chapters have been entirely I'e-written so as to bring the book into line with the requirements of the present day. Scientific research and constant observation in culinary routine have proved that both Cookery and Gastronomy are progressive arts ; indeed, scarcely a week passes which does not bring to the notice of a careful observer some new combination or some improvement iii standard dishes. In view of these facts, and in order to increase its general utility, simplicity and economy have been adopted as the criteria for every recipe included in this book. It may safely be said that it is only within the last thirty years that Cookery as a fine art has been recognised and developed in this country, and it is now generally acknowledged that English Cookery, in its higher accomplishments, has undergone a beneficial change during that period, and this improvement is chiefly due to a better knowledge and appreciation of French and other Continental recipes. * In the present work, every branch of Cookery, without distinc- tion, from the simplest to the most recherche, has been included, and detailed instructions are given to enable anyone with a little culinary knowledge to prepare the dishes by following the directions. I have endeavoured to indicate all the elementary stages in the preparation of good household cookery, so that ample provision is made for simple and dainty family meals, as well as for those of a more elaborate character. A new and special feature is the introduction of half-tone illustra- tions produced from photographs of the actual dishes, whereby the correct dressing and appearance of some of the most important plats are faithfully reproduced. A great number of these dishes were prepared by me, or under my direction, at the National Training School of Cookery. The majority of the books on Cookery which have been recently given to the public—many of which are excellent in their way—lack one essential point : a translation of the langiic dc cuisine. And numerous French phrases and technical terms now in constant use are seldom properly understood. The vocabulary of such terms comprises over three thousand words and phrases. In the present work these are translated and