LIGHT ENTRfiES [HO'D.—ENTRIIeS LEGERES. 365 Rissoles a la Russe (Russian Rissoles).—Filling: salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham. and mushrooms. Rissoles a la Moelle de Bceuf.—Rissoles. containing beef-marrow, previously blanched and mixed with brown sauce. Rissoles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread rissoles. Mi.x minced cooked sweetbread with white sauce, truftles, and mushrooms, and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Volaille a I'lndienne.—Curried fowl rissoles. Mince cooked chicken with curry sauce, chopped mushrooms, and boiled rice, and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Gibier (Game Rissoles).—Prepare a salpicon of cooked game and truffles. Make up into small balls and enclose in paste. Rissoles a la Chasseur ( Venison Rissoles).—The same as game rissoles, using cooked venison, etc. Rissoles de Becasse aux trufles (Snipe Rissoles with Truffles).—The same as above, using cold roast snipe, and making it into a salpicon with brown sauce, etc. Rissoles de Foie-gras (Goose-liver Rissoles).—Cut foie-gras pate truffled into dice, or scoop out with a vegetable cutter or teaspoon and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Homard (Lobster Rissoles).—Mince the lobster, mix with veloutee or Allemande sauce, and enclose in paste. Rissoles aux Huitres (Oyster Rissoles).—Blanch the oysters, beard them and chop finely, mix with white sauce and egg-yolks and bind. Use when cold for rissoles. Rissoles a la Hollandaise ( Dutch Rissoles).—Proceed in the same way as above described, but mix finely chopped triiffles with the oysters and sauce, and enclose in paste. Petits Souffles a la Minute {Hasty Souffle). I lb. chicken or lean veal, free from skin and sinews, 3 eggs, i gill cream, I truffle, seasoning, a little bechamel sauce, butter. Shred the meat as hnely as possible, then pound it in a mortar until c^uite smooth, adding one by one the yolks of eggs, and lastly the cream. Rub this through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a basin. Beat up the white of one egg, and mix into the puree. Season lightly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Butter a few small china souffle cases, put about a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce into each, and fill with the prepared farce. Chop finely the truffle and sprinkle this over the top of each. Place the cases on a baking-tin or saute-pan, cover with a buttered paper. Bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve the cases on a hot dish, covered with a folded napkin. Petits Souffles a la Henri IV. Little souffles of chicken or ral)bit, 3 oz. of cooked meat of chicken or rabbit, if oz. of butter, if oz. of flour, i-V gill of good white stock. 3 whites and 2 yolks of eggs, i tcaspoonful of lemon-juice, 8 large preserved mush- rooms, little cooked ham or tongue, l)readcrumbs, salt, pepper, cayenne. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, let it boil, put in the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until