670 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. nate layers of grated cheese, slices of fried aubergines, and finely- minced cooked beef. Sauce over the whole with well-seasoned tomato sauce. Bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes, and serve hot. Beignets de Macaroni [Macaroni Fritters). Boil -i- lb. small macaroni or spaghetti till quite tender in slightly salted water, cut it up very small, drain, cool, and mix with i oz. grated cheese and a little rich white sauce, heat up, stir well, and add two yolks of eggs, and spread on to a dish or plate. When cold, make up into cork shapes, dip into light frying batter, drain, fry in hot fat, dish up, and sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese. A little chopped ham or cold meat added to the mixture makes the beignets more tasty. Ravioles aux Epinards [Spinach Ravioles). i-l- lb. spinach, i oz. butter, i shallot, i level tablespoonful flour, 2 table- spoonfuls cream, salt and pepper. For ravioles ; lb. flour, i oz. butter, 2 yolks of egg, tomato sauce, grated cheese. Pick and wash the spinach in several waters, put it in a stew-pan with very little water and salt. Cook till quite tender, and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt one ounce of butter in another stew-pan, add the shallot, finely chopped, and fry for a few moments, without letting it get brown. Add the flour, fry a few minutes, put in the spinach, stir well, moisten with the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and cook gently for ten minutes. Put it on a plate to cool. Prepare the Ravioli paste with the flour (-|- lb.), one ounce butter, and two yolks of eggs, milk, if necessary, and a pinch of salt. Knead the paste well. Roll out very thinly. Stamp out some rounds (2 to 2d inches in diameter). Place a tablespoonful of spinach on a round of paste, brush the edge with egg or water, and place another round of paste on top. Seal the edges well, cook the ravioles in a stew-pan of boiling and salted water for fifteen minutes. Drain them on a sieve,' dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, cover with tomato sauce and more cheese, bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and send to table very hot. Nouilles au Gratin. Prepare a stiff but smoothly kneaded paste with half a pound of flour, half an ounce of butter, three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Allow the paste to stand for at least one hour, roll out as thinly as possible, fold the pieces rolled out and cut the paste across into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch wide. Loosen the strips, shake them up and dredge with a little flour, put the nouilles into a pan of fast-boiling salted water, boil for about eight minutes, then drain and let cool. Butter a gratin dish, spread over a little white sauce, then a layer of nouilles, sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of oiled butter, and repeat in this order until the nouilles are used up. See that the last layer is well masked with white sauce, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving.