VEGETABLES—L^:GUMES. 633 milk, boil up, lay in the mushrooms, heads downward, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready the five eggs, boiled hard, shell them, cut round at the centre of the white, and remove the,upper part, so as to show the yolks. Stamp out five rounds of toasted bread, a little larger than the mushrooms, butter each round, place the mushrooms upon them, add one egg to the centre of each, and strain the sauce carefully round the eggs. Serve hot. If the sauce is found too thick, add a tablespoonful of white stock or cream. Champignons a la Diable [Devilled Mushvooms). Proceed the same as for “ Champignons farcis,” adding a table- spoonful of curry paste and a good pinch of cayenne to the mixture. Scoop out a portion of the head of each mushroom, fill up with the stuffing, place (stuffing upwards) in a buttered saute-pan or in small buttered earthenware souffle cases, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, bake in quick oven for ten minutes, dish up, and serve. Champignons farcis [Stuffed Mushrooms). Peel a dozen large button or small fresh cup mushrooms, and remove the stalks. Prepare a stuffing consisting of ten preserved mushrooms, chopped fine, fried in two ounces of butter, add two shallots, chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of chopped ham ; season to taste, and mix well. Fill the mushrooms with this, place them (stuffed sides up) in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the surface with soft breadcrumbs and grated cheese, add a few drops of oiled butter, bake for ten minutes in a quick oven, dish up, and serve. Champignons a la Montglas [Mushrooms, Montglas Style). Prepare some nouille paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and line the two parts of six or eight mushroom moulds with the paste. The moulds must be well greased, and the paste must be well pressed in, else the shape will not come out perfect. Fill the moulds with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake a light brown colour. Unmould while hot, and place them on a sieve. Peel and wash a basket of cup or button mushrooms, remove the stalks, and chop the mushroom heads finely. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it two finely chopped shallots. x\dd the chopped mushrooms, and fry a little. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with bechamel maigre, and cook till reduced to a puree. About ten minutes before serving, fill the two halves of mushroom moulds with the prepared puree, join the two parts so as to make them look like mushrooms. Dish up on a folded serviette, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce or cucumber sauce. Champignons frais sautes [Stewed Fresh Mushrooms). I- lb. fresh cut mushrooms, i oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, I gill tomato or brown sance, seasoning. Peel the mushrooms, trim the stalks, and fry them in the butter