910 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXXVm. DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. There is no other branch in cookery which reqnires more thonght, care, and attention than that intended for the sick-room ; and whilst one is aware that at certain stages in cases of acute illness very little actual cooking is needed, it cannot be denied that the diet of a sick person is quite as important as is the medicine. It is therefore evident that food for the sick must be prepared with the same care as medicine is mixed, and as such it should be adminis- tered with equal care and punctuality as medicine. Nourishing stimulants are prescribed at the acute stage of a disease always, but when this is passed, the right kind of food becomes highly necessary for the restoration of health and strength. Those who have the care of invalids will do well to remember that a judiciously- chosen diet, avoiding all dishes of an indigestible nature, will, as a rule, do far more towards building up the strength than any course of long treatment is likely to accomplish. Beef Tea {Peptonized). lb. lean beef, i tablespoonful liquor pancreaticus, -t pint water (cold), 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda, a pinch of salt. Free the meat from fat and skin. Shred it finely, put it in a well-tinned or enamelled saucepan with the water, and carbonate of soda, and salt, stir with a spoon or fork over a moderate fire for half an hour without allowing it to boil. It must reach 140 deg. Fahr. Strain and let ccol a little, then add the liquor pancreaticus. Re-heat, and serve with slices of toasted bread. Beef Tea {Slow Method). Shred finely ilb. of lean beef, put it in an earthenware stew- jar with I pint of water and salt, stand the jar in a saucejEan of simmering water, or in a very moderate oven for two or three hours. Strain, and carefully remove any fat that may be on the surface. Serve hot with toasted bread. Beef Tea with Gruel. Mix a tablespoonful of groats with very little cold water, add to this half a pint of beef tea ; boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and strain. Serve with fingers of nicely toasted bread. Raw Beef Tea {or Beef Juice). I oz. finely shredded lean beef, i tablespoonful water. Put the meat and water into a jar, and stand the jar in a warm place for one hour ; strain, and serve in a red- or green-coloured wine-glass.