932 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Orange Cake {Gdtcaii a 1'Orange). Separate eight eggs, beat up the whites and yolks separately. Stir half a pound of castor sugar into the yolks. Mi.\ fonr ounces Vienna flour and four ounces cornflour, with one half-pound butter. Beat up the egg-whites as stiff as possible, and gradually add to the sugar and the egg-yolks. When all is beaten, stir in the flour, and when only half mixed pour in the butter (melted) hot. Beat till quite smooth, then pour into two well buttered flat cake-tins, and bake in a fairly hot oven. When cold, cut in half through the centre, spread the cut sides with orange-flavoured custard. Place together and mask with orange-flavoured icing (see p. 138). Decorate tastefully with slices of candied tangerines and royal icing. Seed Cake [Gdteau Carvi). I lb. l)utter, 1 11). castor sugar, 6 eggs, i to 2 oz. caraway seeds (cleaned), lb. flour (sifted). Warm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and work up to a ligld cream, and stir in the eggs one by one. Mix in the caraway seeds, and lastly the flour. Bake in an oblong, well-buttered and banded cake tin for thirty-five to forty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Soda Cake. I lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, 4 oz. currants or sultanas, 2 oz. almonds, :J lb. castor or Demarara sugar, i teaspoonful carbonate of soda, I teaspoonful cream of tartar, 4 eggs, about 3 pint milk, a pinch of salt, nutmeg. Rub the butter into the flour and blend well, then add the salt, a ])inch of grated nutmeg, the sugar, and currants or sultanas, previously cleaned. Mix well, beat up the eggs ; dissolve the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda in a little milk. Mix the eggs with the milk and stir into the flour, etc. Beat well for ten minutes, put the mixture in one or two well-buttered cake-tins, bake in a moderately-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes or longer, according to size and shape of tins. Turn out on a sieve, cool, and dust over with sugar. Gateau Victoria. Prepare a Genoese cake mixture (see p. 936) flavoured with vanilla, and bake in a well-buttered and floured flat round cake - tin. When baked, let it cool on a sieve, then cut it into four or live sec- tions. Spread each section with a light almond cream mixed with a little grated chocolate. Place the layers together, mask the top with a fondant or transparent icing (see p. 138), and sprinkle over with desiccated cocoannt or strips of almond.