630 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garottes nouvelles a la Flamande [New Carrots, Flemish Style). I bunch new carrots, i oz. butter, h pint white stock, tablespoonful flour, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, castor sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots (they should be spring carrots, all one size, if possible), cut them in halves or quarters, trim off a little of the inside and shape neatly, parboil them for ten minutes in salted water, and drain them in a colander. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the carrots, season with a little salt, some pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg,, and two pinches of castor sugar, sprinkle over them the flour, toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, skim, and stir occasionally. When the carrots are done, add the yolks of eggs, previously beaten up, also the cream, stir gently over the fire until the eggs are set, then dish up neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. Souffles aux Garottes [Carrot Souffles). r pint of puree of young carrots, i oz. butter, i oz. of flour, 3 eggs, a pinch of castor sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. To make the carrot puree, boil the red part of young carrots in stock or slightly salted water, and rub through a fine sieve when tender. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, stir, cook a little without browning, put in the carrot puree, and let it come to the boil, and season to taste. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, put the former in an egg-bowl, and work the latter, one at a time, into the hot puree. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix gradually into the puree. Fill some buttered ramequin cases with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot. Garottes a I’Andalouse.—Braised young carrots, finished in brown sauce enriched with port wine. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled carrots cut into neat shapes and finished in a rich white sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled new carrots (pared or turned), drained, seasoned, and finished in well-reduced white stock with a little fresh butter, thickened with a small quantity of flour and butter. ■— a la Creme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — a I’Espagnole.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in rich white stock, Espagnole sauce, flavoured with a little castor sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — a la Lilloise.—Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season ; when done, a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce, and chopped parsley is added.