THE NEW ICENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 572 and the chopped truffle. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set, turn out, dish up, and serve. Darioles de Foie-gras a la Vatel. Mask a number of small plain or fluted dariole moulds with aspic jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg (adopt one of the designs illustrated on {)age 537). Stamp or cut out some convenient shapes of foie- gras, trim ofl any particles of fat or lard, put one in each of the dariole moulds, fill up with half-set aspic, and stand on the ice until set. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cloth, and dish up on a silver or china dish. Garnish with chopped aspic and serve. Des de Foie-gras a la Strasbourgeoise. I terriiie foie-gras (size No. lo or No. 12), i large truffle, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, gill stiffly-made mayonnaise sauce, i leaf gelatine, -t gill well-reduced Madere or brown sauce, i tablespoonful double cream, i pint aspic jelly, celery salad for centre. Procure ten to twelve so-called domino or des moulds, line them with a very thin coating of aspic jelly, stamp'^out some slices of truffles to the desired shapes of the dominos. Mix sufflcient mayon- naise with a little cream and aspic to ensure its setting firmly, put a layer of this into each mould. Cut the foie-gras to the size of shape required, and set in the moulds, chop the ham, the remains of truffle, and foie-gras very finely, mix them with the sauce, warm up carefully, add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and enough aspic to form a nice consistency, then fill the moulds completely with this and place them on the ice to set. Prepare a salad with finely shredded white celery, dress it with mayonnaise and aspic, and pile it high on a round dish. Unmould the dominos and place them neatly round the dressed salad. Dominos de Dinde. These are small domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominos, coated with mayonnaise aspic or white chaud-froid sauce, and filled with slices of cooked turkey fillets, previously dipped in Madere-flavoured sauce. Dish up on a delicate celery salad and serve. Escalopes de Foie-gras a la Bagration {Goose Liver Scallops, Bagration Style). 1 medium-sized preserved goose liver (foie-gras), i gill Madeira-flavoured aspic jelly, \ gill white chaud-froid sauce, gill concentrated tomato pulp, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee sauce, a croustade border, a rice vase shape and a hitelet. Cut the foie-gras into suitable slices, mask them twice with aspic, and place them on a wire tray. Chop and pound the trim- mings finely, season with salt, pepper, and aromatics, mix with a little veloutee sauce, and shape into little balls or marbles. Coat them with chaud-froid sauce coloured with tomato pulp, and finally mask them with aspic, and keep on ice till required. Have ready