930 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in well-buttered brioche tins. Make a hollow in the centre of the paste and wet it. Divide the remainder into eight ]iarts again and shajie like pears ; put each small end downwards into the centre of the tins ; egg the surface of each, cut a few incisions with the point of a knife, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for about forty minutes. Note.—A little more sugar may be added in making the paste if the brioches are desired sweeter. Walnut Cake, 4 oz. butter, 5 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, 2 oz. chopped walnuts, 6 oz. flour (sifted), -J tcaspoonful vanilla essence, i teaspoonful baking-powder, fondant chocolate or moka icing, walnuts and glac: fruit for decoration. Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; stir in gradually the eggs, add the chopped walnuts, vanilla essence, baking-powder, and the tlour, which should be sifted and warmed. Bake in a well-buttered Hat cake-tin in a fairly hot oven. When cold, ice over with moka, chocolate, or fondant icing. Decorate the top tastefully with halves of peeled walnuts and glace fruit. Cocoanut Cake. 3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 4 oz. butter (dissolved), tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut. Beat up the eggs and sugar till light and creamlike, add by degrees the flour and the butter, which must be nearly cold, mix in the vanilla essence and cocoanut. Bake in a border or flat cake- mould (well-buttered) in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Serena Cake. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, adding also two ounces of glace fruit cut up into shreds. Mask, when baked and cooled, with rum-flavonred fondant icing, and decorate with glace fruit. Rock Cakes {Gateaux Roehers). lb. flour (sifted), 5 oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonful baking-powder, 6 oz. butter, I oz. lemon and orange peel (finely cut), i oz. currants (cleaned), I whole egg and 1 yolk, i tablespoonful of milk, -f teaspoonful grated nutmeg. Put the flour in a basin, rub in the butter till c}uite fine. Add the baking-powder, sugar, candied peel, currants, and nutmeg. ]\Ioisten with the eggs and milk, previously beaten, and work into a moderately consistent dough. Drop in little heaps on to a greased baking-tin by means of fwo forks, so that they are rocky in appearance. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Rice Cakes or Rice Buns {Gateaux de Riz). 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. oi ground rice (fecule de riz), 2 dz. flour (sifted), i teaspoonful baking-powder, 4 eggs. Cream the butter and sugar till very light. Work in the eggs, then add the ground rice, flour, and baking-jtowder. A little grated lemon-rind or essence of vanilla may be added if liked. Beat the mixture for ten minutes. Drop the dough by means of a spoon or a Savoy bag into buttered patty-pans or tartlet-moulds, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for twenty minutes.