783 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Put the fruit into a basin, boil up the syrup and ])Our over it, add the maraschino, cover, and let cool. Pour off the syrup, boil it again, and add it to the fruit. Take up the fruit and arrange it neatly in a low silver-plated souffle dish, or else in a glass or china compotiere dish. Soak in the milk the gelatine, dissolve it in a small stew-pan, add the syrup from the fruit and the Madeira wine, when hot add the juice of a lemon, a little sugar if needed, and strain into a basin. Place the basin on the ice, and stir fre- quently. Meanwhile whip the cream till stiff and mix with the above when on the point of setting, and pour carefully into the dish containing the fruit. Place the dish on the ice till required for table. Sprinkle the top with finely-chopped pistachios, and garnish with a pretty design with strips of almonds. Japonais a I’Orientale. 5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. ground or else finely chopped hazel-nuts, or, failing this, almonds, 6 oz. castor sugar, i pint a la vanille mixture (bavarois) in a plain charlotte mould, i gill double cream, i oz. vanilla sugar, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Put the whites of eggs into a clean egg-bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Work in six ounces cf sugar very gently, also the nuts or almonds, and put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain tube. Force out as many round shapes on to a slightly greased baking-tin as may be required. There should be different sizes, so that a pyramidal shape may be formed with them. Make the shapes thus (^. Sprinkle over a little castor sugar, and bake in a slow oven. When done remove the meringue shapes and let cool. Dress them on a dish with alter- nate layers of bavarois, cut from the vanilla cream, having a meringue for the bottom and for the top. Whisk the cream till stiff, flavour with vanilla sugar, and cover the whole shape with it. Decorate tastefully with halves of cherries and angelica leaves, and serve. Gelee au Vin de Bordeaux {Claret Jelly). J pint claret, i gill lemon-juice, the thinly-cut rind of lemon, 2 cloves, a piece of cinnamon, 3 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, li- oz. gelatine, 3 oz. loaf sugar, i pint water, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. Put the ingredients above named in a clean stew-pan and bring slowly to the boil, whisking all the time, then simmer for ten minutes. Strain once or twice through a cloth or jelly-bag till clear, and fill up in a large or several small moulds. Place on the ice to set. Unmould and dish up. Note.—During hot weather a little more gelatine should be added. Gelee au Vin de Champagne {Champagne Jelly). I quart water, 2^ oz. leaf gelatine, i orange, 2 lemons, 8 oz. lump sugar, pint sherry, 2 cloves, i inch cinnamon, i dessertspoonful coriander seeds, pint of champagne, 2 whites of eggs and shells. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the juice of orange and lemons, also half of the peel (cut very thin), put this, together with the other ingredients, in a stew-pan, whisk the whites of eggs.