253 lIORS-irULU VRE (ARRETISERS). of tlie rounds of pastry (croutes). Bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Brush over the surface of the border, which must l)e of a nest-like appearance, with very little dissolved meat glaze, and besprinkle this with hnely chopped pistachio kernels. In the centre force out 3 or 4 little ovals or rounds of creamed butter to represent tiny birds’ eggs. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. Fonds d’Artichauts {Artichoke Bottoms). Remove the leaves and hearts from small young green artichokes and cook the bottoms in salted and acidulated water, then cool, and drain, trim the bottoms neatly, and marinade them. Fill them with a macedoine salad, cut very small and seasoned with mayon- naise. Dish np and serve Remoulades d’Artichauts {Rcmoulade of Artichoke Bottoms). Trim neatly and drain a dozen of very small preserved artichoke bottoms. Mix half a pint of vegetable macedoine with mayon- naise sauce, blended with hnely chopped gherkins and capers, and hll the hollow parts of the artichokes. Mask the surface carefully with stiff mayonnaise, and decorate with strips of red pimiento and sliced stoned olives. Dish np and serve. Artichauts a la Macedoine. Select some very small young globe artichokes, remove the outer leaves and cook the hearts and bottoms in slightly salted water well flavoured with lemon-juice. Leave them in the liquor till cold, then drain on a sieve. Cut them into quarters and marinade them for about half an hour in lemon-jnice and salad oil. Range the artichokes in the form of a circle on a flat round dish, and fill the centre with cooked vegetable macedoine, seasoned with mayonnaise. Dress this in cone or dome shape. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Artichauts a la Vinaigrette. Proceed as above directed and dress the artichokes when cooked, cooled, drained, and marinaded, on a shallow dish, pour over some vinaigrette dressing and garnish with sprigs of parsley, Tomates aux Crevettes [Tomatoes with Shrimps). Peel 4 medium-sized ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves and remove or scoop out the interior (pulp portion) of each. Fill them with a salad composed of picked shrimps, suitably seasoned with salt, pepper, and salad dressing. Place a thinly cnt slice of cucumber on top of each. Dish up, garnish with parsley and serve. Tomates a la Tartare. Choose a dozen very small, ripe, firm, and even-sized tomatoes, steep them in hot water for a few seconds and remove their skins. With a sharp knife cut a little off the top of each tomato, and carefully scoop out a portion of the interior and place them to drain on a sieve. Mix about d pint of vegetable macedoine (carrot, turnip, and