92y PASTRY AND CONPECL lONERY. wart' pan. Work in the eggs one by one, and continue to beat the mixture for at least half an lionr. Add the fruit pre- viously cleaned, the rnm or brandy, the spices, and the ll(.)iir. When thor o n g h 1 y mixed and worked i.c. beaten up—fill into one or two well-greased and paper- lined cake-tins, bake in not too hot an oven from two to three hours, according to the size of tins used. When baked, cover witli almond jxiste, next coat all over with a layer of royal icing (see p. 139), let this set well, and lastly mask with a layer of transparent icing (see p. 138). Decorate and ornament tastefully with glace royal. Madeira Cake. 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 5 eggs, 10 oz. Hour, grated lenioii-riiid, candied orange-peel, i small glass ^Iadeira wine. Cream together the butter and sugar, add the grated rind of lialf a lemon, and work in the eggs one by one. Beat the mixture for fifteen minutes, then add the wine, and by degrees the Hour (sifted). Put the mixture into a buttered cake-tin, place one or two slices of orange-peel on top, and bake for about thirty-live minutes in a fairly hot oven. Genoa Cake. 8 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar, 12 oz. flour (sifted), 6 eggs, i teaspoonful baking-powder, i lemon, 6 oz. sultanas (cleaned), 2 oz. peeled almonds. Cream the butter and sugar together, grate the rind of the lemon and add. Work in one by one the eggs and beat well, lastly add the fruit and almonds, cut into shreds, and the baking- powder. Bake in a well-greased cake-tin from thirty-five to forty minutes. Dundee Cake. I lb. best butter, i lb. castor sugar, i 11). flour (dried and sifted), it lb. sultanas (cleaned), 12 eggs, a few almonds and caraway comfits. Cream butter and sugar together, add the eggs gradually, then the fruit and Hour. Beat for at least twenty mjnutes, and bake in well-bnttered and lined moulds, garnish the top with peeled almonds and caraway comfits. Brioches parisiennes. Prepare a brioche paste (see p. 137), when well risen, beat in two more eggs. Divide two-thircls of it into eight parts and place 8 N SUGGESTED DESIGN FOR A CAKE XOF WITH GLACE ROYAL.