THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 596 Boiled Beef or Mutton. Wipe the meat, cut off any superfluous fat, and weigh the joint. Put the meat into a stew-pan of boiling water, sufflcient to cover it. Season with salt, and let boil fast for five minutes to harden the outside. Remove the scum, add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, and let simmer gently until tender. Average time allowed for cooking is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Salted or pickled meat should be placed in cold or tepid water, and must be brought slowly to the boil. Boiled beef is served with a garnishing of cooked carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings. Boiled mutton is garnished with vegetables—i.e. carrots, turnips, and onions—and served with caper sauce. Braised Beef a la Mode {Bceuf braise a la Mode). 3 to 4 lb. rump of beef, larding bacon, a piece of lemon, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, | an onion, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart stock, 2 carrots, 8 to lO small button onions, a bouquet garni (p. 122), a glass of claret, pepper and salt. Trim the meat, which must be free from bones, insert some strips of larding bacon, place the meat in a basin, season with salt and pepper, add the lemon, wine, bay-leaf, thyme, and the onion sliced, and let it remain for several hours. Take up the meat, drain well, and fry it in butter until nicely browned. Place the meat on a dish, stir the flour into the fat, etc., in which the meat was fried, let it brown, then add the marinade, stock, and bouquet garni, let it come to a boil, and skim. Replace the beef, add the sliced carrot and onions (the latter are better if slightly fried). Simmer gently for about one and a half to two hours. Dish up the meat, skim the fat off the sauce and strain over the beef, arrange the carrots and onions in groups round the dish, and serve. A clove of crushed garlic added to the sauce at an early stage will impart a flavour which is much appreciated by connoisseurs. Piece de Boeuf braisee a la Vert-Pre [Braised Rump of Beef). Braise a piece of rump of beef, weighing from four to five pounds, in the usual manner. Prepare meanwhile the garniture vert-pre, which consists of a selection of green vegetables, such as French beans, flageolets, green peas, small timbales of spinach or chicory, cooking each one separately. Dish up the beef, whole or cut into slices, whichever is preferred, garnish the base of the dish with groups of the vegetables named, and serve with a nicely-flavoured demi-glace sauce. Aloyau de Boeuf braise.—Braised sirloin of beef. — a la Flamande.—Braised sirloin of beef, garnished with groups of garden vegetables. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised sirloin of beef, with young turnips and French carrots, glazed. Boeuf bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled salt beef, with carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings.