553 COLD ENTREES rooms into Ime strips, put these in a basin and pour o\’er the wine, also a little aspic-made liquid and mixed with the meat glaze. Now mask the inside of the prepared mould with a coating of aspic cream. Mix the remainder of aspic cream with an equal quantity of aspic jelly and pour over the sweetbread, etc. Stir this gently on the ice. When it begins to set, fill the mould with it, and allow the shape to set on the ice. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a few seconds and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Chop some set aspic jelly, and put a little round the base of the dish. Petites Croustades a la Milanaise. r lb. puff-paste, 6 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 1- pint aspic jelljf, i gill cream, i-J- gill tomato aspic (p. 142), 2 oz. cooked ham or smoked ham sausage, pepper, salt, and cayenne, i-l- teaspoonful mixed mustard. Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out six or eight rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, two inches in diameter, place these on a baking-sheet, brush over with water, sprinkle with parmesan, bake in a quick oven till a golden colour, and let them cool. Melt the aspic jelly, when cooling add the remainder of grated cheese and the seasoning, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, stir well, and mix in the cream previously wdripped, and the ham, finely chopped. Have ready six or eight very small plain dariole moulds, coat the inside well with a layer of tomato aspic, decorate with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, when set, fill up the moulds with the prepared cream, put on the ice for at least an hour, then turn out. Place the darioles on the baked pastry, decorate the sides with whipped cream, dish up, and serve. Mousse de Jambon [Cold Ham Motisse). J lb. lean cooked ham. -} pint Espagnole sauce, i gill aspic jelly, i-J- gill cream, i- oz. gelatine, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round it a band of tvhite paper to support the mousses or souffles, which should have a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must be over- filled ; pound ham and sauce together in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. Put the aspic into a basin and whisk it till it becomes light and frothy, whip up the cream and stir it b}^ degrees into the pounded mixture, season well, then strain into it + oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a few drops of cannine to give a nice pink colour, and, lastly, the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. Turn into prepared mould and put on the ice to set. When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped truffles, and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, allow to set, remove band of paper, slip the mousse into the outer souffle case, and it is ready to serve. Timbales de Jambon a la Bayonne en Gelee. Proceed the same as directed for “ Petites Chartreuses an Jambon ” (p. 457), and turn ont the moulds when cooked, place them