THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 412 Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau a I’AHemande. Breaded veal cutlets fried in butter, dressed round potato j)uree ; sauce demi-glace. — a I’Anglaise.—Breaded veal cutlets grilled or broiled, garnished with potatoes fried or tossed in butter. -- en Belle Vue.—Cold hllets or cutlets ot veal cooked and set in aspic, coated with chaud-froid sauce, garnished with truffles and vegetable jardiniere. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled veal cutlets or fillets, dished up on fried bread croutons with stewed cepes in centre ; served with sauce Bordelaise. en Crepinettes.—Veal cutlets or fillets wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with demi-glace or plain gravy. — a la Cracovie.—Broiled veal cutlets or fillets larded with strips of anchovy fillets, served with sauce Madere. — a la Dauphine.—Veal cutlets stuffed from the sides with a mixture of chopped tongue and truffles and allemande sauce, garnished with potato croquettes.; served with perigueux sauce. — a la Demi-glace.—Veal cutlets fried or grilled, served with brown, i.e. demi-glace, sauce. — a la Dreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and cooked sliced sweetbread in centre or side of dish; tomato sauce. — a I'Ecarlate.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue, served with sauce tomate. — a ritalienne.—Plain broiled veal cutlets, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, and served with Italian sauce. — a la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; garnish with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in clarified butter, and serve with a good gravy. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Marechale.—Breaded, i.e. egged and cheese-crumbed, veal cutlets fried in butter, served with bigarade sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets braised or broiled, garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and flavoured with grated parmesan cheese. — en papillotes.—Stuffed veal cutlets or fillets braised in and served in paper cases. — a la Parjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced raw veal, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with a blend of demi-glace and tomato sauce. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed with breadcrumbs mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in clarified butter ; served with tomato or demi-glace sauce. — a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread over with a mixture of chicken or veal farce, mixed with chopped truffles and finely chopped shallots ; braised in butter, and finished in white or fawn sauce. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter, served with demi-glace^sauce containing slicecl truffles and preserved sliced mushrooms.