692 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CEufs a la Benedictine.—Poached eggs, dressed on egg-shaped croustades of puff pastry, previously lined with a puree of salt cod (morue), coated with rich cream sauce and chopped truffle. — a la Bercy.—Eggs fried in butter on plates, garnished with slices of fried sausages ; tomato sauce. — a la Bohemienne.—Poached eggs on fried bread croutons, coated with bechamel sauce, and covered with finely chopped ham. — a la Bouchere.—Poached eggs placed on oval-shaped bread or pastry crusts, coated with rich cream sauce blended with beef marrow and chopped parsley. — a la Bourguignonne.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with sauteed escargots (edible vineyard snails), cut into dice, and strips of fried bacon slightly flavoured with garlic and parsley. — a la Brebant.—Poached eggs placed on rounds of puff-pastry crust, lined with foie-gras and quail puree, and coated with truffle sauce. — a la Bresilienne.—Scrambled eggs, dressed on croustades (pastry or bread, previously lined with anchovy puree) coated alternately, sauced over with tomato puree. -- a la Bretonne.—Poached eggs, dressed on a bed of haricot puree, coated with cream sauce. — a la Bruxelloise.—Poached eggs, dressed on croutons on a dish, then covered with a puree of Brussels sprouts, breaded and browned under a salamander. — a la Careme.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut into round slices, mixed with sliced truffle and artichoke bottoms, moistened with bechamel sauce, breaded and browned in the oven. — a la Cardinal.—Poached eggs placed on to oval croustades, previously lined with lobster salpicon, mixed with truffles and mushrooms coated with sauce Cardinal. — a la Chantilly.—Poached eggs placed on to tartlet crusts containing puree of green peas, coated over with green mousseline sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, farced with egg-yolk and game puree, served with poivrade sauce. — a la Chivry.—Poached eggs on puff-pastry crusts, filled with spinach and watercress puree ; sauce Chivry. — a la Clamart.—Poached eggs on tartlet crust, garnished with green peas and finely shredded braised lettuce, sauced over with cream herb sauce. — a la Cluny.—Fried eggs (sur plat), dished up on a bed of green peas, and garnished with small chicken croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Colombine.—Poached eggs, dressed on paste croustades, garnished with asparagus points and shredded truffles, sauced over with supreme sauce. — a la Cond6.—Eggs fried (sur plat), ranged on cooked red haricot beans, mixed with finely fried shredded bacon ; sauce Bordeaux. — a la Crecy.—Poached eggs placed on pastry croustades filled with rich carrot puree, and coated with cream sauce.