994 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. folded cloth invariably looks untidy ; but if the creases are long and the cross folds far apart greater smoothness is obtained. The elaborate cohmred and embroidered centre-cloths have gone out of fashion, and it is well that it should be so ; but a judicious use of tinted satins, silks, and ribbons deserves to be encouraged. Such centre-pieces, however, should be strictly proportionate to the size of the table and the style of the floral decorations. Neither in texture nor in colour should they be too prominent. Another happy innovation of the last decade or two is that table decorations are kept low. On grand banquet occasions massive silver centre-pieces, with flowers and fruit, great candelabra, and so on, are admissible ; but, as a rule, flowers and foliage are laid on the cloth, and single blossoms or small groups placed in miniature specimen glasses. Plants, except on big tables, are diminutive, the pots hidden in tiny silver or porcelain vases. The aim is that guests should always enjoy an unobstructed view. In the best houses flowers and fruit are placed on the table from the first. This certainly adds to the elegance of the general effect. Much ingenuity—and money—can be spent in working out a “ scheme of colour,” a certain tint playing a dominant note, not only in the floral decorations, but even in the garnishing of dishes. But this is a matter for exceptional adoption. Menu cards may be plain or elaborate. If plain cards are used, they are generally placed in silver frames or small holders, which sometimes take the form of china shells or mounds with slits in which the bottom of the card is placed. At informal meals a menu may be placed between two people, and this plan largely prevails in restaurants ; but at formal dinner-parties individual cards are necessary. The name cards may be placed either on the napkin or in separate holders. At the better-class hotels and restaurants plain cards with monograms or armorial bearings are usual, elaborate cards Ijeing reserved for special occasions. Individual salt cellars, preferably in cut glass, are provided in the best houses, with miniature cruets—pepper and mustard or pepper, mustard, and vinegar—placed between every two guests. Oil and vinegar cruets and sauce cruets are only brought forward when necessary. It used to be the fashion to surround a guest’s place with a formidable battle-array of forks, spoons, knives, and squads of glasses. This lavishness still prevails in some quarters, and, no doubt, when heavy dinners and quick service are demanded this practice may be excused. It is, however, now considered better style not to embarrass diners with too many articles ; so on carefully laid tables we generally find soup spoon, fish eaters, large and small forks and knives, and dessert spoon. If more forks and knives are required they are brought on with the clean plates. In the same way we now only see three glasses—sherry, champagne, and claret or tumbler—other glasses being added if required. Coloured glasses are no longer considered in good taste, White glass, plain or