523 ENrRJ&ES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Cailles en Casserole.—Quails l)raisccQwhole in firejiroof earthenware stew- pan (casserole) ; 'garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mush- rooms, button onions, truffles, tinanciere, etc. ; sent to table in the casserole. — sous la Cendre.—Trussed quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers or charcoal, the same way as potatoes ; when done remove the paper, arrange the birds neatly on a dish. Serve with a rich- brown sauce reduced with Marsala. — en Chemise.—Boned quails, stuffed with a liver farce, wrapped up, and braised rare. Served with sauce Bourguignonne. — en Compote.—Quails par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — Demidofl.—Quails braised whole en casserole, with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Quails boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — a la Georges Sand.—Quails boned, stuffed, and par-braised; when cold, rolled in puff-paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled quails, with finely-cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc. ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Mirepoix.—This consists of quails marinaded with white or red wine, vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper berries, etc., and allowed to steep for two to three hours. Braise the birds on a bed of mirepoix. Serve with marinade sauce. — an Nid.—Halved, tossed in butter, and cooked en casserole with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce ; finished with nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a la Piemontaise.—Quails braised whole, dressed in cooked rice mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras, and truffles, en casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — a la Regence.—Quails boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere ; truffle sauce. Croustades de Cailles a la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mushrooms, and liver. Dressed on fried bread crusts, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Ponding de Cailles a I’Anglaise {Quail Pudding).—Line a pudding mould with suet crust and fill it with sections of quail and thin slices of lean beef alternately, season, add stock, cover with suet crust, then boil or steam. PERDREAUX—PARTRIDGES. Perdreaux aux Champignons [Partridges with Mushrooms). 2 partridges, 4 oz. lean bacon, peppercorns, 2 cloves, 3 oz. butter, ^ lb. fresh or lb. preserved mushrooms, chopped parsley, i gill stock, seasoning, 1- lb. larding bacon, a mirepoix consisting of a small bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip ; brown or demi-glace sauce, I glass port wine, 2 oz. cooked ham, meat glaze. Untrirss the birds, and bone, leaving the end bone of the legs. Lard the breasts of the partridges with strips of larding bacon, shape them neatly. Let the mirepoix get thoroughly hot in a