844 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the maraschino. Strain this into the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add also. Fill a silver-plated or china souffle dish with this preparation. Keep it in a case well charged with ice. Dissolve about two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and when nearly cold pour it over the top of the souffle to form a layer, sprinkle the centre with desiccated cocoanut, and place a quarter of glace orange or tangerine on top. It is well to fasten a paper band round the souffle case so that it conies about an inch above the rim. This should be removed before sending it to table. Souffle glace a la Joinville. Beat up four whole eggs and three yolk^f eggs in an egg-bowl, add one pint of syrup and stir over the fire till hot and frothy, then whisk over the ice till quite cold. Whip up a pint of double cream and amalgamate with the contents in the egg-bowl. Add a few drops of lemon essence, half a glass of maraschino liqueur, and a handful of mixed glace fruit. Fill up some paper or silver-plated souffle cases, sprinkle the top with finely-grated chocolate and chopped pistachio kernels, and place in a charged ice-cabinet. Freeze thus for two hours. Send to table immediately it leaves the ice-cabinet. Petits Souffles a la Tosca. Prepare a coffee ice (Glace an Moka) as directed on page 832, flavour it with cream (whipped) and kirsch, and fill into small paper cases, freeze them in a charged ice-cave for two hours, and serve. Petits Souffles a la Fedora. Prepare a souffle as directed for Joinville Souffle, flavour it with vanilla in place of lemon, also with curagoa liqueur, and fill into small souffle cases with a mixture of glace cherries in centre. Freeze them in a charged ice-cabinet. When serving, place a glace cherry and some angelica leaves on top of each as garnish. Charlotte glacee a la Princesse. Prepare one and a half pint of rich ice-cream custard (p. 828), flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add half a gill of whipped cream, and freeze to the usual consistency for moulding. Line one or two plain charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or Savoy biscuits, and arrange them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix an ounce of finely- cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice cave for two hours. When required for table unmould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of the charlotte with CHARLOTTE ICE MOULD, whipped Cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcmg-bag with a rose tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served immediately.