The new century cookery book. 152 Put the sauce into a stcwpau, add a little water, stir until it boils, and reduce well. W'hisk in the butter a little at a time, and rub through a tammy cloth or hue hair sieve. Return to the stew- pan, add the parsley and lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt. Sauce Matelote. i pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. butter, J gill Burgundy wine, | gill Irsh stock, liquor or fuinet, ^ onion, carrot, ^ gill mushroom liquor. Peel the onion and carrot and mince very fine, fry in a little butter a nice colour, drain off the butter, moisten with the wine and mushroom liquor, let this reduce well, then add the fish stock or liquor and the espagnole. Let simmer for ten minutes, then strain through a fine strainer or cloth, add a small piece of butter, season, if necessary, with a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and keep hot. Note.—When espagnole is not handy, substitute for it oz. of flour, } oz. of butter, well blended (fried a chestnut brown), and diluted with I pint of rich brown stock ; boil well, skim and strain. Sauce Maintenon. I pint bechamel sauce, 4 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful pannesan cheese, I tablespoonful cooked onion puree, garlic, paprika pepper, nutmeg. Boil the bechamel sauce (p. 142) for about fifteen minutes, stirring continually ; add to it the yolks of eggs, parmesan cheese, cooked onion puree (Soubise), a suspicion of garlic, just enough to impart the aroma, a pinch of paprika pepper, and a little grated nutmeg (salt if needed). Stir till it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and use as required. Note.—This sauce is especially adapted for so-called gratin dishes', and must therefore be well reduced to the correct consistency. Sauce Mayonnaise. The mayonnaise is the highest type of salad dressings or salad sauces. It is a mixture of yolks of eggs, sweet oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. Its excellence depends entirely on the mode of working it up. A raw yolk of egg, when properly handled, will, when incorporated with as much as a pint of oil, produce a thick cream. Two yolks of eggs to a pint of oil is, however, the average quantity employed. In working up a mayonnaise, the oil and egg should be so thoroughly incorporated that separation of the two ingredients becomes impossible. The yolks, salt, and white pepper are first worked smooth with a wooden spoon, or spatula, in a basin (placed on ice if possible) ; then a few drops of oil and a few of vinegar are added, the stirring continued all the time, and the remainder of oil and vinegar is used up gradually. The mixture will then present a thick, smooth, and creamy appear- ance. The process of stirring is long and somewhat tedious, and if not carefully done the mixture, instead of becoming smooth, will separate or decompose in the very act of stirring. During the warm weather it is much more difficult to prepare a mayonnaise ; this is overcome by placing the basin in which the