liOTIS—ROA STS. Cailles roties en Robe de Chambre {Roast Quails). Trussed quails, barded, wrapped in plain paste-crust, and iDasted from twenty to tliirt}^ minutes, garnished with cresses and served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes bardees roties [Roast Larks). Draw and truss 8 or more larks, previously picked and singed, cover the breast with a vine-leaf and a slice of fat bacon, hie them on wooden or iron skewers, and roast them before a good lire or in a hot oven for twelve or hfteen minutes, basting them with butter during the process. When done, season with salt, untruss, and dish up on fried croutons of bread, garnish the dish with small cress or watercress, and serve with fried breadcrumbs and gravy. Perdreaux rotis a I’Anglaise [Roast Partridges, English Style). Procure a brace of well-hung partridges ready trussed for roasting. Hang them before a brisk hre and baste well with oiled butter. They will require about thirty minutes to cook, and need occasional basting. When done, untruss, dish up on a piece of roasted or fried bread, garnish with a handfuf of well-washed and picked watercress and fried breadcrumbs. Serve with gravy and bread sauce (p. 143). Jeunes Perdreaux rotis sur socle. Young roast partridges dished up on a socle of fried bread with the usual accessories, Capercalzie or Capercailzie. This bird belongs to the grouse family. It possesses a peculiar flavour of its own, and can be cooked in the same manner as directed for grouse or pheasant. Capercailzie is the largest of the game or gallinaceous birds of Europe; the bircf is commonly known as “ The Cock of the Wood,” being generally the size of a small turkey. Truss it for roasting the same as a turkey or fowl, and roast in front of a hre or bake in the oven. Serve with bread sauce, gravy, and brown breadcrumbs. Garnish with watercress, Fried Breadcrumbs. Served with Roast Birds. Put three ounces of fresh breadcrumbs in a frying- or omelet- pan with about an ounce of butter. Fry over the hre a light brown colour, stirring continually, and place on a sieve for a few minutes before the hre to drain. Season with a pinch of paprika. Lievre roti [Roast Hare). Skin, draw, and truss a hare, roast it in the usual way, and baste frequently. A moderate-sized hare will take from one to one and a half hour to cook. It should be well done, not saignant. When cooked, untruss it and dish up. Make a nice gravy with the essence in the dripping-pan and some rich brown stock, havour it with a little red-currant jelly, and pour it round the base of the dish. Red-currant jelly shonld be served with roast hare. stuffed hare will require longer cooking. The stuffing usually consists of chopped suet, breadcrumbs, onion, and mixed herbs.