9M THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Gateau des Dames {Lady Cake). 12 oz. castor sugar, lo oz. butter. 6 oz. ground almonds, 8 whites of eggs, 12 oz. flour, I small glass of rum, fondant icing (see p. 138) or royal icing. Cream the sugar with the butter, add the almonds and the rum. Wliisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and sift the flour, add both gradually to the above. Fill into one or two buttered flat cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When cold, mask the top and sides with fondant icing and decorate with royal icing—i.c. glace royale—according to taste. Note.—During the process of baking the oven should be opened as little as possible. Imperiales. Split a flat Genoese cake in two crossways, spread over the cut side with pineapple jam, previously warmed. Sandwich together, and mask over the surface with white or coloured fondant icing. Cut the pastry into diamond or crescent-shaped pieces ; put them on a baking-sheet and allow the icing to set at the front of the oven. Decorate according to taste and fancy with royal icing and glace cherries and angelica. French Tea Biscuits. 12 oz. flour (sifted), 3 yolks of eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, orange- flower water, granulated sugar, shredded almonds or pistachios, royal icing. Put the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre, put in the yolks of eggs, sugar and butter, and work into a smooth paste by means of a few drops of milk and orange-flower water. The paste when finished should be in appearance and consistency the same as short-crust paste. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick and stamp out some rounds or ovals according to taste and fancy. Place these on a greased baking-tin. Spread each with a thin layer of icing to which a little orange-flower water has been added, strew over with chopped pistachio nut or almonds, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. As they come out of the oven, brush over with liquid icing, which will set as the biscuits get cool. Afternoon Tea Cakes. i lb. flour, I oz. Brown & Poison’s patent cornflour, 3 oz. castor sugar, I egg, |- gill milk, ] teaspoonful lemon essence, J teaspoonful Royal baking- powder, 2 oz. sultanas, i oz. finely-cut orange peel, 4 oz. butter. Sift the cornflour and baking-powder and mix with the flour. Cream the butter, sugar, and eggs, clean the sultanas, add them with the peel to the mixture. Stir in the milk and beat up for several minutes, then add the lemon essence. The mixture should be similar in texture to an ordinary cake dough. A little more milk may be added if found necessary. Three-parts fill some buttered madeleine or tartlet tins with the mixture, brush the tops with milk, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes.