DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIIeS {HOI). 26 Paupiettes de Saumon a la Reine. Prepare a lish farce, consisting of -I lb. salmon and i lb. of whiting, free from skin and bones, 4 oz. lish roe (preferably fresh cod roe), 6 oz. butter, 3 whites of eggs, ^ lb. of soft bread soaked in milk and pressed, cream, and seasoning to taste. The farce must be rubbed through a fine sieve, and tested before use. Out of a large cucumber cut 10 or more olive shapes, poach these, and drain, and toss in butter. Butter 10 egg-shaped or very small timbale-shaped cpienelle moulds, fill these with the prepared farce, placing a cuciTinber shape in the centre of each. Next poach them carefully, when done unmould and let cool. Cut as many thin slices of salmon as there are cpienelles (mous- selines), roll each into a slice of salmon, and tie up with thin twine. Place these in a saute-pan on a bed of mirepoix of bacon, onion, butter, and fish fume. Season lightly with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little stock and white wine (Chablis), cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. With the remainder of farce prepare a border made in a plain border mould (buttered), and steam. Turn this out on to a hot flat dish. Range the mousselines on top, removing the twine, and sauce over with a hot ravigote sauce mixed with cucumber puree, the latter being made from the remains of cucumber, and sauteed in butter, then rubbed through a fine sieve. Croquettes de Saumon {Salmon Croquettes). I lb. cooked salmon, -1- lb. cooked potatoes, 2 eggs, i shallot, i oz. butter, t gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, fat to fry. Free the fish from skin and bones, and break into small flakes. Rub the potatoes through a sieve whilst hot, peel and chop the shallot and fry in hot butter without browning. Add the fish, potatoes, and cream, stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed, beat and add an egg to the mixture, stir long enough to bind. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, add the parsley, mix well, and turn on a plate to cool. Divide the preparation into six or eight even portions, mould them into cemk or cutlet shapes, egg, crumb, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve w'ith piquante or tomato sauce. Pate de Saumon a I’Homard {Salmon Pie loith Lobster). About li lb. .salmon, i lolister, i oz. butter, t ])lut bechamel sauce (p. 142), I truffle, I hard-boiletl egg, 6 to 8 small fish quenelles (p. 177), jHiff-paste, seasoning, i yolk of raw egg. Wfipe the salmon, and cut it into three or four slices. Cut the lobster in half, pick out the flesh and chop it small, mix this with the sauce, and season with pepper and very little nutmeg. Butter a pie-dish (medium size), put in a layer of the above mixture, then a slice of salmon, season with salt and pepper, cover with mixture and continue until the fish is used up, jilacing a slice or two of hard-