AI'TER-niXXF.R S.-n'OrRIRS. S<):, Huitres en Brochettes [Grilled Oysters on Skeu’ers).—Beard tlic required number of oysters, dip them in oiled and seasoned lintter, and cover with fresh Irreadcrnmhs, then fasten on skewers, and grill them over the lire. Dish them up with skewers stuck in fried bread croCitons, and garnish with lemon slices and fresh jiarsley. — en Cassolettes (Oyster Cassolettes).—Beard the oysters and range them in threes or fours, in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, season with salt and pepper, and add two or three prawn tails ; moisten each with piquante or demi-glace sauce, and cook thus in the oven. Dish up, and serve hot. — a la Colbert.—These are marinaded oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil, and served with Sauce Colbert. — a I’Horly,—^Marinaded oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in dee}) fat ; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; served with tomato sauce. — a ITtalienne.—Soused or marinaded oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omelette- pan with clarified butter ; serve with nut-lirown butter. — a la Normande [Stewed Oysters, Normandy Style).—This dish consists of a ragofit of oysters, crayfish tails, and sliced truffles, mi.xed with Sauce Normande. Heat up thoroughly and serve in small china casseroles. — a la Villeroi.—Poach the bearded oysters in fish stock ; drain them and coat each with reduced bechamel sauce, then egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in sweet oil. Drain, dish up, and garnish with lemon quarters and parsley. Petits Flans au Camembert.—Line a number of very small pastry (flan) rings with thinly rolled-out nouflle paste (p. 131.) and bake them (blind) to a light golden colour. Place them on a sieve to cool. Cut the rind from a fairly firm Camembert and cut up the cheese ; put it in a stew-pan with r oz. of butter, 3-4 tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir till all is well blended and of a cream-hke consistency. Next stir in three egg-yolks, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. Whisk the whites of two eggs lightly and stir in also. Fill the prepared cases with this, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes, then dish up and serve hot.