SOUPS (POTAGES). 187 Consomme de Volaille frappe {Clear Chicken Soup, Iced). 1 large fowl, 2 lb. knuckle of veal, 2 lb. shin of beef, a bouquet garni, 2 carrots, i turnip, 10 peppercorns, i onion, 2 cloves, i stem of celery, 2 leeks, I bay-leaf, parsley, i glass sherry, -f- glass brandy. Put into a stock-pot the fowl, veal, beef, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and about one and a half gallons of water. Bring it slowly to the boil, skim well, add the bouquet garni, carrots, turnip, pepper- corns, onion stuck with cloves, celery, leeks, bay-leaf, parsley, and let all boil gently for about hve hours. Take out the fowl when done, so that it can be made further use of. Remove the fatty substance from the top, strain through a wet napkin or a hne hair sieve, and clarify in the usual manner. When strained the second time, allow it to cool, and set on the ice until required. Before sending to the table season to taste, and add the sherry and brandy. Consomme de Volaille {Clear Chicken Soup). I fowl, if. lb. lean veal, 2 lb. lean beef, i onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, i stick of celery, 2 leeks, 3 cloves, i parsley root, 2 gallons of water, salt. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, preserve the giblets, clean and wash and put them with the fowl, beef, and veal in a stock-pot, add two tablespoonfuls of salt and the water. Put it on the fire, when nearly boiling take off the scum. Skin the onion, stick in the cloves, scrape the carrots, peel the turnip, clean the celery, leeks, and. parsley, and tie together in a bunch. When the stock is well skimmed and boiling, put in the vegetables, and let the whole simmer gently for hve hours. The fowl may be taken out when done, and be used up in some form or the other. If care is taken in preparing this soup it will be quite clear and ht for serving when strained through a wet cloth, but if found cloudy clarify it as directed on p. 131, taking only half the quantity of meat and vegetables given in the recipe. Consomme aux Quenelles de Volaille {Clear Soup with Chicken Quenelles).—Prepare a consomme as above directed, shape some very small quenelles from chicken farce (p. 181) by means of a small teaspoon, poach them in stock or consomme and add to the soup. Bouillon de Volaille a I’Orge {Chicken Broth with Barley). Chicken trimmings, 2 oz. butter, 2 quarts of good white stock, i oz. pearl barley, parsley or chives. Chop up the carcases, necks, and heads of two or three chickens, fry in the butter until nicely browned, then pour off the butter, and pour in two quarts of good clear veal or chicken stock. Simmer for one hour, skim and strain, pour into another stewpan, and let come to the boil. Wash the pearl barley, and add to the soup when boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, simmer for fifteen minutes, add a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. Consomme a la Deslignac. For 2 quarts of chicken or game coii.somme : 3 eggs, -1- gill cream, t gill stock (game), t gill asparagus points, t- gill cooked green peas, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg.