THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2/0 the oven till done. Take up the fish, place them in the form of a circle on a dish, and keep hot. Put the sauce and remainder of wine in the saute-pan with the fish liquor, cook for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain through a tammy. Slice the truffles, beard the oysters, and cut them in halves. Heat these with the crayfish or prawn tails in a little stock, or toss them in butter. Place them in the centre of the dish and pour the sauce carefully over the whole. Limandes en Souchet [Souchct of Flounders). 4 to 6 flounders, 2 small onions, i bouquet garni (p. 122), carrot, J turnip, I slice of parsnip, 10 peppercorns, fish stock or water, salt, parsley, thinly cut brown bread and butter, lemon. Trim the fish, and place them in a saute-pan, season with a good pinch of salt, add the onions cut in slices, the bouquet of herbs, and peppercorns, cover with stock or water, allow it to boil, and let simmer slowly for about ten minutes. Cut the carrot, turnip, and parsnip into fine strips (julienne shapes), and cook till tender in fish stock or salted water. Take up the flounders, dish up neatly on a deep entree dish. Strain the liquor, and if found cloudy clarify with raw white of egg. Blanch and chop a little parsley, strain the vegetables, add to the fish liquor, pour this over the fish, sprinkle over with parsley. Garnish with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with brown bread and butter, which is handed round along with the fish. Note.— Soles and almost any white fish may be served as souchet. A souchet is usually served in hot soup-plates ; one small flounder or half a large one is reckoned as one portion. BARBUE AND BROCHET-^BRILL AND PIKE. Fillets de Barbue a la Grand Due. • I large brill, i lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. i dessertspoonful of mixed chopped parsley and chives, veloutee sauce, i egg, breadcrumbs, 2 oz. butter, I dessertspoonful finely grated horse-radish, i tablespoonful well- reduced tomato pulp, I tablespoonful cream, 12 mussels, 6 oysters. Remove the dark skin of the brill, fillet it, cut each fillet into neat pieces of convenient size, and trim them neatly. Place them in a large earthenware dish, season with pepper and salt, a few drops of lemon-juice, and add the sweet oil and parsley and chives. Allow the fillets to soak for at least one hour. Have ready some well-reduced veloutee sauce (p. i6i), let it cool a little, then dip each fillet in the sauce so as to well mask them. ^^Ten the sauce has set, cover with fine breadcrumbs, then dip in beaten egg and ernmb again. Shape and smooth the fillets. Heat the butter in a sante-pan, fry the fillets lightly on both sides, drain them on a cloth, dish them up in a circular row on a round dish, and keep hot. Warm up a gill of veloutee sauce, add the horse-radish, tomato pulp, and cream ; when hot, pnt in the cleaned and blanched mussels and bearded oysters, let these get thoroughly hot, but do not let