129 ELEMENTARY METHODS. ciently cooked they begin to absorb water. Keep the vegetables hot in a dish over hot water till required for serving. Overdone or underdone vegetables are injurious to health. To Blanch Vegetables.—Vegetables are usually blanched in order to extract some of their bitter flavour or to soften them. Parsley, tarragon, chervil, onions, shallots, etc., are best blanched by plunging them several times into boiling water. All vegetables, etc., required to be blanched are put on the hre in cold water, and must be brought quickly to the boil, and then be drained and cooled in cold water. How to Tammy Purees and Sauces.—Meat and vegetable purees, bisques, as well as creams and sauces, are frequently strained through a tammy cloth, so as to render them as smooth or creamlike as possible. To effect this process two persons are needed, who take hold of the tammy cloth on both ends ; the liquid or puree to be passed is then poured in the cloth, each holds a wooden spoon with the right hand and the end of the cloth with the left hand, and both spoons are pressed backwards and forwards, in regular motion, till the bulk of the liquid has passed through. To Blanch Rice, etc.—Rice, macaroni, etc., should always be blanched before it is cooked. Rice should be picked and washed in several waters. It is put on the fire with plenty of cold water to well cover. It must be brought quickly to the boil and then put into a sieve to drain, allowing cold water to run over so as to cool it. To Clarify Fat. —Cut the fat (beef or sheep’s kidney suet is best for frying purposes) into pieces about half an inch in size ; remove any coarse skin, etc., which may be on the fat, put the pieces in an iron stewpan, add about one gill of cold water to every pound of fat, cook over a slow fire, stir from time to time to prevent it from burn- ing : when*sufficiently cooked, which will be seen when it ceases to froth and the liquid is quite clear, move it to the corner of the stove to cool a little, then strain through a sieve. Frying in Fat or Oil.—Successful frying depends upon the fat being perfectly hot, the use of clean utensils, the heat being properly maintained, and, above all, plenty of clean and good fat. Anything that is fried should be served directly it is taken from_the fire and well drained. Fried dishes should never be covered over, for that renders them soft or else tough. To Clarify Butter.—Put the butter in a stewpan or sautepan, let it dissolve and cook slowly, then skim off the scum and all impurities. The butter is read^/ for straining as soon as a blue smoke appears. Strain through a fine hair sieve or pointed strainer into a basin, let it stand to settle, then pour gently into another basin so as to keep out the sediment. Liquid Caramel.—Put a pound of loaf, castor, or moist sugar into a copper stewpan or sugar-boiler. Add about half a gill of water, and let it dissolve ; stir over a slow fire and cook until a dark brown colour ; when a whitish smoke appears it is a sign that the sugar is I