467 ENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). on a buttered plate, and let cool. Divide the mixture into six portions, shape into Hat rounds slightly hollowed in the centre, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Supreme de Canard a la Marquise [Supreme of Duck). I large duck, 2-ji oz. lean beef, 2-3 oz. poultry livers, i oz. panade, 2 yolks of eggs, slices of fat bacon, onions sliced, cream, i pint brown sauce, a glass of port wine, truffles, mushroom heads, asparagus points. Butter a saute-pan and line it with strips of fat bacon and slices of onion, and fry for a few minutes without browning. Remove the fillets and wing portions of a large duck, skin them, and place in the saute-pan. Pound the remainder of meat of the duck with the beef and poultry liver, and make into a farce with the panade, or a milk-soaked roll of bread, the usual seasoning, cream, and egg-yolks. Put the farce into a buttered border, mould and steam for aboift forty minutes. With the carcase of duck prepare a fumet, add half a pint of brown sauce, cook, strain into a saute-pan, add the duck fillets and the port-wine, cover, and cook slowly for about forty minutes. Take up the fillets, trim them a little, and reduce the sauce, adding a little cream and the needful seasoning. Dress the fillets, cut into slices, in the centre of the prepared border on a hot dish, sauce over carefully and garnish with neat groups of truffies cut into slices, mushroom heads, and asparagus points, all previously heated in butter and seasoned. Caneton braise a la Bourgogne [Braised Duckling). I good-sized duckling, 6 small button onions, i carrot sliced, 3 or 4 slices of bacon, i'small bunch herbs, i glass Burgundy, i gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, mashed potatoes, i egg-yolk, i teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 2 slices of lemon. Prepare the duckling, and stuff it with a puree of potatoes previously mixed with egg-yolk and powdered herbs, and highly seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with the bacon, sliced carrot, and onions, previously peeled and browned in a little butter. Add two thin slices of lemon, and place the duckling on top. Moisten with half the wine. Brown the duckling in the oven, and add the remainder of wine and a little stock, then braise