90 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. unwholesome of all acids. When present in the stomach a gas is formed which causes heartburn. It is difficult to cook food in fat, i.e. to fry it, because it ought to be made at least twice as hot as boiling water before it is fit for use. Indeed, some fats make the quicksilver in the thermometer rise to 600° or 700° Fahr. When the dry frying method is employed, the frying-pan should be frequently moved about to prevent the articles fried from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Shallow and deep frying-pans or kettles should be made of strong iron with thick bottoms. There are two modes of frying : 1. Dry frying, which is frying in as little fat as possible, adapted for small pieces of meat, vegetables, etc. 2. Deep or wet frying, which is done in a deep pan containing at least as much fat as will cover whatever is being fried. This method is used for various kinds of fish, meat mixtures, paste mixtures, etc., but whatever is fried in this way must be coated either with flour, batter, eggs or crumbs. This is done to prevent the heat of the fat from entering into the substance fried. Brillat-Savarin declares that “ the beauty of a good fry is in carbonising or browning the surface by sudden immersion—the process known as the surprise. It forms a sort of vault to enclose all that is valuable, prevents the fat from reaching it, and concen- trates the juices so as best to develop the alimentary qualities.” Beef and mutton suet cut up very small, clarified, and strained, is used in most kitchens for frying purposes, though lard and oil will answer equally well, but in some cases these are not found quite so suitable. The light-coloured dripping obtained from roasting meat, and the clean fat taken off stocks, if clarified with the suet, are in a way preferable to anything else for ordinary frying. Frying in lard is best adapted for the more bulky articles. Oil is largely used for frying on the Continent, but more especi- ally in France and Italy, and of late years it has come into favour in this country. Oil requires more careful handling than either of the above fats, and needs to be warmed up over a gentle fire to prevent it from rising or boiling over (300°-400°). Butter is sometimes used for deep frying, but it is hardly suit- able, because it gets hot too quickly (150°), and is apt to burn before the article to be fried is done. Average Degrees of Heat required for Frying— Butter boils at 150 degrees of Fahrenheit. Lard ,, 210 Suet ,, 220 Goose fat, etc. 360 Oil 390 to 400