830 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Glace a la Grappe de Muscat [Muscat Grape Ice). 6 oz. muscatel grapes, pint cream, the juice of a lemon, i white of egg, I liqueur-glass chartreuse, i glass sherry (if liked), i gill syrup. Mash the grapes with being previously removed, this ice.) a wooden spoon, add the syrup, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Strain the lemon-juice into the pulp, put all in a freezer, freeze partially, and mix in the cream, slightly whipped, the white of egg whisked to a stiff froth, and the liqueur, and wine, if liked. Finish freezing, mould or serve roughly dressed. - A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded, the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes (An asparagus mould is also suitable for Glace Plombiere'a la Japonaise [Japanese Almond Ice). Prepare a custard with one pint and a half of milk, eight yolks of eggs, and one ounce of sugar, stir the custard over the fire to bind the yolks, pass through a hair sieve, add three ounces of apricot marmalade, six ounces of ground almonds, one glass of kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. When cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and four ounces of powdered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner, in moulding put a small quan- tity of apricot marmalade in the centre. Serve with small ratafia biscuits round the dish. Glace aux Praises [Strawberry-Water Ice). Ip lb. small ripe strawberries, i lb. loaf sugar, p pint cream, i pint of water, 2 lemons, 14 lb. ice, 4 lb. freezing salt. Pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve, and add the lemon-jnice, which should be strained. Boil up the sugar and water, skim, mix with the fruit pulp, add the cream, and let cool. Freeze the mixture in the ordinary way. Fill one or more suitable moulds, seal hermetically, and bury in a pail of broken ice mixed with salt for about two hours. Glace a la Creme de Praises [Strawberry Cream Ice). I pint vanilla cream (p 828), i lb. ripe strawberries, 4 oz. castor sugar, the juice of 1 a lemon, a few drops of liquid carmine. Pass the fruit through a tammy or hair sieve, add the sugar, strained lemon-juice, and sufficient carmine to give it a pink tint. Mix with the vanilla cream or custard, and freeze. Mould and pack away in the ice till required.