FARINACEOUS DISHES. 671 Croquettes de Semoule {Semolina Croquets). I lb. semolina or coarse-grained llorador, i pint of milk, 3 eggs, i oz. of grated parmesan, i oz. of butter, breadcrumbs, frying fat, pepper and salt. Let the milk and butter boil up, stir in the semolina, cook slowly for twenty minutes, season with a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, add three yolks of eggs, and the cheese, beat up well and spread on a flat clish to cool. Stamp out into shapes (oblong or round), dip in beaten egg, crumb well, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, strain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pain de Semoule a la Tomate [Semolina and Tomato Shape). 4 oz. semolina or florador, i pint milk, \ pint tomato pulp, 2 eggs, 3 fresh tomatoes, i bay-leaf, i small blade mace, i oz. grated cheese, i piece celery, pepper and salt, i oz. butter, -t oz. cornflour. Put half a pint of milk into a stew-pan, add bay-leaf, mace, and celery. When boiling stir in the semolina or florador, work this over the fire until it thickens, then add the grated cheese, half an ounce of butter, and half a gill of tomato pulp. Season to taste, stir, and cook gently for at least ten minutes. Take out the bay- leaf, mace, and celery, let the mixture cool a little. Stir the yolks into the mixture, beat the whites to a stiff froth and add also. Have ready one large or several small well-buttered timbale moulds. Blanch, peel, and slice the tomatoes. Three-parts fill the mould with the mixture and the sliced tomatoes in alternate layers. Put the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for at least thirty minutes. Mi.x the remainder of the milk with the cornflour, pour into a stew-pan, add the remainder of tomato pulp, boil up while stirring, season to taste, and cook for five minutes. Llnmould the shape on to a hot dish, strain over the prepared sauce, and serve. Petits Cannelons au Florador [Florador Rolls). -2- lb. nouille paste, 4 oz. florador, i oz. butter, i pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, i egg, 2 slices cooked liam or tongue, breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, frying fat or butter. Boil the milk and butter in a stew-pan, sprinkle in the florador, stir, and cook gently for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese, a pinch of salt, pepper to taste, and spread the mixture on a flat dish. Roll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, put a strip of ham or tongue in the middle of each, wet the edges a little, and roll each piece neatly so that the paste completely envelopes the mixture. Beat up the egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in breadcrumbs, when dry, egg and crumb again, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a nakpin or lace paper, garnish with parsley. Raviolis a ITtalienne. 1 lb. nouille paste, salt and pepper, about 6 oz. fish or liver farce, i t gill good tomato sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, ^ oz. butter. Prepare the paste as in " Nouilles au Gratin.” Roll it out as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the*’size of a half