THE NEW- CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 312 Prepare a pate-crust as follows : Rub the flour and lard together until quite smooth, add one yolk of egg and a little cold water, and knead into a stiff paste, keep on the ice for an hour; then knead ae-ain. roll out about half an inch thick and line the inside of a well- buttered raised pie-mould (placed on a greased baking-tin), press the paste firmly against the sides, and line with buttered paper. Trim the edges, fill up with rice or dried peas, lay a piece of buttered paper on top, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with same. Trim the edges, ornament it neatly with a pastry- pincher or otherwise, brush the top with yolk of egg, and decorate according to fancy, with fanciful cuts of paste, leaf-shapes, stars, crescents, etc., brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven for about an hour. Cut round the inside of the edge and lift up the cover, remove the rice or peas and paper, and brush the inside with egg, take off the mould and keep the crust in a warm place until wanted. Skin the sole and eel, remove the fillets from the sole, and shape them in a twist, bone the eel, and cut it into pieces. Put the fish in a stewpan with the wine, one gill water, the sliced onion, cloves, and garlic, season to taste, cover, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Lift out the fish, and keep hot. Brown the flour in an ounce of butter, moisten with the liquor of the fish, and a little fish stock. Stir and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain, add the anchovy- essence, a little lemon-juice, heads of mushrooms, the tails of prawns or shrimps, and the button onions fried in butter and finished in the oven till tender, let the whole get thoroughly heated, then put in the fish. Heat again, arrange the whole neatly in the pie-crust, put on the cover, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Timbales de Poisson a la Marigny [Fish Timbales). Butter 8 to lo small dariole moulds and place a slice of truffle at the bottom of each. Line with a well-prepared white fish farce, fiavonred with lobster bntter. Fill the centre with a salpicon com- posed of prawn or crayfish tails, blanched herrings’ roes, and truffles, moistened with allemande sauce, cover each mould with more fish farce, and poach in the bain-marie in the oven for aboxit twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up neatly in the form of a crown, and ponr a well-prepared hollandaise sauce (p. 150), flavoured and coloured with prawn or crayfish butter, in the centre. Serve hot. Ponding de Poisson [Fish Pudding). Take a pound of cooked white fish, turbot, cod, haddock or whiting, free it from skin and bones. Chop finely 3 to 4 ounces of R.\ISED PIE MOULD.