DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 301 -Souffle d’Eperlans {Souffle of Smelts). 12 medium-sized smelts, i small whiting, i tahlcspoonful well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), i white of egg, i truffle, oz. butter, | gill cream, seasoning, Joinville sauce (p. 151). Wipe the smelts with a damp cloth, bone them, skin and bone the whiting, pound both smelts and whiting in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pep])cr, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. As all the ingredients used must be as cold as possible to prevent curdling, it is best to keej) them on the ice till wanted. Incorporate the white of egg, and rub all through a line hair sieve. Whip about a cpiarter of a gill of double cream, and mix this with the above. Keep the basin containing the farce on the ice whilst stirring in the cream. Grease a plain timbale or charlotte mould with clarified butter, decorate the bottom with fancifully-cut slices of truffle, arrange in the form of a pretty border or rosette. Three-parts hll the mould with the preparation, and poach in the usual manner. PETONCLES—SCALLOPS, ETC. Petoncles en Fricassee {Scallops in White Sauce). Wash 18 scallops or escalops, as these are often called. Washing in this instance is absolutely necessary, because they are often found to be gritty. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient milk and water to cover, add a small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, also half a bay-leaf and a pinch of salt, and boil for hfteen minutes. Take up, strain, and finish cooking in white sauce (p. 163). An extra piece of fresh butter or a tablespoonful of cream should be added at the finish. For the seasoning a tiny pinch of cayenne or a grate of nutmeg is recommended. Petoncles a la Provengale {Scallops in Provencale Style). 18 scallops, -1- pint of white stock, 2 oz. of butter, i- gill cream, i small onion, 2 shallots, i oz. flour, 3 yolks of eggs, 3 mushrooms. Put the scallops in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and cook for ten minutes. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch them in water, and drain. Put them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, cook until light brown, add the flour, stir a few minutes over the fire, moisten with scalloji liquor and the stock, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Stir in the yolks of eggs one at a time, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, put in the scallops, let them get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow the sauce to boil. Mix in the cream just before serving, dress the scallops neatly on a dish, pour the remaining sauce round them, garnish the dish with tleurons of puff-pastry, and serve. Petoncles au Gratin. Pre})are and cook the scallops as above directed, dress in dome- shape on a buttered gratin-dishi sauce over thickly with the sauce, then sprinkle over with breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, place a few small bits of butter here and there on the surface, and