ENTRiLES OE POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISLIES). 471 Canetons a la Saint-Mande.—Braised ducklings, finished in Madere sauce, garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie-crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and par-braised fillets of duck, baked in the oven. — braise d la Franpaise.- Braised duck (breast larded), stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions, and savoury herbs ; served with port wine sauce. — a I’lrlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed duck, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port w'lie sauce. — a ritalienne.—Par-roasted duck, cut up, fried in oil, with cho})ped chives, parsley and herbs, stewed in Italian sauce. — a la Nivelle.—Boned duck, stuffed with chopped ham and beef made into forcemeat, braised, cut up, and sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Nivernaise.—Par-roasted duck, cut up and braised, with glazed turnips and demi-glace sauce. — aux Olives farcies.—Par-roasted duck, cut up and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. --saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried portioms of duck, or tossed in butter, then stewed in demi-glace sauce, and garnished with crayfish tails. — a la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions of duck removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. — a la ProvenQale.—Broiled duck, stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with braised carrots, turnips, and button onions. — a la Reforme.—Par-roasted duck, stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black-currant jelly and port wine. — a la Rouennaise.—Duck roasted “ rare ” and served with brown sauce containing finely chopped duck liver, duck juice, and shallots. (Ducklings or clucks can be served in the same manner as a roast by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, cho})ped parsley and shallots, egg and fresh butter.) Salmis de Canetons a la Vincent.—Ducklings stewed in a thin brown sauce. A well-flavoured Espagnole sauce, blanched green grapes, and a little red-currant jelly, are added as a garnish. The sauce is finished with a little fresh butter just before the grapes are added. DIE—GOOSE. Note.—In all cases where the bird is cooked whole it may if desired be served as Remove (Releve) Oie braisee, Sauce au Celeri {Braised Goose with Celery Sauce). Truss a goose in the same manner as for roasting, place it on a bed of vegetables (carrot, onion, celery, bay-leaf, beets, and slices of bacon) in a large braising-pan, season with salt and pepper, and put in the oven with about an ounce of butter spread on top of the