48o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chapon du Mans a la Marechale.—Capon, braised white, dressed on a bed of cooked rice, sauced over with supreme sauce, garnished with cocks’ combs, mushroom-heads, truffle slices, and sweetbread. — a la Perigueux.—Boned capon stuffed with foixemeat and chopped truffles, roasted or braised ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Piemontaise.—Roast capon stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and well-reduced tomato puree 6r tomato paste. — braise a la St. Cloud.—Braised capon (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon) ; Madeira sauce. — en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed ; finished in supreme sauce and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. Quenelles de Chapon a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, centre hlled with chojiped truffles and mushrooms, served with a brown truffle sauce. Timbales de Chapon a la Princesse.—Timbales of capon forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles ; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde braisee a la Chicoree.—Braised pullet with stewed endive or chicory. — a la Doria.—Pullet or large Surrey fowl stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on socle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, and sauced over with supreme sauce. — a la Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole and braised with a rich brown sauce flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slices of foie-gras, and truffles. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. farcie a la Perigueux.—Pullet stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — en Petit-Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde, with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst Irraising ; cut uj) and finish cooking in veloutee sauce. — bouillie a la Turque.—Boiled pullet, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. Poulet en Casserole {Casserole of Chicken). Trim a tender fowl the same as for boiling or braising, and rub the skin well with the cut side of a lemon. Take an earthenware braising-pot, large enough to hold the fowl, put in two to three ounces of butter, three or four button onions, peeled and stuck with two cloves, and a full bouquet garni (this means with ever}’ herb to hand, but very little of each), add to this a handful of bacon cut into dice. Allow to get hot, put in the fowl, cook very gently on the stove for about one hour, baste the fowl frequently and turn it from time to time. When done pour off the fat, season the