set, turn out, dish up, and serve. COLD ENTREES. 587 Mask the bottoms of six or eight small moulds with aspic and decorate them with truffles or peas, mix the remainder of aspic with the cream, coat the inside of the moulds with this, and stand on the ice to set. Free the game from skin and sinew's, cut the ham and game into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add sauce and the yolk of egg, season with a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and rub through a hne sieve. Chop the remainder of the truffle finely, mix with the above mixture, add the remainder of aspic and cream while the latter is liquid, fill up the moulds, cover with a layer of aspic, and place on the ice. M’hen thoroughly Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse {Terrine of Game). This dish forms one of the most delicious delicacies, and is very popular in Switzerland and France. The dish is suitable for a cold entree, as a ball si:pper dish, or for other occasions wdrere a cold collation is desired. Almost any kind of game can be used — pheasant, partridge, snipe, hare, or venison. Free the meat from bone, skin, and gristle, weigh it and allow' half its weight in fresh pork (lean and fat). For two pounds of game use one pound of pork. Pass these twice through a mincing machine, or chop very finely by hand, then pound in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. Peel and chop finely four to six small shallots, fry them a golden colour in one ounce of butter, add six finely crushed juniper berries and a small glass of cognac, a gill of red wine (claret or Burgundy). Cover the pan in w'hich this is put and let boil fast for three minutes. Add it to the farce (pounded and sieved meat), season w'ith salt, white pepper, mignonette pepper, paprika, a little ground mace and grated nutmeg, about a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning, and mix thoroughly. Line a fireproof tureen W’ith thin slices of fat bacon. Place in a layer of farce, and fill up the tureen with alternate layers of raw' ham and farce. The top layer should be of thin slices of fat bacon. Put the tureen in a moderate oven and bake for one and a quarter hour. Pour off the fat W'hich will have accumulated on the top of the meat. When cold, pour over a sufficient quantity of w'ell-rednced aspic or savoury jelly. The top may, if liked, be decorated with fancifully-cut slices of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles. Bordure de Lievre a la Bergere [Border of Hare). I small hare, f lb. fresh pork, lb. bacon, 2 truffles, 2 oz. butter, 6 oz. panade, 3 eggs, 3 shallots, i glass Madeira, i gill aspic jelly, i hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Remove the breasts and the fleshy parts of legs of the hare. SUGGESTED DECORATIONS.