234 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Zephyrs de Homard a la Russe. Remove the shell from a small lobster, chop the meat finely and pound in a mortar with a gill of bechamel sauce and ^ gill of cream, then rub through a fine sieve. Add a little tomato pulp, season with salt, pepper, and paprika to taste, and incorporate ^ pint of semi-liquid aspic. Have ready a number of very small bouche or other suitable moulds, mask them with aspic and decorate them with strips of hard-boiled white of egg and truffle. When set fill up the moulds with the prepared mixture, and place on the ice to set. Unmould the shapes and dress them on a socle of rice or on an aspic border, and serve with a plate of thinly-cut and buttered slices of German brown bread. Melon Cantaloup. There are various kinds of melons served as hors-d’oeuvre, the cantaloup and English rock melon being the most favourite. They must not be over-ripe, and should be served as fresh as possible, and above all very cold. During the summer, some crushed or shaved ice is usually put round the dish on which the slices of melon are served. Cantaloupe au Marasquin, Procure one or more ripe cantaloup or rock melons, cut the fruit in half, put the melon in a glass bowl, or deep dish, place it on another (flat dish), surrounded with crushed ice. Pour about a tablespoonful of maraschino liqueur in each half of melon, then serve as hors-d’oeuvre. Salade de Melon {Melon Salad). Cut a rock or cantaloup melon (not over-ripe), previously peeled and seeded, into small cubes, and range them neatly in a salad bowl, which place on the ice. Meanwhile prepare a salad dressing com- posed of two parts of best nut oil (Richelieu brand), one part of white wine (Chablis or Sauterne) and one part of tarragon vinegar. Mix with salt and paprika pepper to taste, then pour over the prepared melon and serve—very cold. Note.—A more effective melon salad can be made by cutting a portion off the top of the melon and then scooping out the interior, so as to leave the rind intact. Cut the fimit into cubes and season as above directed, then refill the melon, dish up on a bed of ice, and serve. CEufs de Pluvier {Plovers Eggs). Boil the eggs for about 8 minutes, plunge them into cold water and remove the shells, or if preferred shell only the pointed end of each egg. Range them on a dish on a bed of watercress or parsley, and serve. Cepes Marines {Soused Cepes). If fresh cepes are obtainable, parboil them after being cleaned in salted water, drain and cool them, then put them in a basin and pour over a hot marinade, composed of i|- gills of vinegar, | gill of salad oil, -i- a clove of garlic crushed, a few peppercorns, also crushed.