976 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. manner, bnt the red portion and the stalks shonld be removed. Those mushrooms which are black round the stalk are unsuitable for preserving in bottles. Pour sufficient white wine vinegar, well diluted, over the mushrooms, and bring them slowly to the boil. Shake them while in the pan, pour off the liquid, and drain the mushrooms on sieves or cloth. Boil them a second time with a fresh lot of diluted vinegar. As soon as the boiling point is reached remove the pan from the hre and bottle when cool with enough ^unegar to keep the mushrooms well covered. Cork and seal. xA.nother way to bottle button mushrooms is to use water, salt, and lemon-juice, proceeding as above. The bottles as soon as corked must then be wrapped round with straw and steamed or boiled from two to three hours, according to size of bottles. The latter is a more tedious process than the former, but the mush- rooms will be found all the nicer. Puree of Peas {foy garnishing, etc.). Rub half a pint of well-drained, cooked green peas through a hue wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in one tablespoonful of whipped cream, and season with salt and pepper. Take a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, hll it with the puree, and use. Boiled Rice {for Curry, etc.). Pick and wash four ounces Patna or Carolina rice. Put it in a stew-pan containing three pints boiling water slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Allow to cook fast from fifteen to twenty minutes. Pour off the water and drain the rice ; put it in a pan of cold water, and pour into a colander or sieve to drain. Place it in front of the fire or in the mouth of the oven to get dry and hot through, stirring it frequently to loosen or separate the grains. It is then ready for use. Dinner Rolls. 2 lb. Vienna flour, 2 oz. best lard, |- oz. German yeast, a teaspoonful salt, 1 pint water or milk and water. Sift the flour into a pan, add the salt and rub in the lard ; make a well in the centre, in it mix the yeast with a little tepid water and with very little flour, make into a sponge, cover, and let it sponge for forty-five minutes. Mix in gradually the water or milk and water, and work to a dough, smooth, but not too firm. Let it rise for an hour in a warm place. Make up into little bun shapes weigh- ing about an ounce each. Place them on a floured baking-sheet and set to prove for ten minutes. Bake in a well heated oven for about half an hour. Note.—The lard, instead of being rubbed into the flour, can be melted and added to the dough. German Rusks {Zwieback). 2 lb. Vienna flour, 3 oz. butter, oz. German yeast, I- pint milk, pint water, 3 oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt. Proceed to make a sponge and dough as directed in the fore- going recipe. Melt the butter and work it into the dough. Divide