DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIiES {HOT). 259 gently lor about forty-five minutes or more according to the thickness of the lish, and baste occasionally. \Micn done, drain the fish and ]dace it on a dish. Meantime melt two ounces of butter, add the ilonr, stir over the fire until it acquires a deep fawn colour, dilute with the lish liquor, add the juice of half a lemon, season with a little salt and mignonette pepper, pass through a line strainer or najikin, and linish with the remainder of the butter. Remove the skin from the lish sausages, mix with a yolk of egg, shape some little corks, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot lard a golden colour. Prepare the truffles (sliced), mushrooms (whole heads only), olives (stoned and blanched), for a garnish. Cover the lish well with the sauce, warm up the garniture, and place in small groups round the lish, also the fish croquettes. Garnish the top of the hsh with slices of lemon, truffles, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve hot. Saumon a I’ltalienne [Baked Salmon, Italian Style). About 2 lb. salmon (middle), 2 small shallots (]ieclcd and chopped), i tea- spoouful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fjrtitcd nutmeg, 1 small glass claret, Genoise (p. 149) or tomato sauce (p ifio.). Cut the hsh into two or three even-sized slices, place them on a well-buttered baking-tin or saute-jtan, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, sprinkle over the chopped shallots and parsley, and place the remainder of butter on top of the hsh. IMoisten with the wine and bake for about fifteen minutes, basting frequently. When done, dish up, and pour some Genoise or tomato sauce over the slices of salmon. The essence left in the pan in which the hsh was baked must be utilised for llavouring the sauce. Tranches de Saumon GnW^ [Gyilled Salmon, Maximilian Sauce). 2 lb. salmon, flour, olive oil, parsley Initter, Maxdmilian sauce. Procure the middle cut of salmon, divide into f-inch thick slices, wipe them with a cloth, dip each in Hour, and brush over with sweet oil. Place the slices of hsh thus jirepared between a clean gridiron, previously oiled, and grill them in front or over a clear hre (coal or gas hre) ; allow about ten minutes for each side to cook. When done, dish up, put a small piece of parsley butter (butter mixed with lemon-juice, salt, and chopped parsley) on top of each slice, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with a boat of Maximilian sauce (p. 167). This dish can be served hot or cold; when required cold spread over each slice a little stiff tartare sauce dressing in place of the parsley butter. Saumon grille au beurre d’Anchois. Grilled slices of salmon with anchovy butter. Proceed the same as above directed, and serve with anchovy butter (p. 174) in place of sauce. Saumon a la Parisienne. Slices of salmon, mirepoix, claret, cliampiguons, fish croquettes, crayfi.sh, oysters. Genoise sauce. Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix, moistened with claret ; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons.