ENTRKES OF POUETRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 499 Poulet bouilli a I’Estragon. - Boiled fowl, served with white sauce, Itavoured with tarragon leaves. — braise a I’Estragon.—Larded chicken, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rich brown sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. — saute a la Fermiere.—Saute of chicken, sauce enriched with cream and flavoured with lemon-juice. Dished up in pyramidal form, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Garnished with groups of neatl}^-cut spring vegetables. — braises aux Fines Herbes.— Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce, seasoned with finely-chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, garden cress, and tiavourecl with white wine. — saute a la Florentine.—Saute of chicken, tiavourecl with chopped shallots and green pepjier, sauce diluted with tomato puree and white wine, and then well reduced. — a la Generale.—Braised fowl, garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points ; served with Madere sauce. — a la Godard.—Neatly shaped pieces of chicken, skinned, larded with trutties and bacon, first cooked in butter, and afterwards stewed in a rich white sauce with chopped mushrooms. Garnished with whole truffles, heads of mushrooms, and Fleurons (small half- moon shapes of puff-paste baked). — a la Heuloise.—Chicken sauted and stewed in veloutee sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux Huitres.—Par-fried chicken stewed in white sauce containing bearded oysters. — a rindienne.—Chicken braised white, stewed in curry sauce with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips ; served with boiled rice. — a la Inkermann.—Chicken sauted and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze; garnished with, fried eggs and small slices of broiled ham. — a ritalienne.—Par-fried chicken (jointed), stewed with brown sance, flavoured wifh tomato, dished in border of rice ; seasoned wifh fomato puree and parmesan cheese. — a r I voire.—Boiled fowl breast covered with slices of lemon and barded ; served with siijireme sauce. — frit a la Juive.—Jointed chicken (boned), seasoned, egged, crumbed,. and fried slowly in clarified buffer ; served with tomato sauce. — a la Lathuile.—Jointed chicken, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of artichoke bottoms, and finished m demi-glace sauce ; garnished with groups of braised bufton onions and fried parsley. — a la Livournaise.—Split chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon-juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bav-leaf, parsley roots, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served with livournaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarragon vinegar, and seasoning, all well mixed and served cold. — a la Lyonnaise.—Broiled chicken, jointed, and stewed in tomato and Espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, and minced onions fried in butter.