5i6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. pan with i oz. butter ; upon this place the plovers, add a glass of white wine, and a pint of rich stock or gravy. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook slowly for about an hour. When done, cut the birds into neat joints, dress them on the spinach, in a fireproof dish. Pour over some hot Madere sauce, place a few puff-paste Fleurons on top, and send to table. Pluviers Dores a la Marianne {Golden Plovers a la Marianne). Procure three golden plovers, ready trussed for roasting, and cook them the same as directed in the foregoing recipe. To serve, cut the birds into neat joints. Dress them on the spinach on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot gravy or Madere sauce round the base of the dish and send to table. Compote de Pluviers a la Monaco [Compote of Plovers). 2 small plovers, trussed for roasting, i oz. butter, i lb. potatoes cooked and made into a puree, 2 small tomatoes, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms (champignons), i gill denii-glace sauce, gill stock, i glass sherry or Marsala, -I oz. meat glaze or Lemco, i small bouquet garni, i egg, seasoning, 12 small Godiveau quenelles (p. 177). Roast the birds for ten or fifteen minutes in front of the fire, or in the oven, using the butter for basting. When cool cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, and put the pieces in a saute-pan. Place the mushrooms, sliced, and the t]uenelles, previously cooked and drained, on top of the pieces. Toss the tomatoes (sliced) in a little butter, add the sherry, cover, reduce, then add the carcases of the birds, cut up small, the stock, sauce, and bouquet garni, and cook for about twenty minutes. Remove the bones and herbs, pass the remainder through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth, add the meat glaze or meat extract, and pour over the pieces of plover, etc., in the saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of krona pepper. Cover and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Dress on a baked potato border, with the garniture in the centre, and the sauce, previously skimmed and well-reduced, poured round. Send to table hot. BECASSE SNIPE. Filets de Becasse a la Talleyrand [Fillets of Woodcock or Snipe). 3 to 4 woodcocks, trussed for roasting, 4 oz. fillet of beef, 4 oz. panade, I white and 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. fat pork, glass Sauterne, 4 oval croutes of fried bread, i gill white stock, pint sauce Gibier, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, mashed potatoes for a small border. Roast the woodcocks, and baste well with clarified butter. Remove the fillets and put on a plate, remove the meat from the legs, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar. Pound the beef and pork together till smooth, add the panade, pounded game, work in two yolks of eggs, add salt and pepper to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the fillets neatly, cover each completely with the above farce, when set, dip in beaten white of egg, place in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a gill of white stock and half a glass of Sauterne, and poach in a quick oven for twelve minutes. The croutes should be as nearly as possible of the same shape as the