95 STOCKS AND SOUPS On the Constituent Parts of Stock.—The nutriti\^e and liavouring qualities of a properly prepared stock of first quality are : albumen, gelatine, osmazome, fat, and alkaline salts. The meats used in making stock must, therefore, be carefully chosen ; they must contain a certain proportion of bones, and a small amount of fat. Lean meats, the cheaper or inferior parts, are very useful for the purpose ; but fat mutton or pork should on no account be used. Bones are useful because they contain and provide a considerable amount of gelatinous matter, but in order to extract this, i.e. the gelatinous elements, from either meat or bones, it is necessary that they be subjected to a heat of not less than 200°, and that for several hours, otherwise the gelatine contained in the meat and bones will not dissolve. Gelatine is obtained from the bones, skin, and the gristly portions of meat, especially in veal. It is this which causes the stock to form a jelly when cold. It must, however, be remembered that though a soup or the stock may be firm when cold, it is by no means the most nourishing. The gelatine from bones and gristle, sinews, etc., boiled into soup can only furnish jelly for our bones, not nourishment for our body. Gelatinous stock is more easily digested, but it is devoid of flavour, unless meat is added. Gelatine may be defined as the concentrated animal substa ce which gives solidity or bulk to stock. Albumen and osmazome are dissolved and extracted from the meat in water, which is brought to a temperature of about 110°. Both provide flavour, a most essential item in stock-broth. Osmazome is that part of the meat which gives to each of the various kinds its distinctive flavour, and the more kinds employed in stock-making, the better the flavour will be. It is more abundant in brown than in white meats, and more so in the meat of old animals than young ones. It is largely represented in lean beef, lean mutton, and in fowls. Osmazome is more highly developed in roast meats, and on this account all the trimmings, bones, etc., of roast joints should be saved and utilised for stock. Fat, being necessary as an element of perfect food, must in due proportion be used in all stocks. Gristle fat and marrow fat are the best to use in meat stocks, but these must only be used in very small proportion. Fat of this kind adds flavour, but that which is not absorbed must be removed when the stock is finished. To remove the fat continually is therefore not so essential, unless the meat used is very fat. To remove fat use an iron spoon. Put it with other fat for the purpose of clarification. Alkaline and Acid Salts are necessary for a good stock. These constituents are found in the blood and juices of raw flesh. This is the reason why raw meat must always form part of the stock