411 HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. Cut the meat into six to eight slices of even size, about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and season with pepper and salt. Lard one side of each with strips of larding bacon. On the sides not larded spread a layer of forcemeat, roll up, and tie with string. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, add carrot and onion, place the rolled pieces on top, cover with a buttered paper, cook over the fire until the meat is nicely browned, then add the stock and sherry. Braise in the oven for twenty-five minutes, bastingdt occasionally. Take ont the brisotins, remove the strings, and keep hot, remove the fat from the essence, add the sauce, boil up, and strain. Have ready a narrow border of mashed jiotatoes, arrange the brisotins neatly on it, fill the centre with a jardiniere of vegetables, and serve with the sance. Macedoine de Legumes {Vegetable Macedoine). Scoop out by means of a vegetable-scoop an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and cucumber, cut some French beans into small pieces, prepare also a handful of asparagus tips, caulillower buds, and green peas. Cook each vegetable separately in salted water, drain, add a small piece of butter, a pinch of castor sugar, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Serve in groups round the dish as garnish or mix all together, moisten with a little brown sauce, and serve in the centre as above directed. Cotelettes de Veau a la Fram?aise [Veal Cutlets, Fyench Style). 5 or 6 bones of liest end of neck of veal. 2 oz. Imttcr, i teaspoonful cliopped herbs, i teaspoonful chopped lenion-rind, 6 tablespoonfnls breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, 2 egg-volks, tomato sauce. Saw off the chine - bone and the upper part of the rib - bones of the neck, leaving the rib-bones about three inches long. Divide into cutlets, flatten with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and season. l\Ielt about half an ounce butter, beat up the egg-yolks, and mix together on a plate, add the lemon-rind and chopped herbs, and mix thoroughly, dip the cutlets in this, and then in breadcrumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute- or frying-pan, and fry the cutlets a golden colonr. Drain, dish up, put a frill on each bone, and serve with tomato or demi-glace sauce. UNTRIMMED. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR VEAL CUTLETS OR FILLETS. Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau {Veal Cutlets).—Cotes or cutlets of veal should be cut from the neck or loin ; cutlets, however, should be^trimmed with the bone left on, and in consequence can only be obtained from the neck.