^48 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cold Entrees.—This is known as the cold service. It is the most elegant and most artistic branch of cookery in general, espe- cially so when large dishes for special occasions are to be prepared, for ball suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, etc., where the moulding or ornaments in wax, fat, rice, etc., is required. Flowers, figures, etc., are then introduced in a great variety. A great deal of skill and study are required for this branch of the art. Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, however, by careful study, become an expert in this branch, provided he or she will give it special and sole attention for a time, so as to develop fifily some artistic taste and ideas. Various kinds of sauces known as chaud-froid sauces, and aspic jelly, aspic creams, etc., are brought largely into use for cold entrees. Such preparations must be prepared with great care, they must be made tasty, and on no account too stiff. The aspic especially should be agreeable to the palate, limpid, and above all transparent and clear, for if there be any defect in this, then the general effect is marred. In any cold entree, the special aim, next to the proper cooking of the articles, must be to produce an effective appearance. This can only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of rice, bread, etc., are used, they should be cut with precision and taste. Hatelets.—These are, as a rule, silver skewers, ornamented with fancifully-cut vegetables and aspic garnishing, and come largely into use with dishes of this kind. These add greatly to the effective appearance of any dish. The number of other dishes, less elaborate than those just named, is also very large. These, although smaller, require just as much care and attention, because, in a sense, they are equally important. The preparation of cold dishes should be done beforehand, and plenty of time allowed for them to set properly. This kind of work should never be hurried, nor left over to be finished at the last moment. The entrees and their garniture must on no account clash with either the fish, remove, or roast, nor must the sauces served with either be the same or similar in appearance. When three kinds of entrees are served, the light entree must be served first and the cold last. A hot entree is generally served before a cold dish. Again, an entree composed of small birds must go before one pre- pared from a large bird or large meat. The sauce for such dishes (hot) is always served in the dish, and not separately, unless the dish will not hold sufficient sauce to go round the table, then some of the sauce may be handed round in a sauce-boat. In the case of light entrees, with some exceptions, the sauce is handed round separately as a rule ; a little sauce is often poured over the dish, just to sauce it, or, as it is termed in culinary French, to nape the service of the entree.