704 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. contents of the bowl, and arrange a neat border of lettuce or endive, previously washed and drained, round the prepared pickled salad. Toss all carefully the moment it is required for serving. Salade de Laitue {Lettuce Salad). Wash and trim three heads of cabbage lettuce, cut off the stalks, break the leaves into convenient pieces, and dry them thoroughly in a salad basket. Put the salad into the bowl ; add sufficient pepper and salt to taste in the salad-spoon, fill it with tarragon vinegar, mix it till the salt is dissolved, pour the contents of the spoon over the salad, and add three salad-spoonfuls of oil. The proportion of vinegar to oil should be as one to three. Mix the salad carefully but thoroughly, adding during the process a few sprigs of fresh tarragon, not too finely chopped. Place on the top one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley or chive, and serve. Salade Lorette. The heart portion of a white celery, 2 hearts of cabbage lettuces, 2 cooked new potatoes, 2 cooked young carrots, 4 small beetroot 4 oz. raw lean ham. Trim, wash, and drain or peel and cut into fine shreds the above- named ingredients. Season these carefully with tomato mayon- naise, salt, pepper, and paprika, and mix gently with one gill of liquid aspic. Stir over the ice till neatly set, then put the whole into a previously masked bombe mould or pudding-basin, and place on the ice' for about one hour. Unmould into a salad dish, and garnish with whites of hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and stoned olives, Salade Macedoine. Macedoine of cooked vegetables, olive oil, vinegar, salt, pejrper, chopped parsley. Bottled macedoine of vegetable is the most handy to use for this salad. These after being strained are seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Mix carefully and dish up, and garnish to taste. Macedoine vegetables serve a most useful purpose, especially so where small quantities of salad are needed. Salade a la Marquise {Cucumber and Letkice Salad). Mix a yolk of hard-boiled egg with a raw yolk of egg, to this add a teaspoonful of French mustard, a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper, stir well, adding by degrees four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and two of French wine vinegar. When well blended, pour it over a salad composed of two finely shredded lettuces, cube-shaped or dice-shaped pickled cucumber, and three artichoke bottoms cut similarly. Whilst mixing, add also about one teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Line a pudding basin with lettuce leaves, and fill it with the prepared salad, then turn out on to a shallow salad dish. Garnish tastefully with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, green tinted mayonnaise sauce forced through a forcing-bag, slices of tomato, and French gherkins. .Send to table at once.