92 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme a la Madrid. Cliicken stock, beef stock, tomatoes, chervil, seasoning. Clarify an equal quantity of chicken and beef stock in the usual manner, add four small ripe tomatoes cut into slices to each quart of consomme, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain and serve with a few sprigs of chervil-leaves. This consomme should be of a pinkish tint, and may be served hot or cold. Consomme a la Mancelle. 3 pints consomme, i carrot, i turnip, i leek, head white celery, i oz. butter, 9 or lo chestnuts. Wash and pare the carrot, turnip, leek, and celery, and cut them into very line shreds (julienne fashion). Put these in a stewpan with the butter, and cook very gently over the fire for ten minutes. Moisten with the consomme, and cook slowly for half an hour. Skim well, removing all the fat and scum that may rise to the surface. When ready for serving, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add the roasted chestnuts, peeled and cut into julienne strips. A tablespoonful of cooked game, such as partridge, grouse or pheasant, cut into hne shreds, added to this soup will be found an improvement; this is, however, quite optional. Consomme Metternich. 2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), i small chicken or fowl, 4 small ripe tomatoes, i heaped-np tablespoonful arrowroot, i glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning. Roast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, and baste frequently to ensure it being a nice golden brown ; take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes, previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stewpan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them and cut into dice, remove the seeds and place the dice into the soup. Mi.x the sherry and arrow- root to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin and cut into small dice, put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. Consomme Mikado. 2 quarts of consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, ^ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat, let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup in a hot tureen ready for serving.