ELEMENTA R Y METHODS. 131 portion of the yolks get into the whites, otherwise it will become impossible to whisk the whites hrm. Put the whites of eggs in an egg bowl or shallow basin, first making sure that it is perfectly clean, dry, and cool. Keep the whites of eggs in a cool place until wanted. Add a pinch of salt and commence whisking with an ordinary wire whisk, which must be thoroughly clean and perfectly dry. Continue to whisk, increasing the pace, until it forms a hrm and substantial mossy froth. To Peel Almonds and Pistachios.—Pour sufficient boiling water over the almonds or pistachios to well cover them ; let them soak for several minutes, then strain and put in a basin of cold water to cool. Drain and spread them on a cloth. To remove the skin press each between the thumb and hngers. This done, put them on a sieve to dry. To Pound Almonds.—Allow the peeled almonds to dry tho- roughly in a slack oven for about ten minutes. Clean and clry the mortar ; put in the almonds and pound with the pestle ; stir well and continually for about ten minutes, else they are apt to get oily. When pounded put them on a cold dish and use as required. Egging and Crumbing.—To crumb successfully, use the fol- lowing : I egg well beaten, i teaspoonful of sweet oil, i dessert- spoonful of milk, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper (a little chopped parsley is sometimes added). Dip the article required to be crumbed in this mixture, or brush over well and cover with soft or dry breadcrumbs. Soft or fresh crumbs are made by rubbing the soft portion of stale bread through a wire sieve. The crusts of bread are placed in a baking sheet in a cool oven, and baked to a bright golden colour. They are then crushed with a rolling-pin or pounded in a mortar and passed through a sieve. These are called dry crumbs or raspings, and are sometimes used in place of fresh crumbs. To Strain Consomme or Jelly.—Scald a clean but not too hne cloth, put it over the soup stand (see illustration on p. 140), and place on the hoop or ring, or turn a chair reverse side up, and tie the four corners of the cloth on to the legs of the chair. Place a basin underneath. Pour a basin of boiling water through the cloth ; pour the liquid to be strained—i.c. aspic, sweet jelly or consomme—gently through the cloth, having placed a clean basin underneath. Repeat this two or three times until the liquid runs through perfectly clear. In cold weather it is well to stand a basin of hot water in the cloth ; this will hasten the straining, but the stand must not be otherwise interfered with, else the jelly or consomme is apt to become cloudy. To Scald.—In a culinary sense, scalding means immersion in boil- ing water. Kidneys, calf’s feet, sheep’s trotters, calf’s head and tongue, and the legs of chickens are often subjected to this process by being plunged into boiling water for a moment or two prior to cooking.