LIGHT ENTRIES [HOT).—ENTR/iES LEgIlRES. 369 Petites Timbales de Gibier a la Galmier. I lb. raw hare, partridge or pheasant meat, free from skin and bones, j chicken livers or an equal quantity of calf’s liver, 3 tablespoonfuls well- reduced bechamel sauce, i raw egg and i yolk of egg, i large truffle, i table- spoonful double cream, 4 lb. cooked lean ham, | llx cooked game, 8 large mushrooms (preserved), 3 tablespoonfuls vegetable macedoine, i table- spoonful rich brown sauce, seasoning, tomato sauce. Pound the raw meat and the chicken li\'ers in a mortar till quite smooth, add the bechamel sauce and the eggs, season to taste, and rub through a line sieve. Butter 8 or lo small timbale moulds, sprinkle over with finely chopped trnttle. Work up the farce with the cream and line the moulds with it. Prepare a sal- picon with the cooked game and ham (cut into small dice) and the vegetable macedoine, add the brown sauce, season, put about a dessertspoonful in the centre of each mould, fill np with the re- mainder of farce, and poach in the oven from twenty to twenty- live minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, ]dace a mushroom on top of each timbale, sauce over carefully with tomato sauce, previously heated, and serve. Petites Timbales a la Meridionale. J lb. lean mutton fillet, 2 teaspoonfuls Espagnole sauce, i tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, i tablespoonful cream, i oz. butter, 2 eggs, 10 stuffed Spanish olives, i gill well-reduced tomato sauce, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut the meat into small pieces and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the Espagnole sauce, wine, cream, half an ounce of blitter, and the eggs, one at a time, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Butter 8 to lo small dariole or timbale moulds, fill them with this preparation, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each, in which place about a dessertspoonful of reduced tomato sauce and an olive stuffed with forcemeat, cover well with forcemeat, and place the moulds in a sante-pan half filled with boiling water. Let it come to the boil, then cover with an oiled paper, and finish cooking in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up, and sauce over with hot demi-glace. Tartelettes de Ris d’Agneau a la Mirabeau [Lambs’ BreadsTartlets, Mivaheau Style). 3 sets lambs’ breads, a white mirepoi.v (p. 124), rich white stock, puff-paste trimmings or nouille paste, a little chopped ham or tongue, veloutee or supreme sauce, white chaud-froid sauce, slices of ham, meat glaze, pimiento skins. Blanch and trim the breads, braise them in the mirepoix and a little rich white stock. When done, take np, press, and let cool. Line the required number of round or oval-shaped fiuted or crinkled tartlet pans, with puff paste trimmings or nonille paste, and bake them (blind) in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Cut the braised lambs’ breads into slices, and shape to the size of the baked paste tartlet crusts. Pound the trimmings of the lambs’ breads with a little ham or tongue, moisten with veloutee or supreme