VEGILTABLH AND FARINAGE ENTREES. 57 S Champignons a la Provenpale (Mushrooms, Provence Style). I basket of even-sized enp mushrooms, i gil! Provence oil, seasoning, 1 small onion, chopped par.sley, i oz. butter, 4 oz. lean bacon or ham, i gill bechamel, breadcrumbs, i gill soubi.se puree, i egg-yolk, 8 small rings of puff-pastry. Peel and wash the mushrooms, and remove the stalks. Drain them on a cloth, put them in a dish, and pour over the oil. Cover and let stand for one hour. Fry the' mushrooms carefully in Provence oil, and season them. Peel and chop finely the onion. Fry these with the butter to a golden brown, then add the parsley, about I dessertspoonful, and lastly the bacon or ham cut in hue shreds. Line a buttered or oiled gratin dish with this, and place the mushroom heads on top, ranging them neatly. Sauce over with well-seasoned bechamel sauce, besprinkle with a few breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Place a small puff- pastry ring on each mushroom head, and fill the centre with hot soubise puree, enriched with a yolk of egg. The dish is then ready to serve. Ragout de Champignons (Mushrooms, Stew). Remove the skin and stalks from a pound of large cup mush- rooms. Season with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes in 2 oz. of fresh butter. Then put them in a stewpan with enough stock and white sauce to cover, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of cream to the sauce. Dish up and garnish with fleurons of puff pastry. Beignets a la Gastronome (Maize Fritters). Boil up d pint of rich white stock, and stir in 2 oz. of Indian maize or semolina (line grain), cook whilst stirring for ten minutes. Now add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 oz. of foie-gras puree, i oz. of hnely chopped lean ham, and 2 yolks of eggs. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the eggs. Season with paprika or krona and white pepper, and spread on to a small baking-sheet. When cold.