494 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. all the time. Return the chicken to the pan, add the cocoanut, mulligatawny paste, cloves, and cinnamon, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with the sance and puree and abont half a gill of water or stock, boil up, and skim. Cover the pan and let simmer very gently for about forty minutes. About ten minutes before serving add the lemon-juice, and salt to taste. When done dish up neatly in the centre of a border of plain boiled rice, or serve the rice sepa- rately. Although the word “ curry ” is given as “ kari,” which is the French translation for “ curry,” the foregoing recipe is a genuine Indian dish, as prepared in India. Ragout de Volaille Toulousienne {Chicken and Lambs’ Bread Stew). I small chicken, 2 or 3 lambs’ sweetbreads, i pint veloutee or allemande sauce, 10 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, 6 cocks’ combs, i small cucumber and asparagus points, h oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mashed potatoes for border. Truss the chicken for boiling, and cook in white stock or salted water, well flavoured with vegetables, for about three-quarters of an hour, take up, let cool, and cut up into neat joints (use the carcase along with the sauce to improve its flavour). Wash, blanch, cool, mid trim the sweet- breads, cut them into convenient slices, and put in a deep saute-pan or stewpan, along with the pieces of chicken. Strain the sauce, previously heated and flavoured with the carcase, over this, toss the whole together until it is hot. Add the mushrooms and truffles, cut into slices, and the cocks’ combs ; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, shake well, keep covered, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Prepare a neat border of mashed potatoes, well seasoned, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks. Dress on a well-buttered dish, decorate to fancy, brush over with egg, and bake in the oven a golden colour. Dish up the ragout of chicken, etc., in the centre, sauce over care- fully, garnish with pea-shapes of cucumber and asparagus points, previously cooked and seasoned, and heated up in a little butter. Supreme de Volaille a la Helene {Supreme of Chicken). Remove the breasts from two flne chickens, skin the flllets and lard them, place them in a saute-pan with butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for fifteen minutes iu a moderate oven. Remove the flllets and put into the saute-pan half a gill of well-