807 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. if garnished with little beads of royal icing. These cornets can also be Irlled with ice cream or any kind of sweet custard, and will thus make a pleasant change. Gateaux Savigny. 8 eggs, lb. castor sugar, 2 inches vanilla pod, 6 oz. almonds (sweet), 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. flour, coffee icing, almond cream or almond icing. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred them coarsely, and place them on a baking-sheet in the oven until of a fawny brown. Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar and the vanilla, beat up with a wooden spoon until creamy, stand the basin in a vessel of hot water over the hre, and whisk until it has the appearance of a Genoese mixture. Take out the vanilla, add the almonds, and mix in gradually the sifted flour and melted butter. Put the preparation in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a slow oven for about twenty-hve minutes, turn out and let cool. Divide the gateau into two rounds, take out a little of the soft crumbs, spread with a light almond cream or icing, close together neatly, cut into any desired shapes, diamonds, hngers or ovals, mask the surface with fondant icing Havoured witli coffee, and sprinkled over with hnely chopped roasted or Iraked almonds. Supreme de Framboise {Raspberry Cake). Prepare a cake mixture as for “ Gateau.x Savigny,” bake it in a buttered plain mould. Let cool, and take out some of the soft portion of the cake. Place the cake shape on a tray, and mask the outside with orange icing, or any other transparent o r fondant icing. Dish up, ornament the sides with red-currant jelly, forced through a cornet, angelica strips, halves of glace cherries, and pistachios, similar to the design shown in the illustration. Fill the interior of the cake with alternate layers of ripe raspberries and whipped cream on the tojy arrange neat rows of best fruit, built upon cream, and serve. Gateau a la Reine {Queen Cake). Cream \ lb. of fresh butter with h lb. of castor sugar, add one by one six yolks of eggs, four ounces ground almonds, and six ounces of Vienna flour, flavour with vanilla or lemon, and stir in the beaten whites of three eggs. Lastly add it gill whipped cream and a few candied violets or orange flowers. Butter a spiral-shaped mould, dredge with fine sugar, fill up, and bake in a moderate oven. When