483 ENTRIiES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES' minutes, but do not allow it to brown, add slowly a' pint of the strained stock of the fowl, boil ten minutes. Mix in another dish the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, and a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper, add this carefully to the hot sauce, stirring all the time, let the sauce get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and strain over the pieces of fowl. Dish up the cooked fowl (the skin may be removed if liked) on a bed of cooked rice. Sauce over carefully, and serve very hot. Some sliced preserved mushrooms put with the sauce will make an improvement to the fricassee. Filets de Poulet aiix Groseilles {Fried Chicken Fillets). Remove the breasts of two chickens, pare and trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip them in white of egg and cover with fresh breadcrumbs. Make a farce with the remainder of meat of the chickens, fill up a well-greased border-mould, and poach it in the oven for thirty-five minutes. Cut the carcase into small pieces, and fry in butter with a small onion and a bouquet garni, pour off the fat, add a gill of demi-glace sauce, half a gill of rich gravy, and a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, allow this to reduce well, strain, and season to taste. Fry the crumbed fillets in clarified butter. Dish up the border and fill the centre with green peas, tossed in butter. Cut the fillets in halves and place neatly on top. Pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Poulet fare! a la Reine Olga {Stuffed Chicken). I chicken, 4 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, 4 oz. l)utter, 2 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, cubes of raw ham, 8 thin slices of streaky bacon, | pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry or marsala, i lemon. Prepare a farce of the breadcrumbs, 2 oz. butter, ham, season to taste; place this inside the body of the chicken, and truss it, stud the breast portion with small cubes of raw ham. Melt 2 oz. of butter in an earthenware casserole, put in the chicken, and let it acquire a light brown colour over the fire, then pour off some of the butter. Par-fry the slices of bacon, put them with the chicken, add the demi-glace sauce and sherry or marsala, cover, and cook in the oven till the chicken is tender, basting it occasionallv. Have ready an oval-shaped fireproof casserole as serving dish, cut the chicken into neat joints, put them into this with the stuffing, grate a very little lemon-rind on top. Remove the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the chicken, place the bacon on top, cover, and re-heat for about ten minutes in the oven. Put the casserole on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Poulet frit a la Tyrolienne [Fried Chicken). I tender chicken, i whole egg, and i yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and ,=alt, breadcrumbs, clarified butter or lartl, tomato sauce.