6oS THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Gigot de Pore roti.—Roast leg of fresh pork served with gravy and apple sauce. Jambon a la Beaucaire.—Braised ham, garnished with small rice cro- quettes, small heads of braised lettuce and potatoes fondantes ; sauce demi-glace, flavoured with ham essence. — braise au Madere.—Boiled ham, braised in, and served with, Madeira sauce (see jn 151). Longe de Pore farcie.—Braised and stuffed loin of pork (boned), served with brown sauce or gravy. Cimier de Cerf, Sauce Piquante.—Pickled saddle of deer, braised, and served with piquante sauce. Selle de Chevreuil aux Tomates.—Braised pickled saddle of venison, with stewed tomatoes ; brown or piquante sauce. Gigot de Sanglier a la Bourgogne.—Roast leg of wild boar, with Burgundy wine sauce flavoured with red-currant jelly. Fricandeau de Chevreuil a la Broche.—Cushion or fillet of venison, larded, roasted on the spit. Gigot de Chevreuil a la Creme aigre.—Roast leg of venison (boned) with sour cream sauce. Marcassin farci aux truffes.—Roast young wild boar stuffed with truffles and forcemeat. Poularde Poelee a la Bergere.—Pullet or poularde cooked in onion mire- poix in earthenware vessel in oven ; dressed with soubise, i.e. onion puree, and garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, and straw potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Reins de Sanglier au Madere.—Roast loin of wild boar, with Madeira wine sauce. Dinde bouillie a TEcarlate {Boiled Turkey with Tongue). Truss a turkey for boiling, stuff it with a mixture composed of chopped beef suet, breadcrumbs, and savoury herbs. Put it in an oblong pan containing stock flavoured with pieces of bacon. As soon as it boils, remove the scum and add a sliced onion, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, twelve peppercorns, two cloves, and a bay-leaf. Cover it with buttered paper and cook gently for about hours. Prepare a veloutee sauce, using the liquor from the turkey. Dish up the turkey, remove the skewer and string, sur- round the base of the dish with slices of cooked ox-tongue. Sauce over with the veloutee, and send the remainder of sauce to the table in a sauce boat. Poulet bouilli {Boiled Fowl). Pick, draw, singe, and truss a large fowl for boiling, put it in a saucepan of boiling water or white stock slightly salted, add a carrot, a turnip, and an onion stuck with a clove, simmer till tender, and skim frequently. A large fowl will take about i;|- hours, whilst a small fowl will take from three-quarters to one hour. When done, take up the fowl, drain it and put it on a hot dish, have ready some white sauce or egg sauce. Cover the fowl completely with sauce, decorate with chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, and serve hot,