232 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Barquettes de Concombre. Cut the required number of small boat shapes from i or 2 large cucumbers ; scoop out the centre part of each, and fill them, after being steeped in oil and vinegar marinade for an hour, with a mixture of finely shredded smoked salmon, capers, and gherkins, seasoned with salad dressing. Dish up, garnish, and serve. Chaud-froid d’Huitres [Oyster Chand-froid). I dozen native oysters, aspic mayonnaise, pimientos, olives, aspic jelly. Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, and remove the beards. Have ready the aspic mayonnaise (p. 152), coat the oysters well with this, and let them set on the ice in a wire tray. Stamp out some dot shapes of red pimientos, place these in rings of olives and set one in the centre of each oyster. Mask with a little dis- solved aspic, and place them on little round croutes of fried or toasted bread. Dish np and garnish neatly. Concombre a la Tartare. Peel a cucumber thinly, and cut it into thin slices without detaching, so as to retain its original shape, and shape it into a round. Between each slice insert a little tartare sauce, then place it on a dish, and put a tiny strip of pimiento on or between each slice of cucumber. Put a little tartare sauce in the centre of the dish, and fill up with finely shredded lettuce, then serve. Concombre en Surprise. To half a gill of bechamel sauce (p. 142) add enough spinach and sorrel puree to give it a gre:'!! tint; heat it up and reduce a CONCOMBRE EN SURPRISE. little, then tammy, and add three leaves of gelatine, dissolved, and a gill of aspic, and half a gill of mayonnaise (p. 152). Line a cucumber mould with this. When set, put in each half of the mould a layer of chicken aspic ; in the centre of each half of the mould place a layer of foie-gras puree, mixed with truffle and pistachio kernels, so as to completely fill it. Close up the mould, wrap in paper, and put it on the ice. 1 o serve, unmould the shape, and dish up on an oblong dish, covered with vine-leaves.