VEGETA BLES—LliG UMES. 643 Soak the .beans for twelve hours, cover them with cold water, and boil for two hours or until they are soft, and drain the water from them. Melt the butter or dripping in the saucepan, fry in it the bacon cut into small dice, put in the cooked beans, with enough salt and pepper to season, and the chopped parsley, moisten with the stock or gravy, place the pan on the hre or in the oven, and re-heat. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent the beans burning. Serve on a hot dish. Haricots blancs a I’Americaine {Baked Beans). Wash I to i-l- pint of haricot beans in cold wmter, put them in a fireproof earthenware stew-pot, cover with water and stock, and cook in a slow oven for about 3-i- hours, adding a little hot stock from time to time, so as to keep them covered. Arrange the beans in a pie-dish with layers of slices of cooked bacon or ham and tomato sauce. Bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Butter Beans. I pint butter beans, 2 oz. butter, 5 yolks of eggs, i gill of rich stock, i table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops lemon-juice, seasoning. Soak the beans in water for at least twelve hours. Simmer gently in slightly salted water for three hours, strain, and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, allow it to cool a little, then add the yolks of eggs and the vinegar, lemon-juice, and stock. Stir these ingredients briskly over the fire until thickened. Re-heat the butter beans in this, season to taste, dish on a hot vegetable dish, and serve. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne.—Boiled haricot beans stewed in brown sauce, with finely chopped fried onions and parsley. — blancs a la Bechamel.—Par-boiled haricot beans stewed in white sauce. — blancs a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled haricot beans stewed in brown sauce, with slices of fried onions. — verts a la FranQaise.—French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley and chives. — verts aux Fines Herbes.—French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley. — verts a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled French beans seasoned, tossed in butter with thinly-sliced fried onions. Puree de Lentilles.—Lentils fried lightly in butter, cooked in stock, and rubbed through a sieve. Lentilles en Fricassee.—Boiled lentils stewed in white sauce. Jardiniere de Legumes.—Mixed vegetables cut into small fanciful pieces, cubes, stars or other shapes, cooked separately in salted water, mixed when done, and tossed in butter. Macedoine a la Bechamel.—Boiled mixed vegetables, carrots, turnips, peas, beans, etc., tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce. ^ a la Printaniere.—IMixed spring vegetables cut into neat shapes, boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter.