THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 780 even shape, of the white and yellow cream, place a layer of each alternately into the mould, and here and there halves of cherries, pour some jelly between the layers, allowing each to set before another is added. Proceed thus until the moulds are filled. Keep- on the ice till firm, then unmould, dish up, and garnish with small finger biscuits glazed with pink and white maraschino icing. Creme frappee aux Mille Fruits. Prepare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille ” mi.xture (p. 772), and add to it two stiffly whisked whites of eggs, also one ounce of shredded almonds and some maraschino or curacoa liqueur to flavour. Before the mixture begins to set, stir in half a pint of mixed preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, pineapple, angelica, etc. Pour slowly into a coated and decoratecl mould, and place on the ice to set. Unmould on to a dish, and serve. Creme de Mirabelles en Surprise. I pint mirabclle puree (this is obtained by heating up a bottle of preserved mirabelles and rubbing the fruit through a fine sieve), -J- pint cream, | oz. French leaf gelatine, i gill wine jelly, i talrlespoonful maraschino, i-^ oz. castor sugar, 11- wineglassful port wine, -J- gill red-currant jelly, a few shredded almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Mask a bombe-mould with a thin layer of clear wine jelly. Heat up the fruit pulp (puree) slowly, add it to the sugar and the maraschino. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and strain into this. Stir until it commences to cool, then stir in the cream, pre- viously wliipped. Stand the prepared mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice, and pour in a little of the prepared puree. When set, place in a narrow glass tumbler, and fill the space with cream. Allow this to set, then pour a little warm water into the tumbler, remove it from the mould, and fill the cavity with the remainder of wine jelly mixed with the red-currant jelly and port wine, to which should be added some finely-shredded, blanched, peeled almonds and a few glace cherries cut into slices, the whole being stirred until on the point of setting. Place on the ice to set, then unmould, decorate with coarsely-chopped red wine jelly, almond strips, and glace cherries. Creme Mosaique {Mosaic Cream). Ingredients for Decoration.—J pint custard, f oz. gelatine, i oz. castor sugar, vanilla essence, maraschino, coffee essence, a little wine jelly for masking and garnish. Dissolve the gelatine in the custard and add the sugar. Divide it into three portions, colour them respectively red, coffee, and yellow. Flavour the red with vanilla and the yellow with mara- schino. Set on three plates, and when cold cut into thin squares or other shapes with a fancy cutter, and decorate the bottom and sides of a mould, previously masked with jelly, with the pieces and pistachio nut. (For style of decoration see illustration on page 570.) Ingredien-fs for Cream.—f pint cream, |- oz. gelatine, i glass sherry, i oz. sweet almonds, -J- oz. pistachio nuts, 2 oz. castor sugar ; flavouring and trimmings from the custard. Whip the cream, dissoh^e the gelatine in the sherry, and strain