THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Capsicums.—Of these there are several kinds which are cultivated in the East and West Indies and in America. They yield a fruit which is pungent and stimulating, and in Mexico the pods are called chillies ; these are used to make a hot pickle and chilli vinegar. It is the powder of the seeds and pods dried that constitutes cayenne pepper. Capsicums owe their power to an active principle called capsicin, and are considered to be very wholesome. Savory.—Of this flavouring herb there are two varieties, the summer savory {Satureja hortensis) and the winter savory {Satuyeja montana). It was introduced into England in the seven- teenth century. Both varieties are extensively used for flavouring and seasoning purposes. Marjoram.—There are four kinds of marjoram, but the sweet or knotted marjoram {Origanum Major ana), a native of Portugal, and introduced into this country in the sixteenth century, is the kind generally used in our kitchens. It imparts a delicious flavour to soups, sauces, stews, etc. In July the leaves are dried and kept for winter use. Mint.—Mint belongs to a family of plants called Lahiatce. The spearmint [Mentha viridis) cultivated in our gardens has the most agreeable flavour of the various kinds of mint, and is the one most generally used in cookery. It possesses the property of correcting flatulency, hence the custom of using it in pea-soup and with new potatoes, etc. Bay-leaves.—The leaves of the common laurel [Pruniis Lauro- ccrasus) are employed for culinary purposes to give a kernel-like flavour to stocks, mirepoix, sauces, custards, puddings, blanch- manges, and the milk and water with which cakes are mixed. They are generally dried for iise. Basil.—This is a favourite herb with the Erench cooks ; it has a scent very like that of cloves. Basil for winter use can be obtained in bottles, and it is the best herb for clear mock-turtle and other clear soups made of shell-fish. It is also used for flavouring vinegar. The middle of August is the best time for making basil vinegar. Onions.—The name onion is given to all plants of the onion tribe, in which we include leek, garlic, and shallot (echalote). The onion is, undoubtedly, next to salt, the most valuable of all flavour- ing substances used in cookery. Mflien onions, shallots, or garlic are used, they should always be well blended with other flavours, so that the peculiar and often objectionable taste of these cannot be detected. The smell of the onion, however, is objectionable to many, whilst others will have it that the flavour of onion disagrees with them. The question, therefore, arises. How can this be overcome ? The answer is very simple. By thorough cooking and manipulation the presence of onion in a stew, soup or sauce may be disguised, retaining at the same time the essential essence of this valuable flavouring root. By cunningly concealing the flavour with others CAPSICUM