THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 5 lO Add the stock, and stir till it boils and thickens. Then add the spinach, bring to boil, season with salt and pepper, and let cook for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, return the soup to the stewpan, and add the cream. Do not let it boil after the cream is added, but keep the soup hot till required for table. Hand round some pulled bread, or serve with thinly cut slices of French rolls baked a light brown colour. Potage a la St. Germain [Green Pea Soup) pint freshly shelled peas (large marrowfats are best), i small bunch parsley, a couple of spring onions, a few sprigs of green mint, i oz. butter, 3-J- pint white stock, i whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful cream, I gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the peas in a stewpan with a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, the parsley, spring onions, and mint, boil till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, put in the stock and butter, and simmer for fifteen minutes longer, then season to taste and add the cream. Mix the milk with the eggs, beat up, season to taste, and strain into a well-buttered charlotte-mould. Poach in a mould placed in a saute-pan half full of boiling water in the oven till set. Unmould and cut the custard into even-sized cubes. Just before serving add a pinch of sugar and a pat of fresh butter to the soup, put in the custard cubes, and serve. Potage de Haricot blancs [Haricot Bean Puree). i pint haricot beans, lb. onions, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, gill cream, I oz. crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Soak the beans in water for several hours. Peel and slice finely the onions, fry them in the butter until they acquire a pale brown colour. Strain the beans, put them with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock, boil up, skim, and cook gently until the haricot beans are quite tender, then rub the whole through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, season to taste, bring it to the boil, and stir in the tapioca, cook for about ten minutes longer, add the cream and keep hot until required for table. Should the puree be found too thick, add a little more stock. Fried bread croutons should be handed round with this soup. Purees de Lentilles [Lentil Soup). i- pint of red lentils, i onion, i stick of celery, 2 oz. butter or dripping, pepper and salt, 3 pints of stock, i carrot, i turnip. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, wash and drain the lentils, put them in the saucepan with sliced onion and vegetables, stir over the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the stock, and a little salt. Let this come to the boil, skim, and simmer gently until the lentils are done. Pass the soup through a wire sieve or colander. Re-heat, season to taste with pepper and more salt if needed. Potage a la Jackson [Potato Puree). Proceed in the same manner as in the above recipe, using i lb. of potatoes, washed, peeled, and sliced, instead of the lentils, omitting the peas and mint. Add a little grated nutmeg in seasoning the soup.