ENTR^:ES of poultry, etc. [HOT DISHES). 475 panade, work in the egg-yolks, season to taste, and mb through a line sieve. Mix about a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce with the forcemeat and spread over the cut side of the^ pigeons. Place a bearded oyster in the centre of each, fold in a neat shape, and sew up with string. Enclose separately in buttered paper, })ut them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in a hot oven with a glass of sherry and the remainder of brown sauce. Remove the papers and strings, brown the pigeons under a salamander, and glaze with dissolved meat glaze. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, with a stew of asparagus points in the centre, and serve with Italienne sauce. The asparagus points should be washed, blanched, and cooked tender in salted water, well strained, moist- ened with the sauce left over from the pigeons, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Timbales de Pigeon a la Supreme. Remove the meat from two Bordeaux pigeons, pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of dried beef suet and two ounces of bacon cut into strips. Rub it through a wire sieve, return it to the mortar, add two ounces of butter, three chopped mushrooms, two ounces of panade, and a tablespoonful of allemande (p. 141) or veloutee (p. r6i) sauce, season well with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs and one yolk of egg. Butter twelve small timbale moulds, line them rather thickly with the above farce, place a dessertspoonful of salpicon, pigeon, ham, tongue, trulfies, and mushrooms in the centre of each, cover, till np with the farce. Place them in a saute-pan, pour in a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, bring it to the boil over the fire, and place in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out, dish them up in a circle, place a small mush- room head and a piece of truffle on each, pour some supreme sauce over and around them, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste and fancy shapes of sliced ox-tongue. Ballotines de Pigeons a la Financiere.—Bordeaux pigeons, boned, stuffed with foie-gras and liver farce and truffles, shaped like little galan- tines, boiled in stock, and glazed, dressed on a crouton of bread, garnished with financiere, i.e. mushrooms, cocks’ combs, kernels, truffles, dice of cooked sweetbread, and sauced over with a rich demi-glace. Chartreuse de Pigeons a la Rouennaise.—Braised pigeons, dressed in the centre of a border composed of carrots, turnips, braised (savoy) cabbage and small squares of boiled pickled pork, all set in a sym- metrical row. Garnish the dish with slices of smoked pork sausages, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Compote de Pigeons a I’Americaine.—Stewed pigeons with small squares of fried bacon and medium-sized button onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter. Served with brown sauce mixed with a small quantity of cranberry jelly.