66o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pommes de Terre a I’lmperatrice.—Small walnut shapes cut out of peeled raw potatoes, par-boiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and cooked in butter until quite done. — a ritalienne.—Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers in a well-buttered hat mould with alternate slices of salami sausage and a thick white sauce consisting of cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets of anchovies, the last layer of the mould being anchovies. Bake in the mould in a hot oven, and serve. — machees.—Potatoes boiled in beef broth, drained, and made into a ])uree, seasoned with white pepper and a little grated nutmeg ; when served, sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Thick slices of raw potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in white sauce and chopped parsley. Season and serve. — melangees.—Coarsely sliced, par-boiled potatoes, mixed with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — a la Mignonette.—Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser, and sprinkled with chopped parsley when done. — a la Milanaise.—Raw potatoes cut into dice, pai'-boiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares or dice of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese. Thicken with yolks of eggs, ^ and place on a dish to cool. Shape into croquettes, then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat, drain, and dish up. — a la Mont-Dore.—Mashed potatoes, mixed with cream, grated cheese and seasoning, filled in shells and baked in oven. — a la Mousseline.—Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream ; re-heated before serving. — a la Nantaise.—Mashed potatoes, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — a la Navarraise.—Peeled potatoes cut into half-inch squares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. — persilI6es.—Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts or large olives > boiled in salted water, drained, and fried or sauted in fresh butter. Dish up, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. — Poisson.—New kidney potatoes pared into cube shapes, cooked in salted water, drained, and tossed over the fire in a little fish stock, enriched with butter, seasoned and chopped parsley added just before serving. — en Pur6e a la Jackson.—Mashed potatoes finished with cream and seasoned, garnished with fillets of gorgona anchovies. — a la Suedoise.—Slices of raw potatoes blanched, and stewed in rich meat gravy. A few thin slices of fried onion are added at the last with the seasoning. — a la Turque.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter.