THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 868 put one and a half ounce grated cheese, the remainder of the cream and bechamel sauce, pauurette or breadcrumbs, and white of egg, well beaten, in a small stew-pan ; add a pinch of cayenne, and stir over the lire for a few minutes, so as to get it thoroughly hot ; put a tablespbonful of this into each of the partly-baked souffles, return to the oven for another five minutes to brown the surface. Dish up, and serve very hot. Tartines a la Florentine. Roll out an oblong piece of puff-paste, using grated cheese in place of Hour for dredging. Spread half with anchovy and lobster butter, cover with the other half, trim the edges, and cut into six to eight even-sized portions. Put them on a baking-sheet and bake for ten minutes. Melt one ounce of butter, stir in one ounce of grated cheese, three egg-yolks, and half a gill of cream ; whisk over the fire till it becomes thick, then spread over the baked pastry. Dish up, put a few thin slices of truffle and pistachios on the top of each, sprinkle with krona pepper, return to the oven for a few moments, then send to table. Tartines de Homard, St. Martin {Lobster Fingers). I oz. lobster puree or lobster butter, li- oz. fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, glass of old port, salt, cayenne, slices of toasted bread. Melt the butter in a small stew-pan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire for a few seconds ; leave long enough to heat through without boiling. Remove and add the lobster puree or butter, also the port wine ; stir well, season with salt and cavenne. Cut some fingers of freshly-toasted bread, put a thick layer of the preparation on each, put the fingers on a baking-sheet, bake for two minutes in a hot oven. Dish up, and serve very hot. Batons feuilletes a THomard {Lobster Puffs). lb. puff-paste, + small lobster, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful anchovy paste, grated parmesan cheese, i dessertspoonful double cream, i tea spoonful lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne, i yolk of egg. Roll out the paste and cut it into slices a cpiarter of an inch thick, an inch wide, and three inches long. Place them on a baking- sheet, allowing about half an inch of space between each slice of paste. Dust over with egg-yolk, sprinkle with grated parmesan