363 LIGHT ENTRl^ES {HOT).—ENTRfiES LEGERES. boiling water, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, peel 3 potatoes, and slice them very thinly, cut the slices into very hne julienne strips, soak in water for a time, and drain well on a cloth. Pack these loosely into a wire border mould, place on its lid, and plunge into very hot fat for about three minutes, then remove, let the fat get hot again, and plunge in a second time until the potatoes accpxire a pale brown colour. Take up, drain, remove lid, and turn on to a hot dish. Sprinkle with salt, dress the quenelles in the centre, pour some tomato sauce round the dish, and send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat. Quenelles a la Clamart. 8 to 10 oz. chicken, veal or rabbit meat free from bone, skin, and gristle, lb. bread panade, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i gill of bechamel sauce, I oz. butter, i gill of cooked peas, i truffle, ^ cucumber, pint stock, pepper, salt, mustard, aromatic seasoning, spinach greening, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, cream, a few drops of spinach greening or a table- spoonful of cooked spinach, and the eggs. Season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Fill a number of well-buttered and ornamented pea-shaped moulds with this farce, place them in a saute-pan with a little water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Reduce the stock, skim, add the sauce, and reduce again. Scoop out some pea shapes of cucumber, cook in salted water, drain, and put them in a stewpan together with the peas, add the butter, and toss over the fire. Cut out the truffle in pea-shapes, mix with the above, moisten with a little sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Turn out the moulds and dress neatly on a round border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with the pre- pared garnish, and pour a little of the remaining sauce round the base of the dish. Should any quenelle-meat be left over, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and force out on a buttered saute-pan very small marble-shaped quenelles, add a little stock, poach for five minutes, and mix these with the garniture. Ravioles a la Napolitaine [Neapolitan Raviolis). These are very small flat patties made of nouille paste, and hlled with a mixture of chicken forcemeat, grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, poached in stock or baked in the oven, and served with tomato sauce. Roulettes de Ris de Veau a ITmperatrice. 6 oz. cooked sweetbread. 6 mushrooms, i small truffle, puff-paste, fried parsley, puree of green peas, 2 02. cooked ox-tongue, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, -J- gill bechamel sauce, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of paprika. Mince rather coarsely the sweetbread, tongue, mushrooms, and truffle, and put in a saucepan with enough sauce to bind and pro- duce a salpicon of moderate consistency. Season to taste, and keep hot in the bain-marie. Roll out the paste, cut out some squares or rounds of even size, roll each round well-greased three- inch wooden rollers. Place them on a baking-sheet, folded sides