OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. (177 an ounce and a half of butter, pour in the mixture with the cheese, and finish cooking in the usual manner. Omelette a la Raphael, Make a savoury omelet with six eggs, place in the centre a line stew of hllet of beef (goulash de bcenf) and truftles and fold the omelet. When browned slightly, turn on to a hot dish, and pour some demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. Omelette aux Poireaux {Leek Omelet). 6 eggs, i t oz. butter, i tablespoonlul grated cheese, salt and cayenne, I tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream, beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stew-pan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, when tho- roughly warm (not too hot), pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. Petites Omelettes a la Marechale. 8 eggs, 8 slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, giU of cream, ih oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream, and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions, melt a little of the butter, prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture, place it on a slice of tongue, trimmed to required size, and jtroceed thus until the eight omelets are made. Dish up on a hot dish in the shape of a border {cn couronne), pour Colbert sauce round tlie dish, and serve. Omelettes gratinees au Parmesan {Pannesan Omelets). 6 eggs, I large tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated parmesan, 1 J oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, tomato sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the cream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet- pan, pour in half the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk hre until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few breadcrumbs and grated parmesan, also a few drojis of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely-seasoned hot tomato sauce poured round the omelets.