Vegeta bles—lVg umes. 64 r of butter in a stew-pan, fry in it half a small onion, finely chopped, when a pale brown, add a dessertspoonful of flour and fry a little longer, then put in the spinach puree and a large tablespoonful of cream. Season to taste and cook for about fifteen minutes. Poach four eggs, and trim them neatly. Press the spinach into a well- buttei'ed flat timbale or charlotte mould, and turn out on a hot dish. Place the poached eggs on top of this. Sauce over with a sauce Vert-pre, and pour a little rich gravy round the base of the dish. Serve at once. Epinards en Branches. Pick and wash the required quantity of spinach, and cook it with very little water (salted), then finish with butter, season, and serve. Petits Souffles aux Epinards {Spinach Souffles). 2 lb. spinach, 4 eggs, i oz. butter, 4 gill cream, cayenne pepper, and salt, 10 china souffle cases. Wash and pick the spinach leaves, cook them until tender in plenty of boiling water (salted) ; it usually takes about twenty minutes. W'hen done, drain, plunge into cold water to cool, press out all the moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the butter in a stew-pan, when hot add the spinach puree, season with a good pinch of cayenne, salt if needed, and stir over the fire until hot. Sepai'ate the yolks from the whites of eggs, work in three yolks, one at a time, remove from the fire before it boils, whip up the cream, and add to the mixture when cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in as lightly as possible. Have ready the buttered souffle cases. Three-parts fill them with the spinach mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Note.—It is rather difficult to give the exact quantity of spinach for this dish, because some spinach requires more trimming than other, but when cooked there should be about a pint of it. Haricots Flageolets panaches a la Poulette {Flageolet Beans with Carrots, Poulette Style). I pint green flageolets, lb. young French or Jersey beans, 12 young carrots, J gill rich stock, meat glaze, finely chopped parsle^^ butter, -white sauce, cream, nutmeg, puff-paste Fleurons. Blanch, cook, and drain the flageolets, and keep them hot. String the beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, and cook till tender in salted water. Scrape or thinly peel and partially cook the carrots, finish them in the stock with a little meat glaze and parsley, then glaze them. Toss the flageolets in butter over the fire, moisten with a little white sauce and cream. Toss the French beans in butter, add half of them to the flageolets, also add a dessertspoonful of parsley, a pinch each of nutmeg ancl castor sugar, a little salt and pepper, and put the whole into an earthenware cocotte dish. Arrange the remainder of the French beans as a border round the dish, garnish with the glazed carrots, and put a corresponding ss