J FTER-DINNER SA I 'O VRIES. 863 Petites Croiites a la Colmar {Small Savoury Croutcs with Ham). 10 to 12 small croutes of bread, fried in clarified butter or lard, 3 large Gorgona anchovies (boned), 2 hard-boiled eggs, 3 oz. fresh butter, a dust of Nepaul or paprika pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, tarragon and chervil, 2 or 3 thin slices of cooked ham. Pound the anchovies in a mortar, add to it the yolks of the hard- boiled eggs and the butter, mix well, season with a dust of pepper, chop the parsley and other herbs finely (a teaspoonful in all), and add to the mixture, rub this through a fine sieve and put it in a forcing-bag with a rose pipe. Stamp out the slices of ham to the size of the croutes, allowing one for each, place these on the croutes, force the prepared mixture tastefiflly on top of the ham, garnish each croute with hard-boiled white of egg (rubbed through a coarse wire sieve). Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. If the savoupv puree is desired a deeper pink, a few drops of liquid carmine should be mixed with it before it is passed through the sieve. Diables a Cheval {Devils on Horseback). Flatten out 8 to lo thinly cut rashers of bacon, and trim each neatly. Stone the same number of best French plums, insert in place a peeled Jordan almond, previously tossed in butter or olive oil, and highly seasoned with paprika, salt, and cayenne. Next roll each plum in a slice of bacon, skewer them, and grill over a bright fire for about six minutes, turning them frequently. Serve the rolls on silver skewers, on neatly cut slices of toasted bread or fried croutons, ranged on a rouncl or oval flat dish. Sardines au Parmesan, 12 sardines, lb. flour, 2 oz. parmesan cheese grated, i egg, i oz. butter, salt, cayenne or krona pepper, frying-fat. Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre of the flour, put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of water. Work this to a stiff but smooth paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, wipe them gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible and cut into oblong pieces. Oil the butter, dip each sardine in butter and roll in grated cheese, place on a piece of paste and wrap up neatly, seal the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat, fry gently a golden brown, take up, drain well. Sprinkle over with grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper, and dish up. Eclairs de Sardines. Carefully remove the skins of eight to ten sardines and wrap each neatly in a piece of puff-paste, previously spread over with a little anchovy paste. Brush over with egg-yolk, sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese, and place on a baking-sheet. Mark the surface of the paste crossways with the point of a knife, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Serve hot or cold.