THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 308 the lobster meat, moisten with wine, boil up, and add the two sauces. Take out the meat, and dish up, reduce the sauce, season with cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour over the dish, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve. Homard a la Newbury {Creamed Lobster). Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster and chop it finely. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and mix with half a gill of double cream, a few drops of lemon-juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of krona pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the minced lobster, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add the cream, etc. Stir con- tinuously till it thickens, and serve out on small rounds of toasted and buttered or fried bread. Garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley. Cotelettes de Homard {Lobster Cutlets). I large lobster, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, i gill well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), 4 chopped preserved mushrooms, I egg and i yolk of egg, salt, pepper, cayenne, panurette or breadcrumbs, and frying-fat. Split the lobster in half, take out all the meat and chop finely. Put the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallots, and fry them a golden colour, put in the lobster meat, stir well for a few minutes, then add the sauce. When thoroughly hot put in one yolk of egg, and cook for another minute or two, remove the pan from the fire, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and turn on to a buttered dish to cool. Strew some breadcrumbs on a paste-board, divide the lobster mixture into pieces about the size of a small egg, and give each the shape of a cutlet. Dip each cutlet in beaten egg, cover with panurette or breadcrumbs, shape again, smoothing each cutlet with the blade of a knife. Fry in a frying-basket in plenty of hot fat or lard until nicely browned. Drain on paper, insert a small piece of a lobster leg into the small end of each cutlet, dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a hot dish, put a little fried parsley in the centre. Hot tomato sauce (p. 160) should be handed. Lobster Croquettes are made in the same manner, but shaped into corks or balls, and should be somewhat smaller than cutlets. Homard fare! an gratin {Stuffed Lobster, ait gratin). I large lobster, 2 finely chopped shallots, butter, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce (p. 142). I tablespoonful cream, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, I saltspoonful chopped tarragon, I lemon, i egg, nutmeg, fried bread- crumbs, Danoise sauce. Split the lobster lengthwise, reserve the spawn, remove the meat from the body and claws, and scrape the shells clean. Cut the nicest pieces into neat slices, and mince the rest rather finely. Fry the shallots a golden colour in oz. butter, add the lobster meat, bechamel sauce, cream, parsley, tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, stir over the fire until hot, add the egg well-beaten, and stir until the egg binds. Fill up the shells, sprinkle with fried breadcrumbs, put a few drops