DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 309 of melted butter over the surface, aud bake for teu minutes iu a moderate oveu. Dish up, place a handful of fried parsley iu the centre, and stick a few lobster sprays here and there. Sauce Danoise (p. 147) should be handed. Coquilles de Homard a la Gauloise {Lobster in Shells). 1 hen lobster (boiled), i whiting, 4 oz. Initter, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole eggs and I yolk, i teaspoonful anchovy jiaste, i trultle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and caj-enne. Break the lobster shell, remove the meat, reserve coral and spawn, cut the tail into neat scallops. Pound the coral aud spawn with a little butter, put in a stewpan with the scallops, let it get thoroughly hot, and put on one side. Skin and bone the whiting, put the hllets with the remainder of the lobster meat in a mortar, pound till smooth, add the panade, remainder of the butter, and eggs, one by one, and the anchovy paste. Season with a jiinch of salt, half a pinch each of cayenne pepper aud nutmeg, mi.x thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small coquille moulds, decorate them with thin strips of truffle, line the moulds with some of the forcemeat, place a nice scallop of lobster in the centre of each, and fill up with lobster forcemeat. Cook in a saute-pan half filled with water for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn out on a hot dish, sauce round with hot cardinal sauce, and serve. Note.—The lobster butter in which the scallops were cooked should be utilised for the sauce. Mousse de Homard [Lobster Mousse). This is prepared in the same manner as salmon mousse (see p. 260), omitting the salmon, and using instead t lb. lobster meat and I lb. whiting free from skin and bones. Souffle de Homard a I’Aurora [Lobster Souffle, Aurora Style). 2 hen lobsters, 6 eggs, t pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Split the lobster, remove the flesh from the shell, and pound in the mortar until very fine. Add the sauce (hot) by degrees, also the yolks of eggs, and the seasoning. Rub all through a sieve and put in a basin, beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix all lightly together, put it in a well-buttered mould or some ten or twelve small timbale moulds, steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Aurora sauce (p. 141). Homard a la Bechamel {Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style).—Shells of lobster stuffed with a mixture of minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce and seasoning, and baked. -- - saute a la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in Genoise or other brown fish sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika, and lemon juice. — a la Gloucester [Lobster, Gloucester Style).—Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of lobster butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract or glaze.