220 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into fine julienne strips and blend with the butter, pour off the fat, add the consomme, season to taste, cook gently till tender, and re- move the scum and fat. Add this to the broth containing the meat. Cook all together for another ten minutes. The sausage is cut into very thin slices, and is served in the soup or separately. The remain- der of the duck can be used up as salmi or served hot or cold. Add a little chopped parsley to the soup and serve. Just before serving mix two tablespoonfuls of sour cream and one tablespoonful of beet- root juice and serve it in a sauce boat with the soup. Mutton Broth. 2 lb. mutton (scrag end of neck), 2 quarts water, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, \ stick celery, i onion, salt and pepper, i oz. barley or crushed tapioca. Trim off the fat as much as possible from the meat, cut into small neat pieces, put in saucepan, cover with cold water, then add a little salt, and allow it to come to the boil, then skim well. Pre- pare all the vege- tables, cut into small dice, and add to the broth, allow all to cook gently until the meat is tender. HOW TO CUT VEGETABLES FOR MUTTON BROTH. RcmOVe the bones from the meat, cut into dice. Add this and the barley or tapioca to the broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue to cook for another thirty to forty minutes. Serve hot. Tschi de Soldat.— This is the name of the most poptdar soup in Russia. It furnishes the soldier with a satisfying meal, hence the surname “ de soldat.” The following is the recipe as transcribed from the MS. of a Russian chef:— 2 quarts consomme (clarified beef broth), i small cabbage, i leek, 2 small onions, i lb. blanched breast or brisket of beef, i tablespoonful flour, 2~} oz. butter. 3 tablespoonfuls sour cream, .seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage and the leek, peel the onions and cut all into fine shreds. Use only the heart of the cabbage and the white part of the leek. Melt ij- oz. of butter in a large stewpan, put in the vegetables (previously drained), and cook over a quick ;^re for about five minutes. Pour off the butter and add the consomme. Cook the beef separately in salted water, when done cut the meat, free from skin and gristle, into small pieces, and add to the soup with some of the stock (strained). Cook gently for half an hour. Fry the Hour in the remainder of the butter, add the cream and a ladleful of