/ 346 CHAPTER XIX ENTREES. The meaning or application of the term “ entree ” has under- gone considerable changes and modification during the last fifteen years, not only in this country, but also on the continents of Europe and America. The correct meaning of the word is often confused with that of “ entremet ”—no doubt this is because the difference of these two names is not clearly understood by many. One fre- quently finds a remove, releve, or even a hors-d’oeuvre (side dish) served under the heading of “ entree,” which, according to the gastronomic law, is incorrect. There are certain laws, culinary and gastronomic rules, most of which are as yet unwritten, and I may say unexplained, but nevertheless well understood by first-rate chefs and epicures, which govern the culinary operations, the preparation, dressing, and serving those dishes known as “ entrees.” It is not too much to say that the success of a dinner depends largely on the entree or entrees. It is a matter of the greatest importance, which has been thought out with the greatest care, not only by clever chefs, but by gourmets and epicures alike, whereby the most refined artistic tastes are blended with the utmost effect. However, there are still many who bestow but little thought on this important branch of the profession, and forget that in pre- paring an entree, like almost everything else in cookery, it is both necessary to please eye and palate. This negligence frequently causes an otherwise well-cooked dish to be viewed with disfavour. Every entree should be sent to table as perfect and as correct in garnish or decoration as it can possibly be. If this is done, there can be little doubt as to its success, whether it be a simple or a more elaborate entree. Dishes following the fish, or preceding the remove when such is served, are called entrees; which, being translated into English, means “ entrances.” Hence, the dishes served under this heading are considered by the epicure as the first of the essential dishes of the dinner, and rightly so, because there may be dinners without hors d’oeuvre, and even without soup, or without a remove or releve, but there can be no dinner proper without an entree course. Entrees are defined as ‘‘ dressed dishes ” or ” made dishes.” A dish bearing the name ” entree ” is always composed of more than one ingredient, and should be distinguished from meat served only with a garnish. When two entrees are chosen in a dinner, the first should be made the lighter of the two. All entrees (made dishes) should be made in fancy style, so as to avoid carving.