THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 98 importance of soup, some people finding in it a complete dinner, whilst others regard it as weak wash, though suitable for the nursery or sick-room. The Marqius de Cussy, a great gourmet of his time, described soup as the preface of a dinner, and said that a good work can do without a preface ; and, as a reply to this argument, the great Car erne is reported to have said, “ Why should the marquis wage war against soup ? I cannot understand a dinner without it. I hold soup to be the well-beloved of the stomach.” Whatever these opinions may be worth, it is an acknowledged fact that a plate of good soup or broth partaken at the commence- ment of a meal prepares one to enjoy the more solid portions all the better. It must, however, be remembered that a little soup of good quality is far better than a large cpiantity of poor soup. Nothing can be more disappointing to a guest than a plate of weak, badly flavoured, watery or greasy-looking liquid, which some cooks serve up as soup. The English taste, it will be found, is in favour of rich, strong, and highly flavoured soups. This does not necessarily mean that it is universally so, as even these may be and are judiciously varied by others of a plainer description, as circumstances may require, and in accordance with the needs and taste of the guests. Before anyone can pretend to make soup of any kind, it is absolutely necessary that he should be well and fully acquainted with the subject of stocks and broths and their preparation, for these form with very few exceptions the basis of every soup. For this reason a cook’s whole attention must for a time be turned to that subject in particular. It has been reckoned that there are between 550 and 600 different kinds of soup. The greater portion of this number is, of course, reached by giving the dignity of a separate recipe to every little variation, to all of which fashion accords separate names. Soups are divided into two groups : I. The fat soups prepared with meat or meat stock. II. The lean soups (“ maigre ”) prepared without meat. These are divided into two sections ; (a) Clear soups. (&) Thick soups. And these two sections are subdivided into five classes : 1. Broths, consommes or clear soups, variously garnished. 2. Purees or thick soups. 3. Creams or filtered soups. 4. Fish soups, bisques and shell-fish soups, and purees made from fresh fish. 5. Cosmopolitan or mixed soup. Garnishings.—The garniture for either thick or clear soups consists of crusts, croutons or sippets ; vegetables, either separate or mixed ; forcemeat balls or quenelles of fish, meat, game c •