8o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or peas used during the baking) and when nearly baked add about one ounce of castor sugar to the fruit. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly over the surface, and brown slightly in the oven. Serve when cold. Oranges glacees a la Napolitaine {Jellied Oranges). 4 to 6 fine even-sized oranges, vanilla custard, wine jelly, spinach greening, I glass green chartreuse. Wipe the oranges, make an incision on top of each with a pastry- cutter about one inch and quarter in diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose). Arrange the orange-shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours, red and green, being flavoured with raspberry and curagoa or chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Fix on the cover before the top layer is set. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best done with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-papers, and serve. Genoise Cake {Genoese Mixture for Gateaux, etc.). -I lb. butter, i lb. castor sugar, the finely chopped thin rind of half a lemon, 5 small eggs, lb. sifted flour, teaspoonful vanilla essence. Put the butter in a warm basin and work it with a wooden spoon till creamy, then add the lemon rind and sugar, and beat these together until quite white : it will take about fifteen minutes. Stir in one by one the yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these with the flour into the above. Lastly add the vanilla essence. Put the mixture in a flat, well-buttered cake-tin or saute-pan, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Cornets de Nougat a la Creme. 1 lb. sweet almonds, lb. sugar, lemon, i gill cream, vanilla sugar, pistachio kernels for garnish. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, put them on a baking-sheet and bake in a cool oven a fawn colour. Put half a pound of castor sugar in a copper pan, add the strained juice of half a lemon, cook until it is a light brown, add the shredded almonds, stir well, and let boil again. Pour quickly on to an oiled marbled slab, stamp out some very thin circles about two and a half inches in diameter. Wrap each quickly round an oiled cornet tin, put in a second mould so as to keep in shape. Remove when cool, whip the cream, sweeten with a little vanilla sugar, fill the cornets with this, sprinkle over with a few chopped pistachio kernels, and serve. The edges of the cornets look better CORNET TIN.