THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 478 and serve the remainder separately in a sance-boat. The sauce should be carefully warmed, and any cream left over stirred into it a few minutes before it is required. Medallions de Volaille a la Careme. T large fowl or Surrey capon, 2 oz. butter, a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, and onion cut in dice), a small bunch of savoury herbs, i gill white stock, -1-gill bearnaise sauce, i tablespoonful sherry, i oz. meat glaze, 2 truffles, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, seasoning. Remove the breasts and wing portions of the fowl or capon, take off the skin and sinews, flatten each piece with a wetted cutlet- bat, and pare into rottnd or oval shapes ; each breast should make two shapes. Prepare the mirepoix and fry a little in a saute-pan with a little butter, put the fillets on top of this. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cut the truffle, mushrooms, and tongue into cubes or julienne strips, and heat up in a little stock, butter, and sherry wine. As soon as the fillets are done take them up, trim a little, and dress in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a round dish ; fill the centre with the prepared garnish of truffle, tongue, and mushrooms. Have ready some bearnaise sauce, incorporate with this the meat glaze, pour some of the sauce over the garnish, the remainder round the base of the dish, and send to table. The sauce must be rather stiff in appearance, the meat glaze has to be worked in gradually, and great care must be taken that the bearnaise sauce does not boil. Poularde soufflee a I’Orlofl. I fat pullet, I small chicken, 2 or '3 whites of egg, i V pint cream, a few slices fat bacon, a sliced carrot, i sliced onion, a bouquet garni, -J- pint stock, I oz. butter, pepper"and .salt, nutmeg, veloutee or supreme sauce, financiere garniture. Truss the pullet the same as for boiling, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the carrot, onion, and bouquet, lay in the bird, cover the top with the butter, put in a hot oven for ten minutes, moisten with the stock, season, cover with a buttered paper, and braise until about three-parts done. Remove the pullet and let it get cold. Bone the chicken, free the meat from skin and gristle, chop finely, and pound till quite smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, return to the mortar, work in the whites of egg, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ca3^enne, and a susDicion of nutmeg. Whip the cream and mingle with the forcemeat. Untruss the pullet, with a sharp-pointed knife cut out the breasts and bones, so that it forms an oval case ; place it in a sautepan (buttered), fill the hollow part with a fourth part of the prepared forcemeat, poach in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, cut the two breast fillets into scollops, range them in two rows on fop of the force- meit, coat with a little sauce, return to the oven for another ten minutes or so, put the remainder of the forcemeat on top, smooth neatly, fasten a paper band round it if necessary, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. Dress the poularde whole on a bed of cooked rice, on a large silver dish, garnish the sides w.th financiere pre-