HOT MEAT ENTRliES, ETC. 4^1 Rognons de Veau sautes. Thinly sliced veal kidneys, tossed in butter, with a little shallot or onion finely chopped, sprinkled with a little liour, moistened with white wine and stock, and stewed for a few minutes. Rognons de Veau a la Bordelaise. Thinly cut veal kidneys, fried in butter and stewed in red wine sance with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. Rognons de Veau a la DemidofT. Thinly sliced veal kidneys, fried in butter with sliced mush- rooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce IMadere, dressed in a border of stewed savoury rice mixed with chopped truffles. TETE DE VEAU—CALF’S HEAD. Tete de Veau en Tortue [Calf’s Head, Turtle Style). Wash half a calf’s head well, and rub with a coarse cloth. Bone carefully, cutting from the centre of the head down to the nostrils. Wash and blanch the flesh, jiut in the stewpan an ounce of flour, add a quart of water and a teaspoonful of vinegar, an onion, three cloves, a bunch of herbs, one carrot, and a bay-leaf. Cut the meat of the head into convenient pieces, remove the centre of the ears, put them into the stewpan, add two or three quarts of stock, and boil slowly till tender. Skim occasionally. When done, put as many pieces as may be recpiired (the remainder will keep if put with the stock into an earthenware pan) in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, cover, and boil five minutes, season to taste, and add garnishing a la Tortue (p. 345). Cook for fifteen minutes longer, dish up, garnish with fried bread crotitons, glazed over, and fried parsley, and serve. Note.—The brain should be removed, washed, and kept in water till wanted. The tongue can be cooked at the same time or may be served as a separate dish. Tete de Veau a la Poulette.—Cook half a calf’s head as in the foregoing recipe. Add about one pint of poulette sauce, omitting the sherry and tortue garnishing. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, dish r:p, and serve. If it is found that the sauce is too thick, add a little milk or cream. — a la Vinaigrette.—Wash, blanch, and cook as above, drain well, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve with a boat of vinaigrette sauce, consisting of one gill of best oil, rather more than half a gill of vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped chervil, parsley, olives, and one small shallot. — a la Cavour.—Proceed as above ; finish cooking in tomato sauce. adding garnishing a la Cavour. Dish up, garnish neatly, and serve. — a la Sainte-Menehoulde.—Boiled as for “Calf’s head en Tortue,” cut up, and dished in a well-buttered dish, covered with oiled butter, veloutee sauce, yolks of eggs, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven.