THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 294 Filets de Merlans a la Juive {Whiting Fillets, Jewish Style). 3 medium-sized skinned whitings, 2 taljlespoonfuls sweet oil, i oz. of vinegar (French wine), i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, parsley for garnish, frying-batter, fat for frying, Joinville sauce (p. 151). Remove the fillets, flatten them slightly, fold them in two, pare neatly, and put in a deep dish. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, let them lie in soak for one or two hours. Take out, drain, dip in frying-batter (previously prepared), fry in hot clarified fat or butter a golden colour, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Joinville sauce. Filets de Merlans frits a la Tyrolienne. 5 medium-sized whitings (skinned), olive oil, egg, breadcrumbs, flour, lemons, parsley, tomato sauce (p. 160). Remove the fillets of the whitings, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, roll in flour, dip in egg beaten with a tablespoonful of sweet oil, roll in fresh breadcrumbs, and smooth them with a knife. Dip the ends of each fillet in egg, thrust a small skewer through each to give them the shape of rings, fry light brown in clear hot fat, drain them carefully on a drainer, pile up on a folded napkin, put some fried parsley on the top, garnish with quartered lemons, and serve with tomato sauce. Souffle de Merlan {Whiting SoufjU). 2 small or i large whiting, 2 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, -|- pint milk, i gill cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 eggs, pepper and salt. Skin the fish, free it from bones, and chop the fillets finely or pound in a mortar. Butter a souffle tin, fasten a well-buttered, paper band round the top, and sprinkle the inside of the mould with a few brown breadcrumbs. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan, when hot stir in the flour, cook a little without browning, add the milk, stir briskly until smooth, then add the cream. Cook a little longer, stirring all the while, remove from the fire, cool a little, work in the yolks of eggs, anchovy essence, and lastly the fish. Mix well, season with pepper and salt. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture, pour it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Dish up, and serve with a suitable fish sauce. Quenelles de Merlans, Joinville.—Quenelles made of whiting forcemeat, with shrimp salpicon in centre, poached in fish stock ; served with Joinville sauce, fleurons as garnish. Merlan a I’ltalienne {Whiting, Italian Style).—Steamed whiting with brown mushroom sairce. Merlan frit a la Fran^aise {Fried Whiting, French Style).—Wipe the fish and score along the sides, remove the bones Irut not the skin, dij) in milk, Hour well and fry in fat until crisp ; serve with anchovy and shrimp sauce. — a I’Anglaise.—Skinned whiting dipped in flour, then egged and crumbed and tried in clarified butter; served witli parsley butter sauce.