THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 634 for five minutes, season with pepper and salt. Add the sauce, and simmer gently for another ten minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle over with parsley, and serve hot. Champignons a la Piemontaise. Broiled or grilled fresh mushrooms, cut into slices, finished in a sauce composed of melted butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. Champignons a la Richemont. Fresh button mushrooms, fried in oil, drained, and finished in a rich gravy sauce containing chopped shallots, a clove of crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and served with croutons arranged round the dish. Cepes a la Bordelaise. Cepes are a variety of edible mushroom of a yellowish colour. They are largely cultivated in the province and district of Bor- deaux, and are imported to this country in a preserved state, generally in oil or in water {au naturel). They have a most agree- able and nutty, flavour and are frequently used for garnishings and flavourings. Mince very finely two small cloves of garlic, fry this in a saute- pan with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil to a pale colour, pour off the oil and add about an ounce of butter. When hot add a pint of preserved cepes (previously drained), sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and shake the pan quickly over a brisk fire for about ten minutes. Squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with some hot bordelaise sauce, and serve hot. Cepes farcis au Jus. Stuffed cepes moistened with gravy and cooked in the oven. Dished np and served with its own gravy, seasoned and freed from grease. Champignons au beurre.—Cup mushrooms washed and peeled, broiled in fresh butter and served on toast. — a la Bordelaise.—Fresh mushrooms washed and peeled, cooked in butter over a brisk fire, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and finished with demi-glace sauce, mixed with chopped shallots, previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. — Casse-tout.—Fresh mushrooms grilled or broiled in butter, placed on buttered toast, and baked in the oven. — aux Fines Herbes.—Sauted mushrooms in butter, and finished in a rich brown sauce containing finely chopped savoury herbs. — a la Gourmet.—Turned cup mushrooms, hollow parts filled with minced preserved champignons, butter, and truffles, braised lightly in butter, meat-glaze sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — au Gratin.—Washed and peeled mushrooms seasoned with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, etc., dished on a greased gratin dish, sauced with a well-buttered Madere sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in a fairly hot oven for twenty minutes.