702 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Peel and slice the potatoes and beetroot, wash the celery and shred not too small, arrange these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season to taste, pour over some salad dressing ; sprinkle over, if liked, a little chopped parsley. Wipe the sides of the bowl, ancl mix well when required. Salade de Homard {Lobster Salad). I large hen lobster, \ pint mayonnaise sauce, i lettuce, endive, bunch watercress, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 anchovies (filleted), i teaspoonful capers, 10 Spanish olives (stoned), 2 or 3 French gherkins, salt and pepper. Split the lobster lengthways, remove all the meat from the shell and claws (preserve the coral for garnish). Cut the lobster- meat into neatly-sized dice or slices. Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce, en- dive, and cress, break or cut these into conve- nient pieces. Arrange lobster and salad in alternate layers in a salad bowl, season each layer , with pepper] and salt, and spread over with a layer of mayonnaise dressing. Cut the hard- boiled eggs into round slices, and cover the surface of the salad with this. Coat the whole carefully with mayonnaise, and decorate with the remainder of egg-slices, olives, gherkins, capers, and anchovy fillets. Keep the bowl on the ice until required for table. Salade de Homard en Coquille {Lobster Salad in Shells). I lobster, \ gill tartare sauce, i lettuce, t lemon. Split the lobster, crack the claws, and remove all.the meat, divide it into small dice and season well with tartare sauce. Clean and trim the shells of the lobster, fill up with the prepared salad, and arrange them on a dish. Wash and trim the lettuce, break the leaves into pieces. If any lobster mixture is left over put it in the centre of the dish, and upon this place the lettuce-leaves. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Salade de Houblon {Hopshoot Salad). Procure a bundle of younq hopshoots (obtainable in the spring), trim ancl wash them, then blanch and cook them in salted water. When done, drain and let cool, cut them into short pieces and season with vinaigrette or ordinary salad dressing. ' Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs.