63 s VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. Champignons farcis a la Napolitaine.—Fresh cup mushrooms, washed and peeled, stuffed witli a mixture of celery, garlic, shallots, and parsley, all chopped fine, grated parmesan cheese, and In'eadcrumbs. Range on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle with fresh crumbs and cheese and a few drops of sweet oil, and bake in a hot oven. Serve with a well-seasoned demi-glace sauce. Chicoree au Gratin. Wash and trim 12 heads of Belgium endive, blanch and cook them in salted water till nearly tender, then take np and drain them on a sieve. Cut a piece of toasted bread to the size of the dish to be used, upon this spread a layer of bechamel sairce. Range the cooked chicoree or endive neatly on the dish, coating each layer with sauce and seasoning. Wdien dished np, sauce over the whole. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and bake in a quick oven, long enough to brown the surface, then serve. Choux-raves a la Creme [Kohl-Rabis). 8 small kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), i oz. butter. ^ gill allemande or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, -V pint white stock. Peel the kohl-rabis, and cut into quarters or, if -large, into six equal parts. Blanch them in salted water, plunge them in cold water, and drain. Put the butter in a stew-pan, and, when hot, lay in the blanched kohl-rabis, toss them over the fire for a few minutes (they must not take colour), moisten with the stock, let it come to the boil, take off scum, put in the sauce, and cook gently until tender (a little more stock or sauce may be added if found necessary) ; finish with the cream, and add the seasoning. Dish np in a deep vegetable dish, and serve. Great care should be taken not to boil again after the cream is added. Choux-raves a la Menagere. Peel some kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), cut each in quarters and pare neatly (olive shapes), blanch and drain. Cook them in nut-brown butter and finish stewing in a light brown sauce, season and serve. Chou-rouge au petit lard {Red Cabbage with Bacon). I red cabbage. 2 small onions stuck with a clove, 2 small apples peeled and cored, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. butter, i glass claret, i dessert- spoonful flour, pint stock, seasoning. Trim and w’ash the cabbage, cut into fine shreds, the same as is done for pickling, cut the apples into slices, cut the bacon into small pieces. l\lelt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the bacon, and fry a little, then add the cabbage, apples, and onions, stir well, sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with the claret and stock. Cook for an hour over the fire, then season with salt and pepper, cover, and place it in a hot oven for another hour. When ready for serving, take out the onions. This dish can be served with any kind of roast or braised meat, poultry or game. Chou-de-Mer a la Creme {Seakale with Cream Sauce). [ basket seakale, i lemon, i dessertspoonful flour, i gill cream, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, i tablespoonful white sauce.