585 COU) ENTRJiES. Pound-the pheasant till smooth, add to it the chest- nut puree, season to taste, and moisten with chaud- froid sauce and meat glaze. Spread this on a clean baking-sheet about inch in thickness, and place on the ice to set. Then cut out as many rounds, by means of a paste-cutter, as may be required, and till the prepared moulds with them, allowing a thin layer of aspic between each round of puree. Turn ont and arrange neatly on the rice socle, till the centre with a well-dressed salad, and garnish the base of the dish with set aspic cut into fancy shapes, Chaud-froid de Perdreaux (Chaud-froid of Paytridge). 2 roast partridges, pint brown chaud-froid sauce, i crisp lettuce, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, i cucumber, i hard-boiled egg, 8 stuffed olives, i pint aspic jelly, mayonnaise sauce. Cut the partridges into neat pieces, free them from skin and trim, mask each piece completely with a pale-brown chaud-froid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half-set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of partridge neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on top. Garnish with slices of tomato, cucumber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice, or a border of cooked rice, as a foundation, will improve the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. The rice should be coated with chaud-froid sauce, and masked with aspic. Ballotine de Perdreau, Souvaroff. This consists of boned partridge stuffed with goose-liver farce and truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, then pressed, glazed, and cut into slices, dished up and garnished with choppecl aspic. Supreme de Sarcelle a I’Orange [Supreme of Teal or Wild Duck). I teal or wild duck, 6 small oranges (even size and smooth skins), i oz. butter, \ gill cream, i foie-gras naturel, aromatic seasoning. Krona pepper, orange aspic jelly, rice socle, glace cherries, orange salad, pimientos, brown chaud-froid sauce. Immerse the duck in boiling water for a few seconds, then bone it, using the carcase for stock. Cut the fillets into neat round- shaped slices, season them with salt and Krona pepper, saute them in butter over a slow fire, drain and press till cold. Toss the trim- mings of the duck in butter, pomid well in a mortar, add the foie- gras previously sliced, seasoning and cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate enough orange aspic to just set this farce, which must be of light consistency, like a mousse. Cut four of the oranges across through the centre, in a zig-zag fashion, with the point of a knife carefully remove pulp and pith, taking care not to damage the pointed edges of the skin. Fill the shapes with the moi;sse, and smooth the surface with a knife. Trim the fillets, coat one side of each with a thin layer of the mousse, place half a glace cherry in the centre, mask with chaud-froid sauce which, when SUGGESTED DECORATION.