THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. -V7S2 a half before it is turned out. In either case, the caramel used to mask the mould forms the sauce. Creme a la Romaine {Roman Cream). 3 oz. Jordan almonds and i oz. bitter almonds, i pint milk, 11- gill cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i tablespoonful orange-flower water, i oz. leaf gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, chop rather finely, and put them into a cop])er preserving-pan and stir over the fire until they have acquired a light-brown colour. Boil the milk, add the sugar and almonds, simmer gently for ten minutes, cool a little, stir in the yolks of eggs and let them bind, then remove quickly, and pass through a fine sieve. Soak the gelatine in a little cold water, dissolve in a saucepan, strain into the cream, and add the orange- flower water. Whip the cream and stir it lightly in as soon as the mixture is nearly cold. Pour into a mould, stand it on the ice, when set turn out, garnish with some preserved fruit or compote, and serve. Creme cuite a la Suisse {Swiss Cream). 3 oz. glace fruits (cherries, apricots, angelica, etc.), \ pint cream, -J pint milk, 6 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, ioz. loaf sugar, f oz. leaf gelatine, I glass cura9oa, i gill wine ielly. Mask a quart mould with jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with glace fruits, and set the fruit with a layer of jelly. Put the milk and cream with the sugar in a stew-pan, bring to the boil. Mix the eggs in a basin, pour over the boiling milk and cream, stir well, and return to the stew-pan. Stir over a slow fire and let it come gradually almost to the boil, strain uho a basin, also strain in the gelatine, previously dis,solved in a little milk, stir occasionally until cold, then add the liqueur, the remaining glace fruit cut into shreds. When on the point of setting pour into the decorated mould. Stand it in a cool place until set. Immerse in tepid water, and dish up on a cold dish. Creme au Tapioca aiix Fruits {Tapioca Mould with Fruit). 3 oz. ground or crushed tapioca, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inches vanilla pod, j pint milk, 1- pint cream, about a pint of compote of fruit, almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Boil the milk, vanilla pod, and sugar in a stew-pan, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir until it boils, cook for about fifteen minutes, remove the vanilla pod, and pour into a basin. Whip the cream and mix with the tapioca when cool, tnrn into a border mould, when set unmould on to a round dish, ornament the border tastefully with blanched and shredded almonds and halves of glace cherries, fill the centre with any kind of stewed fruit, pour some of the fruit syrup round the border, and serve. The fruit may, if liked, be flavoured with a glass of chartreuse or maraschino. Creme Tutti-Frutti {Mixed Fruit Cream). A pint or more of mixed fruit (fresh), cherries (stoned), strawberries, apricots (cut into dice), bananas (cut into dice), etc. ; i gill syrup, i glass maraschino, J gill Madeira wine, \ pint cream, oz. French leaf gelatine, J oz. pistachio kernels (finely chopped), i oz. blanched and dried almonds (cut into strips), i tablespoonful milk, i lemon.