COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 79‘3 Charlotte de Gaufrettes [Wafer Charlotte). I large box cigarette wafers (Swiss gaufrcs), icing sugar (glace royal), I gill milk, i j- gill cream, -1- oz. castor sugar, -1 oz. gelatine, t tcaspoonful vanilla essence, glace cherries. For crust ; ij- lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, t egg, \ oz. grouml almonds. Line the sides of a plain charlotte mould with the ganfres, fit them close to each other by means of a little royal icing. Heat np the milk and in it dis- solve the gelatine. Whip the cream, add f oz. of sugar and the llavonring essence. Strain the milk and gelatine, and add it to the cream, stir it until it begins to cool and thicken, then ponr it into the mould. Great care must be taken not to disturb the wafer bis- cuits. Put the mould in a cool place to set. Pre- pare a paste with the Hour, butter, 2 oz. sugar, egg, and almonds. Roll out, and stamj) out a round the size of the charlotte mould in use, bake this in a moderate oven, and let cool. Place this crust on a dish, unmould the charlotte on to the paste crust, pour some whipped cream on the top, and decorate with strawberries or glace cherries. Tie with a small ribbon, and serve. Charlotte Hollandaise (Dutch Charlotte). Proceed to line a plain charlotte mould with biscuits the same as for an ordinary charlotte russe. Fill the mould with a well- prepared rich chocolate or cocoa cream or bavarois (p. 771). Charlotte Russe aux Pistaches [Pistachio Charlotte). Decorate the bottom of a plain charlotte mould with wine jelly and pistachio nuts, trim enough hnger-biscuits to line the sides of the mould, and mask them with smooth chocolate icing (made of dissolved chocolate, white of eggs, icing sugar). When set and dry, arrange them neatly, glaced side towards the tin, round the inside of the mould. See that they ht closely. Pound one ounce of blanched and peeled pistachio nuts, boil in a gill of milk, dissolve half an ounce of gelatine and strain into the milk, add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and flavour with ^vanilla cream or vanilla sugar. Whip up half a pint of double cream and mix care- fully with the above as soon as it is cool. Pour carefully into the prepared mould, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Allow it to set on the ice, then turn out, garnish with chopped wine jelly, and serve.