THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 466 cover on the pan, and continue to cook in a fairly hot oven till the duck is cpiite clone. Baste occasionally. Peel 2 turnips and 2 carrots, cut out into olive shapes. Toss them in a stewpan with butter. Add salt and a pinch of castor sugar. Finish cooking them along with the duck. Joint the bird into sections, then place on a dish and keep hot. Take out the vegetables and place them round the duck. Skim and reduce the sauce, and strain over the duck. Garnish the dish further with groups of green peas and dice- shaped pieces of bacon previously fried. Canard en Chemise [Rolled Braised Duck). Bone a duck, split it open, and spread with a nicely-seasoned liver farce (p. 178), roll up like a galantine, and tie up in a cloth. Cook in rich stock for forty or fifty minutes, according to size. The duck must be very underdone. Remove the cloth, and braise in the oven for another ten minutes. Cut the duck into slices, dish up, and serve with orange sauce or Rouennaise sauce. Canard grille a la Frangaise [Grilled Duck). Divide a duck down the middle, flatten out and skewer it, spread over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney saiice, and seasoning, and broil gently in butter. Serve with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped pickled lemons, and preserved mushrooms. Caneton a la Bohemienne ( Duckling, Bohemian Style). I good-sized duckling, 2 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, i carrot, i onion, i bay- leaf, 4 pint Espagnoie or demi-glace sauce, i glass port wine, seasoning. 6 oz. raw potatoes, 2 oz. beef suet, i dessertspoonful flour, i egg, chopped parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg to season, glace cherries, semolina croutons. Bone the duckling, spread it on the board cut side upwards, season well, roll up and tie with string. Saute it in butter, add the bacon and vegetables, and finish it in the oven. Take up the duckling, pour off the fat from the pan, put in the brown sauce and the wine, boil for ten minutes, skim, and strain, place the duckling in the sauce, and keep hot. Peel and grate the potatoes, chop the suet finely, and mix both together with the flour, eggs, and parsley. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Fill up a number of very small buttered bouchee moulds, poach them for twelve minutes, unmould, and place them in as many prepared croutons of semolina. Cut the duckling into neat portions, and arrange them on an oblong dish. Sauce over carefully, place the prepared croutons round the dish, put half a glace cherry on top of each, and serve the dish hot. Semolina Croutons. Doil up id gill of white stock and milk with a pat of butter and half a bay-leaf. Stir in 2 oz. semolina or florador. Cook, whilst stirring, for ten minutes. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, remove the bay-leaf, and add the yolks of two eggs. Spread this