HE MO VES—RELE V^S. 603 Poitrine de Veau a la Milanaise.—Roast or braised (boned and stuffed) breast of veal, with macaroni and tomato stew. Rond de Veau farci.—Rolled loin of veal stuffed and roasted. Selle de Veau aux Tomates farcies.—Roast saddle of very young veal with stuffed tomatoes. Tete de Veau farcie aux trufles.^Braised calf’s head stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. COCHON OR PORC PORK. Hams, and how to Cook them. The name “ ham ” is given to the hind leg of an animal when it is salted and cured or smoked. The ham of the pig is unques- tionably the hnest and most appreciated. The salting process is effected by the use of common salt, saltpetre, and bay-salt, with occasional addition of sugar and soda. Wine and sometimes beer are in some places used in order to give the ham a hirer havour. The proportions of seasoning and havouring substances vary in different localities ; the same may be said of the methods of drying, curing, and smoking. The process of salting or curing generally occupies some three or four weeks ; different countries have different methods, and the various processes adopted give an interestingly distinct flavour to the meat. The most noted hams throughout the civilised world are the “ York ” ; they are well known for their mildness and delicate flavour. Excellently flavoured hams are also produced in the well-known bacon districts of Wiltshire, Cum- berland, Suffolk, and Hampshire. Cumberland hams are usually dried without smoke. Thoroughly cured and well-smoked hams are often eaten without being cooked. The Westphalian ham is largely used for hors-d’oeuvre and salads. How to Cook a York Ham. Newly cured or smoked hams (three or four months old) need not be soaked for any length of time before cooking, but older hams, say, upwards of a year old, must be soaked for at least twenty-four hours in cold water before being really fit for cooking. After soaking the ham should be well scraped and put in a large pan with enough cold water to well cover it, brought slowly to the boil, and cooked gently for about four or five hours, according to size and weight, and when done allowed to cool in its own liquor. Spanish Ham. Spanish hams require to be soaked, say, from twent}^-four to thirty-six hours. They must be cooked with great care and atten- tion, otherwise they are not worth eating. First soak the ham well, thoroughly scrape and cleanse it, put it in cold water, gently boil for an hour, then transfer it to a braising-pan. Add to it about a pint of wine and enough stock to cover it, and simmer gently from three and a half to four hours ; allow the ham to become cold in its own liquor.