981 A i\ I Eli ICA N DRINKS. Banana Shrub. -Put a cjuart ot peeled and thinly sliced hananas into a jar, add the thinly pared rind and strained jnice of a lemon, three j)ints ol good old Jamaica rum, and 10 oz. of pure cane sugar. Cover the jar closely and infuse for two months, shaking it daily, then filter, and store in air-tight bottles. Banana Water.—Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of a lemon and jmt it into a jug with the strained juice, three peeled and thinly sliced bananas, and a pint of boiling water. Cover over and leave for six hours, then strain and serve. A little rum may be added to the water, and, if liked, it may be iced. Barberry Brandy.—Put j lb. of crushed barberries and 3 lb. of jmre cane sugar into a large jar, add two quarts of good brandy, cover closely, and infuse for ten days, then strain through filtering jiaper, and store in air-tight bottles. American Lemonade.—Put a tablesi)oonful of castor sugar and the strained juice of a lemon into a large tumbler with a wineglassful ot water and half fill it with shaved ice. Add a large tablespoonful of strawberry syrup, and hll up with soda water. Put a slice of lemon or orange on the top, and serve with a straw. American Tea Punch.—Put one pint of hot tea into a bowl, add 2 oz. castor sugar, the strained juice of a small lemon, and a gill each of good brandy and Jamaica rum. Place in an ice-cave until cold, then serve in wine glasses, with thinly cut slices of lemon. Martini Cocktail.—Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add half a wine- glassful each of Italian vermouth and unsweetened gin, a dash of orange bitters, and castor sugar to taste. Serve with a strip of lemon-rind on the top. Mint Julep.—Put six sprigs of fresh mint into a tumbler, add a liqueur- glassful each ol brandy and peach brandy, and sugar to taste, and fill up with chipped ice. Nectar.—Mix together a large teaspoonful of honey, a few droj)s of lemon-juice, a wineglassful of cognac and half a pint of hot cider, and j)lace the glass in ice till required. Pineapple Julep.—Put a gill each of gin and raspberry syrup into a jug, add the strained juice of a large orange, | gill of maraschino, f lb. crushed ice, a sliced pineapple cut into small pieces, and lastly a bottle of sparkling moselle, and serve in small glasses. Saratoga.—Half-fill a large tumber with shaved ice, add a wineglassful of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of maraschino, one of Angostura bitters, two of pineapple juice, and castor sugar to taste. Shake well, strain into another tumbler, add half a glass of champagne, and serve with one or two ripe strawberries and a strip of lemon-rind on the to]). Sensation.—Put the strained juice of an orange and half a lemon, two slices of pineajqile, a tablespoonful of rasjrberry syrup or vinegar, a gill of brandy, and sugar to taste into a large tumbler and fill up with well- iced soda water. Sherry Cobbler.— Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add two teaspoon- luls of strained orange-juice, one of sugar, and a gill of .sherry, shake well, and serve with a straw.