507 CHAPTER XXIV. ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). (For Cold Kntrees, etc., see Chapter XX\’.) FAISAN-PHEASANT. Faisan braise aux Choux {Braised Pheasant with Cabbage). I plump pheasant, 3 to 4 slices tat bacon, lb. raw ham, a small cabbage or a savoy, a bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, 2 pairs Frankfort sausages, about -J- pint stock, salt and pepper. Truss the pheasant as for boiling, line a braising-pan or ordinary stew-pan with the bacon, over this place a few bits of butter, allow it to get quite hot, then put in the pheasant, and let it fry over the hre until it is well coloured. Meanwhile trim, wash, and blanch the cabbage or savoy in slightly salted water, drain well, and divide into several small portions. Take up the pheasant, cut it into neat joints, pour off some of the fat in the stew-pan, arrange the bird and cabbage in layers in the pan, add the bouquet of herbs, season each layer with pepper and salt. Blanch the sausages, and place them, together with the ham, cut into slices, between the layers of pheasant and cabbage, add the stock, cover the pan, and braise gently for an hour or longer, according to the size of the bird. When done, remove the bouquet of herbs. Dress the whole smartly on a hot dish, cut the sausages into slices, and arrange in the shape of a border round the base of the dish. Pour a little gravy over and round the dish, and serve hot. Bordure de Faisan a la Chasseur {Border of Pheasant). ?, lb. raw pheasant, freed from bone, skin, and sinews, lb. panade, a couple of tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel or veloutee sauce and an equal quantity of double cream, i oz. fresh butter, 2 whole eggs, 12 preserved mushrooms, i large truffle, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, demi-glace or Madeira sauce. Pound the pheasant meat in a mortar until smooth, add the panade, work in the white sauce, eggs, butter, and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and rub the whole through a hne sieve. Garnish the bottom of a well-buttered border-mould with mitshroom-heads, into which a star of truffle has been inserted, each mushroom being neatly trimmed, stamped out, and a piece the size of a star of truffle is then placed in. Chop the trimmings of mushrooms and truffle finely, and mix this with the puree, then fill the border-mould. Place it in a sautGpan half-filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for about forty minutes over the fire or in the oven. W’hen done, turn the mould on to a hot dish, pour some hot Madere or demi-glace sauce round the base and serve.