ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 485 on a hair sieve, dress them neatly on a hot dish, garnish the centre of the dish with green peas or s])inach puree, and serve with a nicely-cooked, flavoured white sauce, which should be poured over the quenelles. Poulet saute a la Cabello. I young chicken, I gill olive oil, 1 orange, | pint ilemi-glace sauce, t gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. butter, i glass port wine, 4 pint of preserved pimientos (sweet), a tablespoonful meat glaze, seasoning. Cut the chicken into six to eight joints, dry them, and fry a nice light brown colour in the oil. Pour off the oil and season the chicken with salt, pepper (white and red), add the orange rind, grated, wine, and sauces (demi-glace and tomato), cover, cook gently for about twenty minutes, dress the pieces neatly on a dish containing a small bed of potato puree, and keep it hot. Fry the butter till nut-brown, and pour over the chicken. Moisten the pimientos cut into julienne shapes, with a little demi-glace, heat, add to the meat glaze, and dress in the centre of the dish or in groups round its base. Re-heat the sauce, skim it, season to taste with a good pinch of aromatic spice. Strain it over the chicken, and serve very hot. Poulet saute a la Carnot. I chicken, i oz. butter, i shallot, i glass sherry, i gill Espagnole sauce, I gill tomato sauce, about -4 lb. short-crust paste, 4 oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. cooked game or beef, i oz. ham, 4 oz. butter, i tablespoonful well- reduced bechamel, 2 yolks of eggs, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, i truflle, a croute of fried bread. Draw, singe, and cut the chicken into lo or 12 neat pieces, melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces, season with pepper and salt, and fry a golden colour over a brisk Are, adding the shallot, finely chopped, at the last moment, so as to blend a little. Add the sherry, cover and reduce a little, then add tomato and Espagnole sauce, put on the lid, and let simmer gently for about forty minutes. Roll out the paste and with it line six or more buttered little dariole moulds. Put greased paper inside the paste. All the moulds with raw rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for flfteen minutes, or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the rice, remove the paper, and fill with the following mixture : Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg, pound well, work in the two raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Crrt the truffle into slices and stamp out as many rounds as you have cases, chop the trimmings finely, and mix with the above. The filling must be done very carefully, and is best performed with a forcing-bag. Sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fi.xed on a hot dish by means of a little batter or white of egg. Skim oft the fat from the sauce, and strain over the chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg, stamp out neatly some triangle or heart shapes, cut out the