ENTRfiES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 477 Pigeons a la Talleyrand.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, garnished with artichoke bottoms, mnshroomdieads, braised chicken liver and ox-tongue, heated in veloutee sauce. — a la Villageoise.— Pigeons braised whole in butter, herbs, etc., similar to that in casserole, served with a thin brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. Ponding de Pigeons a I’Anglaise {English Pigeon Pudding).—Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, tilled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. POULARDE PULLET OR CAPON; POULET—CHICKEN. Medallions de Poularde a la Reine Alexandra. I pullet or large fowl. 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. pauacle, i egg, i gill cream, pint of asparagus points, 4 pint veloutee or allemancle sauce, 1 truffle (large), a little lobster spawn, seasoning, cooked rice for border. Remove the meat from the fotvl, and free from skin and sinews. Flatten some of the best pieces, and shape them into round fillets or medaillons. Cook them for a few minutes in a saute-pan con- taining the butter, drain, and press lightly until cold. Put the remainder of the meat into a mortar and pound till smooth, adding half its quan- tity of panade, one white of egg, and suf- ficient cream to form a farce of medium consistency. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and rub it through a fine sieve. Now spread one side of the medaillons with a thick layer of this farce, smooth it nicely by means of a knife dipped in hot water. Mix the remainder of farce with sufficient pounded lobster coral to give it a red tint, and pipe a neat border of a star or rosette on each medaillon. Slice the truffle, cut out the letters A.R., and place carefully in the centre of each. x\rrange the medaillons on a well-bnttered drainer to fit the pan in which they are to be poached, put them in the pan containing some boiling consomme, and allow to cook gently for about twenty minutes. Cook the asparagus points in salted water, drain, and toss them in the butter in which the fillets were first cooked, moisten with a little white sauce, and season to taste. Arrange a border of cooked rice on a hot dish, dish up the medaillons on it, dress the asparagus ragout in the centre, pour a litde hot white sauce round the base of the dish.