THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 836 when wanted. Line the bottom of an oblong ice-mould with the prepared strawberry ice, let it set firmly, fill up with the cream last prepared when this is nearly frozen, cover the mould well, bury in ice and salt, and freeze for two hours. Unmould carefully, cut the ice quickly into slices, dish up and serve. Biscuits glaces a la Turque. I oz. freshly roasted and coarsely ground coliee, -1 gill syrup, 2 sheets gelatine, i gill double cream, i oz. French almond rock, 12 wafer biscuits (oblong shape). Pour the boiling syrup over the coffee, cover, and let stand for a few minutes to infuse, add the gelatine and when dissolved strain into a small basin. Whip the cream till stiff and incorporate with the coffee and almond rock (crushed up). Pour on to a tin and let it set on the ice. Cut it into slices, the same size as the biscuits, 'and sandwich them together. Place in an ice-cave for two hours, and serve on a dish with fancy lace-paper or folded napkin. Bombe glacee a la Venitienne. Line a bombe-mould with st-rawberry-cream ice, and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar. Cover the mould previously wrapped in paper, and set in crushed ice and salt, freeze for three hours, and serve in the usual manner. Garnish with very small macaroons. Bombe glacee au Chocolat. Line a bombe-mould with chocolate-cream ice and All the centre with vanilla-water ice. Cover the mould tightly and wrap up. Bury it in a pail of broken ice and salt, and freeze for three hours. Dish up and garnish with Swiss ice wafers or chocolate biscuits. Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne. Mix a pint of vanilla custard with a handful of finely-crushed macaroons, freeze in the usual way, and line a bombe-mould with it. Fill the centre with pineapple or strawberry-watei' ice. Cover the mould, and proceed as directed in the foregoing recipes, garnish the dish with small chocolate macaroons. Bombe Venitienne or Venetia. Bombe of pistachio-cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower water, and thus frozen. Ponding souffle a la Marquise. Prepare a souffle as directed for Milanese souffle (p. 798), but omitting the jelly, partially freeze the mixture and fill in a souffle dish with a rich strawberry cream in the centre. Place the dish in a charged ice-cave for two hours, and serve. Ponding glace a la Reine-Claude {Iced Greengage Pudding). Pass the fruit of eighteen stewed greengages through a sieve, add BOMBE-MOULD.