613 Rons—ROASTS. size. Remove the string, dish up, garnish with bunches of picked watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. Serve with gravy, bread sauce, and fried breadcrumbs. Cailles roties a la St. Antoine (Roast Quails, St. Anthony Style). Bone 6-8 quails, hll them with a light farce (chicken and foie- gras), insert also a piece of truffle previously soaked in brandy into each bird, bard the breast with larding bacon and a vine-leaf, and wrap up each bird in a thin piece of short crust or rough puff-paste. Place them in a braising-pan with ados e-h 11 i n g grooved lid. Fill the lid with burn- ing cinder or char- coal, and cook the bird thus over a charcoal hre for about thirty minutes. Failing this process, cook the quails in a sharp oven. To serve, remove the paste crust, bacon, and vine-leaf. Dish up round a fancifully-shaped bread croute. Garnish the dish with cresses and straw' potatoes. Becasse farcie rotie (Roast Stuffed Snipe). 4 or 5 young snipe, 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. ham, 2 oz. bacon, 6 sauce oysters, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, i stick white celery, seasoning, gravy. Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside and chop up about half the intestines, put this into a basin and mix with the bread- crumbs. Use only the white part of the celery, wash and chop it hnely. Mince hnely the ham, beard the oysters and cut them into dice, put these with the ham into the basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix all well with two ounces of melted butter. Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in a roasting-tin, upon this place the birds and roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Baste frequently. When done, take iqv untruss the birds, and dress them on suitably sized pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with a boat of gravy and a glass dish of red-currant jelly. Coq de Bruyere roti (Roast Grouse). Grouse should, like most game birds, be well hung if recpiired for roasting purposes. It is advisable to keep them hung unplucked for about two days. Great care must be taken in plucking, so as not to injure the skin, which is more delicate when birds have hung than it is when freshly killed. When plucked, singe, draw', and