470 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quenelles in stock or seasoned water, drain, and let cool on a sieve, then egg and breadcrumb them carefully, and fry to a golden brown in hot fat or nut oil. Dish them up in a nest-shaped basket of straw potatoes or nouilles, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve with sauce Bulgarienne, made as follows : To i gill of mayonnaise add 1 gill of boiling cream, a tablespoonfirl of finely chopped celery, and two tablespoon fuls of tomato pulp, whisk over a pan of hot water until quite warm, and season to taste. Darioles de Canard a la St. Germain [Darioles of Duck). I duck (large), pint well-reduced Madere sauce, 2 eggs, i gill of cream, I oz. panade, a small glass of port wine, i dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, 2 tangerines, lb. of rough puff-paste for cassolettes or tartlet crusts, salt and pepper, \ pint of green peas cooked, flavoured with butter and green mint, sauce Zingara. Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out 8 to lo rounds with a fluted cutter, and line with them the same number of dariole or cassolette moulds, bake them to a golden brown, and put aside. Remove the meat from the duck, free it from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till quite fine, add the panade, the sauce, and egg-yolks. When the mixture is thoroughly pounded rub it through a fine sieve (hair or silk). Dissolve the red-currant jelly in the port wine, and stir into the farce. Season to taste, and add the beaten white of an egg, cream, juice of half a tangerine, also a little of its rind, grated finely. Butter 8 to lo special dariole moulds, fill them with the above farce, and poach in the oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould each into a cassolette paste crust, lined with a little pea puree, fill up the cavity of each dariole with a rich pea pfiree, or whole peas nicely flavoured. Re-heat them in the oven, place a section of tangerine skinned and free from pips and glazed on top of the peas, dish up, and serve with Zingara sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF ENTREES OF DUCK. Canard a I’Americaine.—Duck divided down the middle, rubbed over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and seasoning, broiled in butter ; served with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon pickles, and preserved mushrooms. — a la Bourgeoise.—Duck par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried, and reduced in Espagnole sauce, with red wine. — a la Saint-Mande.—Braised duck, served with Madere sauce ; garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. — a la Valencienne.—Roasted duck, cut into joints, garnished with rows of slices of orange, and served with orange sauce. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried duck, stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red-currant jelly. Canetons a la Duclair.—Roast duckling stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopj)ed shallots, parsley, and seasoning. Cut into joints, dish uj), and serve with demi-glace sauce, well reduced with claret, orange-juice, and chojqied chives.