558 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and serve. Chaud-froid de Filets de Poularde a I’Ambassadrice {Cluuui-fivid of Capon Fillets). I poularde or plump capon, a mirepoix of ham, carrot, onion, and bay-leaf, ?. gill rich veal stock, i small glass Santerne, i truffle (or peelings), oz. pistachios, 8 thin slices of bacon, \ gill cream and a little white sauce, ■| lb. cooked lean ham, I lb, foie-gras pate, i gill aspic cream or mayon- naise aspic, white chand-fioid sauce, i hard-boiled white of egg, 12 stuffed olives, aspic for garnish, i .small round socle of cooked rice, seasoning. Bone the capon or poularde, prepare and flatten eight or ten capon fillets, and pound the remainder of meat, previously freed from skin, bone, and gristle. When smooth, add to it the cream and a little well-reduced white sauce, season, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Chop the truffle and peeled pistachios rather coarsely, and mix with the prepared farce (well seasoned). Cook the carcase in stock, which may be used for the braise if finished in time. Spread the fillets with the farce, and roll up like olives. Wrap them in thin slices of bacon, tie up, and place in a prepared mirepoix (white). Cook in the oven for ten minutes, baste frequently, ttien pour off the fat, add the wine and stock, and finish cooking till they are quite tender—they will take from twenty-five to thirty minutes. W^hen done, take up, remove the bacon, and let the olives cool. Coat them well with chaud-froid sauce, and mask with aspic. Prepare a border-mould of Mousse de Jambon (p. 553) by masking it first with aspic, then decorate tastefully with thin slices of cooked ham and slices of hard-boiled egg, and green peas. For the mousse, pound finely the remainder of cooked ham and the foie-gras, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar, season, and incorporate with the aspic cream. Fill the border-mould with this, and put it on the ice to set. Unmould on a round entree dish, ]ilace the round of shaped rice in the centre, upon this dress the fillets cn cliaud-froul. On top, in the middle of these, arrange neatly the stuffed olives,