THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 822 of a little royal icing. Bake a thin sheet of Genoese paste, stamp ont little rounds, and ice them over with chocolate icing ; these will be used for decoration. Prepare a well-assorted fruit salad, the fruit to consist of peaches, apricots, pineapple, and bananas or grapes. Mix it with syrup and a little liqueur as flavour, place on the ice for at least two hours. Have ready some vanilla and pineapple ice. Make a lattice-work dome-shape of sugar, boiled to the crack, or, if preferred, make this from nougat. Partially drain the fruit salad, arrange it in the prepared cake crust with layers of pineapple ic£ between each section of fruit. Place the sugar, lattice-shape, on top, and surround the edge with triangular-cut pieces of jelly. Shape as many bouche cups of vanilla ice as there are rounds of Genoese pastry, and place them round the dish, which is then ready for table. Needless to add that the dressing of this dish must be per- formed as quickly as possible, otherwise its artistic effect will be spoilt. Mince Pies. Roll out some rough puff paste (p. 134), one-eighth inch thick, stamp into rounds, and line some small tins, place in each a tea- siioonful of mincemeat, roll out more of the pastry rather thicker than the first lot, stamp into rounds the size of the top of the tins, wet edges, and cover the pies, brush over with milk or water, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Mincemeat. 4 lb. apples, 6 oz. sugar, lb. figs, oz. ground ginger, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 6 oz. raisins, 6 oz. currants, 4 lb. suet, \ oz. mixed spice, 2 table- spoonfuls brandy or rum. Peel, core, and chop the apples into small pieces, mince the figs, stone and chop the raisins, and clean the currants. Mix all the ingredients together, and keep in a covered jar. Apple Tart [Tarte aux Pornmes). 2 lb. cooking apples, 3 oz. moist sugar, short crust (p. 133). Peel, core, and cut the apples into thick slices, half fill a pie-dish, put in the sugar and then put in the remainder of the fruit. Roll out the paste, cut off a narrow strip and place it round the edge