ENl'RIiES or POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 495 reduced veloutee sauce, i tablespoonful of chicken essence, and a tablespoonful of concentrated tomato puree. Iloil up, skim, reduce a little, add a little lemon-juice and other seasoning, salt and pepper if needed. Pass through a tammy, and pour over the fillets. Keep them hot. Have ready a crouton of fried bread fixed on to an oval dish, make a julienne of artichoke bottoms, truffle, and champignons, heat these in a little stock. Dress the fillet on the dish, sprinkle over the top the prepared julienne, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. Serve hot. Souffle de Volaille {Chicken Souffle). Proceed in exactly the same manner as indicated in recipie for “ Veal Souffle,” using the same quantity of chicken instead of veal, or if desired the weight can be made up with a small quantity of veal. The carcase and trimmings of the chicken should be used to make the white sauce (bechamel or supreme). Souffles de Volaille en Caisses {Chicken Souffles in Cases). 6 oz. raw chicken (fillet), 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, i tniflle. 2 preserved mushrooms, V oz. butter, salt and pepper. • Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar until smooth, add by degrees the yolks of four eggs and the cream, season to taste, and rub it through a fine sieve. Chop the truffle and mushrooms rather finely, and add to the farce. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it carefully with the above. Have six to eight china or paper souffle cases well buttered. Divide the mixture in eqifal parts into the cases, so that they are about three-parts full. Put them on a baking-sheet or saute-pan and bake in a fairly hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Arrange the cases on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. This dish can also be made with any other poultry, with game, rabbit or veal. A boat of hot bechamel sauce is often served as an accompaniment with this dish. Mousseline de Volaille {Lifflit Chicken Souffle). Pound in a mortar i lb. of raw chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinews ; when smooth add a little cream and two yolks of eggs, mix well and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Lastly add the stiffly whisked whites of three eggs, mix carefully and fill into a well-buttered souffle tin. Poach—i.c. place the tin in a saute- or stew-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook them in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Unmould and serve with supreme or mousseline sauce. Souffle de Volaille {made with Cooked Chicken). Pound in a mortar i lb. of cooked—i.e. boiled—chicken (chiefly breast and wing portions), add to it a quarter of a pint of cold be- chamel sauce, and rub through a fine sieve. Heat this up iu a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, add two yolks of eggs and let cool a little, then stir in the whisked whites of three eggs. Fill into a buttered souffle tin, and poach or steam in a moderate oven for