7o8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade panachee en Surprise. Cook separately in salted water pint of green peas, the same quantity of French beans and flageolets. When done, drain them carefully, and cut the beans into half-inch pieces. Mix well in a salad bowl, and season with vinaigrette composed of three parts of oil, one of vinegar, a little French mustard, and chopped gherkins. Place a small round of toasted bread, previously rubbed with the cut side of a clove of garlic, in a deep round dish. Upon this dress the salad neatly (dome-shaped). Garnish with small cucumber shapes filled with seasoned macMoine, rings of hard-boiled white of egg, and beetroot or pimientos, and crown with a heart of lettuce or a few sprigs of endive, and serve. Note.—To make a moulded salad, the materials should be mixed with a little aspic and set in a dome or bombe mould, coated with aspic and French beans, closely lined against the sides, and then placed on the ice for about an hour. Salade de Perdreau a la Carpentras. I cold roast partridge, 2 lettuces, i head celery, mayonnaise dressing, I hard-boiled egg, i truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls vinaigrette, 8 stoned French olives, I tablespoonful capers, i gherkin, pepper and salt. Cut the partridge into neat joints, remove the skin and most of the bones, put in a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinaigrette, and keep in a cool place for about an hour or more. Wash the lettuce and celery, remove the green leaves, shred the white portions, and season a little. Dress the lettuce, celery, and partridge in alternate layers, in the shape of a dome or pyramid, in a salad bowl, mask with stiff mayonnaise, decorate the surface with fancifully-cut slices and strips of gherkins and truffles. Sur- round with a garnish of quartered hard-boiled eggs, French olives, and capers, and serve. Salade de Pols et Haricots Verts {Green Pea and Bean Salad). For this salad use freshly-cooked or preserved peas and French beans. If the former be used, boil them in slightly salted water containing a small piece of soda, or better still a pinch of saleratus, to preserve the green colour. The peas and beans must, of course, be cooked separately. When done, drain on a sieve and let them cool. Cut the beans into pieces of about an inch long. Mix beans and peas together, add the necessary salad dressing, cut a clove of garlic in two, and rub the inside of a salad bowl with the cut side. This will give the salad a much appreciated and not too pronounced flavour. Arrange the prepared salad neatly in the bowl, and garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, rounds of sliced beetroot, and parsley. If the flavour of onion is liked, one or two finely chopped shallots may be mixed with this salad. Salade des Pommes de Terre {Potato Salad). ij lb. small firm potatoes, boiled in the skins, lb. lean bacon, small onion, salt, pepper, vinegar to taste, i tablespoonful mayonnaise, parsley. Peel the potatoes, and slice them while hot, cut the bacon into