593 REMOVES—RELEV HS. mashed potatoes, surround with groups of quenelles, sweetbread, mushrooms, artichokes, etc. Pour some of the sauce over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat along with the dish. Filet de Boeuf a la Brillat-Savarin {Braised Fillet of Beef). Procure the centre-piece (about four pounds) of hllet of beef, remove fat and sinews, lard the top with strips of truffles, cover it with a layer of sliced vegetables, bard it with slices of fat pork, and tie up with string. Put it in an oblong braising-tin or baking- pan, season with aromatic spice and salt, moisten with half a pint of white wine and some stock or water, set it in a moderate oven for about one hour, and baste occasionally. When done, drain and keep warm, strain the gravy, remove the fat, put it into a stew-pan with a pint of brown sauce, one glass of Madeira wine, and let all boil until well reduced. Next remove the string, fat, and vege- tables from the hllet, trim, dish up on a crouton of fried bread, garnish round the hllet with alternate groups of slices of braised sweetbread, small glazed button onions, and mushroom-heads, sauce over the whole with part of the prepared sauce, and serve the remainder separately. Pieces of braised calves’ brains can be served with this dish as a garnishing when desired. Filet de Boeuf a la Cyrano {Hot or Cold Remove). 3 lbs. sirloin of beef (boned), i plover or snipe, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. bacon, 2 oz. cooked ham, lb. calves’ or chicken’s liver, small onion, i shallot, I clove of garlic, i bay-leaf, i egg, i terrine foie-gras, salt and pepper, I gill sherry, larding bacon, 12 stuffed olives, gill stock, meat glaze for the olives, 13 very small cases of puff-paste, i mirepoix of vegetables, etc., sauce Gibier. Bone the plover or snipe, chop the carcase very small, mince the meat of the bird hnely and put it on a plate. Slice the liver. Melt about half the butter in a stew-pan, fry the bacon (cut into dice) and the liver quickly, then add the slicecl onion, shallot, garlic, bay-leaf, and wine, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, cover, and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the slices of onion and bay- leaf, pound the remainder in a mortar, bind and moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce or cream, if needed, and rub through a hne sieve. Remove the skin and fat, cut the meat open lengthways, so that it forms one large slice of even thickness, beat out a little with a cutlet-bat, and spread with a layer of farce. Put one row of foie-gras pate down the centre of the farce, insert the fillets of snipe, previously skinned, and roll up carefully, so that the foie-gras is kept in the centre. Fasten and tie up with string, then lard the surface with several rows of hne strips of larding bacon. Put the carcase of the bird, a clove of garlic, and mirepoix of vegetables, etc., with some pieces of bacon, in a braising-pan, upon this place the prepared hllet, moisten with about a gill of stock, and braise in a sharp oven for the hrst ten minutes ; baste well, and hnish braising in a slightly reduced heat for about one hour. Add the meat glaze at the last and baste the whole with the liquor well reduced. Take up the hllet, untruss it, and let it get cold. PP