SOUPS (POTAGES). i«5 soup, if properly done, should be quite transparent, and of a rich golden colour, without being coloured or clarified. Consomme Carmen.—Make a rich consomme stock of double strength and clarify it in the usual way, adding two to three ripe tomatoes, finely shredded, in the preparation of the consomme. Season, and flavour, if liked, with a small glass of sherry. Cut some sweet Spanish pepper and hard-boiled white of egg into julienne strips ; cook a little rice plainly, and use both as garnish, together with a small quantity of finely-shredded tarragon and chervil. When Spanish pepper is not obtainable, pimiento or ripe tomatoes cut into julienne strips may be used. Consomme a la Carlsbad [Cleay Soup with Pnmes). 2 quarts of rich consomme, i8 French plums, i or 2 truffles (small), a handful of cooked rice, seasoning, veal forcemeat, a little cream. Stew the plums in a little water till soft, drain them, and care- fully remove the stones. Mix a small quantity of raw veal forcemeat (farce de veait) with a little cream, and fill the centres of the plums with this. This must be done very neatly, so that the plums will keep their shape. Place them in a small saute-pan, pour over enough stock or water to cover, and poach them for about ten minutes, take them up and drain on a sieve. Shred the truffles very finely, put them together with the plums and the rice (this must be dry and the grains well separated) in a soup-tureen. Have the consomme quite boiling, season to taste, pour over the garnish in the tureen, and serve. Consomme Celestine {Clear Chicken Broth, Cclestine Style) 3 quarts good consomme, i glass sherry, 2 oz. flour, t oz. butter, f oz. grated Parme.san, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i dessertspoonful of mixed finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Prepare a pancake batter with the flour, oiled butter, Parmesan cheese, eggs, milk, parsley, tarragon, chervil, and a jflnch of salt. Make about six thin pancakes with this, fold them longways, cut them into thin strips, and place them in a soup-tureen. The sherry should be added to the soup about fifteen minutes before it is poured into the tureen. Consomme Christophe Colomb {Clear Soup with Custard Cubes). 2 quarts of consomme, 6 eggs, i gill of cream, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, a little butter. Have ready three even-sized, very small timbale moulds, and butter them well. Break the eggs, put two whole into a basin, four yolks into another basin, and the whites of four into a third basin, beat up each lot separately, then add a pinch of salt, pepper, and nutmeg in each, also the cream evenly divided. Put a few drops of carmine into the basin containing the two whole eggs, mix each lot thoroughly, pass through a pointed strainer separately into the moulds, place the moulds in fi stewpan with boiling water reaching to half their height, cover with a piece of Ifuttered pa])er, and poach, in the oven until firm, ^\'hen done remove the moulds, let them