ENTRliES OE POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 479 viously warmed in a little sauce (arrange the garniture in groups or clusters), pour over some rich veloutee or supreme sauce, and serve hot. Note.—It is safest to test the forcemeat first; if found too stiff add a little more cream, and if found too liquid add a little more white of egg whipped to a stiff froth, Poularde a la Saint Valentin. Pullet cut up, sauted, and stewed in brown sauce with finely- chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with heads of mush- rooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, made into balls, tleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-pastry), and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with Madeira or sherry. Poularde Roi Edouard VII. Truss a large fat fowl for boiling, fill the interior with a rich white rice stew mixed with a handful of foie-gras cut in dice, and moistened with veloutee sauce, sew up the skin and cook the fowl in rich white stock en casserole till tender. Prepare a veloutee sauce flavoured with curry, reduce it with some of the chicken liquor, and add a little cream. Dress the cooked fowl on a hot dish, coat it well with the prepared sauce, and decorate the top with stars and diamond shapes of red pimiento (mild Spanish pepper). The dish is then ready for serving. ABBREVIATED RECIPES CHAPON—CAPON PULLET. Note.—Many of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as Remove (Releve) ; but when cut up, sauced over and garnished, they become Entrees. Turkeys can be treated in the same way. Chapon a la Bourgeoise.—Braised capon cut into small joints and finished in a brown sauce blended with tomato sauce, and white wine (reduced), garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. — a la Cavour.—Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced allemande sauce well worked with meat extract and lemon-juice, garnished with small timbales, baked nouilles or macaroni. — a la Chanceliere,—Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well-spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon glazed). — - braise a I’Estragon.—Braised capon with lirown tarragon sauce. — saut6 a la Fraiujaise.—Parboiled and liraised capon, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — brais6 a la Garfield.—Braised capon (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — au Gros Sel.—Braised capon, breast lardecl, and covered with thin rind of lemon. Served with reduced demi-glace sauce, containing a small quantity of coarse salt. This must be added just before serving (hence the name, “gros sel,” i.e. coarse salt).