650 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. butter. Wash, peel the potatoes, cut them into slices about the thickness of a shilling piece, and arrange them neatly in the form of wreaths in layers in the mould, season each layer lightly with fine salt, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Continue thus until the mould is full and well packed. Place the mould in a hot oven and bake from fifty to eighty minutes, according ,.NNA POTATO MOULD. When done, turn the contents of the mould on a hot dish and serve at once. The potatoes should be baked as soon as the mould is filled, as they are likely to go black if left long uncooked. Pommes de Terre a la Bigncn. 12 small round potatoes, -J- lb. raw mutton, 2 oz. fat pork, i yolk of egg, oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut the mutton and pork into small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Chop very fine or pass twice through a mincing machine, and mix with the yolk of an egg. Choose the potatoes of even size, wash them well, and peel thinly. Scoop out part of the inside by means of a vegetable scoop, leaving the bottom uncut. Blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain, fill with the above-described sausage-meat, and close the openings with a piece of potato. Melt the butter in saute-pan, lay in the stuffed potatoes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Baste well with the butter, dish up, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve, or use as a garnish for releves or entrees. Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse. Wash and peel about two pounds of mealy potatoes, boil until done, drain off the water, and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes, covered over. Rub them quickly through a wire sieve, while warm mix with three yolks of eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, a tablespoonful of cream, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When well mixed, turn out on a floured board, divide into twelve parts of equal size, shape them square, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, egg the surface, and trace a few lines with a knife. Bake them in a quick oven, and dish up. Pommes de Terre a la Gastronome. 12 medium-sized potatoes, 2 truifles, glass sherry, J pint Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, stamp out with a column-cutter as many cubes as possible, put them in a stew-pan, cover well with warm water, add a pinch of salt, and cook very gently for about twenty minutes, and avoid breaking them. WTen done, strain them and put in a hot dish. In the meantime chop the truflies finely, put them in a small stew-pan with the sherry, cook for five minutes, add the sauce, let it reduce slowly, season with pepper and salt if needed. Pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serve