SA UCES. 171 reduce to a thin syrup. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, stir into the boiling syrup, and whisk over the lire for about live minutes. Add the brandy, strain, and serve hot with the pudding. Sauce au Kirsch.—Proceed the same as above directed, but substitute gill of kirschwasser for the brandy. Sirop au Punch [Rum Savice). 4. oz. loaf sugar, i orange, 1 tablespoonful vanilla essence, t gill best rum, 1- gill water. Rub the sugar on the orange-rind to obtain the flavour of half the orange. Put this into a stewpan, add the rum, light it, and cover quickly : let it infuse for a few seconds over the Are, then add the water, vanilla essence, and the piece of the orange, and boil for live minutes ; strain, and serve hot with the pudding. Note.—If preferred, brandy or kirschwasser may be used in place of rum, the sauce is then called “ au Cognac ” or “ au Kirsch.” Sabayon au Madere.—Put 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, and i- gill cream in a stewpan, place it in a bain-marie or vessel of boiling water over the Are, stir with a whisk until frothy, then add I gill Madeira wine, whisk it until it begins to thicken and is of light appearance, pour over the pudding, and serve. Strawberry Sauce {Sauce aux Praises). The pulp of 8 large ripe strawberries, i glass of Sauterne or Chablis, i egg, r oz. sugar. Put the fruit pulp, wine, and sugar in a small stewpan, whisk over a moderate lire until almost boiling, then add the egg ; con- tinue to whisk until quite frothy ; on no account allow it to boil. Serve as soon as ready. Apricot Sauce {Sauce a VAbricot). 3 oz. apricot marmalade, i gill sherry or 1 gill brandy, i gill water, r oz. butter. Put the marmalade in a stewpan, and let dissolve with the water and butter. Remove from the Are, add the sherry or brandy, boil up again, strain, and use as required. A liaison of one dessert- spoonful of cornflour added to the above will improve the appear- ance for cooking purposes. A little sugar may be added if found necessary. Orange Sauce {Sauce a 1’Orange). 2 yolks of eggs, i small orange, 2 oz. castor sugar, pint milk, 1 glass cura90a liqueur. Boil up the milk and sugar, add the rind of orange finely grated, the tablespoonful of orange-juice, stir in the yolks of eggs, beat well over the fire with a small whisk. When the sauce begins to thicken, place in the bain-marie or a vessel containing boiling water, add the liqueur, and continue to whisk for ten minutes ; the sauce is then ready for serving. Chocolate Sauce {Sauce ati Chocolat). 4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, I oz. fecule or creme de riz, i teaspoonful vanilla essence, i tablespoonful of brandy.