THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 314 bomb-shaped mould (jdain), and line the inside with the spaghetti, beginning at the centre of the bottom of the mould and coiling the spaghetti round and round until the mould is com- pletely hlled. Brush over well with soft butter and stand on the ice to cool. Prepare a hsh farce by pounding the skinned and boned whiting ; when smooth add the cream and the white of egg, season to taste, and rub through a hire sieve. Spread the inside of the mould with a little of this farce. Cook the haddock with an ounce of butter in the oven for ten minutes, then remove the skin and bones, and chop the meat hnefy. Melt the remainder of butter in a stewpan, put in the above, also the mushrooms previously cut into hne shreds, and the shrimps. Mix well, season to taste, and add the rest of the hsh farce and egg-yolk. Fill up the prepared mould with this and steam for about half an hour. Dish up, serve with rich tomato sauce, and garnish with stuffed olives {see “ Brandade de Morue aux Olives ”). Carre let frit, Sauce Persil.—Fillets of flounder egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, seasoned with parsley sauce. Esturgeon a I’Anchois.—Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. — a la Cardinal {Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).—Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayhsh, and served with cardinal sauce. Darne d’Esturgeon a la Milanaise {Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).— Middle piece or steak of sturgeon braised, garnished with eel-pout livers and crayhsh tails. Papillotes d’Esturgeon.—Sturgeon hllets seasoned, rolled up, broiled in butter, and served in paper cases. Staudines de Poissons a la Russe {a Russian Dish).—Fillets of soles and small hllets of salmon, poached in hsh liquor, and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horse- radish sauce. Sterlet a la Russe {Sterlet, Russian Style).—Grilled or broiled slices of sterlet, dressed with braised button onions, small ball-shaped fried potatoes, and served with anchovy sauce. COLD FISH ENTREES, ETC. Cotelettes de Homard a 1’Aspic {Lobster Cutlets in Aspic). I small hen lobster, i ripe tomato, 2 anchovies, 2 oz. picked shrimps, i oz. butter, about i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), seasoning. Line ten cutlet moulds with aspic jelly. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut the tomato in slices, remove skin and pips. Set a slice of lobster and tomato in each mould. Wash and bone the anchovy, ponnd in a mortar with the butter and shrimps, moisten with sufficient aspic to make the mixture set, and rub through a hne sieve. Season to taste, put it into the moulds, and hnish with a thin layer of aspic. When set, turn out. Dish up neatly on a