AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. 857 Bonnes Bouches aux Huitres {Oystcy TH-hiis\. Wrap each oyster in a thin slice of streaky bacon, fasten on skewers, and broil them. Place each on a small round of fried bread (crouton). Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Huitres au Gratin {Baked Oysters, Gratin Style). Blanch 18 to 24 oysters of medium size, drain them (preserving; the liquor), and remove the beards. Have ready half a pint of bechamel sauce, reduce it well, and work in a tablespoonful of double cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of krona pepper, and a tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese. Put the oysters into this and re-heat, without bringing it actually to the boil. Season with salt, and incorporate a little of the oyster liquor. Pour the prepared mixture on a buttered gratin dish or into several buttered shells (oyster-shells may, of course, be used, if liked). Sprinkle some fine breadcrumbs over the top, also some grated parmesan cheese, and a little oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven just long enough to brown the surface, and serve at once. Friture d’Huitres {Fried Oysters). Poach the required number of oysters, previousl}^ bearded and drained, then dip them in frying batter, and fry in hot lard or lard-butter, drain, dish up, and serve with fried parsley. Huitres farcies {Stuffed Oysters). Mix finely four yolks of hard-boiled eggs with half the quantity of minced bacon ; add a little pepper or chopped parsley and a yolk of raw egg. Split open one dozen oysters, stuff with this mixture, put them in large oyster-shells, coat them over with bread- crumbs, put a little warmed butter on top, and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Huitres sur Canapes {Oysters on Toast). Toast some slices of white or brown bread, cut some thin sliceb of cooked ham, stamp out some rounds of toasted bread and ham, about il to 2 inches in diameter ; cover each round of toast with ham, and place upon them the same number of oysters as there are rounds of toast ; the oysters should be drained from the liquor and bearded ; put a tiny piece of fresh butter on top of each oyster, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, then bake in a hot oven for about three minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Huitres a la Wellington. Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned caviare on the lower shell, place the oysters npon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Ornament the dish with slices of lemon. Oyster Rarebit. Chop finely the soft part of six oysters, mix this together with half the liquor of the oysters with an ordinary Welsh rabbit prepara- tion. Cook in the same way as directed for the latter dish, and serve on buttered toast.