THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 442 It is safest to leave the frying of the fillets till almost the last. It will only take about five or six minutes to fry them underdone. Note.—For other Fillets, see page 451. Tournedos de Boeuf a Flmperatrice. ij lb. fillet of beef, 6 small tomatoes, 2 oz. clarified butter, 6 croutons of bread, pint cooked asparagus points, 4 gill bearnaise sauce, seasoning, demi-glace sauce, julienne potatoes as garnish. Trim the fillet and divide it into six small slices, pare these, season with salt and pepper, and fry them carefully in the clarified butter. Scoop out the centre of the tomatoes and fill them with asparagus points, seasoned, and moistened with a little white sauce. Place them on a buttered saute-pan and cook in the oven. Dress the fillets on an oval dish, upon the croutons of bread, arrange the tomatoes round the dish, and put a tablespoonful of bearnaise sauce on each fillet, garnish with julienne potatoes (very finely shredded fried straw potatoes). Pour a little hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Tournedos de Boeuf a I’Aixoise. Saute or broil in butter some neatly-cut tournedos (fillets of beef cut small) in sufficient butter, dress them on croquettes made of fresh cepes. Garnish the dish with halves of fried tomatoes, green peas or small rounds of new potatoes, fried. Serve with demi-glace or moelle sauce. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Seymour. Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them, and saute them i n butter. Season to taste, and place each on an arti- choke bot- tom p r e- V i o u s 1 y heated and seas oned. Dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured bearnaise sauce, place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Madeleine. Cut eight slices of fillet of beef^ of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound, beat them a little and trim neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos, fry them in clarified butter, and drain. Warm up in a small earthen pan three ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually four ounces of fresh butter, stirring vigorously