HORS-D 'CE U VRE {A PEETISERS). 241 parsley or watercress on top of the olives, dish up, and serve cold. Or if required to be served hot, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for hve minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case garnish with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of eggs, Caviar en Belle-Vue. Lemons, caviare, buttered croutes of bread, shallots, parsley. This dish consists of halves of lemons cut into pretty crown- shaped baskets filled with seasoned caviare, dressed in pyramidal forms on croutes of bread, previously coated witli butter. The centre of each basket is garnished with a small quantity of hnely chopped shallots, and the dish is garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley. Caviar aux Ecrevisses [Caviare with Prawns]. 2 oz. Russian caviare, i shallot finely chopped, lemon, a pinch of cayenne, 8 stoned olives. 16 small prawns, 2 large gherkins, breail for croutes, clarified butter for frying, parsley. Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a plain cutter eight rounds about an inch and a half in diameter, fry them lightly in butter, drain, and cool. Put the caviare in a basin, add a few drops of lemon-juice and the chopped shallot, season with cayenne, ancl stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut eight thin slices of lemon, place one on each of the bread croutes, put about a teaspoonful of caviare on each of them, place a stoned olive in the centre, and arrange two picked prawns on each of the croutes. Put a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of each olive. Dish up on a warm glass clish in a circle. Shred the gherkins and put in the centre. Ornament with a few prawn lieads and serve. Tranches de Caviar a la Remoulade [Caviare, Rcmouladc Style). Brown bread, biitter, Russian caviare, i lemon, shallots, cayenne pepper, I teaspoonful stiff mayonnaise, i teaspoonful bechamel sauce, i hard-boiled egg, \ teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon, shallots, mustard, tomato puree. Prepare 12 heart shapes of thin brown bread about an inch and a half long. Butter slightly. Mix two ounces of Russian caviare carefully with a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread the slices rather thickly with the caviare, but do not use a knife for this purpose, as steel or metal injures the flavour of it. Mix together the mayonnaise, cold bechamel sauce, egg-yolk passed previously through a fine wire sieve, parsley, fennel, tarragon, and shallots, also half a tea- spoonful of prepared mustard, and one of concentrated tomato puree. Work all vigorously, fill in a paper cornet, and ornament the caviare slices to taste. Dish up on small round dishes, and stand in a cool place until required Canapes de Caviar a la Capucine. 4 slices brown bread, 4 oz. hygienic or Astrachan caviare, 8 to 10 prawns, I hard-boiled egg, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful mayonnaise, a few sprigs small cress, O