VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 6S Pommes de Terre a la Paysanne. 8 cold potatoes (boiled), 4 pint of bechamel sauce, 4 cream, 2 oz. of butter, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful chojiped chives, .salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut the potatoes into squares, put them in a small stew-pan, with a little water, on the hre, when hot, strain off the water, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, put in the sauce and cream, and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the parsley and chives, fry a little, and mingle gently with the potatoes. Pile up on a hot dish, and serve. Note.—The reason why cold potatoes are recommended for this dish is because fresh hot-boiled potatoes are apt to break. Pommes de Terre aux Tomates a la Savarin. 8 small even-sized potatoes, 4 firm tomatoes, i onion, i oz. parmesan cheese, 2 egg-yolks, oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. butter, i oz. chojrped ham, salt and pepper, 2 slices of toasted bread. Peel the potatoes, cut off the ends of each, scoop out by means of a column-cutter the centre of each potato, fry in hot fat a golden colour, and drain. Cook the hnely chopped onion for a minute or two over the fire, add the parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, stir for two minutes, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs and seasoning. Cut the tomatoes in two crossways, squeeze out a little of the juice, chop up the ham finely, sprinkle over the cut halves of tomatoes. Fill the centre of the potatoes with the pre- pared stuffing, place one in the centre of each tomato, brush over with oiled butter, stand them in a buttered saute-pan, cover over with buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up on rounds of freshly-toasted bread, and serve. Cassolettes a la Parmentier {Potato Cassolettes). 14- lb. potatoes, peeled, boiled, and rubbed through a sieve, i oz. butter. I tablespoonful cream, 2 5rolks of eggs, i whole egg, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, frying fat, ragout of fish, chicken or game. Heat the butter in a stew-pan, put in the potato puree, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, add the cream (if the potatoes are moist omit or use less cream), the parsley, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, stir until the eggs bind the puree. When cold, make up into balls, flatten them slightly, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Cut out the’centre by means of a paste-cutter, scoop out some of the inside, and fill with the ragoiit, put on the lids, dish up, set in the oven for a few seconds, and serve. Pommes* Chateau, Peel twelve medium-sized potatoes, cut them into c[uarters, round off the sharp edges, blanch in salted water, and drain. Heat 2 oz. clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. When finished they should be crisp and of a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and salt, dish up in a pile, and serve hot. * Abbreviation for Pemmes de ierre.