THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 752 Rub the cooked apples through a hue sieve. Work the yolks of four eggs and the sugar to a cream, add the lemon-rind and the sultanas, and mix with the apple puree. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir carefully into the above preparation, together with the crushed macaroons or savoy biscuits. Have ready a buttered souffle dish, pour in the mixture, dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Serve quickly, and hand round a boat of fruit syrup or wine sauce. Charlotte de Pommes {Apple Charlotte). Cut a stale line-grained sandwich loaf into quarter-inch thick slices, cut these into strips about one-and a-half inch wide and of the same length as the charlotte mould which is to be used for this dish. Cut also a sufficient number of triangular-shaped or narrow kite-shaped slices to cover the bottom of the mould. Grease the inside of the charlotte mould with clarihed butter. Dip the shorter pieces of bread into cool oiled butter and place them, one by one, in the form of a circle at the bottom of the mould, it is best to allow the slices to overlap each other, the points always meeting in the centre. Next arrange the long strips in a similar fashion, by dipping each into oiled butter and hxing them closely against the sides of the mould (these also should overlap each other). Fill the mould with a well-made, fairly stiff apple puree flavoured with sugar, lemon, and ground cinnamon. A small quantity of cake-crumbs can be added if liked. Trim off the strips of bread that overlap the edge of the mould, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish and pour a hot fruit syrup round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. Apple Amber. 3 large apples, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. fresh" butter, lemon, 3 yolks of eggs and the whites of 2, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves. Puff-paste trimmings. Candied fruit ; cherries and angelica. Peel and core the apples, cut them into slices, and put in a stew-pan with the sugar and a tablespoonful of water. Simmer gently until tender, pass through a h n e sieve, return the pulp to a clean pan, add the rind (finely grated) o f half a lemon and its juice, the cinna- m o n and clove. Mix thoroughly and add about oz. of butter. When