163 SA UCES. minutes. Add gradually the remainder of the butter bit by bit, also the yolks of egg, one at a time, season with a little salt, a pinch of mignonette or white pepper, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. Strain through a tammy cloth, and use as sauce for dressed fish, etc. Mostly served with soles, salmon, trout, and whiting. White Fish Sauce. I oz. butter, } oz. flour, i gill milk. 2 tablespoonfuls cream, i small piece of mace, i bay-leaf, J teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, bones and trimmings of fish. Boil the milk with some fish-bones, bay-leaf, and a tiny piece of mace, together with -f- gill of water. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, add the flour, and stir a few moments over the fire without allowing the flour to take colour. Stir about a gill of milk as above prepared into this, allow it to come to the boil whilst stirring, and let simmer for ten minutes ; take out the bay-leaf and mace and strain, heat up again, add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning, and use as directed. Simple White Sauce. I oz. butter, i oz. flour, | pint milk, gill white stock or water, b bay-leaf, salt and white pepper. Melt the butter in a small, saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown ; dilute with the milk, stir till it boils, then add the stock and bay-leaf, and let simmer for at least ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf, season to taste, and strain. Sauce Xavier (Fish Sauce). \ bunch watercress, a few sprigs of fennel, pint milk, fish-bones, essence of fish for which the sauce is prepared, il- oz. butter, oz. flour, seasoning, lemon-juice. Remove the stalks from the cress and fennel, put the leaves in a stewpan with the milk and fish-bones, previously cut into small pieces (add a tiny piece of soda), boil until the leaves are clone. Strain and let cool, put the cooked herbs in a mortar, and pound with half the butter, then rub through a sieve. Cook the flour in the remainder of the butter, without taking colour, dilute with the milk in which the cress, etc., have boiled. Stir until it boils, add the fish essence, and let the whole simmer for ten minutes. Strain, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the green puree, and cook a few minutes longer. Season with a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, add a little cream or stock if found too thick, and keep in the bain-marie until required. Sauce Zingara. Reduce half a gill port wine with a gill tomato puree, add a gill “ Salmi sauce,’’and reduce with half a gill of rich stock ; then strain on to a stewpan containing finely-shredded ham, tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles, about i dessertspoonful of each, and a few very fine shreds of orange rind. Boil up for about five minutes and serve.