392 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cutlets with salt and pepper. Adjust a paper frill on each cutlet- bone, dish them up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with nicely cooked and well seasoned green peas, pour a little hot gravy round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Malmaison. Cut as many lamb cutlets as may be recpiired, trim and pare them neatly, season with pepper and salt, and egg and crumb them. Fry them in clarihed butter, and drain. Dish them up in a circle on a bed of potato puree, previously baked [au gyatin) in the oven. Garnish the dish with three distinct coloured purees, i.c. lentil puree, green pea puree, and potato puree, also with small stuffed aud baked tomatoes. Seud to table with demi-glace sauce, well-flavoured with lemon-juice, Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Lion d’Or. <S nice lanilj cutlets—centre out of neck, i small foie-gras pate, i piece lamb leaf-fat, 6 oz. veal forcemeat (p. 177), t mu.=hroo,ms, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, breadcrumbs, soubise sauce, and demi-glace. Trim and pare the cutlets, slit the side of each to the bone, but without })arting. Prepare a puree with the foie-gras, fill the openings made with this, insert a slice of truflle ancl mushroom here and there, close up and fry the cutlets a little in butter. Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie-gras puree, truffles, and mushrooms finely chopped. Cover each cutlet completely with this mixture, wrap up in thin leaf-fat or pig-caul, egg, crumb, and fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing enough clarified butter or lard to cover them. When done, drain, dish up in a circle, fasten frills on bones, put soubise sauce in the centre, and serve demi-glace round the base of the dish. Brochettes d’Agneau a la Turbigo. Bone a good-sized loin of lamb, including part of the neck if necessary, cut it into choifs, about nine will be required for a full service, flatten them lightly and trim neatly. Skewer each, brush over with butter, season with salt and pepper, then grill them carefully in front or over a good bright fire, allowing about six