9'7 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. little salt. Toast two thin slices of bread, butter one side of each slightly, and spread the I>eef over them. Place them on a dish or plate, garnish with crisp parsley, and .serve hot. Nourishing Custard [Savoury). 3 yolks of eggs, i gill milk, | gill water, i teaspoonfiil Lemco. Beat up the egg-yolks, mi.\ the Lemco with the water previously heated, and stir into the heaten eggs. Boil up the milk and add it to the above, season to taste, and pour into a well-buttered mould or basin. Place the mould in a stew-pan containing some hot water, cover with buttered paper, and cook .slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve hot or cold. In cooking this custard, quick baking or steaming should be avoided, so as to prevent any e.xcess of coagulation of the albumen contained in the eggs and the meat extract. Barley Custard Pudding. I oz. patent barley, i teaspoonful castor sugar, J oz. butter, i pint milk, a tiny pinch of .salt, i large egg, nutmeg. Boil the milk, mix the barley with the sugar and a little cold milk. Pour on the hot milk, return to the fire, add the butter and a small pinch of salt, stir till it boils, add the yolk of the egg, • whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture when it has cooled a little. Butter a small pie-dish, pour in the prepared custard, grate a little nutmeg on top, and bake for fifteen minutes. Custard Pudding. f pint milk, 2 eggs, 1- oz. castor sugar, llavouring. Beat up the eggs, add to them the milk and sugar and flavouring, pour the custard into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes ; sprinkle over the sugar, and serve either hot or cold. The same ingredients can be put in a greased basin and steamed, or they can be put in a double saucepan or jar and boiled. Savoury Custard. A savoury custard can be made by substituting herbs, chopped meat, and pepper and salt for the sugar and fla\’ouring, proceeding the same as directed for custard pudding. Suet Pudding. 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. beef suet, oz. castor sugar, i egg, J- teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, a pinch of salt. Remove the skin from the suet and chop it very finely. Put it in a basin with the flour, sugar, baking-powder, and salt. Beat up the egg and stir in. Work into a smooth paste and fill into small well-greased timbale or dariole moulds. Cover each with buttered paper and steam for forty-five to sixty minutes. Turn out, and serve with honey or jam. Tapioca Pudding. f pint milk, i tablespoonful tapioca, i small dessertspoonful castor sugar, I egg, flavouring essence (vanilla or lemon). Put the tapioca to soak in the milk for a few minutes, and cook over the fire until the tapioca is <[uite tender. Wdien cooked let