347 ENTREES. Entrees are never carved or served from the sideboard. Dishes known as hsh entrees, excepting in the case of cold dishes, are allowable as entrees dnring Lent. Compound or long process sauces, foundation sauces, and their offsprings, play a most important part in entrees, as well as in their relation to the dishes which precede and follow them. Removes or Releves.—Large entrees are frecpiently substituted for a remove or releve, so called because at one time it replaced the soup-tureen, being served immediately after the soup. The terms, however, are not interchangeable, for a hsh or a joint of meat may be served as a remove, and we should never think of calling either of these an entree, for entree is the nanie which we associate with made dishes. The present French style is to serve the remove immediately after the hsh, which forms the beginning of the hrst course (the term hrst and second course or service is rarely ever used now, for it fulhls no purpose), while in England the remove or joint is served at the end of the hrst course—i.c. immediately after the entrees. Classification of Entrees.—Entrees are divided into two classes, hot and cold. The hot dishes may be sub-divided again into two classes, the light and the solid entrees, or those which are served with a sauce, and those served without a sauce. There are a large number of entrees composed of meat sauted, fried, grilled, broiled or braised, dressed simply with a good sauce or, if applicable, with a dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may also be applied to removes ; these, however, differ from entrees, inasmuch as in the former case the pieces are dressed small, while in the latter they usually consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the other hand, there are dishes of a more elaborate kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come under the heading of hot entrees, solid, otherwise known as the small hot meats garnished, such as cutlets, fillets, grenadins, escallops, tournedos, large pates, sweetbreads, fricandeaux, ragouts, fricassees, boudins, cpienelles, salmis, compotes, etc. EXTREE MOULDS. FANCY TIMBALE MOULDS. TOMATO MOULD. ARTICHOKE MOULD. Light entrees consist of various kinds of dainty morsels, such as vol-au-vents, soufflfe (small), meat, poultry or game fritters, small pates, bouchees, boudins, rissoles, croquettes, cromeskies, frican- dines, beignets, timbales, darioles, etc.