COLD ENTRl'LES. 549 Supreme de Veau a I’Aspic (Supreme of Veal). Aljout lb. cushion of veal, i oz. butler, i glass of sherry, J pint chaud- froid sauce, about 4 oz. ravigote, 8 thin slices of truffles, 2 round socles of rice, 2 slices of fat bacon, aspic jelly for garnir-h, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a'small wax figure for centre. Prepare 9 or 10 heart-shaped slices of even size, lard them, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, tmd grated nutmeg, moisten with the sherry, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. When cold mask them well with white chaud-froid sauce, put them aside to set. Of cooked rice form a round shape about hve inches in diameter, and one-and-a-half inch high, also a smaller round about two inches in diameter, and two inches high, and place on the ice to set. Place the larger round on a dish, cover with ravigote butter, put the smaller round in the centre of the large socle, cover also with butter, and ornament the sides according to fancy. Coat the fillets with half-set aspic jelly, and when set dish them in a circle on the socle of rice, with a slice of trufile between the fillets. Place a wa.\ figure, if possible in the shape of a small vase, on top, fill it with chopped aspic, and garnish the round dish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly. Note.—Fillets of chicken, pigeons, or pheasant can be prepared in the same way. Roulade a la Norvegienne (Norwegian Galantine). I small breast of veal, i lb. lean beef, lb. bacon (streaky), 6 oz. soft bread (Vienna or rolls) soaked in milk, f oz. truffle peelings, i egg, i teaspoouful aromatic spice, i dessertspoonful chopped pansley and herbs, i gill stock, salt, brown chaud-froid sauce, meat glaze, aspic jelly for garnish. Bone the breast of veal, trim, pare, and flatten. Chop the beef and bacon rather finely, and put both in a basin with the bread well squeezed out, spice, truffles, parsley, and sufticient salt to taste. Mix well, moisten with the stock and egg. Lay the breast, boned side up, flat on a board, season with salt and pepper, spread the above preparation on it, roll up, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil in the stock-pot or salted water for two and a half to three hours. Take up, press lightly till cold. Pare neatly, coat well with brown chaud-froid sauce well blended with meat glaze. Trim when set, dish up, and garnish with aspic and creamed butter. Mousselines de Ris de Veau a la Harlequin. Line eight small oval-shaped entree moulds of suitable shape with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the bottom of each with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg in mosaique pattern, when set mask the inside of the moulds completely with a thin layer of aspic cream. When this is fairly Arm, nearly fill the moulds with cube-shaped pieces of cold braised sweetbreads, shredded lean hani, green peas, and truffle, the latter also cut in shreds. Before being put into the moulds, season and moisten the mixture carefully with mayonnaise. Next a good layer of aspic cream on top, so as to completely fill each mould, which are then placed in the ice and