THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S3^ then drain the })ieces, and fry them lightl}/ in a saute-pan with the butter. Dredge with hour, stir over a brisk hre until well browned, and moisten with stock, red wine, and liquor. Fry the bacon, previously cut into dice, put with the civet when the latter boils, and simmer for about one hour. Put the small onions, previously braised, in a saucepan, and keep hot. Chop liver and heart very finely, mix with the blood (if any), and add to the stew about a quarter of an hour before it is done. Have ready some Godiveau cjuenelles and croiites of fried bread. Dish up the civet in a terrine {see illustration), adding braised onions, also the croutons and Godiveau cjuenelles, which should be ranged on top. Serve with a small dish of red-currant jelly. Mousse de Lievre {Mousse of Hare). Chop and pound i lb. of hare, free from skin and bone, add to it 3 oz. hnely chopped fried bacon and 2 oz. of ham, incorporate 3 yolks of eggs, -I- a gill of cream. Rub through a sieve and mix with sufhcient reduced Espagnole sauce to form a light farce (test it before using). Season well and fill into a buttered timbale or charlotte mould. Steam for forty-hve minutes. Serve with truftie sauce. Bordure de Lievre a I’Autrichienne [Bonier of Hare). I hare, larding bacon, a mirepoix of vegetables, 3 oz. butter, i glass claret. ■| gill cream, 4 oz. panade, about 4 oz. chestnut puree, 10 to 12 very small potato croquettes (fried), 1 pint demi-glace sauce, seasoning, meat glaze, red-currant jelly. Remove the hllets from the hare, cut them into eight nice slices, lard these with bacon, and place them in a saute-pan on a mire- ])oix, larded sides downwards, with about two ounces of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, cook in a quick oven for ten minutes, then add the wine and a little stock, and cook in the oven until quite tender (baste frequently). Put the trimmings of the hllets and enough of the meat of the hare to make ten ounces in a mortar, pound well, add gradually the panade, the cream, and a little brown sauce, season to taste, rub the whole through a hire sieve. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, steam for one and a cjuarter hour, turn out on a hot dish, dress the hllets on the border and brush over with meat glaze. Put the chestnut puree in the centre of the dish, and upon this dress neatly the potato croquettes. To the contents of the saute-pan add the demi- glace sauce, boil for some minutes, skim and strain, reduce again, aid a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. Grenadins de Lievre ala Hanoverienne {Braised Fillets of Hare). I hare, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, a glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, i pint E.spagnole sauce, a small bouquet garni, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, 2 oz. sultanas, a 2-inch stick of cinnrmon, a small bunch of parsley, i tables])Oonful red-currant jelly, .salt and pepper, croutons of fried bread, a handful of glace cherries. Remove the hllets from the hare, cut them into round slices, llatten slightly, and lard one side of them with strips of larding