86o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. pieces, bake in a quick oven for a few seconds. Dish up, and serve hot with quarters of lemon. Palmettes de Caviar. Procure a small jar of best Russian caviare, mix it with a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice and two finely-chopped shallots. Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer. Prepare a few slices of plain or toasted brown bread, cut them into heart shapes of even size. Spread over one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral ; put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet, and decorate the border of each with this butter. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a silver dish (pointed ends of the croutes inwards, so as to form a rosette shape), garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon. Serve cold. Croutes de Laitance de Cabillaud a la Madras {Cod’s Roe Cronies). -J II3. cod roe smoked, onion, a clove of garlic, 2 tablespoonfuls tamarind pulp, I tablespoonful chutney, i teaspoonful curry powder, ij oz. butter, I hard-boiled egg, i French gherkin, 8 oval-shaped pieces of fried bread. Cut the cod roe into eight slices, chop the onion and garlic very finely, then fry in the butter; stir in the curry powder, fry a little, and add the tamarind pulp, chutney, and lemon-juice ; stir until it boils, then lay in the slices of cod roe and let them get hot through. Chop the gherkin, cut a few fanciful slices of the white of egg, chop the remainder, also the yolk. Dress each slice of cod roe with a sufficient quantity of pulp on the fried pieces of bread ; decorate with the gherkins, white of egg, and yolk of egg, so as to produce a neat design ; dish up, re-heat for a few minutes, and serve. Laitance de Harengs a la Broche [Herring Roes on Skewers). Toss some herring roes in butter and finely chopped shallots (well blended), fasten each with a small silver skewer, and place each on a piece of toasted bread cut to the required size and spread over with anchovy paste. Dish up, and garnish with parsley and lemon quarters. Laitances a la Diable. Soft roes of herring poached, drained, seasoned with cayenne, and served on suitably cut slices of toasted and buttered bread. Laitances a la Janette. Small boat-shaped paste crusts, filled with cheese custard, and surmounted by soft roes of herring. Laitances a I’Ecossaise. The same as Janette (see above), the paste crusts being filled with scrambled egg mixture in place of cheese custard, with a soft roe of herring on top of each. Laitances a la Tzarina. Soft herring roes, poached in white wine, chablis or sauterne, fine herb flavour, served in small cocotte pans, with a layer of caviare on each. A COCOTTE PAN.