452 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Boeuf aux Champignons.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef dressed with sliced mushrooms heated up in brown sauce. — a la Claremont.—Braised hllets of beef larded and glazed, served with a garniture of liraised, stuffed cucumber and tomatoes, also some small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce: Bearnaise on top of the fillets, with demi-glace round the dish. — a la Conflans.—Braised fillets of beef, finished in white wine sauce and savoury herbs. Served witli a garniture of finely shredded ox- tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, and a well-reduced demi-glace sauce. — a la Dauphine.—Small fillets of beef, larded and grilled, garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles and dauphine potato cro- quettes ; p&igueux sauce. — a la Financiere.—Roast fillets of beef, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, and turned olives. Served with Madere sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef, served with brown savoury herb sauce, or with parsley butter. — a la Garfield.—Small round fillet steaks, larded, grilled, dished up and garnished with finely cut julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms. Served with poivrade sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled fillets of beef, with parsley butter and demi-glace sauce. — a la Malaga.—Larded and braised fillets of beef, served with Madere sauce, garnished with potato croquettes done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade.—Larded fillets of beef marinaded in vinegar, wine, and herbs ; when drained, grilled or braised, and served with poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled fillets of beef garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef, group of truffles and champignons around dish ; Madere sauce. — a la Moscovite.—Larded fillets of beef, placed in white wine marinade, and braised or sauteed, served with Madere sauce and garnished with strips of fried almonds. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled fillets of beef, with stuffed olives. — a la Palermitaine.—Larded and broiled fillets of beef, garnished with stuffed aubergines, potato croquettes, served with sauce Madere. — a la Polonaise.—Small round fillets made from finely chopped lean rump or tenderloin of beef and a small proportion of chopped suet, seasoned, shaped, egged, and crumbed. Fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes, and served with demi- glace sauce. — a la ProvenQale.—Grilled fillets of beef, garnished with stuffed mush- rooms and tomatoes, demi-glace or Madere sauce. — a la Royale.—Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with a garni- ture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles, and small braised and glazed lambs’ breads, served with tomato sauce.