THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 538 Chaud-froid or chaux-froix dishes are prepared from either fish, meat, poidtry or game. In all cases the material used for a chaud- froid must be first cooked—boiled, braised or roasted. When cold and trimmed whole or cut into portions, they are masked or coated with suitably seasoned and suitably coloured chaud-froid sauce, then decorated, and lastly coated with a thin layer of aspic. In most cases the garnishing consists of small salad, macMoine of vege- table, or some other suitable garnish. Directions and schemes for executing a large number of standard dishes, as well as the latest culinary creations of chaud-froids and other cold entrees, will be found in the following pages. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Danzig {Cold Lamb Cutlets). Best end of a neck of lamb, 2 oz. butter, i truffle, hard-boiled while of egg, I oz. tongue, i tin foie-gras, pint white chaud-froid sauce, 2 handsful cooked peas, gill aspic jelly, 2 tomatoes, mayonnaise sauce, i table- spoonful cream. Seasoning, vegetable macedoine. Trim and pare the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season with pepper and salt, broil in a saute-pan with butter, and put under press until cold. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add tie cream and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient aspic to make it set, then rub through a fine sieve, and mix with a little finely-chopped truffle. Trim the cutlets, cover them completely with the farce just prepared. Allow the farce to set, then mask well with chaud-froid sauce previously mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint (a little spinach greening may be added if necessary). Ornament one side of each cutlet with some fancifully-cut pieces of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, the garnish to be set with aspic jelly ; when set dip each cutlet in half-set aspic. Have ready a small border-mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables neatly set in aspic, and dish the cutlets on it. Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed of tomatoes, green peas, and macedoine of vegetables, fill the centre with this, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Moscovienne {Lamb Cutlets). 1 neck of lamb, i quart aspic, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped green mint, i pint macedoine of vegetables, i gill of stiff tartare sauce, i hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of tongue, i large truffle, seasoning. Trim the best end of the neck of lamb, season and braise it in the usual manner. When cold trim neatly and cut into cutlets. Dissolve a pint of aspic, add a pinch of sugar, and pour into a saute-pan. When partly set mix in the chopped mint. Place the cutlets in the pan about half an inch apart from each other, and cover with the remainder of the aspic jelly. Then place on the ice to set. Mask a border-mould with aspic, decorate sides with fanci- fully cut slices of truffles and tongue, cooked peas, beans, and hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with sufficient liquid aspic to make it set when cold, season with tartare sauce, add any pieces of truffle, tongue, and hard-boiled egg which may be left over. Coat the border-mould with a second layer of