6i7 CHAPTER XXVni. VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. Until recent years the art of dressing vegetables was little under- stood or practised in this country, and even now the majority of English people prefer them plainly dressed when served with a joint. The French, Swiss, German, and Italian nations long set a hne example in this matter, for they have many more varied ways of preparing and cooking them than are, generally speaking, known in England. They also cultivate vegetables most assiduously. MODERN VEGETABLE DISH. Tlio Eugllsh ui'e begiuniug, how- ever, to appreciate entremets of dressed vegetables, particularly when game is scarce, and fresh vegetables are good and plentiful. The coming years may witness a revolution in this direction, for a great effort is being made to eliminate much that is too substantial in our daily fare, and to substitute such simple, light, and palatable dishes as this chapter will deal with. The serving of dressed vegetables can, of course, be overdone. At a dinner of several courses it is not desirable to serve more than two dressed vegetables. As vegetables play an important part in many dishes, it is necessary that all preliminary processes should receive careful attention. First of all, let me urge that all vegetables of very strong flavour should be cooked in plenty of water, and the water must, in many cases, be changed during the process of cooking, for this has a ten- dency to give the cooked article a much more delicate flavour than it would otherwise have. All root vegetables, such as potatoes, salsify, carrots, turnips, celeriac, beetroot, etc., should be kept with the earth which naturally adheres to them until they are prepared for cooking. It is a mistake to wash vegetables and keep them till required for use, because they then quickly lose their freshness and crispness, PLAIN BOILED VEGETABLES. All green vegetables—in fact nearly all vegetables—should be put into fast-boiling water and be quickly brought to boiling point again ; slow cooking toughens them and destroys colour and fla\’our. Immediately they are cooked they should be drained, otherwise