878 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cheese and the ham roughly chopped. Divide the paste, shape it into little (pienelle shapes on a floured board, put these into boiling water, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the quenelles on a sieve, let cool, and arrange them neatly on a buttered gratin-dish. Cover with well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle well with grated cheese, season with a good pinch of paprika, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Stand the dish on a folded napkin, and serve very hot. Macaroni a la Calabraise. Boil h lb. of large macaroni, drain and range in a gratin-dish with alternate layers of tomato puree, grated parmesan cheese, and white sauce, besprinkle the top with grated cheese’ and butter, then brown in a sharp oven or under the salamander. Tartelettes de Macaroni. This dish consists of cooked macaroni tossed in butter and moistened with bechamel sauce, filled into baked tartlet crusts covered with grated cheese, and baked in a sharp oven to brown the surface. Bouchees a la Caroline. These are small cup or bouche shapes of savoury rice, fried in deep fat, scooped out in centre and filled with scrambled eggs. Gnokis a la Suisse. These consist of cheese-flavoured choux-paste made into small quenelles poached in stock, drained, after which they are dipped in egg and fried in butter. Noisettes au Parmesan. These are small ball shapes made of unsweetened choux-paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Beignets a la Gruyere {Cheese Fritters). About 1- lb. choux-paste, 6 oz. gruyere cheese, i egg, soft breadcrumbs, salt, Nepaul pepper, fat for frying. Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a pastry-cutter, wipe each piece with a dry cloth, coat one side of each piece of cheese with choux-paste, smooth over with a palette-knife, beat up the eggs. Have ready a plateful of breadcrumbs, mix with them two saltspoonfuls of salt and a good pinch of Nepaul pepper. Dip the slices of cheese in the egg-ernmb, let the coating get dry, then egg and crumb again. Let them stand for a few minutes, then plunge them into hot fat, and fry until a golden colour. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. Petites Croutes au Fromage {Cheese Croiites). stale white or brown bread, clarified fat or butter for frying, i oz. fresh butter, I yolk of egg, i dessertspoonful cream or milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, i oz. breadcrumbs, pepper, .salt, and cayenne. Cut some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some rounds one and a quarter inch in diameter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, and scoop out the centre to receive the filling. Prepare a mixture with the cream, egg-yolk, butter, cheese, and breadcrumbs ; season to taste. Fry the hollowed croutes in hot fat