703 SA LA DES—SA LA DS. Salade Imperiale {Game and Celery Salad). I cooked (roasted) partridge, i stick white celery, i or 2 Irufllcs, 3 table- spoonfuls mayonnaise, a pinch cayenne or Nepaul pepper, 3 or 4 slices of cooked and pickled beetroot, 2 pickled French gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls whipped cream. The partridge must be carefully roasted, and not overdone. W'hcn cold, remove the breast lillets and the meat from the wings, take off the skin, and cut the meat into shreds. \\'ash the celery, trim it and cut the white parts into line shreds, cut the gherkins, beetroot, and truffles into similar shapes. Mix all carefully in a basin, sprinkle with pepper, and season with the mayonnaise. Dress all neatly in a glass salad bowl. Decorate the top with whipped cream, slices of gherkins, truffles, beetroot, etc., and serve. Salade Italienne {Italian Salad). Cut half a pound of cold roast veal and half a pound of boiled potatoes into small dice or slices. To this add four ounces of cooked and pickled beetroot, four ounces of pickled gherkins, one tablespoonful of capers, and a handful of crisp lettuce leaves, season to taste, and pile up in a salad bowl. Pour over some fairly stiff remoulade or mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with stoned olives, slices of smoked Italian sausages, and slices of lemon. Salade Japonaise {Japanese Salad). Coat a border-mould with a thin layer of clear aspic jelly, decorate it with stars of truffles or hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pre- viously rubbed through a sieve, the bottom and side of the mould shoukl be completely covered with this. Trim and wash a firm lettuce, cut it into fine shreds, season it with aspic and mayonnaise in equal proportions, and add to it a handful of cooked green peas or French beans. Fill up the border-mould with this, and pour a layer of aspic over the top. Place it on the ice to set. Prepare the following for the centre of the border : Cut two hard-boiled whites of eggs into fine strips or shreds, add to it a handful of cooked asparagus points and a handful of finely cut cucumber slices. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise sauce, moistened with a couple of tablespoonfuls of whipped double cream. Turn out the mould on to a round dish, fill the centre with the above- named preparation, and coat the whole with a very stiff mayon- naise dressing. Garnish the top with rings cut out of hard-boiled white of egg and cooked beetroot. Sprinkle over with some finely chopped truffle, and serve at once. Salade a la Jardiniere {Mixed Vegetable Salad). I small or -t a large cooked cauliflower, i small cooked and pickled beet- root, 2 to 3 cooked potatoes (not mealy), i small pickled cucumber, 2 firm tomatoes, i crisp lettuce or endive, } pint mayonnaise dressing. Divide the cauliflower into very small portions, cut the beet- root into shreds and the potatoes into small strips, slice the* cucum- ber and the tomatoes, arrange all these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season each layer lightly with salt and pepper, and pour a little salad dressing (mayonnaise) over all. Pile up the