746 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or in the oven in a casserole until they are tender, add the thin rind of a lemon, barely cover them with water, and set aside to cool. Cream the yolks of eggs wifh the sugar. When creamy, sprinkle in the flour and mix well, add the strained juice of half a lemon and the prunes, freed from the stones and cut into small pieces. Whisk the whites of eggs till stiff, stir half lightly into the mixture, also half the almonds, cut into small strips. Fill a well- buttered souffle dish, pile the remainder of egg-froth on top, sprinkle with castor sugar and the remainder of almond sfrips, and bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven, Mousse a 1 Alsacienne [Hot Orange Mousse). 4 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 4 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i orange, } lemon, mousseline sauce. Work the butter and sugar well until thick and creamy, stir in gradually the yolks of the eggs, the juice of the orange, and that of the half lemon. Whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water until it begins to thicken (this process is exactly the same as for a Gwroise or a Hollandaise). Stir in the flour and the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a charlotte mould, well buttered and dredged with flour, cover with a buttered paper. Place in a saute- pan three-parts full of hot water, and steam in the oven for a good half-hour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with mousseline sauce, and serve quickly. Mousse aux Framboises (B'o^ Raspberry Mousse). Prepare a mixture the same as for “Ponding Mousseline’’ (p. 735), and incorporate ^ gill of raspberry syrup and a few fresh or preserved whole raspberries, as well as a few crushed Anger biscuits. Colour with liquid carmine or cochineal to -give the desired tint, and finish as directed above. Serve with a syrup flavoured with raspberries. POIRES—PEARS. Poires a la Paillard. 12 small cooking pears, i pint syrup, i lemon, 4 oz. rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, I pint milk, 3 vanilla pod, i gill cream, frangipane custard, angelica and crystallised violets for garnish, i oz. best currants (washed and soaked in maraschino syrup). Peel the pears smoothly, with a small vegetable cutter remove the cores from the bottom of each to within an inch of the stalk. Boil the syrup, add the juice of the lemon and a strip of the rind, put in the pears, and stew them gently till tender, keeping them as white as possible. Blanch, drain, and cook the rice in the milk with the vanilla pod. When done, remove the latter, add the sugar, cream, and currants, spread a layer of the rice on a flat round dish, on top arrange the pears, previously filled with fran- gipane custard, in the form of a pyramid, using more rice in building them up. Place one pear on top. Insert a few triangular-shaped slices of angelica round each pear, and put a crystallised violet in