THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 9i8 it cool slightly, then add the sugar, the beaten egg, and a few drops of flavouring essence. Butter a pie-dish, pour the pudding into it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Hominy Pudding. 2 oz. cooked hominy, |- pint milk, i egg, i oz. castor sugar, and flavouring essence (vanilla or lemon). Boil up the milk and pour it over the hominy, stir, cover, and let it stand to soak for a few hours. Beat in the egg, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of flavouring essence or leave plain witli- out sugar or flavottring. Pour tlie mixture into a buttered pie-chslr and bake for twenty minutes. Invalid Fruit Pie. 3 sponge cakes, 3 apples or pears, stewed and rubbed through a sieve, 11 gill milk, I egg, a little sugar. Cut the sponge cakes into thin slices, line a buttered pie-dish with some of the slices, fill up with alternate layers of fruit-pulp and sponge cake. Boil up the milk, remove from the fire, stir in the egg and beat well, pour this into a buttered pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Dredge with castor sugar, and serve. Apple Jelly. Peel two large sour cooking apples, cut them into slices, and conk with a gill of water, one ounce and a half of loaf sugar, and a little lemon-rind, till tender. Add the juice of half a lemon and pass through sieve, dissolve three sheets or quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a little water, strain into the pulp, and mould. Prune Jelly. Stew six ounces of prunes in sufficient water to cover them well, add a small piece of cinnamon and about half an ounce of loaf sugar. When sufficiently cooked add a quarter of, an ounce of gelatine previously soaked and dissolved in a little water, and rub the fruit and juice through a sieve. Pour this into small moulds and let set. Serve with cream or custard. Egg Jelly. i ]iint liquid (juice of i lemon made up to -} pint with water), the rind of I lemon, 3 oz. loaf sugar, : egg, | oz. gelatine. Put the gelatine in a saucejian, add to it the sugar and lemon- rind, strain the juice, and make it up to half a pint with water. Add this to the other ingredients, beat the egg and add ; stir tlie jelly over a moderate fire until the gelatine is melted ; strain into small monlcls, and when set turn out on to a dish and serve. Arrowroot Gruel. Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, stir it slowly into half a pint of boiling milk, and let simmer for five minutes. It must be stirred all the time. Add a tea- .spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, one of cinnamon (nr in jdace of cinnamon use a little brandy or a dozen large raisins). Cornflour or rice-flour grifel is made in the same way.