ENTRAbS of poultry, etc. (HOT DISHES) 49 Ballotine de Volaille a la Cardinal {Chicken Ballotinc). 1 fat chicken or pullet, i terrine of foie-gras j;ate (size 9 or 8), 4 slices of streaky bacon, I lb. cooked ham, 4 truffles, l glass of white wine, i bouquet garni, a mirepoix, | lb. of veal forcemeat (p. 177), i egg, 1 gill of rich veal broth (or chicken broth made from chicken bones), aromatic seasoning. Bone the chicken, but do not remove the leg bones. Line the body with slices of bacon, spread with a layer of forcemeat, pre- viously mixed with a yolk of egg, interspersing thick slices of truffles and cooked ham with a slice of foie-gras between them. Sprinkle with aromatic seasoning, and cover with the remainder of force- meat. Secure the ends, fold tightly, sew with string, and wrap them in a piece of buttered paper. Fry the prepared mirepoix in deep saute-pan, put in the chicken, add the bouquet garni, wine, and stock or broth. Cook in the oven for about half an hour or more, according to the size of the chicken. Baste well from time to time. When done take out the chicken, remove the paper and string, cut up in slices, or dress it whole on a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. Filets de Poulet a la Helder {Chicken Fillets, Helder Style). 2 plump spring chickens, i pint preserved cepes or morilles, 12 small potatoes, 1 gill vcloutee sauce, i tablespoonful meat glaze or Lenico. I tablespoonful brandy, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, chicken stock, seasoning, croutons of fried bread. Remove carefully the fillets of the two chickens, skin them, and place them on a buttered saute-pan, pour over a tablespoonful of liqueur brandy, and season to taste with salt and pepjfer. Moisten with a little chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, aud poach in the oven for hfteen minutes. Take up the fillets and keep hot, pour off the liquor in the saute-pan, and melt in it the remainder of the butter. To this add the flour, cook a little, and stir in -J- gill chicken stock, the liquor, and the meat glaze or Lemco. Cook for ten minutes, and strain. Return to the saute-pan and place in the chicken fillets, cook them gently for another fifteen minutes. Have ready some heart shajies of fried bread croutons, dress the fillets on these in the form of a border on a round entree dish. Heat up the cepes or morilles in the veloutee sauce, and put this ragout in the centre. Sauce over the whole carefully and send to table hot. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Richelieu, I chicken, i tin foie-gras (about 6 oz.), 4 oz. fat pork, aromatic spice, pcp])cr and salt, pig’s caul, 3 or 4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, i trufilc, bread- crumbs, I egg. demi-glace sauce, morilles. Remove the hllets of chicken, flatten them, and cut out about ten nice rounds, the size of a four-shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about six ounces of chicken meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie-gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Chop and broil the mushrooms slightly in butter. Cut the caul into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet, put each piece of caul over the inner surface of a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need eight or ten of these), spread with farce, put a chicken