20 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. septic and agreeable flavour, it is largely used for preserving vegetable substances known under the name of “ pickles.” It also has the faculty of softening the fibres of meat and making them tender. Sugar is largely used for fruits of all kinds, and farinaceous foods ; besides seasoning tasteless things, sugar also affords con- siderable nutriment. The value of sugar as a condiment is not always sufficiently realised. It renders watery and insipid vege- tables more digestible, and in unsuspected quantities it softens and heightens the flavour of sauces and ragouts. If mingled with otherwise insipid food articles, it stimulates the stomach to a slight degree, and hastens the action of the digestive organs. Sugar is also^ found useful in rendering watery vegetables, such as peas, cucumbers, pumpkins, spinach, cooked endive, etc., more digestible, and in the same manner assists digestion of starchy matters which are used for soups, sauces, gruel, etc. Lemons.—Lemons play an important part in cookery. The rind, juice, and essential oil all contain valuable properties. The rind or peel is used for flavouring a variety of dishes. As a rule the rind is grated, but the best way to obtain the largest amount of the essence from the lemon is to pare the rind with a very sharp knife as thinly as possible, without encroaching on the white part of the rind, thus cutting right through the many cells containing the essence. Some cooks obtain the zest by rubbing the lemon with lumps of sugar. It is from the rind that the essential oil of lemon is obtained, which is a more reliable substitute than fresh lemon-peel. The rind preserved with sugar forms the well-known candied peel. Vanilla.—Vanilla was first discovered by the Spaniards. It is the fruit of a parasitical plant—an orchid—and the best is found in Mexico. It has a delicious fragrance, and is now largely used for flavouring puddings, cakes, custards, liqueurs, chocolate, etc. For flavouring purposes it is better to use the vanilla pods or vanilla sugar than the essence of vanilla, the odour of which quickly escapes. Ginger.—Ginger is the tuber of a perennial plant called Zingiber Q-fficinalc, growing chiefly in the West Indies. It is the most gener- ally used of all spices, and is very agreeable and wholesome. There are two kinds of ginger—the white and the black. The former is considered the best, and is prepared by washing and scalding the tubers, and then scraping them and drying them in the sun ; in the black ginger the scraping process is omitted, it being merely scalded before being dried. Ginger is much used in culinary operations, especially by confectioners, and it also finds its way into sauces, beer, spiced wines, and other beverages. Angelica.—Although the seeds of this plant are largely used in the preparation of certain liqueurs, it is chiefly in its candied form that this aromatic herb or plant is known to us. The tender stems of the leaves are boiled in syrup, and when dried are very useful for dessert and confectionery purposes. The root as well as the leaves and seeds have been employed for medicinal purposes. In the northern parts of Europe the leaf-stalks are peeled and eaten raw,