THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 258 Make a pretty border of mashed potatoes by forcing it through a large-sized rose pipe round the hsh, and mask well with the sauce. Garnish the top of the fish tastefully with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes, previously tossed in a little butter over a quick fire and seasoned to taste. Place the dish in a quick oven for a few moments, sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over the top, and pour a little more sauce round the dish. Note.—Small salmon trout and red or grey mullets can be similarly treated, but their skins need not be removed. Saumon a la Verdi. 2 lb. salmon, i glass Chablis, cardinal saixce, bearnaise sauce, truffles. Procure a tail or jowl piece of salmon, remove the skin and bone carefully, season with pepper and salt, and place it on a buttered fireproof dish. Moisten with a glass of Chablis or hock, and poach in the oven for fifteen minutes or longer, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready enough cardinal sauce (p. 144) to well coat the fish and the base of the dish. Put a layer of bear- naise sauce (p. 143) in the centre, upon this strew some very finely cut shreds of truffles, and serve. Note.—Turbot is excellent served this way. Saumon a la Matelote, 2 to 3 lb. of salmon cut into half-inch slices, 2 oz. butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls finely chopped herbs—z.e. parsley, a little chervil and tarragon, and some chives—the juice of i lemon, i glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, 3 truffles, 18 preserved nrushrooms (champignons), 12 small braised button onions, 18 small fish quenelles (p. 177), ^ pint rich espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. meat glaze, seasoning. Wipe the slices of salmon, melt the butter in a large saute-pan, put in the salmon, sprinkle over with the chopped herbs, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice and wine, cover with a buttered paper, cook in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes, basting frequently. Poach the quenelles of fish (these must be made rather small, the shape of marbles). Drain them and put into the sauce, cut the mushrooms and truffles into slices, toss them in a little butter, and put them into the sauce with the meat glaze. WMrm up to boiling-point. Take up the fish and dress on a hot dish. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, boil up, and skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the dish nicely with the braised button onions, truffles, etc., and serve hot. Hure de Saumon a la Moderne. Head-piece of salmon (about 4 lb.), | pint Chablis wine, a small bunch of parsley, i quart fish stock, 3 oz. butter, oz. flour, 6 small truffles, i egg, 12 mushrooms (heads), 12 Spanish olives, a lemon, 4 lb. fish sausages, seasoning. Mupe the fish with a damp cloth, trim it, and truss neatly. Put it in a deep saute-pan or fish-pan, season with salt and pepper, add the parsley tied up in a bunch, cover with a piece of buttered paper, moisten with the white wine and fish stock, let it come to the boil over the fire, then place it in a hot oven, and let it simmer