357 LIGHT ENTREES {HOT).—ENTRf:ES LiCERES. a little brown, sauce. Roll out the paste rather thinly, and line several small croustacle or timbale moulds with this, trim the edges of the paste and prick the bottom to prevent blistering. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix rather more than half with the prepared farce. Fill the lined moulds with this, put them on a baking-dish into a fairly hot oven, and bake from twenty-live to thirty minutes. When nearly done unmould, spread a little of the remaining whipped whites of eggs on top of each croustade, and sprinkle over a little grated cheese, mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and finish baking. The white of egg can be put on the croustades by means of a forcing-bag with a large rose pipe. Arrange them nicely on a dish and serve with hot sauce Maclere. Cromesquis, Cromeskis or Kromeskis, These are small rolls of savoury preparations called salpicon, composed of fowl, game, etc., rolled in thin slices of bacon, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot lard or fat, and garnished with fried parsley. Cromesquis a la Russe {Russian Kromeskis). Prepare a salpicon (p. 124) composed of cooked chicken fillet, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, and white sauce. When set and cold make up into little rolls, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon. Dip in frying batter (p. 135), coating them completely with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley (p. 122), serve with picpiante or tomato sauce. Cromesquis au Jambon [Ham Kromeskis). Little rolls or cork shapes of minced ham, mushroom, and truffle, made up in salpicon with Madere sauce, rolled up in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Cromesquis de Volaille {Chicken Kromeskis). These consist of chicken-meat salpicon (p. 124) made up into small rolls, wrapped in slices of bacon, coated with frying batter (p. 135), and fried in deep, hot fat. Garnish with parsley and serve with or without sauce. Supreme is most suitable.