THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 39^ OREILLES D’AGNEAU LAMBS’ EARS. Oreilles d’Agneau farcies.—Lambs’ ears, stuffed with liver farce or chicken farce, fried or braised, and served with brown sauce. — frites, sauce tomate.—Braised or fried lambs’ ears with tomato sauce. — gratinees.—Stewed lambs’ ears sauced over, breaded, and baked. — a rindienne.—Curried lambs’ ears with boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Braised lambs’ ears with Italian sauce. MOUTON MUTTON. Carbonades de Mouton a la Nantaise. 3 or 4 lb. best end of neck of mutton or a piece of loin, i carrot, i turnip, I small onion, i bouquet garni, pint Espagnole sauce, 2 oz. butter, i glass port, 24 small stuffed onions, ^ pint green peas (cooked), salt, pepper, larding bacon. Bone the meat, pare off all the fat, cut into quarter-inch-thick slices, flatten them a little, trim, and lard with strips of fat bacon. Prepare the vegetables, cut carrot, turnip, and onion into slices, and put in a saute-pan with the butter and bouquet, season and broil a few minutes over a quick hre, put in the larded fillets, let brown slightly on both sides, drain off the fat, and add half a pint of sauce and a glass of port wine. Cover and cook slowly in the oven for twenty minutes, take up the fillets, drain, and dish up in a row on a small border of mashed potatoes or puree of peas. Free the sauce from fat, strain into a small stewpan, add the remainder of Espagnole, boil up, and moisten the stuffed onions, previously prepared, with this sauce. Dress the latter with the green peas in alternate rows round the base of the dish. Sauce over a little, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bretonne. 6 cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of mutton, 2 small onions, ^ pint well-cooked haricot beans, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, brown sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets neatly, fry them in a saute-pan with the butter, turn them frequently to brown both sides, take np, strain, and keep hot. Mince the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter left from the cutlets, pour off some of the butter and put in the haricot beans. Cook these together for about ten minutes, stir frequently, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little brown sauce, and rub through a wire sieve. Re-heat, heap up in the centre of a dish, dress the cutlets round the puree, and serve with some rich brown sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Byron. Cut, trim, and flatten six or more large mutton cutlets, insert in equal proportion with a larding needle, across the lean part, some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with the trimmings (but no fat), a small slice of carrot,