HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 739 with an inch of vanilla pod and loaf sngar together, then poiir it, boiling, over the mixture of Hour and butter, stir vigorously over the lire for a few minutes, remove the vanilla, and let cool a little. Beat in three yolks of eggs and their whites, previously whisked to a stiff froth. Have ready a large buttered, plain or fluted mould, line the sides closely with very thin slices of Swiss roll, put it on the ice for a few minutes, then lill with the souffle mixture. Steam for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour some liot sabayon or other wine sauce round it and in the centre, but not over it. Serve hot. Pouding a la St. Jean. p lb. chopped suet, lb. preserved pineapple, 2 oz. preserved ginger, ] lb. glace pears, 3 oz. soft breadcrumbs, t lb. sponge-cake crumbs, i lemon, \ glass Madeira, glass St. James’s rum, 5 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, gill milk or cream. Have ready the suet finely chopped, the pineapple cut into small dice, ginger and pears chopped finely, and put into a basin with the cake and breadcrumbs. Moisten with the wine, rum, and juice of the lemon, add the sugar and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat up the eggs thoroughly, and mix with the above. Butter a pudding-mould, dust with flour, pour in the pre- paration, tie over with a buttered paper or cloth, and steam from two to three hours. Remove the paper or cloth, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with sauce Sabayon. Pouding Saxon [Sa.xony Pudding). I small stale loaf brown bread, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 3 gills milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. glace cherries, 3 oz. sultanas, i lemon, i smali glass sherry or marsala, i gill cream. Trim the crust off the loaf (or stale plain cake), cut the crumby part into small dice and put in basin. Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan, when of a light brown colour (caramel) put in three gills of milk, and boil up. Beat up the yolks of three eggs and two whole eggs, stir the boiling milk on to this, pour over the bread and add the castor sugar, glace cherries, cut in quarters, sultanas picked, the finely chopped rind of half a lemon and its juice, the sherry or marsala, and a gill of cream. Mix all thoroughly, and put into a well-buttered pudding mould. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot custard or fruit syrup. Pouding a la Schiller. Prepare about twelve thin pancakes made in the usual manner. Line a cylindrical-shaped mould, well buttered, with a layer of pancakes. Cover one side of the remainder of pancakes with raspberry jam or apricot marmalade, roll up, cut into inch pieces, and range them in the mould as neatly as possible, with halves of cherries or apricots laid in between the rows of pancakes. Mix five yolks of eggs with half-pint of milk, add three or four ounces of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, pour into the mould, stand the mould in a saute-pan with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in the oven. It will take