172 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a saucepan ; stir over the hre until it boils. Mix the fecule or creme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for hve minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the saucepan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. Sweet Mousseline Sauce. 3 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, gill cream, i-| oz. castor sugar, i wine- glassful maraschino. Put all the above ingredients into a small stewpan, beat it with a whisk, stand the pan in a bain-marie or a large vessel three parts full of boiling water. Stir until it becomes creamy, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with hot sweet puddings, etc. Lemon Sauce [Sauce Citron). -I pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, oz. cornflour, I- lemon. Put the yolks of eggs in a small saucepan, beat up well, and add the castor sugar, cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly the boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain, and serve as directed. Caramel Sauce. 1 oz. loaf sugar, ^ pint syrup, vanilla, i dessertspoonful arrowroot, cream or milk. Put the loaf sugar into a copper pan and cook it to a light brown colour, pour the syrup in quickly, flavour with vanilla pod or essence, and reduce a little. About five minutes before serving incorporate the arrowroot, previously mixed with a little cold milk or cream. Boil while stirring for a few minutes, then strain, and serve. Coffee Sauce [Sauce au Cafe). 2 oz. raw coffee berries, syrup, i dessertspoonful arrowroot or cornflour, I small glass brandy or kirsch. Roast the coffee berries in a pan over a quick hre till of a chestnut brown colour. Then pound them in a mortar. Boil half a pint of water and pour over the coffee. Cover, and let it infuse for some minutes. Now strain and sweeten with plain syrup. Mix the arrowroot or cornhour with the glass of brandy or kirsch. Add this to the coffee. Let simmer hve minut s, and serve. Claret Sauce [Sauce au Vin rouge). IJ gill claret, i oz. loaf sugar, cinnamon, lemon, i dessertspoonful cornflour. Put in a stewpan the claret, loaf sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and a slice of lemon. Boil up, and add a dessertspoonful of Brown & Poison’s cornflour mixed with a tablespoonful of cold water. Cook for ten minutes, strain, and serve. Cornflour Sauce. I tablespoonfnl Brown & Poison’s cornflour, -I pint milk, i pat fresh butter, oz. loaf sugar, lemon-rind or vanilla pod. Boirup the milk with the butter, loaf sugar, and the thin rind of half a lemon or an inch of vanilla pod. Mi.x the cornflour with