246 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Canapes a la Selon. Butter lightly some water biscuits, cover them with slices of hard- boiled egg dipped in lemon-juice and coated with chopped parsley, put a teaspoonful of caviare in centre, and garnish with prawns. Canapes a la Turbigo. 4 small rolls (farthing rolls), 10 prawns or 6 crayfish tails, i small head of celery, a few mixed pickles, a little aspic jelly, hard-boiled whites of eggs, 2 small truffles, a spoonful tomato juice, capers, and parsley, reiiioulatle sauce (p. 158). Cut the prawns, celery, pickles, and truffles into small dice. Mix with a little remoulade sauce, which is a stiff mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely chop})ed parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and prepared mnstard ; add to this just sufficient tomato puree to colour it. Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the crumb, fill with the mixture, cover the surface with a thin round piece of aspic jelly. Garnish with strips of hard-boiled whites of egg, capers, truffles, and parsley ; serve on small dishes. Canapes a la Turque. 4| oz. butter, 4 volks of hard-boiled eggs, 4 Gorgona ancliovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked lean ham, i oz. blanched parsley, spinacli greening, i table- spoonful brown sauce, bread for croutes, and clarified butter. Cnt some bread into slices about two inches long and half an inch wide ; fry these in clarified butter a golden colour and drain. Let cool. Pound the ham till fine, add a little sauce to produce a smooth paste, also f oz. butter and i yolk of hard-boiled egg. Spread thickly one side of the prepared bread croiites. Make three different kinds of butter ; yellow, by pounding 2 yolks of egg and 2 oz. of blitter ; the red,, by pounding 3 boned anchovies with i oz. butter and a little brown sauce ; and the green, by ponnding the blanched parsley with i oz. butter, i anchovy, and i yolk of egg. Season the butters to taste, and rnb separately through a fine sieve. By means of a forcing-bag with a rose pipe or a paper cornet, force out the prepared butter alternately in the shape of crossbars on the croLites, dish up, and serve cold. Canapes a la Windsor. Prepare a puree of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard, and cayenne, pound and sieve it. Spread it on canapes of fried bread and garnish with thin slices of gherkins and hard-boiled egg-whites. Tartines a la Baroda {Sandwiches, Baroda Style). 3 oz. Patna rice, J lb. cold chicken meat, 2 oz. butter (fresh), } gill cream, I dessertspoonful mulligatawny paste, i dessertspoonful of chutney, i table- spoonful allemande (p. 141) or bechamel sauce (p. 142), i pint white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), i teaspoonful curry powder, some aspic jelly, 6 slices of brown bread, buttered. Pound the chicken in a mortar with the butter, mulligatawny paste, and chutney, and allemande or bechamel sauce. Rub all through a sieve, spread half the slices of brown bread thickly with a layer of this preparation ; if any is left over use it for garnish. Boil the rice, drain, dry, and mix with a little cream, and let cool. Cover the spread slices of bread with plain slices of buttered brown