393 HOT MEAT ENTIHiES, ETC. sauce. minutes for each side. Heat up iu butter 9 small slices of natural foie-gras, season with paprika and salt. Have ready a gill of fairly stiff allemande sauce mixed with sufficient pimieuto butter to give it a red tint, also a gill of flageolet puree. Dish up the brochettes, removing the skewers, range them in an oblong entree dish on a duchesse potato border, put a slice of foie-gras on each chop, coat the foie-gras with the prepared sauce, and force out a rosette of flageolet purcffi in the centre of each. Pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Mange. These are nicely pared lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, fried in butter and clressed on a border of savoury rice mixed with hnely chopped truffle. The centre of the dish is garnished with a ragout of cocks’ combs, sweetbi'ead slices, and truffles, and a well-seasoned tomato sauce is poured round the base of the dish. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Richelieu. 8 to 10 lamb cutlets, Richelieu garnish (p 344), 2 oz. butter, 6 to 8 small artichoke bottoms, pint cooked asparagus points, i truffle, salt and pepjier, demi-glace sauce. Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, clarify the butter, put in the cutlets, and cook over a quick lire. See that each is nicely browned. Take np the cutlets, clrain off the fat, and dress them in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. Put a paper frill on each cutlet- bone. The artichoke bottoms and asparagus points must be heated beforehand, toss the latter in a little butter, and season to taste. Put the Richelieu garnish, previously heated, in the centre of the dish. Fill each artichoke bottom with asparagus points, arrange these neatly round the cutlets. Sprinkle on top of each a little chopped truffle, pour some hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Villeroi {Breaded Lamb Cutlets). 8 good-sized lamb cutlets, 2 oz. fresh butter. pint well-reduced bechamel or allemande sauce, i egg, panurette, cracknel biscuits, seasoning, parsley, frying-fat. cucumber sauce. Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season both sides with salt and pepper, put in a saute-pan with two ounces of melted butter, and fry a light brown on both sides. Drain, and place them be- tween two tin sheets, with a weight on top. Wffien cold, immerse the cutlets in lukewarm bechamel or allemande sauce, so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, roll the cutlets in this, dip them in beaten egg, and crumb with panurette. Keep the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry a nice colour in hot fat. Drain, dish up iu a circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, put small paper frills on the bones, and send to table with a boat of cucumber