78s COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. to a wetted baking-tin. Place this on the ice to set. When linn stamp out by means of a paste or column cutter some round, oval, star or crescent shapes. Mask a jelly mould with a thin layer of wine jelly, sprinkle the bottom and sides with blanched, peeled, and finely chopped pistachio kernels, then fill up with alternate layers of jelly and small shapes of set cream. The latter should be scattered over just before the layers of jelly begin to set, whereby the effect will be all the prettier. When filled, place the mmild on the ice. To serve, dip the mould for a few seconds into tepid water, then wipe it quickly and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish the dish with whipped cream, and send to table, Gelee au Kirsch a la Nansen [Kirsch Jelly, Nansen Style). Line a quart jelly mould with a thin layer of clear lemon jelly flavoured with kirsch, decorate the sides and bottom with fancifully- cut glace fruit, and keep on the ice. Add a small glass of kirsch- wasser to if- pint of lemon jelly, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the jelly, whisk this on ice until on the point of setting, then add a handful of finely cut glace fruit, and pour into the prepared mould. Place the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a moment, wipe it, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Gelee au Marasquin {Mavaschino Jelly). Proceed the same as directed for champagne jelly, omitting the champagne and adding two small glasses of maraschino liqueur and a little water in its place ; the sherry used must be of a very pale colour. Gelee au Vin d’Oporto {Port Wine Jelly). if oz. gelatine, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, 3 gills port wine, the juice of 2 lemons, I- pint water, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. Soak tlie gelatine in the water, put both into a well-tinned stew-pan, add the lemon-juice, sugar, and red-currant jelly. Beat up the egg-whites and shells, and add them. Whisk the whole over the fire, when the gelatine is dissolved add the port wine, continue to whisk until it boils, move the stew-pan to the side of the stove for a few minutes that it may simmer gently, but it must not boil. Strain through a jelly-bag or a thin cloth or napkin, until quite clear, then fill up into one large or several small moulds, and put in a cool place to set. Gelee a la Polonaise {Polish Jelly). i-f- pint maraschino jelly, i pint milk, oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, ;J oz. gelatine, i oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, I tablespoonful maraschino. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the sugar, then add the blended cornflour and stir until boiling. Soak the gelatine in water and add it, beat np the yolks of eggs and add them also. Allow the eggs to bind, strain the whole into a basin, add the flavouring essence and the mara- schino. Pour this into a flat mould and let it set on the ice. 3 D