THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 528 tender, basting frequently. When done, take up the duck, let it cool a little, then cut into neat slices, and keep them hot. Pour off the fat from the mirepoix, add the demi-glace and poivrade sauces, and let reduce, then strain, and skim ; a tablespoonful of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly should then be added. Season with paprika and salt if needed. Fill the croustade shapes with finely cut cooked asparagus points, heated up in white sauce, place on the rounds of duck, glaze over, and put a mushroom head on each. Decorate with hnely shredded and blanched orange rind. Dish up, and serve with sauce separately. Zephires de Canard sauvage a la Metropole {Zephyrs of Wild Duck). [ wild duck, I dessertspoonful chutney, 4 oz. panade, puff-paste trim- mings, glace cherries for garnish, -|- pint salmi sauce, i wineglass port wine, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cooked sorrel or spinach, Espagnole sauce, tomato sauce. Remove the meat from the duck, and pound it in a mortar till (piite smooth, add the panade and yolks of eggs, gradually mix in about a gill of salmi sauce and half the port wine, season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the farce, before using it, in a little boiling stock or water. If found too hrm add a little more sauce, and if found too moist a little more panade. Butter 8 or 9 z e p h i r e m o u 1 d s, hll them with the mixture, and poach in the usual manner from fifteen to twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcase of the duck, Espagnole''and tomato sauce, also the remainder of port wine. Season and strain. Turn out the zephires on to a hot dish, arrange them neatly. Place a fancifully-cut ring or oblong border of baked puff-paste on each. Fill the centre with cooked hot and well-seasoned sorrel or spinach puree, and put one or two halves of glace cherries in the centre of the puree. Place the dish in a sharp oven for a Dw minutes, pour a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Canards sauvages a I’Americaine {Wild Duck, American Style).—Braised wild ducks stuffed with soaked bread, well buttered and seasoned. Served with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chopped shallots, and port wine.