194 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. minutes, and pour gently into the tureen. It is then ready for serving. Consomme aux Nouilles. Roll out some nouille paste very thinly on a floured board, fold it lengthways, and cut into very small strips (the finer the strips the better), shake up and put on a floured baking-sheet or dish, cover with a cloth, and allow to remain for half an hour. Boil in salted boiling water, strain and drain, and serve in the consomme. Nouille or Ravioli Paste (as Garnish for Consommes). J lb. flour, I whole or 2 yolks of eggs, teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, a little water or milk. Sift the flour and salt on to a pastry board, make a well in the centre, put in the eggs and cheese, mix the whole well together, and knead it vigorously with the palm of the hand until a smooth ball is formed, wrap up in a floured cloth, and let it rest for an hour or more. Should the paste appear too dry at the beginning, add about a tablespoonful of milk or water. It must, however, be remembered that this class of paste must be rather firm. Consomme Paysanne. For 2 quarts of clear soup (p. 180) : 3 carrots, 3 turnips, i onion, ^ small cabbage, 3 oz. butter, a handful of sorrel, a few sprigs of chervil, a handful of slightly toasted sippets of bread, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar. Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrots, peel the turnips and onion. Cut these into thin slices, stamp out in ronnds about an inch in diameter. Cut the cabbage-leaves in a similar way. Put the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables with the exception of sorrel and chervil. Fry a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, pour off the butter and add a quart of water, shred the sorrel and chervil, and add it after the above has simmered for about half an hour. Pour in the clear soup, boil up, skim, and simmer for another twenty minutes. Put the toasted bread sippets in a soup- tnreen, pour over the soup when ready, and serve. Consomme aux Pates d’ltalie. Allow about ^ gill of cooked Italian paste, or vermicelli, to every quart of clear soup. Drop into the soup when fast boiling, and let them cook for a few minutes. Macaroni, spaghetti, etc., may also be used as garnishing for consommes ; but these must be par-boiled first and be broken into small pieces before being cooked in the soup. Consomme Portuguaise. 2 quarts of consomme, 3-4 ripe tomatoes, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, i- oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold water with a little salt, bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water, return to the stewpan in which they were blanched, and sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter, pour