THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 924 Tartines a la Creole {Creole Egg Sandwiches). I gill mayonnaise, ] gi" aspic, i sheet gelatine, 2 hard-boiled eggs, thin slices of bread, watercress or parsley for garnish. Melt the aspic jelly, dissolve in it the gelatine, and strain. Stir this whilst still liqnid gradually into the mayonnaise, which should be nicely seasoned. Chop finely the white of the hard-boiled eggs and rub the yolks through a wire sieve. Stamp out some rounds of bread about ^ of an inch thick. Mask one side of each round with the prepared mayonnaise just before it sets. Season the whites of egg with a little vinegar or lemon-juice. Arrange these smartly in a ring on the masked rounds of bread, leaving the centre spaces to be filled with the yolks. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of cress or parsley, and serve. Tartines roulees {Rolled Sandwiches). 6 oz. cooked chicken (free from skin and bone), 2 oz. ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, cayenne or krona pepper, i loaf of brown bread at least one day old, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, i oz. of fresh butter, parsley. Pound the chicken and ham or tongue in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the butter (2 oz.), mix thoroughly and season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut some very thin slices of brown bread (slightly buttered) and trim off the crust. Mix the puree above prepared with one or two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce and spread the buttered side of the bread with this. Roll up firmly each slice and press lightly for twenty minutes ; then roll up tightly in a clean cloth and place them on the ice for one or two hours. To serve, untie the rolls and dish them up neatly on small silver dishes, covered with a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. The rolls may be cut in halves if liked. Any other kind of meat may be used in place of chicken. Potted game or foie-gras makes a nice change. Sandwiches a la Bernhardt. \ lb. cold meat, lean veal, beef or mutton, 2 oz. fresh butter, i teaspoonful mustard, i tablespoonful American tomato chutney, i teaspoonful mango chutney, 2 small shallots, pepper and .salt, mustard and cress, white or brown bread and butter, parsley. Remove all skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces, pound in a mortar with an ounce of butter till quite smooth, then add the mustard (mixed), tomato, and mango chutney. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a very pale colour in the remainder of butter, and mix with the above. Season to taste, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Cut the bread into thin slices, butter them lightly and spread the buttered side with the prepared puree, sprinkle some mustard and cress over half the slices, place them together in the usual manner, press them a little, and cut into round, square or half-moon shapes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, on a plate or dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sandwiches a la Chesterfield. Cut some thin slices of white stale bread, spread these over one side with a thin layer of mustard butter, lay upon this some thin slices of })reserved mango or other chutney ; on top of fhis spread