378 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. tender strain off the water and rub the tender parts of asparagus through a fine sieve. Heat up with i gill of rich bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When cold, incorporate about half a pint of whipped cream and freeze the mixture in the usual way in a freezing-pot. Fill up a number of very small silver-plated casserole pans each provided with a paper band, insert i head of asparagus in the centre of each, and place the shapes in a charged ice cabinet for about one hour or longer. Remove the paper bands, and dish up. Before serving, sprinkle over each souffle a few finely chopped pistachio nuts. Petites Timbales de Tomates a la Siecle {Tomato Timbales). Prepare a savoury aspic jelly, richly flavoured and clarified with tomato. Line a number of small timbale moulds with the prepared aspic, and place a sprig of chervil in the bottom of each, then fill the timbales with alternate layers of tomato slices (previously peeled and seeds removed), walnut puree mixed with a little cream, and aspic, allowing each layer to set before another is added. Keep on the ice till set, then turn out, dish up, and garnish with finely shredded endive or other green salad. Tomates a la Reforme {Tomatoes, Reform Style). Cut some bacon, cooked ham, tongue, hard-boiled egg, and truffles, into fine strips about an inch long. Take some ripe, hrm, and even-sized tomatoes, remove the stalks, and insert the strips of bacon. Place them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, bake in a moderate oven till brown. Dish iip in the form of a border, and put the strips of truffles, ham, and eggs in the centre, re-heat, and sauce over with poivrade sauce. Tomates a la Renaissance (cold) {Tomato Shapes with Celery and Wadmits). Line some tomato moulds with tomato aspic or tomato cream. Prepare a mixture of finely-cut celery, walnut kernels, and sultanas, bind with stiff mayonnaise, and sufficient aspic to set. Fill each half of the prepared moulds with this preparation, place them to- gether, and keep on ice till required. Unmould, insert a tiny sprig of tarragon leaves in each tomato to represent the tomato stem and leaves. Dish up carefully, and serve cold as entree or second course dish. Tomates farcies aux Champignons {Tomatoes with Mushrooms). 4 firm ripe tomatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tablespoonful breadcrumbs (brown bread- crumbs or panurette), J a well-beaten egg, i tablespoonful brown sauce, I oz. butter, seasoning. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them into halves crossways, carefully remove the pulp and put it in a basin, chop finely the mushrooms and the ham or tongue, add these to the tomato pulp, together with the parsley and breadcrumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, mix well, and moisten with the egg and the brown sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, cover the