THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1002 dinner is for eating, and my wish is that the guests, not the cook, should like the dishes.” Unless a cook be a thorough master or mistress of the art in all its details, the arranging of the menus should not be entrusted to his or her care. This, of course, applies to first-class menus. A little dinner, consisting merely of soup, fish, and joint, presents little or no difficulty to the cook or housekeeper. It is, however, quite a different matter when hors-d’oeuvre, entrees, releves, rotis, entremets, and savouries are required for a recherche and important dinner. The art of gastronomy has certain rules and regulations which, though they may be unwritten laws, are strictly observed by the epicure—and justly so. Beyond the hard-and-fast rules laid down for the proper serving of a clinner or other set meal, dictating, as it were, the manner in which the greater number of courses sliould follow, other things have to be considered by the chef or hostess, who must show some discernment in choosing the different dishes. Menu is a French word which means “ tiny or minute details.” As a culinary term it means a list of dishes intended for a meal, which is written or printed on cards to be placed before the guests : these cards are commonly called “ bills of fare.” Every repast, however simple, has its bill of fare, plain or complicated, written or unwritten ; that is to say, a plan must be made deciding what food is to be pre- l)arcd and cooked for each meal; and this plan is the guide for the cook, orders being given in accordance with the directions and decisions arrived at. Speaking in the broadest sense, to compile a menu is nothing more than to select the dishes for a repast. Unfortunately, the selection of food, more especially among the middle and lower classes, does not receive that attention which it should have ; and little is done to help the ordinary housewife to solve this important question. If it were a question of feeding animals, ample information could be gained from innnmerable publications ; and yet if one wishes to know how to select the right ingredients and proportions of food for the nutrition of men, the anxious inquirer can only be referred to some scientific treatise. Such works are, as a rule, not very clear to anyone un- acquainted with the scientific principles of the chemistry of food. To return to our subject. It should be mentioned that, so far as menu cards are concerned, they are essentially the outcome of modern civilisation. The ancients knew nothing of them ; they contented themselves with judging the nature and character of dishes as they were brought on the table. No mention of bills of fare or menus is to be found in early classic writings. Our forefathers had probably no need for such things, for the dishes in those days were com- paratively small in number. But at the present time, when articles of food have become almost innumerable, and the selection is so great, menus are a necessity as well as a convenience. The use of menus was first heard of in 1541, when at a banquet