COLD ENTRIsES. 569 one French gherkin into very hne short julienne strips and add to the sauce, which is then ready to serve. Bombes de Volaille a la Victoria {Chicken Bombes, Victoria Style). I roast or boiled fowl, i pint rich bechamel or veloutee sauce, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles, i hard-boiled egg, i gill cream, 6 large Spanish olives (stoned), gill tomato pulp or sauce, salt, ]>epper, and aromatic spice, 2 oz. foie-gras, spinach greening Remove the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in the white sauce, strain into the mortar containing the pounded chicken, mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a hne sieve. Mix a few drops of spinach greening with a little aspic, and line the bottom of eight small bombe or bouche moulds with it. Pound the foie- gras with the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, season to taste, and stuff the stoned olives with this. Set one olive in the bottom of each mould, mix the prepared puree with a gill of whipped cream, pour about a tablespoonful of it into each mould, and let set. Mask the sides of the mould with plain aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully cut slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the tomato pulp or sauce with about half the quantity of aspic, and line the decorated portion of each mould with this sauce. Chop the trimmings of truffle finely and mix with the chicken puree, fill the moulds with this, and put on the ice. When set, unmould and turn out on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. Cotelettes Mignonnes a la Tomate {Cold. Chicken or Game Cutlets). t- lb. chicken or game forcemeat (p. 178), i gill tomato sauce incor- porated with aspic, i gill of aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfiils of cream, I yolk of egg, and i hard-boiled egg, seasoning, parsley for garnishing, I small truffle. Mask eight small cutlet moulds with aspic, work the forcemeat to a creamy substance with the yolk of an egg and sufficient aspic to set it. Ornament the bottom of the cutlets with hard-boiled white of eggs and truffle, mark some lines to imitate bones and fat of cutlets, line with the tomato sauce to imitate the fleshy part, and fill up with the forcemeat previously prepared. Cover the surface of each cutlet with tomato sauce, place them on the ice for about half an hour, turn out carefully, dish up, garnish with parsley or small salad, and serve. Pains de Volaille a I’Argenteuil {Chicken Cream with Asparagus). 1- pint aspic jelly, lb. cooked chicken meat, t glass Marsala, i gill cream, 8 prawns, i hard-boiled egg, i-t gill supreme or veloutee sauce, 6 oz. cooked rabbit or lean veal, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, seasoning, 2 tablespoonfuls asparagus puree or spinach puree. Line the two halves of an asparagus mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, pound the tongue in a mortar with the yolk of egg, add about a tablespoonful of aspic, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Put this puree in a cornet or forcing-bag when almost set, and force out two lines across each half of the mould, so as to represent the ribbon of a bundle of asparagus. Pound the chicken and veal or