915 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. Clioj) the chicken and ham linely, make a sauce with tlie batter, hour, and stock, add the egg-yolk. Season to taste. Put in the minced chicken, parsley, and ham. IMix well, spread on a plate to cool. Form into ball, cutlet or cork shapes. Egg and crnmb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain well, dish np on lace paper, and garnish with parsley. Chicken Fillets with Oysters. Remove the breast from a raw chicken, take off the skin, and flatten the meat with a cntlet-bat. Trim each fillet thus obtained, cnt it in two, and place a raw bearded oyster in the centre of each hllet. Season lightly with pepper, salt, and lemon-inice, roll each hllet in a piece of battered paper. Place them in a battered sante- pan with a little stock. Cook in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Take np, remove the paper, dish np and ponr over a nicely-made white sauce. Sweetbread with White Sauce. Blanch a small heart sweetbread, trim it, and cook it in a stew- pan with sufficient well-seasoned stock and a slice of ham or lean bacon. Allow about forty-five minutes to cook it gently ; skim occasionally. Have ready a gill of white sauce, heat it np, and add to it the yolk of an egg and a few drops of lemon-jnicc. Take np the sweetbread and place it into the sauce to get thoroughly liot, but not boiling. Dish up the sweetbread, pour over sauce, garnish with a few sippets of toasted or fried bread, and serve. Fried Sweetbread. Blanch a small heart sweetbread, trim it, then place it between tw'o plates to press ; when cold put it with about two ounces of butter in a clean stew-pan or saute-pan, add the juice of half a lemon, season to taste, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Keep it well basted whilst cooking. When cooked, let cool, cut it into slices, egg and breadcrumb each slice carefully, and fry for eight or ten minutes in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish wdth fried parsley, and serve very hot. Raw Beef Sandwiches. Shred finely four ounces raw lean beef (fillet or steak), season it with salt and pepper, spread it between thinly-cut slices of buttered bread. Press the sandwiches thus obtained, trim off the crust and cut into squares, oblongs, crescents or rounds. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Grilled Mutton Chop. To prepare a chop for grilling, trim off some of the fat, and wipe it with a clean damp cloth. Always have a clear fire for grilling, heat the grill before placing the chop on it, put it close to the fire, allowing about two minutes for each side, then cook it less quickly until done, turning it frequently. Put it on a hot plate or small dish, with a little parsley or maitre d’hotel butter on the top, and serve with fried potatoes, potato straws or mashed potatoes.