ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 5'3 of half a lemon finely chopped, a few sprigs of tarragon-leaves,, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound all well, mix with a table- spoonful of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stuff the birds with this, flatten the breasts, dip them in flour, and fry in butter a nice brown. Add the birds to the sauce, cover well, and let simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready six small oval-shaped fried bread croutons, put a thin slice of broiled bacon and a slice of lemon on each. Dress the birds upon these, sauce over, and serve. A glass of Madeira wine will greatly improve the sauce, if added when the birds are being simmered. Mauviettes a la Marianne. Peel, core, and slice i lb. small rennet apples, cook them to a puree with a little butter, par-fry in butter 12 or more larks, duly seasoned. Put the puree of apples on a deep entree dish, and place in the larks. Besprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and brown in a sharp oven or under the salamander until the birds are cooked, then serve. Mauviettes a la Minute. Bone and flatten lightly the required number of larks, and broil them in a saute-pan with butter over a quick fire, adding, when nearly done, some chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and sliced mush- rooms, also a little gravy ; season with salt and pepper, and serve. Mauviettes a la Normande. Peel the required number of large, sour cooking apples, scoop out the interiors carefully so as to obtain a large enough cavity to take a boned lark, stuffed with a little seasoned butter. Cover each with a round of paste crust, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook in the oven for about thirty minutes ; dish up, and serve very hot. Petites Timbales de Mauviette {Small Lark Timbales). Bone 8 larks, remove the skin, and pound- in a mortar with 2 whites of egg, k gill demi-glace sauce, k gill of cream, rub through a fine sieve, season to taste, and mix with lb. of foie-gras farce or puree. Butter eight small timbale moulds, and line them well KK