911 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVA LESCENTS. Veal Broth with Barley or Sago. I 11). lean veal (leg or knuckle), 1 gill of milk, i oz. of barley or sago, i yolk of egg, seasoning. Put the barley or sago into a basin, pour over some tejhd water, and let soak for a few minutes ; meantime free the veal from skin and cut up into small pieces, put it into a stew-pan or earthenware pot with if- to 2 pints of cold water and a pinch of salt. Let it come slowly to the boil, skim, and simmer gently from two to three hours. Add the soaked barley or sago half an hour before taking up the broth, strain, put back into a clean saucepan, mix the milk and yolk of egg and stir into the broth, heat long enough to bind ; season, and serve. Chicken Broth. I small chicken or fowl, i quart of cold water, 6 peppercorns, 2 cloves, I onion, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. blanched barley or tapioca, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the chicken, after being singed and drawn, into small pieces or joints ; put it into a stew-pan with the water, boil up, skim, add peppercorns, onion, and cloves ; simmer gently from two to three hours ; then strain, and cook in it the blanched barley or tapioca, season to taste, add the chopped parsley, and serve. xA. little chopped chicken meat and chopped onion added would also make the broth more savoury. Giblets may be used for this broth instead of a whole chicken, bnt it is not so nourishing as when made from the latter. Ahte.—The remainder of chicken can be made up as mince, fricassee, or for rissoles, croquettes, etc. ; or, if preferred, use the inferior parts of a fowl, such as the legs and carcase, in which case only one pint of water is.needed and a smaller quantity of tlavonring ingredients to produce the broth. Egg Bouillon. Put the yolk of an egg into a small basin, beat up a little, add a tiny grate of nutmeg, and pour in slowly half-pint of boiling seasoned beef stock or broth. Serve in a enp with a few fingers of freshly- toasted bread. Veal or Mutton Essence. Shred linely one pound of lean veal or mutton, and place in a jar with a gill of water. Cover and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Simmer gently for two hours, then strain and press all the liquid from the meat, and add a little salt. A very small quantity of this is given at a time, as it is strong and savoury. Oyster Broth. Cut into small pieces a dozen oysters ; put them in a pint of cold water and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; skim, strain, season to taste, and serve with toasted bread or toasted triscuits cut into fingers. Brown Celery Soup. I small head of celeiy, pint of good stock, I small onion, i oz. of ham or bacon, i oz. ol Initlor, j oz. of Hour, salt and pepper.