COLD SWEET ENTliEMETS. 797 Souffle a la Parme ( Violet Souffle). I oz. cornflour, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill cream, 1- pint milk, i oz. butter, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, i oz. gelatine, 4 cgg.s, 6 marrons glace; (chestnuts), i oz. crystallised Parma violets, kirsch and maraschino to flavouring. Cut the chestnuts (these must be quite tender) into dice, and put them in a pie-dish, pour over enough liquor, kirsch, and mara- schino to well soak them, cover, and let stand till required. i\li.\ the cornflour with a little milk, put it in a stew-})an with the sugar, stir in the remainder of milk (hot), add the butter and stir over the fire till it comes to a boil, cook for a few minutes. When cool add the vanilla essence, the yolks of three eggs, and the cream. Whisk this over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water and strain into the above. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate it with the mixture. Stir over the ice till nearly cold, then add the prepared chestnuts and half the violets, crushed small. Fill a silver souffle- dish with the preparation, and place in a charged ice-cabinet. A paper band may be fastened round the dish if found necessary. This must, however, be removed just before the souffle is sent to table. When ready for serving, sprinkle the remainder of crystal- lised violets over the top. Souffles a la Voltaire. l i gill cream, 6 marrons glaces, 8-10 crystallised violets, oz. gelatine, 6 ratafias, i tablespoonful brandy, 2 dessertspoonfuls of maraschino, the whites of 2 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, a little water. Crush the ratafias and the marrons (chestnuts), and soak them in the brandy and maraschino. Whip the cream till thick, but not stiff, and add six crushed violets and the sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, strain, and add also. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and stir lightly into the mixture. Have ready some small paper or china ramaquin cases. Pin a paper band tightly round each, extending about an inch above the case. Fill the cases with the mixture, let it come half an inch above the case. Put them on the ice or some cool place to set. When firm remove the paper and decorate the top of each with whipped cream forced round with a cornet, and a few violets sprinkled on top, or use chopped pistachio nuts. Souffle Praline an Chocolat (Iced Chocolate Souffle). 3 eggs, ir gill cream, 3 oz. castor sugar, if oz. chocolate, ^ oz. gelatine, the juice of i lemon, 2 oz. French almond rock, i dessertspoonful cura90a liqueur, vanilla. Whisk yolks with sugar in a copper pan over hot water till it resembles thick cream. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and the chocolate in milk, and strain both into the mixture. Pound the French almond rock and add also. Stir in the liqueur, a few drojts of vanilla essence and the lemon-juice. Whisk the cream, and add it last of all with the whites of eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Pour into a prepared souffle dish (plated or china) or fill into small