VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 639 Darioles de Concombres a la Mena {Cucumbey Darioles). I medium-sized cucumber, i- oz. butter, 2 eggs, i gill stock, a lew drops spinach dressing, peppier, salt, and nutmeg, i tablespioonful cream, i small truffle, tomato sauce. Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seed part, cut up the remainder into pieces and put it into a stew-pan with the butter. Stir over a brisk hre for a few minutes, add about a gill of stock and a pinch of salt, cook till tender, then rub it through a hue sieve. Beat up the eggs and strain into the above pulp, colour with a few drops of spinach greening, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and mix well. Have ready some buttered dariole moulds, garnish the bottom of each with a star-shaped slice of trnhle, fill them with the prepared custard, and poach till quite firm. Unmould on to a hot dish, sauce over with tomato sauce, and serve. Concombre farci {Stuffed Cucumher). Select a large cucumber and cut it into pieces about two inches long. Take out the centre with a cntter, and fill it with sausage- meat. Braise the cucumber slowly for about twenty minutes. Dress on croutons of fried bread brushed over with glaze. Have some round pieces of ham and truffle, and put on as lids, and pour brown sauce (or white, if preferred) round. A few tomatoes au gvatin placed round the dish will greatly add to the appearance of this entree. Concombres a I’Espagnole.—Par-boiled cucumbers cut into quarters, drained, fried in butter, and served with Espagnole sauce, dished up in pyramidal form. — a ritalienne.—Cucumbers stuffed with a mi.xture of sausage-meat, chopped mushrooms, and savoury herbs, braised, cut crosswise into inch-thick pieces, ranged in layers on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with hot veloutee sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Cucumber peeled, halved, stuffed with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, savoury herbs, and egg-yolks, then braised, ranged on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with veloutee sauce. Puree de Concombres.—Mashed cucumbers cooked in stock, drained, and passed through a sieve, blended with a little bechamel sauce, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Re-heat and serve hot. CROSNES—STACHYS. Stachys or Stakies are usually washed, rubbed in salt, and boiled in salted water. Crosnes a la Creme.—Cooked as above, and finished in cream sauce. — - a ITtalienne.—As above, but finished in Italian sauce, with chopped mushrooms and parsley. Beignets de Crosnes.—Boiled stachys drained, then dipped in batter, and fried in deep hot fat. Croquettes de Crosnes.—Like ‘-a la Creme,” with addition of eggs to liind. shaped as croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried.