SOUPS (POTAGES). 19s in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup-tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. Consomme a la Princesse. 2 quarts consomme (p. 180), 2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley, i chicken breast cooked, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked asparagus points. Wash well the barley, strain, and boil till tender in the con- somme, cut the chicken breast into small dice, add to the soup with the asparagus points. Boil up, skim, and serve. Consomme Printanier aux Quenelles. The garniture for this consomme consists of almost any kind of spring vegetables, such as asparagus tips, French beans, buds of cauliflower, peas, cucumbers, young carrots and turnips, celery, etc., all cut or scooped out in lozenge shapes, balls, or olive shapes. The vegetables are cooked separately in salted water, and when done, strained and mixed together, seasoned with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. The quenelles are made with chicken forcemeat, shaped either round or oblong. The quantity served is about a quarter of that of the vegetable garnish- ing ; they are poached in salted water, drained, and put in the consomme with the vegetables. For a plain Consomme Printanier serve the vegetable garnishing with the consomme, omitting the cpienelles. Consomme aux Quenelles frites. Prepare a choux paste (p. 135), shape into very small marbles, fry these in hot fat, lard, or butter, a golden brown, drain on a cloth ; pour the hot consomme into the tureen, and put in the fried quenelles just before serving. Consomme Ramboule. 3 pints consomme, -J lb. chicken foixemcat, i gill cooked green peas, 2 yolks of eggs. Mix the chicken forcemeat with the yolks of eggs, season with nutmeg and a pinch of aromatic spice, and a little salt if found necessary. Spread this in a well-buttered tin, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Wdten cool cut or stamp out some small rounds, by means of a column cutter. Put these and the peas, previously heated and drained, in a soup- tureen, pour over the hot consomme, and serve. Consomme Ravioli. Noiiille paste, ravioli forcemeat, grated parmesan cheese, meat glaze. Roll out thinly the nouille paste (p. 134) into a long strip, divide it into two parts ; put a row of small heaps of ravioli farce about two inches apart on one strip of paste, wet round each heap with a brush. Lay the second piece of paste over the one with the farce, press down between the rows with the blunt side of a f-inch entter. Stamp out as many rounds as there ar