THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY, the wall of the alimentary canal ; starch must be converted into sugar. In order that this may be done easily the food must be broken up into small pieces by mastication, that the digestive juice may have access to its particles, and it must be rendered palatable. This is of importance because the secretion of the digestive juices is under the control of the nervous system, and the more a dish pleases the appetite—within certain limits—the more readily it is digested. Cookery has thus for ifs objects : 1. The rendering of raw material agreeable to the sight, smell, and taste. 2. The conversion of the sinews, etc., of meat into gelatin so that the fibres can be easily separated. 3. The bursting of the little envelopes in which starch is found in the tissues of various plants, and so allowing the digestive juice to act upon it. 4. The destruction of the eggs of any undesirable parasites that may happen to be present in raw food, or, especially in the case of milk, the destruction of the germs of disease or putrefaction which are liable to occur. In flavouring, etc., we are largely dependent upon extractives. Meats contain, as we have seen, a great many—notably one called creatine—and these are the main constituents of the various meat extracts on the market. They have practically no value as actual food. In many of these meat extracts a certain amount of proteid matter is added, but it is generally very insoluble, and always in such small quantity as to be practically useless as food. i\Ieat extracts and clear soups must, then, be considered, from the point of view of food proper, as practically useless ; but inas- much as they are stimulant and refreshing, besides being palatable, they are valuable adjuncts to food. THE PHILOSOPHY OF COOKERY. Cookery and the history of cooking are, alas ! only too often looked upon and practised as a matter of reading and learning recipes. It may seem a comparatively easy matter to follow the directions given in cookery books accurately, and if these be correct and reliable the result is usually satisfactory. But this is not enough. To master the art thoroughly it requires years of practice, after one has studied and grasped the fundamental principles which underlie the art of cooking. Cookery being a manipulafive art as well as a science, it can scarcely be acquired by mere theoretical teaching: it needs years of assiduous and constant practice before experience pro- duces that efficiency which will bring nniformly satisfactory results. The object of cooking may be summarisecl as follows ; 1. To make food more palatable. 2. To render it more easy to digest and assimilate. 3. To preserve its nutritive qualities. 4. To make it presentable, pleasant to the eye, and pleasant to the palate.