9^3 CHAPTER XLII. THE ART OF CARVING. Let’s carve him as a dish lit for the Rods, Not hew him as a carcase tit for hounds.—Shakespeare. Carving is an art, and one which anyliody, with a knowledge of a few general directions that are necessary, can easily acquire. To become an e.xpert carver, one must practise, and the beginner cannot commence too soon. As a rule, the art of carving at table is better understood in England and English homes than on the Continent, where carving is generally left to the cook or the waiter. The expert carver must possess what may be termed a graceful combination of science with art, skill, and economy. That meat tastes, as well as looks, differentlv and better if it is cut the right way is admitted by everyone. No matter how well the cook has done his or her part, if a joint be hacked or mutilated to pieces, it can neither be enjoyed at the time, nor can it well be served up cold ; thus a good joint may be actually wasted for want of knowing the general directions and rules that govern the cutting up of joints and birds. It is of great importance that all managers, superintendents, stewards, and housekeepers should be prohcient in the art of carving. The principles are simple enough and quickly acquired by the ordinary housekeeper as well as the busy head of kitchen or dining- room. The two fundamental principles to be learnt and invariably observed before success in carving may be expected are— 1. To have a knowledge of the natural construction of the various pieces to be cut up. 2. To know how to properly handle the carving tools, and kceji them in the right positipn while carving. The last includes both the position of the carver as well as that of the particular piece (joint or bird) to be carved. Meat, etc., to be carved must be laid on a dish containing but very little or no gravy or sauce, nor garnishing, to enable the can’er to turn it to the most convenient position required for the purpose. A proper set of carving tools is almost indispensable, and should comprise ; (a) A solid two or three-pronged fork. (b) A good thin, sharp-bladed knife. (c) A pair of carving scissors. A bird or a joint of meat badly carved will prove wasteful, because fewer ])ersons will be served than would be when well and properly carved. Anything which needs to be carved at table should be placed on a dish sufficiently large to allow the joint to be turned.