THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 212 stir in the cream, keep hot bnt not boiling. Heat np the Brussels sprouts and jardiniere of vegetables in a little stock, strain, and pnt in a soup-tnreen, ponr over the pnree, and serve. Potage Creme d’Orge {Barley Soup with Cream). oz. pearl barley, 3 pints of white broth (stock), 3 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, a gill of cream, a pinch of sugar, pepper, salt, and fried bread croutons. Wash the barley in several waters, put it in a stewpan with the broth or stock, stir over the hre until it boils, let simmer slowly for half an hour, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream to the soup together with a pinch of sugar and the butter, stir again until it is thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again. Place the croutons (previously prepared and fried in butter) in a small dish, and serve with the soup. Potage a TOseille [Sorrel Soup). I lb. pickled sorrel-leaves, 4 oz. butter, 3 pints stock, i J gills cream, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. fecule de riz or potato flour, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, a handful fried bread croutons. W'ash thoroughly the sorrel-leaves, tear them into little pieces, removing the stalks and part of the ribs, cut it in fine shreds, put in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire until it is well blended and partly cooked. Sprinkle over the fecule or potato flour, add the stock—or, if wanted for a “ soupe maigre,” use water in place of stock. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, take off the scum, mix the cream and egg-yolks thoroughly, add it to the soup, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar to taste. Keep stirring until quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Put the bread croutons in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. Puree de Pommes de Terre [Potato Soup). I lb. of potatoes, 2 oz. dripping or butter, i pint of milk, i onion, i J pint of stock or water, salt and pepper, i tablespoonful of tapioca or semolina. Wash, peel and slice the potatoes, peel and slice the onion, melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the water and enough salt and pepper to taste. When this comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, add the milk, and when boiling sprinkle in the tapioca or semolina cook for another ten minutes- longer, and serve. Puree de Poireaux a la Creme [Leek Puree). I bunch (6) leeks, 2 oz. butter, i pint bechamel sauce, i quart white stock, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, seasoning, small croutons of fried bread. Choose the leeks as white as possible. Trim and wash them, cut away the green parts and cut the remainder into small pieces. Blanch them in salted water, and drain them. When cool, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to brown, then add the stock and boil till tender. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, return the puree to