THE CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Beurrecks a la Turque {Cheese Cigars).—;\Iix a quantity of chopped gruyere cheese with well reduced bechamel sauce, and cook till melted, then let cool, shape into cigar shapes, roll in thin nouille paste, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Bouch6es Monseigneur.—Small puff-paste or brioche paste cases filled with a puree of soft roe of herring or cod, and mixed with chopped truffle. — a la Perigord.—Paste cases as directed above, but tilled with a puree of foie-gras, in place of fish, and chopped truffle. — Victoria.—Very small puff-paste cases filled with a hot salpicon of lobster and truffle and cardinal sauce, with a mushroom-head to serve as cover. Brochettes de Foie de Volaille.—Chicken livers rolled in slices of bacon dipped in butter, and fastened on little skewers, then crumbed and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapds a I’Arlesienne.—Slices of buttered toast, decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard- boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice-work fashion. — a la Cocqueri.—A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on slices of toasted or fried bread, covered with grated cheese, browned under the salamander or in a sharp oven, dished up, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — Hollandaise.—Spread some oblong pieces of freshly-made toasted and buttered bread with a mixture of scrambled eggs, and finely chopped cooked smoked haddock ; dish up, and serve hot.. — Ivanhoe.—Spread some round fried bread croutons with a puree of smoked haddock (blended with cream and seasoned), surmount each with a small grilled cup mushroom. Dish up, and serve hot. — Julie.—Prepare some oval-shaped fried bread croutons, spread one side with a well-seasoned cream cheese, surmount each with a small skinned and boned sardine. Dish up, and serve. — a la Creme de Laitances.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar and add whipped cream and seasoning, dress on little canapes of fried bread, Imger, oval or oblong shapes, sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up. — Nantua.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in the centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish-tail. — a la Norfolk.—Roll the required number of herring or bloater roes into thinly cut slices of bacon and grill them, place them on neatly cut slices of toasted and buttered bread, with a fillet of bloater on top, brush over with oiled butter, and heat in the oven for a few minutes, dish up, and serve quickly, a la Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread spread with herb butter ; garnished the same as for “ Arlesienne,” but arranged in different design. Jambon a la Casino.—Slices of cooked ham spread with chutney and mustard, sandwiched together and thus grilled. — aux Tomates.—Grilled slices of raw ham, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes tossed in butter ; served with piquante sauce.