8.9 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. a very slack oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remove tlie sliells from the paper, press down carefully the inside, and dry in a cool oven. Fill the shells with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar, place them together in the usual way, dish up, and serve. Meringue shells thus made, may be kept for several days, but should be put in a tin box in a dry place. (For other Meringues see Chapter XL., “ Patisserie.”) Pommes de Terre au Nid {Potatoes in Nest). Boil uj) ?r pint of milk with i oz. of sugar and a piece of vanilla pod. Stir in ifr oz. of cornflour previously mixed with a little cream. Continue to stir the mixture over the fire, cook for about ten minutes, take out the vanilla, pour it into a buttered savarin border mould, and place it on the ice. With a Genoese or sponge biscuit mixture shape on to a buttered baking-tin some small rounds about in. size (diameter). Bake them in a fairly hot oven. When cooled scoop out some of the interior of each biscuit, fill the cavities with confectioner’s custard or whipped cream, place them together in twos, and give them as near as possible the shape of new potatoes. Next wrap each into a thin piece of almond paste, and shape them, then roll in grated chocolate, and mark each here and there with the point of a wooden skewer. Unmould the prepared border shape on to a dish, mask it completely with a thick layer of whipped and sweetened cream, with the prongs of a fork shape into nest pattern. Sprinkle the surface with finely chopped pistachios. Place the prepared potato shapes in the centre of the dish, dredge with icing sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon, and serve. Nougats and Croquants. These are generally known as pieces de confiserie, belonging to the high art of confectionery. Both are comparatively easy to prepare. Nougats are made by boiling two parts of sugar to hard crack or pale caramel, mixed with one part of shredded almonds. This preparation is then rolled out on an oiled marble slab and formed by means of oiled moulds into desired shapes, which are subsequently filled with whipped and sweetened cream, ice or custard. Croquants are made by boiling sugar to the crack, and dipping fruit, such as sections of oranges, nectarines, peaches, etc., into the sugar. They are then placed in rows inside buttered moulds, with glace or candied cherries in between the fruits used, so as to obtain a perfect shape. The top may be finished with a sheet of boiled sugar marzipan, while the centre is filled with ice or whipped cream. Spun or pulled sugar is used for garnishing according to taste. Vol-au-vent de Fruits a la Versailles. Blanch 4 oz. of rice and cook in syrup flavoured with mara-