DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 289 the meat obtained from the claws and tails, put a little of the farce at the bottom of each carcase, on top of which place two neatly trimmed and folded lillets of sole. Season with pe]:>per, salt, and a little lemon-]nice, cover each com])letely with the remaining farce. Place them in a sante-pan, add snlTicient white stock, and steam in the oven for about twenty minntes. Have ready a mixture of rice cooked in stock, and half its (piantity of mashed potatoes, season to taste, and form a border. Dress the coqnilles of lobster on to the border. Garnish with a few heads of button mushrooms. Pnt a tablespoonful of well-reduced bechamel (p. 142) or veloutec sauce (p. 161) in each coquille, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Sezet. 1 or 2 soles, tarragon, white wine, i gill bechamel, V gill tomato jnilp, [ oz. anchovy butter, lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets, champignons. Skin and fillet the soles, fold the hllets and place them in a buttered saute-pan. Season with jiepper and salt, sprinkle with a few linely chopped tarragon-leaves, moisten with a small glass of white wine, and cook in the oven from ten to lifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce of the bechamel (p. 142), tomato pulp, and anchovy blitter—the latter must be whisked in. Dish up the cooked hllets, incorporate the liquor (strained) into the sauce, and pour the sauce over the hllets, garnish with very small lobster or crayhsh croquettes (see “ Cotelettes de Homard ”), slices of truffles, anchovy hllets (curled up), and mushroom-heads. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Suetone. Fillets of soles, seasoned, folded and poached in the oven with butter and a little white wine. Prepare a Normande sauce (p. 155), incorporate some pounded pistachio kernels (blanched). Dress the hllets on a dish, sauce over neatly, and garnish the dish with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios, seasoned with ivhite sauce. Filets de Soles en Surprise (Fillets of Soles in Cases). 2 medium-sized soles, i small carrot, i hay-leaf, i glass Chalilis, if oz. butter, 4 pint milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. Hour (sifted), 3 eggs, salt and pepper to taste, souffle cases. Skin and fillet the soles, cut up the bones and cook in the milk with a sliced carrot and bay-leaf. Cut the hllets in halves, roll up, and place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with wine, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about eight minutes. For the souffle mixture strain the milk into a clean stewpan, add the remainder of the butter and bring to the boil, stir in the flour whilst boiling, and work vigorously with a wooden spoon or spatula until the sides of the pan are left clean, then add the grated cheese, and season with cayenne. Let cool a little, and stir in the yolks of the eggs and tlie white of two previously whisked to a stiff froth. Butter some small china or paper souffle cases, put a dessertspoonful of the mixture in each, upon this place half a fillet of sole with a little of the liquor of the T