40 low mortal with rational and becoming respect; and another to look upon them with a childish awe, and foolish super- stition. Yet, in our country, so disgraceful is the extent to which these feelings are indulged, that even a post mortem examination can with difficulty be obtained. If in some case of disease it be deemed necessary to amputate a limb, dissect out a tumour, or even lay open the inmost parts themselves, provided the poor sufferer consents, the rela- tions have no objections to urge, how uncertain soever the issue of the operation may be. No: but should the indi- vidual die without being operated on, and you ask permis- sion to examine the diseased structure of the limb; the peculiarities of the tumour; or, in short, the state of any other part, then matters are altogether changed. With- out the least apparent feeling about an operation on the living, people now become sensibility itself for the dead, and your demand is quickly negatived, because they do not like the body to he touched ! But wherefore? "Oh we should not like it," is the reply. Is not this, now, in- tolerable ? They will unhesitatingly permit a friend to be partially dissected alive, but when he is unsusceptible alike of pleasure or pain, they will not hurt one hair of his head ! No ! he shall not be touched ! Inimitable pathos ! " Such is the stuff that man is made of," remarks a keen observer of human nature, " in principle and in practice, in a right track and in a wrong one, the rarest of all human qualities is consistency^ But it may be retorted; so long as an individual lives, he is at liberty to use his own judgment: when, however, his breath has departed from him, it is an act of kindness to prevent the further molestation of his corpse ! Kindness? to whom, or to what? To insensible fleshly remains, ra- pidly hastening to decomposition ? To one who is now reduced to the level of every other extinct organic being, and whose elements must ere long, in part, be driven to and fro, the sport of the winds; in part, become integrally united with other living animals; or recombine themselves in some