73 to disclose a secret; nevertheless, it is one of which every well educated person ought to be aware, and one to which we most earnestly solicit the attention of our legislators. It is this; that in the common routine of instruction, dur- ing a pupil's attendance at public schools, his anatomical acquirements must be more or less superficial, conveying little beyond a general knowledge of the human structure. He may obtain sufficient information to enable hirn to pass the usual ordeals, but this is very far from constituting him an anatomist, There is not a more egregious mistake than to suppose that all requisite anatomical knowledge can be acquired during one or two winter courses of dissection. The entertainment of this opinion is in the highest degree injurious to the advancement of anatomy. Science is not promoted by mere school exercises or labours. We should consider, moreover, the multiplicity of objects which neces- sarily occupy the medical student's attention during his brief stay, or rather race at a metropolitan school. Reflect for an instant, how naturally his views and efforts are di- rected to the preparations indispensable for passing an ex- amination, on the result of which his credit and prospects in life depend. The period of study, it should be remem- bered, is ordinarily limited by the scanty pecuniary re- sources of the pupil. Now let any liberally instructed person pause for a moment, and reflect, how very little of that which he was taught at school, had, on leaving it, been made properly his own. School knowledge may, for the most part, be termed merely artificial; the master seeks with infinite pains to drill it into the mind of the pupil, who learns things by rote unspeakably more rapidlv than he comprehends them; and consequently where the me- mory is good, such kind of knowledge may be paraded forth to gratify a fond parent, or it may serve a vain pos- sessor wherewith to strut, and fume, and vapour; but it is not that solid, profitable, and digested matter which makes an individual really wise. It constitutes the materials on which the reflective mind acts ; affords the preparatory steps