21 suits; yet that learning always ran in one channel, and we challenge any man to prove that it was calculated to benefit mankind generally, or that it is possible to do so by writing learned commentaries on the opinions of others. This, in fact, constituted the essence of all public instruction. In- stead of cultivating or leaching a knowledge of the objects around them, Professors taught from some prescribed and determinate book: delivering, consequently, merely the doc- trines of their predecessors, from which, indeed, it would have been heresy to swerve. They commented upon the opinions of others, explaining and illustrating them, in a certain manner, and according to certain rules, but they never thought of confirming or rectifying them by recurring to nature. This grand text book for all teachers they knew not how, or rather did not choose, to read.* Agreeably to this state of things, we every where discover, during the middle ages, the same indifference to practical anatomy. Faloppia and Fabricius ab Aquapendente, fa- voured by the momentary caprice of Italian Princes, form, it is true, distinguished exceptions; but the general ignorance and neglect of this science may be tolerably well conceived, when we state, that in the middle of the sixteenth century, two Professors, at Heidelberg, disputed with the physician to a certain Margrave about the situation of the heart, and this * Prior to the time of Mondini, (1315,) the restorer of anatomy, instruction in this science consisted in naming the different parts of the body, in describing them almost verbally from Galen, and to crown the whole, in dissecting a dog or a pig ! The lecturer delivered his instructions from a compendium pre- scribed by the ecclesiastics of his seminary, who knew, probably, as much of anatomy, as an Esquimaux does of divinity ! Human dissections do not ap- pear to have occurred publicly in universities, till Mondini had set the exam- ple ; after which, the custom of exhibiting once or twice annually, the dissection of a human subject, became prevalent in all universities. But this dissection was a' perfect farce ; it was performed by the barber, with a razor ! The teacher then explained the exposed parts from Mondini's or some other author's compendium ! Does not an annual exhibition still constitute all the anato- mical instruction afforded by some of our own universities ? Such is the tardi- ness with which we move forwards! D