08 jects, and cease, we may presume, to require legislative in- terference. Let, then, the law in question be abrogated; mankind will gradually become better informed on the subject of anatomical pursuits; prejudices will vanish by degrees; and in the meanwhile we cannot perceive any rational ground of objection to the appropriation of all un- claimed bodies to the uses of the anatomist. Let there be no invidious distinction here; let the legislators themselves practically demonstrate that they have no intention of enact- ing laws, from the operation of which they seek to be ex- cluded ; that they wish to take no advantage of the con- dition to which the poor are often brought. Let them evince, in fine, that like honourable and worthy senators, they meditate nothing further than salutary regulations for the common good. Doubtless the members of our na- tional council have often read, with secret and approving admiration, instances of heroic self-devotion and denial for a country's weal, both in the pages of ancient and modern history. Let, then, each act the part which he so greatly admires; let him sacrifice his previous erroneous views and prejudices at the shrine of public utility. Posterity will ap- plaud the deed. Every unclaimed body, therefore, we contend, should, if required, be devoted to facilitate the cultivation and im- provement of the healing art. In France, where the large public hospitals are in the hands of government, this is easily accomplished, without any interference of the legisla- tive bodies, and at the same time without the least injury or violence to any one's feelings; there is never the slightest question in that country, about who is, or who is not, to be dissected. The government knows well that dissection is a matter of public utility, and cannot be dispensed with. It supplies the wants of the profession, accordingly, from these large medical establishments, which it is their object to render at once useful both to science and to suffering humanity. Hence the very name of a resurrectionist is unknown to them;