49 secting room alone; and how little delectation soever he may there find for sense, he must sacrifice its gratification for the advantages of information. With the reflecting mind, moreover, there are motives of a pure and intellectual order, which contribute in no mean degree to animate and encourage the anatomist. Nature everywhere presents objects, the study of which is calculated to impart admiration and delight; but in a still higher de- gree do we experience these emotions when contemplating the most finished work of creation. Admitting, as we pre- sume all do admit, the superior excellence of man when compared with the rest of created beings, can we at the same time refuse to acknowledge the paramount interest which must attend the investigation of his frame? Can there be any subject of natural knowledge of a nobler or more elevated description ? or one in which man is more nearly and deeply concerned ? Is there any object more worthy of contemplation, more fitted to raise the mind from nature up to nature's God, than the human organiza- tion ? " Qua: compositio membrorum, quce conformatio linea- mentorum, qucefigura, qua species, humana potest esse pul- chrior ?" To examine, then, the various beauties of this admirable structure, study the nature and correlation of its parts, trace the matchless order and design which reigns throughout their distribution, and mutual adaptation, to investigate the properties and actions of these parts,—this constitutes the occupation of the dissector. And surely, it is no uninteresting or degrading pursuit, no demoralizing or unbecoming employment. The greatest philosophers, indeed, have justly esteemed it a delight; and we cannot be surprised, that even kings should have thought it not unworthy of their attention. What, then, must we candidly think of those legis- lators who have joined the popular outcry against dissec- tion ? Do they, with the vulgar, suppose that it consists simply in cutting and hewing to pieces? Do they never think of it except in connexion with a bloody knife ? It