15 pendent of the fourth Ptolemy's withdrawing his patronage from science, other circumstances arose which proved un- favourable to the cultivation of human anatomy. Two of the most distinguished anatomists of these times were Herophilus and Erasistratus. These philosophers were the authors of numerous discoveries,* and appear to have been contemporaries under the first Ptolemy. They were strongly impressed with the necessity of being inti- mately acquainted with the structure of the human frame, and in this they were correct. But, unhappily, they ima- gined that a just knowledge of the nature, appearance, si- tuation, position, and connexion of parts, could be ob- tained only by inspecting a living subject. It should be here recollected that with the ancients the life of a slave, a gladiator, or a criminal, was a thing of no value whatever, —not worth even the most trifling consideration. Indeed the existence of these wretches was often forfeited to the purest caprice; yet no one thought it cruelty. With these notions, and under the firm persuasion that they were ulti- mately meditating the good of mankind at large, Herophi- lus and Erasistratus actually sought and obtained criminals for vivisection " alleging," says Celsus, " that it was not cruel, as some pretended, to seek by the sufferings of a few guilty individuals, to benefit the innocent of every age."f From a practice, at once so barbarous and revolting, it was quite natural for the strongest antipathy to arise both against dissection and dissectors. And this aversion, no doubt, would be still further augmented by the superstitious notions which people harboured respecting the dead. This early association of crime with dissection, we shall find in the sequel, has produced irreparable injury to anatomy. After the decline of the Alexandrian school, researches into the structure of the human frame ceased; and from • According both to Celsus and Galen they were the greatest anatomists tliat had lived, f Ccl»i Prefat.