57 ing a nidus for the revelling riot of myriads of reptiles ? from the gnawings of vermin ? No ! from these dangers no man is secure; but such are not the perils which appear most to be dreaded. Men fear they shall fall into the hands of one who will carefully prepare and display the wonderful mechanism of their frames ; they are alarmed lest their bones should be cleansed from impurities, arranged in comely order, and protected alike from weather, worms, and decay ! We repeat, this is every thing which the most infuriate detester of a dissecting-room can reproach the anatomist with ; every thing which any person has to dread from being anatomized! And yet, under what appalling and disgust- ing ideas do certain people offeeling represent this process to their minds ! They cannot conceive an anatomist en- dowed with the same sensibilities as other men. Neverthe- less, these delicately minded individuals, these unsunned creatures of sensibility, these lovers of respectful decency, and preconizers of humanity, can stomach many a dirty practice in common life, defile themselves with deeds of im- morality, indulge in filthy, sensual habits, pander to the body,and neglect the mind, and then, in true Pharisean style, bid the poor anatomist stand aloof, because, forsooth, he is an unclean thing ! ! Some would do well to remember, that it is possible to carry even sensibility itself too far. Instead of expressing disgust at that which is indispensable and invaluable to so- ciety, they might better employ their sensibilities about the luxuries and refinements of life: at least, it would be con- sistent to extend them likewise to these matters. And then, possibly, we might witness the exquisite delicacy of certain people horrified at the bee, for tempting them with virgin honey, seeing that it is simply the undigested matter which that animal vomits up! And alas! what would our modern beaux and belles exclaim, did they know the sources of some of their choice perfumes ! And were men rigidly to analyze their daily food, or to trace the processes by which their nutriment is perfected from its earliest stages, the fastidious,