37 judice, and the effects of an absurd legal enactment, the origin of which we have already pointed out. It is, there- fore, purely Jictitions. Let any one, for a moment, dispassionately reflect on the operations of the anatomist, and on his object in perform- ing them. He examines, with careful and measured steps, every part of the human fabric. He marks its exteriour form and proportions; he then displays to view the interiour parts. In all this, pain or suffering is out of the question ; and what man is so foolish or besotted as to imagine, that to exhibit the beautiful structure and mechanism of the body, and to make them the objects of profound study and attention, can be any profanation, either to the student or the subject of his meditations. And if, further, he carefully preserves some curious part of this admirable frame, by im- mersing it in spirits, does he commit an unpardonable act of impiety ? Or if the more durable basis of the human form, the osseous fabric, be neatly prepared, and arranged as an imperishable monument of Creative power, does this constitute a heinous offence against man and God ? In the eyes of weak and superstitious mortals it may, it once did, appear to be a crime; but to Him, who made all things well, it cannot be otherwise than pleasing. To examine with minuteness, to study and sedulously preserve the master-piece of the Creator's wisdom, can surely be offering it no indignity ; treating it with no disrespect; heaping upon it no insult. On the contrary, we should rather think that such a proceeding manifested the high degree of estimation in which the body is held; that it evinced our admiration of Omnipotent power and goodness. And yet this study of man's frame, this examination and conservation of its parts, is every thing which is meant by anatomizing and dissecting; in which there is, in truth, no- thing to alarm the most delicate and sensible. For even according to common notions current amongst us, the ho- nour conferred on a body by making it an especial object of contemplation, or by carefully protecting its parts from F