87 can men anticipate a favourable issue to their bodily afflic- tions, when they are conscious of having been instrumental in preventing the exploration of all those natural means of aid which God has conferred upon them ? The prejudices and superstitions of mankind commonly originate in what are termed the feelings; so that reason is merely rendered subservient to the dictates of the latter. It is feeling which prompts the unworthy subterfuges and tortuous declinations from truth that men resort to in order to colour their deeds. People constitute reason, in fact, a sort of advocate-general of feeling. Hence the lowest sen- sual indulgences, as well as the more refined impulses of our animal nature, equally claim and share the gloss of ra- tionality ; and thus it is that men frequently mistake acts and thoughts, originating in simple bodily sensations, for the decoi'ous and honourable workings of reason ! In themselves, the feelings are doubtless excellent; it is against their undue influence that we ought to guard. So far, however, is this from being the case in respect to the sub- ject before us, that one might be led to suppose the majo- rity of mankind had no reason whatever, to restrain this influence. We have lately been witnesses to ample proof of this even in the senate house. One of its members, in particular, told his brethren that they really did not know what they were doing in legislating respecting the disposal of the dead ; over the condition and property of the living they possessed authority, but with the dead they had no right to interfere. Now if the legislature possess no power over a dead body, by what authority is that of a criminal given to the surgeons? And if they have no right to enact that dead bodies shall be dissected, they clearly possess none to make laws prohibiting their dissec- tion. Neither have they any right whatever to punish the resurrectionist. But the truth is, that in all asres, under every sort of government, and every species of religion, Pa- gan, Jewish, Mahomedan, and Christian, states have never hesitated to regulate the disposal of the dead whenever