20 Britain and Holland produced a greater number of eminent anatomists than the other countries of Europe; since then, however, France and Germany have decidedly taken the lead. We need scarcely direct the reader's attention to the important fact already hinted at, and which these brief details place in so conspicuous a light, namely, that the study of anatomy became gradually more extended in proportion as men grew better informed generally; and this, too, in spite of superstition and ecclesiastical authority. We exhort every man to pay a little serious attention to the pernicious influence exerted by official teachers over the progress of truth. By men, that is to say, wh» live by teaching cer- tain doctrines; who are salaried to restrict their efforts within a certain boundary; whose duty and interest, there- fore, it is to uphold a particular system. Hitherto, the grand sources of light, the seminaries of public instruction, —the Universities themselves,—as they were constituted in the middle ages, and indeed as they in some measure still remain, proved the most powerful obstacles to the advance- ment of knowledge. The mode of conducting education, the subjects submitted to the student's attention, the ideas prevalent respecting the nature of knowledge, together with popular and religious prepossessions, all formed so many barriers to the growth of physical science. Bacon was well aware of the unhealthy influence of a University atmos- phere over those who continue to live in it, and has severely censured in this respect, the public seminaries of his own time. It is in allusion to this fact, that the late admirable Playfair remarks, ." It would be gratifying to be able to observe, that the Universities of Europe had contributed to the renovation of science. The fact is otherwise;—they were often the fastnesses from which prejudice and error were latest of being expelled." There is not a science of which the free development has not been repressed by the Church of Rome; scarcely a discovery, during its sway, of which the author has not been persecuted even unto death. Some, indeed, are pleased to vaunt the learning of the Je-