80 tion. The reasons, moreover, adduced to show the necessity for limiting the number of schools in Edinburgh, are not a little curious; in appearance plausible and specious, but in reality of infinite inanity. « Paris," it is stated, « has risen to the highest eminence as a school for dissection, and there two dissecting rooms only are permitted." That is to say, two public dissecting establishments sanctioned by govern- ment ! But is it really meant to be affirmed, that there neither exist, nor have existed, other teachers of anatomy, besides those at the Ecole de Medicine, and the Hopital de la Pitie, where are the two rooms, we presume, to which allusion is made ? And again, granting, for a moment, that there never existed more than two dissecting rooms in Paris, is it on this account that its reputation stands so high as an anatomical school ? Does the Edinburgh Professor seri- ously believe in the truth of such a position, or does he wish to palm it upon the public as true ? Every tyro knows full well, that the excellency of an anatomical school arises principally from two circumstances, — the merits of the teacher, and a plentiful supply of subjects. These two points include the grand secret, the " arcanum duplicatum" for acquiring anatomical celebrity. The sole cause of superi- ority in the Parisian schools arises from the abundance of subjects, with which they are supplied at a trifling expense. It is on this account, that students resort thither to study anatomy, which scarcely costs them one-twentieth part of the sum to which it amounts in this country. That we possess plenty of men every way competent to the task of teaching anatomy, there cannot be much doubt we imagine; nor should we have any occasion to fear that our schools would be less flourishing than those of our neighbours, provided they enjoyed equal facilities of study. A bill on the principles already detailed, and which should include the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, making express provision for the transfer of bodies from one place to another, would, we are persuaded, meet every demand. If, then, the Edinburgh Professor merely wish