59 men appear to have felt the harshness of this conduct more keenly than the late Dr. Parry,* of Bath. This eminent pathologist laboured incessantly to promote the improve- ment of medical science, and the well-being of society at large. His posthumous writings abound with dissections, and cases of the most interesting and valuable description; yet, in collecting them, he had waded breast-deep through prejudice, risked the loss of practice, and perpetually en- countered obstacles and repulses, when he ought to have met with assistance and encouragement. It will appear no- thing strange, if the healing art advance with a lingering and tardy step, when we reflect on the opposition which is thus made to its progress by the public. In addition to the natural discouragements attending the practical investiga- tion of disease,—such as the minute attention and length of time required, the disagreeableness of the operation, and the circumstance of its having to be instituted in the midst of other cares, anxieties, and fatigues,—the practitioner is still further disheartened by the unmerited treatment of which we have just spoken. Hence, the majority of our profession never trouble themselves about these matters, being content to let the stream of prejudice run its course, rather than in- cur the displeasure of their patients, in attempting to render them a service. From the reluctance manifested in submitting bodies to inspection after death, one might really conceive people wished to carry their infirmities and diseases along with them into the next world. It is unspeakably ridiculous to witness the fear which is entertained that some part of the body may be deprived of the privilege of rotting in a ceme- tery. To remove a diseased organ, cleanse it with a little pure water, display the nature of the morbid actions which have taken place, and then immerse it in spirits in order to preserve it as a specimen of a peculiar affection for the in- • Sec the preface to his posthumous works, where he very severely censures the prejudices and folly of men relative to this subject.