26 have been found to be not simple matters of curious and interesting research adapted for the amusement of learned ease, but of universal importance, and teeming with blessings to society at large. In fact, they come home to the bosom of every individual,—of the poor and the vile, as well as of the rich and the noble. All are liable to disease, and all naturally desh*e a speedy and safe cure when la- bouring under it. A man, therefore, seeks the advice of one who is well acquainted with the structure and situation of the various organs that compose his frame, and with their deviations from a healthy state. Such a person, of course, is most capable of forming a correct opinion as to the nature and seat of a complaint, and at the same time of suggesting the most speedy and certain mode of arresting its progress. Aware, too, of the perils which may arise, he can best ward them off. Again, if owing to some accident, —and who is exempt therefrom,—an operation must ne- cessarily be performed on an individual, does the latter not wish for an operator thoroughly acquainted with the struc- ture of the parts implicated? One, whose knowledge both enables him to avoid the attendant dangers, and effectually guards him against the embarrassments of any sudden emergency ? One, in a word, who can operate speedily, safely, and with the least possible aggravation of suffering ? —thus combining the three grand desiderata, " cito, tute, et jucunde." Such a one, however, must be an anatomist; and yet, how few people are there, who, considering the practitioner in this character, do not look upon him with prejudiced feelings ! Nevertheless, anatomical pursuits are neither criminal in themselves nor yet fraught with dishonour or disrespect to the dead: they outrage no feelings but such as are of a superstitious nature; neither do they in any way deterior- ate or brutalize the character of those who pursue them. Insinuations of the latter kind are, indeed, frequently thrown out, but we repel them with meet and honest indignation. We appeal to observation for the truth of our statement,