42 of the dying arc attended to. When an individual solemnly and expressly desires, that after death, his body may be in- spected, should we not expect that kindness would dictate an unreserved and ready compliance with the last wishes of a departed friend ? Most indubitably we should. Wher- ever the request is just and feasible, the neglect of it must be deemed an infringement of one of the most sacred duties of friendship. In the present case, that neglect is notorious. Here, again, there is the same selfish cant,—the wonted re- fined plea,>—" we should not like the body to be touched !" What wayward and childlike conduct is this !—conduct evincing no regard or respect to the deceased ; nolhing but an ignoble and pitiable subjection to selfish prejudices and feelings. This, people disguise under the colouring of re- spect. A respect, indeed, it is for themselves; a deference to their own better judgment; a mere gratification of that important creature, self; but not one particle of regard does it testify for the dead. Where just and real esteem pervades the bosom ; where the desire to please and satisfy the wishes of a friend is genuine; there the indulgence of personal feelings and opinions will be sacrificed to considerations of duty and esteem. The extent of the sacrifice will be com- mensurate with the degree of the latter; and precisely in proportion as we shun such sacrifices, do we betray the pre- dominance of selfish principles and motives of action. There is, too, such a thing as common integrity,—plain simple honesty,—and that, in the case before us, is outraged and violated. For if an individual leave his body altogether for anatomical purposes, the friends refuse to give it up. The end, moreover, for which post mortem investigations are made, should be distinctly kept in view; namely, the benefit of posterity in general; the alleviation of common suffering. If, therefore, people are willing for their friends and relatives to be operated on w hen living, in order, as it is pretended, to rescue them from danger and suffering, how much more ought they cheerfully to permit similar ope- rations on the dead, with the view of promoting, not simply