24 of study which he adopted, arid from which he reaped immortal fame. Investigations of the human structure became now daily more diffused throughout Europe; indeed, it is impossible to convey in a few words the labours and discoveries of the distinguished individuals who flourished from "Winslow down to the commencement of the nineteenth century. It is in this period that the illustrious Haller and his school shine so conspicuously eminent. No greater name is en- rolled in the records of medical history than that of Haller ; no one ever contributed more largely to the improvement of his profession. And this he accomplished by unwearied assiduity in dissecting men and animals ! The infinite num- ber of experiments, too, which he performed, with a view of illustrating the laws of organic action, imprinted a still more decidedly practical bias on medical studies. The consequences were sufficiently natural; medicine and sur- gery experienced a rapid and almost incredible improve- ment. There is no description of disease respecting which some error has not been banished and some new elucidation acquired. Numerous cases formerly considered as hopeless and irremediable, now admit of speedy cure. Operations, moreover, once deemed inadmissible, or even impracticable without loss of existence, have become matters of daily execution. All this has been effected by the exertions of the dissector. Thus has the state of physic, in all times, flourished or languished, according as anatomy has been cultivated or neglected ; indeed the greatest improvers of the healing art have generally been teachers of this science. The prejudices of men have not less powerfully opposed the advancement of morbid, than they have that of healthy, anatomy. The only useful information relative to the nature of diseased changes must be acquired by an inspec- tion of the parts affected. Without this autopsy what pos- sible progress can be made in the knowledge of diseased structure? If medicine be ever raised to the rank of a po-