86 in a knowledge of the human frame, except a few privileged teachers. Would, now, such a system promote the interests of science, or the general good of mankind ? Again we deprecate any such attempt to monopolize knowledge. It would be just as rational to forbid the chemist to conduct any further analyses of bodies, after he has gone through a course of instruction in chemistry, as it would be to pro- hibit the cultivation of anatomy after having studied it at a university. The substances on which the chemist operates, bear to his science similar relations to those which the hu- man frame bears to the science of medicine. Any person may, in his own laboratory, institute what researches he pleases, on the nature of bodies and their mutual relations and actions. And if medicine be a necessary and legal calling, those who follow that calling have a positive and unalienable right to investigate, as diligently as possible, the structure and actions of that natural being, the human bo- dy ; because it is a knowledge of this which constitutes the foundation of all rational medical practice. We repeat the position, they have a right to do this; otherwise, the public has no right to expect from them any thing but blundering and quackery. And if dissection be not allowable, if it be of that disgraceful, shocking, and evil nature, that some appear to imagine it is, then physic, as a legal profession, ought at once to be banished from the state, and branded as unworthy of liberally educated men ; and to act consist- ently, the cure of disease, as in days of yore, ought to be committed to evil or good spirits, as men may feel inclined to patronize the one or the other. Were it not that we witness daily proof of the fact, it would be difficult to conceive that rational creatures should wish to deprive themselves of the light of nature; that they should wilfully desire to extinguish the torch of truth held up to them by the Divinity himself! It is a Christian maxim that men ought to resort to all known natural means for the remedy of their distresses before trusting the event to Providence. With what degree of confidence, then,