44 of the dead, this crumbling into dust, is simply a flattering fiction of pride. Nature has other uses for this same sacred carcase of man ; she did not intend it to rot uselessly in the earth; nor has she endowed it with any prerogatives over the remains of other irrational beings, the disunion of whose elements is rendered subservient to beneficial purposes. Hence the interred do not merely afford nutriment to my- riads of diminutive beings, but to animals of a larger de- scription.* These fearlessly intrude upon the hallowed rest posed sanctity of the soil. " Sepulchrorum saticlilas in ipso so lo est quod nulla vi moveri neque deleri potest. Ciceron Philippics, IX. 3. Hence, violation of the tomb was deemed a heinous offence, punishable even with banishment or death ; and the rv^u^v^oi, or spoilers of tombs, as the most impious of men. Here again we witness the effects of superstition. It was supposed by many, that the ghosts or spirits of the dead haunted their.shrouds, as being still in love with their former habitations, and that they had an acute sense of the accidents which befel their bodies. Hence the common wish that the earth might press lightly on their friends;—" Sit tibi terra levin:" or heavily on enemies and the wicked,—■ " Gravisque tellies impio capiti ineubet."—Seneca. The costly ornaments, moreover, frequently interred with the corpse, both in earlier and later times, became, no doubt, a strong temptation with some to disturb its repose. Need we advert to the servility with which in all these matters we have copied the ancients? And men call this nature; and they are horrified at the unnatural anatomist, because he is less superstitious than they are ! Alas ! as it was in the beginning, in these matters, so it is now. * Namely, mice and rats! These animals, so plentiful in all common sewers, abound also in places of interment. Of the incredible ravages on bodies committed by these depredators, the present Professor of Anatomy, in the Dublin University, possesses some admirable specimens, which he is in the habit of exhibiting to his auditors, by way or proving that the voracious tooth of the rat is far less sparing than the scalpel of the dissector. In the celebrated museum of anatomical casts in wax, at Florence, there is a painfully faithful representation of the plague with which that city was visited. Although an observer might, at first, suppose the artist had drawn largely upon his imagination, yet he no sooner espies the animals in question, busy at their hungry work in the pit of corruption, than he at once feels con- vinced the author of the scene must have witnessed what he represents. The whole, indeed, is an inimitable production of its kind. We must receive, therefore, with due modification, the old saw, " as poor as a church mouse." Our forefathers seem not to have been aware what dainty repasts even a country church mouse occasionally obtained.