35 And have modern times never witnessed fanatical attempts to wreak vengeance on the dead by dragging them, as the ancients did, from the place of their interment ? Is there, then, no eloquent voice in the senate, to plead the cause of reason, of justice, and of humanity ? Is it not sufficient for the ignorant and bigoted to indulge in preju- dice and superstition ? Must these be also patronized by the high and the noble? by men holding forth pretensions to learning and liberality ? by men who scorn the aspersion of not rising superiour to vulgar prejudices? Extensively as the latter seem to prevail in the Upper House, it con- tains, we are aware, many enlightened individuals, from whose exertions much may be anticipated. The promised motion of the Marquis of Lansdowne, for the repeal of that part of the penal code which relates to the dissection of murderers, and the probability that this motion will be conjoined with the renewed proposal of measures for obtain- ing a supply of subjects, appeared sufficient inducements to the writer for dedicating the present letter to that distin- guished senator, who, he trusts, will not desert the cause of anatomy, till he has obtained for it that legal sanction which its importance demands. Much, too, is to be expected from the co-operation of the Noble Premier himself; his language, in the late debate on this subject, warrants such an expecta- tion.* The example of these statesmen cannot be without influence on the public mind. When the uninformed and illiterate witness their supe- riours, whom they imagine at least, to be instructed and en- lightened, entertaining the same prejudices with them- selves, they reasonably enough conclude, that such preju- dices are well-founded. They little dream that the very persons, to whom they look up, are frequently as ignorant as they themselves. It is, therefore, particularly desirable, in the present case, that the public, generally, should be * The excellent speech of Lord Calthorpe on the same occasion cannot be too generally read.