28 the same cause ? Do they not pursue the same undeviating path of benevolence; gratuitously devoting their time and talents to the indigent sick ? We will say nothing of what tue. Yet he was a successful and unwearied cultivator of experimental phy- siology, and the most indefatigable of anatomists. His zeal, in fact, was so great, even at a period when the value of anatomy was far less understood than at present, that early in his career, he was compelled to make a preci- pitate retreat from Paris, an information being laid against him for dissecting human bodies. Haller, however, was subsequently patronized by George the Second, and made Trofessor at Gb'ttingen. Here he used his influence with the King to establish a school for surgeryan academy of sciences ; a hospital for lying-in women; a collection of anatomical preparations; and a school for de- sign, the pupils of which were instructed to draw accurately all objects of na- tural history. After a lapse of seventeen years he returned to his native town, Berne, in Switzerland. There he became the chief promoter, and first President of the Economical Society, and the father and founder of .an Orphan Hospital. His literary undertakings, it may be added, were truly astonish- ing; what he accomplished for his profession, the members of that profession can alone appreciate. Such is the character of a persecuted anatomist. Boerhaave, whose temperance, fortitude, humility, piety, talents, and know- ledge, have, perhaps, never been exceeded, was an anxious and assiduous cul- tivator of anatomy ! Dr. G. Cleghorn was an indefatigable dissector even in the warm climate of Minorca. After quitting that country he became pro- fessor of anatomy in Dublin, where his noble generosity is sufficiently known : " Notus in fratres animi paterni." And who has not heard of Mark Akenside, whose " Pleasures of Imagi- nation," independent of the genius which they display, exhibit so much chasteness of design, and purity of moral? Yet this work appeared about the time of his graduation, so that his medical studies had not operated pre- judicially on his mind. Sir Simon Baskerville was a most eminent and vir- tuous man, and at the same time celebrated for his skill in anatomy. Bertin, too, was unwearied in studying this science, and yet his piety, virtue, and ex- cellence, have rarely been equalled. And can the generous character of the eminent Dr. Brocklesby ever be forgotten so long as the names of Johnson and Burke are remembered ? But to be brief; to whom are the Dames of Mead, Garth, Arbuthnot, and Friend unknown ? Did the study of anatomy render these celebrated characters less witty, less learned, less elegant writers, or less virtuous and amiable than other men P Were not Drs. Hawes and Cogan the founders of the Royal Humane Society? And was not Lettsom, in conjunction with Dr. Hulme, the first establisher of Dispensaries ? Need wc advert to Fothergell, the founder of Achvorth School, or to Dr. Sims, the principal promoter of the Philanthropic Society ? Time would indeed fail us to enumerate one half of the public and private deeds of virtue performed by men who have been cultivators of anatomy I