47 antipathy, which was once justly entertained against vivisec- tors, being now transferred to anatomists generally; in the second, from the illegal modes of obtaining subjects at pre- sent resorted to, owing to a defective legislation ; and, in the third, from the light in which existing laws exhibit the anatomist when legally pursuing his researches. In the present state of things, of course, he is regarded as a kind of smuggler or dealer in contraband human flesh; as one who carries on secret and disreputable practices, except when fulfilling the office of executioner. A supply of bo- dies sufficient for anatomical purposes can, under present circumstances, be had by disinterment alone. This the law forbids and punishes; consequently, people must conclude that dissection itself is illegal and reprehensible, and ought not therefore to be tolerated. What is prohibited by law cannot be even necessary, much less laudable. Exhuma- tion, again, it is re-echoed on all sides, is a profanation, a violation of the repose of the dead ! The opprobrium of this, also, must be borne by the medical practitioner, who is thus made to suffer not merely in the eyes of the world, but also under the clutches of the law. For if he be igno- rant of his profession, and ignorant assuredly he must be, unless he can devote himself to anatomical investigations, the law fines and mulcts him for that ignorance which it will not permit him to correct. The law heaps obloquy and disgrace on dissection, where it is at all alloxved ; and in every other case prohibits its per- formance. At the same time, like a hard and churlish master, it turns and castigates those who, fearing to offend, do not contravene its orders ! Is it not, indeed, grievous, that he, whose labours are for the common good, must en- counter both the odium of the public and the penalties of the law ? A very trifling consideration of the subject, will suffice to shew how undeserved this odium really is. What is the part which the practitioner really acts in the business ? He does not endeavour to cheat or defraud the community ; he reaps no direct pecuniary advantages from the study of