16 the practical direction which had been imparted to medical studies, practitioners again relapsed into their favourite and delusive speculations. Most medical sects began to neglect anatomy altogether, and some even ventured to treat it as entirely useless; maintaining this notion with much vehe- mence against their opponents. In default of human subjects, Galen, as others had done before him, was obliged to have recourse to animals; and as apes bear the closest resemblance to man, he particularly chose these for the objects of his contemplations. In this manner, innumerable errors were again introduced into anatomical science, and an occasion was afforded for the fabrication of that theoretical network in which physicians remained entangled for nearly the space of 14-00 years. Galen never saw a human skeleton* but twice, and on both occasions by accident. In one instance the body had been washed from the grave; in the other, it was unburied, and the flesh had been torn off by birds. By adroitly combin- ing, however, the gleanings of his predecessors with the knowledge which he had himself acquired from monkeys, he managed to display the whole to much greater advan- tage than had hitherto been accomplished. Of course it was not in the power of his successors to point out the blunders which he had committed. Neither, indeed, do they seem to have possessed the inclination. In a short time the authority of Galen became established; and dur- ing the dark ages which succeeded he reigned with undis- puted sway. It was now deemed a crime to question his infallibility; whatever was found in his writings passed for undeniable truth, even though men saw it contradicted by their own eyes. In fact, they absolutely preferred the words of Galen to the testimony of their senses, and whenever the * Had Mr. Warburton's bill passed into a law, and been strictly enforced, some centuries hence, English skeletons would have become curiosities. A sight of one would then be as rare to an Englishman, as were these bones in Egypt to Galen.