82 and consequently the demand for subjects. Besides, we are not to suppose the number of medical students resort- ing to the northern metropolis will continue as great as heretofore; the activity and talents displayed by the Pro- fessors of the London University will very soon evince this to the world. For these reasons we do not think it will be at all requisite to introduce into a legal enactment on this subject, any particular clause to secure the privilege of preference to a University Professor, should there ever be a dearth of bodies. This we apprehend will not occur. The superstitious prejudices of the country may be great, but we cannot see on what ground they are more entitled to indulgence in Scotland than in England or Ireland. An additional reason why anatomical schools should be limited, consists, according to the document before us, in the pretended advantages accruing from the pursuit of ana- tomy on a large scale. In this manner, for example, it is maintained that anatomy "can be taught more rapidly and completely; the different operations in surgery can be more f requently performed and exhibited ; and where there are many students with various degrees of knowledge, every part of the body is available and no part lost." All this appears very plausible and grandisonous, but not very compatible with sober truth. Anatomy cannothe taught properly, nor is it advisable to attempt to teach it with rapidity. It con- stitutes the most important groundwork of medical educa- tion, and ought to be particularly and carefully dwelt upon. That which is rapidly acquired is commonly as rapidly lost. Any desire or endeavour to abridge the length of time con- sumed in anatomical studies, which is already too brief, deserves the utmost reprobation. Rapid dissectors arc even now too numerous. We deny, moreover, that anatomy can be more completely taught in large than in smaller establishments. In the latter the pupil is better attended to, and naturally shares a greater portion of his teacher's personal instructions. A pupil cannot learn how to dissect by simply looking at others performing this operation;