30 influence on their characters; that it docs not deprive them of the distinguishing sensibilities of humanity, and thus render them callous to the sufferings of their fellow men. No ! they pursue an honourable and dignified vocation, and are urged on in their career by the noble ambition of achieving the utmost possible good. It would be difficult, indeed, to point out in society, individuals of a more labo- rious, persevering, and indefatigable character. At all hours, at the table of repast, on the couch of repose, amid the inclemency of weather, the harass of an anxious mind, and the oppression of bodily fatigue, they must be ready to obey each capricious call ! And yet, how ill- treated and ill-requited ! Patients rigorously exact an assiduous attention; whilst with all latitude which may suit their fancies, they will follow the advice of a medical attendant, yet immediately suspect the extent of his skill, should the melioration demanded not ensue. But this is not all; they even seek at the hands of the law to obtain compensation for any supposed deficiency of skill, to the attainment of which, nevertheless, both themselves and the law are equally opposed !* * We have many gothic customs; and prosecutions of the nature now mentioned, are amongst them. According to the laws promulgated by Theo- dorich the West Goth, and which prevailed in the greater part of the West, till the 11th century, the first thing the practitioner had to perform, after considering the case of a patient, was to give surety, and then bargain for the sura to be received on curing him ; but which sum he was not to demand in fatal cases. If a surgeon injured a nobleman in bleeding him, he must pay 100 solidi; and should death ensue, he was to be given up to the relations, who had full liberty to do with him as they thought proper. If the same happened in the case of a slave, the medical man was bound to find another in his place. In Ethelstan's laws, (930 A. D.,) a value was set upon every man from the king to the cobbler; and even in the time of William the Conqueror and Henry I., (1100,) a price was put on every member of the body ; so that each knew what he had to pay in the event of depriving his neighbour of a hand or a foot. A chirurgical practitioner, accordingly, was not always to be found, who would undertake to cure diseased members, lest, after having done his best, the ailment should prove irremediable, and he himself have to pay for the lost limb.