74 by which it ascends to the seat of wisdom. It is only by frequent repetition of our youthful studies, by revolving and reviewing them in the mind again and again that we can turn them to advantage. It is, indeed, humiliating to think how full the head may be of words, and yet how empty of ideas ; to see what a mass of current phrases ge- neration repeats after generation, without attaching any precise meaning to them whatever. How many subjects are there, upon which the greatest part of us, never per- mit ourselves to think in the least? We retain the very language of early instruction, without knowing its meaning; something vague and undefined it conveys to the mind, but nothing palpable and comprehensible. The notions and doctrines in which men are disciplined continue to form the atmosphere of their thoughts, beyond which they never dream of light; and should this even be made to obtrude its brightness on them, they do not hail it welcome. So addicted are people to authority, that they labour, toil, and sweat; nay, even fight for the opinions of their forefathers, " Whose honesty they all durst swear for, Though not a man of them knows wherefore." These are considerations that ought to have great influence in the case before us. For no science ever suffered more from implicit faith in dogmas than the medical. And as this science rests altogether on anatomy, the adoption of other mens assertions on this subject, without examination, without recurring to nature itself, ought to be discounte- nanced by every possible means. Of this we need no better illustration than that afforded in the history of Galenic despotism, of which we have already spoken. Anatomical knowledge cannot possibly be improved by mere study dur- ing an academical course of instruction, even supposing that it constituted the sole object of attention. It requires the labour of years to become a thorough proficient in ana- tomy ; it is a science, too, that exacts unremitting cultiva- tion, since few acquirements are of more difficult retention.