71 remarks can be requisite to corroborate the necessity of such a clause in a document purporting to regulate the supply of subjects for anatomical uses. It is not enough, as in Mr. Warburton's bill, to say that a body under the circumstances just detailed may be lawfully given up; its surrender, if required, ought to be made imperative and absolutefor no reliance it seems can be placed on the honourable feelings of pretended friends on these occasions. We have, indeed, heard of some bequeathing their pro- perty to their survivor or survivors, on the sole condition, that the testator's body should be given for dissection. This, to be sure, is an admirable mode of silencing cant; it constitutes a sort of argument addressed to avarice, which even the most supercilious and whining sensibility cannot surmount. What an excellent test of motives and feelings ! Further, it should be lawful for people to dispose of the body of a deceased friend or relative for dissection, whether the death of the individual occur in, or out of, a public charity. There are numerous instances in which the re- latives would willingly spare themselves the expense of an interment: in such cases, there can be no possible impro- priety in giving the body to a surgeon, since the only indi- viduals affected by the circumstance express their consent, and our busy-feelers (permit the expression) will not, surely, carry their sensibility so far as to compel the poor creatures to pay for a funeral without money, or to run in debt for the sake of burying a dead carcase. The transaction should, of course, be ratified by a magistrate, in order to prevent the possibility of any abuse arising. The next and last point for which we contend is, that every graduate in physic or surgery ought to be allowed to possess and dissect, on his own premises, bodies legally ob- tained. The establishment of this grand and important principle cannot be too much insisted on, since it is vitally connected with the future progress of medical science. In every case of the disposal of bodies, a certificate of per- mission might be obtained from a magistrate; this certificate