64 Other, must be had, the preceding plan ought, one would think, to appear highly equitable to every rational mind. But the refinement of our busy-feelers (for we have busy- feelers as well as busy-bodies on the occasion,) is so exqui- site, that they are not satisfied with feeling for themselves and their friends, they must also extend the pathos of their sympathy to the most indifferent persons. An enactment of the nature in question would, no doubt, chiefly affect the friendless poor. But why, it is asked, must a person be given up for dissection because he is poor and destitute ? This may be no fault of his; why, therefore, must he be punished for it ? In this manner do idle meddling people trouble themselves about the concerns of their neighbours, although those neighbours care not a straw about the mat- ter themselves. And yet, after all, it would seem, not so much in reality for others, as for themselves, that they feel. They are alive to the possibility of a reverse in fortune. But this is no reason why they should not be subject to the same salutary and indispensable law: it is not individual feeling or interest that ought to be considered, but the public good. Subjects, it is evident, mil be had so long as medical men exist; all the criminals that are executed, on whatever grounds, would not be an adequate supply : ex- humation must still be resorted to. Besides, there are in- superable objections to the delivery of criminals for dis- section. In arguing, then, against the surrender of un- claimed bodies, the feeling gentlemen will neither be dis- sected themselves, nor suffer any other person to be so. To be sure, such sympathetic individuals can dispense with dissection better than most people, since they are more easily the dupes of quackery and pretence; they would, doubtless, place greater faith in the sympathetic powder of the Rosicrucians, than in the prescriptions of a well educated physician. A law, however, to the effect stated would neither be unjust nor harsh. Unjust it cannot be, since it would apply equally to the rich, as well as to the poor; neither can it be harsh, seeing that no survivor re-