34 law more than teach the inviolable nature of a dead carcase ? —that this said carcase is violated by handling—that the soul is hurt by the indignity offered to the body—that it must wander some (Heaven knows how many) years on the banks of the infernal river, or some such like nonsense ? This is absolutely what the law encourages; it is its chief tendency and effect. In short, it has been adopted from the Romans, with"whose religious notions it perfectly co- incides. They, for reasons already stated, considered it the greatest misfortune to be deprived of funeral rites. Hence, by way of punishment, the bodies of executed criminals were not buried^ but exposed before the prison, and afterwards dragged with a hook, and thrown into the Tiber. Do not we hang and expose criminals, and then refuse them burial ? And have we not imitated theseheathens in attaching the bo- dies of capital offenders to a*cross and then leaving them to birds of prey?* And do we not follow their example in re- fusing decent burial to the self-murderer ? Like the Atheni- ans of old, have we not permitted dead bodies to be seized by a creditor ? And this, too, in spite of the reverential feelings which, in common with the Athenians, we share for the dead? forth ! what, to be devoured by birds and beasts ? Diog. O dear, no ! place a stick near me that I may drive them away. Friends. But how can you ? you tvill not perceive them. Diog. Then what does it matter if they tear me in pieces since I shall not perceive itJ" Nothing surely can more clearly demonstrate that the fear of dissection does not operate in the way of deterring men from murder than the case of Burke and Hare, who actually supplied, by their murders, a dissecting room, to which they knew they themselves must be carried, if detected. * Nec furtum feci neque fugi, si mini dicit Servus : habes pretium ; loris non ureris, aio, Non hominem occidi: non pasees in cruce corvos. Horat. Epist. lib. I. Ep. 16, v. 4-6. Suppose a slave should say, I never steal, I never ran away—" nor do you feel The flagrant lash"—no human blood I shed— " Nor on the cross the ravcniny crows have fed."—