38 the destructive influence of surroundinor elements, must undoubtedly be acknowledged preferable to a formal deposit in the earth, there to corrupt and decay, the sport and riot of worms and reptiles. Yes! the time will probably arrive, when men will have thesenseto confess, that the appropriation of the body to the elegant preparations of theanatomist,illus- trative of the beauties of human structure, constitutes an infi- nitely more rational and honourable mode of disposal, than that of yielding it up to a mouldering and loathsome corrup- tion. With multitudes, the very word dissection seems to convey some confused and frightful image to the mind, which, like a fabled sprite or ghost, is known to all in thought, but to no one in reality. We have no wish to wound the feelings of any man, nor yet violently to tear from any one an en- deared notion, apparentlyfounded on an amiable disposition. But when we hear people talk about decent burial, quiet re- pose, respect for the departed, the hallowed sanctuary of the dead, and so forth, we cannot but wonder at the extra- ordinary force of prejudice. Decent burial ! Is it, then, more decent and becoming to suffer a fellow creature to decompose into amass of noisome putrefaction in a shroud, than to prepare and afterwards preserve his body in the museum of the anatomist ? Were people for a moment to throw aside the fictitious opprobrium attached to dissection, so unfortunately perpetuated by prejudice and a preposter- ous law; were they calmly to reflect that, at least the body reposes as quietly when submitted to the observant eye and careful hand of the anatomist, as it does when con- signed to the destructive dissection of loathsome animals, we really conceive they would be desirous their dead bodies should be taken care of by a fellow mortal, rather than be thrown to voracious reptiles. Most men are anxious to perpetuate their memory — themselves — in a word, after death. Would not, then, the preservation of their osseous fabric form a more lasting memorial than a tombstone ? And would not its conservation, amidst other works of na- ture, in some well ordered museum, be an unspeakably more