90 guage. (Cosmography, 2nd edit., 1657, p. 921.) The whole, however, is nothing, we apprehend, but a marvel- lously exaggerated account of the practice adopted by the Hyrcanians, a people to the south-east of the Caspian sea. They, it is well known, publicly maintained a jine race of dogs for the purpose of devouring their dead. Every one, according to his means, contributed to the support of these animals, which are styled by Cicero, " Optimates," and " nobile genus canum." He observes, at the same time, that the Hyrcanians esteemed being devoured in this man- ner, the best kind of burial—" eamque optumam illi esse censent sepulturam" (Tuscul. Disput, lib. I. 45.) The bodies of the Magi, and probably those of several other classes in Persia, were likewise thrown to wild beasts. Hence, possibly, arose the idle story, before mentioned, of people eating their dead; and hence, too, we may satisfac- torily account for the message of Darius Hystaspes to the Greeks, to whom he sent word, according to Herodotus, that it was his pleasure they should eat their dead. The Mongols, at the present day, usually carry the dead out into a steppe, and there leave them to beasts of prey. (Timkowski's Mission to China, 1820, 1821.) We are informed by Denham and Clapperton, that in the interior of Africa, they either bury the dead in their own dwellings, a practice anciently pursued both by Greeks and Romans; or they cast them into a noisome pool situated in the middle of the town, whither the wild beasts resort to seek them in the night. From the former of these usages sprang the worshipful company of household gods, spectres, hob- goblins, and so forth ;—the good and bad demons of the Greeks; the larvae and lares of the Latins. The Puharrees (Indian mountaineers) in the case of their Damauns, or interpreters of dreams, seem to follow the custom adopted by the Persians in regard to their Magi; for Bishop Heber informs us that the bodies of the former arc placed, without burial, in a jungle. Such, too, among the Puharrees as die of the small-pox, arc thrown