(>() struction of the rising generation, constitutes an act of so shocking and inhuman a character that no one can look upon it without horror ! The prejudices of the pious and the learned are here of a similar nature with those of the Independently of the general exalted tenour of Christian doctrines respecting soul and body, there are numerous passages in sacred writ immediately relative both to the • The latter, it is true, express their feelings on the occasion with less re- straint than the former; they do not hesitate to call their medical attendant an unfeeling wretch,—inhuman monster,—bloody butcher—or d—d doctor. We need not so greatly wonder at all this, considering, as already mentioned, that the pious fathers of the church knew not better than to promulgate such admirable trash worthy alone of bigots and blockheads. f Of the well known passnge in Job, remarkable in another point of view, —" And though after my skin worms destroy this body," &c—.1 am well aware that different versions exist, which impart to it a totally different mean- ing. Let any one, for example, compare Luther's translation with our own. In either case, however, we see that Job's faith was not affected by the changes which he full well knew the body would undergo after death. Christ him- self expressly enjoins his disciples not to be " afraid of those that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do;" an injunction clearly evincing that it is of little moment what becomes of the material part of man. St. Paul, however, is still more explicit on this subject; he tells us unequivo- cally, that " man is of the earth, earthy"—that " Jlesh and blood cannot in- herit the kingdom of God, neither can corruption inherit incorruption ;"— thus corroborating what he had previously stated regarding the resurrection, where he says, " It is sown in corruption, and raised in incorruption ; it is sown a natural body, and raised a spiritual body : there is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body," (1 Corinth, chap, xv.) In his epistle to the Phi- lippians, he calls it a vile body (chap. iii. ver. 21.) The low estimation in which it is held by the inspired writers, might easily be illustrated by a mul- titude of citations ; but these are too familiar to need repetition. Suffice it to observe, that we commonly find it represented as a clog, a weight, a let, and hinderance to men in their aspirations after a better world.