51 conjure them, however, to reflect a little on their conduct in endeavouring to cramp and fetter the cultivation of a branch of natural knowledge, at once of the most elevated and important character. Posterity, most assuredly, will not forget so illiberal an attempt to perpetuate barbarity and ignorance. The prevalence of information is too general, and the dissipation of antiquated notions too common, to permit a stationary state of things. Neither bishops nor archbishops can now persuade men, that there is any thing unworthy of letters or devotion in studying the inimitable plan and design exhibited by Creative wisdom in the human structure. The conviction of the necessity of being better acquainted with this structure, and of the imperative duty of making it a more constant object of inspection and meditation than has hitherto been the case, is now so thoroughly im- planted in the minds of professional men; the progress of improvement has been such, and the wants of society are become so loudly urgent, that two alternatives alone remain for us,—either anatomy must be liberally encouraged, or we must throw into prison or transport the man who ren- ders himself fully competent to answer the expectations which the community require of him as a professor of the healing art. In a word, we must open the flood-gates to quackery and impudence, recur to a system of medico- theosophys drug and treat patients by astrological indications, again introduce the supernatural machinery of angels and devils to regulate health and disease, and thus degrade our- linsy-woolsey stuff is from the pen of a divine in the nineteenth century ; from one who talks about the " unfallen, holy, religious sea !" How forcibly does it remind us of Merops in Lessing's fables. The reader will excuse our trans- lating it for him : — I wish to ask you a question," said a young eagle to a very sage and learned owl. " There is a bird, they say, called Merops, which, when it rises in the air flies with the tail foremost, and the head towards the earth. Is this true?" " Nonsense, child !" answered the owl; " this is a mere silly fic- tion of man. Perhaps he is himself such a kind of Merops, for he is always trying to fly up to heaven, but never by any chance loses sight of earth /"