25 sitive science, it must be on the basis of pathological ana- tomy,—a department of medicine which, alas ! is yet in its infancy. The French, however, have here disclosed to us a rich land of promise, and the ardour which they have exhibited in its cultivation is worthy of the talents of that enlightened nation. Totally negligent and disregarded of practical research, men continued to speak of disease until they looked upon it as something distinct from the organiza- tion ; a sort of entity or principle independent of the parts in which it exists. The tangible and visible changes obvious in organs, they regarded as an effect, and not as the disease itself; and if, on casual inspection, no apparent organic al- teration presented itself, then the malady was said to consist merely in deranged functions, without any morbid change in the instruments performing those functions; as though it were easy to conceive the possibility of such a case. " L'idee," says an eminent pathologist, " d'une maladie es- sentielle ou independente d'une alteration materielle des tissues, devient de plus en plus vaine et chimerique, et bientot n'en doutonspas, elle sera ridicule." Physicians are beginning to suspect this truth : observation and experience daily confirm it. How has it been elicited ? By post mor- tem examinations; by dissections, in a word. The secrets of nature, respecting the human frame when suffering from disease, can be acquired in this way alone. It is not books that we must interrogate; it is nature herself. To act otherwise is, in fact, to be guilty of wilfully shutting our eyes to truth,—of committing a gross delinquency in duty. Healthy anatomy is the basis of physiology; morbid ana- tomy, that of practical medicine. All the advantages, there- fore, which flow to mankind from an improved state of the latter, result immediately from a practical study of the hu- man structure, in its healthy and diseased state. This is not a mere theoretical deduction ; the experience of past ages amply confirms its truth. In proportion as science and civilization in general have advanced, the value of anato- mical pursuits has been more duly appreciated. These