MIDDLE COOKERY BOOKLEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: COOKED A m/lMDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21524440MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOKMACMILLAN AND CO., Limited LONDON- * BOMBAY • CALCUTTA MELBOURNE THE MACMILLAN COMPANY NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO DALLAS • SAN FRANCISCO THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. TORONTOMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK COMPILED AND EDITED FOR THE MANCHESTER SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY AND COOKERY SOUTH PARADE, DEANSQATE, MANCHESTER MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED ST. MARTIN’S STREET, LONDON 1912COPYRIGHT First Edition 1890 Reprinted 1892, 1896, 1900, 1903, 1906, 1912 i t 'PJf LElOSPKEFACE The Middle Class Cookery Book is intended for the use of families of moderate means, and is a companion to the School Cookery Book} Its com- pilers have endeavoured to give only such recipes and directions as can he carried out by untrained cooks; although the dishes are not restricted to the cheapest kinds of cookery, but are such as are found on the tables of families where one or two servants are kept. With additional eggs, butter, and flavourings, and by the exchange of milk into cream, many of the recipes will be found to belong to the so-called high class cookery; but as there already exist abundance of expensive books on expensive cookery, the object of the School in compiling this little volume is to enable girls who are learning the cook’s art, to prepare a lew inexpensive delicacies. The recipes selected afford many hints to persons of ingenuity, for the 1 Pages 4 to 21 and 22 to 42 are, by permission, almost entirely reprinted from tho School Cookery Book, edited by C. E. Guthrie Wright.VI PREFACE production of other dishes, which the size and cost of this little hook render it impossible to print in full. No young cook needs to suppose that she can- not make a certain pudding, etc., merely because she has less milk, suet, etc., than is mentioned in the recipe. If she will remember to use the half of every one of the ingredients (in other words, preserve the proportions of each of the in- gredients), the pudding will be correct as to taste, though, of course, smaller in size than was pro- posed. In Lancashire, the mistake of using the popular instead of the Imperial Gill measure often leads to the result of thin watery sauces, puddings, etc. The Imperial Gill, quoted in the recipes, is half the size of the popular one. A cookery book cannot be made as clear and inflexible as a mathematical proposition; and there are some things, such as beating up the whites of eggs, making pastry, clearing soup and jelly, regulating the heat of the oven, etc., eta, which can neither be taught by book, nor by watching another person, but only by taking practical lessons in the art. No recipes for corn flour preparations are given, as they are usually printed upon each packet.CONTENTS PART I.—THEORETICAL Introduction .... PAGE 1 The Materials of Pood Chap. I. 4 The Principles of Cookery II. 11 The Adaptation of Food to varying Circumstances .... „ IIP 14 PART II.—PRACTICAL Tables of Weights and Measures Chap. I. 24 To Cleanse Utensils, etc. . 25 How to Choose Meat, etc. 28 Names and Uses of Pieces of Meat 29 To Cleanse Vegetables 33 General Directions for Cooking . 34 Explanation of Terms 42 Rules and Hints for Cooks 42 Soups „ II. 44 Fish „ III. 59 Meat—Beef . ,. IV. G9 Lamb >> > J . 75VIJ ] CONTENTS Meat—Mutton . . Chap. IV. PAGE . 76 Pork • J1 1) . 80 Veal • >} > > . 81 Poultry „ V. . 85 Breakfast Dishes and Entries „ VI. 89 Cold Meat Cookery ,, VII. . 104 Vegetables „ VIII. . Ill Sauces „ IX. . 124 Miscellaneous . x. . 132 Drinks • >> y) . 140 Salads „ XI. . 141 Pastry „ XII. . 148 Puddings . „ XIII. . 154 Bread and Cake „ XIV. . 173 Jellies „ XV. . 179 Dishes for Invalids „ XVI. . 1S4 Poultices . • ?J )) . 195 Index . . . 199PART I THEORETICAL INTRODUCTION In order to understand the important work that food does for the body, we have only to observe what occurs when food is withheld. Animals starve in the absence of food; and in cases of starvation two things are especi ally noticeable, viz. the diminished bulk of the body and its lowered temperature. In popular phraseology half-starved people are both thin and chilly. This shows that food has two offices : first, it increases the size and weight of the body; and second, it keeps the body warm. It is familiarly known that hard work gives good appetite, but it is not so generally known that hard work wears away parts of the body, and that in health, good appetite is nature’s signal that a fresh supply of material is needed for replacing the waste (or wear and tear). In the body, as in the steam-engine, action or work is produced at the cost of wearing away parts of the structure that is in motion; the steam-engine is mended, and the worn parts restored by competent workmen, but the body lias to repair itself. Thinkers use up and %> BPART I 2 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK need to replace brain tissue, and workers use up bone and muscle tissue; and both thinkers and workers are prompted (in health) by the feeling called hunger, to obtain fresh supplies of material to replace the brain and muscle tissue, and these supplies are termed food. And even in cases where very little work is done, and a very small amount of exercise is taken, there is still a demand for a lesser supply of food, for work is continually beiug done in the animal body, quite irre- spective of anything done voluntarily. For example, animals are continually breathing, their hearts are always beating, their blood is always circulating, and in the case of human animals the brain is continually at work suggesting thoughts and feelings; and, in short, a great deal of work is done in the body, and a great deal of tissue is consumed without there being any con- sciousness of it. Nevertheless, the consumed tissue re- quires to be replaced by food, and the animal economy is seriously deranged if the food supply is improperly managed. Hence we find that to keep the body in health, the food must contain matter that will build up brain, bone, flesh, and every other part. The chilliness of half-fed people and animals is familiarly known, as well as the lowered mental and bodily power induced by contiuued cold. Hence we see that warmth is essential to the health of the bod}’, and that food helps to keep up the animal heat.1 Food, then, must make up for loss of body tissue, and must supply heat, and it is a matter of great 1 The temperature of the human body is about 98° Fahr., and iu healthy persons is nearly uniform both in hot and in cold weather. Thermometers, instruments for measuring heat, have been constructed by various persons ; the one made by Fahrenheit is the one commonly used in England. On this, freezing point is 32° (° means degrees) ; temperate, 55° ; summer heat, 76°; blood heat, 93°; boiling point (water), 212°. Boiling point of oil, 600°3 INTRODUCTION PART I interest to learn how the solid bread and meat that we eat is transformed within the body to the fluid form in which it is taken into the blood-vessels, and by them to the liver and lungs, where it is purified and fitted to be carried to all the organs to supply them with fresh material; while the requisite amount of heat is produced during its course by the chemical processes which are going on continually in the structure of every organ. The usefulness of food is entirely dependent upon its proper digestion, or assimilation to the body j and much of health and more of enjoyment depends upon the healthy performance of the work of digestion. Much care should be exercised as to the quantity of food taken at a time : neither, on the one hand, over- loading and distending the stomach with too large a quantity, nor, on the other hand, supplying food too small in bulk, or deficient in quality. To three other very important considerations three separate chapters will be devoted, viz.— 1. On the selection of the right materials, whether animal or vegetable, and on their use in proper pro- portions. 2. On cooking the materials in such a manner as to make them digestible—that is, capable of being readily turned into material fit for replacing the waste of the body already spoken of. 3. On adapting the use of food to the different cir- cumstances of age, employment, climate, and state of health.CHAPTER I THE MATERIALS OF FOOD Before learning the principles of Cookery, it is import- ant to know something about the composition of the different kinds of food, in order to choose those that are best fitted to keep the body in health and vigour. For this purpose let us consider one or two of our most important foods. Milk is a perfect human food, and infants live on it alone. We find that if milk stands for a short time, the cream or fatty part separates and rises to the top, leav- ing the skim milk below. The cream is the principal part which gives warmth, but it does not repair the used-up materials of the body. The skim milk does this. Skim milk can be separated into curd and whey. Curd is, strictly speaking, the flesh-forming part; whey supplies water, sugar, and mineral substances. Bread is another very important food. If we take a little of the flour of which it is made, tie it in a cloth, and squeeze it in cold water, we shall find that a whitish or cloudy liquor will be formed in the water. The same can be got out of various grains, especially rice; also out of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca, sago, etc. This whitish appearance is caused by starch, another of the materials which will keep up heat, but will notTHE MATERIALS OF FOOD CHAP. I 5 form flesh. Inside of the cloth there will be found a gray sticky or glutinous paste, which will be spoken of presently. Sugar also is an important agent in producing and keeping up warmth. These three substances fats, starch, and sugar—may therefore be named I. Warmth or Heat-givers Table showing the Chief Wakmth-giving 1 Foods Fats Starch Sugar Found in Found in Found in Cream Flour Sugar-cane Butter Potatoes Beetroot Oil Arrowroot Treacle Yolk of Egg Corn Flour Honey Suet Rice Fruit Dripping Lard Semolina Tapioca And most Garden Vegetables Milk The food after digestion is passed into the blood, which is then pumped by the heart into the lungs. The blood is spread out in little thin hairlike vessels all over the lungs, so that the air breathed into the lungs may mix with it. The mixture of that portion of the air called oxygen, with the fatty particles floating in this blood, causes in living creatures a burning up of these fatty particles, and this combustion produces heat, and is so much like the process of burning which goes on in a fire, that it is sometimes called animal-burning or combustion.2 This mixture of fresh air with the 1 Technically called Carbonaceous Foods, because they contain a great deal of carbon. Coal, peat, and wood are the carbon burnt in a common fire. The air supplies the oxygen, which may be pumped in with bellows to make the fire burn briskly. 2 The technical name of this process is Oxidation.PART 1 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 6 other particles of food floating in the blood, also causes one of the many changes which they pass through before they are in a fit state to become part of the body. We must now see what kinds of food, or rather what parts of food, will make flesh, and so build up the body. The white of egg1 is the type of food which is required for this purpose. Lean meat2 and skim milk 3 are of the same nature. The sticky or glutinous sub- stance4 which was left in the cloth, after the starch was squeezed out of the flour, is a flesh-former; also parts of almost all grains, such as oats ; and the glutin- ous matter5 of peas and beans. All these substances will make flesh—that is, will replace the used-up materials of the body—and we shall therefore call them II. Flesh-formers Table showing the Chief Flesh-forming Foods 6 Animal Lean Meat Fish Poultry Skim Milk Cheese White of Egg Vegetable Flesh-forming Material exists largely in— Peas Flour made Beans Macaroni - from Lentils Semolina J wheat Oatmeal Rye Barley Maize It will be seen from this table that both the animal and vegetable kingdoms supply flesh-formers. Half a pound of animal food has a larger amount of flesh- forming power than half a pound of vegetable food ; 1 Albumen. 2 The juice and fibre of lean meat consist almost entirely of albumen and fibrin. 3 When milk is turned into cheese, this substance is called casein. i Glutin. 6 Legumiu. n Technically called Nitrogenous Foods, as nitrogen is the flesh- forming element common to them all. They are also called albuminoid—i.e. white of egg like.? THE MATERIALS OF FOOD CDAP. I but the same amount of flesh-forming power may be derived from certain vegetable products (which are much less expensive than meat), if taken in sufficiently large quantity. The vegetable products which yield the greatest amount of the kind of food which replaces the used-up materials of the body are peas, beans, and lentils, called collectively “ the pulses.” Persons who eat little or no animal food must find their chief flesh- forming food in the pulses, because these contain from two to three times as much flesh-forming power as even the grains that rank next them in that respect. Dr. Parkes writes1—“ A labouring man, by ringing the changes on oatmeal, maize, peas and beans, rice and macaroni (which is made from corn), to which may be added cheese and bacon occasionally, may bring up his children as well nourished as those of the richest people, and at a small cost. Oatmeal, the most nutritious of the cereal grains, and formerly the staple food of our finest men, . . . Indian corn, . . . peas and beans, and rice are far less used by our poorer classes than should be the case.” The names of heat-givers and flesh-formers correctly indicate the chief work of these two important classes of foods. But for the sake of exactness it must be stated that flesh-forming foods certainly do a little towards keeping up warmth ; whilst, on the other hand, heat-givers do a little towards making flesh. With regard to bones and some other parts of our bodies which require mineral matter, as salt, lime, 1 Page 21, in Personal Care of Jlealth, by E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.U.S. (published by the Society for Promoting Christian Know- ledge, price Is.) Professor Parkes was head of the Government Hospital at Netley. We are indebted to him for most important discoveries about food ; he had great opportunities for observations on soldiers, making great exertions on definite rations weighed out. Fuller informatiou is given in his larger work on Hygiene.PART ) 8 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK iron, etc., it is enough to observe here, that with the exception of a certain amount of salt, these are not taken into the body in a solid form, but exist in very minute particles in different foods. They are chiefly supplied in vegetables, including grains and fruits. Lime is also supplied in water and in milk. These mineral matters are generally called III. Salts, which are essential to the health of the body. About two-thirds of the human body consist of water. In a full-grown person about five pints pass off daily in various ways. It is therefore evident that if one object of food is to replace the waste of the body, IV. Water must be supplied to replace what goes out, and must therefore form an important part of food. Liquid foods (milk, soups, and drinks) consist largely of water. It is not, however, necessary to replace the waste entirely by drinking liquid, as a large proportion of all appar- ently solid food is in reality water. Fruit and vege- tables contain a great deal of water, and there is much even in animal food. Water does not directly nourish the body either by forming flesh or giving heat. Its chief uses are—(a) to mix with and soften solid food, and thus help the various stages of digestion ; (6) to assist in carrying the food to the various parts of the body, where it is required to replace what has been wasted; (c) to mix with and help to carry off matter which has been used up.1 It is very important that 1 The blood contained in tlio arteries conveys the digested food to the various parts of the body, and that contained in the veins removes the used-up matter. More than three-fourths of the blood consists of water.THE MATERIALS OF FOOD CHAP. I 9 water for cooking and drinking should be pure. If it is impossible to obtain pure water, it should first be boiled and then filtered.1 There is a class of foods that might be arranged under some of the heads already mentioned, but it is simpler to speak of it separately, viz. :— Flavourings, or, as they are sometimes called, Condiments. These consist of salt (which comes under the head of minerals), pepper, mustard, vinegar, flavour- ing herbs, spices, etc. Condiments are of little or no use in repairing the waste of the body, but, used in moderation, they assist in making food more palatable ; and by helping to draw out the saliva in the mouth, and the other fluids in the stomach, which are required to mix with the food, they assist in producing the won- derful changes which have to take place before it is taken into the blood and becomes part of the human body. The four classes of foods—heat-givers, flesh-formers, salts, and water—must be represented in our diet if the body is to be kept in a healthy state.2 Of these four, cookery has chiefly to do with heat-giving and flesh-forming foods; and it will be observed that in- clination leads us to couple foods together, so that one may supply what the other wants. For example, veal 1 It should be noted that a filter only removes solid matter, such as gravel, sand, etc., but it does not take away the more dangerous matters which are often dissolved in the water, such as sewage, lead, etc. 2 The chief elements of the body are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, and salts. A certain amount of these, after undergoing various changes and combinations, passes off from the body daily, and is replaced as follows : oxygen, chiefly by the air entering the body by the lungs ; hydrogen, chiefly in the form of water ; nitrogen, by flesh-forming or nitrogenous foods; carbon, by warmth-giving or carbonaceous foods ; and salts, by the salts mentioned above.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 10 PART I and poultry are flesh-formers, but are deficient in beat- giving material, therefore we take bacon with them. Pork is very fat, therefore we take peas pudding with it. To corn flour, tapioca, etc., we add milk, and so on. A General Statement of the Component Parts of ottr Chief Foods Warmtli-giving Flesh-forming Minerals or Materials. Materials. Salts. Milk contains Cream (fatty) Skim milk Various salts 0 0 Eggs contain Yolk (fatty) White of egg f Hardly any [ salts 3 Meat (induct-1 ing fat) con- 1 tains J Fat The lean part f A very small \ quantity < Wheat con- \ tains . . J f Considerable 1 Lime and l other salts Much starch flesh-form- ^ ing material Oats contain Peas ancl 1 Do. do. Muck do. Do. do. beans con- V- Less starch Do. do. Do. do. 'C tain . . J 0 0 3 Potato con- \ tains . . / Much starch f Very little 1 flesh-form- ic ing material 1 Various J salts erf Tapioca ) H <D bo © Sago . . ( 3 Arrowroot ( g Much starch Hardly any Hardly any > Corn flour ) “ Garden vego- \ tables, roots, (. and leaves ( Some starch Very little Salts plentiful contain . } A little Fruits contain Sugars The chief lesson to be learned from this chapter is, that different classes of food must be represented inchap, ii THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY 11 the daily diet, and that variety of food is essential to health. A second important lesson is, that food which will form flesh is to be found not only in milk, eggs, and butchers’ meat, but also in vegetable lood ; especially in pulses and in grains (wheat, barley, oats, etc.), and this food, in these pulses and grains, costs less than the same kind of food when bought in the form of meat, poultry, etc. CHAPTER II THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY Food is cooked that it may be made acceptable to the taste, and digestible. The chief modes of cooking are roasting, broiling, boiling, stewing, baking, and frying. Of these modes, boiling is the most digestible; roasting the most nutri- tious ; stewing the most economical. In this chapter we shall treat of foods as commonly known, viz animal food (including milk and eggs) and vegetable food. These require very different management in cooking. Two general rules may be laid down— 1. Meat, milk, and eggs should be cooked at a moderate heat (about 160° Fahr.) 2. Vegetables (including grains) should be cooked for a short time at least at boiling point (212° Fahr.) 1. Animal Food.—Every one knows that when an egg is boiled for four minutes, the white becomes quite solid. The material of which white of egg consists is called albumen. Similar substances exist largely in milk, in fish, and in lean meat, but not in fat. If milk is cooked at boiling point, this substance turns into aMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART 1 12 tough skin; and if fish and meat are cooked too long at boiling point, the juice hardens and the fibre becomes tough rags. Meat is not only unpalatable when thus hardened, but is less digestible. Meat to be made into soup must be differently treated from meat to be served as a joint. To make soup, we must draw the juices out of the meat, and for this pur- pose the meat must be cut into small pieces, put on with cold water and salt to draw out the juices, slowly warmed, then simmered—not boiled, v If, however, the meat is to be cooked for eating, we must on the contrary keep in the juices. This is done by exposing the meat for a few minutes to a strong heat, which hardens the albumen on the surface, and so forms a case which keeps the juices from running out. The special modes of forming this casing will be found in the general directions for the different ways of cook- ing. Salted meat, however, should be cooked without this process of hardening, and should be put on with cold water, to soften the fibre and draw out some of the salt. The power of salt to draw out fluids causes salted meats to be much less nutritious than fresh meats; because not only is the fibre hardened by the salt, but the nourishing fluids are drawn out, and are thrown away with the brine. Salt does not affect fat in the same way—hence well-cooked fat bacon is more digest- ible than ham. Hard water is best for boiling fresh meat for eating, as the lime in it helps to harden the outer surface. Soft water is best for soup and salt meat, as it does not exercise the same hardening effect. The water in which meat is boiled should be used as stock for soups or gravies, as certain of the nutritive properties of the meat are found in it. The finer pieces of meat which are juicy and tenderTHE PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY CHAP. 11 13 in fibre are generally roasted or boiled, as these pro- cesses serve to retain the juices and sufficiently soften the fibre. Coarser and bard pieces should be stewed, as long, slow beat is needed to soften them. Gristly pieces should be slowly boiled or stewed; because it is only when cooked with liquid that the gristle can become soft. Dry heat, as in roasting, whether before the fire or in the oven, makes gristle tough like leather. Fish contains less albumen than most kinds of animal food; but the same general principle of cookery should be applied to it. The oily kinds, such as mackerel, herring, and salmon, the most nutritious though least digestible, are best suited for grilling. In white fish the oil is principally contained in the liver, which is generally removed from the fish, but may be used in various ways. White fish are generally boiled, fried, or baked. The liquor in which fish is boiled should be used as stock for soup, as there is much nutriment in it, and it is to be regretted that it is so generally thrown away. 2. Vegetables.—Vegetables, especially grains, con- tain a large quantity of starch, which is most unwhole- some as an article of diet, unless the grains are swollen and burst. To accomplish this, it must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and be subjected, for a few minutes at least, to a high degree of heat. The liquid is, in certain preparations, supplied in the form of fat which melts with heat. Suet, butter, or dripping may be mixed with flour ; but great care must be taken to have the fat very finely mixed with the flour, as when this is not done, the flour cakes together, and the melted fat cannot reach it to assist in bursting the grains. For this reason, short crust is more wholesome than puff paste, as in the former the starch and fatPART I 14 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK are more thoroughly mixed. The use of baking powder makes pastry, etc., lighter. In cooking garden vegetables, the heat should reach boiling point, not only because the starch cells must be burst, but because there is a good deal of confined air in vegetables which it is desirable by this means to set free. The water may, however, after five or ten minutes, be reduced to slow boiling, as the full boiling point has the effect of hardening the woody fibre of which vege- tables consist largely. The bursting of the starch cells can be carried out at a somewhat lower heat (170° or 180° Fahr.) The cooking of garden vegetables in hard water helps to hold in the nourishing juices ; but it is at the risk of the lime in the water hardening the woody fibre. Therefore, while hard water makes vege- tables more nutritious, soft water makes them more digestible. CHAPTER III THE ADAPTATION OP FOOD TO VARYING CIRCUMSTANCES Hunger and thirst are instincts which indicate to us that food is required; taste is a sense which assists us in selecting food ; but as the stomach can be trained to bad as well as to good habits, it is necessary to exercise intelligence, not only in choosing food, but in adapting its use to the varying circumstances of life. Food should be adapted to I. Different ages. II. Different climates. III. Different employments. IV. Different states of health.15 ADAPTATION OF FOOD CHAT. Ill I. Different Ages Infants should, if possible, be fed on their mothers’ milk. When circumstances prevent this, substitutes are required, for which special recipes and directions will be found in the School Cookery Book. The food of children from weaning to the age of seven or eight years should consist chiefly of milk and eggs taken separately or made into well-cooked puddings, with bread, semolina, macaroni, rice, etc. Their digestion is not strong enough to assimilate much vegetable or animal food, as these contain much fibre, which is diffi- cult to digest. Meat, fish, soups, and vegetables should, however, be occasionally given in small quantities. Fixed hours for meals are important, as when regularly given, the stomach becomes prepared to receive them. The intervals should not be longer than four hours.1 Young persons (say from eight to twenty years of age) require a larger quantity of all kinds of food, in proportion to their size, than full-grown persons. The exercise natural to the young uses up much of the heat-giving foods, and increases the waste of the body; the digestion of the young is generally active; and, besides, fresh materials are in constant demand to pro- vide for the growth of the body. They should have meals of warm food (more easily digested than cold) at intervals of about four hours ; the chief meal—dinner—• should be in the middle of the day. Milk and eggs 1 Children should from the first be taught to chew their food well, not only to break down the fibre of meat, but to mix the soft starchy foods with saliva, especially in eating rice, sago, etc., puddings, and thus enable them to undergo the first important change in preparing them to become part of the human body. Children should not be encouraged to eat between meals as it spoils the appetite for regular food. If really hungry, a piece of dry bread only should be given, as this will satisfy a child’s hunger without tempting it to eat unduly at irregular hours.16 PAET 1 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK should still form a large part of the diet, also farina- ceous food, especially oatmeal porridge. Stimulants, such as tea and coffee, should, if taken, be weak; coffee with two-thirds milk. Healthy adults should be able to take a free mixture of all wholesome foods, variously cooked, at intervals of about five hours. The circumstances of climate and employment must, however, be considered. The digestive powers of elderly people are weaker than in middle life, the food should, therefore, be nourishing and easy of digestion ; it should be taken warm and at shorter intervals than in middle life. As the system is apt to become lowered during the night, a light nourishing supper is advisable, and in cases of debility, also a little warm food during the night. II. Different Climates More exercise is usually taken in cold than in hot climates, and this causes a more rapid wearing out of the materials of the body. The increased rapidity of breathing, caused by exercise, promotes the mixture of the oxygen of the air with the minute particles of food in the blood, and so uses or burns up more of these, and causes demand for increased supplies of food. Animal food is stimulating and exciting; it is therefore more suitable for cold and temperate climates than for hot. When a false appetite is created for it in hot climates by the use of condiments, it is apt to produce various disorders. Fat is not easily digested unless exercise is taken freely; more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce heat, than is required for starches and sugars. There is more oxygen in the air in cold than in hot weather. It is in cold weather and climates, therefore, that fat can be most easily digested and turned into warmth.17 ADAPTATION OF FOOD CHAP. Ill As cold contracts the pores of the skin, there is then much less escape of moisture than when the weather is warm. This moisture should be replaced by liquids, fruits, and vegetables, in order that the temperature of the body may be kept uniform. Of the heat-giving foods, starches and sugars are the most suitable for warm climates, as they are easily digested. III. Different Employments The circumstances of employment affect not only the kinds of food consumed, but the hours of the various meals. Indoor Occupations. — Those who are engaged in sedentary occupations cannot, in general, digest so much or so easily as those who are employed in active outdoor work. It is therefore necessary that they should select foods that give in small bulk the amount of nourishment required, and that these should be served in a light and digestible form. Those engaged in severe mental work should have animal food, if possible, as part of their diet; garden vegetables should be used, but in small quantities, as they are difficult to digest. The fatty heat-giving foods should be repre- sented in their more digestible forms of cream, butter, dripping, or toasted bacon; and the starchy foods, chiefly represented by bread, white or brown, should be freely used; also well-cooked porridge with milk, which is a nourishing, digestible, and cheap food. Clerks and others engaged in offices should take only a light luncheon, and defer dinner till the chief work of the day is over. Many do themselves much harm by eating nothing between breakfast and a late dinner. This in some cases leads to more being eaten at dinner oMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 18 PART I than can be properly digested, and in others to a state of exhaustion which indisposes for eating enough. Persons engaged in literary pursuits, who have to work in the evening or at night, should dine in the middle of the day, using, if they can afford it, animal food, with a due proportion of the other classes of food mentioned in the last chapter. Such work causes much waste of the material of the body, especially of the brain. Supper should be light, consisting of cocoa, with bread and butter or biscuits, milk, soup, tripe, fish boiled or fried, onions stewed with milk, stewed macaroni, stewed fruits with rice, etc. It is advisable that those engaged in indoor occupa- tions should, when possible, live at some distance from their place of work, as the walk to and fro will promote digestion as well as general health. Outdoor Occupations.—The quantity and quality of food required for outdoor workers differ consider- ably from those needed by persons engaged in seden- tary occupations. The digestion being in general more vigorous, a larger quantity of food can be consumed. It is therefore advisable that a considerable propor- tion of the flesh-forming food should consist of ma- terials drawn from the vegetable kingdom, as haricot beans, peas, macaroni, grain, etc., because these are less rapidly digested than animal food, and require to be taken in considerable quantities to supply the neces- sary amount of flesh-forming power. Further, it is not necessary to make dishes for outdoor workers light and quickly digestible; it is more important to have them solid and supporting. For example, in suet puddings and dumplings baking powder and bread crumbs need not be used. Porridge may be made with hot water instead of cold. Crappit heads, fat brose, haggis,CHAP. Ill adaptation of food 19 poor man’s goose, fried liver and bacon,1 and other nutritious but somewhat indigestible articles, may safely form part of the diet of labouring men. Most labourers can obtain cheese, bacon, flour, barley, oatmeal, rice, peas, and beans. With these, and with potatoes and fresh vegetables, grown it may be in their own gardens, a few flavouring herbs (as thyme, mint, marjoram, sage, and parsley), which could easily be cultivated in a small garden, they may obtain a thoroughly nutritious and varied diet. Cheese especially, ranks near flesh meat in the amount of nour- ishment it contains. A dinner of bread and cheese, accompanied by half a lettuce (too little used by the poor), or an apple, water-cress, or a few dandelion leaves, gives all the kinds of food needed to support the body in health. But these materials even when more lightly prepared are unsuitable for children’s diet without the addition of milk, and it is much to be regretted that this im- portant element of diet is so difficult to be obtained in country districts. The custom of allowing each cottager grass for a cow seems to be rapidly dying out, and one consequence of it is that children are in- sufficiently nourished. Landed proprietors and tenant- farmers could hardly confer a greater benefit upon their cottagers than by providing a plentiful supply of milk for them to purchase. In places where there is insufficient pasturage for cows, goats might be kept. IV. Different States of Health Diets for those in health are embodied in the pre- ceding remarks. Tn sickness, much of the progress of the patient towards recovery depends on the giving of 1 See School Cookery Book. Macmillan and Co.20 PART 1 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK judiciously chosen and well-prepared food. The digest- ive powers being generally weakened, food is wanted in smaller quantities, and in a more easily digested form than in health. Detailed recipes may be found at p. 184, and in the School Cookery Book. The following general remarks indicate the kinds of food required for certain illnesses :—- In Fevers give liquid (not solid) food in small quantities and frequently ; cooling drinks (whey, lemon- ade, apple water, etc.); butter milk or sweet milk. When the fever lasts long it is sometimes necessary to give beef tea and strong soup to keep up strength. As the fever subsides, give milk puddings, gruel, bread and milk, bread jelly, calf’s foot or ox foot jelly, arrow- root, fruit jelly, beef tea, and soup. In convalescence give broiled or boiled (not fried) white fish, whiting is best; later give eggs and animal food, beginning with tripe and mutton. In fever, more perhaps than in any other disease, diet should be regulated by the doctor, as relapses are often produced by irregularity of diet. Rheumatic Fever.—Give entirely vegetable diet, vegetable soups, milk puddings, gruel, arrowroot, jelly, porridge, mashed potatoes, bread and butter, lemon juice in water, but without sugar. If meat is given, either solid or in soups, it aggravates the pain. Dysentei'y and. Diarrhoea.—Give neither fruits nor green vegetables; avoid meat, especially salted or dried Give milk (previously boiled), milk puddings, rice water, boiled rice, and occasionally a mealy potato boiled or roasted. Constipation.—Give brown bread, fresh and stewed fruits, green vegetables, including lettuces, water-cress, dandelion leaves. A tumbler of cold water an hour before breakfast is occasionally recommended. Indigestion and Stomach Complaints.—Tf a21 ADAPTATION OF FOOD CHAP. Ill doctor is in attendance the diet will of course be regu- lated ; but where there is no doctor the sufierer may be cautioned generally against the use of the following articles of diet, which are difficult of digestion : flatu- lent vegetables (as peas, beans, cabbage); fat and greasy dishes, warmed-up meats, too many sweet dishes, and much tea. Give digestible food plainly dressed; in meats prefer mutton and tripe; give stale or toasted bread, rice, white fish, spinach, vegetable marrow, the flower of cauliflower or broccoli, fruit (if taken at all) only in the morning and quite ripe. Milk generally requires to be mixed with hot water or with potash, soda, or lime water; half a tumbler of hot water taken during dinner or half an hour after it, pro- motes digestion. Peptonised foods of various kinds are often recommended to those suffering from indiges- tion, and usually the directions for cooking or prepar- ing them are sent with each packet. The greatest care should be taken not to overheat this food while prepar- ing it, since the whole good effect is destroyed if the food is once heated to the boiling point. Diabetic patients require food that contains neither starch nor sugar; such as gluten bread, or cocoa specially prepared with a substitute for sugar. Such foods should be used by medical advice only, and be pur- chased only from reliable chemists. Persons suffering from indigestion and this class of disorders are only too ready to procure all the new and patent medicines and foods that are advertised, and are far more likely to do themselves harm by trying experiments, than to obtain good by so doing. Colds and Influenza.— Avoid much solid food. Take soft food such as bread and milk, milk puddings, and soups, also warm drinks to produce perspiration,PART i 22 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK as gruel, oatmeal drink tea (not coffee, as it checks perspiration). Beef Tea is of much value during most severe ill- nesses, as patients can often take it when nothing else is acceptable. It is, however, not sufficient alone to sustain strength for any length of time; it is only one part of meat, and unless the fibre of meat (or some other flesh-forming food corresponding to meat) and warmth-giving food are given soon, the patient will suffer from partial starvation. The same remarks apply to ox or calf’s foot jelly. Tea is useful in a sick room when properly made and used, and is preferable to coffee. It should never be given in the evening or at night, as it prevents sleep, but a cup of tea early in the morning is generally most refreshing to a restless or suffering person. For recipes see p. 140. The following books are recommended to students who desire to study the science of food further:— Personal Care of Health, E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S., Is., Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Animal Physiology, J. G. M‘Kendrick, M.D., F.R.S.E., Is. 6d., W. and R. Chambers. Manual of Physiology, W. B. Carpenter, M.D., 12s. 6d., J. and A. Churchill. Practical Physiology, E. Lankester, M.D., LL. D., F.R.S., 4s., Hardwicke and Bogue. Physiology of Common Life, G. H. Lewes, 12s., Win. Black wood and Sons. Treatise on Food and Dietetics, F. W. Pavy, M.D., F.R.S., 15s., Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. Lectures on Food, H. Letheby, M.B., M.A., 6s., Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. Food, A. H. Church, M.A. Oxon., 3s.. Chapman and Hall. Practical Dietary, E. Smith, M.D., LL.B., F. K.S., 3s. 6d., Walton and Maberly.ADAPTATION OF FOOD 23 CHAP. Itl Manual of Diet in Health and Disease, T. King Chambers, 10s. 6d., Smith, Elder, and Co. Human Health, Robley Dunglison, M.D., 14s., Lea and Blanchard. Chemistry of Common Life, J. F. W. Johnston, M.A., 11s. 6d., Wm. Blackwood and Sons. The Management of Infancy, Andrew Combe, M. D., 2a. 6d., Maclachlan and Stewart.PART II PRACTICAL CHAPTER I TABLES OF IMPERIAL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 1 AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT Used for weighing all articles except gold, silver, etc. 16 Drams (dr.) make 1 ounce (oz.) 16 Ounces . ,, 1 pound (lb.) 28 Pounds . ,, 1 quarter (qr.) 4 Quarters . ,, 1 hundredweight (cwt.. 20 Hundredweights ,, 1 ton It is useful to remember that— 14 Pounds .... make 1 stone 8 Stones 1 hundredweight 112 Pounds 1 hundredweight LIQUID MEASURE OF CAPACITY Used for measuring water, milk, etc. 4 Gills .... make 1 pint (pt.) 2 Pints . . . . ,, 1 quart (qt) 4 Quarts ....,, 1 gallon (gal.) 1 By tho Weights and Measures Act of 1878, which came into operation 1st January 1879, it is declared that no person is allowed to sell by any denomination of weight or measure other than one of the imperial weights or measures. “ No local or cus- tomary measure, nor the use of the heaped measure, shall be lawful.”CHAP. I 25 TO CLEANSE UTENSILS DRY MEASURE OF CAPACITY Used for measuring grain, seeds, flour, etc. 2 Gallons .... make 1 peck (pic.) 4 Pecks 1 bushel (busli.) 8 Bushels . . . . „ 1 quarter (1 qr.) HOMELY MEASURES 2 Teaspoonfuls . . • make 1 dessertspoonful. 2 Dessertspoonfuls . . ,, 1 tablespoonful. 1 Heaped tablespoonful of solids is about 1 oz. About 8 tablespoonfuls of liquid make £ pint or gill. A pinch is about the eighth of a teaspoonful. TO CLEANSE UTENSILS Range or Grate.—Clear out the fireplace, pick out all the cinders for future use, throw away the ashes. With a long brush, sweep the soot down from the chimney as far as you can reach. If it is a close range, sweep out all the flues with brushes for the purpose. £ lackleading.—If there is any grease on the range or grate, wash it off with very hot water in which a little soda has been melted ; dry. Mix some blacklead to a stiff paste with' water, dip the brush in it, and brush the grate and bars, putting more blacklead on the brush when required. Let the grate become quite dry; then with a dry brush rub off as much of the blacklead as possible; polish the grate thoroughly with a soft brush, using it lightly and beginning at the top of the grate. Brass Knobs.—Rub these either with polishing paste or with bath-brick dust and water mixed into a paste. Dip a dry soft cloth in a little dry brick dust, and polish the knobs. Chamois leather is preferable to cloth.26 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAIIT IJ Steel.—Rub steel well with emery paper, then polish with chamois leather. To lay (i.e. prepare) a Fire. —The chief thing to attend to in laying a fire is to leave spaces for air, as after the light is put to the fire, it is the mixture of one part of air (oxygen) with the fuel that enables the fire to burn. Put two or three cinders in the bottom of the fireplace with spaces between; crumple up loosely pieces of paper and lay them in next. Then place well-dried sticks loosely one across another. Finally, lay lightly some larger cinders on the top. Light the fire, and let it catch thoroughly before adding coal and more cinders. Iron Pans.—Wash thoroughly outside and inside with hot water and soda. Rub the inside with a wash- ing cloth or pot range 1 with soap and sand and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water; dry. If onions have been cooked in the pan, the odour may be removed by using fine ashes instead of sand. Enamelled Pans.—Wash well inside and outside with boiling water and soda. Then rub the inside with crushed egg shells, soap, and a little hot water. Rinse well with hot water ; dry. Brass Pans.—If the pans have stood unused for some time, rub them with vinegar and salt to remove any verdigris. Clean with polishing paste, or with bath-brick dust and water, then rinse well out with hot ■water, and polish with a soft cloth or chamois leather. Copper Pans.-—Rub a grated and squeezed lemon - skin with soap, and dip it in brick dust. Clean the outside of the pan with this or with vinegar and salt till the copper is quite bright. Do not use any acid 1 Chiefly used in Scotland. It consists of a bunch of stiff Sue twigs or heather roots, cut evenly across and tightly tied together. 2 See note, p. 179.27 CHAP. I TO CLEANSE UTENSILS for the inside. Clean it with sand and soap, then with soap and water alone. Rinse well with hot water; dry. If pans of all kinds cannot be cleaned immediately after using them, let them stand filled with cold water. Tins.—Wash with hot water and soda. Make a paste of whitening and water; dip a cloth into this, rub the tins well with it, taking care to clean all the crevices. When dry, rub it off with a second cloth, and then polish, using a little dry whitening. Chamois leather polishes best. Cake Tins.—Do not wash or polish the inside of these; they should be scraped if anything is sticking to them, and then rubbed with a dry cloth. Knives and Forks.—Wipe the knives and forks with a dish cloth; if greasy, dip in hot water and soda, taking care not to wet the handles ; dry. Rub the knife-board with the brick dust; rub all parts of the blade on it, taking care that the sharp edge does not come against the board. Rub the forks with a cloth and dry brick dust. Polish both knives and forks with a dry cloth, taking care to remove all the brick dust between the prongs. If the forks have a flavour about them of fish, onions, etc., this may be removed by sticking them into earth or powdered ashes. Tables and Shelves.—Wash first with warm water and a coarse flannel cloth. Sprinkle over some coarse sand, rub the scrubbing brush with soft soap, brush the wood, rubbing with the grain if possible. Wash the wood over again with warm water and a flannel cloth. If there is grease on the wood, add a little soda to the first warm water. Plates, Dishes, etc.—Remove all scraps from tho28 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK plates; place them in hot water, rub each thoroughly with a dish cloth. Then rinse in clean warm water, dip into cold water and place them to drain. It is not necessary to dry them with a cloth. Glass.—Wash in lukewarm water; dip into cold water; drain; dry with a linen cloth, then polish with a dry linen towel or chamois leather. Clean Water Bottles by putting tea leaves, fine ashes, or potato parings into them with lukewarm water. Shake well, empty, rinse with cold water, dry and polish. HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT, ETC. Good Beef should be a deep red colour, and the fat a pure white. The finer pieces are generally delicately marked with veins of fat. The flesh must be firm, and when pressed with the finger no mark should remain. Good beef should not become moist when kept. Good Mutton should be a deep red colour, and the fat white, not intergrained with the lean, and very hard. Small-boned old mutton is the best. Pork should be white, finely grained, smooth and dry. The fat should be firm, and the rind thin. Young Fowls should have smooth skin and legs, pliable joints and breast-bones, plump breasts and necks, bright red combs, and the flesh should be finely grained. A Ham.—To choose a ham, put a thin-pointed knife into it as close to the bone as possible. If it comes out with any unpleasant smell, and looking oily, the ham is not good. Fish.—All fish should be used as soon as possible after it is caught. Some people, however, prefer cod after it has been a night in salt and water, as this makes it firmer. In fresh fish the eyes should always29 chap, i NAMES, ETC., OE PIECES OF MEAT be bright ancl prominent, the body stiff, the gills a bright red colour. Garden Vegetables should be as fresh as possible, and crisp. Potatoes, carrots, and turnips may, how- ever, be kept for some time without injury. Eggs should be as fresh as possible. If there is a doubt about freshness, hold the egg up to a lio-ht If the egg is clear, it is good; if the shell is no°t trans- parent, or if you see dark spots on it, the egg is bad. To preserve eggs, place newly-laid eggs in layers in a smaH box and cover each layer thickly with bran. When the box is full, nail it down and keep it in a dry cool place, turning the box over once a week, to pre- vent the yolks adhering to the shells. NAMES AND USES OF VARIOUS PIECES OP MEAT The divisions and names of the pieces of meat given are those in general use in England 1 ■ ~ - and in Scotland ; they, however, vary in different"localities. Explanation of diagram of the usual English mode of cutting up an ox 6 1. Check, generally stewed. anin cingf^’ °r pieCe’ and tlle dod’ used for soups 3. The chuclc three ribs, used for stewed steak. middle rib, four ribs, generally roasted; an economical The fore rib, five ribs 1 The sirloin } the best roasting jiiece. The rump the best part for steaks, the aitch bone, generally boiled. ir 1 o’ rpj lcg: stewed ; stock for soup. i“' le Mnk, generally boiled. '' the thin flank, generally boiled. 4. roast. 5. 6. 7. 8.PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 30 14. The brisket, generally salted and boiled. 15. The shoulder or leg of mutton piece. Explanation of diagram of the usual Scotch mode of cutting up an ox :— la. Check. lb. Chip, generally used for hare-soup. 2. Neck, used for soups, stews. 3 and 4. Spare ribs, generally roasted, sometimes stewed. 5. The ribs, roasted, sometimes boned, rolled, and salted. 6. First runner. This is cut close by the slioulder-bone, and is used for boiling or stewing. 7 and 8. Also runners. These two are sometimes divided across by the dotted line, and the fleshy end (next the head) used for stewing, boiling, or beefsteak pie, and the thin end salted. Sometimes only two runners are cut, sometimes only one. 9. Nine holes, used chiefly for pickling, sometimes for plain boiling or stewing; not so fat as the brisket. 10. Brisket, stewed or corned. 11. Marrowbone. 12. Hough or shin, used for soup ; the fleshy end is good for stewing.chap, i NAMES, ETC., OF PIECES OF MEAT 31 13. Sirloin, cut generally into three parts, called the double side, middle cut (or Scotch and English), and the thin end. The usual Scotch mode of cutting up an ox. (More economical than the English mode.) 14. Thin flank, used for boiling, often salted. 15. 1 kick flank or fleshy end of heuck bone, used for stewin" steak, or salted and rolled, also for pies ; no bone in it 16. Heuck bone, best for gridiron steak. Jiump, generally boned and salted ; sometimes stewed V1J bolle ln> or foiled. It is used in France forpot-au-feu. 18\ ihe round. This weighs about 30 to 40 lbs. ; the upper lart is sometimes cut into steaks. Sometimes the whole is cut nto two rounds ; a thick flap of fat, called the sliaugh, is left o roll round the bare side of the bone. 19. Used for mince, stew, or beef tea. t Explanation of English mode of cutting up a32 TAUT II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 5. The neclc, scrag end, soup, stews. 6. The head, boiled, made into soup. 7. The breast, stewed. 8. The shoulder, generally baked, sometimes roasted. [Two loins make a saddle.] Explanation of Scotch mode of cutting up a sheep 1. Oigot, leg, or haunch, roasted or boiled.chap, i TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES 33 2. Loin. This is the finest piece for chops, sometimes roasted. 3. Flank or flap, used for soup or cheap stews. 4. The back-ribs and neck, used for chops, stews, and soup. 5. The brisket or breast, generally stewed. 6. The shoulder. When 4 and 5 are not cut through at the black line which separates them, the shoulder may he removed at the dots, and it is generally baked, sometimes roasted. If a large shoulder is wanted, cut it off close to the bone ; if, on the other hand, it is desired to leave the meat beneath for chops, the shoulder should be taken oil' by the seam. 7. The head, boiled ; used for broth. 8. The shank, used for soup ; sometimes stewed. 9. The trotters, made into broth with the head ; sometimes stewed. TO CLEANSE VEGETABLES Old Potatoes cooked in their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Old Potatoes cooked without their jackets.—Wash and brush well in cold water. With a small-pointed knife (a potato-knife costs about 4d.) pare the skin very thin, as the best part is next the skin; cut out the eyes, taking care not to take a slice of potato with them. Place the potatoes in cold water as they are pared, to preserve the colour. New Potatoes.—Wash well in cold water; rub with a rough towel to remove the skin; place in cold water till required. Cabbage, Cauliflower, and Lettuce.—Remove the coarse outer leaves. To remove earth and insects, place the vegetables in plenty of cold water, with about a dessertspoonful of salt to a quart of water, for about half an hour. Carrots.—Wash and brush well in cold water; scrape them downwards (towards the narrow end). If carrots are to be served as a vegetable, cut each into two or three pieces; if they are to be used for soups, n34 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART I] cut into small square pieces; if they are to be fried, cut into slices. Put the cut-up pieces into cold water till required. If they are to be fried, dry each piece carefully. Turnips.—Wash and brush well in cold water. Pare thickly, so far as a line a little in from the skin. The part next the skin is stringy, indigestible, and bitter. Cut up in the way directed for carrots, and lay in water till required. Onions.—Skin. Before onions are cooked they must be “ prepared ” in the following way, to make them digestible: place them in a basin, cover them with boiling water, and add a piece of washing soda, the size of a pea. In about a quarter of an hour the water will become quite green. Pour this away. If the onions are to be used for soup, cut them in four, downwards, and then into small pieces; if they are to be fried, cut them into thin slices, and dry them well. French Beans.—Remove the strings from each side; cut each bean slanting into two or three pieces, place in water till required. Spinach.—Wash well in cold water. Double each leaf together, and tear off the stalk with its continuation down the back of each leaf. GENERAL DIRECTIONS Roasting Meat for roasting should be kept hanging till the fibre becomes tender. The length of time required depends on the state of the weather and the season, ranging from a few days, or in summer even a few hours, to three or four weeks in a dry cold winter. In frosty weather the meat must be brought into the kitchen for a few hours before using it, to soften it. To ascertain the length of time required for roasting, weigh the meat, and allow, in roasting, one quarter ofGENERAL DIRECTIONS 35 CHAP. I aii hour to each pound and one quarter of an hour over. If, however, the piece of meat is very thick, allow half an hour over. Young and white meat (veal, lamb, pork) require twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. They are unwholesome when underdone. Sweep up the hearth, and make up a large fire in a well-polished fireplace an hour before it is wanted, so as to have it bright and glowing. Do not let the fire go down while the meat is roasting; add small pieces of coal or large cinders occasionally, so as to keep it up. Hang the meat by the small end to the hook of the jack. When there is no jack, the meat may be hooked to a skein of twisted worsted suspended from a hook projected from the mantelshelf. Wind up the jack, or twist the worsted, so as to make it spin slowly. Place the dripping pan under the joint. If you have a meat screen, see that the inside is bright (so as to throw back the heat upon the joint), and place it before the fire. Meat should be placed for the first ten minutes as near the fire as can be done without scorching, as the great heat hardens the outside, and keeps in the juices. Baste it as soon as the fat melts. Basting prevents the meat becoming dry and scorched. Then withdraw the meat 15 or 18 inches from the fire, and baste it fre- quently with the dripping produced by the melting of the fat. Much saving of weight and of flavour is effected by folding the meat in clean white paper—with pieces of fat all round the meat or fowl, etc. Tie up the parcel and hang it on the roasting-jack by the string. Very little basting is required, because the fat melts gradually. A lean piece of meat should be basted with hot drip- ping melted for the purpose. The meat may be dredged with flour a quarter of an hour before it is quite ready, to make it browner and to thicken the gravy a little. When it is placed on a dish sprinkle it with a little salt. Before making sauce of the brown gravy, pourPAST II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 36 away the dripping from the dripping pan (keep this dripping for other purposes), add a little boiling water to the browned gravy left in the pan, mix well, add a little salf, and pour round the roast. Roasting in the Oven.—This is usually called baking meat. Place the meat in a baking tin in a very hot part of the oven, for five minutes, to harden the outside and keep in the juice. Baste it as soon as the fat melts ; then remove it to a cooler part; place beside it a cup or basin of hot water to keep the air of the oven moist without cooling it. Baste the meat fre- quently. For the length of time required, see preced- ing directions. All ovens in which meat is cooked should be properly ventilated, in order to allow the escape of an injurious vapour produced by meat when cooked in a close oven. Meat roasted in the oven is not considered so digestible as when roasted before the fire. Roasting in the Pan.—Melt and heat 1 oz. of drip- ping in an iron pan.1 Brown all sides of the meat in this, so as to harden the outside and keep in the juices. Then draw the pan aside, and let the meat cook slowly with the lid on, basting it constantly. For the length of time required, see preceding directions. This way of roasting is especially suitable for small pieces of meat, and is eco- nomical because of the small quantity of fuel required. Broiling or Grilling Broiling is cooking over a hot clear fire on a gridiron. Place a thoroughly clean gridiron over the fire; let it be- come quite hot, as the hot metal will help to harden the outside of the meat, and so keep in the juices; rub the gridiron with suet to prevent the meat sticking to it. Place the meat on the hot gridiron, turn it continually, so as to let the inside of the meat cook slowly and so remain 1 Tin is apt to melt with the great heat and little moisture.GENERAL DIRECTIONS CHAr. I 37 tender. Be careful to put the fork into the fat or skin. If you pierce the lean, you will allow the juices to escape. If tongs are used, do not squeeze the meat. The length of time required depends chiefly on the thickness of the meat to be cooked. A separate gridiron should, if pos- sible,be kept for fish. When the top of the fire cannot be used (as in close rauges), suspend a hanging gridiron in front of the fire with the meat between the two halves of the gridiron, which must be turned with the meat. Boiling Meat covered with water and cooked in it is said to be boiled, but it must not be supposed that the water should be kept at boiling point. Plunge the meat into boiling water (212° Pahr.), enough to cover it. This hardens the outside, and keeps in the juices. After the water (cooled by the meat) again comes to the boil, let it remain boiling for about 5 minutes, then skim carefully, and add cold water, or move the pot to a less hot place, till the water simmers. Tested by thermometer, there is little difl'erence between the heat of boiling and of simmering. The difference of the result of the two methods of cooking is very great indeed, and appears to be due to the different rates atwhich the heat is communicated to the food. Meat boiled is meat spoiled— it must be simmered slowly to be properly cooked. Draw the pot aside, keep it simmering till the meat is cooked, allowing a of an hour to each pound, counting from the time the water begins to boil, and ^ of an hour over. If it is a large piece of meat, allow an hour over. Add a little salt when the meat is nearly ready. For salt meat or pork allow 20 minutes to each pound. Salt meat is put on with cold water. For fish allow 10 minutes to the pound, and, when thick, 10 minutes over. Green vegetables should be boiled briskly and If I i, f; • •• .MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii 38 without a lid on the pan; this helps to preserve the colour. Steaming In steaming, the food to be cooked is placed in a tin or earthenware vessel, covered with a tight cover or buttered paper.1 The vessel is placed in a pan of boiling water, which comes half-way up its side. If the water boils away, more boiling water must be added. Puddings, etc., when steamed, do not require to have so much liquid in them as when baked. The dry air of the oven dries them; steaming keeps them moist (see p. 137). Stewing In stewing juicy meats the outside should be hardened by browning (see p. 42) in order to keep in the juices. The meat is then placed in a stewpan and a small quantity of hot water or stock poured round it. This is slowly warmed and then allowed to simmer slowly, and must on no account be allowed to boil. Stewing chiefly differs from boiling in the quantity of water used, and in the length of time of cooking. The juice that is drawn out of the meat is served in the gravy. Coarse pieces of meat may be made tender by careful and long stewing, but they should not be browned. If very tough, they may be dipped in vinegar to soften the fibre. Gristly pieces should be put on with cold water and simmered till tender, but not allowed to boil fast. Another and a good way of stewing is to put the stew in a stone jar with a closely fitting lid or cover of buttered2 paper. The jar is placed on the hob, or in a slow oven, or in a saucepan with water kept boiling round it. 1 No printed paper should be used in cooking 2 Soft fat can be used instead of butter.GENERAL DIRECTIONS CHAP. J 39 Frying- Frying is cooking in hot fat. Tire ordinary but wrong way of frying is to use a shallow frying-pan and a small quantity of fat. This is extravagant and un- wholesome. Put into a stewpan enough fat to cover the article to be cooked. Make the fat hot. It is at the proper heat when it is quite still and a slight vapour rises from it; do not wait till it smokes, for then it will burn. The fat may also be tested by putting into it a small piece of crumb of bread; if it becomes quickly a golden colour, the fat is at the right heat. Prepare the pieces to be cooked by covering them with a coating of egg and bread crumbs, or flour and milk, or flour and water. This covering hardens with heat, and makes a case to hold in the juices, and also prevents the fat getting in and making the meat greasy. Do not have the pieces thicker than about an inch, unless the materials have been previously cooked. Put them into the hot fat, but not many at a time, as the fat would be too much cooled. When they become a golden colour remove them ; place them for a few seconds on kitchen paper near the fire to absorb the fat, and then serve.1 Oil, butter, lard, and dripping, or clarified fat, are used for frying. Oil and butter are very expensive ; lard is apt to make what is fried in it greasy ; dripping or clarified fat is the most suitable for use in an ordinary kitchen. Dry Frying. — In dry frying a very small quantity of fat is used, and it is usually done in a frying-pan; 1 A frying basket made of wire, and fitting the stewpan, is very convenient. The pieces are laid in the basket, and it is placed in the hot fat till they are cooked. Although much hotter than boil- ing water, the fat is not at its own boiling point, which is 600°.PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 40 the meat or vegetables should be frequently turned to prevent hardening. Bacon does not require fat at all, as its own melting fat is sufficient. Chopped vege- tables, such as cabbages and potatoes mixed (the bubble without the squeak), are excellent food, with a little dripping, and may be done in a frying-pan. Cold pudding may be cut in slices and fried in this way. Baking Baking is cooking by means of heated air in a con- fined space called an oven. Bread, cakes, and pastry are usually cooked in this way. As a general rule, anything containing starchy materials, as flour, arrow- root, etc., should, if not previously boiled, be first placed in a hot part of the oven to burst the starchy grains and enable them to mix thoroughly with the surround- ing liquid ; they should then be removed to a cooler part, to cook slowly without scorching. If pastry is put at first into a cool part of the oven the fat melts ; but as the starch grains of the flour are not burst, they cannot41 CHAr. i GENERAL DIRECTIONS absorb the fat, which runs out and makes the paste greasy and heavy. The proper management of an oven must be the result of experience, as it is impossible to give exact rules. A large brick oven gives the most steady heat. Iron ovens become easily overheated, and small iron ones are apt to scorch what is cooked in them unless carefully regulated. Therefore bread should be divided into small loaves when baked in a small oven, to pre- vent the outside being browned while the inside is still uncooked. To test an oven, put into it a piece of stale crumb of bread; if in five minutes it is a golden colour, the oven Girdle. is hot enough for cooking pastry or bread; if, on the contrary, the bread becomes dry and only slightly coloured, the oven is of a moderate heat, and suitable for browning puddings, etc. Another test is to put a piece of kitchen or writing paper into the oven ; if it curls up in about a minute, the oven is hot enough for baking. Where there is no oven, puddings may be browned before the fire. Meat, puddings, and even pastry, mayi2 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii be cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire. Scones, oat-cakes, etc., may be cooked on a girdle (much used in Scotland) instead of in an oven. EXPLANATION OF VARIOUS TERMS To break flour is to mix in very gradually a small quantity of cold liquid, stirring it until it is smooth. To bind a mixture is to add milk or egg to make it hold together. To brown meat, etc., is to place it in a small quantity of hot fat, and not turn it until the part is brown. To burst rice is to put it on in cold water and bring it to the boil. This bursts the grains of starch. To clean currants is to nib them (the stalks being previously picked) in a damp cloth till clean, or to sprinkle a little flour over them and rub them in a dry rough cloth. To core is to remove the heart of an apple or pear ; this is either done when the apple is whole with a special utensil called a corer, or, after it is quartered, with a knife. To butter a dish, paper, etc., is to rub soft fat, such as drip- ping or butter, over it. It is best to spread the fat on paper with a knife. To parboil is to boil anything until half cooked. To scald vegetables, etc., is to pour boiling water over them for a few minutes, and then throw away the water. To scald milk is to bring it almost, but not quite, to the boil. To shred suet is to cut it with a sharp knife so thinly as to bo almost scraping ; the suet should be so thin as to curl up. To wash rice, barley, etc., is to pour cold water over them, stir and pour off the water, repeating this till the water poured off is quite clear. A WELL-COOKED MEAL requires consideration as to the time necessary for the cooking of each one of the dishes. If dinner is arranged to be at 2 r.M. it would be useless at noon to begin to make a pudding which requires two hours to cook. Much time and worry will be saved by observation of the following rules :—CHA1-. I A WELL-COOKED MEAL 43 1. Begin to arrange the dinner several hours before it is to be eaten. 2. See that the fire is made up, and the oven (if you are going to bake) is getting heated before you begin. 3. Arrange the various saucepans, etc., that will be required, ready for use. 4-. If you always put away the paDS thoroughly clean, and turned downwards, you find them clean and reacly for use when needed. 5. Dust or thoroughly rinse each article that may have gathered dust—for instance, gravy strainers, etc. 6. Have plenty of hot and cold water ready. 7. Have the tins, or moulds, or basins ready buttered before you mix the puddings. 8. Have a kitchen cloth tucked into the belt of your apron, so that you may lift a pan without soiling your hands, by holding the handle with the cloth round it. 9. Weigh out all the materials before beginning to mix; also clean any currants that are required. 10. When you lift a saucepan lid to test the progress of the cooking, do not put it down in such a way on the bar, that the smoke fills the lid; if you do, the pudding, etc., will taste smoky, and will probably have smuts upon it. 11. In preparing the simplest dinner, always calcu- late beforehand how many pans will need to be upon the fire at once. Small fireplaces usually accommodate three or four pans, but if you have to roast a joint and prepare gravy, and sauce for a vegetable, and also boil two vegetables, and a pudding, you must so arrange that the five pans go on the fire in turn, and keep hot and slowly cooking by the side. 12. Be sure and have the dishes and plates warm,44 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii ready for dishing up and serving; this should be attended to a quarter of an hour before dinner-time. 13. Be sure to ask for instructions how to regulate the oven, and how to clear the flues; you will seldom find kitchen ranges alike in different houses. 14. Remember to select a deep pan for boiling vegetables, as they must be completely covered by the water. 15. Study the explanation of terms on p. 42. CHAPTER II SOUPS Fkom the directions given for the preparation of the following soups, many others not mentioned in this little book can be made. A slight variation in the flavour by the addition of a vegetable or herb, or by the use of a different material for thickening the stock, will enable the cook to extend her menu beyond these limits. The flavour of soups may be inexpensively varied by any of the following herbs, either used separately or by a sprig of several of them tied together in a small bunch: sorrel, parsley, mint, marjoram, thyme, and bay leaf. Celery seed is also a pleasant and inexpen- sive flavouring; about half a teaspoonful may be used, tied loosely in a piece of muslin, and removed before serving. By increasing the quantity of meat allowed for the preparation of stock, by using cream in the place of milk ; in short, by the employment of more expensive materials, the cook will be able to prepare soups which belong to so-called high class cookery. The principles are the same. One caution may not be out of place : in using pepper and salt, especially the former, the quantity should be carefully measured, according to the taste ofSOUPS CHAP. II 45 those for whom the dish is cooked. Never use black pepper for white soup. The Stockpot.—This is a great help to a cook in preparing vegetable soups, gravies, and sauces. Put into a pan all odd pieces of meat, cooked or uncooked, provided they are good and untainted, bones, chopped small, necks, etc., of fowls. Cover with plenty of water, and let it simmer slowly but steadily by the side of the fire. The liquor in which meat or poultry has been boiled may be used instead of water. The stockpot should be cleared out thoroughly, once a week in winter, and more frequently in summer. Nothing need be wasted or thrown away, unless it is unfit for human food. General Directions for preparing Stock for Soup.—Stock for soup should always be made a day before it is wanted for use, to allow the fat to rise and form a cake on the surface. This must be carefully taken off before the stock is used.1 Any part of the ox will make good soup; the head, shin, neck, and tail are the parts usually chosen for this purpose. In preparing stock for soup, begin by cutting the meat into small pieces, and breaking up the bones, if there are any. Carefully wash and peel the vegetables (see “ To Cleanse Vegetables,” p. 33), cut them into thick pieces, and tie up the herbs in muslin. Put the meat and vegetables with the water into a large saucepan, and let the stock simvier gently. Stock should never boil fast. A gentle heat extracts the nourishing juices from the meat, and the flavour from the vegetables. The cover of the pan must fit very closely to prevent evaporation. Any scum that rises to the surface while the stock is cooking should be carefully taken off. The meat prepared in the same way may be put with the vegetables and water 1 The fat can be used for frying (see “Clarified Fat,” p. 132).46 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK into a closely covered jar and placed in the oven, but care must be taken that the oven is not so hot that the stock will boil fast. Yeal is used for stock for white soups ; mutton for making broth. Vegetable Soups.—Haricot beans, carrots, lentils, vegetable marrows, and other vegetables make good and nourishing soups. Water can be used instead of meat stock, but the soup will be less rich. Milk, eggs, and cream are sometimes used in preparing them. The liquor in which meat has been boiled makes good stock for these soups. Stock for Soup 3 lbs. Meat 1 Onion 2 Carrots 2 Turnips | Small Head of Celery 1 Bay Leaf 1 Bunch of Sweet Herbs 2 Quarts of Water Prepare the meat and vegetables as directed (p. 45); put them with the herbs and water into a saucepan, and simmer for five hours. Just before the stock boils skim it carefully. When cold, remove the fat. Stock for Clear Soup 2 lbs. Sbin of Beef 1 Onion 1 Carrot 1 Turnip | Teaspoonful Peppercorns 3 Pints of Water 1 Bunch of Sweet Herbs Small piece of white part of Celery Cut the meat into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan and pour the water over it. Let it come to the boil, then skim it carefully; throw in a saltspoonful of salt, and after a few minutes skim the stock again. Let it simmer slowly for one hour. Cut the vegetables in pieces, and add them with the herbs and peppercorns to the stock; then let all simmer together for four hours longer. Strain the stock, setting it aside till cold. When wanted for use, remove every particle of fat; put the stock into41 SOUPS CHAP. II a saucepan with 2 oz. of fresh meat, a small piece of carrot, the same of turnip, celery, and onion, and a small bunch of herbs. Let them simmer for a short time. This gives a fresher taste to the soup. Strain as before. For vermicelli, rice, sago, and macaroni soups it is sufficient to strain the stock through a clean cloth. For clear soup it must be cleared as well as strained (see “Clear Soup,” p. 49). Stock for White Soups 3 lbs. Knuckle of Veal \ lb. Lean Ham 2 Carrots 2 Small Onions oz. Salt 1 Head Celery (white part) £ Teaspoouful Peppercorns 1 Blade Mace 1 Bunch of Sweet Herbs 2 Quarts Water Cut the meat into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with the ham. Pour over them half a pint of water, and let the meat heat slowly until the juices begin to flow. Then add the water, with the vege- tables (prepared as directed, p. 45), herbs, spices, and salt. Let the stock simmer for five hours. Skim well and strain. Poultry trimmings, liquor in which fowls have been boiled, give an improved flavour to this stock. Quickly made Soup 1 lb. Gravy Beef 1 Carrot (large) 1 Onion 2 oz. Bacon 1 Pint Boiling Water Salt, Pepper Cut the meat into small pieces ; put it into a stewpan with the bacon, carrot, and onion, cut also into small pieces. Add three tablespoonfuls of cold water, cover the pan close, and let the meat simmer until it begins to stick to the pan, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. Then add the boiling water; let the soup boil48 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART 11 for three-quarters of an hour longer. Strain it through a sieve, pressing the meat, etc., with a wooden spoon. 1 Ox tail J Turnip $ Carrot 1 Onion 4 Cloves Ox Tail Soup 1 oz. Butter 1 ,, Flour 3 Pints Water 1 Teaspoon ful Browning Salt, Pepper, Herbs Divide the tail into joints, remove the fat; melt the butter in a stewpan, and brown the pieces of tail in it. Cut the onion into slices; throw them into the pan to brown with the tail. Add the hot water, vegetables, herbs, cloves, salt, pepper, and the browning. Let all simmer slowly for two and a half or three hours. When the pieces of tail are cooked, take them from the pan; put them aside to keep hot; strain the soup, and thicken 1 2 it with the flour, mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Let the soup boil for a few minutes, then pour it into a tureen, and add the pieces of taiL If the soup is preferred clear, omit the flour. Mulligatawny Soup 1 Quart Stock 2 Onions 2 Sour Apples 1 Dessertspoonful Curry Powder 1 Tablespoonful Flour 1 oz. Butter 1 Lump of Sugar ^ Teaspoon ful Lemon Juice A few pieces of cold fowl or lean meat or firm fish Salt to taste (a slice of cocoa-nut is an improvement) Put the butter into a stewpan ; let it get hot; chop the onions, and throw them into the hot butter. Let them fry until they are thoroughly cooked, but not very brown. Chop the apples; and when the onions are sufficiently cooked, add the chopped apples; let them cook until very soft. The cocoa-nut, if used, must be 1 Potato flour is best ; it is sold in packets by most grocers.SOUPS 49 CHAP. XI grated and put in the pan with the apples and curry powder. Fry these all together ; then add the stock by degrees, and the sugar. Leave the soup to simmer for an hour, then rub it through a sieve. Put the soup back into the pan to heat; cut the meat into small pieces; put them into the soup for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Serve in a tureen with boiled rice as an accompaniment (see “Boiled Bice,” p. 139). A small quantity of chutney added to the soup is some- times liked. Add the lemon iuice iust before serving the soup. Clear Soup (see “ Stock,” p. 46) 1 Quart Clear Stock | 2 Eggs Remove all the fat carefully from the stock; put it into an enamelled pan with the white of the eggs, and the crushed shells. Whisk all together till the stock looks frothy on the surface;' then stir it over a slow fire till it steams. Leave off stirring, and allow the soup to boil thoroughly for about five minutes; draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for about fifteen minutes to allow the scum to rise and curdle. Lay a clean cloth in a colander : strain the soup through it into a basin. Cut different kinds of vegetables into neat pieces; boil them till tender ; then add them to the strained soup. Put a very small piece of loaf sugar into the soup, as it makes it sparkle. A glass of sherry is sometimes added to flavour this soup. Vermicelli Soup 1 Quart Clear Stock | 2 oz. Vermicelli Put the vermicelli into a small pan of boiling water or weak stock; let it simmer till it is soft, which will be in about half an hour. Strain the vermicelli, and E50 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK pabt ii add it to the clear stock. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese. Rice Soup Wash the rice well (see p. 42); boil it in water or weak stock till soft; then drain it in a sieve, and add to the stock. Serve with grated cheese. Sago Cream Soup 1 Quart Stock 2 Eggs 1 Tablespoonful Fine Sago \ Teaspoonful Pepper 2 Tablespoonfuls Cream Cayenne and Salt to taste Wash the sago in cold water. Set the stock to boil; when it boils stir in the sago. Let it boil until the sago is transparent, stirring occasionally. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; put the yolks into a tureen; add the cream, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Pour the soup gradually to the yolks, stirring them one way all the while. Palestine Soup 2 lbs. Jerusalem Artichokes 1 Head Celery 4 Leeks 1| Pint White Stock „ Milk Pepper, Salt 2 oz. Butter Peel and slice the artichokes ; throw them into cold water as they are peeled, to keep them white. W ash the celery ; take out the heart, or white part, cut it into pieces an inch long, and cut the white part of the leeks down the centre. Heat the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables, and let them stew with the lid on, until the butter is absorbed; then add the stock, pepper, and salt, and let the vegetables simmer till the arti- chokes are soft enough to be rubbed through a sieve. Rub the vegetables through a hair sieve, using the back of a wooden spoon for the purpose ; moisten them wit iCHAP. II SOUPS 51 a little stock occasionally. Put the soup back into the pan; add the milk; let the soup get hot, but not boil. Serve with bread, cut into dice, and fried in butter a light brown. Cream instead of milk makes this soup much richer. Vegetable Marrow Soup 1 Large Marrow 2 Leeks £ Teaspoonful Pepper 1J Pint White Stock & ,, Cream or Milk Salt Peel the marrow; cut it in slices, and take out the seeds. Proceed as directed for Palestine soup, leaving out the celery. Pea Soup 1 Pint Split Peas 1 Quart Stock 1 ,, Water | Teaspoonful Celery Seed 1 Carrot 1 Turnip 1 Onion Salt, Pepper Soak the peas in cold water the night before they are wanted. Boil them in the water for two hours until they are quite soft. Then add the stock and the other ingredients. Let all boil gently together for two more hours, then strain through a sieve, rubbing the vegetables and peas with the back of a wooden spoon. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice, and dried mint finely powdered. Pea Soup | Pint Split Peas 2 Slices Bacon 2 Carrots Pepper, Salt (Economical) 2 Onions 2 Turnips 2 Quarts Water Bones left from Koast Meat Soak the peas as directed above. Break up the bones; put them into a saucepan with the vegetables cut small, the bacon, pepper, and salt. Let them come gradually to the boil, then skim and put in the peas.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii 52 Let the soup boil slowly for three hours. Strain and rub the peas and vegetables through a colander or a sieve. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice and dried mint finely powdered. The liquor in which meat has been boiled may be used instead of water. Remains of cold ham, bones of fowls, trimmings of meat can be used for this soup. Lentil Soup, No. 1 J lb. Lentils 2 oz. Butter or Dripping 3 Pints Stock 1 Onion 1 oz. Flour 5 Teaspoonful Pepper Soak the lentils all night in plenty of cold water. Next morning stir them well up, as there is generally a good deal of earth about them; pour off the water; if not clean, wash them repeatedly. Heat the butter in a stewpan; stir in the flour, onion, and lentils; then add the stock and boil until soft (about 3 hours). Lentil Soup, No. 2 J lb. Lentils 1 Carrot 3 Pints Weak Stock 1 Turnip 1 Onion Pepper and Salt to taste 1 Pint Cold Water Prepare the lentils as directed above. Cut up the vegetables : let them boil in the stock till they are soft enough to be rubbed through a sieve. Put the lentils into a pan with the cold water; let them boil for two or three hours till they are quite soft. Strain the stock: rub the vegetables with the lentils through a wire sieve : add the pulped vegetables to the stock withSOUPS CHAP. II 53 the pepper and salt: make it hot over the fire, stirring occasionally. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice or bread fried in butter. Haricot Bean Soup, No. 1 1 Quart of Stock 1 Pint Cold Water ! ,, Haricot Beans 1 oz. Butter or Dripping 1 Egg 2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream Small Blade of Mace Salt, Pepper, and Cayenne Put the beans to soak in cold water the night before they are wanted for use. When soaked, strain the water from them ; put them into a saucepan with the pint of cold water and the butter or dripping. Put the sauce- pan on the fire, cover it; let the beans simmer till tender, which will be in about an hour and three-quarters. Put the stock into a saucepan ; add the salt, pepper, cayenne, and mace, with a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; let it boil for a few minutes. Strain the water from the beans; rub them through a wire sieve, moisten- ing them from time to time with a little stock. Add the pulped beans to the stock ; return it to the saucepan ; let it boil, stirring it all the time. Then take the saucepan from the fire; break the egg, separate the yolk from the white, and stir the yolk of the egg with the cream into the soup. The soup must not boil after they are added. Haricot Bean Soup, No. 2 1 lb. Haricot Beans 2 Pints Cold Water 1 Pint Milk 2 oz. Butter or Dripping 1 Small Teaspoonful of Salt i n .. Pepper Prepare the haricot beans as directed above; put them into a saucepan with the cold water and butter or dripping; let them simmer till soft. Strain the water from the beans into a basin; rub the beans through a sieve, placed over the basin; add the pepper and salt;PAET II 64 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK put all back into the saucepan with the milk, and let it boil up, stirring well. Carrot, turnip, onion, celery, and other vegetable soups may be made in this way. The liquor in which meat has been boiled, or the contents of the stockpot (see “ Stockpot,”.p. 45), may be used instead of water. Care must be taken to remove all fat from either liquor or stock before it is used. Hotch-Potch 2 lbs. Neck of Mutton J Lettuce 1 Pint Green Peas £ ,, Broad Beans 2 Teaspoonfuls Sugar Pint Chopped Carrots, Turnips and Cauliflower 2 Onions 2 Quarts Water 1 Teaspoonful Salt \ Teaspoonful Pepper Put the meat and the salt on with cold water. When it comes to the boil, skim it carefully. Let the cauli- flower and lettuce lie in salt and water for half an hour ; break the cauliflower up into little sprigs, and chop the lettuce; shell the peas; shell and skin the beans; pare the turnips, scrape the carrots; chop them small with the onions; put all the vegetables, except one- half pint of peas, into the boiling liquor; boil slowly three or four hours, according to the age of the vegetables. Young vegetables require less boiling than old ones. When the soup is half made, add the rest of the peas and the sugar. When ready, remove the mutton and serve. Serve the mutton separately. Hotch-potch should be quite thick. If wished, neatly trimmed chops may be added to the soup when it is half cooked, and served in it. 3 lbs. of Beef 4 oz. Carrots 4 „ Turnips 4 „ Onions I Bay Leaf Pot-au-Feu £ Head Celery 1 Parsnip 2 Cloves 8 Peppercorns 4 Quarts Water. Salt55 OBAP. II SOUPS The secret of preparing this dish, which is an indispensable one in every French household of the middle class, consists in keeping the meat and vegetables at one regular heat, never allowing them to do more than simmer very gently, nor, on the other hand, allow- ing them to cease from simmering. Put the meat into a saucepan ; cover it with the water; add the salt, cloves, and peppercorns. Put the lid on the pan, and let the contents come very slowly to the boil. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, with an iron spoon. Let the pan simmer without interruption for two hours. Prepare the vegetables (see “To Cleanse Vegetables,” p. 33), add them with the bay leaf, gradually, when the meat has simmered for two hours, so as not to check the cooking. Let all simmer for one hour and a half longer. Take the meat from the pan, put it on a dish with the vegetables round it, and a cupful of the broth. Strain the remainder of the broth into a tureen, in which toasted bread, or rusks in nice pieces, should be laid before the broth is poured in. A half teaspoonful of browning should be added to the broth, just before the meat is taken out. Soup Maigre 4 Potatoes 1 Onion 3 Dessertspoonfuls fine Sago 2 Quarts Water 1 Pint Milk Pepper and Salt. Peel and slice the potatoes, put them Avith the onion and water into a saucepan, let them boil till quite soft; then rub them through a wire sieve. Put the soup back on the lire; add the milk, and when it boils, stir in the sago; keep stirring until the sago is sufficiently boiled. Add the salt and pepper.TART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 66 Vegetable Soup h Cabbage 1 Carrot 1 Turnip 1 Onion or Leek 1 oz. of Pieces of Bread 2 Quarts Stock { Teaspoonful Pepper $ Teaspoonful Salt Cleanse and prepare the vegetables; chop them very small. Break the bread into small pieces; put it into the stock, which must be cold; let it come to the boil; add the other ingredients gradually, so as not to cool the liquid. Boil slowly for about one hour and a half, until the vegetables are soft. Rub the soup through a colander or sieve to make it quite smooth. Heat again and serve. Any other vegetables that are in season may be used instead of those mentioned. The soup may be made richer by putting the well-beaten yolk of an egg into the tureen, and stirring the soup gradually in with it. Wash the barley well; clean, and divide the carrot across. Cut half of it into small pieces with the turnip and leeks. Put the meat into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it; bring it to the boil; add the barley and vegetables gradually, with the pepper and salt; let all simmer gently for three hours. Grate the remainder of the carrot, and add it to the broth an hour before serving. Take out the meat; place it in a hot dish ; serve the broth with the barley and vegetables in a tureen. Scotch Broth 2 lbs. Beef or Mutton | 1 Turnip 3 Leeks 1 Carrot 3 oz. Pearl Barley Pepper, Salt57 CHAP. II SOUPS Fish Soup 3 lbs. of Conger Eel 2 oz. of Butter or Dripping 10 Peppercorns 1 Small Carrot 2 oz. Rice 1 Onion 1 Leek 3 oz. Flour 3 Quarts Cold Water Salt, Parsley Put the butter into a saucepan; let it melt and become hot. Chop up the vegetables and fry them with the parsley, in the butter, a nice brown. Add the flour, salt, and a small bunch of herbs, if liked; put the lid on the saucepan, and let these cook for ten minutes, taking care that they do not burn. Then add the water, and the fish cut into pieces. Put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the whole till it boils. Cover the pan; let it boil for one hour. Wash the rice, boil it (see “Boiled Rice,” p. 139), and strain. When the soup is ready, strain it into a tureen; add the rice ind serve. Skate may be used instead of conger. Brown Soup (Economical) 2 lbs. Roast Beef Bones 1 Small Carrot 1 ,, Turnip £ Teaspoonful Browning 1 Small Onion 1 Dessertspoonful Flour or Corn Flour 1 oz. Butter or Dripping 2 Quarts Cold Water 1 Tablespoonful Ketchup i Teaspoonful of Salt. Popper Cleanse, prepare, and slice the vegetables; break up the bones into several pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, p.ut in the slices of vegetables, and fry them brown. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire ; add the bones, water, pepper, salt, ketchup, and browning; simmer gently for three or four hours, skimming care- fully. Half an hour before it is ready, mix the flour with a little cold water, and stir it carefully to the soup. When ready, remove the bones and the vege-MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 58 tables, serve the soup. The bones may be used again in the stockpot (see “ Stockpot,” p. 45), and the vege- tables for thickening other soups. Purees A puiAe is a preparation of vegetables resembling a thick sauce. It can be served as a dish by itself, gar- nished with fried bread or toast cut into sippets, or as an accompaniment to a dish of meat. In the latter case the meat is put in the middle of the dish, and the pur6e put neatly round it. From the recipes given, other purges can be made by varying the vegetables. Puree of Green Peas 1 Quart Green Peas 1 oz. Butter 1 Gill of Stock 1 Sprig Parsley or Mint ^ Teaspoonful Salt Pepper to taste Put the peas into boiling water with the parsley or mint, let them boil till quite tender; strain off the water, rub the peas through a wire sieve, moistening them from time to time with stock. Add the butter to the pulped peas, with the pepper and a little sugar; put the peas into the pan with the stock, to heat. Puree of Lentils 1 Pint Lentils ^ lb. Bacon 1 Carrot 1 Onion 2 Cloves 1 Bunch of Sweet Herbs 1 Quart Water Soak the lentils (see “ Lentil Soup,” p. 52) in cold water the night before they are wanted for use. Put them into a saucepan with the bacon, vegetables, cloves, herbs, and water. Let them boil for two or three hours until quite soft. Strain the liquid from them into a basin; rub the lentils, etc., through a wire sieve; put them back into the pan with sufficient ofFISH CHAP. Ill 59 the liquor in which they have been boiled, to make a thick sauce. Purees of haricot beans and split peas may be made from this recipe. A small quantity of crumbled bread soaked in stock or water, rubbed with the vegetables through the sieve, is an improvement. Carrots, celery, beans, and many other vegetables make good purges. CHAPTER III FISH All fish should be eaten fresh (see “ To Choose Fish,*' p. 28), but mackerel and herrings cannot be too fresh. In order to boil fish well, a fish kettle furnished with a drainer is necessary; if an ordinary saucepan is used, a small drainer can now be obtained which fits into a saucepan and is useful for cooking a small quantity of fish. Before beginning to cook fish, see that it is thoroughly clean, and that no blood has collected near the bone. Do not wash the fish, but wipe it well with a clean damp cloth, both inside and out. A little salt rubbed on will remove the black skin from the inside of haddocks and other fish. The rules given for boiling fish (see “ To Boil Fish ”) will enable the cook to prepare any kind of fish, salmon, cod, mackerel, brill, turbot, whiting, etc. Recipes for sauces will be found at p. 124. To Boil Fish The fish, after being well cleaned, should be put60 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK into a pan or fish kettle with cold water, of which there should be sufficient to cover it completely. Salt, in the proportion of 1 oz. of salt to each quart of water, is added, and for flat fish, such as brill, a little vinegar; this makes the flesh firmer. Fish must never be allowed to boil fast; it must be boiled gently, or it is liable to break. The scum, which rises to the surface of the water while the fish is cooking, should be carefully removed. When done, the flesh separates easily from the bone. Allow eight or ten minutes to the pound after the water begins to boil, and if the fish is thick, ten minutes over. As soon as the fish is sufficiently cooked, it should be taken from the water and placed on a drainer. It should never be allowed to remain in the water after it is done, but if not wanted immediately, should be kept hot by covering it with a cloth and placing it on a dish over hot water. Slices of fish must be rubbed with salt and put into boiling water, then allowed to simmer gently. To Fry Fish Clean and dry the fish well. Break an egg on to a plate, beat it slightly, dip the fish into this, put some bread crumbs (see “Bread Crumbs,” p. 133) on a sheet of kitchen paper, and toss the egged fish in them, shake off the loose crumbs, and fry the fish (see “General Directions for Frying,” p. 39) in very hot clarified fat, a golden brown colour. To Bake Fish Haddock, mackerel, small codfish, etc., well cleaned, are filled with veal stuffing or other forcemeat, then sewn up with a large needle and fine string, put in a baking tin with butter or dripping, and baked iu the oven.01 FISH CHAP. Ill Filleted Sole Skin the sole by making an incision at the tail, passing the finger between the skin and the fish along the fin. Divide the sole into four fillets. Cut the fish from the bone as neatly as possible. Flatten the fillets with a knife dipped in cold water, and cut the fins off with a pair of scissors. Roll the fillets over the fingers with the side that was next the bone out- wards. Place the fillets in a buttered baking tin, squeeze lemon juice over them, add salt, cover with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for ten minutes; serve with parsley and butter sauce poured over them. These fillets can be filled with shrimp panada. Mackerel a l’Envers 1 Mackerel 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs J Teaspoonful Powdered Herbs 1 Small Sprig of Parsley Small Piece Onion Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt, Cayenne Cut off the head of the mackerel, and clean the fish without cutting the front. Split the fish up the back, and take out the backbone. Put the roe aside. Wash the mackerel in cold water, removing the black skin inside by rubbing it with salt. Dry the fish thoroughly, and lay it in a buttered tin with the skin side down- ward. Chop a small sprig of parsley very fine, powder the sweet herbs, mince the onion, and mix with the bread crumbs, together with a quarter of a saltspoon- ful of pepper, the same of salt, and a little cayenne and grated nutmeg. Spread the mixture on the mackerel, sprinkle some brown bread crumbs over (see “ Cliape- lure,” p. 133), put small pieces of butter on the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. A few mushrooms chopped with the parsley and onions are a great improvement to the dish. Bake the roe, and serve with the fish.PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 62 Broiled Mackerel Split the fish up the back, clean and wipe, but do not wash it. Lay it flat on the gridiron, and broil according to the “ General Directions ” (p. 36). When cooked, lay it on a hot dish, put a small piece of butter on it, and a sprinkle of pepper and salt. Serve very hot. Any fish may be broiled in this way. Clean and skin the haddock, cut the flesh down close to the bone. Lay it flat on a board, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put a piece of butter on it. Fold it over. Bake in a buttered1 tin for about ten minutes, with pieces of butter over it, and a buttered paper laid over. Serve with white sauce poured over it. Put a sprig of parsley, the piece of onion, and about a quarter of the rind of the lemon with the spices and salt into a stewpan. Wash and dry the fish and place it in the stewpan with cream, or milk enough to nearly cover it. Put on the lid, and let the fish simmer gently for about quarter of an hour. Mis the flour to a paste with a little cold milk. When the fish is sufficiently cooked, take it from the pan, and keep it hot. Add the flour to the cream or milk in which the cod has been cooked. Let it boil up, stir- ring the flour in. Add pepper and salt if required. Beat up the yolk of the egg in a basin, pour the sauce to the egg, stirring carefully all the time. Straiu and pour over the cod. Haddock Filleted and Baked Cod a la Creme 2 Slices of Cod (about 1 lb.) Cream or Milk J Lemon 1 Egg Small Piece of Mace Parsley Small Piece Onion 2 Cloves 1 Teaspoonful Flour 1 Saltspoonful of Salt 1 Fat may be used instead of butter.CHAP. Ill 63 FISH Haddock Stuffed and Baked 1 Haddock 2£ oz. Bread Crumbs 1 “Dessertspoonful Chopped Parsley £ Teaspoon ful Salt 1 Dessertspoonful Chopped Onion 2 oz. Butter 1 Egg , , „ \ Teaspoonful Pepper Clean and wipe the haddock; cut off the fins. Put the crumbs into a basin, rub the butter into them, add rhe parsley, onion, salt, and pepper; mix well. Beat up the egg on a plate, and bind the mixture with it. Press the stuffing into the haddock, and sew it up with a large needle and fine string. Put the fish into a buttered baking tin, dust a little flour over, and put some pieces of dripping on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. The haddock may be egged over and rolled in bread crumbs before being baked. Serve with a thickened gravy. Baked Herrings 6 Fresh Herrings 1 Gill Vinegar | ,, Water 1 Blade Mace 10 or 12 Peppercorns 1 Bay Leaf 4 Cloves ^ Teaspoonful Salt Cleanse and dry the herrings carefully, taking care to remove any loose scales by passing the herrings through a coarse cloth; cut off the heads, fins, and tails. Cut, from the opening already made for cleaning, down to the tail end. Lay them on their backs, remove the bones, sprinkle the salt and a little pepper over them; roll them up, beginning at the tail end. Place them in a pie dish just large enough to hold them, with the spices and bay leaf; pour the vinegar and w'ater over them’; there should be just enough to cover them. Bake in the oven for three-quarters of an hour. The herrings may be filled with a little chopped64 PART 11 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK onion mixed with bread crumbs, and a small piece of butter before they are rolled. Chop the meat of the lobster rather fine; if there is any coral, pound it with 1 oz. of butter, and press it through a sieve; add it to the sauce. Put the butter into a saucepan; let it melt; add the flour, stir it smooth, but do not let it brown. Add a quarter of a pint of cold water gradually, stirring all the time, till the sauce boils; take it from the fire, add the coral, pepper, and salt, and if cream is used, a tablespoonful of cream. Mix the chopped lobster with the sauce, spread it on a plate to cool, before making it into cutlets. Break an egg on to a plate, beat it slightly with a knife. When the lobster is cool, take a small quantity and shape it as much like a cutlet as possible, on a lightly floured board. Put some very fine bread crumbs into a sheet of kitchen paper; dip each cutlet into the egg, covering it well over; put the egged cutlet into the crumbs, toss them well over it; shake off any loose crumbs, and press a knife over the cutlets to press the crumbs well down before frying. Have ready a pan of boiling fat,1 put the cutlets into the frying basket, plunge it in the fat, and fry a golden brown. Take out the cutlets, put them on kitchen paper to drain ; take pieces of the antennae (feelers) of the lobster and stick a piece into each cutlet to imitate a bone. Milk can be used instead of water for the sauce. Lobster Cutlets 1 Lobster 1 oz. Butter 1 „ Flour 1 Egg ; J Pint Milk or Water 3 Tablespoon fuls Bread Crumbs Pepper and Salt Crab Cutlets Pick out the meat; make a sauce as for the lobster 1 See page 39.65 CHAP. Ill FISH cutlets; mix the meat of the crab in it; form into cutlets when cool; egg and bread crumb over; fry as above. Kedgeree J lb. Boiled Fish | „ Rice 2 oz. Butter 2 Eggs £ Teaspoonful Salt Cayenne Pepper Wash and boil the rice (see “ To Boil Rice,” p. 139); boil the eggs very hard (see “To Boil Eggs Hard,”p. 139); break the fish into pieces, carefully taking out the bones. Cut the whites of the eggs into small square pieces. Melt the butter iu a saucepan; put in the rice, white of eggs, fish, cayenne, and salt. Mix them well to- gether, and serve on a hot dish; sprinkle the yolks of the eggs over it. Cornwall and Devon Fish Pie 1 lb. Fish \ „ Fat Pork Pepper 1 Teaspoonful Chopped Parsley 2 Tablespoonfuls Cold Water Salt Mince the pork, and cut the fish into small pieces; put alternate layers of pork and fish, seasoning each layer with parsley, salt, and pepper until the dish is full; pour in the water, cover with a suet crust, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Salt pork will do as well as fresh, but the salt must be omitted in that case (see “Suet Crust,” p. 154). Fish fried in Batter Make a batter as directed for “Apple Fritters,” p. 1C8. Cut the fish into neat pieces, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, dip each piece into the batter, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. F66 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II Fish Cakes \ lb. Cooked Fish \ „ Cold Potatoes | „ Bread Crumbs ^ oz. Butter | Teaspoonful Chopped Parsley i .. Pepper i ,, Salt. Cayenne Remove the skin and the bones from the fish; break the fish up into small pieces ; put the cold potatoes into a bowl; mash them very fine; melt the butter, and add it to the potatoes; mix in the bread crumbs, fish, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Break the egg, separating the white from the yolk. Add the white to the fish, mixing it well in; take a small quantity of the mixture, form it into a cake on a floured board, using a knife dipped in flour to shape it. When all the fish is made into small cakes, egg each over with the yolk of the egg, put sonle bread crumbs on a sheet of kitchen paper, toss the cakes in it, and fry a golden brown in very hot fat. Serve with fried parsley. Scalloped Fish, No. 1 Remains of Cold Fish J oz. Butter | „ Flour 1 Gill Milk (cold) 2 Tablespoon fuls Bread Crumbs 1 Small Pinch Powdered Mace J Teaspoonful Salt i ,, Pepper Melt the butter in a pan ; stir in the flour; add the milk gradually with the mace, salt, and pepper; let the sauce boil, stirring well all the time. Break up the fish into flakes; add it to the sauce, but do not let it boil. Butter a dish or scallop tins ; line with bread crumbs; put in the fish; cover with bread crumbs ; pour a little hot butter over, and brown in the oven or before the fire. Scalloped Fish, No. 2 Cold Fish I 1 Teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce 1 Egg | A little MilkFISH 67 CHAP. Ill 1 Pinch Powdered Mace Bread Crumbs 1 Tablespoonful Flour Pepper and Salt Mix the egg with a few spoonfuls of milk, according to the quantity of fish; pick the fish from the bones carefully, and remove any skin; add the seasoning, flour, and sauce; moisten with the egg and milk. Line a deep dish with bread crumbs; put the mixture in, cover with crumbs, put a little butter over, and brown in the oven or before the fire. Scalloped Oysters, No. 1 2 Dozen Oysters 1 oz. Butter 1 „ Flour 2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk or Cream 2 Tablespoonfuls White Stock Pepper Bread Crumbs Salt Scald1 the oysters in their own liquor ; take them out and let them drain; remove the beards; strain the liquor free from grit. Put the butter into a pan; let it melt, then stir in the flour smoothly; add the stock, milk, and the liquor from the oysters, with the pepper and salt; let the sauce boil. Put in the oysters; let them get hot, but do not let them boil, or they will be tough. Line scallop tins with bread crumbs, as for scalloped fish; put in the oysters, cover with bread crumbs, and pour oiled butter over. Put the tins in the oven or before the fire to brown. The colour should be a deep golden brown. Scalloped Oysters, No. 2 Prepare the oysters as in the previous recipe; put them into the scallop tins or a dish with alternate layers of bread crumbs and oysters until the dish is filled. Brown as directed. Mussels and cockles may be scalloped in this way. These must be boiled before they can be taken from 1 See p. 42, “Scalding Milk.”PAET II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 68 their shells. Be very careful to remove the weed that adheres to the mussels before using them (see “ To Boil Mussels ”). Crab Pie 1 Crab 1 Hard-boiled Egg 1 Tablespoonful Vinegar 1 „ Salad Oil Half a Lemon 1 Teaspoonful Mixed Mustard 1 oz. Butter 1 Tablespoon ful Chopped Parsley 3 oz. Bread Crumbs Chili Vinegar or Tarragon to taste Cayenne, Salt, to taste Pick out the meat of the crab carefully; grate the rind of the lemon; mix the yolk of the egg with the vinegar, oil, and flavourings; melt the butter; add it with the parsley and lemon rind to the rest; mix in the picked crab and the bread crumbs. Clean the shell of the crab ; put in the mixture ; put it before the fire to get hot and to brown. Serve cold. Dressed Crab 1 Crab 2 Tablespoonfuls Vinegar 1 Tablespoonful Salad Oil 1 Teaspoonful Mixed Mustard Cayenne Pepper Salt Carefully pick out the meat of the crab; mix the meat well with the vinegar and other ingredients. Wipe the shell, and put the mixed crab back iuto it. To Boil Mussels The mussels should be put into clean water and well washed ; the water should be changed two or three times. Put the mussels into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, let them get hot, shaking the pan occasionally. As soon as the mussels open, take the pan from the fire. The weed which will be found on each mussel must be removed before eating. Cockles are boiled in the same way as mussels.MEAT CHAr. IV 69 Pickled Mackerel 1 Large Mackerel 1 Gill Water 1 „ Vinegar 1 Bay Leaf 6 Peppercorns 1 Blade Mace 2 Cloves Salt Boil the mackerel (see “To Boil Fish,” p. 59); put the vinegar, bay leaf, and spices into a lined saucepan; let them boil for ten minutes; put the mackerel into a pie dish, and pour the pickle, when boiling, over it. Mackerel can be baked in the oven as directed for herrings (see “Baked Herrings,” p. 63). Put the fish to soak in cold water the night before it is used, with a few spoonfuls of vinegar. Put it into the fish kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come to the boil very gradually. Then let it simmer for about fifteen minutes. Serve with egg sauce. Cook according to “General Directions for Roasting,” p. 34. Garnish with scraped horse-radish, arranged in heaps round the dish; serve Yorkshire pudding (see p. 170) with the roast. A sauce made with grated horse-radish (see “Horse-radish Sauce,” p. 127) is the proper accompaniment to roast beef. Rolled Ribs of Beef With a sharp pointed knife remove the bones (using them for stock or gravy), roll the beef, beginning at Salt Fish CHAPTER IV MEAT Roast BeefMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 70 PART II the thick end. Fasten it together with skewers, and bind a broad piece of tape round it, to keep it in shape. Roast according to “ General Directions, ”p. 34. Remove the skewers and tape before serving. Boiled Beef If the beef has been long in pickle, soak it in water for a few hours. Wash it clean, and skewer it well together, if it is part of the rump, in a round shape, keeping the skewers in their places with tape. Boil the meat according to “ General Directions for Boiling,” p. 37, paying careful attention to the direc- tions for removing the scum. Turnips and carrots (cut into halves if they are large) and suet dumplings are served on the dish round the meat, with a little of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled. Boil the vegetables with the meat, and put in the dumplings about an hour before the meat is ready. If the dump- lings are large, a longer time is necessary to cook them. Remove the skewers before serving. Stewed Beef 3 lbs. Stewing Beef 3 Carrots 3 Turnips 1 Bunch Sweet Herbs 2 Onions 4 Cloves 1 oz. Flour 6 Peppercorns Cut the vegetables into dice; put them with the meat into a stewpan just large enough to hold the meat and vegetables easily; add the herbs, cloves, pepper- corns, and half a teaspoonful of salt; pour in sufficient cold water to cover the meat. Put the lid on the pan, and let the beef simmer gently for about two hours. When cooked, take the meat from the pan, set it aside to keep hot; remove the herbs ; put the flour into a basin, and rub it to a smooth paste with a little cold71 CHAP. IV MEAT water. Add this to the vegetables and gravy in the pan with a little browning (see “Browning,” p. 135), and let it boil, stirring to prevent the gravy from burning. Put the meat in the middle of a dish, arrange the vegetables in small heaps round it, and pour the gravy carefully round the meat. Same Dish cooked in the Oven Put the meat and vegetables, etc., into a stone jar, cover closely, and let it stew gently in the oven for two hours. Thicken the gravy as above. Haricot beans arranged round the dish are an improvement (see “Haricot Beans,” p. 120). Exeter Stew 1 lb. Steak or Gravy Beef 1 oz. Dripping 1 Onion 1 Teaspoonful Salt 1 Tablespoonful Flour 1 ,, Vinegar 1 Pint Cold Water Pepper Cut the meat into slices; roll them in the flour; melt the dripping in a stewpan; cut the onion into slices, and fry it in the stewpan with the meat, a good brown colour. Add the water and other ingredients. Let the meat stew gently for two hours. Serve with the balls given below. Balls for Exeter Stew 1 lb. Flour 2 Tablespoonfuls Chopped Suet 1 Small Onion 1 Sprig Parsley \ Teaspoonful Pepper Chop the onion fine; mix the flour and baking powder well together; add the suet, chopped onion, herbs, and seasoning. Mix into a paste with a little water, and form it into balls. Put these into the stew, an hour before it is ready. \ Teaspoonful Baking Powder i ,, Mixed Thyme and Marjoram J Teaspoonful Salt W aterPART II 72 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Beef OliveB 1 lb. Steak (cut thin) 1 Egg 3 Tablespoon fills Bread Crumbs 2 Teaspoonfuls Worcester Sauce i Teaspoonful Salt 1 oz. 1 Tablespoonful Minced Herbs 2 oz. Bacon J „ Flour h Pint Stock or Water J Teaspoon ful Pepper Dripping Flatten the steak; cut it into strips about three inches wide. Mince the bacon, which should not have much lean. Mix it with the bread crumbs, herbs, salt, and pepper. Beat up the egg ; stir it into the mixture ; spread some of the seasoning on each strip of beef. Roll the pieces up, and tie each with a piece of fine string. Dip the rolls into flour ; melt the dripping and brown the rolls in it; then add the stock or water, cover the pan, and let the olives simmer for about an hour. When cooked, take them from the pan •, mix the flour with a little cold water or stock; stir it with a quarter teaspoonful of browning into the gravy. Let it boil for two or three minutes, then add the Worcester sauce. Remove the string from the olives, arrange them on a dish, and pour the gravy round them. Yeal seasoning can be used to fill them, if preferred; or an onion chopped fine can be added to the seasoning given here. Grilled Steak Have a clear fire; butter the gridiron ; heat it well. Put the steak on it, and turn it frequently with steak tongs for about twelve minutes. Place it in a hot dish, with a piece of butter on the top, pepper, and a tablespoonful of ketchup and one of Harvey sauce. A chop is grilled in the same way, omitting the sauce (see “ General Directions,” p. 3G).MEAT CHAP. IV 73 Beef Steak Pudding Suet Crust, p. 154 1 lb. Steak 2 Sheep’s Kidneys 4 oz. Flour | Teaspoonful Salt I ,, Pepper Line a pudding basin neatly with suet crust, rolled out to the thickness of a little over a quarter of an inch ; cut off the paste round the rim of the basin ; roll out the pieces to a size a little larger than the top of the basin, to form a cover. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together in a plate; cut the meat slantwise into slices ; dip each slice into the flour on the plate; cut the fat of the steak into small pieces; lay a piece on each slice of meat; roll the meat up, and lay it lightly in the lined pudding basin. Cut the kidney into small pieces, dip them in the flour, and add them to the meat. Pour two tablespoonfuls of water over the meat. Wet the edge of the paste; put the cover on; press the edges of the paste together so as to close them well. Dip a pudding cloth into boiling water, press the water out, and flour the middle of the cloth. Put this part over the pudding; tie the cloth round the basin below the rim with a piece of string; gather up the corners of the cloth and tie them together on the top of the pudding. Plunge the basin into boiling water; let it boil for two hours. When the pudding is ready, take it from the pan; remove the cloth; let the pudding stand for a minute or two, then give the basin a shake to loosen the pudding; turn it out on to a hot dish. Have, ready a little hot stock (see “ Stockpot,” p. 45), pour it round the dish, and serve the pudding. If liked, a little chopped onion, two or three cloves, or a small quantity of thyme can be added to the meat before the cover of the pudding is put on. Mush- rooms are a great improvement to the flavour. The kidney can be left out, or beef kidney used instead.PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 74 Beef Steak Pie 1 lb. Beef Steak $ ,, Beef Kidney Flour h oz Rough Puff Paste, p. £ Teaspoonful Salt Pepper 140 3 Tablespoonfuls Water or Stock Cut the steak in slices slantwise, dip each piece in flour, pepper, and salt; cut the kidney in small pieces, put a piece of it with a small piece of fat on each slice of meat, and roll the meat round it. Put the meat in a pie dish ; add the water ; slightly wet the edge of the dish; line it with strips of paste cut the width of the edge ; roll out the paste for the cover, a little larger than the dish; lay it on the dish, pressing the edges firmly together. With a sharp knife pare off the paste neatly round the edge of the dish • notch the edge of the paste with a knife, make a hole in the middle, and bake for an hour in a hot oven (see “Baking,” p. 40). The flavour of the pie can be varied according to taste, by adding a little chopped onion, sweet herbs, a clove or two, or a few oysters or mushrooms. Stewed Ox Tail Ox Tail 1 Onion 2 Cloves 1 Dessertspoonful Lemon Juice Water ; 2 oz. Butter 10 or 12 Peppercorns 1 Blade Mace 1 Small Bunch Sweet Herbs h oz. Flour1 £ Teaspoon ful Salt Cut the tail into joints; wash the pieces in cold water. Put them into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onion; put the pan on the fire, and heat it suffi- ciently to brown the tail; add the water and seasonings and let the whole simmer gently for two and a half hours. When done, take tho pieces of tail from the pan; thicken the gravy with the flour mixed to a smooth pasto with cold water and a little browning ; 1 See note. p. 48.MEAT 75 CHAP. IV let it boil for a few minutes; put the pieces of tail on a dish, strain the gravy over, adding the lemon juice just before straining. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread, and slices of lemon cut into halves. Cook according to “General Directions for Roasting,” p. 34. Mint sauce (see p. 128) should be served with roast lamb. If the joint is a forequarter, have a hot dish at hand, ready for the shoulder, when the carver has divided the joint. Put the bacon into a stewpan with the onion (into which two or three cloves may be stuck if the flavour is liked), the peppercorns, herbs, sugar, and salt. Put in the lamb; pour over sufficient water or weak stock to cover it. Let it simmer gently for an hour or an hour and a half. Boil a pint of green peas (see “Peas,” p. 121). When the lamb is ready, take it from the pan, remove the onion and herbs from the gravy, add the peas, put the meat on a dish, and pour the gravy and peas round it. If the peas are boiled with the meat, they lose their green colour. This dish may be varied by using rice instead of peas. Take the best end of the neck with the bones not cracked. Saw off the flat bone at the end, and divide the neck into cutlets. Cut off most of the fat, and all the skin ; scrape the bone at the top of each cutlet quite Roast Lamb Stewed Lamb 2 lbs. of Breast of Lamb 3 Slices of Bacon 1 Onion Water or Stock Bunch of Sweet Herbs 10 Peppercorns 1 Teaspoonful Castor Sugar i ,, Salt Lamb CutletsPART II 76 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK clean for about half an inch. Dip a broad knife into cold water, and flatten the cutlets into a nice shape. Break an egg on to a plate, mix it slightly with a knife, adding a pinch of salt and one of pepper (see p. 134). Put some bread crumbs into a sheet of kitchen paper, dip the cutlets in the egg, toss them in the crumbs, shake off the loose crumbs, and fry the cutlets a golden brown colour in clarified fat (see “ General Directions for Frying,” p. 39). Serve with mashed potatoes or peas, spinach, or French beans, heaped in the middle of a dish with the cutlets arranged round. Lamb’s Fry- Wipe the pieces of fry with a clean coarse cloth, egg each piece over as directed for cutlets, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in clarified fat. Serve with fried parsley (see p. 138) and slices of lemon put round the dish. If gravy is required, thicken a small quantity of stock or water with J oz. of flour rubbed into a smooth paste with \ oz. butter. When the gravy boils, add a small quantity of browning, pepper, and salt; pour it carefully round the fry. Bashers of bacon are sometimes served with this dish. Roast Mutton Cook according to “ General Directions for Boasting,” p. 34. Bed currant jelly is generally eaten with roast mutton. With shoulder of mutton onion sauce (p. 125) is usually served. Loin or Neck of Mutton Before beginning to cook either of these joints, see that the bones at the thick end of the chops are divided, so that the meat can be helped without difficulty. This is generally done by the butcher, but the cook should beMEAT CIJAP. IV 77 careful to ascertain that it lias been done, before the meat is cooked, as few tilings are more trying to the temper of the carver than to find that the meat has not been jointed before being sent to table. Both the loin and the best end of the neck are often very fat; much of this should be cut away and used for clarified fat (see “Clarified Fat,” p. 132). Mutton Cutlets Cook as directed for “Lamb Cutlets,” p. 75. Serve with the same vegetables, or with potato chips (see p. 113). See also “Sauce Piquante,” p. 126. Broiled Mutton Chops See “ To Broil,” p. 36. Tomatoes cooked in various ways may be served with chops, as a purde round the meat, or baked and sent to table in a separate dish, or as a sauce (see p. 123). For Chops a la Maitre d’Hotel, mix 1 oz. of butter with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of pepper, one of salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. When well mixed, lay pieces on the chops. See that both the dish and chops are very hot. Mutton Boned and Stuffed Take a shoulder of mutton, make a cut along the fleshy side in the direction of the bone. Turn back the flesh and remove the bone, but in cutting be careful not to cut through the skin. Fill up the space from which the bone is removed with the stuffing, and sew up. Roast as directed, p. 34, or bake in the oven (see “To Bake,” p. 40). It lb. Bread Crumbs 3 oz. Suet 2 Eggs Stuffing 2 Tablespoon fills Chopped Parsley Orated Kind of a Lemon Juice of a LemonMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 78 Season the meat well with pepper and salt in the space where the bone was removed, before putting in the stuffing. Chop the suet fine; mix it in a basin with the bread crumbs, parsley, grated lemon rind, and the juice of the lemon. Beat up the eggs, add them to the mixture, and stuff the meat according to the direc- tions given above. Boil according to “ General Directions,” p. 37. Serve with caper sauce (see “Sauces,” p. 125), boiled turnips, and carrots (see “Vegetables,” p. 113), either sent to table round the meat, or mashed and served separately. For the loin or neck, see p. 76. Trim the chops to a nice shape, cutting away most of the fat; put the butter into a stewpan, let it get hot, put in the chops, and let them fry a light brown colour but not cook thoroughly. Pare and slice the vegetables (see pp. 33, 34) or cut them iuto dice; add them to the meat; let them fry till slightly brown. When fried, add sufficient cold w-ater to cover or nearly cover the chops; put in the salt, pepper, herbs, and bay leaf; cover the pan closely; let all simmer slowly for one hour and three-quarters. Add a dessertspoonful of ketchup or Worcester sauce to the gravy just before serving the meat. Put the chops on a dish, take out the herbs and bay leaf, pour the gravy, and arrange the vegetables neatly over the meat. Boiled Mutton Haricot Mutton 2 lbs. Chops from the Neck 1J oz. Butter 2 Carrots 2 Turnips Water or Stock 1 Small Onion 1 Bunch Sweet Herbs 1 Bay Leaf | Teaspoonful Salt I >> PepperCHAP. IV MEAT 79 Cutlets a l’Ecole 4 or 5 Cutlets or thin Chops 1 lb. Potatoes 1 Carrot "Water 1 Turnip 2 Eggs | Teaspoonful Salt I Pepper Cut the fat from the cutlets ; sprinkle them well with pepper and salt; put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to nearly cover them. Cleanse and peel the carrot and turnip; cut them into shapes with vegetable cutters, or shape them into small balls; put them into a saucepan to boil. Add the pieces left from shaping the vegetables, to the cutlets ; put the pan on the fire, and let the cutlets cook slowly for twenty minutes, turning them once during that time. Peel and boil the potatoes; when cooked, mash them quite smooth; add pepper aud salt • drop in the yolks of the eggs; put the pan on the fire; stir till the mashed potatoes are dry and firm. Slightly flour a paste board ; take a small quantity of the potato; roll it in flour, and flatten it out. Take a cutlet from the pan, place it on the flattened piece of potato, fold the potato over the cutlet, so as to cover it completely. Cover each cutlet in the same way. Slightly flour a baking tin, lay the cutlets in it, brush them over with a little milk or white of egg, and put them into the oven to brown. Put the vegetables in the middle of a dish, place the cutlets round, and pour round them a sauce made as directed below. Sauce for Cutlets 1 oz. Butter h ,i Flour 1£ Gill of the Water in which the Cutlets were boiled 1 Teaspoonful Mushroom Ketchup 1 ,, Worcester Sauce i „ Salt £ ,, Popper Strain the water in which the cutlets were boiled ; put the butter into a pan; when melted, stir in the80 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II flour till smooth ; add the water; stir till the sauce boils j then add the ketchup, Worcester sauce, pepper, and salt. Let the sauce boil for two minutes. Irish Stew 2 lbs. Chops from the Neck 2J lbs. Potatoes 3 Onions 1 Pint warm Water £ Teaspoonful Salt | „ Pepper Pare the potatoes, cut them in halves, and parboil them. Scald the onions ; cut them in slices. Cut some of the fat from the chops; put them into a pan -with the potatoes and onions—first a layer of potatoes, then a layer of meat and onion, seasoned with pepper and salt, then potatoes, then meat, etc., till all are in. Add the water; cover the pan closely; let the stew simmer for two hours. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent burning. Devonshire Pork Pie li- lb. of Griskin 3 Apples 1 Onion ^ Teaspoonful Salt | ,, Pepper Rough Puff Paste, p. 149 Cut the meat into pieces; pare and core the apples ; cut them into slices; slice the onion. Put alternate layers of apple, meat, and onion, till the dish is filled; season with pepper and salt; add three tablespoonfuls of water; cover with rough puff paste; and bake for one hour and a quarter. Mutton can be used instead of pork. Roast Pork Score the skin with a knife; roast according to “General Directions for Roasting,” p. 3L Be very careful that the meat is thoroughly done before it is sent to table; underdone pork is unwholesome as well as disagreeable. The joint may be stuffed with a seasoning of sage and onion (see p. 85), or the sameMEAT 81 CHAP. IV seasoning sent to table in a sauce tureen. Apple sauce (see p. 129) should be served with roast pork. Boiled Pork If the pork is much salted, let it soak in cold water for two hours. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it boil very slowly till tender ; allow a little over half an hour for each pound, from the time the water begins to boil. To Boil a Ham If the ham is very salt and dry, soak it in warm water for twenty-four hours; if not salt, twelve hours are sufficient. Put the ham into a large pan, cover it well with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim well and let it simmer gently till tender. A ham weighing 10 lbs. will take about four hours to cook. When ready, peel off the rind, and dredge over with sifted bread crumbs (see “Chapelure,” p. 133). Bacon is boiled in the same way. Roast Fillet of Veal Take out the bone, and fill up the space with the forcemeat given below. Keep the meat in shape by a tape passed round it. Roast according to “General Directions for Roasting,” p. 34. Veal should be cooked very thoroughly. Serve with a thickened gravy * into which a little browning should be stirred. Slices M lemon are usually placed round the dish. Rolled ^ashers of bacon or sausages are also served with roast Forcemeat for Veal i lb. Bread Crumbs 3 07.. Suet 1 Teaspoonful Chopped Parsley 1 Teaspoon ful Minced Herbs 1 Lemon J 1 Egg Chop the suet very fine, mix it with the bread crumbs 1 Or Melted Butter Sauce, p. 124. O82 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii chopped parsley, and herbs; grate the rind of half t e lemon; add pepper and salt; break the egg, beat it up, and bind the seasoning with it. Skewer a piece of buttered paper over the seasoning to keep it in its place. Another egg added to the mixture will make it richer. Stewed Knuckle of Veal 1 Teaspoonful Salt i „ Pepper | lb. Rice 1 Carrot 4 lbs. Knuckle of Yeal 1 Onion 2 Blades Mace 2 Turnips Break the shank bone; put the veal into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come gently to the boil; throw in the salt, and skim carefully. Pare the vegetables; cut them in halves; when the scum ceases to rise from the meat, add them with t.i mace and pepper to the veal. Cover the pan,, and. e the meat simmer gently for one hour; at the e£d °f 1 time, take out the carrot and turnips V ash the rice well (see “Rice,” p. 42); add it to the let it simmer for one hour longer. When cooked, put the meat on a dish; pour the rice and gravy over. Serve with boiled bacon. Macaroni may be used i^tead o rice • it should be boiled for half an hour before being added to the veal, as it requires a longer time to cook. Veal may be stewed without the rice, and sen t white sauce poured over, or parsley and butter sauce (see “ fauces ” U 124). The bone and gristle left from the Should be used with the vegetables for stock. A good way of using the remains of cold knuckle of - is given on p. 110. Veal Cutlets The cutlets should he about ttoee^uartere of an ind. thick. Cut and flatten them in nice shape. Dip themCHAP. IT 83 MEAT iii egg and bread crumbs (see “ To Prepare Cutlets,” p. 134), and fry a golden brown in clarified fat. Pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and one of minced thyme may be mixed with the bread crumbs. Serve with rashers of bacon rolled and fried, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon cut in halves. 1 oz. Butter h „ Flour Gill Cold Milk or Stock Sauce for Cutlets Salt Pepper 1 Small Teaspoonful Lemon Juice Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour ■ add gradually the milk or stock, pepper, and salt; let the sauce boil for two or three minutes, stirring all the time; colour it with a little browning. If the sauce is too thick, add more milk or stock. Put in the lemon juice just before straining the sauce round the cutlets. Boiled Calf’s Head Calf’s Head I 1 Teaspoonful Salt 1 oz. Butter | 1 „ Lemon Juice i leaspoonful Pepper The head should be split in two; this is usually done by the butcher before the head is sent home. See that it has been thoroughly cleansed. Take out the brains and the tongue; wash the head and lay it in warm water to blanch Soak the brains in wim water for one hour Put the head into a large pan with sufficient fii ? C°Ver ifc comIjletely; place it over the fire, and let it come to the boil. Throw in the salt • kim carefully as the scum rises; draw the pan to one ide and let the head simmer gently for an hour and Ha fl lmL 7gem a,cco"d^g t0 thc size of the head. s head should be boiled until perfectly tender; if the skin has been left on, the time allowed for cook nu muSt be at least two hours. Tie the brains in a piecf84 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK paut n of muslin ; put them, with the tongue, into the pan with the head, after the water has boiled. The tongue will take about an hour, the brains about three-quarters of an hour to cook. When boiled, chop the. brains, mix them with the butter, pepper, and lemon juice, add a little salt; skin the tongue, put it m the middle of a dish, arrange the brains round it, and serve with the head. Place the head on a dish ; pour parsley and butter sauce (see p. 124) over it; garnish with slices of lemon cut into halves. Boiled pork or bacon should be sent to table with calf’s head. The liquor should be saved for soup; the bones from the head boiled m it, with a few vegetables, will make a good soup. Veal Pie A Pinch of Powdered Mace J Teaspoonful Pepper 14 Gill Stock or Water Rough Puff Paste, p. 149 14 lb. Veal 3 "Slices of Bacon or Ham 1 Teaspoonful Minced Herbs 4 ,, Chopped Parsley Cut the veal into nice pieces ; put them into a pie dish with the bacon cut in pieces, the herbs sprinkled over, the seasoning, and water or stock. Cover the dish with the paste, and bake for an hour in a quick oven The bacon or ham should be partly cooked before •t is' put into the pie, as the salt used in curing it is aot to S™ the veal a red colour. It the p.e is to be eaten c°old, add a hard-boiled egg cut into shoes before the crust is put 011.POULTRY 85 CHAP. V CHAPTER V POULTRY Roast Fowl When the fowl has been properly trussed (see “To Truss a Fowl for Roasting,” p. 135), put it to roast before a bright fire for three-quarters of an hour. Baste it well with good dripping; about a quarter of an hour before it is done dredge a little flour over it, as for roast meat (see p. 35). Serve with bread sauce (see “ Sauces,” p. 127) and sausages or bacon. A large fowl will take an hour to roast. Stuffed Fowl Make a forcemeat as directed for “ Roast Veal,” p. 81, and fill the breast of the fowl with it. Roast as above. Boiled Fowl Butter a piece of kitchen paper and fold the fowl in it. Put the fowl into a saucepan, and cover it well with boiling water; add one teaspoonful of salt; boil slowly for an hour, or an hour and a half, according to the age of the fowl. Take it from the pan without pricking it with a fork ; remove the paper ; let the fowl stand for a minute or two ; place it on a dish, and cover with egg sauce, or white sauce, or parsley and butter (see “Sauces,” pp. 124-127). Serve with boiled pork or bacon. Roast Duck 1 Duck 3 Largo Onions 7 or 8 Sago Loaves 3 oz. Bread Crumbs 14 „ Butter 1 Teaspoonful Pepper \ Teaspoonful Salt Parboil the onions ; scald the sage leaves; chop themMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 86 PART II both fine; add the butter, bread crumbs, pepper, and salt. Mix all together, stuff the duck with the mixture, and roast before a bright fire for three-quarters of an hour, or one hour, according to size. Baste well with good dripping. Less time is required for ducklings. Boil the giblets for gravy. Sew up the opening in the duck after the stuffing is put in. Serve with apple sauce. Stuff the goose with the same stuffing as for roast duck, increasing the quantity according to the size of the bii'd. Roast before a bright fire for an hour and a quarter, or longer, according to the size of the bird. A very large goose will require nearly two hours to cook. The giblets may be used for gravy, or made into a pie, or stewed. Serve with apple sauce. Clean the giblets thoroughly ; wash them ; put them into a stewpan with the onion, herbs, pepper, and salt; add the water (a little more than a pint may be required); let the giblets stew gently for an hour and a half. Cut the steak in pieces; make a crust of rough puff paste. Take the giblets from the pan ; let them cool; strain the gravy. Lay pieces of the steak in a pie dish; put a layer of giblets on them, then more steak, and so on till the dish is full; pour in the gravy ; cover with the crust; and bake for one hour. Boiled Rabbit See that the rabbit is thoroughly clean; wipe it in- side and out with a damp cloth. But it into a saucepan Roast G-oose Giblets 1 lb. Steak 1 Onion 1 Pint Water G-iblet Pie Bunch of Sweet Herbs J Teaspoonful Whole Black Pepper Is Teaspoonful Salt87 CHAP. V POULTRY of hot water, sufficient to cover it thoroughly; add a little salt; let it boil gently for half an hour if the rabbit is small, or longer, according to the size. A large rabbit will take an hour. Remove any scum that rises on the water. Serve with onion sauce poured over the rabbit, or parsley and butter (see “ Sauces,” pp. 124, 125). Baked Rabbit Rabbit | Forcemeat, p. 81 Stuff the rabbit with the forcemeat; sew it well up; put it into a baking tin with some good dripping or butter. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with thickened gravy; the same as directed for “ Yeal Cutlets,” p. 83. Ragout of Rabbit Rabbit 2 Onions 4 Rashers of Fat Bacon \ Carrot J; Turnip 3 Cloves 1 oz. Flour 8 or 10 Peppercorns J Pint Water or Stock 2 Sprigs of Parsley and Thyme Cut the rabbit into neat pieces; put three of the rashers into a stewpan ; let them fry ; mix a little pepper and salt with the flour, and roll the pieces of rabbit lightly in it. Take the bacon from the pan ; fry the rabbit a nice brown, in the bacon fat, turning the pieces that each side may be coloured; cut one onion into slices, and fry it in the fat. Mix 1 oz. of flour with a little water to a smooth paste; take the rabbit from the pan ; pour away the fat; put in the flour and water ; stir till it boils, adding gradually the | pint of water or stock. When the mixture is thick, put the pieces of rabbit into the pan with the rest of the vegetables, cut in slices, the parsley and thyme tied together, the peppercorns, cloves, and the uncooked slice of bacon cut into dice. Cover the pan ; let all stew gently for an hour and a half. Put the rabbit in the middle of a dish ; pour thePART II 88 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK gravy round; take out the herbs before serving. A tablespoonful of Worcester sauce can be added to the flour and water if liked. Stewed Rabbit 1 Rabbit 2 Large Onions 5 Cloves Rind of £ Lemon 8 or 10 Peppercorns A Few Forcemeat Balls Cut the rabbit into joints; skin and scald the onions; stick the cloves into one of the onions; peel the lemon very thin. Put the rabbit into a stewpan with the onions, lemon peel, and peppercorns; pour in sufficient water to cover the rabbit; let it stew slowly for three- quarters of an hour or an hour. About a quarter of an hour before the meat is cooked, drop in a few force- meat balls (see “Forcemeat,” p. 81). Take the meat from the pan; put aside to keep hot; remove the onions from the gravy ; thicken it with b oz. of butter rubbed into | oz. of flour; let it boil; put the rabbit neatly on a dish; pour the gravy over; put the balls round. Roast Turkey Stuff the turkey with the forcemeat given for fillet of veal, increasing the quantity if necessary. Make the stuffing into a large ball; press it into the breast of the turkey through the opening at the neck ; when the forcemeat is in, fasten the skin of the neck to the back of the turkey, making the breast look as plump as possible. Fasten a piece of buttered paper over the breast; roast before a bright fire for one hour and a half for a small bird, two hours for a moderate-sized one. Baste frequently while roasting; about twenty minutes before the bird is ready take off the paper flour the turkey lightly; let the breast take a good brown colour. Serve with fried sausages round the dish,89 chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES and bread sauce in a tureen; garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Put a little good gravy in the dish with the bird, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Boiled Turkey- Stuff the turkey with the forcemeat for roast turkey; cook in the same manner as directed for boiled fowl, using a floured cloth instead of kitchen paper. Let it simmer gently for an hour and a half, or longer, accord- ing to the size. Serve with white, or oyster, or celery, or parsley sauce, according to taste; pour a little sauce over the turkey, and serve the rest in a tureen (see “Sauces,” pp. 124-131). Boiled ham or tongue is usually sent to table with boiled turkey. CHAPTER VX BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTRIES Sardines Scalloped J Tin Sardines 1 oz. Butter i „ Flour 1 Gill Milk 1 Tablespoon ful Cream Lemon Juice, Cayenne, Salt Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and add the milk. Let it boil, then add the cream ; stir in the sardines, which must be boned and skinned; put in the lemon juice, cayenne, salt. Put the mixture in a buttered scallop tin, cover with brown bread crumbs (see “ Chapel lire,” p. 133), and bake. Oxford Toast 1 Teaspoon ful Worcester Sauce 1 ,, Harvey ,, 1 ,, Anchovy ,, Mix the sauces, pepper, 1 lb. Chopped Bcof (cooked) 1 Egg Pepper and Salt to taste and salt with the finelyPART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 90 chopped beef, and stir over a slow fire till the mixture is very hot. Separate the yolk from the white of the ew • add the yolk to the chopped beef, stir all togethe and*serve on buttered toast. Never let the mixture boil. Mushrooms cooked in the Oven Wipe and peel the mushrooms, which should be lame and all much of the same size. Remove the stalk,, put a piece of butter into the centre of ^ch mushroom Lnn 1 lhtle neooer ; butter a dish or tin , put tne mushrooms on it; cover closely with another dish ; put ToL, and bake for twenty minutes or hartan hour Slip the dish on to another, and send to table as hot at possible. Save the stalks to flavour« or gravy. Mushrooms should be cooked soon after y are gathered. Broiled Mushrooms Wipe peel, and take the stalks from the mushrooms ; heat and butter the gridiron; put the mushroom^on turn them once. When done pu a ^ the centre of each, pepper, and salt ^ „ 36\ before the fire ; serve very hot (see Broilin0, p. Poached Eggs buttered toast.chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES 91 Overturned Eggs 2 Eggs J oz. Chapelnre 1 oz. Butter 2 Slices of Buttered Toast Butter two patty pans, and cover them with the chapelure (see “ Chapelure,” p. 133). Break the eggs, one at a time, into a cup, being careful not to mix the yolk and white together. Turn each egg as it is broken, gently from the cup into a patty pan, and bake them in a hot oven for a few minutes till the white is set. Turn the eggs out on to the buttered toast, and serve hot. Tomatoes and Eggs 2 Large Tomatoes I 1 oz. Butter 2 Bggs I Pepper and Salt to taste Put the tomatoes into a basin of boiling water j let them stand for two minutes, then peel them and cut into slices. Put them into a saucepan with the butter, pepper, and salt ; let them stew gently for fifteen minutes. Beat up the eggs, add them to the tomatoes, and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon over the fire till it is thick. Serve hot. Fried Eggs These are generally sent to table with fried bacon. After the rashers have been taken from the pan, break the eggs separately into a cup, slip each egg into the hot fat, and fry till the white is thoroughly set. Serve on the rashers of bacon. Mumbled Eggs \ Teaspoon fill Salt 2 Slices of Buttered Toast . butter and salt into a clean saucepan, break In. the eggs,_ and stir all together one way until the mixture begins to get solid. Care must be taken that 1 oz. ButterMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 92 the eggs do not become hard; the mixture should be the consistency of good butter. Serve on the slices of toast. Savoury Eggs 3 Eggs I 1 Dessertspoonful Minced Parsley Small Quantity Cold Ham | 1 Teaspoonful Minced Onion £ Teaspoonful Pepper Boil the eggs for ten or fifteen minutes, till they are hard; put them into cold water; remove the shells. Cut out a piece of the white neatly so that the yolk can be taken out; pound the yolk with a little cooked ham, parsley, and onion. Put the mixture into a saucepan with the pepper, a small piece of butter, and a little salt. Let it get hot; refill the whites of eggs with it, and serve. Eggs au Gratin 4 Eggs 3 oz. Grated Parmesan Cheese 1 Yolk of Egg Chapelure, p. 133 Boil the eggs hard; cut them in slices; add the cheese, mustard, pepper, and salt to the white sauce; stir in the yolk of the egg after the pan is taken from the fire.1 Put a layer of sauce on a dish, then a layer of slices of egg, then sauce, and so on till the dish is full. Cover with chapelure, heat, and serve. White Sauce, p. 12 h Teaspoonful Made Mustard I .. Pepper i ,, Salt Eggs en Suisse 4 Eggs 2 oz. Parmesan Cheeso J lb. Cheddar or any Rich Cheeso A little Grated Nutmeg J Pint Cream 1 oz. Butter Pinch of Cayenne l Teaspoonful Salt Cut the Cheddar cheese into thin slices; grate the Parmesan; spread half the butter at the bottom of a dish; lay the slices of cheese on it; sprinkle over the 1 If added while boiling, the egg will curdle.93 chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES cayenne and a little salt; add the remainder of the butter in bits on the cheese ; break the eggs separately, as for poaching; slip them on to the cheese; add the nutmeg; pour the cream gently over, taking care not to break the yolks of the eggs; sprinkle the Parmesan over with a little salt and white pepper. Put into a hot oven for ten minutes. Birds’ Nests 3 Hard-boiled Eggs 5 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 3 Teaspoonfuls Chopped Parsley 1 Raw Egg 1J oz. Butter J Teaspoonful Pepper 1 Lemon £ Teaspoonful Salt Shell the eggs; mix the bread crumbs, parsley, pepper, and salt with the grated rind of the lemon and the butter; beat up the egg; put enough of it into the bread crumbs to bind the mixture ; cover the hard- boiled eggs over with the mixture, pressing it evenly round; egg each over, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in clarified fat a golden colour. Drain the eggs on kitchen paper, cut them in halves, and serve with salad. Coddled Eggs Put new-laid eggs into a basin ; pour boiling water over them; cover closely; let them remain for ten minutes, or longer, if they are preferred well done. Tomatoes and Bacon Prepare the tomatoes as in “Tomatoes and Eggs,” p. 91. Fry as much bacon as is required ; take it from tho pan, and set aside to keep hot; put the tomatoes into the pan with a few slices of onion ; let them become soft. Beat up two eggs, add them to the tomatoes, and stir the mixture over the fire till the eggs are set. Serve on a very hot dish with the bacon round it.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 94 rART II Tomato Rarebit 1 oz. Grated Cheese 1 Large Tomato 1 Teaspoonful Ketchup 1 oz. Butter Pinch of Pepper \ Teaspoonful Salt Slice of Buttered Toast \ Teaspoonful Lemon Juice Put the butter in a small stewpan with the tomato; let the tomato cook until it is soft enough to pass through a sieve; return the pulp to the pan; add the cheese and flavourings. Stir together till the mixture is hot, but do not let it boil. Serve on buttered toast. Scalloped Tomatoes 1 Teaspoonful Pepper i „ Salt 1 „ Chopped Onion 3 Large Tomatoes 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 1 oz. Butter Cut the tomatoes into halves ; take out the pulp care- fully without breaking the skins. Put the pulp into a pan with the butter, onion, crumbs, pepper, and salt; stir over the fire till the mixture is hot. Fill the skins with the mixture; sprinkle a little chapelure over (see “ Chapelure,” p. 133); pour a few drops of hot butter on each tomato; bake in a hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. The onion may be left out if the flavour is disliked. Farce of Tomatoes Tinned tomatoes answer very well for this dish, but whether tinned or fresh, they must be skinned before being cooked. Butter a tin or pie dish ; cut the tomatoes into slices; put a layer of tomato, then a layer of fine bread crumbs mixed with pepper and salt. Proceed in this way till the dish is full; the last layer must be bread crumbs. Melt an ounce of butter; drop it over the crumbs ; bake a golden brown in a hot oven. Serve in the tin or dish in which the mixture has been cooked, slipped into an ornamental dish. Browned onions can be added if liked.95 chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES Macaroni and Tomatoes \ lb. Macaroni 1 Pint of Stock 1 oz. Flour >2 oz. Butter | Tin of Tomatoes 1 Small Onion J Teaspoonful Pepper Break the macaroni into convenient lengths ; put it into a saucepan ; cover it with hot water ; set it on the fire to boil. Let it boil for ten minutes; then strain the water from the macaroni; replace it in the pan; add the stock, a little salt, and the pepper. Let the macaroni boil gently till tender; it will take about twenty or thirty minutes. Melt the butter in a pan; slice the onion into it; fry it brown ; sprinkle the flour over, let it slightly brown; add a tablespoonful of cold water, a little salt, and pepper. Strain the liquor from the macaroni into a basin; mix it with the browned sauce ; add the tomatoes; let the sauce simmer for five minutes. Put the macaroni on a dish and pour the sauce over. Be careful to remove the skins from the tomatoes before cooking. Savoury Tomatoes 4 Large Tomatoes \ oz. Butter 1 lb. Cooked Meat 1 Hard-boiled Egg 2 Tablespoonfuls Cooked Rice J Raw Egg 1 Teaspoonful Worcester Sauce Pepper, Salt Bake the tomatoes; when nearly done, cut out a piece of the skin about the size of a halfpenny from the top ; take out some of the pulp ; place the cases on a baking tin greased with the butter. Mince the meat, mix it with the rice, pepper, salt, sauce, and the half egg> heaten up ; fill the tomato cases with the mixture; bake for ten minutes. Take out the yolk of the hard- boiled egg, chop it; chop the white separately; when the tomatoes are ready, slip them on to a dish and decorate with the chopped egg.96 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II Cod a la Portugais 1 lb. Cod Fisli 2 oz. Ham or Bacon ^ lb. Tomatoes % Small Onion | Teaspoonful Chili Vinegar 1 oz. Butter 1 Teaspoonful Corn Flour 2 Bay Leaves J Small Carrot i Teaspoonful Peppercorns 3 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 1 Egg 1 Sprig of Parsley £ Teaspoonful Salt Cut the fish into slices; melt the butter in a stew- pan ; cut the carrot and onion into slices; cut the ham into small pieces ; when the butter is hot, fry the ham, onion, and carrot in it. Skin the tomatoes; add them with the peppercorns, bay leaves, and salt to the ham and vegetables; let them simmer for twenty minutes. If the tomatoes are not very juicy, add a tablespoonful of stock or water. Wash the parsley; dry and chop it; break the egg on to a plate; beat it up for a minute or so ; mix in the parsley, a pinch of pepper, and salt; dip the slices of fish in the egg, cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them a light brown in clarified fat (see p. 132). The fish should fry quickly at first, rather more slowly afterwards ; put it in a dish on kitchen paper before the fire to drain. Strain the sauce ; mix the corn flour with a little water to a smooth paste; add it to the sauce with the vinegar; boil it for two minutes, stirring it to prevent burning. Put the cod on a dish ; pour the sauce over. Piemove the skin and cut the kidneys in half; take out the white part; cut them into small pieces; mix the pepper and salt with the flour; toss the pieces of kidney in it. Melt the butter; put in the pieces of 2 Sheep’s Kidneys 1 oz. Butter 1 Tablespoonful Flour 1 Teaspoonful Pepper Stewed Kidneys 4 Pint Stock or iVater 1 Teaspoonful Ketchup J ,, Harvey Sauce I .. Saltchap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES 97 11 kidney; let them fry slowly till brown; if they cook quickly they will be hard. When brown, add the stock, ketchup, and sauce ; cover the pan; let the kidneys simmer for half an hour, or longer. Serve on toasted bread, or with fried bacon. Well wash the kidney; peel off its outer skin; split it lengthwise into two; put it in a basin of boiling water for three minutes; let it drain, then dry it. Put half the flour on to a plate; mix in the pepper and salt; toss each piece of kidney in the flour. Scrape the carrot, peel the turnip and onion ; put them into a stewpan with the kidney; nearly cover with water or stock, and let all stew for two and a half hours. When cooked, take out the vegetables; chop about half of them into very small pieces; cut out the middle of the kidneys neatly; fill up the space with the chopped vegetable, and place the kidneys on two slices of toast.. Make the gravy, by stirring the butter into the remainder of the flour over the fire in a small pan, adding some of the liquor in which the kidneys have been cooked; pepper and salt, if needed. When the gravy has boiled, add a teaspoonful of ketchup ; strain the gravy, and pour it neatly round the kidney. Stewed Beef Kidney 4 Kidney ^ Carrot \ Turnip \ Spanish Onion ^ oz. Butter 1 „ Flour Water or Stock $ Teaspoonful Salt Rissoles i lb. Cold Meat, Finely Minced 1 oz. Butter 1 „ Flour j. ), x' iuur 1 Egg 1 Dessertspoonful Chopped 1 Gill Stock or Milk i Teaspoonful Pepper I ,, Salt 4 Tablespoon fuls Bread Crumbs 1 Teaspoonful Chopped Rind Parsley of Lemon98 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Melt the butter in a small pan; stir in the flour; when the flour and butter are well mixed, add by degrees the stock or milk. Stir well until the sauce is sufficiently boiled, which will be in about five minutes; it should come away from the sides of the pan, leaving it clean. Mix the meat, parsley, lemon, salt, and pepper with the bread crumbs; add them to the sauce; mix- well, and set the mixture aside to cool. Slightly beat up the egg on a plate; put some bread crumbs into a sheet of paper; divide the mixed meat and crumbs, when cold, into pieces ; make the pieces into balls ; roll them in flour; dip each ball into the beaten egg; toss it in the bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in clarified fat. Drain, when cooked, on kitchen paper, and serve at once on a folded napkin or arranged neatly on a dish. Cold meat of any kind can be used in this way; cold chicken and veal should have a little cooked ham or bacon added to the meat. The butter and flour can be omitted, and an egg used instead, to bind the mixture. Onion, mushroom, herbs, etc., can be used to vary the flavour. Boiled rice or mashed potatoes may take the place of bread crumbs. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes 3 oz. Grated Cheese 2 ,, Macaroni 1 „ Butter 1 „ Flour 1 Gill Milk 2 Eggs J Teaspoonful Salt ,, Tepper Boil the macaroni (see next page); melt the butter in a pan; stir in the flour smoothly; add the milk; let it boil till the sauce leaves the sides of the pan, being careful to keep stirring all the time. Chop the macaroni fine; add it with the cheese, pepper, salt, a small quantity of made mustard, and the yolk of one egg, to the sauce; stir all together;99 chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES let it get hot, but not boil after the cheese is in. Spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Break the remaining egg ; beat it slightly ; when cold, make the mixture into croquettes (pear-shaped balls), with a little flour; dip the croquettes in the egg; toss in bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in clarified fat. Place the croquettes upright on the broader end in a dish; stick a small piece of uncooked macaroni into the narrow end; serve on a folded cloth. Macaroni Cheese | lb. Macaroni 3 oz. Grated Cheese 1 „ Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls Cream or Milk l Teaspoon ful Salt Pinch of Cayenne Break the macaroni into pieces; put it into a pan with sufficient hot water to cover it; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; strain it, and add a pint of milk, or half stock and half milk ; let it boil for twenty minutes or more till tender. When cooked, put it into another pan with the butter, salt, cayenne, cream or milk, and half the grated cheese. Parmesan cheese is the best for this dish. Let it get quite hot, but not boil; then turn it into a flat dish; spread the rest of the cheese over, and let it brown in the oven, or before the fire. The colour should be a golden brown. Cheese Fritters 3 oz. Parmesan Cheese (grated) 2 „ Flour J „ Butter Pinch of Salt 1 Egg 1 Gill Tepid Water A little Dry Mustard Pinch of Pepper Put the flour, mustard, salt, and pepper into a basin ; melt the butter; make a hole in the middle of the flour ; put in the melted butter ; separate the yolk from the white of the egg ; drop the yolk into the middle ofMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 100 the flour. Beat the white to a stiff froth (see “ To Beat up Eggs,” p. 134) ; mix the yolk well into the flour, adding the water by degrees, until a smooth batter is made ; beat this up well ; stir in the cheese; add the beaten white of egg, stirring it lightly in. Have ready a pan of hot fat; take a teaspoon; dip it in cold water to prevent the batter from sticking to it; drop spoonfuls of the batter into the hot fat; let the frittei’s fry slowly till they are a deep golden bi'own. If the frittei's are so light that they float on the fat, pour spoonfuls of the hot fat over them. Drain on kitchen paper; heap them on a hot dish covered with an ornamental paper, and serve quickly. CEuf au Promage \ lb. Cheese 1 Gill Milk 1 Egg l Teaspoonful Pepper or less ^ Small Onion orl Shallot 1 ,, Salt Cut the cheese into thin slices; put it into a shallow dish ; mince the onion (a shallot is better); sprinkle it on the cheese, with the pepper and salt; pour in the milk; slightly beat up the egg ; pour it over the cheese ; put the dish in the oven or before the fire until the egg is thoroughly set. Serve very hot. A sprinkling of brown crumbs (see “Chapelure,” p. 133) put on a few minutes before serving improves the look of the dish. Brain Cakes 1 Sheep’s Brain 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 1 Egg „ , _ £ Teaspoonful Pepper 1 oz. Butter 1 „ Flour 1 Gill Milk 3 Teaspoonful Salt Take the brain carefully from the head ; put it to soak for one hour in cold water, to which is added one tablespoonful of vinegar; at the end of the hour pour101 uhap. vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES the vinegar and water away, and wash the brain in hot water; remove the thin skin that covers it. While the brain is soaking put stock or water to boil: if the latter is used, a small quantity of vegetables and a few herbs should be added to it, sufficient to give a flavour. Put the brain into the boiling stock or water; let it boil for one quarter of an hour; drain it, and chop into small pieces. Melt the butter; stir in the flour; add the milk, pepper, and salt; let the sauce boil till quite thick ; then stir in the chopped brain. Let the mixture cool; form it into cakes; beat up the egg on a plate cover each cake with egg, toss them in bread crumbs' an ry in clarified fat a golden brown. Serve with fried parsley and slices of lemon. As with rissoles bread crumbs and the yolk of an egg may be used instead of the sauce to bind the mixture. Kippered Herrings Put the fish into a frying-pan; pour boiling water over them; leave them for two or three minutes ; pour ofi the water; put the pan on the fire, and let the fish get hot through ; serve quickly. Salted haddock may be cooked in the same way, allowing it to remain a little longer in the water; lay a piece of butter on it when done, and sprinkle a little pepper over. Cases of Fried Bread These cases are very useful in enabling the cook to use up small quantities of cold meat, fish, or poultry. Filled with the same mixture as that used for rissoles with minced veal or stewed mushrooms, etc, they give tier an opportunity of varying the list of her dishes with but little trouble to herself. Begin by cuttiim slices of bread an inch in thickness; cut off the crust';PART II 102 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK with a plain paste cutter, such as is used for cutting out tartlets, cut out as many circular cases as are re- quired ; take a smaller cutter, press it on the middle of the round, but do not cut right through the bread ; be careful to leave a sufficient thickness at the bottom to allow the case to be filled without breaking. The second cutter marks the piece to be scooped out after the case is fried. Break an egg on to a plate; beat it up slightly; put some bread crumbs on to a sheet of paper; moisten the case with a little milk. This must be done carefully; the best way is to take the case in the hand and pour the milk over the bread with a spoon; the bread must on no account be soaked. As soon as the case is moistened, dip it in the egg, toss it in the crumbs, and fry it in clarified fat (see p. 132). While the case is cooking prepare another. When the bread is of a golden colour take it from the pan; let it drain; scoop out the centre with a fork; put in the filling, and serve. The filling must be made hot before being put into the case. The pieces of bread left over should be used for crumbs or put aside for a pudding, the crusts put in the oven for chapelure (see p^l33). A pudding given on p. 165 is made from pieces of bread. Filling for Cases of Fried. Bread Mince the remains of any kind of cold meat, fish, ham, or poultry; mix it with chopped parsley, cooked onion, cooked mushrooms, chopped small, herbs, or any flavouring that is handy; season with pepper, salt, and spice if liked; make a sauce as directed for rissoles (see p. 98); mix with the meat: heat thoroughly, but do not let the mixture boil; fill the cases with it. A little cream stirred into the sauce improves the flavour: less milk must then be used.103 chap, vi BREAKFAST DISHES AND ENTREES Cauliflower au Gratin 1 Moderate-sized Cauliflower 2 oz. Grated Parmesan Cheese 1 „ Butter 1 Small Teaspoonful Lemon Juice Pinch of Cayenne t Teaspoonful Castor Sugar 1 oz. Flour 1 Gill Cold Water 1 Gill Milk J Teaspoonful Salt Take off the outside leaves of the cauliflower, leaving only a row of small ones round the lower part of the flower; put the cauliflower into a large bowl of cold water with the flower downwards ; add a dessertspoon- ful of salt; leave the cauliflower to soak for one hour. Have ready a saucepan, large enough to hold the cauli- flower easily, full of boiling water ; add a little salt and the castor sugar; drain the cauliflower; cut the stalk close to the leaves; put it into the boiling water with the flower downwards. Let it boil, with the lid of the saucepan half off, for fifteen or twenty minutes, accord- ing to the size. Melt the butter in a saucepan; stir in the flour; add the water and milk gradually, with the cayenne and salt. Let the sauce boil for a few minutes, stirring it all the time; take it from the fire; put in the lemon juice and half the quantity of the cheese. Drain the cauliflower, which should be firm; place it on the dish in which it is to be served ; cover the flower with the sauce; sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over, and put into the oven or before the fire to brown slightly. Curried Mutton £ lb. Cooked Mutton 2 Onions 2 Sour Apples 1 Teaspoonful Sugar £ oz. Flour 1 Teaspoonful Grated Cocoa-nut 1 Dessertspoonful Curry Powder It oz. Butter 1 Teaspoonful Lemon Juice 1 Gill Stock Melt the butter in a stewpan; peel and slice the onions (if large, use one onion) • peel and core thePART II 104 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK apples; chop them into small pieces ; put the slices of onion into the butter ; let them fry a light brown ; add the meat, cut into thick pieces about an inch square; let it brown lightly ; take the meat from the pan ; put in the apples; let them become soft; add the curry powder, grated cocoa-nut, and a quarter teaspoonful of salt; stir until the mixture is a thick sauce; add the stock, put in the meat, cover the pan, and let it simmer, not boil, for three-quarters of an hour. The sauce should stick to the meat; just before serving stir in the lemon juice. Serve with boiled rice (see “ To Boil Bice for Curry,” p. 139). If a thinner sauce is liked, add a little milk or more stock, but a good curry is thick. If fresh meat or chicken is used, fry it as above, allow- ing a longer time for cooking after the meat is added to the curry. Curried Shrimps or Fish Prepare the curry as in the previous recipe; shell the shrimps; put them into the hot sauce, after it has boiled; let them simmer, not boil, for about half an hour. If cold fish is used, cut it into small pieces. Add the lemon juice just before serving. Bice always accompanies curry. CHAPTEB VII COLD MEAT COOKERY It is in the cookery of the remains of cooked meat that the usefulness of the stockpot. is most apparent. With the help of an onion, a few herbs, the remains of cold vegetables, or a small quantity of fresh ones, theCOLD MEAT COOKERY CHAP. VII 105 cook can prepare a gravy from the contents of the stockpot (see p. 45) that will enable her to send a savoury dish to table from the remnants of cooked joints. Satirists and humorists have delighted in de- scribing the horrors of a dinner where hashed mutton is the principal dish, and we need not be surprised at this when we see that the popular idea of a hash is a greasy liquid, in which float lumps of tough meat, the whole having a strong flavour of onion. With a small amount of trouble this despised dish may be converted into one as palatable as it is economical. One import- ant rule in re-cooking meat must be remembered; the meat must be put into hot liquid and allowed to heat thoroughly ; but the liquid must not boil after the meat is put in, otherwise the meat will be tough and leathery. A wall of rice, haricot beans, or mashed potatoes im- proves both the look and taste of the dish. A portion of the contents of the stock-jar should be strained from the bones every day and set aside to get cold; the cook will then have a supply of stock, from which all fat can be easily removed ; it is nearly impossible to remove it from hot stock. Greasy gravy is both unpalatable and unwholesome. The bones from the cold meat, instead of being hastily boiled for gravy, can be put into the stockpot, there to stew till all their juices are extracted. Hashed Meat £ lb. Cold Mutton or other Meat ^ oz. Butter \ „ Flour 4 Teaspoonful Salt 4 Pint Stock or Water 1 Onion 3 Cloves 4 Teaspoonful Pepper Cut the meat into neat slices, trim off the outside brown edge and any gristle. Peel and slice the onion ; melt the butter in a stewpan ; fry the slices of onion a light brown ; stir in the flour; add the stock or water;MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 10G let the sauce boil for a few minutes; add the cloves, pepper, and salt ; lay in the slices of cold meat; put the pan by the side of the fire, where it can simmei very gently, but not boil, else the meat will be hard. If the sauce is too thick, add a little more stock or water before the meat is put in. Let it simmer for ten or fifteen minutes; serve with sippets of toasted bread or a wall of mashed potatoes. If the sauce is not brown enough, add a little browning, or a teaspoon- ful of mushroom ketchup. Another Way Slices of Cooked Meat 1 Teaspoon ful Chopped Parsley 1 ,, >, Thyme 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs £ Teaspoonful Pepper l „ Salt 1 Egg 1 Teaspoonful Lemon Juice Trim the slices of meat as above; mix the parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt with the bread crumbs; break the egg on to a plate; beat it up slightly; dip the slices of meat into the egg, then into the bread crumbs ; cover both sides of the meat. Put about an ounce of butter or very good dripping into a pan ; let it get hot; fry the meat a light brown. Make a sauce with butter and flour, as directed for hashed meat; add the lemon juice after the sauce is taken from the fire; arrange the meat on a dish; pour the sauce round. This dish can be varied by laying the slices of meat on a bed of vegetables, such as peas, mashed potatoes, French beans (see p. 119), or haricot beans (see p. 120). Another variation is to fry the meat without the egg and crumbs, merely sprinkling it with pepper and salt, and arranging the slices round a bed of spinach (see p. 118), adding the gravy or omitting it, according to taste.COLD MEAT COOKERY CHAP. VII 107 Piccalilli Meat 4 oz. Cooked Meat £ „ Piccalilli 1 Hard-boiled Egg \ Teaspoonful Salt 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 1 Raw Egg 2 oz. Rice \ Pint Vinegar Pinch of Pepper Cut the meat into slices; take away the brown edges and gristle; break the raw egg on to a plate; beat it with the pepper and salt; dip each slice of meat in the egg; then cover both sides well with the crumbs. Put a layer of meat in a dish; chop the piccalilli small; shell and chop the hard-boiled egg; put a layer of piccalilli and egg on the meat; pour the vinegar over ; bake for ten minutes. Boil the rice as for curry (see p. 139), and serve round the meat. If the vinegar is very acid, use half stock and half vinegar. Minced Veal \ lb. Cold Yeal l Teaspoonful Chopped Rind of Lemon I Teaspoonful Salt 1 Blade Mace £ Pint Stock 3 Tablespoonfuls Milk 1 oz. Flour 1 oz. Butter Cut the veal into slices; trim off the edges; cut the slices into narrow strips, and divide the strips into small dice; melt the butter in a stewpan; stir in the flour; add the stock and milk gradually; put in the mace, salt, a pinch of white pepper, and the chopped lemon rind ; let the sauce boil for a few minutes ; put the pan by the side of the fire; add the veal to the sauce; let it get hot through, but not boil. Take out the mace; put the veal on a dish; garnish with sippets of toasted bread and slices of lemon. The stock should bo flavoured with vegetables. This is easily done by boiling a small piece of carrot, onion, etc., with a bunch of herbs, in liquor taken from the stockpot. The fat must be first removed (see “Remarks on Hashes,” p. 105).108 PART I] MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Minced Veal and Bechamel Sauce 4 lb. Cold Yeal | 4 Pint Bechamel Sauce, p. 126 Mince the veal as above ; make the sauce as directed ; put in the veal ; let it get hot, but not boiL Add a little grated lemon peel, if liked. Mutton and Tomatoes £ lb. Cooked Mutton t Tin of Tomatoes or l lb. Fresli 1 oz. Butter 1 Tablespoonful Yinegar 2 Tablespoonfuls Stock or Water 1 Onion or 2 Shallots % oz. Flour £ Teaspoonful Pepper 4 ,, Salt A oo Peel the onion ; scald it (see p. 42); chop it fine; skin the tomatoes ; put them into a stewpan with the pepper, onion, salt, and stock ; let them simmer gently for half an hour; add the vinegar; rub the tomatoes through a sieve or colander into a basin. Cut the meat into neat slices ; put some flour on a plate ; season it with pepper and salt; break the egg on to a plate ; beat it up ; dip the pieces of meat into it; see that both sides are covered ; dip them into the flour. Fry the slices a golden brown in clarified fat; let them drain on kitchen paper before the fire. Put the butter into the stewpan ; let it melt; stir in the flour ; add the tomato pulp ; stir it till it thickens; put the pur6e into the middle of a dish; arrange the meat round. Serve hot. Beef Olives of Cooked Meat Cut the meat into thick slices ; fill them with season- ing, and roll them as directed, p. 72. Put some stock into a stewpan with an onion, and any herbs and vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, celery, that are at hand ; pepper and salt; let it stew for an hour, then strain. Put the gravy back into the pan ; let it get hot; put in the olives; let them simmer gently for a littleCOLD MEAT COOKERY CHAP. VII 109 more than an hour and a quarter till tender. Take them from the pan ; mix a dessertspoonful of flour and half a teaspoonful of browning, with a little cold water; thicken the gravy with it; put the olives on to a dish ; pour the gravy over. Stuffed Onions Remains of Cooked Meat 2 Spanish Onions 2 Tablespoon fuls Bread Crumbs 1 Tablespoonful Chopped Parsley Cold Milk or Stock l Teaspoonful Grated Lemon Rind | Teaspoon ful Pepper i ,, Salt Peel the onions; put them into a saucepan of boiling water; let them boil till the onions are sufficiently soft to allow the middle part to be taken out; the time will depend on the size of the onions ; a small onion will take about an hour, a large one an hour and a half or two hours. Take any kind of cooked meat; small pieces of ham, bacon, or fowl; mince all together; add the bread crumbs and seasoning ; chop the pieces taken from the onions ; mix them with the meat, etc.; bind the mix- ture with a little milk or stock ; fill the onions with it. Put the onions into a stewpan; pour in sufficient hot stock to half cover them; butter a piece of kitchen paper ; lay it over the onions ; put on the lid of the saucepan; let them simmer for a little more than half an hour. Take the onions from the pan when cooked; put them on a dish; thicken the gravy with a dessertspoonful of flour mixed with a little cold water and browning; pour it round the onions, and serve. If the onions are small, use more than the number given. This dish can be varied by putting the onions in the oven, and baking them after they are filled, covered with buttered paper.110 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART I) Galantine of Veal Remains of Knuckle of Yeal 1 Hard-boiled Egg Scraps of Boiled Iiam 1 Teaspoonful Tarragon Yinegar 1 Pint Stock made from the bones Cut the remains of meat from the bones of a knuckle of veal that has been boiled or stewed ; break up the bones; put them with the gristle into a saucepan; cover them with the liquor in which the knuckle was boiled; if it has been stewed, and uo liquor is left, use cold water; add a carrot cut into pieces, a turnip, an onion, and a bunch of herbs, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, or a little white pepper, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Let the bones simmer for two or three hours or longer. Strain the stock; let it get cold; take off the fat carefully. When cold, the stock should be a jelly ; if it is not, boil it again. Cut the meat neatly into small pieces; shell and slice the egg; arrange the egg and meat in a mould with the pieces of ham till the mould is nearly full. Boil the stock for ten or twelve minutes ; add the vinegar; put a piece of muslin in a straiuer; pour the stock through it into the mould. When quite cold, turn it out ; garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Meat Shape | lb. Cooked Meat 3 oz. Boiled Rico 1 Onion 2 or 3 Tablespoonfuls Gravy 1 Teaspoonful Minced Parsley i ,, Pepper J Teaspoonful Salt Mince the meat very fine; peel, scald, and mince the onion ; mix it with the meat, rice, parsley, pepper, and salt. Bind the mixture with the gravy. Butter a basin or a moulded shape; put in the mixture ; steam for one hour (see “To Steam Puddings,” p. 137). Thicken some stock with butter and Hour; add a teaspoonful ofCHAP. VIII 111 VEGETABLES Worcester sauce. Turn out the shape; pour the gravy round. The gravy should be a good brown colour. This is an economical way of using up the remains of cold meat, vegetables, or pieces of bread. Cold carrot, or any other vegetable chopped fine, may be mixed with the meat, and improves the flavour. The scraps of bread soaked for a few minutes in a little stock or milk, beaten up so that no lumps remain, may be used instead of rice, or cold potatoes mashed smoothly. An egg makes the dish richer. CHAPTER VIII VEGETABLES Potatoes for Boiling should be chosen as much of one size as possible, in order that all may be equally cooked. They are best cooked in their skins, as the finest part of the potato is next the skin, and some of this is removed by paring before cooking. The length of time required for cooking, varies according to the size and age of potatoes, large and old potatoes taking the longest. Those grown on sandy soil are the finest, and keep their colour best, when not used immediately. Good potatoes should present a mealy and dry appear- ance when well cooked, and should not have any hard piece in the middle. The skins must on no account be eaten, as they are most indigestible. The water in which potatoes are cooked should be thrown away, and potatoes should be parboiled before being added to any dish (Irish stew, etc.), because there is in potatoes a hurtful, almost poisonous, quality, which is removed by great heat; and thus the water that potatoes are boiled in is rendered unwholesome.112 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAIIT II Old. Potatoes Boiled in their Jackets Potatoes • Cold Water 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Cleanse them (see p. 33). Place them and the salt in an iron pan with enough cold water to cover them Bring to the boil; boil slowly for about twenty minutes: try with a fork if they are soft. If so, pour away all the water; lift the lid partly off to allow the steam to escape; place the pan beside the fire till the potatoes are dry, shaking it occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the pan. Remove the skins ; serve hot. Old Potatoes Boiled without their Jackets Wash and pare the potatoes (see p. 33). Proceed as directed in the previous recipe. Choose large old potatoes; wash them free from earth; dry them; put them into a hot oven. Turn them occasionally that they may be equally cooked. They are ready when they feel soft, and generally take from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve very hot, in a folded napkin. Boil the potatoes; when quite cooked, drain them and let them dry. Break them up with a large fork, carefully pressing any lumps; when smooth, add the butter, milk, and salt. Stir the potatoes over the fire till they are thoroughly hot; put them on a dish, heaped up lightly ; and score them in ridges by drawing the fork over them. Serve them hot. The look of this dish is improved by putting the dish of mashed Baked Potatoes Masked Potatoes 1 lb. Potatoes 1 oz. Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls Milk I Teaspoonful Salt113 CHAr. VIII VEGETABLES potatoes before the fire and letting the edges brown, turning the dish, so that the whole is equally coloured. Fried Potatoes Potatoes | Clarified Fat In order to fry potatoes well, the fat1 must be very hot. Pare the potatoes ; cut them into very thin slices ; dry them in a cloth; throw the slices into a stewpan of boiling fat; let them fry a golden brown ; take them from the fat; drain them before the fire on a dish, covered with kitchen paper. Serve with cutlets, steak, etc. The potato must be sliced across, not lengthways. Potato Chips Potatoes | Clarified Fat Pare the potatoes; cut them into slices a little less than a quarter of an inch thick ; cut the slices in strips; throw them into the boiling fat; fry a golden brown. Fried Cooked Potatoes Whole Cooked Potatoes | Clarified Fat Cut the potatoes into slices; put them into the boiling fat. They will take longer to brown than fresh potatoes. Boiled Carrots Cleanse and scrape the carrots (see p. 33); if very large, divide them lengthwise into four pieces, and cut them across—moderate-sized ones need only be cut in half lengthwise and then across; put them into boiling water, with a tcaspoonful of salt to each quart of water ; let them boil till tender. Carrots require a long time to boil; large ones will take an hour and a half or two hours. 1 Sec page 39. I114 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAttT II Mashed Carrots 3 Middle-sized Carrots \ Teaspoonful Pepper 1 oz. Butter \ „ Salt Boil the carrots till tender; chop them in very small pieces on a board ; put the chopped carrots into a sauce- pan ; mix in the butter, pepper, and salt; let them get hot. Press the carrot into a cup to shape it into heaps; serve on the same dish with mashed turnips. Carrots with Parsley and Butter 3 Large Carrots J Teaspoonful Pepper i Pint Parsley and Butter Sauce \ ,, Salt Scrape and boil the carrots without cutting them ; when tender, cut them into rounds about a quarter of an inch thick, or rather less; put them on a dish; sprinkle the pepper over ; add the salt (unless the sauce is already salt enough), pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Turnips Cleanse and pare the turnips as directed (p. 34). Cut them into halves or quarters, according to the size; put them into boiling water, allowing a dessertspoon- ful of salt to each quart of water; let them boil from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to size, till tender. Mashed Turnips 6 Middle-sized Turnips £ Teaspoonful White Pepper 1 oz. Butter i ,, Salt Boil the turnips as above; when soft, drain them through a colander; squeeze the water from them by putting a plate on the turnips and pressing on it: when well drained, take the turnips from the colander; put them in a clean saucepan ; mix the butter, salt, andCHAr. VIII 115 VEGETABLES pepper with them ; mash the turnips very smooth; let them get hot through ; quickly mould them in a small cup ; turn out on a dish, and serve. Boiled Parsnips Wash them well; scrape them ; boil them as directed for turnips; if very large, cut the thick part into quarters. Serve with boiled beef. Parsnips are very good, mashed in the same way as turnips. Jerusalem Artichokes Artichokes | Cold Water 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Wash and pare the artichokes; throw each one as it is peeled into cold water, to keep them white; put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them well; add the salt in the proportion given. Let the artichokes boil gently till tender. When cooked, drain the water from them ; put them on a dish • pour melted butter over. Mashed Jerusalem Artichokes 1 lb. Artichokes I £ Teaspoonful Salt 1 oz. Butter | \ ,, White Pepper Boil the artichokes as directed; when quite tender, drain them; put them in a bowl, and mash them quite free from lumps; put them back into the saucepan; add the butter, salt, and pepper; stir over the fire with a wooden spoon, till hot through. Two tablespoonfuls of cream are a great improvement. Beetroot Wash the beetroot in cold water, rubbing it with a soft brush not to break the skin. Put it into a pan with plenty of boiling water; boil uncovered for fromMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART I] 116 an hour to an hour and a half ; press it with the finger, if soft it is ready; do not prick it with a fork, or the juice will run out and blanch the root. Let it cool in the water, then remove the skin and the top, and cut into thin slices. Arrange these on a dish and put a little vinegar, pepper, and salt over them; if wanted to keep, put the slices into a jar, and cover with boiling vinegar. Beetroot can also be served hot (the skin and top being removed) with melted butter. Baked Spanish Onion 1 Large Onion A Pinch of Pepper 1 oz. Good. Dripping ,, ,, Salt Place the onion (unskinned) in boiling water; boil till tender (large onions take about one and a half to two hours) • skin it; place it and the dripping in a small baking tin; put into the oven ; baste the onion frequently till brown ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve. Boiled Spanish Onion Skin the onion; boil as above; serve with melted butter, made with milk, poured over. Asparagus Asparagus should be cooked soon after it is cut, when stale it loses much of its delicate flavour. Scrape the white part of the stalks clean, beginning from the part near the head, and scraping downwards • throw them into cold water; tie the asparagus in small bundles; cut the white stalks even, so that the asparagus is all one length ; put the bundles into a pan of boiling water ; let them boil with the lid off for eighteen minutes. Allow plenty of water, with salt in the proportion of a117 CHAP. VIII VEGETABLES dessertspoonful to a quart of water. When cooked, untie the bundles; put a round of toast in the dish ; lay the heads all one way; send a tureen of melted butter to table with them. Boiled Cauliflower Boiling Water | 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Prepare the cauliflower (see p. 33). Place it with the flower downwards in enough boiling water to cover it. Boil uncovered for twenty minutes to half an hour, till the stalk end is tender. Place the cauliflower in a colander to drain off the water. Serve with melted butter. Broccoli Cleanse, and boil as directed for cauliflowers. A German Way of Dressing Cauliflower Prepare a large cauliflower as for boiling; break the flower into bunches, as near one size as possible; throw them into boiling tvater with the same quantity of salt as for a whole cauliflower. When tender, drain them (they will not take so long to boil as a whole cauli- flower) ; put them neatly on a dish, and pour over them a sauce made with b pint of melted butter and the yolk of an egg stirred into it, after it is taken from the fire. Broccoli may be dressed in the same way. Brussels Sprouts Brussels Sprouts I 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Boiling Water | A very Small Piece of Soda Pick off any decayed leaves ; cleanse as directed for cabbage (p. 33); when clean, drain the water from them through a colander; put them into the boiling water; leave the saucepan uncovered ; let them boil very118 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II quickly for ten or twelve minutes; drain, and dish them; put a piece of butter into the dish. Serve very hot. If liked, send a tureen of melted butter to table with the sprouts. Cabbage Cabbage I A very Small Piece of Soda Boiling Water | 1 Teaspoonful of Salt to a Quart of Water Prepare the cabbage (see p. 33). Place it in a sauce- pan with enough boiling water to cover it. Let it boil uncovered and very fast, till the stalk end of the cabbage is soft, for about half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Place it in a colander, and press with a plate to squeeze out the water. Place in a dish and cut into quarters. All kinds of greens are boiled in this way ; they require plenty of water ; press them down from time to time into the water with a wooden spoon. Be very careful to drain1 and press the water from them before serving. Serve plain, or chop them small, and mix with butter, pepper, and salt. However they are sent to table, they must be hot. Spinach 1 lb. Spinach I A pinch of Pepper 1 oz. Butter | ,, ,, Salt Spinach requires very careful cooking. When well prepared and served very hot, it is a delicious vegetable, but a very little carelessness in the preparation spoils the dish. No vegetable requires such careful cleansing to free it from sand and grit; when picked (see p. 34) it should be put into a large bowl of cold water, well rinsed, and lifted into another bowl of clean water ; and if not thoroughly clean, put back into the first bowl, after the bowl has been washed out and refilled with 1 Always heat the colander before you drain the vegetables.CHAP. VIII 119 VEGETABLES clean water. When clean, put the spinach into a large uncovered saucepan without any water; let it boil for about ten minutes, pressing it down, and stirring occasionally to prevent it from burning. When tender, drain it through a colander, pressing the water that has come from the spinach well out; chop the spinach very fine ; put it into a stewpan with the butter, pepper, and salt; when very hot, put it into a hot dish, and serve quickly. A poached egg is sometimes placed on the spinach, and sippets of bread put round. French Beans and Scarlet Runners French Beans Boiling Water 1 oz. Batter to 1 lb. Beans 1 Dessertspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Very Small Piece of Soda Pepper, Salt Prepare the beans (see p. 34); cut them into thin strips; throw them as they are cut into cold water in which a little salt has been put; drain them. Let them boil for ten minutes if young, longer if old; when done, they sink to the bottom of the saucepan ; drain through a colander ; put the beans on a hot dish ; place the butter in the middle; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over; serve hot. French Beans a l’Allemand 1 lb. Beans 1 oz. Butter J Teaspoonful Sugar 1 oz. Flour 4 Pint Milk Pinch of Sal t Boil the beans as above, until they are nearly done; drain them; make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, sugar, salt, and a small quantity of the water the beans are boiled in; stir it well; put in the beans when the sauce boils; let them simmer for about ten minutes. Cauliflower can be cooked in this way.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part n 120 Broad Beans Shell the beans, which should be young ; put them into boiling water; let them boil quickly for a quarter of an hour if young, longer if old; when tender they are done. Serve with parsley and butter sauce (see p. 124). Boiled bacon is usually eaten with these beans, To Boil White Haricot Beans 1 Pint Beans | 2 Quarts Cold Water i oz. Butter Soak the beans in cold water the night before they are to be used; pour away the water ; put them into a saucepan with the cold water and butter; let them boil for two hours, or till soft, but not broken. Drain them in a colander ; serve with parsley and butter sauce (p. 124). White Haricot Beans to serve with Hashes, etc. 1 Pint Haricot Beans 1 oz. Butter 2 Quarts Cold Water 4 ,, Flour 1 Teaspoonful Pepper Soak and boil the beans as directed, with half the butter; when tender, but not broken, drain the liquid from them into a bowl. Take a gill of it; melt the remainder of the butter in a pan ; stir in the flour ; add the liquid and pepper; put in the beans, and stir until they boil, and then shake them occasionally to prevent burning; when very hot, make a wall round a dish with them; put the hash in the middle, and serve. Baked round of beef served with a wall of haricots is an excellent dish. A French Way to cook White Haricot Beans 1 Pint Beans 1 Teaspoonful Chopped Parsley 1 Dessertspoonful Lemon Juice 1 Chopped Onion 1 Teaspoon ful Pepper 1 oz. Butter121 VEGETABLES CHAP. VIII Boil the beans as directed ; when tender, drain them, saving the liquid ; put the butter into a stewpan ; when hot throw in the chopped onion; let it fry till soft; put in the parsley; let it fry for a minute or two; add the cooked beans and pepper; shake the pan ; let the beans get hot; moisten them with a little of the liquid they were boiled in ; add the lemon juice, and serve. Green Peas Peas i Teaspoonful Sugar to a Boiling Water Quart of Water Shell the peas ; put them into plenty of boiling water, with the sugar, in the proportion given. Boil uncovered till tender, about a quarter of an hour for young peas, three-quarters or longer for old. Strain off the water through a colander; put the peas on a dish; put a piece of butter on them and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and serve hot. A sprig of mint is often boiled with the peas. Pi.ed Cabbage to eat with Salted Beef A German Recipe 1 Cabbage 1 oz. Dripping (Beef) 1 Pint Weak Stock or Water 1 Gill Vinegar 1 Teaspoonful Castor Sugar 1 ,, Salt Cut the cabbage into thin strips as for pickling; put it in a stewpan with the water or stock, dripping, and salt. Let it cook slowly for three hours; when soft, add the sugar and vinegar. Serve with salted beef. Vegetable Marrow Vegetable Marrow | Boiling Water 1 Dessertspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Peel the marrow; put it into the boiling water and salt; let it boil till tender; the time varies from ten122 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY ROOK minutes to an hour, according to size and age; when done cut it in half; if large, in quarters; take out the seeds; let it drain in a colander; lay a slice of toast in the dish; put the marrow on it; serve with melted butter poured over. Vegetable marrow mashed like turnip makes a nice dish (p. 114). New Potatoes Potatoes | Boiling Water 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water Cleanse and prepare the potatoes (see p. 33); place them in sufficient boiling water to cover them, add the salt; boil briskly for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, till soft ; then dry by the side of the fire, as directed for old potatoes; put a piece of butter in the dish with them, and shake a little pepper over. Young Carrots Carrots | Boiling Water 1 Teaspoonful Salt to a Quart of Water If very young, the carrots need only be washed and wiped with a rough cloth; cut off the green top; boil for twenty minutes or half an hour, till tender. Serve with parsley and butter sauce poured over. Potato Balls 1 lb. Cooked Potatoes J Teaspoonful Salt 2 Eggs I ,, Pepper Break up the potatoes with a fork, quite free from lumps; when smooth, add the salt and pepper; break one egg; separate the yolk from the white; mix the potato with the yolk to a thick paste; put a little flour on a paste-board ; flour the fingers lightly; take a small piece of the potato; roll it on the board into a ball; when tho potato is all made into balls, dip each in beaten-up egg, toss in bread crumbs, and drop them into boiling clarified fat; fry a golden brown.CHAP. VIII 123 VEGETABLES Stewed Celery 1 Head Celery i Pint Weak Stock J Teaspoon ful Pepper £ oz. Flour ^ „ Butter Teaspoonful Browning £ Teaspoonful Salt Wash the celery well; cut off the leaves and the root; take away the very tough stalks. Cut the remainder into pieces of about three inches long; put into a stewpan with the stock, pepper, and salt; let it stew for half an hour, or till tender. Rub the flour into the butter to a smooth paste; stir it into the celery; add the browning; if the sauce is too thick, add a little more stock or water; let it boil. Put the celery neatly into a dish; pour the sauce over. Stewed Celery with White Sauce 1 Large Head of Celery 1 Gill Milk \ Pint Stock 1 Blade Mace or 3 Cloves 1 oz. Flour 1 „ Butter £ Teaspoonful White Pepper Use only the white heart of the celery; stew it in the stock, with the spice, salt, and pepper; when tender, strain it from the stock. Rub the flour into the butter; add it with the milk to the stock; let it boil for two minutes; put in the celery ; let it get hot. Serve with boiled fowl. Baked Tomatoes Choose large tomatoes, all about the same size ; put them on a dish, or tin, into a hot oven—a dish is the best. Let them bake for half an hour, or till they are soft; serve with chops or roast mutton. Cucumber Cucumber I 1 Tablcspoonfnl Salad Oil 2 Tablespoonfuls Vinegar | i Teaspoonful PepperMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 124 Pare the cucumber; cut it into very thin slices; arrange the slices neatly on the dish; pour over them the vinegar and oil; sprinkle the pepper over. Serve with boiled salmon, cold meat, etc. Leave out the oil. if not liked. Cut the cucumber from the top, not the stalk end, which is often bitter. If the whole cucumber is not needed, do not peel beyond the part required: place the unpeeled piece in a cup of water with the stalk end in the cup; it will keep fresh for a day or two. CHAPTER IX SAUCES Melted Butter 1 oz. Butter I Pint Cold 'Water, or Milk ^ „ Elour I Teaspoonful of Salt Put the butter in a lined saucepan; let it melt; stir in the flour, rubbing it smooth with the back of a wooden spoon; add the water gradually, stirring the sauce over the fire all the time; let it boil for three minutes. If a richer sauce is required, use an ounce more butter to the one ounce of flour. Milk makes the sauce whiter and better. It must be remembered that some flours absorb more liquid than others; a little more water than the quantity given may be required. Parsley and Butter A Pint Molted Butter | 1 Dessertspoonful Chopped Parsley Scald and mince the parsley; prepare the melted butter as directed above; when it has boiled, stir in the parsley. The sauce must not boil after the parsley isSAUCES CHAP. IX 125 put in, as the parsley loses the green colour if it boils. Parsley and butter is served with boiled fowl, veal, and other boiled meats, except beef and pork. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton £ Pint Melted Butter | 1 Tablespoonful Capers Prepare the melted butter as directed ; add the capers; stir them into the sauce when it is cooked ; let it boil once. Pickled nasturtiums chopped like capers make a good sauce. Egg Sauce £ Tint Melted Butter | 2 Hard-boiled Eggs Shell the eggs; chop the white and yolk together; add them to the sauce. Serve with boiled fowl. Onion Sauce h Pint Melted Butter | 4 Medium-sized Onions Skin the onions ; boil them till quite soft; chop them fine, or rub them through a colander or sieve; add them to the melted butter sauce, which should be made with milk. Serve with boiled rabbit and shoulder of mutton. Shrimp Sauce i Pint Melted Butter 1 Teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce i ,, Picked Shrimps Pinch of Cayenne I repare the melted butter; when it is ready, put in the shrimps, with the'anchovy sauce and cayenne. Let the shrimps get hot, but do not let the sauce boil after they are in. Serve with boiled fish. Lobster Sauce ? rint„M°Hed ^u^er 1 Teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce 1 Small Lobster Pinch of Cayenne Tinned lobster can be used for this sauce. Cut theMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 126 meat of the lobster into small pieces as neatly as pos- sible ; when the melted butter sauce is ready, put in the lobster, anchovy, and cayenne. Let it get hot, but not boil—boiling spoils the colour of the lobster. If a fresh lobster is used, pick out the meat; pound the coral (the red substance inside the shell, extending down the back of the lobster); mix it with a little butter, and stir it into the sauce before putting in the meat of the lobster. Crab Sauce Proceed as for lobster sauce. Bdchamel Sauce for Chicken 1 oz. Flour 1 „ Butter 1 Bint Milk Small Piece of Carrot 1 Small Onion 3 Cloves 6 Peppercorns I Teaspoonful Salt Small Piece of Turnip \ oz. Gelatine Dissolve the gelatine in a quarter of the pint of milk; put the rest of the milk into a lined saucepan, with the vegetables cut up, the cloves, salt, and pepper- corns ; let it stand by the side of the fire for half an hour. Strain the milk ; melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour; add the milk; let it boil for three minutes, stirring well. Set it aside to cool a little; then add the dissolved gelatine. Sauce Piquante 1 oz. Butter 1 Dessertspoonful Flour 1 Small Onion 1 Sprig Parsley 1 Teaspoonful Salt Small Bunch Sweet Herbs 2 Cloves 1 Tablespoon ful Vinegar ^ Pint Cold Stock, or Cold Pepper [Water Peel and slice the ouion ; melt the butter in a sauce- pan ; put in the slices of onion ; fry them brown ; add the flour ; let it brown, but not burn ; pour in gradually the stock or water; add the herbs, pepper, salt, cloves,CHAP. IX 127 SAUCES and parsley; let all simmer for ten minutes; add tlie vinegar, and strain the sauce. This is a good sauce foi mutton cutlets, or to serve with slices of cold beef, or mutton, broiled on the gridiron. White Sauce Make the sauce as directed |or melted butter (p. 124),'i using milk instead of water; add a small pinch of cayenne pepper, a blade of mace, and a piece of lemon peel to the milk. When the sauce has boiled for three minutes, take out the mace and the peel; take the pan from the fire; stir in a small teaspoonful of lemon juice. Pour over a boiled fowl. Bread Sauce £ Pint Milk 3 oz. Bread Crumbs | oz. Buttei 1 Blade Mace (if liked) 1 Small Onion £ Teaspoonful White Pepper 2 Cloves | ,, Salt Pinch of Cayenne Put the milk into a covered pan or basin ; stick the cloves into the onion ; put it into the milk with the mace; let the milk stand by the side of the fire for half an hour or longer, to draw the flavour from the onion and spice. Take out the onion, cloves, and mace; pour the milk over the crumbs; stir in the butter, salt, and pepper; mix quite smooth ; put the mixture into a pan ; let it boil, stirring it to prevent burning. The sauce should be the thickness of thick cream, and very smooth. Two tablespoonfuls of cream, added after the sauce has boiled, make it much better. Horse-radish Sauce 2 Tablespoonfuls Grated 1 Tablespoonful Milk or Cream Horse-radish 1 Teaspoonful Castor Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls Vinegar 1 ,, Made Mustard i Teaspoonful Salt 1 If needed thick for covering a fowl, etc., use rather more Hour128 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Mix the grated horse-radish with the sugar, mustard, salt, and vinegar in a basin; add the cream very gradually, stirring all the time. Milk can be used, but the sauce is thinner and poorer. Serve with roast beef or steak. Mint Sauce 2 Tablespoonfuls Chopped <Mint | 1 Tablespoonful Sugar | Pint Vinegar The mint should be freshly gathered. Wash it well; pick the leaves from the stalk; chop them very fine; put the vinegar in a sauce tureen ; stir in the sugar; let it dissolve; add the chopped mint. Serve with roast lamb. Dutch Sauce J oz. Flour | „ Butter i Pint Cold Water | Teaspoonful Salt 2 Yoiks of Eggs 2 Tablespoonfuls Salad Oil 1 Tablespoonful Tarragon Vinegar 1 ,, Chopped Capers Pinch of Cayenne Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour; add the water gradually; let it boil for two minutes; take the pan from the fire ; stir in the oil, capers, salt, cayenne, and vinegar; let the sauce get hot, but not boil. Break the eggs; stir the yolks into the sauce gradually, taking care they do not curdle. This makes a good sauce for cod-steaks or halibut. The capers can be left out, if not liked. In that case, add a dessert- spoonful of plain vinegar to the tarragon vinegar. If well prepared with good salad oil, this is an excellent sauce. Sweet Sauce for Puddings l Pint Melted Butter h Teaspoonful Grated Lemon 1 Tablespoonful Castor Sugar Rind A little Grated Nutmeg Make the melted butter (see “ Melted Butter,” p. 121)SAUCES 129 CHAP. IX with milk ; stir in the sugar, lemon, and nutmeg. Any Savouring can be used instead of lemon—a few drops of essence of almonds, vanilla, etc., or two tablespoonfuls of sherry, or one of brandy. 2 Lemons 16 Drops Cochineal Jam Sauce 4 Tablespoonfuls Jam 2 ,, Sugar ^ Pint Cold Water Grate the rind of the lemons ; squeeze out the juice ; mix with the jam, sugar, water, and cochineal. Put the mixture into a lined saucepan; let it just begin to boil; pour it through a strainer round the pudding. Apple Sauce 1 Dessertspoonful Sugar Water 1 lb. Apples $ oz. Butter Peel and core the apples ; cut them into pieces; put ;Iiem into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover ;hem ; let them boil for three-quarters of an hour, or all they are quite soft; beat them up to a smooth pulp; stir in the butter; add the sugar. Serve in a tureen, [f the apples are sour, more sugar may be needed. Lemon Syrup for Puddings „ | 1 Lemon 4 Tablespoonfuls Cold Water Put the sugar into a saucepan; add the water; let t boil; squeeze out, and strain the juice of the lemon. Ydd it to the syrup after the pan is taken from the Serve with canary pudding. 3 oz. Loaf Sugar ire. Sherry Sauce Prepare as above, leaving out the lemon, and using wo tablespoonfuls of sherry. liather less sugar is squired.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART 11 130 Corn Flour Sauce 1 Dessertspoonful Corn Flour 14 Gill Water 1 Lemon 3 Teaspoonfuls Castor Sugar Mix the corn flour smoothly with a little cold water; put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and a small piece of the rind of the lemon; let it boil for three minutes ; squeeze out, and strain the juice of the lemon ; strain the sauce ; add the lemon juice. Sherry, almond essence, or any other flavouring can be used instead of lemon. Serve with canary or other sponge puddings. Oyster Sauce 2 Dozen Oysters | 4 Pint Melted Butter Pincli of Cayenne Put the oysters with their own liquor into a sauce- pan ; let them just come to the boil; take them from the fire; strain the liquor ; mix it with sufficient milk to make half a pint; prepare the melted butter with this (see “ Melted Butter,” p. 124). When the sauce is ready, add the oysters, and cayenne, if liked; let them get hot, but not boil; boiling makes them tough. Serve with boiled cod and boiled turkey. This sauce is much better, but less economical, if the oysters are bearded—that is, if the thin part is cut off; but as this makes the oysters much smaller, more are required for the sauce. Cockle or Mussel1 Sauce 1 Quart Cockles | 4 Pint Melted Butter Wash the cockles well in several waters; let them remain in a bowl of perfectly clean water for an hour, or longer. Take them from the water, taking care not to disturb the sand that may have sunk to the bottom of the bowl; put them into a saucepan ; let them get hot, shaking the pan well occasionally; when the 1 Seo p. 68, “To Boil Mussels.”131 HA UCES 31!AC. IX shells open, take the pan from the fire; pick the cockles 'rom the shells. Have ready the melted butter, made A'ith milk; put in the cockles; let them get hot, but jot boil. The cockles should be carefully watched vhile cooking, and taken from the fire as soon as they jpen ; boiling renders thorn tough. This sauce is a :heap substitute for oyster sauce, when oysters cannot je obtained. The liquor must be strained through nuslin, if it is used for mixing the sauce. If mace is iked, boil a small blade in the melted butter; take it >ut before putting in the cockles. Celery Sauce for Boiled Turkey or Fowl 1 Head of Celery 1 blade Macc i Pint Melted Butter { Teaspoonful White Pepper Wash the celery; cut it into lengths of about one nch ; put it into a pan with half a pint of stock, or if lo stock is at hand, water; boil for five-and-twenty ninutes till quite tender ; beat the celery to a pulp, or ub it through a colander 1 into the melted butter ; add he pepper, and a little salt, if needed. Milk must be sed for the sauce; the mace is boiled with the melted utter. Custard Sauce 1 Pint Milk Few Drops Essence of Almonds 1 Egg 1 Tablespoonful Sugar Put the milk in a pan ; let it get hot; separate the oik from the white of the egg; beat up the yolk with he sugar; add it to the milk; stir over the fire till be sauce thickens, but be careful that it does not boil, idd the essence just before pouring the sauce round the udding, or into a tureen. Any flavouring can be used istead of almonds. If the whole egg is used tho luce will be thicker, but less delicate. 1 Hue note on p. 118.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 132 PAI!T II CHAPTER X MISCELLANEOUS Clarified Fat Take beef or mutton fat, the trimmings from chops or cutlets, pieces of suet, or any kind of untainted fat; remove any skin or meat that may adhere to it; cut it into small pieces; put it in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it. Bring the water to the boil, stirring occasionally ; carefully remove any scum that rises. Then let it boil quickly, with the lid off the pan, till the liquid is a clear oil, which shows that the water has passed off in steam. So long as the liquid has a milky look, the water has not all passed off, and the fat. if used for frying, would fly up when heated. Clarified fat generally requires to boil from one to two hours. Draw the pan aside to let the fat go on melting, until the pieces are crisp and begin to brown; then let the fat cool a little) strain it through a strainer into a basin, pressing any pieces that are left to extract all the oil. When cold, the fat should be quite white. In straining the fat it must be remembered that it is much hotter than boiling water (see note on p. 2). The heat is so great indeed, that, if poured through a soldered strainer, it might melt the solder. It is because of this intense heat that food is so quickly cooked when fried, as directed on p. 39. For cooking, the fat does not actually boil. To Clarify Dripping The same dripping or clarified fat may be used for a very long time for frying. When it becomes brown and mixed with sediment, place it in an iron pan; let itMISCELLANEOUS CHAP. X 133 heat till a steam rises. Have ready a deep basin con- taining hot water ; pour the hot dripping into this, very little at a time, to prevent it flying up; stir well. When quite cold, the purified dripping will form a solid cake on the top, which must be taken off and wiped diy, and is then ready for use again. A quicker way is to put the dripping and cold water together in a pan and bring to the boil; pour into a basin and cool. When cold, remove and wipe the cake of clarified dripping. Chapelure Crusts of bread and stale pieces of crumb, instead of being thrown away, should be put into the oven, and allowed to remain there till thoroughly dried. They are then pounded, sifted, and put aside in tightly corked bottles ready for use. These crumbs are very useful for frying fish. Some pieces of bread should be allowed to take a golden brown colour; these should be pounded, sifted, and put away separately, ready for scalloped fish, etc. ^ The cook would do well to have dried crumbs of different degrees of fineness as well as colour. Care must be taken to remove any burnt pieces before pounding. Chapelure saves the labour of rasping crusts of bread over boiled ham or bacon. To Prepare Bread Crumbs for Puddings, etc. Spread a sheet of kitchen paper on the board ; place a wire sieve the wrong side up, on it; rub a portion of the crumb of a stale loaf through the sieve, or grate . on a breeid-grater, then pass the crumbs through a neve. The former is the quicker way. To Break Eggs for Puddings, etc. Each egg should be separately broken into a cup before being used, unless the cook is certain that the134 PART 11 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK eggs are perfectly fresh. Crack the shell as nearly in the middle of the egg as possible, by striking it against the rim of the cup; divide the shell in half, letting the contents fall into the cup. Remove any pieces of shell that may have fallen in with the egg. If the yolk is to be separated from the white, hold the egg, after cracking it, in a somewhat upright position, letting the white drop into a plate or cup; separate the white as much as possible from the yolk, by slipping the yolk from one half of the shell into the other, over the plate or cup. When quite clear, put the yolk into a separate vessel, or use as required. To Beat Eggs for Omelettes, etc. Separate the whites from the yolks as directed above : put the yolks into a basin, and beat them with a wooden spoon. Put the whites on a plate, with a pinch of salt, and slope the plate slightly from you. With a spatula or knife, held so that the blade is rather slant- ing, beat the whites to a stiff froth ; when the froth can be divided with a knife it is sufficiently stiff. If the white is beaten with the yolk, put the egg into a basin and whisk it to a froth. To Prepare Cutlets for Frying Break an egg on to a plate; beat it up slightly ; add pepper and salt; dip the cutlets into the egg, or brush them over with it. Put some bread crumbs on to a sheet of kitchen paper, and toss the cutlets in it. Each cutlet must be prepared separately. Fish is prepared for frying in the same way. Browning for Gravies The best browning for gravy or sauce is a sliced onion browned in butter, with a little flour added, andCHAP. X 135 MISCELLANEOUS allowed to brown, but not to burn. As this cannot always be done when wanted, the following recipe gives the cook a material with which to colour her gravies, which is always at hand. It must be borne in mind that as little as possible should be used, as it is apt, if used freely, to give a disagreeable flavour to the gravy or sauce. Browning ^ lb. Brown Sugar | J Pint Boiling Water Heat an old iron pan on the fire; rub it with a little dripping. Put the sugar into it, let it melt, stir with an iron spoon till it is a dark brown. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, add the water gradually, stirring all the time. Place the pan on the fire again, and stir till all is smooth. Let it cool, and pour it into a bottle; cork it well, and it will keep for some months. To Draw a Fowl Pluck the feathers, then singe the fowl to remove the small hair-like feathers. Lay the fowl on its breast, make an incision along the back of the neck from the body to the head. Cut off the head ; separate the skin from the neck, and fold the skin back over the breast; then cut off the neck close to the body. Draw out the crop carefully, and then the windpipe. Wipe the piece of skin to remove the blood. With a sharp knife enlarge the opening at the other end of the bird, about an inch upwards, from the middle. Draw out all the inside of the bird, taking care not to break the gall bladder, which is attached to the liver. Wipe the opening with a damp cloth. Preserve the neck and giblets for soup or gravy. To Truss a Fowl for Roasting Cut off the toes at the first joint. Put the legs in aMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY ROOK PART II 13(3 basin of boiling water for a few minutes; the skin can then be easily peeled off. Place the fowl on its breast; fold the skin over the opening at the neck on to the back. Turn in the wing with the end outside in the shape of a triangle ; the points will then keep the loose skin in its place. Push back the legs close to the sides of the bird, crossing each other at the knees. Tie the legs with the tail, commonly called the “ parson’s nose,” firmly together. Pass a skewer through the pinion and through the part of the leg placed under the wing, then through the body, the other leg, and pinion. Remove the gall bladder from the liver, taking care not to break it; wash the liver in cold water, dry it. Remove the fat from the gizzard, cut it open, and take out the in- side and the coarse skin; wash and dry the gizzard. Place the liver and gizzard each in a wing of the bird. If the fowl is lean, put a small piece of butter or drip- ping into the inside. To Truss a Fowl for Boiling' The fowl is trussed in the same way as for roasting, with the following differences : Cut off the legs at the first joint; put the fingers into the bird, and loosen all the skin round the legs till they can be pushed back within the skin. Push back the legs into the body of the bird, so that the whole is inside; put the liver and heart into the bird ; fold the skin of the breast over the end of the legs which appear at the hole, and tie firmly with double string; then turn up the parson’s nose, pushing it in so as to fill up the opening. To Prepare Moulds for Cakes Melt about half an ounce of butter; carefully cover every part with a brush, or with a piece of kitchen paper dipped in the butter. For sponge and otherCHAP. X MISCELLANEOUS 137 delicate cakes, turn the mould after it is buttered over on a plate ; let it drain. If the cake is to be of a brown colour, sprinkle a little castor sugar into the mould; turn it over, and shake out the loose sugar. To Prepare Basins or Moulds for Puddings Dip a piece of folded kitchen paper in soft butter ; rub it over every part of the basin or mould till it is well covered. Be careful to prepare in the same way the paper for covering steamed puddings. To Steam Puddings All kinds of puddings are lighter when steamed than when boiled. Cover the basin or mould contain- ing the pudding with a piece of well-buttered kitchen paper; put it into a saucepan, which must have boiling water in it, enough to come within an inch of the rim of the basin or mould. If there is more water, it may, when boiling'fast, spoil the pudding by flowing over the sides of the basin; as the water boils away, add more boiling water. It is well to put a small pan of water on the fire soon after the pudding is put into the sauce- pan, to be ready when required to fill up the pan. Puddings take longer to cook when steamed than when covered with boiling water, half an hour, or an hour, according to the kind of pudding. When done, the pan can be moved to one side without injury to the pudding, if the fire is needed for preparing another dish. The difficulty of lifting the basin from the pan without burning the fingers is overcome by placing the pudding on a small drainer before putting it in the saucepan. Garnishing Dishes Joints of cold meat, poultry, etc., look much better138 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part 11 if sent to table with, sprigs of fresli parsley arranged round the dish, and placed on the meat; but care must be taken that the parsley is fresh, clean, and dry. A cold fowl surrounded by fresh watercress looks well. A dish of slices of cold meat is rendered more tempting to the appetite if garnished with a little aspic jelly, cut into small pieces (see p. 180). Slices of beetroot cut into dice, slices of lemon, hard-boiled eggs, are also good garnishes. Fried parsley is a nice addition to fried fish, besides improving the look of the dish. For sweet dishes, dried cherries, currant jelly cut into small pieces, candied angelica cut into strips, the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, water icing, candied fruits, etc., make pretty ornaments. The cook should endeavour to make her dishes as pleasant to the eye as they are to the palate. Sippets of toasted bread, or fried bread, should be placed round dishes of minced or hashed meat. Vegetable cutters cost but little; with their help, carrots, turnips, etc., cut into shapes, and boiled or stewed, can be made an ornamental centre for a dish of cutlets or fried cooked meat. Soup also looks better when the vegetables are cut in shapes. Fried Parsley Wash the parsley, dry it on a rough cloth ; divide it into nice sprigs ; throw them into boiling clarified fat; let them fry for a minute or two till crisp; drain on kitchen paper. Fried Sippets of Bread Cut a slice from the crumb of a stale loaf; divide the slice into neat three-cornered pieces; put them in the frying-basket into boiling clarified fat; when a nice brown colour, drain them on kitchen paper139 CHAP. X MISCELLANEOUS Eggs in Sauces The yolk of an egg stirred into melted butter (see p. 124) makes the sauce richer. If used, it must be remembered that if the egg is added while the sauce is boiling, the egg will curdle, and spoil the sauce. The yolk of the egg must be put in after the sauce has cooled a little; the sauce must be stirred during the time the egg is being added. Cooked Vegetables used as Salads French beans, peas, potatoes, haricot beans, cauli- flower, make excellent salads, either by themselves, or mixed two or three together. Small quantities of cold cooked vegetables, instead of being wasted, can be made into an agreeable dish by the use of vinegar and oil (see “Salads,” p. 141). To Boil Eggs Hard Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes; plunge them into cold water for a few minutes ; take them out and remove the shell. To Boil Rice for Curry Take a quarter of a pound of rice (Patna rice is the best for curry); wash it well (see p. 42) ; put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil quickly for fifteen minutes; add a quart of cold water to rinse away the starch ; put it into a colander to drain ; place a plate under the colander when the water has drained away, and another plate over the top ; put the colander into the oven for an hour or rather longer. The rice will be quite white, and every grain separate, if these directions are carefully carried out. To Cream Butter, Eggs, etc. Stir with a wooden spoon, until the butter is like cream, and the eggs arc smooth.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAltT II 140 DRINKS Tea In preparing tea, half fill the teapot with thoroughly boiling water; let it stand for two minutes to heat the teapot; pour it away. Have the tea 1 ready to put in immediately; add boiling water (freshly boiled); let it stand for five or seven minutes, or longer if the water is hard. If tea has to be kept, it should be poured off from the leaves, as a bitter and hurtful flavour is drawn out when the leaves are long soaked. The teapot should be well dried before it is set aside, and left with the lid open. For good tea, allow one large teaspoonful to half a pint of boiling water. If inferior tea is used, a larger quantity is required, in proportion to the water. Tea is an exhilarating and refreshing stimulant when properly prepared and taken in moderation. When it is long cooked, or taken in excess, it injures the nervous system and the digestion. Coffee 2 Heaped Dessertspoonfuls Coffee | 1 Pint Boiling Water Pour some boiling water into a jug with a cover; let it stand a few minutes till the jug is thoroughly hot; pour away the water. Put the coffee into the jug; add the pint of boiling water ; stir with a spoon, and let the jug stand in a hot place for about five minutes; then pour through a muslin bag or into a well-heated coffee pot with strainer. In serving coffee, half fill the cup with coffee, and fill up with hot scalded milk. Coffee Another Way H 07. Coffee | 1 Pint Cold Water Put the coffee and water into a clean pan or coffee- 1 Soyer suggests that the dry tea should be warmed before the fire, before placing it in the teapot.SALADS CHAP. XI 141 pot on the fire; stir till it comes to the boil; when boiling, add a tablespoonful of cold water; boil up again ; add one tablespoonful of cold water and boil up once more. Draw the pot to the side of the fire; let it stand at least ten minutes, to allow the grounds to sink and the liquid to become clear. Pour off carefully, or strain through a piece of muslin. Cocoa Nibs 2 oz. Cocoa Nibs | 3 Pints Cold Water Bruise the nibs slightly; put them into an iron pan with the water; bring slowly to the boil; simmer very slowly for about four to six hours with the lid on, stirring occasionally; the three pints will then be reduced to two. Strain off the liquid into a basin ; let it stand till cold; then carefully remove all the fat floating on the top. This preparation may be taken either hot or cold. CHAPTER XI SALADS Be careful to have all the vegetables well dried after washing. The vegetables generally used for salads are lettuces, endive, mustard and cress, watercress, radishes, beetroot, celery, tomatoes, and onions.1 There are many :>thers which make excellent salad when previously looked, such as French beans, potatoes, parsnips, etc. Lettuces and other green vegetables should, if possible, oe freshly gathered. Before being torn up for salad, great tarragon, dandelion, cliicory, chervil, parsley, and many other rerbs may be added.PAKT II 142 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK care should be taken to see that they are quite clean, and free from earth or insects. There are two kinds of lettuce, the Cos lettuce (the leaves of which grow very close together, and of which the outer leaves are generally tied at the top to blanch the inside leaves or heart) and the cabbage lettuce. The Cos lettuce makes the best salad; it is generally used in preparing lobster, fish, or meat salad. Endive is seldom used alone ; it is an excellent addition to a salad of lettuce and watercress. Mustard, and Cress, or Small Salad, can be used alone, or mixed with lettuce, etc. To prepare Cos Lettuce for salad, cut off the root; take off the coarse outer leaves • if large, divide the lettuce lengthwise; pull off the larger leaves, and care- fully wipe them with a damp cloth. If the leaves are free from earth or insects, they should not be washed, wiping with a damp cloth is sufficient; but if they require to be put into water, they should be afterwards carefully drained, and shaken in a cloth to remove the moisture. Cabbage Lettuce.—Cut off the root and the coarser leaves, wash or wipe with a damp cloth, as with Cos lettuce. Endive.—Take off the green part, leaving only the yellow centre (the green leaves are bitter); put it into a bowl of cold water, drain, and dry by shaking in a coarse cloth. Mustard and Cress.—Cleanse carefully from grit and earth in cold water; spread it on a cloth to dry. Watercress.—If watercress has been grown in pure water it requires but little washing. Pick off the faded leaves and cut the leaves from the thick stalk, drain them, and dry in a cloth. No green vegetable requires to be more carefully washed than watercress, if it hasCHAP. XI 143 SALADS been grown among weeds; small water-plants and in- sects cling to the leaves and stems. Wash it in two or three waters; pick off any decayed leaves; cut off the thick stalk; then drain and dry. Radishes.—Wash and brush the earth from them ; when clean, cut off the thin part of the root and the green top. Cut into thin slices, or arrange the radishes whole on the top of the salad as a garnish. Beetroot (see p. 115). Celery.—The white heart of the celery is used for salad ; wash free from earth ; dry in a cloth. Onions.—Spring onions should be washed clean; the roots and a part of the green tops cut off. Spanish and other Onions (see p. 34). Lettuce and Endive Salad 1 Cos Lettuce I Salad Dressing, No. 1, p. 147 1 Endive | \ Small Beetroot (cooked) If the lettuce and endive are large, use the half of each ; mix the dressing as directed; put the white of the egg aside to garnish the salad ; cleanse and dry the lettuce and endive (see “To Prepare Lettuce andEndive,” p. 142); cut the heart and leaves of the lettuce across in strips ; divide them if very long; put a part of the cut lettuce into a salad bowl or glass dish; then some leaves of the endive, till all is used; pour the dressing over. Cut the beetroot into slices; divide into dice ; scatter them over the salad, or arrange according to fancy ; cut the white of the egg into slices, and garnish the salad with it. The heart and yellowish green leaves of the lettuce make the best salad; the larger leaves are often tough. Be careful not to use the thick stalk, which is bitter. There should be more lettuce than endive in the salad. Mayonnaise or any other dressing can be used if preferred.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 144 Mustard and Cress Salad Handful Small Salad Small Bunch Watercress Salad Dressing, No. 3 6 Radishes (see p. 143) Wash the small salad as directed (p. 142) ; prepare the watercress (the dark-leaved kind is the best); when both are dry, put the small salad, mixed with the watercress, which should be divided into pieces, in a salad bowl or glass dish. Pour the dressing into the bowl; toss the salad lightly with a fork and spoon to mix it; arrange the radishes round, or according to fancy, as a garnish. Cleanse aud dry the celery (see p. 143); cut it into small pieces; put the dressing into a salad bowl or glass dish ; add the celery. Lettuce and Watercress Salad 2 Cabbage Lettuces I Salad Dressing, No. 2 Bunch of Watercress | £ Small Beetroot (cooked) Cleanse aud prepare the lettuces and watercress (see p. 142); mix the dressing; separate the leaves of the lettuce; tear each leaf into pieces ; put them into a salad bowl or glass dish with the watercress, which should be broken up into small sprigs. Cleanse the radishes (see p. 143); cut two or three into thin rounds ; mix them among the salad; pour in the dressing; garnish with the beetroot (see “ Lettuce Salad ”) and the remainder of the radishes. Celery Salad 1 Heart of Celery Mayonnaise Dressing 1 Bunch Radishes Tomato and Onion Salad 2 or 3 Tomatoes 1 Spanish Onion 2 Gherkins 1 Tablespoon ful Salad Oil 1 ,, Vinegar Salt and Pepper to taste 4 Teaspoon ful Chopped ParsleySALADS CHAP. XI 145 Peel the onion; put it in a basin with a liitle piece of soda (see p. 34) and a pinch of salt; pour boiling water into the basin over the onion; leave it to scald for a few minutes. Cut the tomatoes into thin slices ; take the onion from the water ; dry and cut into thin slices; arrange the slices of tomato and onion alternately in a glass dish. Mix the vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper well together; pour the mixture over the salad. Cut the gherkins in pieces lengthwise; decorate the salad with them and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. The size of the onion must depend on the taste of those for whom the salad is prepared. A pinch of cayenne is an improvement. Tomato Salad J lb. Tomatoes l Teaspoonful Castor Sugar Pinch of Salt 1 Tablespoonful Salad Oil 1 ,, Vinegar ^ Teaspoonful Made Mustard Cut the tomatoes into slices ; arrange them in a glass dish. Mix the mustard, oil, vinegar, sugar, and salt well together; pour it over the tomatoes. This salad can be varied by leaving out the mustard. Potato Salad 2 Pickled Gherkins 2 Tablespoonfuls Oil 1 Tablespoonful Vinegar 2 Large Cooked Potatoes i Teaspoonful Salt i ,, Black Pepper Cut the potatoes into slices about half an inch thick, or rather less; divide these into dice; divide the gherkins lengthwise; cut into pieces; mix with the potatoes in a salad bowl. Mix the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper well together; pour over the potatoes. Parsnip Salad 1 Large or 2 Small Cooked Parsnips l Tablospoonful Salad Oil 1 Tablespoouful Malt Vinegar 4 Teaspoonful Salt Pinch of Black PepperPART 11 146 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Cut the parsnips into rounds about the eighth of an inch thick; arrange them on a dish; mix the salt into the vinegar; pour it with the oil over the rounds of parsnip, and sprinkle the pepper over. The root called Dutch celery, boiled till soft, peeled, and cut into slices, makes an excellent salad when prepared as above. Red Cabbage Salad 1 Tablespoonful Malt Vinegar Pincli of Salt With a sharp knife cut thin slices across the cabbage, as if for pickled cabbage. If the cabbage is large, two or three slices are sufficient. Separate the shreds; cut them into convenient lengths; put them in a dish j sprinkle the salt over; pour over the oil and vinegar. Red Cabbage 1 Tablespoonful Salad Oil Lobster Salad 1 Lobster 1 Large Cos Lettuce Mayonnaise Dressing 1 Hard-boiled Egg Pick the meat from the lobster; pieces; prepare the lettuce as for cut it into square , * — — salad; put into a salad bowl or glass dish, a part of the lettuce and the lobster; mix them lightly together with the mayon- naise ; put a layer of lettuce at the top; decorate with the egg cut in slices. Fish Salad Cooked Fish | Lettuce and Small Salad Mayonnaise Dressing Cut up the lettuce; mix with the small salad in the fish cut into small pieces, togctli dressing. Decorate with a little of the salad, pieces of beetroot or radishes. :r with lettuce put the andSALADS 147 CHAP. XI 1 Hard-boiled Egg 3 Tablespoonfuls Salad Oil 2 Salad Dressing, No. 1 1 Small Teaspoonful Made Mustard | Small Teaspoouful Sugar Vinegar Pinch of Salt The oil used in preparing dressing for salads should be the best olive oil, free from any rancid smell or taste. The reason why so many people dislike oil in salad is, that it too frequently has a strong, disagreeable taste. Good oil is both wholesome and agreeable. Malt vinegar is the best for salads ; if white vinegar is used, a less quantity than that given is required. Put the yolk of the egg into a basin ; rub it with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste; mix the salt, sugar, and mustard with it; add the oil gradually, stirring it well to the other ingredients ; pour in the vinegar gradually, mix all smoothly together. The white of the egg, cut into neat pieces, is used to decorate the salad. Salad Dressing, No. 2 2 Tablespoonfuls Oil 1 Small Teaspoonful Made Mustard 1 Tablespoonful Vinegar Pinch of Salt Mix the mustard, salt, and oil together ; add the vinegar ■ stir well ; pour over the salad. Salad Dressing, No. 3 2 Tablespoonfuls Oil | 2 Tablespooufuls Vinegar Pinch of Salt Pour the oil over the salad ; mix the salt with the vinegar, add it to the salad, and lightly mix all together with a fork and spoon. Mayonnaise Dressing 3 Tablespoon fills Salad Oil 1 Yolk of Egg 1 Tablespoonful Malt Vinegar Pinch of SaltMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 148 Carefully separate the white from the yolk of the egg ; put the yolk into a basin with the salt; stir it with a wooden spoon; add the oil very gradually, a drop at a time, stirring it into the egg. After the first teaspoon- ful is stirred in, the oil may be added more quickly ; but care must be taken not to pour in more than a few drops at a time. When the oil is all mixed into the egg, the mixture should be quite smooth and thick. Add the vinegar, drop by drop,1 stirring constantly, as before. It may be added in larger quantities as the dressing becomes more mixed, but if much is added at a time, the mixture will curdle and be spoilt. The dressing should be perfectly smooth. It requires a quarter of an hour to prepare this quantity, which is sufficient for a salad. For mayonnaise of fowl, or lobster salad, a larger quantity is required. A little tarragon vinegar mixed with the malt vinegar is a great improve- ment to the flavour. CHAPTER XH PASTRY Short Crust, No. 1 J lb. Flour 4 Teaspoonful Lemon Juice l Butter 1 Egg 1 Dessertspoonful Castor Sugar Abater Put the flour into a bowl; mix in the sugar; rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers, until the flour is like bread crumbs. Separate the yolk of the egg from the white; mix the yolk of the egg and lemon juice with the flour, adding sufficient cold water to make a smooth dough. Flour a paste-board ; put the dough on to it; lightly flour the dough and the rolling-pin ; 1 French oil-droppers (price Is.) are very helpful, as the oil can only fall in drops.149 CHAP. XII PASTRY roll out once. Bake for three-quarters of an hour (see “ Baking,” p. 40). Short Crust, No. 2 | lb. Flour Pinch of Salt 5 07.. Butter Cold Water Mix the salt in the flour; rub in the butter as directed for “ Short Crust, No. 1 ” ; mix with sufficient cold -water to make a smooth dough; roll the dough out once; bake for three-quarters of an hour. This crust is suitable for meat pies. Half lard and half butter can be used. Dripping Crust J lb. Flour Pinch of Salt 3 oz. Dripping Cold Water If the dripping is hard, put it near the fire to soften, but not to melt. Mix the salt with the flour; break the dripping into pieces ; put the pieces into the flour, covering each piece with flour; add water enough to make a stiff paste; turn out on to a floured board. Slightly flour both the paste and the rolling-pin ; roll out the paste; fold in three; turn the rough edges towards the top of the paste-boarcl; roll and fold again ; turn as before • roll and fold once more. When the paste has been rolled out three times it is ready for use. Rough Puff Paste i lb. Flour Squeeze of Lemon Juice i ,, Butter About 1 Gill Cold Water Put the flour into a bowl; break the butter into pieces; put each piece into the flour, covering it as it is put in ; moisten the flour with the water and the lemon juice; turn the paste on to a paste-board; knead it up into one piece. Flour the board ami the rolling-pin ;150 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAllT I] roll out the paste ; fold it in three ; turn the rough edges towards you ; roll and fold again ; turn as before; roll and fold once more ; turn and roll. This paste requires three foldings. Half butter and half lard make a good paste. A Richer Paste i lb. Flour | 6 oz. Butter Cold Water Mix and roll as directed for “ Rough Puff Paste,” rolling and folding the paste four times. Half butter and half lard can be used. Flaky Crust ^ lb. Flour 2 Whites of Egg 4 oz. Butter 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder Divide the butter into three pieces, and put them on a plate; put the flour into a basin with the baking powder, and mix well together; put the whites on a flat plate, add a small pinch of salt, and whip to a stiff froth; put the froth into the basin, and mix with the flour ; then add a very small quantity of cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Knead lightly on the floured board, and roll out very thin. Take one of the three pieces of butter, and put it in small lumps all over the paste ; fold the paste in three; turn the rough edges towards you, roll out again. Add the second piece of butter in the same way on the paste, fold in three, and roll out again. Then add the third piece of butter in the same Avay. Fold the paste in three, and roll it’ out two or three times till you see no more patches of butter ; then use directly. Geneva Pastry 4 oz. Flour I 4 oz. Sugar 4 ,, Butter | 2 Large Eggs, weighing 4 oz. Six Drops Lemon FlavouringPASTRY 151 CHAP. XII Beat the butter to a cream (see p. 139); whisk the eggs for twenty minutes, adding the sugar gradually to the eggs while whisking; add the butter; stir in the flour; mix it well in, add the flavouring. Bake in well-buttered tins for twenty minutes ; spread jam be- tween. The quantity of flour, butter, and sugar required is equal to the weight of the two eggs used. Fruit Tart or Pie Before beginning to make the pastry, see that all the materials are at hand. Weigh out the quantities re- quired. See that the flour is dry, that the paste-board, rolling-pin, dishes, etc., are perfectly clean, and that the fruit is ready to put into the dish. Put a small quantity of flour into a dredger ready for sprinkling on to the paste-board and dough, as required. Do not forget the water, both for mixing the dough and for adding to the fruit in the dish. It is useful to have a few small patty-pans or tins ready for the scraps of paste, left after trimming the tart. When all that is required is at hand, fill the pie-dish or dishes with the fruit, allow- ing about 3 oz. of moist sugar to 1 lb. of fruit (this quantity must be varied according to the sourness of the fruit used); add a little water if the fruit is not juicy. Mix and roll out the crust; cut long strips, the width of the edge of the dish; wet the edge of the dish slightly with a paste-brush dipped in water, and shaken before being used. Lay the strips on the rim of the dish, joining them neatly together ; pass the paste-brush over the strips of pastry; put the crust on ; press it on to the wetted strips with the thumbs; then with a sharp knife, dipped in flour, cut the paste sharply round at the outer rim of the dish. Ornament the edge by placing the thumb on the edge of the pastry, and drawing the back of a knife quickly up against the double layer ofMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART I] 152 pastry at short distances. . With a paste-cutter, cut out leaves or any fancy shape from the remains of the paste and decorate the tart with them. If left plain, sprinkle castor sugar over before serving (see “ Baking,” p. 40). Roll the paste out into a square, about a quarter of an inch in thickness (either short crust or rough puf! paste); with a round tin paste-cutter, cut out rounds of a size to fit the patty-pans; fit a round of paste into each patty-pan ; half fill with jam. From the pieces of paste left from cutting the rounds, cut thin strips ; twist them ; lay four across each tartlet, crossing each other in a network. Bake for twenty minutes (see “ Baking,” p. 40). It is a good way of using up the paste left after covering a pie, to make it into tartlets or cheese- cakes. Put the scraps of paste one on the other, and roll out into a square. Make half the quantity of pastry given on p. 149 ; roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; line three or four small deep tins with the paste. Beat up the egg with the sugar; add the milk and lemon peel; fill the lined tins nearly full with the custard ; sprinkle a little of the nutmeg over; bake for twenty minutes, or till the custard is set. These pies can be eaten hot or cold. The custard can be put into a small pie-dish lined with the paste, instead of small tins ; lay a double strip of paste on the rim of the dish, and ornament the edge, as directed for a fruit tart. Tartlets Custard Pies Rough Puff Paste ^ Pint Milk (Cold) Pinch Grated Nutmeg 1 Egg 1 Dessertspoonful Sugar A Little Grated Lemon PeelCHAP. XII PASTRY 153 Cocoa-nut Tart 4 oz. Grated Cocoa-nut 1 Egg 2 ,, Castor Sugar Rough Puff Paste Beat up the egg; put the grated cocoa-nut into a basin with the sugar ; add the beaten egg; beat all up together. Line a dish with the paste ; put in the cocoa-nut; bake for twenty minutes. Mince Pies Rough Puff Paste | Mincemeat Roll the paste out into a square a little more than a quarter of an inch thick; lay a patty-pan on the paste face downwards; cut the paste round close to the rim with the point of a sharp knife. Cut double the number of rounds required for the patty-pans,—thus, if six mince pies are to be made, cut twelve rounds. Lay one round in each patty-pan; put a teaspoonful of mincemeat in the middle of the paste; slightly wet the edge of the paste; put a round over for a cover, pressing the edges together. Bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. When baked, slip the pies from the patty-pans on to a dish covered with a d’oyley or ornamental paper. Mincemeat 3 lb. Beef | „ Beef Suet 1 ,, Apples i ,, Sultana Raisins i ,, Valencia Raisins 1 lb. Currants If „ Raw Sugar 6 oz. Candied Reel (Mixed) ^ lb. Almonds 1 Teaspoonful Allspice 1 Lemon Clean the currants and sultana raisins ; stone and chop the Valencias; peel, core, and chop the apples; chop the beef and suet fine ; cut the peel into small pieces ; blanch and pound the almonds ; grate the rind of the lemon. Mix all well together with the sugar, allspice, and the strained juice of the lemon. Put thePART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 151 mincemeat time. in a covered jar; it will keep for some Egg OF5 Curd. Cheese-cakes J lb. Curds I 1 If, oz. Butter | 1 oz. Sugar A Little Grated Nutmeg Cream the sugar and butter together; stir in yolk of the egg; mix them well with the curds. the Fill 3 Eggs 2 Small Lemons the lined patty-pans as directed for tartlets. A little grated lemon peel or a few currants can be added to vary the flavour. Bake for twenty minutes. Lemon Mixture for Cheese-cakes 2 oz. Butter ^ lb. Loaf Sugar Grate the rind of the lemons ; squeeze out and strain the juice; put the butter, sugar, and lemon into an enamelled pan ; break the eggs, keeping out the white of one; add them to the ingredients in the pan. Stir all over the fire till the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is the thickness of honey. If put into a jam-pot and covered well over, this mixture will keep for a long time. Bakewell Pudding is made with alternate layers of this mixture and jam, and bread or cake crumbs to thicken the mixture. CHAPTER XIII PUDDINGS Suet Crust for Meat and Fruit Puddings lb. Flour I Cold Water J ,, Suet | Pinch of Salt Before beginning to chop the suet, carefully remove all pieces of skin ; chop the suet very fine : put the flour into a basin; mix in the salt; add the chopped suet, and rub it well into the flour, using the tips ofPUDDINGS CHAP. XIII 155 the fingers for the purpose. When the suet and flour are well mixed together, add sufficient cold water to make them into a stiff paste. Sprinkle a small quantity of flour on a paste-board, turn the paste on to it, and work it lightly with the hand for a minute or two. Flour the rolling-pin, sprinkle a very little flour on to the paste, just enough to prevent the paste from stick- ing to the pin, and roll the paste out to the thickness of about half an inch. If a richer crust is required, use more suet, and roll the paste out thinner. Suet Crust for Roly-poly Puddings £ lb. Flour I Cold Water | ,, Beef Suet | Pinch of Salt Shred the suet into very thin flakes; mix the salt into the flour; rub the shredded suet well into flour ; mix all to a stiff paste with cold water. Flour the paste- board lightly ; turn the paste on to it, and work it with the right hand on the board for three or four minutes. Flour the rolling-pin ; press it on the dough to flatten it out; then roll the dough out, rolling always one way. Fold the dough in three, and roll it out again. Repeat this once more, and roll the crust to the size required. A Bucher Crust for Roly-poly Puddings i lb. Flour1 1 Egg | ,, Beef Suet I Pint of Milk Pinch of Salt Shred and mix the suet as directed in the previous recipe. Make a hole in the flour and suet; break in the egg; add the milk; and mix all to a stiff dough. Roll out as directed for the plainer crust. Apple Pudding Peel and slice the apples, carefully taking out the 1 The best Austrian Hour requires about this quantity of milk (see p. 124).MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 156 PART II core. Prepare a pudding-basin (see directions, p. 137); line it neatly with suet crust (see “Suet Crust,” p. 154); put the slices of apple into the lined basin; add sugar according to taste, two or three cloves, or the rind of half a lemon, cut very thin, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cover the basin with a piece of paste rolled out to the size required; close the edges carefully. If the pudding is to be boiled, dip a pudding-cloth into boiling water ; squeeze it out (this may be done by putting the cloth into a basin, and pressing the rim of the saucepan lid on it); carefully flour the cloth, and tie it over the top of the pudding-basin with a string. Gather the corners of the cloth together, and tie1 * * them together on the top. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and let it boil for two hours. Puddings of all kinds are lighter and better if steamed instead of being boiled (see “ To Steam Puddings,” p. 137). Allow half an hour longer if steamed. Gooseberry Pudding Cut off the stalks and tops of the gooseberries; line a basin with suet crust as above; fill the basin with the gooseberries ; add sugar according to the acidity of the fruit, and a little water. Cover the basin with paste, and boil as directed for apple pudding. Currant, raspberry, plum, and all other fruit puddings are made in the same way. If the fruit is juicy, do not add any water. Suet Pudding ^ lb. Flour About 2 Gills5 Cold Water I ,, Suet Pinch of Salt 1 Never put a pin in a pudding-cloth. 3 The Imperial gill is meant throughout this book ; it is equal to I of a pint.PUDDINGS CHAP. XIII 157 Chop the suet fine (see “Suet Crust,” p. 154); add it with the salt to the flour ; mix them well together iu a bowl; add the water, mixing all together with a wooden spoon. Some kinds of flour require more and some less water than the quantity given above. It is better to mix in the water gradually, to avoid spoiling the pudding by using too much. Prepare a pudding- basin ; put in the mixture ; tie a cloth (see “ Pudding- Cloth,” p. 156) over; plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two hours. This pudding is better steamed (see “To Steam Puddings,” p. 137). An egg makes the pudding richer. This pudding is lighter if made with ^ lb. bread crumbs and ^ lb. flour. Chop the suet fine; mix it with the bread crumbs (see “Bread Crumbs,” p. 133), flour, and sugar in a bowl. Grate the rind of the lemons; squeeze out the juice and strain it. Beat up the eggs; add them with the grated lemon rind and juice to the contents of the bowl; mix all well together. Put the mixture into a Prepared basin, cover with a buttered paper, and steam the pudding for two and a half hours. Serve with melted butter sauce. Apple Dumplings Peel, but do not divide the apples ; cut out the core ; fill up the hole left in the middle of the apple with sugar, and a clove, if liked. Make a crust with suet (see “Suet Crust,” p. 154); roll it out evenly; cut it into as many pieces as there arc apples. Put an apple on each piece of crust, cover the apple completely over, and put the dumplings into a saucepan of boiling Lemon Pudding J lb. Flour 4 „ Bread Crumbs | ,, Castor Sugar 2 Eggs I lb. Suet 2 Lemons158 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II water. Let them boil for three-quarters of an hour or an hour. Currant Dumplings Mix the suet and flour as directed for suet pudding (see p. 156), adding three ounces of currants, carefully cleaned, and a little mixed spice. Mix the currants well into the flour, add two ounces of sugar, and mix with the water to a stiff dough. Take a small piece and roll it on a floured board into a ball. When all the dough is made into dumplings, put them into boiling water, and let them boil for three-quarters of an hour, or, if large, for one hour. Rice Pudding li oz. Rice ^ oz. Butter 1 Pint Milk | ,, Sugar Wash the rice; drain it; put it with the sugar and butter into a saucepan to warm slowly, so that the rice sucks up the butter; add the milk, stirring all the time ; let it get warm ; then put all into a pudding-dish. Let it cook slowly in a moderate oven for two or three hours. A few drops of lemon or almond flavouring are an improvement. Baroness Pudding 3 oz. Bread Crumbs 2 ,, Flour 6 ,, Suet 6 ,, Raisins Pinch of Salt Stone squeeze add them to sugar, raisins, all well together, and eggs, with 1 Gill of Milk 2 Eggs 1 Lemon 3 oz. Sugar A Little Grated Nutmeg the rind of the lemon; the raisins; grate out and strain the juice. Beat up the eggs and the milk. Put the crumbs, flour, salt, suet, and lemon peel into a bowl, mixing. Add to them the lemon juice, milk, a little grated nutmeg. Stir well159 PUDDINGS CHAP. XIII together, and put into a prepared basin. Steam the pudding for four and a half hours. Alexandra Pudding 6 oz. Bread Crumbs i Few drops of Vanilla 2 ,, Castor Sugar 2 Eggs 1 ,, Butter | 1 Gill Warm Milk 4 ,, Currants I h Teaspoonful of Baking Powder 1 Lemon Put the bread crumbs and sugar into a bowl, break in the butter, add the currants and the grated rind of the lemon; mix all well together. Beat up the eggs to a froth, add them with the warm milk, lemon juice, and vanilla to the dry materials; stir the mixture with a wooden spoon one way, for five minutes. Have a prepared mould ready; decorate the sides with a few currants. Just before pouring the mixture into the mould, add the baking powder, stir once, then pour it into the mould. Cover the basin with a cloth, and boil for one hour. Serve with lemon sauce. This pudding is better if steamed for one hour and a half, instead of being boiled. One egg only may be used. Sponge-cake oz. Stoned Raisins 1 Teaspoonful Sugar Inexpensive Pudding To be eaten cold 2 Tablespoonfuls Strawberry Jam 2 Eggs i Pint Milk i Sviai.1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg Butter a mould, and decorate it with half an ounce of the stoned raisins. Cut the sponge-cake into pieces resembling fingers, spread some of the jam on each piece, and line the bottom and sides of the mould with them. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; beat up the whites to a still' froth (see “To Beat Eggs,” p. 134). Beat the yolks ; add them to the milk with theMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 160 PART 11 sugar, grated nutmeg, and the remainder of the raisins and strawberry jam ; mix all well together; then stir in lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. Pour the mix- ture into the lined mould, cover it with a buttered paper tied over the mould, and steam the pudding for one hour and a half. Turn it out, and serve cold. A cold custard, poured rouud the pudding when served, is an improvement to the dish. Cheese Pudding 2 oz. Grated Cheese 2 ,, Bread Crumbs £ Teaspoonful Pepper Grate the cheese fine into the bread crumbs. 1 Egg. 1 Gill of Milk 2 oz. Butter £ Teaspoonful Salt mix it with the pepper and salt Separate the white from the yolk of the egg; beat the white to a stiff froth (see p. 134) ; beat up the yolk. Boil the milk with the butter, and pour it over the bread, etc.; add the beaten yolk; mix all well together; stir the beaten white lightly in; put the mixture in a pie-dish, and bake for 20 minutes in a quick oven. Serve quickly before the pudding begins to fall Roly-poly Pudding Suet Crust, p. 155 | Any kind of Jam Roll out the crust to an oblong shape ; spread the jam to within half an inch of the edges of the crust; roll it up, pressing the edges of the sides together as you roll. Slightly wet the top edge, and press the crust lightly, so as to close it. Prepare a pudding-cloth (sec “ Pudding- Cloth,” p. 15G); put the pudding on to it, roll it tightly up, and tie the edges with a string or tape. When one edge is tied, pass the string along the pudding, and tie the other edge. Put a plate at the bottom of the sauce- pan ; put in the pudding and boil for one hour. TheCHAP. XIII 161 PUDDINGS water in the saucepan must be boiling before the pudding is put in, and must continue to boil the whole time, till the pudding is taken out. A Lancashire Roly-poly 2 Apples 2 Tablespoonfuls Golden Syrup 2 oz. Currants Spice, if liked, and Grated Lemon Rind Mince the apples very fine, spread them with the currants on to the crust, and add the golden syrup,1 or treacle, if preferred. Roll up the crust as directed for the jam roly-poly, being very careful to close the edges firmly. Boil for one hour and a half. Rolled Currant Pudding Proceed as for jam roly-poly, using dried currants in- stead of jam, and adding a small quantity of sugar. J lb. Suet h ,, Valencia Raisins i ,, Currants i ,, Sugar i ,, Chopped Apples A Rich Plum Pudding £ lb. Figs 1£ oz. Chopped Almonds 1 Wineglass Brandy ^ Nutmeg 4 or 5 Eggs 1 Lemon \ lb. Flour | ,, Bread Crumbs i ,, Candied Peel h Teaspoonful Allspice ; same of Ginger, Cinnamon, and Salt Chop the suet; mix it with the bread crumbs, flour, salt,and spices; clean the currants; stone theraisins; chop the peel and figs ; add them with the chopped apples, almonds, and sugar to the suet and flour. Grate the rind of the lemon, squeeze out and strain the juice. Mix all well together with the brandy and the eggs well beaten up. Boil in a well-floured cloth or basin for six hours. I his pudding may be divided into two ; half may be boiled for four hours, and put aside till required, when it must be boiled again for two more hours. A dessertspoonful of bread crumbs mixed with the syrup or treacle renders it less liquid, and therefore less liable to ooze out while the pudding is boiling. MPART II 162 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK A Plainer Plum Pudding 1 lb. Beef Suet h „ Flour A- ,, Bread Crumbs 2 Eggs Grated Rind of half a Lemon j lb. Raw Sugar {j lb. Currants | ,, Raisins £ ,, Candied Peel H Gill Milk 1 Teaspoonful Powdered Allspice h >. Salt Chop the suet; stone the raisins ; clean the currants; cut the candied peel into small pieces ; mix all the dry ingredients together. Beat up the eggs; add them to the milk ; stir all well together ; if the quantity of milk is not sufficient, add a little more. Butter a basin or mould; pour in the pudding; steam for four hours. Amber Pudding 6 Apples 1 Lemon 2 Eggs 2 Tablespoonfuls Brown Sugar 1 oz. Butter { Pint Water Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices; put them into a pan with the water, sugar, the strained juice of the lemon, and half the rind cut as thin as possible. Let them simmer, stirring occasionally, until the apples are sufficiently soft to be rubbed through a wire sieve. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs. Stir the yolks of the eggs to the pulped apples; melt the butter, but do not let it become oily; add it to the apple and egg, and mix all well together. Butter a dish, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding seven teaspoonfuls of castor sugar gradually, and a pinch of salt. Take the pudding from the oven, cover with the beaten white of egg, and put the pudding back for ten minutes to set the egg.. Decorate with dried cherries and strips of angelica.. Whipt cream, instead of the white of egg, may be used' to vary this dish; if this is used, the pudding must bePUDDINGS 163 CJHAr. XIII cold. Another way is to line the edge of a pie-dish with paste (see “Pastry,” p. 148), fill it with the pudding, and bake. General Satisfaction 2 Penny Sponge-cakes 1 oz. Castor Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls Jam 3 Eggs 3 Gills Milk Yanilla or Almond Flavouring Line a pie-dish with short crust pastry (see p. 148); bake it, putting in some crusts of bread to prevent the paste from rising while baking. Cut the sponge-cakes in half lengthways; put them in a basin; pour over them one gill of milk. Put the two gills of milk into a pan; let it get hot. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat up the yolks with the sugar; add them to the hot milk, and stir the custard over the fire until it is thick, being careful that it does not boil. Add the flavouring. Put the jam at the bottom of the pie-dish (first removing the crusts), then add the soaked sponge- cake, and pour the custard over. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little sugar; pile it on the pudding; decorate with dried cherries and angelica, and return it to the oven to brown. This pudding can be eaten either hot or cold. Canary Puddings 2 Eggs 2 oz. Flour 2 ,, Butter 2 oz. Castor Sugar 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder \ oz. Butter for Greasing Melt the \ oz. of butter, and butter six small cups; mix the baking powder into the flour; beat the butter to a cream in a basin ; add the flour and sugar; mix well together ; break in an egg; beat it into the flour; add the other in the same way. When the mixture is smooth, half fill the cups. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes. When done, turn out on to a dish; servo164 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART 11 with lemon or sherry sauce (see p. 129). If these pud- dings are made without baking powder, the whites of the eggs should be beaten to a froth on a plate (see “ To Beat Eggs,” p. 134), and added after the other ingre- dients have been well beaten together. Steamed Bread Pudding 4 oz. Bread Crumbs 2 ,, Suet 2 ,, Candied Peel 2 oz. Sugar 1 Egg 2 Tablespoonfuls Milk Chop the suet fine, cut the candied peel into small pieces, and mix them with the bread crumbs in a basin. Beat up the egg with the sugar, add the milk, and pour them to the suet and bread crumbs. Mix all well together. Put the mixture into a buttered basin or pudding-mould. Place a spoonful of jam in the middle, cover with a buttered paper, and steam the pudding for two hours. Welcome Guest Pudding 4 oz. Bread Crumbs 2 ,, Suet 1£ ,, Candied Peel £ Lemon 1| oz. Ratafia Biscuits 1 Gill Milk 2 oz. Sugar 2 Eggs Heat the milk ; chop the suet fine ; cut the peel into thin slices. Butter a mould, and decorate it with some of the candied peel. Put the bread crumbs into a basin, pour the hot milk over them, and let them stand till cold; then add the suet, grated lemon peel, ratafia biscuits, which must be crushed, and a pinch of salt. Beat up the eggs with the sugar till they are very light, and add them to the other ingredients. Mix all to- gether very lightly, pour the mixture into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for one hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce or stewed fruit. This pudding may be varied by using the same quantity of chopped almonds instead of the ratafia biscuits.CHAP. XIII 165 PUDDINGS Bread Pudding with Jam Sauce | lb. Bread Crumbs 4 oz. Sugar Eggs 2 oz. Butter 1^ Gill Milk Boil the milk; put the butter into it to melt; put the bread crumbs and sugar into a basin ; pour the milk over them; mix well together. Beat up the eggs, and stir them lightly into the other ingredients. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with jam sauce (see p. 129). Venoise Pudding 5 oz. Bread (crumb only) 3 ,, Castor Sugar 3 ,, Sultana Raisins 2 ,, Candied Peel 2 oz. Lump Sugar 2 Eggs 4 Pint Milk Wineglass of Sherry Cut the .bread into three or four slices; cut these again into dice; put them into a bowl with the castor sugar, raisins, and minced candied peel; pour over them the sherry. Put the lump sugar into an iron saucepan with a dessertspoonful of cold water ; let it boil until it is a dark brown colour, stirring it to prevent burning. Warm the milk, mix the browned sugar with it. Beat up the eggs, add them to the milk, and pour over the bread, etc., in the bowl. Put all into a well-buttered basin or mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for one hour and a half. Serve with apricot jam sauce (p. 129). Cream makes this pudding richer; if used, less milk is needed. Frugality Pudding 6 oz. Pieces Stale Bread 1 ,, Butter \ Pint Milk (or rather less) 1 Eo’ij 1 oz. Sugar [Lemon 4 Teaspoonful Grated Rind ofMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 166 Break the pieces of bread, crust and crumb, into a basin ; put the milk into a saucepan; let it boil; stir in the butter ; when the butter is melted, pour the milk over the bread; cover the basin with a plate. Break the egg; beat it up with the sugar to a froth. With a fork beat up the bread till there are no lumps; add the egg and lemon peel; beat all well together. Prepare a basin or pudding-mould; pour iu the mixture; cover with a buttered paper; steam for an hour and a quarter. When cooked, turn the pudding out, and send it to table with jam, or syrup, or treacle, according to taste. This pudding can be varied in many ways, by adding 2 oz. of sultana raisins, or currants, or two spoonfuls of treacle, etc., or changing the flavour by using some essence instead of lemon peel. Crusts of bread, pieces left from bread cases, etc., are used up in this pudding. A little browned sugar stirred into the milk will disguise the colour of the crusts : and another egg and more butter make it richer. This pudding can be varied by being baked. Portuguese Rice Milk £ Teacupful Rice 1 Pint Milk Few Drops Vanil 1 oz. Castor Sugar 2 Yolks of Eggs a Flavouring Wash the rice well; put it in a lined saucepan with the milk; let it simmer for two hours, or till the rice is so soft that it is like cream. Let it stand to cool for a short time; stir in the yolks of the eggs and the sugar; put the pan on the fire; let the mixture get hot, but not boil (the eggs will curdle if boiled); add the vanilla. When cool, pour into a glass dish and serve cold. This is a nice dish for summer.CHAP. XIII 167 PUDDINGS Friar’s Omelette 1 lb. Apples 2 oz. Butter J lb. Bread Crumbs 1 Tablespoon ful Sugar Lemon 2 Cloves Peel, core, and slice the apples ; put them in a pan with the sugar, cloves, rind, and juice of the lemon; add a few spoonfuls of water, according to the juici- ness of the apples ; let them stew till soft. Spread the butter thickly on the sides and bottom of a pie-dish; press the bread crumbs on the butter till the dish is thickly lined ; take the lemon rind from the stewed apple; pour the apple into the pie-dish; cover with bread crumbs; bake for half or three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn out the pudding on to a dish; it should be of a golden brown colour; sprinkle castor sugar over. A little butter stirred into the stewed apple, just before putting it into the dish, makes the pudding richer. Put the fruit (any kind of fresh fruit that is in season will do) into an enamelled or brass pan, with the sugar; let it stew till soft. Cut very thin slices of bread, sufficient to line a pint basin ; cut off the crust; when the fruit is cooked, pour it immediately into tire lined basin ; cover over with bread ; put a plate on the top ; place a weight on it; let the pudding get quite cold. Turn it out on to a dish; serve with custard or cream. This pudding should be made the day before it is wanted. Sponge-cake or Savoy biscuits can be used if liked. Malvern Pudding 1 lb. Fresh Fruit 3 oz. Sugar A Few very thin Slices of BreadMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 168 Pancakes J lb. Flour 2 Eggs 2 oz. Castor Sugar £ Pint Milk \ Teaspoonful Salt £ lb. Clarified Fat or Lard Put the flour and salt in a basin; separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; add the yolks to the flour, and stir well with a wooden spoon; pour in the milk gradually, stirring all the time; be careful to have no lumps in the batter. Put the whites of the eggs on a plate with a pinch of salt; beat to a stiff froth (see “To Beat Eggs,” p. 134); add this to the batter just before the pancakes are to be cooked, stir- ring it in lightly. This quantity of batter will make about eight pancakes. Divide the fat into eight pieces; put one piece into a small frying-pan to melt; put two and a half tablespoonfuls of the batter into a cup; when the fat in the pan is hot, pour in the batter from the cup, holding the pan so that the batter covers the bottom of it. Let the pancake set, then with a knife see that it does not stick anywhere. Shake it a little, and toss it over, or turn with a long thin knife. When a golden brown on both sides, put it on a hot dish, and roll it up, dredging a little sugar over. Cook the pan- cakes as quickly as possible, and serve very hot. Divide a lemon into quarters; cut each quarter in half ; put the pieces neatly on a plate ; send it to table with the pancakes, together with brown sugar, or castor sugar, according to taste. The batter is better if mixed some hours before it is used; the frothed white must not be put in till just before the batter is fried. Apple Fritters lb. Flour 1 Tablespoonful Best Salad Oil, or 1 ,, Butter (warmed) 2 Whites of Eggs 1 Gill Tepid Water 2 ApplesCHAP. XIII 169 PUDDINGS Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth (see “ To Beat Eggs,” p. 134); put the oil or butter (which must be liquid) into a gill measure; fill it up with tepid water; mix the flour with this into a soft dough ; then add the frothed white of egg. Peel and core the apples; cut them in thin rings; sprinkle a little sugar over, and a little grated lemon peel; dip each ring lightly in the batter ; drop it into hot clarified fat; let it cook for two or three and a half minutes. Lift the fritters on to kitchen paper to drain ; put them on to a hot dish; sprinkle castor sugar over. Serve hot. A little more water may be required, as all flours are not alike in the quantity of water they absorb. Orange fritters are prepared in the same way. Be careful to take out the pips, and to cut away the white part of the peel. Omelette Souffles 3 Eggs I 1 oz. Butter 1 Dessertspoonful Castor Sugar | Jam A Few Drops of Vanilla or other Flavouring Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; put the yolks into a basin ; add the sugar, stirring one way, until the mixture is thick ; add the flavouring; beat up the whites to a froth (see “To Beat Eggs,” p. 134); add them lightly to the yolks. Melt the butter in an enamelled Irying-pan; pour in the mixture; let it cook for a minute or two till set; then put it into a hot oven ; let it bake for seven minutes. Sprinkle some sugar on a sheet of kitchen paper; turn the omelette on to the paper; lightly spread some jam on the omelette, and double it in half. This is a quickly made dish. Russian Pancakes 1 oz. Flour „ Butter i Pint Milk 1 Egg i oz. Sugar JamPART II L70 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK Warm the milk ; beat up the egg to a froth ; put the butter into a basin with the sugar; stir them with a wooden spoon to a cream; add a few spoonfuls of the warm milk. Stir in the flour ; add the rest of the milk and the egg. Mix well together ; butter small plates; put some of the mixture in each ; bake for twenty minutes. When baked, put a little jam on each pancake, and pile one on the other. Yorkshire Pudding lb. Flour I 1 Pint Milk 2 Eggs I \ Teaspoon ful Salt Put the salt into the flour; beat the eggs to a froth ; pour them on the flour; mix it to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon; when all the lumps are rubbed smooth, add the rest of the milk gradually, beating the batter all the time. Butter a shallow baking-tin ; pour in the batter. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. When baked, cut the pudding into equal sized pieces; put on a hot dish. Serve with roast beef. Toad-in-the-Hole J lb. Flour 1 Pint Milk A Teaspoonful Salt 1| lb. Mutton Chop 1 Errrr J Teaspoon ful Pepper Trim the chops ; cut off most of the fat; lay them in a deep dish; sprinkle the salt and pepper over; mix the batter as directed for Yorkshire pudding; pour it over the chops; bake for an hour and a half in a hot oven. A little chopped onion may be added if liked. Slices of cold meat may be used instead of chops ; the pudding will not then take more than three-quarters of an hour to bake. Bermuda Shape A lb. Raspberry Jam I A Teacupful Water 1 Tablespoonful Arrowroot | Few Drops of Cochineal171 PUDDINGS CHAP, xrn Rub the jam through a sieve to remove the seeds; mix the arrowroot and water smoothly together; put them into a pan with the jam, and stir over the fire till thick; add the cochineal. Fill a mould or shape with cold water; let it drain; put in the mixture. When cold, turn it out. Apple Shape 1 lb. Apples I 1 or 2 Tablespoonfuls Sugar ^ Pint Water | J Teaspoonful Grated Lemon Rind J oz. Gelatine Peel, core, and stew the apples with the lemon rind in the water; when soft, rub them through a sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of water; add it to the apple; stir in the sugar. Fill a mould with cold water; let it drain; put in the apple. When cold, turn it out. The quantity of sugar used must depend on the sourness of the apples. Serve with cream or custard. Rice Shape 3 Tablespoonfuls Rice 1 Tablespoonful Sugar 1 Teaspoonful Chopped Rind of Lemon Pint Milk Small Piece of Cinnamon Wash the rice well; put it into a pan with the milk, lemon, and cinnamon; let it simmer until the rice is thoroughly soft and the mixture is thick. The rice should be so soft that it crushes when slightly pressed with a spoon. Stir in the sugar; put the rice into a mould that has been previously wetted with cold water. When cold, turn it out; serve with jam or custard. A nice dish may be made by taking a round dish or tin, about two inches deep, placing a smaller tin or basin in the middle, and putting the rice round it. When cold, take out the middle tin or basin; turn the shape carefully on to a dish; fill the hole left in the centre with stewed fruit, or custard, or jam covered withMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 172 wliipt cream. Be careful to place both the tins or basins in cold water before putting in the rice. Semolina Pudding oz. of Semolina 1 Egg 1 Pint Milk 1 oz. Sugar Few Drops of Flavouring, or Small Piece Rind of Lemon Put the semolina into a saucepan, and cover it with the milk; bring slowly to the boil, and simmer till quite soft (about ten minutes), stirring all the time. Remove the pan from the fire, and allow the mixture to cool a little. Put the semolina into a basin, add the sugar and flavouring, and mix well. Break the egg, separate the yolk from the white; add the yolk to the semolina ; stir well. Beat up the white to a stiff froth, mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredients ; pour into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven till it is a golden colour. Steamed Semolina Pudding 1& oz. Semolina 3 Gills Milk 1J oz. Sugar 1 Egg 1 oz. Butter Few Drops of Flavouring, if liked Bring the semolina and milk slowly to the boil in a small saucepan, and simmer till soft. Pour the mixture into a basin ; add the sugar and butter ; allow it to cool a little. Beat the yolk of egg slightly with a fork, and mix it with the semolina (when cool); add the flavour- ing ; prepare a basin or tin mould (a plain one is best) ; pour in the mixture. Butter a double piece of kitchen paper, and twist it over the top of the basin or mould, and steam slowly for half an hour, adding boiling watei if the water boils away. If a basin is used, steam for three-quarters of an hour.BREAD, ETC. CHAP. XIV 173 German Puffs 1 Teacupful Flour 1 Gill Mixed Milk and Water 2 oz. Butter 2 Eggs Put the milk, water, and butter into a saucepan , let them boil; stir in the flour quickly while the milk is boiling ; stir over the fire till the batter is quite smooth ; take the pan from the fire. Beat up the eggs; stir them into the batter; mix them in smoothly. Butter small pudding-cups; half fill them with the batter; bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. When done, turn out the puffs on to a dish, and serve with sugar or syrup. CHAPTER XIY BREAD, ETC. Household Bread 3| lbs. Flour | 1 Heaped Teaspoonful Salt 1 oz. German Yeast I 1 Quart Tepid Water 1 Dessertspoonful Castor Sugar Mix the yeast in a basin with the sugar, and add gradually the water, stirring with a wooden spoon. Put lbs. flour with the salt into a very large basin; make a hole in the middle of the flour; add the yeast and water slowly, mixing with your hand, in gradually enlarging circles, till all the flour is taken in. Beat the dough thoroughly for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place for two hours. Put the remaining flour on a board, turn out the dough upon it and knead, taking it from the sides towards the middle, till it no longer sticks to your hands, and feels quite elastic. This quantity makes two loaves. If cottage-loaves areMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 174 PAET II wanted, form a large ball and place it on a floured tin; then place a smaller ball on the top of the large one, and make a small hole or mark on the top. If moulds are used, flour them and half fill them with the dough. Cover the loaves and let them rise for about twenty minutes in a warm place, then bake in a hot oven for about two hours. Turn the loaves out of the moulds, or remove them from the tin, and slant them against a dish or board to allow the steam to escape. The above are general directions; certain flours (generally the best) absorb more water than others, and the cook must learn by experience the proper consist- ency of the dough. If brewer’s yeast is used, the dough may stand all night in a warm place. Wheat Meal Bread 3 lbs. Wheat Meal I 1 Heaped Dessertspoonful Salt 1 i oz. German Yeast | 11 Pint Tepid Water 1 Dessertspoonful Castor Sugar Mix the meal with the salt in a large bowl; cream the sugar and yeast together; add the water to the yeast; make a hole in the middle of the flour ; pour in the yeast and water; make a thick batter in the middle of the meal, leaving the meal round the sides of the hole dry; sprinkle a little meal over the batter; cover the bowl with a cloth, and set the meal in a warm place to rise. When the covering of dry meal sprinkled on the top is broken through, mix all the meal and yeast together; put a little meal on a board; turn the dough on to it, and knead it to a stiff dough. Make it into small loaves; put them on a baking-sheet; cover them with a cloth ; set them again to rise. When risen, bake them in a hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. The time the dough will take to rise depends on the warmth of the place where it is made.BREAD, ETC. 176 CHAP. XIV Milk Rolls £ lb. Flour I 1 Gill Milk 2 oz. Salt Butter I 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder Rub the flour and butter lightly together with the tips of the Augers ; add the baking powder; gradually stir in enough milk to make it a stiff dough. Take rough lumps and place them on a floured flat tin. Bake in a quick oven till ready (about twenty minutes); place on a sieve to cool. This makes about eight rolls. If preferred, the dough may be rolled into small oval shapes, and brushed with milk, or with a slightly beaten egg, to give them a glazed appearance. These rolls must be made as quickly as possible, in order to be light. Sally Lunns f lb. Flour 2 oz. Salt Butter £ ,, German Yeast 1 Dessertspoonful Sugar 1 Egg 1£ Gill Milk £ oz. Butter (for greasing) Pinch of Salt Warm the milk and butter in a pan together till the butter is melted, but not hot. Rub the yeast smooth with the sugar ■ add the milk and butter. Stir this mixture gradually into the flour; add the egg slightly beaten ; mix till quite smooth. Divide into two, and put into well-buttered tins ; set these in a warm but not too hot place for an hour, to rise. Then put into a quick oven till baked, about fifteen minutes. Soda Scones £ lb. Flour £ Teaspoonful Carbonate of Sola £ ,, Cream of Tartar 1 Gill Buttermilk or Siam Milk £ Teaspoonful Salt Mix the dry materials well together in a basin; stir in enough buttermilk to make a stiff but elastic dough. Turn it out on a floured board; knead it lightly till itMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK 176 PART 11 no longer sticks to your bands; roll out thin ; cut it out in small rounds with a tumbler or tin cutter. Bake them on a tin in a hot oven for about five minutes. When they are risen and the surface is smooth, turn and cook for five minutes longer. They should be a very pale colour. Or put them on a hot girdle and cook first on one side and then on the other, as in the oven. Serve hot or cold. Sugar may be used instead of salt, and they may be made richer by rubbing 1 oz. butter or dripping into the flour before the buttermilk is added. Tea Cakes 1 oz. Butter h ,, German Yeast 1 Dessertspoonful Castor Sugar 1 Egg Gill Tepid Milk 1 Teaspoon ful Salt Warm the milk and the butter together in a pan till the butter is melted, but not hot; put the flour into a warmed bowl; mix in the salt; cream the yeast and sugar together; add the butter and milk; pour them gradually into the flour; mix till smooth. Put the dough in a warm place to rise, covering it with a cloth; when it has risen, beat up the egg slightly; add it to the dough, and beat it up for five minutes. Turn the dough on to a floured board ; divide it into four pieces; roll out each piece into a cake half an inch thick ; put the cakes on to a floured baking-sheet; set them to rise as before; when risen, prick them well with a fork; brush over with egg or milk, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. If currants are added, they should be beaten in with the egg. Plain Cake 1 lb. Flour 2 oz. Butter or Dripping 3 ,, Raw Sugar 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder 2 oz. Currants 2 ,, Sultana Raisins i Small Teaspoonful Allspice Slilk (about 1 Gill). 1 EggBREAD, ETC. 177 OHAP. XIV Mix tlie baking powder into the flour; r.ub in the butter; add the currants, raisins, and spice; beat up the egg; add it with the milk to the flour, etc. Mix well together ; butter a cake tin; pour in the mixture ; bake for one hour. Dundee Cake | lb. Butter 14 oz. Flour £ lb. Castor Sugar 5 Eggs 10 oz. Sultana Raisins 2 ,, Almonds 3 ,, Candied Peel (chopped) 1 Grated Rind of Lemon Beat the butter and sugar together to a cream ; break an egg; add it to the butter and sugar; beat well together; add a little flour. Repeat this till all the eggs and flour are mixed in; this must take fully twenty minutes; add the sultanas, lemon, and chopped peel; stir well together. Line a tin with buttered paper; fill it with the mixture. Cut the almonds, which should be blanched, into long slices; lay them on the top. Bake in a quick oven for one hour and a half. Sponge Cake \ lb. Sifted Flour 4 Yolks of Eggs, but only 2 Whites 6 oz. Loaf Sugar 4 Tablespoonfuls Water A Few Drops Almond Flavouring Before beginning the cake, well butter a cake-mould with warmed butter; turn the mould over on a plate to let the superfluous butter run off; sprinkle a little castor sugar on the sides of the mould ; tie a buttered paper round, not over, the top.1 Put the sugar with the water in a small saucepan ; place it on the fire ; let the sugar melt. Put the eggs into a basin ; place the basin in a larger one containing hot water; whisk the eggs for a few minutes ; add the melted sugar, which should bo warm, but not too Lot. Whisk all together for twenty minutes, then lightly stir in the flour, but do not beat after the flour is added. Bake for half or three-quarters of an hour. 1 To prevent the mixture falling over when it rises.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAKT II 178 American Jelly Cake 2 Teacupfuls of Flour 1 Teacupful of Castor Sugar 3 Eggs Pinch of Salt 2 oz. Butter \ Teacupful of Milk 1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder Vauilla or other Flavouring Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder together; rub in the butter ; add the sugar. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; cream the yolks; stir the milk to them ; beat the whites to a stiff froth; make a hole in the middle of the flour; pour in the yolks and milk; lightly stir in the beaten whites and the flavouring ; mix all well together. Put the mixture into two round tins, about 9 inches across and IT inch deep, lined with buttered paper. When baked, turn the cakes out; split them in two; put raspberry jam between; place one cake on a dish; spread a layer of apricot jam on the top; put the second cake on it; cut the cakes into pieces from the middle. Lemon cheese-cake mixture can be used instead of apricot jam. Rock Oakes £ lb. Flour | ,, Butter or Dripping £ ,, Currants 1 Good Teaspoonful Baking Powder 3 Tablespoonfuls Milk 1 lb. Castor Sugar 2 oz. Candied Peel small) 2 Eggs (cut Mix the baking powder with the flour; rub in the butter; add the currants, sugar, and peel; mix together. Peat up the eggs ; stir the milk to them ; add them to the flour, etc. ; make it into a stiff paste. Have ready a slightly floured baking-sheet; dip the fingers in flour; take small pieces of the paste ; put them in rough heaps on the baking-sheet; bake for ten minutes in a quick oven.JELLIES, ETC. 179 CHAP. XV A Plain Luncheon Cake 1 lb. Flour ^ ,, Butter ^ ., Sultana Raisins 1 Heaped Teaspoonful Baking Powder 1 oz. Candied Peel (cut fine) 6 „ Castor Sugar 2 Eggs Before beginning to mix the cake, butter a cake tin, or two small ones, if more convenient. Mix the baking powder well into the flour; rub the butter into the flour till it is like fine crumbs. Beat up the eggs ; add to them one or two tablespoonfuls of cold milk ; mix the sultanas, peel, and sugar into the flour; add the eggs and milk; beat them well into the flour, etc., with a fork ; only sufficient milk should be used to make a stiff dough. Put the dough into the tin ; place the tin quickly in a moderate oven; bake for one hour and a quarter. This cake should not be cut till the day after that on which it is baked. CHAPTER XV JELLIES, ETC. Lemon Jelly 1£ oz. French Gelatine l| Pint Cold Water 4 Lemons (large) Whites and Shells of 2 Eggs 0 oz. Loaf Sugar 2 Inches of Cinnamon 4 Cloves Put the gelatine into a copper or enamelled pan with the water, sugar, cloves, and cinnamon. Grate the rind of three of the lemons;1 strain the juice of four; add both to the gelatine. Whisk the mixture gently over the fire till the gelatine is melted; wash the eggs clean ; beat slightly the whites and shells together with 1 These squeezed lemons are very useful for cleaning brass or copper.MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PAI'.T II ISO two tablespoonfuls of cold water; add them to the melted gelatine; whisk all together till the mixture begins to boil. Take out the whisk; let the jelly simmer for ten minutes ; remove it to the side of the fire ; let it stand for ten minutes. Pour boiling water through a tammis-cloth; then strain the jelly through the cloth into a basin. Dip a jelly-mould in cold water; drain it well; pour in the jelly, and leave it to set, in a cool place. If there is no tammis-cloth, a clean cloth tied over the legs of a kitchen chair, turned upside down on a table, answers very well for straining the jelly. Pour boiling water through the cloth before pouring the jelly; if the jelly is not clear after straining, pour it through the cloth a second time. Wine Jelly 1| oz. French Gelatine l| Pint Cold Water 1 Gill Sherry Grated Rind of one Lemon 3 Cloves 1 Gill Lemon Juice 6 oz. Sugar Small Piece of Cinnamon Prepare and clear as directed for lemon jelly ; add the sherry after straining. To turn the jelly out of the mould, dip the mould for a second or two in warm water, place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the mould over. Aspic Jelly 1 oz. French Gelatine 1 Pint Water 2 Tablespoonfuls White Wine Vinegar 1 Tablespoonful Tarragon Vinegar Small Bunch Herbs ^ Teaspoon ful Celery 10 Peppercorns ^ Small Carrot | ,, Turnip A ,, Onion 5 Cloves 1 Blade Mace ced Put the gelatine, sliced vegetables, celery seed, spices, herbs, vinegar, and water, with a little salt, into a copper or enamelled pan; whisk all together gentlyCHAP. XV 181 JELLIES, ETC. over the fire till the gelatine is melted; clear with the whites and shells of two eggs, as directed for lemon jelly. Strain into a basin, and put aside to set. White stock from a knuckle of veal used instead of water, and a little sherry added to the vinegar, much improves the aspic. Aspic of Chicken Cold Chicken | Aspic Jelly Cut the white meat of a cooked chicken into nice pieces; pour a little jelly into a mould; let it set; lay the pieces of chicken in ; add more jelly ; when set, add the rest gradually till the mould is filled. Slices of hard-boiled egg, placed among the pieces of chicken, make the dish prettier. Fruit in Jelly Grapes, or strawberries, or sections of oranges, or slices of bananas, etc., arranged in a jelly-mould of suitable shape, make a very pretty dish. Put a small quantity of lemon or wine jelly in the mould ; let it set quite firm ; put in the fruit, arranged according to taste; add the jelly gradually till the mould is full. If the jelly is poured in all at once, the fruit will rise to the top. If the jelly is to be of two colours, red and yellow, colour a part of the liquid jelly with a few drops of cochineal; pour it into a mould ; let it set; then add the uncoloured jelly. Custard 2 Eggs 1 oz. Castor Sugar 1 Pint Milk Rind of half a Lemon Put the milk into a lined saucepan; peel the lemon very thin; add the rind to the milk; let it warm gradually by the side of the fire; put the yolks of two of the eggs and the white of one into a basin with the182 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK part ii sugar ; beat them up when the milk is hot, pour it over the eggs ; stir the custard over a slow fire till it thickens ; it must not boil; a custard should be thick, but quite smooth. Strain through a strainer; add a few drops of vanilla or almond flavouring if liked. If a richer custard is required, add another egg; if well made, the above quantities are sufficient for an ordinary custard. Serve in a glass dish, or in custard cups. Condensed milk makes excellent custard; when used, less sugar is required. Stewed Plums 1 lb. Plums I 3 oz. Loaf Sugar 1 Gill Water | 2 Cloves Put the sugar, cloves, and water into a copper or en- amelled pan ; let it boil; pick the stalks from the fruit; put it into the boiling syrup; let it boil till the plums are soft, shaking the pan gently, occasionally. The fruit, if carefully done, will remain whole. When cooked, take it from the fire; let it cool a little; put the plums in a glass dish, taking care not to break them ; pour the syrup over. If the plums are sour, add more sugar to the syrup after they are taken from the pan; boil the syrup; cool, and pour it over. Any fruit can be done in this way, using more sugar if required. Rhubarb cut into pieces about inch long is very good prepared in this way, with the addition of the rind of half a lemon added to the water and sugar. Fruit Jam 1 lb. Fruit | 1 lb. Sugar Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the stalks and any decayed pieces. Lay the fruit and sugar all night in a basin to draw out some of the juice. Place the fruit, juice, and sugar in a clean pan, which should183 JELLIES, ETC. CHAP. XV not be more than three-quarters full, as jam boils up. Bring very slowly to the boil, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon; skim carefully; strawberries and raspberries should then be boiled for about twenty minutes; rhubarb, gooseberries, plums, and black currants about half an hour. When ready, place in pots and cover tightly with paper immediately. If the jam is to be used within three months, less sugar (say three-quarters of a pound) may be used, especially with strawberries and raspberries, which are sweet. Fruit Jelly 1 Pint Juice 1 1 lb. Loaf Sugar Gather the fruit in dry weather, remove the stalks and any decayed pieces; place it in a clean pan ; let it slowly warm (not boil) till the juice has come well out. Then squeeze the fruit gently in a piece of muslin or clean kitchen towel. Measure the juice; return it to the pan with the sugar; bring slowly to the boil; skim carefully; boil quickly for five to ten minutes. To know if the jelly is ready, put a spoonful in a saucer in a cool place; if it stiffens immediately, it is ready; if not, boil for a few minutes longer. Put into pots and cover tightly with paper immediately. Lemon Sponge 2 Lemons \ Pint Cold Water 2 Whites of Eggs ^ oz. French Gelatine 2 oz. Loaf Sugar Put the juice of the lemons with the rind (not the white) of one, in the cold water with the soaked gelatine and sugar. Stir and melt all together over the fire, but do not allow it to boil. While this is preparing, break the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. Beat up the whites to a stilf froth; draw the gelatine,MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART n 184 etc., aside from the fire and let it cool a little; then add gradually to the stiff egg froth. Beat all together until quite stiff; this generally takes from twenty to thirty minutes. Dip a tin or china mould in cold water, then fill with the mixture, which should stand at least half an hour before being used. If preferred, this may be made with oranges. The gelatine melts more quickly if it is previously soaked in the cold water for an hour. This is a good way to use up the whites of eggs left from making a sponge-cake. Water Icing J lb. Icing Sugar | 2 Tablespoonfuls Cold Water Mix together till quite smooth, and put it on a cake with a spoon, letting it lie where it falls. CHAPTER XYI DISHES FOR INVALIDS Directions for preparing food for the sick-room will be found in the School Cookery Book, edited by C. E. Guthrie Wright. The dishes given in this chapter are suitable for persons recovering from illness, or for chronic invalids. In preparing food for the sick, all strong flavours should be avoided, pepper, herbs, and spices should be used sparingly, and only after it has been ascertained that the invalid may take them. Simple puddings will be found among those given in Chapter XIII., which can be varied to suit the taste of invalids. Many persons, who when in health have a great liking for sweet dishes, turn from them with185 DISHES FOR INVALIDS chap, xvi disgust when ill. It is wiser, therefore, to omit the sugar from a pudding, etc., or to put in a very small quantity, and leave it to be added according to the patient’s taste. There is one point in the preparation and serving up of food for the sick-room that cannot be too often insisted upon, viz. the extreme cleanliness and neatness of all con- nected with it. No trace of fat should appear on the soup or broth ; no appearance of smoke on the milk, puddings, or toast.1 Every cup, plate, and glass, etc., should be bright to the eye and clean to the touch ; the gravy or sauce round the meat, etc., should never leave a mark on the edge of the dish. The table-linen should be spotless and free from creases, and the dishes made to look as dainty and tempting as possible. A large plateful of food should never be placed before an invalid, and it is better to make a small separate pudding, etc., for him, than to send up a piece cut from a large one. Half- emptied glasses and plates should never remain in the room ; even fruit should not be left within the constant sight of an invalid, on the plea that the sick person may “ fancy it by and by.” It must not be forgotten that food which has been long in the sick-room (especially in cases of infectious disease) becomes unwholesome and unfit for food. Potatoes and other vegetables should be simply and thoroughly cooked, and served without sauce, unless it is allowed by the doctor. Stewed Sweetbread J oz. Butter i Teaspoonful Corn Flour 1 Small Bunch Sweet Herbs £ Teaspoonful Salt Pinch of Pepper the sweetbread; trim it free from skin and 1 See rule 10, p. 43. 1 Sweetbread 1 Gill Good White Stock i ,, Cream 4 or 5 Mushrooms WashPART n 186 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK gristle ; blanch it (this is done by pouring boiling water over the sweetbread, and letting it remain in the water for a few minutes, then plunging it for a minute or two in cold water), dry, and divide it. Clean and peel the mushrooms ; put the stock into a saucepan ; let it boil; then put in the sweetbread, mushrooms, herbs, pepper, and salt; simmer all together for thirty or forty minutes, till the sweetbread is tender. Put the corn flour on to a plate; rub the butter into it; toast a slice of bread, cut off the crust, lay it on a dish ; take the sweetbread from the pan, lay it on the toast, put it to keep hot; add the corn flour (which should be a smooth paste) to the stock in the saucepan ; shake till it boils ; boil for two or three minutes. Pour in the cream ; let it cook half a minute; pour over the sweetbread. Another Way 1 Sweetbread £ Pint White Stock £ Gill Milk | Teaspoonful Lemon Juice 1 oz. Butter £ ,, Flour 4 Teaspoonful Chopped Parsley £ ,, Salt Pinch of Pepper Wash, trim, blanch, and divide the sweetbread. Put the butter into a saucepan ; let it melt; stir in the flour; rub it smooth; add the stock, milk, pepper, and salt; let it boil, then put in the sweetbread ; let it simmer for thirty or forty minutes till tender. Before serving, put in the lemon juice; sprinkle in the parsley. Serve on toast, as in the dish above, or with a wall of mashed potatoes round. Fried Sweetbread 1 Sweetbread 2 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs 1 Egg i Teaspoon fill Salt Pinch of Pepper Wash, trim, blanch, and divide the sweetbread ; cook it in weak stock or water till tender. W hen done, takeDISHES FOR INVALIDS 187 CHAP. XVI it from the pan; let it get cold; beat up the egg on a plate ; add the pepper and salt; dip in the sweetbread ; toss it in the bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in clarified fat (see “Frying,” p. 39). Tripe Pie | lb. Cooked Tripe 1 Gill Milk 1 Egg jj Teaspoonful Salt 2 or 3 Tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs ^ oz. Butter | Teaspoonful Chopped Tarsley Pinch of Pepper Butter a small pie-dish; sprinkle in some of the bread crumbs and parsley; cut the tripe (which must be well cooked before being used) into neat pieces; put a layer into the dish ; sprinkle bread crumbs and parsley over; put another layer of tripe, and cover over with the rest of the bread crumbs and parsley. Beat up the egg ; add the milk, pepper, and salt; pour it over the tripe; put a few very small pieces of butter on the top ; bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, or till the custard is set. Chicken Panada 1 Chicken | 1 Tablespoon ful Cream Salt to taste Skin the chicken; cut the flesh into small pieces ; take out carefully any pieces of sinew and skin ; put the flesh into a jar; cover it closely with a lid, or with a paper tied tightly over the top; steam it for three or four hours (see “ Steaming,” p. 38). Cut up the bones; put them into a pan with a pint of cold water ; let them boil for an hour or longer. Take the steamed chicken from the jar ; pound it fine in a mortar ; strain the liquor from the bones; mix it with the pounded chicken ; pass the mixture through a fine sieve ; mix in the cream ; add the salt. If the panada is taken hot, warm it in a jar placed in hot water, to prevent thePART II 188 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK cream from curdling, which it will do if the panada boils. Chicken Broth A Fowl | 3 Pints Cold Water | Teaspoonful Salt Cut the fowl into pieces ; put it into a pan ; pour over the water; add the salt; let the water come to the boil; slcim it carefully; let the broth simmer gently for an hour and a half, then strain it. Pepper and a sprig of parsley may be added if liked, or if the invalid can take seasoned broth. An economical way of making chicken broth is to buy the heads and trimmings of fowls, which are sold by poulterers in towns at a low price. Meat Broth lb. Meat 1 Small Turnip 1 ,, Carrot 3 Pints Water 1 Small Onion ^ Teaspoonful Salt Cut the meat into pieces; take away the fat, and skim; peel and cut up the vegetables; put them with the meat into a pan ; pour in the water; add the salt. When the water boils, skim it carefully; cover the pan; let the broth simmer for an hour and a half; strain it, and set it aside to get cold. When required for use, remove all fat from the surface, warm the quantity required, and serve with toasted bread cut into dice. Pepper and herbs should not be added unless the patient may take them. In some cases, the vegetables must be left out, and the broth made with the meat and water alone. Rice, barley, semolina, or tapioca, etc., can be added. The best way is to boil the rice, or whichever grain is chosen, in water till it is tender; then strain away the water, add the rice, etc., to the broth ; let it boii, and serve. Neck of mutton189 CHAP. XVI DISHES FOR INVALIDS (the scrag end), shin or shoulder of beef, and knuckle of veal make the best broth. Boiled Pigeon 1 Pigeon | \ Teaspoonful Salt Boiling Water See that the pigeon is perfectly clean inside and outside; put it into a pan with sufficient boiling water to cover it completely; add the salt; let the water boil up; then draw the pan aside a little ; skim care- fully ; let the pigeon simmer gently for a quarter of an hour or longer, according to the size and age of the bird. Serve with a wall of boiled rice (see “ To Boil Rice,” p. 139). If sauce is allowed, serve with parsley and butter sauce. Roast Pigeon 1 Young Pigeon 1J Tablespoonful of Bread Crumbs J oz. Butter Pinch of Salt ,, Pepper 2 oz. Butter for Basting Warm the butter, but do not let it melt; mix it with the bread crumbs, salt, and pepper; make into a ball; wipe the pigeon clean inside; put in the ball of bread crumbs; roast the pigeon for a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes, before a bright fire. A large or an old pigeon will take half an hour or longer. Serve on toast, with bread sauce, as for roast fowl. If gravy is required, thicken two or three tablespoonfuls of beef tea with corn flour, and put in a drop or two of browning to colour it. Cream of Whiting 1 Gill Milk 1 ,, Cream A Few Drops of Lemon Juice Pepper and Salt to tasto Wash and skin the whiting; scrape the flesh from 2 Whiting 1 oz. Butter 2 „ Bread Crumbs190 PART II MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK the bones; pass it through a sieve; put it into a basin with the butter, bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Make the milk hot; pour it over the whiting in the basin • mix it slightly together; whip up the cream; stir it light y into the other ingredients. Butter a mould, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for half an hour. Turn it on to a dish, and serve with a white sauce poured round. Calf’s Foot Jelly 2 Calfs Feet | 2 Quarts Cold Water Put the feet (which must be well cleaned) into a saucepan with the water; let them boil; skim off the scum that rises to the surface; let them boil gently for four hours; strain the liquor from the feet; let it get quite cold. When cold, remove every morsel of fat; dip a cloth in warm water ; squeeze it out; wipe over the surface of the jelly; put it into a pan ; flavour and clear as directed for lemon or wine jelly (p. 179). Savoury Jelly 2 CalFs Feet ^Quarts Water 1 Onion \ Teaspoon ful Celery Seed 1 Small Turnip 1 ,, Carrot 1 ,, Bunch of Sweet Herbs i Teaspoonful Salt Wash the feet; put them into a pan with just sufficient cold water to cover them ; let them boil; then put them into cold water; scrape them; put them with the two quarts of water into a clean pan ; let the water boil; skim well; then let the feet simmer for three hours. Then add the vegetables, herbs, celery seed, and salt; let all boil gently for an hour; strain it; let it get cold ; take off all the fat; wipe the sur- face over with a cloth dipped in warm water; put it in a pan ; clear as directed for lemon jelly (p. 179).DISHES FOR INVALIDS CHAP. XVI 191 Blanc-mange 1 oz. Best Isinglass 1 Pint New Milk \ Lemon \ Pint Cream 3 oz. Loaf Sugar A Few Drops of Flavouring Put the isinglass into a lined pan -with the milk ; let it dissolve over a gentle heat; add the rind of the lemon and the cream; boil gently for a quarter of an hour; take out the lemon rind ; add the sugar and flavouring, which may be vanilla, rose, or orange- flower water, cinnamon, etc. Let it cool a little, stir in a little white wine or brandy, pour it into small moulds, which should be first dipped into cold water. A small mould of blanc-mange looks fresher and is more tempting to an invalid than a piece cut from a large one. Cheaper Blanc-mange 1 oz. French Leaf Gelatine I J Pint Cream i Pint Milk | 1 oz. Sugar A Few Drops of Flavouring Put the gelatine into a pan with the milk; let it stand by the fire until the gelatine is dissolved ; take the pan from the fire; add the sugar and cream ; stir well till the mixture is cool; strain and add the flavour- ing. Fill a mould with cold water; pour it away : drain the mould; pour in the blanc-mange ; set it aside to become firm. Orange Jelly 1 oz. Gelatine or Isinglass I 6 Oranges 1 Lemon | 3 Gills'Vatcr 4 oz. Loaf Sugar Put the gelatine and sugar into a pan ; squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon; add tho water; strain it and pour over tho gelatine and sugar. StirPART II 192 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK them over the fire till the gelatine is dissolved ; then strain through a strainer into a mould. Before putting in the jelly, dip the mould into cold water. Orange jelly should not be clear; it should look like strained orange juice. Egg Wine 1| Gill Hot Water 1 Small Teaspoonful Castor Sugar 1 Egg 1 Glass Sherry or Port A Little Grated Nutmeg Beat up the egg with the sugar; add the wine; put it into a tumbler; stir in the water, which should be very hot; add the nutmeg. Serve with a slice of nicely toasted bread. Mulled Milk £ Pint Milk | Inch Cinnamon 1 Egg | Teaspoon ful Sugar Boil the milk with the cinnamon for a few miuutes; separate the yolk from the white of the egg; put the yolk into a basin with the sugar and a spoonful of cold milk ; mix them well together; take the cinnamon from the boiling milk; let the milk cool a little, then pour it gradually over the egg, stirring as it is poured; put the mixture again into the pan; stir it over the fire till it is very hot and thickens slightly; do not let it boil. When done, pour it from one cup to another a few times. Serve with toasted bread. Milk Whey 1 Breakfast-cupful of Milk | 1 Breakfast-cupful Buttermilk Boil the milk ; put the buttermilk into a basin ; pour the boiled milk to it; let it settle for a few minutes; strain through muslin; add a little sugar, if liked This is a refreshing drink.CHAP. XVI 193 DISHES FOR INVALIDS Barley Water 1 oz. Pearl Barley | | Pint Cold Water 1 Quart Boiling Water Wash the barley; put it into a saucepan with the cold water; let it boil for fifteen minutes; strain off the water; put the barley into a clean pan ; pour over it the boiling water; let it simmer for two hours; then strain the liquid into a jug. A piece of lemon peel, cut thin, may be added to the barley with the boiling water. Sweeten with a little sugar, if liked. The barley may be used for a pudding. Apple Water 3 Apples | oz. Sugar 1 Quai't Water Cut the apples into slices, without peeling or coring them ; put them into an enamelled or brass pan with the water; boil till the slices of apple are quite soft. Strain it through a hair sieve or a piece of muslin ; add the sugar to the juice ; leave it to get quite cold. Lemonade 1 Lemon | 2 or 3 Lumps of Sugar Is Pint Water Rub the sugar lightly on the lemon rind to extract the flavour; squeeze and strain the juice; add the water; let the sugar dissolve. Or slice the lemon into a jug > add half a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; pour the water over ; let it remain for a short time, before drink- ing it. Soda water is more refreshing than spring water. Orangeade is made by substituting oranges for lemons. Linseed Tea i oz. Linseed | ^ Tcaspoouful Sugar 1 Pint Cold Water Wash the linseed very clean ; put it into a lined 0PART II 194 MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK saucepan with the water; let it boil gently for ten minutes; strain and add the sugar. Rice Water 1£ oz. Rice | \ oz. Valencia Raisins 1 Pint Cold Water Well wash the rice; put it into a pan with the water and the raisins ; boil them for half an hour ; strain and let the liquor get quite cold. This is a good drink in cases of diarrhoea and dysentery. White Wine Whey \ Pint Milk | 1 Small Wineglass Sherry Boil the milk in a clean pan ; when it is at the point of boiling, pour in the wine ; let it boil up ; then pour the mixture into a basin ; let it stand for a few minutes; strain the whey from the curd. A little sugar may be added, if liked. Groat Gruel I Teacupful Groats | 1 Quart Cold Water Put the groats into an earthen jar; cover them with the water; put the jar into the oven; let the groats cook for two or three hours, till the mixture is the thickness of cream ; strain while hot. This gruel will keep for some days. When used, take half a cupful of gruel; add half a cupful of milk; put it into a pan; stir the gruel till it boils; let it boil for two or three minutes. Add sugar, if liked. Baked Apple 1 Baking Apple | 2 Dessertspoonfuls Water Wipe the apple with a coarse cloth; put it in a baking tin or a dish (the latter is the better) with thePOULTICES CHAP. XVI 195 water; put it in tlie oven; let it bake for an hour, or till quite soft. The time for cooking will depend on the size and kind of apple used. Arrowroot i oz. Arrowroot i Pint Boiling Water 1 Tablespoonful Cold Water | Teaspoonful Sugar Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with the cold water; pour the boiling water on to it, boil for five minutes, stirring well all the time. Add a tablespoon- ful of brandy or wine. Arrowroot Milk Prepare as above, using boiling milk instead of water. Beef Tea 1 lb. Lean Beef | 1 Pint Water Pinch of Salt Take away all fat and skin from the beef; cut it into small pieces ; put it into a covered jar with the salt and water; place the jar in a pan of cold water; put the pan on the fire to boil. Let it boil for two hours. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice. POULTICES Linseed poultices are best made of equal parts of linseed meal and crushed or ground linseed; because the latter retains the oil, which is but scanty in the meal. Jf the poultice is made in the kitchen, have two plates made hot, and carry the poultice between them upstairs to the patient. A half cold poultice is useless ; and one too hot is dangerous. A useful test for the heat is to try the effect upon one’s own check beforeMIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 196 applying it to the patient. To mix the poultice, have two basins made hot; leave the hot water in one, and warm the spatula (or broad kuife) in it. Into the hot empty basin pour about the third of a pint of boiling water. Sprinkle the linseed in with one hand, and stir briskly with the spatula, until the mixture no longer permits the linseed to sink. Continue to stir or beat it for a minute, and then turn it out on a piece of linen (or tow previously flattened out). Spread it evenly with the spatula or broad knife, dipping the blade into the hot water, to enable it to spread the poultice evenly, about half an inch thick. Be careful to leave a margin of an inch all round the linen (or tow) ; and when the poultice is smoothly spread, turn up this edge all round. This keeps the loose bits from dropping out as the poultice dries, and thus prevents irritation to the patient. A little salad oil spread over the sur- face makes the poultice comfortable to the skin. Fold the poultice iu two (if properly made, it will not stick together), place it between the hot plates and carry it to the bedside. Care should be taken to prevent a chill when the poultices are changed ; and when they are discontinued, a piece of cotton wool should be placed over the tender moistened skin. Mustard and Linseed Poultice Mix two tablespoonfuls of mustard in the water before stirring in the linseed. Be very careful that all the mustard is perfectly mixed, and that there are no lumps. Charcoal and Linseed Poultice Use charcoal instead of mustard, as in foregoing recipe. When the poultice is ready, sprinkle a little charcoal on the surface before applying it to the patientonAP. xvi 197 POULTICES Bread Poultice Stir bread crumbs into boiling water, place tbe basin over a pan of boiling water to keep hot, and let it stand until the bread is swollen. Spread as before, and smear the surface with salad oil, as bread quickly dries and hardens, and then is apt to injure the skin. Mustard Poultice Cut a piece of rag or brown paper to a shape suit- able to the part which is to be poulticed, letting it be half an inch larger all round than the poultice itself. Mix a little mustard with cold water, as though it were to be used at table. Spread the mixture thinly on the rag or browm paper, and cover it with a bit of washed (not new) muslin. Turn over the dry edges upon the muslin. The time for keeping a mustard poultice on, varies considerably. Some patients can bear them for twenty minutes, some for only five; different parts of the body vary also in sensitiveness. Usually the poultice should be removed when the skin is reddened ; it should never remain long enough to raise a blister. After removing it, a little flour or powdered starch may be dredged over the part, and a piece of cotton wool lightly tied over. Oatmeal made into a thick porridge forms a good poultice. So do mashed and boiled Carrots (roots), which have an antiseptic action, and are therefore useful for sores. In some cases where an antiseptic poultice is required, Yeast may be mixed with linseed, in the proportion of two ounces of yeast to four ounces of linseed. The risk of chill in changing, as well as by the gradual cooling of poultices, is so grave, that their use is dis-MIDDLE CLASS COOKERY BOOK PART II 198 couraged by the medical profession. In lieu of them, cotton wool is used in such cases as bronchitis, where perspiration is to be excited over a large surface. A large sheet folded fourfold (the shiny side towards the skin) is placed over the chest, and another over the back. These may be tacked together on the shoulders.INDEX Adaptation of Food, 14-23 Ages, Food for different, 15 Albumen, 6 Alexandra Pudding, 159 Amber „ 162 American Jelly Cake, ITS Appetite, 1 Apple, Baked, 194 ,, Dumpling, 157 ,, Fritters, 16S ,, Pudding, 155 ,, Sauce, 129 ,, Shape, 171 „ Tart, 151 ,, Water, 193 Arrowroot, 195 „ Milk, 195 Artichokes, Jerusalem, 115 ,, Mashed, 115 Asparagus, 116 Aspic Jelly, 180 ,, of Chicken, 181 Au Gratin, Cauliflower, 193 „ Eggs, 92 Bacon, Digestibility of, 12 ,, and Tomatoes, 93 Baked Apple, 194 ,, and Filleted Haddock, 62 ,, and Stuffed Haddock, 63 ,, Fish, 60 „ Herrings, 63 ,, Meat, 36 ,, Potatoes, 112 ,, Rabbit, 87 „ Tomatoes, 123 Bakewell Pudding, 154 Baking—General Directions, 40 ,, Fish, 60 Balls for Exeter Stew, 71 „ Forcemeat, 81 ,, Potato, 122 Barley Water, 193 Baroness Pudding, 158 Basting Meat, 35 Batter, Fish fried in, 65 Beans, Broad, 120 ,, French, 119 „ ,, Scarlet Runners, 119 ,, ,, A l'Allemand, 119 ,, Haricot, Boiled, 120 ,, ,, with Hash, 120 ,, „ French Way, 120 ,, Puree, 58 ,, to Cleanse, 34 Bechamel Sauce, 108, 126 Beef, Boiled, 70 ,, Choice of, 28 ,, Kidney, 97 ,, Olives, 72, 108 ,, Roast, 69 ,, Rolled Ribs, 69 ,, Steak Pie, 74 „ ,, Pudding, 73 ,, Stewed, 70 „ ,, in Oven, 71 „ Tea, 22, 195 Beetroot, 115 ,, Salad, 143 Bermuda Shape, 170 Birds’ Nests, 93 Black leading, 25 Blanc-mange, 191 Boiled Beef, 70 ,, Calf’s Head, 83 ,, Fowl, 85 ,, Ham, 81 ,, Mutton, 78 ,, Pigeon, 189 ,, Pork, 81 ,, Potatoes, 112, 122 ,, Rabbit, 86 „ Rice, 139 ,, Turkey, 89 Boiling—General Directions 37 , Fish, 59200 INDEX Boiling Point of Oil and Water (note), 2 Boned and Stuffed Mutton, 77 Bottles, to Clean, 28 Brain Cakes, 100 Brass Knobs, 25 „ Pans, to Clean, 26 Bread Cases, 101 ,, Crumb (Chapelure), 133 ,, ,, to Prepare, 133 ,, Filling for Cases, 102 ,, Fried, 138 ,, Household, 173 ,, Important Food, 4 ,, Milk Rolls, 175 ,, Poultice, 197 ,, Pudding, Steamed, 164, 105 „ Sally Lunns, 175 ,, Sauce, 127 „ Soda Scones, 175 ,, Tea Cakes, 176 ,, Wheat Meal, 174 Breakfast Dishes and Entrees, 89-104 Brain Cakes, 100 Cases of Fried Bread, 101 „ „ Filling for, 102 Cauliflower au Gratin, 103 Cheese Fritters, 99 Cod & la Portugais, 96 Curried Mutton, 103 „ Fish or Shrimps, 104 Eggs and Tomatoes, 91 „ au Gratin, 92 ,, Birds’ Nests, 93 „ Coddled, 93 ,, en Suisse, 92 „ Fried, 91 „ Mumbled, 91 „ Overturned, 91 „ Poached, 90 ,, Savoury, 92 Kidney, 96, 97 Kippered Herring, 101 Macaroni and Cheese, 99 ,, ,, Croquettes, 9S Mushrooms, Broiled, 90 ,, in Oven, 90 (Euf au Fromage, 100 Oxford Toast, 89 Rissoles, 97 Sardines, Scalloped, 89 Stowed Kidney, 96 „ Beef Kidney, 97 Tomato Farce, 94 Breakfast Dishes and Entrees, 89-104 Tomatoes and Bacon, 93 „ and Macaroni, 95 ,, Rarebit, 94 „ Savoury, 95 „ Scalloped, 94 Brill, 59, 60 Broccoli, 117 Broiled Mackerel, 62 ,, Mushrooms, 90 ,, Mutton Chops, 77 Broiling—General Directions, 36 Broth, Chicken, 188 „ Meat, 188 „ Scotch, 56 ,, Veal, 1S9 Brown Soup, 57 Browning, 135 „ Gravy, 134 Brussels Sprouts, 117 Butter, to Cream, 139 ,, Melted, 124 ,, Parsley and, 124 Cabbage, to Boil, 11S „ 'to Cleanse, 33 ,, Red, 121 ., Salad, 146 Cake, American Jelly, 178 ,, Brain, 100 , Dundee, 177 ,, Fish, 66 ,, Lunch (Plain), 179 ,, Plain, 176 ,, Rock, 178 ,, Sponge, 177 ,, Tea, 176 „ Tins, to Clean, 27 Calf's Foot Jelly, 190 „ Head, S3 Canary Pudding, 163 Caper Sauce, 125 Carbonaceous Food, 5 Carrots, to Boil, 113 ,, to Cleanse, S3 ,, Mashed, 114 „ with Parsley and Buttor, 114 ,, Poultice, 197 ,, Puree, 59 ,, Young, 122 Casein, 6 Cases of Bread, 101 Cauliflower au Gratin, 103 ,, to Boil, 117INDEX 201 Cauliflower, to Cleanse, 33 ,, German Way, 117 Celery Salad, 141 „ with Sauce, 123 ,, Purde, 59 ,, Sauce, 131 ,, Stewed, 123 Chapelure, 133 Charcoal Poultice, 196 Cheese-cakes, Curd, 154 „ Lemon, 154 Cheese Pudding, 160 Cheese Dishes— Cauliflower au Gratiu, 103 Cheese Flitters, 99 „ and Macaroni, 99 ,, and Macaroni Croquettes,9S Eggs au Gratin, 92 CEuf au Fromage, 100 Tomato Rarebit, 94 Chicken, Aspic, 181 „ Broth, 188 ,, Panada, 187 Children’s Diet, 15, 19 Chops, Broiled, 72 „ a la Maitre d'Hotel, 7 Clarified Dripping, 132 „ Fat, 132 Classes of Food, 9 Cleaning Copper, 26 „ Pans (Iron), 26 „ „ (Enamel), 26 ,, Steel, 26 ,, Tins, 27 ,, Vegetables, 33 Clear Soup, 49 „ ,, Stock for, 46 Clerks’ Diet, 17 Climate, Diet for Varying, 16 Cockle Sauce, 130 Cocoa, Diabetic, 21 ,, Nibs, 141' Cocoa-nut Tart, 153 Cod 4 la CrSme, 62 ,, ,, Portugais, 96 ,, to Boil, 59 Coddled Eggs, 93 Coffee, 22, 140 „ Second Way, 140 Cold Fish (Bread Case), 101 ,, Inexpensive Pudding, 159 Colds and Influenza, 22 Cold Meat Cookery, 104-111 Beef Olives, 108 Cold Meat Cookery, 104-111 Curried Mutton, 103 Filling for Bread Cases, 102 Galantine of Veal, 110 Hashed Meat, 105 ,, „ Second Way, 106 Meat Shape, 110 Minced Veal, 107 „ ,, with BAchamel Sauce, 10S Mutton and Tomatoes, 108 Oxford Toast, 89 Piccalilli Meat, 107 Rissoles, 97 Savoury Eggs, 92 „ Tomatoes, 95 Stuffed Onions, 109 Component Parts of Food, 1-10 Condiments, 9 Constipation, 20 Cooked Vegetables for Salad, 139 Cookery, Principles of, 11 Cooks, Rules and Hints for, 42 Copper Pans, to Clean, 26 Corn Flour Sauce, 130 Cornwall Fish Pie, 65 Cos Lettuce, 142, 143 Cotton Wool (Poultice), 198 Crab Cutlets, 64 „ Dressed, 68 „ Pie, 68 „ Sauce, 126 Cream, to, Eggs or Butter, 139 ,, Sago, Soup, 50 ,, of Whiting, 189 Croquettes, 98 Crust Dripping, 149 „ Flaky, 150 ,, for Roly-poly, 155 ,, ,, „ Richer, 155 ,, Rough Puff, 149, 150 ,, Short, 149 ,, ,, Richer, 150 ,, Suet, 154 Crusts of Bread, 133 Cucumber, 123 Curd Cheese-cake, 154 Currant Dumpling, 158 ,, Rolled, Pudding, 161 Curried Fish or Shrimps, 104 ,, Mutton, 103 Curry, to Boil Rice for, 139 Custard, 181 „ Pie, 152 ,, Sauce, 131 Cutlets A l'lScole, 79202 INDEX Cutlets ft la Maitre d'HOtel, 77 ,, Crab, 64 ,, Lamb, 75 ,, Lobster, 64 ,, Mutton, 77 ,, to Prepare for Frying, 134 ,, Veal, 82 Cutting up Meat, 29-33 Devonshire Fish Pie, 65 ,, Pork Pie, 80 Diabetic Patients, 21 Diagrams of Ox and Sheep, 30-32 Diarrhoea, 20 Diet for Different Ages, 15 ,, „ States of Health, 19 Digestion, 3, 16 Dishes, to Clean, 27 Drainers, Sliding (note), 59 Dressed Crab, 68 Dressing for Salad (1, 2, 3), 147 ,, Mayonnaise, 147 Drinks— Apple Water, 193 Barley Water, 193 Cocoa, 141 Coffee, 22, 140 Egg Wine, 192 Lemonade or Orangeade, 193 , Linseed Tea, 193 Milk Whey, 192 Mulled Milk, 192 Rice Water, 194 Tea, 22, 140 White Wine Whey, 194 Dripping, to Clarify, 132 ,, Crust, 149 Dry Frying, 39 ,, Measure, 25 Duck, Roast, 85 „ Stuffing for, 85 Dumpling, Apple, 157 ,, Currant, 168 Dundee Cake, 177 Dutch Sauce, 128 „ Oven, 40 Economical Brown Soup, 57 Eggs (see Breakfast Dishes) ,, to Beat, 134' „ „ Boil Hard, 139 „ ,, Break, 133 ,, ,, Choose, 29 ,, „ Cream, 139 ,, in Sauces, 139 „ an Qratin, 92 Eggs Coddled, 93 ,, for Omelettes, 134 ,, Sauce, 125 ,, Temperature for Cooking, 11 „ Wine, 192 Employments, Food for Various, 17 Enamelled Pans, to Clean, 26 Endive, 142 Entrees (see Breakfast Dishes) Exercise, 2, 10 Exeter Stew, 71 Explanation of Terms, 42 Fat, Boiling Point of (note), 2 ,, to Clarify, 132 Fatty or Carbonaceous Foods, 5 Fevers, Diet for, 20 Fibrin, 6 Filling for Bread Cases, 102 Filter, 9 Fire, to Lay, 26 Fish, 59-69 ,, to Bake, 60 ,, ,, Boil, 59 ,, ,, Choose, 28 ,, ,, Fry, 60 Brill, to Boil, 69 Cakes, 66 Cockle Sauce, ISO Cod ft la Creme, 62 „ „ Portugais, 96 ,, to Boil, 59 Crab Cutlets, 64 „ Pie, 6S Curried, 104 Drainers (note), 59 Dressed Crab, 6S Filleted Haddock, 62 ,, Sole, 61 Filling for Bread Cases, 102 Flat, to Boil, 60 Fried in Batter, 65 Haddock, 62, 63 „ to Prepare and Boil, 59 „ Salt, 101 Herring, Baked, 63 ,, Kippered, 101 Kedgeree, 65 Lobster Cutlet, 64 ,, Salad, 146 ,, Sauce, 125 Mackerel, Boiled, 59 „ Broiled, 62 ,, ft l'Envers, 61 , Pickled, 69203 INDEX Fish, 59-69 Mussels, 68 „ Sauce, 130 Oyster Sauce, 130 Pie, Cornwall, 65 ,, Devon, 65 Principles of Cooking, 13 Salad, 146 Salmon, to Boil, 59 Salt, 69 Sardines, 89 Scalloped (1, 2), 66 ,, Oysters (1, 2), 67 Shrimps, Curried, 104 Sole, Filleted, 61 Soup, 57 Stock for Soup, 13 Turbot, to Boil, 59 Whiting, Cream of, 189 „ to Boil, 59 Flavourings, 9 Flesh-fonniug Food, 6 Flour Potato (note), 48 Food, Classification, 4-11 ,, Component Parts, 4-11 ,, for Adults, 16 ,, „ Children, 15 ,, „ Different Ages, 15, 16 „ ,, Different Climates, 16 „ Flesh-forming, 6 ,, Heat-giving, 5 ,, Materials, 4 ,, Office, 2 ,, Quantity, 3 „ Regular Hours for, 16 ,, Wholesomeness, 3 Forcemeat, 81 Forks, to Clean, 27 Fowls, to Boil, 85 ,, ,, Choose, 28 „ ,, Draw, 135 „ ,, Roast, 85 ,, ,, Truss for Boiling, 136 .i i. „ „ Roasting, 135 „ Cold (see Bread Cases, 101) „ StufTed, 85 ,, Chicken Broth, 188 French Beans, 119 it i, in Salad, 139 Friar's Omelette, 167 Fried Bread Cases, 101 „ „ Sippets, 138 -i Eggs, 91 „ Parsley, 138 ,, Potatoes, 113 ., Sweetbreads, 186 Fritters, Apple, 168 „ Cheese, 99 ,, Orange, 169 Frugality Pudding, 165 Fruit Jam, 1S2 „ in Jelly, 181 „ Jelly, 1S3 ,, Tarts, 151 Fry, Lamb’s, 76 Frying Basket, 39 ,, Deep, 39 „ Dry, 39 ,, Fish, 60 ,, Heat of Fat or Oil for, 2 Galantine of Veal, 110 Garden Vegetables, Cooking, 14 „ ,, Choice, 29 Garnishing, 137 General Satisfaction Pudding, 163 Geneva Pastry, 150 German Puffs, 173 Giblet Pie, 86 Gill, 24, and 156 (note) Girdle, 41 Glass, to Clean, 28 Gluten Bread, 21 Glutin, 6 Goose, Roast, 86 „ Stuffing, 85 Gooseberry Pudding, 156 Grates, to Clean, 25 Gravy, Browning for, 134 Greasing Moulds, 136, 137 Green Peas, to Boil, 121 ,, „ Puree, 58 Greens, to Boil, 11S Grilled Steak, 72 Grilling (see Broiling, 36) Gristle, 13 Groat Gruel, 194 Haddock, Baked and Stuffed, 63 ,, Filleted, 62 „ Salted, 101 Ham, to Boil, 81 ,, ,, Choose, 2S ,, Digestibility of, 12 Hard Water, 12, 14 Haricot Beans, 120 ,, ,, Purfie, 58 ,, ,, Soups, 53 ,, Mutton, 78 Hashed Meat, 105, 106 Health, Diet for Different States, 19 Heat-giving Food .5INDEX 204 Herring, Baked, 63 „ Kippered, 101 Hints for Young Cooks, 42, 43 Homely Measures, 25 Horse-radish (Garnish), 69 „ ,, Sauce, 127 Hotch-Potch, 54 Household Bread, 173 Icing, Plain Water, 184 Indigestion, 20 Indoor Occupation, Diet for, 17 Inexpensive Pudding, 159 Influenza, 22 Invalids’ Dishes, 184-195 Apple, Baked, 194 ,, Water, 193 Arrowroot, 195 „ Milk, 195 Baked Apple, 194 Barley Water, 193 Beef Tea, 22, 195 Blanc-mange, 191 Boiled Pigeon, 1S9 Broth, Chicken, 188 ,, Meat, 188 Calf’s Foot Jelly, 190 Chicken Broth, 1S8 ,, Panada, 1S7 Cream of Whiting, 189 Egg Wine, 192 Fried Sweetbread, 1S6 General Directions, 1S4 Groat Gruel, 194 Jelly, Calfs Foot, 190 ,, Orange, 191 ,, Savoury, 190 Lemonade or Orangeade, 193 Linseed Tea, 193 Meat Broth, 1SS Milk Whey, 192 Mulled Milk, 192 Orange Jelly, 191 Orangeade, 193 Panada Chicken, 187 Pigeon, Boiled, 189 ,, Boast, 189 Quantity served at a Time, 185 Rice Water, 194 Roast Pigeon, 1S9 Savoury Jelly, 190 Serving Up, 1S4 Stewed Sweetbread, 185, 1S6 Sweetbread, Fried, ISO Tripe Pie, 187 Invalids’ Dishes, 184-195 Whey, Milk, 192 „ White Wine, 194 Whiting, Cream of, 189 Irish Stew, 80 Iron Pans, to Clean, 26 Jam, Fruit, 182 ,, Sauce, 129 Jelly, Aspic, ISO, 1S1 ,, Cake, 178 ,, Calfs Foot, 190 ,, Fruit, 183 ,, „ in, 181 ,, Lemon, 179 „ „ Sponge, 183 ,, Orange, 191 ,, Savoury, 190 ,, Wine, ISO Jerusalem Artichokes, 115 Kedgeree, 65 Kidney, Stewed, 96 ,, ‘ „ Beef, 97 Kippered Herring, 101 Kitchen Range, to Clean, 25 Knives and Forks, to Clean, 27 Knuckle of Veal, S2 Labourers’ Diet, 19 Lamb Cutlets, 75 ,, Roast, 75 „ Stewed, 75 Lamb’s Fry, 76 Lancashire Gill (see Preface) ,, Roly-poly, 161 Laying a Fire, 26 Legumin, 6 Lemon Cheese-cakes, 154 ,, .Telly, 179 ,, Pudding, 157 ,, Sponge. 1S3 ,, Syrup (Sauce), 129 Lemonade or Orangeade, 193 Lentil Soup, 52 ,, „ Richer, 52 ,, Pur£e, 5S Lettuce, to Cleanse, 33, Prepare, 143 „ Cabbage, 142 „ Cos or London,142 ,, Endive, 142 ,, and Watercress Salad. 144 lame, 8, 14 Linseed Poultice, 195 „ and Mustard Poultice, 196 ,, and Yeast Poultice, 197205 INDEX Linseed Ten, 193 Liquid Measure, 24 .Literary Workers’ Diet, 18 Lobster Cutlet, 64 ,, Salad, 146 ,, Sauce, 125 Loin of Mutton, 76 Lunch Cake, 179 Macakoni and Cheese, 99 „ „ Croquettes, 98 ,, and Tomatoes, 95 Mackerel 4 1'Envers, 61 „ Boiled, 59 ,, Broiled, 62 „ Pickled, 69 Maigre Soup, 55 Malvern Pudding, 167 Mashed Artichokes, 115 ,, Potatoes, 112 ,, Turnip and Carrot, 114 „ Vegetable Marrow, 122 Mayonnaise, 147 Measures, Dry, 25 „ Liquid, 24 Meat, 69-84 „ for Eating, 12 „ „ Soup, 12 „ Cold (see Cold Meat) „ Hashed, 105, 106 „ Jack, 35 „ Names of Pieces, 29 „ Puddings, Crust for, 154,155 ,, Rissoles, 97 „ Salt, 12 ,, Shapes, 110 „ Temperature for Cooking, 11 Beef, Boiled, 70 „ to Choose, 28 „ Olives, 72, 108 „ Ox Tail, 74 „ Roast, 69 ,, Rolled Ribs, 69 ,, Salt, 70 „ Steak Pudding, 73 „ Pie, 74 „ Stewed, 70 ,, in Oven, 71 „ Tea, 22, 195 Boiled Ham, 81 Brain Cakes, 100 Broth, 188 Calfs Head, 83 ,, Foot Jelly, 190 Chop h la Maitre d'HOtel, 77 Meat, 69-S4 Chop, Mutton, 72 Cutlets a l'Ecole, 79 Devonshire Pork Pie, SO Exeter Stew, 71 Galantine of Veal, 110 Grilled Steak, 72 ,, Chop, 72, 77 Ham, 81 ,, to Choose, 28 Hashes, 105, 106 Irish Stew, 80 Kidney, Stewed, 96 „ Beef, Stewed, 97 Lamb Cutlets, 75 » Fry, 76 ,, Roast, 75 ,, Stewed, 75 Mince (see Veal), 107 Mutton, Boiled, 78 Boned and Stuffed, 77 to Choose, 28 Chops, 72, 77 Curried, 103 Cutlets, 77, 79 Haricot, 78 Loin or Neck, 76 Roast, 76 and Tomatoes, 108 Ox Tail, Stewed, 74 ,, Soup, 48 Piccalilli, 107 Pork, Boiled, 81 ,, to Choose, 28 ,, Pie (Devonshire), 80 ,, Roast, 80 ,, Salt, 81 Stewed Beef, 70 ,, Kidney, 96, 97 ,, Lamb, 75 ,, Ox Tail, 74 „ Sweetbread, 185, 186 Sweetbread, Fried, ISO Toad in tlie Hole, 170 Veal—Calf's Head, 83 Cutlets, 82 Forcemeat, 81 Galantine, 110 Minced, 107 ,, with Btchamel. 108 Pie, 84 Roast Fillet, 81 Stowed Knuckle, 82 Melted Butter, 124 Milk, Arrowroot, 195 ,, a Perfect Food, 4206 INDEX Milk, Mulled, 192 ,, Rice, 160 ,, Rolls, 175 ,, Temperature for Cooking, 11 „ Whey, 192 Mince Meat, 153 ,, Pies, 153 Minced (see Veal, 107) Mint Sauce, 128 Moulds, to Grease, 136, 137 Mulled Milk, 192 Mulligatawny Soup, 48 Mumbled Eggs, 91 Mushrooms, 90 Mussels, to Boil, 08 ,, Sauce, 130 ,, Scalloped, 67 Mustard and Cress, 142 ,, and Linseed Poultice, 196 ,, Poultice, 197 Mutton, Boiled, 78 ,, Boned and Stuffed, 77 Broiled, 77 ,, Broth, 18S ,, to Choose, 28 ,, Chops, 77 „ ,, k la Maltre d’HStel, 77 ,, Curried, 103 „ Cutlets, 77, 79 ,, Haricot, 7S ,, Loin or Neck, 76 ,, Roast, 76 „ and Tomatoes, 108 Neck of Mutton, 76 Nitrogenous Food, 6 Oatmeal Poultice, 197 CEuf au Frontage, 100 Oil, Boiling Point of, 2 Olives, Beef, 72, 108 Omelette, Friar's, 167 ,, Soulllee, 169 ,, to boat Eggs for, 134 Onions, Baked, 116 „ Boiled, 110 „ to Scald and Prepare, 34 ,, Sauce, 125 ,, in Salad, 144 ,, Spanish, 116 „ Stuffed, 109 Orange Fritters, 169 „ Jelly, 191 Orangeade or Lemonade, 193 Outdoor Workers' Diet, 18 Oven, to Tost Heat of, 41 Overturned Eggs, 91 Ox Diagram, 30, 31 ,, Tail Soup, 48 ,, „ Stewed, 74 Oxford Toast, 89 Oxidation, 5 Oxygen, 5, 16 Oyster Sauce, 130 ,, Scalloped (1, 2), 67 Palestine Soup, 50 Panada, 187 Pancakes, 168, 169 Pans, to Clean, 26 Parsley and Butter, 124 ,, Fried, 13S Parsnips, 115 ,, Salad, 145 Pastry, 148-154 Bakewell Pudding, 154 Cheese-cakes, Curd, 154 ,, Lemon, 154 Cocoa-nut Tart, 153 Custard Pies, 152 Dripping, 149 Flaky, 150 Fruit Tarts, 151 Geneva, 150 Heat of Oven for, 40, 41 Mince Pies, 153 Rough Puff, 149, 150 Short Crust, 148 ,, Richer, 149 Suet Crust, 154 ,, Roly-poly, 155 ,, „ Richer, 155 Tartlets, 152 Pea Soup, 51 ,, Economical, 51 Peas, 121 ,, Green, Puree, 5S l’eptonised Foods, 21 Piccalilli, 107 Pickled Mackerel, 69 Pieces of Meat, Names of, 29 Pies, Beef Steak, 74 „ Crab, 6S ,, Custard, 152 ,, Fish, Cornwall, 65 ,, Devonshire, 65 „ Fruit, 151 ,, Giblet, S6 51 eat, Crust for, 149 Mince, 153 ,, Pork, Devonshire, 80207 INDEX Pies, Suet Crust, 154 „ Tripe, 187 ,, Veal, 84 Pigeon, Boiled, 1S9 „ Roast, 1S9 Piquante Sauce, 126 Plain Cake, 176 ,, Lunch Cake, 179 Plates, to Clean, 27 Plum Pudding, 162 ,, ,, Richer, 161 Plums, Stewed, 182 Poached Eggs, 90 Pork, Boiled, 81 ,, to Choose, 2S ,, Pie, Devonshire, SO ,, Roast, 80 Portuguese (see Onions) „ Rice Milk, 166 Pot Range, 26 Pot-au-Feu, 54 Potato Balls, 122 ,, Chips, 113 Flour (note), 48 ,, Salad, 145 Potatoes, Boiled, 112 „ „ in Jackets, 112 „ Baked, 112 ,, to Cleanse, 33 „ to Peel, 33 „ Fried Raw, 113 ,, ,, Cooked, 113 „ Mashed, 112 ,, New, 122 „ Water hurtful, 111 Poultices, 195-197 Bread, 196 Care afterwards, 196, 197 Carrot, 197 to Carry, 195 Charcoal, 196 Linseed, 195 ,, and Mustard, 196 „ and Yeast, 197 Mustard, 197 Oatmeal, 197 judge Warmth, 195 Wool Substitute for, 198 Poultry, 85-89 Chicken, Aspic, 181 Duck, 85 ,, Stuffed, 85 Filling for Bread Cases, 102 Fowl, Boiled, 85 Poultry, 85-S9 Fowl, to Choose, 28 ,, Roast, 85 ,, Stuffed, 85 „ Trussing, 135, 136 Giblet Pie, 86 Goose, S6 ,, Stuffing, 85 Pigeon, Boiled, 1S9 ,, Roast, 189 Rabbit, Baked, 87 „ Boiled, 86 ,, Ragofit, S7 „ Stewed, 88 Turkey, Boiled, 89 ,, Roast, SS Principles of Cookery, 11-14 Puddings, 154-173 Alexandra, 169 Amber, 162 Apple, 155 ,, Dumpling, 157 ,, Fritters, 168 ,, Shape, 171 Bakewell, 154 Baroness, 158 Beef Steak, 73 Bermuda Shape, 170 Bread, Steamed, 164 ,, with Sauce, 165 Canary, 163 Cheese, 160 Cloth, 156 Currant, Red, 156 ,, Dumpling, 158 Friar’s Omelette, 167 Frugality, 165 Fruit, Crust for, 154 General Satisfaction, 108 German Puffs, 173 Gooseberry, 156 Inexpensive, 159 Lemon, 157 Malvern, 167 Omelette Soufllie, 169 Pancakes, 168 ,, Russian, 169 Plum, 162 • ,, Richer, 161 PortugucsoRicoMilk, 168 Rice, 158 ,, Shape, 171 Roly-poly, 100 ,, Lancashire, 161 ,, Crust for, 155208 INDEX Puddings, 154-173 Rolled Currant, 161 Semolina, 172 ,, Steamed, 172 Steamed, 137 Suet, 166 „ Crust, 154 Toad-in-tlie-Hole, 170 Venoise, 165 Welcome Guest, 164 Yorkshire, 170 Pull's, Germau, 173 Puree, Beans, 58, 59 ,, Carrot, 59 „ Celery, 59 ,, Lentils, 58 ,, Peas, Green, 58 Quantity of Pood, 3 Quickly-made Soup, 47 Rabbit, Baked, 87 ,, Boiled, 86 „ Ragoftt, 87 ,, Stewed, S8 Radishes, 143 Range, to Clean, 25 Rarebit, Tomato, 94 Red Cabbage, 121 „ „ Salad, 146 Rheumatic Fever, 20 Rhubarb, 128 Ribs of Beef, Rolled, 09 Rice for Curry, 139 „ Milk, 166 ,, Pudding, 158 „ Shape, 171 ,, Soup, 60 ,, to Wash, 42 „ Water, 194 Rissoles, 97 Roast Beef, 69 ,, Duck, 85 ,, Fowl, 85 ,, Goose, 86 ,, Lamb, 75 „ Mutton, 76 „ Pigeon, 189 ,, Pork, SO ,, Turkey, 8S „ Veal, 81 Roasting—General Directions, 84 in Oven, 36 „ Pan, 86 Rock Cakes, 178 Rolled Currant Pudding, 161 Rolled Ribs of Beef, 69 Rolls, Milk, 175 Roly-poly, 160 ,, Lancashire, 161 Rules for Young Cooks, 42 Rummelled or Mumbled Eggs, 91 Russian Pancakes, 169 Sago Cream Soup, 50 Salads, 141-148 Celery, 144 Cooked Vegetables, 139 Dressings, 147 ,, Mayonnaise, 147 Dutch Celery, 146 Endive, 142, 143 Fish, 146 Lettuce, 142, 143 ,, and Watercress, 144 Lobster, 146 Mustard and Cress, 144 Parsnips, 145 Potato, 145 to Prepare, 141 Red Cabbage, 146 Tomato, 145 ,, and Onion, 144 Sally Lunns, 175 Salmon, 59 Salt Fish, 69 ,, Meat, 37 ,, Power of, 12 Salts in Food, 8 Sardines, Scalloped, S9 Sauces, 124-131 Apple, 129 Bechamel, 126 Bread, 127 Butter, Melted, 124 Caper, 125 Celery, 131 Cockle, 130 Corn Flour, 130 Crab, 126 Custard, 131 for Cutlets, 79, 83 Dutch, 128 Egg, 125 Eggs in, 139 Horse-radish, 127 Jam, 129 Lemon Syrup, 129 Lobster, 125 Melted Butter, 124209 INDEX Sauces, 124-1S1 Mint, 12S Mussel, 130 Nasturtiums, 125 Onion, 125 Oyster, 130 Parsley and Putter, 124 Piquante, 126 Sherry, 129 Shrimp, 125 Sweet, 128 White, 127 Savoury Eggs, 92 „ Jelly, 190 „ Tomatoes, 95 Scalloped Fish, 66 ,, Mussels, 67 ,, Oysters, 67 ,, Sardines, S9 „ Tomatoes, 94 Scones, 175 Scotch Broth, 56 Scrubbing Tables, 27 Sedentary Workers' Diet, 17 Semolina Pudding, 172 „ „ Steamed, 172 Serving Invalids’ Food, 185 Shape, Apple, 171 ,, Bermuda, 170 ,, Meat, 110 ,, Rice, 171 Sheep, Diagram of, 32 Sherry Sauce, 129 Short Crust, 148, 149 „ „ Digestibility of, 13 Shrimp, Curried, 104 ,, Sauce, 125 Sippets of Fried Bread, 138 Soda Scones, 175 Soft Water, 12 Sole, Filleted, 61 SouflUe Omelette, 109 Soups, 44-59 Brown, 57 Clear, 49 Clear, Stock for, 46 Fish, 13, 57 General Directions for Stock, 45 Haricot Beans, 53 Hotch-potch, 54 Lentil (1, 2), 52 Maigre, 55 Meat for, 12 Mulligatawny, 48 Ox Tail, 48 Soups, 44-59 Palestine, 60 Pea, 51 ,, Economical, 51 Pot-au-Feu, 54 Quickly made, 47 Rice, 50 Sago Cream, 50 Scotch Broth, 56 Vegetable, 46, 56 ,, Marrow, 61 Vermicelli, 49 White, Stock for, 47 Spanish Onion, 116 Spinach, to Cleanse, 34 „ „ Boil, 11S Sponge Cake, 177 ,, Lemon, 183 Starchy Part of Food, 5 States of Health, Diet for, 19 Steak, Grilled, 72 „ Pie, 74 ,, Pudding, 73 Steaming—General Directions, 38 „ Pudding, 137 Steel, to Clean, 26 Stew, Exeter, 71 ,, Irish, 80 Stewed Beef, 70 „ ,, in Oven, 71 ,, ,, Kidney, 97 „ Celery, 123 „ Kidney, 96 „ Knuckle of Veal, 82 ,, Lamb, 75 ,, Ox Tail, 74 „ Plums, 182 „ Rabbit, 88 ,, Rhubarb, 182 ,, Sweetbread, 1S5 Stewing—General Directions, 38 Stock for Clear Soup, 46 ,, „ White Soup, 47 Stockpot, 45 Stomach Complaints, 20 Stuffed and Baked Haddock, 63 ,, ,, Boned Mutton, 77 ,, Duck, 85 ,, Fowl, 85 ,, Onions, 109 Stuiiing, Duck, 85 ,, Goose, 85 ,, Veal, 81 Suet Crust, 154 ,, „ for Roly-poly, 155 ,, Pudding, 156210 INDEX Sugar, 5 Sweet Sauce, 128 Sweetbread, Stewed, 1S5, 186 ,, Fried, 186 Syrup, Lemon, 120 Tables of Weights aud Measures, 24, 25 Tables, to Cleanse, 27 Tarragon Vinegar, 148, ISO Tart, Cocoa-nut, 153 „ Fruit, 151 Tartlets, 152 Tea, 22, 140 „ Beef, 22, 195 „ Cakes, 176 Test of Oven, 41 Thermometers, 2 Thickening Soup (note), 48 Tins, to Clean, 27 Toad-in-the-Hole, 170 Toast, Oxford, 89 Tomatoes and Bacon, 93 Baked, 123 and Eggs, 91 Farce, 94 and Macaroni, 95 and Mutton, 108 Rarebit, 94 Salad, 145 and Onion Salad, 144 Savoury, 95 Scalloped, 94 Tripe Pie, 1S7 Turbot, 59 Turkey, Boiled, 89 „ Roast, SS ,, Stuffing, SI Turnips, Boiled, 114 ,, to Cleanse, 34 ,, Mashed, 114 Vegetables, 111-124 to Cleanse, 33, 34 Hard or Soft Water for, 14 Temperature for Cooking, 11, 14 Artichoke, 115 Asparagus, 116 Beans, Broad, 120 „ French, 119 „ Haricot, 120 Beetroot, 115 Broccoli, 117 Brussels Sprouts, 117 Cabbage, 118 „ Red, 121 CaiTots, 113, 114 ,, Young, 122 Cauliflower, ll7 Celery, 123 ,, Dutch, 146 Cucumber, 123 Greens, 11S Marrow, 121 „ Soup, 51 Mushrooms, 90 Onions, 116 Parsley, 13S Parsnips, 115 Peas, 121 Potatoes, 112, 113 „ Balls, 122 „ Young, 122 Salads, 141-14S Scarlet Runners, 119 Soup, 56 Spinach, 118 Tomatoes, 123 Turnips, 114 Watercress, 142 Venoise Pudding, 165 Vermicelli Soup, 49 Vinegar, Tarragon, 14S, ISO Usefulness of Food, 3 Utensils, to Cleanse, 25 Veal with Bdcliamel Sauce, 10S „ Calfs Head, 83 ,, Cutlets, 82 ,, Forcemeat, 81 ,, Galantine, 110 ,, Minced, 107 „ Pie, S4 ,, Roast, 81 ,, Stewed Knuckle, 82 Vegetables, 111-124 to Chooso, 29 Warhth-giviso Foods, 5 Water, Apple, 193 ,, Barley, 198 ,, Bottles, to Clean, 2S „ Hard or Soft, 12, 14 ,, Icing, 184 ,, Meat Boiled in, 12 , Rice, 194 „ Soft, 12 ,, Uses of, S Watercress, to Clean, 142 „ Salad, 144 Weights and Measures, 24, 25 Welcome Guest Pudding, 164211 INDEX Well-cooked Meals, 42 Wheat Meal Bread, 174 Whey, Milk, 192 White Sauce, 127 ,, Soup, Stock for, 47 ,, Wine Whey, 194 Whiting, 59 ,, Cream of, 1S9 WholesomeDess of Food, 3 Wine, Egg, 192 „ Jelly, ISO ,, Whey, 194 Wool, Substitute for Poultice, 198 Work and Waste, 1, 2 Yeast and Linseed Poultice, 197 Yorkshire Pudding, 170 Young Potatoes, 122 THE END Printed by R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, P.dinbutxh.WORKS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. GENERAL LESSONS IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE. By Ethel R. Lush. Globe Svo. Part I., 6d. Part II., 6d. Part III., 6d. DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR PUPIL TEACHERS AND CERTIFICATE STUDENTS. By Ethel R. Lush. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d. DOMESTIC SCIENCE READERS. By V. T. Murche. Globe Svo. Book I., is. ; Book II., is. ; Book III., is. 4d. ; Book IV., is. 4d. ; Book V., is. 6d. ; Book VI., is. 6d. ; Book VII., is. gd. TEACHER’S MANUAL OF OBJECT LESSONS IN DOMESTIC ECONOMY. By V. T. Murche. Vol. I., for Standards I. and II., 2s. 6d. ; Vol. II., for Standards III. and IV., 3s. SCIENCE OF COMMON LIFE (Experimental Hygiene). By A. T. Simmons, B.Sc., and E. Stenhouse, B.Sc. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d. COOKERY FIRST LESSONS IN THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. By Lady Barker. Third Edition. Pott 8 vo. is. PRIMER OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY. By Edith A. Barnett and H. C. O’Neill. Pott 8vo. is. SIMPLE LESSONS IN COOKERY. For the Use of Teachers of Elementary and Technical Classes. By Mary Harrison. Globe Svo. Sewed, is. 6d.WORKS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. COOKERY —-Contin ued THE SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK. For Use in Elementary Schools and Technical Classes. By Mary Harrison. Globe 8vo. Sewed. 6d. THE MODERN COOK. By C. E. Francatelli. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Edited by C. Herman Senn. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net. THE COOK’S GUIDE. By the Author of “The Modern Cook.” Small 8vo. 5s. THE ECONOMICS OF MODERN COOKERY, or, A Younger Son’s Cookery Book. By M. M. Mallock. Second Edition. Globe Svo. 3s. 6d. THE MIDDLE-CLASS COOKERY BOOK. Com- piled for the Manchester School of Cookery. Pott Svo. is. 6d. MRS. SEELY’S COOK BOOK. A Manual of French and American Cookery. Extra Crown Svo. Ss. 6d. net. FIOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND COOKERY. 0 By W. B. Tegetmeier. Pott Svo. is. ELEMENTS OF THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF COOKERY. By Mary E. Williams and Kathar- ine Rolston Fisher. Globe Svo. 4s. 6d. net. THE SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK. Compiled and Edited by C. E. Guthrie Wright. Pott Svo. is.WORKS ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON. NEEDLEWORK PRACTICAL DRESSMAKING FOR STUDENTS AND TECHNICAL CLASSES. By Mrs. J. Broughton. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d. CUTTING-OUT AND DRESSMAKING. From the French of Mile. E. Grand’homme. Pott 8vo. is. DRESSMAKING. A Technical Manual for Teachers. By Mrs. Henry Grenfell. Pott 8vo. is. MANUAL OF DRESS-CUTTING. By Madame A. Guerre. 4to. Sewed. 6d. A TEXT-BOOK OF NEEDLEWORK, KNITTING, AND CUTTING-OUT, WITH METHODS OF TEACHING. By Elizabeth Rosevear. With Original Illustrations and Sectional Diagrams. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. NEEDLEWORK, KNITTING, AND CUTTING- OUT I OR OLDER GIRLS. By Elizabeth Rosevear. Globe 8vo. Standard V., 8d. ; Standard VI., VII., and Ex-VlI., is. CYCLING AND SHOOTING KNICKERBOCKER STOCKINGS ; Plow to Knit them with Plain and Fancy Turnover Tobs. By Miss H. P. Ryder. 410. 2s.I s.