-T’’4 ' Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21688825_0003J. \ i * 0\ t ( \ H * .THE A N A 7 O MT OF THE Ft<i- jEP —c) HUMAN BODY. VOL. III. CONTAINING THE NERVO US S YS TEM, WITH PLATES. PART I. THE ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN, AND DESCRIPTION AND COURSE OF THE NERVES. PART II. THE ANATOMY OF THE EYE AND EAR; OF THE NOSE AND ORGAN OF SMELLING ; OF THE MOUTH AND ORGAN OF TASTE; OF THE SKIN AND SENSE OF TOUCH. By CHARLES BELL, FELLOW OF TJiE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. LONDON: Printed Sy A- otrahan, Piinters-Strect; ?0R T. N. LONGMAN AND O. REES, P A T E R N 0 ST F. R-RO W J AND T. C.VDELL AND W. DAVIES, STRAND./ • I \ ■w . iCONTENTS VOL. III. PART I. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, P. I. CHAP. I. OFjge F the Membranes of the Brain, andof the Substance and Texture of the Brain itfelf - ~ 7 Of the Dura Mater - - - - ib. Of the Septa which interfeQ the Brain - 15 Of the Sphenoidal Folds - - - jy Of the Pia Mater - - - - 21 Of the Subiiance of the Brain - *7 Of the ObE nations made upon the minute Structure of tlie Brain - - - g 1 Of the Senlibility of the Subftance of the Brain 37 Vol, Hi. b ' CHAP.IV i CONTENTS. CHAP. II. Of the Veins and Senses of the Brain I'jje " 39 Of the Veins which are feen upon the Surface of the Brain - - - "41 Of the Internal Veins of the Brain, and of the Choroid 'Plexus - , - "47 Of the particular Sinufes - > - ' 52 Superior Longitudinal Sinus - - - ib. Lateral Sinufes or the firft and fecond of the Ancients 55 Of the Inferior Longitudinal Sinus - "57 Of the Internal, Straight, or Fourth Sinus - 58 Pofterior Occipital Sinufes - - * 59 The Inferior Lateral Sinufes - - * ib. Of the Leffer Sinufes in the Bafis of the Scull - 6| The Sphenoidal Sinufes - - - ib. The Cavernous Sinus - - - - 63 EjnilTaria Santorini - - ”67 CHAP. III. Of the Ventricles and Internal Parts of the Brain 73 Of the Cavities of the Brain in general - * ib. Of the Corpus Callofum and Centrum Ovale of Vieufiens - - - 77 Of the Septum Lucidum - - - 79 Lateral Ventricles - - - - 81 Of the Parts of the Lateral Ventricles - - 8? Of the Hippocampi, or Cornua Ammonis, and of the Tenia Hippocampi - - - 84 Of the Third Ventricle - - - - 92 Of the Infundibulum - - '95 Infundibulum and Pituitary Gland - - 98 The Tubercula Quadrigenpina - - - 99 The Pineal Gland - - - 101 Poilerior Commiffure - - - - 103 Ofv CONTENTS. Page Of the Fourth Ventricle - - 104 Of the Bafe of the Brainand Origin of the Nerves 105 Crura Cerebelli - - * - X07 Pons Varolii - - - - lb. Meduia Oblongata - 109 Medula Spinalis - - * - Hi Scheme and general Defcription of the Origines of the Nerves of the Encephalon and Spine - 112 Firft Pair, or Olfadfory Nerves - - 114 Second Pair, or Optic Nerves - - 116 Third Pair of Nerves, Motores Oculoruna - 119 The Fourth Pair of Nerves • - 120 Fifth Pair of Nerves, Trigemini - 121 Sixth Pair of Nerves, or Abducentes - - 122 Seventh Pair of Nerves, or Auditory - - 123 Eighth Pair of Nerves - - 125 Ninth Pair of Nerves, or Lingual - - 126 The Tenth, or Suboccipital Nerve - - 127 CHAP. IV. Of the Particular. Nerves - 129 The Firlt Pair of Nerves, or Olfadlory Nerves - ib. Second Pair, or Optic Nerves - - 132 Third Pair of Nerves, or Motores Oculorum - ib. Fourth Pair of Nerves, Trochliares or Pathetici - 133 The Fifth Pair, or Trigemini - 134. The Opthalmic Branch of the Fifth Pair - - 136 The Second Branch of the Fifth Pair, viz. the Superior Maxillary Nerve - — - 139 The Sixth Pair of Nerves, Abducentes or Motores Externi - 146 The Seventh Pair of Nerves - » 148 The Eighth Pair of Nerves - - 1^2 The Glolfo-Pharyngeal Nerve - - ib. The Par Vagum - - ~ 1 S3 Vql. til. c OiCONTENTS. VI Of the Acceffory Nerve, or Third Divifion of the Eight Pair of Nerves - Of the Ninth Pair, or Lingualis Medius or Hypo- gloffus - Of the Cervical Nerves - - Recapitulation of the Diftribution of the Cervical Nerves * Of the Dorfal Nerves - Lumbar Nerves - - - - 'Sacral Nerves - - - Of the Great Sympathetic Nerve, or Intercoflal Nerve - - - The Superior Thoracic Ganglion Sympathetic Nerve in the Thorax Coeliac Ganglion and Plexus * Cceliac Plexus > - - Superior Mefentric Plexus - Inferior Mefenteric Plexus *■ - JHypogaftric Plexus - Of the Phrenic Nerve - - Nerves of the Arm, Axillary or Brachial Plexus Nerves of the Thigh> Leg, and Foot Of the Cutaneous Nerves of the Thigh Anterior Crural Nerve "r • Obturator Nerve - The Origin of the Ifchiatic Nerve Of the Leffer Nerves which go out of the back Part of the Pelvis - - Of the Cutaneous Nerves of the Back of the Thigh Of the Trunk of the Ifhiatic Nerve in the Thigh Tibial Nerve V The Plantar Nerves - The Fibular Nerve - - The Me^atarfal Nerves ~ * Page *59 160 163 167 I6S 170 ib. 171 177 ib. 179 ib. 181 ib. 184 ib. 187 *95 196 198 201 202 ib. 204 205 ib. 207 208 210 PARTCONTENTS. PART II. OF THE SENSES, INTRODUCTION, p.213, BOOK I. OF THE EYE, CHAP. I. Introductory View of the Principles of Oftics Simple Idea of the Conftruftion of the Eye CHAP, II, Of the Coats of the Eye * Of the Sclerotic Coat Of the Cornea - Of the Choroid Coat Of the Ciliary Proceffes * CHAP. III. Of the Iris ...» Of the Mufcular Fibres of the Iris c 2 Page 224 - 23° - 244 - 245 - 247 - 252 - 257 - 263 - *65 CHAP*\ / viii CONTEN T S. CHAP. IV. P.ire Practical Remarks deduced from the Structure of the Choroid Coat and Iris - 270 CHAP. V. Of the Retina, and Digression concerning the Seat of Vision - 275 Digreffion on the Seat of Vifion - - 283 Further Obfervations on the Retina - - 388 Cafe I. of Nyctalopia, or Night Blindnefs, by Dr. Heberden - 297 Cafe If. of Nydtalopia, by Dr. Samuel Pye - 298 CHAP. VI. Of the Membrana Pufillaris CHAP. VII. Of the Humors of the Eve - 3°9 Of the Aqueous Humor » • ib. The Vitreous Humor - - 314 Of the Criftalline Lens - - - 315 Of the Capfule of the Lens and Vitreous Humor 316 CHAP. VIII. Of the Distribution of the Central Artery and Vein of the Retina. ? • * 32C* CHAP. IX. Of the Vascularity of the Pellucid Membranes 323 6 CHAP.1%. CONTENTS. CHAP. X. Some Surgical Observations connedled with the Ana- tomy of the Humors - Pags 32S CHAP. XI. Of the Manner in which the Eye adapts itfelf to the Dis- tance of Objects - - 334 CHAP, XII. Of Seeing in general - - t - 34S Parallel Motion of the Eyes - ■»' - 350 Squinting - - - - 356 \ CHAP. XIII. Of the Eye-lids, of their Glands, and pf the Course of the Tears - .... 366 Of the Secretion and Courfe of the Tears - 369 BOOK II. OF THE EAR. CHAP. I. Of Sound, and of the Ear in general *j » 373 CHAP. II, General View of the Varieties in the Ears of Animals 378 CHAP.CHAP. III. BOOK Page Description of the Organ of Hearing in particu- lar Animals - - ... 38S In the Lobfter and Crab - - ib. Of the Ear in Reptiles and Amphibious Animals 392 Of the Ear in Birds - s 3.96 CHAP. IV. Of the Human Ear - - <• 399 Seftion 1. Of the External Ear » - ib. '2. Of the Tympannm or Middle Cavity of the Ear, and its Difeafes - - 404 The Anatomy of the Tympanum - ib. Of the Membrana Tympani - - 407 Of the Chain of Bones in the Tympanum 408 Connexion and Motion of thefe Bones 411 Of the Mufcles within the Tympanum 413 Of the Difeafes of the Tympanum 419 3. Of the Labyrinth - - .424 Of the foft Parts contained in the La- byrinth ... 434 4. Of the Nerve * ... 43^ CHAP. V. Of Hearing in general - ... 440 CHAP. VI. Of the Diseases of the Internal Ear - - 449si CONTENTS. BOOK BOOK III. OF THE NOSE AND ORGAN OF SMELLING. P^gc Of the Sense of Smelling r * 455 EOOK IV. OF THE MOUTH, SALIVARY GLANDS, AND ORGAN OF TASTE. CHAP. 1. Page Of the Mouth and Tongue «» » 45S CHAP. II, Of the Salivary Glands •> ~ » 463 CHAP. III. Vel-um Palatxnum, Uvula, Arches of the Palate, and Amygdalae - - - - 466 CHAP. IV. Of the Sense of Tasting « ; 469eONTENTS. xii BOOK V. OF THE SKIN, AND SENSE OF TOUCH. Prfge Of the Skin - - - - - 4- 3 Of the Hairs - - 475 Rete Mucofum - - - - 476 Of the True Skin - - - 479 Explanation of the Plates - - 481 ERRATUM. P. iSS. I. 14. for c< outer furface>M read il inner furfacc.*fVOL. III. 3 The INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. There can be no natural divifion of the nervous fyftem, for it is a whole fo connected in funftion, that no one part is capable of receiving or imparting any fenfation, or of performing the operation of the intellect. The fyftem has, notwithftanding, been arbitrarily di- vided into the brain and nerves ; the brain being fub- divided into the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata; while the nerves are fubdivided into the nerves of the fenfes, the vital and involuntary nerves, the nerves of voluntary motion. The brain is defined to be that foft mafs contained within the cranium, from which the nerves are propa- gated to the organs of the fenfes and over the body, bellowing fenfation, and afting as the agents of the will. It is believed to be the receptacle of fenfation and the inftrument of thought; but our ideas of its fun&ions are vague and imperfect,INTRODUCTORY VIEW* 2 The fubflance of the brain is delicate and foft, ancl poffeffes a degree of elaflic refiftance; but the nerves are firm, hard, and devoid of elafticity; becaufe, though their peculiar fubflance has equal delicacy with the brain, their membranes give them firmnefs and flrength to enable them to pafs through the moving parts of the body without being bruifed, or having their function xaffe£ted. The fubflance of the brain is prote&ed and fupported by the foull and dura mater: its peculiar matter is fupported and nourifhed by the pia mater. The nerves contain the fame matter with the brain 5 but in their courfe through the body this matter is dif- guifed by the peculiar flruclure of their membranes, which, while they fupport their fubflance, nourifh them alfo, as the membranes do the brain. But the extre- mities of the nerves are again reduced to the fame deli- cate texture with the brain. In the rtrutlure of the brain and nerves there is an analogy with the other parts of the body. In a bone or a mufcle there is the fame intexture of membranes Supporting the peculiar fubflance which is the cha- radteriftic of the part, and conveying blood veffels for its nourifhment. The mufcular fibres, or the earth of bone, are, in the midft of this inverting membrane, pe- culiar parts diflinel in their properties, as the medullary fubflance of the nerves is amidft the cellular membrane, •which divides them into fafciculi, and gives them their fibrous appearance. . When it is faid that the nerves are produdlions of the brain, we are not to underhand that they are pro- pagated from it to the diftant parts of the body, as if drawn out from it like a thread from the wool. In the embryoOF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 3 embryo the nerves are laid in their fheaths, extending to the remoteft parts of the body. They are connected with the brain, and in this fenfe they may be confidered as elongations of it, the perfect fundtion of both de- pending upon their union. But they have powers in- dependently of the brain ; and often an animal fs pro- duced having no brain; and yet, in fuch embryo, the animal fundtions are fufficiently. perfedt. In the fame manner, when the trunk of the nerve of a limb is cut, it is only deprived of its connedtion with the brain, the centre of the nervous fyftem; and little further effedt is produced than the deftrudtion of the powers of the will over the limb; the nutrition and growth of the part continue, and the adfion of thofe parts, which are independent of the will, as the muf- cular power of the velfels of the limb, remains entire. The nerves of animals are in proportion to the fize of their bodies; but in many of the great tribes of ani- mals the brain bears no fuch proportion. The nerves of the organs alfo bear a relation to the neceffities of the animal, not to the fize of the brain. If the procuring of fuftenance depend upon the power of the organ of fmeliing, or upon the ear, or the eye, or even the bill, an additional fupply of nerves is provided, or a pe- culiar apparatus of nerves fuiting to the exigency. This alfo fhews a property in the nerves independent of the brain. x We come to this conclufion, that the nerves are ana- logous to the brain, (being indeed a matter fimilar in Itrudture and fundtion to it,) dilfufed ever the body, and included like it in the pia mater, or in a fimilar delicate and vafcular membrane, and that their proper B 2 fubftance.INTRODUCTORY VIEW 4 fubdance, confiding like the brain of a cineritious and medullary matter, is nouriflied by thefe membranes.* We mud conclude alfo, that they are more independent of the brain than the brain is of them ; for the nerves are capable of continuing the operations of the animal body independently of the brain ; but without the com- munication of fenfation through the nerves to the brain., its function mud be unexercifed. The nerves, in their courfe'through the body, form ganglions, plexus, and networks. By thefe a more univerlal connexion of the leveral branches of the fyl- tem is maintained, fo that few' if any nerves can be traced to one point or origin. When the nerves form ganglions, (which are like knots or fwellings upon them,) their fibres are fplit and irregularly difperfed, while there intervenes a peculiar fubdance refembling the drias of the 'cineritious fubdance in the, brain. From every analogy we mud iuppofe, that thofe gan- glions anfwer in a 1 els, degree the purpofe of that more univerfal connection which the nerves have with the brain. In their extremities again the nerves are peculiarly organized: a nerve, in its uourie, is incapable of receiv- ing any diilinCt fenfation; when injured, it conveys to us the undefinable fenfation of pain; and from the con- nection with the mufcles, and with the whole fydem, it fhakes the limb with involuntary tremors, or hidden fpafms. The fufceptibiiity of thofe peculiar impreilions which the organs of the ienfes convey, depends upon a druCture didinCt from that of the brain, and didipct alfo from that of the nervous cords; an4 this organization is fo peculiar, that the nerves of one fenfe are quite inca- pable5 OF THE NERVOUS SVSTEM. pable of receiving the imprefiions which thofe of ano- ther are fitted to convey, though apparently to our rea- foning thofe imprefiions appear to be capable of pro- ducing a ftronger effect upon the nerves. As the vital organs mult be in perpetual adion to fupport life, nature has guarded thofe functions by making them independent of the will, and lefs imme- diately dependent on the function of the brain. This is a provifion which allows the exhausted mental and bodily fundions to be recruited by deep, while the ope- rations of the animal body necefi'ary to life go on unin- * terrupted. It is an additional reafon for believing the ufe which we have afiigned to the plexus and ganglions to be the true one, that thofe nerves which fupply the vital organs arife by fmall twigs from the brain, take a long courfe through the body, and neither fwell out into large nerves, nor are finally dillributed until they have re- ceived many additions, and formed feveral remarkable plexus and ganglions. As in deep the vital fundions continue uninterrupted, fo the difejifes of the brain, which referable deep, fud- denly deprive the body of all voluntary exertion, while the vital motion remains for a time unimpaired, and finks gradually, for no part of foe body is altogether independent of the healthy fundion of the brain, It is necedary alio that we fhould recoiled the con- nedion of the higher attributes of a living being with the animal economy. The brain, the nerves, and the nervous expanfions in the organs of the fenfes, are dependent for the perpetual renewal and fupport of their fundion upon the circula- B 3 tion I6 INTRODUCTORY VIEW, &C. tion of the blood. We ihould be tempted to imagine, that the nervous fyftem were a nobler part of the eco* nomy, did we not frequently fee the powers of the mind as well as the fundtions of the nerves difturbed, or- altogether overthrown by the irregularities of the bo- dily fyftem; were we not thus reminded of that circle, of conne&ions and mutual dependences which fupport the whole. If the tide of blood flow too rapidly upon, the brain, the intelledl is difordered, the ideas come in rapid and irregular fucceflion. If the exit of the blood from the head be obftrufted, there is an obftru&ion to the circulation of the blood in the extremities of the veflels of the brain ; the function of the brain is fud- denly fupprefled, becaufe, though its attributes feem fo peculiar, it requires the perpetual circulation of the blood through it to renovate its powers. The effeft of the circulation of the blood through the nerves of the limb is not lefs remarkable. If the nerve of a limb be cut or tied, the animal can no longer move the limb, having loft the power of the will over It. But if the great artery of a limb be tied, the function of the nerve is, in a fhort time, equally de- ftroyed, becaufe the circulation of the blood through the nerve being obftructed, it lofes its powers, and is no longer a living part. Thus, whilft the moving powers of the circulation of the blood are dependent on the ftate of the nervous fyftem, the nervous fyftem is as immediately dependent on the healthy ftate of the blood, and the velocity o( the circulation. With this general view of our fubjeft, we proceed ta inveftigate the anatomy of the brain as a diftindt part^ without forgetting the unity of the fyftem.OF THE .MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. J OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN, AND OF THE SUBSTANCE AND TEXTURE OF THE BRAIN ITSELF. OF THE. DURA MATER. ^^anv Authors, while they defcribe the cranium as containing the brain, conceive that it alfo gives it fnape. But the brain is formed before the bones which invefi: it. The firft thing that we obferve in the embryo is B 4 the\ 8 OF THE MEMBRANES OF TftE BRAIN. the difproportionate fize of the brain to the diminutive body. The offification of the bones of the fcull is a, gradual procefs. The brain, already formed, is inverted with the ftrong membranes ; and betwixt the laminae of the outer membrane the points of offification commence* and are not completed until the ninth year. The bony matter, which is depofited betwixt the layers of this membrane, retains a firm connection and interchange of veflels. with the now apparently diftinct membranes on its inner and outer furfaces. The outer layer, which is fo ftrong in children newly born, becomes the delicate pericranium, whilft the inner layer is the dura mater. Thus we find that the bones of the head are moulded to the brain, and the peculiar fhapes of the bones of the. head are determined by the original peculiarity in the fhape of the brain. This view corrects an error into which many have, fallen, that the dura mater and the veflels ramifying upon it imprefs their form upon the folid bones, and wear channels upon their furface by their inceflant pul-, fation. The membranes and veflels precede the forma-, tion of the bone, and the ofleous matter is depofited fo as to be moulded round the veflels *. Thus the dura mater may be confidered as the inter- nal pericranium f. * Albini Acad. Anat. “ Quomodo cranium crefcendo accomodat fe eis qme continet.” Pitcher, Differtatio de modo, quo, offa fe vicinis accomodant partf- bus. < -j- Some regard only its external lamina as the internal pericranium. Fallopius firft viewed the dura mater in this light, and he is followed by the bell anatomifts. ThecitlLi'tip i fa Child before it be fidly,Ossified . l the Fenian e fie . 3 theTereeranirmi extremely: la.ualtr .3 the Zimphtudinal Sains opened by Cutting up the membrane m tin JrrecMen of the Sagittal Suture' < •' • * . $« M- '■ , * ' 4 'OF THE MEMBRANES QF THE BRAIN. 9 * The dura mater* is a firm and fomewhat opaque membrane.—When the feud-cap is torn off, and it is cleaned from the blood which efcapes from the rup- tured vefiels, it is feen marbled with azure and rofy colours. It partakes more of the former in youth than in thofe; advanced in years, or in the robull and fan- guineous f. Its outer furface is rough, from the adhe- fions to the bone being tprn up; but on the furface lying in contaft with the brain, it is fmooth, filming, and of a pearl colour. Although the dura mater is really the flrongefl membrane of the body, it is yet divifible into laminae; thefe are Itrengthened and firmly connected by the in- tertexture of Itrong fibres. Molt anatomifls defcribe it as compofed of two laminae. Some however defcribe three laminae—the outer lamina, or fquamofa; the mid- dle, or filamentofa; and the internal (being fmooth and uniform), the lamina membranofa J.—But to feparate the dura mater into fuch laminae, it will, I be- lieve, be neceflary to dry it and tear it into fhreds. No doubt it may be poflible thus to tear it, as fome have done, into four, fix, feven, or even eight laminae or * The membranes of the brain have the name of mater, becaufe they defend the brain and protedl its tender fubftance, or, according to fome anatomifls of the Arabian fchool, becaufe the other membranes of t'he body are produced from them. Before Galen, the term Me- ninx was common to all the membranes of the body, afterwards it was appropriated to thofe of the brain. ■f Malacarne Encefalotomia Nuova, p. 19. t Malacarne, p. 22. It is defcribed as partly tendinous, partly ligamentous: that is to fay, of a nature refembling thefe, yet not alto- gether the fame. Vicq. d’Azyr found it feparated by purulent matter into two laminae, the fibres of which had a different direction. Acad, de Sciences, An 1781. p. 497—Bartholin Sp. Hiftor. Anatomise. fquamse.OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. IO fquamas. It is to be regretted that anatomids Ihould have been proud of fuch difledions, or that any fuch defcriptions ihould be thought creditable to their authors, or difcoverers as they are called. The dura mater is infenfible; it has, in the way of experiment, been pricked and injured by every poffibte contrivance, by mechanical and by chemical ftimulants; yet the animals, the fubjeds of fuch cruel experiments, have given no fign of pain*'. Before this fad of the infenfibility of the dura mater was. thus eltabiifhed, phyficians regarded this membrane as the feat and origin of many difeafes f. Formerly the natural connection of the fcull and dura mater was fo refolutely denied—fo hotly con- tefled among the various parties in anatomy and furgery, that we might, by reading their difputes, almod doubt one of the plained and mod obvious fads, were not the clofenefs of this connedion diffidently proved by the manner of the original formation of the cranium, by the reddance to the tearing up of the cranium, and by the bleeding furface of the dura mater ; or, if further proof be required, we may macerate thefe bones and their membranes in acids, when the laminae of the dura mater will be feen intinuftely conneded with the bone, while the pericranium and outer laminae of the dura mater are feen to be continued into each otherby * Zinn. Exper. circa corpus callofum, cerebellum, duram menin- gcm.—Mem. par Haller fur les parties fenfibles et irritables.—Blegny Journal de Med. An i. p. iGi •f- See Hoffman. Med. Ration, part 2. fee. ii. c. I. $ 2. and Boneti Scpulch. Anat. lib. i. fee. i. J Vioqd’Azyr Memoir, de 1’^.cad. Roy. 1781, p. 497, and Ma^ lacarne (Aderenze della D. M. alle pareti interne del cranio), p.24, c theOF THE MEMBRANES 0? THE BRAIN. 21 the intermediate cellular texture in which the earth of the bones is depofited *. The dura mater adheres more firmly to the bone in young fubje&s, becaufe the bone is yet imperfect, and jts furface fpongy and rough; and, for the fame rea- fon, it is more firmly attached to the fcull in the chronic hydrocephalus, becaufe the ofiification is im- perfect. It frequently adheres fo firmly to the fcull cap, as to leave its outer lamina adhering to the fcull when it is raifed. It adheres more firmly along the futures, and from this caufe, when the fcull is injured, and matter is formed under it, the dura mater will be feparated on each fide of the future, and ftill retain its adhefion to the future, fo as to divide the matter, and, confequently, prevent the full evacuation of the matter when the trepan has been applied on one fide of the future, The dura mater adheres alfo with pe- culiar firmnefs to the bafe of the fcull, becaufe of the jEumercus chinks and foramina. GLANDS OF THE DURA MATER. Upon the external furface of the dura mater there are little holes, from which emerge flefhy-coloured pa- pillae, and which, upon examining the fcull cap, will be found to have correfponding fovese. Thefe are the glandulas Pacchioni f. They are in number from * Taking a portion of the dura mater betwixt the finger and thumb, we can feel the two lamina moving upon each other, from a jlight degree pf laxity in the connecting cellular fubftance. This pellular texture is demonitrated by Malacarpe, by forcibly inject- ing quick-filver betwixt the layers of the membrane. ^ See M. Littre Acad. Roy. des Sciences 1704, Hid. p. 32. art. 19. ten12 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. ten to fifteen * on each fide, and are feen chiefly la- teral to the courfe of the longitudinal fmus. Thefe bodies were fuppofed by Pacchioni to be glands. When prefled they give out a fluid ; but in this they do not differ from the loofe common cellular membrane. As they are chiefly feen along the line of the great fmus, and are not fcattered over the whole dura mater, their fuppofed ufe of moirtening the furface of the mem- brane f is quite improbable; and, indeed, this is a part of that unfounded hypothefis which fuppofed an interftice betwixt the dura mater and fcull, and afcribed motion to this membrane. The furfaces of the dura and pia mater, where they are in contaft, being of the nature of the fecreting furfaces of the inverting membranes of the other vifcera, require no fuch further aid in moiften- Ing them, or preventing their adherton. Many glands are defcribed by authors in the fubftance, and upon both furfaces of the membrane J. Of the bodies which adhere to the furface of the pia mater, and of thofe alfo which are to be feen in the rtnufes, we Ihall fpeak aft tervvards, when conrtdering the veins which enter the longitudinal fmus. ARTERIES OF THE. DURA MATER. This membrane muft neceflarily be fupplied with velfels for its own nourifhment, for that of the conti- guous bone, and for the perpetual exudation of the fluid, or halitus rather, which moiftens or bedews its internal furface. We may divide the arteries of the * Haller, El. Phyf. p. 106, Mem. par M. Vicq d’Azyr Mem, de l’Acad. Roy. 1781, p. 497. f Viz. the opinion of Fantc^ius, d Malacame, fee. 94. 4 dmOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 1$ •» ^ura mater into anterior, middle, and poflerior. The firfl proceeding from the opthalmic and ethmoidal branches; the fecond from the internal maxillary and luperior pharyngeal; the pofterior from the occipital and vertebral arteries. The principal artery of the dura mater, named, by way of diftinftion, the great artery of the dura mater, is derived from the internal maxillary artery, a branch of the external carotid. It is called the fpinalis, or fpheno-fpinalis, horn its palling into the head through the fpinous hole of the fphenoid bone, or meningea media, from its relative fituation, as it rifes in the great middle fofla of the fcull *. This artery, though it fometimes enters the fcull in two branches f, ufually enters in one confiderable branch, and divides foon after it reaches the dura mater into three or fourbranches, of which the anterior is the largefl; and thefe fpread their ramifications beautifully upon the dura mater, over all that part which is oppofite to the anterior, middle, and poflerior lobes of the brain. Its larger trunks run upon the internal furface of the parietal bone, and are fome- times for a confiderable fpace buried in its fubflance. The extreme branches of this artery extend fo as to inofculate with the anterior and poflerior arteries of the * Malacarne, parte i. fee. ioo. f Soemmerring de Corp. Hum. fab. tom. v. p. 142. This is not the foie artery fent to the dura mater from the internal maxillary, a twig alfo rifes from that branch which goes to the pteregoid mufcles and parts about the Euftachian tube—it enters the fcull, and is dif- tributed to the 5th pair of nerves, and to the dura mater and caver- nous finus. Another enters with the inferior maxillary nerve by the foramen ovale, and rifes upon the dura mater. dura1T4 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN* dura mater, and through the bones (chiefly the parietal and temporal bones) they inofculate with the temporal and occipital arteries *. The meningeal artery has been known to become aneurifmal and diftended at intervals, it has formed an aneurifm, deftroying the bones, and caufing epilepfy f. OP * Malacame.—u Antrorfum ramis arteriae opthalmicae, retrorfumr. *f ramis arteriarum vertebralium, fecuti etiam crebro iibi ipfi, nec non ,e epicranii ramis, e.g. ex arteria occipitali ort!» etc. in embryonibus “ potilftmum confpicuis inofculatur.” Soemmerring, tom. v. p. 142. j- Malacarne, p. 1. fee. 105. “ PolTono le arterie, della D. “ devenire aneurifmatiche, il che I10 veduto in due cranii, in uno dei “ quali l’arteria fpinofa era tutta gozzi tanto a deftra quanto a fmiftra, “ i maggiori dei quali (ed erano cinque dal primo, e nove dall’ alterc* “ Iato) poco fuperavanolagroffezza dei pifelli: neU’ altero ancor giove- “ nile 11 vedevano due foli gozzi uguali in diametro al mign'olo ful “ tronco mezzano dell’ arteria fpinofa rempetto alia meta del parictale fmiltro, diftanti nove linee circa l’inferior anteriore dall’ altro.’* Part i. $ 105. We have alfo the following cafe from Malacarne- •* Juvenis aetatis 22 annorum, fanguinei temperamenti, poll vehe- “ mentiffimos, et frequentes epileplise motus in nofoeomio D. Joan~ “ nis, tumente in fumma bregmatis oflium parte capitis cute, fub meis oculis moriebatur. D. Caccia in hac noftra univerlitate tunc “ Botanices profeiTor, quem mihi patronum a morte peremtum adhuc tc defteo, ut cadaver aperiretur julferat, atque in ejufdem capite ex ea i£ parte, qua tenuiffima devenerant olfa, ob arteriarum fubrepentium *f inter durae matris laminas aneurifmata, os quoque omnino. deficiens “ reperiebatur, fub capitis integumentis aneurifmata magnitudinis *'■ ovi columbini, exiguo, perrupteque foramine aperto, ut fanguis fub “ integumentis conerevifcet; atque tunc novimus ad ea aneurifm “ matum loca, qua; quidem utrinque erant, in vehementia morbi *f xgrum pugnos infligere confueviffe.”—A curious cafe occurred lately to a friend cf mine : A boy was wounded With an arrow in his head ; it Hack in the parietal bone ; upon withdrawing it, there was a profufe hxmorhagy, for its point had ftruck the artery of the dura mater.. The furgeon was cautious of applying prellure, left the bloodOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN- Hu- ScriD Cap "uli tUr I>.‘M1. adlu riiK''. Y..Fo/.v . 2. Xmlerhon. 3. Xc/u%iauiinaL J'bias 4.4. proof XateraZ Smuses. 5 /.earthsbins 6. artery of the Jiff. OF THE SEPTA WHICH INTERSECT THE 3RAIH, Thofe fepta, or, as they are called, proceffes of the dura mater, being extended acrofs from the internal fur- face of the cranium, fupport the brain in the hidden motions of the body, and prevent the mutual gravitation. blood lhould force its way betwixt the dura mater and bone, or diffafe itfelf upon the furface of the brain ; he bled the boy largely in the arm, but it had 110 effedt upon the haunorhagy ; and fearing to bring on a greater degree of inflammation by applying the trepan, he made a flight compreffion, and in the now languid ftate of the circulation, the bleeding was fupprelfed. ofxS of the Membranes of the brain. of its parts. Thefe partitions are formed by the internal lamina of the dura mater, which is reflected as the peritoneum is to form the mefentery, or the pleura to form the mediaftinuin. The falx is the Iargeffc of the partitions; it is attached to the cranium in the line of the fagittal future, and reaching from the crifta galli of the ethmoid bone to the middle of the tentorium, or to the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, it pafl'es deep into the middle of the brain, and divides it into its two hemifpheres. It is in jhape like a fcythe, for anteriorly it does not pafs fo deep into the fubftance of the brain; but it gradually becomes broader, or defcends deeper betwixt the hemifpheres, as we follow it backwards, which, with the curve, it necelfarily takes from the fhape of the cranium, has ob- tained it the name of falx: it is alfo called feptuin fa- gittale, verticale, or mediaftinuin cerebri. The tentorium feparates the cerebrum and cerebel- lum. It ftretches horizontally over the cerebellum, and fuftains the pofterror lobes of the cerebrum. It is formed by the inner lamina of the dura mater, refle&ed off from the os occipitis alongft the whole length of the grooves of the lateral finufes, and the edge or angle of the temporal bones. This feptum, thus running round the cavity of the cranium, divides it into two depart- ments ; the upper one for the lodgment of the cere- brum, and the lower for the cerebellum. But to allow the union of thefe two great divifions of the encephalon, a circular opening is left upon the anterior part of the tentorium, which is called the notch of the tentorium. There is a little procefs of the dura mater which may be called the falx of the cerebellum. It runs , downOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 17 down upon the internal fpine of the occipital bone from the tentorium, gradually contrafting until it terminates on the margin of the great occipital foramen. It ferves as a kind of ligament ftrengthening the tentorium, while it divides the cerebellum. It enters, however, but a little way betwixt the lobes. The falx and tentorium being conne&ed and con- tinued into each other at their broadeft part, they mutually fupport each other, and are extremely tenfe. This tenfenefs depends on their mutual fupport, for when one of them is cut the other falls loofe. OF THE SPHENOIDAL FOLDS. The lateral extremities of the tentorium are continued forward into acute lines, formed by the duplicature of the dura mater coming off from the edges of the pars petrofa of the temporal bones, and take firm hold on the pofterior clynoid proceffes. From thefe two points a fold of the membrane ftretches forward on each fide to the anterior clynoid procefs, forming thus a hollow or cell for the lodgment of the pituitary gland. Ano- ther fold or duplicature of the dura mater runs onwards a little way from the edge of the little wing of Ingra- tius. Thefe are the fphenoidal folds. Where the internal lamina of the dura mater for- fakes the external to form the falx and tentorium, it • leaves a channel or triangular canal; the bafis of which triangle is the lamina of the membrane inverting the Cranium, while the tenfion of the partitions carries the apex out into an acute point. This forms a channel for receiving all the blood of the veins, and this tenfion and triangular fhape gives a degree of incompreflibility Vol. Ill, C toI'8 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. to the canals. Thefe are the finufes which receive the veins of the encephalon, and guard them from com* Serlinji o£ llie I^oinrilTKiiuaL Upon the furfaces of the dura mater there are many lacerti, or flips of fibres, which are intricately inter* woven with the main body of the membrane, and ftrengthen it. Thefe fibres are peculiarly ftrong in the angles, where the duplicatures pafs inwards, giving firmnefs to the finufes, and allowing the veins to infi- nuate their trunks betwixt them ; thefe fafciculi, dr flips of fibres, and the fides of the finufes, are the cordte Wiilifianse. They were confidered by Baglevi and Pacchioni * as the tendons of the mufcles of the dura mater. Pacchioni conceived that this membrane was mufcular. Vicq d’Azyr obferves, that in inflam- mation of the dura mater he has feen it red, and of a fiefhy appearance; and that fuch a circumflance might * Thefe were Italian anatomifls. Pacchioni was phyfician to Clement the XI. haveOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 19 have deceived Pacchioni, and made him believe that there were mufcular bellies *. Thefe phyficians conceived that the contraction of the falx and dura mater raifed the tentorium; they even conceived that the aftion of the heart depended upon this motion of the dura mater f. They were deceived by the pulfation in the arteries- of the brain, communicated to the dura mater, after the operation of trepan, or in their experiments on living animals The motion communicated to the dura mater thofe. Italian anatomifls conceived to depend on the rifing of the tentorium. This motion, which is occafioned by the beating of the arteries of the brain, had been long before obferved § : fome conceived it to be a motion in the brain itfelf, others believed it to depend on the linufes j[. * Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. 1781. •j- Duverney. f There is a diilindtion in the movement of the dura mater to be obferved upon opening the fcull 5. one depending upon the pulfa- tion of the arteries of the brain; the other caufed by an obftruftion to the exit of blood from the cranium, depending upon the lung3. “ On voyoit bien la pulfation des arteres du cerveau, qui communi- “ quoient quelque mouvement a la dure mere, mais ce mouvement “ n’avoit aucune fymmetrie avec celui de la refpiration. Fatigue de “ ne rien voir apres avoir fi bien vu je comprimai la poitrine de l’ani- “ mal: auffitot le cerveau fi gonfla, evidemment par le reflux du fang “> de la poitrine qui remplifToit la jugulaire.—Je lachai la poitrine, et “ le cerveau redefcendit.”—Exper. 78. Mem. ii. par Haller fur le Mouv. du cerv.—“ II arrivoit pourtant de terns en terns et Ians que 11 cela continuat que le cerveau fe foulevoit dans l'expiration, et fe “ laiffoit repomper dans l’infpiration.” Exper. 79. f. chat § By Coiterus, Riolanus, Bartholin. U Diemerbroeck. C 3 TheSO OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. OF The motion caufed by refpiration was likewife ob- ferved*. M. de Lamure’s conclufion was, that the motion of the brain was caufed by the reflux of the blood towards it from the vena cava in expiration f. He undertook to demonftrate ,this; and he conceived his proof to be good, when, by prefling the ribs of a fubjeet, he faw the refluent blood fwelling the jugular and abdominal cava. Haller obferved the jugular veins fwell, and become turgid, during expiration; and be concluded, that the motion of the brain was occafioned by the refluent blood diftending the finufes of the brain. But he did not believe, as Lamure did, that this motion took place before the opening of the cranium, as well as after it. When the fculi is opened by a wound, the dura mater (till protects the brain, refilling inflammation, and giving the neceflary and uniform fupport to the more delicate fubflance and vafcular membrane of the brain; but when, the dura mater is lacerated by the trepan, or punctured, or worn by the pulfation againft the edge of the bone, there may be hidden hasmia of part of the brain from coughing, or a rapid and difeafed growth from the pia mater forming a fungus. Such fungus is, in feme degree peculiar to children, and is occafioned, I conceive, by the taking away of that due ccmpreffion which the refiftance of the dura mater ought to give. * M. ScUichting Mem. des favar.s Etrangers, 1744. Lorry,. Mem. prefent. a 1’Acad. des Scien. par divers favants Etrangers. •J- M. de Lamure; vide l’Acad. de Sciences, 1744.23 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. OF THE PIA MATER. While the dura mater is clofely connected with the cranium, and in contact with the furfaee of the brain, but hill unconnected with it, except by means of veins entering the finufes (and that only in the courfe of the fmufes); the pia mater is clofely attached to the brain, and paffes into its inmofl recedes. While the dura mater is firm and opaque, and not prone to in- flammation, rhe pia mater is delicate, tranfparent, and extremely vafcular. Like the dura mater, it is not endowed with fenfibility * ; it is of great flrength, con- fidering its apparent delicacy f. The pia mater, which was formerly eonfidered as a Ample membrane, confifts, in reality, of two mem- branes, the tunica arachnoides, and the proper pia mater, or tunica vafculofa J. The tunica arachnoides was difcovered and com- mented upon by a fociety formed by Blafius Sladns Quina and Swamerdam §. They called it Arachnoides, becaufe of its extreme tenuity. It was called aifo Mem- brana Cellulofa, from the appearance it took when they infinuated a blow-pipe and blew it up, feparating it from the pia mater. This membrane is without the pia mater \ and while the pia mater finks down into the fulci of the brain, * Haller, Oper. Minor, de Part. Corpor. humani rent. & irrit. •j* Sir C. Wintringham Exper. Eflays. Taken comparatively, it is ftronger than the aorta. j There are many, however, who with Lioutaud canilder the arachnoid coat as the external lamella of the pia mater. § This was in 1665. I am, perhaps, not eorred in faying they difcovered it; for Yarolius dcfcribes it plainly, covering the medulla oblongata. C 3t this22 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. this covers the furface uniformly, without palling into the interftices of the convolutions, or into the ventri- cles *. This membrane is fo extremely thin, that it cannot by diffe&ion be feparated for any confiderable fpace from the pia mater, and leaft of all, over the middle hemifpheres of the brain. By the blow-pipe, indeed, we may raife it into cells, but it immediately fubfides again; on the polterior part of the cerebellum, on the fpinal marrow and bafe of the brain, it is more eafily raifed and demonlfrated f. It does not pafs deep into the fulci of the brain, but unites them by an extremely deli- cate cellular texture. The view which would incline me to confider the tu- nica arachnoides merely as a layer of the pia mater is this: when the vafcular pia mater defcends into the fulci, the tunica arachnoides does not follow it, but keeps to the uniform furface of the brain; but when this vafcular membrane is about to'enter into forne of the lefTer fulci which afe within the larger, it again parts with another lamella, while its more vafcular part defcends Hill deeper into the brain. OF THE PROPER PIA MATER, OR TUNICA VASCULOSA. The pia mater is a fimple membrane, without either tendinous aponeurotic or mufcular fibres. It is extremely vafcular, but it is tranfparent in the interftices of its veffels: it is the membrane which immediately inverts * Haller Elemen. Fhyf. tom. iv. fee. viii. p. 7. -j- F. Ruyfchii Refponfio ad A. os Goelecke Epiftol ix. See Bidloo, table 1 o ; but the membrane is fo delicate (nulla detur in corpore fubtilior, Ruyfch) that it can be but very imperfectly repre- fented by engraving. 4 and23 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. and connefts itfelf with thefubftance of the brain; and although delicate, it forms the fupport and ftrength of its ceneritious and medullary fubftance. All vef- fels diftributed in the body, however minute, are al- ways conveyed in membranes; the pia mater then follows, or rather conveys the veffels not only into the cavities of the brain, but to every part of its fubftance, it being intimately blended with it *. We fee it more diftin&ly defcending in ftrong plicae into the interftices of the convolutions; nor is it into them only that it enters, but into every pore which conveys a veflelf. The pia mater as it paffes into the fubftance of the brain, divides and fubdivides into partitions and cells, and every capillary veffel, and every molicule of the fubftance of the brain is inverted and fupported by its fubdivifions. The pia mater is to the brain what the cellular membrane is to the other vifcera and parts of the body ; for it is the peculiar matter lying in the interftitious cellular membrane (as in mufcles, bones, &c.) that gives the peculiarity of character to the parts J ; the * Columbus, the afiiftant of Veflalius, and afterwards Profeffor in Rome, explained this intimate iptertexture of the pia mater with the proper fubftance of the brain, fo far back as* 1559. f When we tear off the pia mater from the brain (for it cannot be called diffeftion), it does not adhere merely at the fulci, but to the whole furface of the convolutions ; and every where fmall veffels en- ter, and with thefe veffels defcends alfo the lamina of the pia mater. f “ Sed cum continuo triduo in inquifttione facienda perfeveraf- “ fern; tandem deprehendi cerebri fibrillas eadem ratione, continu- “ ataque ferie, ftbi invicem annexas effe; quemadmodum fibrillas “ carneas tendinibus adhaerere demonftravi; cum igitur illam cerebri “ cum vafis fanguineis connexionem deprehendiffem ; et earn, quam “ ante dixi, variorum fru&uum compagem attenderem; iterum con- C 4 ‘‘ clufi54 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. the cellular membrane itfelf is nearly alike in all; there- fore, in my judgment, the pia mater is rightly con- fidered by fome anatomifts as a cellular fubltance * *. Malacarne fays, I am much inclined to confider it with the illuft. Haller as being compofed of lamina, like common adipofe membrane, and that the ex- treme arteries ramify through its cells, for, with a blow- pipe, we can raife it into cells like the common mem- brane ; and if this be carefully done, the air may be made to pafs from cell to cell, following the arteries in their courfe betwixt the lobuli, and in the fubltance of the brain f. We can follow the pia mater into the ventricles, by tracing it betwixt the polterior lobe of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, where it forms the ve- lum interpofitum of Haller, and paffes under the fornix. We can follow it alfo into the polterior horn of the lateral ventricles from the bafe of the brain, where t he branches of the middle artery of the cerebrum pafs into the lower part of the choroid plexus ; we trace it alfo into the bottom' of the fourth ventricle. The pia mater lining the ventricles is more delicate, and lefs ef clufi dominum, univer.fi conditorem, in rerum creatarum fabrica “ eafdem vei confimiles fere leges tenuiffe.”^-“ Igitur adyerti fibrillas “ certo loco fibi conjunftas, mox alio loco ab invicem divertere, paulo paft iterum coeuntes. Et, fi recte memini, confimiles cpnjunc- 4t tienes obfervavi in mufculis cordis,” &c. Leeuwenhoek Epift. jPhyf. 3fxxiv. * Bergen. Program de pia matre. See Haller Anat. •}• Such is the profufion of veffels diftributed to inconceivable mi* rutenefs, that it has been confidered as entirely compofed of veffels, and received the name of chorion, from the membrane of the fecun- dines. Galen de ufu part. I. viii, cap. 8, Malacarne, part I, fee. 243. vafcularOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 25 vafcular than that feen upon the furface, and betwist the convolutions of the brain. It has been faid that the ventricles of the encepha- lon ferved to increafe the furface of the pia mater, and that whatever purpofes are ferved by that membrane and its velfels on the furface of the brain, we mud fuppofe the fame performed by it within the ven- tricles *. This feems more like a weighty conclu- fion than it really is. We have feen how minutely dillributed the pia mater is through the fubftance of the brain, independently of the ventricles; and we fhall find that the ventricles have important ufes, without the neceffity of fuppofing them fo fubfervient to the difiribution of the pia mater. As the tunica arachnoides is of a peculiar nature, and has few if any veffels, and as it covers the external furface of the brain only, it feems to me probable that this membrane is the caufe why effufions in the ven- tricles are fo common, and why fluids are fo feldoro found betwixt the furface of the brain and the dura ma- ter. When by the difeafed action of the velfels of the pia mater on the furface of the brain an effufion is thrown, v out, it very feldom lies upon the furface unconfined; but frequently fluids are contained in facs of the arachnoid coat, betwixt the convolutions of the brain, or raife it into pellucid veficles upon the furface. The want of a tunica arachnoides upon the pia mater of the ventricles, may be a caufe of the fluids being fo much more readily fecreted into them. The raifing of the pia mater into vehicles by the aftion of the velfels of the pia mater, is rather an ar« * Dr. Monro’s Nervous Syllem, chap. vi. gument26 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. gument for the diftinft nature of thefe membranes. The tunica arachnoides is raifed by the a&ion of the veflels of the pia mater, as the cuticle is raifed into blifters by the inflammatory aftion of the veflels of the cutis, while no other membranes of the body take fuch an appear- ance in their difeafe. They inflame, indeed; they thicken; their lamina become more diftindt, or their cellular fubftance fills with water, or hydatids are formed in them ; but this appearance of water fecreted under the tunica arachnoides is quite peculiar.27 ©F THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. The cerebrum and cerebellum confifl diflin£tly of two very different fubftances ; the cineritious and me- dullary matter. The cineritious, or afh-coloured mat- ter, forms the fuperficial or outer part of the encepha- lon, and is therefore called alfo the cortical part. The cineritious matter varies much in colour ; in the crura cerebri it is very dark; in the pons varolii it is reder; in the corpora olivaria * it is yellower. The confift- ency * Vicq d’Azyr “ Exterior cerebri totius facies, donee in fpina- “ lem medullam abeat, plerumque colore eft fubr'ubride cinereo, vel “ languide rufleo. Fufciora funt cerebra fanguine ditia, e. g. hominum “ apoplexia eneftorum, vel hominum craffioris fanguinis ; pallidif- “ funa vero funt cerebra hydropica vel hominum pituitoforum vel “ haemorrhagia,OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. ency of this matter alfo varies confiderably in different parts; it is foft in the bafe of the brain, betwixt the optic nerves and anterior commiflure, and in the third ventricle. The medullary matter is chiefly in the in- ternal part of the brain, forming a hind of nucleus or white central part; but in many parts of the brain, there is a mixture of thefe which fc n flrias*; and in fome of the eminences, the internal part is cineritious, while the external part, or what we might here call the cortical part, is medullary f. The cortical or cineritious fubflance does not blend gradually with the white medullary matter, but on the contrary, their line of diftindlion is abrupt: an inter- vening fubflance has been obferved. In inflammation of the brain, particularly, it has been faid, that this third fubflance has been found. This may be merely the effetl of light upon the union of the two fubflances. We, however, often obferve an appearance of fucceflive coloured circles upon the edge of the medullary matter of the arbor vitas, in the cerebellum. “ hsemorrbagia mortuorum. Dubio procul color cerebri fanguinis “ tcmperaturam fequitur, et ideo pallidius eft infantibus, quam adul- « tis.” Sommerring hum. corp. fab. vol. iv. p. 41. * Thus the cineritious fuhftance is mixed with the medullary matter in the corpus callofum, in the corpora ftriata, the thalami nervorum opticorum, in the tubercula quadrigemma, the immenen- ria mamillaria ; in the crura cerebri ; in the pons varqlii; in the cor- pora olivaria, and medulla fpinalis, y “ E xerampelina fulla fuperficie del cervelletto, e dei corpi fcana- lati quando non evvi aqua nei ventricoli; fofca riei talami de1 nervi ottici, e nelle gambe del cervello, dove qua e la fuole avere del neri- cante giallognola zolferina, e talvolta granadiglia,; nelle eminence olivari.” Malacarne, parte ii. fee. 15. 6 ItOF THE MEMBRANES 0? THE BRAIN. 29 It has been afferted by M. Ludwig *, that the maffss and ftrise of the cineritious fubftance, difperfed through the internal parts of the brain, have a communication with each other. This, however, is denied by Vicq d’Azyrf. He conceives, that the cineritious fub- ftances of the pons varolii, or of the corpora olivaria, have no communication with the cineritious fubftance in any other part of the brain; and that in feveral parts of the brain the cineritious fubftance is furrounded and ifolated by the medullary matter. Its great im- portance (which lhould never have been doubted) has been deduced from its being fo generally found towards the origin of the nerves J. The cineritious fubftance feems to have a much greater quantity of blood circulating in it than the me- dullary fubftance. Its vefiels come by two diftinft routs, partly from the extremities of thofe arteries which appear in large branches upon the fui face of the brain, and partly by veflels which penetrate through the me- * De cinerea cerebri fubftantia, Lepfoe. Hill, de l’Acad. Roy. an 1781. p. 507. J II faut que les ufages de la fubftance grife foient tres-importatis ; Car independamment de la portion de cette fubftance que les circonvo- lutions contiennent, et qui femble appartenir a la maffe blanche du cerveau, ou en obferve des amas plus ou moins confiderables pres des diverfes origines des nerfs: ainfi pres de la premiere et la deuxieme paire, font les corps ftries et les couches optiaues ; la troifieme paire eft pres d’un efpece noiratre que je decrirai ailleurs; la quatrieme paire fort au deffous des tubercules quadrijumcanx, dont le noyau ell compose de fubftance grife, la cinquieme, la fixieme, la feptieme, fe trouvent aux environs dc le portuberance annulaire, ou la fubftance grife eft melee avec la blanche; la huitieme et la neuvieme font placees pres de 1’eminence olivarie, ou j’ai obferve un melange parti- calier de fubftance grife. . Mem. de l’Acad. Scien. an 1781. p. 507. dullary A30 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. dullary fubftance from the bafe of the brain. Ruyfch and Albinus have made the moft minute inje&ions of this part of the brain. The former conceived it to confift entirely of velfels; but Vicq. d’Azyr and Al- binus found always, in their experiments, that a great proportion of it remained colourlefs after the moil; mi- nute injection. It is, indeed, very improbable, that fo foft a body fhould be entirely compofed of veflels'. How, for example, can we fuppofe the comiifura mollis, or cineritious matter, on the Tides and bottom of the third ventricle, or the almoft tranfparent lamina, which we find in fome parts, to be compofed of veffels ? The white medullary substance appears to be a pulpy mafs. We obferve no peculiarity of ftru&ure in it towards the furface of the brain, where it is con- tiguous to the cortical matter; but towards the origin of the nerves it takes a more fibrous appearance. This appearance of fibres is not owing to any peculiarity in the medullary matter, but to the manner in which the pia mater involves it. The medullary matter, being chiefly internal, has every where through the brain a communication from the fore to the back part, from the upper part to the bafe; from the great central part it extends in form of fhriae, into the corpora ftriata and thalami; it invefts the eminences in the lateral ventricles ; and thofe upper parts have communication with the medullary fubftance of the bafe. M. Meckel found, upon comparing the brains of an European and of a negro, that the medullary matter differed very much in colour.. In the negro, inftead of the whitenefs of the European, the medullary matter was of a yellow colour, and nearly like the cineritious matter:OF TIIE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. matter: he obferved alfo, that this very peculiar dif- tinflion of colour was only to be obferved when the fe&ion was recently made, and that the darker colour of the medullary matter became fainter when expofed to the air *. OF THE OBSERVATIONS MADE UPON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. The opinions regarding the ftructure of the brain have had a dependence on the general doftrines of the ftrufture of other fecreting organs, and it is, of courfe, connected with the deputations of Malpighi and Ruyfch, becaufe the doctrine of the glandular nature of the brain, and the belief of the nervous fluid, being a fecre- tion, has, in all ages, formed the bafis of the moll favourite theories f. Malpighi found, on throwing in black and fluid in- jection, that there remained always particles colourlefs, and to which the injeCtion did not penetrate. He con- ceived thefe to be glandular folicules, and that the ci- neritious fubftance of the brain confifted of this folicular * “ La moelle du negre etoit d’un jaune clair, tirant un peu fur “ le gris, tandis que celle de l’Europeen etoit d’une parfaite blan* “ cheur.” “ Celui du negre etoit d’un jaune noiratre et celui de “ l’Europeen d’une couleur blanche—Prolongeant enfuit la diffec- “ tion jufqu aux grands ventricules du cerveau j’ai coupe horizontale- “ ment les corps {tries et les couches des nerfs optiques. C’eft la ou la “ difference a paru vraiment etonnante, le corps ftrie dans le negre “ etant prefque de la couleur brune d’une ecorce d’arbre, au lieu que “ celui de l’Europeen etoit couleur dechairpale tirant au cendre,” &c. •}- Indeed this doctrine of the glandular nature of the brain has defcended from Hippocrates—“ Caput quoque ipfum glandulas 41 habet cerebrum enim eft ut glanduk album eft et friabile,” See. or32 .OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. the or glandular ftru&ure, while the medullary matter of the brain was merely the fibrillas of the excretory duft. This opinion was founded on conjecture, with but a very poor fliew of experiments, viz. by boiling the fub- ftance of the brain in oil, he found it take a granulated appearance, as if. formed of fmall grains, or little glands *. Such was the received opinion until Ruyfch, with a defpotical authority, fwaved the opinions of phyfiolo- gifts: he alleged, in proof only his own experiments and preparations, in which other anatomifts could not follow nor refute him, and therefore they acquiefced. His molt unanfwerable and molt infulting argument was “ veni et videf.” According to Ruyfch, the cortical fubftance of the brain is entirely vafcular, and has no appearance of a glandular or folicular ftru&ure; nay, he conceived it to be entirely compofed of arteries J. But as Mala- carne obferves, though we fuppofe the extremities of * “ Pedamentum, fupra quod pofita eft philia in qua confervatur " portio cerebri in liquore, quam decoxi in oleo olivarum per horas, “ ficuti, facere affolet Dr. Vieuffens. Ea autem plane mutilis et per - “ verfa ejl preparatis, nam nihilum quidem vafculofi vifui occurrit “ poft decodionem in dido oleo, et quod unufquifque tentare poteft “ ita ut inventor neutiquam habendus fit Dr. Vieuffens Sc. quod “ cerebri cortex nil fit, nifi extremitates vaforum fanguineorqm: in “ ea autem nemo hadenus (qucd fciam) me imitari poterit aut anolo- “ gum quid fecit.’’ Ruyfch Thef. An. x. No. xxxii. ■f “Milites quando hoftium adventum audiunt, clamant ad arma! ad “ arma! fic ego dico hie ad vifum! ad vifum !” Refponfio ad J. Ch. Bohlium. J Vieuffens was latterly of the fame opinion, and is accufed of plagiarifm by Ruyfch. Accordingly, we find, that in fome parts of his works he deferibes the glands and duds of Malpighi.OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 33 the arteries of the cineritious fubftance to be more mi- nute than thofe which are diftributed to the microfco- pical corpufculi of the fmalleft vifible infeft, there muft ftill remain fome part, which is not compofed of veffels ; and in regard to the veins of the cineritious fubftance we may appeal to Albinus, who, from the fubftance of the brain, finds many veins connected with the arteries of the cineritious fubftance when he carefully lifts the pia mater. But there is this peculiarity in the diftri- bution of the blood veffels of the brain, that, though the cineritious fubftance be the moft vafcular, yet, in the medullary matter, we fee the veffels with large open mouths, and more diftind; than in the cineritious fub- ftance. In following the blood veffels from the bafe of the brain into the medullary fubftance, we fee them diftintt, and of confiderable magnitude; but when they are about to enter the cineritious fubftance, they difperfe into minute branches *. In the fame manner thofe arteries, which are carried into the fulci of the furface by the pia mater, branch into extreme * Leeuwenhoeck favv, in the fubftance of the brain, but efpecially in the cortical fubftance, red blood veffels, but fo delicate, that he could not comprehend how the globules of the red blood could pals along them ; and what appeared more particular, they were of a deeper colour than the red particles themfclves ; for, when feen lingly, they appeared to have very little colour. This he explained by an experi- ment made upon a certain little animal. After it had fucked blood very plentifully, he obferved, that the blood was broken down by digeftion, and conveyed through the limbs and horns of the crea- ture, fo as to make it univerfally red. So here he conceives that the globules of the blood may be broken down and altered in their lhape to enter the minute veffels of the brain* Yol. Ill* D minute-34 OF THE membranes of the brain. minutenefs before they finally penetrate the cineritious fubftance * * * §. Leeuwenhoeck f obferved, in the cortical fubftance of the brain, a pellucid, chriftalline, and to appearance oily matter; he calls this, therefore, N the fubftantia vitrea. When he had put a fmall portion of this under his glafs, he faw a fluid, which he at firft conceived might have efcaped from the globules that were necef- farily cut by the knife. This fluid alfo he found to confift of very minute globules, thirty-fix times lefs than thofe of the blood J. Thefe fmall globules he conceived to have probably conftituted a fluid, which, during the life of the animal, was moveable, and in veflels, though now in death congealed and fixed §. The colour of the cortical fubftance he found to depend upon the minute ramification of the veflels which were of a dark brown colour, while, in the medullary part, they were clearer and more tranfparent. Independently of this diftindtion of veflels, he could obferve little dif- ference in the medullary and cineritious fubftance; the refradtion of the rays of light amongft the tranfparent globules being the caufe of the whitenefs of the former. * Malacarne, Part II. left. 18. f He was born in Delft, in Holland, 1632, and died 1723. He is celebrated for his microfcopical difcoveries; his papers are chiefly in the Tranfa&ions of the Royal Society of London, about the year 1674. J Anatomica Contemplatio, 30. § Among thofe globules, of which the brain is compofed, he faw alfo globules of the blood, which it was eafy to diftinguifh by their roundnefs. Thefe red globules, he fuppofes, had efcaped in confequence of the minute veffels having been cut by the knife. a R. dellaOF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 35 R. della Torre, in his nucrofcopical obfervations, de- Fcribes globuli in the brain; he fays, that he faw them floating in a pellucid vifcous fluid. But Pro- chafka # thinks Della Torre mud be miftaken in this, for when he took a fmali portion of the brain, he faw it confiding of innumerable globules, which continued to adhere to* each other, even after three months’ maceration in Vrater: and thence he con- cludes, that it could not be as R. ddlla Torre conceived, that thefe fpherical bodies move from the brain. on towards the extremities of the nerves; nor do thefe bodies lie imbeded in a glutinous fluid (he continues) but they are connected by the extremely minute and pellucid fepimentas of the pia mater, and by the velfels which pervade both the cortical and medullary matter, and which nouriflh as well as fupport and conned thefe corpufculi. Prochaika cannot, from his own obfervations, de- termine whether thefe globular bodies be convoluted veflels, or what they are. R. della Torre had obferved, that they were larged in the cortical part, lefs in the medullary fubftance, dill diminiflbing in the medulla oblongata, and lead of all in the nerves; but fucceeding obfervation did not fupport this aflertion f. Mala- carne exprefles himfelf to be nearly of the fame opinion in regard to the vehicular drudure of the cortical fub- ftance of the brain. The minute precedes of the pia mater, fays he, embracd and fupport the medullary fub- * Traft. Anatom, de Struft. Nervorum. f This was certainly a theoretical deception : it is like the accu- rate obfervation of Tracaffati, who could diftinguilh a difference of taffe in the medullary and cineritious fubftance of the brain. D 2 dance.36 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAINV fiance, which is furrounded with a matter of a darker colour, and lefs diftindtly fibrous, but not lefs effential, and which is compofed of corpufcules, that, in figure and arrangement, referable the vehicles of the pulp of a lemon *. Many authors endeavour to fupport their conjectures regarding this vehicular flruclui^ of the brain by morbid diffedtionf. We fee the brain frequently degenerated into hydatids, or into little veffels, or into knobular glandular-like fchirrofities. I have feen this vehicular appearance in great portions of the pia mater. I have feen the pia mater with innumerable little bodies like mil- liary glands upon it; and alfo the whole upper and exter- nal part of the brain degenerated into one mafs of difeafe. It was hard, fchirrous, tuberculated, and like a difeafed giand j. But I cannot conceive that any conclufion, in regard to the natural ftructure of the brain, can be drawn from fuch appearances. They are to be confi- dered as the difeafes of the veffels and membranes rather than of the peculiar matter of the brain. When the brain is examined in the foetus of the early months, although the fubflance of the brain is extremely foft, and even of a fluid confidence, the membranes and veffels are fully formed, exquifitely minute, and perfect in all their proceffes, fo that they give form and firmnefs to the brain. We fee, confequently, that the due increafe and complete organization of the brain is * Malacarne, page 2. fe&. 4. ■y Wepfer de cicuta aquatica. Mangetus—Malacarne, See. f There has been obferved a ftrufture like the bronchial gland. Huber, Obfervationes Anatom.—Adta Helvetica, 1758. Tom. iii. a gra-OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 27 D3 the a gradual procefs, and like the growth of the othef parts of the body. OF THE SENSIBILITY OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. It cannot but appear ftrange, that the very fource or centre, to which every fenfation is referred, fhould itfelf be deftitute of fenfation ; yet, we are affured, by the experiments of Haller and Zinn, that the cortical fub- ftance of the brain has been irritated, without the animal being convulfed, or giving figns of pain * ; but when the medullary part of the brain is irritated, the effedts are inftantaneous, and the animal is convulfed. It has been obferved, that as the injury of a nerve caufes con- vulfions, fo does that of the central parts of the brain, from which the nerves originate ; but this fenfibility f diminiih.es towards the furface of the brain J. We fee a diilindion betwixt the flruclure and function of the nerves and of the brain ; or rather betwixt the cineri- tious fubltance of the brain and the nerves. For, al- though we muft neceffarily conclude, that the cineri- tious fubftance is an important and, perhaps, the moil effential part of the fyilem, ilill it does not evince, by * But, like the infenfible membranes, it becomes irritable by dif- eafe; or by preffure, which afFefts the univerfal function of the brain. Vander Linden, in his Medicina Phyfiologica (1613), brings proof of the infenfibility of the brain. See the general enumeration of the effefts of wounds in the brain. Haller Phyljol. Tom. iv. &c. Obfervations par M. de la Peyronnie de decouvrir la partie de cer. veau ou 1’ame exerce les fun&ions—Acad. Roy. des Sciences. t It is an efFeft different from pain or fenfation; it fhakea the body with violent convulfions. J Sommeiing, tom. iv.38 OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. the immediate effect of injuries, that ftridt fympathy and univerfal connection which belong to the nerves. The nearer to its fource that a nerve is pricked, the greater is the effect of the injury. As it recedes from its origin towards the fuperficies of the brain, the effedt is lefiened, becaufe the connections of the part are diminifhed in number, proportionally to their dis- tance from the central parts of the brain; a pundture in the centre injures more filaments from their being concentrated to form nerves. Several ounces of the brain have been loft in con- fequence of wounds, without death, or lofs of me- mory, or intelledt. There is a very marked diftindtion betwixt pundtu- ring, cutting, or even burning, the furface of the brain and prefling it. In the firft there is little or no effedt, or even pain. In the latter there is ftupor, pain, or convulftons. The reafon is, that in the firft it is a local irritation in a place which has little, if any, feeling, while in the latter, the effedt of the preflure fpreads extenfively. No fenfible man will expedt, in the moft minute and unwearied inveftigation of the ftrudture of the brain, to find the explanation of its fundtion. It is interefting to find effedts fo peculiarly connected with the opera- tions of the mind, depending upon a ftrudture cf fo grofs and animal a nature as this of the brain, fo far as we have feen; but ftill, all explanation of thofe opera* tions muft be viftonary.OF THE VEINS AND SINUSES OF THE BRAIN. 3Q CHAP. II. OF THE VEINS AND SINUSES OF THE BRAIN. r | ''HE brain is very profufely fupplied with blood, in fo much, that the blood has been fuppofed to circu- late in the brain in a proportion four times greater than in any other part of the body. This is the molt moderate calculation, and it has been formed from a comparifon of the quantity of blood circulating in the head, with that which circulates in the arm. Boerhaave and Kiel, comparing the area of the arteries of the cerebrum with that of the afcending aorta, made a mod erroneous calculation of the proportion of blood circulating in the brain, compared with that of the reft of the body. Had they compared the quantity of blood within the head with that of the lungs, of the liver, of the fpleen, D 4 or4® OF THf VEINS OF THE BRAIN, or of the kidney, the difference would have been Iefs finking. Wherever there is great arterial vafcularity, we are fure to find alio peculiarities in the venous fyftem of the part; wherever we find an accumulation of tortuous arteries palling to a gland, we fhall alfo find the veins tortuous and large; or wherever the arteries of a part take a difeafed adlion, the effect of this adtion will be found mofl perceptible in the change which the veins undergo. In fhort, the effect of difeafe is much more furely to be difcovered in the venous than in the arterial fyftem ; and no where is this better exemplified than in the brain. The following appear on the firfl view .to be the mofi; ftriking peculiarities in the veins of the brain; their fize; the little connection they feem to have with the furrounding cellular membrane; and the incon- fiderable fupport which they appear to receive from it; their having no valves; their being in their courfe diftindt from the arteries ; and laftly, their not being gathered into great trunks, but emptying themfelves into the finufes of the dura mater. It is not eafy to conceive how the veins of the brain fhould have been fo much overlooked by the older anatomifts j but from the diffedlions ,of Albinus, and the microfcopical obfervations of Leeuwenhoek, we have authority for what is, perhaps, in itfelf fufficiently evi- dent, that the veins of the furface of the brain are derived from minute ramifications conveyed in the de- licate pia mater ; and that thefe, as in the other parts of the body, proceed from the extremities of the arteries, without any apparent peculiarity in the ccnnedtion be- 6 ' twixtOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 41 twixt the extremities of the arteries and the veins of thebrain *. The defcription of the veins of the brain, previous to their entering the finus, has been negle&ed. I divide them into the external and internal veins of the brain, or thofe which emerge from its fubftance, and are feen upon the furface; and thofe which, coming chiefly from the fides of the ventricles, are convoluted in the plexus choroides, and terminate in the fourth finus. OF THE VEINS WHICH ARE SEEN UPON THE SURFACE OF THE BRAIN. Vicq d’Azyr has been minute in his attention to the veins of the furface of the brain. He confirmed the obfervation, that almoft all the veins which pafs into the longitudinal finus, open in a direction contrary to the ilream of blood in the finus f. Thefe fuper- ficial * The obfervation is trivial; bat we mull recoiled!:, that Vefa- lius contradided Galen, and affirmed, that the finufes received alfo arteries which gave them their pulfation. This opinion was refuted by Fallopiits, but adopted by Vieuffens, Wepfer, and others, upon the idea of the facility with which injedion palfes from the arteries into the finufes ; while, on the other hand, Ruyfch conceived that the cortical part of the brain confided entirely of arteries. •j- From Vicq d’Azyr’s table we fhould be led to conclude, that the veins did not decidedly all open with their mouths oppofed to the dream of blood. Ridley afferts, that one half open backwards. Santorini alfo obferves great variation in the diredlion of thefe veins. Lower, while he obferved this diredlion backwards, de- fcribes them, at the fame time, as palling obliquely betwixt the coats, like the gall dud in the intedine, or the ureters into the blad- der.42 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. the ficial veins of the furface of the hemifpheres, are in number generally from ten to fifteen on each fide. They really do not feem to be worthy of the minute attention which Vicq d’Azyr has bellowed upon them; he has moll carefully defcribed each indi- vidual branch, and that not in general terms, but firlt thofe of the right, and then thofe of the left fide. Now, although thefe veins do not enter the finus oppofed to each other, nor in pairs, Hill the irregularity is tri- fling, and were it important, does not admit of defcrip- tion. Thofe veins do not lie in the fulci of the brain, but pafs occafionally along the interltices, or over the convolutions of the brain; they take in general a courfe from before backwards, but previous to their entering the finus, are turned forwards. We have already ob- ferved, that the pia mater and dura mater have no con- nection, but at the place where thofe veins enter the lamina of the dura mater; and here their connexion is fomewhat peculiar. It is not a fimple adhefion of the pia mater and dura mater; but a white fpongy fub- ftance feems to conned and llrengthen them, and, when torn afunder, it leaves a foft fatty kind of rough- nefs upon the pia mater. Thefe appear to me to be der. Sabbatier fays decidedly, that they enter with their mouths oppofed to the courfe of the blood in the finus. From Malacarne, we fnould be led to conceive (what I believe to be the truth) that they open very irregularly. “ Non tutte quelle vene fboccano ob- “ liquamente ad un modo nel feno, come non a tutte la membrana “ interna del medelimo fomminiftra quella valvuletta, che pure a mo* “ di lingua, di briglia, di mezza luna frequentementc ne ottura la “ met'a, il terzo, o minor parte degli orihci.” Malacarne, p. 94.OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 43 the the fame bodies which Ruyfch fo frequently mentions as little particles of fat, and which others have taken to be the glands of the pia mater *. Vicq d’Azyr, in his xxxiiid plate, fig. 14, has confounded them under the name of the glandular Pacchioni f. Of thefe veins lying upon the furface of the brain, there is one, or very often there are two large veins on each fide, and which enter generally pretty far back in the finus, and are fomewhat peculiar from their greater fize,and their fe- micircular courfe. Thefe, from their fiate of dilatation, and the colour and fluidity of their blood, will be found in morbid difledlion, to mark fufficiently, in many in- fiances, the character of the venous fyftem of the brain. There is again another vein fomewhat peculiar in its courfe: whilfl thofe take a fuperficial courfe, and are upon the level of the longitudinal finus, it gathers its branches upon the internal flat furface of the left hemifphere, and rifes fo as to infinuate itfelf into * “ Portio pias matris in liquore, cujus fuperficies exterior obfita “ variis particulis prominentibus exiguis, quas pro glandulis habue- “ runt nonnulli: cum autem fint diverfas formse, et colore pinguidinem “ repnefentent, pro pinguidine potius illas habeo prasfertim cum ‘c inter duplicaturam pice matris aliquoties pinguidinem invenerim.’* Thefaurus Anat. ix. N". xlii. Epift. ix. p. 8. Thef. v. N°. 1. f We fee alfo what be fays in the Acad, of Sciences, An. 1781, p. 502. “ Elies etoient plus ou moins recouvertes, vers leur infer- “ tion par les glandules de Pacchioni ; les ayant examines dans plufi- “ eurs fujet6, j’ai obferve qu’elles etoient a peu-pres, de chaque “ c6te au nombre de dix, douze, ou quinze.” Ridley calls thefe “ carnous adnefcences,” betwixt the membranes, p. 8. As to the gland which Willis affirms to be fcattered over the tunica arachnoides, I could never fee them. Ridley.OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 44 the inferior part of the finus *. All thefe veins of the furface of the cerebrum have very free inofculations with each other. I cannot any where better obferve the negligence of authors, in regard to the glandulae Pacchioni, than when {peaking of the mouths of thofe veins which open into the great longitudinal finus. I cannot help thinking, that many of our bell au- thors have overlooked entirely the importance of the glandulae Pacchioni; and many alfo have been entirely ignorant of them. We have already mentioned, that a few fmall bodies by no means conftant nor regular, were to be feen upon the external furface of the dura mater, in thecourfe of the longitudinal finus, or at no great diftance from it. We have mentioned alfo thofe fatty-like adhe- fions of the roots of the veins as they enter the finus, and which rather belong to the pia mater. Both thefe are called the glandulae Pacchioni improperly. The bodies which engaged Pacchioni and Fautonus in fuch violent difputes, are feen on the infide of the longitudinal finus, and are connected with the opening of the veins f; - they s Vicq d’Azyr. •f “ In longitudinali finu, imme&kte, Cub membranofis expanlioni- “ bus, in areolis cliordarum Willifianarum, quin et fupra eafdem chor- ** das eonfitx funt inumerae glandulae conglobatae, propria, et tenuif- “ fima membrana, veluti in facculo conclufoe ; quoe racematim ut “ plurimum coeunt; raro fparfim difponiuntur: has glandulae utrin- u que ad latera falcis mefforiae, ab ejufdem apice ad bafis ufque pof- u ticam partem miro prope modum artificio procedentes, dorfo la- •* certorum accumbunt, & partim ab horum libris, partim ab iis, u quae a chordis emergunt, firmantur, atque invicem alligantur, ita “ ut pon nifi lacerat acu disjungi pofiint.” Vide Pacchioni, p. 126. Siny\In . lr/v//m/z {}y?v ^/TaccMorifs Fl/rfrjf f/s RmteOF THE, VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 45 they appear of a flefhy colour, projecting like papillae, or like the granulations of a fore. Pacchioni fays, <{ Ovorura inflar bombycinorum apparent,” which de- fcribes their conglobate appearance ; but they are of a pale flefhy colour, which Pacchioni fays is owing to their being furrounded with mufcular fibres. I have added the plate of Pacchioni, and contrafled it with a more natural drawing of them. The preparation from which Pacchioni had taken his plate, was previoufly macerated in vinegar. Thefe bodies being foft and vafcular, have allowed the minute injection to tranfude in fome of the experiments of anatomifts, which has given rife to the opinion of the actual communication, of the arteries of the dura mater with the finufes. As to their ufe *, I am in confiderable doubt. Joan. Fau- tonus (in his letters to Pacchioni) conceives that they give out a fluid into the finus, to dilute the venous “ Sinu longitudinali aperto, in confpedtum veniunt corpufcula ro- “ tunda, & fubrotunda, inilii forma, (a clari/T- viro Pacchiono de- “ tefta) h$c magnitudinem aciculse vulgaris caput baud fuperant, <c nifi per microfcopium iotrofpiciantur, aut ex duobus corpufculis “ combinentur.” Ruyfch, Thef. vii. N°. xxxiv. From this we lee how various the fize of thefe bodies is. In the next paragraph, he obferves, “ Vix et ne vix quidem ullum ex diftis corpufculis vi- “ dere poteft.” * It is curious that thefe bodies are confined to the longitudinal finus. et Mirum, & seque animadverfione dignum eft, hafce glan- “ dulas ad folius longitudinalis finus latera reperiri cum in laterali- “ bus finubus vel nunquam, vel raro admodum per pauca earundem “ veftigia adnotentur, ubi prasfertim praefati canales deorfum incli- “ nare incipiunt, antequamab interfeptorum dorfo difcedant.” Pac- chioni, p. 127. blood.OF THE VEINS OF THE !BRAIN. 46 blood *. Pacchioni defcribes duXs pafling from them to the pia mater, (which are thofe connexions that we have already remarked,) and conceives that they lubri- cate the furface, or communicate with the fubftance of the brain; and that they are preffed, and their fecre- tion promoted by the motion of the chordae Willifianae, and the aXion of the dura mater f. I fhould rather conceive that they had a valvular aXion on the mouths of the veins ; they projeX from the mouths of the veins into the fmus, and the blood pafling from the veins mufl filter through them, and be checked in its retrograde courfe, and perhaps obftruX- ed in its natural courfe when they are enlarged. As thefe bodies differ very much in the variety of fubjeXs, they mufl: fometimes impede the free egrefs of the blood from the veins of the cerebrum into the longitu- dinal finus, and caufe difeafe, efpecially as they are fofter and larger in old men J. At all events, they are too much overlooked in morbid diifeXion. The veins which anfwer to the arteria corporis callofi, * “ Ego aqueum humorem in glandulis egregari, fluere Iym- “ pham in tubulis, quos tecum Iymphaticos appello, nunquam negave- “ rim, fedliquidi fluxum ab utrifque verfus finummagis, quam verfus “ ambitum cerebri verifimilem, magifque naturae legibus confonum “ efie affirmo.” . Fautonus Epift. D. A. Pacch. Oper. Pacch. *77- -{- “ Ex iis autem in minimum quidem vafculum lymphaticum pro- “ dire confpicere potui.” Ruyfch. f “ Fibris carneis tenuiiumis circumambiuntur fin guise, unde “ colorem. carneo-pallidum nancifci videntur: in fenibus vero, in “ quibus bujufmodi fibrae- enervatce nimis laxantur, et ferine difpa- “ rent, glandulae albefcentes, & magis turgidte Cernuntur: quod, “ & in hydrocephalicis, comatofis, & id genus aliis obfervari poffe 4‘ arbitrarer.” Pacchioni Oper. p. 126, 127. andOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 47 and which are feen lying upon the corpus callofum in a very fine cellular membrane, rife and pafs into the inferior longitudinal finus, that which is formed in the lamina of the inferior edge of the falx. OF THE INTERNAL VEINS OF THE BRAIN, AND OF THE CEIOROID PLEXUS. Under this title of the internal veins of the brain, the the choroid plexus comes naturally to be confidered. tho Cho roid. i’ioxn.s A* V^ejia Galeni. t akon. from tile Brain.& Spread so,as to Sliow their Coiiiiectiou- 1 Choj'ccd .7 */ca% iw of die riaht St\A ? SL\rus oft ho /c/lSido Spread out Sh'lcries tc this- .pdrt/ivhare inies in the inferior horn 4. J’/cow of tho fiiVen/ririr formed fy the June fit ef.J, 2, 5. ft •//.7 <■! tA /if , t n.i.i Ml,,: The moft remarkable thing in the ventricles of the brain is, that they have lying in them this very peculiar vafcular ftrufture, the choroid plexus. The lining membrane of thefe cavities is extremely thin and fmooth, info*48 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. infomuch, that fome anatomifts have denied its exifl- ence ; but through the whole ventricle there run certain folds or plaits of this membrane, which are fo loaded with veffels as to referable a flelhy fubltance, and to 1c 1$ altogether their refemblance of the lining membrane. The plaits, before they are unravelled, look like maffes of tortuous veifels, lying loofe and unconne&ed in the bottom of the ventricles. The Iargell portion of each plexus choroides comes up from the pofterior prolongation of the lateral ven- tricles ; they then run forwards. In each ventricle they lie in the groove, betwixt the thalamus nervi optici and corpus ftreatum ; and cover the tenia femicircularis ge- minum. Thefe two plexus of the lateral ventricles unite under the anterior crus of the fornix, and form a fmall plexus, which is continued upon the inferior furface of the velum interpofitum, and even into the third ventricle. Again, there is a plexus which lies in the fourth ventricle. Vicq d’Azyr alfo defcribes, as occafionally occuring, little infulated plexus attached to the veins, branching on the corpora llreata *. Thus each divifion of the brain has its choroid plexus. Thefe vafcular webs mull have an important ur X fhould conceive that they chiefly fecreted the fluids of the ventricle ; for I believe the tortuofity to be ti e moll unequivocal mark of the activity of its veflei * tc Sur le cote des ventriculeslateraux,j’ai quelquefois obferve .'s “ petits plexus choroides ifoles, que accompagnoient quelquef- i “ de ces rameaux des veins de Galien, que I’on voit paffer fouc !e “ taenia femicircularis, & s’etendra fur le corps {trie.” \ d’Azyr Memoir. l’Acad. Roy. 1781, p. 540.OF THE VEINS OE THE BRAIN. 49 This opinion, however, is nothing new *. Another pre- vailing idea was, that the blood accumulated in thefe convoluted vefiels occafioned fuch a gentle continued heat as favoured the circulation of the fpirits through the cavities of the brain, and preferred the fluidity of the water of the ventricle f. Great variety of opinions have prevailed regarding the ftru&ure of thofe bodies. We fee them confifting of knots of convoluted vefiels *, chiefly veins; or thefe at leaft are moil evident from their fize, and the colour of their blood- Thefe convolutions of vefiels are by many good anatomifts defcribed as glands. Varolius, Sylvius, Wharthon, Willis, Santo- rini, and Lieutaud, confider them as fuch |. Three * The fuppofed glands of the plexus choroides were conceived to fecrete the fluid of the ventricles. Where the plexus lies upon the pofterior crura of the fornix, it is often difeafed, having knots like glands, or, being raifed into veficies, like hydatids. “ Eas bullas “ humorem ventriculorum fecernere olim conje&ura fuit. Verum “ vitio cum nafcantur vix perpetuum habitum generare idoneae erunt.’' Haller, tom iv. 48. f See Duverney, tom i. p. 55. “ Ut enim fanguis intr& finuum “ cavitates aggeftus, Balnei calidioris vicem preftat, quo fpiritus ani- “ males in. extima & corticali cerebri parte uberiu3 diftillentur: ita “ fanguis intra plexus hujus vafa exilia contentus, quo iidem fpiri* * tus in penitiori ac medullari fubftantia idonee circulentUr, Balnei, “ minoris, & magis temperati loco efle videtur.” Willis Cetebri Anat. p. 47. f Galen gives a good defcription of the choroid plexus ; he de- fcribes the innumerable veins of which it i3 compofed, and their join- ing the fourth finus by the vein which retains his name. Some have confufed themfelves with a pafiage of Ruyfch, Thef. iii. No. lxv, &c. in which he is fpeaking of the choroid plexus, where it appears in the bafe of the fcull, from the bottom of the fourth ventricle. They have underftood him to fay, that the plexus was covered not with the pia mater, but with the tunica arachinjides. VoL, III, £ jfcts50 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. fets of arteries pafs up to the plexus choroides, from the bafe betwixt the crura of the brain; they come, i ft, from the curve of the internal carotid artery ; 2d, from the communication betwixt the baftlar and carotid artery ; 3d, from the bafilar artery, and moft pofterior part of the branch of communication. Thefe arteries, which are fmall, are convoluted into great minute- nefs # in the membrane, and their blood is returned by veins, which taking a very tortuous courfe, feem to entangle their branches, and form a mefh of veins. The blood of the two plexus of the lateral ventricles, and that of the third, is conveyed into the velum inter- pofitum, or that membrane which ftretches under the fornix, and over the third ventricle. The branches of veins alfo which extend themfelves upon the ftdes of the. lateral ventricles, and into the proceflus digitalis, being gathered together upon this membrane, open into the vena galeni, or rather form it. The moft remarkable branches of veins in the lateral ventricle are thefe: A conftderable branch is feen to colled its branches upon the anterior part of the ven- tricle, and in the anterior finus, or horn of the ventricle. This vein runs back towards the anterior crus of the fornix, and dips under it, juft above the communication of the ventricles; and joins the veins in the velum of Haller. Other fmall veins are feen colleding their branches upon the corpora ftriata ; and, palling un- der the centrum femi-circulare geminum, conned : * “ Huncce p'exum nil efle nifi arteriolas, ad vifum fuccofas, a “ natural! oonftitutione arteriofa non nihil recedentes,.mirumque in “i modum eontortas, ferpentinoque modo reptantes, glandulafquc ,l repre^entantes.,, Ruyfch, Thef.v. Affer. quartus N°. lxviii. Not. 2. c..„- 4 them-OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 51 theijifelves with the plexus. Again feveral branches of veins are extended in the poflerior part of the ven- tricle. Thefe are from the medullary fubftance of the poflerior lobe of the cerebrum. They pafs under the poflerior crus of the fornix and join the vena galeni. Laflly a vein remarkably tortuous, frequently full of blood, paffes forward and is feen at intervals in the plexus choroides. This vein taking an acute turn, joins its fellow under the anterior crura of the fornix and is reflected backwards and under the fornix, fo as to form the beginning of the vena galeni. The vena galeni then is the great central vein of the brain. It ftretches from the extremity of the fourth fmus into the- internal part of the brain, to re- ceive the blood from the membrane lining the ven- tricles,—from the fubftance of the brain,—-from the plexus choroides,—-and from the velum interpofttum*. It lies under the poflerior part of the corpus callofum, under the fornix and above the nates and teftes. It is entangled in the velum itfelf. It confifts of two great branches which lie parallel to each other, and which fometiraes have the appearance of being twifted, and thefe unite before they enter the fourth or ftraight ftnus. In the basis of the brain the veins are not re- markable nor do they require any defcription diftindt from the finufes into which they open. * The velum lying upon the nates and teftes, and adhering to them and the pineal gland, the vena galeni receives here alfo veins from thofe bodies, and from the upper part of the cere bellum.52 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. They are fraall, having little way to run; and before they become large trunks, they empty them- felves into the numerous leffer fmufes betwixt the dura mater and bafe of the. fcull. This is perhaps a provifion againft the preffure of the brain. In paf- fmg into thofe fmufes, the veins take a long oblique courfe betwixt the lamellae of the dura mater; which has given occafion to anatomifts to defcribe many intricate lefier fmufes. OF THE PARTICULAR SINUSES. Although by the term fmus we are to underftand the great veins of the brain, yet as having fome cir* eumftances peculiar to them it is well to diftinguilh them by a diftinct appellation. SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. This is a triangular channel, running in the falx from the crifta galli of the aethmoid bone to the cru- cial ridge of the occipital bone. It is not conflant in its origin. Sometimes it begins from a blind foramen before the crifta galli*. Sometimes from the orbital finusf. In fome fubjefts it begins, only oppofite to the fontanelle, or even further back, and then at once fwells out to a large fize. > - As * Malacarne, Haller, Gautier. ■f Thefe finufes as frequently are continued into the inferior longitudinal fmus or into the circular or eliptical fmus ; they are like azure ftreaks under the dura mater, covering the orbital procefs. “ Molti fra i voti biflunghi, ovali, tondi, irregulari, che fi vidono all’, “ angolo inferior del fono L. S. Sono caverne cieche o k une colle “ altrauvpurnjTaae,OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 53 As the finus paffes backwards It is gradually en- larging for the reception of the veins from the furface of the cerebrum. As we have already demonftrated by the marginal plate of the feftion of the longitudinal finus (page 52), the bafe of the angle is curved, an- fwering to a fulcus, which runs in all the length of the cranium, from the asthmoid bone to the crucial ridge of the occipital bone. The lateral planes are drawn tenfe and converge into an accute point; the angle formed by the fplitting of the internal layers of the dura mater, is ftrengthened by ftrong flips of fibres, which upon the infide of the finus have the effect of making it irregular, and in fome degree having the ap- pearance of cells, into fome of which cells the probe enters, and leads to the veins on the furface*of the brain; others are blind, or lead to lefler finufes, which not unfrequently run parallel for fome length to the great finus; or the probe pafles from one of thefe cells to another. Sometimes, however, the finus has no fuch irregularities, but is ftraight and fmooth through its whole length *. *' altre commimicanti lafciate dai gia defcritti fafci della fibrofa, 44 fenza che ad efle giunga vafo aliuno.” Malacame, p. 94. “ He cellulae ab expofito finu ad verticem ufque, uberiores, “ atque magis amplse perfpiciuntur, et inequaliter bine inde locantur; “ ipfaram plurimse vacua funt habentque orificia in oppofitas quad 44 partes hiantia ; membrania circumteguntur quse eft inftar valvulae 44 femilunaris, totam tamen cavitatem non occludentis ; reliquae v&o 44 faveolas tantummodo impervias reprefentant.” Pacchioni, p. 124. * The internal membrane of the finus is perfedlly fmooth, and is conlinuecHnto the coats of the internal jugular veins} it is of the nature with the internal coat of the vein. E 3 This54 OF THE veins of the- brain. This finus has in fome rare inftances been found of a fquare fhape; its lower furface ferving as a roof for another finus of a triangular form, which, for fome way, runs parallel with the great finus, and which was of Courfe alfo included in the' lamina of the falx—thefe Malacarne calls feni fubalterni. Irregular lefTer fmufes are by no means uncommon, and they form, fome- times, communications through a great extent of the longitudinal finus ; or again it will be found that the longitudinal finus deviates confiderably, in fome fub- jecls, from the flraight line, taking a curve or circle, generally behind the fontanelle; or it fends off branches, which again unite with it; or it is fairly divided. In all thefe cafes the chords or fafciculi of the dura mater ftretch out over the fmufes, and pro- tect them from compreffion. Inftead of reaching backwards to the crucial line upon the occipital bone, the longitudinal finus has been found to divide at the beginning of the lambdoidaL future, and to follow them in a direction towards the petrous bone * while the lateral fmufes, running in the duplicature of the tentorium, were reduced to a very narrow compafs. , From the flrength of the connections of the fmufes, and from the languid courfe of the blood through them, 1 fcarcely believe that the finus has ever buffered the diflention, which Malacarne defcribes in fome cafes. I ihould rather fuppofe that what he mentions had been natural and congenital enlargements; efpecially con- * Malacarne, part i. 148. fideringOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 55 fidering that the finufes, like the other veins of the body, are very apt to be irregular. LATERAL SINUSES, OR THE FIRST AND SECOND OF THE ANCIENTS. The lateral finufes are formed by the fplitting of the lamina of the tentorium, as the longitudinal finus is by that of the falx. From the crucial ridge of the occi- pital bone they flretch nearly horizontally ; following the connexions of the tentorium in a direXion toward the petrous bone ; then they take a curve downwards and forwards, to terminate in the internal jugular vein; pafiing through the foramen lacerum of the temporal and occipital bones. Very frequently the one lateral finus is larger than the other—generally the right is the larger, and fome- times the left is entirely wanting *. They diverge from the termination of the fuperior longitudinal finus at the crucial point of the occipital bone: but fometimes they are irregular, diverging higher, and even pafiing round in the circle of the pofterior part of the cranium, at fome diftance from the tentorium f. The right lateral finus for the moft part begins higher than the left. It is generally longer, and may be confidered as the continuation of the longitudinal finus. Nay, in fome fubjeXs, the right or left lateral finus begin from the longitudinal one, while that of the other fide is continued from the fourth, or the tor- * Lieutaud Anat. Hift. f Malacame. E 4 cular56 OF THE VEIN5 OF THE BRAIN. cular hierophili; and the lateral finufes are feparated at their origin by a membraneous iflhmus—if it fhould happen that the left lateral finus receives the fuperior longitudinal one, it would be found to be four times the fize of the right; fometimes, alfo, the longitudi- nal finus, turning to the right, is continued into the finus o.f that fide; and the left lateral finus opens or begins by two or more irregular holes #. I have feen a more remarkable variety of the lateral finufes. The blood which fliould flow from all thofe parts of the brain from which the fuperior and inferior longitudinal finus, and the vena Galeni, and fourth fmus are derived, feemed, inftead of pafling by the root of the tentorium, to have forfaken thefe channels ; the lateral finufes were left diminutive; and the blood had taken a courfe in the tract of the pofterior occipital finufes, and, after incircling the foramen magnum, it gained its ufual outlet f. The angles of the lateral finufes are ftrengthened by membraneous fafciculi; which pafs radiated from point to point, or are confufedly intricated; betwixt thefe the veins enter as in the longitudinal fmus; where the fmus defcends from the level of the tentorium in the angle formed by the occipital and petrous bones, there are many ftrong irregular fafciculi of fibres : under this point, being no longer proteded from compreflion, by their triangular fhape and the tenfion of the tentorium, the finufes are irregular 5 they are now funk in the • x * - •.* * See Morgagni Adverfaria VI. tab. i. fig. l. | There are inftances of the lateral fimjfes opening into the exter- nal jugular veino fulfil (OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 57 fulci of the bones, and the dura mater fpreads its {heath over them. The great irregular cavity *, in which the extremities of the lateral fmufes lief, and the foramen lacerum have much variety, and their ftraightnefs feems to affe£t the fize of the fmus in its whole length J, OF THE INFERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. The inferior longitudinal finus, or fimply the lefler, or inferior finus of the falx, runs in that edge of the falx which penetrates betwixt the hemifpheres of the cerebrum. It is extremely fmall towards the fore part of the falx; but, as it paffes backwards, it goes on in- creafing by the acceihon of veins which come from the hemifpheres, and'corpus callofum, and from the falx itfelf. It is formed betwixt the lamina of the falx. Sometimes it runs in its very edge, but as frequently a little way removed from it; fometimes it is found beginning very far back in the falx. The fore part of it is more like a vein running in the falx than a finus. It is in general to be feen more fuperficial, and in every refpeft like a vein, (there being no proyifion for ■* Lower conceives that the fize of the jugular foffa was the effedt of the reflux of the blood ; and that the greater fize of the finus of the right fide was to be traced to the practice of nurfes laying their children chiefly on the right fide ! See alfo Morgagni Adverfaria Anat. f See Willis Anatom. Cereb. Hum. p. 29, and the plate. t Some very large veins open into the lateral finus; they are derived from the pofterior lobes of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Phefe infinuating irregularly betwixt the lamina of the tentorium, and running for fome way, have been confidered as additional finufes. See Hauler, tom, i\\p, 149, preferving5§ Of THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. preferring it from compreflion) upon one fide of the falx. It very often takes a waving courfe upon the falx ; while it receives veins, which branch in the fubltance of the falx, and form communications be- twixt it and the fuperior longitudinal fmus* It opens into the ftraight or internal finus, near the edge of the tentorium. OF THE INTERNAL, STRAIGHT, OR FOURTH SINUS*. I would call this the internal fmus, from its fitua- tion, but more particularly from its receiving the veins from the internal part of the brain. This finus is formed chiefly by the vena galeni; which, coming out from betwixt the corpus collofum and tuberculi qua- drigemini, enters betwixt the lamina of the middle part of the tentorium, where it is united to the falx ; fa that by the tenfion of thefe two partitions this finus is drawn into a triangular form, and is as incomprefli- ble as thofe finufes which run connected with the bone. It opens, for the moll part, by an oval mouth, formed by ftrong pillars of fibres, into the left lateral finus, rather than directly in the middle of the com- munication of the three great finufes. We fliall find this like the other finufes fuffering confiderable variety; or irregular fmaller finufes will often be found running betwixt the lamina of the tentorium. * Sinus quartus, Perpendicularis. Haller—The fourth finus; the two lateral being the firft and fecond, and the longitudinal being the third fmus. r POSTERIOR59 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN, POSTERIOR OCCIPITAL SINUSES. Thefe are fo called in oppofition to fome irregular and fmall finufes, which run upon the occipital bone before the great foramen. The posterior occipi- tal sinus lies in the little falx of the cerebellum ; it rifes upwards, and opens into the common union of the longitudinal and lateral finufes; it commonly, however, lies rather to the left, and empties itfelf into the left lateral finus. It is by no means * conflant; like the other lefler finufes it is fubjedt to great variety ; and, before it rifes into the tentorium, or empties itfelf into the larger finufes, it has a communi- cation or emifTarium, by which part of the blood may pafs into the external veins, through a foramen in the centre of the occipital bone f. ■ j A. - THE INFERIOR LATERAL SINUSES. The inferior lateral finufes are (till more rarely to be found than the laft, in fo much that Vicq d’ Azyr fays he never has feen them. They run in the lamina, or under the dura mater, of the pofterior fofia of the bafe of the fcull; that is the hollow of the occipital bone, which is under the tentorium. They are fo irregular that they frequently occur in one or other fide only. They communicate with the pofterior part * Vicq d’Azyr. f Malacarne This finus is fometimes double ; or it has two branches encircling the pofterior margine of the occipital hole ; or, as I have already obferved, it takes the office of the great fuperior lateral finufes, and empties it into the foramina lacera ; or they com- municate with the vertibral veins. See Obfervations fur un dilata- tion finguliere des finus occipitaux, Mem, de l’Acad. Roy. Anno 1781, p. s<j6. of6o OB THE VEINS OP THE BRAIN. of the foramen Iacerum; with the posterior petrous finus or vertebral veins ; or laftly they occur as an ir- regular collection of channels running in the feveral neighbouring finuofities *. We fee then that there is a point of union for all thefe fmufes, which we have not as yet defcribed: we fee that the fuperior longitudinal finus, the two lateral fmufes, the fourth (and confequently the in- ferior longitudinal finus), and the pofterior occipital finus, unite at the crucial fpine of the occipital bone. This is the torcular hierophili f, torcular, lacuna, platea, tertia vena, palmentum, pelvis, laguncula. It was natural that the attention of the ancients Ihould be drawn to this part; for, upon opening this union of the fmufes, we find a large irregular cavity, which feems to be particularly (lengthened by thefe ftrong facficuli of fibres, which form the fupport of the fmufes J. Ignorant of the circulation, imagining that the blood afcended by the great jugular veins to the lateral finus, and feeing that the lateral fmufes opened into this central cavity, they conceived that the blood * “ Xndependente dai feni lateralia inferiori ho veduta tra le robufte “ Iamine e le fibre, dalle quali incomincia craffiffimo l’imbuto verte- “ brale intorno al maggior foro del cranio una quantita di caverne, di “ cellule communicanti infieme, le quali formavano un feno circolare “ irregolariffimo appoggiato fulla parte fuperiore, o fia ful margine ** interno del foro medefimo.” Malacarne, p. 113, IJ4. -j- Herophilus was a Greek phyfician, a difciple of Praxagoras, and cotemporary with Erafiftratus. f “ Deinde et illia per feftionem fcalpellum injiciens, furfum “ adigere conoberis ad ufque verticem ubi vense duse invicem congre- “ diuntur; quam regionem Herophilus nominat lenon, torcular “ G^en. Lib. Nonus de-Cerebri, &c. Difledlione.” definedOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 61 deftined for the brain underwent aft operation there, and was thence fent through every part of the brain *. OF THE LESSER SINUSES IN THE BASE OF THE SCULL. Befides thofe larger fmufes which we have defcribed, and which convey bftck the great proportion of blood circulating in the brain, there is a fet of lefier fmufes which lurk betwixt the dura mater and the anterior part of the bafe of the fcull. Thefe laft are fully more intricate than the others; they lie upon the irregular furface of the fphenoid, temporal, and occipital bones ; and tend backwards to the great embouchoir formed by the irregular hole in the temporal and occipital bones. THE SPHENOIDAL SINUSES. The superior sphenoidal sinuses are feated in a fold of the dura mater, on the internal margin of the * “ Coeuntes autem in vertice capitis, quae fanguinem deducunt 11 meningis duplicaturae, in locum quendam vacuum quafi cifternam 44 (quern faneob idipfumHerophilustorcular folet nominare,)hidevelut 44 ab arce quadam omnibus fubjedtis partibus rivos mittunt; quorum 44 numerum nemo facile dixerit, quod partium nutriendarum numerus “ fit infinitus. Manant autem rivorum nonulli quidem ex medio ipfo “ loco in totum cerebellum, fefti, ac derivati, eodem prorfus modo, “ quo ii qui in areolis, alii autem ex parte anteriore feruntur, ea “ fcilicet qua torcular excipit dixeris utique velut rivum quendam “ fanguinis, quern et ipfum ex craffa meninge admodum ingeniofe 44 fabricata eft, partibus enim ipfius meningis quae fanguinem 44 duxerunt ad torcular appulfis, dimiffaque illinc aliqua in partes 44 fubjedtas, non amplius, quod fuperarat, uni venae concredidit, fed 44 preterea ex craflae meningis partibus anterioribus extenfis rivulum 44 efficit, ex quo primum multos rivulos per totam viam produxit.’*' Galen, cap. vi. de torcular. JLt quo pacta verue intra cerebrum dijlrl- iuantur. vmgOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 6 2 wing of Ingraflias, and before the great wing of the fphenoid bone; they receive the blood in part from the orbit, and from the dura mater; they open into the cavernous finus, or perhaps into the opthalmic finus, which of courfe, for the moil part, conveys the blood into the fuperior or inferior longitudinal finus. The inferior sphenoidal sinus is very irregular and inconftant. It is in the dura mater, covering the great wing of the fphenoidal bone : the blood of this finus is emptied into the cavernous finus, or efcapes by emeiTarii into the trunk of the temporal veins. The anterior clynoid sinus.—The pofterior clynoid finus, cr eliptic finus, and the circular finus, are one and the fame ; the difference confifts only in the manner of defcribing them ; the circular sinus lies within the clynoid proceffes of the fphenoid bone, and furrounds the glandula pituitaria As this circular finus opens upon each fide into the cavernous fmus, it is not unaptly divided into two ; the anterior half of the circle, being the anterior * Ridley defcribes it in thefe words : “ Another I difcovered by “ having injected the veins with wax, running round the pituitary “ gland on its upper fide, forewardly within a duplicature of the “ dura mater, backwardly between the dura mater and pia mater, “ there fomewhat loofely ftretched over the fubjacent gland itfe.lf, “ and laterally in a fort of canal made up of the dura mater above, C£ and the carotid artery on each outfide of the gland, which, by “ being fallened to the dura mater, above and below, at the bafis of “ the fcull, leaves only a little interllice betwixt itfelf and the gland.” (Accuratius tamena Rilleyo deferiptus eft. Haller.) But Ridley is affuming merit to himfelf. Brunnerus defcribes this finus. clynoid63 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. clynoid firms of fome author ; the pofterior half (which is in general wider), the eliptical or pofterior clynoid finus, or femilunar. This finus, like moft of the lefler finufes, is irregular in its Ihape, its fize, its communications, and its origin *. Its natural communication is with the cavernous finus, which in fa£t encroaches upon its fide ; it will be found to communicate alfo with the fphenofdal finufes, and the obliqui or petrous finufes f : at one time the anterior half of the circle is wanting ; at another the pofterior +. THE CAVERNOUS SINUS. The cavernous finus is a great irregular centre of communication with the lefler finufes in the bafe of the fcull. This finus is funk upon each fide of the fella turcica, and is formed in the irregular fplitting of the lamella of the dura mater : it is of a triangular fhape; it extends from the fides of the fella turcica, even to the foramen fpinali §. The pointed extremity of the tentorium, which extends forwards from the angle of the petrous bone to the pofterior clynoid procefs, covers and protects it. The cavernous finus is different • * V Varie fono le origini, e le foci di quefto feno. Alcune volte il “ fondo della fofla pituitaria vi invia due canaletti longitudinal;, 4‘ che fcorrono ful dorfo di quelle due pieghe fottili falcate ond-ie “ tripartita la glandul a pituitaria. Altre volte la fofla divifa per i( traverfo da una fimil piega che pure ha ful dorfo il fuo feno, u alio elittico lo invia.” Malacarne, p. 123. f Haller, tom. iv. p. 154. t “ Nunc anterior nunc pofterior ejus arcus amplior eft 5 nunc ante- tior nunc pofterior ejus arcus deficit; nunc totus ipfi defideratur; ,l interdum vere duplicem fuiffe, referunt.” Sommerring, vol.v. p.354., $ Malacarne. from64 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. from all the others ; it is an irregular cavity, full of fibrous cords traverfing it, which gives it a kind of cellular appearance. It is like a difeafed part into which the blood had been driven, till the cellular tex- ture had been diftended and partly deftroyed. After a minute injection, fmall arteries are feen to ramify among thefe fibres; the internal carotid artery rifes through it, and the fixth pair of nerves is involved in it, in their palfage from the fcull. This finus is the centre of the little finufes and veins of the anterior part of the bafe of the brain and cranium : four or five veins pour their blood into it, from the anterior lobes of the brain and the fofla filvii j fometimes, even the opthalmic veins open into this re- ceptacle *. The fuperior and inferior petrous finufes, and the bafilar finus, open into it behind; the circular before j the fphehoidal finufes and veins of the dura mater upon the fide ; while the right and left finufes often communicate by means of the tranfverfe finus. Befides thefe the petrous finufes have feveral commu- nications, or emiffaria as they are called, viz. by the in- ferior maxillary foramen, the funnel of the carotid artery, through which defcends a vein, (the vena fo- dalis arteriae carotidce,) which terminates in the pteri- goid plexus of veins, the fphenoidal fiffure, the inter- offeous finus of Malacarne f. * This vein, the vena angolana, makes a very remarkable emiffaria, but it is more probable that the blood in fuch veins runs inwards than that it efcapes from the fcull to the external veins.—Cum venie pofterioribus frequentes nexus init. Sommerring, vol. v. p. 354. f The Emiffaria, 4ta. of Tabarini. Obferv. Anatom, p. 42, et. feq. TheOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 65 The TRANSVERSE, Or POSTERIOR CLYNGID SINUS, runs acrofs from one oblique finus to another behind the pofterior clynoid proceffes *. In its form it is not peculiar, nor is it very regular. There are two petrous sinuses, the anterior and pofterior, or the inferior and fuperior finufes j thefe two come off nearly together from the carvernous finus, and running back upon the petrous bone, terminate in the lateral ftnufes or beginning of the internal jugular vein; but which two to take as petrous finufes is a queftion. For example, Malacarne fhows that there is a finus, by no means uncommon, which belongs as ftriftly as thofe others to the petrous portion of the temporal bone. He calls this new finus the anterior petrous finus; and the fuperior of other writers, he calls the pofterior petrous finus; and the inferior petrous finus of other writers, as it lies more upon the cuneiform apophyfis of the occipital bone, and runs flantingly, he calls the oblique. I would on the contrary confider two of thefe as the petrous finufes; the oblique finufes of Mala- carne, as the lateral bafilar finufes; and thofe which run on the middle of the cuneiform apophyfis, as the middle bafilar finufes. The anterior petrous sinus runs upon the anterior face of the petrous bone, from near the fpi- nal hole t ; whence, making a femicircular curve in- * In truth the fuperior, and inferior, or oblique finus, the caver- nous, and the tranfverfe, meet nearly at a point. f And here it has a tranfverfe branch of communication with the cavernous finus, whicfi runs under the extended point of the ten- torium. VOL. Ill, tllC F66 t>F THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. the angle of the petrous and fquamous portions of the temporal bone, it terminates in the lateral finus. The posterior petrous sinus * lies in that pointed extremity of the tentorium, which ftretches forward, connected with the acute angle of the pe- trous bone. It is narrow; and a fulcus or groove on the angle of the bone gives a partial lodgement to it; it paffes from the cavernous finus to the great lateral finus. The lateral basilar sinus f is fhorter and larger than the lalt; and it makes an oblique curve from the cavernous finus under the pointed extremity of the tentorium, which is continued by the fide of the fella turcica, to the termination of the lateral finus, or rather into the beginning of the jugular vein, by a ehannel, feparated by a boney lamina from the ter- mination of the lateral finus; or it is continued into a vein in the bafe of the cranium, which afterwards joins the great jugular vein. The middle basilar sinus. This fcarcely de- ferves the name of fmus. It confifts, in general, of a few cellular-like communications, formed in flrong fibres of the dura mater, which here partakes of the nature of a ligament. Thefe open into the laft- mentioned finus, or fometimes into the vertebral finus. The vertebral sinuses are veins included in the lamellae of the dura mater; and, divided into right and Ieft3 * Or fuperior petrous finus. Vicq. d’Azyr. j- The inferior petrous, or oblique finus.OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 6j left; they defcend into the tube of the vertebrae, on its forepart,- and pafs down even to the facrum. They are connected in all their length with the vertebral, dorfal, and lumbar veins. Thefe finufes, or veins, at each vertebrae, are joined by a tranfverfe branch; they are connected at the top of the fpine with the bafilar or anterior occipital finufes, and with the foifa of the ju- gular vein. EMISSARIA SANTORINI. cc Venae Emiffariae” is but another name for thofe lefler veins which form a communication between the finufes within the head, and the external veins in the bafe of the cranium. Thefe, then, are chiefly the op- thalmic *, mafloidean, and vertebral veins. But the vena fodalis, arteries carotids, the fmall vein which penetrates the parietal bone by the fide of the fagittai future, even the venae arteriae meningeae fodales, and the little veins which pafs with fome of the nerves, or through the fifliires of the bone, are alfo brought into account. To thefe a much greater importance has been attached than they merit; particularly in apople&ic affe&ions of the head, they are fup- pofed to be eminently ufeful in emptying the fur- * “ Je me fuis convain$u, par des diffe&ions multiplies, que les finus caverneux & orbitaires communiquent, par un plus grand nom- “ bre de veinules, avec les arrieres-narines, de forte que les hemorrha- “ gies critiques qui fe font par les nez, dans les fievres aigues, ou la “ tete eft affedtee, s’expliquent facilement par ce moyen,” &c. Vicq. d’Azyr, Acad. Royale, 1781, p. 504. F 2 charged68 OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. charged finufes and veins of the brain into the exter- nal veins. But thofe Ieffer pafiages for the blood, fuppofing us to be affured that the blood flowed through them, from the finus to the external veins, are infignificant, when compared with the great out-let of the internal ju- gular vein; to vhich we have feen all the finufes tend. But the accumulation of blood in the veflfels of the brain is feldom mechanically produced ; it is a dif- eafe in the a&ion of/the fyftem of the brain, to which we become more and more liable as we advance in years ; it is the fame gradual change which is operating on the venous fyftem from infancy to old age, that caufes this clafs of difeafes of the brain to be peculiar to advanced life. The importance of the finufes in the circulation of the blood in the brain, is either vaguely defcribed, or imperfeftly underftood by authors. We find it faid, that the finufes fupport the blood againft compreflion, and protect its free circulation. This to me feems an erroneous idea. The lefler veins are, as in other parts of the body, and have no fuch provifion; and fince, within the head, there can be no fuch partial compref- fion as in the limbs, any caufe which would com- prefs the greater veins, were they not fupported, muft fall upon their extremities with worfe effeft. The cir- culation is the only power which can aft mechanically upon the brain; but this can never caufe a compreflion of its veins, becaufe the incfeafed aftion of the arteries muft tend more to the diftention of the veins than it will be the occafion of the brain comprefling them. i TheOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN-. 69 The more general idea conceived of the life of the finufes is nearer the truth; viz. to prevent the hid- den and violent action of the mufcles of refpiration, or of the mufcles of the head and neck, from repelling the blood into the vena cava, or internal jugular veins; and confequently preventing the impulfe from being communicated to the blood in the fmall and tender veins of the brain, which might endanger a rupture of them*. Yet this is not exactly the manner in which the finufes preferve the leffer veins; they do not fuffo- cate nor take off the force of the impulfe from the re- gurgitating blood, fo much as they would do if they were like the trunks of veins in other parts; becaufe, being incapable of diftention, they throw the undula- tion of the blood, when it is thus checked in its exit, backwards upon the extremities of the veins. But then the effect is, that no particular vein or trunk receives the fhock; all fuffer in a leffer degree, and equally, which is their fafety. All the veins in the bafe of the brain, which would be liable to rupture, or diftention, from receiving, in their fudden turns, the fliock of the blood, checked by the mufcles of refpira- tion, or otherwife, are preferved by being inclofed in finufes, and covered by the ftrong lamellae of the dura mater. The leffer veffels again are removed from the fliock: its force is fpent, becaufe it has fpread among many branches; and it has become a general impulfe upon the brain, which the brain refills, becaufe it is imcompreffible, * Monro, Nervous Syftem, p. 4, That7o OF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. That the brain does receive fuch an impulfe, in violent coughing and draining, is fufficiently evi- dent from the rifing of its furface on thefe occafions, when it is accidentally laid open by fra&ure, or the trepan *. Although the obftru&ion of the jugular veins were to caufe no regurgitation of the blood; although the fmufes were fuppofed to have an effect in preventing the diflention of the veins, or return of the blood to the head; dill one effect of the continued aftion of the arteries is, to increafe the plethoric date of the brain, when there is a dagnation, or more or lefs re- mora, of the blood in the fmufes; and thence it is, that in every interruption to the free exit of the blood, the didention mud ultimately fall upon the extreme veffelsf. * The older phyficians, obferving the connection betwixt the motion of refpiration and of the brain, conceived that the air was drawn through the nofe and crebriform bone into thr brain, fo as to diftend it. Upon this hypothefis followed many wonderful cafes. We have already mentioned the hypothefis which fuppofed com- preflion and relaxation of the cerebrum and cerebellum alternately, by the action of the falx and tentorium. -j- We thall fay that thefe veffels cannot fuffer diftention, unlcfs there be fpace given for their inordinate dilatation, by blood propor- tionally fent out from the cranium. But there is a degree of diften- tion upon them, a tenfion which cannot be relieved, nor the con- traction of the arteries allowed. The impulfe from the heart and arteries is ftill continued, and is increafing the evil. Bleeding'here relieves this adlion, and diminiihes the danger; and by this means w<j pan fuit the activity of the veffels entering the brain, to the tem- porary remora in ihofe which convey the blood out of the head, c -V WeOF THE VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 71 We ought not to confound the idea of incompreffi- bility of the brain with that of a folid fubftance, which would allow no motion in the veffels within the cranium, and would require us to invent fome fpecious means to account for the circulation of the blood in the brain, different from that of the other vifcera of the body. Were the brain thus incompreffible, or rather folid, fo as to prevent a free adtion of the veffels within the cra- nium, then, as the blood enters with an evident pulfa- tion, it muff neceffarily have returned by the veins with a diftindt pulfation; but this pulfation is loft here, as in the other veffels of the body, before it returns by the fmufes. When the blood is fent into the arteries of the brain, by the ftroke of the heart, they dilate j and this dilatation the pliability of the brain allows, by throwing a comparative degree of preffure upon the veins. Again, when the arteries (during the dilatation of the heart) are in adtion, and contradt, their blood enters the veins, fo as to give to them a degree of dila- tation equivalent to their former compreffion, and which now gives the freedom of contraction in return to the arteries; without any compreffion, therefore, of the brain into a leffer fpace, there is an activity allowed in the veffels. This degree of motion, communicated through the brain, is very /mall, nor does it affedt the fundtion of the brain; as we fee, when the fcull is laid open, and the pulfations of the arteries are, as it were, accumulat- ed, in their effedt, to one point; for here the patient does not fuffer, although the brain beats fo as to be fenfible to the eye. The accumulation of the blood in F 4 the.72 OF THE VEINSOF THE BRAIN. the brain may be obftru&ed, or it may be accelerated, until this velocity affects the function * : or the blood may be accumulated ; but during this accumulation of the blood there muff be a proportional fpace, freed by the abforption of the brain itfelf, or the partial accu- mulation of one part of the vafcular fyltem of the brain muff neceffarily be accompanied by a deficiency of the other. * There is much found reafoning and ingenuity wafted on the fubjett of the circulation of the brain : As the gentle murmuring of a ftream, fays Lower, lulls to repofe, while the mind is difturbed, cr the imagination awakened by the din of a cataraft; fo fleep is induced by the gentle flow of the blood in the brain, or flies when the circulation is accelerated. As the fatigue and reft of the body required a variation in the impetus of the blood towards it, the ne- ceflary confequence was a variation in the degree of velocity in the circulation and quantity of blood in the head, and this to Lower is the reafon of the vicifiitude of wakefulnefs and fleep. The Ample fa£t of the effeft of preflure upon the furface of the brain inducing an opprefiion of the fenfes has occafloned all their theories of fleep to turn upon this one idea of preflure on the brain.OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 73 CHAP. III. ©F THE VENTRICLES AND INTERNAL PARTS OF THE BRAIN. OF THE CAVITIES OF THE BRAIN IN GENERAL. There are within the Brain many tubercles and irregular furfaces, of which it is infinitely more difficult to convey an idea by defcription than of the external parts. Thefe furfaces, as the name im- plies, lie in contact without adhering ; and form what we call, though not perhaps with flrift propriety, the cavities of the brain. Not being feparated, they are fcarcely to be confidered as cavities, although they be capable of diftention by the infiltration of the fluid into them. The furface of the cavities or ventricles of the brain is naturally bedewed with a fluid or hali- tus, which flows from the general furface of the ven- tricle, and from the plexus choroides. This moilture preferves thofe furfaces from adhefion; during life and health it is not accumulated fo as to form a fluid j but in many difeafes, and after death, it is effufed or collected into a fluid. The external convolutions of the brain we have feen to be cineritious on the furfaces: the internal furface of the brain may be confidered alfo74 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE ER'aInI alfo as forming convolutions; but they are chiefly medullary, and are more irregular, or rather have a greater variety of fliape, than thofe of the outer fur- face. In regard to the ufe of the ventricles of the brain, fince the hypothefes of the older phyficians have been tacitly rejected, no opinion has been offered, except this, that “ they feem to be made of a neceflary con- “ fequence, and towards the greater ufe and diflinftion “ of partsor, as we have already had occafion to mention, that the ventricles ferve to increafe the fur- face of the pia mater, and that whatever may be the purpofes which are ferved by that membrane on the furface of the brain, we mull fuppofe the fame to be per- formed by it within the ventricles. But this is a con- clufion which may not be altogether fatisfaftory to an inquifitive mind. It is neceflary to take into confideration the general peculiarities of the brgm : we find that within the fcull there is no adipofe fubftance, though it pervades every other part of the body. We at once fee a reafon for this. It is evident that as the fat is fo inceffantly un- dergoing changes (being alternately abforbed and de- pofited) ; as at one time it is depofited in greater quan- tities and at another abforbed; as it is in perpetual varia- tion according to the prevailing habits of the body, the proportion of exercife taken, or the flate of the health; its continual changes would have the very worfl confe- quence upon fuch a part as the brain j that if accumu- lated it would opprefs the circulating veflfels; if rapidly -abforbed it would be followed by accumulation or furcharge of the veflfels; for the feull does not allowOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. J 5 of diftention, nor is it poflible that it can admit of depletion. I conceive the ventricles to be a provifion for allow- ing thofe changes to take place, which neceflarily, from time to time, arife, or are occafioned by difeafe in the fubftance of the brain itfelf: they prevent an inftantaneous bad effetft. When fluids diftend the ven- tricles, it fometimes occurs to us that the fluid, fe- creted and accumulated, mull have comprefled the fubftance of the brain, and caufed its abforption ; but I conceive that frequently the caufe is reverfed ; the abforption of the mafs of the brain being the difeafe or its confequence, and the fluid being poured out in. the ventricles to fupply this deficiency : I alfo con- ceive that the collected fluid being in the central parts, is a particular provifion by which the whole mafs of the brain is kept uniformly diftended; whereas, if the furface had been equally, or more difpofed to fuch fecretion of fluid, the internal parts would have fallen flaccid, and been comprefled rather than fup- There cannot be^a more erroneous notion than that in Hydrocephalus the comprefiion produced by the fecreted fluid occafions the wafting of the brain. In that difeafe the fubftance of the brain is not firm and comprefled, fo as to prevent the veins from being completely filled ; but, even in a very early ftage, the mafs of the brain is foft and fluid ; the veins peculiarly diftended or enlarged ; and from the firft or inflamma- tory ftage of the acute hydrocephalus, or the perma- nent ftate of the chronic, the difeafe is not a dropfy pf the ventricles, but a univerfal affe&ion of the brain. The ported76 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. The effeft of the difeafe is, that there is a change in the relative powers which inceffantly fecrete and abforb the brain itfelf, as every other part of the body is fe- creted and abforbed. And in confequence of this there is a diminution of the folids of the brain, and an accumulation of the fluids to fupply their lofs. It is not to be fuppofed that the ancients, fo fertile in their hypothefes, and fo eafy in their proofs, could negledl the evident importance of the ventricles of the brain. We accordingly find that the fpirits were ma- nufadlured in thefe cavities; that they were the “ fpi- “ rituum animalium officina,” whence the fpirits were conveyed over all the nervous fyftem *. They were again degraded from this higher office, and became the mere receptacles of the excrementitious matter of the brain (meras cloacas efle afleruerint f) ; and Willis feems inclined ftill further to degrade the importance of the ventricles, by confidering them merely as of fecondary importance; or rather as refulting folely from the accidental conformation of the brain J. Again we find it a prevalent opinion that the ventri- * Lately, by chemical aids, (which makes the cineritious'fubfiance black, or dark brown, while the medullary matter remains white, or takes a flight greenifh tinge,) the origins of many of the nerves have been traced into the fubflance of the brain, even tothe furface of the ventricles, which has given occafion to the revival of fimilar ideas of the ufe of the ventricles. Willis Cereb. Anat. p. 32. J “ Porro fi quis cerebelli fabricam exaclo confiderat, et ferio per- pendit, quod hi ventriculi non ex primaria naturae intentione effor- “ mentur, at fecundario tantum et accident^liter de cerebri complica- tione refultent,” &c. desOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 77 cles contained air ; that the air fupported the foft me- dullary fubftance of the brain ; and that it gave mo- tion to the whole mafs, fo as to circulate the fpirits in the fubftance of the brain *. OF THE CORPUS CALLOSUM AND CENTRUM OVALE OF VIEUSSENS. The corpus callosum is a medullary body which is a centre of communication ; or it is the great commiflure f palling betwixt the hemifpheres of the ce- rebrum l : it is feen without incifion by merely fe- parating thofe hemifpheres with the fingers. It is a white body, firmer than the reft of the medullary fub- llance. It is but flightly convex upon its upper part, but turns convex downwards upon the fore and back * Malpighi. -f Commiffure is a term applied to thofe tracts generally of me- dullary matter, which paffing through the brain are fuppofed to be % medium of communication. ;{; Willis conceiving the fpirits to lodge and circulate in the fuper- ficial convolutions of the brain, (upon the conformation of which depended the capacity or ability,) gives to the corpus callofum the property of collecting and concentrating the fpirits, “ quafi in “ publico emporio commorantur and here they were depurated by re- peated circulation.—But the language in which all this is delivered better veils the abfurdities of the dodtrine: “ fpiritus recens nati undequaque ab extima hujus corporis ora verfus anteriorem iftius “ corporis callofl partem, ubi craffimum exiilit, perpetim blande “ fcatent; ibidemque, fi opus fuerit, aut imaginationis aftui impen- “ duntur, aut medullae oblongatse crura fubeuntes, appendicem ner- vofam adtuant et infpirant.” What remains fuperfluous of the fpirits returns backwards and circulates through the fornix, and is ftill farther fubtilized, “ hoc motu fubtiliores quofdam phantafis adtus “ peragunt.” part,78 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. part. As the corpus callofum is the continuation of the internal medullary fubflance of the brain, it is fu- perfluous to fay that it is continued down, anteriorly, into the medullary matter betwixt the corpora ftriata, terminating in its pedunculi; or, backwards, that it is continued with the fornix and cornua ammonis and the furface of the poPcerior prolongation of the lateral ventricle. We fee upon the furface of the corpus callofum two medullary lines confiderably raifed, running paral- lel to each other * in the length of the body. Betwixt thefe falient lines there is of courfe a kind of rut, called fometimes the rapha, or future, which may be con- fidered as dividing this body into two equal parts, and which, in truth, forms the accurate divifion of the two fides of the whole brainf. Other lines, lefs elevated from the furface, are to be obferved running acrofs thefe, as if palling from one hemifphere to the other. If the corpus callofum be cut horizontally, and the fedtion be continued into the fubflance of the hemifpheres, we Hill can perceive thofe tranfverfe lines, and obferve them to be loll in the me- dullary matter of the hemifpheres J. The * They are not ftri&ly parallel in all their length; we find them often feparated both upon the fore and back part; but generally more feparated upon the back part, and even fometimes they are curved. -f- In which conceit Duverney calls this “ clef du cerveau,” from its being the centre of communication. Tom. i. p. 39. J The necefiity of explaining paralyfis and convulfive motions of that fide of the body oppoiite to the fide of the brain injured, have madeOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. The centrum ovale is merely the appearance which the white and internal part of the cerebrum takes when the brain is cut horizontally on the level of the corpus Callofum ; for then the corpus callofuni is the centre of the great medullary mafs of the cere- brum, and the external cineritious matter being on the edges only forms it into an irregular oval. THE SEPTUM LUCIDUM. The two lateral ventricles lying under the corpus cal- lofilm and medullary centre are divided by a partition, which defcends from the lower furface of the corpus cal- lofum, and refts upon the fornix. This feptum of the ventricles is tranfparent, and confifts of two lamina, and thefe confifl of medullary and cineritious matter * *. Be- twixt thefe is the cavity of the feptum lucidum f. The fize and fhape of this cavity differs in a variety of fub- jedls. It is of a triangular fhape, and from eighteen to twenty lines in length J. It has a fluid exhaling into it like the ventricles, and is by fome counted as a fifth ventricle : according to Santorini it opens in the bafe of the brain, oppofite to the union of the optic nerves. Vieuffens ^lefcribes it communicating with the third made anatomifts attend to thofe tranfverfe lines, in the hopes of find- ing fucli a decuflation of thefe lines as would account for it. Sab- batier fays, they have brought themfelves to believe that there was a decuflation, but after careful inveftigation he could find no fuch thing. See Window. Ludwig (de Cinerea Cerebri, fub. p. 5.) obferved firiae of cineritious fubftance in the corpus callofum. See alfo Gunz. and Haller. * Vicq. d’Azyr. t I1 was difcovered by Silvius. See alfo Santorini. X Sabbatier. * ventricle.So OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. ventricle Winflow alfo has feen it reaching a great way backwards, and conceives it to open into the third ventricle. Soemmerring defcribes it as large in the middle, contra&ed backwards, and having no commu- nication ; but he afferts that it is fhut in on every fide f. In the bafe of the brain we find a narrow longitudinal fulcus betwixt the pedunculi of the corpus callofum. In the bottom of this cavity there is a medullary lamina, which Vicq. d’Azyr calls “ Cloifon a la cavite du fep- turn lucidum” And the fulcus he calls “ Fojfe de la bafe du SEPTUM LUCIDUM. ” % a careful feftion of this medullary fubftance we lay open the cavity of the feptum lucidum. T/u interior ('urvafnre * “ In qua pelltfcidam non raro reperimus aquamque hand dubi« « in tertium illabitum ventriculum.” Vieuffens de Cerebro, p. 59. t De Corpora Humani Fabrics, tom. iv. p. 55. LATERAL81 OF THE '"VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. LATERAL VENTRICLES. Under the corpus callofum and medullary centre, are the lateral ventricles. They are diftinguifhed into right and left. They are of a very irregular fhape, firetching into three prolongations or cornua, whence they have the name of tricornes. They are the great ventricles of the brain; the third and fourth being comparatively very fmall. What may be confidered as the bodies of thefe ventricles are formed betwixt the corpus callofum and medulla of the brain, and the convexity of the corpora ftriata and thalami nervorum opticorum. Following the cavity forwards, we find what is called its anterior horn or finus, formed betwixt the more acute convexity of the corpus flriatum and the antes io: part of the corpus callofum ; into the pofterior lobe of the cerebrum, refting upon the ten- torium, there flretches backwards with fome confider- able curve, and, at the fame time, with a flight in- clination downwards, the posterior horn. Again, the inferior or descending horn is like the continued cavity of the ventricle; it takes a curve backwards and outwards, and then turning forwards it defcends into the middle lobe of the brain. The lateral ventricles do not terminate in the others by any of thofe prolongations; but they communicate, upon a very high level, with the third ventricle and with each other, by a wide opening, formed under the fore part of the arch of the fornix. This communica- tion we eafily find by following the choroid plexus for- ward and under the fornix: it is a fpace betwixt the moil anterior part of the convexity of the optic thalami and the anterior crura of the fornix* Vol. Ill, G o.f82 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. OF THE PARTS SEEN IN THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. The fornix is a medullary body, flat, and of a triangular fhape, which divides the two lateral and the third ventricles: its lower furface is towards the third ventricle : its lateral margins are in the lateral ventricle. On its upper furface it fupports the feptum lucidum, or partition of the two lateral ventricles, and under its moil; anterior part is the communication betwixt the lateral ventricles and the third ventricle*. One of the angles is forward, and the other two towards the back part: it refts chiefly upon the thalami nervorum opticorum, but it is feparated from them by a vafcular membrane, which is continued from the external pia mater, and which ftretches into the brain betwixt the pofterior part of the corpus callofum and tubercula quadrigemina, and which membrane conne&s the plexus of the lateral ventricle. The fornix leaves be- twixt it and the concave face of the moft anterior part of the corpora ftriata, a triangular fpace, which is in part occupied by the feptum lucidum. The extremities of this body are called crura. The pofterior crura coalefcing with the corpus callofum, (which is continued downwards pofteriorly,) are pro- longed into the hippocampi, and the anterior crura forming the anterior angle being clofe together, bend downwards behind the anterior commiflure, and are conne&ed with it: they then bend round the thalami, and may be traced into the crura cerebri 5 or, accord* * Of this communication fee farther in the Anatomy of the Brain illuftrated by Engravings, SngOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 83 ing to others, they form the corpora albicantia*. Thofe pillars or crura of the fornix are fibrous in fame flight degree like a nerve. This is to be obferved by cutting them either acrofs or in their length f. Upon the lower furface of the fornix there are lines like thofe of the corpus callofum, and which are erro- neoufly conceived by many to be the impreflion of the veflels of the velum. It is this lower furface of the fornix which is called lyra, corpus psalloides, it being compared to a ftringed inftrument J. * Two white bodies feen on the bafe of the brain behind the in- fundibulum. f Vicq d’Azyr, Acad. Scien. 1781, p. 517. f The prevalent idea amongft the older authors regarding the ufe of the fornix was, that it abted like a ligament binding together the internal parts of the brain ; or that it fupported the incumbent weight of the upper parts of the brain from prefiing upon the lower. “ Verum alter atque ifte infignior fornicis ufus effe videtur quem “ modo inuimus ; nempe ut fpiritus animales per ejus du&um ab “ altera cerebri extremitate ad alteram immediate tranfeant, atque “ ita quafi per pelicani roltrura in fui ipfius ventrem intortum circvu “ lentur.” Willi?.84 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. OF THE HIPPOCAMPI, OR CORNUA AMMONIS, AND OF THE TENIA HIPPOCAMPI. JT:ui of tlix? Cotuiectiou s o£ tbeloiajixwTihflieJlippocauqj? Sc. Those parts are to be feen continued from the pofte- rior crura of the fornix. We have obferved, that upon the back part, the fornix adheres to, or is continuous with, the corpus callofum. We fhall find alfo that its pofterior crus on each fide divides into two lamina of medullary matter : the one of thefe is continued into the cornu ammonis, and the other (being the anterior of thefe portions) forms the tenia hippocampi. TheOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 85 the G3 The hippocampos is narrow at its commencement in the pofterior crus of the fornix * ; but it is enlarged as it defcends, following the courfe of the inferior prolongation of the lateral ventricle towards the bafe of the brain. It is, indeed, merely a relief or parti- cular convexity of the floor of this lower horn of the ventricle, like a pad. The inferior extremities of the hippocampi on each fide turn inwards, pointing to the crura cerebri, and taking thus a curve like a ram’s hornf. In its whale extent the hippocampos confifts of an internal cineritious fubltance, and a fuperficial layer of white medullary matter j. The TENIA HIPPOCAMPI, or CORPUS FIMBRIATUM, is the prolonged margin of the fornix : it is merely the thin edge of the hippocampos, which follows in the whole of its circuit, and terminates in an acute point near its bulbous extremity. * In fpeaking of the origin of the hippocampos as from the fornix, I mean Amply that the ftudent having gained the knowledge of one part of the brain may trace the others from their relation to it, and that, underftanding the fituation and relation of the fornix, he traces its crura until he finds them terminating in the hippocampos. We might fully as well fay that the hippocampi are formed from the pofterior part of the corpus callofum, for they are the fame me- dullary matter continued. •]■ Betwixt the extreme point of the hippocampi and the crura cerebri (when the bafe of the brain is ^turned up) we can infinuate the probe into the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle without piercing the fubftance of the brain, but merely tearing the pia mater. ± “ Vers la partie inferieure et pofterieure du corps calleux, on “ trouve, de chaque cote, un petit bourrclet dc fubftance grife qui fe “ prolcnge dan61’epaifleur del’hypocampe dont il fait partie: cebour- “ relet eft recuvert dans fon principe par une lame de fubftance “ blanche.” Vicq d’Azvr, loc. cit.S6 0? THE VENTRICLES OF THE ERAIN* The LESSER HIPPOCAMPOS, Or COLLICULUS, IS R relief or convexity in the floor of the pofterior horn of the ventricles, which may be traced backwards from the crura of the fornix. It has the fame relation to the fornix which the greater hippocampos has, and' lies in the pofterior horn or prolongation of the ven- tricle into the pofterior lobe of the brain, in the fame way in which the great hippocampos lies in the infe- rior horn or prolongation of the ventricle into the middle lobe of the brain. The velum and plexus require to be taken away be- fore we can fully underftand the fituation of the third ventricle, or of thofe tubercles which are but partially been in the lateral ventricles. The velum lies in the centre of the brain,and extends from the furface of the brain inwards betwixt the pofte- rior lobes of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, then betwixt the corpus callofivm and nates and teftes, and then under the fornix. It forms thus a great commu- nication betwixt the external and internal membranes of the brain. As it lies under the fornix, that medul- lary lamina adheres to it, while the velum again ad- heres to the thalami nervorum opticoruin. Its margin feems to be terminated laterally by the choroid plexus (when we view it after raiflng the fornix); but it is not ftriclly fo, for the choroid plexus is continued with the membrane of the ventricles, and has no where a ter- mination. For the vafcularity of this membrane, turn to what has already been faid in fpeaking of the inter- nal veins of the brain. Seeing how the plexus choroides are formed and con- nected, they cannot be ftrictly faid to have either begin- ningOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 87 ning or termination ; they are the connefted folds and plicae of the internal membrane of the ventricles loaded with veffels j but to defcribe them intelligibly we mail, notwithflanding, trace them in this manner. The plexus of the lateral ventricles rife from the bottom of the inferior horns of thefe ventricles betwixt the pe- dunculi or crura cerebri and the termination of the hippocampi; they lie large and flelhy-like in that lower horn. As they rife into the fuperior level, they are at their greateft fize (there they have often a dif- eafed appearance, being hard, and as if fchirrous or full of little vehicles or hydatids) ; they then pafs for- wards and inwards, diminifhing in thicknefs until they coalefce under the fornix, and immediately behind the communication betwixt the ventricles. The plexus of the third ventricle, formed by the union of thofe of the lateral ventricles, turns back upon the lower furface of the velum, and is comparatively very fmalh The corpora striata are fmooth, cineritious convexities in the fore part of the lateral ventricle. They are fomewhat of the fhape of a pear; they are obtufe forwards; they approach each other towards the fore part with a regular convexity, and they are nar- row as they pafs backwards, feparating at the fame time; their pofterior extremity being as it were pufhed out by the thalami nervorum opticorum, Thefe laft lie more under the back part of the fornix, and are more concealed when the lateral ventricle only is laid open. Thefe bodies are called ftriata, from the inter- mixture of the medullary matter, which gives the ap- pearance of (Iris when they are cut. They defcend down to the bafe, and give origin to the firft pair, or G 4 olfaftory5S OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. olfa&ory nerves *. The ftrise of medullary matter pafs from above downwards, they therefore appear in the horizontal fections of this body like white points. A fuperficial horizontal fedtion of the corpora ftriata fhows thofe ftrise connected with the medullary matter of the middle and pofterior lobe. A deeper incihon brings into view a mafs of cineritious fubftance be- twixt thofe ftrise and the medullary matter of the middle lobe. Another incifion fiiows the courfe of the ftrise altered, and brings into view the connexion betwixt the corpora ftriata of each fide, by means of the anterior commiffure f. The commissura anterior is a cylindrical me- dullary cord, which unites the fore and lower part of the corpora ftriata, and which fpreads its connections for a full inch and a half into the middle lobe of the brain upon each fide. We fee it ftretched tranfverfely immediatelv under the anterior crura of the fornix. It J is in figure like a bow ; its extremities ftretching (with a convexity forward) into the middle portion of the brain towards the extremity of the fofia filvii, where it terminates in the medullary matter of the middle lobe of the brain. The thalami nervorum opticorum are hid by the pofterior angles of the fornix, and the plexus choroi- * Sommerring. » •J- “ Htec pars commune fenforium ejl, quod fenfibilium omnium <l ictus a nervis cujufque organi dilatos accipit adeoque omnts fcnfion'n “ perceptionem ajfuit; cujufmodi fenfibilium iftus, cum bine ulterius “ in cerebrum traj iciunt ur, fenfiom ftatim imagmatio fuccedit; atque “ infuper hsec corpora, uti fenfuum omnium impetus, ita motuum “ locaUum fpontaneorum primos inftindus fufeipiunt.” Willis, Edit. 4. p. 43. desOF THF. VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 89 des : we do not fee them fully until we have lifted the fornix and the velum or membrane which ftretches under the fornix. They are fomewhat of an irregular oval fhape; they are whiter than the corpora ftriata, their furface being chiefly of medullary matter. Inter- nally they are cineritious; and the medullary and cine- ritious matter is blended in ftrite like the anterior tu- bercles of the ventricles on the corpora ftriata. The thalami nervorum opticorum, having their con- vex furface towards each other, unite under the fornix by what is called the commissura mollis, in oppo- fition to the commiflura magna, which is the corpus caliofum; ihe commiflura anterior, which unites the fore part of the corpora fl riata; and the commiflura pofterior, which is yet to be defcribed. Thus the foft commilTure of the brain, or the union of the optic thalami, is fo foft that the flighted force will tear it, or in difleftion, the parts being unequally fup- ported, the thalami will be feparated and this connec- tion loft *. After fuch feparation of the tubercles there remains very little appearance of their having been united. Sabbattier, after the molt careful difle&ion, fays exprefsly that he could never obferve this union, and he conceives, that in the fmoothnefs of the conti- guous fuffaces he has a proof of there never being fuch a union; but he goes on to fay, cc The fruits of my “ refearch were, that I conftantly found a foft cord of a “ cineritious colour, and about a line or a line and a “ half in diameter palling betwixt them.” * Morgagni and Vicq d’Azyr fay they have feen this commif- lure double : it may, however, have been a partial laceration of it. I have9® OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN* I have feen, when the ventricles were diftended lit hydrocephalus, and the communication betwixt the three ventricles enlarged to a fquare cavity of nearly an inch in diameter*, that this union was drawn out to fome length, but ftill was above half an inch in dia- meter. The commifiiira mollis is exceedingly foft, of a cineritious colour, and veffels are fometimes feen to crofs upon its furface. It feems to be the continua- tion of the grey or cineritious fubftance which covers the internal furface of the optic thalami f. Towards the fore part of the thalami we have to ob- ferve a peculiar eminence or convexity, viz. the an- terior tubercles of the optic thalami. In making a horizontal feftion of the thalami, we find that we cut acrofs a medullary Itreak or cord which defcends from this tubercle to the mamillary procelfes, or cor- pora albicantia, in the bafe of the brain J. Its courfe is deep in the fubftance of the brain, and fomewhat oblique. The limits of the thalami externally are con- tiguous to the corpus ftriatum, but betwixt them there intervenes a white medullary trad, which is continu- ous with the medullary ftriae, and which, as it marks the limits of the two great tubercles of the lateral ven- tricles, takes a courfe inwards towards the anterior pillars or crura of the fornix and middle of the anterior commiflure. The furface of this tract, as feen in the * In quadrupeds the adhefion is more extenfive. -[- Mais il n’y a point de continuitc, proprtment dite, entre la fub- ftance intime de ces couches et la commiffure molle Jont il s’agit. Vicq d’Azyr, Plane, de Cerv, p. 23. J See Vicq d’Azyr, plate, xii. Mem. de 1’ Acad. Royale, 17S1, p. 528, and plate 2, fig. 5. I lateralOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 91 lateral ventricle, is the tenia semicircularis gemi- num, which we fhall prefently more particularly de« fcribe. To underhand the further connections and import- ance of the optic thalami we mud: dilfeCt the bafe of the brain. There we find that it is through the corpora ftriata, and the thalami nervorum opticorum, that the crura cerebri eftablilh their extenfive connexion with the internal mafs of the brain > particularly we find that the crura (hoot up into the back and lower part of the thalami. Here on the lower part alfo we may obferve the tractus opticus, which we may trace backwards from the optic nerves. They furround the crura ce- rebri with a femicircular fweep, dwelling out at the fame time, and terminating in three confiderable tube- rofities: they are finally confounded with the lower part of the optic thalami * ; at the fame time there runs up a divifion of it into the nates. The tenia semicircularis geminum is the trad of the medullary matter, which is betwixt the two great anterior tubercles of the lateral ventricle, the corpus ftriatum and thalamus nervi optici. Towards the fore part of this traft its furface is covered with a layer of a femi- tranfparent greyifh matter, through which we fee the * Willis feeing the firft ana fecond pair of nerves fo clofely con- nected with thefe tubercles, and fuppofmg, as we have mentioned in a former note, that the corpora itriata were the common fenfo- rium, concludes, “ hinc ratio patet, cur odores fine olfaftus objeCt^ “ ipfum adeo cerebrum feriunt, et immediate afhciunt; item cur “ inter vifionem et imaginationem communicatio citiffima habe- “ tur.” T. 44. * veinsg2 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. veins which pafs from the furface of the corpora ftriata to join the vena galeni *. Sabbattier makes the ante- rior extremity of this medullary body join the anterior pillar of the fornix : Haller makes it join the anterior commiffure: and Vicq d’Azyr fays they feparate again, where they feem to unite forwards and lofe themfelves on the corpora ftriata. Their pofterior ex- tremities are loft in the hippocampi; they thus form a kind of longitudinal commiffure which eftablilhes a communication betwixt the fore and back part of the cerebrum. OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. The third ventricle does not at all anfwer to the con- ception we form of the ventricles from the lateral ones. It is a mere fulcus, lying betwixt the thalami nervorum opticorum, and betwixt the crura cerebri, which are con- tinued down from thefe tubercles. It is a longitudinal flit, rima, or gutter-like cavity, which is made irregular, and is divided by the union of the optic thalami; and finally, it is canopied by the fornix and vafcular velum which ftretches over the thalami f. * “ Quelquefois il fe detache du taenia femicircularis entre le “ corps ftrie et la couche optique un filet blanc, que faiffant un angle “ tres aigu, foit en devant, foit en arriere, monte a une certaine hau- “ teur fur le corps cannele.” Vicq d’Azyr, Mem. de 1’ Acad. Roy- ale, 1781, p. 530. f “ Hanc caveam ventriculum tertium vulgo vocant, quse et ipfa “ cum plena fmt omnia nihil eft nifi contiguorum thalamorum limes.” Haller. TheOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 93 Flan oftkc communication of the Lateral k 3 d Ventricles Rejiiefented liv a perpeuxLculal Section. The third ventricle opens forward and upwards into the two lateral ventricles, and under the common com- munication it opens into the infundibulum. Back- wards it is continued by a canal which paffes under the tubercula quadrigemina, or nates .and teftes, into the fourth ventricle. The bottom of the third ventricle is clofed by afmall flratum of cineritious matter, cloifonpul- peitfe du troifieme •ventricule; this fills up the fpace be- twixt the jundlion of the optic nerves and the anterior Gommiffure. We fee it when differing the bafe of the brain. Lifting the optic nerves, we lhall find it ftrengthened by the pia mater, and confiding of ftrige which pafs obliquely backwards and downwards, and fome of which, while they adhere to the optic nerves, pafs into them. As we have found that the pia mater could be traced into the lateral ventricles, and as by tearing 6 withOr TliE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 94 with the probe the connections of thofe membranes we could penetrate into the lateral ventricle without pier- cing the fubllance of the brain ; fo here we can pene- trate into the third ventricle, which is deepeft of all; and alfo into the fourth, without lacerating the fub- llance of the brain. Thus, after raifing the vafcular membrane of the bafe, we can pafs a probe under the corpus callofum backwards into the third ventricle, and by raifing the cerebellum from the medulla ob- longata, and feparating the adhefions of the pia mater, we get accefs to the fourth ventricle. We conclude then, that the ventricles are not formed, as we Ihould at firft conceive, in the fubftance of the brain, but that they are formed by the replication and foldings of the convolutions of the brain.OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 95 P/a?/ of the In fir chons of the p’la Mater, See jheet Note. OF THE INFUNDIBULUM.' As I have explained in my tables of the brain, there is much confufion regarding the terms vulva and anus. Vulva is the fpace by which the three ventricles com- municate, as feen when the fornix is lifted, viz. be- EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE. 1. The pia mater defcending betwixt the hemifpheres to the cor. pus callofum. 2. Betwixt the pofterior lobe of the cerebrum and the cerebel- lum. 3. Under the fornix in form of the velum. 4. Into the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle. 5. Into the bottom of the fourth ventricle. twixt96 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. twixt the thalami nervorum opticorum and before the commiflura mollis. The anus is behind this com- miflure, and near the nates and tefles; both thefe are mentioned as communications betwixt the ventricles : but we know that the union of the plexus chorcides, of the two lateral ventricles, and of the termination of the velum under the anterior part of the fornix, leaves the vulva free. But the velum fpreading over the tha- lami, and under the pofterior part of the fornix, . clofes up the anus ; and it appears as a communica- tion fimilar to the other only when the velum is torn up. If we pafs a probe gently downwards and forwards from, the vulva or foramen commune anterius, or com- munication betwixt the ventricles, we pafs it into the infundibulum. The infundibulum is a funnel of a foft cineritious matter, which leads from the bottom and fore part of the third ventricle towards the glan- dula pituitaria, which is feated in the fella turcica of the fphenoid bone. The infundibulum is formed of cineritious matter, which is continued from the bottom of the third ven- tricle, and which adheres to the back part of the optic' nerves; or, according to Warthon, of an external mem- brane with cineritious matter internally. Its cavity becomes contracted before it reaches the glandula pe- tuitaria. Whether it be really capable of conveying the fluids of the ventricles, or whether it be actually pervious, is likely to remain a difputed point. Tarin, and M. Adolphus Murray, and Haller, believe with the older writers that it is pervious. Scmmerring and Vicq.OP THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 97 Vicq d’Azyr have in their experiments found it fhut *. But to the opinion that the infundibulum conveyed the fuperfluous moiflure from the ventricles f, it did not feem necelfary to Vieulfens that we Ihould find it to have a cavity in all its length. He conceived that where the apparent cavity terminated, lefs vifible pores were continued towards the gland. * “ Sed non ad apicem ufque pervium.” Soemmering. ■f “ Struftura, fituque infundibuli fpeftatis, connexionis, & fo« “ cietatis, quam cum cerebro, et glandula pituitaria habet, rationibus “ sequo judicio perpends, unicum illius ufum effe, ut aquofum, feu “ lymphaticum quemdaem cerebro depluentem humorem, majoris, “ ad inftar vafis lymphatici excipiat et pituitariam verfus glandulam “ fenfim tranfmittat, non autumare non poffumus : Etenim eum inter- “ textarum plexibus choro'iaeis glandularum ufus fit, ut fanguinis “ calvariam fubeuntis, fpiritufque animalis materiam fuppeditantis, “ aquofiorem partem, definentibus in ipfas ab arteriis depofitum ex- “ cipiant, quie deinceps per infenfiles rariffimje, qua obducuntur, “ membranas poros, fenfim transfluit, et partim per vulvam partimve “ per anum, in terfium cerebri ventriculum delabitur; nullus etfe “ videtur ambigendi locus, quin aquofus omnis humore glandulis, “ quae plexuum choroi'daeorum vafis interferuntur, fenfim affluens, ad “ infundibulum deferatur.” Vieulfens, p. 50. Such was the opi- nion regarding the ceconomy of the brain, and now we have no theory, good or bad, nor any explanation of this connexion of the gland with the ventricles of the brain to offer. VoL. HI, H INFUN-$8 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN* infundibulum AND PITUITARY GLAND. What i$ called the pituitary gland is a redilh body of a glandular-like ftru&ure *, which is feated in the fella turcica of the fphenoid bone. It is plain upon its upper furface, or rather perhaps a little hol- lowed, of a globular fhape below, and having' a di- vifion into two lobes. The infundibulum terminates in it, piercing the dura mater, a thin lamina of which fpreads over the gland. The gland, as is feen in the above plate, lies furrounded with the circular fmus, and has the cavernous finus upon the fides ; into thefe laft, veflels have been feen to pafs from the gland f, which, as Soemmerring obferves, were probably veins. A diftinttion of fubftance has been obferved in this * It perhaps has only the form of a gland. Haller fays ** non «* acinofa quidam, neque nullius alterius glanduke fimiles, quae po- « tius cerebri quedam fit appendix.” See alfo Bordeu, recherch. Anatomiq. fur les Glands. •j- Adolph. Murray de jnfundib.OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 99 gland, and it is by fome confidered as a part of the brain, or being like the cineritious fubftance, it has been fuppofed that it gave nerves to the fifth or fixth pair. It was conceived that the body receiving the fuper- fiuous moifture of the brain, conveyed it into the nofe ; or into the neighbouring finufes *. To counte- nance this opinion, there was no want of cafes proving the accumulation of the fluids of the ventricles, in confequence of the fchirrus of this gland f, while in truth diffe&ion has fhown no connection betwixt the difeafes of the ventricles and pituitary gland. M. Lit- tre gave both a vafcular ftructure and mufcular fibres to this body, and coneeived that its operations brought down the water and air from the ventricles of the brain J. THE TUBERCULA QUADRIGEMINA? The tubercula quadrigemina, or nates and teftes, are feen when we continue to lift back the pollerior part of the fornix and corpus callofum, and when we have lifted back the velum with the vena galeni. We find, in doing this, that the velum is connected with the pineal gland, which is feated upon thefe tu- * Lower Traft. de Corde. I" Schneider (de catarch.) firft oppofed this theory ; fhowed that there was no communication betwixt the brain and the nofe, and maintained that no fluid, not even the blood which flowed from the nofe, had any connection with the brain : he was fupported by other able anatomifts. The old opinion was revived by M. Bouillet Eli* mentt de Medecine pratique. % See Littre, Mem. de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1707, Ha berdes.I THE IOO OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. bercles. The tubercula quadrigemina are not in the cavities or ventricles of the brain, but are feen upon lifting and turning forward the poflerior lobes of the cerebrum from the cerebellum. Thefe four tubercles are behind the third ventricle, and above the fourth. As they are immediately in the center of the brain, they form a kind of commilfure, and they both communicate with the tubercles, from which the traftus opticus emerge. The uppermoft two are the nates, the lower are the testes ; the former are . lefs white than the latter. A little under the in- ferior tubercle, we find fometimes a fmall tra£l of me- dullary matter, which extends to the thalami nervorum opticorum, and the crura cerebri. And from the lower part of the teftes there projeCl backwards, connecting itfelf with the crura cerebelli, a thin me- dullary lamina, which is the valvula vieussenii, PROCESSUS a CEREBELLO AD TESTES, Or VELUM IN- terjectum. Behind the poflerior tubercle, or from this medullary lamina itfelf, the fourth pair of nerves take their origin. Sometimes thofe four tubercles are of the fame fize; fometimes the poflerior, fometimes the anterior tubercles, are the larger : a perpendicular fec- tion of them fhows a mutual communication of flrise of medullary and cineritious matter, but thofe are faintly feen only.IOI OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. THE PINEAL GLAND. Tafrect'uh i Qadriaetmnas The pineal gland is feated above the tubercula qua- drigemina, and behind the thalami nervorum opticorumi it is fixed, fays Window, like a button. It confifts of cineritious matter covered with the pia mater; its bafe is furrounded with medullary matter ; it ad- heres firmly to the velum, and is apt to be difplaced or torn from its pedunculi in lifting that membrane. It is a fmall foft greyilh body, irregularly round, or of the figure of a pine-apple; or, of all things, likeft the heart of a frog *. Its pedunculi, or footftalks, pafs out from a tranfverfe medullary bafe, which unites it to the pofterior commiffure. Thofe pedunculi pafs on each fide to the thalami nervorum opticorum (leaving a paflage under and betwixt them to the fourth ventri- cle). Their extremities pafs forward upon the internal * Ruyfch considered the fubftance of this gland as different from that of the cerebrum or cerebellum, and different, alfo, from all other glands. H3 furface*02 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. furface of the thalami nervorum opticorum, and are united to the anterior crura of the fornix. Vicq d’Azyr remarks, that although the ideas of Galen and Defcartes *, and a crowd of others are re- membered only with ridicule, there are ftill feme pe- culiarities in the fituations and connection of this body, tvhich mark its importance. It is compofed of cineri- tious fub fiance; it is in fa Cl a prolongation of the fubflance of the brain, and by its pedunculi, which are like two nerves, it is connected with the thalami nervorum opticorum, with the fornix, and confe- quently with the corpus callofum, the hypocampus and corpora albicantia, which are themfelves the center of union to feveral medullary cords ; therefore he concludes that the pineal gland muft be an important organ f. The pineal gland has often in it little peculiar grains and calculi J. It has -a great variety of form and fize ; I have * Alluding to their opinion of th:s being the feat of the foul; Willis impofed upon this part a lower office, “ Ejufque mtrnus non « aliud omnino effe quam aliarum glandularum quse juxta vaforum fanguiferorum concurfus difponuntur; nempe ut humores ferofos* «< a fanguine arteriofo depofitos, excipiat, et in fe retineat; donee « aut veins depletiores facte eofdem reforbeant, aut lymph* duftus “ (fi qui adfuerint) eos extra convehant.” Willis, p. 46. f Mem. de l’Acad. Royal, An. 1781, p. 533. See Obferv. par M. Mechel fur la gland pineale, fur la cloifon tranfparente, et fur Vorigine du nerf de la feptieme paire. L’Acad. Berlin, 1765. •j- <1 parte anteriore della bafe n’e ordinari amente midollare, u g qui appunto 1’ ho moltifiime volte veduta geflata, offofa, tarts- « rofa e friabile, vizi, che ho trovati anche molte volte nei piceiuoli.” Malacarne, part ii. p. 81» Acevvulus ; Meckel, Mem. de 1 Acad. des Sciences-OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN* iOJ H 4 05 I have found it furrounded with pus in an ideot-boy, who was accuftomed to wander about the Leith glafs- houfes. He died with fymptoms of hydrocephalus, and in his ventricles, accordingly, there was found much fluid. Malacarne gives a cafe of its having degene- rated into hydatids, like a duller of grapes. It has not been found upon difledtion in fome cafes> POSTERIOR COMMISSURE;, The bafe of the pineal giand is conne&ed with the polterior commilfure of the brain. This commilfure is feen like a cord, or like the anterior comrtiilfure, towards the back part of the third ventricle, before the tubercula quadrigemina, and above the iter ad quartum ventriculum. Betwixt this commilfure and the bafe of the pineal gland, we have to obferve two or three medullary filaments, not palling from the gland, but lying parallel to the commilfure. But this part of the brain, which appears like a cord, does not deferve the name of commilfure; it does not pafs on each fide into the fubllance of the brain as the anterior one does ; it is loll in the neighbouring border of medullary mat-* ter, and is merely this matter reflected, fo as to have a rounded edge. Sciences a Berlin, 1755, fig. 1. b. b. Vicq d’Azyr, tab. xxvii. “ Super medullofum conarii vinculum vel in ipfo vinculo, vel in ipfo u denique acervulo, plerumque vero ante acervulum iam in fetibua u inmaturis peculiares quidamlapilli, mox maiorum acervulum, moX vero duo vel tres minores acervulos conftituentes, helui, femiperlu- u cidi, iunioribus Temper pallidiores, annofioribus fufciores, infantibus “ °b coloris languorem et perluciditatem diffieiies cognitu ficcati air ^ bidiores et opaciores inveniuntur.” Soemmerring, p. 63.104 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE TRAIN. OF THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. The fourth ventricle defcends perpendicularly before the cerebellum ; it is inclofed above by the valvula cere- bri, below by the medulla fpinse, and on the right and left by the crura cerebelli. When we pafs our probe obliquely backwards and downwards under the pofterior commiffure, it palfes into the iter ad quartum ventriculum, or aque- duct of Silvius. This paffage to the fourth ventri- cle, goes before the tubercula quadrigemina. The valvula vieussenii, it was fuppofed, prevented the falling down of the moiflure of the other cavities into the fourth ventricle * : it is more properly called the processus cerebelli ad testes, being a medullary lamina fpread over the ventricle and betwixt the crura cerebelli, as they rife from the arbor vitee, or the in- ternal medullary part of the cerebellum. From the aquedudt there is continued down upon the fore part of the fourth ventricle a kind of fiffure ; which Vefalius, conceiving it to have fome refemblance to a writing quill, called calamus scriptorius. The fame fiffure or furrow is continued down fome way upon the fpinal marrow. There pafs up obliquely outwards, on each fide of ' the calamus fcriptorius, medullary lines, three or four in number, but fometimes feven are obferved f. One of thefe fibres afcends to the valvula Vieuffenii; fome are the origines of the auditory nerve, and one or two ffriae go to form part of the eighth. * Alveus Silvii. f Haller, Phyfiol. tom. iv. p. 7S. InOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. 105 In the fourth ventricle, as in the others, are fome convolutions of the plexus choroides ; thefe are on each fide at the termination of the vermis ; they are conti- nued out upon the bafe of the brain, and are feen ex- pofed betwixt the feventh and eighth pair of nerves. OF THE BASE OF THE BRAIN AND ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. Relation of the Brain K: Scullcap. We have anticipated mud, that might have fallen to be treated of in this divifion of our fubject; but my inten- tion here is to give a connected view of the parts, as feen •when we have raifed the brain from the fcull, and when, having the bafe prefented to us, we are about to enume- rate the origines of the nerves. The106 or THE VENTRICLES OP THE BRAIN. The firft appearance which ftrikes us is the great pro- portion of the medullary matter in the bafe of the brain; the whole furface of the brain, while feen from above, was dneritious, but now the centrical medullary part of the brain is feen emerging from the envelopement of the cineritious matter, and, gathering together from the fe- veral internal medullary proceffes of the brain, it con- centrates the effential properties of the encephalon, and is fitted to give out the feveral nerves. Thofe great me- dullary prolongations of the cerebrum and cerebellum, are called the crura. The crura cerebri are compofed of a white fibrous medullary matter, in which alfo there is a mix- ture of cineritious fubftance. They are formed from the whole central medullary part of the cerebrum ; or more immediately from the inferior and lateral part of the corpora ftriata, and from the fuperior and inter- nal part of the thalami nervorum opticorum; and, from the conflux of medullary matter, from the ante- rior and pofterior lobes of the cerebrum. From all thefe various parts the medullary matter, palling downwards and backwards, forms the crura *. The crus of either fide of the brain, cantrading their diameters, unite at an acute angle, and are united to the pons varolii, or nodus cerebri, formed by the crura cerebelli; they pafs on to' form the medulla oblongata, and, as they unite with ity they raife it into the eminences, called Corpora Pyrami- dalia. In thofe proceffes of the cerebrum, the cineritious and medullary fubftances mingle with fome degree of * I fpeak ft ill of the relation of thofe to each other, according to t&eir natural fituation in the fcull. confufion;OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. I07 confufion; fo that when we make a fe&ion of the crura cerebri near to their union with the pons varolii, we ob- ferve a fubftance of a dark-brown colour, furrounded with white or medullary matter. In the angle of the union of thefe crura cerebri, behind the corpora albi- cantia, and before the protuberance of the pons varolii, we obferve a matter lefs perfectly white than the fur- rounding medullary fubftance, which forms a floor to the third ventricle. This part is perforated with a great many holes, and is the fubjiance perforee of Vicq d’Azyr *, and gives origin to the third pair of nerves along with the crura themfelves. CRURA CEREBELLI. The crura cerebelli are more expofed than thofe of the cerebrum; the latter lying deeper, and being compa- ratively fmaller. They are formed by the union of the internal medullary part of the cerebellum, or the arbor vitas. They are altogether compofed of medullary mat- ter, except near the pons varolii, where we obferve a mixture of coloured ftriae. PONS VAROLII. The pons varolii, tuber annulare, or nodus cerebri is formed by the union of the crura cerebri and cerebelli j thofe names are almoft defcriptive of its * Vicq d’Azyr makes three divifions of this fubjiance perforee— lit, At the roots of the tubercles, from whence the firft pair of nerves emerge betwixt the roots of thofe nerves, and near the origin of the optic nerves. 2d. Thofe I mention betwixt the crura cerebri. 3d, On the outer contour of the optic thalami, 6 fliapcIo8 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. lhape and relation to the other parts. Varolius, looking upon thofe parts inverted, compares the crura cerebri to a river palling under a bridge, and thence named it Pons. The nodus cerebri, again, is a name well applied, fince this medullary emminence has much the appear- ance of a knot call upon the medullary proceffes of the cerebrum, and is in fa£t the central union of the elon- gated medullary matter of both cerebrum and cerebel- lum. On the furface of this medullary protuberance there are many tranfverfe fibres, which, uniting in a middle line, form a kind of rapha, which, upon a fuperficial fe&ion, {hows a longitudinal medullary line. The fibres upon the furface of this body are uniform and parallel to each other in the moll; proje&ing part; but upon the fides, they difperfe to give place to the fifth pair of nerves and crura cerebelli. A deeper incision of the pons varolii, while it {hows the intimate union of the crura cerebri, cerebelli, and pons varolii, alfo {hows the white medullary tradls which extend from the crura cerebri through the pons varolii to the corpora pyramidalia; part of thefe pafs through the locus niger crurum cerebri, and can be traced to the corpora ftriata. We fee alfo the tranf- verfe fibres of the medullary and cineritious fubftance, which make a right angle with thofe longitudinal tracts. MEDULLAOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. I09 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata is the prolongation of the fub* fiance of the crura cerebri and cerebelli, and the pons varolii; it is confequently the continuation of the encephalon, which, after giving off the nerves that pafs through the foramina of the fcull, enters the 7 canalHO OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. canal of the fpine to fupply the fpinal nerves. The me- dulla oblongata is marked at its upper end by a deep fulcus dividing it from the pons varolii; but towards the fpinal cavity it decreafes in thicknefs, and there is no natural diftin&ion or fulcus to mark the point where the medulla oblongata ends, and the medulla fpinalis be- gins ; nor perhaps is the medulla oblongata to be con- fidered in any other light than as the beginning of the fpinal marrow. When it palTes the foramen magnum, it ceafes to be called the medulla oblongata. We have to obferve four emminences upon the me- dulla oblongata, viz. two corpora pyramidalia, and two corpora olivaria. The corpora pyramidalia, fo called from their fhape, are thofe in the middle. There is formed betwixt them and the pons varolii (being three tubercles placed together) a little fulcus, which fome have called the foramen cascum. Betwixt thefe em- minences there is a longitudinal Allure, in the bottom of which there may be obferved tranfverfe little cords, which are like commiflures conne&ing the two fides of the medulla oblongata. The corpora olivaria lie upon the fides of the corpora pyramidalia. They are in fome degree, like them, limited by the fulcus which bounds the pons va? rolii, rounded above and bulging, but gradually fub- fiding, at their lower part, into the level of the medut’a fpinalis j yet they are internally different, for anatomifts had obferved a mixture of a yellow or cineritious co- loured matter in the corpora olivaria, but Vicq d’Azyr has obferved a regular oval medullary fubftance, or body furrounded with cineritious coloured fubftance, like a miniature-reprefentation of the cerebrum itfelf; heOF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. Ill he calls it CORPUS DENTATUM EMMrNENTIJE OLI« VARIS. MEDULLA SPINALIS. The medulla fpinalis, from its ftrudure, its two fub- ftances, its membranes, and its ufe, as evident in the con- fequences of injury, mull be confidered as an elongation 'of the brain. Its name implies its fituation contained within the tube of the fpine. Though chiefly compofed of medullary matter, it is not entirely fo j for there is an irregular,central, cortical fubftance, through its whole extent, having fomething of a crucial form in the fe&ion of this part *. There are continued down from the ca- lamus Icriptorius behind, and the rima, formed by the porpora pyramidalia, before, two fiflures which divide the fpinal marrow into lateral portions. On the back part, however, the fiffure is very little diftinguifhable. Into the anterior one the little veflfels penetrate to fupply the cineritious matter with blood. The fpinal marrow dimi- nilhes in thicknefs as it defcends in the neck; but below the giving off of the brachial plexus it again enlarges, then continues gradually to diminifti. The tube of the vertebras is conne&ed by a ftrong li- gamentous (heath, which runs down the whole length within the tube. The dura mater, after lining the in- ternal furface of the cranium, goes out by the great foramen, and forms a kind of funnel $ at the occipital .. - 7 * The furface of the fpinal marrow hasalfo been obfervedto be of a darker colour, and in large animals diftin&ly cineritious. (Dr. Monro’s Nervous Syftem.) foramen112 OF THE VENTRICLES OF THE BRAIN. foramen it is united firmly to the ligament. Under this, however, it forms a feparate tube. The tunica arachnoides again adheres loofely, having a kind of fe- cretion within it, while the pia mater clofely embraces, and is intimately united to the medullary matter. From betwixt the ninth nerve and vertebal artery to the fecond and third lumbar nerve, there is a mem- braneous connexion betwixt the lateral part of the fpinal marrow and the dura mater of the fpine. From the manner of its connexion to the dura mater, by dif- tindt flips irregular and pointed, it is called the Liga- mentum Denticulatum, or Dentatum. SCHEME AND GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE ORI- GINES OF THE NERVES OF THE ENCEPHALON AND SPINE. In enumerating the nerves which pafs from the cra- nium, I fliall keep to the old way of Willis, counting only nine nerves of the encephalon. I do not find that the fubdivifions of the nerves in this claffification, and the defcription of the feveral fafciculi, of which the pairs of nerves are compcfed, caufe intricacy. It rather, I am from experience convinced, connects fome circum- Itances with many of the pairs of nerves thus enume- rated, to which the memory of the ftudent can attach. The common enumeration feems a natural one 5 it ferves well the purpofe of difledtion, and confequently will never be entirely exploded. The ufe of new clafli- fications and arrangements, and names, whilft we muff alfo retain the old, adds much to the intricacy of de- monftration. From”3 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. Vol. Ill, j 8 pair. From the olfadlory nerve to that which pafles out betwixt the cranium and firft vertebra, there are nine nerves 1 lit pair—Olfactory nerves. 2d pair- -Optic nerves. Carunculie mamillares Math, de Grad. Procejfus ad nares, Gonth d’An- dernac. 8utn par, Spigel. rft pair of Willis. 1 Nervus vifivus,feu viforius. Carpi. j> lmpar antiquorum. J 2d pair of Willis. 1 2um par, Fallop. et Vefal. , . ,, , , I Nerfs moteurs communs des yeux.— 3d pair—Motores oculorum. WinfloWi ; j 3d pair of Willis. "] Minor propago 3“ Paris, id ejl 5' recen- j tiorum, Fallop. j Gracilior radix 3“ Paris, id ejl 5* re~ > centiorum. V efal. Nervus quiprope naics oritur. Euftach. 9um par Cortes : et Columb. 4th pair; or, pathetic nerves of Willis, "j Nervus anonymus trigeminus multorum. I 3um par Fallop. et Vefal. f 5th pair of Willis. J Trijumeaux of Window. 4“ par Fallop. Radix gracilior 5*Paris, id ejl 7' recen- tiorum Vefal. Par oculis profpiciens. 8um par Capp. Bauhini. 6th pair of Willis. Nerfs oculo-mufculaires, oil moteurs externes de Window, par Alexand. Benedi£t. j 4"“ par Carol. Stephan, s. 5um par Vefal. et aliorum. 6utn par V. Horne. Portia mollis, of the Moderns. Diftinfius a molli nervus. Fallop. Portia, ut precedent, 51 Paris, id ejl 71 recentiorum. Vefal. Portio dura, of the Moderns. Le petit fympatheque, of Window. Facial nerve. 4th pair—Trochlearis. 5th pair—Trigemini. 6th pair—Abductores. 1 f Auditory nerves. 7th pair Nervus commu- nicans faciei. * In the following table, I am of courfe much indebted to the fy« nonymie of Vicq d’Azyr,114 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVE?. from r GloiTo-pharyngeus. Qiti acl mnfculos lingua et faucium ten- der. Fallop. Le rameau lingual de la 8e paire of Window. 8th pair d’Anderfch. Superior fafciculus of the 8th pair of Willis. Sth pair < l Par vagura. Spinal acceffory nerve. j Glojfo Pharyngeus. Haller. Nervus Jexfus Galeni et aliorum. 51 conjugatio Carol. Stephan, par Alex. Benedict. > 6l“'n par Cafp. Bauhini. 9um par Bidloo et Anderfch. Sth pair of Willis. _ Le moyen fympathique of Window. J- The fpinal nerve. 9th pair—Lingual. 10th pair—Suboccipital nerve. 1 7um par Fallop. Vefal et aliorum. I 11um par Bidloo. I 1 oum par Anderfch. I Par linguale medium, vel nervus fin- [> gualis medius Haller. Soemmer- ing et aliorum. The hypogloflal, fuhlingual, or guf- tatory. The 9th pair of Willis. 1 10th pair of Willis. ift fpinal, or cervical nerve, of Haller. J I count this the firft cervical nerve. FIRST PAIR ; OR, OLFACTORY NERVES *„ The olfa&ory nerve is foft and pulpy, and foon re- folved by putrefaction ; therefore, we fnould not be fur- prifed that it was neglefted by the Ancients f. It ad- heres * In the prefent enumeration and defcription of the nerves, we at- tend chiefly to their relation to the brain. In the introduction to the next part of this volume, they will be found arranged and clafled previous to the detail of their minute dillribution. *f The olfaftory nerve is in brutes a large prolongation of the fubftance of the brain, and is the proper mamillary procefles. Their olfaftory nerves have a cavity or ventricle in them, and it was natu- ral for the Ancients to imagine that the pituita of the brain wasTHE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. I 2 “5 heres firmly to the lower furface of the anterior lobe of the brain, but it does not take its origin here. It is of a triangular fhape, as if moulded to the fulcus in which it lies ; by being fometimes funk into the fulcus more or lefs on one fide than the other, it has the appearance of being larger on one fide than the other. It takes its ori- gin by three medullary trafts * ; iff, From the corpus ftriatum ; 2d, From the medullary matter of the ante- rior lobe ; 3d, From the fore and under part of the corpus callofum f. When a feflion is made of it, we obferve in it a cineritious portion. Towards the fore-part, this nerve expands into a bul- bous oval lobe, which confifls of a femi-tranfparent cine- ritious fubfiance. This lies upon the crebriform plate, and from it are fent down the nerves which expand upon the membrane of the nofe, and compofe the organ of knelling j. from this ftrained through the crebriform plate into the nofe. Ve- falius proved the abfurdity of this opinion ; it Was, however, revived by Dulaurens, who was perhaps more of a courtier than an auatomilt. But Willis is not much better, when he defcribes the proper ufe of thefe nerves. He fuppofed the crebriform plate of the cethmoid bone to prevent bodies from palling up into the brain (“ ne quid afperi “ aut molefti cum illis una ad cerebrum feratur”) ; while the lymph in thofe nerves corrected the two pungent odours; “ odorum fpccies “ demulcere eafque fenforio quadantenus prasparare.” * Or we fay that the external root generally fplits, having two fafi- culi. See Prochaflca, tab. x. f Vicq d’Azyr, M. de 1’Acad. Roy. 1781.—“ Breviores fibrae “ medullorce cum longioribus exterioribus connexae nonunquam cine- “ ream particulam excipiunt.” Soemmerring. f Duverney has Ihown us, that thofe nerves palling through the crebriform plate become firm nerves, like thofe in the other parts of the body. They are to be fe en by tearing the membrane of the nofe from the bone. SECONDTHE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. ii 5 SECOND TAIR ; OR, OPTIC NERVES *. The optic nerves arife from the poflerior part of the optic thalami, and alfo (and perhaps more diredllyf) from the tubercula quadrigemina. When we trace the optic nerves backwards into the traclus opticus, we find them taking a circle round the crura cerebri, then en- larging, each forms a tubercle towards the back part of the thalamus opticus, and afterwards unites with the poflerior tubercle of the thalamus opticus; at the fame time a divifion flretches towards the tefles, while be- twixt the poflerior tubercle of the thalamus opticus and the nates, there is an intermediate communication. When thofe tubercles are fairly expofed by feparating the mid- dle lobes of the brain, and differing away the tunica arachnoides and pia mater, they are feen fmooth, and formed of medullary matter; which is uniformly con- tinued from the one to the other, following their gentle convexities with an uninterrupted furface. Within thofe tubercles is a mixture of cineritious and medul- lary matter, and, efpecially, there is a diflindt flreak which paffes from the traclus opticfis to the nates. Thus there is a communication betwixt the nates and tefles, and the optic nerve; but we mull flill confider the nerve as arifing in a peculiar manner from the* thalamus opticus, while at the fame time it receives additions from the crura cerebri, where the nerve adheres clofely to the crura. * The optic nerves Were the firft pair of Galen and many of the. older anatomifts, they being ignorant of the olfaftory nerves. •j- “ Les nerfs optiques naiflent en arriere des eminences nates et “ tefles vers la partie pofterieure de celles que Tor. nomme les couches u des nerfs optiques.” Sabatier. TracingTHE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. li; Tracing the optic nerves from their origin in the brain towards their exit from the fcull, we find them ap- proaching gradually and uniting juft before the corpora albicantia and the infundibulum. Since the days of Galen, it has been a difputed point, whether there is a union fimply of the nerves, or a de- cuffation. Fifties have the nerve arifmg from one fide of the brain pafling to the eye of the other fide : they crofs, but they do not unite. Birds have but one optic nerve arifing from the brain, which fplits and forms the right and left optic nerves. Vefalius differed a young man at Padua, who had loft his eye a year before; at the fame time he differed a woman, whofe eye had been loft a long while. In the latter he found the nerve of that fide fmaller, firmer, and of redifli colour, through all its extent. In the young man he obferved no effedt upon the nerve. He alfo gives a plate of an inftance in which he found the optic nerves pafs on to the eyes of the fame fide from which they take their origin, with- out adhering at all. 13 Valverda,11 8 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. Valverda, a phyfician of Spain, who travelled into Italy, and ftudied the Works of Vefalius and Human Dilfeftion, fays, that at Venice he had frequent oppor- tunities of alluring himfelf that there was no deculfation ; for robbers were punifhed for the firfi: offence by lofing one of their eyes ; and for the fecond by death. Rio- linus, Rolefinkius, and Santorini, give obfervations of the nerve of the injured eye being fmall and Ihrivelled, and of their having traced them pall; their union to the fame fide of the brain with the eye to which they be- longed. Vicq d’Azyr, who, of all authors I conceive to be the bell authority upon fuch fubjects, is decidedly of opinion that there is no deculfation. Zin alfo agrees with the opinion of Galen, that there is an adhefion and intimate union of fubftance, but no eroding of the nerves. Soemmerring deems it fufficient to point out the authorities on both Tides of the queltion, while he has no decided opinion whether there be a perfect de- culfation or not *. Porterfield, while he allows the in- timate union of the optic nerves, has feveral obferva- tions, proving that they have no interfeftion or decuf- fation. Sabatier, encouraged by the authority of Morgagni, fays, that he could trace the affe£lion of the nerve of the injured eye no farther than to the union. He dif- credits the accounts of their having been traced to the fame fide of the brain, and believes the alfertions to be the confequence of previous opinion and prejudice.— There are certain obfervations of Valfalva, Chefelden, and Petit, which feem to prove, that where the brain is * “ Ergo, utrum omnes nervorum fibrae, an quasdam tantum mu- “ tuo fe fecent, certe ftatui nequit.” injuredTHE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. I 19 injured, it is the eye of the oppofite fide that is affect- ed *. After their union the optic nerves are much con- tracted in diameter ; ftill the optic nerve, is the largeft of the head, excepting the fifth pair. It is the firmeft of all the nerves of the fenfes, but fofter than the other nerves f. What remains to be faid of the optic nerves, falls more naturally to be treated of when fpe^king of the organ of vifion. THIRD PAIR OF NERVES ; MOTORES OCULORUM. The third pair of nerves arife from the internal mar- gin of the crura cerebri, and the perforated medullary matter which is betwixt the crura. The delicate fila- ments of this nerve cannot be traced far into the fub- ftance of the brain, but ftill we may obferve them fpreading their filaments, and traverfing the dark co- loured fpot which we have already mentioned to be vifible in the crura cerebri. Some anatomifts have faid, that the third pair of nerves had an origin alfo from the nates and teftes. Ridley defcribes them as rifing from the pons varolii J. In relation to the arteries, thofe nerves are betwixt the pofterior artery of the cerebrum, arifing from the divifion of the bafilar artery and the anterior artery of * If Petit and others are proving that the optic nerves are affect- ed in the fide oppofite to the injury of the brain, they are proving that they have no decuffation ; for if they had, it would counteract that effeft, which, from the ftruCture of the brain, they muff have in common with the other nerves. -j- Soemmerring. f They feem to come from the angle betwixt the crura cerebri and pons varolii. They are flat near their origin, but become round and firm. I 4 the /120 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. the cerebellum *. They diverge from each other as they proceed forwards, and each penetrates under the anterior point of the tentorium by the fide of the caver- nous fmus, and pafles through the foramen lacerum. In the general defcription it is fufficient to fay, that they are diflributed in common to all the mufeles of the eye. THE FOURTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fourth pair of nerves, pathetici, or trochleares, are the fmalleft nerves of the encephalon, being not much larger than a fewing thread. This nerve comes out from betwixt the cerebrum and cerebellum, pafles by the fide of the pons varolii, and after a long courfe pierces the dura mater behind the clynoid procefs, runs along for fome way in a canal or {heath, formed by the dura mater ; it then pafles through the caver- nous fmus, continues its courfe onwards through the foramen lacerum to the orbit, and is finally appro- priated to the fuperior oblique mufcle of the eye. The origin of the fourth pair, if we take implicitly the defcriptions of authors, feems to have a much greater variety than any of the other nerves; fo that it is common to fay, the fourth pair of nerves arife about the region of the nates and teftes f. The trochlearis * “ Cette difpofition peut expliquer pourquoi on eprouve tant de “ pefanteur aux yeux aux approc’hes du fommeil, dans l’ivrefle & “ dans certains efpeces de iievre.” Sabatier. This is a mechanical and a moft improbable way of accounting for fuch an effedt. -j- “ Pone corpora bigemina pofteriora mox paullo fuperius, mox “ paullo inferius, mox magis exteriora, mox mag is interiora verfus ra- “ dice fimplici, duplici, triplici, quin et quadruplici oritur.—Non- et nunquam origo ejus in cerebri valvula, nonnunquam in ipfo fre- “ nulo patet ut humore ventriculi quarti alluatur.” Soemmerrirg, vol. iv. p. 209. arifes /I 21 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. arifes fometimes by two filaments, but more commonly by one undivided root *. This root is feen to emerge from a point betwixt the medullary lamina of the cere* bellum, or valvula VieufTenii, and the lower of the tuber- cula quadrigemina f. From the connections of the parts whence this nerve arifes with the reft of the brain, it is prefumed, that this fourth pair of nerves has a very immediate and univerfal connection with the internal parts of the brain ; yet there is nothing in the final diftribution of the nerve, which fhould incline us to believe that there fhould be any particular provifion in its origines. FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES ; TRIGEMINI. The fifth nerve of the brain arifes from the fore and lowed part of the crura cerebelli, where they unite with the pons varolii. The origin of this nerve may be divided into two portions : an anterior is frnall, and fomewhat elevated above the other. The poflerior part of this origin takes its rife a little lower than the anterior part. * Santorini fays, they have three roots or little fafciculi. Wrif- berg following Vieufens, fays, the fourth pair arifes from the valvula cerebri. Vicq d’Azyr. See Haller, faf. vii. tab. 3. “ Origo alius “ fimplex eft, alius duplex ; quando ftmplex eft, a proceffu a. cere- “ bello ad teftes exterius prodit, quam eft tranfverfa ftria, quae eos “ proceffus conjungit.” Haller Phyf. vol, iv. p. 208. f “ Et fouvent ils fe confondent avec un traftus medullaire place “ tranfverfalement au-deffus de la valvule du cerveau.” Vicq d’Azyr. This nerve, fays he, cannot be followed into the anterior part of the brain from its extreme delicacy, and becaufe it is formed from the medullary fubftance itfelf, without the admixture of f.laments to give it ftrength. He quotes thofe words of Soemmerring ;—“ Continua “ medulla oritur.” Thefe122 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. Thefe two origines of the nerve are connetted by cellu- lar membrane, and have betwixt them a little groove, in which not unfrequently an artery creeps. Accord- ing to Santorini, the anterior of thefe divifions is formed by the tranfverfe fibres of the pons varolii, and the pof- terior by the crura cerebelli. But this nerve appertains truly to the cerebellum ; and Vicq d’Azyr could never, except in one diflection, perceive that any of its fibres arofe from the pons varolii *. The nerve of the right fide has been obferved fometimes larger than that of the left. This fifth nerve, the largeft of the fcull, palling for- wards and downwards, flips in betwixt the lamina of the dura mater, oppofite to the point of the pars petrofum of the temporal bone. It is here firmly attached to the dura mater, and forms a flat irregular plexus. From this plexus there pafs out three great branches:— i ft, One to the focket of the eye and forehead, through the foramen lacerum ; 2d, One to the upper jaw and face, through the foramen rotundum j and 3d, One to the lower jaw and tongue, palling through the fora- men ovale. SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES ; OR, ABDUCENTES f. The fixth nerve of the fcull feems to arife from be- twixt the pons varolii and medulla oblongata. In the origin of its fibres it has, however, much variety ; and authors differ very much in this point of the defcrip- * “ Oritur e nodo cerebri, prope cerebellum duabuspartibus, &c.” Soemmerring. f Or, motores externi. tion.' THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. I 23 tion *. We may fay, however, that the fixth pair of nerves arife from the corpora pyramidalia.—Sometimes the nerve rifes in two branches, which do not unite un- til they are entering into the cavernous fmus f. The fixth nerve is in fize fomewhat betwixt the third and fourth : it paffes forward under the pons varolii, until 'near the lateral and lower part of the body of the fphe- noid bone : it thence continues its route forwards and downwards by the fide of the carotid artery, through the cavernous fmus : here it feems increafed in fize.— It gives off that fmall twig which anatomifts account the beginning of the great fympathetic nerve. The fixth nerve, after giving off this delicate thread, paffes on through the foramen lacerum to the abdudlor muf- cle of the eye. SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES ; OR, AUDITORY. The feventh nerve arifes from the pofterior and late- ral part of the pons varolii, at the point where it is joined by the crura cerebelli. But this feventh pair of Willis confifts of two parts ; the facial nerve or portio dura, and the audi- tory or portio mollis j the laft is the larger and pofte- rior portion J. The portio dura comes out from the foffa formed betwixt the pons varolii, corpora olivaria, and crura * Simple as the anatomy of the nerve is, Vieufiens, Morgagni, Lietaud, Window, Sabatier—all differ in their account of the ori- gin of this nerve in fome little circumftance; and Vicq d’Azyr gives fix varieties of it. ft Sabatier. 4. And we may add a third portion ; the portio media of Wrif- berg. i cerebelli;124 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. cerebelli * ; and upon a more careful examination we find it riling diftin&ly from the crus cerebelli. The origin of the portio mollis, of the feventh pair, is to be traced from the fore-part of the fourth ventri- cle f. We obferve palling obliquely upwards from the calamus fcriptorius feveral medullary llriae ; thofe vary in number from two to feven, and are fometimes not to be difcerned |. To thefe are added certain fibres arifing from the pons varolii, and as thefe fibres pro- ceed from their origin, they become Hill more dif- tin&ly formed into fafciculi. The whole of this portio mollis is larger than the third nerve, firmer than the firlt, but lefs fo than the fecond pair: it forms a kind of groove which receives the portio ifiura. The portio mollis and portio dura entering the meatus auditorius internus of the petrous bone, the former is divided into * “ Fofle de l’eminence olivare,” of Vicq d’Azyr. 4 Prochafka, fpeaking of the fourth ventricle, continues thus :— “ Super has ultimas eminentias folent medullares candicantes quafi “ fibras decurrere, a quibus proprie originem portionis mollis ner- “ vorum auditoriorum faltem pro parte deducunt.” (Ridley, Hal- ler, Lobftein, cum per antiquo au&ore Piccolhomini et etiam re- centiffimus Soemmerring.—“ Ego poilquam multoties in lineas illas “ medullares in quarto ventriculo inquifiviffem, dicere poffum, non “ femper illas in originem nervi acuftici mollis terminare ; nonun- quam enim paulo fupra nonunquam paulo infra defmunt, ali- « quando in uno latere, & baud raro utrinque defiderantur, ita ut 11 ex his obfervationibus perfuadear illas medullares quarti ventriculi « ftrias ad originem portionis mollis nervi acuftici minime effen- « tiales efle.” Prochaflca, tab. iii. f. f. f; It is a curious circumftance, {hould future obfervation confirm it, which has been mentioned by Santorini, that thofe origines of the auditory nerve have been obferved particularly ftrong in a blind man, whofe hearing had been very acute. 7 fourTHE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. I25 four portions which pafs to the feveral parts of the inter- nal ear. The latter pafles through the ear, and comes out by the ftylo-mafloid foramen behind the ear, fpreads upon the cheek, and forms the principal nerve of the face. EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. To underhand a very intricate demonhration, it is neceffary to recolledl that the eighth pair of nerves, as they have a relation to the brain, confifts of three dis- tinct nerves.—Thefe are, ift, The glosso-pharyn- gial nerve ; 2d, The par vagum ; 3d, The SPINAL accessory.—Taken all together, they arife from the fuperior and lateral part of the medulla oblongata. The glosso-pharyngial nerve is only diftin- guifhed within the fcull as a larger filament of the eighth pair ; it is however difliiidl in its courfe from the origin to the point where it pierces the dura mater : it is the uppermoft of the fibres of this .pair of nerves.— Sometimes there is a very delicate filament running pa- rallel with its lower edge which belongs to it. It has the fame origin with the fibres of the par vagum *. The par vagum is compofed of ten or twelve very fmall filaments, which are fometimes united into three or four fafciculi. Thefe filaments arife from the outer * “ Nervus gloffo-pharyngeus fafciculo mox una, mox duabus, “ quatuor, quinque fibris compofito oritur ex fumma atque priore “ parte medulla; fpinae pone corpora olivaria nervum facialem inter “ atque nervum vagum, nonnunquam etiam ex quarto ventriculo vel ex cruribus cerebelli ad fpinse medullam, nonnunquam fub pofleriori “ fulco nervi vagi, dedu&us ab eo vel diftindius, vel obfcurius in- “ terpofita arteria, vel vena, vel arteria et vena fimul, vel parte tl plexus choreoidis, quid quod ipfa diredione a nervo vago ell di- Hindus.” Soemmerring. border■126 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. border of the corpus olivare, or from the lateral part of the medulla oblongata *. Sometimes they arife in a double feries like the nerves of the fpine : a few fibres are to be traced from the fide of the calamus fcrip- torius of the fourth ventricle. The spinal accessory nerve comes up from the fpine to join the par vagum ; it begins by fmall twigs from the pofterior roots of the fourth, fifth, fixth, and even the feventh cervical nerves. In the fize, length, and origin of thofe little flips, there is much variety : as the nerve afcends to the top of the fpine, it conne&s it- felf with the fuboccipital nerve ; it then paffes behind the trunk of the vertebral artery, approaches the par vagum, and receives forpe filaments from the medulla oblongata.—Thofe three nerves, the gloffo-pharyngeal, par vagum, and acceffory nerves, in their paffage out of the fcull are connected in a very intricate way f. They there feparate from each other. The anterior branch, the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve goes to the tongue and pharynx; the middle nerve, the par vagum, has an ex- tenfive courfe through the body, and finally terminates in the fhomach ; the lowefl nerve, the acceffory, palling into the neck, perforates the maftoid mufcle, and diflri- butes its branches amongfl the mufcles of the fhoulder. NINTH PAIR OF NERVES; OR, LINGUAL. The ninth nerve of the fcull originates from betwixt the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria. Like all the nerves of the fpine, it is compofed of feveral little fila- * Some filaments, according to Vieuffens, Santorini, and Soemmer- ring, are derived from the paries of the 4th ventricle. f The minutiae of which will afterwards call for attention. ments;I27 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. ments; thofe unite into a fafciculus of a pyramidal fhape: dill thofe filaments do not form a nerve before per- forating the dura mater, but pierce it feverally * ; they then unite and pafs out of the fcull by the condoloyd foramen of the occipital bone ; they are then connected with the eighth pair and ganglion of the fympathetic -nerve.—The final diflribution of the nerve, is to the mufcles of the tongue f. the Tenth, or suboccipital nerve, From its origin, its manner of pafiing betwixt the fcull and firft vertebras, and its diftribution, it mult be claffed with the nerves of the fpine. The nerves of the fpine are divided into the eight cervical, twelve dorfal, five lumbar, five, and fometimes fix or feven, facral nerves J. Each of thofe twenty-five nerves arifes in two fafciculi, one from the fore, and the other from the back part of the fpinal marrow. They are to be traced a great way in the length of the fpinal marrow before they pafs the membranes. The pofte- rior and anterior fafciculi penetrate the dura mater fepa- rately, and afterwards unite. The pofierior fafciculi of * The ninth pair of nerves often differ very much in one fide from the other, in regard to the origin and number of thofe fafciculi. f “ Forfan etiam nimio fhnguine plena arteria vertebrali prefTus “ lseditur, ut inde haefttantia atque refolutio linguae ebriorum, ex ce- “ rebri phlegmone infanientium, attonitorum explicari poffit.—Col- “ lapfa vero eadem arteria ex nimio fanguinis profluvio lingua ob “ fanguinis forfan defectum refolvitur.—-Ex ejufdem nervi nexu “ cum nervis cervicalibus vccis ja&uram poll laefam fpinalis medul- “ Is partem quae in cervice eft, explicarunt.” % “ Plerumque quinque funt, nonnunquam fex, raro tres vel qua- *( tttor.” Soemmerring. the128 THE ORIGIN OF THE NERVES. the dorfal nerve before they unite with the other, fwell into a little ganglion. The pofterior fafciculi of the cer- vical nerves communicate with each other by interme- diate filaments. END OF THE ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN.OF TI-IE PARTICULAR NERVES. 129 CHAP. IV. OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. THE FIRST PAIR OF NERVES J OR, OLFACTORY NERVES. We have defcribed the three roots of this pair of nerves: their triangular form, their bulbous extremi- ties, and their manner of perforating the crebriform plate of the asthmoid bone. Where the foft and pulpy-like mafs of the olfa&ory nerves perforates the aethmoid bone, the dura mater involves them, and gives them firm coats*. There are two fets of nerves; firft, Thofe which pafs through the holes in the crebriform plate, neared the crifta galli, run down upon the feptum of the nofe, under the fchneiderian membrane, and betwixt it and the periof- teum. They become extremely minute as they defcend; and they, finally, pafs into the foft fubftance of the membrane. Secondly, Thofe filaments which pafs down by the outer fet of holes of the aethmoid plate, are diftributed to the membrane invelting the fpongy bones. * Duverney firft obferved this courfe and firmnefs of the olfactory nerves. Vol. III. K AlthoughI30 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* Although branches of the opthalmic, pterigoid, pala- tine, and fuborbital nerves pafs to the membrane of the nofe, there is reafon to believe that they have no power of conveying the impreffion of odours. Thefe nerves are neceffary that the membrane may poffefs the common properties bellowed by the nerves. Upon the queltion, whether thofe additional branches of nerves to the nofe, affifl in conveying the impreffion of odours, there has been much controverfy. It is a fubjeCt upon which we might reafon by analogy; but, certainly, little dependence can be placed upon thofe cafes brought by either party, of dileafes affecting the one fet of nerves without influencing the other. From the nature of the parts, ulceration or tumors, which deftroy the bones of the nofe, mull prcfs equally upon the branches of the olfaCtory nerve, and of the fifth pair. We find that there pafs alfo to the other organs of fenfe, fubordinate nerves; and we know that a nerve may be modified to much variety of function; and this is evident from the nerve of tafle being a branch of the fifth pair. But it is doubtful how far a nerve may be capable of receiving at one inflant various im- preflions. Far from confidering diflinCt nerves fent to the fame organ, as affording an argument for thefe nerves receiving one uniform impreffion, and conveying one fimple fenfation, it would feem more rational to infer, that one individual nerve cannot per- form two funftions, and that two functions are often required in the organs of fenfe. I am inclined to be- lieve, that, the olfaCtory nerve is incapable of bellowing common fenfation on the membrane of the nofe; and that-OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 13! that the other nerves which ramify on that membrane, do, on the other hand, contribute nothing to the fenfe of fmell, as we find that the inflammation of the pituitary mem- brane, w hich raifes the fenfibility of the branches of the fifth pair of nerves, does in no degree make thofe of the olfadtory nerve lefs acute. The membrane is painfully -inflamed, but the fenfe of fmell is deadened. In at- tending to the delicate fenfibility of the nerves of the fenfes, we negledt to take into account the lefs promi- nent, but no lefs curious peculiarities in the fenfations, and fympathies of the common nerves. The fenfes of tafte or fmell are not more diftindt from each other, or from common fenfation, than are the peculiar fenfations which belong to the fenfibility of the feveral vifcera. The ftomach and inteftinal canal pofiefs as great a difcrimnating power as the organ of tafte, although the fenfations are lefs perfectly conveyed to the fenforium. There is a variety in the fufceptibility of the feveral or- gans and vifcera, a diftindt fenfation and proportioned adtion and eledtion w'hich is elfential to the order and ceconomy of the general fyftem. This is confpicuous in the variety of the affedtions in remote parts, when food, medicine, or poifon is received into the body. Thefe peculiarities in the impreflion of which each or- gan is fufceptible, are fo far diftindt as to be eflential to the due excitement of that organ; and are yet fo general, as to connedt, in one combined adtion, the whole fyftem, and to occafion fymphaies in remote parts, which perplex us, and give that degree of intricacy to the living adtions, which renders medicine an uncertain art. Ed 2 ARRANGE.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 132 the ARRANGEMENT OF THE NERVES PROCEEDING FROM THE CRANIUM. The firfl nerve we have feen palling to the nofe. The fecond, third, fourth, part of the fifth and fixth, pafs to the eye, or through the orbit. The feventh nerve is that which becomes the organ of hearing. Part of the fifth, feventh, eighth, ninth, and fuboc- cipital nerves pafs to the bones of the face, the integu- ments and mufcles of the face, the jaw, and throat. From the fixth pair of nerves is derived the great fympathetic; from the eighth is fent downwards the par vagum. The extreme branches of the fifth pair, of the feventh, of the eighth, ninth, and firfl cervical nerves, form a chain of connections, furrounding the head, face, and neck. SECOND PAIR, OR OPTIC NERVES. In this part of the work there is no occafion to de- liver any thing further concerning the optic nerves, than has been already faid of their origin, and final ex- panfion in the retina of the eye. It will be more pro- per to confider them fully when treating of the eye in particular. THIRD PAIR OF NERVES, OR MOTORES OCULORUM. Thefe nerves have the name of motores oculorum, becaufe they are diftributed to the mufcles which moveOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 133 the eye-balls. They pafs upwards from their origin ; and then diverging, they penetrate the dura mater un- der the extreme point of the tentorium; they defcend again by the fide of the cavernous finus, and pafs out of the cranium by the foramen lacerum of the fphenoid bone. The nervus motor oculi having come into the focket divides into two branches: The inferior branch pafles forward along the outfide of the optic nerve; it then divides into thefe branches: 1. To the adduftor mufcle. 2. To the re&us inferior. 3. To the external oblique and to the lenticular ganglion. But the. branch of the third nerve, which, with the fifth, forms this little ganglion, is, by no means, con- ftantly derived from this branch. The lesser and superior branch of the third, is diftributed to the redtus fuperior oculi and levator palpebrae fuperioris. FOURTH PAIR OF NERVES, TROCHLEARES, OR PATHETICI. Thefe nerves are very fmall. Their origin, from about the tubercula quadrigemina, and their long courfe under the bafe of the brain, have been already deferr- ed ; after proceeding a confiderable way, incafed in the duplicature of the dura mater, where it forms the extreme point of the tentorium, they pafs amongft the lamellae of the dura mater, where it forms the cavernous finus. They pafs by the outfide of the third pair of nerves; turn round fo as to be above them, and make their egrefs through the foramen lacerum of the s K3 fphenoid134 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. fphenoid bone. They pafs forward in the orbit, un- diminiffied by the giving off of branches; and are each finally diftributed to the fuperior oblique mufcle or trochlearis. Sometimes, however, in their courfe, they fend branches to unite with thofe of the fifth pair, which pafs to the nofe, or even to the frontal nerve j but this is very rare As this nerve is derived very far back from the brain, and as the parts from which it originates are lefs axfe&ed by the dillention of the ventricles than almoft any other part of the brain, this may be a reafon why- in hydrocephalus we fo frequently fee the eyes turned obliquely towards the nofe. The origins of thefe nerves being lefs affe&ed, they will give a compara- tively greater power to the fuperior oblique mufcle. It has been obferved alfo, that in death the power of the fuperior oblique mufcle has a preponderance, THE FIFTH PAIR, OR TRIGEMINI. The tracing of the branches of the fifth pair, by diffection, is a difficult talk, for thofe branches are diftributed among the bones of the face, to the eyes, nofe, mouth, tongue, and throat. From this extenfive diftribution the fifth nerve is neceffarily the largelt of thofe that pafs out of the cranium. It is of a flattened form f; it penetrates the dura mater at the anterior point of the petrous bone, and fpreads flat under it. Here, under the dura mater, it. is matted into one irregular ganglion; viz. the femp * Soemmerring, f So it ig faid, by Miekel, to refemble the flat worm, or ttenia. lunar.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I35 lunar, or Gaflerian ganglion. This ganglion lies on the anterior point of the temporal, and on the fphenoidal bone. In their paffage from the brain, the filaments, compofing the fifth nerve, are loofe, or eafilv fepa- rated; at this place, they are all found fo fubdivided and entangled, as to refill further divifion. The nerve here fvvells out into a greater fize; it feems to be in- corporated with the denfe fibres of the dura mater; it becomes of a dark red, or mixed colour; all which circumflances have, by no means, been unobferved by anatomifts. Vieuflens fuppoled, that the ufe of this ganglion, of the fifth pair, before it perforates the cra- nium, was to flrengthen the nerve, and enable it to withfland the motion of the jaws! But it would rather feem to be a ganglion connecting in fympathy all thofe parts to which the nerve is finally diflributed *. The connexion of the Gaflerian ganglion with the dura mater, is fo firm, that it yet remains undecided, whether there are fent off here any nerves to that membrane; but I conceive, that there are none, and that the connection of the ganglion with the fibrous membrane, or fheath which covers it, has been mis- taken for nerves palling from the ganglion to the dura mater. From the femilunar or Gaflerian ganglion, the fifth nerve divides into three great branches; whence the name of trigemini: lit, ihe OPTHALMIC BRANCH of WILLIS, which pafies through the foramen lacerum into the orbit, * “ Et affe&um animi indicia in faciei partibusdepingereadjuvet.” Hirfch. Sand. Thef. Diferta. p. 491.136 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 2d, The SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, which paffes through the foramen rotundum. 3d, The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, which paffes to the lower jaw, through the foramen ovale. The optbalmic branch of the fifth pair. This nerve enters the orbit in three divifions; thefe are, the frontal, the nafal, and the lachrymal nerves. iff, The firft of thefe runs under the periofteum of the upper part of the orbit, and above the levator pal- pebras fuperioris. Upon entering the orbit it gives off a fmall branch, which paffes to the frontal fmus ; the nerve then divides into the fuper trochlearis, and the proper frontal nerve. The firft of thefe paffes to the inner part of the orbicularis oculi and frontal mufcle. The other, the outermoft, and the proper frontal nerve, paffes through the hole, or notch, in the margin of the orbit, and mounts upon the mufcles and integuments of the forehead. Thefe fuperftcial branches communicate with the extreme branches of the portio dura, or nervus communicans faciei. Cafes are on record of wounds of the frontal nerve occafioning a great variety of nervous fymptoms, and efpecially lofs of fight; and it certainly marks a very particular connection and fympathy betwixt this branch and the common nerves which pafs to the eye-ball and iris, and the retina, that blindnefs is actually occafioned by the pricking of the frontal nerve. Morgagni fup- pofes this to be occafioned by the fpafmodic aCtion of the reCti mufcles preffmg the globe of the eye down againfl the optic nerve. It is alfo remarkable, that im- preffions acting folely on the retina, will convulfe the mufcles of the eye, give them irregular contractions, andOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I 37 the and confequently diftort the eye-ball and produce blindnefs. Such has been found to be the effect of lip-htninv in fome inftances. O O 2d, The nasal branch of the opthalmic nerve fends off a Hip or twig to form with a branch of the third pair, the lenticular or opthalmic gang- lion ; while the trunk of the nerve paffes obliquely forwards, and inward through the orbit, and gives off one or two extremely fmall twigs, which join the fafci culi of ciliary nerves. The nafal branch then continues its courfe betwixt the fuperior oblique and addudtor mufcles; before piercing the orbital plate, it fends for- ward a branch, which palling under the pulley of the fuperior oblique mufcle, joins that divifion of the frontal nerve which paffes over the pulley. The nafal nerve then paffing through the internal orbital foramen, enters the fcull again, and runs under the dura mater, which covers the aethmoid bone, to pafs through the cre- briform plate of that bone, and again to elcape from the cranium. It is finally diftributed to the upper fpongy bones, and to the frontal fmufes. We thus obferve fuch a connexion of the nerves of the eye and nofe, and of thofe diftributed to the inner angle of the eye, and mufcles of the eye-lids, as fuf- hciently accounts for the fympathy exifling among thofe parts. We fee the neceffity of this connection, fince the excitement of the glands which fecrete the tears, the adtion of the mufcles, and the abforption of the tears into the nofe, muff conflitute one fympathe- tic adlion. The lenticular, or, opthalmic ganglion, comes naturally to be confidered under this divifion of138 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. the fifth pair. The lenticular ganglion is formed by a twig from the nafal branch of the fifth pair, after being united to that branch of the third pair of nerves* which goes to the levator palpebrce and the re&us fuperior mufeles. The ganglion is of a fquare form, and is iituated upon the outlide of the optic nerve. The ciliary nerves pafs out from this ganglion into two faf- ciculi; they are ten or twelve in number; they are joined by branches of the continued nafal nerve. The ciliary nerves run forward amongfl the fat of the or- bit, to the fclerotic coat of the eye, and pierce it very obliquely in conjunction with the ciliary arteries. The ciliary nerves and arteries then pafs forward betwixt the fclerotic and choroid coats of the eye to the iris. The iris is confidered as the part the moft plentifully fupplied with nerves (as it certainly is alfo with arteries) of any part in the body. It follows, indeed, from what we formerly faid, that a profufe circulation of blood is necelfary to an accumulated nervous power. From the connection of thefe ciliary nerves with thofe palling to the nofe, Soemmerring accounts for fneezing being the confequence of a ftrong light upon the eye. This may perhaps be true; but, certainly, the temporary lofs of light, from fneezing, does not depend upon this connexion of the nerves, but upon the immediate affeCtion of the optic nerve and retina, from the concuffion and interruption to the circulation, or upon the accumulation of blood in the eye. 2. The lachrymal nerve is the leaflt of the three divifions of the opthalmic nerve ; it divides into feveral branches before it enters the gland. Several of thefe branches pals on to the tunica conjun&iva, being joinedOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I39 joined by twigs of the firft branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve. Others conned themfelves with the extremities of the portio dura of the feventh pair, and with the fuperior maxillary nerves. *The fecond branch of the fifth pair ; viz. the fuperior maxillary nerve. The fuperior maxillary nerve, having paffed the fora- men rotundum, emerges behind the antrum highmoria- num, at the back part of the orbit, at the root of the pterigoid procefs of the fphenoid bone. The infra or- bital canal lies diredly oppofite, and ready to receive one branch, while the fpheno-maxillary, opening into the orbit, is above, ready to receive another. The chief part, or trunk, of the nerve may be faid to be feated, and to give out its divifions in the pterigo-palatine foffa* Through the fpheno-maxillary hole, the firft branch of the fuperior nerve is fent into the focket of the eye* This twig unites with branches of the lachrymal nerve, and in general fupplies the periofteum of the orbit. It then fends, through the foramen in the os tnallae, a branch which is dillributed to the orbicularis mufcle of the eye-lid, and communicates with the branches of the portio dura of the feventh pair, or nervus commu- nicans faciei. Another branch of this firft divifion paffes upward from the zigomatic foffa, in a groove of the wing of the fphenoid bone, to the temporal mufcle, and getting fuperficial, it accompanies the branches of the temporal artery. Independently of this branch, which paffes upwards to the temporal mufcle, Miekel, in his firft differtation on this nerve, divides its branches into four: i ft. The infraI40 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. infra orbital; 2d, The defcending branch, which again gives off the vidian and nafal nerves; 3d, The palatine nerve and pofterior alveolar nerve. It was; not till afterwards that he difcovered the ganglion which takes his name; and, of courfe, the previous de- fcription muft be imperfect. The fuperior maxillary- nerve, after fending off the fmall branches which I have defcribed to enter the orbit, having fairly emerged out of the cranium, fends down two fmall branches which, uniting, form a little ganglion of a redifli colour, and of a triangular Ihape, like a heart. This, the spheno-palatine ganglion, or ganglion of Miekcl, is exaftly oppoftte to the fpheno-palatine hole ; and thcfe nerves, and this ganglion are immerfed in the foft fat which fills up the fpace betwixt the fphenoid palatine and fuperior maxillary bones. From this ganglion are fent out feveral lefler nerves,’ and particularly the nafal, vidian, and palatine nerves. The superior nasal branches pafs by the fpheno-palatine hole to the membrane on the back part of the nofe, and to the cells of the fphenoid bone, through the fpheno-palatine hole. The vidian nerve comes off from the back part of the ganglion, and paftes into the foramen pteri- goideum backwards. It firft gives off forne fmall branches to the nofe (the fuperior and pofterior nafal nerves of Miekel) ; thefe perforating the bone laterally, are diftributed on the pituitary membrane, covering the vomer. The vidian nerve continuing its courfe backwards, fplits; one branch, after a long retrograde courfe through the petrous part of the temporal bone, forms a connexion with the portio dura, while the otherOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I4I other forms one of the roots of the great fympathetic nerve, by joining the branch of the fixth pair, which paffes down with the carotid artery. From the diftribution of this branch of the fifth pair to the membrane of the nofe, and its connection with the fympathetic, fome phyfiologifts account for the effeCts of odours in caufing fainting, as the chief nerves of the heart are received from the fympathetic. They alfo account thus for the excitement of the heart, in de- liquium, by ftimulant applications to the nofe. The palatine nerve is the largeft of the branches fent out from the ganglion. We have to recoiled, that there are two canals palling down behind the pa- late ; one anterior and larger; and another running nearly parallel to it, a pofferior and fmaller one. The divifion of the palatine nerve, which defcends through the anterior palatine hole, is of courfe the larger branch ; as it paffes through the canal, it gives branches which enter the nofe, to be diftributed upon the pituitary membrane. This larger branch, in its fur- ther progrefs through the bone, divides, and having emerged from its hole, is diftributed all along on the left palate. The pofterior divifion of the palatine branch, palling down by the pofterior palatine foramen, is diftributed to the velum pendulum palati and its mufcles. There is yet a third branch of the palatine nerve; ’viz. the external palatine nerve. It is the leaft of all the branches ; and, fometimes, inftead of coming from the ganglion, is derived immediately from the fuperior maxillary nerve. This branch defcends before the pterigoid proceffes, and on the convex furface of the upperi4« OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* upper maxillary bone, and is diftributed to the velum palati and uvula. The fuperior maxillary nerve, after fending off the branches which form the fpheno-palatine ganglion, paffes obliquely downward to the infra orbital canal. In this courfe it gives off the pofterior nerve to the teeth of the upper jaw ; and this again gives off a twig, which takes a courfe on the outfide of the maxillary bone, and fupplies the gums and alveoli, and buccina- tor mufcle. While palling in its canal, the infra orbital nerve gives off the anterior nerve to the teeth ; and when it emerges from the infra orbital foramen, it fpreads widely to the mufcles of the face, connedling itfelf with the extremities of the portio dura of the feventh pair, or nervus communicans faciei* The “ tic douloureux,” and the “ tic convulfif,” of the French authors, are difeafes attributed to the affec- tion of this nerve. The feat of the tic douloureux, is the fide of the face, the nollril, the cheek-bone, and root of the alveoli. Sauvage calls it the trifmus dolo- rificus, or maxillaris. But it is a difeafe not abfolutely fixed to this point of the cheek-bone ; but on the con- trary, from the univerfal connection betwixt the nerves of the face, it takes, fometimes, a wide range; and the difeafe, I have no doubt, is fometimes feated in the portio dura of the feventh pair. Sauvage has given to one fpecies of it, the name of occipitalis. It is a difeafe attended with extreme pain, which forces the patient to cry out in great agony. The pain is felt deep rooted in the bones of the face, and feems to fpread upon the expanded extremities of the nerve; itOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I43 is Hidden, violent, and reiterated in its attack, and it varies in the length and repetition of its acceffion. It is confined chiefly to thofe advanced in years, and is as violent in the day as during the night; and in the advanced Hate of the difeafe, when the face is fwelled, the flighted touch will excite the pain. , This difeafe is apt to be confounded with the affec- tion of the antrum highmorianum, the tooth-ach, rheu- matifm, and clavis hyftericus, or even with venereal pains. It has been cured by dividing of the infra or- bital nerve. In hemicrania, the affeftion of the three branches of the fifth nerve, is fuch as to mark their diftributions. There is fwelling and pain of the face, pain of the up- per maxillary bone, pains in the ear and in the teeth, difficulty of fwallowing, and laftly, ftifthefs in moving the lower jaw, in confequence of the affe&ion of thofe branches which pafs up to the temporal mufcle. There are cafes fpoken of by Sabatier, where this infra orbital nerve being wounded, unufual nervous affe&ions, and even death, were the confequence: but it would rather appear, that, independently altogether of the affe&ion of the nerves of the face, inflammation fpreading from the wound to the brain, had, in the ex- amples which he gives, been the occafion of the unufual fymptoms, and of the death of the patients. Third branch of thefifth pair; or, lower maxillary nerve. This, the lafl: of the three great divifions of the fifth pair of nerves, the largeft but the fhortefl: branch within the fcull, paffes out by the foramen ovale. It is diftri- buted to the mufcles of the lower jaw, tongue, and 2 glands-144 0F TKE particular nerves. . ' i glands. The trunk of the nerve having efcaped from the cranium, lies covered by the external pterigoid muf- cle; and is at this point divided into two great branches, which again fubdivide into numerous fmall branches; many of which it would be fuperfluous to defcribe. It is fufficient to mention them as going, i, to the maf- feter mufcle ; 2, to the zygomatic folfa and temporal mufcles ; 3, to the buccinator mufcle. We regard as the two greater divifions of the lower maxillary nerve; firft, The proper nerve which pafies into the lower jaw; and, fecondly, The guftatory or lingual nerve. The divifion into thefe two great branches is formed, after the nerve has palled betwixt the pterigoid mufcles. The gustatory nerve, immediately after its fepa- ration from the nerve of the lower jaw, is joined by the chorda tympani; or, perhaps we Ihould rather fay, a branch of this nerve, by traverfmg the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone in a retrograde dire&ion, unites itfelf wTith the portio dura of the feventh pair, as it is palling through, the ear. This nerve being feen palling acrofs the tympanum, is the reafon of its being called, chorda tympani. The guftatory nerve, pro- ceeding obliquely downward, fends oif twigs to the fa- livary glands and mufcles, fituated betwixt the jaw- bone and tongue. Where it is palling by the fide of the maxillary gland, it gives out fome filaments which form a fmall ganglion, from which branches penetrate the gland. The trunk then proceeding onward betwixt the fublingual gland and the mufculus hyoglolfus, feveral twigs are fent off, which form a kind of plexus amongft the mufcles and felivary glands 5 and com- 4 municatingOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. J45 municating with the ninth pair of nerves, are diftribut- ed, finally, to the gums and membrane of the mouth. The guftatory nerve terminates in a lafli of nerves, which fink deep into the fubftance of the tongue, betwixt the infertion of the ftylo and genio-gloffal mufcles. Thefe pafs to the papillae on the furface of the tongue. The fenfe of tafle, the impreflion of which is received upon this nerve, is feated in the edge and anterior part of the tongue : the a&ion of the tongue againft the pa- late forces the fapid juice of the morfel to extend to the edge of the tongue. The proper lower maxillary nerve, which enters into the lower jaw-bone, fometimes called, mundibulo labralh, pafles downward in an oblique direftion to the groove of the lower jaw-bone. Before this nerve enters the canal of the bone, it gives off branches to the mylo- hyoideus and digafiricus, to the fubmaxillary glands and to the fat. The nerve then entering the bone, runs its courfe all the length of the lower jaw within the bone, and comes out at the mental hole. In this courfe it gives branches which enter the roots of the teeth, and accompany the branches of the arteries. When this lower maxillary nerve has efcaped from the mental hole, it divides into two branches upon the chin; one of thefe is diftributed to the orbicularis and depreflor anguli oris, and to the {kin and glands of the lips ; the other to the deprelfor labii inferioris and in- teguments, and forms a kind of plexus, which fur- rounds the lips. Thefe nerves are alfo connected with the wide fpreading branches of the portio dura of the feventh pair; and they are the lowed: branches of the Vol. III. I. facial146 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. facial nerves, and the laft enumerated of the intricate branches of the fifth pair. the sixth pair of nerves ; aeducentes, or MOTORES EXTERNI. The fixth pair of nerves, as we have feen, arifes be- twixt the tuber annulare and the corpus pyramidale. Advancing forwards and upwards, fometimes above and fometimes beneath the branches of the bafilar ar- tery, it penetrates the dura mater by the fide of the bafilar finufes. It then paffes by the fide of the carotid artery, and through the cavernous finus. Here it gives off filaments, which, clinging to the carotid artery, de- feend with it until they are joined by a branch of the vidian nerve. Thefe together form the origin of the great fympathetic nerve. It is a difputed point, how- ever, whether this be a branch given out from, or re- ceived into, the fixth pair ; and in the defeription of the fixth pair, we might fay, that as it paffes the caro- tid artery, it receives one or more nerves which come up through the carotid hole, and encircle the nerve. The fixth pair enters the orbit by the foramen lacerum, with the third and fourth pairs, and firft branch of the fifth. It pierces the abduftor mufcle of the eye before it is finally diflributed to its fubftance. It has been prefumed, that the fixth nerve does not give off the fympathetic nerve, but receives thofe branches from it, becaufe the fixth nerve is larger be- twixt this point and its diflribution in the orbit, than betwixt the fame point and its origin from the brain. But I conceive, that this enlargement of the fixth pair isOF THE particular nerves. 147 is not owing to fuch a junction; but that, on the contrary, the nerve naturally fwells out when it enters the finus, not from being foaked in the blood of the finus, but from its having additional inverting coats, or from the coats being ftrengthened in order to prepare the nerve for its paflage through the blood of the finus. Again, that the fympathetic nerve fends up thofe branches to join the fixth, has been prefumed from the effedls of experiments on animals, of cutting or of bruifmg the fympathetic nerve. But I fhould not be apt to give implicit credit to the refult of thefe experi- ments. Suppofmg that the fympathetic in the neck gave an origin to the fixth pair, fhould not paralyfis of the abdudtor mufcle of the eye, and in confequence of this, the turning of the eye towards the nofe, be the effect of cutting the fympathetic ? We fhall probably ceafe to difpute this point, when we confider the relations and ufe of the fympathetic nerve. The nerves cannot be confidered in any other light than as being formed of the fame matter with the brain, as having fimilar functions and powers, rather co-exift- ing than dependant on the brain: and the fympathetic nerve may be defined, a tradt of medullary matter, parting through and connecting the head and neck, the vifcera of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, into one whole. The fympathetic nerve is fmgular in this, that it takes no particular origin, but has innumerable ori- gins, and a univerfal connection with the other nerves through all the trunk of the body. Thofe vifcera to which it is dirtributed are entirely independent of the L 2 will.I48 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. will, and have functions to perform too effential to life to be left under the influence of the will. The fympa- thetic nerve is thus, as it were, a fyftem within itfelf, having operations to perform of which the mind is never confcious; whilft the extent of its connections occafion, during difeafe, fympathetic affections not eafilv fcrutinized. The function of this nerve is thus, in a great mea- fure, infulated from the brain. The operations connected with it proceed, even when the brain is wanting ; and it is impoflible ferioufly to confider the fixth nerve as giving the origin to the fympathetic in any other light, than as fuch an expreflion may be fubfervient to ar- rangement, defcription, and general enumeration of the nerves;—a thing molt neceffary in fo intricate a piece of anatomy. OF THE SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. The nerves of the feventh pair confift each of two fafciculi, which arife together, and pafs into the foramen auditorius internus *. But thefe portions do not pafs through the bone in union; for the anterior and lefler fafciculus, is a common nerve, which pafles through to the face, and is inverted, like the common nerves of the body, with ftrong coats. It is therefore called the portio dura|. The more pofterior fafci- * The intermediate filaments of Wrifberg, which is betwixt thefe two portions of the feventh nerve, is afterwards united to the portio dura, and muft be confidered as one of its roots. f Galen divided all the nerves of the brain into thofe two claffes, mollis and dura ; of which the firft. were thofe of the fenfe6, the latter the motores corporis. cuiusOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I49 cuius is the auditory nerve, and is diftributed to the or- gan within the pars petrofa of the temporal bone ; and in diltindtion it is called the portio mollis. The portio dura, or nervus communicans fa- ciei, in palling from the brain to the internal auditory foramen, is lodged in the fore part of the auditory nerve, as in a groove. When it leaves the auditory nerve, it paffes on through the bone, and emerges on the fide of the face through the ftylo-maftoid foramen at the root of the ftyloid procefs, fo as to come out juft under the tip of the ear, covered, of courfe, by the parotid gland. The portio dura, while palling through the canal of the temporal bone (which is the aqueduct of Falopius), gives off a branch which unites with the vidian nerve of the fifth pair ; or rather, we may con- clude with the belt authors, that it receives a branch which comes retrograde from the vidian nerve, palling through the fmall hole on the anterior furface of the petrous part of the temporal bone. The portio dura, when it has proceeded onwards by the fide of the tym- panum, gives off one or more very minute branches to the mufcles within the tympanum, which give tenfion to the fmall bones of the ear. A little further on, this nerve gives off a more remarkable branch, which, palling acrofs the tympanum, is called corda tym- pani. This is the branch which, as we formerly mentioned, joins the guftatory branch of the lower maxillary nerve. The corda tympani paffes through the tympanum betwixt the long procefs of the incus and the handle of the maleus; then, received into a groove of the bone, it paffes by the fide of the curta- il 3 chean1$0 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. chean tube, and after enlarging confiderably, it is united w:th the guftatory nerve. When the portio dura, or nervus communicans faciei, has efcaped from the ftylo-maftoid foramen, but is yet behind the condyle of the lower jaw, and under the parotid gland, it gives ofF, ill. The pollerior auris. This has connexion with, the firll cervical nerve, and palTing up behind the ear, it is connected with the oc- cipital branches of the third cervical nerve. 2d, The nervus llylo-hyoideus to the Ityloid mufcles, and to unite with the fympathetic. 3d, A branch which fup- plies fome of the deep mufcles, and joins the laryngeal branch of the eighth pair. The portio dura, rifmg through the parotid gland, fpreads out in three great divifions: 1. An ascending branch, which divides into three temporal or jugal nerves ; fo called, becaufe they afcend upon the jugum, or zygomatic procefs. Two orbitary nerves, which, palling up to the orbicularis mufcle, branch upon it, and inofculate with the ex- tremities of the fifth pair. 2. The facial nerves.. The fuperior facial nerve palfes out from the upper part of the parotid ' gland, acrofs the face to the cheek and orbicularis mufcle of the eye. The middle facial nerve palfes from under the riforius fantorini; it goes under the zygomatic mufcle, and encircles the facial vein; it fends branches forward to the lips, and upwards to the eye-lids, and to unite with the infra-orbital nerve. There is an inferior facial nerve, which comes out from the lower part of the parotid gland, palfes oyer theOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I5X L 4 clafs the angle of the jaw, and is dillributed to thofe fibres of the platyfma myoides which flretch up upon the face, and form the riforius fantorini: it pafles on to the angle of the lips, and is dillributed to their deprelfor mufcle. Betwixt thofe facial nerves there are frequent communications, while they are at the fame time united .with the extremities of feveral branches of the fifth pair. 3. The descending branches pafs along the mar- gine of the jaw, down upon the neck, and backward upon the occiput. Thus we fee that the commu- nicating nerve of the face is well named.—It is dillri- buted to the fide of the face, head, and upper part of the neck: it unites its extreme branches with thofe of the three great divifions of the fifth pair, with the eighth and ninth, with the acceffory of the eighth pair, with the fecond and third cervical nerves, and with the fympathetic. From thofe various connections it has been called the Idler fympathetic. As to the fympathies which phyficians have thought fit to afcribe to the con- nexions of this with other nerves, as laughing, weeping, killing, &c. they would be tedious to enumerate, and by no means inltruCtive. The portio mollis of the feventh pair of nerves is the acaullic or auditory nerve ; which lhall be confi- dered in a more diltinCt and particular manner, when we defcribe the other parts of the organ of hearing. The nerves which we have now defcribed are con- nected with the anatomy of the head, and circulate chiefly around the bones of the face. Thofe we are next to confider extend their branches to the neck, and form there a very intricate piece of anatomy, while aI52 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. clafs of them dill more important, pafs down to the vifcera of the bread and belly. THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fafciculus, which, proceeding from the medulla oblongata, pafles out of the cranium by the fide of the great lateral dnus, and which, in the view we have of the nerves upon raidng the brain from the cranium,Is properly enough confidered as the eighth pair, condds in truth of three didinfl nerves. Thefe are the glosso PHARYNGEAL NERVE, the PAR VAGUM, and the SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE of WlLLIS. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve. This nerve, parting from its connexion with the par vagum and acceflory nerves, perforates the dura mater feparately from thefe, and in many fubje&s, pafles through an ofleous canal diflinft from the par vagum. When it efcapes from the cranium, it lies deep under the angle of the jaw, and pafles acrofs the internal caro- tid artery upon its outer fide. It is to be feen by lift- ing the dyloid mufcles, at which point it fends fmall branches to the dyloid and digadric mufcles, and to join the par vagum. It fends alfo fome very fmall twigs down upon the internal carotid artery; fome of which join that pharyngeal branch* which is formed from the par vagum and acceflory nerve, * This is a branch to the pharynx which is formed by the par vagum and the fpinal acceflory'of Willis. After this nerve is formed, it again forms connexion with the par vagum.—Pain in the throat having been obferved by Galen to extend to the back, Scarpa ex- plains it on the ground of this connexion with the fpinal acceflory nerve. 4 ThefeOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 153 Thefe branches united form a fmall irregular gang- lion, from which again pafs off numerous branches to the conftri&or mufcles of the pharynx. The trunk of the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve, after giving off thofe nerves which pafs in the direction of the internal carotid artery, continues its courfe attached to the ftylo-gloffal and flylo-pharyngeal mufcles, to which of courfe it gives more branches, and alfo to the upper divifion of the conftri&or pharyngis. A divi- fion of the extreme branches of this nerve terminates in the tongue, under the denomination of rami linguales profundi, rami linguales later ales, nervi glojfo-pharyngei*. It appears to me that thefe branches are diflributed amongft the fhort mufcles of the tongue, and perhaps to the large papillae upon the mod pofterior part of the tongue. Amongft the branches of the pharyngeal nerve is to be enumerated that which turns back to join the ninth pair in its diftribution to the tonguef. The remaining branches of the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve, are diflributed in innumerable filaments upon the pharynx, in which they are aflifted by branches from the ganglion of the fympathetic nerve. THE PAR VAGUM. I ' . The par vagum is the great and important divifion of the eighth pair. It is the middle fafciculus of the three nerves as they lie within the fcull. In its exit, it is feparated from the internal jugular vein by a thin bony plate ; and fometimes two or three fibres of the * Scarpa, f Sabatier. nerve154 OF THE particular nerves. nerve pafs the bone diftind from the others, and after- wards unite into the proper trunk of the par vagum. Deep under the lower jaw and the maftoid procefs, the glolfo-pharyngeal nerve, the par vagum, the fpinal acceffory, the fympathetic nerve, the portio dura of the feventh, and the upper cervical nerves, are entangled in a way which will fatigue the diffector, and may account for every degree of fympathy of parts. The par vagum, lying behind the internal carotid artery, and as it were efcaping from the confufion of the ninth acceffory and gloffo-pharyngeal nerves, defcends and fwells out into a kind of ganglion*. We now obferve three branches to be fent off: The first and second pharyngeal nerves, which pafs to the conftridtor pharyngis mufcle, and the internal laryngeal nerve. This laft-men- tioned nerve is even larger than the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve. It is behind the carotid artery, and paffes ob- liquely downward and forward. In its progrefs the prin- cipal branch paffes under the hyo-thyroideus mufcle, and betwixt the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage; while others, more fuperficial, pafs down and are con- nedled with the external laryngeal, or pharyn- go-laryngeus; which is a nerve formed by the fym- pathetic, and par vagum conjointly. The principal branch of the internal laryngeal nerve, which runs under the hyo-thyroideus, is diftributed to the fmall mufcles moving the cartilages. The minute extremities of this nerve pafs alfo to the apex of the epyglottis, and the glandular membrane covering the glottis. We * Trtincus gangliformis octavi, tumidulum corpus olroare, Fallopii; but it is fufpected that in this he meant the ganglion of the fympa- thetic nerve, havesOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 155 have, at the fame time, to remark a very particular com- municating nerve betwixt this internal laryngeal nerve, and the recurrent branch of the par vagum. This branch is defcribed by Galen. The par vagum continues its uninterrupted courfe betwixt the carotid artery and jugular vein, and is involved in the fame Iheath with thefe veffels. In this courfe down the neck, it fometimes fends back a twig which unites with the ninth pair, and when near the lower part of the neck, it fends forward twigs to unite with thofe from the fympathetic nerve, which pafs down to the great veffels of the heart, to form the fuperior cardiac plexus*. On the right fide, thofe nerves to the great veffels are in general given off by the recurrent nerve. The par vagum now penetrates into the thorax by paffmg before the fubclavian artery; it then fplits into two. The main nerve paffes on by the fide of the tra- chea, and behind the root of the lungs; while the branch, on the right fide, turns round under the fub- clavian artery ; on the left, under the arch of the aorta, and afcends behind the trachea to the larynx. This afcending branch of the par vagum is the recur- rent nerve. On the right fide it is fometimes double. It afcends behind the carotid artery, and fometimes is thrown round the root of the thyroid artery. On the left fide, which, from its turning round the arch of the aorta, is much lower than on the right, it gives off filaments which go to the lower cardiac plexus, after having united with the branches of the fympathetic. * The courfe of thefe nerves to the heart, is beft treated of with the branches of the fympathetic nerve. Under156 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. Under the fubclavian of the right fide, alfo, there are fent branches from the recurrent to the cardiac plexus; and on both fides there pafs branches of communica- tion betwixt the fympathetic nerve and the recurrent. When the recurrent nerve has turned round the artery, it afcends in a direftion to get behind the trachea, and it lies betwixt the trachea and aefophagus. It here fends off many branches to the back and membranous part of the trachea which pierce this pofterior part, to fupply the internal membrane. It gives alfo branches to the aefophagus and thyroid gland. The final diflribution of this nerve is to the larynx. It pierces betwixt the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and feparates into many filaments, which terminate in the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and poflicus, and thyro-arytenoideus, and in the membrane of the larynx. We have already men- tioned the branch of communication betwixt the recurrent and internal laryngeal nerves*, and Sa- batier defcribes a branch of the recurrent, which fometimes afcends and joins the fympathetic high in the neck. Two cafes,mentioned by Galen, of fcrophulous tumors in the neck opened, where the confequence was lofs of voice, have tempted many anatomifts to inflitute expe- riments on the recurrent and internal laryngeal nervesf, * There is a double communication betwixt thofe nerves; in the firfl: place by this more fuperficial branch, and again by feveral in- ternal and more minute branches. f Martin, in the Edinburgh Effays, ProfefTor Sue of Paris, Dr. Highton, iu the memoirs of the Medical Society of London ; Cruik- Jhanks, ProfefTor Scarpa, Arnemann, &c. Not-OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 157 Notwithflanding the deep fituation of thofe recurrent nerves, Galen fays, they were cut in thefe cafes, and he believed that the branch of communication betwixt the laryngeal and recurrent reftored the voice after fome time had elapfed. Both the internal laryngeal and recurrent nerves are neceflary to the formation of the voice. Experiments have been made upon them in dogs, and the refult is curious; although the lefler changes of the ftrength, acutenefs, and modulation of the voice could not be well obferved in the lower animals. When the laryngeal nerve is cut, the voice is feeble but acute; when the recurrent nerve is cut, there is a relaxation of thofe mufcles moving the arytenoid cartilages which command the opening of the glottis, and in confequence the voice is flatter or graver, or more raucous. The par vagum, after fending off the recurrent nerve, defcends by the fide of the trachea. Before it pafles be- hind the veflels and branch of the trachea going to the lungs, it fends minute branches which form the an- terior pulmonic plexus*. This plexus is en- tangled in the connexions of the pericardium, and is difleded with difficulty. The branches of this plexus throw themfelves round the pulmonic arteries and veins, and follow them into the lungs. The par vagum, pafling on behind the root of the lungs, forms the posterior pulmonic plexus. From this alfo the nerves proceed into the lungs, by attaching themfelves to the pulmonic arteries and veins, I * I do not conceive that this plexus admits of any ufeful divifion, or requires any diftinftion of name. andOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I5S and broncheal arteries, and the branches of the tra- chea*. The trunks of the nerve, continuing their courfe upon each fide of the tefophagus, unite and fplit info branches, and again unite fo as to form a netting upon the aefophagus; thefe are the anterior and poste- rior PLEXUS GULjE, or OESOPHAGEAL PLEXUS. The par vagum, thus attached to the aefophagus, pierces the diaphragm with it, the anterior plexus unites again into a confiderable trunk, is attached to the lelfer arch of the ftomach. It ftretches even to the pylorus, and fends its branches to the upper fide of the ftomach and * Nerves of the Lungs. Galen, Vefalius, and others, conceived that there were very few nerves fent to the lungs, and that thofe which were, went only to the membranes, and not to the fubftance of the lungs. They be- lieved alfo that the difcharge of blood from the lungs and the ex- igence of vomicae without pain, while there was great pain in peri- pneumony, was a confirmation of this opinion. Fallopius corredled this idea, and fhowed that the bronchix were alfo attended through their courfe with nerves. There often exifts' vomicae and effufions of blood in the lungs ; and Haller fays, the lungs can be lanced without the animal feeling pain, but ftill the bronchia; are extremely fenfible.—Water accumulated in the interlobular cellular membrane, or the infar&ion of blood into it, gives no acute pain, but only a fenfe of weight and difficulty of breathing. It is an cppreffion in a great meafure depending upon the return of the blood from the lungs, unchanged in confequence c-f the compreffioh of the cells.— The fenfibility of the branchiae, and the exigence of their nerves, appear in afthma ; and alfo from the pain excited by calculi, and from their irritability excited by recent ulceration, or when vomicae are difcharged into them. The connexion betwixt the ftomach and bronchia;, through the medium of the par vagum and pulmonic plexus, is evident from thofe afthmatic attacks which depend upon foulnefs in the ftomach. toOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 159 to the lefler omentum ; at the fame time it unites with the left hepatic plexus, fome of its branches terminate in the folar plexus, which furrounds the root of the cseliac artery. The poflerior asfophageal plexus, likewife uniting again into a confiderable cord when it has come into the abdomen, fends branches to encircle the cardiac orifice of the flomach ; it branches alfo to the inferior fide and great arch of the flomach; it fends alfo branches to the fplenic plexus and folar ganglion. Thus we fee that the par vagum has a mofl appropriate name, and that it is nearly as extenhve in its connec- tions as the fympathetic itfelf. It is diflributed “ to the aefophagus, pharynx, and larynx; to the thyroid gland, veffels of the neck and heart, to the lungs, liver and fpleen, flomach, duodenum, and fometimes to the diaphragm.” The recollection of this diflribution will explain to us many fympathies; for example, the hyflerical affeftion of the throat when the flomach is diflended with flatus, the exciting of vomiting by tick- ling the throat, the effeCl which vomiting has in di- minifhing the fenfe of fuffocation, that flate of the flomach which is found upon diffeclion to accompany hydrophobia, whether fpontaneous, or from the bite of a dog. Of the accessory nerve, or third division of THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fpinal acceffory nerve of Willis, is that which, taking its origins like the cervical nerves from the fpinal marrow, afcends through the fpine and foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and paffes again from the fcull like one of the nerves of the brain. It paffes out with the par vagum, is attached to it in its paffage, but again feparates 7 froml6o OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. the from it when it has efcaped from the fcull. Under the bafe of the cranium it is attached to the ninth pair alfo. Commonly this attachment is firm ; fometimes, it is by a fhort filament. This parafitical nerve then paffes be- hind the internal jugular vein, and paffes obliquely downward and backward. It then perforates the mafloid mufcle, and paffes in a direction acrofs the neck to the fhoulder. While it pierces, it gives nerves to the mafloid mufcle; and after piercing, it entangles its branches with thofe of the third and fourth cervical nerves. It then paffes under the trapezius mufcle, and is diflributed to it, where it is on the back of the neck and fhoulder. From the diflribution of this nerve we difcover that the fhrug of the fhoulders is very natural; and “ pourquoi les grandes paflions de l’ame nous portent a gefliculer, pour ainfi dire, malgre nous!”* OF THE NINTH PAIR, OR LINGUALIS MEDIUS OR IIypoglossus. After paffing out from the fcull by the anterior con- dyloid foramen, the ninth nerve adheres to the eighth pair, by cellular filaments, and the interchange of nerves. It receives alfo branches from the firfl cervical nerve, or from the branch of union of the firfl and fecond cervical nerves. When differing in the neck, we find the ninth nerve lying by the fide of the inter- nal jugular vein under the flyloid mufcles, and coming out from under the occipital branch of the internal carotid artery. The nerve here divides, or it may rather be. faid to give off that branch which is called the Descendens Noni. The continued trunk of the nerve paffes before * Sabatier.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. l5l M the VoU. III, the external carotid artery, and forwards under the larger branches of veins in a direction tending towards the os hyoides. Here it turns upwards under the ftylo- hyoideus and digaftricus mufcles, and betwixt the ftylo-gloffus and hyo-gloffus. Where the nerve is near the os hyoides, and palling under the ftylo-gloffus mufcle, it fends down a twig which paffes to the fore part of the throat, and chiefly to the fterno-hyoideus and thyro-hyoideus. The continued nerve is diflributed to the mufcles of the tongue and lower jaw, and glands under the jaw; and it terminates by numerous filaments, which form a net-work amongfl the mufcles of the tongue ; to which is united part of that branch of the fifth pair which goes to the tongue*. The ramus descendens noni paffes downward, and obliquely over the trunk of the carotid artery, and under the thyroid vein. In the fuperfici^l diffedtion of the mufcles of the neck, two (lender twigs of nerves will be feen. to come from the fide of the neck, and eroding the jugular vein, unite to this defeending branch. Thofe twigs come from the fecond and third cervical nervesf; and a little ganglion or plexus is formed by their union with the defeendens noni. From this center are fent out many delicate and fuperficial nerves to the omo-hyoideus and fterno-thyroideus mufcles. Thus we find that the ninth nerve has connexions with the eighth pair of nerves, with the fpinal acceffory, * This has been called plexus cerato-bafio-Jlylo-gloJJus / f In fome inftances thofe twigs are found to be derived from the firft origin of the phrenic nerve.162 of the particular nerves. the fympathetic, the cervical, and phrenic nerves. When this nerve is injured, the motion of the tongue is loft, but the fenfe of tafte remains unim- paired. On the contrary, when the branch of the fifth nerve going to the tongue is hurt, the fenfe of tafte is loft, while the mobility of the tongue re- mains *. Columbus knew a man who had no fenfe of tafte, and who eat indifferently every thing pre- fented to him. When he died, Columbus was cu- rious to know the caufe of this, and he found that he altogether wanted the guftatory nerve or lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Cafes de- tailed by Profeffor Scarpa ftill further illuftrate this faft. A woman, fubjedt to epileptic attacks in an early age, was feized in her pregnancy with an hemi- plegia and lofs of fpeech. From this attack, by the ufe of medicines, fhe recovered; but in a future la- bour the difeafe recurred. Now the cure was lefs complete; for, though fhe regained the ufe of her arms, fhe never recovered the faculty of fpeech, or was only capable of articulating with great diffonance the monofyllables, affirming or denying. Upon mak- ing her exert herfelf to lpeak, they obferved no mo- tion in the tongue ; and, upon applying the hand un- der the jaw, they could feel no motion in the muffles of the tongue; yet ffie relifhed her food and drink, and had an acute fenfe of tafte, and could fwallow eafily. He mentions another cafe, where the patient was attacked with a fenfe of weight at the root of the tongue, a difficulty of fpeaking, and copious flow * Soemmerring de Cerebro Sc Nervis. ofOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 163 of faliva. In a Ihort time he intirely loft the power of articulating, but retained acutely the fenfe of tafte *. From the extenfive connection of this nerve, parti- cularly with the eighth and fympathetic nerves, we fee why tremors of the tongue and aphonia may be occa- fioned by hyfteria, hypochondriafis, colics, or worms in the inteftines f. OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. First cervical nerve. Tenth pair of the scull. Subqccipital nerve. This is the leaft of all the nerves of the fpine ; it arifes by two roots from the medulla fpinalis. Some difference has been ob- ferved in the manner in which thofe roots colleCt their filaments; and only the anterior root or fafciculus is defcribed by fome authors. The pofterior fafciculus is indeed the larger, and comes in a direction different from the general direction of the roots of the other cervical nerves. The roots of the fuboccipital nerve are connected with the fpinal acceffory nerve, but feldom form a ganglion with it; and frequently they form a union with the pofterior roots of the fecond cervical nerve. The fibres of the fuboccipital nerve palling tranfverfely and a little pbliquely upwards, go out under the vertebral artery, and betwixt it and the firft vertebra of the neck. The little trunk of the fuboccipital nerve, thus formed, and having efcaped from the fpine, rifes for a little way upwards, fwells * Tabulte Neurologies, Audtore Anton. Scarpa, f J. F.Will. Bachmer Comment, de 9n0pare Nervorum. M 2 intoi6a of the particular nerves. into a kind of ganglion, and then divides into two branches. The anterior of thefe branches is the fmaller. It pafles down upon the infide of the vertebral artery ; its filaments unite with the hypogloflal nerve, or ninth pair, and with the fuperior cervical ganglion of the fympathetic, and with the firfl: branch of the fecond cervical nerve *. The larger and polterior branch di- vides into eight twigs, which are chiefly diflributed to the mufcles moving the head—to the oblique fuperior and inferior, the recti poftici and laterales, complexus, and fplenius. Some of thofe mufcular branches unite with that branch of the fecond cervical nerve which afcends upon the occiput. Second cervical nerve. This nerve, arifing by a double origine from the fpinal marrow, like the other nerves of the fpine, pafles betwixt the firfl and fecond vertebrae. It is larger than the lafl; and, after form- ing a little ganglion by the fide of the tranfverfe pro- cefs of the firfl vertebra, divides into two branches. The superior branch fends up a confiderable divifion behind the projection of the tranfverfe procefs of the firfl vertebra, to unite to the fuboccipital or firfl cervical nerve. Several twigs pafs forward 'to unite with the fuperior cervical ganglion of the fym- pathetic nerve, and with fome of the more anterior branches of the third cervical nerve, and with the ninth and fpinal acceffory nerves. Befides thefe in- tricate connexions, irregular branches of this nerve * A very fmall nerve is defcribed by fome authors as paffing from the anterior divifion of the nerve, into the canal of the vertebral artery.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 165 The M3 proceed to the fmall mufcles, moving the head and lying on the fore part of the fpine. The pojlcrior branch of the fecond pair of cervical nerves is chiefly a mufcular nerve. It rifes up by the fide of the com- plexus, gives branches to that mufcle and to the fple- nius, and communicates with the branches of the firil cervical. Its branches are alfo diftributed to the upper part of the trapezius mufcle, from which they extend along the integuments, covering the occiput even to the fummit of the head. The third cervical nerve, in the firft place, communicates with the fecond and fourth cervical nerves, with the fympathetic and lingual nerves, and fometimes fends down a twig to unite with the origine of the phrenic nerve from the fourth cervical nerve. From the anterior divifion of the third cervical nerve, branches pafs to the fplenius and complexus, and trapezius, and upwards to the ear. We may ob- ferve alfo a cutaneous nerve which accompanies the external jugular vein, viz. nervus superficialis coli ; the diftribution of which is chiefly to the angle and margine of the lower jaw, while fome of its branches enter the parotid gland, and unite with the extremities of the portio dura and other facial nerves. The small posterior division of the nerve paflfes to the complexus, fpinalis cervicis, and multifidus fpina, while at the fame time it unites to the branches of the fecond cervical nerve. The fourth cervical nerve, coming out from betwixt the third and fourth cervical vertebra, divides into its anterior and pofterior branches like the other cervical nerves.166 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. The firft goes to form, with the third and fifth cer- vical nerves, the phrenic nerve. It fends alfo a branch to the fympathetic, to the integuments of the neck and Ihoulder, and to the fupra and infra fpinatus mufcles. Thefe are called by Soemmerring supercla- viculares interiores, medii, and posteriores. The great posterior division of the fourth cer- vical nerve, pafies to the mufcles of the fpine and Ihoul- der, in conjun&ion with the branches of the third cervical nerve. Fifth cervical nerve.—This nerve comes of courfe from betwixt the fourth and fifth vertebrae, and from betwixt the fcaleni mufcles. It divides alfo into two branches. The superior of thefe pafies back- wards to the mufcles of the back and fhoulder, and a branch formed by it; and the fixth pafies down under the fcapula and ferratus major. This fuperior divifion of the nerve fends up alfo two fmall twigs of communi- cation with the fourth cervical nerve. The inferior division of the nerve fends down upon the fide of the neck a confiderable branch to the for- mation of the phrenic nerve. It communicates with the root of the fixth nerve, and fends mufcular branches backward. The sixth cervical nerve.-—'The mufcular branches of this nerve are large and extenfive in their courfe. They pafs into the levator fcapulae, extend under the trapezius, and unite with the extreme branches of the fpinal acceffory nerve. They are pro- longed to the latiflimus dorfi and ferratus magnus. Branches alfo extend down behind the clavicle, and under the pe&oral mufcle. BefidesOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 167 Befides thefe branches, this nerve communicates with the fifth, and gives out an origine to the phrenic nerve; and laftly, uniting to the feventh, it paffes into the axillary plexus. The seventh cervical nerve.-—This nerve goes almoil entirely to form the axillary plexus. There is n communicating nerve from the lafb to this, and from that communicating branch generally there palfes off a filament to the phrenic nerve; and from the very root of the nerve there paffes off a branch to the lower cervical ganglion of the lympathetic. Irregular twigs alfo defcend from this nerve uncffr the clavicle to the pectoralis minor and major. The eighth cervical nerve.—The greater part of this nerve paffes to the axillary plexus. It fends fmall branches to the lower cervical ganglion of the fympathetic, and to the muffles of the bread j which laff defcend behind the clavicle. RECAPITULATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE . CERVICAL NERVES. Upon reviewing the defcription of thefe nerves, we find that the general tendency of their branches is backwards over the fide of the neck, to the muffles moving the head and Ihoulders. We find alfo that they are connefted in a very intricate manner with the moll important nerves of the cranium. High in the neck and under the jaw, they are connected with the portio dura, with the fifth pair, with the eighth and ninth pairs, and with the fympathetic. Towards the middle of the neck they are (till throwing their con- necting branches to the deffendens noni, and fympa- M 4 thetic.168 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. thetic, and eighth pair. The lower cervical nerves again are dill fupporting their connections with the lower ganglion of the fympathetic. Further, we find the phrenic nerve derived (mod: frequently) from the third and fourth, and branch of communication betwixt the fourth and fifth. The axillary plexus is formed by the fifth, fixth, fe- venth, and eighth cervical nerves, and fil'd: of the back. OF THE DORSAL NERVES. There are twelve dorfal nerves. Thefe, as we have defcribed, are formed by two fafciculi of fibres; one from the fore, and the other from the back part of the fpinal marrow. Thefe filaments run for fome way fuperficially in the length of the fpinal marrow before they pierce the dura mater. They pierce it feparatelv; the poderior branch firfl forms a ganglion, and then the two fafciculi are united. They are now betwixt the heads of the ribs. We muff here recoiled:, that the trunk of the fympathetic nerve, which pades along the cavity of the thorax, runs down behind the pleura, and pades before the heads of the ribs through all the length of the back. It receives, as it pades the interdices of the feveral ribs, at each interval, a com- municating nerve from the fpinal marrow; a branch from the intereodal or dorfal nerves. Thofe communications are fent in the following manner : the proper dorfal, or intereodal nerve, fends its greater branch forwards betwixt the ribs ; fome leder branches pierce backwards to the mufcles of the back; oppofite to this there goes out from each nerve the fird branch of union with the fympathetic, and thisOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. I 69 this union forms a firm ganglion. Sometimes there run out in this direction two fhort branches from the fpinal nerve, to unite with the ganglion of the fympa- thetic ; but more commonly there paffes in a retro- grade direction from the intercoftal nerve, where it is about to take its courfe between the ribs, another branch of communication which joins the fympathetic. Sometimes the dorfal or intercoftal nerves fend off three communicating branches to the fympathetic. The intercoftal nerves pafs on betwixt the ribs, in company with the intercoftal arteries, and reach even to the fternum. In this courfe they fupply the inter- coftal mufcles and triangularis fterni, while they are at the fame time fending out branches, which, piercing the intercoftal mufcles and fafcia of the thorax, are diftri- buted to the mufcles on the outfide of the cheft.—- Thofe branches which we mentioned as palling betwixt the heads of the ribs, and which are fent off immedi- ately upon the trunk efcaping from the vertebral open- ing, fupply the multifidus fpinae and levatores cofta- rum, and other extenfor mufcles of the fpine. Slips proceeding from the fecond, third, fourth, and fifth intercoftal nerves, fend branches to the pedtoral muf- cles, the ferratus anticus, and ferratus pofticus fupe- rior, trapezius, and romboides. The fixth, and all the lower nerves of the back, fend branches from betwixt the ribs to the latiflimus dorfi, ferratus inferior, and abdominal mufcles. The eleventh and twelfth are dis- tributed to the diaphragm, quadratus lumborum, pfoas magnuSj and iliacus internus. LUMBAROF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 17° LUMBAR NERVES. The lumbar nerves are five in number. The fird comes out under the fird lumbar vertebra, and the others in fuccelfion. Their trunks are covered by the pfoas magnus. They pafs very obliquely downward, and the three lowed are of remarkable fize. In the general didribution, we may fird remark the poderior branches, which go backwards to the mufcles which fupport and extend the fpine. Again, the an- terior branches; which give, id, additional branches to the fympathetic nerve as it paffes over the vertebras of the loins, and by which it is fupported and reinforced till it terminates in the pelvis; 2dly, they have fre- quent connection with each other, and with the lad nerve of the back, and fird of the facrum ; 3dly, they fend out branches, delicate but of great extent, to the mufcles of the loins and back, and to the abdominal mufcles and integuments of the groin and fcrotum ; 4thly, the principal anterior branches of the lumbar nerves pafs down to form (along with the great nerves of the facrum) the anterior crural nerve, the obturator, and the great ifchiatic nerve. SACRAL NERVES. The nerves which come out from the extremity of the medulla fpinalis, or cauda equina, through the fa- crum, are in general five in number. Sometimes there is one more or lefs. The fird divifion of each facral nerve is into thofe branches which pafs out by the poderior foramina of the facrum, and thofe which, by 4 theOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 17I the anterior foramina, come into the pelvis. The pof- terior branches are very fmall, and pafs to the muf- cles fupporting the fpine; while the anterior ones are particularly large, efpecially the firft and fecond, which, with the lowed; of the loins, go to form the largefl nerve of the body, the ifchiatic nerve. . It is difficult to recollect the diftribution of the fe- veral branches of the lumbar and facral nerves, when taken thus together ; but when we deliver the defcrip- tion of the nerves of the thigh and leg, we count them, and hold them in remembrance with compara- tive eafe. At prefent we are belt prepared to follow the fympathetic nerve in its courfe. OF THE GREAT SYMPATHETIC NERVE, OR INTER- COSTAL NERVE. Notwithstanding the idea of this nerve which I have endeavoured to convey, I conceive that we mull dill continue to fpeak of the origines of this nerve in the ufual way, for the fake of fimplicity and arrange- ment. The fympathetic nerve is in general confidered as originally derived from the fixth pair ; or, we may fay, it takes its origine from the fixth, where it paffes by the fide of the carotid artery, and from the vidian branch of the fifth pair. It appears without the fcull, fometimes behind and fometimes before the carotid artery, and fometimes it is double in its exit from the bafe of the fcull. Almofl immediately after it has efcaped from the fcull, it forms its firft ganglion; which is very large and remarkable, and has the name of the superior, cervical ganglion of the fympathetic nerve.172 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. nerve. It is of a foft confidence and reddifh colour, and it extends from the fcull to the tranfverfe procefs of the third vertebra. It gradually tapers downwards until it terminates in the ilender nerve, which in the neck is extremely frnall. This ganglion has much va- riety of lhape in different fubjeCts, and may be faid in general to receive twigs of nerves upon the back part; it gives them out upon the fore part. The fuperior cervical ganglion of the fympathetic nerve receives nerves from the fecond, third, and fourth cervical nerves, and even fometimes from the root of the phrenic nerve. It has alfo connections with the hypo-gloffal, par vagum, and gloffo-pharyngeal nerves. It fends out branches to unite with the gloffo- pharyngeal, and which follow that nerve in its diftribu- tion to the tongue and pharynx. Many of its branches furrounding the carotid artery form connections with the internal and external laryngeal nerves, and proceed in melhes, or form plexus along with the branches of the artery. Thefe may be followed to great mi- nutenefs. To be more particular in the defcription of thefe an- terior branches of the fympathetic nerve, they are called the nervi molles, or nervi vasorum. They are nerves peculiarly foft, with a greater proportion of cellular membrane; they fpread in net-works along the arteries, and form frequent connections by little knots like frnall ganglions. Claffed with thefe nervi vaforum, are branches which pafs forward from the upper ganglion of the fympathetic, to unite with fila- ments from the internal laryngeal nerve of the par vagum, and which form the external laryngeal nerve. ItOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. *73 It is remarked, that none of thefe branches of the fym- pathetic nerve are diftributed to the larynx and pha- rynx without being mingled and alfociated with the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve, or with the pharyngeal branch of the par vagum *. Of the nervi molles, fome form a plexus upon the internal carotid artery. Thefe are extremely foft and pulpy, and are united with branches which defcend from the gloffo-pharyngeal nerve. A net-work is alfo formed, which covers the beginning of the external carotid artery. From this, as from a center, branches are fent out with the arteries to the neck, and face, and glands under the jaw; and thefe laft, with a mefh which paffes up upon the temporal artery, unite with the portio dura of the feventh pair. It has been often obferved, that the branches of the carotid artery have a peculiar provifion of nerves, and that thefe nerves are more numerous and minutely dif- tributed than in any other part of the body. There are indeed no nerves in any part of the body which have fo extenfive and intricate connexions with im- portant nerves as the cutaneous nerves of the face and neck. This diftribution of the nerves is, I conceive, a provifion for that power poffeffed by the imagination, or rather that uncontrolable connexion which exifls betwixt the feelings and the aXion of the veffels in blufhing. The lowed of the nervi vaforum or molles, fent off from the fuperior ganglion of the fympathetic nerve, * Scarpa. defcends174 of THE particular nerves. defcends in the courfe of the trunk of the nerve, and forms, with other branches, the fuperior cardiac. This nerve, generally called nervus cordis super- ficial is, palfing down in the diredion of the trunk of the fympathetic nerve, and near the longus colli mufcle, is for fome length a very llender branch; but in its courfe it receives two, three, or four additional twigs from the fympathetic, and branches which come un- der the carotid artery from the pharyngeal nerves, or nervi modes. When this fuperior cardiac nerve is within an inch or two of the fubclavian artery, branches of union pafs betwixt it and the recurrent nerve of the par vagum; and branches of the nerves palling to the heart from the lower cervical ganglion, alfo join it. It then, attaching itfelf to the inverting membranes and Iheaths of the carotid and fubclavian arteries, forms with others a plexus of nerves, which run along the great velfels to the heart. The continued trunk of the fympathetic, where it emerges from the fuperior cervical ganglion, is ex- tremely finall. It defcends behind the carotid artery, and lies near to the fpine. When oppofite to the fifth and fixth cervical vertebras, the inferior cervical gang- lion of the fympathetic is formed. In this courfe, twigs of communication pafs betwixt it and the cer- vical nerves, or join it w'ith the beginning of the phre- nic nerve. But not unfrequently there are three cervical gang- lions formed by the fympathetic nerve; the fuperior, middle, and inferior ganglions : or it happens that we find the fympathetic nerve fplit into two branches in theOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 175 the neck; one of which forms the middle, and the other the lower ganglion. There are received by the middle cervical gang- lion, or, thyroid ganglion, branches of nerves from the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth cervical nerves, and alfo fometimes from the phrenic nerve. The gang- lion is by no means conftantly found, and it is irre- gular in its fize and Ihape. When large, and in what may be confidered as its more perfect ftate, it gives off fome confiderable branches. Of thefe, part unite with the fuperior cardiac nerve already mentioned; others form the great or deep cardiac nerve, while lelfer ones play round the fubclavian artery, and unite with the lower cervical ganglion, or the upper thoracic ganglion. The deeper cardiac branch of the fympathetic, fplit- ting and again uniting fo as to form rings, runs out- wards, attached to the arteria innominata and arch of the aorta, to the heart. In this courfe, while it paffes before the trachea, it forms conne&ions with the re- current branch and trunk of the par vagum. Under the arch of the aorta, we find this branch concentrated to form the ganglion cardiacum of Wrilberg, or ganglion molle and pellucidum of Scarpa. This ganglion is like a mere enlargement or fwelling of the nerve. From this, four or five branches may be enu- merated ; ill, A bi'anch palling behind the pulmonary artery to the back of the heart, and following the left coronary artery; 2dly, A fmall divifion to the ante- rior pulmonary plexus of the par vagum; 3dly, A pretty confiderable branch which, palling behind the aorta, and betwixt it and the pulmonary artery, is dif- tributed176 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. buted with the right coronary artery to the anterior part of the heart. On the left fide of the neck, the fympathetic, receiving on the one fide branches from the cervical nerves, and on the other giving off branches, which defcend behind the carotid artery to the heart, (viz. the fuperior cardiac) often fplits before it forms the middle or thyroid ganglion, and fometimes throws its branches over the thyroid artery, and the ganglion lies upon that artery. Again, from the ganglion there defcend two feries of numerous leffer filaments, which form mefhes upon the thyroid and fubclavian arteries to the heart. Others proceed downward behind the arteries to the lower cervical ganglion. Thofe branches which defcend upon the arteries, intangle the roots of the thyroid, tranfverfalis cervicis, and internal mam- mery arteries, in their plexus ; thefe uniting, follow the fubclavian artery, and form again a plexus upon the arch of the aorta. This is joined by branches from the par vagum and recurrent. The principal branches of this plexus terminate in the cardiac ganglion under the arch of the aorta *. The lower cervical ganglion f of the fympa- thetic nerve is placed upon the limits betwixt the neck and thorax upon the head of the firft rib, and by the fide of the mufculus longus colli; and it is in part co- vered by the root of the vertebral artery. The gang- lion is of an irregular cufhion-like fhape. It lies clofe • * This defcription of the fympathetic nerve on the left fide fol- lows the more ufual diftribution, but is not peculiar to the left fide. -J- The lower cervical, or, cardiac ganglion of the fympathetic nerve. 7 to177 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. £o the cervical nerves which go to the brachial plexus, and it receives branches from them *, Branches alfp pafs from this ganglion to the par vagum and recur* rent, and alfo pafs on to the cardiac and pulmonic plexus. That nerve, which mufl be confidered as the continued fympathetic, throws a ring round the root of-the vertebral artery, and fending out branches upon the fubclavian, terminates in the firfl dorfal or thoracic ganglion. THE SUPERIOR THORACIC GANGJLION. This ganglion furpafles the other thoracic ganglions in fize. It is, indeed, frequently compofed of many branches of the nerve in the neck, coming both before and behind the fubclavian artery. It receives alfo nerves from the three or four loweft cervical nerves, and firfl: dorfal nerve. It is of a very irregular figure, or rather it varies exceedingly in its fhape; fo that by various anatomifls it is defcribed as round, oval, trian- gular, quadrangular, cylindrical b—Filaments proceed from this ganglion into the canal of the vertebral ar- tery, and to the cellular coat of the fubclavian artery, and to the cardiac plexus, and alfo to the pulmonic plexus or to fupply the poflerior furface of the lungs. SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE THORAX. The fympathetic nerve, (as we have explained in de- \ * And even it receives fometimes from the fifth and fixth, more rarely the feventh and eighth, from the firft and fecond of the back ; and Iaftly, from the phrenic nerve.—Sometimes thefe connections are wanting. Vol. III8 N fcribing178 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. fcribingthe dorfal nerves,) through all its courfe in the thorax, has additional branches from the dorfal or in- tercoftal nerves. It forms alfo, while it is lying on the fide of the vertebras, a divifion in the thorax, which it will be important to recoiled. This nerve is fent more forwards upon the body of the vertebrae, and pafles into the abdomen betwixt the crura of the dia- phragm ; while the trunk of the fympathetic continues its courfe by the heads of the ribs, pafles under the ligamentum arcuatum, and downwards upon the lum-. bar vertebrae. The splanchnic nerve, then,is this anterior branch of the fympathetic in the thorax. It is the great nerve of the vifcera of the abdomen. It generally has two or four roots from the trunk of the fympathetic nerve, where it is oppofite to the fixth, feventh, and eighth intercoftal nerves. It is feen lying under the pleura, and palling obliquely over the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, from the feventh to the tenth. It then pafles betwixt the crura of the diaphragm, enters the abdo- men, and forms the great femilunar ganglion. One or more branches are fent forward from the fympathetic, commonly from the ganglions, oppofite to the interftice betwixt the ninth and tenth, or tenth and eleventh ribs. Thefe alfo pafs the diaphragm, and unite with the femilunar ganglion. There is, how- ever, a confiderable variety to be obferved both in the origines of the fplanchnic nerve, and in the number of thefe fubfidiary branches. A larger branch, going off betwixt the tenth and eleventh ribs, is fo common, that it has the name of splanchnicus minor, or, ACCESSORIUS, /OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. S 79 accessorius. This nerve as frequently terminates in the renal plexus, as in the femilunar ganglion; or fometimes it fends branches to both. CiELIAC GANGLION AND PLEXUS. I . The ganglion which is called the femilunar gang- lion, has no regular fhape—and lead of all when it is fully differed. It is formed by the fplanchnic nerve, and by branches which come from the lumbar nerves. It lies by the fide of the caeliac artery, and confifls of many lefier ganglions, (fometimes to the number of eleven or twelve,) matted together into a glandular-like fhape. The femilunar ganglions of the fplanchnic nerves lying on each fide of the root of the cctliac artery, their connection with each other is frequent and in- tricate j fo that they throw a mefh of nerves round the root and branches of this artery, which is the great fource of veffels to the flomach, liver, and fpleen.— This plexus, formed by the femilunar ganglions round the cseliac artery, is the folar or cseliac plexus. CELIAC PLEXUS. The ca-liac plexus is the great fource of nerves to the higher vifcera of the abdomen. The fplanchnic nerves are the great, but not the only nerves which form this plexus. The par vagum fends branches .down from the flomach which join it; and even the phrenic nerve, which is the nerve of the diaphragm, fends down twigs to unite to the branches of the fplanchnic and par vagum. We fhall find alfo fmall N -2 nerves,l8o OF THE PARTICULAR NERVE3. ✓ nerves which come from the feat of the kidney, and which are derived from the fuperior lumbar nerves.— Thefe pafs acrofs the crura of the diaphragm, and enter into the cseliac plexus.—In purfuing the nerves of the vifcera further, we have it no longer in our power to follow individual branches, but have rather to mark the courfe, and enumerate the various fourqes of the plexus, and net-work of nerves which follow the great veffels. From the cseliac plexus, there pafs out, i, Nerves which accompany the phrenic arteries upon the lower furface of the diaphragm. 2. Nerves to the liver:—and of thefe there are two plexus, the right and left hepatic plexus ; one paffes along the vena portas, biliary duds, and right hepatic artery, to the right fide of the liver, the gall bladder and duds; this of courfe is the RIGHT HEPATIC PLEXUS : the LEFT HEPATIC PLEX- US paffes along the left hepatic artery; and this has connexion with the cardiac nerves, branches of the par vagum. 3. That plexus, which runs upon the leffer curve of the flomach, while it is formed in a great meafure by the par vagum, has alfo connexion with the folar or cseliac plexus. 4. The plexus of nerves which pafs to the lower orifice of the flomach and duodenum is chiefly a divifion of the right he- patic plexus. Thefe nerves, to the liver, flomach, and duodenum, are attached to the branches of the caeliac artery. Along the great fplenic artery, which is alfo derived from the cseliac artery, there paffes out a plexus of nerves to the fpleen. From this fplenic plexus there pafs nerves to the great omentum; and they even unite with thofe paffmg out upon the duodenum, andOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES, 181 and which attach themfelves to the right epyploic ar- tery, and take a courfe upon the great curvature of the ftomach. Thus the folar or cteliac plexus is a great central net-work of nerves, which pafs out in divifions to the liver, fpleen, pancreas, ftomach, duodenum, and omen- tum. The place and connections of the fuperior mefen- teric plexus is at once known, when it is confidered that it is formed upon the root of the fuperior mefen- teric artery.—It is formed by the caeliac plexus being continued down upon the aorta fo as to involve the root of the mefenteric artery, and by nerves coming over the fide of the vertebras of the loins from the lumbar nerves. This plexus fpreads betwixt the la- mina of the mefentery, and extends upon the branches of the artery, and of courfe is diftributed to the fmall inteftines and part of the colon. It confequently fup- plies the mefenteric glands, and fends nerves alfo to the pancreas, that join thofe which it receives from the fplenic plexus. The fame mefh of nerves, being continued down upon the face of the aorta, furround the lower mefen- teric artery, and follow its branches. This is the lower mefenteric plexus, or mefpcolic plexus; and it is formed in a great meafure from the branches of the continued trunk of the fyinpathetic nerve,—As this plexus fpreads upon the branches of the lower mefen- SUPERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS INFERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS, tericI 82 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. teric artery, it paffes to the left fide of the inteftimim colon and redlum—while the lower mefenteric plexus is continued from the upper one. On the fide of the lumbar vertebras it is continuous with the renal and lpermatic plexus ; and towards the pelvis, with the hy- pogaffcric plexus. Before confidering the other leffer plexus of nerve3 in the abdomen, it is necelfary to follow the continued trunk of the fympathetic nerve which we had defcribed as following clofely the lateral part of the dorfal and lumbar vertebras, whilil the fplanchnic nerves pafs ob- liquely over them to the vifcera of the upper part of the belly. The CONTINUED TRUNK of the SYMPATHETIC nerve, after it has given olf the fplanchnic nerve in the thorax, fends feveral fmall nerves forward over the vertebrae to the mediaftinum and (heath of the aorta. It then paffes the diaphragm, keeping clofe to the tranf- verfe procefs of the vertebras. When, however, it comes lower upon the lumbar vertebras, it lies more upon the fide of their bodies, and the connections with the lumbar nerves are by fmall and numerous twigs which flretch over the fide of the vertebras. In this courfe, it is giving off upon the fore part nume- rous irregular twigs to the feveral plexus. Where it lies under the veffels which pafs to the kidney, it fends up fome branches to the renal plexus. The renal plexus, however, is not entirely formed of thefe branches of the continued fympathetic, but is rather a continuation from the caeliac and' fuperior me- fenteric plexus j while the leffer fplanchnic nerve,, which was fent off in the thorax, alia terminates in it..OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 1S3 it. This plexus is thrown over the velfels of the kid- ney, and forms feveral little ganglions. From the Venal plexus defcends the spermatic plexus. This plexus of nerves in woman follows the fpermatic artery in its diftribution to the ovaria and uterus. In pafiing down upon the loins * the 1 fympathetic nerve forms five or fix ganglions with the branches from the lumbar nerves. Thefe are oblong, angular, ftellated—irregular in their form, as in their number, fituation, fize, or the twigs which, in their union with the fympathetic, form them. Betwixt thefe ganglions or connections with the lumbar nerves, the fympathetic is not always one nerve, but is fometimes fplit into feveral finaller nerves, which unite again. From the fympathetic nerves 6f either fide we have to obferve frequent interchange of branches, which fometimes attach themfelves to the lumbar nerves, fometimes creep under the aorta, or unite to the plextls covering the face of the aorta.—There are feveral little gang- lions formed by thefe nerves upon the face of the lum- bar vertebras they have the name of ganglia ac- ceiforia. Before the fympathetic tierve defcerids into the pel- vis, it has become extremely delicate. In many fub- jeCts it feems to terminate in tile laft lumbar, or firfl facral nerve j but, upon more minute dilfeCtion, leflfer branches will be found to defeend amongft the loofe cellular fubftance of the pelvis.—When regular, or perhaps we may fay with truth when regularly and fully ditfedted, the fympathetic nerves of each fide are fsen to defeend upon the fore part of the facrum, and N 4 form184 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* •f form connexions with the facral nerves fimilar to thofe with the dorfal nerves.—As they defcend, they of courfe approach, and finally unite in an acute point on the os coxigis.—At the points of union of thefe extreme branches of the fympathetic nerves with the branches of the facral nerves, finall ganglions are form* ed; and there pafs out branches from them, which cover the intermediate furface of the facrum with an extenfive plexus. The ultimate ganglion, formed by the union of the two fympathetic nerves* is the coxygeal ganglion, and from it there pafs three or four nerves to the extremity of the reXum. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. This is a plexus which lies on the fide of the pel- vis, and involves the hypogaftric artery. It confifts of the nerves palling to the parts contained in the pel- vis ; which do not, however, pafs in diftinX branches, but, like thofe of the abdomen, are formed into mi- nute interwoven net-Work. The hypogaftric plexus takes no determinate origine, but is continuous with, or formed by, the extreme branches of the fympathetic nerves, the extremity of the fpermatic plexus, the fa- cral nerves, (and particularly the third facral nerve,) and by the branches of the accelfory ganglions on the facrum. OF THE PHRENIC NERVE. The phrenic or diaphragmatic nerve arifes from the ceivical nerves, pafies obliquely down the neck, enters the thorax, and is diftributed to the diaphragm.— This nerve has much variety in its derivation. It comes chieflyCF THE PARTICULAR NERVES, l8$ chiefly from the third cervical nerve, deriving alfo fome twigs from the fourth and fecond, But fometimes it takes an origine very high in the neck, from the par vagum or ninth nerve ; and even the fuperior cervical ganglion of the fympathetic is defcribed by fome as furnilhing a root.—-Lower in the neck it will be found in fome fubjefts to derive very frnall additional twigs from the fifth or fixth cervical nerves, or lower gang- lion of the fympathetic. The phrenic nerve, thus formed, defcends 'into the thorax betwixt the fubclavian artery and vein. In the eheft it proceeds downward and forward, attached to the mediaftinum, and before the root of the lungs It takes its Courfe upon the outfide of the pericardium, and from the pericardium flips off to the furface of the diaphragm. From the pofition of the heart, the left phrenic nerve differs a little in its courfe from the right 5 and it paffes over the pericardium, covering the apex of the heart. The phrenic nerve of the right fide, * Ludwig. Martin, in the Edinburgh Effays, and others, explain the aftion of the diaphragm upon the fuppofition of the mecha- nical prelfure of the lungs upon the phrenic nerve. It is a piece of doftrine irlconftftent with knowledge of the general laws of the oeconomy. It is repugnant to comparative anatomy, and it is evident that the foft and elaftic diltention of the lungs could not eomprefs the firm nerve. Moreover, the lungs when diftended do not prefs upon the mediaftinum, for it is the dilation of the thorax which caufes the lungs to inhale the atmofpheric air. See IVriJberg de Ner-vo Phrenico. Sandift. Thef. vol. ii. p. 260. It is betwixt the heart and mufcles of refpiration that the ft rift relation and fym- pathy exifts. When in turning the child in utero, and when the cord has been prefted, I have felt the ftrong convulfive fetches of the mufcles of refpiration endeavouring, by the play of the lungs, to .compenfate for the lofs of the placenta. 4 befideslS6 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* befides fupplying the diaphragm, fends down through the diaphragm (to the right fide of the vena cava) the ramus anaftamoticus. This communicates with the femilunar ganglion of the fympathetic, or with the di~ vifion of the folar or eseliac plexus which palfes along the phrenic arteries. From the phrenic artery of the left fide, there pafs down with the cefophagus fmall nerves which, appearing in the abdomen, unite with the cteliac ganglion, or fome of its divifions; and both phrenic nerves will be found by fome minute branches to unite to the par vagum. Thefe, however, are but minute branches. The great deftination of the phrenic nerve is to the dia- phragm. The branches ftrike out from the diaphragm like roots from a centre ; they pafs fome way only co- vered by the pleura, and then pierce into the fubftance of the mufcle. There are innumerable experiments upon living animals, which Ihew the connection of this nerve with the action of the diaphragm. When the nerve is ftimulated, the diaphragm is excited to con- traftion ; when cut, prelfed, or tied, it becomes re- laxed and inactive, and there is difficulty of refpiration j when the fpinal marrow is injured low in the vertebras of the neck, or in the vertebras of the back, the ex- ternal mufcles of refpiration ceafe to a£t, but the dia- phragm Hill continues its function; and in this cafe, as obferved by Mr. Hunter, the patient lives for fome days, breathing by the diaphragm. If the phrenic nerves be divided in a living animal, the diaphragm ceafes to act, and the abdominal mufcles lofe their op- ponent mufcles, and remain as in expiration; but ftill the refpiration is continued by the motion of the ribs. %OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 18/ If after this the fpine be divided, the motion of the j lungs ceafes entirely, and the animal dies fuddenly.—• The injury of the fpinal marrow above the origine of the phrenic nerves, is of courfe fuddenly fatal, becaufe it deftroys at once the fun&ion of the diaphragm, and mufcles moving the cheft. From the'connexion of the phrenic nerve with the par vagum, we may ex- plain the fympathy betwixt the trachea and the dia- . phragm, how the irritation of the trachea occafions coughing and the convulfive action of the diaphragm ; in the fame manner in the affeftion of the ftomach, fmgultus, from the fudden a&ion of the diaphragm and abdominal mufcles, (which ufually alternate in their aftion,) may be explained. Again, a connexion of nerves might be followed from the origines of the phrenic to the fympathetic nerve, and branches of the fifth pair to the nofe; which accounts for that fympathy of action which occafions fneezing from irritation of the membrane of the nofe. NERVES OF THE ARM ; AXILLARY, OR BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The nerves which proceed from the fpine, and go to fupply the arm, are formed into an intricate plexus before they divide into the feveral nerves of the arm. This brachial, or axillary plexus, is formed of five of the fpinal nerves ; viz. the fifth, fixth, feventh, and eighth cervical nerves *, and the firfl dorfal nerve. * This is of courfe counting the fuboccipital as the firft cervical nerve. ThetB8 Ot THE PARTICULAR SERVES. The higheft of thefe nerves proceed from betwixt the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae; the laft from be- twixt the firffc and fecond dorfal vertebrae. They pafs out betwixt the middle and anterior divifion of the fca- leni; and even while covered by thefe mufcles, and be- fore they have proceeded far from their foramina, the laft nerve of the neck and firft of the back unite *.— The plexus is continued from above the clavicle to the edge of the tendon of the latiflimus dorfi. It allows of no natural divifion. The axillary nerve palfes for fome way clofe under it, and then perforates betwixt the divifions which form the radial nerve. From the axillary plexus proceed thefe nerves: 1. The thoracic nerves. 2. The fupra and infra fcapular nerves. 3. The circumflex, or articular nerve. 4. The perforans cafierii, or external cutaneous nerve. 5. The radial nerve. 6. The ulnar nerve. 7. The mufcular fpiral nerve. 8. The internal cutaneous nerves'. 1. The thoracic nerves. Although the nerves- which fupply the mufcles of the cheft are derived from the intercoftal nerves, as we have feen, yet there alfo * Before the nerves which form the plexus intermix their filaments, or are connected together, they fend off fmall branches to the fcaleric mufcles, to the mufcles of the fpine, and to the levator fcapulae.— The branches which they give to the fympathetic nerve, we have already noticed. pafsOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* 189 pafs off branches from the axillary plexus to the great and little pe&oral mufcles, to the latiffimus dorfi, to the (kin and mamma. Thefe thoracic branches pro- ceed from the upper divifion of the plexus, or that which gives out the external cutaneous, and one of the roots of the radial nerve. 2. 'The suprascapular nerve comes off from the upper edge of the plexus, and is the higheft of the branches. It runs towards the root of the coracoid procefs, it paffes through the notch of the fcapula, and goes to fupply the fupra and infra fpinatus mufcles, the teres minor, and the fubfcapularis. The subscapular nerves come out from the pofterior part of the plexus along with the articular nerve. They are attached to the fubfcapular mufcle, they turn round the flefhy edge of the mufcle, and in- fmuate their branches betwixt the tendon of the latif- fimus dorfi and the teres major, 3. The circumflex, or articular nerve, or axillaris, lies very deep. It comes from the back part of the plexus, paffes behind the neck of the humerus, and above the tendon of the latiffimus dorfi, and teres major. One of its branches we trace into the teres major, while another paffes round the bone, and is dis- tributed to the under furface of the deltoid mufcle, the joint, and the cellular membrane. 4. Perforans casserii, or the external cu- taneous nerve. This nerve paffes through the co- raco-brachialis mufcle before the os humeri, to gain the outfide of the arm. From its perforating this mufcle, and being defcribed by Cafferius, it is called the nervus perforans Ca fierii. Before paffing through 4 the190 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. the coraco-brachialis mufcle, it fends down a branch of communication with the radial nerve; and in many fubje&s it will be found to be like a branch from one of the origines of the radial nerve. Where the nervus perforans lies betwixt the brachieus internus mufcle and biceps, (and, of courfe, after it has perforated the co- raco-brachialis mufcle), a branch or two are fent up to the heads of the biceps mufcle; another branch turns inward to the belly of that mufcle; and, finally, twigs pafs inward to the cellular membrane, which in- volves the brachial artery. The continued nerve pafTes obliquely acrofs the arm, and under the biceps. When approaching the outfide of the arm, it divides into three finall branches j one to the integuments which are upon the fupinator longus, another to the integuments on the infide of the fore- arm, and a third, which continues its courfe along the edge of the fupinator longus to the wrift. Of this pro- longed branch of the perforans Cafferii, a minute twig is loft on the ligament of the wrift, another palfes to the ball of the thumb, and a third goes round to the integuments of the back of the thumb. 5. The radial nerve. This nerve is formed by thofe divifions of the plexus which furround the bra- chial artery, and fometimes by a divifion of the per- forans Cafferii. It takes its courfe by the fide of the brachial artery, and gives off no branches until it has funk under the apponeurotic expanfion of the biceps mufcle. When the radial nerve has come to the bend of the arm, it gives off three branches. The firft belongs fo the pronator teres, flexor radialis, and palmaris longus, andOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 191 and flexor digitorum; a fecond pafles to the pronator teres; and a third to the deep mufcles of the fore-arm, and to the flexors of the thumb particularly, and alfo to the pronator quadratus mufcle. The radial nerve, continuing its courfe down the fore-arm betwixt the flexor fublimis and profundus digitorum, fends off other branches to thofe mufcles. Before palling under the ligament of the wrift, it gives out a branch which emerges from the tendons, and pafles to the integu- ments, Ihort flexor, and abduftor mufcles of the thumb. The trunk of the radial nerve pafles with the ten- dons of the flexor mufcles of the fingers under the li- gament of the wrift. In the palm of the hand it di- vides into five branches;—the firft pafles to the abduc- tor and flexor pollicis brevis ; a fecond goes to the ad- du&or policis, and fide of the thumb next the fore- finger ; the third pafles to the fore-finger, and to the lumbricalis mufcle; the fourth to the fide of the fore and middle fingers; and the fifth to the fides of the middle and little finger. All thefe nerves, while in the palm of the hand, fend oft' branches to the lumbricales mufcles. 6. The ulnar nerve comes off from the lower part of the plexus in union with the internal cutaneous nerve. It defcends upon the infide of the arm, and is tied down by the fafcia, and then pafles behind the in- ternal condyle of the humerus. While above the bend of the arm, it gives oft' a fuperficial branch to the in- teguments on the infide of the arm, and the ulnar fide pf the forearm ; at the fame time it fends a mufcular 1 branchI92 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. branch through the triceps mufcle, along with the ar- teria profunda inferior. Immediately above the elbow joint, twigs are fent off, fome of which accompany |:he ramus analtamoticus major of the brachial artery. After pafling the condyle of the humerus, it fends a branch to the flexor carpi ulnaris, and to the head of the flexor digitorum profundus. It then finks deeper betwixt the flexor ulnaris and flexor digitorum fubli- mis; it is here connected with the ulnar artery, and defcends along with it to the wrift. In this courfe, along the fore-arm, the ulnar nerve gives branches to the flexor digitorum fubiimis. Often it fends a branch of communication to the radial nerve, while fome few lefler mufcular nerves are fent off, and accompany the branches of the ulnar artery. When arrived near the wrift, the ulnar nerve di- vides Into two branches. The continued trunk pafles. on under the protection of the tendon of the flexor ul- naris, and then under the arcular ligament into the palm of the hand ; while the branch takes a turn un- der the flexor ulnaris, and over the edge of the flexor digitorum profundus. It pafles then over the lower end of the ulna to the back of the hand. On the back of the hand it is found branching over the expanded tendons and under the veins, and is finally diftributed to the back of the little and ring fingers. This is the ramus pojiicus. The continued ulnar nerve pafles under the palmaris brevis mufcle and palmar apponeurofis, and above the flexor brevis and adduftor minimi digiti. Here it di- vides into two, (the fubiimis and profundus of Camper,) '. v - and.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* 193 &nd thefe again into four principal branches—to the integuments on the ulnar edge of the hand, and ad- ductor minimi digit!—to the outer edge of the little finger,—to the fide of the little and ring fingers, and a branch which communicates with the radial nerve. Albmus, Monro and Camper differ in regard to the diftribution of nerves to the lumbricales mufcles, which only proves that the twigs palling to thofe little muf- cles are irregular. They come chiefly from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, whilft others are from the radial nerve. 7. The muscular spiral nerve. We find the external cutaneous nerve, or perforans calferii, pairing* before the arm-bone. The mufcular fpiral nerve palfes behind the bone, and takes a fpiral turn under it to get to the outfide of the arm. It perforates the flefh of the arm betwixt the middle and the Ihort head of the triceps mufcle. Before it perforates the triceps mufcle, the mufcular fpiral fends off branches which pafs over the tendon of the latiffimus dorfi; and be- fore it enters the triceps mufcle, it may be obferved to divide into feveral branches. Three of thefe may be mentioned: a branch to the middle head, and one to the fhort head of the triceps mufcle, and a third and larger nerve which pierces betwixt the mufcles, along with the trunk of the nerve. This laft nerve does not follow the trunk of the nerve in its courfe, but perforating the triceps more dire&ly acrofs, it comes out behind the fupinator longus, where it takes its origin from the os humeri. Vol. III. ' O ThisCF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 194 This is a cutaneous branch, and might be confidered as the external cutaneous nerve with as much propriety as the perforans caflerii. Often we {hall find fome leffer branches of the mufcular fpiral nerve piercing the fibres of the triceps mufcle, and terminating in the {kin. The great cutaneous divifion of the nerve, after piercing the triceps mufcle, takes its courfe along the integuments covering the fupinator longus mufcle j and here it fends a branch in upon the bend of the arm, and on the edge of the triceps mufcle. It then defcends upon the outfide of the fore-arm, and divides into three principal branches, and then again into in- numerable cutaneous twigs, and is continued down over the back of the thumb and hand. But the great divifion of the mufcular-fpiral nerve comes out betwixt the head of the fupinator longus mufcle and the bone, and is deep feated. This branch then lies betwixt the fupinator longus, and brachasus internus ; and here it gives off feveral finall twigs to the mufcles. Continuing its courfe by the fide of the fupinator longus and flexor radialis, it divides into a deep and fuperficial branch. The fuperficial branch pafles down on the fide of the tendon of the fupinator longus, and near the wriit it becomes quite fuperficial, and is diftributed to the integuments of the back of the hand. 8. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVES. Of thofe we may defcribe three :— i. The great internal cutaneous nerve. This nerve is derived from the ulnaris at its root, or conies off fromOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 195 From the plexus along with it, paffes down the arm, giving off no confiderable branches, accompanies the bafilic vein and twifts its branches over it, divides into four branches upon the fafcia of the fore-arm, and run- ning betwixt the fafcia and veins of the fore-arm, it is finally diftributed to the cellular membrane and inte- guments, while one of its branches reaches to the liga- ments of the wrift. 2. The cutaneous nerve of Wrijberg comes fometimes from the axillary plexus, as a diftindt nerve; fome- times it is a branch of the great internal cutaneous nerve; fometimes it is derived, or a nerve which takes its place is derived from the intercoftal nerves. This nerve of Wrifberg is diftributed to the integu- ments of the arm, and terminates near the internal condyle. 3. The upper and internal cutaneous nerve comes from the firft intercoftal nerve, or from the fecond, and paffes out betwixt the firft and fecond ribs. It fup- plies the integuments of the arm, and the glands and fat of the axilla *. There are befides feveral nerves derived from the intercoftal nerves, which crofs the axilla, and fupply the arm-pit and fide. NERVES OF THE THIGH, LEG, AND FOOT. In tracing the nerves of the lower extremity, we find no difficulty in the arrangement at leaft, for they fall into a very fimple and natural order. They are all derived from the lumbar and facral nerves. The * See Syftem of DiffefHons, vol. ii. plate 1. g. O 2 greatJ%6 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. great nerves are three in number. One pafies out urn der Paupart’s ligament to the extenfor mufcles of the leg, viz. thofe which lie on the fore-part of the thigh. This of courfe is called the anterior crural nerve. The fecond nerve is the obturator nerve, fo called becaufe it palfes out from the pelvis by the thyroid hole. This nerve lies amongft the deep mufcles of the thigh, and diftributes its branches chiefly to the adduftor mufcles. The third nerve is the greatefl: nerve of the body, viz. the ifchiatic nerve. It pafles out from the back part of the pelvis, through the facro-fciatic notch, and takes its courfe down the back of the thigh into the ham. In this courfe it fupplies the mufcles lying on the back of the thigh, but its chief deftination is to the leg and foot. „ OF THE CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. It will be found confiderably to take from the in- tricacy of the minute anatomy of the nerves of the lower extremity, to difpofe firfl: of thefe nerves which lie under the integuments of the thigh. Thefe cutaneous nerves of the thigh come from the lumbar nerves, or more immediately from the anterior crural nerve. They pierce the tendon of the oblique mufcle of the abdomen, or pafs under Paupart’s liga- ment, and are diftributed to the groin, fcrotum, and betwixt the fafcia and integuments of the fore-part of the thigh. There may be defcribed five cutaneous nerves on the fore-part of the thigh, viz. the external cutaneous, the tniddle cutaneous, the anterior cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, arid thofe of the groin and fcro- tUfil, TheOF THE PARTICULAR, NERVES. I97 The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE IS that which conies out from the belly near the fuperior fpinous procefs of the ilium. It divides airnoft imme- diately into two great branches, and in the front view of the thigh the anterior branch alone is to be feen. It takes a courfe above the fafcia in the direction of the' .line which divides the vaflus externus from the redlus femoris, and terminates near the knee, while the polterior branch paffes over the tenfor vaginae femoris, and down upon the outfide and back of the thigh. It is derived from the third lumbar nerve. The middle cutaneous nerve rifes from amongfl the integuments of the groin, and emerges from under the fafcia near the upper edge of the fartorius mufcle. It paffes down upon the redtus mufcle, and is diftri- buted to the integuments in three or four divifions. The anterior cutaneous nerve comes out to the integuments very high up, and in the middle of the groin betwixt the pubes and tuberofity of the os ilii. It paffes down the thigh along the furfaces of the far- torius and vaflus internus mufcles. This, like all the other cutaneous nerves, runs along above the fafcia, and on the lower furface of the fkin. The internal cutaneous nerve is the lead re- gular. It does not pierce the fafcia in one trunk, but fends three, four, or five branches through the fafcia, which are diftributed to the integuments on the infide of the thigh. Some of thefe, after running a confider- able way under the fafcia, emerge and encircle the in- fide of the knee. Befides thefe more remarkable cutaneous nerves, there come down fmall nerves to the groin and fcro- Q 3 turn*I98 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. tum. The ftrlt lumbar nerve fends down the external fpermatic nerve. This joining the fpermatic plexus, helps to fupply the cord and tefticle; and in women the fame nerve goes to the womb within the pelvis, and following the round ligament, terminates on the fat of the pubes and groin. A branch from the fecond lumbar nerve paffes alfo to the glands and fat of the groin, the pubes, and cremafter mufcle. This branch is remarkable for the circuitous courfe it takes round the ilium and infide of the ligament of the thigh. ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE*. This nerve arifes from the union of the fecond, third, and fourth of the lumbar nerves, or the fecond and third lumbar nerves uniting into one trunk, are afterwards joined by a divifion of the fourth f, or the anterior crural, is formed by the anterior branch of the •third and the firft branch of the fecond lumbar nerve J, or by the four firft lumbar nerves; and the anterior crural nerve, at its origin, lies under the pfoas mag- nus, and, as it defcends, it holds its courfe between the pfoas magnus and iliacus internus. It then defcends towards the thigh, and paffes out under Paupart’s liga- ment ; and in its courfe along the brim of the pelvis, it is for feme way covered by the external iliac artery. Here, while within the pelvis, it gives off feveral fmall nerves, which pafs into the iliacus internus, and under the pfoas magnus mufcles. Thefe form a kind of fmall plexus. * Crural nerve, tmneus lumbarum, femoralis magnus, f Fifcher—Walter. J Sabatier and Haller. AsOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 199 As the anterior crural nerve paffes under Paupart’s ligament, it fplits into its numerous branches which fupply the mufcles and integuments on the fore part of the thigh. From the fore part of the nerve there is fent out a mufculo-cutaneous branch, which, while it defcends and fupplies feveral of the mufcles of the thigh, gives out the middle cutaneous nerve. The anterior cutaneous nerve is fent off lower down, but almoft immediately after it has paffed under Paupart’s ligament. The internal cutaneous nerve is fent off from fome of thofe branches which run under the internal articular artery. The laft of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve, and the moff important, is the nervus saphenus, or cutaneus longus. This is the chief cutaneous nerve of the leg ; but it is to be diftinguilhed as a particular nerve, fo high as under the external articular or circumflex artery, being a divifion of what is called the nervus longus. This nerve is fome- times joined by a branch of the obturator nerve ; and the mufcular branches which it gives off, pafs into the vaftus internus. When we are differing in the courfe of the femoral artery, we have to obferve two nerves running parallel to, and connected with the fheath of the artery. That which is on the infide is the largeft, the courfe of which we Ihall profecute. It follows the artery through the tendon of the triceps mufcle, but it does not defcend into the ham with the popliteal artery. It comes out again through the tendon with the perforating branches of the popliteal artery, or with the upper and internal articular artery. It then becomes a fuperficial nerve, O 4 andOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 200 and defcends upon the infide of the leg with the fa-* phena vein, to the inner ancle and foot. Thofe two nerves, which are fo clofely connected with the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, are very often taken up with the extremity of the artery in amputation. This occafions twitching in the flump and a fetid difcharge. Where the continued nerve defcends upon the infide of the leg, it fends out many twigs to the integuments, and is entangled with the faphena vein. Here it has been pricked in bleeding in the ancle.—Sabatier gives us an inflance of this. The patient had been previ- oufly fubjeft to nervous affections. She felt in the in- flam: of the operation an acute pain, which was fuc- ceeded by convulfive motions, firfl of the limb and then of the whole body. Thefe attacks returned from time to time, fhe loft her health, and for many years was flill in differing almofl continual.—He relates to us another inflance of the injury of this nerve accom- panying the faphena vein, in the cafe of a young man who received a wound with the fmall fword in the in- fide of the knee. There came on much fever and dwelling of the part, with great pain of the limb. This fubfiding, there followed flight trembling of the limb, which gradually increafed to an extreme degree. The cauflic was propofed, but the patient had not refolu- tion to let it be applied. After long differing with exhaufled flrength, he was at lafl relieved by nature, and his health gradually returned. Thefe branches we have mentioned are only the cu- taneous or fuperficial branches of the anterior crurak Th^ larger and more numerous let of branches are thofeOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 201 thofe to the mufcles lying on the fore-part of the thigh. Thefe diverge fuddenly into innumerable twigs, and are entangled with the branches of the arteries, and follow them in their dillribution. There can be no excufe for bellowing particular names on thefe branches;—■ to fay that one is the branch to the pe&inalis, an- other the branch to the fartorius, another to the re&uSj, &c. is fufficient. OBTURATOR NERVE. This nerve arifes by fafciculi from the fecond and third lumbar nerves, and fometimes by a fmall twig from the fourth. It is formed, however, chiefly by the third lumbar nerve. It then lies under the internal border of the pfoas magnus. It defcends into the pel- vis, and goes obliquely downwards to pafs through the ligamentous membrane which fills up the thyroid hole. The obturator nerve, before it efcapes from the pelvis, fends off a branch which, accompanying the pa- rent nerve, is given to the external obturator mufcle. When it has efcaped from the pelvis, this nerve lies before the heads of the triceps, and behind the pe&i- nalis mufcle ; and it here divides into two branches in the very middle and internal flefh of the thigh. The anterior of thefe branches paflfes down betwixt the ad- ductor mufcles, or heads of the triceps, fupplies thofe mufcles and the gracilis, and fends a branch of com- munication with the faphenus nerve. The pofterior divifion goes down betwixt the adduClor magnus and brevis, fends branches to the obturator externus and addu&or brevis, and continues its courfe downward be- fore the great flefhy partition of the adductor mufcles, and202 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. and parallel with the crural veffels, to the fat above the inner condyle of the femur. THE ORIGIN OF THE ISCHIATIO NERVE. The ifchiatic nerve is formed by the two laft nerves of the loins, and the three firft of the facrum: or we may defcribe its origin more particularly thus; the an- tenor branch of the fourth lumbar nerve and the trunk of the fifth uniting, form a ftrong cord of about two inches in length ; this root is joined to another nearly as large, formed by the .firft and fecond facral nerves; and again, a third divifion joins it from the inferior branch of the fecond facral nerve and from the third *. The ifchiatic nerve is thus formed of three great roots matted together into a kind of plexus, and then paffes betwixt the pyriformis mufcle and the gemini, and thus efcapes from the back part of the pelvis by the great ifchiatic notch. But before following this great nerve into the thigh, we muft take notice of many leffer nerves fent out from the facral nerves, and from the trunk of the ifchiatic nerve. Thefe nerves pafs to the mufcles and integu- ments of the nates and back of the thigh to the peri- neum and private parts. of the lesser nerves which go out from the BACK PART OF THE PELVIS. ift. There pafs off branches from the fecond and * This third and lowed origin, before uniting with the others tn form the ifchiatic nerve, gives out many fmall branches to the hypo- gaftric plexus and vifeera of the pelvis, to the perineum and private parts. thirdO? THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 203 third lumbar nerves, which form a mufcular nerve of considerable fize. This mufcular nerve paffes down upon the irfide of the pelvis, efcapes from the back part of the pelvis, and is diftributed to the gluteus medius, the gluteus minimus, and the tenfor vagina: femoris. 2d. There pafs off one or two very fmall nerves from the body of the ifchiatic nerve, while yet within the pelvis, or from the middle divifions of its origins, which go to the pyriformis and gluteus medius mufcles. 3d. Juft where the great nerve paffes over the pos- terior ligaments of the pelvis, there goes off a twig to the obturator externus gernini and quadratus femoris. While thefe nerves are fent off upon the anterior face of the nerve, there goes backward a large fafciculus of nerves to the glutei mufcles, and to the integuments of the nates *. There proceeds a nerve fomewhat more important than thefe from the third facral nerve, •viz. the nervus pudendus. This nerve paffes out above the fhort fa- cro-ifchiatic ligament, and re-enters under the long facro-ifchiatic ligament. It then runs by the fide of the ramus ifchii, and afcends in the perineum and branches to the ereflor penis, accelerator urinse, and tranfverfalis perenei, and paffes on to the integuments and external parts of generation. * Branches of that root of the ifchiatic nerve which is derived from the third facral nerve, go alfo out to the buttock; and fome deferibe a fuperior, middle, and inferior cutantous nerve of the pat eL , OFOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES, 204 OF THE CUTANEOUS N'ERVES OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. When the integuments are differed off from the nates and back of the thigh, we fee two fources of the cutaneous nerves; firft from the lumbar nerves, which give out many fmall nerves which pafs over the fpine of the os ilii, and the branches of the anterior and outer cutaneous nerve ; and fecondly, from under the lower margin of the great gluteus mufcle, there come many extenfive cutaneous nerves. Thefe are derived from the nervus cutaneus pofterior et fuperior, and branches of the ifchiatic nerve, in this manner; Juft as the great ifchiatic nerve has efcaped from the pelvis, it is joined by the superior and posterior , cutaneous nerve ; or, rather, a fmall twig is fent oft' from the great nerve to join this cutaneous nerve * on its emerging from the pelvis. It divides into feve- ral branches, and it is one of thefe which may be feen fuperficial and above the delicate fafcia, running down upon the outer ham-ftring mufcles, to the back of the knee-joint. Another branch piercing the fafcia fepa- rately, comes down upon the integuments covering the outer and back part of the thigh, and terminates on the outftde of the knee. A little further down, the ifchi- atic nerve gives off fmall nerves to the mufcles fur- pounding the hip joint; and, whilft the fciatic nerve is palling over the quadratus femoris, the inferior and * The pofterior cutaneous nerve rifes in general from the trunk of the ifchiatic nerve, within the pelvis, and is joined by a branch from the third facral nejvc,—Ioerd. Haafe, INTERNALOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 205 internal cutaneous nerve is given off. This nerve runs down even to the infide of the calf of the leg.—The external and posterior cutaneous nerve is a branch fent off from the ifchiatic nerve, after it has defcended from under the gluteus maximus, and juft before its divifion into two fafciculi, viz. the tibiah and peroneal nerves. This external and pofte- rior cutaneous nerve paffes down upon the integuments of the back part and outftde of the leg. OF THE TRUNK OF THE ISCHIATIC NERVE IN THE THIGH. But we muft not allow thefe leffer branches to diT- tracl our attention from the general courfe of the great nerve, which paffes over the gemini mufcles, betwixt the tuberoftty of the ifchium and the trochanter major, then runs deep under the bellies of the hamftring muf- cles, and is lodged immediately in the great cavity be- hind the knee-joint, in company with the popliteal ar- tery and vein. In this courfe the facro-fciatic gives off branches to the quadratus femoris, the biceps cruris, femitendinofus, and femimembranofus and triceps. A little below the middle of the thigh, the great ifchiatic nerve divides into the internal and greater, and the leffer and external popliteal nerves. But as this is really the divifion into the two great nerves of the leg, we take the more determinate names of tibial and n- bular nerves. TIBIAL NERVE. The greater and more internal of thefe divifions of 7 thei / £o6 of the particular nerves. the popliteal nerve, is' the tibial nerve. Whilft it Is yet in the hollow behind the joint formed by the ham- ftring tendons, it gives off a nerve which comes out from the ham, and defcends fuperficially on the back of the leg. This has been called ramus communi- cans tibiei. When this nerve has arrived oppofite to the beginning of the tendon achillis, it turns a little to the outer fide, palling upon the outer margin of the achilles tendon, over the outer fide of the heel-bone, and is finally diftributed on the outfide and fore-part of the foot. Upon the back of the leg, this nerve unites with a branch defcending from the fibular nerve, nearly in the fame courfe, and with the fame deffi- nation. After giving off this fuperficial branch, the tibial nerve fends branches to the back of the knee-joint and popliteus mufcle, to the plantaris mufcle, and to both heads of the gaftrocnemius. It then defcends be- hind the articulation, and behind the head of the tibia. It then paffes under the origins of the foleus, and be- twixt the foleus and flexor longus digitorum pedis, and tibialis pofticus, and defcends to the inner ancle. In this courfe it furniflies many branches to the lower part of the popliteal mufcle, to the tibialis pofticus, to the flexor communis digitorum, and to the flexor po- licis longus, and many of thefe branches, and in cuta- neous twigs. We have alfo to obferve a particular branch which the tibial nerve detaches, which paffes betwixt the heads of the tibia and fibula, and goes to fupply the mufcles arifing from the fore part of the in- teroffeous ligament. Further down, two or more fmall branches of the nerve alfo perforate the interoffeous ligament.THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 1QJ 2 THE ligament, to fupply the mufcles lying on the outfide of the tibia. The tibial nerve, in its courfe amongft thofe pofterior mufcles, accompanies the poflerior tibial ar- tery. When it has arrived behind the inner ancle, it fends off a branch to the integuments of the infide of the foot, and to the abduftor mufcle of the great toe. Continuing its courfe by the fide of the heel-bone and under the ligament, it begins to fplit into thofe branches which are naturally called the plantar nerves, becaufe of their lying in the foie of the foot. THE PLANTAR NERVES. The internal plantar nerve paffes over the abductor mufcle of the great toe, and by the infide of the fhort flexor to the firft metacarpal bone; and in this courfe it gives out feveral twigs to the mufcles of the foie of the foot. It now divides into three branches. Thefe are diftributed to the great toe, to the fecond, the third, and one fide of the fourth toes; and thefe nerves in their courfe give branches to the lumbricales and inter- oflii mufcles. The external plantar nerve is the lefler of the two. It gives branches to the Ihort flexor and addudor of the little toe, and to the, mafia carnea Jacobi Silvii. It gives alfo a deep branch to the third and fourth inte- rofleous mufcle and addudor mufcle of the great toe. Another of its branches makes the arch with the in- ternal plantar nerve, while its extreme diftribution is to the little toe, and to one fide of the fourth toe. Thefe nerves of the foie of the foot are conneded with the internal and external plantar arteries, and are protected like them by the plantar apponeurofis.20$ OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES* THE . FIBULAR NERVE. The fibular nerve is the more external divifion of the popliteal nerve. It feparates from the tibial branch about four inches above the knee-joint; it does not pafs down under the gaftrocnemius, like the tibial nerve, but turns towards the outfide of the joint, and paffes round the head of the fibula, and under the origin of the peroneus longus.—Before the fibular nerve paffes from behind the joint, it gives off feveral branches. There are fent down two branches to the integuments. One of thefe branches unites with the communicans tibiei, and defcends with it to the outer ancle. Sometimes this anaftamofis is formed high in the leg upon the. heads of the gaftrocnemius. More generally there is a double communication formed by thefe nerves about the termination of the belly of the gaftrocnemius mufcle in the achilles tendon. This pro- longed branch of the fibular nerve terminates upon the fide and upper part of the foot, and upon the little toe. There are alfo fome nerves fent off from the fibular, which are diftributed about the back and fides of the knee-joint. When the fibular nerve has turned over the head of the fibula, it divides into two great branches. The DEEPER SEATED of THESE BRANCHES, though i,t is not the largeft of them, may be confidered as the continued trunk. It paffes deep amcngft the mufcles, lying betwixt the tibia and fibula, and fupplies the tibialis anticus, the extenfor communis digitorum, ex- tenfor longus policis, and the peroneus brevis. Thus the deeper divifion of the fibular nerve, taking its courfe (OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 209 courfe between the tibialis anticus, and the peroneus longus mufcles, and lower down betwixt the tibia and extenfor policis longus, continues giving off branches in rapid fucceffion, and when it arrives at the anular ligament, it is much diminilhed. Here it divides into the ramus dorfalis, pedis profundus and fuperficialis,— This divifion is made after the nerve has croffed under the tendon of the tibialis anticus mufcle, and, while it lies betwixt the lower heads of the tibia and fibula.— Although they are diftinguifhed by the name of deep and fuperficial branches, they are both deep compared with the extremities of the great and outer divifion of the peroneal nerve. The branch which lies molt to- wards the outfide of the foot, paffes under the extenfor digitorum brevis mufcle, and on the outfide of the tar- fus. It diftributes its branches to the extenfor digi- torum brevis, and interoflii mufcles. That branch which is more towards the infide of the foot, although diftinguifhed by the term fuperficialis, goes forward not only under the fafcia which covers the foot, but alfo under the tendons: and after dividing and again uniting, and after fending off fome fmall branches, it comes out betwixt the great toe and the fecond toe,- and fends numerous branches to their contiguous fur- faces. The GREAT SUPERFICIAL DIVISION of the FIBULAR nerve is fometimes double, or immediately fplits into two. Its firft branches are to the peroneus tertius, ex- tenfor longus digitorum, and to the peroneus brevis and fecundus. The trunk or principal divifion runs down tinder the head of the peroneus longus, and then com- Yol. Ill, . 3P ing210 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ing cut from under it, continues its courfe beneath the flrong aponeurofis, which covers the mufcles on the fore part of the leg. It then pierces the aponeurofis and becomes cutaneous, and runs obliquely down to the convexity of the foot, giving off in its courfe a nerve which paifes over the outer ancle. THE METATARSAL NERVES. When the fuperficial branch of the peroneal nerve defcends before the ancle-joint, it divides into the me- tatarfal nerves, or the rami dorfales pedis. The ex- ternal of thofe branches pafles above the tendons, and above the tendinous expanfion on the dorfum pe- dis ; is united to the extreme branches of the ramus communicans tibiei, and is finally diflributed to the outfide of the third . toe, to the fourth, and to the in- fide of the little toe.—The internal branch is again fubdivided; one branch extends over the middle of the foot to the fecond and third toes, while the other paifes llraight along the metatarfal bone of the great toe (above the tendons); fends many branches over the infide of the foot, and terminates on the infide and dorfum of the great toe. END OF THE FIRST part.INTRODUCTION, OF THE SENSES; I Ha Senfes are thofe faculties by which the active principle within us has communication with the ma- terial objects by which wre are furrounded. Through them, we receive thofe fimple fenfations which are the firft elements of our thoughts, and the means of developing all the powers of the underftanding. The exercife of our fenfes, however, is familiar to us from fo early a period, that we never think of attending to their firlt fimple intimations : before we are capable of reflecting on the nature of the perceptions which the feveral fenfes convey, they are fo complicated and diftorted by habits, aflociation, and abftraCtion, that obfervation comes too late for us to afcertain the fimple progrefs of nature. Phiiofophy may indeed revive the natural feelings of wonder at the fpeCtacle of the univerfe j but often, inftead of humble and Vol. III. ■ cautiousOP THE SENSES, 214 cautious inveftigation, we follow the dictates of a creative imagination, and run into error and delufion in fludying the operations of nature. To the man, however, who looks upofr nature with the calm and chaflened delight which is the character of true philofophy, there is a conviction, that fuch refearches may be carried too far. Wherever he directs his attention, whether to the firu&ure of the human body,, the phyfiology of vegetables, or the phenomena of chemical fcience; whether he endea- vours to comprehend the fyftem of the univerfe, or pores over the minutiae of natural hiHory, he finds every where a limit placed to his enquiries; a line which no1 mduftry or ingenuity dan enable him to pafs. We may pleafe ourfelves with Conjecture beyond this limit, but we find that all our opinions on thefe fubjedts are merely a dream of fomething allied to the knprefiions of our grofs fenfes. The agency of the fenfes, the intercourfe betwixt mind and matter, and the influence of the wall over the body, are myflerious, and, probably, inexplicable phenomena; yet we fcruple not to explain them precifely and mechanically; we reduce them to the level of our own capacity in the fame manner as we fabricate to ourfelves the idea of a deity by the combination of all human perfections. When we imagine that we have difcovdred the fecret of thefe myfteries, it is mortifying to find ourfelves without any fign or language by which to communicate thofe great truths to the companions of our ftudies : We ftruggle for expreffion; and, as all our ideas upon fuch abftract fubjects are .derived from analogy, we exprefs our opinions refpedting the powers of> the mind, ofOF THE SENSES. 215 or the manner In which we perceive the objeCts of the fenfes, in the fame language, and by reference to the fame notions, which belong to the fenfations them* felves. From this fcantinefs and inaccuracy of lan- guage, it unavoidably happens, that very different ideas of the operation of the fenfes are exprefled by feveral men in the fame terms; and in attempting to convey our ideas in language more precife and definite, we are infenfibly led to materialize the faculties of the mind, and to make the operations of the fenfes merely inechanical. What other explanation can we give of theories, which fuppofe the nerves to be tubes carrying animal fpirits, or containing an elaltic ether ; or which reprefent them as vibrating cords, and reduce all the variety of fenfation to the difference of tenfion and tone ? Thefe are, indeed, what Dr. Reid calls them, ** unhandy engines for carrying images.” Nothing has Leen undertaken in philofophy but entire fyftems, fathoming at once the greateft depths of nature. The cuftom has been to frame hardy con- jectures ; and if upon comparing them with things there appeared fome agreement, however remote, to hold that as fully fufficient. What chimeras and monftrous opinions this method of philofophifing has brought forth, it would be more invidious than difficult to fpecify. Bacon and Newton laid down the principles of philofophifing on this bafis, that on no account are conjectures to be indulged concerning the powers and laws of nature, but we are to make it our endeavour, with all diligence, to fearch out by experiment the real and true laws by which the conffitution of things is Qjz regulated.2l6 Of THE SENSES'. regulated. In the fubject now before us, we have S very remarkable proof of the fuperiority of inveftiga* tion by experiment over the lazy indulgence of conjecture; and I hope the whole tenor of the follow- ing account of the fenfes will ftrengthen the conviction of the {ludent, that it is only by affiduous ftudy, and patient obfervation of nature, that he is to look for the attainment of knowledge in the medical profeffion. The office of the brain and nerves is to receive the impreffions of external bodies, by which correfponding changes and reprefentations are made in the mind. We know nothing further than that, by the operation of the fenfes, new thoughts are excited in the mind* Betwixt the fenfation excited in the organ of the ex- ternal fenfe, and the idea excited in the brain, there is an indiffoluble, though inexplicable, connection; the brain is not fenfible, nor does the eye perceive, but both together give us the knowledge of outward things. But when the fenfation is once received and com- municated to the brain it is treafured there, and may afterwards be excited independent of the external organ: hence comes the term internal fenfes. INTERNAL SENSES. Though I treat profeffedly of the external organs of the fenfes only, it may be nece'flary here, to fay a few words on the internal fenfes. It appears that all fen-, fations originate in the external fenfes or organs receiving the impreffiohs of outward bodies: imagina- tion is the power of combining thefe fenfations, and memory the power of recalling them. Thefe are powers ' /•OF THE SENSES. 217 powers of the mind, which, by the conflitution of our nature, are gradually acquired, and encreafed by exer- cife. In infancy, the perceptions are fimple and tran- fitory ; the memory is perfected by degrees, and with the ftore of ideas the imagination is invigorated. - It is in the combination and reciprocal effedts of the mental powers and of the impreffion on the external fenfes, that we are to find an explanation of the operation of attention and its hiftory. When the mental powers are led to the contemplation of an idea which aflimilates eafily with the fenfation about to be prefented by the external organ, the perception is quick, and the idea vivid; but when the mind is ftrongly imprefled and occupied with the contemplation of pad ideas, the prefent operation of the fenfe is neglected and overlooked. Thus, the vividnefs of the perception or idea, is always proportionate to the degree pf undiftradted attention which the mind is able to beftow on the objedt of fenfation or of memory. In folitude and darknefs, the ftrength of the memory in the contemplation of paft events is encreafed, becaufe there is no intrufion of the objedls of the outward fenfes ; and the deaf or blind receive fome compenfa- tion for their lofs in the encreafed powers which are acquired by a more frequent and undifturbed ufe of the fenfes which remain, and a keener attention to the fenfations which they prefent. On the other hand, when we are under the enchantments of a waking dream or revery, our attention is wholly detached from the prefent objedls of the fenfes; and in this Hate we may even continue to read without underftand- ing. This abfence, in a certain degree, is common, Qj; natural.OF THE SENSES. 2iS natural, and by no means unpleafant: It is the exer- tion of the faculty of the mind. But it may become difeafe; for health confifts in the due correfpondence betwixt the excitement and the vigorous adtion of the body, and the operation of the mind when roufed by the externai fenfes. The mind (united to the body) fuffers in the difeafes of the body. In the debility of the body, ii> fever, in fpafms, and pain, the faculties of the mind languifh, or are rouied to unequal flrength or morbid acutenefs. Sometimes the phantafms and internal fenfations of things once received by the outward fenfes, become fo ftrong in the mind, as to be miftaken for objects actually prefent. Such phrenzy or delirium arifes from a difordered and acutely fenfible flate of the in- ternal fenfes. Thefe impreflions being great in degree, hurry and buftle are in the countenance of the patient, and uncommon flrength and violence in his adions; as paflion gives uncommon excitement to one in health, with a difregard or forgetfulnefs of all other things. In health, however vigorous the force of imagination may be, there i§ flill a convi&ion that the ideas which it prefents are not realities, and the operation of the exter- nal fenfes preponderates in recalling the attention to what exifts around us. But when the internal per- ceptions become fo ftrong as to be miftaken for realties, the effect is falfely attributed to the organs. It indeed fometimes happens, that this falfe perception is really oyring to difeafe in the organ; while it alfo occurs, that a too vivid perception of things abfent proceeds from an affe&ion of the brain, and not of the outward fenfes. ThereOF THE SENSES. 219 There There is dill another degree or clafs of difeafed fen- Cation, confifting in the modification of objedts which .are actually prefent to the fenfes. But this modifica- tion of things prefent (as when bodies actually at reft appear to be in motion) is not always occafioned by optical deception. Objedfs feem to turn round, and this we fhall afterwards find to proceed from the infen- fible motion of the eyes; but this motion of the eyes is occafioned by the difordered date of the internal fenfation ; and the fame feeling will be experienced if the eyes are fhut. For example, when we turn quickly round on our heel until we become giddy, it would appear that there is a difturbance of the ufual order of fenfation, and that the courfe of our imprefiions is reverfed; for while our fenfations were formerly di- rected entirely by the impreffion made on the outward fenfes, the fenforial imprefiions now draw after them a fympathetic motion of the external organs. This inverted communication betwixt the mind and organs is better exemplified in the organ of fpcech. Thoughts excited in the mind are reprefented by the figns of thefe ideas in fpeech. There occurs, however, not unfrequently, a difeafed date of thefe operations of the internal fenfes, in which the ideas excited in the mind cannot be adociated with their appropriate ex- predions; and although the patient has a didindf idea of what he means to exprefs, he cannot recoiled! the words which belong to it; fo that, when he afks for one thing, he names another which has no connedtion with it. Of this he is perfedlly fenfible, and yet he cannot corredf himfqlf.220 Of THE SENSES. There are more frequent inltances of difeafed cor- poreal fenfation in hypocondriacs. In them, the fen- faiion of pain and unufual feelings are falfely attributed to parts in which there is really no affection : for thefe feelings there is no apparent caufe ; they proceed from a difordered flate of fenfation in which the ufual courle* of the impreffions is altered, fo as to occafion the patient falfely to attribute his fuffering to found and healthy parts. Thus indigeftion, the irritation of the bile, flatulency, colic, &c. often do not give the ufual im- preffions, but the pains are attributed to outward parts. That there is fometimes an adlual connection exifling betwixt the external parts, to which thefe feelings are - referred, and the internal organs, is evident from the fact, that preffure in the outward and found parts has occafioned fpafms in the internal organs. To fuch difordered tranfmiffion of the irritation of the internal parts we have to attribute the extravagant and ludi- crous ideas which hypocondriacs entertain. In thefe people, there are difeafes of parts, of the adtion of which, during their healthy flate, (as I have already explained in the fhort introdudlory view of the ner- vous fyflernj, we have no feeling nor confcioufnefs, and over which the will has no power. But although in the healthy flate of the oeconomy there is no immedi- ate route by which any fenfation from thefe organs can be tranfmitted to excite a mental perception, it may happen, that, in their difeafed flate, when fenfations do -rife which forcibly attradl the attention, there fhould be 1 obfcurity in the feelings produced by their derange- snt, infomuch, that the mind may be deceived’m regard©F THE SENSES. 22| j-egard to the direction of the fenfation conveyed from them. During health, there are viciffitudes of confciouf- nefs, fenfe, and voluntary motion, and of reft from voluntary exertion, infenftbility, and oblivion of the paft. This is true, however, only comparatively, and by a grofs reference to degree ; for even during natural ileep there is not a total oblivion of paft perceptions, nor is there always a total unconfcioufnefs of the pre- sent, as the fenfes are in part awake; fome one train of ideas is preient to the mind ; and the lapfe of time is obferved. Even thefe perceptions are fometimes fo ftrong as to be followed by voluntary exertion, and yet the patient remains afleep. TYhatever conduces to take the excitement from the mind, or leffens the vivacity of its impreffions, conduces to fleep. Thus, reft, ftillnefs, and darknefs, by excluding the moft: lively impreffions conveyed by the fenfes; and has- morrhagy and evacuations, by leflening the velocity of the circulation; induce fleep. Again, compreffion of the returning blood from the head, by giving it a flow languid motion, and by depriving the veflels of their freedom of aftion, alfo conduces to fleep; becaufe, as formerly remai'ked, the powers and faculties of the brain muft be renovated through the means of the circulation. By long watching and fatigue, the body is brought nearly to a feverifh lownefs. By fleep, reft is given to the voluntary mufcles, and an abatement of the vital motions enfues; the quiefcent ftate of the mufcles brings back the blood to the heart, with a flow, re- gular, and calm progreffion; the heart is reftored to its*22 OF THE SENSES. Its flow and equable pulfation ; the breathing becomes flower; and the wafted ftrength of the fyftem is re- cruited. We may define fleep to be a ft ate in which the fen- fations are dull, the voluntary mufcles inert, and the vital motions calm and regular. In dreaming, the fen- fations are dull and obfeure, but the imagination more alive and active; unnatural fleep, or foporific difeafes, may be characterized by the difordered imagination, and difturbed vital and voluntary motions. The vital aCtions, which are calm, flow, and equable, during natural fleep, become opprefled; the fenfibility, which is gradually diminilhed upon the approach of fleep, but always capable of being roufed by the fenfes, be- comes quite opprefled ; the voluntary mufcles continue relaxed, as in fleep, or convulfed by irregular motions. In apoplectic difeafes, the functions of the yifcera pro- ceed, and are but partially impeded ; but when the circulation of the blood and play of the lungs are ob- ftruCted, the operations of the mind are not equally unconcerned in the paroxyfm; for in fyncope, the fudden depletion of the blood veflels of the brain caufes inftant lofs of fenfe and of voluntary motion. If natural fleep is not profound, the imagination is awake ; but there may be falfe perceptions, falfe judg- ment and aflociations, and difproportionate emotions ; and if fenfations are perceived, they do not produce the ordinary aflociations. If fuch a ftate of the intellectual functions occurs during the waking ftate, it becomes delirium. That this delirium is analogous to the per- turbed ftate of the imagination during fleep, appears from the delirium in fevers uniformly fliowing its ap- proachOF THE SENSES. 22J proach in the patient’s {lumbers only. It is a difi pofition to form falfe images and affociations, which, in the beginning, the excitement of the outward fenfes has power to counteract, infomuch that a patient can be roufed from delirium as he can be roufed from deep: but, bye and bye, the external fenfes lofe their fuperi- 'prity, and their excitement is attended with unufual affociations ; they no longer convey impreffions to the intellect, but become fubfervient to and modified by it, and the judgment, which depends on the due balance of memory and imagination, is loft. In fever, the de- lirium is tranfitory ; in low fevers, it is combined with a comatofe ftate. In melancholy, the delirium runs upon one objeCt chiefly, or trains of ideas, which refer to the patient’s health and corporeal feelings. In madnefs, the variety is infinite ; but chiefly confiding in a vitiated imagination and perverted judgment, with fiercenefs and encreafed power of corporeal exertion. There are five organs peculiarly adapted to convey fenfations to the mind ; and they may be confidered as forming a medium of communication betwixt the ex- ternal creation and the fentient principle within us; they are at the lame time the bond of union betwixt fentient beings. Thefe organs are called the external senses ; viz. the fenfe of feeing, the fenfe of hearing, the fenfe of fmelling, the ferffe of tafting, and the fenfe pf touch. Individually, thefe organs convey little ip- formation to the mind ; but by comparifon and com- bination, the Ample and original affeCtion or feelings of the mind are affociated and combined to infinity, and adminifter to the memory and imagination, to tafte reafoning, and moral perception, the paflions and affeCtions, and every aCtive power of the foul.BOOK I. OF THE EYE, C H A P. I. INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF THE PRINCIPLES OF OPTICS, Light is a matter thrown out from ignited, or re- flected from ihining, furfaces; and which enters the eye and imprefles that organ with the fenfation of fight. The minutenefs and inconceiveable velocity of light, the facility with which it penetrates bodies of tjie greatefl: denfity and clofeft texture, without a change of its original properties, makes it the fource of the moft wonderful and aftonifliing phasnomena in the phyfical world. The fmalleft ftream of light which propagates itfelf through a minute hole, is called a ray ; and, as rays of light pafs through a uniform medium in a ftraight courfe, they are reprefented by mathematical lines. The fun is the greatefl: fource of light, and perhaps the original and only fource. But light is not uniform in refpeCl of colour: every part of a ray is not capable of225 OF THE EYE.' 6f exciting the idea of whitenefs which the whole raifess White light is compofed of different kinds of rays, which individually give the fenfation : one of red, another of orange, a third of yellow, a fourth of green, a fifth of light blue, a fixth of indigo, and a feventh of a violet or purple Thefe are named the prifmatic colours ; becaufe, in the fpectrum produced by mak- ing a ray of light to pafs through a prifm, thefe feveral colours are feen in the fucceffion * in which they are above enumerated. Each of thefe rays individually impreffes the eye with its own colour ; but when they all imprefs the eye at once, the fenfation upon the organ of fight is a compound effecl: no individual colour is prefented, but that mixed light which is called whitenefs, and which may be divided into its individual colours by palling it through a prifm. It is the nature of moft bodies to abforb fome of thefe rays of light and to reflect others from their fur- face ; confequently, the colours of bodies depend upon the particular rays which are reflected from them, or upon the combination of fuch rays as are reflected from them; and a body appears of that colour of which the light coming from it is chiefly compofed. When a ray of light paffes from a rarer to a denfer medium, or from a denfer into a rarer, it alters its courfe, * There is a fa& not a little extraordinary regarding the emanation <f f rays from the fun, and which has been difcovered in the prefent day, viz. that there are invifiblerays, giving heat but no light, which arc iefs refraftabie than the coloured rays; and that all rays, in pro- portion to their refrangibility, have iefs power of producing heat. See Herfchel on the invifible rays of light. PfayG TranC 1800, pari «. p. 284. if226 OF THE EVE0 if there be any obliquity in the original direction; but if it Itrikes from one medium into another perpendicu- larly to the furfaces, its original direction is not changed. If the ray palling from the air enters obliquely into glafs or water, or any denfer medium, it turns more towards the perpendicular ; but if it paffes through the glafs and emerges again into the air, it refumes its ori- ginal direction, diverging from the perpendicular. This effeCt of different mediums upon the ray of light, is called refraction : when a ray of light impinging upon a furface does not enter, it rifes again to the angle of its incidence ; and this is reflection. The prifm is a piece of glafs of a triangular form j the inclined furfaces of which, when placed in the courfe of the ray of light, refraCt, and feparate the feveral parts of the heterogeneous ray, and Ihow its compound nature. If the fun be permitted to flhine into a dark room through a fmall hole in the window- fhutter, and the beam of light be made to fall upon a glafs prifm, it is, in palling through the glafs, fepa- rated into its conftituent parts; becaufe the feveral coloured rays have different degrees of refrangibility, in the order in which I have already enumerated them. If the rays, after palfmg through the prifm, be made to pafs alfo through a convex glafs, they are brought again to a point in the focus of that glafs ; and the effeCt of the whole colours thus reunited, is perfe£l whitnefs.' We might fufpeCt that the beam of light were homogenous, and that the degree of refrac- tion gave different colours to the rays, were it not proved, that how much foever any of the coloured rays is further refraCted, it does not change its nature ; nor227 OF THE EYE. nor will rays fuffer any change by reflexion from bodies of different colours, for minium will appear yellow, green, blue, &c. according to the colour of the ray of light direded upon it *. As the impreflion of light remains fome time upon £he nerve of the eye, it gave Sir Ifaac Newton the op- portunity of examining, whether each coloured ray makes a diftind impreflion upon the eye, or whether they fo affed each other as to imprefs the fenfe of white- nefs on the eye. When a burning coal is whirled in a circle, the eye perceives an entire circle of fire, be- caufe the impreflion made by the coal in any point of the circle remains until the coal returns again to the fame place, and renews the fenfation. When all the varieties of colours are painted in a circle, and turned in the fame way with the burning coal, they muft each make their feparate impreflion upon the optic nerve j but the general fenfation is whitenefs $ or when the teeth of a comb are drawn acrofs the flream of light iffuing from a prifm, the different colours are intercepted in fuch quick fucceffion, that a perfed whitenefs is the refult of the mixture of impreffions. There are many experiments which fhow, that the in- equalities of the refradion of light are not cafual; that they do not depend upon any irregularity of the glafs : on the contrary, it is proved, that every ray of the * It is found, that the coloured rays have not all the fame power of illuminating objects ; the orange ray pofleffes this property more than the red -y the yellow more than the orange, &c.; and the maximum of illumination lies in the brighteft yellow or paled green ; nor do the feveral rays equally affcft the thermometer. See Herfchel’s Exp, Phy. Tranf, l8oO; p, 2, p. 255. fun22§ OF THE EYE.' fun has its own peculiar degree of refractability, ac- cording to which, it is more: or lefs refra&ed in paf- fing through pellucid fubflances, and always in the fame manner: and, laftly, that the rays are not fplit snd multiplied by the prifni. When a ray of light falls upon the furface of glafs obliquely, it inclines to a line drawn (through the point of incidence) perpendicular to the furface. KlA2f. I . Thus the ray A. fig. i., proceeding from the ob- ject *, is refra&ed upon entering the mafs of glafs in the direction B, having a tendency towards the per- pendicular line. By this means, if a number of rays proceeding from any one point, as in fig. 2., fall on a convex or fpherical furface of glafs, they will be in- fiedled fo as to gather about the perpendicular line a a in the centre of the glafs : which perpendicular line is the axis of the glafs. If the rays of light proceeding from an objedt be made to ftrike into a mafs of glafs \yith a concave furface, the obliquity with which they impinge upon the furface, being the reverfe of the convexOF THE EYE* 229 convex furface, they are not made to converge upon the central line, but diverge from it. Farther, the rays of the fun when palling from a me- dium of'glafs into the air, are turned,by refraction, farther off from the central line to which they were drawn in entering the convex furface of glafs. But if the rays, in palling through the glafs, were in a direction con- verging to the perpendicular line, they will be made to converge dill farther, as is feen here in fig. 3. rig.3. .!- Jfi 4 . If, however, the rays be made to pafs .from glafs into the air, and the furface of the glafs be concave as in fig. 4., the rays will be made to have a lefs degree of convergence, fo as to remove the image * farther from the furface of the glafs. But if the rays palling through the medium of glafs have no convergence, but pafs in parallel lines, they will diverge as the lines a a, fig. 4. do, when they emerge from the concave furface of the glafs. Vol. Ilf, R ' We23° or the eTe. We fee, then,_the operation of a double convex glafs,in forming the image of a luminous body upon a furface. If, for example, fuch a glafs be held be- tween a candle and a piece of white paper, (the dif- tances being properly ad- juded), the image of the . candle will appear very didinclly upon the oppof- ed furface, but inverted ; beeaufe the rays coming from the point a fig. 5., converge at c, and thofe from the point b at d. Before proceeding farther in this Ihort expofition of the principles of optics, it will be neceffary to take a very flight view of the dru&ure of the eye. SIMPLE IDEA OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE EYE. The eye being that organ by which we are fenfible to the rays of light, may be confidered as confiding of two parts; that which receives the impreffion, viz. the retina or expanded nerve, and which is indeed the^ organ of the fenfe ; and the tunics and humors, the apparatus by which the rays of light are made capable of forming an impreffion on the retina, or proper organ of the fenfe. In an anatomical enquiry, it is chiefly the latter di~ vifion of the fubject which mud occupy our attention y for.OF THE EYE. which R 2 for, although we are neceffarily led to confider the na- ture of the fubflance of the retina, the manner in which it is expanded, and fupported by adhefion, and nourifhed by veffels, we muft not venture far in the attempt to inveftigate the manner of its receiving or conveying the image of objeds to the fenforium. We muft turn to inveftigate the more ufeful fubject of the ftrudure, ufe, and difeafes * of the humors and coats of the eye. It is the firft principle of the conftitution of the eye, that the rays of light muft be fo concentrated as to impinge ftrongly on the expanded nerve or retina in the bottom of the eye. Now, as we have feen, that a lens (which is a double convex glafs) is neceffary, fo to concentrate the rays of light proceeding from an objed, as to form a fmall and lively image of it, (as in marginal plate, fig. 5.), fo, in the fame manner, an effential part of the eye is the lens, which brings the rays of light to a focus; and that the lens may make the rays proceeding from an object converge into an accurate focus, fo as to form a diftind image on the eye, the vitrious humor is interpofed betwixt the lens and the furface of the retina : again, it is neceffary to the conftitution of the eye, that, in order to encreafe the fphere of vifton, the anterior part cf it fhall projed and form a large fegment of a fmall circle, fo as to take a greater circumference into the fphere of vifton than could have been, done, had the larger fphere of the eye-ball been continued on the fore part. Another neceffary part of the apparatus of the eye is the iris, * Of the difeafes only as they relate,to the explanation of the ftrudlure and oeconomy of the eye.232 OF THE EYE. which is a curtain in the anterior chamber of the eye, perforated with a hole, which is capable of being en- larged or diminifhed fo as to admit a larger or fmaller ftream of light as may be neceflary to perfect vilion. In this provifion, we fee the neceffity of the anterior humor of the eye being different from the others ; being merely an aqueous fecretion, while the others poflefs a degree of firmnefs, viz. that the iris, or curtain of the eye, may move with perfed freedom in it. The three humors of the eyb are thus fituated, and have this general charader : 1. The aqueous humor is the anterior humor of the eye. It diflends the anterior and pellucid part of the eye, fo as to encreafe the fphere of vifion. It is perfectly fluid, and of a watery conflflence, that it may allow free motion to the iris. 2. TheOF THE EYE. 233 2. The lens or christalline humor is placed immediately behind the perforation in the iris; which perforation is called the pupil. The lens colledts the rays of light like a double convex glafs, fo as to con- centrate them, and make a more forcible image on the bottom of the eye. 3. The vitrious humor is behind the lens. It diftends the general ball of the eye into a regular fphere, that it may move eafily in the orbit; and its diameter in the axis of the eye is fo proportioned to the focal diftance of the lens, (affedted alfo in fome degree by the other humors), that the image of an ebjedt is formed accurately on the furface of the retina : accordingly, when the coats are cut from the back of the eye, the pidture of a luminous object held before the pupil is feen exquifitely minute and diftindt on the bottom of the eye. While thefe humors have each its dilHnct charac- ter, they poffefs, in proportion to their denfity, diffe- rent powers of refracting the rays of light. This has the (till farther good effedt of correcting the aberration of the rays and giving the trueft colours, as well as the moft corredt image of the objedt prefented to the eye. If the lucid anterior part of the eye be formed too prominent, or if the lens of the eye have too great a degree of convexity, or, laftly, if the fize of the ball cf the eye, and the diameter of the vitrious humor in the axis of the eye be unufually great, then the pe rfon does not fee diftindtly; becaufe the powers of the humors, in concentrating the rays of light, are too great, and the image of the objedt is not formed ac- R 3 curatelyOF THE EYE. 234 The curately on the retina, but before it. Thus, in %. 7., the convexity of the cornea, the lucid ante- rior part of the eye, or the focal powers of the lens, being too great for the length of the axis of the eye, the image is formed at a before the rays reach the furface of the re- tina ; and after coming accurately to the point, they again begin to diverge; which diverg- ing rays, ftriking the furface of the retina, give the indiftind vifion of a near-fighted perfon. But as this indiflindnefs of vifion proceeds from no opacity, but only the difproportion of the convexity of the eye to the diameter, the defed is correded by the concave glafs, a fig. 8. ; for, the effect of this glafs being the reverfe of the convex, it caufes the rays to fall upon the furface of the eye, fo far diverging from the per- pendicular line, (which is exemplified in fig. 1.), as to correct the too great convergence caufed by the con- vexity of the humors. But, when a near-fighted per- fon has brought the objed near enough to the eye to fee it diftindly, he fees more minutely, and, confe- quently, more clearly; becaufe he fees the objed larger, and as a perfon with a common eye does, when affifled with a magnifying glafs or convex lens. 3OF THE EYE. The R 4 The near-fighted perfon fees diftant objects indiftinft- Jy; and as the eye, in confequence, reds with lefs ac- curacy upon the furrounding objects, the piercing look of the eye is diminilhed, and it has a dulnefs and heavi- nefs of afpeft. Again, the near-fighted perfon knits his eye-brows, and half clofes his eyedids: This he does to change the diredfion of the rays, and to correT the inaccuracy of the image, in a manner which may be underltood by the following analogy. If we make a card approach a dream of light palling through the window, it will fo attract the rays of light, as to extend the margin of the figure of the circular fpot of light upon the wall, In the fame way, when a dream of light, proceeding from an objeft towards the eye, is made to pafs through a fmall hole, the circular margin of the hole fo attra&s the rays, as to produce the fame effect with the concave glafs; by caufing the rays to take a direction outward, as if proceeding from a nearer pbjeft, the image is carried farther back from the lens ; and when a near-dghted perfon peers through his eye-lids, it makes the rays impinge accurately upon the retina *. • » * Short-fightednefs may be produced by accidents. Sometimes I have known it produced by a piece of glafs flicking in the cornea, and caufing great inflammation. Dr. Briggs mentions the cafe of an old man, who had long ufed fpeftacles, becoming fuddenly fliort- fighted, by catching cold, and he was afterwards enabled to read the fmalleft print without glaffes. In general, however, it is by fome accident, and often late in life, that we become fenlible of being fiiort-fighted; and, in this cafe, men are very apt to attribute the deleft to fome particular occurrence.236 OF THE EYE. The effeft of old age, is gradually to reduce the eye to a lefs prominent ftate, and, confequently, to bring it to the reverfe of the near-fighted eye. From the decreafe of the humors, and the lefle-ned convexity of the cornea, the image of obje&s is not formed foon enough to impinge accurately on the re- tina, the rays tend to form the image behind the In this figure, we have the effedt of old age on the humors reprefented; without the intervention of the glafs a, the rays have a direction which would form the image at fome diftance beyond the retina, as at b. But by the convex glafs a, (which is of the nature of the common fpeftacles for old people), the direction of the rays of light is fo corrected, that the image falls accurately on the bottom of the eye. We underhand, then, whence thefe oppofite de- fects of fight arife ; that, in old people, objects can- not be feen diftinftly when near, and, in fhort-fighted people, they cannot be feen difiinftly when at a dif- tance. We fee, alfo, why old age correfts fhort- fightednefs by gradually reducing the convexity of the eye, enabling the perfon to fee objects farther removed, until. retina, as we fee in fig. 9,237 OF THE EYE. until, by degrees, he comes to fee perfectly at the dis- tance moll convenient for the common affairs of life. It has been, by fome, thought extremely difficult to account for the image appearing to us, as it is in nature, eredt, Since it is adtually figured on the bottom of the eye in an inverted pofture ; but the terms above and below have no relation to the image in the bottom of the eye, but to the pofition of our -bodies and the furrounding things. When I look to a tall man’s face, I direct my eyes upward; I obferve his Situation, as it relates to an ideal area before my eye, or to a fpace in the Sphere of vifion. When an objedt approaches towards the eye, the diameter of the picture on the retina encreafes in the fame proportion as the diftance between the eye and the objedt decreafes ; and, confequently, it decreafes in the fame proportion as the diftance encreafes. But the degree of brightnefs of the pidture of an objedt on the retina continues the fame at all diftances, between the eye and the objedt, unlefs fome of the rays of light are interrupted in their progrefs; for, as the advancing objedl becomes bright, it encreafes doubly in length and breadth, or quadruply in Surface. The faint appearance of remote objedts, therefore, is occafioned by the opacity of the atmofphere. There is nothing more aftonifhing in the ftrudture of the eye, than the fenfibility of the expanded nerve, as proved by the extent of the changes or degrees of light which illuminate vifible objedts; or the great de- gree of light which the eye can bear, and the low de- gree of light at which objedts are vifible. Thus, the proportion betwixt the degrees of light illuminating an objedl238 OF THE EYE, objeCt by the fun, and by the moon, at any equal alti- tudes, is calculated at 90,000 to 1 *. Again, by M. de la Hire’s calculation, v/e fee the fail of a wind- mill, fix feet in diameter, at the diftance of 4000 toifes. The eye being fuppofed to be an inch in diameter, the picture of this fail, at the bottom of the eye, will be of an inch, which is the 666th part of a line, and is about the 66th part of a common hair. This gives us an idea of the minutenefs of the flruCture of the optic nerve. The pupil of the eye is formed by the central per- foration in the iris or curtain, which hangs before the lens. This body having mufcularity, is moveable ; it dilates or contracts the ho|e or pupil, tranfmitting the rays fo as to adapt the diameter of the flream of light, darting into the eye, to the intenfity or degree of light. If a body is illuminated but faintly, the pupil is (in- fenfibly to us) enlarged, and a greater quantity of the rays are allowed to be tranfmitted to the retina. But as the convexity of the pellucid part of the eye, an4 the concentrating powers of the lens, remain the fame, the fize of the image is not altered by this dilatation of the pupil, but only the ftrength of the image of picture in the bottom of the eye is encreafed. We underltand that the rays of light are refraCted, when they pafs out of one medium into another of dif- ferent denfity.—For example, the rays of light are re- fracted towards the perpendicular line, when they enter the cornea of the human eye; but they will be re- fracted in a very fmall degree in entering the cornea * See Smith’s Optics, vpl. i. p. 29.OF THE EYE, 239 of fifh, becaufe the aqueous humor is of the fame den- fity with the fluid from which the rays of light are tranfmitted; accordingly, the cornea of fifhes is not pro- minent : this would limit their fpfiere of vifion, were not the flatnefs of the cornea counteracted by the promi- nence of the whole eye, and the more anterior fituation of the chryftalline lens; a large pupil and long diameter of the eye we fliall afterwards find to be neceflary to the diftinCt vifion of fifhes *. It is natural, on the prefent occafion, to inquire into the effeCts of the feveral humors of the eye, in pro- ducing in thofe who are fhort-fighted, the obfcurity arifing from the double appearance of fmall and finning points. This is prettily explained by Juriri, upon Sir Jfaac Newton’s principle, concerning the fits of eafy refraCtion and reflection of light. The horns of the new moon, or the top of a diftant fpire, or the lines upon the face of a clock, appear double or triple, and fometimes much more multiplied, to a fhort-fighted perfon. The fame appearance will be given when an objeCt is held too near the eye, for perfeCt vifion. If the light is feen through a narrow flit in a board, and the board is brought nearer to the eye than the point of diftinCt vifion, the aperture will * Neither fifh out of water, nor other animals within water, can fee an object diftindtly. Divers fee objects as an old man would do through a very concave glafs put near to the eye ; and it has been found, that the convexity of fpeCtacIes for divers in the fea muil be that of a double convex glafs, equal on both lides to the convexity of the cornea. The neceflity of this is plain ; the aqueous humor being of the fame denfity with the water, there is in it no refraction, and this deficiency muft be fupplied. appearOF THE EYE. 240 appear double, or as two luminous lines, with a dark line between them ; and as the diftance is varied, two, ' three, four, or five dark and luminous lines will be obferved. There are many fuch deceptions in viewing luminous bodies; all of them proceed from the fame caufe, which is this :—Before Sir Ifaac Newton’s phi- lofophy was acknowledged, it was the received opinion, that light was reflected from the furface of bodies by its impinging againft their folid parts, and rebounding from them like a tennis-ball when (truck againft a hard and refitting furface : further, as they faw that part of the rays of light were in glafs reflected, and the reft tranfmitted, they conceived that part entered the pores of the glafs and part impinged upon its folid parts. But this does not account for the refractions which take place when the rays have paffed the glafs, and are abopt to be tranfmitted into the air, they cannot find folid parts to ftrike againft in entering the air, for the refraCtion of the light is greater in palling from the glafs into the air, than from the air into the glafs; and if water be placed behind the glafs, the refraCtion of rays palling out from the glafs is not encreafed but di* minilhed, by this fubftitute for the rarer medium of the air. Again, when two glalfes touch each other, no refraCtion is made in rays palling from the one into the other. To explain this. Sir Ifaac Newton taught, that in the prQgrefs of rays of light, there is an alter- nation of fits of eafy tranfition or reflection ; or, in other words, that there is a change of difpofition in the rays, to be either tranfmitted by refraCtion, or to be reflected by the furface of a tranfparent medium. JuriuOF THE EYE. 24S Jurin illuftrates this opinion, and its application to our prefent purpofe, in this manner. Suppofe that a b d, and b d f, are mediums of different denfity, and that their furfaces are in- terceded by the line b d ; again, let a be a pencil of rays, which, iffuing from this point, falls upon b a d, as the refracting furface b a d is convex, and no two points of it, from a to d, are equally diftant from the fource of the rays a ; and, as the rays of light, in their pro- grefs, alter alternately from the fit of refra&ion to the fit of reflection, they mull be in part re- fraCted to the focus f, and reflected in the direction of the dotted lines c e. Thus, if the ray a a happens to be in difpofition to pafs through the medium b d f, it will pafs on towards the point f. If the next ray a b fhould be in no fit to be tranfmitted, becaufe, being in a degree farther ad- vanced from its fource a, it has changed to the fit of reflection, then it will not be refraCted towards the focus f, but reflected off towards c; but, again, the ray ' a d being advanced farther from its fource, it will Impinge upon the furface B d, during its difpofition toOF THE EYE. 2 42 underflood from this (11.) to refradion, and will concentrate its beams at f ; and fo with all the others, alternately refleded and re- fraded. The confequence of this obflrudion to the equal refradion of light, is, 'that the image formed at f is feeble ; but (till it is diflind and perfed ; becaufe the tranfmitted rays are regularly concentrated, and form the proper focus; But if the converging rays fhould be received upon a plain before they arrive at the focus F, the refleded rays of light will have left fpaces dark where they would have fallen by refradion, and^ con- fequently, diflind luminous circles will be thrown on the plain : again, if the plain furface be oppofed to the rays, after they have formed their focus, and are again difperfing after having croffed, the fame unequal effed of light and dark circles will be thrown on it 5 though now, the rays of the right fide of the pencil B d f, will form the left of the pencil F g h. How the flate of the rays produces the indiflindnefs of the near-fighted eye, may be diagram. When the rays A flrike the convex fur- face of the cornea, part of them will be refleded from the furface of the cornea, in the diredion of the lines b b, when they will confequently flrike upon the convex furface changeable24S OF THE EYE. furface of the lens in luminous rings, thefe rings will be (till farther multiplied and diminifhed in diameter, in being in part tranfmitted, in part reflected, from the furfaces of the lens c, and vitrious humor d d. Thefe effe&s of the alternate difpofition of the rays for tranfmiffion and reflexion would not be perceptible, did the converging powers of the cornea and lens bring the focus of the rays exa&ly to the furface of the retina; but as the focus is formed at e, fome way before the retina, the rays have decuffated and fpread out again before they form the image upon the bottom of the eye. Inftead, therefore, of forming an accurate image, they are fpread out into concentric circles ; or in a leffer degree, the perfon experiences a confufed outline of the objeft, which becomes furrounded with feveral rings or falfe outlines *. * By °f eafy tranfition, it was not meant by Sir Ifaac Newtoa that the rays muft necefiarily be tranfmitted through every pellucid medium, and at any obliquity of incidence, but only that the ray was more eafily tranfmitted and more difficultly refledted ; nor was it meant that, during its ft of eafy reflexion, it was abfolutely inca- pable of being tranfmitted, but only more readily refledied thaa •ranfmitted.244 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. OF CHAP. II. OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. Speaking generally, and without confidering the minuter divifions of anatomifts, we may fay, that there are three proper coats of the eye, viz. the sclerotic coat, giving ftrength ; the choroid coat, being the vehicle of the chief vafcular ftrufture of the eye ; and the retina, or expanded nerve, being the organ it- felf. Thefe are the proper coats of the eye ; but there are others which may be called the partial or acceffory coats, being thofe which do not completely furround the eye, viz. the albuginea and conjunctiva *. There are others, dill, which are called capfular coats; and thefe are the tranfparent tunics which immediately furround the humors, as the capfule of the lens and pellucid membrane of the vitricus humor. Although many of thefe coats may be capable of being divided by the art of the anatomift, either by the knife, by inje&ions, which form extravafation between their layers, by maceration, or by the chemical aftion of fluids ; yet it is better, in a general enumeration, to take a natural divifion and character, than to enume- rate their feveral lamina. * Colombier Sandifort Thef. Diflert.OF THE COATS OF TIIE EYE. 245 of vol. in. s OF THE SCLEROTIC COAT. The fclerotic coat is fo called from its hai'dnefs *. The fclerotica and cornea are often confidered as one continued coat inverting the eye ; hence they fay, the opaque and the lucid cornea. But, although thefe parts are actually in union, yet as they are really of fo very different a nature, we muff confider them apart, and treat at prefent only of the opaque white fclerotic coat. The fclerotic coat is a ftrong, firm, and white mem- brane, confiding of lamellae firmly attached and hr-' terwoven, and not capable of being regularly fepaiated by maceration; it has the denfenefs of tanned leather. In firmnefs, whitenefs, opacity, and the little appearance of vafcularity, it more refembles the dura mater than any other membrane of the body. In adults, the fclerotic coat is rtronger and firmer, comparatively, than in the foetus ; the cornea lefs fo. On the outer furface, it has (towards the orbit) a loofe cellular membrane attached to it, which allows the motion of the eye-ball. Upon the fore part, it is in- verted by the tunica albuginea or tendinea. Upon its inner furface, it has a loofe and foft membrane which connects it with the choroid coat. In birds, and the tortoife, the porterior part of the fclerotic coat is thin; the fore part of it is fplit into laminae, betwixt which there are interpofed thin plates * Dura feu fclerotica; Vefalius, Ruyfch, &c.246 OF THE COATS Of THE eVe. of bone *, while in fillies it is in part cartilaginous f, buff thin and tranfparent, fo that there appears a very beautiful fpotted coat beneath it. There are alfo feen in the fclerotic of fifhes little white granules like glands. The vagina of the optic nerve can be feparated into two laminae § ; the outer one is obferved to unite in- timately with the outer part of the fclerotic coat, while the inner lamina of the vagina is continuous with its inner furface. The pia mater, too, fays Zinn, when it has pierced the foramen in the fclerotic coat, alongft with the fubftance of the nerve, expands upon the inner furface of this coat, and extends even to the cornea, and forms one of its intimate laminae. This muff be only that part of the pia mater which inverts- the optic nerve, or, more fcriclly fpeaking, that mem- brane which Hands in the fame relation to the nerve that the arachnoid coat does to the brain; for the membrane, which finks into intimate union with the nerve, accompanies it even in forming the retina |. The * Cuvier, vGi. 1. p. 387. -f Morgagni Epid. An. xvi. 40. Cuvier, 388. § Ruyfch, Zinn. X It may be well, in this place, to detail at once the opinions of the chief fupporter of that fcheme of the coats of the eye, which derives them all from the inveiling membranes of the brain and optic fterve. M. le Cat, in his Traite des Sens, deferibes them thus:— When the optic nerve has entered the orbit, the dura mater, which fjrrounus it, fplits into two laminae; the external one attaches to the orbit, and forms trie perioileum, the other forms the vagina of thtf nerve. In the angle formed by thefe, the mufcles of the eye arife. This, continued (heath of the nerve, he continues, expands into the globe of the eye, as the mafs of glafs is blown into a bottle. The dura247 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. The fclerotic coat is the great fupport of the glo- bular figure of the eye ; it defends the more delicate internal ftm&ure from {lighter injuries, by its ftrength ; tl'nd from the progrefs of inflammation, by being of a ftru&ure but little vafcular, and not prone to difeafe. That inflammation which we fee to be fo frequent in the eye, is not in the fclerotica, but in the adventitious coat, the conjundiva. But in proportion as the fcle- rotic coat refifts preflure and the progrefs of difeafe from without, it refifts the fwelling of the parts within when they become difeafed, and gives the greateft. torture. Of what importance the entirenefs of the coats, and the uniform refiftance of the humors of the eye is to the healthy ftate of the organ, will be afterwards exa- mined* * OF THE CORNEA. The cornea is fo called, from being firm, tranfpa- rent, and compofed of laminae *. It is the pellucid dura mater of the nerve is expanded into the cornea (viz. fclerotica). The fecond envelope, or pia mater, forms two laminae; the one is applied to the fclerotic coat, and the other forms the choroid coat. The choroid coat divides anteriorly, and forms the iris and ciliary precedes. The internal medullary part of the optic nerve forms the retina. Finally, “ L’oeil ell tres evidemment l’extremite nerveufe i! epar.ouie bourfouflee en bouton creux & plein de liqueurs/’ p. 158. * “ Cornu modo dura, & cornu indar in laminas dividi radiaue ss poteit.” VefTalius. S a circle248 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE, circle on the fore part of the eye, which feems varie- gated with colours ; though this is a deception, owing to its perfect tranfparency. The circle of the cornea is, however, far from being regular ; its margin is flat towards the nofe. The cornea confifts of laminae ; betwixt which, there is interpofed a cellular fubltance, filled with a perfe&ly pellucid fluid *. Thefe cells feem, like the common cellular membrane of the body, to have a free com- munication with each other, fo that the fluid freely exudes, and as quickly is imbibed, by maceration. The fullnefs of the cornea, with the perfect tranfparency of the fluid, gives a brillancy to the eye, and is a fign of health ; the reverfe dims the eye, and, with the fal- len features, accompanies ill health. Steno obferved, and Petit confirmed, the fa£t f, that the pores on the furface of the cornea exuded the fluid which fills the cells of the cornea; and that, after the furface was carefully dried by preffure, the moiflure might be feen to form in drops upon the furface. The moiflure can be thus forced out from the pores of either furface of the cornea J. This moiflure becomes dull and clamy on the approach of death, and forms fometimes a pelicle over the cornea. The laxity with which the laminae of the cornea are connected, may be, in fome meafure, demonflrated, by taking it betwixt the finger and thumb ; we fhall then find, that the layers can be made to glide very freely on each other. In the foetus, and in young children, the cornea is of great thicknefs, * Subflantia fpongiofa Valfalvas, f See alfo Hovius, p. 82. f Zinn. 8 andOF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 249 and refills the point of the lancet or fcizzars. This refiflance in the foetus proceeds from a great degree of toughnefs, while, in the adult, the furface of the cornea is fo hard, that I have often feen the point of the knife, in extracting the cataraCl, bend upon it. This turning of the elaflic point of the knife is very- apt to give a wrong direction to the incifion ; and, in- deed, this occurred to me in my firfl operation. There is a pelicle, or exceedingly thin coat, which, by maceration, can be taken off from the furface of the cornea. This is generally underflood to be the conjunftiva continued over it. But I cannot help ex- prefling myfelf as averfe to the ideas of thofe anatomifls who confider every membrane, which can be traced from another by diffection, as either derived from it, or in any way allied to it. This can furely ferve no ufeful purpofe, if, as here, the membranes differ in their ufe ; are changed in their appearance; and have no fimilarity in flruClure, function, or difeafes. The membrane in fifhes, analogous to the adnata, lies loofe over the cornea ; and, in.ferpents, it is thrown off from the cornea, with the fcales of the body, and remains attached to the call Ikin of the head; and in the foetus calf, I have forced the blood in the veffels of the conjundiva into veffels paffing over the furface of the cornea. By maceration, I have found, raifed in the fluid, a very delicate and tranfparent membrane from the inner furface of the cornea; and, after long continued foak- ing, the whole cornea can be taken out of the fclerotic coat, like an optician’s glafs from its frame. S 3 The1$0 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. The cornea poffeffes great fenfibility ; although much of the pain, from hard bodies flying into the eye, is to be attributed to the motion of the eye-lids, and the great fenfibility with which they are endued. When a fplinter of glafs or metal ffrikes and flicks in the cornea, in- flammation is excited ; in confequence of this, veffels carrying red blood flrike into it, or fhoot over its fur- face in a new film of membrane *. Petit thought he obferved firfl in a negroe, and afterwards in a variety of inflances, red lines in the cornea; which he con- ceived to be the anaflamofing of veffels. There are, befides, fays he, many circumftances which argue that there are blood-veffels in the cornea. When the eye receives a flroke, there is often blood effufed in its fubftance; abceffes, alfo, are found within it, and phly&aenae on its furface ; and in great inflammation of the eye, the cornea appears red ; which, he fup- pofed, muff be produced by the fame caufe which makes the albuginea red, viz. the enlargement of its veffels, and the circulation of red blood. But we muff not imagine, he continues, that, in the natural flate, red blood circulates in the cornea ; for the vef- fels are not to be feen with the microfcope ; nor are they penetrated by injeCtion ; nor do they appear in the foetus; nor, when little abceffes are formed in the cornea; but only when violence has been done by a flroke upon the eye. In an eye in which the tunica * I have found the fpark from iron, in blackfmiths and mafons, buried in the cornea for fcveral days (fome authors fay months), without exciting pain or much inconvenience. I have alfo more than once picked a little black Hough from the cornea, miftaldng it for a piece of iron, when it was only the conference of the injury. conjunctivaOff THE COATS OF THE EYE. 25* conjunctiva was mod minutely injedted, as well as the internal veflels of the eye, I had refolved, carefully to examine the ft ru ecu re of the cornea; and after a long maceration, in which it had greatly fwelled, I obferved a fet of veflels totally diftinct from the extremities of the minute blood-veflels. The minute blood-veflels which were injected, ftopt abruptly on the margin of the cornea. But thefe I now mention are particular • they are in great profufion, large, and perfectly pel- lucid j they are large towards the middle of the cornea, and diminifh towards the margin. Their free commu- nication formed a net-work deep in the thickened fub- ftance of the cornea. The ftze, perfect pellucidnefs, and intimate connection of thefe veflels, might perhaps incline one to call this a cellular ftructure. Mr. Home * fays, that an irritation on the edge of the cornea, and which includes the tunica conjunctiva, will produce greater inflammation, and more quickly, than a ftronger excitement would produce on the centre of the cornea. This remark is probably from obfer- vation ; but he adds, it is impoflible that the veflels of the cornea, which naturally parry lymph only, or ferurn, can be made to carry red blood, unlefs the irritation extends to feme neighbouring part fupplied with red blood. This, certainly, is an erroneous idea ; for the little opacities which furround fpiculse flicking in the cornea, the ulcerations on its furface, and little abcefles within its layers f, are the effedt of inflamina* * Philof. Tranf. 1797, p. 2q. f Viz. Onyx, unguis, an abcefs between the laminse of the cornea, from a fuppofed icfemblance to the figure of a nail pared from the finger. S4 tion2 $2 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. tion of the part modified by its peculiar ftruClure ; and thefe will all take place while the margin of the cornea remains clear, and there is no apparent connection of inflammation, or of veflels with the conjunctiva. Vefiels attach themfelves both to the inner and to the outer furface of the cornea ; and when it becomes fpongy and vafcular in this way, little can be explained of its natural ftruClure. Thus, the pannus and ptery- gium are membranes which ftretch acrofs and adhere to the cornea, while the iris frequently attaches to its infide. In this cafe, the cornea becomes fpongy, thick, and vafcular ; and, when cut, there is red blood in it # ; and in ftaphyloma f, the iris is generally attached to the cornea. I have a preparation in which the form and character of the iris is entirely loll; it is extended into a reticulated membrane which lines the furface of the extended cornea. OF THE CHOROID COAT. The choroid is the vafcular tunic of the eye ; it is fo called from its refemblance to one of the mem- branes of the fecundines. It is the middle coat of the eye, lying betwixt the fclerotic coat and retina. In- jections Ihow it to confift of two layers of cellular * Pterygium, is a membrane which extend sover the cornea from the canthus. Pannus, is a congeries of blood vefTels, which extends over the cornea, and is lefs uniform than the pterygium. •j- Staphyloma uvea, a protrufion and opacity of the cornea ; which, from the lofs of tranfparency and the general appearance of the tumor, is fnppofed to referable a grape. tiflue \OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 253 tiffue; and it has upon its inner furface a pigment, which being fometimes firm, might be taken for a membrane. It was Ruyfch who obferved this divifion of the choroid coat into two laminae ; and the inner one, his fon called the tunica Ruyfchiana: but of thefe hereafter. Thofe anatomifls who fuppofed the fclerotic coat to be the production of the dura mater, naturally con- cluded, that the choroid coat was derived from the pia mater; and as Ruyfch found it to be divifible into two laminae, fo Sladius found the pia mater to confifl of two membranes. It followed, that the one lamina of the choroid coat was the continuation of the tunica arachnoides, and the other of the pia mater ; but this account of thefe membranes has no fupport from ob- fervation. Betwixt the pia mater and choroid coat, there is no refemblance; the latter we fhall find loaded with veffels ; but thefe veffels are peculiar, and mini- fter to a fecreting furface. The pia mater in the brain, and optic nerve, is in flriCt union with the fubflance of the brain, and fupports and nourifhes it; but the choroid coat has no conne&ion with the retina or ex- panded nerve. There can be no better mark of diflinCtion between membranes than their degree of vafcularity, and par- ticularly in the manner of the diflribution of their veffels. The choroid coat is mofl particular in the diflribution of its arteries and veins. The great arte- rial vafcularity of the choroid coat is to be feen only after a very minute injection, and the venous vafcu- larity after artificial or accidental infarction of the blood, or by a fuccefsful injection from the fuperior cava;254 OF THE coats of the eye. cava ; although the very great vafcularity of this coat was known to our oldefl writers, yet the appearance of thefe veffels, when empty, has deceived many.1' Morgagni * and Maitre-jean, have defcribed fibres which they affirm to be diftindl: from the veffels, but which prove to be, in fad, the appearance prefented by the collapfed veffels. The great peculiarity of the choroid coat, is its be- ing a fecreting membrane j by which I mean, that the pigmentum nigrum which is applied to the medul- lary lamina of the retina being a fecretion, the choroid coat has neceffarily that peculiar ftru&ure of veffels which belongs to the fecreting membrane. This ftruc- ture has enabled anatomifts to tear it into laminae. For that part of the choroid coat next the fclerotic coat, is merely a vehicle of veffels and nerves, and is a tiffue of them connected by very fine cellular mem- brane. The internal part, again, is organized into a fecreting fgrface, and is the tunica Ruyfchiana. I con- ceive, that the divifion into the choroid coat and tunica Ruyfchiana, is warranted from the nature of the membrane, as the divifions of the coats of the intef- tines are. Morgagni fays, that from his earlieft youth, he had many proofs that the choroid coat was not Tingle in brutes; he afferts, alfo, that Francifcus Silvius and Guenellanius had demonftrated the double laminae of this membrane before Ruyfchf. Certain it is, that Ruyfck was not fo fortunate in aferibing a ufe to this * Morgagni Epift. Anat. xvii. 2. + Idem, ibid, 3. tunicaGF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 255 tunica Ruyfchiana. He fuppofed that it gives flrength to the choroid coat, and, by bringing a greater afflux of arterial blood, fuppUes the necefifary heat to the otherwife cold humors *. » — Tapetum. The internal furface of the choroid coat has been long called tapetum, from its villous or fleecy appearance, when feen through the microfcope. This furface in the adult is of a brown colour ; in very young fubje&s it is red and bloody ; and, when mi- nutely injedbed, it is like fcarlet cloth. It is by this vafcular furface or tapetum that the black pigment, which is laid under the expanded retina in the human eye, is fecreted. The pigmekttum nigrum. The pigmentum ni- grum is the black or deep brown mucous fubflance which lies between the choroid coat and retina. It i$ of a nature to be waffled away with a little water and a foft pencil f. This brown taint pervades the whole texture * Quod ad ufum tunica; Ruyfchianoe attinet crediderim hanc tu- nicam inter ceteros ufus tfle deftinatam, non folum ad robur cho- roidex, verum etiam ut a fanguinis arteriofi majori copia requefitus calor tribus humoribns natura frigidis conciliaretur. Ruyf. Refponf. ad Chrift. Wedelium, p. 14. f I cannot conceive how this matter fhould be confounded with the tapetum or tapis, which, as the name implies, is the villous fur- face of the choroid coat. Tapetum is, properly, cloth wrought with various colours ; and the analogy was firft ufed by the French Aca- demicians, in their account of the diffe&ion of a lionefs. “ The 4‘ membrane which is put into the bottom of the eye, and laid on “ the choroides, which we call the tapetum, was of an Ifabella colour, “ intermixed with a greenilh blue. It was eafily feparable from the “ choroides, which remained entire, with its ordinary thicknefs, “ after256 OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. texture of the choroid coat. This matter is in imme- diate contadt with the medullary pulp of the optic nerve. Its ufe is apparently to ftifle the rays of light after they have impinged on the fenfibie furface of the retina; for we know that blacknefs is owing to the abforption of the light, as whitenefs and colour is the re- fledtion of it from the furface of bodies. The dark colour of the fecreted pigment of the choroid coat is, in fome meafure, peculiar to thofe animals which fee in the brighteft light of day; but is wanting, or of a bright refledting green or filvery whitenefs, in fuch as prowl by night. The natural conclufion, therefore, is, that the pigmentum nigrum fubdues the intenfity of the impreflion, while the refledting colours of the furface in animals which fee in the night, ftrengthens the effedt of the light on the furface of the retina, by repelling it. As fifties have the other provifions for feeing in an obfcure light, they have alfo this of the refledting fur- face of the tapetum: as it is a fecretion of the villous furface of the choroid, we fee why it becomes fome- what deficient in old men, and fometimes wanting in the degenerate varieties of animals ; when entirely de- ficient, the blood circulating in the vefiels of the cho- roid coat gives a livid rednefs to the refledtions from the bottom of the eye * *. Finally, “ after that we had taken away the membrane which forms the ta- “ petum.” The explanation of this, I fuppofe, will be found in Morg. Epift. An. xvii. 3. * As the pigmentum nigrum is a fecretion, we fhall not be fur- prifed to find it become deficient in the commencement of fome difeafc*OF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 257 Finally, in regard to the choroid coat, we have to underhand that it confifls of two laminae : the outer, and that which is next to the fclerotic coat, being the proper choroid ; the internal lamina, the tunica Ruyfchi- ana: that on the furface of the tunica Ruyfchiana, .there is a pile or fleece, which is called tapetum: and, laftly, that the fecretion of this inner furface is a pig- ment, which, in the human eye, has the appropriate name of pigmentum nigrum ; but, in many animals, it is of a filver, golden, or Ifabella colour; though, in my apprehenflon, the colour, in all thefe varieties, de- pends Hill upon a peculiar fecreted matter. OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. The ciliary procefles are formed of the anterior margin of the choroid coat; they give the appearance as if the choroid coat, at the anterior part, were folded inward to the margin of the chriftalline lens ; and, as if, to accommodate it to this fudden inflexion, it had been plated, and not regularly contra&ed; at leaft, this is much the appearance of the circle of ciliary pro- celfes, when, after cutting acrofs the eye, we look from behind upon the lens in its natural fituation. In this view, we find the pigmentum nigrum of the choroid coat continued over the ciliary procefles, which gives difeafes of the eye. This is known by the poffibility of feeing to the bottom of the eye; that is, the choroid coat becomes a reflect- ing furface, and throws out the beams like a cat’s eye. See Med. Obfer. and Enquiries, vol. iii. p. 124, to258 OF'THE COATS OF THE EtE. to them the appearance of the regular plicae of the choroid coat, converging to the edge of the lens, and forming altogether a difk round it. When the black paint on the ciliary proceffes is a little walhed away, and when we attentively examine this part, we find the ciliary proceffes..to be actually little oblong plica;, which gradually arife from the cho- roid coat at the angle of its inflexion, and terminate abruptly, approximating, but not attached,to the margin of the lens. When the paint is walhed entirely away, the whole circle of thefe proceffes appears evidently to be the continued choroid coat. When not injected, the ciliary proceffes are pale and loofe ; but when minutely injected, they take a perfect icarlet colour : they refemble, in their uninje&ed date, the valvular-like doublings of the vilous coat of the ftomach and inteftines. Before the choroid coat is in- dexed towards the lens, in the form of 'ciliary pro- ceffes, it forms a firm adhefion to the fclerotic coat near the circular margin of the cornea, and at the fame time is united firmly to the root of the iris. From this, the proceffes tend inward, and a little backwards ; and are, at their internal extremities, detached from the iris; nor are they attached to the margin of the lens, but are loofe and floating. When the vitrious humor and lens fall out from the anterior fegment of the eye, we find that the plicae or cili- ary proceffes have left their impreflion on the anterior furface of the vitreous humor, and alfo on the inter- mediate expanfion.of the retina which extends before the membrane of the vitreous humor. This circular impreffion of the ciliary proceffes is called by Haller, ffriseOF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 259 ftrise retinae fubjefbe ligamento ciliari I have called this impreffion halo signatus, becaufe it is formed of a circle of radiations, formed by the impreffion of the ciliary proceffes, and is not peculiar to the re- tina, but the retina again makes its impreffion on the membrane of .the vitreous humor. The furrows and doublings of the anterior part of the retina, formed by the impreffion of the ciliary proceffes, Dr. Monro has called the ciliary proceffes of the retina ; but, for my part, I think this a term likely to confound and mifiead a ftudent; and we might as well fpeak of the ciliary pro- ceffes of the vitreous humor, or of the membrane of the vitreous humor, fince they alfo take the impreffion of the ciliary proceffes f. When the vitreous humor and lens are taken out of the coats, we fee alfo that the ciliary proceffes have left the ftain of the fuliginous paint §. This it is necef- fary to remark, fince I have feen ffudents confound this mark with the ciliary proceffes themfelves. The ciliary proceffes are of a moll elegant vafcular fti uc- ture. Their contorted arteries are beautifully repre- fented in Zinn’s figure. He traces them from the ex- * Fafcie vii. Icon. ocul. f Window ufes the term fulci ciliarej, for the impreffion on the various humor. Zin-n calls this corona ciliaris, after Camper: he sieferibes them well, p. 75. § See Morgagni Eplft. Anat. xvii. n. 13. and Ruyfch alfo, “ Nort- sulli pro prcceffu ciliari agnofeunt pullas pigmenti nigri reliquia?, membranulx tenuiffimx humoris chriftallini & vitrei, & quafi fibres mentientes oculo fc. aperto, humoribufque exemptis; hx autem nil rant nifi avulfe particular pigmenti nigri.” Ruyfch. Thef. An. ii. Aff. 1. N°xv. treme260 of the coats of the eye. treme branches of the choroid coat; but, of their veins, he fays nothing further than that they are con- tinued from the branches of the vafa vorticofa, or veins of the choroid coat* The points of the ciliary procefles are not attached to the lens, but float loofe in the pof- terior chamber of the aqueous humor *; but at a little diftance from their points, they adhere to the retina, where it is continued over the anterior part of the vi- treous humor. Through this attachment only, are they connected with the lens; for, as we (hall find prefently, the retina (as a membrane, but not as the fenfible retina) is continued over the chriftalline lens f. The ciliary procefles, collectively, form a circle round the lens, which I call corona ciliaris. This circle forming a perfectly opaque partition, which ftifles all rays that might otherwife be tranfmitted by the fide of the lens. The corona ciliaris, or ciliary circle, no doubt, ferves at the fame time as a connexion between the outer and flrong coats of the eye and the tranfparent coats and humors; for, it is to be obferved, that, excepting the connexion which naturally exifts betwixt the optic nerve and retina, this flender hold which the ciliary procefles take of the expanded retina, is the only attachment betwixt the humors of the eye and the proper coats. * This was demonftrated in a particular manner by Ruyfch and Morgagni. f Zinn and other later writers have entertained the idea, that the adhefion of the ciliary procefles to the membranes covering the vitreous humor is by a kind of gluing, rather than a union by cel- lular membrane. See Zinn, p. 75. InOF THE COATS OF THE EYE. 26l In regard to the names appropriated to this part of the eye, there is more confufion than it is poffible to believe. It is neceffary to attend to this ambiguous ufe of terms, elfe we fnall be in danger of mifunder- ftanding our bed authors. Vefalius confiders the whole as a feptum betwixt the vitreous and pofterior chamber o'f the aqueous humor; but he feems to find much difficulty in giving it an appropriate name *. Fallopius and Morgagni f ufe the term corpus ciliare for the whole circle of the proceffes, and in the fame fenfe that I have ventured to ufe corona ciliaris. It is a name which conveys the idea neither of the fhape nor of the fubftance of the thing meant. Ruyfch makes great confufion by his ufe of terms ; the corona ciliaris, or ciliary body, he calls the ligamentum ciliare ; and the lines on the back furface of the iris, he calls pro- ceffus ciliaris mufculofus; or, rather, he means by this, the ftraight fibres of the iris J. Duverney, with Ruyfch and Window, following Fallopius, calls the corona ciliaris alfo ligamentum ciliare. But the ciliary li- * “ Neque mihi ullum occurrit nomen quod ipfi aptius indam “ quam tunica : aut ft voles, interftitii vel fcpti inter yvitreum r‘ humorem & earn quern albugineum nuncubamus repoi’ui." Vefal. vol. i. p. 558. •f- Epift. Anat. xvii. 11. J Ruyfch has this expreflion ; l< Ligamentum ciliare neutiquam efle confiderandum tanquam mufculum ad pupillae et humoris criftal- lini motum deftinatum, totumque hoc negotium perfici a proceffu ciliari ut et a circulo mufculari pofterius in confinio pupillae fito.” Thes. Anat. ii. xv. See alfo the explanation of fig. iv. of this The- faurus, where we have “ Iiis enim eft facies exterior, proceffus lig. ciliaris facies interior. Vol. III. T gament262 OF THI COATS OF THE EYE, gament is ufed by others in a widely different fenfe, viz. for the circular root of the ciliary body and iris, the anulum album cellulofum, or the frenula membranofa of Zimi. By Hovius, what I have called halo figna* tus, is called ligamentum ciliare. In Haller’s fifth figure of the eye, this circular root of the ciliary pro- ceffes, is called orbiculus ciliaris. Maitre-jean, Haller, and others, call the whole body, or corona, the ciliary circle. M. Ferrein, Lanneau de la Choroide, and M. Lieutaud, denominated the ciliary proceffes 44 rayons 44 ciliares,” and the root of the corona ciliaris and iris, 44 plexus ciliaris.”OF THE IRIS. CHAP. III. OF THE IRIS. The iris is the coloured circle which furrounds the pupil, and which we fee through the tranfparent cor- nea of the eye. It is a membrane hung before the criftalline lens *. It is as if perforated in the middle ; and this hole in the middle of the iris is the pupil; and through the pupil only can the rays be tranfmitted to the bottom of the eye. When we hear of the dilata- tion and contra&ion of the pupil, we have to under- hand the a&ion of the iris, which, by poifeffing the power of contrafting and relaxing, holds a controul over the quantity of light tranfmitted to the bottom of the eye. For by the extenfion of this membrane, the diameter of the pupil is diminifhed, and, by contrac- tion of the membrane, it is dilated. This motion of the iris, and, confequently, the fize of the pupil, is connected with the fenfation of the retina ; by which * \Ymflow and Haller, and moll of the old anatomifts, call this uvea ; but moll; of the modern anatomifts follow Zinn and Lieu- taud, in calling it iris; though Lieutaud and others called the an- terior furface only iris, while they ftill continued to call this perfo- rated membrane choroides, or uvea. See Lieut, p. 117. Again, others call the pofterior furface of the iris uvea, from its likenefs to the dark colour of a raifin; and the word iris is borrowed, I fupDofe, from the varied colours of the rainbow, T 2 means*OF THE fins. 264 means, in difeafe of internal parts of the eye, ft Is often? an index to us of the flate of the nerve, and of the poflibility of giving relief by operation. The iris and corona cilraris, or ciliary proceffes, are., in general, confidered as being the two laminae of the choroid coat continued forward and fplit i The inter- nal lamina of the choroid forming the' corona cifiaris, and the outer one forming the iris. The former I was willing to confider as the anterior margin of the choroid coat, becaufe it has no diftinCtion in its ftruc- ture from that coat j but the iris I cannot confider as the continued choroid coat :■ in the jirji place, becaufe I have found it fall out a perfeCt circle by maceration j fecondly, becaufe it has no refemblance in ftruCture to the choroid coat; and, chiefly, as by its power of con- tracting, it fhows a widely different character from any of the other membranes of the eye. The outer furface of this circular membrane gives the colour to the eye during life; and from its beauti- ful and variegated colours, it has gained to the whole membrane the name of iris. Haller and Zinn, nearly at the fame time, explained the caufe of this coloured iris, which had been, till then, fuppofed to be occa- fioned by the refraCtion of the light amongft its ftriae and fibres. When this membrane is put in water, and examined with the microfcope, its anterior furface is feen to be covered with minute villi. The-fplendid colouring of the iris proceeds from the villi; but by beginning pu- trefaction, the fplendid reflection fades, as the brilliant furface of the choroid of brutes is loft by keeping. Tor this reafon, I imagine the colour and brilliancy of the265 OF THE IRIS. the iris to depend on the fecretion of thefe villi. But the colour of the iris depends, in a great meafure, on the black paint upon its pofterior furface finning through it; and the black and hazzel-coloured iris is owing to the greater degree of tranfparency of the iris, which allows the dark uvea to Ihine through it. The iris is acknowledged to be the moft acutely fenfible part in the body. We have, then, to expedt in its compofition, raufcular fibres, and to account for its acute irritability and fympathy, by a profufion of nerves: again, as the power of the mufcular fibre, and the fenfibility of the nerve, are both, in fome meafure, indebted to the circulation of the blood, we may expedf to find a’fo a profufion of veffels in the iris. In all thefe re- fpefts, we fhali find the iris to be an object of admi- ration. OF THE MUSCULAR FIBRES OF THE IRIS. It is evident from a note, under the head corona ciliaris, that Ruyfch had obferved two fets of mufcular fibres in the iris 9 for, under the name of ciliary liga- ment, he defcribes a fet of radiated fibres which go from the ciliary precedes towards the circular margin of the pupil: he obferved alfo, the circular or orbicu- lar fibres which run round the margin of the pupil. Window fays, that between the two laminae of the uvea (viz. iris) we find two thin planes of fibres, which ap- pear to be flelhy: the fibres of one plane orbicular, and lying round the circumference of the pupil, and thofe of the other being radiated ; one extremity of it being fixed to the orbicular plane, the other to the T 3 great266 OF THE IRIS. great edge of the uvea. Zinn deferibes, with much minutenefs, radiated fibres (on the anterior furface of the iris), but does not confider thefe as mufcular fibres ; and he confeffes, that he could not obferve the orbicular mufcle which Maitre-jean and Ruyfch had painted. Even in owls and other creatures, having a flrong iris, he could not difeover an orbicular mufcle; nor were Haller and Morgagni more fuccefsful in this invefti- ga'cion *. Wrifberg alfo affirms, that no mufcular fibres could be feen in the iris of the ox. Dr. Monro, on the other hand, adheres to the opinion of the mufeu- larity of the iris: he deferibes minutely both the radi- ated and fphinCter fibres. Wrifberg and others have thought they found fufficient proof againft the mufeu- larity of the iris, in the fact of its not contracting when the light falls upon its furface. To this Dr. Monro anfwers, that the colour or paint upon the iris mult, like a cuticle, prevent the light from irritating the iris. I cannot think that this circumftance fhould prevent the excitement of the iris. The retina is in a peculiar manner fufceptible of the impreffion of light; but we cannot wonder that light fhould not ftimulate a mufcle to contraction, when we have every proof that it has no effeCt on the rnoft delicate expanded nerve of the other fenfes. That the iris is to be affeCted only through the fen- fation of the retina, or perhaps rather the effeCt com- municated to the fenforium, we have fufficient proof. * See Zinn, p. 89 and 90. Morgagni. Epift. Anat. xvii. § 4. Halier and Ferrein attribute the motion of the iris to an afflux of humors in its veficls. I have.OF THE IRIS. 267 I have, in couching, repeatedly rubbed the fide of the needle againft the iris without exciting any motion in it: I have feen it pricked flightly by the needle with- out its {flowing any fign of being irritated ; nay, what was too a convincing proof, I have feen it cut by fall- ing before the knife in extracting the cataraCt : In this laft inftance, far from being flimulated to contrac- tion, it hung relaxed *. It is evident, then, that no common ftimulus, imme- diately applied to the iris, has any fenfible eifeCt in ex- citing it to contraction ; and that it is fubjeCt only, in a fecondary wav, to the degree of intenfity of light admitted to the retina. The movement of the iris is in general involuntary; but terror and fudden fright affeCt it. In fome animals, particularly in the parrot, it is a voluntary mufclef. As an objeCt, upon which we look, approaches the eye, the pupil contracts, which is an efieCt of the increafing intenfity of the light reflected from the objeCt; for, as the objeCt ad- * This faft dedroys the hypotliefis of M. Mery, of the Royal Acad, of Sciences, that the ftraight fibres of the iris are little cavernous bodies, and that the adtion of the light upon the retina dwelled and elongated them fo as to caufe the diminution of the fize of the pupil; for, by this cut, they mud have fallen from their ereCied date, and contracted fo as to have dilated the pupil. See Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1704, mem. p. 261. -j- When a cat is roufed to attention, as by the fcratching of a rnoufe, it dilates the pupil, which allows a dronger impreflion on the bottom of the eye; nay, whenever pufs druggies violently to get loofe, the pupil dilates, which may fufficiently account for M. Mery’s cat having her pupil dilated when he plunged her under the water. See Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1704, mem. 261. T 4 vances.I 268 OF THE IRIS, vances, it fills a greater fpace in the fphere of vifion, and of courfe more rays flow from it into the eye. Nerves of the iris. The iris is fupplied with nerves in great profufion. They are derived from the long ciliary nerves which run forward betwixt the cornea and choroid coat towards the common root of ^hfiveorona ciliaris and the iris, They there divide, and are feen to pafs in numerous branches into the fubftance of the iris. In the fubftance of the iris, the branches of the nerves, from their extreme minutenefs, are foon loft amongfl: its pale fibres. Blood vessels of the iris, I have had prepa? rations which (bowed fo great a degree of vafcularity in the iris,, that I was ready to believe its aftion to be produced entirely by a vafcular (trudlure ; but when, on other occafions, my admiration was excited by the profufion of nerves, and I was led to obferve that in the former inftances they had been obfcured by the in- jection, I could not but allow that the mufcular fibres might have been obfcured as the nerves were. There are four arteries fent to the iris : two long ciliary arteries which take a long courfe on the outfide of the choroid coat, and two lefier and anterior arteries which pierce the ligamentum ciliare from without. Thefe arteries approach the root of the iris at four op- pofite points, and branching widely form a vafcular circle round the root of the iris, viz. the larger circle of the iris. From this circle branches pafs off", which run with a ferpentine courfe, converging to the edge of the iris : here they again throw out inofculating branches, which form a circle furrounding the pupil, but at fome little269 OF THE IRIS. little diflance from the edge of the iris—this is the lelfer circle of the iris. From this lefler circle there again proceed minute branches towards the edge of the iris *. The veins, which intermingle their branches with thefe arteries, pafs fome of them into the vafa vorticofa of the choroid coat, and others take a long courfe be- twixt the choroid and fclerotic coat, accompanying the ciliary nerves, whilft fome branches pierce the fclerotic coat at the root of the iris, and become fuperficial upon fhe fore part of the eye. * See Ruyfch Spirt. Anat. prob. xiii. p. 3:,CHOROID COAT AND IRIS. 270 CHAP. IV. PRACTICAL REMARKS DEDUCED FROM THE STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID COAT AND IRIS. 1 - The choroid coat, ciliary precedes, and iris, being the mod vafcular parts of the eye, are frequently the feat of difeafe, and adminifter to the diforder in all violent internal affections of the organ. I had always conceived thefe parts to be chiefly active in the car- cinoma of the bulb of the eye, and I had lately an opportunity of obferving this in diffe&ion. In this difeafe, there is firft deep pain in the eye, from the inflammation and diforder of the vafcular coats; and often the effedt of the increafed action, within the eye, is known from its effedts in enlarging the veins on the furface of the eye-ball. Thefe veffels being active in their natural ftate, are very apt to become difeafed when diffurbed in their action; and although we fre- quently fee the eye quite funk, yet, when it is burft, and the vafcular coats are protuberant, a cancerous date of the eye is to be dreaded. When the eye is hurt by a blow; when inflam- mation fpreads from the cornea to the iris, in con- fequence of a fmall-pox pudule; when an ulcer of the cornea, or an incidon of it does not heal quickly, but allows the aqueous humor to didil out, and con- fequentlyCHOROID COAT AND IRIS. 271 fequently the iris to fall in contadt with the cornea j the iris adheres, and often forms ftaphyloma. Thus we find ftaphyloma to follow the operation of extrac- tion, in cbnfequence of the iris protruding and adher- ing to the wound : again, in ftaphyloma from fmall- 'pox, by the adhefion of the iris to the cornea, while the cornea is extending and perhaps burfts, the iris mixes with the cornea, and gives the ugly black and mixed colours of this difeafe. I have a preparation in which the cornea had greatly dilated ; the iris is ex- tended like a black net-work upon the inner furface of the cornea ; and in the ufual place of the iris, the ci% liary procefles are to be feen. The iris adheres alfo to the capfule of the lens, which is behind it, and, as we fhall prefently fee, clofe upon it. I faw it in one in- ftance, adhering fo ftrongly to the cataradt, that, in attempting to deprefs the cataradt with the needle, the edge of the iris was turned over and deprefled with the needle, and the regularity of the pupil was deftroyed; of courfe, here, there could be no permanent depref- fion, without previoufly cutting this adhefion. It was at one time believed, on the authority of many excellent anatomifts, that the veflels of the iris were colourlefs, and did not circulate red blood: after what has been faid, it is fcarcely neceffary to mention the fallacy of this opinion *. I have feen the iris cut and bleeding, though not profufely as I ex- * Dr. Monro, in treating of this fubjedl, mentions his having feen a net work of veflels covered with paint darker than that of the iris, and extended from the iris upon the furface of the lens; and, in another inflance, a net-work of filaments palling quite acrofs the pupil. See his Diflertations, p. 108. pedted;CHOROID COAT AND IRIS. 272- peCled; the fmall quantity of blood *foon coagulated into a dark fpeck, while I expected it fhould have been effufed in rhe aqueous humor. There is a circumflance in the operation of extract- ing the cataradt which I have feen little attended to, and yet It is fufficiently evident. When the cornea has been cut, operators, difappointed in not finding the cataract protruded, keep the eye flaring in the light, and prefs the ball of the eye ; but while the eye is thus expofed to the excitement of the light, the pupil is contracted, and the lens propelled by the aftion of •the mufcles ; and, flill more, by the preffure made on the eye-ball, is in danger of burfling through and tear- ing the iris. The befl operators have been in the cuflom of fhutting the eye-lids the inflant the incifion was made in the cornea ; by this means, the eye is for a time fupported in fome degree during the violent fpafm of the refti mufcles, and the iris being allowed to dilate, the lens is protruded into the anterior cham- ber of the aqueous humor through the pupil, and is ready to flip from under the cut cornea, when the eye-lids are again opened. By this means, if the in- cifion of the cornea is of the proper extent, the lens is not extracted, but is protruded, by the a&ion of the mufcles. of the eye. It is very neceffary for us to remember, that all the parts of the eye in themfelves extremely delicate, are kept in their relative places, not by adhefions, but by the complete fupport they derive from the globular form of the eye, and by the flrength of the outer coat or fclerotic and cornea. To this, it is particularly ne- geffary to attend, in the operation of the extraction of theCFIO^OID COAT AND IRIS. 2 73 the catarad; for, as foon as the aqueous humor is evacuated, the uniform refiltance of the coats of the eye is deftroyed, and the mufcles furrounding the eye- ball force all the humors towards the incifion. It is this circumftance which brings the iris into great dan- ger of being cut when the knife is too narrow to make the incifion, at once, by pufhing it through the cornea with an uninterrupted motion of the fingers. For, when the knife is not broad enough to cut itfelf out by moving it uniformly along, the aqueous humor efcapes in the endeavour to cut downwards, and the iris is pro- truded fo as to fall under the edge of the knife ; nay, with a good knife, and of a fhape to cut itfelf out, and at the fame time adapted to make a cut in the cornea fuf- ficient to allow the efcape of the lens, I have feen, in con- fequence of a hefitating manner of introducing the knife, the aqueous humor fullered to efcape. Now, obferve the confequence of this :—The lens being pulhed out- wards by the contraftion of the mufcles on the eye-ball, towards that point at which the continuity and con- fequent uniform refifiance of the coats were broken, the margin of the iris was forced under the edge of the knife and cut, as I have here reprefented. Jru/./Z 7'Ar f/jsrrryt/t /fir //v,pfyi//rn v /fir rr/r/r f>/V/,r /*,,,/A t-' r„/ A veryCHOROID COAT AND IRIS. 274 A very particular effect of this cut upon the margin of the iris is to be obferved—When the incifion has been happily done, the lens is protruded uniformly through the pupil ; but when the iris was cut, as now- explained, the edge of the lens, oppofite to the part of the iris which was cut, was forced forward; the lens was turned fide-ways, without being entirely difplaced ; and a great part of the vitreous humor was allowed to efcape.275 OF THE RETINA. CHAP. V. ©F THE RETINA, AND DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE SEAT OF .VISION. The term retina has, in a modern publication, been obje&ed to, as improperly applied to the inner coat of the eye. Such a term, it has been faid, may well be applied to the nerve expanded on the lamina fpiralis of the cochlea, becaufe it is there formed into an intricate plexus by innumerable joinings and feparations of its component parts ; but ufed for the expanded nerve of the eye, the term retina is thought improper *. We mull look for the refemblance, however, which jufli- fies this term, not in the medullary matter of the nerve, but in its velfels. “ Hanc figuram egregie re- “ prsefentat didta tunica retina cum arteriole ceracea “ materia funt replete f.” The retina is the expanfion of the optic nerve ; the immediate feat of fenfation, and the mod internal of thofe membranes which are called the coats of the eye. It has been already obferved, that there is a diftinftion betwixt a nerve in its courfe from the brain to the organ of fenfe, and where it is actually expanded and adapted to the reception of the external impreflion. Before the optic nerve has perforated the fclerotic coat * Dr. Monro’s 4-to Treatifes. •}■ Ruyfch. Epift. Anat. xiii. p. 14. Quemobrem fervare adhuc retinae, appellationem fi non ex fibrarum ut certe ex vaforum im- plicatione, &c. Morgagni Epift. Anat. xvii. § 43. of276 OF THE RETINA. of the eye, it is furrounded with a firm (heath 5 and its fubftance is evidently compofed of bundles of fibres, though not fo coarfe, yet like thofe of the nerves in the other parts of the body. The opacity of the nerve makes it have little the appearance of vafcularity, but when the body of the nerve is made tranfparent, it be- comes like a red cord ; fo neceffary is it that the me- dullary fubftance of the nerve be fupplied with blood. The ftronger (heath which furrounds the body of the optic nerve is loofe, and may be feparated into la- mellae. There is a more delicate membrane which im- mediately adheres to the furface of the nerve; and its fubftance is formed into the minute fafciculi which give it the fibrous appearance by a ftill firmer intertexture of membrane. This interwoven membrane proceeds, with the retina, into the eye; the other (heaths are re- flected off, and unite with the fclerotic coat. Some little way from the back part of the eye, the arteria centralis retinas pierces the (heath of the nerve, plunges into the centre, and paffes into the eye along with it. If the optic nerve be cut near to the eye, the open mouth of this fmall artery may be feen ; but if we make our fedtion fome way removed from the back of the eye, it will, of courfe, not be feen. The artery con- tra&ing and leaving a fpace in the centre of the nerve when thus cut, (or perhaps it was the open mouth of the artery itfelf), was obferved by the ancients, and by them called the porus opticus, becaufe they were ignorant of this central artery of the retina *. * Porum opticum Herophilus et omnis ab ca antiquitas dixit, foramen nempe quod in diffe&o nervo de vacua arteria fupereft. Hall. Arter. Ocul. Hift. p. 42. WhereOF THE RETINA. 277 Where the optic nerve is about to enter Into the ball of the eye, it is much diminilhed in diame- ter ; it is contra&ed and condenfed, and, at the fame time, lays afide the flrong coats. The proper nerve /then perforates a cribriform lamina in the fclerotic coat. Within the eye, the filaments feen in the nerve are no longer diftinguifhable; but from the extremity of the nerve the fine web of the retina is produced. The lamina cribrosa, and the delicate fafciculi of the optic nerve, are Ihown in this manner: After making a feftion of the eye, wafii away the retina from the extremity of the optic nerve, and alfo the choroid coat; then prefs the optic nerve betwixt the finger and thumb, when the pulp of the nerve will be feen to protrude through the foramina in the fclerotic coat like white points. It is obferved. by Zinn, that, in doing this, there is a central foramen which remains unfilled up by the compreffion of the nerve. This is the hole perforated by the arteria centralis retinae *. Where the threads of nerves are accumulated after palling thefe foramina, and before they are finally expanded into the retina, they necelfarily form a fmall cone or papilla. This conical form of the extremity of the optic nerve is much more evident in fome animals than in others; but in a feftion of the human optic nerve we may alfo obferve it f. * Zinn de oculo humano, p. 106. Com. Reg. Soc. Sclent. Gotting. loc. cit. About 30 foramina have been obferved in the lamina cribrofa. See Haller Fafc. de Arter. Oculi, p. 42. f Zinn. “ At the place which anfwers to the infertion of the 41 optic nerve, we obferve a fmall depreflion, in which lies a fort of *' medullary button terminating in a point.” Winflow, p. 78. Vol. III. U TheOF THE RETINA. The retina is a membrane of the moll delicate tex- ture of any in the animal body : it is tranfparent in the recent (late, and fo foft, that it will tear with its own weight. In fpirits and weak acids, it becomes opaque and firmer. It lies expanded over the vitreous humor, and contiguous, but not adhering, to the choroid coat, or its pigment. The retina does not confiit merely of the expanded nervous matter, but has, in its corn- pofition, a very fine membrane, and many minute vefiels. When the retina is macerated for a confider- able time, the pulp of the nerve can be waflied away, and there remains only the reticulated and delicate membrane which fupports the veffels that nourifh it. But though the pulp of the nerve may be diffolved, it cannot, by difiedion, be freed from the membrane which fupports it *. I have a preparation which more refembles fome of Ruyfch’s plates than any I have feen. In this preparation, the nerve being wafhed away, we may fee diftindly the whole courfe of the arteria centralis retinae. Of this preparation I have given an engraving, to fhow how plentifully this organ is fupplied with red blood j from which circumftance we may learn the ftrid de- * ,l Poffe vere medullarem retinas laminam removed ut vafculofurn rete membranse figuram retineat, alteramque ab altera integram de- trahi ultra hominum artem pofitum elfe videtur nec ulli unquam con- tigifTe, legere me memini, etfi, deleta macerendo medulla, rete vafeu- Iofum laminam peculiarem referre videatur. Ex quibus omaibus eli- cio reti'nam efie tunicam bmplicem, ex cellulofa conflatam : que vaf- cula et fubftantiam medullarem fullinet etfi duas diverfas oftendat facies alteram vafculofam interiorem, alLram medullarem exteriorem.’* Zinn, p. 112. pendenceOF THE RETINA. 279 pendence of its function on the circulation, and de- duce the derangement of the powers of vifion, as a natural eonfequence of the difordered attion of thefe velfels. The foft medullary matter of the retina is towards the furface of the choroid coat, and forms there a la- mina, which appears to me to be the furface of uhe nerve upon which the rays of light impinge *. The velfels of the retina run upon the furface contiguous to the vitrious humor f. The arteria centralis retinas is derived from the opthalmic artery. It pierces the optic nerve, as we have already obferved, ancT enters the eye through the porus opticus, to fupply the retina. But the arteries of the retina do not always enter into the eye in one trunk; on the contrary, fometimes two or three branches pierce the lamina cribrofa |, and afterwards, two, three, or four principal branches, * “ C’eft fur-tout dans les poifions qu’il eft facile de diftinguer et “ meme de feparer ces deux lames.” Cuvier, tom. ii. p. 419. The opacity of the outer furface of the retina prevents the vafcu- larity from being apparent. Albinus, after a very minute iniedlion, obferved, that when he lifted up the choroid coat, the vafcularity of the retina was not feen : “ Autem de ea aliquid acuto fcalpello fub- “ tiliter leviflimeque deradens, raox confpicio vafa impleta multa “ qute fub medulla cujus nimirum portionem deraferam la^eraTm” Albin. Ah. Acad. lib. iii. cap. xiv. t Dr. Monro has thefe words, expreffire of an dppofite opinion 5 “ The whole appears to be compofed of an uniform pulpy matter, on the outer fide of which chiefly velfels are difperfed, fupported, I ftippofe, by a membrane the fame or analogous to the pia mater.” 4to Treatifes cn the eye, ear, &c. t Haller loc. cit. Morgagni Ep. Anat. xvii. n. 44. nor do they always pierce the centre of the nerve exaftly. Morgagni. U 2 fprtad280 OF THE RETINA* fpread out on the circumference of the retina; from thefe, the ramifications are fo numerous, that Ruyfch defcribes them as conflicting the membrane *. Cor- refponding with the arteria centralis retinas in the adult, there are veins, the minute extremities of which, after forming connections with the veins of the corona cili- aris, run backwards on the inner furface of the retina in three or four diflinCl branches. Thefe uniting into a trunk, perforate the lamina cribrofa, and become the focia arteriae centralis. Many have been led to believe, that the retina ter- minates forward on the roots of the ciliary proceffes, as others have conceived it to be continued over the fore part of the vitreous humor, and over the furface of the lens f ; but the moll prevalent opinion is, that it terminates on the margin of the lens. That the retina extends over the back of the lens, and receives there the impreffion of light, is very improbable; but that the membrane which fup- ports the retina, is continued over the lens, is demon- flrable. As I have juft faid, the retina, I conceive (with Albinus, M. Ferrein, and others), to confifl of * “ Iteratis perfcrutiniis reperio oculis armatis arteriolarum ex- trema tam efle numerofa & tam ardte fibi invicem et intricate annexa ut peculiarem reprefentent membranulam ex arteriolarum extremis conftitutam, cui connedtetur didla medullofa fubftantia.” Ruyfch Epift. Anat. xiii. p. 15. f Many anatomifts, Window, Cafiobohm, Ferrein, Lieutaud, and Haller, have taught that the retina extends over the great con- vexity of the lens, or that it is inferted into it. Galen believed it to extend over the lens. For an impartial hiftory of opinions, fee Morgagni Epift. Anat. xvii. 47. and Zinn, 114. 2 1 twoOF THE RETINA. 28 I two diftind parts, viz. the medulla of the nerve, and a pellucid membrane fupporting it; but, however rea- fonable this conclufion is, I cannot believe that thefe portions are to be feparated by dilfedion. It is, by moft anatomifls, believed, that the retina palfes for- ward betwixt the vitreous humor and ciliary body, and adheres to the margin of the lens. Now, as this ad- hefion is not a glueing together of parts, but a union or intermixture of membranous filaments, the inter- change and mingling of fibres, we may fafely fay, that the membrane of the retina is continued over the lens, and forms part of its capfule. The opacity of the re- tina is diminifhed at the root of the ciliary procelfes, and difappears altogether at the margin of the lens; and here it is not only changed by becoming perfedly tranfparent and allied to the membranes of the humors, but it becomes alfo diflinguilhable from the opaque retina by a greater toughnefs and flrength. The con- tinuity of the retina with the capfule of the lens is more apparent, when both membranes have become opaque by being immerfed in fpirits or vinegar, but more par- ticularly when that opacity is produced by difeafe. In difeafe, I have found the veins of the retina running over the margin of the lens, and branching on its pof- terior convexity. Where the retina lies betwixt the vitreous humor and the ciliary procelfes, it is plaited, and defcends into the interfaces of thefe procelfes. When we take off the fclerotic and choroid coats of the eye, by dilfeding them round the infertion of the optic nerve, and fold them back, carefully preferving the retina ; and when we have taken away the ciliary U 3 procelfesOF THE RETINA. 28 2 proceffes from their adhefion, to the fore part of the retina, we find the retina to form a fac furrounding the vitreous humor, and fupporting the lens. In all this furface, the membrane is fmooth and uninterrupt- ed. To the margin of the lens all this fac is opaque ; becaufe, upon the outfide of the retina, is the opaque pulpy nervous matter, but the coats of the lens are tranfparent, yet continuous with the arachnoid portion of the retina. When thefe parts of the eye are thus diffedted, they hang all together by the optic nerve ; viz. the lens, the vitreous humor, and the expanded matter of the nerve being fupported by delicate and pellucid membranes, conftituting part of the retina ; and the organ, is diverted only of its outer apparatus; we ftill retain within this the more effentia! and important parts, There is here a natural divifion ; and I am willing to paufe upon this, knowing well with how much dif- ficulty the ftudent gains a knowledge of the minute ftrudture of the eye, when point follows upon point of the detail, without any refting-place or mark of divifion and charadter. All within the connexions of the retina, I fhall call the internal globe of the eye, as dirtinguilhing it from the outward coats of the eye and parts fubfervient to them. A view of the little vafcular fyftem of thefe internal parts, thus clafled, will lhow how ftridtly they are connected together, and how much infulated from the other parts. But this is a fubjedt upon which we cannot venture, until we have confidered the nature and relative fitua- lion of the humors of the eye. i DIGRESSIONOF THE RETINA. 283 DIGRESSION ON THE SEAT OF VISION. M. L’Abbe Mariotte difcovered the curious fad, that when the rays fall upon the centre of the optic nerve, ' they give no fenfation. He defcribes his experiment in this manner :—“ Having often obferved, in diffec- tions of men as well as of brutes, that the optic nerve does never anfvver juft to the middle of the bottom of the eye; that is, to the place where the pidure of the ob- jed we look diredly upon is made ; and that, in man, it Is fomewhat higher, and on the fide towards the nofe ; to make, therefore, the rays of an objed to fall upon the optic nerve of my eye, and to find the confequence thereof I made this experiment. I faftened on an ob- fcure wall, about the height of my eye, a fmall round paper, to ferve me for a fixed point of vifion; I faf- tened fuch another on the fide thereof towards my right hand, at the diftance of about two feet, but fome- what lower than the firft, to the end that I might firike the optic nerve of my right eye while I kept my left fhut. Then I placed myfelf over againft the firft paper and drew back by little and little, keeping my right eye fixed and very fteady upon the fame, and being about ten feet diftant, the fecond paper totally dif- appeared This defed in the vifion of the one eye is correded by that of the other ; for the inferdon of the optic ' nerves being towards the fide next the nofe, no part of an image can ever fall on the optic nerve of both eyes * Vid, Phil. Tranf. No. 35. Smith’s Optics, Remarks on art. 87. U 4 atOF THE RETINA. 234 at once. The effect of vifion, therefore, is obferved only in very careful experiments. Experiments were, however, made by M. Picard, Marriotte, and Le Catr to render this effect produced by the image falling on the centre of the optic nerve evident, when looking with both eyes. Marriotte’s fecond experiment was this: Place two round pieces of paper at the right of your eyes, three feet from one another, then place yourfelf oppofite to them at the diftance of 12 or 13 feet, and hold your thumb before your eyes at the diftance of about eight inches, fo that it may conceal from the right eye the paper that is to the left hand, and from the left eye the paper to the right hand. If, now, you look at your thumb fteadily with both eyes, you will lofe fight of both the papers *. The novelty of fuch a difcovery was likely, as frequently is the cafe, to carry mens minds beyond the true point. It requires time for fuch fadts to defcend to their level, in the fcale of importance, with other lefs novel obferva- tions. Marriotte, upon this fadt, formed a new hy- pothefis relating to the feat of vifion. We have ob- ferved, that the choroid coat and pigmentum nigrum are deficient, where the optic nerve enters the eye, and is about to expand into the retina. He fixed upon the moil unaccountable fuppofition, that the retina does * Dr. Smith made the dream of light through the key-hole of a dark chamber fall upon this point of the retina, oppofite to the ter- mination of the optic nerve, but he found it quite infenfible even to this degree of light. M. Picquet aflerts, that very luminous objefts make a faint imprefilon on the centre of the optic nerve. But Dr. Priedley fays, that a candle makes no impreffion on that part of his eye. notOF THE RETINA. 285 not receive the impreftion of the rays, but that the choroid coat is the feat of the fenfe. In fupport of this theory, he foon found other arguments than thofe atifing from the deficiency of the choroid coat at the entrance of the nerve. He faw that the pupil dilated - in the fhade, and contra&ed in a more intenfe light: now, fays he, as the iris is a continuation of the cho- roid coat, this is a proof of the great fenfibility of that coat: again, the dark colour of the choroid coat he fuppofed to be well calculated for the adtion of the rays of light, which are not refledted from it or tranfmitted, but abforbed ; while, on the other hand, the retina is tranfparent. If vifion were performed in the retina, fays Marriotte, it feems that it lhould be found when- ever the retina is; and fince the retina covers the whole nerve as well as the reft of the bottom of the eye, there appears no reafon why there lhould be no vifion in the place of the optic nerve. M. Picquet argued in oppo- fition to Marriotte. He obferved, in regard to the fit- nefs of the black colour of the choroides for the adtion of the rays of light, that the choroid is not univerfally black; that there are many lhades of difference in the human eye ; and that it is black, blue, green, yellow, or of a metallic Ihining furface, in a variety of animals. He conceived, that the defedt of vifion at the infertion of the nerve is occafioned by the blood-veffels of the retina *. He obferved, alfo, that the opacity of the * Againft this hypothefis, the fize of the infenfible fpot was urged by Marriotte. Bernuoilli calculated that this fpot is a circle, the diameter of which is a feventh part of the diameter of the eye, and that the centre is 27 parts of its diameter, from the point oppofite to the pupil and a little above the middle. retina286 OF THE RETINA. retina is fuch, as neceffarily to obftruft the tranfmiffioR of the rays of light to the choroid coat. M. de la Hire took part in this controverfy. He confidered the re- tina as the organ of fight, although a particular point of it is not fufceptible of immediate impreffions from outward objects; for, fays he, we mud not conceive fenfation to be conveyed by any other means than by the nerves. But, obferving the conftitution of the other organ of the fenfes, he entertained an idea that the retina receives the impreffion in a fecondary way, and through the choroides, as an intermediate organ ; that, by the light flriking the choroid coat, it is agi- tated, and communicates the motion to the retina; and we find, that, through all the organs of the fenfes, he continues, the nerves are too delicate to be imme- diately expofed to the naked impreffions of external bodies. Another obje&ion to the opinion, that the retina is the feat of fenfation, has been lately urged, viz. that the thicknefs of this coat, together with its tranfparency, allows of no particular furface for receiving the image ; and that its tranfparency would caufe a partial difper- fion, which would produce a confufion in vifion #. If thefe opinions require ferious refutation, we have it in the effe&s of the difeafes of the retina, optic nerve, * M. Le Cat thought that the pia mater was the fentient part of the nerve. It was, therefore, a kind of confirmation of his opinion to fuppofe the choroid to be the feat of vifion, as he teaches that the choroid coat is a produdtion of the pia mater. He conceived that the retina moderated the imprefiion of light upon the choroid coat, as the cuticle dulls the imprefiion on the papilla; of the tongue. andOF THE RETINA. 287 and brain. 'But the thalami nervorum, the optic nerve, and its expanfion into the retina, feem fcarcely to have ever occurred to thefe fpeculators, as worthy of notice in this inveftigation. The following appears to me the true account of this matter. It is demonftrated, that the inner furface of the retina is a web of membrane conveying velfels, and that the outer furface'of the retina confifts of the pulpy- like nervous matter. This latter, then, is the organ- ized furface adapted to receive the impreffion of the rays of light. At the point where the optic nerve comes through the coats of the eye, there is no pofte- rior furface peculiarly adapted to receive the impreffion of light; and, as well might we expedt the optic nerve to be fenfible to the impreffion of light in any point of its extent from the brain to the eye, as at this; for here the inner furface of the retina only is formed; there is no pofterior furface upon which the rays can impinge. The doubts regarding the caufe of this fpot giving no fenfation, have arifen from the idea, that the internal furface of the retina, or its fubflance, felt the impreffion of the rays of light. At the fame time, it is evident, that the choroid coat, and its fecretion, is in a mofl remarkable manner fubfervient to the retina, as the inflrument of vifion: for, when the fecretion is black, it abforbs the rays; and animals which have fuch a pigmentum nigrum, fee belt during the full day : again, when the furface is of a ffiining nature, it repels the rays, and this con- tributes to flrengthen the fenfation ; and fuch animals are fitted for feeing in obfcure light: nay, further, if the furface of the choroid be coloured, the animal will fee288 OF THE RETINA. fee objects of that colour the bed, becaufe the colour of the choroid depends upon its reflecting more of the coloured ray, than of the others of which light is compofed. But as animals fee which have no paint on the cho- roid, neither fuch as will abforb, nor fuch as will ftrongly reflect the rays, and which have merely the furface of the choroid with its coloured blood-veflels in contact with the retina ; fo, it is evident, that it is not the deficiency of the choroid coat, nor the want of the black paint at the entrance of the optic nerve, which prevents the fenfation, but really, that there is here no furface formed and organized to receive the impreflion of the light; the outer furface not being the fenfible furface of the retina. FURTHER OBSERVATIONS ON THE RETINA. It has already been obferved, that vifion is the com- bined operation of the organ, nerve, and brain ; con- fequently, the deftru&ion of the fun&ion may be pro- duced by difeafe of the retina, of the optic nerve, or of the brain. Difeafe in the retina, nerve, or corre- fponding part of the brain, caufing total blindnefs, while the cornea and humors of the eye remain pel- lucid, is called amaurosis. It is, in general, to be confidered as a paralytic aife&ion. Amaurofis * has * Amaurosis ; gutta serena ; cataracta nigra ; which laft; name is from the blacknefs of the pupil in confequence of the tranfparency of the lens. beenOF THE RETINA. 289 been found to follow flrokes on the head; concuflion and compreffion of the brain ; blood effufed within the Ikull; or tumors prefling on the nerve or brain *. An amaurofls fpafmodica has been enumerated by authors. This kind of blindnefs has been fuppofed to arife in con- fequence of the ftri&ure of the optic nerve by the origins of the refti mufcles; as far as I have obferved, no action of thefe mufcles can affect the optic nerve before it per- forates the coats of the eye. If it were to be attributed to the operation of thefe mufcles, I fhould rather fup- pofe it to be occafioned by their fpafmodic aftion on the ball of the eye, by which the function of the retina might be difordered ; but I think it is more probable that the fame irritation which is a&ing on the motatory nerves of the eye, does, in this inftance, affeft alfo the optic nerve and retina. However, diftention of the coats of the eye, by encreafed fecretion of the humors, deflroys the fenfibility of the retina. In the hydrop- * “ Ipfe vidi bis in puerulis fcrophulofis amaurofin, etiam fubito ingruentem; fedto cadavere inveni glandulam Itrumofam nervis op- ticis incumbentem.” Sauvages Nofol. From many obfervations, we find that tumors and extravafations, which mult comprefs gradually, do yet produce an inftantaneous effedt. In Bonetus *, we have many cafes of blindnefs from abcefs in the anterior p^rt of the brain ; from fluid on the furface, and in the vem tricles; from fteatomatous tumors ; from coagulum of blood, and from a hydatid preffing on the union of the optic nerves; and, laftly, from a calculus in the optic nerve. Blindnefs from preflure upon the eye and its difplacement, and confequent elongation of the optic nerve, by an encyfted tumor in the orbit, with gradual recovery after operations. See Med. Ob. and Inquir. vol. iv. p. 371. * De Ocul. Affedtibus, Ob. z. thalmia,OF THE RETINA. 290 thalmia, there is in the beginning a ftiort-fightednef$> fo that objects are feen only when near the eye. Thus far we might account for the defedt of vifion by the alteration of the focus of the cornea and humors; but, by and bye, as the eye enlarges, as it becomes turgid, and the coats more diftended, the pupil becomes fta- tionary, and the vifion is loll before the aqueous humor has become turbid *. The connexion and fympathy betwixt the retina and the vifcera of the abdomen is fometimes very particular: I have feen frequently a proof of this in the diforder of the ftomach having an immediate effect on the fen- fibility of the retina. Allied to this, but greater in de- gree, is the amaurofis which attacks hylterical women fuddenly with head-ach and violent pain. From fuch fympathy of parts arife the amaurofis bilofa, verminofa intermittens, arthritica, &c. Such attacks of blindnefs have been found to alternate with convulfions f. The * To complete fuch a ^afe, we may further obferve, that there is now an acceffion of pain, a tenfion over the forehead and pericrania, and there is fometimes accompanying it a fwclling and infenGbility of the fide of the face. So luxation or difplacement of the eye, by1 tumors, caufes blindnefs, by extending the optic nerve or comprefling the eye-ball and confequently the retina. •f- The following is an ingenious account of the manner in which this may be produced, though to me it is not fatisfactory :—“ Non infrequens caecitas poll convulfiortes graves et frequentes, fed a ne- mine quod fciam redte defcripta caufa ; hanc non ab humoris affiuxU deduco, ut voluerunt, fed quia in magnis illis per paroxyfmas con- vulfionum partium omnium, et oculorum firoul contorfionibus in quibus faepe quoque convulfi, admodumque exerti et inflexi appa- rent, attrafto lie nrmium et tenfo nervo optico, illis adnato illoque fimul291 OF THE RETINA. The amaurofis is a total blindnefs, while there is a tranfparency of the humors and coats of the eye. Am- blyopia is, on the contrary, only a partial privation of fight, with a pellucid ftate of the eye. Commencing cataradls and opacities of the cornea, and of the humors in general, give occafion to fpots and obfcurities in the vifion *; but we have at prefent to confider thofe only which depend on the ftate of the nerve f. Errors of vifion are not eafily to be diftinguifli- ed from thofe of the imagination proceeding from the brain. Error opticus, or Hallucinacio, from delirium : fimul contorto et liefo, fpiritufque viforii tranfitu impedito, oculot vifione privari contingit, atque inde provenire diligente examine & *onfideratione invenimus.” Platerus Prax. lib. i. c. 7. * Caligo is an obfeurity in the vifion, depending on obftruc- tion to the rays, from opacities before the pupil. “ Catar acta ©pacitas eft ultra pupillam.” Amblyopia and Amaurosis are ©ccafioned by the difeafe of the nerve, or confufion from the focal powers of the humors without opacity of any part. But Cullen ex- tends the genus caligo to all obfcurities caufed by opacity : he in- troduces the words u ob repagulum opacum, inter objeCta & reti- nam,” while Sauvage has the expreffion “ repagulum opacum citra pupillam.” f Pseudoblopsis is thus defined by Dr. Cullen: “ Vifus de- pravatus ita ut quie non exiftant homo fe videre imaginatur vel quse cxiftunt aliter videt ac revera fe habeant”—under this genus is suffusio, phantasma. Under this definition all deceptions from refraction of the rays are naturally comprehended, as well as from the imagination fimply : a definition comprehending defefts of vifion which proceed from caufes fo very diftindt, is an obftrudion to the knowledge of difeafes. Sauvage has it claffed with the vefanise, viz. (Jr, fuffufio, hallucinatio vifus circa obje&a. one2p2 o-t +H5 RETINA. One diftinfHon of the former is, that we can correft the deception by the afliftanfe of the other fenfes, while, in the latter, the mind is difeafed. Old people are often troubled with the appearance of dark irregular fpots flying before their eyes. In fever, alfo, it is very common to fee the patient pick- ing the bed-clothes, or catching at the empty air. This proceeds from an appearance of motes or flies pafling before the eyes, and is occafioned by an affec- tion of the retina, producing in it a fenfation fimilar to that produced by the knpreflion of images; and what is deficient in the fenfation, the imagination fup- plies; for, although the refemblance betwixt thofe difeafed affections of the retina and the idea conveyed to the brain may be very remote, yet, by that flight refemblance, the idea, ufually aflociated with the fen- fation, will be excited in the mind. M. de la Hire attributed the fixed fpots to drop's of extravafated blood on the retina, and the flying ones, to motes in the aqueous humors * ; but we fhall fhow prefently, that this apparent motion of the motes before the eyes may be a deception. After turning round upon the heel for fome time, obje&s apparently continue in motion. Dr. Porterfield fuppofed this to proceed from a miflake with refpeft to the eye, which, though it be at reft, we conceive to move the contrary way to that * “ Guttula cruoris retinae infidens et nigricans, omnem lucera intercipiet unde phantafrtia obfcurum vel nigrum ; verum fi dilutus c'ruor radios rubros tranfmittat tunc maculam rubram videbit xger ut omnia trans vitrum infpefta rubra funt.” bauvag'e, vol. iv. p. 287. inOF THE RETINA. 293 in which it moved before ; from which miftake, with refpedt to the motion of the eye, the objects at red will appear to move the fame way the objects are ima- gined to move, and, confequently, will feem to con- tinue their motion for fome time after the eye is at reft. How fuperior is fimple experiment to the moft ingenious fpeculation ! Dr. Porterfield is prefuming in all this, that the eye is at reft v/hen the body is fta- tionary, after turning round rapidly on one foot. But the fa£t is, that the eyes continue in motion after the body is at reft, but owing to a diforder in the fyftem of fenfation we are not fenftble of it. Dr. Wells, in making an experiment, in which it was neceffary to look upon a luminous body, was feized with giddinefs, and he found, that the fpot on the retina, a'ffe&ed by the great excitement of the luminous body, did not re- main ftationary, but, when made apparent by looking upon the wall or any plane, was moved in a manner altogether different from'what he conceived to be the direction of his eyes. In making the experiment after looking fome time at a candle, and then turning him- felf round till he became giddy, he afterwards directed his eyes to the middle of a fheet of paper, he faw the dark fpot (caufed by the former brilliancy of the can- dle on the retina) take a courfe over the paper, al- though he conceived that the portion of his eyes re-, mained ftationary. He then diredfed a perfon to re- peat this experiment, and then bade him look ftead- faftly to him, and keep his eyes fixed ; but inftead of keeping ftationary, his eyes were feen to move in their focket; though, of this, the perfon himfelf was quite infenfible. Vol. Ill, X FromGF THE RETINA. 294 From thefe experiments, we may conclude, that fpots which feem to move before the eyes are not, on that account, folely to be attributed to opacity of the humors or cornea, fince the appearance of motion may be given to thofe motes, though occafioned by an af- fection of the nerve ; efpecially, if the unufual fenfa- tion be attended with giddinefs. Giddinefs, however, is not neceffary to fuch fenfation; when my eyes are fatigued, and, fitting in my room, I look towards the window, I fee before me fmall lucid circles which feem to defcend in quick fucceffion ; upon attending more particularly to my eyes, I find them in perpetual mo- tion ; my eye is turned gradually downward, which gives to the fpeCtrum the appearance of defcending; but it regains its former elevation with a quick and imperceptible motion. During the flow inclination of the eye downward, the motes or little rings feem to defcend ; but in lifting the eye again, the motion is fo quick, that they are not perceived *. ' ’ There * The following quotation refers to this fenfation :—“ Aeger in xnagna luce conftitutus, ut plurimum prefbyta, vtl oculis nitidifilmis gaudens, continuo prse oculis obfervari fibi putat pundta lucida, qua: non hue et illuc volitant, nec a commoto capite agitantur, ut putat la Hire, et ejus in hoc exferiptor Boerhaave ; fed conilanter fi oculus immobilis remaneat, deorfum lentifllme delabi videntur ; adeoque veluti pluvia aurea prae oculis eaque denfa cernitur; qua: verticaliter femper defeendit in quacumque capitis politura, five eredta, five late- raliter inclinata; hoc in me ipfo expertus per annos, obfervavi in aliis, potifiimum illis qui ftudio notturno indulferant, et in aegro- tante, qui de eo fymptomate ad melancholiam fere per multos annos follicitus erat.” Sauvages. This appearance has been attempted to be explained upon the fupnofitioa, of a very fenfible Hale of the re- fcina*OF THE RETINA. 295 \ There is a kind of umbrae feen before the eyes which are occafioned by the velfels of the retina. Of this kind is the fuffufto reticularis of Sauvages, in which the perfon fees umbrageous ramifications which ftrike acrofs the fphere of vifion, and are fynchronous with the pulfe, fhowing its dependance on the full and throbing pulfation of the head. There are alfo cor- rufcations feen before the eyes in confequence of a blow upon the eye-ball, and accompanying violent head-ach, vertigo, phrenitis, epilepfy, &c. Whatever forces the blood with great violence to the head, as coughing, vomiting, fneezing, will caufe, for the inftant, fuch corrufcations, by means of the difturbed circulation through the retina. We are particularly called upon to attend to the connection betwixt the iris and the retina. In amau- i rofis, the fenfibility of the retina being entirely loft, the pupil is confequently immoveable and dilated *. But we muft recoiled, that if one eye be found, the pupil of the difeafed eye follows, in fome degree, the movement of the iris of the found eye. If one eye be tina, which perceives the gutulte exuding from the pores of the cor- nea, and which, falling over its furface, gives the appearance of their defcending. But it is only felt when the retina is exhaufted or difturbed by prefture on the eye-ball. See Sauvages SufFufio Scintillans & Suff. Danaes. * There are, however, cafes of Amaurosis a myosi, in which there is a contra&ed and immoveable pupil, and children are born with an infenfibility of the organ in which the pupil is not greatly dilated. I would be willing to attribute this peculiarity of the pupil and apparent amaurofis in newly-born children to the remains of the membrana pupillaris. X 2 fhut.OF THE RETINA. 29 6 fhut:, the pupil of the other eye will dilate ; if the hand be put over the eye-lids of the fhut eye, the pupil will flill further dilate *. k We find feveral inflances of vifion indiftinCt during full day-light, and perfect in the crepufculum. This we have explained by the dilatation of the pupil allow- ing the rays of light to pafs the partial opacity of the lens ; it, of courfe, has no connection with the difeafe of the retina. There are alfo inflances of vifion being more than naturally obfcure in the twilight, which is owing to a degree of infenfibility f. The night blindnefs, how- ever, is not to be entirely attributed to a degree of con- tinued infenfibility in the nerve. The attacks are irregular, and allied to the intermitting amaurofis. It has been epidemic, and the following cafes feem to ally it with the paralytic affeCtions. * The fympathy of the iris with the retina I do not conceive to be immediate, but through the'intervention of the brain ; and the degree of dilatation of the pupil, I thould hold to depend on the ftrength of the common fenfation of both eyes. By this only can we account for the fenfibility of the retina of one eye affefting the iris of the other, or the difturbance of the brain, in comatofe difeales, deftroying the fympathetic connexion betwixt the retina and pupil. f Eft immanis differentia inter fplendorem et aftivitatem luminis candelas et lunse : luminis folaris vis eft ad vim luminis candelae 16 pedes diftantis, obfervante D. Bonguer ut 11664 ad 1 ; et ad lumen Iunas in pleni lunio, ut 374000 ad 1 demonftrante D. Euler Mem. de 1’Acad. de Berlin, an 1750, pag. 299. non mirum itaque ft vis toties major fufficeret ad fuccutiendam retinam quam tanto minor non afficiebat. Saavages Amblyopia Crepufcularis. CASEOF THE RETINA. 29; CASE I. OF NYCTALOPIA, OR NIGHT BLINDNESS, BY DR. HEBERDEN. A man, about 30 years old, had, in the fpring, a tertian fever, for which he took too fmall a quantity of bark, fo that the returns of it were weakened with- out being entirely removed; he therefore went into the cold bath, and after bathing twice, he felt no more of his fever. Three days after his lad fit, being then employed on board of a (hip, in the river, he obferved, at fun-fetting, that all obje&s began to look blue, w'hich bluenefs gradually thickened into a cloud, and not long after he became fo blind as hardly to perceive the light of a candle. The next morning, about fun- rife, his fight was reftored as perfectly as ever. When the next night came on, he loft his fight again in the fame manner; and this continued for 12 days and nights. He then came alhore, where the diforder of his eyes gradually abated, and in three days was en- tirely gone. A month after, he went on board of another lhip, and after three days ftay in it the night- blindnefe returned as before, and lafted all the time of his remaining in the fhip, which was nine nights. He then left the lhip, and his blindnefs did not re- turn while he -was upon land. Some little time after- wards, he went into another lhip, in which he continued ten days, during which time the blindnefs returned only two nights, and never afterwards. In the Auguft following, he complained' of lofs of appetite, weaknefs, ftiortnefs of breath, and a cough ; he fell away very faft, had frequent fhiverings, pains X 3 in298 OF THE RETINA. in his loins, dyfury, and vomitings; all which com- plaints encreafed upon him till the middle of Novem- ber, when he died. He had formerly been employed in lead-works, and had twice loft the ufe of his hands, as is ufual among the workers in this metal. Medical Tranfattions, publiftied by the College of Phyficians in London, vol. i. p. 60. CASE II. OF NYCTALOPIA, BY DR. SAMUEL PYE. Pye, fervant to a miller, at the 6th mill, on the Lime- houfe wall, about 40 years of age, came to me Oc- tober 2d, 1754, for advice and affiftance. He told me, that about two months ago, while he was employed in mending fome facks, near the fetting of the fun, he was fuddenly deprived of the ufe of his limbs and of his fight. At the time he was attacked with this extra- ordinary difeafe, he was not only free from any pain in his head or his limbs, but, on the contrary, had a fenfation of eafe and pleafure ; he was, as he exprefied himfelf, as if in a pleafing dofe; but perfe&ly fen- fible. He was immediately carried to bed, and watched till midnight; at which time he defired thofe who at- tended him, to leave him, becaufe he was neither fick nor in pain. He continued the whole night totally blind and without a wink of fleep. When the day-light of the next morning appeared, his fight returned to him gradually as the light of the fun encreafed, till it became as perfect as ever j when he rofe from bed, his limbs were reftored to their ufual ftrength and ufefulnefs, and himfelf in perfect health. But299 OF THE RETINA, But on the evening of the fame day, about the. fetting of the fun, he began to fee but obfcurely, and his fight gradually departed from him, and he became as blind as on the preceding night; though his limbs continued as well as in perfedt health ; nor had he, from the firft night, any complaint from that quarter. The next day, with the rifmg fun, his fight return- ed ; and this has been the almoft conftant courfe of his difeafe for two months part:. From the fecond night, the fymptoms preceding the darknefs were a flight pain over the eyes, and a noife in his head, which he compared to a fquafhing of water in his ears. After near two months continuance of the difeafe, on September the 29th, the patient was able to fee all night; on the 30th September, Odtober 1 and 2, he was again blind all night; on the 3d, he was able to fee ; on the 4th, he was blind till 12 ; on the 5th was blind. From this he had no return of his complaint till June 1755 ; from which time till the 3d of Odtober, when I again faw him, he had three or four attacks ; from the 3d till the 10th, he had an attack every even- ing.—He had at this time a purging. I ordered him an eledtuary of bark and nutmeg, which fucceeded in removing the blindnefs, but the diarrhsea continued wafting him. On the 20th, delirium came on ; on the aift, he became deaf; he died on the 25th, after having fuffered from fever, pain in his bowels, and continued diarrhsea; but the defedt in his eyes never returned after the 10th. This man had clear bright eyes: when his fight failed him the pupils were en- larged about one-third in diameter. Medical Fadls and Enquiries, vol. i. p. 111. X4 Boerhaave£00 OF THE RETINA. Boerhaave gives us an example of imperfed vifion, from a difcordance betwixt the contra&ion of the iris and the excitement of the retina; fo that the pupil did not dilate in proportion to the decay of light *. When inflammation extends within the eye, or when the retina is excited by fympathy with the opthalmia of the outer membranes, it may happen that the patient is totally blind during the day, and yet fees on the ap- proach of evening ; becaufe, from the fenfibility of the retina, the pupil is abfolutely fhut, but as the light is diminifhed the pupil is gradually relaxed, and the ob- fcure light admitted, and this obfcure light, from the irritable {late of the retina, gives a vivid fenfation in- comprehenfible to the byftanders. Our judgments of the flrength of fenfations are comparative merely; when we have been accuftomed to flrong imprefiions, lefler ones are difregarded. • The greater light deftroys the capacity of the retina for receiving {lighter and more delicate impreflions; while, on the other hand, the abfence of light referves to us the power of feeing objefts the moft faintly illuminated. We are every day becoming more acquainted with the inviflble pro- perties of light; and we have frequent experience of darknefs being relative, and that what we fhould call total darknefs is very often but a fainter light. One man will fee diflindbly, when another is quite deprived of the power of dicerning objects. A man in prifon feems to have the light gradually admitted to him ; and * In old people there !s an obfcurity of vifion, from a diminifh- ed fenfibility of the retina; and the iris does not take a quick fuc- ceflicn of contraftion and dilatation with the change of light. manyI OF THE RETINA. 3Of many animals are in quick purfuit of their prey, while we are groping our way with the affiltance of our other fenfes. Animals which feek their prey in a light wdrich is darknefs to us, have, moll: probably, a greater degree of fenfibility of the retina. But they have alfo a more confpicuous apparatus in the largenefs of their eyes, and the dilatability of their pupil, while the fenfibility which this provifion gives, is often guarded from the light of day by the membrana nidtitans, and by an iris capable of great contradlion. Their iris pof- feffes alfo a great power of contradtion in narrowing the pupil during the day, as it is capable of dilating during the night, to the whole extent of the cornea. In the human eye, alfo, the fhri£b fympathy between the iris and retina is a guard to the latter. But it has often happened that, in ufing optical inftruments, the retina has been hurt by the intenfity of the light from the concentrated rays: a Idler degree of this effed we have given us in the following inltance *. “ Being occupied in making an exadt meridiap, in prder to obferve the tranlit of Venus, I ralhly directed to the fun, by my right eye, the crofs hairs of a fmall telefcope. I had often done the like in my younger days with impunity ; but I fulfered by it at laft, which I mention as a warning to others. I foon obferved a remarkable dimnefs in that eye, and for many weeks, when I was in the dark, or Ihut my eyes, there appeared before the right eye a lucid fpot, which trembled much j^ke the image of the fun feen by reflection from water. This * Viz. by Dr. Reid,OF THE RETINA. 3°2 This appearance grew fainter, and lefs frequent by de- grees, fo that now there are feldom any remains of it. But fome other very fenfible effedts of this hurt ftill remain:—For, firft, the fight of the right eye continues to be more dim than that of the left; fecondly, the neareft limit of diftindt vifion is more remote in the right eye than in the other, although, before the time mentioned, they were equal in both thefe refpedts, as I had found by many trials; but, thirdly, what I chiefly intend to mention is, that a ftraight line, in fome cir- cumftances, appears to the right eye to have a curvature in it. Thus, when I look upon a mufick book, and, fhutting my left eye, diredt the right to a point of the middle line of the five which compofe the ftaff of mu- fick, the middle line appear dim indeed at the point to which the eye is directed, but ftraight; at the fame time the two lines above it and the two below it appear to be bent outwards, and to be more diftindt from each other, and from the middle line than at other parts of the ftaff to which the eye is not diredted. Fourthly, although I have repeated this experiment times innu- merable within thefe 16 months, I do not find that cuftom and experience takes away this appearance of curvature in ftraight lines. Laftly, this appearance of curvature is perceptible when I look with the right eye only, but not when I look with both eyes; yet I fee better with both eyes together than even with the left eye alone.” Herfchel, in making his obfervations on the fun, found the irritation proceeding from the red rays (being thofe of the rays of light which have the property of producing heat in the greateft degree) j he found, when q heOF THE RETINA. 303 he ufed red glafs to intercept the too vivid impreffion of light on his eyes, that they flopped the light, but produced an infufferable irritation from the degree of heat. But when he ufed green glafs, it tranfmitted more light, and remedied the former inconvenience of an irritation arifing from heat. He concluded, that in the darkening glaffes for telefcopes, the red light o^ the fun fhould be entirely intercepted. Boerhaave men- tions an inflance of the retina being injured by the long ufe of the telefcope, and he himfelf was hurt by a fimilar caufe. Thefe injuries are owing to the intrufion of light highly concentrated, and over which the pupil has no command; it is a degree of intenfity which the or- gan is not prepared to counteract304 OP THE me mb r. an a pupillaris. CHAP. VI. OF THE MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. The membrana pupillaris is an extremely vafcular membrane, which is extended acrofs the pupil of the foetus. It was difcovered by Haller, Albinus, Wachen- dorf#, and Dr. William Hunter, at the fame time or without correfpondence with each other. Haller j-, after inje&ing, with oil of turpentine and cinnabar, a foetus of the feventh month, faw through the cornea the vef- fels of the iris injetted, and fome ramifications from them produced into the fpace of the pupil. From convi&ion that no veffels ramified without an involving membrane, he naturally concluded, that a membrane was drawn acrofs the pupil of the foetus, though, in this inftance, it was about to difappear. In feveral other foetufes of the feventh month he confirmed his firfl obfervation; and, cutting off the cornea, he obferved the membrane impelled forward by the humors behind like a little veficle. Albinus, in his firfl book of Academical Annotations, thus defcribes the way in which he dete&ed this mem- brane. In the fame child in whom he had filled the * In Commercio Norico, A. 1740, hebd. 18. as quoted by Haller. •f De nova tunica pupillam foetus claudente. Oper. minor. yeffels »OF THE MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. 305 veffels of the cryflalline, he alfo firft obferved the mem- brane which clofes the pupil, and in which the veffels were injeCted that came from the margin of the pupil. Upon looking through the cornea, he could fee no dif- tinCfion of parts, but all feemed vafcularity. He con- ceived, at firft, that thefe were the veffels of the uvea, and that it had quite contracted and had fhut the pupil; then that they were the veffels of the capfule of the cryftalline lens; but having cut into the eye, he found it to be this membrane. Dr. Hunter, fpealdng of this membrane, and of Aibinus’s claim to the difcovery, fays, “ In juftice to this great anatomift, I muft declare that I believe this, both becaufe he afferts it and becaufe I know from the circumftances it was hardly poflible he could mifs taking notice of it in that child.” “ I have always obferved (he continues), both in the human body and in the quadruped, that there is a great re- femblance to one another in the veffels of the capfula criftallini and of the membrana pupillae. In an injeCted foetus, I always find both nearly in the fame ftate : if one be filled only with the blood that is drove before the injedion, fo is the other; if one be filled partly with injection, and partly with blood, the other is in, the fame condition; if one, by good fortune, be finely and minutely filled by injeCtion, the other is fo too ; if one be burft by extravafations, the other is commonly in the fame ftate ; and when the foetus is fo near its full time that the one cannot be injeCted, neither can the other*.” * See Medical Commentaries, p. 63. foot nots. Dr. Hunter,306 OF THE MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. Dr. Hunter, fpeaking further of the artery of the criftalline capfule, fays, “ that it does not terminate at the great circle of that humor. Its fmall branches pafs that circle, and run a very little way on the anterior furface of the criftalline humor before the points of the ciliary proceffes; then they leave the humor and run forwards, fupported on a very delicate membrane, to lofe themfelves in the membrana pupillas.” He con- tinues : “ The membrana pupillse receives two different fets of arteries, one larger, from the iris, and the other much fmaller, but very numerous from the criftalline capfula.” Now I think that every expreflion in thefe excerpts confirms the opinion I entertain, that thefe veffels which are feen filled with red blood, and which take their courfe through the humors, are fubfervient merely to the membrana pupillaris. The firft time I obferved the membrana pupillaris was in the eye of a child born at the full time. I had Injected the child very minutely with fize and vermilion, and the iris was beautifully red and the pupil quite tranfparent and black, and not obfcured by any extra- vafation of the injection into the aqueous humor : upon very narrowly obferving the circle of the iris, I faw diftindlly a fmall inje&ed veffel pafs out from the edge of the iris, and crofting the pupil, divide into two branches which ran into the oppofite margin of the iris. This was the remains of the membrane, but fo delicate and fo perfectly tranfparent, that the prefence of it was only to be argued from the veffel which was feen to crofs the pupil. SinceOF THE MEMBRANA PUPILLARIS. 307 Since that time I have often feen it in the early months, and particularly ftrong about the feventh month of the foetus. It is then an opaque, and very vafcular membrane, and generally it has fpots and flreaks of extravafation in it. The vafcular ftru&ure of 'this membrane is very particular, and I can aflign no other reafon for this than that it may be a provifion for its rapid abforption. It has evidently two fources of veffels, viz. the veffels of the capfules and thofe of the iris ; but whether the arteries come by the one fource, and the veins depart by the other, I cannot as yet determine. In one preparation I fee the veffels with their trunk in the membrana pupillaris, and the branches fent over the furface of the iris. The larger and flat venous-like veffels of the mem- brane are diflributed in a beautiful net-work, in the form of the lozinge of a Gothic window. They have a free communication with each other. In their whole courfe the veffels feem nearly of the fame fize, (which alfo is like the character of a venous net-work), and they terminate apparently in the margin of the iris. The ufe of the membrana pupillaris I think fuf- ficiently apparent, though I do not find that it has hitherto been underfiood. Haller makes a comparifon betwixt this membrane, which clofes up the pupil, and that matter which is accumulated in the paffage of the ear in the foetus. But there is no analogy.—As the waters of the amnios might otherwife be in contaft with the membrane of the drum of the ear, and injure what neceffarily is of a dry and arid nature, to adapt it for receiving the vibrations of the air, this matter accumu- lated in the ear of the foetus defends it. But at the time.308 OF THE MEMBRANA PUPrLLARIS. time, when the membrana pupillaris exifts in its full flrength and vafcularity, no light is admitted into the eye—the foetus is lying in its mother’s womb. Towards the ninth month, the membrane has become tranfparent, and if not totally abforbed, it is torn by the firft motion of the pupil and altogether difappears. It can therefore have no effeCt in obfcuring the light, and preventing it from exciting in too great a degree the eye of the newly-born child. To explain the effeCt of this mem- brane, then, we have only to confider that it is of the nature of the iris to contract its circular fibres during the operation of light, fo as to clofe or nearly clofe the pupil; that, on the other hand, the pupil is completely dilated through the operation of the radicated fibres of the iris in darknefs:—To the queftion, then, why it is not dilated during the foetal Hate ? The anfwer, I think, js decidedly this :—The iris is not loofe in the foetal flate, it is connected and flretched to the middle degree of contraction and dilatation by the membrana pupillaris. Were the iris in a full flate of contraction, during the life of the foetus, it could not receive its full nourifh- ment, proper degree of extenfion, and due powers ; but being preferved flationary and extended, the dif- pofition to contraction, which it mult have when the retina is without excitement, is counteracted, until it is about to receive, by the birth of the child, that degree of excitement which is to keep up the preponderance towards the contracted flate of the pupil.OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 3°9 CHAP. VII. OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOR.. TttB aqueous humor is perfectly limpid* It has no capfule or furrounding membrane, as it is not in con- fidence allied to the other humors, but is fluid *. The ufe which I have alligned to the aqueous humor ex* plains its nature and the extent of the chamber which contains it, viz. that it diftends the Cornea and allows the free motion of the iris; it confequently fills the fpace between the lens and cornea. The ufual defcrip- tion is, that it is lodged in two chambers; the one be- fore the iris, called the anterior chamber of the aqueous humor, and the other behind the iris, called the pollerior chamber of the aqueous humor. This pofterior chamber was, at one time, conceived to be of great extent t, and authors fpoke of deprefling the lens into the pofterior chamber of the aqueous humor * It pofTefles, however, a degree of vifcidity. Window. f Viz. by Heifter. They were called the firft and fecond cham- bers by M. Brifleau. J There certainly appears fufficient room for this in Vefalius and .Briggs plates: thcfe plates have mifled many. Vol. III. Y it310 OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. It is found, now, that betwixt the lens and iris there is no fpace to which we ought to give this name of chamber. Heider, Morgagni, and M. Petit (medecin) fird de- monftrated the extreme fmallnefs of the pofterior cham- ber, and after them Window confirmed the fad, that the iris moved ahnod in contad with the anterior fur- face of the lens. M. Petit gave the cleared proof of the fmallnefs of the pofterior chamber, by freezing all the humors of the eye, and diffeding them in their folid date. With- out this expedient it was impoftible to prove the relative fize of the two chambers; for, whenever the cornea was cut, the aqueous fluid efcaped, and the lens pufhed forward. When the eye was frozen, and then difleded, it was found that the ice, which took the diape and dimenfions of the anterior chamber, was much larger than that found in the poderior chamber*; indeed the latter was formed of a very thin flake of ice. The thin piece of ice in the poderior chamber indicated as much fluid only betwixt the iris and lens as might allow a free motion to the iris. Thefe experiments were in- dituted in the courfe of invedigating the quedion of the nature of the catarad. The conclufion, that the poderior chamber of the aqueous humor contained but one-fourth of the whole aqueous humor, was admitted with great difficulty and after much conied. It determined the quedion, whe- ther the catarad was a membrane or the opaque lens; for, as thofe who maintained that it was a membrane, faid it could not be the lens, becaufe the lens was far * See Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1723. Mem. p. 38. diftantOF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 31I diftant from the iris, it was neceflary for their opponents to prove that the lens was clofe upon the pupil, and that the pofterior chamber of the aqueous humor was very fmall. It is agreed that, in the adult, the quantity of the aqueous humor amounts to five grains; in the fetus it is red, turbid, and weighs about a grain and a half, owing, in part, to*the comparatively greater thicknefs of the cornea. As it is natural to conceive that the aqueous humor flows from a vafcular furface, it is the moil generally received opinion, that it is derived from the points of the ciliary procefles and furface of the iris. Haller, particularly, and after him Zinn, have thought that the ciliary procefles were the fecreting bodies; but there is one argument which, in my mind, determines that thefe are not the foie fecreting parts, viz. that while the membrana pupillaris clofes up the communication betwixt the two chambers, I have obferved the anterior one to be full of the fluid, which of courfe muff have been fupplied from another fource than the ciliary pro- cefles. 1 fuppofe, therefore, that the vilous furface of the iris is the proper fecreting furface of the aqueous humor *. Zinn obferves, that Haller faw the menu * The opinion of Nuck is now out of the quefiion. He thought that he had difcovered particular aquedudts, which conveyed the aqueous humor into the anterior part of the eye ; but thefe are found to be nothing more than the fhort ciliary arteries which pierce the fore part of the fclerotica. M. Merry and Bonhomme, (fee Zinn, p. 143.) obferved, in an adult, the pupil clofed with a membrane, and, in this inftance, there was fcarcely any fluid in the anterior chamber, whilft the pofterior was turgid with fluid. Y 2 brans *312 OF THE HUMORS OF THE EVE. brana pupillaris diftended and bulged forwards by the aqueous humor in the pofterior chamber. It is fcarcely neceflary to fay, that this muft always take place when the cornea is firft opened in demonftrating that mem- brane, whether there be a watery fluid behind it or not. But I believe I fhall be able to prove, that the fecretion of the ciliary procefles can have little power of filling the poflerior chamber, even from the connexion of membranes behind the membrana pupillaris in the foetus. The aqueous fluid is perpetually undergoing the change of fecretion and abforption, and this is the reafon of its quick renewal when it has been allowed to efcape by puncture of the cornea. The ancients were not ignorant of the quick regeneration of this fluid. It Was proved to the moderns by a charlatan, Jofephus Burrhus (ventofus homo, qui in carcere Ro- mano perut). Before the phyficians of Amflerdam he punctured the cornea of a dog; then inftilling his liquor under the cornea, he bound up the eye; in a few days he took off the bandage, and fhowed them the cornea again diftended with the aqueous humor. It was foon found that the inftilled fluid was of no kind of confequence. Redi and Nuck made many experi- ments, and it was found that the aqueous humor was regenerated in the courfe of 24 hours. When the difputes regarding the catarad ran high, and when, to make new diftin&ions in the difeafe was taken as a mark of practical knowledge and of acute- nefs, there was akind of catarad attributed to the aqueous humor. When the aqueous humor became turbid, white, and opaque, and obfcured the pupil, they were abfurd enough to call this a cataract. The turbid ftate *3 of' OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 313 of the aqueous humor is at once drftinguifhable, from the opaque lens, becaufe it obfcures the iris as well as the pupil. Pus is formed in the chambers of the aqueous humor, in confequence of deep inflammation, contufions, &c. and from the fame caufe, fometimes, proceeds a bloody effuflon. When the pus has lodged in the anterior chamber of the aqueous humor, it would appear, upon the authority of Galen, that an oculifl: of his day per- formed a cure by lhaking the patient’s head * ! It is an operation of oculifts to pundure and allow the pus to flow out, and fome have even fyringed out the pus with water f; but this mull have been on the principles of Jof. Burrhus’s exhibition ; for the natural fecretion is here the bell deluent. When we recoiled the nature of the parts with which the pus lies in contad, we can- pot be fanguine in the hope of fuch an operation faving the eye. Sometimes there remains, after operation on the cornea, or in confequence of ulceration, a continued flow of the aqueous humor ; the confequence is a fub- Tiding of the cornea J; it becomes corrugated, opaque, * Mouchart fays, he has often feen the oculifl Woolhoufe repeat this cure by fhaking his patient's head over the fide of the bed. He attributed the cure to the falling of the pus into the poflerior cham- ber, which, he fuppofes, has parts more capable of abforbing it, f They were at variance regarding the place at which to pun&ure for this difehargeSome did it behind the iris; there we know there is a crowd of veffels ; the belt place is the lower edge of the cornea before the iris. It feems to have been no uncommon acci- dent, in this operation, to find the lens protruded through the pupil. The reafon of this has been already explained. | Rhytidofis, feu fubfidentia & corrugatio cornea”, Y 3 and.3*4 OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE.. and, from the contadl of the iris, apt to adhere to the iris. In confequence of this fuppuration, there fome- times follows an abfolute obftru&ion of the pupil, from the coalefcing and adhefion of the edges of the iris *. THE VITREOUS HUMOR, The vitreous humor, as already explained, occupies almofl entirely the great ball of the eye. It is con-. fequently beyond the lens, and keeps it at the requifite' diftance, to caufe the rays from objects to concentrate and impinge upon the retina. The vitreous humor is confiderably denfer than the aqueous humor f; but its peculiar appearance, its glairy-like confiftence, is not owing to its denfity, but to the manner in which it is contained in its membranes. From being contained in a cellular ftruCture of perfectly pellucid membranes, it has the adhefion and confiftence of the white of an egg. This membranous ftruCture of the vitreops humor has been demonftrated by acids and by freezing. When frozen, it was found to confift of pieces of ice con- nected by ftrong membranes, which feparated with dif- ficulty, and fhowed their torn fragments ; and M, Demours lifted the tranfparent membranes with the point of a needle. Although the vitreous humor ap- pears to be gelatinous, it is not fo in reality, and when it is taken from the coats of the eye, it retains the fhape for a time, but gradually fubhdes by the fluid exuding * Viz. Syniftfis. There has occurred congenital imperforation pf the pupil. f It is, according to Dr. Monro, in the proportion of as 1016 to 1000.OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 315 from the membranes, and this is accelerated by punc- turing it. OF THE CRISTALLINE LENS. The criftalline humor is a fmall body, of the lhape of an optician’s lens, of great power. It is of perfect tranfparency, and of denfity much greater than the vitreous humour. Its denfity to that of the vitreous humor is calculated to be as 1114 to 1016. But the criftalline is not of uniform denfity, for the centre forms a denfer nucleus. The form of the cryftalline is that of a comprelfed fphere, the anterior furface being more comprelfed or flatter, though, in a degree, convex. According to Petit, the anterior furface is the fegment of a fphere whofe diameter is 7, 8, or even nine lines. The pofterior furface is a fphere of 41 or 5, or 5! lines in diameter. The internal ftructure of the lens is quite peculiar, and refembles neither the vitreous nor the aqueous humor. By maceration, it fplits into lamellae, and at the fame time burfts up into equal parts, fo that there is firft. a ftellated-like filfure, and then it feparates into pretty regular divifions; and after maceration in acids, the lens can be teafed out into minute flireds and fibres *. From its form, denfity, and central nucleus, it has great power of converging the rays of light; and in an eye properly conftituted, it concentrates them accurately to the furface of the retina. For this reafon, it is placed before the vitreous humor, and focketed in its anterior * See further of the mufcularity of tire len-s. Y 4 part.316 OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE, part. It is contained in a capfular membrane, which membrane is continued from, or connected with, the membranes of the vitreous humor 5 but this is a fub- jeft which requires a more particular inveftigation. OF THE CAPSULE OF THE LENS ANP VITREOUS HUMOR. 2Dt?y 7.1. t In fig. i. we have the appearance of the Petitian canal blown up. It is not found full of any fluid, it is only the laminae of membrane inflated, and it is belt demonflrated by cutting off the cornea, and with it a finall circular portion of the fclerotica, and taking with thefe the iris alfo, when the lens prefents itfelf feated firmly in its capfule on the vitreous humor. Now laying back the ciliary procefles, we iliake a fine punc- ture with a lancet by the fide of the lens, and then blow gently into it with the blow-pipe. EveryGF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 317 Every anatomlft acknowledges the exiftence of the Petitian canal, and a diftinfl: capfule to the lens is alfo pretty generally allowed. But many deny that the vitreous membrane has two plates, without obferving that the exiftence of the Petitian canal is a proof of the Splitting of the membrana vitrea, on the fore part at leaft. Some believe that the vitreous membrane fpllts and involves the lens, and forms its capfule ; but the difficulty, on this fuppofition, is ftill to account for the formation of the canal which furrounds the lens; for as the fluids on the furface of the lens and within its capfule have not admiffion to the canal, the canal mult be diftindt; and, indeed, fometimes we blow up the circular canal, and fometimes, by a wrong pundture, the capfule of the lens itfelf; but not both at once. Seeing, then, that thefe cavities are diftindt, fome anatomifts.have admitted that the membrana vitrea is double; that the lens has its proper capfule; and that the lamina of the vitreous membrane, coming near the margin of the lens, fplits and involves it in a fecond coat, (as in fig. 2.) Others have fuppofed that the anterior layer of the vitreous humor does not pafs over the anterior furface of the proper capfule of the lens, but only adheres to the edge of the capfule of the lens, and forms the Petitian canal. There are yet others who have defcribed the membrana vafculofa of the retina as forming the capfule of the lens. This is one of thofe pieces of anatomy which provokes us to con- tinued refearch, and mortifies us with continual dis- appointment. If this piece of anatomy, when invefti- gated in the eye of an adult, is difficult to be under- ftood, it is infinitely more complicated in the eye of the foetus;3x8 OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. foetus; and, for my own part, I cannot reconcile my experience with any former opinion. I conceive that it is the membrana vafculofa tunicee retinas, or membrana vafculofa Ruyfchii, which forms the vafcular capfule of the lens in the foetus, and alfo the canal of Petit in the adult. The criftalline lens has, in the firfl place, its proper capfule, which fur- rounds it on all Tides: again, the tranfparent web of membrane that is continued onward from that part of the retina which has upon it the pulpy and nervous ex- panfion, fplits when it approaches the margin of the lens. One lamina goes round belling the lens, and the other paffes a little before it, forms an adhefion to the capfule of the lens, and is then reflected off to the points of the ciliary proceffes and to the membrana pupillaris of the foetus *. Betwixt thefe fplit laminas of the con- tinued membrane of the retina the canal, which fur- rounds the lens, is formed, The membrana vitrea is fimply reflected over the back of the lens, and has no part in forming the Petitian canal. Where the retina advances forward upon the ciliary proceffes,- it forms an adhefion, beyond which the medullary part is not continued ; but the membrana vafculofa pafling on- ward, as I have defcribed, embraces the lens, and the * In the foetus, as far as I have obferved, the proper capfule of the lens and the membrana pupillaiis lie in contact, but they do not adhere ; and while the membrana pupillaris is perfedlly red with in- jection, there is none to be feen on the fore part of the capfule. There is, indeed, no part of that furface which is afterwards to fecrete the aqueous humor, which could fecrete that fluid, betwixt the furface of the lens and membrana pupillaris: fo complete is the adhefion of the adventitious and vafcular tunic of the leps to the membrana pupillaris, lamina.OF THE HUMORS OF THE EYE. 319 lamina, which pafTes behind the lens and before the vitreous humor, receives and conveys the artery of the capfule; on the fore part of the lens the anterior lamina only touches the capfule of the lens, adheres, and is then reflected off to form the membrana pu- pillaris. In this account I am fupported by the mod careful inveftigation, and by the fimplicity of this fyftem of veffels : for it will be obferved, that it is on the mem- brana vafculofa alone that the veffels, carrying red blood in the foetus, are fupported, and that it fhows throughout the fame chara&er for vafcularity. Again, I think it probable that this membrane which paffes be- fore the lens, viz. the membrana pupillaris, and that which paffes behind the lens, forming the vafcular capfule of the lens, difappears at the fame time ; or if this poflerior and vafcular membrane which paffes be- hind the lens is not totally abforbed, it becomes thin £$d more intimately united to the membrana vitrea.OF THE CENTRAL ARTERTo 32° CHAP. VIII. OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CENTRAL ARTERY AND VEIN OF THE RETINA. X am the more anxious to give the accurate diftri, bution of thefe veflels, that Walter’s account of them has tended much to derange that fimple and natural view of this fyftem which obfervation authorizes us to take. j The arteria centralis retinae arifes from the opthalmic artery *. Sometimes it is derived from the ciliary arteries before they enter the coats of the eye, and often there is more than one branch entering the optic nerve f. Arifing from this fource, there are many branches which are diflributed to the retina, while a branch pafles onward from the lamina cribrofa through the vitreous humor to the capfule of the lens. This velTel does not pafs exa&ly in the centre of the vitreous humor, but to one fide of the axis of the eye. When it arrives near the capfule of the lens, it divides into three or four branches, which, reaching the capfule, fpread beautifully on the back part of it j. The * See Haller, Fafcic. vii. tab. vi. fig. 2. 4. 7_ •f Haller, F. vii. p. 42. 1 $ Walter (de venis oculi) fays, the arteria centralis retinae, having perforated the membrana hyoloidea, pafTes through the middle of the vitreous humor, and fcatters fome twigs on the fmall cells of the vitreousOF THE CENTRAL ARTERY. 321 The branches of the arteria centralis retinas, which are diftributed in the retina, are fubfervient to its fup- port, and are confequently as vifible in the adult as in the fcetus; and, where the membrane of the retina has been defcribed as adhering to the point of the ciliary body, thefe veflels of the retina unite to, or inofculate with the veflels of the ciliary procefies. Walter objects to the defcription of the arteria cen- tralis retinas given by Haller and others ; he fays, de- cidedly, that there are no arteries diftributed to the retina, and that anatomifts have deceived themfelves in fuppofmg thofe veflels which ramify on the. retina, to be arteries, when, in reality, they are veins; he con- ceives, that the free return of the injection from the extremities of the arteries into the veins has milled them. I am at a lofs to conceive what notions profeffor Walter can have entertained regarding this vein diftributed in the retina, without an accompanying artery. It is a fuppolition contrary to the general frame of the ceco- nomy, and I would oppofe to it, with confidence, my own experience, fmce, in the ox and other animals, I have feen the veins of the retina turged With blood and exceedingly diftinct j yet when I injedted the trunk of vitreous humor. It does not, he fays, run through the vitreous hu- mor in a ftraight line from behind, forward, nor does it divide into a great number of branches in the poderior part of the capfule of the lens, like radii from a centre, as Zinn has defcribed. He aflerts that the lens receives its veifels from the invefture of the membrana hyoloidea, and that they run back from the edge of the lens toward® the pofterior convexity. the322 OF THE CENTRAL ARTERlf. the artery at the root of the optic nerve, I found a let of veflels injected on the furface of the retina quite diftin£l from the turgid veins, and which could be no other than the arteries diftributed to the retina. I mull conclude that there is no peculiarity in the diflribution of veflels in the tunica vafculofa retinae. We frequently obferve, that the trunks of veins and arteries, dellined to the fame final diflribution, take a different courfe ; but in their final diflribution, I know no inflance in which they do not ramify with parallel branches interwoven with each other. The vena centralis retina, as it is defcribed by Haller, is fometimes a branch of the opthalmica cerebralis, but often it rifes from the cavernous finus, amongft the origins of the external and inferior refti mufcles of the eye ; after giving off many fmall twigs to the periofteum and fat of the orbit, it paffes obliquely from behind, forward, and inward, perforates the fheath of the optic nerve, and, after fupplying the fheath, dips into the furface of the nerve.—It is now the comes ar- terial centralis retinae. It enters through the cribriform plate of the optic nerve, and fpreading generally in large and remarkable branches on the retina, thefe make free inofculations with each other, and finally inofculate with the veins of the ciliary proceffes. Whether a branch of the vena centralis retinae is fent off to accompany the branch of the artery which takes its courfe through the vitreous humor, I have not been able to determine. IOF THE PELLUCID MEMBRANES. n n 'j * i thefe J CHAP. IX. i OF THE VASCULARITY OF THE PELLUCID MEMBRANES. If we cut through the fclerotic and choroid coat, round the optic nerve as it enters the eye, and after- wards cut up the outer coats towards the cornea, the humors fall out from thefe coats, and will .remain fuf- pended in a fluid, hanging by the optic nerve and clofely embraced by the retina : we have now to review7 thefe parts taken collectively, indcpendant of the outward and proper coats, and, as I have clafled them, as conftituting the internal globe of the eye. The firft peculiarity wdiich ftrikes us here is the per- fect tranfparency of all the parts within the embrace of the retina. As there are, in the adult and healthy eye, no veflels to be feen in the tranfparent membrane and humors, it becomes a queftion, whether nature has provided' for the fupport and nourifhment of thofe parts by other means than the common circulation of red blood through veflels ? Now7, I am inclined to think, that there is no fuch circulation through them; and I believe, that this would be much more generally allowed, were there not fomething like a proof remain- ing in men’s minds that thefe humors and tunics were fupplied with red blood in the foetus ; whence they de- duce the natural confequence that, in the adult ftate,3^4 OF THE PELLUCID MEMBRANES. thefe veffels are only Ihrunk fo as to convey only colour lefs fluids. I have, therefore, in the firfl place, to give my reafons why I think that thefe veflfels of the foetus are not fubfervient to the humors; and, I think, I fhall prove that, when they have once difappeared, they are no longer pervious veflfels; that, though thofe parts which they are fuppofed to fupply, Ihould become in- flamed and vafcular in the adult, thefe veflfels which were apparent in the foetus do not become enlarged $ that they do not adminifter in any way to inflammation and difeafe, but that a new fource is given, and that veffels are formed which wrere at no former period difcernable. Why Ihould there be red blood tranfmitted to the! pellucid membranes and humors of the foetus ? Why is not that ftate of circulation, which nourifhes and fupports the parts in the adult ftate, fufficient for theif growth and the progrefs to perfection which they un- dergo in the foetus ? Why is the capfule of the lens only crowded with veffels carrying red blood, While the proof of veffels palling to the cells of the vitreous coat ftands upon fome very rare and vague affertions, and fuch as can be naturally explained by the appear- ance of thofe veffels which merely pafs through the vi- treous humor for a different deftination ? I believe .this is a view which has been little attended to ; but, upon the molt minute enquiry, and upon ex- amining the preparations of the vafcularity of the eye of the foetus, I can fee no veffels, palling into the hu- mors and carrying red blood, which are not finally diftributed to the membrana pupillaris. When we lay open the eye of a foetus, after a very minute and fuc- cefsfulOF THE pellucid membrane. 325 cefsful inje&ion, we fee veffels, which all proceed from the centre of the optic nerve, palling through the vi* treous humor to the back of the capfule of the lens, viz. the branches of the arteria centralis retinae. This artery divides very often into many branches before it arrives at the capfule of the lens: now, if thefe be filled with blood, or but partially injedted, they have the ap- pearance of being branches dillributed to the vitreous humor, and not to the lens. This appearance is Hill more apt to deceive us when the lens is feparated from the vitreous humor, and when the vitreous humor is otherwife difturbed, for then the veffels Ihrink and feem to terminate in the midft of the vitreous humor. When the injection is perfect there is no fuch appearance. On the back of the lens we fee a profufion of veffels 5 but I think I may pofitively fay that thefe veffels do not penetrate to the lens itfelf, but are merely on the cap- fule, and that having made the circuit of the lens, they terminate in the membrana pupillaris and ciliary body* I can obferve no villi on the inner furface of the capfule of the lens, nor any appearance of its being a fecreting furface, to lead me to fuppofe that thefe veffels fecrete the lens, as Walter fuppofes they do ; nor, after the molt fuccefsful injedtion of the capfule of the lens and of the coats of the eye in general, can I obferve the flighted ftain of colour in the pellucid date of the lens, nor betwixt its white fibres when it becomes opaque. Nor have I obferved, at any time, a fmgle branch of thefe veffels, which are fo profufe on the back of the lens, diflributed to the anterior part of the capfule; on. the contrary, they all terminate abruptly at that line, a Vol. III. Z little326 ' Of FHE PELLUCID MEMBRANE. little forward from the utmofl verge of the lens, where they are united to the velfels of the membrana pupil- laris and ciliary procelfes. Were thefe velfels of the capfule provided for the fecretion of the lens, or were thofe velfels the trunks of lelfer branches which pierce into the fubltance of the lens, they would appear alfo on the fore part of the capfule. If I am accurate in thefe obfervations, we are autho- rized to deduce this important conclufion:—that thefe velfels which we fee running through the vitreous hu- mor and capfule of the lens, and which are fometimes feen filled witfr red blood or injected with fize and Vermillion, are not the velfels of the humors, but velfels in their palfage to the membrana pupillaris, and that they difappear totally when that membrane is ab- forbed. They are injected when the membrana pupil- laris is inje&ed; they are more difficult to fill when that membrane is becoming pellucid and tender towards the latter period of gellation ; and with the annihilation of the membrane follows the difappearance of the velfels carrying red blood through the tranfparent hu- mors of the eye. In confirmation of the total annihilation of thefe central velfels of the vitreous humor, I have found that, when difeafe comes upon the lens of the adult, the velfels, which are apparent in confequence of inflam- mation, do not proceed through the old traft from the centre of the optic nerve and through the vitreous humor to the lens, but that they come from the ex- tremity of the retina and laterally, and thence fpread over the back of the lens. AnI OF THE PELLUCID MEMBRANE. An eye, which I had lately an opportunity of ex- amining, confirmed me in this ppinion. I afiifted my brother in an operation on the eye, in which, the an- terior part being difeafed, it was cut away. I had fooil an opportunity of retiring and examining the parts with Dr. Monro. I obferved, then, an opaque fpot on the pofterior furface of the lens, which was, indeed, in the capfule, and to this fpot there came veflels over the margin of the lens from the extremities of the velfels of the retina ; but, in the vitreous humor, there were no velfels to be feen, nor any branches palling into the lens obliquely from behind, as they do in the foetus. / Z328 ANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. * CHAP. X. SOME SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS CONNECTED WITH THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. I have already mentioned, as the principle of the operation of extracting the lens, that the fimple action of the mufcles, furrounding the eye-ball, is fufficient to protrude the lens, if the incifion of the cornea be of proper dimenfions relative to the fize of the lens. No doubt, if there have been thickening inflammation and perhaps preternatural adhefions of the membranes fur- rounding the lens, the operation will neceflarily become more complicated ; the lens will not glide at once over the cheek when the incifion of the cornea is completed. But (till, I think, we are not to allow ourfelves to con- fider it as a ftep of the operation, in any circumftances, that the ball of the eye is to be prefled; becaufe, in that cafe, the membranes of the lens give way fuddenly, and part of the vitreous humor unavoidably is protruded with it, or the edge of the lens is turned obliquely to the pupil, and the vitreous humor efcapes by the fide of it. It is better to deftroy the adhefions with the inftrument, and to fcratch the capfule of the lens fo that it nlay burft. Whence it is evident that it is neceflary, in order to infure the correct performance of the ope- ration of extraction, that the lens fhould prefs equally forward on the pupil, and that the pupil Ihould be al- lowedANATOMY OF THE HUMORS'. 329 lowed to dilate. From this it appears, how toofe the ideas of thofe are who can fpeak of trying firft to couch, and if that is not found to fucceed, then to perform the operation of # extraction. I conceive the attempt with the needle to preclude the operation of extracting, for thefe reafons :—An unfuccelsful attempt to deprefs will, in general, be a laboured and reiterated motion of the point of the needle, which muff occafion inflammation and an adhefion firmer than is natural. Again, in couching, the lens is removed from the axis of the eye fo far only that, in the cafe of the extracting being at- tempted, it no longer equally oppofes itfelf to the pupil, the confequence of which muff be, the efcape of the vitreous humor and the detention of the lens. In regard to the place at which the couching needle is to be introduced, we may obferve, that we are di- rected, by the older furgeons, to pierce the fclerotic coat very near to the edge of the cornea, becaufe they were afraid of hurting the lens with the needle ! The idea then entertained was, that the cataraCt was a membrane hung behind the pupil and before the lens. The older furgeons had the idea that the needle entered before the lens, and palled at once into the aqueous humor. We are to difregard thefe injunctions of furgeons who directed the needle to be introduced with the idea of avoiding the lens; for, while their notions regarding the difeafe were erroneous, their rules of operating could not be correCt: accordingly, we find them dif- fering in their directions as to the place of piercing the cornea ; fome directing- us to pierce it at the diftance of one line from the edge of the cornea, others at the diltance of four lines and a half. 7 3 . Now,33° ANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. Now that we know the place of the catarafl, and know alfo that it is the opaque lens, we can be at no lofs to introduce the needle corre£tly. If, fays M. Petit, we pierce the fclerotic coat one line from the edge of the cornea, we pierce the tunica conjunctiva, fclerotica, cho- roid, vitreous humor, and ciliary proc.efTes before the needle enters the cataract. In this puncture, we wound the molt vafcular part, and, indeed, every delicate part of the eye; for even in this moil anterior courfe, the retina is equally lacerated with the others % But if we pierce the fclerotic coat, three lines from the edge of the cornea, we avoid the ciliary ligament and body, and procefles; and, by directing it a little forward, in a line towards the oppofite margin of the iris, we lhall find the point of the needle advancing through the opaque lens; for, although the lens be fo far opaque as to prevent the light from linking the retina, it is fo far tranfparent, in general, that the needle is diftinctly feen entering its fubltance, and can be then directed, fo as to transfix the cataradl without hurting the iris. We have feen that there is no pollerior chamber of the aqueous humor fit to contain the deprelfed criltal- line lens. The belief, which even fome modern fur- geons have entertained, of the poffibility of depreffing the lens into the aqueous humor, is a remnant of thofe inaccurate notions refpecting the fize of the pollerior chamber of the aqueous humor and the place of the lens, * In our moft modern fyftem of lui-gery, we are directed to enter tlie needle one tenth of an inch. To my certain knowledge, not only the ciliary body has been injured by this direction, but even the root of the iris has been feen to be pulhcd forward on the point of the needle. whichANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. 331 which have long been corrected. With this, alfo, I think ought to have been forgotton, the idea of the rifing of the lens after it has been deprefled by the ca- taraft floating in the humors.—The fact I am confident is this : when, after transfixing the cataraft, we en- .deavour to diflodge it by deprefling the point of the needle, we feparate the adhefion between the humors and the points of the ciliary procefles; we do not, however, unfocket the lens from the fore part of the vitreous humor, but when the lens defcends with the point of the needle, from before the pupil, the vitreous humor revolves with it; the confequence of which is, that when the needle is withdrawn, the lens rolls round with the vitreous humor : but as the lens only is opaque as its firm connexion with the vitreous humor, and even the rolling of the vitreous humor itfelf cannot be feen, this rolling of the lens appears to be the con- fequence merely of its own buoyancy in the aqueous humor. This adhefion of the lens to the vitreous hu- mor, I have been fenfible of during its deprefiion, from the elaftic nature of the refiflance which I felt. When the lens parts from its focket in the vitreous humor, and when it is deprefled with fuch a turn of the needle as puts it under the anterior part of the vitreous humor, it cannot rife again ; there is no motion of the eye which can replace it—there is no aqueous fluid in which, if it were of lefs fpecific gravity, it could rife : it lies under and, in part, imbedded in the vitreous humor. Another idea is, that it rifes with the needle: but no one, who underftands what is to be done in the operation of the needle, will raife it again oppofite to the pupil after the Z 4 lens332 ANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. lens is deprefled—it ought to be withdrawn without again elevating the point. But what has always ap- peared to me as the moll unaccountable caufe that can be affigned for the rifing of the cataract, is the adtion of the mufcles of the eye *. It has been explained how the lens is protruded by the adtion of the mufcles when the cornea is cut and the aqueous humor let out, for then the uniform refiftance of the eye is broken, and there is a motion of the humors towards the breach, and the lens, lying behind the pupil, is the firft part to be protruded forward ; but when it lies under the an- terior part of the vitreous humor (and there it mull lie if it is at all difplaced), or in whatever lituation it hap- pens to be, from that it cannot be moved by the adtion of the redti mufcles; for they embrace the eye on every fide, and their adtion operates uniformly, fo that they cannot effedt a body immerfed in the midll of the hu- mors. For the fame reafon that we Ihould decline the operation of extracting, after attempts have been made to deprefs with the needle, I Ihould refufe when the pupil is rugged and irregular, becaufe the difeafe may be more extenfive than it appears to be. Thus cata- racts brought on by falls, or blows, or pundtures of the eye, are lefs favourable, as there is danger of the inflammation having gone deep, and having affedted the other humors in a wray which cannot be known, fince the opaque lens is betwixt us and them. A frequent caufe of the failqre of the operation of depreflion is the difplacement of the lens backwards $ * See Mr, Benjamin BelJ’g Syftem of Surgery. forANATOMY OF THE HUMORS. 333 for when it feems to have gone down with the needle* it has flipped from under it and darted backward. In this cafe the pupil appears clear, but the patient gains little advantage; for the cataradt, though removed from the pupil, is dill in the fituation to obftrudt the 'light.334 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. CHAP. XI. OF THE MANNER IN WHICH THE EYE ADAPTS IT- SELF TO THE DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. I This is a queftion which many have endeavoured to determine, and many have failed ; the proof of which is, that there is not one explanation of the manner in which the eye adapts itfelf to the diftance of objedts, but many explanations equally ingenious. One opinion is, that the eye is at reft when we fee the diftant parts of a landfcape, but that the direction, of the eye to the nearer objedts is attended with an effort. This effort is the adtion of the ftraight mufcles of the eye compreffing the ball of the eye, fo as to lengthen the axis as much as is neceffary to allow the pencils of rays to unite in points upon the retina. To this opinion it is objedted, that in fome animals the fclerotic is hard, and not capable of changing its figure; that in man, the preffure would be unequal; that the unelaftic retina would be thrown into irregular folds; that thefe mufcles, being voluntary mufcles, under the will, we Ihould be more confcious of their operation than we are ; and that, while the mind re- mains attentive to diftant objedts, no voluntary exertion of thefe mufcles can effedt the diftinctnefs of the objedts. Again, to make the eye change its accommodation from the diftindt vifion of objects, at fix inches to , fourteenDistance of objects. 335 fourteen feet five inches, would require fuch a prelfure as might lengthen the axis of the eye one tenth part, which again would form an oval that would derange the retina. Another opinion is, that when the eye fees the neareft objects it is at red; and that, in attending to diftant objeCts, the ftraight mufcles draw back the fore part cf the eye into the focket, and thus fhorten the axis. To this opinion, of courfe, the fame objections lie as to the fuppofition that the axis is lengthened by the operation of the mufcles. There are fome who have entertained an opinion, that the iris, by its contraction, operates fo on the cir- cular margin of the cornea, where it is connected with the fclerotic coat, as to make the cornea more convex, and thus encreafe its power of concentrating the rays and enable the eye to fee near objeCts diltinCtly. To account for this power in the iris, Dr. Jurin, the pro- pofer of this hypothefis, fuppofes that there is a greater mufcular ring in the margin of the iris connected with the edge of the cornea: the exiftence of thefe mufcular fibres is not demonftrated, but he fays, fince the leffer mufcular ring in the inner margin of the iris is not proved by ocular infpeCtion, and yet is juftly inferred from its effeCts, viz. the contraction of the pupil; in the fame way, “ the change of conformation in the eye has not yet been adequately accounted for, but may be fairly made out by fuppofing the exiftence of the greater mufcular ring.” His conclufion is in thefe words:—■ “ When we view objeCts nearer than the diftance of “ 15 or 16 inches, I fuppofe the greater mufcular ring “ of the iris contracts, and thereby reduces the cornea “ to336 DISTANCE OE OBJECTS. <e to a greater convexity; and when we ceafe to view “ thefe near obje&s, this mufcular ring ceafes to a£t, “ and the cornea, by its fpring, returns to its ufual <e convexity fuited to 15 or 16 inches. In which con- tc dition the elailicity of the cornea on the one fide, “ and the tone of the mufcular ring on the other, “ may be confidered as two antago niffs in a perfeCf “ equilibrium.” To this opinion it is objected, that the iris is not rooted in the cornea, but in the fclerotic coat, which is firm in man and inflexible in many animals. We have alfo to confider, that this delicate and invifible circle of mufcular fibres has not only to contract the margin of the cornea, but, in this aclion, to alter the configuration of the whole eye. The eye-ball is a whole equally diflended, and no part of it can fuffer contraction without a refifiance from the whole of the coats : befides, in this cafe, the alternation of light and the brightnefs of objects would be perpetually obfcuring the image, by the play of the iris caufing an alteration of the focus of the cornea. But Dr. Jurin did not at- tribute the whole effeCt to the adtion of the iris. He thus explains the ufe of the fluid furrounding the lens and the membranous capfule -.—When the eye is to be fuited to greater diltances, he fuppofed that the liga- mentum ciliare contracts its longitudinal fibres, and, by that means, draws the part of the anterior furface of the capfule, into which thefe fibres are inferted, a little forward and outward. By this aftion, he fuppofed that the fluid, within the capfule of the lens, flows from the middle towards the margin ; and, confequently, the centre of the capfule of the lens is reduced to a lefs * 1 degree337 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. degree of convexity; and that the elafticity of the capfule, and the tone of the ligament, may be looked upon as two antagonifts perfectly in equilibrio with one another. In the date of reft, the eye is conceived, by Dr. Jurin, to be adapted to the middle diftance ; by the encreafe of the convexity of the cornea, to be adapted to nearer vifion; and by the change in the capfule of the lens, to be fitted to diftant objects. To this laft fuppofition it is objected, that there is a fimplicity in the operations of nature; that the change, wrought upon the capfule of the lens, is infufficient to account for the whole effed, and that, therefore, there is a prefumption that it has no fhare in producing the change ; that there are no mufcular fibres in the ciliary procefles; and, laftly, that this fluid, being of denflty but little^ if at all, removed from the aqueous humor, any alteration of its form can have but a very infig- nificant effed. It has occurred to others *, that the oblique mufcles of the eye-ball, being thrown in oppofite diredions round it, they may have the effed of elongating the axis of the eye : Again, that the adion of the orbicularis mufcle of the eye-lids, by comprefling the eye-ball, aflifts in accommodating the eye for feeing near objeds more diftindtly. Dr. Monro makes a fet of experiments to prove the effed of the orbicularis mufcle of the eye- lids ; but I conceive that he has deceived himfelf, in afcribing to the compreflion of the eye-lids an effed partly produced by a voluntary effort, but in a way which is not underftood, and partly by the contradion * Hainbergerus, Briggs, Keil, Monro. and33§ DISTANCE OF OBJECTS* and dilatation of the pupil, from the degree of opening of the eye-lids. If he be right in his way of account - ing for the effedts produced in the experiments which he details, they ought to have the effedt of precluding the neceflity of all further hypothecs; fo fully does the action of the orbicularis mufcle feem to him adapted to the end propofed. In the firfl experiment, when he opened his eye-lids wide, and endeavoured to read a book the letters on which were fo near the eye as to be indiftindt, he found that he could not do it. In the fecond experiment, keeping the head in the fame re- lation to the book, he brought the edges of the eye- lids within a quarter of an inch of each other, and then made an exertion to read, when he found he could fee the letters and words diffinctly. When I try this ex- periment, I find the adtion of the eye-lids to have no fenfible effedt, unlefs they are brought very clofe to- gether : then, I do indeed find that they have a moft remarkable effedt. But in this fituation, the eye-lids cover the cornea fo much, that if they have any effedt at all upon the cornea, it muff be to comprefs and flatten it, and not to give it a greater convexity. The fmaller the opening of the eye-lids, the greater I found the effedt. I conceive it to be produced by the optical effedt of the eye-lafhes corredting the too great con- verging of the rays; and the fame effect I found to be produced by the marginal hairs of two flat camel- hair brufhes, although the eve-lids were kept open. Dr. Monro concludes that, in this action of the eye, 5ft, the iris, sdly, the redti mufcles, 3dly, the two oblique mufcles, and, 4thly, the orbicularis palpebra- rum.DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. 339 rum, have all their lhare in accommodating it to the diftance of obje&s, and in giving perfect vifion. Very ingenious experiments are made by Dr. Young*, to determine whether there be any change in the length of the axis of the eye-ball. He confiders it as neceffary, to account for the power of the eye in adapting it to the diftance of obje&s, that the diameter ftiould be en- larged one feventh ; its tranfverfe diameter diminilhed one fourteenth; and the femi-diameter fhortened one thirtieth of an inch. To determine this he fixed the eye, and at the fame time he forced in upon the ball of the eye the ring of a key, fo as to caufe a phantom very accurately defined to extend within the field of perfe£l vifion; then looking to bodies at different dif- tances, he expected, if the figure of the eye was altered, that the fpot, caufed by the preffure, would be altered in ftiape and dimenfions; he expended that, inftead of an increafe of the length of the eye’s axis, the oval fpot caufed by the preffure of the key, refilling this elon- gation, Ihould have fpread over a fpace at leaft ten times as large as the molt fenfible part of the retina: but no fuch effect took place; the power of accom- modation was as extenfive as ever, and there was no perceptible change either in the fize or in the figure of the oval fpot. Again, he placed two candles fo as exactly to anfwer to the extent of the termination of the optic nerve; he marked accurately the point to which the eye was diredled ; he then made the utmoft change in its focal length: expecting that, if there were any elongation of the axis, the external candle * Philof. Tranf. for 1801. would340 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. would appear to recede outward upon the vifible fpace: but this did not happen ; the apparent place of the ob- fcure part was precifely the fame as before. A favourite opinion of late has been, that the lens has a power of altering its degree of convexity, and thus accommodating itfelf to the diftance of obje£ts. As to the fibrous ftru&ure of the lens, there can be no doubt: firft it is rent by fiffure, then fplit into lamina, and can be finally teafed out into fibres. This ftru&ure was firfl obferved by Leewenhoeck: he has thefe words :—“ Porro vidi corpus criftallinum “ ex tam tenuibus coacervatis conftare fquamis ut ubi 46 eas oculo dimetior, dicere cogar, plures bis millenis 44 fibi invicem incumbere; ubi enim corpus criftalli- 44 num ab ejus membranula feperaffem, ejus adhuc 44 axis, ubi crafiiffimum erat, (non enim eft perfecte 44 rotundum, fed aliquo modo planum) duas tertias 44 pollicis partes retinebat; ergo a centro ad circum- 44 ferentiam eft tertia pollicis pars atque quoniam, ex 44 dimenfione mea, 600 pili lati pollicis quadrati, lon- 44 gitudinem conficiunt. 200 pili lati pollicis tertiam 44 partem adaequare debent. Atque nunc video ubi 44 dense fquamae funt coacervatae, eas capilli noftri 44 diametrum nondum adaequare; ergo his 10 cum 44 200 multiplicatis, fequetur, ut dictum, plures 2000 <c fquamas in corpore criftallino effe coacervatas. Porro ct vidi fingulas has fquamas ex filamentis, concinno <c ordine juxta fe pofitis, conftare adeo ut fingulse (i fquamulae unum filamentum fint craflas; & ut hanc fubftantiam fibros earn ex qua corpus criftallinum “ conftat ob oculos ponerem, earn, lineis in circulum “ duclis quantum pote defignavi.” TheDISTANCE OF OBJECTS. 34-i The fibrous ftructure and mufcularity of the lens Was brought forward by Defcartes, as explaining fome actions of the eye ; but was again neglected, till more lately, that it has been revived by the infertion of Mr. Young’s obfervations on vifion in the Philofophical Tranfadtions *. The following are Mr. Young’s ob- fervations on the appearance of the lens:—44 The crif- “ talline lens of the ox is an orbicular convex tranf- 44 parent body, compofed of a confiderable number 44 of fimilar coats, of which, the exterior clofely adhere 44 to the interior.. Each of thefe coats confilts of fix 44 mufcles, intermixed with a gelatinous fubltance, 44 and attached to fix membranous tendons. Three 44 of the tendons are anterior, three polterior; their 44 length is about two thirds of the femidiameter of 64 the coat; their arrangement is that of three equal 44 and equidiftant rays, meeting in the axis of the crif- u talline ; one of the anterior is directed towards the 154 outer angle of the eye, and one of the polterior to- 44 wards the inner angle, fo that the polterior are 44 placed oppofite to the middle of the interllices of 44 the anterior ; and planes palling through each of 44 the fix, and through the axis, would mark on either 54 furface fix regular equidiftant rays. The mufcular 44 fibres arife from both tides of each tendon; they 44 diverge till they reach the greatelt circumference cf 44 the coat, and having palled it, they again converge 44 till they are attached refpeftively to the tides of the 44 nearelt tendons of the oppofite furface. The an- 44 terior or polterior portion cf the fix viewed to- Vol. III. # See vol. for 1793. A a 44 gether.342 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. “ gether, exhibits the appearance of three penniforme- <e radiated mufcles. The anterior tendons of all the “ coats are fituated in the fame planes, and the pof- <c terior ones in the continuations of thefe planes be- “ yond the axis. Such an arrangement of fibres can “ be accounted for on no other fuppofition than that “ of mufcularity. The mafs is inclofed in a flrong <c membranous capfule, to which it is loofely connedted <c by minute veffels and nerves; and the connection is <£ more obfervable near its greatefl circumference. <c Between the mafs and its capfule is found a con- <c fiderable quantity of an aqueous fluid, the liquid “ of the criflalline.” « Suppofmg that thefe are mufcular fibres, from their clofenefs and direction, they would ftand acknowledged as forming the ftrongeft and molt powerful mufcle of its fize in the whole body ; yet they adt only on them- felves, wrhich requires the leafl poffible degree of power. Again, how are they relaxed ? What power is their antagonift ? Mr. Young demonftrates not only the mufcular343 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. mufcular fibres, but the tendons of the lens * ; as if it were not evident that the lens a£ted merely on itfelf, which could require no concentrating of its fibres into tendons ; for tendons are found in other parts of the .body only where it is neceffary to concentrate the whole power of the mufcle fo as to operate on one point. We learn from Mr. Homef, that Mr. John Hunter had proved the lens to be laminated, and thofe lamir.se to be compofed of fibres; and, upon the fame authority, we learn that his opinion was in favour of the mufcu- larity of its flru&ure. Mr. Home wifhed to follow out this fubjeCt, by including it in the Croonian Lec- ture. Mr. Home found, with the afhfiance of Mr. Ramfden, that a patient, after the extraction of the cataraCl, flill retained the power of adapting the eye to the diflances of objefts. Indeed, we muff be v/ell aware that if a patient, after couching and extracting the lens, could only fee at one given diftance, an effect fo' very particular muff have been long fince ohferved. This was a conviction to Mr. Home and Mr. Ramfden, that the invefligation was to be no further purfued in this trad, and they turned their attention, therefore, to the cornea. . Mr. Ramfden contrived an apparatus which, if the gentlemen engaged in the experiments have not de- ceived themfelves, muff put this queftioh at reft. Ey Mr. Ramfden’s ingenious contrivance, the head was fixed accurately, and at the fame time a microfcope was adapted to obferve the changes in the convexity of the cornea as the eye was direCled alternately to i * See Philof, TranC A a i f Ibid. near344 DISTANCE OF OBJECT'S. near and to diftant objects. In thefe experiments, the motion of the cornea became its furface remained in a line with a wire which crofted the glafs of the micrcfcope when the eye was adj idled to the diftant objedts, but projected confiderably beyond it when adapted to the near ones, and the fpace through which it moved was fo great as readily to be meafured by magnifying the divifions on the fcale, and comparing them. In this way, it was eftinlated that it moved the 800 part of an inch (a fpace diftindtly feen in a micrcf- cope magnifying 30 times), in the change from the neareft point of difdnct vifion to the diflance of 90 feet. In the evidence from anatomical ftruchire, I cannot think Mr. Home fo happy. He was defirous of de- termining, more accurately than had hitherto been done, the precife infertion of the tendons of the four ftraight mufcles, fo as to know whether their adtion could be extended to the cornea or not: he found them to approach within -1 of the cornea before their tendons became attached to the fclerotic coat. But he did not flop here—he Itripped off with them the anterior lamina of the cornea. Now, as it is fuppofed, in thefe experiments, that the adtion of the redd mufcles upon the Tides and back part of the ball comprefles the humors, and makes them flow forward fo as to diftend the cornea ; if the extremities of the tendons be inferted into the edge of the cornea and even pafs over it, as Mr. Home has demonftrated, their effedt would be; to flatten the cornea, by drawing out and extending its margin. This is a circumftance which Dr. Monro has remarked ; and Dr. Monro has alfo, with more accu-. racyDISTANCE OF OBJECTS. 345 racy of obfervation, found “ all the tendinous fibres of the redid mufcles firmly attached to the fclerotic coat at the diftapce of a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and no appearance that any part of them, or that any membrane prcfcfuced by them, is continued over the cornea.” Amongft the variety of opinions, the innumerable ingenious but contradictory experiments for difcover- ing the manner in which the eye adapts itfelf to the diflance of objects, I am, for my own part, much at a lofs to determine which I fhould prefer. I have often doubted, whether thefe experimenters were not in fearch of the explanation of an effect which has no exigence. I have never been able to determine, why a very flight degree of convexity in the cornea of a fhort-fighted eye fhould be fo permanent during a whole life-time, notwithflanding the perfedt elaflicity of the cornea, and its being fo adapted as to alter its convexity by the adtion of the mufcles. Again, a near- fighted perfon, with the affiftance of a concave gluts', can command the objedts to the diftance of fome miles, and with the glafs flill held to his eye, can fee minute objedts within three inches of the eye. Now, I cannot conceive how the concave glafs fhould give fo great a range to the fight: as there can be no change in the glafs, it mull be the eye which adapts itfelf to the variety of diftances; yet, without the glafs, it cannot .command the perfedt vifion of objedts for a few feet. Again, a fhort-fighted perfon fees an oojedt diftindtly at tffree inches diflant from his eye; at 12 feet, lefs diftindtly; and when he looks upon the objedt at 13 feet, the objedts beyond it are confufed, juft as in other A a 3 men’s 1346 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS, men’s eyes; but when he diredts his attention to the more remote objedls, thofe nearer become indiflindt. Now this indiftindtnefs of the objedt, feen when he ex- amines narrowly the objedls beyond them, would argue, (did we admit this mufcular power in the eye of adapt- ing itfelf to objedls), that the cornea or the lens has be- come lefs convex, were we not previoully convinced that the utmoil powers of the eye could not bring the objedt at the diflance of 12 feet, or any other interme- diate diftance, to be more diftindtly feen than the fixed and permanent conflitution of the eye admits. I cannot hJp concluding, therefore, that the me- chanifm of the eye has not fo great a power of adapt- ing the eye to various diflances as is generally imagin- ed, and that much of the effedt attributed to mechanical power is the confequence of attention merely. An objedt looked upon, if not attended to, conveys no fenfation to the mind. If one eye is weaker than the other, the objedt of the ftronger eye alone is attended to, and the other is entirely neglected: if we look through a glafs with one eye, the vifion with the other is not attended to. Now objedts, as they recede from us, become fainter and fainter in their colours, and the general effedt upon the eye is different from thofe which are near ; and as it happens that the mind muff affociate with the fenfation before it be perfedt, there is, confe- quently, an obfcurity thrown over diflant objedls when we contemplate near ones; as, on the other hand, the images of near ones are not attended to when the mind is occupied with diflant ones, although they be nearly in the line with the diflant objedt examined. I conceive it to be a good deal like that command of u the347 DISTANCE OF OBJECTS. the attention which we can exercife upon very fmall bodies near us: of two fmall grains lying on the table, we can examine the one and neglect the other; though, if we attend to both, we can take them in to the fphere of perfect vifion ; or, in other words, though they both have their images on the more fenfible part of the retina. We can attend to one letter of a word, to the whole word, or to the page of a book. I cannot al- together deny the mechanical power of the eye in adapting it to the diftance of objefts, but I think this operation of attention has been too much overlooked. -A a 4348 OF SEEING IN GENERAL, CHAP. XII. OF SEEING IN GENERAL. The eye is certainly the noblefl of the organs of fenfe. It is that with which we fhould part the moft unwillingly, and of which, when deprived, we are moft helplefs. A celebrated philofopher fays, how much more noble is that faculty by which we can find our way in the pathlefs ocean, traverfe the globe, de- termine its figure and dimenfions, delineate every region of it; by which we can meafure the planetary orbs, and make difcoveries in the fphere of the fixed ftars 1 Again, how admirable is that organ by which we can perceive the temper and difpofitioiis, the pafiions and affections of our fellow creatures; and, when the tongue is taught moft artfully to lie and diffemble, the hypocrify is difcovered in the courtenancej we often are able to deteCt what is crooked in the mind as weft as in the body! Yet, notwithftan^ing the perfection pf the fenfe of feeing, much of this perfection is gained by the other fenfes, and particularly by that of touch. If the human body were motionlefs and inert, the fenfation conveyed by the eye would be very im- perfect ; we fhould be able to conceive neither the diftance nor the figure of objects. But, as it is, the diftance of the objeCt, joined with its vifible mag- nitude, is the fign of its real magnitude; and the diftance349 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. diftance of the feveral parts of an object, joined with its vifible figure, becomes a fign of its real figure. Without this combination of the original fenfation with the acquired perception, we fhould fee form and colour without having any idea of its diftance, or of the con- vexity of an object; we fhould have no meafure of its length, or breadth, or diftance. Upon other occafions, we are apt enough to ac- knowledge the powers of affociation. But the con- nection of ideas is in no inftance more conftant and fecret than in the ideas conveyed by fight and touch. When a folid body is prefented to view, we fee only the light and, Ihade ; but this raifes in our mind the affociated ideas from the fenfe of touch, viz. folidity, convexity, and angularity, “ the vifible idea exciting “ in us thofe tangeable ideas,” which, in the free and promifcuous exercife of our fenfes, ufually accompany it. It is thus that we attribute to the fenfe of fight >vhat is the aCt of the memory and judgment *. We have feen that the picture of an objeCt is formed in the bottom of the eye. It was formerly fufficient to fay, that the mind contemplates this image. We fhould fay now, that this image is conveyed into the fenforium by the optic nerve. This is an hypothefis pierely; and we have no more confcioufnefs of the objeCt being in the brain or fenforium than in any other part of the body : we may rather fay, that the impref- fion made on the organ, nerves, and brain, is followed by fenfation, and that the intelligence is the joint ope- * See Dr. Jurin of Mr. Molyneux’s problem, Smith’s Append. P* 27- rationOF SEEING IN GENERAL. 350 ration of the whole *. Laftly, the metaphyfician calls our fenfations the figns of external objects; becaufe the object itfelf is not prefented to the mind, nor is there an adtual refemblance betwixt the objedt and the fenfation of it, but merely a connection eftablifhed by nature, as certain features are natural figns of anger; or by art, as articulate founds are the figns of our thoughts and purpofes. We are now naturally led to the confideration of fome points, the full comprehenfion of which, require the knowledge, both of anatomy and of the principles of optics. V ■ PARALLEL MOTION OF THE EYES. The axis of the eye is a line drawn through the middle of the pupil and of the criftalline lens, and which confequently falls upon the middle of the retina ; and the axis of both eyes produced, are called the optic axis. But the axis of the eyes, it is evident, are * Euclid, and others of the ancients, contended that vifion was occafioned by the emillion of rays from the eye to the object. He thought it more natural to fuppofe, that an animate fubftance gave out an emanation, than that the inanimate body did. In 156s, the opinion was confirmed that the rays entered the eye.—The fenfation was not always believed to be in the retina : It was by fome believed that part of the fenfation was to be attributed to the criftalline. Kepler, in 1600, fhewed, geometrically, how the rays were refradted through all the humors of the eye, fo as to form a diftincl picture on the retina ; and alfo he fliowed the efFedt of glaftes on the eyes. See further, regarding the opinions of the ancients, Bocrhaave Prelect. Acad. tom. iv. p. 282. notOF SEEING IN GENERAL. 351 not always parallel; for when both eyes are directed to a near objedt, the axis of the eyes meet in that objedt; but when we diredt the eyes to the objedts in the heavens, they may be conddered as perfedtly parallel in their axis, though perhaps not then mathematically fo. To an obferver, the eyes feem always moving in parallel diredtions; but nature has given us the power of varying them fo, that we can diredt them to the fame point, whether remote or near. This, however, is in fome meafure learnt by cuftom, and loft by difufe. A child has much difficulty in altering the diltance of its eyes, which is the occafion of the vacancy of its ftaref; and again, we obferve that a patient who has long loft one eye, is incapable of diredting the axis of the blind eye without looking with the other, and even then, the blind organ does not follow the other with that perfedt accuracy which exercife gives when both eyes are found. By much pradtice and draining, the axis of the eyes may be much further altered from the natural parallelifm, which wags and hoys often do, fo ♦ as to diflort the eyes, and give a droll obliquity to the countenance. Still, cudom alters the diredtion of the axis of the eyes but a very little; for the natural conditution of the eye does not allow the child to turn his eyes in every different diredtion from each other. There is, on the contrary, as we have feen, a particular fendble- fpot in the retina, which makes it neceffary to didindt vifion, that this fpot fhall receive the concentrating rays of light; and the natural conditution of both eyes, is, that this fpot in each eye fhall have fuch a relation to that of the other, that the axis of both fhould352 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. fhould be accurately in the middle of the eye-ball in order to produce fingle vifion. By voluntary fquinting or depreffing one of the eyes with the finger, objects appear double, becaufe the optic axis is changed in the diflorted or depreffed eye, and the picture is no longer painted on, corre- fponding points of both. This fimple experiment leads us to confider what is the conflitution and correfpond- once of the eyes, that, when each has the pi&ure of the objedt impreffed upon it, we fhould only fee it fmgle if the eyes are found and perfect. For example, the obje& a, in fig. 16., is exactly in the centre of the axis of both eyes, confequently, it is di- ftinctly feen: and it appears fingle, becaufe the rays from it ftrike upon the points of the retina oppofite to the pupils in both eyes. Thofe points have a cor- refpondence ; and the objedt, inftead of appearing double, is only flrengthened, in the livelinefs of the image.OF SEEING IN GENERAL. 353 image. Again, the objeft b will be feen fainter, but fingle, and correct in every refpedt. It will appear fainter, becaufe there is only one fpot in each eye which pofieflfes the degree of fenfibility neceflary to perfect vifion: and it will appear Tingle, the rays proceeding from it having exactly the fame relation to the centre of the retina in both eyes. Though they do not fall on the centre of the retina, they fall on the fame fide of the centre in both eyes. But if the eyes are made' to fix fiedfaftly on an objedt, and if another object fhould be placed before the eyes within the angle which the axis of the two eyes make with the firft object, it will be feen double, becaufe the points of the retina flruck by the rays proceeding from the nearer object do not correfpond in their relation to the central point of the retina. Thus, the eyes b b, fig. 17., having their axis directed to a, will fee the objedt e double fomewhere near the outline d d. Becaufe the line of the direction of the rays from that body c, do not flrike the retina in the fame relation to the axis ab in both eyes. Upon this principle, we may eafily explain why ob- jects, which are much nearer the eyes, or much more diflant from them than that to which the two eyes are directed, appear double. Thus, if a candle is placed at the difiance of ten feet, and I hold my finger at arms length between my eyes and the candle, when I look at the candle, I fee my finger double, and wrhen I look at my finger, I fee the candle double. This double vifion occurs to us all frequently ; but, unlefs we make the experiment purpofely, we do not attend to it. Many other inftances of the harmony, and of the want of it in the eyes, particularly the reverfe of what354 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. what thefe diagrams {hew, may be eafily produced, viz. the feeing two objedts fmgle: for, if we look at a halfpenny and a {hilling, placed each at the extremity of two tubes, one exactly in the axis of one eye, and the other, in the axis of the other eye, we (hall fee but one piece of coin, and of a colour neither like the {hilling nor like the halfpenny, but intermediate, as if the one were fpread over the other. This relation and fympathy between the correfpond- ing points of the two eyes, is, therefore, to be ion- fidered as a general fadt, viz. that pidtures of objedts falling upon correfponding points of the two retinas, prefent the fame appearance to the mind as if they had both fallen upon the fame point of one retina; and pictures upon points of the two retinas which do not correfpond, and which proceed from one objedt, pre- fent to the mind- the fame apparent diftance and por- tion of two objects, as if one of thofe pidtures were carried to the point correfponding with it in the other retina. Several animals, we fee, diredt their eyes by very different laws from thofe which govern the motion of ours; but we are not to reafon upon their fenfations by the laws of vifion of the human eyes : we muff take it as a principle, that nature has been bountiful to them alfo ; and that the refult of organization in their eyes is perfedt vifion. In birds, (if we except the owl), the eyes diverge, and are diredted to oppolite fides. As the owl feeks his prey in the night, it .may be neceffary to the di- ftindtnefs of his vifion in weau light, that both eyes be diredted to the objedt. Moil fifties have their eyes di- ■ redtedOF SEEING IN GENERAL. -355 reded laterally, though there are exceptions; as thofe fifhes which are flat, and fwim at the bottom, have their eyes direded upward. In many infeds, the furface of the eye has no refemblance to the cornea of viviparous animals; but when examined with the mi- crofcope, it is feen to confift of a number of tubercles, each of which is as a diflind eye. In others, the eye is removed to the extremity of the moveable tenaculse. Very large animals, as the whale, elephant, rhino- ceros, hippopotamos, have, in proportion to their bodies, very fmall eyes : fo have the animals which live much under ground ; and, in general, a large eye is a fign of th£ animal being able to fee in obfcure light, becaufe there is proportionably a greater number of rays admitted into the eye. For the fame reafon, flflies have a peculiarly large eye and dilatable pupil, becaufe the water is a 'more obfcure medium, and, from the occafional roughnefs of its furface, much darkened and variable. We mull conclude, that in thefe varieties of the eyes, where there is a difference in number, pofition, and natural motion, there are different laws of viflon adapted to thefe peculiarities and the exigencies of the animals. If we are to judge from analogy, we may fuppofe, that in many animals, there is no correfpond- ence between points of the two retinas, or it is of a different kind from ours. In thofe _ which have im- moveable eyes, the centre of the two retinas will not correfpond fo as to give the idea of one objed, but of diflind objeds, and in their refpedive places. In other animals, correfponding points would give falfe appearances; and in fuch as turn their eyes in all di- redions.35^. OF SEEING IN GENERAL.' regions, independently of each other, they would feem to poffefs a perception of the direction in which they move them, as we have of the motion of ouf arms* SQUINTING. We have feen, that there is a point in both retinas more acutely fenfible to the impreffion of light and the image of objedts, than any other part of all its concavd furface. In a found eye, this point is immediately op- fite to the pupil. There is a coincidence betwixt this point and the axis of the eye; and wheft We look to an objedt, its image ftrikes this point of the retina : but if it fhould happen that this fenfible point of the retina fhould be changed, and not be exadfly oppofite to the pupil when the axis of the eye is in the line with the object, there will be an effort of the mufcles moving the eye-ball to turn, fo that the rays proceed- ing from the objedt fhall flrike upon the more fenfible fpot of the nerve *. Again, if the greater fenfibility of the nerve fhould lie in its proper place, and a re- mote caufe fhould occafion fuch an adtion of the mufcles and diflortion of the eye as we fee in a fquint, then the image will be double; for it no longer fall on correfponding points of the retina of each eye, and fejparate images are conveyed to the brain. If, how- ever, this diflortion continues, the fingle vifion is * This was M. de la Hire’s opinion.—He had an idea alfo that fquinting was produced by the obliquity of the objedt. Eoth of thefe. opinions are refuted by Dr, Jurin, graduallyOF SEEING IN GENERAL.' ^>57 gradually reftored. Is there, then, in this cafe pro- duced a new correfpondence betwixt points of the re- tina which were before difcordant ? We find that this is not the cafe, by a very fimple experiment.—In a ,perfon who fquints, one of the eyes is directed to the objedt and the other appears to be turned from it: if the found eye be fhut, and the perfon be diredted to look to an objedt with the other, it is diredted to it with the proper and natural axis< Now this fiiows us that the fenfibility of the proper fpot in the bottom of the eye is not loft. We muft explain the fingle vifion in eyes, one of which is diftorted from its natural axis, upon another principle. Moft people who fquint, have a defedt in one eye, and this is the diftorted eye, while the other is directed in the true axis to the objedt. Now the mind does not attend eafily to two irii- preflions, the one being weaker than the other : In a fliort time the weaker imprellion is entirely negledted, and the ftronger only is perceived.—So in fquinting, the impreftion on the weak eye in a ftiort time ceafes to be attended to, the fti'ong and vivid impreftion is alone perceived, and fingle vifion is the confequence. It is evident, then, that thofe who fquint muft have a degree of imperfedtion in the ftrength of the image ; for it is neceflary to negledt the impreftion of one eye, to obtain diftindl vifion with the other; the confequence of this is frequently an attempt ftill further to diftort the eye, and turn it fo far inward or under the upper eye-lid that no diftindt impreftion can be received upon it; at all events, they perceive the objedt only with one eye, although they may be faid to fee it with both; the Vol. III. B b perception358 Oh SEEING IN GENERAL. perception being the combined operation of the organ and of the mind. If the fenfation of one eye be weak, it is very liable to be neglected altogether, and that eye is apt to wander from the true axis ; and if the perfon be care- lefs, or given to diflort his eyes in childilhnefs, a per- manent fquint may be given to the eyes. Another caufe of fquinting, in children, is the being fo laid in their cradle, that the light ftrikes obliquely into one of the eyes, whilll the other cannot fee it; by which means one of the eyes only comes by degrees to be diredled to the light while the fenfation of the other is difregarded. What is very extraordinary in fquint- ing, is the correfpondence in the mufcles of the eye, notwithftanding the great diflortion of the eye-ball; for, when both eyes are open, as the found eye turns in all variety of directions to the furrounding objects, the other eye hill follows it, but preferves its diltance, fo as in a manner to avoid all interference. Blows oij the head, drinking and fmoaking, and a variety of irritations, occafioning convulfions and diflortion. of the eyes, caufe double vifion. As this is evidently produced by the affection of the mufcles moving the- eye-ball*, fmce any change upon the retina could not give occafion to fucb diflortions in a flate of infen- libility, we may naturally conclude, that fquinting is fometimes the confequence of irregular aCtion of the mufcles j for if thofe tranfient caufes are apt to * The command of the voluntary mufcles is fivft loft in intoxica- tion ; and, therefore, it is more likely that the mufcles fhould lofe thejr natural ailien and cefrefpondence than the retina. affe&OF SEEING IN GENERAL; 359 aiteft them, fo will they be apt to be permanently affefted We can dillort our eyes by dn unnatural effort, but we cannot fquint: that is to fay, we can bring our eyes , into fueh a forced fituation that we cannot fee any thing diftin&ly; but we cannot keep one eye diftinftly upon an objedt and turn the other from it.—Such a pofition of the eyes, at lead (and which is exadtly that of thofe who fquint unintentionally), I cannot, by any means, accomplifli f. This fhows th e ftridt correfpond- ence betwixt the moving mufcles of the eye-balls. By this experiment, we fliall find the difficulty of that me- thod of correcting the fquint propofed by Dr. Jurin, or of commanding motions of the eyes different from thofe which have been beftowed by nature. Or acquired by habit. But habit I believe to be much more feldom * In Smith’s Optics, there is a cafe of fquinting and double vifion occafioned by a blow. In Buffon’s Diffcrtation, in the Acad. Roy. des Sc. 1743, fquinting after long continued pain of the head. In the Mem. Roy. de l’Acad. des Sc. 1718, Hift. p. 29. there is acurious inftanceof falie -vifion. I findalfo quoted feveralcafes of ftrabifmusfrom Ridden fright, in Ephcm. Germ, cent 3 itf 4. obf. 152. p. 349. Ib. dec. 3. an. 8 & u. ob.57. p. J14. lb. dec. 3. an. 9 & 10. obf. 67. “ Novi Juvenem paralyii obnoxium, cui cum casteris oculi finiftri tnufculis relax'atis, adducent fortius contraheretur propter oculum ita diftortum obje&um quodcunque duplex apparebat, nec quod verum effet difiingucre poteil.” Willis de anima Brut. P. Phyjiol. p. 77. An inftance of the lofs of correfponding motions of the eyes, and ftrange illufions of fight. See in the Enquiry into the nature of mental derangement by Dr. Crichton, vol. i. p. J47, t is faid that aftronomers, who are much ufed to attend only to the imprefiions of one eye, are fometimes able to fquint at plea- lure. Sec Mr. Home Phil. Tranf. 1797. p. 17. Bb 2 the360 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. the origin of fquinting than is generally fuppofed. It is faid, by Dr. Reid and others, that we fee young people, in their frolics, learn to fquint, making their eyes either converge or diverge when they will to a very confiderable degree : Why fhould it be more difficult for a fquinting perfon to learn to look ftraight when he pleafes ? The reafon of the greater difficulty is obvious, that in making the eyes converge or diverge the will is ailing upon both eyes equally; but to dis- tort one eye inward or outward, and at the fame time to keep the other fixed, is to me like an abfolute im- poffibility. Mod people, who fquint, have a defied in the diftorted eye, a weaknefs which they do not ob- ferve, from want of attention to the impreffions upon that eye. It will be difficult to determine whether this defeil be an original fault, or the effiedt of the want of ufe; fince, by tying up the found eye, the weak one becomes gradually ftronger, fo that the perfon becomes able to read with it, much may be attributed to the negleil of impreffions. It may be obferved, that this negleil of the impref- fions, which are ailually received, is not at all like that difufe, which is the confequence of no impreffion being received: for darknefs encreafes the fenfibility of the re- tina, while this diffipates and exhaufts it. That fquint- ing is not produced by the weaknefs of the impreffion received upon the nerve, would appear from the cir- cumftance that opacity of the humors or the gutta ferena do not occafion an alteration of the ufual corre- fpondence in the mufclds moving the eye-balls. It is faid, that in thofe who have loft the fight of one eye, the habit of directing it to the object they look at isOF SEEING IN GENERAL. 361 is Bb3 is loft, becaufe this habit is no longer of ufe to them*. This I have never obferved, nor Ihould I think it apt to happen, unlefs the mufcles of the eye had been in- jured from the fame caufe which deftroyed the fight; at any rate, it is in a very imperfect degree, and not fuch as we Ihould call a fquint. In regard to the cure of fquinting, it feems the moll reafonable, in the firfl place, to endeavour to ftrengthen the weak eye by ufe, and by tying up the found one. In this cafe, the diftorted eye becomes properly directed to the object, and the ftrength of the impreffion is in fome degree reftored. When this has been perfevered in for fome time, and the perfon is allowed to look at any object with both eyes, the weak eye will perhaps be again diftorted from the true axis; but, probably, with a painful effort and double vifion : which Ihows fome progrefs in the recurrence of the two eyes, and their proper fympathy, and that the impreffion on the weak eye is at leaft attended to. After this, it will be time enough, by Dr. Jurin’s method, to endeavour to corredt the fquint:—“ place the child before you, and let him clofe the undiftorted eye, and look at you with the other. When you find the axis of this eye fixed dire&ly upon you, bid him endeavour to keep it in that fituation, and open his other eye. You will now im- mediately fee the diftorted eye turn awray from you towards his nofe, and the axis of the other will be pointed at you. But with patience and repeated trials he will, by degrees, be able to keep his diftorted eye fixed upon you, at leaft for fome little time after the other * Dr. Reid.362 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. is opened. And when you have brought him td con- tinue the axis of both eyes fixed upon you, as you jfland direCtly before him, it will be time to change his pof- ture, and to fet him firft a little to one fide of you and then to the other, and fo to praCtife the fame thing; and when, in all thefe fituations, he can perfectly and readily turn the axis of both eyes towards you, the cure is effected. An adult perfon may praCtife all this with a glafs, without any director, though not fo eafily as with one.-—But the older he is the more patience is neceffary. About twenty years ago, I attempted a cure, after this manner, upon a young gentleman about nine years of age, with promifing hopes of fuccefs $ but was interrupted by his falling ill of the fmall-pox, of which he died.” Dr. Jurin preferred this method to the ufe of tubes or fhells with fmall holes in them, which have been recommended. But what appears to me the great difficulty, lies in the ftrength of the impreflion received upon the found eye, which, caufing the impreflion of the weak eye to be entirely neglected, it is again thrown out of the line of direct vifion. I conceive it, there- fore, to be a neceffary part of the experiment with tubes or fhells, that the vifion through the tube, ap- plied to the found eye, fhajl be fo obfcured as to have feme accordance with the leffer fenfibility of the weak eye, and then, objects being feen equally with both t/yes, a gradual accordance of the mufcles may be pro- duced. The conviction of the neceffity of giving an equality to the ftrength of the fenfation of both eyes muff have {truck M. de Buffon, fince he fays, in his Differtation in the Academy of Sciences, that a plane glafsOF SEEING IN GENERAL. 363 glafs fhould be applied to the weak eye and a convex one to the ffrong eye, fo as to reduce the laid to a ftate lefs capable of acting independently of the other. But what is called a weaknefs, is very frequently, I am convinced, merely a fhort-fightednefs in one eye: what the effect of this fhould be we may experience if we look to an object with both eyes, but with one of them through a concave or convex glafs; if we are looking upon a book, there will be produced a con- fufion of the letters, but, by a little practice, the letters will become again diftinft. By an attentive obfervation, we fhall find that this is the confequence of attending folely to the impreflion received in the naked eye : nay, what is Hill more ftrange, we can attend, in this experi- ment, to the impreflion upon the point of the axis of one eye, and to the general impreflion of both. If, while looking upon the letters of a large page, I move the convex glafs of a finall degree of power fide way before my right eye, the whole letters of the page feem to move, leaving diftinct and ftationary a circular fpot containing a word or two. Here, by no effort, while I look with both eyes, can I lofe the Heady and diffindt light of thefe few words, becaufe their image is received upon the more fenfible central point of the retina of my left eye: but all the other part of the fphere of vifion I can fee alternately, dimmed or diftindt, as I choofe to attend to the lefs powerful impreflion of the right eye, or the natural fenfation of the left. We fee, by this experiment, how eafy it is to neglect the im- preflion of one eye, if it be no ftronger than that of the - Other (and of courfe more eafily if it be weaker), and B b 4 how3^4 OF SEEING IN GENERAL. how impoffible it is to neglect the more vivid im- preffion. From fuch a radical defeat in the vifion, as the hu- mo)s of one eye having a different focus from the other, and confequently an indiftinCtnefs of vifion pro- duced from two images of different fuzes intermingling their colours, children feem very frequently to be made to fquint; and I have known adults, with a degree of the fame inequality in the eyes, kept from fquinting only by a particular attention to the di- rection of their eyes. M. de Buffon, in his Differta- tion already quoted, after affirming what has been already delivered, viz. that no one fquints with both eyes at once, fays, he has obferved three inffances in which the eyes, according to circumftances, were alternately diltorted from the object. This he ac- counts for by finding that, with one eye, the letters of a book could be feen at the diffance of two or three feet, and not nearer than fifteen inches; while, with the other, the letters could be diftinguifhed at the diffance of from four to fifteen inches only. Confequently, when looking to diftant objeCts, the image being more diftinct with the long-fighted eye, the other was turned from the objeCt; but when objects at a fmall diffance were feen, the image in the rar-fighted eye being imperfeCt, it is turned from the axis, that it may not interfere with the ftronger image of the other eye, which is now directed to the objeCt. A frequent effeCt of the wreaknefs left by long fevers in children, is a fquint which gradually goes off as the ftrengthOF SEEING IN GENERAL. 365 ilrength is reflored. It is obferved, alfo, that fquint- ing and double vifion are, in fome fevers, a concomi- tant with delirium and phrenitis. This fymptom proceeds, in all likelihood, from an unequal tenfion of the mufcles of the eye-ball. The double vifion is the effedt of difcordance in the a&ioa of the mufcles.OF THE EYE-UCS. 366 cHAf. mi OF THE EYE-LIDS, OF THEIR GLANDS, AND OF THE COURSE OF THE TEARS. Having completed the defcription of the eye, as the organ of vifion, we have now to attend to its connec- tions, its adventitious membranes, the glands of the eye-lids, and the courfe of the tears. It is plainly ne- ceffary that the eye fhould not be loofe in the focket; but that, in its rolling motion, it lhould Hill be at- tached ; and that, although the delicate anterior fur- face mult be expofed, the internal parts of the focket lhould be defended from the intrufion of extraneous bodies. This is accomplilhed by the tunica con- j undiva. The TUNICA CONJUNCTIVA, 01* ADNATA, is the inflection of the common fkin of the eye-lids. It goes a little way back into the orbit, and is again reflected, fo as to come forward and cover the forepart of the eye-ball. Here it is pellucid, and the white coat of the eye fnines through it. It covers the cornea alfo ; and here it is perfectly tranfparent; loofes its charac- ter of vafcularity, as the conjunctiva ; and is aflimula- ted to the nature of the cornea. As this coat is a con- tinuation of the common integuments, it is, like them, vafcular, and liable to inflammation. The tunica conjunctiva, is the common feat of opthalmia. In the iOF THE EYE-LIDS. the commencing inflammation, we fee the vefifels tur- gid or blood-fliot: by and bye, they elongate to- wards the fuface of the cornea ; the patient complains of dimnefs; the dimnefs becomes apparent to the fur- geon ; fpots of opacity then form in the cornea ; and the veflfels of the conjunctiva now take a courfe over the turbid furface of the cornea. In this ftage of the inflammation, by cutting the turgid veffels of the con- junctiva, we interrupt the fource of blood for a time, and procure a fmall evacuation ; but thefe veflfels foon coalefce again, and the flow of blood is renewed. The tunica albuginea is the thin tendinous coat formed by the infertion of the reCti mufcles, which expand over the anterior part of the eye. I would admit this into the enumeration of the coats of the eye, merely to prevent confufion of names, and to make intelligible the defcriptions of fome of the older writers. It is not properly a coat. Where the conjunctiva covers the anterior part of the eye, the white fclerotic coat is feen under it; and in conference of this, the tunica conjunctiva is fometimes called albuginea. A very material part of the ftructure or the eye ftiil remains to be defcribed; an apparatus by which the furface of the eye is preferved from injury, kept moifl:, and perfectly tranfparent. The eye-lids are compofed of the common inte- guments, with this difference only, that they have a cartilaginous margin to give them fliape, and mufcular fibres, in the duplicature of their membrane, to give them motion. A fmall femilunar cartilage, which lies like a hoop in their edge, keeps them of a regular figure, and fo as to dofe neatly over the eye. This cartilage . OOF THE EYE-LIDS. 368 cartilage having a triangular edge, and the bafe of the angle forming the flat furface of the margin of the eye-lid, they meet with the moft perfeft accuracy. Either end of this hoop-like cartilage is connected with the periofteum at the corners of the eye, fo as to move with its fellow as upon a hinge. This cartilage of the eve-lid is called tarsus. J The upper eye-lid only, is moved for the admiflion of light to the eye ; it is raifed by the levator palpebrse mufcle. But the eye-lids are fhut again by the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, which afts on both eye-lids, and fometimes with fuch power, as to fqueeze the eye-ball even to a painful degree. The meibomean olands. Thefe are very elegant little glands which lie under the inner membrane of the eye-lids. About twenty or thirty dufts of thefe glands open upon the tarfus of each eye-lid. Thefe dufts run up under the vafcular membrane of the infide of the eye-lid, and minute glandular folicules, to the amount of about tv/enty, are, as it were, attached to each of thefe dufts. Thefe glands exude a white fe- baceous matter, which defends the edge of the eye-lid from the acrid tears, and clofes them more accurately by its unftuofity. The vafcularity of the inner furface of the eye-lid is fubfervient to thefe glands; for the veflels forming their ramifications round the little glands, fecrete the febaceous matter into them. This, then, is the feat of the opthalmia tarfi ; and following this inflammation, the edges of the eye-lids, and the mouths of the dudls, are fometimes eroded with little ulcers. Thefe dufts are the feat of the ftye. This is an inflammation and doling up of the mouth of one ofOF THE EYE-LIDS. 369 of the duCts, which then fwells up into a little hard granule in the edge of the eye-lid, accompanied with inflammation of its cyft or furrounding membrane. O-F THE SECRETION AND COURSE OF THE TEARS. The lachrymal gland is feated in the upper and outer part of the orbit, and behind the fuperciliary ridge of the frontal bone. It is of a flattened form, and is depreflfed into a hollow of the bone. Several duCts from this gland open upon the inner furface of the upper eye-lid. By the reflection of the membrana conjunctiva from the eye-lid over the furface of the eye-ball, dull and motes are prevented from getting behind the eye ball; and when they have got under the eye-lids, the extreme fenfibility of the tunica con- junctiva excites the lachrymal gland, and the orbicular mufcle of the eye-lids, (which, by its preflure, accele- rates the flow of the tears), and the dull or motes are wafhed out. The punCta for reabforbing the tears and conveying them into the nofe, being at the inner angle or canthus of the eye-lids, we fee the intention of the duds of the lachrymal gland opening on the inflde of the upper eye-lid towards the outer angle: for, by this means, the tears are fpread over all the furface of the eye-ball, by the motion of the eye-lids, before they decline into the punCla. But the tears do not flow only when the gland is excited by motes; their fecretion is perpetual, and, together with the motion of the eye-lids, they perpetually moiften the furface of the eye-ball. Even during fleep they flow continually : and here we may admire a provifion for the’r3^0 OF THE SECRETION OF TEARS. their conveyance towards the inner cantinas, in the in-' clination of the tarfus to each other; for the eye-lids meet only on the outer edge of the broad furface form- ed by the tarfus, the confequence of which is, that a kind of gutter is formed in the angle by the inner edges of the tarfus not meeting, which leads the tears from the ducts of the lachrymal gland towards the punCta' lachrymalia. The puncta lachrymalia are the mouths of two ducts which form the beginning of a canal for drawing off the tears from the eye into the nofe. Thefe puncta" are placed at the inner canthus of the eye, and on the termination of the tarfus of the upper and under eye- lid : they are furrounded by a rigid fubftance; and their patent mouths abforb by capillary attraction. They lead the tears into the lachrymal fac, and thence the tears pafs into the nofe. The caruncula lachrymalis is that little gra- nulating-like body which lies in the inner angle formed by the two eye-lids. Very fmall hairs are feen to fprout from it, and feme fmall febaceous folieles open upon its furface. Connected with the caruncula la- ehrymalis is the membrana or valvula semiluna- ris. This is a vafcular membrane which is drawn from under the caruncula lachrymalis by the direction of the eye outward, fo as then to appear like a web fpread over the white of the eye near the inner can- thus. By directing the eye towards the nofe, this' membrane is again accumulated about the caruncula. This, then, is a very particular mechanifm, not as is- generally defcribed, for applying the tears to the punCta lachrymalia, but for accumulating and throw- - i x ing.OF THE SECRETION OF TEARS. 371 Ing out the motes and dull from the eye, and for guarding the punfta from the abforption of fuch littl# particles as might irritate or obllruft them. In birds, the valvula femilunaris is drawn, by a mufcle and fmall tendon inferted into it, quite acrofs the eye, fo as to aft like a third eye-lid ; it is in them called membrana niftitans. The lachrymal sac and duct lie in the c§ unguis or lachrymale. The facculus is a bag of an oblong or oval figure; it is funk into the folfa of the os unguis, and defended by the frontal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone; and it is covered by the ligamentous connexion of the orbicularis mufcle. This fac is the dilated upper end of the nafal duft; and into it the two canaliculi lachrymales (the extre- mities of which are the punfta), open as diftinft tubes *. 1 Two coats are defcribed as covering the lachrymal fac ; a nervous, white, external coat; and a vafcular, pulpy, pituitary membrane. This fac diminilhing to- wards the lower part, and being received into the complete canal of the bone, becomes the nafal duft. Taking a courfe downward and backward, it opens into the nofe under the inferior fpongy bone. The lachrymal fac and duft are by forne conceived to be mufcular, fo as to enable them to convey the tears into the nofe; or it may be conceived, that they aft like a fyphon, the duft reaching down into the nofe acting like the long leg of the fyphon, and drawing the tears in at the openings of the punfta. But I think it would appear, that the conneftions of' the orbicularis * Dr. Monro. mufcley/1 OF THE SECRETION OF TEARS. inufcle over the fac is of a nature to accelerate the paflage of the tears, and even perfectly to comprefs the fac. The lachrymal fac and dud are very fre- quently difeafed and obflruded. For example, after fmall-pox, fiphylis, or in fcrophulous conftitutions, the inner membrane of the fac being of the nature of the pituitary membrane of the nofe, inflames, fwells, and adheres. The confequences of this are, firlf, a fwelling of the lachrymal fac in the inner angle of the eye, and a watery or weeping eye; upon prefling the tumor, the tears, mixed with mucus, are forced back through the puncta; by and bye the fac inflames and fuppurates; matter is difcharged by prefiure of the fac : and, laftly, it is eroded and burlts out, difcharging the tears and matter on the cheek. This is the com- plete charader of the fiftula lachrymalis. While the fac burfls outwardly, it often does further mifchief within, by making carious the thin lamina of bone in which it lies. The theory of the ancients, with re- gard to this difeafe, was that the difeafe was proceeding from the caries of the os unguis, and they perforated with the adual cautery, until the patient fmelt it in the nofe! as much with the intention of remedying the caries, as to give paflage to the tears. But it is not the bone which is the obftrudion to the perfed cure of this difeafe by operation, but the membranes, which clofe again after the moll ingenious attempts to preferve the paflage. The vis medicatrix, in this inftance, feems not to be fo well aware of her intereft as fome phyfio- logifts would inculcate. She is, here, ever at variance, with the artifice of the furgeon.BOOK II. O F T H E EAR. C H A P. I. OF SOUND, AND OF THE EAR IN GENERAL. T he ear is that organ by which we are made fufcep- tible of the impreflion of found. Sound is the motion of elaftic fluids, occafioned, in general, by the vibration of folid bodies: and this vi- bration of the folids depends upon their elafticity or tenfion: or found may be produced by the vibration and motion of the air primarily, but not without the intervention of folids. The human voice, for exam- ple, does not depend merely on the percuflion of the air, but on that vibration, as combined with the tenfion and confequent vibration of the glottis, ex- cited by the current of air; which, again, is modified by the mouth. In the fame manner, the found and variety of tone, in mufical inflruments, depends on Vol. III. C c the374 OF SOUND. the joint effect of the vibrations of the folids, and of the air. There is no body impervious to found, or, in other words, incapable of tranfmitting the vibration. That found is communicated through the medium of the air, we know from the circumftance, that a bell, when [truck in a vacuum, gives out no found: and again, from this, that the condenfed Hate of the atmofphere affords an eafier communication of found, and conveys it to a greater diftance. The velocity of the impreflion tranfmitted by the common air, is computed at 1130 feet in a fecond ; and found, when obltrudted in its direct motion, is reflected with a velocity equal to that with which it flrikes the folid body by which its progrefs is interrupted. That water conveys the vibrations producing found, has been proved by experiment. It was once the fay- ing of naturalifts, that, to fuppofe fifhes to have the organ of hearing, would be to conceive that an organ were bellowed upon them without a pollibility of its being of ufe. But we are affured of the fad, that, on the tinkling of a bell, filhes come to be fed * ; and it was the cuftom for the filhermen on the coafl of Britany, to force the filh into their nets by the beating of drums fj as our illanders are at prefent accultomed to * Boyle. f M. l’Abbe Nollet, Acad. R. des Sciences. Naturalifts were very incredulous of the effect faid to be produced by mufic on lob- fters. Some may be fo ft ill; but we may truft the following obfer- vation of Minaftus, in his Differtation. “ Su de timpanettl dell “ uditoOF SOUND. C C 2 teeth 5/5 to do when the larger fiflr get entangled amongft the rocks. We are told, that, in China, they ufe a gong for the fame purpofe. Thefe fa£ts were once of im- portance, though more accurate obfervation has now made them fuperfiuous. The Abbe Nollet took much pains to decide the queftion, whether water was a me- dium for found. After confiderable preparation, and acquiring a dexterous management of himfelf in the water, (for which he takes great merit to himfelf), he found that he could hear under water the found of the human voice, and even diftinguifh converfation and mufic. The human ear being an organ imperfectly adapted to this medium of found, thefe experiments do not inform us of the relative powers of air and water in the tranfmiffion of found. But another experiment of the Abbe Nollet proves, what indeed to me is fuffi- ciently evident, from the ftructure of the ear of fiihes, viz. that the water tranfmits a much ftronger vibration than the air. When he funk under water and ftruck together two {tones which he held in his hands, it gave a {hock to his ear which was infupportable, and which was felt on all the furface of his body, like that fenfa- tion which is produced when a folid body held in the “ udito fcoperli nel Granchlo Paguro.” “ Propriis obfervat'ionibus “ certior faftus afferit, obfcura nofte, placidoque mari, quoties “ pifcatores ardentibus faculis paguri in littore haerentis oculos “ lucis fulgore perftringunt, ut ftupido, et pene prsftigiato ani- “ male potiantur, fi forte rumor aliquis ingruit. Cancrum “ illico fe e littore fubducere recipereque intra unaas.” See Scarpa D'lfquUit-lones Anatomica de A uditu in Infeflis, See.OF SOUND. 3/6 teeth, teeth is flruck by another folid body *. He obferved in other experiments, that the more fonorous the bo- dies flruck were, the lefs vivid was the impreffion; by which it would appear, that water, though it conveys an impreffion more flrongly to the ear than the air, is not equally adapted to the refonance and variety of tone. Indeed*, this is a • natural confequence of the water, a fluid of greater denfity being in clofe contact with the founding body, and fuppreffing its vibration. In thefe fads, we /hall find the explanation of fame peculiarities in the flructure of the ears of fiffies. Thus, we fee, that the vibration of a folid body is continued through the air and through water, until reaching the organ of hearing, it produces the fenfa- lion of found. Sound, it will be evident, is alfo com- municated through folids. When we put the ear to one end of a log of wood of thirty feet in length, and ftrike upon the other, we are fenfible of the impreffion; and when a folid body applied to the bones of the head, or to the teeth, is flruck, we are fenfible of the noife f ; and this is felt even by thofe who are deaf to impreffions conveyed through the air : indeed it is partly in this way that we are to judge whether deafnefs may be cured by operation, as depending upon fome injury of the mechanifin of the organ, or whether it be an incurable affection of the nerve or brain itfelf. If the found be perceptible when conveyed through the * Thefe experiments were repeated by Dr. Monro. See his Eook of Fifties. f Perhaps we cannot call this found.377 OF SOUND. teeth, or when a watch, for example, is prefled upon the bone behind the outer ear, we are afiured that the internal organ is unaffected ; and upon enquiring far- ther into the cafe, we may find that the deafnefs pro- ceeds front forne difeafe of the outer tube of the ear, or of that tube whi$h leads into the throat, and that it can be remedied.378 OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. CHAP. II. ■N GENERAL VIEW OF THE VARIETIES. IN THE EARS OF ANIMALS*. i here is in the fcale of animals a regular gradation in the perfeftion of the organ of hearing. But, in the human ear, we find united all the variety of apparatus for communicating the vibration to the internal organ, and along with this the moil extenfive diftribution of nerves in the labyrinth, or inmoft divifion of the ear, tp receive that impreifion. The ultimate caufe of this more complex ftrudture is the greater power with which man is endowed of receiving, through the ear, various impreffions of fimple founds : language, mufic, and various modifi- cations of the fenfe, of which the lower animals are incapable. As, in treating of the anatomy of the eye, we do not attempt to inveftigate the manner in which light adts upon the retina, in producing the fenfation of colours, but endeavour merely to explain the ftru&ure of the eye; to fhow how the coats fupport and nourilh the * In the following fhort account of the comparative anatomy of the ear, although I have taken every afiiftance in my power from books, I have defcribed the ftrufture, in all the examples, from my own diffeflions and obfervation. humors;OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. 379 humors; how the humors are fubfervient to the con- centration of the rays of light, and aflifh their impulfe upon the retina : fo, in the fame manner, in explain- ing the flrudture of the ear, we need not inveftigate the philofophy of found, nor the nature of thofe im- preflions which are made by it on the fenforium through the nerves ; our views are limited to the ftru&ure of the ear—we have to obferve the mecha-, nifm by which the ftrength of vibrations is increafed and conveyed inward to the feat of the fenfe, and the manner in which the nerve is expanded to receive fo delicate an impreffion. The method of fludying this fubjedt, which is at once the muft inllrudlive and the molt ainufing, is to trace the various gradations, in the perfection cf the organ, through the feveral dalles of animals. It is chiefly by comparing the ftrudture of the vifcera, and the or- gans of fenfe in animals and in man, that comparative anatomy is ufeful in elucidating the animal oeconomy. For example, in the fligmata and air-velfels of infetts and worms; in the gills of filhes; in the fimple cel- lular flrudlure of the lungs of amphibias; in the more complicated flrudture of the lungs of birds; we ob- ferve one elfential requifite through the whole gra- dation, viz. the expofure of the circulating fluids to the adlion of the air. And in this variety of confor- mation, we fee the fame effedt fo modified as to cor- refpond with the habits and neceflities of the feveral clalfes of animals. In the fame manner, with regard to the circulating fyftem, we are taught the explana- tion of the double heart in the human body, by tracing the variety of ftrudlure through the feveral clalfes of C c 4 animals j380 OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. animals; from the fimple tube circulating the fluids of infedts, the Angle ventricle of fiflies and reptiles, the double auricle and perforated ventricle oft amphibise, up to the perfedt heart of the warm-blooded animal. The organs of generation, and the oeconomy of the foetus in utero, is, in the fame degree, capable of illuftration from comparative anatomy. But moll efpecially, in the ftrudture of the ear, is there much fcope for this kind of inveftigation. We find fuch va- rieties in the ear of reptiles, fiflies, birds, and qua- drupeds, as lead us, by gradual fleps, from the fimpler to the more complex ftrudture. The fimpleft form of the organ of hearing is that it} which we find a little fac of fluid, and on the infide of the fac ,the pulp of a nerve expanded. If an animal, having fuch an organ, breath the air, a mem- brane clofes this faculus on the fore part; and, by means of this membrane, the vibrations of the air are communicated to the expanfion of the nerve through the fluid of the fac. But if the animal inhabits the water only, it has no fuch membrane to receive the impreftion ; the organ is incafed in bone or cartilage, and inftead of the membrane, fome fmall bone or hard concreted matter is found in contadl with the pulp of the nerve.' The found, palling through the waters, is, in fuch cafe, conveyed to the organ not by any par- ticular opening, but through the bones of the head ; and this concrete fubftance, partaking of the tremulous motion communicates the fenfation to the nerve #. * It is conceived by fome that the antennae of infefts conveys to them the vibration of bodies, and that they may be confidered as an imperfect variety of ,this organ. ForOF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. 381 For example, in rhe .crab and lobster, we find a prominent bony papilla or Ihell, which is perforated with a membrane extended acrofs the perforation, and % behind this membrane there is a fluid, in which the nerve is expanded, and which receives the impulfe con- veyed to the membrane. In the cuttle-fish, again, there is no external opening; there is merely a little fac under the thick integuments : this fac has in it a fmall concretion or bone for receiving the vibration ; which, in this animal, is conveyed by a more general impreflion upon the head than in thofe lad mentioned; and the vibration of this loofely poifed bone or con- crete feems equal to the provifion of the membrane which, in the crab, clofes up the external opening in the perforated fhell. In fishes, there is a confiderable, variety of druc- ture. Thofe which remain perpetually under water, have not the outer membrane, nor any apparatus for drengthening the fird-received undulations of found. But fuch as lie balking on the furface of the water, and breathe through lungs, have an external openfng—a canal leading to the membrane, and behind the mem- brane bones to convey the vibration to the internal parts, and thefe internal parts, the feat of the fenfe, are actually as perfect as in terredrial animals. In neither of the fpecies of fifties, the cartilaginous nor fpinous fifties, is there a proper external opening, as in animals breathing air. They receive the impulfe from the water, upon the integuments and bones of the head ; but within the head, and in the feat of the fenfe, they have a mod beautiful apparatus for receiving and conveying382 OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. conveying thofe general vibrations to the expanded nerve. There is in every ear, adapted to hearing under water, a bone or concretion, placed fo as to vaccilate eafily, and which is deftined to agitate the fluid in which it is fufpended with a ftronger vibration than could be produced merely by a general impulfe. Befides this proviflon in fiflies, there is a very elegant ftru&ure for ftill further encreafmg the furface deftined to receive the impulfe, and for expofing to that im- pulfe or vibration a larger proportion of the expanded nerve. It confifts of three femicircular tubes, which penetrate widely within the bones of the head. They are filled with a fluid, and have in their extremities a divifion of the nerve which is moved or otherwife affect- ed by the vibration of the fluids contained within the tubes. There is a flight variety, however, in the ear of car- tilaginous fifties. In the head of the skate, for ex- ample, there is under the fldn, at the back of the head, a membrane extended acrofs a pretty regular opening. This, however, is not confidered as the opening of the ear; but a paflage, like a mucous du£t, which is befide it, has given occafion to a controverfy between Pro- feffors Scarpa and Monro ; and it may not be out of place to enquire a little into this difputed point. We have feen that water conveys the found of vi- brating bodies with a Ihock almoft intolerable to the ear, and with a particular and diftinft fenfation over the whole body. We fee, alfo, that, in the greater number of fiflies, there is confefledly no external opening, the whole organ is placed under the fquamous bones of the head. Yet 9OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. 383 Yet the cartilaginous fifhes, which arefuppofed to have an external ear, fwim in the fame element, and are in no effential point peculiar in their habits. And we fhould receive with caution the account of any pecu- -liarity in the organ of hearing of one clafs of fifhes, which is not common to all inhabiting the fame fluid. Such animals as occafionally pafs from the water into the air, mull have a membrane capable of vibrating in the air; but, even in them, it is expanded under the common integuments, and protected by them. Were it otherwife, when the creature plunged into the water, it would be aflailed with that noife, (confounding all regular founds), of which man is fenfible when he plunges under water. It appears oppofite to the gene- ral law of nature, to fuppofe any fpecies of fifh having that Ample and more delicate membrane, which is evidently intended to convey atmofpheric founds only, while, on the other hand, creatures living in the water alone, fhould have an organization fit to endure the flronger vibrations of their denfer fluid, and which would be ufelefs and abfurd in thofe exifling in our atmofphere. When we come to examine the ear of the fkate, we find, that what Dr. Monro conceives to be the outward ear of the fifh*, is really, as reprefented by * “ In the upper and back part of the head of a fkate, and in a “ large fifh weighing 150 pounds, at the diftance nearly of one inch “ from the articulation of the head, with the fir ft vertebra of the “ neck or atlas, two orifices, capable of admitting fmall fized ftock- “ jpg wires at the diftance of about an inch and a quarter from each “ other,384 of The ears of animals. by Dr. Scarpa, a mucous du£t merely * ; which does not lead into the facculi of the veltibule and femicircu- lar canals, as appeared to Dr.Monro; and that to luppole this would be to acknowledge the free accefs of air and water to the immediate feat of the organ, and to the foft pulp of the auditory nerve, a thing abfurd in every view, impoffible in nature, and very wide of the truth f. To me, it appears, that this narrow dudt cannot be confidered as the external ear ; becaufe we find in the fkate a proper membrane under the thin integu- ments, quite unconnected with the duct* for tranfmit- ting the found ; and, upon following this mucous dudt, we find it taking a circuitous courfe, and filled with a ftrong gelatinous matter ; it is every where narrow, and filled with a glutinous fecretion. It has no membrane ftretched acrofs it, and bears no refemblance to the external ear of any other animal. “ other, furrounded with a firm membranous ring, may be ob- “ ferved. Thefe are the beginnings of the Meatus Auditorii Ex- “ terni.” Treatife on the Ear, p. 208. * Dr. Scarpa, fpeaking of this opinion of Dr. Monro, fays, “ qua in re vehemer.ter iibi hallucinatus eft, oftia nimirum dudiuum mucoforum, ut manifeftum eft, pro auris meatubus accipiens. “ Etenim omnino nullum eft in cartilagineis pifcibus oftium auditus “ extus adapertum, membranaque fenejlra ovalis fub communi ia- tegumento recondita jacet et cooperta.” f “ Quod et abfurdum eft et a rei veritate quam maxime alie- <c num.” Vid. Anatoniica Difquj/iitones de audita et olfaflu, auBore A. Scarpa. 7 We385 OF THE EARS OF ANIMAL'S. We may conclude, then, that fifties have no external opening like terreftrial animals ; that, inftead of this outward provifion, they have the moveable bone within the organ. Although the cartilaginous hikes have a membrane extended over part of the organ, which, in the fpinous hikes, is completely furrounded with bone,^ it is not to be conhaered as capable of the tremulous motions of the membrana tympani of terreftrial ani- mals, but may be confidered as analogous to the mem- brana feneftrse ovalis: and, fince it lies deep under the integuments, we have no reafon to believe that found is tranfmitted to the organ of hearing in hikes, any otherways than through the general vibration of the head. The organ of hearing in amphibious animals, de- monftrates- to us a difference in the manner in which the fenfation is received ; for they have both the outer membrane to receive the vibration of the air, and a mechanifm of fmall bones to convey this motion into the feat of the fenfe; and they have, behdes, within the ear itfelf, a chalky concretion ; a provifion plainly intended for propagating the motion communicated through the water. In ferpents, birds, and opiadrupeds, we lhall hereafter trace the various gradations in the perfedfion of this organ. We lhall find, that, as the animal rifes in the fcale, the cavities and tubes of the ear are extended and varied in their form. Now, I conceive thaty while the multiplied forms of the tubes ana fphericles of the internal ear afford a more expanded and fufceptible furface for receiving impreflions, the confonant forms of3B6 OF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. of the parts enable them to receive a ftronger vibration, and a more perfect and modified found. A cord of a mufical inftrument will vibrate when another in exa£t unifon with it is ftruck. The vibra- tion communicated to the air is fuch, as is adapted to the tenfion of the fympathetic cord ; and no other per- culfion of the air, however violent, will caufe it to found. Again, the air palling through a tube of cer- tain dimenfions, will not communicate to it a motion, nor call forth its found, while the air, palling in equal quantity through a tube of one degree of difference, will rife into a full note. What holds true in regard to the unifon of cords, is alfo true of cylinders, or even of the walls of a paffage or room, a certain note will caufe the refonance of the paffage or room, as a certain vibration will call forth the found of the tube of an organ; becaufe it is in all thefe inltances neceffary that the impulfe be adapted to the pofition of the fur- faces and their powers of reverberation. Sound, as allied to mufic, confilts in the fucceffion, the rythm or time of its return upon the ear. Thefe few fads illuftrate what I mean, by faying, that the various forms of the internal ear of animals, as they advance in the fcale, give additional powers to their organ. In the firll example of the fimple ear, where a* bone vibrates on the expanded nerve, I Ihould conceive that the fenfation were, in confequence of this fimple percuffion, capable of little variety; but in ani- mals where, befides this fimpler mechanifm, there are femicircular canals, and more efpecially in thofe ani- mals, which have dill a further complication of the formsOF THE EARS OF ANIMALS. 387 forms of the ear, certain founds will be peculiarly felt in each of thefe feveral cavities and convolutions; and, while the fenfation is becoming more diftind, by the perfection of the organ, it admits, all'o, of a greater variety of founds or notes: fo that a certain date of vibration will affed the femicircular canals, (one or all of them , and produce the fenfation of found, which would not at all affed the vibration of the fimpie lapilli lying in their fac. 1388 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. CHAP. III. , DESCRIPTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN PARTICULAR ANIMALS. IN THE LOBSTER AND CRAB. In thefe animals, the ltrudture of the ear is very fimple ; but it appears to me, that Profeflor Scarpa, in his defcription, has imagined to be the organ more fimple than it is in nature. In the lobster, there proje&s from near the root of the great antenna, an offeous papilla of a peculiarly hard and friable nature. In the point of this papilla we obferve a foramen, and a membrane ftretched over it. This is the feat of the organ of hearing. It is defcribed as containing a fac of a pellucid fluid, which adheres to the membrane, while the auditory nerve is expanded upon the lower furface of the fac. Nov*', the lobfter, being an animal which can live on land as well as in water, Scarpa gives this as an inflance of a lfrufture calculated to receive the fenfation of found equally well from the water or from the atmofphere. But, from the figure I have given of the ear of this creature, it wili not appear to be fo exceedingly fimple ; while there is evidently a provifion for the reception of the vibra- tion communicated through the water, though it does notOF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 3^9 Vol. III. D d portion * not indeed flri&ly refemble that which is commonly found in the ears of filhes. There is fufpended behind, the facculus, and in contact with the nerve, a fmall triangular bone, which, when pulled away *, is found to hinge upon a delicate cartilage. This bone feems evidently intended, by its being thus fufpended in the neighbourhood of the pulp of the auditory nerve, for imprefling upon that nerve the vibration from the water. The lobfter, then, has, like the amphibious ani- mals, a double provifion for receiving the communi- cation of found alternately from the water or from the air f. The ear of the crab differs from that of the lobfler in this, that, under the projection, there is a moveable cafe of bone, to which we fee a fmall antenna attached. Within this is the organ of hearing ; and there is here an internal provifion for the tranfmiffion of found to the auditory nerve, which confifls fimply in a few circumgyrations of a pellucid and flexible cartilage: an infpiflated fluid furrounds this gyrous cartilage, while the pale auditory nerve is expanded behind it. Of the ear of fishes. In the heads of fifhes, there is a cavity feparated by a thin vafcular membrane from that which contains the brain. Within this cavity there is a facculus diftended with a fluid, and containing a fmall bone J ; on the infide of this bag, (which is called tho facculus lapillorum), a great pro- * See fig. 2. f From the mucous-like tranfparency of the nerve in the lobfler, it is difficult to afcertain its exaft relation to this bone. $ See plate, fig. 3.39° OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. portion of the auditory nerve is expanded. In the cartilaginous fifties, there are three lapilli # contained in their proper capfules, and furrounded with a gela- tinous matter f, each of the lapilli having its appropri- ated divifion of the acauftic or auditory nerve diftri- buted upon it in a beautiful network. This cavity in the head of fifties, refembles the centre of the labyrinth in the human ear, and is called the veftibule. Within the veftibule there is a limpid fluid, interfered every where by a delicate and tranfparent cellular membrane ; and the parts within the veftibule are fupported in their place by this tifliie, which is fimilar to that which fupports the brain in fifties. Befides this central part of the organ in fifties, there are departing from the veftibule three femicircular cartilaginous canals j, within which, are extended membranous canals. Thefe membranous tubes contain a fluid diftindt from that contained in the common cavity of the veftibule, nor have they any com- munication with the facculi, which contain the la- pilli, although they are connedied with them §. Thefe cartilaginous canals are of a cylindrical form, and, being as tranfparent as the fluid with which they are furrounded, are not readily diftinguiftied in * In many of the fpinous or fquamous fifties, there is only one. In cartilaginous fifties, thefe bodies are not like bone, but like foft chalk. In the fpinous fifties, on the other hand, they arc of the fhape of the head of a fpear, and hard like (tone. f The gelatinous matter is rather before the bones, and diftend- ing the little facculi. $ See plate 7. fig. 3. and fig. 4. ddd. § So Profeffor Scarpa aliens, in contradiction to others. diffedtion.OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING 391 of Dd 2 diffe&ion. Each of the cartilaginous canals is dilated at one of its extremities into a little belly, which is called the ampulla. The auditory nerve in cartilaginous fifhes # is firfl divided into two fafciculi, which are again fubdivided into lelfer nerves. Thefe go to the three facculi lapii- lorum, and to the ampullulae of the femicircular canals. Before the divifion of the nerve peculiar to the facculus pierces it, and is finally diflributed, it forms a fingular and intricate network of filaments. The branches to the ampullulse are raifed on a partition - which is oppofed to the mouth of the cylindrical part of the tube. In the fpinous fifhes, the three femicircular canals unite in a common belly; but in cartilaginous fifhes, the poflerior femicircular canal is diftindt from the others. In fifhes, all the parts of the ear are filled with a matter of a gelatinous confidence, or vifcid fluidity; and the whole facculi and femicircular canals are fur- rounded with fluid. That jelly is the mofl fufceptible of vibration, is evident, when we fill a glafs, and allow a body to fall into it; for then the delicate vibration is communicated to the finger on the outfide of the glafs, or, by flriking the glafs, we may obferve the tremulous motion of the jelly. The femicircular canals, it is evident, are well adapted to receive the extenfive vibrations communicated through the bones * The fifth pair of nerves in fifh anfwers to the feventh in man : it has the fame divifion into the portio mollis and dura.392 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. of the head, and to convey them inward to the nerve expanded in the ampulla. From the fimpler to the more perfect aquatic anh mals, we may trace feveral links of the chain by which nature advances towards the perfect flrudture of the ear. We return now to oblerve, in the firft example of terreflrial animals, the moll fimple (late of that part of the organ which receives the fenfation ; but where the ftru&ure of the receiving organ is the molt fimple^ the mechanifm for receiving the vibration and convey- ing it to the internal ear, is modified and adapted to the atmofphere. OF THE EAR IN REPTILES AND AMPHIBIOUS ANIMALS. In reptiles, which form the intermediate clajs of animals betwixt fifties and quadrupeds, the ear has alfo an intermediate ftrudture ; in fome individuals of this cfafs the ear refembles that of fifties, fuch as we have defcribed, while, in others, it refembles more nearly the common ftru&ure of terreflrial animals. In the falamandra aquatica, a variety of the lizard, there is a foramen ovale *, deep under the integuments. In this foramen there is a cartilage, in immediate con- tact with which, there is a commofi facculus lying in the cavity or veftibule; and in this little fac there is found a cretaceous matter : there are here, alfo, femi- * This is the appropriated appellation of the opening which leads from the outer cavity of the ear, or tympanum, into the feat of the proper organ when: the net-re is esp’amled. circularOB THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 393 circular canals, with ampullulae, and a common belly connecting them. In this animal, then, it is evident, the ear is fimilar in ftru&ure to that of the cartilagi- nous fHhea *. In the frog, the outward apparatus is different, "but the internal ear is fimple f. Under the fkin of the fide of the head, a little behind the prominent eye, we find a large circular opening, which tends inward in a funnel-like form: and from the upper part of the circle of this meatus we find a fmall elaftic bone, or Cartilage fufpended. This bone is in contaCl with the common integuments of the head, which are flretched over the little cavity. This firft bone is placed at a right angle with a fecond bone, and both are lodged in a proper tympanum J. This fecond bone fwells out towards its inner extremity, and is accurately ap- plied to the foramen ovale. The foramen ovale opens into a cavity which we mull call the veftibule, and which, in this creature, is peculiarly large in proportion to its fize. This veftibule contains a fac, upon which the nerve is expanded : it contains alfo a chalky foft concretion, which is of a beautiful whitenefs, and of a * It is laid by naturalifls, that the falamander never has been heard to utter a cry; and as dumbnefs is in general coupled with deafnefs, it is natural to fuppofe it has no ears. This is to confider the organ as fubfement to converfation ! f See plate, fig. 5 and 6. f This tympanum, being a cavity containing air, has communi- cation with the mouth by a tube, which we fhall afterwards find called euftachian tube. Several have erroneoully described this ■fcwimal as receiving founds through the mouth. Ddj regular394 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. regular figure when firft feen, but has no folidity * * * §. The veftibule here, as in all other animals, being the immediate feat of the fenfe, is filled with fluid. In serpents, the mechanifm external to the feat of the organ is lefs complete than in the frog. From the fcales behind the articulation of the bone which keeps the lower jaw extended, a little column of bone f flretches inward and forward. This bone has its inner extremity enlarged to an oval figure, and is in- ferted into the foramen ovale. This creature has no membrana tympani, nor does it appear to have fo good a fubftitute as the frog: the outer extremity of the bone feems rather attached to the lower jaw by a car- tilaginous appendage and fmall ligament J. Within the fcull, ferpents have the little fac, with the cretaceous matter and femicircular canals, united by a common belly §. In the turtle, we find a proper tympanum, and by lifting the fcaly integuments from the fide of the head a little above the articulation of the lower jaw, we open this cavity. Through this cavity there ex- tends a very long and flender bone, which, upon the outer extremity, is attached by a little elaftic brufh of fibres to the cartilaginous plate under the integuments, while the inner extremity is enlarged, fo as to apply accurately to the foramen, which opens into the vefti- * See fig. 6. d. f Plate, fig. 7. E. J See Scarpa, tab. v. fig. ix. § Serpents are affedled by mufic; and they will r'aife and twill themfelves with every variety of lively motion to the pipe and tabor. bule sOF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 395 bule; and a paflage alfo opens from the cavity of the tympanum into the fauces. In this animal, as in. all which we have clafled under the prefent divifion, the internal ear confifts of a central cavity, or vefli- bule, which contains a fac with fluid, and cretaceous matter, and of three femicircular canals conneded by a common belly. This common belly of the femicircular canals has no communication with the facculus veftibuli which contains the cretaceous matter, further than as it lies in contad with it, and as they both lie fur- rounded by a fluid ; they equally receive the impref- fion of the littie bony column, the extremity of which vibrates in the foramen ovale. There being enumerated forty or more varieties of the lacerta or lizard, many of thefe have very different habits. Some of them never pafs into the water, but inhabit dry and dufty places. The lacerta agilis, or common green lizard, which is a native both of Europe and of India, is nimble, and balks, during the hot weather, on the trunks of old trees and on dry banks; but on hearing a noife, it retreats quickly to its hole. It has the {kin over the tympanum ex- tremely thin, and fuch as to anfwer precifely the office of the membrane of the tympanum. So all the varieties of reptiles which, in their habits and delicacy of hear- ing, refemble terreftrial animals, have either the mem- brane of the tympanum or a {kin fo delicate as to pro-1 duce the fame effed ; while thofe, which inhabit the water, have a rough integument, or a hard fcale, drawn over the tympanum. Befides this, fome have a final! mufcle attached to the bone, which runs acrofs the tympanum j it is like the tenfor tympani, and is an- D d 4 other /396 OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. other flep towards the proper ftru&ure of the terref- trial ear. OF THE EAR IN BIRDS. Comparing the internal ear of birds with that of thofe animals which we have already defcribed, we find a very important addition. We find here the in- ternal ear (or labyrinth, as we may now call it), con- fining of three divifions : the veftibule, or middle cavity ; the femicircular canals ; and the cochlea; which lad is an additional part, and one which we have not in the clafs of animals already defcribed. Leading into thefe three cavities, there are two fora- mina : the fenestra rotunda, and the fenestra ovalis j and both thefe openings have a membrane ftretched over them in the frefh (late of the parts. The firft, the feneftra ovalis, or foramen ovale, re- ceives the ofiiculus auditus, which is in birds like that which we have already defcribed in reptiles *. This ofiiculus connects the membrana tympani (which is * Mr. Home, in his ledlure on_the mufcularity of the membrana tympani,*(vid. Phil. Tranf. A. 1800), fays, in birds this membrane has no tenfor mufcle to vary its adjuftments, but is always kept tenfe by the preflure of the end of the {lender bone. This is a very im- perfedf account of the mechanifm of the tympanum in birds. There are two bones, or one fmall bone with a cartilage, which lies along the membrana tympani. This elallic cartilage has two little tendons attached to it. Even the (lender bone which ftretches from, the cartilage to the foramen ovale, the inner extremity of which is en- larged to fill up that hole, feems to have a fmall tendon inferted into it; but whether this be a mufcukr or ligamentous connexion, I am unable at prefent to fay. hereOF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 397 here of a regular form) with the veftibule, and con- veys the vibration of the atmofphere to it. The femicircular canals are here alfo three in num- ber, and are diftinguifhed by the terms minor, major, and maximus; but as the major and minor coalefce at one of their extremities, and enter the veftibule to- gether, the femicircular canals open into the veftib^e by only five foramina in place of fix. Each of the femicircular canals is dilated at one extremity into an elliptical form, while the other extremity is of the natural fize of the diameter of the tube. Thefe canals are formed of the hard fhell of bone, and are furrounded with bone, having wider and more open cancelli. In the dry ft ate of the parts, we find a cord palling through the femicircular canals, which fome have called the zonula nerv.®. But thefe are the mem- branous canals, which are contained within the bony ones, dried and fhrunk up. Within the bony cavities of the labyrinth, there is laid a pellucid membrane, which contains a fluid, has the nerves expanded upon it, and is the true veftibule and femicircular canals; while the bony cafe, which we have defcribed, is merely the mold of thefe and the fupport of their de- licate texture*. The cochlea, one of the three divifions of the labyrinth, is but imperfedt in birds, when compared * I lately, by accident, drew out the facculus veflibuli and femi- cireular canals from the bony part of the ear of a bird, and I found the membranouajfemicircular canal to confift apparently of the fame pellucid elaftic matter with thofe of fifties. with39^ OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. with that part of the organ in quadrupeds and in man. The cochlea in birds confifts merely of two cylinders, formed of cartilage, which are united toward their further extremity. While the oppofite extremities di- verge, and while one of thefe cylinders opens into the veftibule, the other opens outward into the cavity of the tympanum *. That which more than any other circumftance dif- tinguifhes the organ of birds from that of animals in- habiting the waters, is the want of the bone or ftony concretion in the facculus veftibuli. . I ,, * We find Mr. Home faying that the cochlea is neither abfolutely neceffary to fit the organ to be impreffed by founds communicated through the air, nor to render it what is termed a miifical ear; and that this is fufficiently proved by that part being wanting in birds, whofe organ is particularly adapted to inarticulate founds. That the cochlea is not neceffary to the communication of found through the atmofphere, we have feen from the examination of the ear of the reptiles. But fince we fee that it forms part of the labyrinth in birds, we may be ltd to doubt Mr. Home’s conclufion.OF THE HUMAN EAR. 399 CHAP, IV. OF THE HUMAN EAR, The anatomy of the human ear will naturally be confidered under three heads: the external ear ; the tympanum; and the labyrinth. The outward ear requires no definition. From the outward ear there is a cartilaginous tube, which leads into the tympanum. The tympanum is the cavity within which is placed that mechanifm of bones and mufcles which encreafes the flrength of the vibration, and conveys it inwards to the labyrinth. The labyrinth is the general name of thofe intricate canals which contain the ex^ panded nerve, and the immediate feat of the organ. SECTION i. OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. The external ear is formed of an elaftic car- tilage, covered with very thin integuments. The apparently irregular furfaces of the outer ear will be found, upon examination, to be fo formed that the fmuofities lead gradually into each other, and finally terminate in the concha or immediate opening of the tube of the ear. By the conftant motion of the ex- ternal ear of quadrupeds, we fee its importance to them, both I-of the human ear. 4oo both in collecting found, and in judging of its direction. In molt men, the motion of the ear is loft, but fome <nen ftill retain it; and this is very remarkable, that when the more internal mechanifm of the ear is injured, and ceafes to ftrengthen the found before it conveys it inwards to the labyrinth, the external car refumes the office to which it was originally adapted, and by a de- gree of motion and ereCtion, affifts the hearing. In Europeans, the outward ear is in a great degree flattened to the head by the drefs; but in Eaftern nations, and in ancient ftatues, we fee the ears ft and prominent, and bear a part in the fymmetry and expreffion of the whole head. The mufcles moving the cartilages, befides, being intended to give motion, appear to have a more eflential ufe in giving a due tenfion to the outward ear. Thefe cartilages are furrounded with their peculiar pericondrium; but as to their veflels and nerves, it feems very fuperfluous to give a minute defcription of them here. When the cartilages are difle&cd, they appear thus; Fig 18 a. The401 OF THE HUMAN EAR* a. The helix. It is the outer margin, the edge of which is turned over and forms the cavitas inno- minata. bcd. The anthelix. It is very prominent; of a -triangular fhape ; and within the outer rim or margin. e. The scapha, which is a depreffion or cavity on the anterior part of the anthelix. f. The TRAGUS. g. The antitragus. Thefe are the two prominent points which approach each other, and form the margin of the great cavity of the ear. l. The concha, or great cavity of the ear, and which is the trumpet-like opening of the meatus audi- torius externus. The few pale-coloured fibres whicfe are found on the cartilages, are fcarcely to be recog- nized as mufcles *. The lobe of the ear, or that part which hangs down and is pierced for the ear-ring in women and favages, confifts of ikin and cellular fubftance merely. The meatus auditorius externus, is the tube which leads into the tympanum. This tube is partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The outer portion of the tube is cartilaginous, and about three quarters of an inch in length, and is divided by fifiures. The in- ternal part of the tube is formed in the bone, as we find upon turning to the description of the temporal bone. Glands of the passage. The cuticle, cover- ing the infide of the tube, is very fine, and there pro- * See Valfalva & Santorini.402 OF THE HUMAN EAR. je& from it many fmall hairs which fiand acrofs the palfage. Under this fkin there is a fet of fmall glands, which pour their fecretion into the tube, and are called the glandule cerumenosjE *. Thefe glands, fecreting the wax of the ear, have their little duds opening betwixt the roots of the hairs ; and this fecre* tion, with the hairs which (land acrofs the paflage, guards the internal parts of the ear from infe&s. The whole paflage, confiding of the long canal of the tem- poral bone and the cartilaginous tube placed upqn it, has an oblique direction. It firfl; paffes upward and forward, and then makes a flight curve to defcend to the membrane of the tympanum. This external tube of the ear, being of the nature of a fecreting furface, and expofed to the air, is liable to inflammation. There follows a drynefs of the paf- fages, and then a more fluid fecretion. If the inflam- mation of the tube fhould extend within the bones, then, like the affe&ions of all parts furrounded with folid bone, the pain is extreme and the danger con- fiderable : there is not only fuppuration in the tympa- num and deftru&ion of the membrana tympani, but the difeafe may be fhill further communicated internally. Hildanus gives us an obfervation of the effe&s of a ball of glafs dropt by accident into the ear, in which * lt Has figuram obtinent variam: major tamen harum pars vel ft ad ovalem, vel ad fphaericam accedit colore tingbntur flavo ab “ humore in earum folliculis contento qui ob afiiduam fibrarum car- “ nearum reticularium preffionem, per cutis correfpondentia fora- “ mina in meatus auditoiii cavitatem tranfraittitur.” Valfalva de sure humana, p. 10. the403 OF THE HUMAN EAR. the inflammation was fo extenfive, and the pain fo ex- cruciating, that the whole fide of the head and even the arms and leg of that fide were affeded, in confequence of the brain partaking of the inflammation. Such things as peas and cherry-ftones and pins are very apt to be put into the ear by children; and awkard at- tempts to extract the foreign body, very often pufh it further in; and acrid fluids put into the ear to kill in- fers, have forced them deeper, with fuch an increafe of pain as has thrown the patient into a condition little fhort of delirium. A defective or too profufe fecretion from the glands of the tube, will caufe a degree of deafnefs : and fometimes the wax is fo indurated as to caufe a very obftinate deafnefs *. In the foetus, the concha and meatus externus are narrow, and there is fecreted a thick white Huff, which defends the membrane of the tympanum from the contact of the waters of the amnios. This, after birth, falls out in pieces along with the fecretion of the wax 5 but, in fome inftances, it has remained and / ... . . * See Valfalva, p. 10. “ Talis funditalis a duodecim annis ami- gentis curatio.” The older writers treat of the “ Auditus IxCio a fordibu3 aurium lapidefcentibus.” See Bonetus, & Jul. Cajfertus Placantinus, “ De auditus organo” lib. I. cap. 20, p. 90. There is alfo mention made of an adventitious membrane, clofing up the paf- fage and llretched above the membrana tympani. This is produced by a foul fecretion, and refembles that which Huffs up the paffagc in the fcetus. See Fabricius de Chirurg. operat. cap. de aur. Chirurg. Veslingius Anat. cap. 16. See Experiments on the folvents of the Ear-wax, by Dr. Haygarth, Med. Obf. and Inquiries, vol. iv. p. 198. He gives the preference to warm water over every other folvent. 9 become404 OF THE HUMAN EAR. become very hard. The deafnefs from birth, caufed by this accident, is often thought to depend upon an organic defeat, and fo is neglected. SECTION II. OF THE TYMPANUM OR MIDDLE CAVITY OF THE EAR, AND ITS' DISEASES. THE ANATOMY OF THE TYMPANUM. In the foetus, the cavity of the tympanum is fuper- ficial, compared with that of the adult; for what forms a tube in the latter, is in the former, merely a ring, which is attached to the fquamous portion of the tem- poral bone * : upon this circular bone the membrane of the tympanum is extended. The cavity of the tympanum is very irregular ; in- termediate betwixt the membrane which is extended acrofs the bottom of the external tube and the labryinth or internal ear. It contains no fluid, as the labyrinth does; but is really a cavity, having a communication with the external air through a tube which leads into the fauces. The tympanum communicates alfo back- wards with the cells of the maftoid procefsf. The * See plate 8. fig. 3. •f When Valfalva, in a cafe of ulceration and caries on the maf- toid procefs, threw in his inje&ions, he found them flowing out by the mouth: viz. by the euftachean tube through the tympanum. See Val. de aure humana, p. 89. inner405 OF THE HUMAN EAR. inner extremity of the meatus externus forms a circle which is pretty regular, and upon which the mem- brane of the tympanum is extended. That part of the cavity of the tympanum which is oppofite to the ter- mination of the meatus externus, is very irregular. It has in it the foramen rotundum and the foramen ovale; and betwixt thefe, there is an irregular boney tuberofity from which there ftretch back fome exceed- ingly fmall fpiculse of bone, which connect themfelves with the margin of the irregular cavity of the mafloid procefs. The foramen ovale * is in the bottom of a deep finus; it is not ftriCtly of an oval form, but has its lower fide ftraight, while the upper margin has the oval curve. This opening leads into the veftibule or central cavity of the labyrinth. The foramen rotundum is more irregular than the oval hole. It does not look direCtly forward, like it, but enters on the fide of an irregular projection : it does not lead into the veftibule, but into one of the fcalse of the cochlea. In the recent ftate of the parts, the periofteum covering the furface of the cavity of the tympanum, takes away much of its irregularity. Where the tympanum leads backward into the cellule mastoidea, this periofteum is alfo continued. The eustachean tube! extends forward from the cavity of the tympanum, and opens behind the palate {. In the dry bones, the euftachean tube is * Feneftra ovalis. f Iter a palato ad aurem. t By fome older writers, the euftachean tube is called aquedudf, becaufe they conceived that tumors were evacuated from the tym- panum by this paflage. Vol. III. E e moreOF THE HUMAN EAR. 406 more like an accidental fiflure, than a regular paffage, effential to the ceconomy of the ear. It appears thus irregular in the bones from the tube being towards the back of the nofe, compofed of membrane and carti- lage ; as the tube approaches the opening behind the palate, it widens into a trumpet fhape; and the foft extremity of the tube is governed by mufcular fibres. There can be no doubt that the euftachean tube is defigned for admitting the free accefs of air into the cavity of the tympanum, that, by preferving a due balance betwixt the atmofphere and the air contained within the ear, the motion of tire membrane of the tympanum may be free. This, at lead, we know, that, when the extremity of the euftachean tube is clofed, we fuffer a temporary deafnefs, which can be accounted for only by the confined air wanting a due degree of elafticity to allow the vibration of the mem- brane of the tympanum. I conceive it to be neceffary, that the air in the tympanum be changed occafionally, which is, perhaps, accomplifhed by fome adions of the throat and fauces forcing a new body of air into the euftachean tube. The extremity of the euftachean. tube, next to the throat, may be temporarily ob- truded by the cynanche tonfrllaris, which is frequently attended with pain, ftretching from the throat to the car ; or it may be clofed by inflammation and adhefron of its mouth, by adhefron of the foft palate to the back of the fauces, by polypus in the nofe, reaching- down into the fauces and compreffing it* **. OF * The following cafe is from Valfalva:—■“ Quidam plebeiu# ** ulcus gerebat fupra ufulam inr finillra parte, quod quidem earn.OF THE HUMAN EAR. 407 of E e 2 OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANl. The membrane of the tympanum is extended over the circular opening of the bottom of the meatus ex- ternus. It has a little of an oval ihape, and lies over fomewhat obliquely, fo that its lower margin is further inward than the upper. Its ufe is, to convey the vi- brations or ofcillation of the atmofphere, collefted by the outer ear, inwards to the chain of bones in the tympanum. Although this membrane be tenfe, it is not ftretched uniformly like the parchment of a drum, but is drawn into a funnel-like lhape by the adhefion, of the long procefs of the malleus to its centre. It confifts of two layers of membrane, and has, naturally, no perforation in it; and the experiments of air and the fmoke of tobacco fent from the mouth through the ear, fucceed only in thofe who have had the membrane of the tympanum partially ruptured or eroded by ulcera- tion. This membrane is tranfparent; and when we look into the tube of the ear, and diredl a ftrong light into it, we obferve it to be of a Ihining tendinous appearance. The inner lamina of the membrana tympani is very vafcular. It has, indeed, been faid, to refemble the iris, both in its profufion of veffels, and in the manner if quam invaferat, partem exeferat atque abftulerat fie* ut ulceris “ cavitas cum extremo finiftrae tuba? orificio communicaret. Igitur “ quoties homo mollem turundam remediis imbutam in ulceri* “ cavitatem intrudebat; toties illico finiftra aure evadebat furdus, 4‘ talifque permanebat toto ex tempore quo turunda in ulcere relin- *' quebatur p. go.408 OF THE HUMAN EAR. of their diflribution *. This is carrying the conceit of their analogy too far. I have obferved an artery of a very large fize, (compared with the furface to be fupplied), running by the fide of the long procefs or handle of the malleus. In this courfe, it is giving out fmall branches; and Nwhen the trunk arrives at the extreme point of the long procefs of the malleus, it divides into two confiderable branches, the extreme fubdivifions of which run towards the margin of the membrane. This artery is, neverthelefs, too fmall to require us particularly to avoid it in the puncturing of the membrane for deafnefs, produced by obftru&ion of the euftachean tube. The opinions regarding the mufcularity of the mem- brane of the tympanum, Ihall be referved until we have confidered the whole mechanifm of the parts in the tympanum. OF THE CHAIN OF BONES IN THE TYMPANUM. The vibrations of the membrane of the tympanum are tranfmitted to the foramen ovale by four moveable bones'; the malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and ftapes. Thefe bones are named from their lhape, and the names affift in conveying an idea of their form. They are fo united by articulation and fmall ligaments, as to form an uninterrupted chain; and, while they tranfmit the vibration, their mechanifm is fuch, that they flrengthen the impulfe. They have alfo fmall mufcles # See Mr. Home’s ledure on the ftrudure and ufe of the mem. brana tympani. Phil. Traufad. Part I. 1800. attachedOF THE HUMAN EAR. 409 E e 3 towards attached to them, by which it is probable, the whole apparatus has a power of adapting the degree of tenfion to the force of the impulfe communicated to the mem- brane of the tympanum. 1 conceive that they encreafe the power of the ear for receiving the weaker founds, and are, at the fame time, a guard to the internal parts, from fuch violent {hocks as might injure the nerve. How neceffary it fometimes is to damp and fuffo- cate, in fome degree, piercing founds, we muff all be fenfible: and in thofe who are habitually expofed to the hidden eruption of found, the fufceptibility of the nerve is injured, and they become very deaf. We have, in a late publication, an example of this in blackfmiths, in whom, it is common to find a degree of deafnefs; and we frequently find old artillery-men quite deaf, from the long practice of their profeflion. The malleus * receives its name from a refem- blance to a hammer or mallet: .it is, in fome degree, like a bludgeon ; the great head hands obliquely off from the body of the bone, (if fuch it may be called), like the head of the thigh-bone. Anatomifts can fcarcely be blamed, if, in defcribing the proceffes of this bone, they forget the body. I fhould confider that part as the body of the bone which ffretches down from the circular margin of the tympanum, and is at- tached to the membrane, or what we fhould confider as the handle of the mallet. This part of the bone {lands at an angle with the head and neck; tapers towards the extremity, and is a little curved down * See plate 9. fig. 1. a.4*° OF THE HUMAN EAR. towards the membrane. From the larger end of the body of the bone there Hands out an acute procefs; and from the neck attaching the bulbous head to the body of the bone, there Hands out a very flender pro- cefs, which is often broken off. The great head of the bone does not form a regular ball to be focketed in the body of the incus; there are irregularities in the contiguous furfaces of both the bones. The incus * is the fecond bone of the chain ; it re- ceives its name from its refemblance to the blackfmiths anvil. It more relembles a tooth with two roots. On the furface of the body, it has a depreflion like the furface of the firH molaris. Into this depreflion of the incus the head of the malleus is received. The Ihorter of the two proceffes, and the body of the bone lie on the margin of the circular opening of the tympanum; and the acute point of this procefs is turned back into the opening of the maffoid cells. The long leg or procefs of the incus hangs down free into the tympanum f, and has attached to its point the os orbiculare. The os orbiculare is like a grain of fand, and is the fmalleff bone of the body: it is a medium of ar- ticulation betwixt the incus and Hapes. The stapes J or Hirrup is well named, for it has a very clofe refemblance to a ffirrup-iron j the little head is articulated with the os orbiculare: the arch of the bone is exadlly like that of the flirrup-iron, but elegantly grooved within, fo as to give lightnefs to the bone. The bafe anfwering to that part of the flirrup- * Sec plate 9. fig. 1. b. -f See plate 4. fig. 1. d. \ See plate 9. fig. 1. t. ironOF THE HUMAN EAR. 41 I iron upon which the foot refts, is not perforated, nor is it of a regular form, but is flat on one fide, corre- fponding with the foramen ovale. It is this bafe of the bone which is attached to the membrane ftretched over the foramen ovale, CONNECTION AND MOTION OF THESE BONES. The malleus hanging on that part which we have called the neck of the bone, has the long handle or body of the bone firetched down upon the membrane of the tympanum. It is, confequently, deftined to receive the ofcilations of that membrane. The head of the malleus is fo articulated with the incus, that the degree of motion communicated to that bone is much encreafed. From this fcheme, we fee, that the head of the malleus is fo articulated with the body of the incus, that the centre of motion of the incus is in a line E e 4 drawn412 OF THE HUMAN EAR. drawn through the centre of its body, and, confe- quently, that the extremity of the long procefs, to which we fee the os orbiculare and flapes attached, moves through a greater fpace than that which receives the impulfe of the head of the malleus. Thus, a very fmall degree of motion communicated by the head of the malleus to the body of the incus, mud be greatly encreafed in the extremity of the long procefs-of the incus, and, confequently, this mechanifm of the bones effentially affifls in giving flrength to the vibration which is tranfmitted inward to the feat of the nerve. The os orbiculare Hands fimply as a link of commu- nication betwixt the extremity of the incus and the upper part of the flapes, and its ufe is evidently to promote the accurate and perpendicular motion of this long lever of the incus upon the head of the flapes: for, if this bone had not been fo placed, the motion of the long lever of the incus mufl have given an obliquity to the impuife upon the flapes. The bafe of the flapes almofl completely fills up the foramen ovale. It is feated on a membrane which is flretched over the foramen The flapes, then, acts like a piflon on a membrane of much lefs circumference than that of the membiana tympani. From all which confiderations, we may learn how much, and how flrongly, the agi- tation of the air in the outer canal of the ear is en- * VaTfalva has the following obfervation ; fee page 24. Olim “ namque in ctijufdam furdi cadavere furditatis caufam in eo fitam “ inveni nempe quod indicata membi'ana in fubftantiam ofTeam in— “ durata, unum continuatum os condituebat cum bafi ftapedis et “ margine feneftrce ovalis.” creafed,OF THE HUMAN EAR. 4.T3 created, before it (trikes upon the fluids of the la- byrinth. OF THE MUSCLES WITHIN THE TYMPANUM *. ' The laxator tympani runs in a fiflure of the tem- poral bone on the outfide of the euftachean tube, and is inferted into the long procefs of the malleus. The tensor tympani f runs alfo by the fide of the euftachean tube; it is inferted into the body of the malleus; it is a long and flender mufcle. The exter- nal or fuperior J mufcle of the malleus, which is de- nied by fome anatomifts to be of the nature of mufcle, comes down from the upper part of the tympanum, and is fixed by a fmall tendon to the neck of the malleus. The stapedius |j is the fmalleft mufcle, and is at- tached to the fmalleft bone. It has a fmall round flefhy belly, taking its origin from the rough fide of the tympanum, and is inferted by a fmall round tendon into the head of the (tapes. As all thefe mufcles are inferted either into the malleus or (tapes, and not into the middle bone, it would appear that their operation is chiefly upon the membranes of the tympanum, and of the foramen ovale, through the medium of the bone immediately attached to them. * Mufculus-proceffus minimi mallei. Valfalva. ■f Mufculus proceffus majoris mallei. d Mufculus proceffus minoris. Valfalva. II This mufcle is particularly ftrong in the horfe, where it was firft difcovered by Cafferius. Mr.414 or THE HUMAN EAR. Mr. Home, in the Philofophical Tranfactions for 1800, afferts, that the membrana tympani is mufcular; that its fibres run from the circumference towards the centre; and that they are attached to the malleus. But, what is the fuppofed ufe of this mufcular membrane ? Mr. Home fays, it is principally by means of this mufcle that accurate perceptions of found are communicated to the internal organ; that it is by means of this mufcle that the membrana tympani is enabled to vary its degree of tenfion, fo as to receive the vibrations in the quick fuccefiion in which they arc conveyed to it. But we have feen, that the tenfion and relaxation of the membrana tympani is already fufficiently provided; for “ the malleus has three “ mufcles by which it is moved; one of them is called “ the tenfor, from its pulling the malleus inward and “ tightening the membrane of the tympanum; the <c other two act in an oppofite direction, and relax the “ membrane*”. We fhould naturally fuppofe this to be fufficient; but, according to Mr. Home, thefe mufcles adt only to bring the membrane into fuch a degree of tenfion, as to enable the minuter changes of the mufcular membrane to have their full effedt; and that the play of thefe mufcles gives the perception of grave and acute tones. But the more favourite idea of Mr. Home is, that, upon the accurate adjuftment of the membrana tym- pani, the difference between a mufical ear, and one which is too imperfedt to diffinguifh the different notes in mufic, depends ; that this judgment or tafte * Mr. Home’s Lecture. 18OF THE HUMAN EAR. 415 is owing to the greater or lefs degree of nicety with which the mufcles of the malleus render the mufcular membrane capable of being truly adjufted ; if the tenfion be perfed, all the vibrations produced by the adion of the radiated mufcle will be equally corred, and the ear truly mufical. Mr. Home proceeds upon the idea, that the mem- brane of the tympanum is like a mufical inftrument, or, as he expreffes himfelf, like a monochord ; but he is fundamentally wrong in fuppofing, that it requires a more delicate organ to be perceptible of mufical tones than of articulate founds or language. / In the firft place, we may require an explanation of the ufe of that mufcle which is inferted into the ftapes. This ftapedius mufcle would feem to have the fame ufe, and to affed that bone in the fame manner, in which the mufcles of the malleus affed it. Surely Mr. Home will not go fo far as to fay, that the mem- brana feneftrae ovalis is alfo mufcular. It may be further worthy of attention, in confidering this fubjed, that whatever affeds the membrane of the tympanum, affeds, alfo, the membrane of the veflibule; that, if the one be relaxed, the other is rendered tenfe, from the clofe connedion that exifts between them through the chain of bones. In the paper already quoted, the following cafe is given, as illuftrating the manner in which the lof$ of the natural adion of the mufcles affeds the ear, in regard to its capacity for mufic. A gentleman, thirty- three years of age, who poffeffed a very corred ear, fo as to be capable of Tinging in concert, though he' had never learned mufic, was fuddeply feized with a giddinefs4t6 OF THE HUMAN EAR. giddinefs in the head, and a flight degree of numb- nefs in the right fide and arm. Thefe feelings went ofF in a few hours, but on the third day returned; and for feveral weeks he had returns of the fame fen- lations. It was foon difcovered that he had loft his mufical ear; he could neither ftng a note in tune, nor in the fmalleft degree perceive harmony in the per- formance of others. For fome time, he himfelf thought he had become a little deaf, but his medical attendant was not fenfible of this in converfation. Upon going into the country, he derived great benefit from exercife and fea-bathing. In this cafe, continues Mr. Home, there appeared to be fome affeftion of the brain, which had diminifhed the a&ion of the tenfor mufcles of the membrana tym- pani, through the medium of the nerve which regu- lates their aftions ; this gradually went off, and they recovered their aftion. Another cafe is given of a young lady who was feized with a phrenzy which lafted feveral years, when, from being without a mufical ear, fhe came to fmg with tolerable corredtnefs, to the aftonilhment of her friends. Now, to me, the fymptoms of both cafes argue an affection of the brain, and of the nerves. It is more probable that the delicate auditory nerve fhould be aflfetted in fuch a difeafe, than that the portio dura fhould alone be affefted. We now proceed to put the incorre&nefs of this reafoning concerning the mufcular power of the mem- brane of the tympanum, in a more particular point of view. Mr. Cooper was led to pay particular attention 7 to417 OF THE HUMAN EAR. to the aftion of the membrane of the tympanum, from being confulted in a cafe where the membrane was loft with little injury to the function of the organ *. He found, that, inftead of the total annihilation of the powers of the organ, the gentleman was capable of hearing whatever was faid in company, although the membrane of both ears was deftroyed. He could even hear better in the ear in which no traces of the * Cafe. This gentleman had been attacked at the age of ten years, with an inflammation and fuppuration in his left ear, which continued difcharging matter for feveral weeks: in the fpace of about twelve months after the firft attack, fymptoms of a fimilar kind took place in the right ear, from which matter iflued for a confiderable time. The difcharge, in each inftance, was thin, and extremely ofFenfive to the fmell; and in the matter, bones, or pieces of bones, were obfervable. The immediate confequence of thefe at- tacks was a total deafnefs, which continued for three months; the hearing then began to return ; and, in about ten months from the laft attack, was reftored to the ftate in which it at prefent remains. Having filled his mouth with air, he clofed the notlrils, and con- traded the cheeks; the air thus compreffed, was heard to ruth through the meatus auditorius with a whiftling noife, and the hair hanging from the temples became agitated by the current of air which ifliied from the ear. When a candle was applied, the flame was agitated in a fimilar manner. Mr. Cooper than palfed a probe into each ear, and he thought the membrane on the left fide was entirely deftroyed, fince the probe jftruck againft the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The fpace ufually occupied by the membrana tympani, was found to be an aperture without one trace of membrane remaining. On the right fide, alfo, a probe could be pafled into the cavity of the tympanum ; but here, by conducting it along the fides of the meatus, fome remains of the circumference of the membrane could be difcovered, with a circular opening in the centre, about the fourth of an inch in diameter. SeeTranf. Roy. Soc. for 1800, Part I. p. 151. membrane4i8 of the human ear. membrane remained. This gentleman was only in a fmall degree deaf from the lofs of the membrane; but his ear remained nicely fufceptible of mufical tones, “ for he played well on the flute, and had frequently <e borne a part in a concert; and he fung with much “ tafte, and perfectly in tune.” This cafe puts afide, at once, that theory which fuppofes the mufical ear to depend on the minute play of the mufcles of the tym- panum- It appears, then, that the membrane of the tym- panum may be deftroyed, that the bones may be wafhed out by matter formed in the tympanum, and (till the patient retain the ufe of the organ. But this is only while the ftapes retains its place; for, if this bone be alfo deftroyed, the membrane of the foramen ovale will be deftroyed, and the fluids of the labyrinth be allowed to flow out, or be otherwife loft. We fee, that, if the chain of bones, and only a part of the membrana tympani be left, ftill this Aired of mem- brane, if it be not detached from the handle of the malleus, will vibrate in the air, and communicate thofc vibrations through the other bones to the veftibule. We fee, alfo, that though the bones only remain, and though they be detached from the membrane of the tympanum, the found will ftill be communicated. We fee, that a rupture of the membrane will not deftroy the organization fo far as to prevent the hearing, unlefs there follow clots of blood or inflammation, fuppura- tion, or fungus. When Mr. Cooper found that the membrana tympani could be torn without injuring the organ, he did not ftop fhort in his inveftigation: but as he foynd, by daily experience, that obftru&ion of < ' theOF THE HUMAN EAR.. 4I1) the euftachean tube caufed deafnefs, he thought of pun&uring the membrana tympani, as a cure for that kind of deafnefs. He expe&ed, by this operation, to give elafticity to the confined air. Accordingly, by pun&uring the membrane of the tympanum with a fmall trocar, he found, with much fatisfa&ion, that the hearing was inftantly reftored *. Valfalva made a good diftinction, when he faid, that the membrane of the tympanum was not abfolutely neceflary to hearing, but only, to perfect hearing. We have, in this fadt, the explanation of the follow- ing circumftance, amongfi: many others: 46 In naturali <c furditate a conformationis vitio inter tandum iftud “ experimentum, (viz. an officuli et membrana tym- “ pani aliquis fit ufus auditum), quod inopinato et “ feliciter fucceffit cuidam, qui intrufo auri fcalpio in i( aurem profund iffime difrupit tympanum, fregitque “ ofiicula et audivit.” Biolanus Encherid. Anal. lib. 4. c. 4. See alfo Bonetus de Anrium AffeEl. Obferv. IV. Willis alfo knew, that the deftrudtion of the membrana tympani did not deprive the perfon of hearing. Vid. de Anima Brutorum. ■§ 2. OF THE DISEASES OF THE TYMPANUM. Valfalva denied the exiftence of periofteum to thefe bones of the tympanum, while he allowed that ifhey * I am only-afraid that fuch pun&ures will not continue open, as in Valfalva’s experiments they healed up very foon. Bu$, when there is no other ingrefs and efcape to the air in the tympanpm, but through the punctured hole, it may tend to keep it open. had420 O? THE HUMAN EAR. had minute veflels diftributed on their furfaces: but thefe veflels he fuppofed to creep along the naked bone independently of any membrane. This, how- ever, is contrary to all analogy. Thefe bones, as well as the cavity of the tympanum, are covered with a very fine membrane or periofteum, which, after a minute injeftion, is feen covered with many fmall and diftinft veflels, as well as with intermediate extravaf- cular effufions of the inje&ion, as happens in injecting in other membranes. When the tympanum becomes difeafed, there is fetid matter collected, the membrane of the tympanum fullers, and the fmall bones are fometimes difcharged. In fuch a cafe, we have little farther to do than, by injections, to prevent the matter from accumulating. But, let us not confound this ferious caufe of deafnefs with the flighter fuppurations in the outer pafiage of the tube : although fuch fuppurations in the tube of the ear are apt, when negle&ed, to deflroy the membrane of the drum or tympanum, and to fpread difeafe to thefe internal parts. Authors make a difplay of the difeafes of the mem- brane of the tympanum under the titles rel^xatio, tenfio, nimia, induratio, and diruptio tympani *. We have feen how little rupture of the membrane affe&s the hearing, and may thence conclude, that thefe fan- taftic imaginings about tenfion and relaxation of the membrane deferve little notice. The idea of relaxa- tion of the membrane of the tympanum, I have no doubt, has arifen from the effe<3: of cold and moilt * See Du Verney de Ogano Auditus, p. 41. weather421 OF THE HUMAN EAR. weather in injuring the hearing ; but deafnefs from this caufe is not produced by relaxation of the mem- brane of the tympanum, but by fwelling of the mouth of the euftachean tube *. Induration of the membrane is lefs of an imaginary difeafe, fmce there are inllances of the membrane be- coming thickened by inflammation, or cartilaginous, or olfeous. The membrana tympani has been found to adhere to the extremity of the incus f. Indepen- dently of the want of elafticity, which fuch an adhe- fion muff produce, the mechanical effedts, the vibra- tion of the bones, is prevented, and a degree of deaf- nefs is inevitable. Fungous or polypous excrefcences from the glands in the outer paffage of the ear, prefs back and deftroy the membrane of the tympanum. In the cure of thefe by the knife, caultic, or ligature, there is much dan- ger of injuring the membrane. Fungous tumors projeft from the membrane itfelf. A ftroke upon +he head will caufe bleeding from the ear. This is often a fign of concuffion of the brain ; that is to fay, a Ihock fo fevere as to rupture the membrane of the * “ Relaxatio fit ab liumore fuperfluo qui membranam banc “ humedtat et fymptoma hoc communiter cum obftrudtione mea- “ tus ex tumore glandularum conjundtum eft, de qua jam fupra “ didtum eft : multum autem facit ad difficultalem audiendi in per- f( fonis qua: defluxionibus catarrhofis obnoxis funt et per eandem “ rationem auftri nebula: et aer pluvius auditum minuunt ut expeviri “ quotidie poflumus.” Du Verney loc. cit. p. 41. •f See the London Philofophical Tranfadlions for 1800, Part I. ?■ 5- VOL. Ill, Ff tympanum.OF THE HUMAN EAR. 422 a thin tympanum, will molt probably injure the brain *, after bleeding from the ear. Sometimes fuppuration follows f ; and blood flowing thus from the membrane of the tympanum, or other part of the ear, runs back into the cavity of the tympanum, and, filling it with coagulum, caufes deafnefs, by obllruding the free motion of the bones and membrane. Mr. Cooper, in a cafe of this kind, pundured the membrane, and, after a difcharge of blood which continued for ten days, the hearing was gradually reftored. It is fup- pofed by that gentleman, that the blood effufed be- comes, in fome inllances, organized, fo as to obliterate the tympanum caufing permanent deafnefs. I think it is more likely that the blood has, in fuch cafes, de- ftroyed the mechanifm by fuppuration. The danger in fuppuration and caries of the tympa- num is, that the difeafe may penetrate backward into the maltoid cells and labyrinth, or into the brain itfelf; for inflammation and fuppuration fo confined amongft the deep recedes of the bone, mull give great torture, and be apt to extend the mifchief to the brain, or throw out matter on the infide of the cranium, the efted of which mull be mortal. Such, I think, I have ieen to be nearly the efted of fuppuration deep in the ear. In a man who had been deaf for many years, and who was killed by a fradure of the lkull, I found the cells cf the temporal bones filled with matter, and * When Valfalva found the ventricles of the brain full of blood, and blood alfo in the tympanum, he fuppofed that the blood in the latter was derived from the brain through certain foramina which he difcovered. See p. 30. f See Valfalva, p. i6.OF THE HUMAN EAR. 413 a thin greenifh fluid lay betwixt the temporal bone and dura mater. Valfalva' gives us a cafe of injury of the head, in which the patient was relieved while the difcharge of pus by the ear was free; but he died when it was en- tirely fupprefled *. But, after fuch fuppuration as we fliould naturally think mud totally deflroy fo delicate an organization, we are fometimes agreeably furprifed with a gradual recovery of the function. This is owing to the nerve accommodating itfelf, or becoming fenfible to a lefs forcible impreflion, and by the ear acquiring new properties. I already mentioned, that the dellruftion of the mechanifm of the tympanum arofe fometimes from fuppurations beginning in the outward ear ; and we may fuppofe that the apparatus within the tympa- num, when partially hurt, is fometimes capable of being, in fome degree, replaced by a natural procefs ; of which, the following cafe from Valfalva is a remark- able proof. u I lately examined the ears of a woman whofe hearing had been much injured by an ulcer of the tympanum and caries of the fmall bone. I found the ear in which ihe was deaf without a membrana tympani, and the ftapes only remaining of the bones, and a fibrous mafs, like an excrefcence, in the tympanum. * Valfalva, p. 83. See alfo a cafe in Bonetus de Aurium Affefl. Obferv. I., and Gul. Ballonius Epid. et Ephem. lib. 2. p. 270. When the matter was fuppreffed, thtre came pain of the head, and weight, which yielded to no remedy ; on dilfe&ion, there was found an abfcefs within the fkull. In Bonetus loc. cit., a cafe is related, in which an ignorant furgeon comprelfed a fiftulous ulcer in the ear, and fo caufed the death of the patient. F f 2 But,4H OF THE HUMAN EAR. But, in the tympanum of the oppofite ear, I found the membrana tympani almoft entirely eroded ; fo that the malleus and incus were uncovered, and diftinctly feen. I could even obferve, that the long procefs of the incus, which lhould be articulated with the head of the ftapes, was feparated from it: but nature had curioufly re- ftored the eroded membrane. Thus, from the edge of the injured membrane, a new membrana tympani was obliquely ftretched acrofs the cavity of the tympanum, fo as to exclude the malleus and incus from that cavity, but including the head of the ftapes, as if nature, finding the feparated bones no longer neceflary, had attached the membrane to the head of the ftapes *. We have already remarked, that, when the organ of one fide is injured, we hear fo much better with the other, that we attend only to the fenfation conveyed by it,Tind neglect the duller fenfation. The confequence of this, is, that the bad ear becomes worfe. It is much like that effedt which takes place in eyes by fquinting. SECTION III. OF THE LABYRINTH. The labyrinth is the internal ear; the proper feat of the fenfe of hearing. It confifts of the veftibule or middle cavity ; of the femicircular canals ; and of the * See Valfalva de Aure Humana Tra£t. p. 79. In thofe deaf from birth, it has been twice found that the incus was wanting. Sec Bandits de Aur. Ajfed. Objerv. IV. cochlea.OF 'THE HUMAN EAR. 425 cochlea. It has its name from thofe cavities and tubes leading into each other in fo intricate a manner, as to be followed out with much difficulty. We underfland that the cavities hitherto defcribed in the human ear contain air, and communicate with the atmofphere: but, in the cavities we have now to defcribe, the nerve is expanded, and there is, in con- tad: with it, not air, but an aqueous fluid. In treating of this divifion of our fubjed, we have, firfl:, to attend to the forms of the cavities, as feen when fedions are made in the dry bones next to the foft parts contained in thofe cavities; and, finally, to the diftribution of the nerves. To give an idea of the exquifitely delicate and complex ftrudure of the many canals, excavations, openings, fulci and foveas, of the bones; of the tubuli, facculi, and partitions of the membranes; and, laftly, of the foft expanfions of the nerves, without the affiftance of plates, would be impoffible. Albinus, in his acade- mical annotations, begins very formally a chapter on, the ear ; but, after a few words, difmifles the fubjed, referring merely to his plates. The vestibule, or central cavity of the labyrinth, is of an oval form, and about a line and a half in diameter *. It has two remarkable pits or hollows in it, and has numerous foramina opening from it into the neighbouring cavities, befides lefler foramina for tranfmitting that portion of the nerve which is diftri- buted on the facs contained in it. One depreffion or fovea is in the back and lower part of the veflibule, an • other in the outer and fuperior part of it : the one is * Pu Verney CEuvres Anatomiques, F f 3 circular.426 OF THE HUMAN EAR. circular, the other femi-oval. Morgagni, and other anatomifls, examining the dry bones, fpeculated on. their ufe in reverberating the found in the cavity ; but we mull not regard them in this unnatural ftate: on the contrary, they contain in the living fubjedts mem- branous facculi filled with fluid, and have the nerve expanded upon them. That foramen over which the (tapes is placed, and which is called the foramen ovale, tranfmits the vibration into the veflibule. For the fora- men ovale opens diredtly into the veflibule, and through the veflibule, only, does the vibration of the bones in the tympanum reach the other parts of the labyrinth. Semicircular canals. When we have cut into the veflibule, by taking away th^it portion of the os petrofum which is behind the meatus auditorius inter- nus, we fee five circular foramina : thefe are the open- ings of the femicircular canals. There are three femi- circular canals ; and they are diflinguifhed by the terms, the fuperior or vertical, the poflerior or oblique, and the exterior or horizontal. The one which, in this view, is nearefl, is the opening common to the inner ends of the poflerior and fuperior femicircular canals. When v/e pafs a briflle into this common foramen, and diredt it upward, it paffes along the fu- perior femicircular canal, and will be feen to defcend from the upper part or roof of the veflibule, almofl perpendicularly on the foramen ovale, which is open, and immediately oppofite. If, again, we pafs a briflle into the foramen which is near the bottom of the ca- vity, (and which will be juft upon the edge of the fradlure that has laid open the veflibule, if not included in it), it will come out by the opening common to theOF THE HUMAN EAR. 42 7 fuperior and pofterior femicircular canal. It has paffed, then, along the pofterior canal. The two openings of the exterior or horizontal canal are upon the back part of the veltibule; and the canal itfelf takes a circle which brings its convexity to the confines of the maf- ,toid cells. Thefe canals are formed of a very hard brittle bone, their caliber is fo frnall as not to admit the head of a common pin ; they form fomewhat more than a half circle; and of each of them, one of the extremities is enlarged like the ampulula of fifties, Valfalva imagined that the enlarged extremities of thefe tubes were trumpet-like, to concentrate and flrengthen weak founds. We ftiall find, on the contrary, that there is in the human ear, as in fifties, a particular expanfion of the nerve in thefe extremities of the tube, oppofed to the circulatory vibration of the fluids in the canals. The cochlea. The third, divifion of the labyrinth is the cochlea. It is fo named from its refemblance to the fliell of a fnail, or from the manner in which its fpiral lamina turn round a centre like a hanging flair. It has been minutely, but not fimply, defcribed ; and, indeed, there can be nothing more difficult, than to defcribe it in words. When the os petrofum is cut from around the coch- lea, it is feen to be of a pyramidal fhape, and to con- fin: of a fcroll, making large circles at the bafe, and gradually leffer ones towards the apex. It is formed in the moll anterior part of the petrous bone, and has its apex turned a little downward and outward; and the bafe is oppofed to the great cul de fac of the inter- nal meatus auditorius, F f 4 TheOF THE HUMAN EAR. 428 The fpiral tube, of which the cochlea is compofed, forms two turns and a half from the bafis to the point; and it confiils of the fame hard and brittle matter with the femicircular canals. When the whole cochlea is cut perpendicularly in the dry date of the bones, and when the membranes have Ihrunk away or fpoiled, the Tides of the fpiral canal appear like partitions, and are, indeed, generally defcribed as fuch. In confe- quence of the fpiral tube of the cochlea having its Tides cut perpendicularly, the cochlea appears as if divided into three circular compartments or fucceffive ftages ; but there is really no fuch divifion; becaufe the fpiral turnings of the tube lead from the one into the other. ..\-.Xrrt7<r. 3.-L<tr>/rfu/ S'pirrrljs < .Jifrr7rs>7i/.\\ T> Jnfinidzlm 7ten1. What gives particular intricacy to the ftru&ure of this part of the labyrinth, is the lamina spiralis. 8 ThisOF THE HUMAN EAR. 429 the This fpiral partition runs in the fpiral tube of the coch- lea, fo as to divide it in its whole length ; and, in the frelh ftate of the parts, this lamina of bone is eked out by membrane, fo as to form two perfectly diftin6t tubes. Thefe tubes are the scalar cochleae ; they run into each other at the apex of the cochlea ; but at the bafe, the one turns into the veftibule, and the other opens into the tympanum by the foramen ro- TUNDUM. In the middle of the cochlea there runs down a pillar, which is the centre of the circumvolutions of the fcalae. It is called the modiolus. This pillar is of a fpongy ftrudture ; and through it the nerves are tranfmitted to the lamina fpiralis, and Tides of the cochlea. The modiolus opens towards the apex of the cochlea like a funnel; and when we take away the outward Ihell of the apex of the cochlea, which is called the cupola, we look into this expanfion of the upper part of the modiolus as into a funnel; it is therefore called the infundibulum. The infundibulum is that part which, in a perpendicular fedtion, we ftiould call the upper partition *. The fcalse or divifions of the fpiral tube of the coch- lea, have a communication at their fmaller extremities in the infundibulum; and as, again, their larger ex- tremities do not open into the fame cavity, but one into the veftibule, and the other into the tympanum, the vibrating motion, which is communicated through the cochlea, muft pafs either from the tympanum into f That is fuppofmg the cochlea to reft on its bafe.-43° GF the human ear. the foramen rotundum, circulate round the modiolus by the fcala tympani, pafs into the leffer extremity of the fcala veftibuli in the infundibulum, and circulate through it towards the bafe of the cochlea, until it pafs into the veftibule ; or it muft pafs from the fcala veftibuli into the fcala tympani. The firft is the opi- nion of Scarpa and others. But I truft it will after- wards appear, that the ofcillations of found are in the firft place conveyed into the veftibule, and thence cir- culate round both the femicircular canals and cochlea. In the dry bones, when we cut into the cochlea, there appears a fpiral tube, as I have defcribed; with a partition running along it, and, of courfe, taking the fame fpiral turns with it towards the apex. This is the boney part of the lamina fpiralis; but, as the membrane which extends from its circular edge quite acrofs the fpiral tube of the cochlea, has fhrunk and fallen away in the dry ftate of the parts, the lamina fpiralis is like a hanging flair, and the fcalae are not divided into diftindl paffages. In this bare ftate of the fhell of the cochlea, when we cut away the cupola or apex of the cochlea, and look down upon the infun- dibulum, we fee the extreme point of the lamina fpi- ralis rifmg in an acute hook-like point. The modiolus or central pillar, and the lamina fpiralis which encircles it, are of the moft exquifite and delicate ftru&ure; for, through them the portion of the feventh nerve deftined to the cochlea is convey- ed. To fay that the modiolus is formed of two central bones, is faying that there is no central column at all; or, that the modiolus is the cavity feen in the bottom of the meatus auditorius: and to affirm, at the fameOF THE HUMAN EAR. 431 fame time, that the modiolus is a nucleus, axis, or central pillar, is a contradi&ion in terms. When we break away the {hell of the cochlea, and break off, alfo, the fpiral lamina, we find the little funnel-like depreflion in the bottom of the meatus in- ternus reaching but a little way up into the centre of the cochlea.—We find this depreflion of the meatus auditorius internus perforated with innumerable fmall holes; and thefe foramina are fo placed as to trace a fpiral line, becaufe they give paflage to the nerves go- ing to the fpiral lamina, and mufl take the form of the diminifhing gyrations of the lamina fpiralis. In the centre of thefe lefler foramina, which are feen in the bottom of the great foramen auditorium internum, there is a hole of comparatively a large fize, which pafles up through the middle of the pillar. The mo- diolus is formed of a loofe fpongy texture, and refem- bles the turns of a cork-fcrew; and this fpiral direc- tion is a necefiary cpnfequence of the lamina fpiralis, being a continuation of the fpongy or cribriform tex- ture of the modiolus. Internal periosteum of the labyrinth. We find that the veftibule, the femicircular caiials, and cochlea, befides their foft contents, which we have yet to deferibe, have their proper periofteum, which, after a minute injection, appears vafcular; and this, as it has appeared to me, is particularly the cafe with the lafl: mentioned divifion of the labyrinth. I fee very confiderable veflels diftributed on the veftibule; par- ticularly, I fee their minute ramifications on the cir- cular fovea, while very confiderable branches are feen jto courfe along the femicircular canals. In the cochlea, I fee432 OF THE HUMAN EAR. I fee diftinft branches of velfels rifing from the root of the lamina fpiralis, and arching on the fcalae, to the number of ten in the circle ; and, after a more minute injection, I have found the oiTeous part of the lamina fpiralis tinged red, and the membranous part of a deep fcarlet *. We have obferved the meatus auditorius in- ternus to be a large oval foramen in the poflerior furface of the pars petrofa of the temporal bone. This tube tranfmits the feventh or auditory nerve. It is about live lines in diameter, but encreafes as it palfes inward ; and appears to terminate in two deep fovea, which are divided by an acute fpine. But the audi- tory foramen only appears to terminate in thefe fovea, for they are each perforated by lefler holes, which lead into the three divifions of the labyrinth, whilll a larger one conveys a portion of the nerve through the cavi- ties of the temporal bone altogether, and out upon the fide of the face. This larger foramen is in the upper part of the fuperior and lefler fovea. It firlt afcends to near the furface of the petrous part of the temporal bonef, and then defcends and turns backward and takes a courfe round the tympanum above the foramen ovale; and clofe by the pofterior femicircular canal. Its termination is the foramen llylo maftoideum J. * In a preparation before me, I fee a confiderable artery derived from the bafilar artery, and entering the meatus auditorius internus. From this trunk, I conceive that mod of thefe arteries which I have defcribed, are derived. -)- In the foetus, it becomes here fuperficial, ^ This the aqueduct of Fallopius, WhereOF THE HUMAN EAR. 433 Where this canal of the portio dura advances towards the furface of the pars petrofa, it is joined by a very fmall canal which extends from the videan hole on the fore part of the inclining face of the bone : again, after it has palled the tympanum, it is joined by a Ihort canal which receives the corda tympani, after it has palled the tympanum. The other foramen which is in the upper and idler fovea of the meatus internus, is rather a cribriform plate, as it is a deep pit with many foramina in it. Thefe lead into the vellibule, and form the macula cribrosa vestibuli *. In the inferior and larger fovea, we obferve feveral dark fpots, which, when more narrowly examined, are alfo diltinguilhed to be cribriform plates, or colledions of Idler foramina. We particularly obferve that conical cavity which is per- forated with many little pores for tranfmitting the nerve into the cochlea, and which we have already mentioned. From the form which thefe foramina take, this is named the tractus spiralis foraminolosus. Thefe foramina, after palling along the modiolus cochr leas, turn at right angles, and pafs betwixt the plates of the lamina fpiralis. Befides the tractus fpiralis foraminolofus, the bottom of the larger fovea has many irregular foramina, which are like cancelli: for very delicate fpeculse of bone Hand acrofs fome of them. There is a range of thefe foramina which ftretches from the tradus fpiralis. This may properly be called the tractus calthra- * See Scarpa, Plate VII., fig. i, m. TUSOF THE HUMAN EAR. 434 tus rectus * ; they do not lead into the veftibule, but into the beginning of the lamina fpiralis, where it divides the two fcalas cochleae, and turns the orifice of one of them, (by a beautiful curve), out into the tympanum. Nearer to the ridge which divides the two foveae of the meatus internus, there is a little pit which has alfo a cribriform plate (like that which is in the upper fo- vea, and is called macula cribrofa) ; oppofite to this point, the infide of the veftibule is rough and fpongy : it tranfmits a portion of the nerve to the facculus in * the hemifpherical finus of the veftibule f. OF THE SOFT PARTS CONTAINED IN THE LABYRINTH. Within the veftibule, femicircular canals, and coch- lea, there are foft membranes independent of the pe- riofteum. Thefe form facculi and tubes which contain a fluid, and have the extreme branches of the portio mollis diftributed among them. Betwixt the foft and organized facculi and tubes, and the periofteum of the ofieous labyrinth, a watery fluid is exuded. Sacculus vestibuli. The hemifpherical and femi-eliptical foveae which we have defcribed in the vefti- bule, contain, or at leaft receive partially, two facculi. The facculus which is in the hemifpherical cavity, re- ceives the moft convex part of the facculus veftibuli. This fac is diftended with a fluid, and is pellucid, and * Traclus fpiralis foraminulofi initium. Scarpa. •j* Scarpa. fills435 OF THE HUMAN EAR. fills the greater part of the veftibule ; for only a part of it is received into the fovea. It forms a complete fac, and has no communication with the other foft parts of the labyrinth, though lying in contact with the alveus communis, prefently to be mentioned ; and being furrounded with an aqueous fluid, it muff re- ceive the impreflions of found in common with them. Alveus communis ductuum semicircularum. This facculus lies in the femi-eliptical fovea of the vef- tibule, or, like the other facculus, is in part received into it. This facculus receives the extremities of the tubuli membranacei which lie in the femicircular ca- nals ; it is a little bag common to them, and connect- ing them altogether, as in fifhes: it is filled with fluid, and is fo pellucid, as to be diftinguiflied with much diffi- culty *. Upon prefling the common fac, or the am- pululae of the femicircular canals, the fluids are feen to circulate along the membranous tubes of the canals. Thefe two facculi in the veftibule lie together, and firmly adhere, but do not communicate ; yet, (as may be eafily imagined), they cannot be feparated without tearing the partition. Tubuli memeranacii. The tubuli membranacii are the femicircular tubes which pafs along the ofleous femicircular canals, and to which the latter are fub- fervient, merely as fupporting them. They are con- nected by means of the common alveus in the veftibule, and form a diftinCt divifion of the organ. * Froprio humore turgidus adeo tranflucet ut ablongum bullu- lam aeream mentiatur. Scarpa, p. 47, ItOF THE HUMAN EAR. 436 It was believed by anatomifts formerly, that the ofleous canals had the pulp of the nerve expanded on their periofteum. But we find, on the contrary, that the membranous tubuli do not touch the bones, but are connected with them by a tranfparent cellular membrane-like mucus. Each of the femicircular mem- branous tubes has one extremity fvvelled out into an ampulla of an oval form, anfwering to the dilated ex- tremity of thofe olfeous tubes which we have already described. Thefe ampulla; have the fame ftructure and ufe with thofe formerly mentioned in defcribing the ear in fillies. When the central belly of thefe tubes is punftured, both the ampulla; and the membranous canals fall flaccid. Befides thofe veflels which we have defcribed running along the periofteum of the cavities of the labyrinth, veflels alfo play upon the facculi and membranous tubes. The ampullae of the tubes are, in a particular manner, fupplied with blood-veflels *. In the cochlea there is alfo a pulpy membrane, independent of the periofteum; but of this I can fay nothing from my own difleftion. * “ Caeterum univerfum hoc canaliculorum membraneorum “ alveique communis machinamentum, fanguiferis vafis inftruitur, ic quorum crafiiora, circum'alveum communem, ferpentino incefiu, “ ludunt; crebra et conferta alia ampulla imprimis recipiunt ob “ quam caufam rubellx plerumque funt et cruore veluti fuffufas.” Scarpa, p. 47. Sect,437 feV OF THE HUMAN EAR. ! SECTION IV. OF THE NERVEi As the feventh pair of nerves arifes in feveral fafci- culi, they form what would be a flat nerve, were it not twilled into a cylindrical form, adapted to the fora- men auditorium internum. While thefe fafciculi are wrapped in one common coat, they are matted to- gether. In the canal, the nerve is divided nearly into tw'o equal parts* ; to the cochlea and to the veflibulum and femicircular canals. Thofe fafciculi, which are deftined for the veflibule, are the mod confpicuous; and on the portion deftined for the ampullse of the fuperior and external canal, there is fonned a kind of knot or ganglion. Before the auditory nerves pafs through the minute foramina in the bottom of the meatus auditorius, they lay afide their coats and become more tender and of a purer white colour; and, by being ftiil further fubdi- vided by the minute branching and divifions of the foramina, they cannot be followed, but finally expand in a white pulpy-like fubftance on the facs and am- pullae. We muft, however, recollect that there was a difference to be obferved in the apparent texture of thefe expanded nerves in the lower animals: we may obferve here, alfo, that part of the nerve which is ex- panded on the common belly or facculus tubulorum. * Of the portio dura we have already fpoken. Yet. III. G g isOF THE HUMAN EAR. 43 8 is fpread like a fan upon the outer furface of the fac, and has a beautiful fibrous texture; but upon the infide of the fac, upon which it is finally diftributed, it lofes the fibrous appearance. We muff fuppofe its final diflribution to be in filaments fo extremely minute, that we may call it a pulp j though by the term it muff not be underftood that an unorganized matter is meant. That part of the nerve which ftretches to the am- pullae, immediately divides into an opaque white mucous-like expanfion. Beyond thefe ampulla, there has been no expanfion of the nerve difcovered in the membranous tubes. The facculus veftibuli * is fupplied by a portion of the nerve which perforates the macula foraminulofa in the centre of the olfeous excavation, or that which receives into it part of the fac. This part of the nerve is expanded in a foft mucous-like white matter in the bottom and fides of the fac. A divifion of the nerve, as we have already ex- plained, pafles from the meatus auditorius internus through the cribriform bafe of the modiolus into the cochlea. Owing to the circular or fpiral form of the foramina when the nerve is drawn out from the meatus, its extremity appears as if it had taken the impreflion of thefe foramina from the extremities of the torn nerves preferving the fame circular form. Thefe nerves, palling along the modiolus and fcalae cochleae, are in their courfe fubdivided to great mi- * i. e. In oppofition to the facculus tubulorum. nutenefs.OF THE HUMAN EAR. 439 nutenefs. Part of them perforate the fides of the modiolus, whilft others pafs along betwixt the two plates of the lamina fpiralis, and out by the minute holes in the plates and from betwixt their edges. 'Laflly, a central filament paffes up through the centre of the modiolus, and rifes through a cribriform part into the infundibulum to fupply the infundibulum and cupola. Where the nerves pafs along the lamina fpiralis, their delicate fibres are matted together into a net- work. According to the obfervations of Dr. Monro, they are quite tranfparent on their extremities.OF HEARING IN GENERAL* 44® C H A P. V. OF HEARING IN GENERAL. When aerial undulations were, by the experiments on the air pump, firft proved to be the caufe of founds, philofophers looked no further to the ftrufture of the ear than to difcover an apparatus adapted to the re- ception of fuch vibrations. When they obferved the ftru&ure of the membrane of the tympanum, and its admirable capacity for receiving thefe motions of the atmofphere, they were fatisfied, without confidering the immediate obje&s of fenfation. In the fame way, an ignorant perfon, at this day, would reft fatisfied with the faft that found was received upon the drum £of the ear. But after fo minutely explaining the anatomy of the ear, it becomes us to take a general furvey of a ftrudture the moft beautiful which the mind can contemplate. We cannot fay that it furpafles in beauty the ftru&ure of other parts of the body: but the parts are adapted to each other, in a manner fo fimple, efficient, and perfedt, that we can better un- derftand and appreciate the harmony of their ftrutture than that of organs, which perform their fun&ions by qualities and actions almoft entirely unintelligible to us. We44* OF HEARING IN GENERAL# We fee that the external ear collects the vibrations of found as it moves in the atmofphere with circular undulation from the fonorous body : here we may ob- ferve, that where the neceffities of animals require them to be better provided with this external part of -the organ than man, the fuperiority is only in the hmple perception of found ; while man, from the per- fection of the internal organ, excels all animals in the capacity of the ear for articulate and mufical founds. From the external ear vre obferve, that the trumpet- like tube conveys the found inward to the membrane of the tympanum. Behind the membrane of the tym- panum, there is a cavity which, in order to allow of the free vibration of the membrane, contains air.— When this air is pent up, by the fwelling or adhefion of the euflachean tube, the elafticity of the air is diminilned, and the membrane prevented from vi- brating *. In the tympanum, we have feen that the operation of the chain of bones is to encreafe the vibration re- ceived upon the membrane of the tympanum, and to tranfmit it to the membrane of the foramen ovale. In the cavity of the tympanum we obferved two foramina, the foramen ovale and the foramen rotundum, both of which lead into the labyrinth ; but one of them (the foramen ovale) into the yeftibule, the other (the fora- men rotundum) into the fcala of the cochlda: now it be- * See Recherches, See. relatives a P organ e e’e Pome & a la propa- gation des Jovs, par M. Pcrolle, Societ. X. de Medecine, tom. in. G g 3 comes442 OF HEARING IN GENERAL. comes a queftion, whether the ofcillations of found pafs by one or by both of thefe foramina ? It is the opinion of many, that while the chain of bones receives the motion of the membrane of the tympanum, the motion of this membrane at the fame time caufes a vibration of the air in the tympanum which reaches the foramen rotundum, and thus conveys a double motion through the cochlea. In the labyrinth there is no air, but only an aqueous fluid : now this, we have feen, conveys a ftronger impulfe than the atmofphere; ftronger in pro- portion to its greater fpecific gravity and want of elaiticity; for an elaftic fluid like air may be com- prefled by concuflion, but an inelaftic fluid mull tranf- mit fairly every degree of motion it receives. But if the fluid of the labyrinth be furrounded on all fides; if, as is really the cafe, there can be no free fpace in the labyrinth, it can partake of no motion, and is ill fuited to receive the ofcillations of found. Againfl: this perfect inertia of the fluids of the labyrinth I con- ceive the foramen rotundum to be a provifion. It has a membrane fpread over it, fimilar to that which clofes the foramen ovale. As the foramen ovale re- ceives the vibrations from the bones of the tympanum, they circulate through the intricate windings of the labyrinth, and are again tranfmitted to the air in the tympanum by the foramen rotundum. Without fuch an opening there could be no circulation of the vibra- tion in the labyrinth ; no motion of the fluids com- municated through the contiguous facculi, nor through the fcalas of the cochlea; becaufe there would be an abfoluteOF HEARING IN GENERAL. 443 abfolute and uniform refinance to the motion of the fluids.—But, as it is, the provifion is beautiful. The membrane of the foramen rotundum alone gives way of all the furfaces within the labyrinth, and this leads the courfe of the undulations of the fluid in the laby- rinth in a certain unchangeable-direction. To me it appears, that to give a double dire&ion to the motion of the fluids, or to the vibration in the labyrinth, far from encreafmg the effect, would tend to annihilate the vibrations of both foramina by antagonizing them. The common idea is, that there is a motion communicated through the membrane of the foramen rotundum along the fcala tympani, and another through the foramen ovale into the veftibule, and through the veftibule into the fcala veftibuli; and that the concuflion of thefe meet in the infundibulum of the cochlea. But as there is no fpace for motion in the fluids in either the one or other of thefe tradts, the vibration muff have been re- ceived in the infundibulum at the fame time that the motion was communicated to the membranes of the foramen ovale and rotundum; for if a tube full of water, a mile in length, lofes one drop from the ex- tremity, there mull be an inftantaneous motion through the whole to fupply its place. The evident confequence of this double motion would be, (if they were of the fame ftrength) to fupprefs all motion or vibration in the fluids of the labyrinth. But we have lhown that the flrength of vibration communicated to the foramen ovale and foramen ro tundum are not the fame : for the mechanifm of the G g 4 bones444 of hearing in general. bones in the tympanum is fuch as to accumulate a greater force or extent of motion on the membrana ovalis, than is received upon the membrana tympani ;, therefore the greater vibration which is communicated through the medium of the air in the tympanum, can- not be fuppofed capable of oppofmg the ftronger vibration which circulates from the foramen ovale through the labyrinth, and returns by the foramen rotundum. Befides, the air in the tympanum has a free egrefs, and cannot therefore ftrike the membrane on the foramen rotundum forcibly. For thefe feveral reafons, I conceive that the follow- ing account of the manner in which the found is con- veyed is erroneous :—“ Et quo ad zonam cochleae <e fpiralem quoniam altera cochleae fcala in veltibulo iC patet, altera a fenestra rotunda initium fumit, <c atque earum utraque aqua labyrinthi repleta eft, et “ fcalae in apice cochleae ftmul communicant, zona. ■4 fpiralis inter duas veluti undas fonoras media, a 44 tremoribus per vafnn ftapedis, fimulque ab iis per 44 membranam fencftra rotunda adveclis utraque in ?4 facie perceliitur et una cum perciliis acauftici nervi ?4 per earn diftributis contremil'cit: quibus porro cm- f4 nibus, in ampullis videlicet canaliculorum femicir- 44 cularium, alveo eorum communi, facculo veftibuli f‘ fpherico et lamina cochleae fpirali acauftici nervi “ affeblionibus auditum contineri nemo non in- f‘ telligit As to the immediate feat of the fenfe of hearing, there cannot, after what has been explained regarding the dj- * Scarpa, p. 61. ftributioiiOF HEARING IN GENERAL. 445 flribution of the nerves, remain any controverfy; though before the ftrudure of the ear was fo well underftood, fome imagined that the veftibule, others that the middle part of the femicircular canals, was the feat of hearing; others, again, that the lamina fpiralis was better adapted for receiving the vibrations of found. It is evident that the foft expanfion of the nerve, in all the three divifions of the labyrinth, is deftined to receive the un- dulation of the contained fluids, and that this motion of the fluids gives to the nerve, or to the nerve and brain conjointly, the fenfation of hearing. Since we have, in fome meafure, traced the flrudure of the ear from the animals of a Ample flrudure to thofe of a more complicated organization, and have obferved fome parts of the ear common to all animals, fome peculiar to certain orders ; and fince all have the fenfe of hearing, more or lefs accute, it becomes natural to enquire what are the parts of the organ the moft eflential to the mere perception of found, and what parts conduce to a more perfed Hate of the fenfe. All the external apparatus of the ear is not neceflary to give the animal the Ample perception of found.— There are many clafles of animals altogether without them, and even in man we fee that they are not ab- folutely neceflary ; Ance when deprived of them by difeafe, man ftill enjoys the fenfe. He is deprived of no eflential variety of the fenfation; he is capable of perceiving the diftindions of articulate found; and Hill poflefles his muAcal ear. The external apparatus of the ear, the membrane of the tympanum, the little bones, and even the external ear, only receive, con- centrate.446 OF HEARING IN GENERAL. centrate, and encreafe the tremors of the external air, and render the flighter impreflions audible. It would appear, that the fimple fac’ of the veflibule is fufficient to receive the impreflion in fome animals, and that in many the veftibule and femicircular canals form folely the organ of hearing. It is evident, there- fore, that thefe are the molt efiential parts. We fee alfo an intention in the ftridt fimilarity of figure and place in thefe canals through all the varieties of animals* from fifhe's to man. It would feem to indicate, that there is in their form and pofition a peculiar pro- vifion for the ofciliation of found producing the full effect. We find, however, that the cochlea is imperfedt in birds; and that it is fully formed only in man, and in quadrupeds: we muft, therefore, conclude, that it is fubfervient to the more exquifite fenfations. I do not conceive that the cochlea or any part of the organ particularly conduces to the, bellowing of a mufical ear, although it is by hearing that we are capable of the perceptions of melody and harmony, and of all the charms of mufic ; yet it would feem, that this depends upon the mind, and is not an operation confined to the organ. It is enjoyed in a very different degree by thofe whofe fimple faculty of hearing is equally perfefl *. Even after ftudying, with all diligence, the ana- tomical flru&ure of the ear, we cannot but be aftonifhed with the varieties to be found in the fenfation; for ex- * See Reid’s.Enquiry. ample;OF HEARING IN GENERAL. 447 ample:—“ The ear is capable of perceiving four or “ five hundred variations of tone in found, and pro- “ bably as many different degrees of flrength ; by com- “ bining thefe, we have above twenty thoufand fimple tc founds that differ either in tone or flrength, fup- pofing every tone to be perfect. But it is to be ob- “ ferved, that to make a perfedt tone, a great many “ undulations of elaflic air are required, which muft “ all be of equal duration and extent, and follow one <e another with perfect regularity ; and each undula- <c tion mufl be made up of the advance and recoil of “ innumerable particles of elaflic air, whofe motions <{ are all uniform in direction, force, and time. Hence “ we may eafily conceive a prodigious variety in the “ fame tone, arifing from irregularities of it occafioned “ by conflitution, figure, fituation, or manner of ftrik- <c ing the fonorous body ; from the conflitution of the “ elaflic medium, or its being difturbed by other “ motions; and from the conflitution of the ear itfelf f( upon which the impreffion is made. A flute, a violin, a hautboy, a French horn, may all found the <c fame tone, and be eafily diflinguifhable. Nay, if £c twenty human voices found the fame note, and with “ equal flrength, there will flill be fome difference. IC The fame voice, while it retains its proper diflinc- “ tions, may yet be varied many ways: by ficknefs ‘6 or health, youth or age, leannefs or fatnefs, good or <( bad humour. The fame words, fpoken by foreigners sC and natives, nay by different provinces of the fame nation, may be diflinguifhed * Reid’s Enquiry, p. 98. That44$ OP REARING IN GENERAL^ That this variety of fenfation does not entirely de- pend upon the ftructure, but is the operation of the fenfe and intellect conjointly, appears from the long experience which is requifite to give this perfection. Nature is bountiful in providing the means of fimple and acquired perception, but the latter is the refult of long experience and continued effort, though we have loft the feeling of ks being originally a voluntary effort.DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 449 CHAP. VI. ©F THE DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. Op all the caufes of deafnefs, that which proceeds -from an organic difeafe of the brain is, of courfe, the moft dangerous. In apoplectic affections, with faul tering of fpeech and blindnefs, deafnefs is alfo pro- duced by the general affe&ion of the brain. But worft of all is the cafe where a tumor of the brain, or betwixt the cerebrum and cerebellum, compreffes the origin of tfie nerves *. I have, however, obferved, that a tumor in the vicinity of the origin of the auditory nerve, though it ran its courfe fo as to prove fatal, had rather a contrary effed on the organ of hearing j and while the pupil of the eye remained flationary, and the man faw indiflinClly, he had a morbid acutenefs of hearing. This had probably been produced by the furrounding inflammation having extended to the origins of the au~ * Vidit Clariff. Dom. Drclincurtius Tumorem fleatomatis con- fiftentia pugnique magnitudine, cerebrum et cerebellum inter, eo praecife loco ubi conarium utvique fubfteritur choroidis plexus ala, fpatio femeitri a fenfibili laefione, csecitatem primo, furditatsm fub- inde, omnium denique fenfuum et funftionum animalium aboliti- onem et necem ipfam intuliffe.” Bonet. vol. i, p. 123. ob. 33. In Sandifort Obf. Anatom. Path. tom. i. p. 116. there is an in- flance in which the auditory nerve had a cartilaginous tumor ad- hering to it. ditory45© DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. ditory nerves. The auditory nerve often becomes morbidly fenfible, and the patient fuffers by the acute- nefs of perception, or is diftrefied with the tinnitus aurium, which is, in this cafe, analogous to the flafties of light which fometimes affedt the eye in total dark- nefs, and which thofe experience who are totally blind or have cataradt. So morbidly acute does the fenfation fometimes become, that the flighted motion of the head will excite a fenfation like the ringing of a great bell clofe to the ear *. With delirium, vertigo, epi- lepfy, hyfteria, the encreafed fenfibility of the organ becomes a fource of painful fenfation. In apopledtic affedtions, with faultering of fpeech and blindnefs, there is alfo deafnefs; becaufe the affedtion of the brain is general. With a paralytic date of the mufcles of the face, there is deafnefs of the correfponding ear, if the affedtion of the nerve be near the brain; which is explained by the ftridt connedtion betwixt the auditory nerve and the nervus communicans faciei. From obferving the courfe of the nervus communicans faciei through the temporal bone, and its connedtions in the tympan'um, we under- ftand why, in violent tooth-ach and in the tic douleu- reufe, we find the euftachean tube and root of the tongue affedted. The ear is fometimes affedted by fympathy of parts: for example—from foulnefs of the ftomach and bowels; and the fame reafon may be * F. Hoffman. Confult. et Refponf. Caf. xxxix. We muff not, however, take his reafoning after what we have feen of the ftructure of the ear, that the vifcid petuita, feparated in the concha, cochlea, and labyrinth, refolved into halitus endeavouring to efcape, pro- duces the fufurrus et tinnitus aurium. aflignedDISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 45I afligned for the complaint of hypochondriacs, that they are molefted with flrange founds. And in the cafe of inteflinal worms, we find the patient complaining of murmuring and ringing in the ears *. Of the organic djfeafes of the labyrinth, there is little on record. It would appear, that the fluids become often fo altered in their confidence as to prove an abfolute deftru&ion to the organ. Mr. Cline found in a perfon deaf from birth, that the whole labyrinth was filled with a fub- flance like cheefe. A difeafe of the auditory nerve, like that of the retina in the gutta ferena, is no unfrequent com- plaint f. We ought, at all events, before propofing any ope- ration on the ear, to obferve whether the difeafe be not in the feat of the fenfe, and fuch as will not yield to any practice ; otherwife, as in the more important ope- rations when done in circumflances which preclude the poflibility of fuccefs, the public is imprefled with its ;n- efficacy and danger, and we are precluded from giving relief on occafions more favourable for our operations. Deafnefs, in acute fever, is a good fign ; becaufe, fay authors, it argues a metaftafis of the morbific matter. We fhould rather fay, becaufe it argues a dimi- * Hoffmann. Med. Confult. Boerhaave. The fympathy is fomeiimes exerted in another way:—“ Ex mufices tonitru aut fola “ meatus auditorii externi contrediatione, vomitus urinae inGon- “ tinemia.” Sauv. f Dyfecoea (atonica) fine organorum fonos tranfmittentuun vitio evidente. Cullen. Cophofis Sauv. Cophofis a Paraafi dif- tinguitur ut amaurofis ab ombljopla refpedliva. Sauv. 9 nuticn452 DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR* nution of the morbid fenfibility of the brain*. But the fur- charge of the veflfels of the brain or of the auditory nerve will alfo produce deafnefs and unufual fenfations in the ear : as in fuppreflion of the menfes and haemorrhoids* in furfeit, &c. in which cafes it is often preceded by vertigo and head-ach. There occurs a very curious inftance of analogy betwixt the ears and eyes in the following cafes :— <c A certain eminent mufician, when he blew the Ger- man flute, perceived at the fame time the proper found of it and another found of the fame rythm or meafure, but of a different tone. His hearing feemed thus to be doubled. It was not an echo ; for he heard both founds at one and the fame moment: neither were the founds accordant and harmonious, for that would have been fweet and pleafant to his ear. Having for feveral days perfifted in his attempts, and always been fliocked with this grating found, he at lafl: threw his flute afide. The day before the firfl; became fenfible of this ftrange affec- tion, he had imprudently walked in a very cold and damp evening, and was feized with a catarrh in the right fide- Whence, probably, it arofe that the natural tone of that ear was altered: the found appeared more grave, and diffonant from that received by the left ear. Having recovered from the catarrh, the diftind hearing of hii ear was reftored.” * But the difficulty of knowing when the deafnefs is the refult of difeafe, or malconformation in the parts tranfmitting the found to the nerve, and when in the brain and nerve, has led to more uncer- tainty and confufian with regard to the fpecies and varieties of the diforders of the ear than in the eye j where the tranfparency «f the humors affilt in the definition. I SauvageDISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 453 Hh Vol. III. Sauvage, who relates this cafe, fubjoins another :— Very lately,” fays he, “ a foreigner came for advice in a fimilar fituation. He complained that when any perfon fpoke to him, he heard the proper found of the voice, and at the fame time another found accompany- ing it an oftave higher, and almoft intolerable to him. As it muft have happened that if the accompanying found had preferved the true odtave above the voice, and been fynchronous with it, the ear would have re- ceived them as one found, and been pleafed with their concord: it is probable that the accompanying found was not in unifon with the true. Sauvage, vol. iii. P* 352*2 . cavities OF THE NOSE AND THE ORGAN OF SMELLING. OF THE SENSE OF SMELLING. Smelling feems to be the leaft perfect of the fenfes. It conveys to us the fimpleft idea, and is the leaft fubfervient to the others. The fenfations it prefents to us we can lefs eafily recall to me- mory ; and the affociations conne&ed with it are lefs precife and definite than thofe of the fenfes of hearing and feeing. Animal and vegetable bodies, during their life, growth, putrifa&ion, and fermentation, and, mod probably, all bodies whatever, are perpetually giving out effluvia of great fubtlety. Thofe volatile particles repelling each other, or being diffufed in the atmof- phere, are inhaled by the nofe, and convey to the pituitary membrane of the nofe the fenfation of fmell. Immediately within the noftrils, there are two ca- vities feparated by tile boney partition, which has been already defcribed in treating of the bones. ThefeOF THE SENSE OF SMELLING. 455 cavities enlarge as they proceed inward, and open backward into the throat, and, confequently, commu- nicate with the mouth. They extend upward and Tideways into the Cells of the bones of the face ; and the petuitary membrane is much extended over the furfaces of thefe winding paffages, and over the ir- regular furfaces of the nofe, formed by the project- ing cartilages of the cethmoid and lower fpongy bones; which, alfo, have already been fufficiently defcribed. The cavities of the nofe lead into many cells in the bones of the face, which, if not fubfervient to the organ, afflfl in giving vibration and tone to the voice. The cavities of the nofe are continued upwards into the frontal fmufes, and into the cells of the cethmoid bone; backward and upward into the fphenoid fmus ; and upon the Tides into the antra higmoriana or Tinufes of the upper maxillary bones. The membrane covering the furface of thefe bones is called the membrana scfineideriana, the mu- cous or pituitary membrane. It is of a glandular ItruCture, pr is lubricated by the mucus difeharged by the folicules on its furface. This fecretion on the furface of the membrane, is to defend its delicate and fenfible ftrugture from the effects of the air, rwhile it preferves the fenfibility of the furface and the delicate expanded nerve. It Teems of a nature to allow the effluvia to penetrate it. It appears to me, that a very particular provifion has been made againft the too powerful effect of fmells while the membrane is inflamed, and, confequently, in a ftate of great fenfibility. When the membrane is Ii h 2 inflamed,45^ OF THE SENSE OF. SMELLING. the: inflamed, the fecretion is fo altered, that the effluvia do not penetrate fo as to effedt the nerve in its ftate of extreme fenfibility. We have already defcribed the courfe of the firft pair of nerves or the olfactory nerves, and alfo thofe branches of the common nerves which are diftributed to the membrane of the nofe. Thefe, it were fuper- fluous to recapitulate here. It was fuggefled as the moft probable opinion, that the olfactory nerve alone is fubfervient to thefe parts confidered as the organ of fmelling, and that the adventitious branches fupply merely the common fenfibility which the nerves be- llow promifcuoufly over the body. This fenfible and nervous membrane, and this glandular and fecreting membrane, is extremely vafcular, as it is natural a priori to fuppofe ; and this vafcularity, this glandular flru&ure, and its expofed ftate, makes it liable to frequent difeafe: and, when difeafed, when tumors and polypi form in it, we mult never forget the ex- treme thinnefs and delicacy of the furrounding bones, which, when they are either prefled upon by tumors, or have their membranes eroded, are foon totally deflroyed. It is with manifeft defign, that the organ which fo particularly admonifhes us of the effluvia, diffufed in the air we breath, fhould have been placed in the entrance to the canal of the lungs. It is, in fome meafure, a guard to the lungs, as the fenfibility of the tongue guards the alimentary canal. That the humidity of the membrane either preferves the fenfibility of the nofe, or is a folvent, in which the effluvia diflblving affect tip nerves, is evident* forOF THE SENSE OF SMELLING, 4$? 5 Hh the fenfe is loft when the membrane becomes dried. The fenfibility is alfo affeCted in various ways by too abundant a mucous difcharge, or by an altera- tion of its natural properties; by the infarction and thickening of the membrane, as in ozaena; by ob- structions preventing the current of air through the npfe, as in polypi,The BOOK IV, OF THE MOUTH, SALIVARY GLANDS, AND ORGAN OF TASTF. CHAP. I. OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. A lthough it is not necelfary to fay, that the mouth is “ betwixt the nofe and chin,’* that -c there are lips cc ferviceable to the purpofes of fpeaking, eating, and “ drinking;” though it be not neceffary to lay it down circumftantially, that there are cheeks on the face, and a tongue in the mouth ; yet is there much important anatomy, and very ufeful knowledge necef. fary to be acquired here. Of the tongue, it is only neceffary to obferve its form, and the terms ufed in its defcription. The body of the tongue confifts of the mufcular fibres, with in- termingled fat and cellular membrane ; and the mufcles which chiefly compofe it, are the linguales, flylogloffi, and geniogloffi mufcles.op THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 459 H h 4 The The base of the tongue is connefted with the os hyoides. The furface applied to the roof of the mouth is the dorsum ; and on this furface there is to be obferved a middle line, dividing the tongue into two lateral portions ; a divifion which is very accurately preferved in the diftribution of the blood-veffels and nerves of either fide. On the dorfum, towards the bafe, the furface is rough with the papilla maxima and foramen cacum of * Morgagni. Thefe papilla are like fmall glands feated in little fuperficial foflula, fo that their broad mulh- room-like heads alone are feen ; but they are connected with the bottom of the folfula by fhort Hems or necks. This is altogether a glandular apparatus. The foramen cacum is, in truth, only an enlarged apparatus of the lame kind, for, in the bottom of this foramen, many glandular papilla Hand up; and in its bottom fmall foramina have been obferved, which are generally con- ceived to be the mouths of fmall falivary dufts *. This fecreting mucous furface begins here, towards the toot of the tongue, to referable the glandular ftrufture of the cefophagus, which, by bedewing the furface of the morfel, fits it for an eafy palfage through the gullet. In this roughnefs of the root of the tongue, there feems to be a provifion for the detenfion of the fapid particles, and the prolonging of the fenfations of tafte. * Vater, who inje&ed thefe du£is, found them terminating in a gland near the os hyoides ; and his opinion was, that they had eren a conne&ion with the thyroid gland. Heifter was of the fame opinion.460 OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. The papillae peculiar to the human tongue, arc divided into four dalles. 1. Thefe larger papillae upon the root of the tongue are the truncatae; and they are often ftudded on the dorfum of the tongue in a trian- gular form. 2. The fungiformes are obtufe papillae found more forward on the tongue; they are little hemifpherical tumid papillae, or of a cylindrical fhape, with an obtufe apex. Thefe are interfperfed among the 3d. divifion, the moft numerous and universally prevalent papillae, viz. vilofi or conicae. 4, The more important papillae, however, are thofe which are endowed with peculiar fenfibility to fapid bodies ; they are to be diftinguifhed by their [Superior red* nefs and briliancy upon the point and edges of the tongue. The tongue is inverted with the cuticle and rete mucofum, like the fkin in other parts. The lowey Surface of the tongue is Similar to the general lining membrane of the mouth being a villous and Surface. It is reflected off upon the botto mouth. It forms here the frenulum linguas. This ligament feems evidently intended to limit the motion of the point of the tongue backwards. I believe a very fall'e opinion has much prevailed, that the fhort- nefs of this ligament, or its being continued too far forward toward the point of the tongue, prevents the child from fucking. The tongue, as I conceive, would fufficiently perform the neceflary adtion on the mother’s nipple, although its lower Surface were univerfally ad- hering to the bottom of the mouth. But, obferve the bad confequences which may arife from cutting this frenulum. Secreting 1 of theOF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 46I the frenulum, from the obftinate importunity of the nurfe, or the weaknefs of a furgeon. The ranine vein or artery which runs near it may be cut, and the child will continue fucking and fwallowing its own blood ; and children have actually died, and the ftomach has been found diftended with blood! But there is another more dreadful accident from this cutting of the frenum lin- guae. A child, fays Mr. Petit, whofe frenum had been cut almoft immediately after its birth* was fuf- focated, and died five hours afterwards. They be- lieved that the operation was the caufe of the child’s death ; they fent for me to open the body. I put my finger into its mouth, and I did not find the point of the tongue, but only a mafs of flelh, which flopped up the paflage from the mouth into the throat. I cut up the cheeks to the mafeter mufcles, to fee what had be- come of the tongue; I found it turned like a valve upon the fauces, and the point aftuallyTwallowed into the pharynx. “ Some time after,” continues Mr. Petit, <e I was called to the child of Mr. Varin, Sellier du Roi, whofe frenum they had cut two hours after its birth, and who, a little after, had fallen into the fame fitua- tion with the child I have now mentioned, and was nearly fuffocated. My firft care was, to introduce my finger, the tongue was not, as yet, entirely reverfed into the throat. I brought it back into the mouth j in doing which, it made a noife like a piflon when drawn out of its fyringe.” Mr. Petit waited to find the eflfedl of its fucking, and, after hearing the adlion of deglu- tition for feme minutes, the child fell again into the fame ftate of fufibcation- Several times he reduced462 OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. the tongue, and, at laft, contrived a bandage to pre- ferve it in its place j but, by the carelefinefs of the nurfe, the accident recurred, and the child was fuffo* cated during the night.OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 463 CHAP. II. OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 1 he fources of the faliva are very numerous; the parotid glands or fuperior' maxillary gland, and focia parotidis; the inferior maxillary or fubmaxillary glands; the fublingual glands ; and, (according to the opinion of many), the glandular folicules of the root of the tongue: the palate, and even the buccinales and labi- ates, or glands of the cheeks and lips, are alfo to be enumerated, as fources of faliva. The parotid gland, as its name implies, is that which lies near to the ear. It is the larged of the fa- livary glands; and it is of much importance for the furgeon to obferve its extent and connexions. A great part of it lies before the ear, and betwixt the ear and jaw. It extends over the mafeter mufcle, and upward to the zigoma. But there is alfo a great part of it which lies below the tip of the ear, and betwixt the angle of the jaw and the malloid procefs. Its furface is unequal, and compofed of little maffes or lobules of gland, united by a cellular membrane. The duX of this gland was difcovered by Needham, and afterwards by Steno : it is very often called Steno’s duX. When it is injeXed with quick-filver, the branches are feen diftributed in a mod beautiful and minute manner amongd the lobuli of the gland, and fimilar to the branching464 6? YHE SADlVA&Y GLANDS. branching of veins. Thefe branches have a diredion upward, and unite into a trunk, which pafles from the upper part of the gland acrofs the cheek over the origin of the mafeter mufcle : it then pierces the buccinator mufcle, and opens upon the inner furfac.e of the cheek, oppofite to the fecond or third dens molaris. This dud has ftrong white coats ; but, although the mouth of the dud is very fmall, the dud itfelf is delatable to a great fize, fo that tubes of a confiderable fize have flipt into it, and been buried in the body of the gland. The soCia parotiDis is a fmall gland, (which, however, is by no means conftant), feated on the upper fide of the dud of the parotid gland, and juft Under the margin of the cheek-bone. It opens by a lefler dud into the great dud of Steno. Sometimes, how- ever, inftead of one confiderable gland, there ate fe- veral fmall ones, feated in the courfe of the great dud, and opening into it by feVeral ihinute duds. Of THE SttfiMAXtLLAkY ANb StiBLlNGbAt glands. The fubmaxillary gland is of a regular oval figure; it lies On the tendon of the digaftric tnufcle* and is defended by the angle of the lower jaw, Whil6 it is generally conneded with, or involves the toot of the focial artery. It is regularly lobulated; and its dud pafles forward between the geniogloffus and my- lohyoideuS, and under the fublingual gland. Thd Openings of the fubmaxillary duds, or duds of Whar- ton, are very eafily diftinguilhed. They open very near each other on each fide of the frenum linguae, very near the gums of the dentes incifivi; fo that they appear as if tied down by the frenum. When thefe areOF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 465 are excited to difcharge their fluids, they become a little ere&ed, their patent mouths are feen diflin&ly, and the tortuous courfe of their canal in the bottom of their mouth may be obferved. The sublingual gland is of a flat and elongated form; it lies clofe under the tongue between the genio* hyo-gloflus and mylo-hyoideus mufcles. It is the fmalleft of the three great falivary glands. The two fublingual glands firetching clofely under the tongue, they are feparated from the mouth only by the mem- brane of the mouth. They have no large du6t, but open by fmall lateral dufls, with loofe pendulous mouths upon the lower furface of the tongue. Befides the lefler glands, which every where are found under the lining membrane of the mouth, Heifter, Verdier, and M. de Bordeu, have defcribed a glandula molaris, feated betwixt the buccinator and mafeter mufcles. From the general furface of the lips, tongue, cheek, and palate, there is a fluid exhaled. This exhaling furface, and all thofe glands, are excited to adlion by the fame ftimulus with the membrane of the mouth. The faliva moiflens the furface of the mouth, aflifls in manducation, and preparing the food to be fwallowed and afled upon by the flomach, and accelerates digef- tion. As the mouth is an exhaling furface, fo is it an imbibing and abforbing furface.465 VELUM PALATINUM. CHAP. III. VELUM PALATINUM; UVULA; ARCHES OF THE PALATE; AND AMYGDALAE. T. he velum pendulum palati is the vafcular and flefhy membrane, which, hanging from the bones of the palate, divides the mouth from the fauces and throat. It is not a fimple membrane, but has betwixt its laminae many glands, which open upon its furface by little patent folicules, and is thickened and ftrength- ened by mufcular fibres: fo that it is more of a flefhy partition, firetching backward and eking out the palate, than a hanging membrane. The edge of the velum palati is not fquare, but turned into elegant arches; and, from the middle of the arches of the palate, hangs down the uvula, fo named from its refemblance to a grape. It is a large, foft, and glandular papilla, peculiarly irritable and moveable, having in it mufcular fibres, and hanging from the moveable foft palate. It feems to hang as a guard over the fauces, and, by its fenfibility, in a great de- gree governs the operation of thefe parts. The arches of the palate or fauces defcend on each fide from the velum palati. They are muf- cular fibre*, covered with the foft vafcular and folicu- lar membrane of the fauces *. There are two on * See vol. I. Conftri&or Ifthmi faufcium and Palato-pharyngeus. eachARCHES OF THE PALATE. 467 each fide. Thefe arches hand at fome diftance from each other, fo that the iflhmus of the fauces refembles the double-arched gateway of a citadel, or the arched roof of a cathedral, with the uvula hanging as from the central union of four femicircular arches. Iig,20. f Vu/ff 4' nif/s/st/a - ■ ' T/tr Lhrfrrmr . Ire7/ Jh-r7> 'falla/e Behind the foft palate is the opening of the nofe back- ward into the throat. Now, the ufe of the velum is that in fwallowing it may be drawn up like a valve upon the pofterior opening of the nofe; and there being, at the fame time, an attion of the arches of the palate, the whole is brought into a funnel-like ihape, directing the morfel into the pharynx and gullet. In this adlion, the direction of the food aflifts, but, in vomiting, the valvular-like a&ion of the velum is not fo accurate; and often the nofe is alfailed with the contents of the ftomach. amygdalae. Under the velum palati, and betwixt the arches of the palate on each fide, lies a large oval gland of the fize and lhape of an almond. Thefe are the tonfils or amygdalae. The amygdala is a mucous gland:468 .AMYGDALAE. gland : it is loofely covered with the inverting mem- brane of thefe parts : its furface is feen, even in a living perfon, to be full of large cells like lacunae; thefe com- municate ; and the lefier mouths of the duds open into them. , The gland is of a foft relaxed nature, adapting itfelf to the extenfive motion of thofe parts. From this naturally Ioofe texture, and from its being a vafcular and fecreting body, expofed to the immediate viciflitudes of weather, it is often inflamed, and greatly impedes the adion of the furrounding mufcular fibres in the adion of deglutition. The ufe of the amygdala is evidently to lubricate the paffage of the throat, and facilitate the fwallowing of the raorfel; and, for this reafon, are the mouths of its duds cellular and irre- gular, that they may retain the mucus until ejeded by the adion of deglutition. In this operation, the amygdalae are aflifted by numerous lefler glands, which extend all over the arrhes of the palate anti pharynx. But thefe are parts which come again to be recapitulated, as introdudory to the account of the ftrudure of the cefophagus and ftomach, in the fucceeding volume.OF THE SENSE OF TASTING. 4^9 Vol. III. Ii to C II A P. IV. OF THE SENSE OF TASTING. On the furface of the tongue are to be obferved erefi papillae. In thefe the extremities of the guftatory nerve are expended, and they are the feat of the ienfe of tailing-. Thefe papillae are in the true {kin of the tongue, and are extremely vafcular. They are covered by the rete mucofum, and a very fine cuticle, and indeed they have much refemblance to the papillae of the (kin ; while, betwixt thefe papillae, there is a fleece or down bearing a perfect analogy to the vili of the {kin. The papillae, which are the organs of tafte, are to be feen on the point and edge of the tongue, and confifc of a pretty large vafcular foft point which projefls from an opaque and white {heath. If we take a pencil and a little vinegar, and touch or even rub it flrongly on the furface of the tongue, where thofe papillae are not, the fenfation only of a cold liquid is felt; but when you touch one of thefe papillae with the point of the brulh, and at the fame time apply a magnifying glafs, it is feen to Hand erefl and rife confpicuoully from its {heath, and the acid tafte is felt to pafs as it were backward to the root of the tongue. The exquifitely fenfible papillae are placed only on the point and edge of the tongue; for the middle of the tongue is rough, and fcabrous, notA-JO OF THE SENSE OF TASTING. « 4 to give the fenfation of tafte, but to force the fapid juices from the rnorfel, or break down the folids againft the roof of the mouth, and affifl in their folution. The more delicate and vafcular papillae would be expofed to injury if fituated on the middle of the tongue. Before we talfe, the fubitance diffolved in the faliva flows over the edges and point of the tongue, and then only comes in contact with the organ of tafte. It would appear, that every thing which affefts the tafte muft be foluble in the faliva ; for without being diffolved in this fluid, it cannot enter readily into the pores and inequalities of the tongue’s furface. A curious circumftance, in the fenfe of tafte, is its fubferviency to the aft of fwallowing. When a morfel is in the mouth and the tafte is perfeft, our enjoy- ment is not full: there follows fuch a ftate of excite- ment in the uvula and fauces, that we are irreftftibly led to allow the morfel to fall backward, when the tongue and mufcles of the fauces feize upon it with a voracious and convulfive grafp and convey it into the ftomach.—The meafure of enjoyment is then full. This laft fhort-lived gout is the acme. Were not this appetite of the throat and uvula connefted with the action which" impells the food into the ftamach, the complete enjoyment of the fenfe of tafte alone would preclude the brutal refource of the Roman feafts: but as it is, the connection of the ftomach and tongue is fuch, that the fullnefs of the ftomach precludes the further enjoyment of the fenfe of tafte. The fenfes of fmelliag and tafte have their natural appetites or rcliih y but they have alfo their acquired appetites, or delightOF THE SENSE OF TASTING. 471 delight in things which to unfophifticated nature are difagreeable: fo that we acquire a liking to fnuff, to- bacco, fpirits, and opium. “ Nature, indeed, feems ftudioufly to have fet bounds to the pleafures and pains we have by thefe two fenfes, and to have confined them within very narrow limits, that we might not place any part of our happinefs in them ; there being hardly any fmell or tafle fo difagreeable that ufe will not make it tolerable, and at laft, perhaps, agreeable ; nor any fo agreeable as not to lofe its relifh by conftant ufe. Neither is there any pleafure or pain of thefe fenfes which is not introduced or followed by fome degree of its contrary which nearly balances it. So that we may here apply the beautiful allegory of the divine Socrates: That although pleafure and pain are contrary in their nature, and their faces look different ways, yet Jupiter hath tied them fo together, that he who lays hold of the one draws the other along with it.” I i 2BOOK V. OF THE SKIN AND OF THE SENSE OF TOUCH.- OF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN. By the fenfe of touch we perceive feveral qualities, and of very different kinds: hardnefs, foftnefs, figure, folidity, motion, extenfion, and heat and cold. Now, although heat be a quality, and cold the privation of that quality, yet in relation to the body, heat and cold are diflind fenfations. But in a more precife accepta- tion of the term, the fenfe of touch is faid to be the change arifing in the mind from external bodies ap- plied to the fkin, and more efpecialfy to the ends of the fingers. To underfland the organization adapted to this fenfe, we mufl premife, in a fhort view, the ftrudure of the fkin. OF THE SKIN. The fkin is divifible, by the art of the anatomifl, into four laminae or membranes, diflind in texture and appearance as in their fundion or ufe, viz. the cuticle, , ^ , ©rOF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN. AJ^ I i 3 the or epidermis; the corpus mucofum, or reticular tiffue; the cutis vera dermis, or true fkin : but from this lad there is feparated a vafcular membrane, below which is the organized furface of the true fkin. The cuticle or epidermis, or scarf skin, is the mod fuperficial lamina of the fkin: it is a tranf- parent and infenfible pelicle which ferves, in fome degree, to refill the impreffion of external bodies on the furface of the body, and, to blunt the other- ways too acute fenfation of the cutis vera. In man it is very thin, unlefs in thofe parts which are expofed to the contact of hard bodies, as the palms of the hands and foies of the feet. The thicknefs of the cutticle there, however, is not altogether the effed of labour and walking, but there is even in the foetus a provifion for the defence of the fkin in thefe places. This is particular, that by labour or continued preffure on the cutticle it does not abrade and become thin and tender, but thicker, harder, and the part more in- fenfible, fo as even to acquire a horny hardnefs and tranf- parency. Of this we have an example in the hands of fmiths, and in a remai kable manner in the feet of thofe who have been acculcomed to walk bare-foot on the burning lands. It is thus a protedion in a date of nature; but when the foot comes to be unnaturally pinched in fhoes, the hard leather works perpetually on a point of the toes, excites the formation of cutticle in the fkin below, which thrown outward by fucceed- ing layers of cutticle, at lad forms a corn or clavus, and which, like a fmall nail, has a broad head with a conical point fnooting into the tender fkin. The cutticle is perforated by the extremities of the perfpiring and abforbing veffels, and by the duds of474 of touch and of tiif. skin. the glands of the fkin. Indeed, when the finall pores of the fkin or foramina are examined narrowly, the cutticle is feen to form fheaths which enter into them, and which, when torn out, are like little tubes having a perforated point. When, by maceration, the cutticle is feparated from the fkin, as we draw it off we fee little proceffes of the cutticle, which enter into the pores of the ikin, Mr. Cruickfhanks enumerates three claffes of pro- ceffes : there appear evidently two. The firft lines the pores through which the hairs pafs: thefe are the longed, and generally have the longed: diameter. The fecond clafs is eafily diftinguifhed on the inlide of the cutticle, which covers the palms of the hands or foies of the feet, or indeed on any part of the cutticle; and they appear in regular order on thofe parts of the cutticle which correfpcnd with the parallel or fpirai ridp-es of the cutis. The furface of the cutticle is uniform O next the fkin; but, on the outer furface, it is rough and fquamous. Thefe fquamrn are the portions of the cutticle, which, breaking up, are rubbed off; and thus there is a perpetual change, by the formation of new cutticle under the old, and the abrafipn or difquamatiou of the old furface* In youth, the cutticle is thin and tranfparent; ill old age, it becomes thick, rough, and furrowed: deformem pro cute pellcm Pendenteifcjue gena's et taleis adfpice rugas Qualeis umbriferos ubi pandit tabraca faltus In vet ubi fealpit jam mater fimia bucca. • ‘ TheOF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN. 475, The nails are naturally connected with the cutticle, for they remain attached to it, and feparate from the true fkin by maceration and beginning putrefaction. The nails are to give firmnefs and refiftance to the points of the fingers. Although they take a -very univerfal adhefion, it is chiefly from the root that they grow and fhoot out to the point of the fingers, to which they adhere firmly. Over the root of the nail the cutticle projects, and under it the rete mucofum is extended ; and under this, and defended by it, are the papillae of the fkin alfo. Like the cutticle, the nails are without veffels or fenfation : they are undergoing a perpetual growth, and are worn down by labour. When cherifhed, they grow to an amazing length, and curve a little over the points of the fingers; and ferve, in fome nations, as a moft unequivocal fign of perfect idlenefs and confequent gentility, fince the fingers become abfolutely ufelefs. By difeafe, I have feen very large crooked horns pro- jecting from the fiool of the nail of the toes. They were thus monftroufly encreafed by fuperimpofed laminae Ihoved off by the more recent ones. V OF THE HAIRS. The hairs grow from a bulbous root, feated in the cellular membrane. This bulb is vafcular, and has connexion, by veffels, with the cellular texture. It confifts of a double membrane ; the outer is a land of capfule which furrounds the other, and Hops at the pore in the flan, and does not form part of the hair, r I i 4 Betwixt476 OF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN’. Betwixt thefe capfules, there is a cellular tifiue, and the fpace is commonly found filled with a bloody fluid. In the bottom of the inner fac, there is a fmail body, called monticule by Buyerney, from which the hair is feen to arife ; and if this is left when the bulb of the hair is pulled out, the hair will be regenerated. The root of the hairs, fays Mr. Window, is covered by a rtrong white membrane, which is connected with the {kin and cellular membrane. Within the root, there is a kind of glue, fome fine filaments of which advance to form thp flem which pafles through the (mail e tremity of the bulb to the fkin. As the {lem pafles through the root, the outer membrane is elongated in form of a tube, which clofely inverts the ftem and is entirely united with it. And many authors agree, that the hair does not perforate the cutticle, but takes from it merely a vagina which accompanies it. RETE MUCOSUM, The rete or corpus mucofum, lies betwixt the cutticle and the furface of the true {kin. It is a mucous layer, pervaded by the little fibrillre pafling betwixt the fkin and cutticle. I confider it as a foft bed to envelope and preferve the papillae of the flcin, and as intended to become cutticle in due fucceflion. It was confidered, by Albinus, as of a nature adapted to imbibe the fluids through the cutticle, and as a production of the epi- dermis. M. Meckel believed it to be only a mucous fluid, infpiflated into the form of a membrane; and that it was diflfolved by putrefaction, while the fkin and cutticle remained firm. If is the feat of colour in theOF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN. 477 fkin, and is of a white tranfparency in the albino, and in the inhabitants of temperate climates. It is black in the negro ; copper coloured in the mulatto ; yellow in the Egyptian. It is fuppofed to preferve the negro from the heat of the climate; but I conceive that the power of refilling the baneful effects of warm climates, mull be looked for in other conllitutional peculiarities: for certainly a furface which abforbs the light mull pro- duce heat more rapidly than a white one, which repels it. The ladies know that the effed of a black veil, in in- tenfe fun-lhine, is to fcorch the cheeks. The rete mucofum changes its lhades of colour in Europeans, from the effed of light, and sometimes makes changes in the conllitution, as in the colour of the areolae ■which furround the nipple. While the rete mucofum has its peculiar ufe of de- fending the delicate furface of the papillae of the lkin, I conceive it to be undergoing a perpetual change ; to be thrown off in fucceflion from the vafcular furface of the lkin, and in its turn to form the cutticle by its outer layers. The inner furface of the rete mucofum is fofter and more pulpy, the outward furface more allied to the cutticle, which gives occafion to Mr. Cruicklhanks to fay it is double. Under the rete mucofum and on the furface of the fkin, there is a foft vafcular membrane, which is Hill above the porous and glandular true kin. It was firlt demonllrated by injedions in fubjeds who had died of fmall-pox, and is alfo fo much ftrengthened by other in- flammatory adions of the veffels of the lkin, as to be ca- pable of demonftration. It was at firft fuppofed that this vafcular47$ OF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN. vafcular membrane was the rete mucofum fuccefsfully injedted ; but afterwards it was found, that this vafcular membrane exided independently of the rete mu- cofum *. Mr. Cruickfhanks conceives that it is cutticle in its date of formation, and that the rete mucofum is in fact a cutticle advancing to the date of perfect ma- turation. But I fhould rather believe that this is a vafcular furface, not changeable, nor lofing its vafcu- larity to be thrown off in form of rete mucofum; but, in itfelf, the organized furface, which is to form the rete mucofum, and which excretion does in fucceffion become cuticle. This vafcular furface of the Ikin, for fuch I mud fuppofe it, although it be capable of being feparated by long maceration and putrefa&ion, into fomething like a didinft membrane, is the feat of the fmall-pox pudule, and probably of many other cuta- neous difeafes. There are three laminae above the true Ikin, dif- tinguifhed by their character ; the cutticle, the rete mu- cofum, and the vafcular membraxie : but as fome have divided the rete tnucofum into the lamina, Mr. Cruick- fhanks has feparated two vafcular layers from the fur- face of the fkin. They, who are fond of fuch minute fubdivifions, may thus enumerate five laminae or mem- branes, before coming to the porous furface of the q-ue fkin. * Mr. Baynham, who difeovered this vafcular fin face, conceived that he had injected the rete mucofum. We are to find the further elucidation of this piece of anatomy from Mr, Cruicklhanks. •r OFOF TOUCH AND OF THE SKIN, 479 OF THE TRUE SKIN. The true fkin is the denfe, elaftic, and vafcular mem- brane which is under thefe outer laminae, already treated of. While it has firmnefs, flrength, and elaf- ticity to defend the body ; it is alfo an organized fur- face, as important in its function and the healthy action of the fyftem depending upon it nearly as clofely as on the adion of the lungs and furface of the inteftines. The fkin is denfe on the outer furface, while the in- ternal layers are loofe, and gradually degenerate into the cellular fubflance. On the lips, eye-lids, &c, the fkin becomes thin and tranfparent. We have to attend to the pores and vili of the fkin : on narrowly obferving the furface of the fkin, we find it irregularly porous. Thefe are the duds of febaceous glands, which are lodged in the fkin. They tranfmit the hairs alfo, and are the perfpiring and, probably, the abforbing pores; or, at leaft, within thefe larger pores it is probable the abforbing and tranfpiring veffels ter- minate. Thefe pores are moft remarkable about the nofe, mouth, palms of the hands, and foies of the feet, into thefe pores of the true fkin, as we have mentioned, little (heaths of the cutticle enter, and through thefe (heaths the perfpiring matter muft confequently efcape. But, in death, the action of the perfpiring veffels ceaf- ing, the pores of the cutticle are no longer pervious to the fluids, and there is no perfpiration or exudation through them. The vili of the fkin projed above its furface, like the pile of velvet. Tfyey vary much in fize, and are, in fome480 OF TOUCH AND OF THE *KIN. fome places, very much prolonged. They condud the fenfible extremities of the cutaneous nerves to form the organ of the fenfe of touching ; and, like the papillae of the tongue, they fuffer an eredion and excitement preparatory to the reception of the impreffion.Plate V. />J. tZIxsir'/cidp* I JHibltthcd ,/br Longman J"'eb'r24.xSoa .EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE V. Fig. i. The eye with the cornea cut away, and the fclerotic coat differed back #. a. The optic nerve. b. The sclerotic coat differed back, fo as to fhow the veffels and nerves of the choroid coat. c c. The ciliary nerves feen piercing the fclerotic coat, and paffing forward to be diftributed to the iris. d. A fmall nerve paffing from the fame fource to the fame deftination, but appearing to give off no branches. / * See Zinn, Tab. ir. ee. Two482 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. ee. Two of the ven^e vorticose. f. A point of the fclerotic coat through which the trunk of one of the veins had pafied. g. A leffer venous trunk. h. The orbiculus ciliaris of Zinn j the ciliary liga- ments of others. i. The iris. k. The ftreight fibres of the iris. l. A circle of fibres or veffels which divide the iris into the larger circle k, and the leffer circle m. m. This points to the lelfer circle of the iris. n. The fibres of the leffer circle. o. The pupil. Fig. 2. A diffe&ion of the coats of the eye, as they ap- peared when hung in fpirits. a. The OPTIC NERVE. b. The sclerotic coat folded back. c. The choroid coat hanging by its attachment to the fclerotic coat. D. The veffels of the retina feen as they appeared fufpended in the fluid; the medullary part of this coat being wafhed away. ExplanationjPubliflu3. Jor LoH'/ttum &tMcc* FitbirT4:,l8oii.4S3 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES Explantion of Plate VI. Fig. 1. The lens covered with its capfule, and" minutely injected in the foetus calf. A. The ARTERIA CENTRALIS RETINAS. b. The fringe remaining with the margin of the lens from the attachment of the veifels of the ciliary body* Fig. 2. This figure {hews the-attachment of the capfule of the lens to the membrana pupillaris, in the foetus calf. a. The capfule of the lens very minutely injected; the lens has been allowed to efcape, and the membrane hangs by its attachment to the mem- brana pupillaris. B. That part of the capfule which covers the fore part of the lens; in which, not a veffel is to be feen. c. The membrana pupillaris, very minutely in- jected. d. The iris, to the circle of which, the membrana pupillaris is feen to be attached, and, confe- quently, to clofe the pupil, E, The CILIARY PROCESSES, Fig. 3484 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.- Fig. 3. The ciliary processes, the iris, and membrana pupillaris, as they appear in the human foetus of the feventh month. Fig. 4. The appearance of a veffel which took its courfe acrofs the pupil in the full grown foetus, indicating, that the membrana pupillaris was hill prefent, although it had become pellucid. Fig. 5. A feftion of the optic nerve, to (how its great de- gree of vafcularity. a. The body of the nerve quite red with injection* b. The coat of the nerve. Explanation of Plate VII* Fig. 1. The reprefentation of an eye with a cataraft, dif- fered. a. The cornea cut from the fclerotic coat, and hanging by a Hired. B. The.2EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 485 Kk Vol. Ill, Fig. 4. B. The SCLEROTIC COAT. c. The iris. d. The opaque lens or cataract, it is feen to have formed an adhefion with the iris. Fig. 2. This figure reprefents the effe& of couching a foft catara£t. The needle, inftead of deprefling the ca- taract, cut it into three pieces. a a. The cut edge of the sclerotic coat. b. . The choroid coat, and ciliary processes. c. The cataraft adhering to the ciliary proceiTes in three diftinft pieces. Fig. 3. This figure reprefents the place into which the couching needle mull be introduced. a. The pupil feen through the tranfparent cornea. b. The iris. c. The needle, with the handle elevated, fo as to deprefs the point. D. The lens and point of the needle in outline ; this reprefents the pofition of the lens when depref- fed : to complete the operation, it mull be car- ried a little back before withdrawing the needle.EXPLANATION' OF THE PLATES. 436 Fig. r. Fig. 4. A fcheme, Viewing the bad effect of introducing the needle near the margin of the cornea. a. The VITRIOUS HUMOR. b. The LENS. c c. The ciliary body j on the lower part, torn by the needle. d d. The iris. e. The anterior chamber of the aqueous humor. Fig.. 5. Shows the fituation of the cataraft when depreffed. a. The anterior CHA?iBEr of the aqueous humor. b. The posterior chamber of the aqueous humor. c. The iris. d. The vitrious humor occupying the feat of the lens. 2. The depreffed lens or cataract. - Explanation of Plate VIII. Showing fome varieties in the ftrufture of the ear m the lower animals. //‘laze IEXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 487 , K k 2 b. The Fig. 1. The ear of the lobfter. At The membrane which covers the proje&ing mouth of the (hell containing the organ of hearing. b. A tranfparent pulp or vehicle, upon the bottom of which, the web of the nerve is expanded. C, The infide of the fhell containing the organ, which is, of courfe, reprefented broken open. / Fig. 2. This ieprefents a little bone which is fufpended in ContaCl with the pulp of the nerve, and which is feen but imperfectly in the firft figure. a. The bone. b. An elaftic membranous, or rather, cartilaginous fubftance, by which the bone is fufpended. Fig. 3. The head of ,a haddock with the bones broken up, to lhew the brain and femicircular canals. a. The BRAIN. B. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. Fig. 4. The organ of hearing taken out and difplayed. a. The SACCIJLUS vestibuli.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES, c. The b. The boney concretion which lies within, and which, by its vibration, encreafes the impulfe. c. The auditory nerve palling to be diftributed on the facculus vellibuli, and the extremities of the feinicircular canals. r D d. The three semicircular canals. S. One of the extremities of the femicircular canals in which the branch of the nerve is feen to be expanded. p. A leffer divifion of the auditory nerve. Fig. 5. The head of a frog with the {kin taken off; and we now fee the cavity of the tympanum in this animal, over which the common integuments of the head fpread tenfe, fo as to anfwer the purpofe of the membrana tympani. a. The point of a little elaftic bone which is attached behind the tenfe integuments, and receives their vibration. Its further connexions are feen in the next figure. Fig. 6. A magnified view of the internal flruXure of the frog’s ear. a. The find bone, which is attached to the Ikin. 3. The fecond bone, which has its inner extremity enlarged fo as to fill up the foramen ovale^ which leads into the inner cavity of the ear.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 489 c. The great inner cavity of the ear of this animal, anfwering to the veilibule of the more perfect ftrufture. jd. A chalky concretion which lies within this cavity. Fig. 7. The head of a ferpent. a. A bone conne&ed with the lower jaw. b. A bone which pafles from the integuments (be- hind the large bone a) to the opening into the cavity of the ear, and which, of eourfe, receives and conveys the vibration of found into the cavity which contains the expanded nerve. Fig. 8. The head of the land tortoise. a. A large fcale which ferves the ufe of the mem- brana tympani. B. A fmgle bone which is feen to pafs through the cavity of the tympanum; it is attached by an elaftic brufh of fibres to the fcale a, and is en- larged to a head upon its inner extremity. This, filling up the foramen of the inner cavity, con- yeys the vibration. Plate490 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 2. The Explanation of Plate IX. In this plate, the anatomy of the bones of the hu- man ear is explained. Fig. i. We have here the bones which form the chain be- twixt the membrane of the tympanum and the mem- brane of the foramen ovale. a. The malleus, b. The incus. c. The stapes. d. The..os orbiculare which forms the articulation betwixt the incus and ftapes, Fic-. 2. In this figure, we have a view of the infide of the ? O ' 7 ' , v j temporal bone, the petrous portion being broken away : we fee the cavity of the tympanum, the mem- brane of the tympanum, and the chain of bones. a. The groove for the lodgement of the lateral finus, b. The hole in tee fphenoid bone for the pafiage of the artery of the dura mater. c. The petrous portion of tf-e temporal bone. d. The irregular cavity of the tympanum laid open by the breaking off of the petrous part of the temporal bone, St.Plate IX Fl# 4- -Fiff- 3• ^ *■♦ *EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 49! E. The mbmbrane of the tympanum clofmg the bottom of the meatus auditorius externus. F. The malleus, the long handle of which is feen to be attached to the membrane of the tympa* num e. р. The incus, united to the great head of the malleus f. H. The stapes, which is feen to be articulated with • the long extremity of the incus through the in- tervention of the os orbiculare. Fig. 3. Shows the divifion of the temporal bone into the fquamous and petrous portions. Fig. 4. A. The squamous part of the temporal bone. £. The circular ring, which forms the meatus auditorius externus in the child. с. The zigomatic process. p, Cells, which afterwards enlarge into thofe of the maftoid procefs. Fig. 5. The petrous portion of the bone, with a view of the tympanum. The cavity of the tympanum. b. Mastoi®492 * EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES, f. The is. Mastoid cei ls. d* The foramen ovale, into which the ftapes (fee fig. 1. c. and fig. 2. h.) is lodged. e. 'ihe more irregular opening of the foramelt ROTUNDUM. Fig. 6. Reprefents the labyrinth of the human ear, with the folid bone which furrounds it cut away. A. The FORAMEN OVALE. b. The three semicircular canals, d. The COCHLEA. S. The tube, which condu&s the portio dura of the feventh pair through the temporal bone. Fig. 7. Explains the manner in which the lamina fpiralk divides the cochlea into two fcalse, and the opening of the one fcala into the common cavity of the vefti- bule, and the termination of the other in the foramen rotundum. a. The bone broken, fo as to fhow the cavity of the tympanum. B. The FORAMEN OVALE. c. Cellular ftrufture of the bone. D. The FORAMEN ROTUNDUM. £. One of the scal>t of the cochlea, which is feen to terminate in the foramen rotundum.L I'n/'U*•//', i nr longmaii kite ft Jclfu. 160'j. Fig 1 Fig. 2. V). F. /zaw /eu{/L\‘ ■EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 493 i. The The other fcala, which is feen to communicate with the veftibule. Explanation of Plate X. Thefe two figures are taken from the beautiful plates of Profeffor Scarpa, and illuftrate the foft parts contained within the offeous labyrinth, and the diftri- bution of the nerves. Fig. 1. There is feen the membranous femicircular canals, their common belly, and the diftribution of the acauftic or auditory nerve. a. The ampulla of the fuperior membranous femi- circular canal. b. The superior membranous semicircular canal. c. The ampulla of the external membranous canal. d. The other extremity of the external canal. e. The ampulla of the pofterior membranous femi- circular canal. f. The POSTERIOR semicircular canal. g. The common canal of the fuperior and pofterior canal. h h. The f&c common to the membranous femicircu- lar canals, viz. the alveus communis.494 Explanation of the plates. i. The body or trunk of the acustic nerve. k. The larger branch of the nerve. J. A filament of the nerve to the facculus veftibulh m. The lefter branch of the acuftic nerves n. A filament of the cochlea. © o. Filaments of the larger branch of the acuftic nerve to the ampullae of the fuperior and exterior femicircular canals*. р. The expanfion of the nerve on the common alveus* q q. Nervus communicans faciei or porticj DURA. r. The beginning of the fpiral lamina of the cochlea; S. The offeous canal of the nerve, which forms part of the foramen auditorius internus; t. The COCHLEA; Fig. 21 The diftribution of the nerve in the cochlea feen bf a fedtion of the internal auditory canal and cochlea. a. The superior osseous semicircular canal. b. The pofterior offeous femicircular canal. с. The external offeous femicircular canal. d. Tire bottom of the great foramen auditorius internus. e. The trunk of the great acuftic nerve,. £ The anterior fasciculus of the acuftic nerve, g; A plexiform twifting in the anterior fafciculus of the nerve. h. AEXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 495 h. A gangliform fwelling of the nerve. i. The greater branch of the anterior fafciculus. k. The leffer branch. l. A filament of the anterior fafciculus to the hemi- fperical veficle of the veftibule. m. A branch to the beginning of the lamina fpiralis. n. The posterior fasciculus of the acuftic nerve. o. The filaments about to enter the tradtus fpiralis foraminulofus. p. Thefe nerves feen upon the modiolus. q q. The filaments of the nerve palling forward be- twixt the two planes of the lamina fpiralis. r r. Their termination on the foft part of the lamina fpiralis. - s. The nerves expanded on the fecond gyrus of the modiolus. 11 u u. Their further diflribution on the lamina fpiralis. V V. The INFUNDIBULUM. x y. The lafl turn and termination of the lamina fpF rails in the infundibulum. F I N I S, Printed by A. Strahan, Printers Street, London.’r