152 TUMOR OF THE PELVIS. very much I drew off about two pints of very offensive water, with relief. On my next visit, I attempted to raise the tumor with my hand, and succeeded so far as to allow some water to flow ; but a strong pain soon replaced it in its former situation. The catheter was again passed. The next morning I punctured the tumor with a strong lancet; but as nothing followed, and as but little pain was occasioned by it, I passed a knife into it for about two inches, and divided it freely in four different directions, in the same manner as the head of a child is opened. A little blood only followed, and very slight constitutional disturb- ance, The catheter was passed every day, but a good deal of water ran away in the intervals. The operation did not appear likely to be followed by any benefit, and I consoled myself for my want of success, with the assurance that no mischief had been done by it. Five days afterwards I found her sitting up, describ- ing herself as feeling pretty well, and passing the contents of the bladder and rectum easily, and without pain or involuntary discharge. On the following day, having drank some new ale, she vomited violently, and was purged, and suffered much from pain and retention of urine, which continued for three days, when it abated, after which she had a copious discharge of matter from the vagina. On examination, the tumor was found considerably lessened, and the aperture I had made widely open, and discharg- ing freely. The discharge gradually lessened, and at the end of three months entirely ceased, by which time very little remains of the tumor could be felt. I had frequent opportunities of seeing this patient for many years after the operation, and was much grati- fied to know that she never experienced any return of the disease. I felt wholly indebted for my success to the late Mr. Park, of Liverpool, who published some cases of tumors in the pelvis in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, which he had treated in the same way. I detailed all the circumstances to that gen- tleman, from whom I had the honour of receiving the following letter :— “ Liverpool, June 21, 1822. “ Lear Sir,—Accept my thanks for your communication