13 LOSS OF BLOOD. surface cold and clammy, with constant restlessness extremely difficult to control, sickness, and disposition to evacuate the bowels. Notwithstanding the free use of stimulants and opium in large doses, he was only so far recovered, at the expiration of six hours, as to assure me that he would not die from the imme- diate loss of blood. This case strongly illustrates the truth of the position laid down by that able physician and accurate observer, Dr. Marshall Hall, in his excellent work on u The Effects of Loss of Blood”. He says, u Convulsion, as an immediate effect of loss of blood, occurs when blood-letting has been inappropriately or unduly employed, and from excessive haemorrhage. It is apt to occur in cases in which the patient has been bled in a more or less recum- bent position, in which the blood has flowed slowly, or in which time has been lost during the operation. In such cases much blood flows before syncope is induced—too much to be safe. When the blood flows slowly, we should be cautious how we bleed to deliquium, even in the erect posture; in the recumbent posture it is always attended with danger.” In this case the blood was drawn from the patient in a semi- erect posture; it trickled slowly down the arm, and [a much larger quantity was abstracted than I was aware of. Altogether it weighed thirty-two ounces. I have often witnessed alarming syncope, but never so frightful a case as this which did not ter- minate fatally. It was surprising to observe how soon the constitution accommodated itself to so great a loss, which could not have been less than fifty ounces, the patient in three days having been bled by leeches, and cupping on the two preceeding ones. On the morning after the last bleeding the pulse was firm and steady, and two days afterwards he walked about his room with slight assistance. March, 1842. Although depletion was here carried to a fearful extent, and much farther than was intended, it has been attended, hitherto, with the best effect. There has been no muffling of the speech, or threatening of paralysis since. An issue has been placed in the nape of the neck, and the