54 DEATH FROM FRIGHT. CASE OF DEATH FROM FRIGHT, AFTER THE OPERATION FOR SOLUTION OF CAPSULAR CATARACT. J. G., aged 23, of a scrofulous and hysterical temperament, was admitted into the Bridgwater Eye Dispensary, February 16, 1839. She stated that she had always enjoyed good health to the age of sixteen, and had taken the charge of a dairy; that after this period, the catamenia not appearing, she became sub- ject to headache, had frequent attacks of hysteria, lost flesh, and was affected with a severe form of porrigo, which no medical treatment relieved. For the last five years the proper functions of the uterus had entirely ceased. About midsummer last, she was suddenly seized with an acute pain in the left eye, accom- panied with dimness, which in a few hours became so much worse, that she was barely able to distinguish light. A fort- night since, the right eye became similarly affected, attended with the same sensations, and as speedily followed by complete loss of vision. On the eighteenth, the operation for solution was performed posterior to the iris in both eyes, and the cataract broken up. Nothing unusual occurred, but on the next morning she complained of pain in the right eye, extending over the temple and brow, and the iris appeared somewhat hazy. Leeches were ordered, a plaister of opium and belladonna to be applied on the brow, and five grains of hydrag: cum creta, with three of Dover’s powder to be taken every four hours. The proposal to apply leeches excited the most extraordinary alarm in her mind; she exclaimed immediately—u Oh, I can never have leeches; 1 shall die if I have leeches.” Her breathing became very much hurried and laboured, her apprehension for her ultimate recovery so great, that every means of quieting her alarm failed; palpi- tation of the heart succeeded, with delirium, great prostra- tion of strength, and violent perspiration, and in spite of all treatment, she died at one a.m., the next day, breathing to the last in the same laborious manner. I remember in a trial for abduction in this county, some years