IV. PREFACE. and practice of my profession, believing that the interests of science are far better promoted by such means, than by many of the visionary theories which inundate the medical works of the present day. Men would derive more practical information from the perusal of cases, than from the excessive pursuit of the mere science of the profession. The difficulty is to turn the minds of the rising generation a little more to practical matter, when they are absorbed in pure science. I do not wish to undervalue the scientific workers ; they advance the body of professional knowledge, but they certainly do not fit themselves to cope with disease. It is more than probable that I may over estimate the value of the following pages, but I trust they will not be found altogether useless. These considerations alone have influenced me, for, at my advanced period of life, I could have no other object. Mr. Abernethy taught that the best mode of imparting know- ledge, and fixing it on the mind, was by the relation of cases, with which he used to illustrate his lectures richly; and he constantly impressed on his pupils the necessity of keeping a faithful record ; not with a view of establishing a favourite theory, or practice, but for the advancement of science and truth. Dr. Gregory, in his observations on the duties and qualifications of a Physician, says : u Many advantages arise from consulting to- gether with candid men, mutually confident in each others honour, which are often prevented by unhappy jealousies and animo- sities;” and that such too frequently prevail cannot be denied. It is to be lamented that such a state of things exists even in the great metropolis ; and it cannot therefore be matter of surprise to find it prevail more extensively in circumscribed localities, where men of equal pretensions to public confidence are strug- gling, not in the vain hope of realizing a fortune, (for that rarely is the fate of the country practitioner), but to procure such a competence as will enable him to maintain a respectable posi- tion in society, and where the loss of a patient cannot easily be supplied. He is therefore compelled to work out his cases alone, or with the assistance of books, which do not always afford