MILD MERCURIAL FRICTION. 52 usual way; another, the daily application of lunar caustic to the sore and surrounding parts, with the use of tonics; a third, the fumigation of the throat with cinnabar ; and a fourth, who stood deservedly at the head of the profession, assured him that his cure would be effected by Velno’s Vegetable Syrup. All these remedies successively failed, and at length he abandoned himself to despair, and resolved to return home and die. I earnestly entreated him to try the plan of rubbing in very small quantities of mercurial ointment, which at length he reluctantly consented to, and in one week he derived such sensible benefit from its use, that he was encouraged to persevere. The pains gradually abated, and he got sleep; the sore healed, his appetite and strength returned, and in less than six weeks he was able to re- sume his practice. His recovery was delayed by the exfoliation of the bones of the nose, but ultimately the cure was so perfect that he has been enabled to follow his profession as a country surgeon, and in the enjoyment of good health. CASE OF EXHAUSTION, WITHOUT AN APPA- RENT SUFFICIENT CAUSE. A lady who had been confined about four months, and partially suckled her child in one breast only, was apparently in good health, Her menstruation had returned in the usual way a fortnight before this event, since which she had occasionally been subject to slight discharge, and lost all appetite. A day or two after she was seized with coldness, trembling, and slight faintness, which were soon removed by a cordial. Ten days after this she was attacked with pain in the bowels after an evacuation, and faint- ness, which continued long enough to excite some apprehension in the minds of her friends. She remained in a faintish state from two o’clock in the morning until seven in the evening, when I saw her, in consultation with her usual medical attendant. I found her lying on her back, with a blanched countenance, and a surface of death-like coldness, without any pulse at the wrist.