53 CASE OF EXHAUSTION. There was sickness, with occasional attempts to vomit, and pain in the forehead, which was kept constantly wetted at her re- quest. I learned that, notwithstanding cordials had been ad- ministered, very little effect was produced by them, and that she constantly relapsed into the same state ; I got down a good quantity of hot brandy and water, after which a feeble pulsa- tion was felt at the wrist for a few moments, and although brandy, opium, ammonia, and every other restorative which could be given, were freely and unremittingly administered, her state became more alarming. If the pulse was perceptible after a large dose of brandy and opium, it sunk again immediately, the faintness increased, she constantly called for the smelling-bottle and fan, and became so restless that it was scarcely possible to keep her still; the surface was bedewed with a clammy sweat, the respiration was short and cold, and she either refused to swallow anything, or instantly made an effort to reject it. Not- withstanding the extreme coldness of the surface, she objected to all external heat, which seemed to increase her faintness. She remained in this alarming state until two o’clock the following morning, after which time she became more tranquil, took nourish- ment, and retained it. During the next twelve hours she gradually but very slowly recovered some heat and steadiness of pulse, but was not able to be moved or undressed until thirty-four hours after the attack. There does not appear to have been sufficient cause for the extreme and protracted state of exhaustion which occurred in this case. There was no undue lactation, for that had been imperfectly carried on, and but for a short period, nor was there any other drain to weaken her powers. It seemed like one of those sudden attacks of faintness which sometimes occurs without any warning, after a small bleeding, which, as far as my experi- ence goes, is protracted and alarming. It brought to my recollection the aphorism of Hippocrates, which, however, is more applicable to diseases of the heart, which there was no reason to suspect in this instance. u Qui crebro et fortiter absque causa manifesta liquentur animo, derepente morientur,”