66 FRACTURES AND CONCUSSIONS. for some hours before he was discovered, and, when removed, it was ascertained that he had the power of moving his head only, all the parts below being paralytic, and totally insensible. His pulse beat only thirty-seven strokes in a minute, and his breath- ing was very laborious. He had priapism. On the following day he had violent fever and great thirst ; the pulse had risen to 100, but the priapism had ceased. He was bled, and took some opening medicine, which afforded some relief, and after a few days these symptoms gradually ceased, and he sunk into a state of quiet. He lived a month after the accident, during which time his appetite was good, and he slept tolerably well. For some time the water was drawn off by the catheter, but occasion- ally it was discharged involuntarily, as were the fasces. About a week before his death he began to have some feeling in his feet, but previously to that time his friends convinced themselves that he had none, by running pins into his legs and thighs. Concussion of the Spine. James Harris, aged thirty, fell from the top of a waggon very highly loaded with beans, and alighted with great force on his back. As he remained motionless, and without any feeling of his lower extremities, the surgeon who saw him believed the spine to be fractured, and, considering the case hopeless, nothing was attempted for him. When I visited him on the following day, he had recovered slight motion and feeling in his legs. The abdomen was greatly distended, and he was suffering acute pain, with inability to empty the bladder. He had priapism. Having drawn off the water, I satisfied myself that there was no fracture of the vertebrae, and directed local bleeding, absolute rest, and afterwards counter-irritation, under which treatment he perfectly recovered. My opinion of the propriety of making extension in cases of fractures of the spinal column, is more strongly confirmed than ever by the successful result of Mr. Crowfoot’s case, who deserves the thanks of the profession for making it public. It affords another strong illustration of the great advantage of recording