CASE OF EMPYEMA. 56 adopted in this case. A puncture was made with a common lancet, and a large cupping-glass placed over the opening ; the glass was quickly filled with pus, when a second was applied; and in this way considerably more than a pint was withdrawn. The opening was closed with adhesive plaister, and a moderate degree of pressure made, by a bandage applied round the body. He expressed himself greatly relieved by this operation, and passed so much better a night than he had done for a long time, that on the following morning I found him cheerful, and with some revival of hope. For many days he had refused all kinds of food, and could scarcely be prevailed on to take a little liquid. It was suggested that he should try a small quantity of well- seasoned beef-steak, and a wine-glassful of ale, which he relished, and repeated in the course of the day. On the third day from the operation, it was evident that a considerable accumulation of pus had again taken place, when the same operation was repeated, and about half the former quantity was evacuated. This was repeated six days afterwards, when it was no longer required. In the mean time the same diet was continued ; but now my patient could eat three-quarters of a pound of beef- steak, and drink a pint and half of good ale, at ten o’clock, and the same quantity at three in the afternoon, daily. All the alarming symptoms disappeared, and in the course of a month he was much improved in strength and flesh. He recovered, and followed his usual occupation for many years. I have found this mode of treating chronic abscesses, and es- pecially large ones, more successful than opening them, and allowing the contents to drain off in poultices, which is so often followed by irritative fever and great exhaustion. I believe it was first practised by Mr. Abernethy, in lumbar abscess ; and although I do not remember any case of permanent recovery from this formidable disease, so treated, yet I have known some patients who have escaped the fearful symptoms arising from an open communication with the cyst, improve so much in health, as to consider themselves secure from a return, and who pro- bably would have obtained a cure if they had strictly attended to