82 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE LEG. to fit the leg, of the same kind of leather as is used for the flaps of saddles, strengthened by some narrow plates of iron, and fastened under the knee and around the ancle, was supplied, which supported the limb so effectually that she was soon able to walk about, with the assistance of a stick only. The ends of the bones gradually approximated each other, forming a firm union, and giving her a useful limb. RUPTURE OF THE TENDON AND BODY OF THE RECTUS FEMORIS. Six years ago, in descending a polished oak staircase, my feet slipped, and I fell from the top to the bottom. I fainted, and on recovering, was satisfied that some serious injury had been sustained; but finding the patella safe, and believing that no bone was broken, I attempted to stand, but immediately fell again. I was taken home in a carriage, a distance of two miles, by which time the swelling was so great as to render it impossi- ble to ascertain the precise nature of the accident. On its sub- siding, it appeared that the tendon of the rectus was completely ruptured; but it was not until a year afterwards that the fibres of the belly of the muscle were discovered to be torn through also. The swelling and extravasation from the upper part of the thigh to the ankle, was very great, and as, from peculiar cir- cumstances, I was unable to give myself more than one day’s absolute rest, it was a long time before it entirely subsided, and I suffered severe pain, and was lame, for many months. Some union, notwithstanding, took place, but unfortunately I fell on the same knee a few weeks afterwards, in a frost, and distinctly felt whatever attachment had formed, separate. The ruptured tendon is now united to the bone; so that, with the assistance of the lateral connections, I am able to walk several miles a day, with but little lameness. This case affords a good illustration of the restorative powers of nature, in spite of neglect and bad surgery ; whilst the example of Dr. Christison, who met with a similar accident, and was confined to a horizontal posture for nine