THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 130 plan is to kneel on the bed in front of the patient, get the uterus fairly within my hands, and lean the weight of my body on them. The pressure thus made is more uniform, and infinitely less pain- ful, than the irregularly applied bandages of nurses or inexperi- enced assistants. Experience warrants me in stating, that if this plan be effec- tually followed, it will generally render the more painful one unnecessary. I3ut the most dangerous, because the most in- sidious flooding, is that which sometimes follows a perfectly natural labour. A woman has an easy labour, the placenta is expelled in the usual time by a natural effort, the patient and her friends rejoice at the happy termination, there is but little discharge, and the practitioner is about to take his leave when his attention is arrested by an exclamation from the patient—Dear me! I feel very warm. The curtain is withdrawn, she is fanned, has a smelling bottle, and a little gruel, expresses herself better, is told, and believes, that there is nothing the matter. If the practitioner leaves her, he will speedily be summoned again, to witness a scene of great danger, and perhaps of death. This, I apprehend, was the case of the late Princess Charlotte. But if he remains, he will perhaps enquire of the nurse if there is much discharge, and be assured that there is not; she will probably show him a napkin to prove her correctness, which satisfies him. Presently the patient exclaims again, Oh dear! how faint I feel. Some gruel is administered perhaps, with a stimulant, or a few drops of laudanum; she revives, and all are once more satisfied. But this deceptive state is only of short duration, for in a very short time the faintness returns in an alarming degree, the pulse rapidly sinks, the countenance becomes pale, and unless active measures are immediately taken, the woman dies. On laying the hand on the abdomen the uterus is discovered to be as large as before delivery, and on introducing it into its cavity it is found to be filled with fluid and coagulated blood. The withdrawal of the hand is followed by an immense discharge; sometimes the uterus contracts immediately, and remains firm, and at others it wholly or partially relaxes, and blood continues