DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 77 assistant bound it up in thick pasteboard splints. On the third day he wished to look at it ; but, as soon as the bandages were loosened, my foot turned slightly round. On the following day, he thought it necessary to bind it up in wooden splints, and it remained thus for a fortnight ; but during the interval, spasms commenced, which gradually turned my foot round, until a dis- location again took place, followed, as before, by a resetting. It was then bound up in a starch bandage, which unfortunately proved too tight, and, owing to the great swelling and discolo- ration, the bandage was obliged to be cut open, and the foot left comparatively loose for two or three days. After the swelling had sufficiently subsided, it was tightly bound on a thick wooden splint, to which was attached a piece of wood the size and form of the foot, and it remained there until my arrival at Torquay, the 16th of September, 1847. “It was now that the spasms came on with such intense violence as to break the splints and dislocate the bone ; and although every means were tried to keep it in its place, all were found ineffectual until it was determined to strap it down to a sur- gical bed, and keep up permanent extension. It was with the greatest possible trouble, and the exertion of great ingenuity, that it was now kept in its place, and the spasms then gradually became less frequent, and, after a time, entirely ceased. After keeping it strapped down for a month, it was loosened by degrees, and a starch bandage applied; but this not proving sufficiently strong, a shoe was invented, made partly with iron, with steel supports up the leg, and a screw attached to a pad immediately over the astragalus, which may be worked down at pleasure. The leg was now unstrapped, and, after a few days, I found that I could stand with ease, and walk with very little support. I was advised to rest it entirely for another month, at the expiration of which time I found I could stand without the slightest pressure from the screw. At present, the bone feels perfectly in its place,—quite as much so as the other foot; and I can walk with ease without any other support than an elastic sock, and such a boot as I have usually worn. I do not feel the