FllACTURKS AND CONCUSSIONS. 67 and publishing the experience of practical men. Society, as well as the profession, derive more substantial advantage from the faithful relation of cases, accurately noted at the bed-side of the patient, than from half the books and systems which are written. My conviction, that the case of Thomas Ash offered a reason- able chance of a happy termination, is strengthened by the knowledge of the extraordinary tenacity of life which other members of his family exhibited. His father recovered from a disease of the bladder and prostate gland after the age of eighty-four, notwithstanding a false pas- sage had been made in the urethra by the catheter, sufficiently to enable him to take active exercise on horseback, and he lived until nearly ninety. His mother, at seventy, was attacked with chronic hepatitis, for which the usual remedies were employed. The integuments covering the liver were observed after some weeks to be covered with erysipelatous inflammation, which terminated in sloughing, so that it became exposed. In this state she laid seven weeks, large sloughy portions frequently coming away, and, during the last, whatever she swallowed passed out quickly at the opening in the side. In addition to this enormous wound, which dis- charged profusely daily, the whole of the nates and lower part of the back were for a long time in a state of mortification. One sister struggled an unusual length of time against dropsy, with diseased liver, after repeated tappings; and another resisted the most extensive and formidable scrofulous disease I ever wit- nessed, for more than a year. ON DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. When I entered the profession, in the year 1798, a dislocation of the shoulder was considered so formidable an accident, as to require the aid of several surgeons and a host of assistants, and the preparations for its reduction might well appal a stout heart. In the house in which I was a pupil, a pillar was erected for the purpose of securing patients who were so unfortunate as