RECOVERY FROM TAKING LAUDANUM. 44 drank from a bottle ten drachms of laudanum for the purpose of self-destruction, at five o’clock in the afternoon. It was not dis- covered until past eleven at night, when she was found in a state of complete stupor, with slow stertorous breathing, hands and feet quite cold, and a feeble irregular pulse. All the muscles were in a state of extreme relaxation. She was removed immediately from her bed, and the stomach-pump used, by which means a large quantity of fluid, smelling strongly of lau- danum, was brought from the stomach, which was repeatedly and thoroughly washed out. The bowels were then completely evacuated by large injections of warm water, and vomiting kept up by sulphate of copper. Notwithstanding these means were promptly and energetically applied, the insensibility increased, the limbs became more lifeless, the pupils were widely dilated, the eyes were closed, the countenance assumed a livid appearance, and she was dragged about the room more like a corpse than a living person. She could, however, be roused for a moment by a sudden loud call in her ear, by dashing a wet towel in the face, and by a smart slap on the back, but instantly closed her eyes again, and relapsed into the same torpid state. The usual means of recovery were most assiduously employed during the whole night, and until the next afternoon, before she spoke. She was dragged about the room by two strong men for seventeen hours before she sufficiently roused to make her recovery certain, and even when she was allowed to rest, she slept soundly for many hours. She did not entirely get the better of its effects for a week. This case shows that no lapse of time or quantity of the poison should deter one from the diligent and unremitting use and repetition of remedies. Cases have occurred in which much larger quantities of opium have been swallowed, but I have never seen or read of one in which the effects were more alarm- ing, or continued for so long a time, with so doubtful a prospect of recovery. A case is recorded where six ounces were taken, and the patient recovered, notwithstanding a delay of some hours took place before any remedies were employed.