TIIE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 138 limbs were violently convulsed, the breathing laborious. The fit continued about five minutes, then terminated, leaving the patient sensible, but unconscious of the previous affection, and complaining only of a pain in the head. The pupils were much dilated, but contracted on the approach of light; there was grinding of the teeth ; the arms and legs were affected with rapid convulsive shaking motions, and sometimes with plunges so violent as to thrust the bed from the sacking. The respira- tion seemed at first suspended from suffocation, then foam was formed in the mouth, the breathing was stertorous during inspi- ration, long expirations followed, with blowing through the foam. The whole appeared suffocating and agonizing, the lips assuming at the same time a black, livid colour. The respira- tion became at length calmer, and the patient remained in a state of coma, from which she could not be roused ; the pulse was frequent and regular. The fourth convulsion occurred at about three in the morning ; soon after, delivery was effected by the crotchet. There was no fit again until seven o’clock, and another occurred at nine, a.m. After this period the patient lay in a state of easy coma ; sometimes, however, she would get up and turn herself in bed. The pulse was 132, and regular, the countenance pale, the feet cold. At five, p.m., the pulse was 140, the coma deeper and constant, without any further symptoms. At ten, a.m., on the 19th, the pulse was 104, there was returning sensibility, she opened her eyes, put out her tongue, and gave rational answers when spoken to. There was no intolerance of light or sound, or deafness. On the 20th, sensibility was perfect. I have witnessed many cases since, all of which have termi- nated favourably, under active treatment speedily and resolutely employed. In this, seventy ounces of blood were drawn from the arm during the first three hours, besides a considerable quantity lost in the delivery, the head was shaved and blistered, cataplasms were applied to the feet, injections of turpentine adminstered, and a scruple of calomel given and repeated every third hour, until the bowels were effectually relieved.