’HE FACE. 111. that none of his family observed it. I stated, much to their sur- prise, my doubt of his recovery, and recommended that if any family arrangements were necessary, they should be made with- out loss of time. His professional adviser came in the evening, who remarked that he saw no necessity for such haste, and that it might be safely delayed until next day (Monday). He was much in the same state on the following morning; there was no pain, nothing in the pulse or respiration to excite immediate apprehension, but in the afternoon another indescribable attack occurred, in which he died. I greatly regret that, as no 'post-mortem was allowed, the cause of such an unlooked for event could not be dis- covered. I remember nothing like it either before or since. He was an active, temperate man, between sixty and seventy. I had long been the medical attendant of the family, but had never occasion to visit him professionally. This case affords a singular instance of the uncertainty of general conclusions, and shows how little we are entitled to say that any case, even the most simple, is absolutely safe. When a medical man enters a sick room, he should keep his eyes and ears open, and avail himself of every hint which may enable him to form a correct judgment of his patient’s case, and not disdain to weigh any suggestion which may be offered con- ducive to his recovery, even though it may proceed from an unprofessional bye-stander. He should remember a proverb of the Finlanders, “The wise man gathereth wisdom everywhere, and profiteth by the discourse of fools.” It is the duty of all who study the medical profession, to bring such observations as their experience has enabled them to collect iutothe general stock, the great object of medical science being the discovery of the best method of curing diseases, and mitiga- ting those which the present imperfect knowledge of our art can relieve only. I have derived such valuable information from the simple statement of facts emanating from practical men, the authenticity of which could not be doubted, that I am induced to offer some of the experience of a life wholly devoted to the study