65 FRACTURES AND CONCUSSIONS. public opinion, in which the profession acquiesced, seemed to forbid any other treatment than palliative. I have never ceased to regret that no effort was made in the following case, which, since I have read Mr. Crowfoot’s paper, I am more inclined than ever to believe offered a fair chance of success :— Fracture of the two last Dorsal Vertebrae. Thomas Ash, a remarkably strong man, aged forty-six, was run over by a heavy waggon, which fractured the two last dorsal vertebrae. The division was so evident that two fingers could be laid between the broken ends of the bones. The parts below the injury were immediately paralysed; he had constant vomit- ing, and his case appeared altogether so hopeless, that his friends refused having anything more done than dressing a most exten- sive laceration of the scalp ; and as there did not appear to be a chance of his surviving many hours, I was requested not to visit him again unless they applied to me. As, however, he appeared rather better on the following morning, I was desired to repeat my visit, when I found the abdomen greatly distended, the bladder very full, and a complete deprivation of the power of voluntary motion and sensation in the lower extremities. The bladder was emptied by the catheter, and the bowels by glyster, after which the faeces, but not the urine, passed involuntarily. In this state he lived six weeks, during which period he had occa- sionally considerable fever and frequent vomitings, whilst at times he made such efforts to recover that I proposed giving him the chance of a more determined mode of treatment, but in this I was overruled by his friends, and the opinions of other surgeons. Fracture of the Spinous Process of the Third Cervical Vertebrae. William Cooling, aged eighteen, a very fine young man, fractured the spinousprocess of the third cervical vertebra, in the following singular manner :—He was carrying a heavy gate on his back, between the bars of which his head became so tightly jammed that he fell backwards on it with great violence, in the attempt to throw the gate off his shoulders. He lay in this state L