63 INJURY OF THE HEAD. 65, and there was some stupor, which was relieved by the loss of 20 ounces of blood, when his pulse again rose to 86. Wednesday morning, 9 o’clock.—Was very restless until three o’clock, after which he slept tolerably. Is perfectly sensible; pulse 82; breathing natural; complains of some pain in the head; has not been sick since the operation; no evacuation from the bowels. He was bled, and the calomel and jalap repeated. Eight o’clock p.m.—Has been freely purged, is hot, restless, and complains of slight pain in the head, but is quite sensible. Pulse 84, hard and full. He was bled to the extent of 12 ounces, and directed to take saline medicine, with tartarized antimony, and nitrate of potash. Thursday, 8 a.m.—Has passed a good night, and is quite sen- sible ; pulse 72. He was directed to keep quiet, and continue the same medicine; but his pulse being full and jarring at eight o’clock, he was bled to eight ounces. At ten, he became hot and very restless, vomited, and was delirious, constantly endeavouring to get out of bed. Ten ounces of blood were drawn, and some purgative medicine given, which quieted him, until two o’clock a.m., when all the bad symptoms returned, and were again re- lieved by a repetition of the bleeding and purgative. Friday morning, 9 o’clock.—He is worse in every respect; appears to be sensible, and puts out his tongue when desired, but does not speak. Having always been relieved by the loss of blood, thirteen ounces were taken away. The pulse, which was 94 before the bleeding, rose to 120. A stimulating injection was given, which procured two copious stools, but appeared to make him worse—indeed, he seemed as if dying after the second. He continued very restless until eight o’clock, when he took forty drops of tincture of opium; and on visiting him at ten, and again at two in the morning, he was found more quiet, less hot, sensible, and able to answer questions. Saturday morning, 6 o’clock.—Continues much in the same state as at the last visit, except that his water has passed twice involuntarily. At twelve o’clock, he complained of so much pain in the head, and was so hot, thirsty, and restless, that he was bled