PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 117 Court, before Lord Denman, on Friday, May 16th, 1845, for the murder of Robert Barry Ffinch, an infant, by cutting its throat. It was proved by Mr. John Mould Burton that she had been under medical treatment for constitutional irregularities, of some months standing. On his cross-examination by Mr. Clarkson, he stated “ that he had frequently had occasion to attend young women, who have been subject to temporary suspension of nature, and his belief was, that any suspension of that action was calculated very much to derange the general constitution; and, in proportion as the suspension is long or short, in the same propor- tion the general health of the patient is jeopardized. Sometimes the effect assumes the appearance as though the patient was labouring under dropsy, and occasionally, instead of affecting the body, it attacks the head. Under the latter circumstances the patient is subject to dull, chronic pains in the head, and the region of the brain. This is attended with restlessness of man- ner, moroseness, and dullness of appearance. The patient is subject to fits of irritability and great excitement, and passion. These symptoms will present themselves very suddenly; I have known instances when the functions of the mind of a woman, so situated, have been seriously affected. “ I prescribed for her up to the time of the melancholy catas- trophe; I believe, up to the very day, she had symptoms which I should expect to find in a person labouring under the disease with which the prisoner was affected. I have no reason, from anything I have heard or known, to suspect the soundness of the prisoner’s mind, or to suppose that she was labouring under any affection of the head.” The jury returned the following verdict —“That from the derangement of the system, which led to great excitement in the prisoner at the time she committed the act, we are of opinion that she was not responsible for her actions.” A verdict of “ not guilty ” was entered. The medical opinion in this case, was that of a man of sound judgment, observation, and experience. It had its proper