118 PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. weight with the jury, and saved the life of the unfortunate pri- soner. Amelia G. Snoswell was tried at the Maidstone Assizes the 20th of March, 1851, for the murder of a child thirteen months old, named Alice Hooper, by cutting its throat. It was shown that the prisoner was a kind-hearted, affectionate young woman, and had always evinced the greatest affection for the child. She testified no concern or emotion for the act, but struggled to get to the child, saying, 66 let me go to my child, let me go to my Alice.” It was proved that she had been suffering from a con- stitutional irregularity likely to affect the brain. The medical man gave a positive opinion that at the time she committed the dreadful deed she was not a responsible being; and it was proved that shortly after the occurrence alluded to, she attempted to poison herself by taking oxalic acid. The Jury stopped the case, and found the prisoner not guilty, on the ground of insanity. The foregoing cases are sufficient to exemplify the affec- tions in which the head is implicated. When the chest is the seat of the attack, the consequences are equally, but not so speed- ily, fatal. It has been stated that chlorosis is often mistaken for disease of the liver, and sometimes for incipient consumption, in which it not unfrequently terminates ; for during its contin- uance there exists a remarkable susceptibility to cold, which ought to be most strictly guarded against. The following cases are examples of this tendency : — E. L., aged eighteen, had been long observed to look pale and delicate; but as she made no complaint, and followed her usual occupations, little or no notice was taken of the alteration in her appearance. Being in attendance on another branch of the family, I drew her mother’s attention to the subject; but as she insisted that nothing ailed her, I found much difficulty in persuading both mother and daughter that remedial measures were neces- sary. And here it may be remarked, that the natural disinclination of females to be explicit on these points makes it difficult to