PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS FOR RELIEF OF SICK. 167 force to surgical cases and operations. County hospitals require large sums for their formation, and considerable funds for their annual support; but the necessary means for establishing and maintaining small local institutions, are within the reach of most towns and populous villages. Surgeons in remote districts labour under great disadvantages and difficulties, when called on to per- form important operations, which metropolitan surgeons, and others connected with large hospitals, never experience. These can always avail themselves of the assistance of men of practical experience, ready and willing to serve them to the best of their ability, and they are surrounded with all the necessary appliances to ensure success as far as possible. But in the country the sur- geon must accept of such assistance as is within his reach, and is often placed in the difficult position of choosing between a rival who watches him with unfriendly eyes, or one on whom he is quite aware that he cannot depend on an emer- gency, or unforeseen difficulty. I have sometimes been placed in such a position. On one occasion, I was called on to tie the inguinal artery, in a case of aneurism of the popli- teal, the whole limb being so enlarged as to admit of no other course, on a ricketty table, hardly strong enough to support the weight of the patient, in a small room, admitting very little light; and in another case, where both legs were broken by a loaded waggon passing over them, it was necessary to re- move the patient into the door-way of the cottage, to obtain sufficient light by which to amputate.* The frequent recurrence of these difficulties induced me, in * But all operations which fall to the lot of country surgeons are not per- formed under equally disagreeable circumstances, of which the following is an example :—I was called one morning to a gentleman who had a very large car- buncle on his back, which I thought ought to be divided ; his family, however, had some doubts of its propriety, from his advanced age, he being upwards of eighty. I suggested, therefore, a consultation with his next-door neighbour, who had been an army surgeon, and was then practising *as a physician. Now my patient was a scholar and a wit; and when the physician came, I repeated the following lines, which I had lately seen in a periodical : <e Chirurgus an medicus quo distat ? Scilicet illo, Enecat hie succis, enecat ille manu, Carnifices ambo, hoc tantum differre videntur, Tardius hie facit, quod facit ille cito.”