AMPUTATION IN SPREADING GANGRENE. 89 so high an authority as M. Larrey eo-inciding with my own, which at once determined me to carry the plan into effect, whenever an opportunity offered. The following case occurred in the practice of Mr. John G. Toogood, about two years since. Case I.—Charles Tuck, a farm servant, aged 24, received the contents of a common fowling piece in the hand on Friday, the 4th of February, which passed up the flexor muscles and through the integuments of the forearm, about three inches above the wrist. A neighbouring surgeon saw him soon after the accident, and directed cold applications and rest. On the following Monday he was admitted into the Bridgwater Infirmary. There was a ragged wound at each opening; the limb was but little swollen, and the only unfavourable appearance was, that the nails looked rather dark coloured. There was very little constitutional disturbance. He was put to bed, a poultice applied over the limb, and the usual treatment directed. On the next day the aspect of the limb was the same, but as there was more swelling in the evening, and some heat, leeches and fomentations were ordered. He slept perfectly well until five o’clock the following morning (Wednesday), when he was awoke by pain, which rapidly increased and became very severe. At seven o’clock the limb was found to be gangrenous to the elbow, and before his consent to its removal could be obtained, and the necessary preparation made, it had extended so high up, as barely to leave room to ampu- tate close to the shoulder joint. There was no line of demarca- tion. I cannot, at this distance of time, recollect the precise point to which the crepitus extended, but I am inclined to believe it was quite up to the joint, and it was debated whether it would not be the safest plan to remove the bone from the socket. Very little blood was lost during the operation; the constitutional irri- tation subsided in a few hours; the patient became tranquil, and soon recovered. The result of this case proves, that it would have been better to have removed the arm below the elbow on his admission; but the appearance of the limb, and the state of the patient, war- ranted the attempt to save it, although the discolouration of the o