110 PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. surface, tongue, and gums ; occasional recurrent pain in the head and side; fluttering and palpitation of the heart, with nervous and hysterical paroxysms ; breathlessness, and sometimes sudden and distressing difficulty of breathing, resembling asthma; faintness on exertion, particularly on ascending a hill or stairs, with trembling of the knees and legs, which are sometimes swollen, with a varicose state of the veins; puffiness of the countenance, chiefly observable in the eyelids, especially the upper lid; splitting and exfoliation of the nails ; with a depraved or capricious appetite. These symptoms do not follow in the order enumerated ; but if the disease be allowed to go on unchecked, locked-jaw, clenched- hand, and other spasmodic affections, more difficult to relieve, not unfrequently succeed. Irritability and unevenness of tem- per sometimes accompany this state. On closer examination, the discharge will be found to be irregular in return, defective in quantity, and pale in colour. Enlargement of the breasts, and occasionally tumors of such a size and character as to ex- cite serious apprehension, are discovered in this disease, during the progress of which the bowels are generally loaded and con- fined. At length some of these symptoms alarm the patient or her friends, but not perhaps to such a degree as to induce them to seek medical advice. Domestic treatment now commences, in which the mother is assisted by the opinions of her neighbours. The altered countenance—sometimes exhibiting a yellowish, at others a greenish tint, and sometimes partaking of both—favours the idea that the indisposition is attributable to some error in the secretion of bile; the liver is accused of being the cause of all the suffering, and for the relief of this imaginary bilious disease, calomel and drastic purgatives are incautiously adminis- tered, and freely repeated. But the expected amendment does not follow ; and after this plan has been carried to a dangerous extent, the patient is left in a debilitated and exhausted state, worse, in fact, than when this erroneous mode of treatment was undertaken. That such a condition should be mistaken