THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 129 introduced my hand, and cautiously delivered by the feet. Such a discharge of fluid and coagulated blood followed the rupture of the membranes as I never witnessed before, nor since ; and although the uterus contracted like a ball, and expelled the placenta into the vagina, she died in twenty minutes. Now, I believe, that if the membranes had been punctured, the hemor- rhage would have been restrained, and that she would have recovered sufficiently to have supported her delivery, the shock of which appeared to hasten her death. But these cases do not often occur, whilst nothing is more common than hemorrhage after the expulsion of the placenta. That many of these cases are occasioned by hasty and improper attempts to bring away the after-birth is too true, but it is equally certain that they frequently happen where no interference has taken place, and the whole process has been left to nature. In whatever manner flooding has been produced, no time must be lost in arresting it. It is not my intention to detail the various modes of effecting this object, nor to discuss the merits of the different plans laid down in systems of midwifery, and I shall only observe that I have rarely witnessed any good effects from the application of cold, which, in my opinion, can never be depended on. In twTo or three instances marked benefit has followed its sudden application; but unless it produces an immediate good effect, it does harm, and therefore I scarcely ever employ it. The introduction of the hand into the uterus is the most powerful agent in suppressing sudden and violent discharges of blood; and if done early, seldom fails ; but if delayed until great ex- haustion has taken place, the uterus is very apt to relax again, and expose the patient to a recurrence of hemorrhage, and a repetition of the operation. As this is always a painful operation, though often a necessary one, it is desirable to avoid it; and for many years past it has been my practice to grasp the uterus in both hands, and keep up steady and continual pressure externally, in all cases in which there is a disposition to hemorrhage. The ordinary modes of pressure which nurses employ, generally fail, and the assistance of bystanders cannot be depended on. My