3.5 ('ROWING INSPIRATION OF CHILDREN. tion of the membrane adhered to the right parietal bone. The veins were turgid with blood. Between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, a substance of a gelatinous nature, rather hazy or milky in colour, was diffused nearly over the whole sur- face. Some fluid escaped from the surface of the brain, but the quantity could not be ascertained. Upon cutting into the lateral ventricles, they were found to be distended with fluid, as was the communication between these and the third ventricle, which, as well as the iter ad infundibulum, and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, was also distended with fluid. There was much fluid at the base of the brain, and in the fourth ventricle. The whole quantity amounted to about four ounces. The substance of the brain was softer than natural. The viscera of the chest and abdomen were healthy. No glandular affection could be detected in any of these cases. Opinions are divided as to the cause and origin of this dan- gerous disease, as well as to the best mode of treatment. It occurs before dentition has commenced, and during its progress; if at the latter period, the obvious course is to remove all causes of irritation, by frequent lancing the gums, attention to the diet and bowels; but, notwithstanding, the disease frequently still continues. In every fatal case in which an opportunity of ex- amination has been afforded, I have invariably found evident marks of disease of the brain and effusion. In an early stage, the administration of valerianate of zinc, in doses of half a grain two or three times a day, to a child of a year old, the local applica- tion of solution of argentum nitratum, and frequent change of air, have been the most successful remedies. Dr. Simpson recommends the inhalation of chloroform as a signal and satisfactory remedy in arresting infantile convulsions, and speaks most favourably of its antispasmodic power in diseases of that kind. CASE OF EPILEPSY. William T , another brother of the same family, had not strong health until he was seven years old, but was never