THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 126 mended by the late Dr. John Clarke, and by attending to the directions so clearly laid down in his lectures, never experienced any difficulty in applying them. He advised that no attempt should ever be made to employ them until the ear could be felt, and that when they were fixed, the traction should be made from blade to blade, in the axis of the pelvis ; and here I cannot help relating the mode he adopted to impress this important point on the attention of his class. The forceps, he would say, can only be successfully used after they are fixed in the axis of the pelvis; it is of consequence therefore that the axis of the pelvis should be well understood. Now if a party of Hottentots should happen to catch an unfortunate European, and determine to roast him in the axis of the pelvis, they would push the spit in at the umbilicus, and bring it out at the anus; and as each individual pupil took the forceps in his hand, the Doctor always said “ Remember the spit.” I certainly never sat down to apply these instruments without recollecting and bearing in mind the illustration, during the operation. In proper hands the forceps are useful and necessary, safer, and better adapted for the preservation of the life of mother and child than the vectis. I have never employed them to save time. In one case the perineum was completely lacerated into the rectum, under their use, laying both cavities into one for a considerable space; and this arose from my neglecting to secure the patient properly during the operation. As the head was passing, she made a sudden spring, and getting beyond my reach the perineum was unsupported at the critical moment, and exten- sive laceration took place. It however completely healed with so little inconvenience, that the patient was never aware of the accident, and having attended her in several subsequent labours, I had an opportunity of knowing that the union remained entire. Since that time, I have taken the precaution of making a strong woman lie down in front of the patient in all painful operations, to prevent the possibility of accident.* * I have lately seen two cases of extensive laceration of the perinseurn, in which the rectum and vagina were laid into one, successfully operated on by Mr. I. B. Brown. (Vide his Pamphlet.)