143 RESUSCITATION OF STILL-BORN CHILDREN. persevering ten minutes longer, the free action of the lungs was established, and the child cried lustily. Case II.—The next case was that of a poor woman named Sarah Holmes, of the parish of Spaxton, who had been in labour a long time, with a presentation of the arm; and, as it was her first confinement, it became very difficult to turn the child, particularly as she was advanced in age, and the parts were very rigid. The child was still-born ; but by pursuing the same plan actively for three quarters of an hour, animation was perfectly restored. Case III.—The next was a case of presentation of the funis, and as the labour was slow, the child was still-born, but recovered by the same means in half an hour. Case IV.—The last case which I shall mention was such as to encourage the attempt at resuscitation under any circumstances; it was a case of twins. The second child presented with the head, before which a considerable portion of the funis had descended. The delivery was extremely slow, from the general weakness of the woman, who had been for a long time in a bad state of health, and the child was born apparently quite dead. As the mother’s situation was very critical, more than half an hour had elapsed before I could attend to the child, and, on inquiring, I found it had been wrapped in a cloth and placed on a chair in another room. I immediately made the attempt to restore it, and, by persevering steadily for twenty-five minutes, I had the satisfac- tion to see symptoms of returning life ; and in about fifteen minutes more the child breathed freely. REMARKS. Every thing in this last case was unfavourable to the restora- tion of the child ; the mother’s long-continued disease, the cir- cumstance of her having two children, and, more particularly, the delay which took place before any attempt was made, during which time the child was exposed in a room without fire in the winter time, with a partial and very slight covering. I am