27 ADMINISTRATION OF COD LIVER OIL. been occasionally but rarely given, and shortly afterwards I published a paper in the Journal, directing the attention of the profession to its administration in certain cases. During the following winter numerous opportunities of testing its efficacy offered, and it was prescribed in a variety of cases with decided benefit; in one especially in which the existence of a tuberculous abscess, to such an extent as to render recovery almost hopeless, was satisfactorily ascertained by repeated careful examinations with the stethoscope. This patient was weighed, and the limbs were measured, before it was exhibited; the experiment was repeated the first day of every month. At the expiration of the first month a sensible improvement was manifest in the weight and size of the limbs. This amendment was progressive, but after some time an unfavourable change was observed; the weight and size diminished, and the cough and expectoration increased. On close investigation it was discovered that a different oil had been substituted for that originally given, and on returning to it a speedy restoration to the former favourable state followed, and the patient gradually increased from five stone to eight stone six pounds, all the other symptoms which had so justly alarmed the friends having disappeared. The recovery has been confirmed by a residence in this mild climate during the last three winters, and the patient is now in the enjoyment of robust health. “Not having kept a register of cases, I cannot furnish all the details you require, but the oil will be found most efficacious in bronchitis, and in cases of cough, with copious expectoration, accompanied with emaciation and night-sweats, and where no derangement of the bowels exists. One table-spoonful three times a day will generally be found a sufficient dose for an adult, although, in some cases a larger quantity may be taken with advantage; and I well remember an instance in which four ounces were taken daily for a long time, with marked benefit. I have always used Scotch oil, which is manufactured at Leith, and supplied to the chemists in this town by Duncan and Flockhart, of Edinburgh. The duration of its employment must depend on the case, and the judgement of the physician; it may be