THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 133 means, have reluctantly been compelled to pass my hand, and occasionally regretted that it was not done earlier. It is cer- tainly most desirable that the whole of the placenta should be removed ; but the adhesion is sometimes so close, that this can only be effected in detached portions, so that it is scarcely pos- sible to bring the whole away ; but if, after cautious attempts, small portions remain, it is safer to leave them than incur the risk of frequent rude and ineffectual efforts to scrape the uterus with the fingers—a practice which was adopted in a case which came to my knowledge many days after delivery, which not only failed, but terminated in the death of the patient. Careful and uniform pressure by a well-adjusted bandage, or by the hands, appears to me the best mode of preventing this alarming accident. Excessive flooding, in one case, was followed by phlegmasia dolens, which, after many weeks, proved fatal. I have seen several instances of this disease, all of which, with this exception, have done well. Local bleeding and cool- ing applications have been most beneficial in the early stage ; and after the inflammatory symptoms have subsided, the cure has been completed by mercurial friction, and wrapping the limb in oiled silk. Symptoms of puerperal mania appeared in one case immedi- ately after delivery, as soon as the patient was placed in bed. The disease was perfectly established in twenty-four hours, continued with great violence for many weeks, and then gradually subsided. She passed through several subsequent labours with- out any recurrence of the attack, but died some years after of disease of the brain. Every other case which has fallen under my care recovered. The vagina ruptured to a considerable extent in two cases, the details of which will be found in another place. Puerperal peritonitis supervened in two patients, both of whom recovered under general and local bleeding, and calomel em- ployed early and actively. One woman died very suddenly an hour or two after delivery,