97 ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. uniformly adopted the same course, with the like success. I have met with three other cases, which were treated in the same manner, with the same result. I was consulted on another case, in which the patient refused to submit to the plan proposed, and tried various remedies under different practitioners, but wtas at last obliged to have the same operation performed. If I saw one of these cases in an early stage, I should not hesitate to make a free opening the instant the formation of matter could be ascer- tained, in the hope of preventing so painful and severe an operation. FUNGOID TUMOR OF THE BREAST. I regret that the operation was not performed in the following case, as I think it would have had a fair chance of success:— Mrs. Davis, aged 50, perceived a small tumor in the breast, in March, 1817. It gradually increased until October, but as she suffered no pain, little notice was taken of it. In that month she consulted me. She had the appe arance of being consumptive, and was much debilitated. The tumor was about the size of a small orange, with an irregular surface, but not very unlike a chronic abscess. It was situated on the upper part of the breast towards the sternum, and was soft and discoloured in one part. It was poulticed, and in four weeks had attained a very considerable size, the whole breast being involved in the same disease. The soft part now pointed, and appeared to contain fluid. It wTas punc- tured, but blood only escaped; a probe passed freely to a great extent through a spongy substance, which was easily broken down, and some small portions, resembling fat, were evacuated. For many days, small pieces of fatty substance were discharged ; it bled occasionally; but the surface was generally dry, the dressings sticking, and bringing away portions of the same sub- stance. A week after the puncture, a fungus protruded, and increased to a very considerable size, covering the edges of the wound over a large part of the breast, and measuring several inches in circumference. Nothing did good, and her health gra- p