AMPUTATION IN SPREADING GANGRENE. 91 limb, to nearly an inch above the incision ; but the sloughs were not deep. They separated on the eighth day, leaving a clean surface, and the patient obtained a complete recovery. A crepitus could be readily distinguished about the foot and ancle, but it did not extend to the wound. On the arrival of the father of this patient, two days after the accident, he insisted that no operation should be performed, and that his son should die with his leg on. I resolved, however, that the boy, who was a fine intelligent youth, should have a voice in his own case, and that the father should not be the sole arbiter of his fate. In the presence of the father, the case was put fairly before him, and on his being told that it would inevitably be fatal in a few hours, unless the operation was performed, although it was by no means certain that he would recover if he submitted, but that it afforded him the only chance, he immediately exclaimed, " I am determined to have it cut off. ” The father, seeing his son’s resolution, and the firm conduct of the surgeons, reluctantly gave his consent. CASE OF PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER ABOVE THE PUBES. Mr. C. had retention of urine from an enlarged prostrate gland, which made the use of the catheter frequently necessary; on one occasion no water followed the introduction of the instru- ment, which was passed without difficulty ; repeated trials were made without success; a consultation was held, and although many efforts were made to relieve the patient by various instruments, warm baths, and the usual means, a very inconsider- able quantity of urine only could be brought away. Matters remained in this state for three days, when a gentle- man of hospital celebrity was added to the consultation. Having formerly had the care of the patient, he apprehended no difficulty, and passed the instrument with so much ease, that he rather triumphantly desired a vessel to be brought to receive the urine, but on withdrawing the stilette, to his great surprise and