INJURY OF THE HEAD. 64 to eight ounces, which produced faintness, from which, however, he soon recovered. His pulse quickened very much after the bleeding, and at six o’clock he was in every respect worse; he is sensible, but does not speak. Forty drops of tincture of opium were given, and five grains of Dover’s powder every three hours, which had the effect of procuring a good deal of sleep. From this time he regularly improved; and by pursuing the same plan, with careful attention to his bowels, he perfectly recovered. This case occurred many years ago, before the attention of sur- geons was directed to the effects of loss of blood on the system. It is very evident that the symptoms which alarmed me so much for the safety of my patient, were aggravated by my treatment; and that if I had not carried bleeding to such an extent, but had given opium and nourishment more freely at an earlier period, I should have spared my patient much suffering, and myself great anxiety. I consider this a case rescued at the eleventh hour, and attribute my patient’s recovery entirely to a hint which I received from an old practitioner, who kindly visited him with me in the most critical stage of his illness, and remarked, that in his day, Bloomfield always directed Dover’s powder in all cases of violent injury of the head, and concussion of the brain. In this case, I mistook exhaustion and irritation for inflammation—a common error with young and inexperienced practitioners. This is an important point in practice, requiring the nicest discrimination, on which a hasty or injudicious decision often leads to a fatal result. ON FRACTURES AND CONCUSSION OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. In the u Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association,” there is an interesting paper on fractures of the spine—an accident generally considered so hopeless, that no effectual attempt is made to relieve the sufferer, who is left to linger out a miserable existence. It has always appeared to me wrong to abandon a patient under such circumstances; but