144 RESUSCITATION OF STILL-BORN CHILDREN. warranted, by my own experience, in recommending the attempt to restore all still-born children who have been alive during the birth; and if the means of resuscitation above mentioned be actively employed, and steadily persevered in, I believe the majority of cases will be successful. In all cases the restoration of a child is a most satisfactory circumstance, and, in some instances, of the greatest possible consequence. I have never found anything necessary but the regular inflation of the lungs, which I do with my own mouth in the way I have described, and have generally observed the first symptom of returning life to be a tremulous motion of the respiratory organs ; the child next makes a feeble attempt to inspire, and the colour of the face changes. The inflation should then be made more quickly; and as the attempts to breathe increase, sal volatile, or brandy, rubbed on the palm of the hand, and held over the mouth during the inspiration of air, will materially assist the recovery, and have a better effect than pouring stimulants into the stomach. A few smart slaps on the gluteal muscles will now generally complete the recovery. In the last case, which I attended in consultation with another practitioner, in which the forceps were applied after a protracted labour, the child struggled an unusual time before respiration was established, and it became necessary to repeat this apparently cruel practice several times, to the great annoy- ance of the grandmother, who was anxiously watching the event, and who observed, when she saw that the recovery was complete, “Wee’l, Sir, it’s all very well jist now ; but ye gav the bairn a very rough reception!” It has always been my practice to respire completely, and immediately to inhale as much air as possible ; and this should be repeated frequently during the process of inflating the lungs. I have more than once been astonished at the dissatisfaction exhibited by the bystanders, at the successful issue of these efforts to restore life. The following is a remarkable instance : I was called to a very respectable woman, in labour for the seventh time, who had twins. The second child was still-born, and