WOUND OF THE THROAT. 94 and towards night was much harassed by a distressing cough. At five o’clock on the following morning, I found him in a state of the greatest exhaustion. An elastic catheter was passed through the nostril into the lower part of the oesophagus, and some warm milk and water injected into the stomach, by means of an India-rubber bottle. According to Baron Larrey’s phrase, he immediately u testified his gratitude by the liveliest sensa- tions, ” and made signs for a slate which hung in the room, on which he wrote as follows:—“I repent of what I have done ; I am entitled to a small estate in Yorkshire after my mother, which I will make over to you if you will try to save my life. ” I fed him regularly three times a-day, with milk and broth, for several weeks, and he ultimately completely recovered. He breathed en- tirely through the wound of the trachea for six weeks, during the greater part of which time he was much annoyed by the constant discharge of frothy mucus. He died fifteen years after this at Ecclesfield, in Yorkshire.* WOUND OF THE ABDOMEN, WITH PROTRUSION OF THE INTESTINE. William Webber, aged eleven, received a small wound from a penknife, on the right side of the abdomen, just below the hypo- chondrium. I found him lying on his back, with a considerable portion of the ileum protruding from the wound, into which the point of the finger could barely be inserted. The accident had happened two hours previously, and ineffectual attempts had been made to return the intestine. He was much exhausted, sick, with cold extremities, and a sinking pulse. The wound was dilated upwards, but the protruded part could not then be * After he had been recruited with food, I ascertained from his wife that they had no children, but that the patient had brothers and sisters; and to satisfy his mind on this point, I took a legal friend with me on my next visit, who pre- pared a will, giving whatever property he had, or might possess, to his wife for her life, and afterwards equally between his brothers and sisters. At his death, fifteen years afterwards, I received a letter from the clergyman of Ecclesfield, stating that his property was disputed, and asking if I knew anything on the subject, to which I replied that a will was in the possession of the gentleman who had made it, who would forward it on being properly applied to.