162 LACERATION OF THE VAGINA AND CERVIX UTERI. Stewart, by a surgeon, who gave me the following account of her case. She had been in labour a long time when he was called to her, and he found the shoulder presenting, with the uterus closely contracted around it. The delivery was very difficult ; and on introducing the hand to remove the placenta, he found a considerable laceration of the posterior part of the vagina, in which the cervix uteri was involved. The intestines were lying in the vagina, which he returned after removing the placenta,, and retained them with his hand until the uterus had contracted. In the delivery, she complained of sudden and great pain, and the labour pains instantly ceased ; violent hemor- rhage followed, and continued for many hours. It was going on when I saw her, and she appeared to be dying from exhaus- tion. The abdomen was much swollen, and she could not bear the pressure of the bed clothes. The pulse was small and fluttering, and she complained of great pain. In the evening she made water, which relieved her considerably. On the third day vomiting of dark-coloured fluid came on, and continued so long and violent, that she appeared to be sinking rapidly, but was relieved by large opiates. After a number of alarming symptoms she recovered, but had a copious discharge of matter for six weeks, and could not stand erect for many months after- wards. ON THE PREVENTION OF SORE NIPPLES. This subject might not be considered of sufficient importance to engage the attention of medical men ; but the expectant mother will gratefully acknowledge her obligations to the medical friend who will point out to her the best mode of escaping the suffering entailed by the neglect of precautionary measures. The suckling of her offspring is one of the most agreeable duties a mother can fulfil; but this delightful enjoyment is often interrupted, if not entirely prevented, by ulceration of the nipples, which may generally, if not always, be avoided by timely care. As soon as a young female is known to be