140 DROPSY OF THE AMNION. On the 27th of May, 1830, I was requested to meet Mr. Davidson in consultation, to see Mary Came, of Pawlett. She was between the sixth and seventh month of her pregnancy, and suf- fering from abdominal dropsy, to such a degree that Mr. David- son considered the only chance of affording relief was by tapping, which operation he was prepared to perform on my arrival. I satisfied myself of pregnancy, and although she was greatly swollen, and suffering much from dyspnoea, I could not sanction his proposal, but recommended diuretics and opiates. On the 30th, she was reported to be somewhat relieved, but the lower extremities had become more oedematous. On the 2nd of June, she was stated to be suffering so much from oedema, vomiting, diarrhoea, and most distressing dyspnoea, that her medical atten- dant represented it as not only improper, but dangerous, to delay the operation any longer. 1 found her in a deplorable situation, the swelling had increased very much, she could keep nothing on her stomach, nor could she lie down for an instant ; the pulse was weak and fluttering, the abdomen was distended to the utmost; the fluctuation could not only be distinctly felt, but absolutely seen, the parietes of the abdomen had become so thin. It was evident that immediate steps must be taken for her relief; and so satisfied was her adviser of the rapid increase of all her symptoms, and immediate danger, that he again proposed, and strongly urged, that a trocar should immediately be plunged into the abdomen. I could not recollect to have seen any account of such a case ; had I done so, it would have enabled me to determine my practice with greater confidence. (Dr. Lee’s paper had not been published at that time). I proposed the induction of premature labour, and at 4 o’clock in the afternoon ruptured the membranes with a male catheter. Two hours after I felt the funis presenting, and left her in Mr. Davidson’s care, from whom I learnt on the following morning, (Thursday,) that she had been delivered of a small foetus at 12 p.m. and that the abdomen had subsided a good deal. On the following day, (Friday,) I received a note from him, which I copy in his own words:—a I beg to inform you that the poor woman, Came, has