125 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. had not ruptured, and the uterus was well dilated; I made firm and steady pressure with my fingers on the parietal bone during a pain, the head revolved under my fingers, the membranes broke, and the child was born in a few minutes. In six cases the perforator was used, two of which terminated fatally during the month, and one soon after delivery ; the three other cases did well although in one the labour was protracted for five days before any attempt at delivery was made. The deformity was so extreme, that her delivery was considered impracticable, and she was abandoned. The projection of the sacrum was so great, that it was necessary to bend the perforator to a semi-circle before the head could be reached, and the child was brought away in small pieces with much difficulty.* This instrument is seldom required ; and that it has been often em- ployed unnecessarily is too true. When I first began to practise in Bridgwater, I found to my astonishment, that it was had recourse to in all cases of difficulty, and that the forceps or vectis had never been applied in any case. It is undoubtedly sometimes necessary in cases of sudden and immediate danger, and in great deformity, but I have been present at many labours which have terminated naturally in women who had been delivered in former ones, by the older practitioners, with the crotchet. Young prac- titioners are sometimes induced by the importunities of the patient and her friends to employ this fatal instrument, when, if left to their own judgment and discretion, they would patiently wait until other means of delivery were applicable. This is an error which I, in common with others, fell into, in the early part of my practice. The forceps were applied in fifteen cases, and all the children were born alive. I have always used the short forceps recom- * In nine subsequent pregnancies, premature labour was induced at various periods in this case. The Surgeon who attended her, assured me that on one occasion the operation vtfas delayed until the fifth month was nearly completed; and that the fetus was not expelled until after forty-eight hours hard labour, so great was the deformity and narrowness of the pelvis. I was present at a case with Dr. Simpson, in Edinburgh, in which he brought on premature labour, by the introduction of graduated sponge tents, which so easily and completely dilated the uterus, that the first stage of labour was got over without rupture of the membranes. He prefers this mode to the introduction of the catheter.