ADMINISTRATION OF COD LIVER OIL. 29 that he had given it to many of his poor neighbours, in scrofula, and other diseases of weakness, with much benefit. In conversation with Dr. Williams on the subject, he re- marked to me, that a week scarcely passed in which the oil did not reveal miracles to him. The best evidence of the efficacy of cod liver oil, in various diseases, is the unqualified testimony of some of the most distin- guished practitioners of the day, who were as strenuously op- posed to its use when first introduced. ON THE TREATMENT OF PSORIASIS. Diseases of the skin are generally difficult of treatment, and obstinate of cure. I have been in the habit of employing a remedy which is not in general use, for many years with much success, in one particular affection. It was first suggested to me by the late Dr. Willan, whom I met in consultation on the case of a gentleman who had been tormented for many years with a disease which had baffled every practitioner whom he had con- sulted (and they were not a few), and resisted all the known methods of treatment. The following case, which I give in the words of a surgeon with whom I saw the patient, will illustrate the particular affection and mode of cure :— “ E. H., a girl about 16 years of age, who had been liable to slight attacks of psoriasis about three years since, after having undergone great bodily fatigue and mental anxiety, became the subject of a much more aggravated form of this disease than I had ever before witnessed. The skin of the arms, legs, and face, was first affected, and it very rapidly spread over the whole body. The fissures in the bendings of the joints were so exten- sive that she could scarcely move, and on getting out of bed in the morning the scales fell from her in such quantities, that I could easily trace where she had been ; and the eyelids were so retracted, that she could not close them when asleep. I tried Plummer’s pill, hydrargyrum cum creta, Tvith various tonics, in conjunction with liquor potassse. I then had recourse to liquor