122 PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. and her state appeared truly alarming. She was treated on the same principle which had succeeded in so many other cases. Her recovery was extremely slow ; and so great was the tendency to relapsing into the same state, that she required medical treat- ment for more than a year, before her convalescence was established. It sometimes happens that the expected change in the consti- tution is delayed beyond the usual period, and that females arrive at the age of eighteen or twenty, and in some cases even later, without the slightest attempt at menstruation. Such persons invariably present a sickly, feeble aspect, and are un- equal to the usual occupations of domestic life. Their growth is stunted, and the form very imperfectly developed. The fol- lowing is a remarkable instance :—G. A. had passed her twenty-first year, without exhibiting any of the usual signs of puberty ; her countenance was pale and sickly, and her size diminutive. Her friends had tried many remedies of reputed efficacy, and particularly Widow Welch’s pills, (which were much in use in the neighbourhood some years since,) without deriving any benefit. A course of mild aperient and tonic medicine was advised and persevered in for a considerable length of time, with little hope of benefit. At the expiration of three months there was so decided an improvement in her general appearance, as to encourage a continuance of the plan, with such further treatment as I had found successful in other cases. In two months more there appeared a reluctant effort at menstrua- tion, which became perfect about a year afterwards. Her form had undergone a complete change ; she became womanly, was married, and had several children. A pretty general idea prevails that irregular and painful men- struations are cured by marriage. That this is frequently true, cannot be denied, but it is by no means a constant effect ; for it is well known that chlorosis often occurs in married life; and where the uterine functions have been deranged for years in early life, conception rarely takes place until they are restored to a healthy state.