88 DRY GANGRENE OF THE ARM. recommended fomentations with mustard, and horse-radish, bark, wine, and brandy. These remedies produced no good effect, and the disease proceeded until it had nearly reached the shoulder joint. At this time I saw him, and proposed amputation as the only thing to be done. It was refused, but ultimately the limb was removed immediately below the joint. The pulsation of the brachial artery was so feeble that it could scarcely be felt before the operation; and when the vessel was divided, it bled very languidly, the discharge being so trifling that it seemed scarcely necessary to apply a ligature. The wound slowly, but never completely healed, and he recovered sufficiently to enable him to go about for some months, when he died. The progress of this disease resembled gangrena senilis, many examples of which I have seen affecting the lower extremity in old people ; but this is the only case in which I have observed the upper extremity affected. As no post mortem examination could be obtained, it was impossible to ascertain the condition of the blood-vessels, which would have been very desirable. TWO CASES OF SUCCESSFUL AMPUTATION IN SPREADING GANGRENE. Until M. Larrey proposed amputation in cases of traumatic gangrene, I believe the unfortunate subjects of that disease were abandoned to their fate. Such has been my experience in public and private practice. The idea of an operation under such circum- stances was universally reprobated, and the surgeon who ventured to propose it, subjected himself to the imputation of rashness and inexperience, and was considered to have acquired but a very imperfect knowledge of his profession. I confess that it has always appeared to me better to offer the patient the chance, which a doubtful operation would afford, than leave him to certain death and I have never ceased to regret having yielded an opinion to others in two cases in which subsequent experience justifies me in believing that the operation would have been successful. It was, therefore, with great satisfaction that I found the opinion of