COUNTER-IRRITATION-. 8 that I have derived decided relief since the adoption of the issue twelve months since. Previous to this, I seldom passed ten days without intense suffering, but latterly I have expe- rienced the delightful respite of two months or more.—May 24, 1852.” Case VIII.—A strong man, aged fifty, had been suffering for several months from giddiness and pain in the head, accom- panied with dimness of sight and sickness. His gait was unsteady, and he had frequently fallen to the ground. He had been repeatedly bled, both generally and locally; blisters and purgatives, with other medicines, had been freely used, and that attention to diet had been observed which the rules of a hos- pital enjoin. But very partial relief was obtained, and all the symptoms soon returned with increased violence. To ascertain the state of the blood, twenty ounces were drawn from the arm, which exhibited a buffy and inflamed coat; he was cupped, and took large doses of antimonial powder, with nitrate of potash, and salines, with so little relief, that it was evident that no posi- tive good could be expected from a continuance of such treat- ment. An issue was made over the sagittal suture to the extent of six inches, and a copious discharge promoted daily by inserting peas, smeared with savine ointment. He soon began to show evident signs of improvement, all the former alarming symptoms gradually subsided, and he so perfectly re- covered as to be able to follow his usual occupation without inconvenience. Case IX.—A robust healthy gentleman, about thirty, re- ceived a blow on the forehead, which knocked him down and stunned him. It was followed by symptoms of concussion of the brain, from which he recovered under the usual treatment. He continued well for upwards of a year, when he was seized early one morning with a severe epileptic fit, and did not per- fectly recover the stupor for some hours. He had taken unu- sually great exercise the day before, which was a very hot one, and had eaten heartily and irregularly. Leeches were applied to the temples, and active opening medicine administered with