128 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. the 1st of March, 1826, after a natural labour ; the placenta was expelled half an hour afterwards, without any unusual discharge of blood, but a draining followed, which, although not enough to require any restraining remedies, kept up a faintness, and more particularly, as she described it, an internal feeling of great weakness, from which she did not entirely recover for five or six hours. She never completely got up her strength, although she made many efforts to rally, but within a year fell into a consump- tion, and died. Such cases are not uncommon, and when contrasted with others, in which enormous discharges of blood occur, without either immediate or remote danger to the constitution, tend only to show the great uncertainty of the practice. Floodings have always alarmed me more than any of the various dangers attendant on parturition, from the conviction that a greater proportion of women die from that than any other cause. Dr. Rigby divides uterine hemorrhage, before delivery, into two kinds, accidental and unavoidable; and the rules for the treatment of each are well defined, judicious, and safe. The plan of rupturing the membranes in accidental hemorrhage was so strongly condemned in the school in which I was educated, that I cautiously avoided it in my early practice, until the publication of that able work, since which I have in every case adopted it, and invariably with success. Subsequent experience inclines me to believe that a more fortunate result would have attended the following case, if that practice had been pursued, intead of proceeding to turn in the usual way : — Mrs. C., at the full period of her pregnancy, was suddenly seized with hemorrhage, after making a considerable exertion; it was so violent that she would have fallen to the ground if the nurse had not supported her. It had continued nearly three hours when I saw her. She was faint and very low, and although the violence of the discharge had abated, there was still much draining. My first care was to endeavour to recruit her, and she appeared to rally for a time, but the discharge still continuing to such an extent as to create great apprehension for her safety, I