CO U N TEIt-I RRI TAT ION. ’tis the removal, in my opinion, of the cause. I feel that I am writing what you know, and that you will think me stupid; I will therefore add no more than that I remain, u Yours most sincerely, “ JOHN ABE RNETIIY.” “ J. Toogood, Esq., Bridgw'ater.” Case III.—A boy eleven years old was brought to my house, a distance of twelve miles, in a cart, with an enlargement of th e thigh bone, and a small wound on the inside of the limb, just above the condyle, which was suspected to communicate with lumbar abscess. The disease had been of long standing, and the patient was much emaciated. To the great surprise of the friends, the femur was discovered on examination to be broken, occasioned most probably by his removal, having been seen by the surgeon under whose care he had been on the previous day, who had not observed it, and who was too careful a practitioner to have overlooked it. The diseased state of the bone explained all the symptoms, and as there was no evidence of any affection of the vertebrae, I advised a large issue to be made on each side of the fracture, which was kept open for many months. The bone united firmly, and the recovery was complete. Case IV.—A delicate lady who had suffered so much from an affection of the chest, as to make her friends apprehensive that her case would terminate in consumption, had an acute attack of inflammation of the lungs, from the effects of which she recovered so slowly, that the former fears of the family were much in- creased. She was advised to try counter-irritation as a precau- tionary measure, for which purpose an issue of the size of a crown piece, was made on the sternum, the good effects of which soon became apparent, and by keeping it open for a year, the pulmonic symptoms gradually disappeared, and she regained her strength. Five years have elapsed since the attack, during which time she has enjoyed excellent health, and appears free from disease. In this case a piece of India rubber was used instead of peas, and found less troublesome as well as more con- venient. It must not be presumed that these were the only