114 PHYSICAL DEVELOFEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. On taking some arrowroot she again vomited. After this she slept tranquilly for four hours, when she got out of bed, attempted to walk, but was unable to stand, talked incoherently for a short time, and on being replaced in bed she lay perfectly still, with her eyes open; she complained again of pain in the head, but was not sick. I found her, between seven and eight o’clock, lying still; she was sensible, but roused with difficulty, could speak, and drank a cup of tea, soon after which she became quite insensible, had convulsions at one, grew hourly worse, and died early the following morning. A post-mortem examination was obtained a few hours after. The membranes and surface of the brain were generally healthy, the vessels rather more gorged with blood than usual, and a little more fluid escaped during the examination than natural. On cutting into the substance of the brain, on the upper and posterior part of the left side, a portion of the structure was found much softened, and of a dark colour in some places, from purulent infiltration. The network of veins in the plexus choroides was much distended, and contained minute cysts. The left corpus striatum was very much softer, and more vascular than usual, apparently undergoing the same changes as described above. As this lady was an entire stranger to me, I had no means of ascertaining what her previous state of health had been ; but I subsequently learnt that she had long been the subject of chlorosis, for which disease she had consulted two eminent physicians in London, from whose advice she had derived some benefit. It also appeared that a younger sister had shown symptoms of the same disease, which produced a more ready acquiescence in the proposal to examine the cause of death. The information thus obtained, led to a more determined course in her case, which was followed by the happiest results. E. T., aged twenty-two, a nursery-maid in a respectable family, was admitted into the Bridgwater Infirmary on Sunday, October 6th, 1844. She had been an out-patient of that Institution about three years before, and after receiving some benefit, she left the Infirmary, believing herself well. For the last two