PASSAGE OF CATHETER INTO THE BLADDER. 356 had had, a few weeks previously, a severe labour, producing paralysis of the bladder, and rendering the introduction of the catheter necessary night and morning. A few hours before my visit, her medical attendant, in attempting to draw off the water, experienced some difficulty, and whilst making more pressure than usual, the catheter slipped into the bladder. He immedi- ately attempted to reach it with his dressing forceps, but failed. I advised him to wait until it became necessary to draw off the water again, then pass a longer catheter, and endeavour to dis- cover its position; but it could not, however, be detected, and the operation was repeated several times before it was felt. The following plan was then tried :— A piece of sponge tent, somewhat longer than a common female catheter, and of the size of the little finger, was passed into the bladder, without difficulty or giving pain, and allowed to remain eight or ten hours, during which time the water passed freely through it. At the end of that period it was removed, and the forefinger of the left hand passed readily Jnto the bladder. The catheter was felt lying across, one end resting on the pubes, and the other embedded in the folds at the back part of the bladder. There was considerable difficulty in bring- ing it into the urethra, which was effected by carrying the fore- finger of the right hand into the vagina, and pressing the bladder backwards and upwards, which brought that part of the instru- ment lying over the pubes within reach of the other finger, and then into the urethra, from whence it was readily removed by the dressing forceps. All this was effected with very little pain, and without the patient or her friends even being aware of what had happened. The instrument, which was one of the sliding short catheters recommended by Mr. Jewel, remained in the bladder fifteen days, producing but very slight irritation. This is, I believe, a very rare accident; and, on looking at the catheters which are generally in use, one only feels surprised that it does not happen more frequently, as there is not sufficient guard to prevent it. Mr. Abernethy used to relate in his lectures a case of this kind, where the catheter was not extracted;