49 CASE OF HYDROPHOBIA. countenance was suffused, except about the nose and upper lip, which were pretematurally white; the eyes started, and were glossy. There was an expression of anxiety amounting to agony. A quantity of mucus and saliva now collected constantly in the fauces and on the tongue, which he protruded from the mouth in a hurried manner, and seemed anxious and impatient to have removed. The sight of this frothy fluid seemed indeed to aggravate all his sufferings, and he requested repeatedly, in an eager and impatient manner, to have it removed by means of a handkerchief; this he sometimes did himself too, with the same impatience, until at length the lips presented an abraded surface. The body, arms, &c., were now almost constantly affected with strong spasmodic affection ; sometimes he requested to be held still. The respiration became frequent; the hands and feet were cold and clammy ; the pulse 160, and small ; there was no erec- tion of the penis. At this time he attempted to get out of bed to go to stool, in doing which the motions of the body and limbs were rapid, hurried, convulsive, and apparently little under his control. The sight of water, &c., still induced the same painful effects as before. There were occasionally moments of delirium, but in general he was rational and sensible to external objects, and recognised the bystanders. He had been occasionally much exasperated at his mother, whom he had hurt on the hand, by the finger nail; in general he manifested no disposition to hurt or bite any one. About eight p.m., the countenance appeared fallen, the surface was become cold, the pulse imperceptible. There was still constant but feeble spasms, and still the protru- sion of frothy mucus from the mouth. There was at this time a constant muttering delirium, and the voice had become inar- ticulate. Soon afterwards he assumed the supine, recumbent posture, the spasms became still feebler and smaller, and confined to the mouth, throat, and neck ; the eyes were opened and un- fixed, and the pupils throughout the disease were unusually dilated. In this state of debility and feeble spasmodic agitation he remained a short time, and expired just forty-eight hours after the accession of the first symptoms of hydrophobia. This