COMATOSE AFFECTION IN CHILDREN. 40 independently of any previous scarlatina, of which he had seen two cases in one family, both of which proved fatal ; one in six, the other in twelve hours. The examination exhibited general congestion of the veins within the skull, with a small patch of lymph on the top of the left hemisphere, but no ap- pearance of disease of the heart, lungs, or within the abdomen. I have also met with two cases in the same family, both children having been attacked within a few hours of each other, without any obvious cause. Both cases fortunately recovered, and, as such do not appear to be common, it may not be uninteresting to relate them. These cases were drawn up by the mother, a very intelligent lady, who watched them with the greatest care and most intense anxiety. u Robert is four years and three-quarters old. He had a cold all the week, but his appetite not falling off, and his appearing quite well, I did not give him any medicine, but, as the weather was fine, sent him out twice the very day before he was taken ill. He did not awake during the night, but in the morning of Sun- day, the 7lh of March, 1846, complained to the nurse of feeling tired. His bowels acted as usual, and the nurse gave him a little sal volatile. As this did not appear to revive him, we im- mediately gave him four grains of grey powder; but, thinking him looking extremely ill, I requested Mr. Toogood to see him, who ordered him some castor oil, at eleven o’clock. He con- tinued much the same,—his head hot, his feet with difficulty kept warm,—and so much inclined to sleep, that I had a crib brought down, and laid him on it. He answered when spoken to, until a little past two, p.m., when, after giving him some gruel, I perceived that he did not speak, and was becoming in- sensible. Leeches were instantly applied to the temples, four grains of calomel given, and his hair, which was long and thick, was cut off. He continued getting worse, and towards evening some ice was obtained, and applied to his head : his pulse was very rapid. His head was now shaved, and a large blister applied, right across, from one ear to the other. A few spoonsful of broth, or gruel, were given from time to time ; he never had any