02 PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. mortification, no water flowed. He then determined that there was no water in the bladder, and considered the case to be one of suppression, and not retention, of urine, and left the patient with the full conviction that he would shortly die. But those who had watched the case from the beginning were of a different opinion, and on careful percussion of the abdomen, the bladder could be traced enormously distended. It was now determined to puncture the bladder, the retention having existed from Thursday night until the following Monday. This was done above the pubes, and a large quantity of highly offensive urine was evacuated, with immediate and great relief. Very little hope, however, was entertained of the patient’s recovery, for, in addition to his being upwards of seventy years old, he was very corpulent, with a pendulous belly, so that there was every reason to believe that although he might be temporarily relieved, he would sink from infiltration of mine into the surrounding parts, and mortification. Shortly after the operation, an elastic catheter was introduced into the bladder through the urethra, and we had the satisfaction of seeing every drop of water pass through it. Our hopes now revived. We became sanguine of our patient’s recovery, and redoubled our efforts to save him. He was most carefully and anxiously watched. The wound was cleansed, and brought together with plaster. Nothing could proceed more favourably; all the dangerous symptoms gradually subsided, the wound healed, and he again passed his water naturally, but occa- sionally it was drawn off. On one of these occasions a stone was distinctly felt, but although many attempts were made at different times to discover it, it could not always be detected. The wound healed firmly, and he recovered his health and spirits so as to enable him to take his usual exercise. He continued in this state for more than a year, when one afternoon he was suddenly attacked with symptoms of peritoneal inflammation, which in- creased rapidly, and he died in twelve hours. On opening the cavity of the abdomen, urine was found effused in considerable quantity, from ulceration of the bladder, which