REFACE. VII. men give up so much of their time to the public. Hospitals and Infirmaries for the relief of the sick are to be found in every town of importance, and even in large villages, and medical men always ready to render their services gratuitously, llut who ever yet saw an institution for the dispensation of law, or the protection of the poor man against his rich neighbour, free of expense. The lawyers are wiser in their generation ; they are a united body, who never quarrel amongst themselves, and con- sequently are much better remunerated than our profession, divided, as it unfortunately is, by petty jealousies and unseemly animosities, of which the public take advantage. This was demonstrated but too plainly when the new Poor Law Amend- ment Act was introduced. It was a notorious fact that unworthy members were willing to undertake the care of individuals and clubs at a rate below a common farrier. Such men, estimating their services so cheaply, have no right to complain of the scale at which the Commissioners fixed their remuneration, and have placed a yoke on their own necks, and their successors, which never can be shaken off. It was well observed by the late Sir Astley Cooper, that if the older members of the profession did not stand in the breach, and assist their junior brethren, they must become barber-surgeons again. But unhappily many have put it out of the power of their predecessors to assist them, by disregarding the obligations they entered into on receiving their diploma, and adopting a course alike disgraceful to themselves, and mischievous to their more respectable brethren. The following specimen is copied from an advertisement, the original of which is in my possession : “ To Servants, Labourers, Mechanics, and Persons of limited incomes! “ The advantages of Self-supporting Dispensaries have been found to be great, for the relief and assistance of a numerous class of sufferers, who, whilst they have been anxious to avoid having recourse to the Parish Surgeon, or Cha- ritable Institutions, have been prevented from having the assistance of their own medical attendant, by their inability to meet the customary charges. “ For the relief of such persons, it is proposed to establish a “ Self-Supporting Dispensary, “ Conducted by Mr. King, (Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, and Licentiate of the London Apothecaries' Company,) “Balls Lane, Bridgwater. “ Persons desirous of Medical assistance, may receive attendance at the Dis- pensary daily, between the hours of Eight and Ten in the morning, with all