LOSS OF BLOOD. 12 bled freely on two successive mornings, at his instance, by one of my pupils. In the afternoon of the second day, the disease being unsubdued, he was bled a third time, and placed in a rather inclined position on a sofa. The blood was allowed to flow until thirty-four ounces were taken. He then suddenly fell upon the floor violently convulsed, and remained for some time afterwards in such a state of syncope, as to render his recovery doubtful; being carried to bed, however, he slowly recovered under the administration of cordials. He did not suffer afterwards from the secondary effects of loss of blood. Case III.—Syncope from Venesection.—A gentleman, aged 84, robust, and unusually active for his period of life, with great energy of mind, had suffered from repeated slight attacks in the head, threatening paralysis, for which he had often been bled locally, and once or twice from the arm, and had worn a seton in the back part of the neck for several years. In December, 1841, these symptoms increased to such a degree that he fell down, and partially lost the use of his left side. Leeches were applied to the head; he was cupped, took active medicine, and lived very sparingly. No relief was obtained by these means, and as the pulse was exceedingly full, strong, and labouring, ten ounces of blood were drawn from the arm; but as this produced no change in the pulse, after an interval of half an hour, the arm was again tied up, and the blood suffered to flow until the fulness of the pulse was somewhat diminished. He was placed in a semi-erect posture, and showed no sign of faintness until after the arm was secured, and he was laid down in bed, when, after yawning twice, he had a violent convulsion, gasped two or three times, the pulse ceased, and he fell back covered with a cold sweat, and to all appearance dead. Some brandy was quickly poured down his throat, and after a short time he appeared to revive a little, but soon relapsed into an alarming state of weak- ness and faintness, which required the constant administration of powerful stimulants, and application of warmth to keep him alive, and the event was even then very doubtful for many hours; for the pulse fluttered, the countenance remained blanched, and the