CASE OF HYDROPHOBIA. 50 little boy had been bitten under the left eye, slightly, about six weeks before, by a large spaniel dog, which afterwards died. The skin had been slightly broken and abraded, and a drop or two of blood flowed from the part. But the wound was regarded as altogether trifling ; about this part the boy complained of pain during the continuance of his disease. ON MILD MERCURIAL FRICTION IN CERTAIN STATES OF VENEREAL DISEASE. It is a common practice with persons in a certain class of life to apply to quacks and irregular practitioners for the cure of venereal disease, which often subjects them to a’ complicated set of symptoms, extremely difficult to eradicate. If the patient has been quickly salivated, and is of a scrofulous habit, the diffi- culty is much increased. In these cases I have found the slow and cautious introduction of mercury by friction a more effectual mode of removing the train of distressing symptoms which follow a mistreated case, than any other plan of treatment. The following cases will be found worth attention :— Case I.—Peter F. contracted a chancre, for which he was very quickly salivated, the sore healed, but after a short time secondary symptoms appeared. He still pursued an irregular course of life, and after the lapse of a year and a half, he con- sulted me. At that time he had nodes in various parts of the body, and was extremely weak and emaciated. A medical friend of great experience, who had for many years been attached to a large hospital, being on a visit at that time, saw him with me, and agreed that a regular mercurial course would afford him the best chance of relief. He did not, however, regularly pursue the plan, and afterwards he took the muriate of lime with some good effect. I then lost sight of him for several years, when I was again desired to visit him. His state had become deplorable; exfoliations of bone had taken place in various parts of the skull, arms, and legs. He was lying in bed with his knees per- manently bent to an acute angle; the abdomen was greatly