BURNING FEVER OF HIPPOCRATES. 165 course of nature; but certainly still more remarkably when it has been cut short by disease, which had affected for a time the intellectual faculty. The following case, which occurred to me a few years since, is an interesting one, and resembles in some points that above related :— I was summoned in great haste, in the middle of the night, to visit a patient who was a perfect stranger to me, and on my ar- rival, I found the whole family in a state of distress and alarm. Having been hurried into a bed-room, before I had time to make any enquiry, I saw a young lady, aged about thirty, in a violent paroxysm of delirium, which subsided after a short time. Her sister then said, u My dear, I have brought a medical man to see you.” She fixed her eyes wildly on me, and exclaimed, u You can do me no good,” and relapsed again into a state of delirium. Presently I learnt that about three weeks before she had been much exposed to wet, and was unable to change for some hours ; that she had taken cold, followed by rheumatic fever, which had subsided for several days, and that she was considered by her medical attendant and friends to be con- valescent. I was told that she had generally had good health, and that the attack, although severe, had been confined to the extremities, and that she had not, during its progress, shown any sign of delirium. On the previous evening, after having passed a tranquil day, she called her sister to her bed-side, and said, u To-morrow morning, at nine o’clock, I shall be stone dead.” Her sister, thinking that she was scarcely awakened from a dreamy sleep, did not notice this, until she repeated the same words with great earnestness, and added, “ I know my mother is coming here to-morrow, to see me, but as I shall be dead before she arrives, I wish you to tell her several things, which I will mention to you, if you will come and sit down by me.” On this, her sister regarded her very attentively, and ob- served a wildness in her manner and expression, which determined her to send immediately for her medical adviser. Circumstances prevented him from visiting her that evening, and, as I lived at a considerable distance, I did not reach the house until two