132 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. grateful it generally is. All authorities agree in the propriety of giving opium freely. Brandy is frequently necessary ; I once gave nine wine glassfuls, as quickly as it could be swallowed, after an enormous loss of blood, with the happiest effect. The ergot of rye is esteemed by some a useful remedy in hemorrhage from the uterus. It has not been successful in my hands. It is given much too indiscriminately during labour. Sometimes it produces good effects, whilst at others it seems to be perfectly inert. The placenta presented in one case ; delivery was speedily effected, and the patient did well. Twenty-four cases of adhesion or retention of placenta oc- curred, which required the introduction of the hand for its removal. These are some of the most distressing cases in the practice of midwifery. It often happens that after a painful and protracted labour, when the woman hopes and expects her suf- ferings are over, she is obliged to submit to an operation as painful to her as it is distressing to the practitioner; and women generally describe the pain occasioned by the introduction of the hand, under such circumstances, as worse than that of labour. I know no method of preventing it. It may be occa- sioned by too hasty attempts to bring the child into the world; but it often happens when the delivery is retarded, which is stated by some teachers to be an effectual remedy against such an occurrence. But that this plan often fails, my own expe- rience enables me to testify; indeed it does not appear to me by any means certain that the attempt to retard the birth of the child has not sometimes interrupted the regular action of the uterus, and produced the retention. Generally, if the bulk of the placenta and insertion of the funis can be felt, on running the finger along the chord, there is no fear of its being retained ; but this is not always the case, for it now and then happens that there is a sudden and great discharge of blood, or such a continued one as to excite some apprehension for the safety of the patient. Some- times I have waited irresolute as to the proper course to pursue, and after the failure of external pressure on the uterus and other