16 LOSS OF BLOOD. attended with pain and cough, and a strong, full pulse. He was bled to the amount of forty ounces, after which the breathing became more free, the skin moist and soft, the cough less trou- blesome, and the expectoration more copious. His friends remarked that this bleeding had been followed with more decided relief than any former one. Thursday. Has passed a very disturbed night, with broken sleep and slight delirium. The respiration is quick and short, performed sometimes with a double catching. Twenty ounces of blood were drawn, after which he had some tranquil sleep; and on awaking passed three foetid black stools. From this time his recovery was gradual, although very slow. The quantity of blood which this patient lost in a short time amounted to two hundred and twelve ounces, nearly half of which was taken away in twenty hours. It was received in tea cups; and, with the exception of that in the last cup of the last bleeding, the whole was exceedingly buffed and cupped, and, although carried to such an extent, it never produced faintness. I have often doubted in my own mind the propriety of the practice in this case (which I should not now adopt), and am inclined to believe that if opium had been freely administered after the first copious bleedings, the subsequent ones would not have been thought necessary. This case occurred in 1820, before the effects of loss of blood were so well understood as they are now. Since that period diseases of the respiratory organs have been more closely studied; to which the stethoscope, and other modes of investigation have greatly contributed. This patient fortunately not only survived the attack, but the remedies also, and although he never perfectly recovered the effects, yet he lived for many years after. The following case illustrates that the most active treatment, vigorously pursued, on the onset of Pneumonia, does not always arrest the disease, or prevent the formation of abscess:— Case V.—The wife of a farmer, aged 30, of thin, spare, but wiry habit, who had borne several children, living in Sedge-moor, an aguish locality, in which hundreds of acres were often flooded