CROWING INSPIRATION OP CHILDREN. 32 remained so long in this state, that the bystanders thought he was dead. He was laid in an inclined position, and kept perfectly still, when, after a short time, a slight attempt at inspiration was made, which gradually improved until his recovery became com- plete. The contents of the bladder and rectum were evacuated during the attack, and his countenance was very pale for a long time afterwards. During the next six months he had several slight attacks, which almost invariably commenced during comfortable easy sleep, and were preceded by an expression of pain in the countenance, and although of short duration, were very distress- ing. After this time they ceased entirely, and he has grown to manhood in the enjoyment of good health. At five years old he had hooping cough very severely, and suffered from it for an unusual length of time, but no symptom of the former attack shewed itself. His eldest child was seized with the same disease when eight months old, was alarmingly ill for some weeks, and with difficulty recovered. Case II.—F. T., his brother, was attacked in the same manner when about six weeks old, and after repeated seizures, suddenly expired in one when fourteen weeks old. Case III.—O. T., another brother, had a similar attack when about a year and a half old, but less violent. These recurred occasionally until he was three years old, when they ceased. He has grown up to manhood in good health. Case IV.—A. T., another brother, began to have the same affection when about six months old, which continued until he completed his fourth year. During this period the attacks were sometimes so violent as to threaten instant death. They were occasioned by crying or passion, and once, in consequence of a fall, which brought on so violent a seizure, that there appeared no probability of his recovery. He was kept perfectly still, with his head a little raised, and in two or three minutes he began to breathe again. After this he had slight attacks, on crying or losing his breath, but never a serious one; the countenance always became livid, and respiration was suspended, but there