78 DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. slightest pain, spasm, or inconvenience, and 1 can conscientiously affirm that the cure is complete.” This case is an interesting one, and the accident happened in a singular manner. The patient was a muscular lady, aged twenty- four. She had a severe attack, which made it necessary, in the opinion of her medical adviser, to take repeated doses of opium, which so completely narcotized her as to excite the greatest alarm for her life. In this state she was forcibly dragged about her room, and it was not until some time after all apprehension for her safety had subsided that the accident was discovered. I did not see her on her first arrival here; but, as the case proved a very intractable one, my son called me to his assistance. My impression was, that although the dislocation might have been reduced at the time, the bone had never remained in its proper situation; and I imagine that this was also her conviction, for I observed on my first visit that the foot was turned round, and I learned that, however securely it was bound up, the splints and bandages were speedily torn to pieces by the violence of the spasms. On removing the bandages it was evident that it was a dislo- cation forwards and outwards. The spasmodic action of the muscles was so violent as to render all attempts at reduction hopeless, and could only be compared to those which occur in tetanus or puerperal convulsions. She was put under the in- fluence of ether, and the bone was replaced without difficulty; but it was not until she was placed on one of Earle’s beds, with the leg firmly fixed below the knee, and permanent extension made from the foot, and kept up for a long time, that it could be returned in its normal position. But even then the tendency to displacement was so great, that if the foot had not been secured in the iron shoe, and the screw applied over the dislocated astra- galus, it would not have been possible to have conducted the case to a favourable termination. I have just been informed that this lady had lately been to a ball, and danced without the least inconvenience.—March, 1848.