148 REMOVAL OF THE UTERUS BY LIGATURE. ineffectual attempts to return it for three days, she sent for my late partner, Mr. Parsons, who gave me the following state- ment:— “ On Wednesday, April 17th, I was sent for to see Miss L., a maiden lady, nearly sixty years old, who I had before known to have been suffering from a prolapsus of the womb; on my arrival I was informed that this had come down on the Saturday previously, during a violent fit of coughing, and that all her attempts to reduce it had failed. On examination, I discovered a very large protrusion of a pyriform shape, and extending from the vagina to at least seven or eight inches. The surface was not very sensitive, but was of a red, florid colour, and in some parts ulcer- ated and ecchymosed from repeated attempts to effect its reduc- tion, and from which some hemorrhage occasionally occurred. Every endeavour on my part to return it being fruitless, I ordered some leeches and cold applications to be used, hoping, in a day or two, by these means, to reduce its bulk, so as to enable me to return it. None of these remedies, however, succeeded, and as, on a more careful examination, I discovered that the neck of this large mass, as it entered the vagina, rather diminished in size, I requested a consultation with my friend Dr. Toogood, who had formerly attended the patient, who advised the removal of— which he thought practicable and safe—the whole by ligature. Accordingly, on Sunday the 21st, the following operation was performed :—A strong ligature was applied around the neck of the protruded uterus, within the vagina, without the aid of an instrument; and with the fingers, and a few slight scratches of a scalpel, the whole was removed immediately. u The mass removed was about two pounds weight, the shape of the uterus, but its structure much altered in character, the cavity being quite obliterated, and the os uteri become almost cartilaginous. No bad symptoms ensued, and she told me yester- day, the 22nd, that she was as well as when she was sixteen. u On examination, no uterus can be discovered, but the vagina seems to terminate in a short cul de sac.” Ten years have elapsed since this operation was performed,