COUNTER IRRITATION. 7 living so perfectly aware of the benefit they have derived from keeping open a safety valve, that nothing would induce them to give it up. The scalp issue is made with little pain, is less inconvenient and troublesome than in some other parts, and being covered with a piece of black plaister, is easily concealed by the hair. The size must of course depend on the severity of the disease. The following case affords a fair example of the practice, and its success. Case VI.—A tall stout woman, aged forty, of very full habit, whose mother and brother had both had Hemiplegia, suffered from frequent attacks of pain and giddiness in the head, accom- panied with indistinct vision and muffling of the speech, for which she was constantly largely bled, purged and blistered, with temporary and partial relief only. The veins in both arms had been opened so frequently, that blood could no longer be drawn from them, and recourse was had to the temporal artery, and afterwards to repeated cupping from the nape of the neck. But the result of this treatment was very unsatis- factory ; her gait became unsteady, and a more decided attack appeared to be impending. An issue, containing twelve peas, was made on the crown of the head, which were gradually re- duced to six, the good effect of which soon became obvious ; the attacks wrere less violent, more distant, and at length dis- appeared altogether. This was done ten years since, and when I saw her lately, she told me that her health was so much im- proved, that she had never been worth the attention of a medical man since the insertion of the issue. Dr. Blackall related to me the case of a gentleman who con- sulted him on account of so complete a loss of memory, that he frequently could not remember his own name. Under the use of a seton in the neck, he perfectly recovered his recollection. Case VII.—The following is an extract from a letter from a medical man who consulted me about a year ago, on accoimt of a violent affection of the head, which often confined him to his bed for many days together, and compelled him to give up a lucrative appointment : “ I have much pleasure in assuring you