DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 107 culty in evacuating the bowels. Having at length succeeded in obtaining an examination, I discovered a large pile protruding from the anus, and on removing this, and passing my finger into the rectum, I found a hard tumor, about the size of a large walnut, growing from a slender stalk. I got hold of this, and drawing it down with a hook, cut it off. All the miserable symptoms from which she had been suffering for two years, rapidly disappeared, and she soon regained her strength and flesh. Case V.—I was consulted some years since by a lady, who was supposed to have a stricture of the rectum. I found her in a most distressing state, much emaciated, with total loss of appe- tite, and such constant pain and tenesmus, as to deprive her almost entirely of sleep. The bowels were habitually costive, and she was harassed by constant efforts to evacuate them, but small quantities of liquid faeces only were passed. On examina- tion it was discovered, that an enormous accumulation had taken place, which had become so firmly impacted as to require mechanical means to remove it ; and after a persevering attempt for four hours, her delivery, to use her own words, was effected as completely as ever she had experienced for either of her children. Under the use of a mild tonic aperient, she gradually recovered her strength and flesh, and has for many years past enjoyed good health. This patient was a victim to the dishonest practice of homoe- opathy, and as she was never permitted to take any aperient for nearly a year, her sufferings may be fairly attributed to that imposition. I believe large collections of faeces accumulate in the bowels more frequently than is suspected, having met with several cases in practice, which have required mechanical means for the removal of the obstruction. A very general prejudice exists against the use of aloes, as an aperient, from the apprehension of its producing piles. It was observed by the late Dr. Moncrieff, of Bristol, that although the socotrine did occasion the disease, he had not in his practice found any such effect from Barbadoes aloes. My own experi-