145 RESUSCITATION OF STILL-BORN CHILDREN. after a considerable time, was resuscitated. When the husband was made acquainted with the facts, he declared that I never should attend his family again ; and he kept his word. CASE OF STRICTURE OF THE VAGINA. A woman, about 40, who had borne children, and whose labours had been slow and lingering, but not dangerous, con- sidered herself again pregnant, about six months after she had given birth to a child. The catamenia had entirely ceased, and although she had no doubt of her situation, she was remarked not to increase in size. At this time she had some discharge, and suspected she was going to miscarry; but as nothing more than dark-coloured blood passed, and the pains became very severe, attended with shivering and considerable fever, she consulted a surgeon who had been accustomed to the practice of midwifery. This gentleman discovered, on examination, a circular contraction of the vagina, so complete as almost entirely to obliterate the canal, leaving an orifice scarcely large enough to admit the point of a probe, through which a dark-coloured and highly offensive fluid passed. The opening was gradually dilated, which allowed the escape of a very large quantity of putrid fluid, with imme- diate relief of all the symptoms. The stricture was now forcibly dilated for seventeen days, by cones of gentian root, when she was pronounced cured. About two months after this period she fell under my care, when I found the contraction so great, that I could not insert the point of my finger into it without using much force, and occasioning considerable pain. Having succeeded in effectually dilating the female urethra, by the introduction of sponge tent, without the slightest pain, in two cases in which a female catheter had accident- ally slipped into the bladder, I determined to make trial of it in this case, and so easily effected it, that in the course of a few days the stricture was completely dilated, and the canal apparently restored to its natural state. Two days after the removal of the sponge, I had the mortification to find the con- w