INJURY OF THE HEAD. 62 assistance, and was able to describe the manner in which the blow was given, and tell his name and place of residence. There was a wound over the right eye, which led to a very considerable fracture of the frontal bone. He was quite sensible, complained only of slight pain in the head, and walked some distance to an inn, and was put to bed. He had some stupor, but not in any considerable degree; sickness, which was increased by pressure on the fracture ; dilatation of the pupils, which contracted on the approach of a candle; the respiration was natural. As the symptoms were not urgent, a small quantity of blood was taken, and a purgative administered, which was thrown up four hours after, whilst examining the wound and removing some coagulated blood. The pulse was 60, and intermitted once in 15 or 20 beats. He was again bled, and directed to be kept quiet. Tuesday.—He passed a tolerable night, but was frequently sick; stupor rather increased; pulse 60, but more oppressed; respiration rather laborious; on the whole, the symptoms are increased, but he got out of bed without assistance during the night to make water. At 12 o’clock, I divided the scalp right and left, in a semicircular direction, which enabled me to ascer- tain the nature and extent of the injury. The fracture began about the middle of the frontal bone, and ran across the frontal sinus towards the temporal bone, to the extent of nearly two inches. The principal depression was at the sinus ; the edges of the bone, particularly towards the orbit, were very jagged, and irregularly broken. I found Mr. Hey’s saw extremely useful in removing the rough edges of the bone, which enabled me to raise several large detached pieces. Eighteen fragments were removed, including the whole frontal sinus. Having carefully removed a considerable quantity of coagulated blood from the dura mater, the scalp was laid down and covered with light dressing. The pulse rose immediately to 86, and became perfectly regular; and he felt so much relieved that he got out of bed, stood upright, and put on a clean shirt without any assistance. He was directed to take ten grains of calomel, with an equal quantity of jalap, and afterwards a purgative mixture. At five o’clock his pulse was