68 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. to meet with this accident. The patient was seated in a chair, which was firmly lashed to the pillar ; a stirrup leather was placed over each shoulder, and buckled under the seat of the chair, and the body was secured to the pillar by a girth, the legs being placed horizontally in another chair, to prevent re- sistance ; a long towel, or sometimes a rope, was now fastened around the arm, above the elbow, which was given to four or five men, who were directed to pull. They generally made strong traction by jerks, whilst the operating surgeon was mani- pulating, with the help of a handkerchief placed under the axilla, and over his neck, tied in a knot. This process was con- tinued for two or three hours, until the patient became ex- hausted, and faint from pain ; sometimes it succeeded, and at others the trial was abandoned for that day, to be resumed on the following, if the patient would submit. During the whole time no attention was paid to the scapula, which was drawn for- wards with the arm at every successive pull. Many curious incidents occurred with such accidents. I will mention one which came within my own knowledge, and another which was related to me by a neighbouring surgeon. Case I.—A man was thrown from his horse, and dislocated the humerus, the head of the here lying under the pectoral muscle. He was carried into a cottage by the road-side, and the surgeon, on his arrival, not being prepared with the means of reducing the arm, left me in care of the patient, and sent a post- chaise to bring him into the town. We had not proceeded far before he became so faint that I called to the post-boy to stop, which he did so suddenly, that the elbow of the dislocated arm, which the patient was carefully supporting with the other hand, was forced against the front panel of the chaise, and the bone immediately reduced. Case II.—That of an athletic farmer, who lived in a moun- tainous country, whose dislocation two hospital surgeons had vainly attempted to reduce. In a consultation with an eccentric practitioner, after the usual means had failed, it was proposed to make the patient very drunk ; whilst in this powerless state,