XI PRLLFACK. ployed that and lime flower water, in doses of a wine glassful, with the best effects. Extraordinary superstitions on medical subjects prevail in some districts. In the neighbourhood in which I practised, a very general prejudice existed against medical men, who were supposed not to understand the nature or treatment of jaundice; and if the disease was not turned, as the patient expressed it, on the first visit, he lost all confidence in his doctor, and placed himself under the care of a seventh son, or some such person, who had the re- putation of being a curer of that disease. I was consulted by the wife of a mason, who was completely jaundiced, and having been of service to her formerly, in an extreme case, she paid the unusual compliment of a second visit, after which I saw nothing more of her for a considerable time; but meeting her accidentally on the road, and enquiring after her health, she told me that she was perfectly recovered, for which she was not indebted to me, but to a blacksmith in an adjoining village, who had cut her on the crown. On my doubting this, she shewed me the mark of a crucial incision on the top of her head, and declared that the jaundice left her immediately after it was made. Shortly after- wards a patient, living near her, an educated lady, had a similar attack, and was with difficulty prevented from consulting the blacksmith, and trying the same experiment. In July, 1846, whilst on a visit at Dr. Simpson’s, at Edinburgh, a poor half-witted girl was brought from a considerable distance in the country, who believed, as well as those about her, that she had swallowed a beast. It was a spasmodic hysterical affection of the abdominal muscles, of which two or three cases have fallen under my observation, one of which was mistaken for the motions of a child. The Doctor treated her story seriously, and desired that she may be brought again the following morning. He then placed her on a b°d, and suddenly sent a smart galvanic shock through the abdomen ; all motion immediately ceased, and the patient and her friends exclaimed that the beast was killed ; but in order to prevent the possibility of resuscitation, a second shock was repeated, which confirmed their belief that the beast was dead.