80 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE LEG. complained of tenesmus, and could not pass any water. The catheter was introduced with great relief. He continued in the same state during the day, the pulse varying from 60 to 68 ; but in the evening the oppression and langour was much increased, and the tongue became very dry. The wound looked pale and weak, and there was much discoloration of the foot, particularly of that part where the pressure necessary for the reduction of the dislocation had been made. The limb was well fomented ; fifty drops of laudanum were given in some Madeira and water, and an injection administered, which was repeated at three in the morning, having been extremely restless, and without sleep. Immediate relief followed ; he became comfortable, and slept. He passed the whole of the following day ("Saturday) better; the same treatment was pursued, with the opium and wine ; and he took chicken broth and beef tea. Sunday. He complained of being very low, but ail the other symptoms proceeded favourably. On Monday the limb looked well, and there was a slight appearance of suppuration ; his countenance and general state were improved, and he took some nutritive food with relish. The heat of this day was oppressive, the thermometer standing at 90 in the shade, and in the evening he was excessively low, and his voice so weak that he could scarcely be heard. A full dose of opium, in Madeira, procured a good night, and he passed the next day (Tuesday) well. Cordials and tonics were pre- scribed, and in the evening there was a sufficient discharge of healthy matter from the wound. The bladder recovered its power on the eighth day, and everything went on favourably untd the twelfth, excepting that no evacuations could be procured but by glysters, and on that day the wound became dry. On the following evening, after passing the best day since the accident, violent spasms and shooting pains came on, affecting the leg, and particularly the muscles on the inside of the thigh. These spasmodic twitchings recurred frequently for many days, affecting the muscles of both legs, body, arms, and face. They generally came on as he was going to sleep, and sometimes awoke him from