18 LOSS OF BLOOD. excreted by the natural passages. In such a case bleeding checks the vital powers necessary for these transformations; and, as a general rule, if the disease be not fatal, will delay recovery. I believe this to be the cause of so much mortality from Pneu- monia in hospitals where bleeding is largely practised; for, in general, individuals do not enter until the third, or fourth day, when the lung is already hepatized.” Case VI.—Mrs. Brown, aged 38, was delivered of her seventh child on Sunday, Nov. 2, 1817. It was a face case, but her labour was neither protracted or difficult. She remained quite well until the following Tuesday evening, when she was seized with shiver- ing, succeeded by heat, restlessness, violent pain in the abdomen, and sickness, with vomiting. This attack was attributed to having improperly eaten some boiled mutton. She was so completely relieved by an active purgative on the following day, that on Thursday she complained only of being low and languid, and had very little milk. During the next five days her bowels were disordered a good deal, and she required occasional doses of opening medicine ; on the sixth, Thursday, she complained of pain in the head, which she described as being so violent, that it would deprive her of her senses if not speedily relieved. A smart purgative entirely removed it. On Saturday she was considerably better, but she complained of being low and weak, and frequently shed tears. She had very little milk. A light tonic and nutritious food were directed, but on the following day it was found that she had refused to take her medicine or keep the child to the breast. On Sunday evening she was observed to be very sleepy, and at seven o’clock on the following morning, she was found insensible and quite unconscious of surrounding objects. She lay with her eyes open, with the pupils widely dilated, the pulse small and weak, at 96, the breathing neither difficult or sterterous, and the surface covered with a cold clam- my perspiration ; indeed she appeared to those around her dying. The head was shaved and cold applications diligently employed ; eight leeches were applied to the temples, and a dose of calomel and jalap given with much difficulty, which procured two black