41 COMATOSE AFFECTION IN CHILDREN. difficulty in swallowing, although we often forced the spoon between his teeth. Ilis bowels now acted several times, and we were desired to throw up some broth with a spoonful of brandy in it. This came away immediately, but the second time it remained. It was now twelve at night. Mustard poultices were applied to the soles of his feet, which appeared to rouse him very much, so that my maid and myself were obliged each to hold a foot; and, when he could bear them no longer, we put them on his knees, which he also resisted very much. A short time be- fore this there had been a good deal of twitching ; soon after the poultices were applied, he broke out into a proper perspira- tion, and began to come to, yawning, licking his lips, and putting out his tongue when desired. Soon after this, he threw his arms around the nurse’s neck, and began to answer us, and from that time gradually recovered. I omitted to state, that at eight on Sunday evening he had four grains of calomel, which was re- peated two hours after, and produced slimy, green, and very offensive evacuations, which continued for some days afterwards, and the water also was extremely high-coloured during the fol- lowing week. He had some refreshing sleep on Monday, but could retain nothing on his stomach until Tuesday morning.” I met my son in consultation at three in the afternoon, and found the little patient in an extremely critical state. There was great heat, especially in the head, with fever, very rapid pulse, at times intermitting, coma, and threatening of convul- sion, and dilated pupils, accompanied with so much sinking as to render the case very difficult to treat. For whilst, on the one hand, it was necessary to relieve the congestion of the brain by local bleeding, and other lowering remedies, the in- creasing insensibility and sinking, on the other hand, required stimulants. Nourishment, with occasional doses of ammonia and brandy were freely given. I scarcely ever remember a case which excited more lively interest,—and when I left the patient, at twelve o’clock, there appeared but little hope of amendment. The brother, who was five years and three-quarters old, was H