168 PUBLIC IXSTITUIOXS FOR RELIEF OF SICK. the year 1813, to invite my medical brethren to attempt the establishment of an infirmary in the town in which I resided. This proposal, like most other new things, was not accomplished without opposition and difficulty ; but ultimately, by the liber- ality of the inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood, the Bridgwater Infirmary was founded. As the means placed at the disposal of the governors were small, it was necessary that the strictest economy should be practised, and that no money should be expended in building. At first a house was rented, and fitted up for the accommodation of eight in-patients, and rendering assistance to out-patients ; but, as the funds were not equal to bear the whole expenditure, every in-patient paid five shillings a-week for his maintenance. The gradual increase of the funds has enabled the governors to reduce this payment. For some years past every in-patient is required to deposit with the matron, on admission, eight shillings, which provides for board and every other expense, except personal washing, for one month, and on his discharge such a proportion of this sum is returned, as makes the cost to each patient two shillings a-week. As however it is sometimes difficult for applicants to raise this sum, it was suggested that a small separate fund should be created, by making an appeal to some of the friends of the charity, who had its success warmly at heart, and that it should be placed in the hands of two sub- scribers, the officiating clergyman being one, who, on the re- commendation of one of the medical officers, should advance Translated thus— “ A single doctor, like a sculler plies— The patient lingers, and he surely dies; But two physicians, like a pair of oars. Waft him with swiftness to the Stygian shores.” The operation was scarcely finished, when the patient, long before the smart- ing had ceased, said to me, “ That was a very bad translation you made just now; call on me in half an hour, and I will give you a better.” On my next visit, he put a paper into my hand, which ran thus— “Arcades Ambo. “ Ye Chirurgeons and M.D.’s, alike is your game ; Ye differ in time—the result is the same ; The Surgeon’s bright knife leads at once to our end: And as surely the Doctor’s bis nocte sumend !”