139 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. Iii one case, the violent convulsions rapidly succeeded each other before the slightest dilatations of the uterus had taken place, but the active means resorted to arrested the attacks, and delivery took place the following day, without any recurrence of this frightful disease. The only fatal case which I have seen was one to which I was called in consultation, after delivery had been effected, but all other means entirely neglected. It is evident that the practice of midwifery involves duties of too responsible and dangerous a nature to be entrusted to ignorant women and nurses. All men do not possess the necessary quali- fications, and are not equally adapted for it. He will be best fitted for the arduous task who possesses a good constitution, is capable of enduring great fatigue, and patiently submitting to many privations, and without rashness, with sound judgment and firm dermination, which he will often be required to exercise when exhausted by long watching and anxiety ; in addition to which, if his manner be kind and his disposition cheerful, the practice will be more agreeable to himself as well as to his patients. There is scarcely a case in the practice of medicine or surgery so urgent as not to allow time for consultation, but the midwife is often called on to act instantly, on his own judgment, in cases where delay would be death. How important then is the study of midwifery ; an imperfect knowledge of its practical part may lead to the most deplorable consequences, where an error of the head or hand may suddenly bereave a fond husband of a beloved wife, children of a tender and affectionate mother, and plunge a whole family into grief, and probably, ruin. CASE OF DROPSY OF THE AMNION. In November, 1830, Dr. Robert Lee read a paper before the Medical and Chirurgical Society, on the pathology and treat- ment of dropsy of the amnion. I apprehend this must be a rare disease, having only seen one instance of it in the course of my experience, and as it was complicated with ascites and anasarca of the mother, the particulars may be found interesting.