104 POPLITEAL ANEURISM. six ounces of fluid blood, and on making pressure it again ceased. 28tli. He passed a bad night, and was evidently worse, but had no return of bleeding. March 1st. A ligature was applied to the femoral artery, without loss of blood. The aneurismal tumor was poulticed, and on the 3rd, there was a free discharge of pus. 2nd. Had not passed a good night; the oedema of the leg and thigh was much less, and the temperature the same as in the other limb. He continued much in the same state until the 7th, when the temperature of the limb was lower, the foot and toes appeared of a dark hue, and the skin was shrivelled. 8th. The aspect of the limb is still more unfavourable ; the foot and lower part of the leg are becoming gangrenous. At two o’clock, p.m., the thigh was amputated, the ligature on the artery remaining firm; there was very considerable hemorrhage during the operation, and it was only by the free and constant application of stimulants, that he survived. From this time the case progressed favourably ; the ligature, which was applied on the 1st of March, came away on the 11th, and the remaining ones on the 21st. On the 7th of April the stump was quite healed. On examining the leg, it was found to be twice its natural size ; the integuments were of a brownish hue; more than half the foot, and the lower part of the leg livid, and the ends of the toes black. Under the patella there was a large quantity of pus ; the muscles and cellular tissue were also infiltrated with purulent matter. I saw the patient with Mr. Jolley, of Torquay, on the first of March. He was lying in bed with a tourniquet on the femoral artery, and the leg bandaged to the knee with a flannel roller. The whole limb was greatly enlarged, and oedematous. He was extremely weak, emaciated, and pale, with a very rapid and irritable pulse. His state was so critical, that I apprehended any return of hemorrhage would render any attempt to relieve him hopeless. It was doubtful even whether he could bear the