137 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. extracting the placenta, sewed up the wound, in the way practised on dead bodies. Dr. Morton, an able practitioner, was sent for as soon as possible, and saw her about three hours after the opera- tion. He considered the mode in which the wound had been sewed up, as improper; had the stitches divided, directed the parts to be washed with warm water, and the bowels to be cleansed from the straws and sand which had adhered from their lying on the mat. He easily extracted the placenta, replaced the intes- tines, and brought the lips of the wound together by the interrupted suture. She had lost a great quantity of blood, and was put to bed speechless, without any pulse at the wrist. Her speech she recovered on the following day, but had a degree of fever some days longer, with very little lochial discharge. From that time she went on well, and was able to sit up at the end of five weeks, had strength enough to walk in a fortnight more, and in three months was perfectly recovered. u Her mistress parted with her soon after this, but Dr. Morton, to know the remainder of her history, applied for information to a surgeon on the plantation to which she was removed. He received for answer that she had been regular in her menstrua- tion from the time she had been under his inspection ; had again become pregnant, and if she had not been carefully watched, would have chosen to repeat the operation, having declared her sufferings from that to have been trifling when compared with the pangs of child-bearing. Her labour was natural, and her recovery perfect.” It is somewhat remarkable, that out of so large a number of cases, one only of puerperal convulsions occurred, and as the symptoms were carefully noted at the bed-side, the detail may not be uninteresting. The patient, aged 21, was seized with labour pains at eight in the evening of the 18th January, in the seventh month of her first pregnancy. At one, a.m., the mem- branes ruptured, the os uteri was dilated to the size of a shilling, and the pains regular and strong. At two she became suddenly affected with convulsion. It began with the most horrible distor- tion of the countenance, succeeded by convulsive twitchings ; the v