DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDEK. 69 the bone was reduced. In the present day, chloroform is a more scientific mode of effecting the same result. In the year 1832 I published the following paper in the Pro- vincial Medical and Surgical Journal:— u On Fixing the Scapula, in Dislocations of the Humerus. u In almost all surgical works, in which dislocations of the shoulder .joint are treated of, various methods of reduction are proposed, according to the situation of the head of the bone. Dislocations of the bone are, generally, easily reduced ; but there is scarcely a surgeon of any standing who has not, in the course of his practice, met with cases which have occasioned him a great deal of trouble ; and I believe it has sometimes hap- pened, that reduction has never been effected. In the course of thirty years’ extensive practice, it has fallen to my lot to see a considerable number of these accidents ; and I have been, and have seen other surgeons of great experience, foiled in their at- tempts, from the difficulty of fixing the scapula. u Attention to this point renders the operation easy, as I have often witnessed, where violent and long-continued efforts have entirely failed. Sir Astley Cooper, in his excellent work on dislocations, observes that this is the principal object to be attended to, without which all efforts will be ineffectual. The bandages commonly used for this purpose do not appear to me calculated to effect the object intended, but, on the contrary, add greatly and unnecessarily to the patient’s sufferings, and do not prevent the scapula from being drawn forwards when the exten- sion is made. For many years past, I have practised a very simple method, which has never failed even in cases where the head of the bone has been thrown into the most unfavourable position. The method I adopt is as follows:— u Having seated the patient in a low chair or stool, and firmly secured the body and fixed the pulley, I stand over him, placing the heel of my right hand on the acromion, leaning my weight on my hand. By this means the scapula is fixed, and rendered