90 AMPUTATION IN SPREADING GANGRENE. nails excited some suspicion in my mind, and occasioned me to watch its progress with great anxiety. The rapidity with which the gangrene spread was very remarkable. There was no such appearance at five in the morning; the operation was decided on and performed soon after eight. Case II.—Thomas Baddis, a stout youth of eighteen, was admitted into the Bridgwater Infirmary at an early hour on Sunday morning, who had suffered severe injuries of both legs, from their having become entangled in the coils of a rope attached to a steam-tug, which was towing a vessel up the river. There was a considerable lacerated wound of the right leg, which had completely divided the tendo achilles; the calf of the left leg was entirely torn up, the muscles being separated from the bones, the fibula broken into several pieces, the posterior tibial artery and nerves divided. The hemorrhage, which had been very profuse, still continued, and the poor boy was in a state of great exhaustion. As there appeared no chance of saving the left leg, amputation was proposed; but as the friends refused the operation, the vessels were secured, and the parts brought as well together as circumstances would permit. There was no further bleeding, and he gradually recovered from the state of collapse. In the evening he had great fever, restlessness and pain ; the foot was cold, and becoming livid. On the following day he continued much in the same state, but the coldness and lividity of the foot gradually increased. On Tuesday morning the foot was found quite black, and the gangrene had spread to the calf, and was rapidly extending. His friends now agreed to the removal of the limb, to which the patient had always been willing to consent. It was amputated as close to the knee-joint as possible, and it was remarked that he lost less blood than was ever before observed at any operation which had been performed at the Infirmary. He soon became tranquil, and all the violent symptoms which a few hours before threatened speedy dissolution, rapidly subsided. On opening the stump at the usual time, the surface appeared sloughy, and this state extended to the integuments, particularly on the outside of the