150 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. and the catheter secured to it. A cork was put into the mouth of the instrument, and the water drawn off every two or three hours. She immediately derived comfort from this method of treatment. There was no difficulty in keeping the instrument in its proper situation whilst she remained in bed, and the urine was retained in the bladder. As the artificial opening healed, the size of the catheter was lessened, the pressure was kept up for three months, at the expiration of which she obtained the complete control of the bladder. SLOUGHING OF THE BLADDER, FROM RETENTION. The following deplorable case fell under my notice very soon after I commenced practice. The wife of a poor man was at- tended in her first labour by a midwife, who, finding the case unusually tedious, called to her assistance a surgeon of consider- able experience, when, after a still further protracted struggle, she was delivered without artificial assistance. The surgeon did not visit her afterwards ; but, as she made no water for two days after her delivery, he was again applied to, when he ordered some medicine. On the following day a small quantity dribbled away, which was reported to the surgeon, who assured the hus- band that nothing more was necessary. On the fifth day she was taken out of bed with difficulty, and the instant she was placed in an erect posture, the bladder burst into the vagina, and a great discharge of water followed. I found a large hole in the bladder, through which the urine escaped constantly, keeping her always wet and excoriated. As in those days there were no mechanical contrivances to remedy the evil, the remainder of her life (which was a long one) was wretched to herself, as also to those around her. This case made a deep impression on my mind, and forcibly recalled the caution which the late Dr. John Clarke gave his pupils—that they should satisfy themselves that the contents of the bladder were properly evacuated after labour; and if any doubt existed, never to omit passing the catheter at the end of