THE TAXIS. 102 every two, three, or four hours, notwithstanding which he has operated more than two hundred times; and on one occasion, where the intestine was greatly distended with flatus, he plunged in a lancet with the best possible effect, and that the case ended favourably, without any attempt to close the lancet wound. I have learned from Mr. Hey, of Leeds, that he also has success- fully adopted the same practice. WOUND OF THE PALMAR ARCH. Wounds of the palmar arch are serious, and often so perplexing, that surgeons differ in opinion as to to the best mode of treating such accidents. A friend of mine, who is a hospital surgeon, of great experience and acknowledged skill, assures me that he has succeeded in tying the divided vessels; whilst another, filling a similar situation, and of equal talent, tells me that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to secure the vessels at the wound. In a case which occurred to me many years since, a ligature of the radial artery succeeded; but the same practice failed in the following case. A butler, in drawing a cork, received a wound from the neck of a bottle, which completely cut across all the vessels. The accident happened at night, and the surgeon, being alone, stopped the hemorrhage by pressure. I saw the patient on the following morning, when there had been no recurrence of bleeding, the hand and fingers were much swollen, but there was very little pain. Every thing remained quiet for five days, when so considerable a hemorrhage took place, that it was evident something more was requisite to ensure the patient’s safety. It was determined to tie the radial artery, but four days afterwards the bleeding returned as violently as ever. The ulnar artery was now tied, and more strict attention paid to compress on the wound, to position, the application of cold, and absolute rest; but, at the expiration of three days, there was another alarm of hemorrhage, but not to such an extent as to require more than a continuance of the same careful treatment. I regret that I was not aware at this