FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. 73 usual. I mentioned this case to Sir Astley Cooper, who con- sidered it to be cancer of the bone, and directed my attention to the state of the breasts, in both of which I discovered, on exami- nation, several hard, knotty tumors, of a carcinomatous cha- racter. The following interesting account of a similar accident, will be found in the life of Archbishop Seeker :— “ About a year and half before he died, after a fit of the gout, he was attacked with a pain in the arm, near the shoulder, which having continued about a twelvemonth, a similar pain seized the upper and outer part of the opposite thigh, and the arm soon became easier. This was much more grievous than the former, as it quickly disabled him from walking, and kept him in almost con- tinual torment, except when he was in a reclined position. During this time he had two or three fits of the gout, but neither the gout nor medicines alleviated these pains, which, with the want of exercise, brought him into a general bad habit of body. aOn Saturday, the 30th of July, 1768, he was seized, as he sat at dinner, with a sickness at his stomach. He recovered himself before night, but the next evening, whilst his physicians were attending, and his servants raising him on his couch, he suddenly cried out that his thigh bone was broken. The shock was so violent that his servants perceived the couch to shake under him, and the pain so acute and unexpected, that it overcame the firmness he so remarkably possessed. He lay for some time in great agonies, but when the surgeons arrived, and discovered with certainty that the bone was broken, he was perfectly resigned, and never afterwards asked a question about the event. A fever soon ensued ; on Tuesday he became lethargic, and continued so till about five o’clock on Wednesday afternoon, when he expired with great calmness, in the 75th year of his age. “On examination, the thigh-bone was found to be carious about four inches in length, and at nearly the same distance from its head. The disease took its rise from the internal part of the bone, and had so entirely destroyed its substance, that nothing remained at the part where it was broken but a portion of its M