PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 121 represented to be suffering from a spasmodic affection of the trachea, resembling croup, which recurred frequently, and greatly distressed her. It was accompanied with so violent a pulsation of the carotid arteries, as to be evident to the bystanders. In the course of our correspondence, it appeared that many of those symptoms which attend the derangement of the health of young females, were also present. A suspicion was thus raised in my mind that these harassing symptoms might arise from a remote cause; and on my making a more minute investigation, there appeared good grounds for such an opinion. In order to de- termine this point more accurately, I requested to see this patient, when I found that although the returns were regular in their periods, the discharge was so scanty in quan- tity, and defective in colour, as to satisfy me that the best plan of treatment was such as would be calculated to restore healthy functions in this particular. Under this system, all her distressing maladies disappeared. In this instance, too, great difficulty existed in persuading both the mother and the patient that any connexion could exist between such dissimilar affections. In the course of this disease there is sometimes such oedematous swelling of the lower extremities, as to excite apprehension of dropsy; and indeed the doughy state of the surface, and enlarge- ment of the abdomen, seem to confirm that opinion, particularly as the secretion of urine will often, at the same time, be found to be very scanty. A well-marked case of this kind lately occurred in my practice. The patient, who was about twenty, had been gradually becoming weak, without any cause which was apparent to her friends. Being on a visit to a medical friend, she tried the effect of different preparations of iron and steel, without deriving any positive benefit, but her complaint remained stationary. At this time she received a very severe shock by the unexpected and sudden death of a relative in her presence, under awful circumstances. All her complaints became aggravated immediately ; the oedema—particularly of the legs— increased amazingly, and she lost all appetite ; the secretion of urine was greatly diminished, her countenance was death-like, s