X. PREFACE. medicine, in proportion to the population of the country, was less frequently administered by unprofessional hands, than at any former period. But I imagine that had he lived to the present day, his opinion would have been altered; for surely at no other period was quackery so extensively practised, or so patronized by the highest, as well as the lowest, classes of society. When we reflect on the known efficacy in disease of numerous articles from the vegetable kingdom, and the probable benefit of many others, were we acquainted with their virtues, and knew how to admin- ister them judiciously, perhaps then the old women may be more safely trusted than the bold empirics who daily impose on the public their vaunted nostrums. Formerly in the shop of the old apothecary there was a china tile, on which he rolled his pills, and on which was written, u Opiferque per orbem dicor, et herbarum subjecta est potentia nobis;” at this time may be seen the following inscription, in gold letters, over the counter of a chemist, in Oxford Street, u Quce in terris gignun- tur, omnia ad usum hominum creantur.” The virtues of the ergot of rye have been known to the pro- fession only within the last few years. The following case is an example of the benefit of remedies derived from this source :— Mary Stacey, was seized with vomiting at the eighth month of her pregnancy, which continued with scarcely any intermission upwards of a week ; when I visited her she was reduced to a state of extreme weakness. She had been judiciously treated ; but neither local or general means allayed the irritable state of the stomach. A wine glassful of walnut water was given, and rejected immediately, but after waiting twenty minutes, half the quantity was repeated, which was retained, and she did not vomit afterwards. I have frequently prescribed the same remedy in cases of great irritation and sickness, with marked success. Equally efficacious have I found the orange flower water, in procuring sleep in nervous and irritable habits, in which opiates could not be borne, for which hint I am indebted to Dr. Simpson, of Edinburgh, who assures me that he has often em-