98 FUNGOID TUMOR OF THE BREAST. dually declined. She often complained of a disagreeable taste in the mouth. After a time, the fungus did not increase, and the surface died, and I frequently cut offlarge pieces, when she suffered no pain. The preparations of iron were tried internally, and the surface covered with carbonate, which destroyed the fungus with- out causing pain. By the beginning of March, the size of the breast was reduced one half, and the fungus was gradually shrink- ing, but her health got worse. Before her death, there was a discharge of matter from the breast, and all around it, as if Nature was making an effort to detach it. In this case, probably, the removal would have been advisable.* CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST—OPERATION. Numerous cases of disease of the breast have been presented to my notice, and amongst them many of a truly carcinomatous character. I have -been frequently called on to remove them with the knife, and have often assisted others ; but I never remember a case which terminated successfully, although in some instances the operation has been undertaken under the most favourable circumstances. The event of the following case determined me never to advise the operation, although I would not refuse to perform it at the desire of the patient, after ex- plaining fully the doubtful results. A strong healthy woman, aged 50, had a large carcinomatous tumor in the breast, for which she had consulted several practi- tioners of eminence, all of whom agreed, as there was no appear- ance of the glands in the axilla or above the clavicle being diseased, in the propriety of the operation. I removed the whole breast from the pectoral muscle, and as no ligature was required, the parts were evenly brought together, and healed in ten days completely. No constitutional disturbance followed, and never did a case promise a more successful termination. She con- tinued perfectly well to the end of six weeks, when I was * January, 1853.—An unmarried daughter of this lady has just fallen a vic- tim to ulcerated cancer of the breast. It is most probable, therefore, that an operation on the mother would only have hastened the fatal event.