25 administration of diuretics. stinate, the drastic dose was repeated, and sometimes the dose of the digitalis was increased from two to three grains. But this was rarely done ; very little attention was paid to the origin or cause of the disease ; the great object was to “unload”the patient. Although the success of this practice has in many instances been extraordinary, I am no advocate for such dangerous reme- dies. Digitalis ought in my opinion never to be given unless the practitioner sees his patient once, or better ii twice daily, during its exhibition. In the practice of my old friend, patients now and then died suddenly, but whether from organic changes, or the medicine, was never enquired. I well remember the following fatal instance of the injudicious administration of this dangerous but useful remedy:—A gen- tleman who was attacked with inflammatory dropsy, for which he was successfully treated by bleeding and the infusion of digitalis, had a recurrence of the same disease many years after. Circum- stances did not then justify the use of the lancet, but under the use of the infusion of digitalis, in doses of half an ounce every eight hours, he was making the most favourable progress towards recov- ery, when, unfortunately, by some mistake, he took three ounces of the infusion in twenty-four hours, and on the following morning, on coming down stairs, he suddenly expired. In the early part of my practice, all cases of incipient or ad- vanced disease of the lungs, were treated on the lowering system, which was carried to an extreme, and every case, I believe, ter- minated fatally. Digitalis was a general, and favourite remedy. During my residence at Torquay, I had great opportunities of observing these diseases in every stage, and in no instance was this practice carried to any extent; but I have repeatedly seen cases of reputed consumption, where great emaciation, with copious expectoration, and other alarming symptoms were present, improve in an extraordinary manner, if not recover, under the use of mutton chops, bitter ale, and cod liver oil, alternated with steel. But of course the mildness of the locality, its equable tempera- ture, together with the numerous other advantages that favoured F