LOSS OF BLOOD. 10 peated losses of blood :—Mrs. ——, a delicate and most interest- ing lady, aged 24, a week or ten days after her confinement of a still-born child, was seized with pain at the lower part of the abdomen, extending to the liver; with other symptoms, indi- cating inflammation of cervix uteri, together with much consti- tutional disturbance. The case appeared to have been mistaken in the beginning, so that it was allowed to become somewhat inveterate before the appropriate treatment was adopted. At this stage of the disease she fell under my care, when I found the uterus in so irritable and painful a state, that an examination conducted in the most gentle manner gave exquisite pain, which lasted several hours. It was treated with leeches to the hypo- gastrium, cupping low in the loins, hip bath, aperient medicines, strict abstinence, &c. The benefit from cupping over the sacrum was observed to be so decided, that recourse was had to this remedy twice or thrice a-week regularly. The disease seemed to be thus yielding in the most favourable manner, when the patient became suddenly, and quite unexpectedly, affected with the effects of loss of blood in a most violent form. The quan- tity of blood taken by cupping had sometimes been twenty ounces; and too exclusive attention had been paid to the disease, the state of the constitution not being sufficiently watched. In this manner the patient became affected all at once, after being cupped, with sudden and alarming syncope; she gasped, and be- came convulsed, and afterwards slightly delirious. The admis- sion of cold air, and the administration of brandy, gradually restored the patient to sensibility; but she remained exceedingly feeble. On the next morning she complained of extreme pain in the head, violent throbbing of the temples, and had slight delirium and sickness; I found the street covered with straw. During this day the pain of the head, the throbbing, and the intolerance of light and sound, had increased so much, with sick- ness, feverishness, and a frequent strong pulse, that I apprehended inflammation of the brain had taken place, and had actually tied up the arm for blood-letting; but the remonstrance of the patient, the history of the attack, and the recollection of some