149 REMOVAL OF THE UTERUS BY LIGATURE. during which this lady has enjoyed good health, and suffered no inconvenience. At the time I met Mr. Parsons in consultation, the patient was in a very suffering state from general irritation and repeated dis- charges of blood, and as the parts had begun to assume a somewhat flaccid and livid appearance, I thought the safest course would be to remove the whole as speedily as possible, and I advised the operation with the greater confidence, from having in the course of my experience, known two other cases in which the whole body of the uterus was removed by ligature, without any immediate danger; but as these cases were not my own, I know nothing of the details or ultimate event of either. June 24th, 1844. CASE OF INCONTINENCE OF UEINE FEOM SLOUGHING OF THE UEETHEA. In the sixth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, a case of successful treatment of incontinence of urine, conse- quent on sloughing of the bladder from injury during labour, is related. Several such cases have fallen under my notice, but one only soon after the receipt of the injury, which was caused by the pressure of the vectis during delivery, the urethra having unfortunately been made the fulcrum. Happily for the poor woman, the mischief was discovered early. On introducing a catheter into the bladder, and passing my finger into the vagina, a large opening was detected communicating with the bladder, into which, however, the finger could not be passed. Her situa- tion became miserable, from the constant passage of the water, but she was otherwise in good health. Both her husband and herself being aware of what had happened, and conceiving the case irremediable, refused any attempt at cure ; but after some trouble they were prevailed on to the try the following plan. A very large elastic catheter was introduced through the urethra, and supported by passing a piece of a sponge into the vagina, of sufficient size to fill it ; over this a napkin was folded,