CASE OF EMPYEMA. 57 all the precautionary measures for a sufficient length of time. This plan was followed by the happiest effects in a patient who had an enormous abscess around the hip, in which there was reason to apprehend the joint was involved. The amendment was immediate and rapid, and the patient recovered, with slight lameness only. In the above case I had the valuable assistance of Dr. Blackall, who expressed his conviction that the successful termi- nation was probably to be ascribed chiefly to the generous diet, and remarked that the boasted cures said to be performed by “God- bold’s Vegetable Balsam,” and other popular quackeries of the day, were to be attributed to the postscript appended to the printed directions, viz., u the patient may use whatever diet he pleases whilst taking this medicine.” I may be excused here, from acknowledging the pleasure and profit which a long inter- course with that distinguished physician has afforded me; and even now, I often refer to his letters with advantage. His treatment of disease was often simple, but always judicious. He excelled especially in congestive and inflammatory affections, and rarely resorted to bloodletting or active measures, except in urgent cases. He relied principally on antiphlogistic remedies and diet. A very favourite 'plan was the combination of the nitrate of potash with antimonial powder, in doses of ten to twenty grains of the former, and four to ten grains of the latter, in a solid form, three times a day, followed intermediately with an effervescing draught, from which I have often witnessed the happiest results. He says in one of his letters—“ As an alterant and resolvent in slow inflammations of the breast, and serous membranes, I hold it to be quite unrivalled, and I know not how in some habits it can be with advantage superseded by any other medicine. In another he states that “ Dr. Bree’s remarks in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions in a paper on splenitis, (that antimonial purgatives, and not mercurial were the proper remedy’ he had verified repeatedly, and that he found in his experience that in congestions of the left side of the stomach, spleen, &c., antimony had so frequently proved the best remedy Iv