COUNTER-IRRITATION. Case I.—A woman thirty years of age, who had suffered for a long time from scrofulous disease of the knee joint, which had terminated in anchylosis, consulted me on account of a disease of the leg, which had resisted all the means employed for its cure, and was condemned for amputation. The limb measured twenty two inches in its smallest circumference, and was become burden- some and useless. There were several sinuses on the inside, which were supposed to lead to diseased bone; none however could be detected by the probe, which passed into diseased cellular structure; in fact the disease was confined to that and the integu- ments, which were hard, unyielding, and much resembled brawn. Baynton’s plaister and bandage were fairly tried without effect; an issue containing from twenty to thirty peas was made on the outside of the limb, which in a month reduced it greatly, and at the expiration of a second, all the sinuses were healed, the leg had regained its original size, and the cure was complete and per- manent. The termination of this case, which occurred in the first year of my practice, and proved to be one of those fortunate chances, which sometimes establishes success, may have given me an early prejudice in favour of this remedy, but the following cases will clearly demonstrate that it may be successfully em- ployed in various diseases. Case II.—A young lady aged twenty, consulted me many years since on account of a swelling in the groin, which was supposed to be hernia, and for which she had been wearing a truss, under advice. There was a curvature, and disease of the lumbar vertebras, and it became evident that the tumour in the groin which had been mistaken for inguinal hernia, was occa- sioned by the pointing of an abscess. I accompanied her to London, and consulted the late Mr. Cline and Sir Astley Cooper, who both confirmed the opinion, but held out no hope of recovery. Under the direction of my estimable preceptor, Mr. Abernethy, (to whose kindness and instruction I am mainly indebted for my success in life,) she was encouraged to strike at the root of the disease by counter-irritation, and to maintain her general health by diet and regimen. An issue was made on either side of the