COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE LEG. 81 sound sleep. The granulations looked flabby; the wound was exquisitely tender, and presented a marbled puffy appearance. These symptoms excited some apprehension that tetanus may supervene, but after many days of anxious suspense they subsided. He did not, however, regain his strength for several months, but at length got quite well, and had the perfect use of his limb without any lameness. Some difficulty arose in passing the catheter, from the position of the patient, and still greater in preventing the urine from running about the bed, which inconvenience was remedied by in- serting the point of one elastic catheter into the mouth of the other. By thus lengthening the tube, and bending it over the thigh, the contents of the bladder were received in a basin, and future discomfort avoided. Case II.—A robust young woman was thrown from a horse, and suffered a compound fracture of both bones of the leg, about three inches above the ancle. Nine months after the accident, she was placed under my care. The fibula only had united, and a piece of detached bone was wedged firmly between the broken ends of the tibia, which prevented any union. Her health had suffered much from long confinement, and amputation had been proposed, which she refused, but was willing to submit to any treatment which offered a chance of restoring her limb. I divided the integuments over the tibia to the extent of four or five inches, and sawed off the ends of the bone with Mr. Hey’s saw, which enabled me to remove the intervening portion. The operation was more tedious than painful. In the evening she was attacked with erisypelas, which spread rapidly over the thigh and leg, and was accompanied with constant sickness and vomiting. Half a grain of opium, with an effervescing draught every two or three hours, allayed the irritation of the stomach and the application of a spirituous lotion lessened the inflamma- tion of the limb so much, that in two or three days the imme- diate effects of the operation had subsided. The wound soon healed, but there was a very considerable space between the ends of the tibia; and the limb was still useless. A case made N