THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 135 the countenance became pale, and was bedewed with a cold sweat, and she died in a few minutes. On examination, the head was found to have receded, although a few minutes before it was precisely in the same position as it had been during the last three hours. The post-mortem exhibited the uterus ex- tremely thin, and rent across the whole posterior surface. It had contracted considerably, and the child, which was unusually large, had escaped into the cavity of the abdomen, which was full of blood. The ergot was given in this case at the request of the patient, who had been relieved by it in former labours. I regretted its having been employed, although it may not have occasioned the unhappy result, but it appeared for a time to in- crease the frequency of the pains, and as the child was very large, especially the head, it might, by acting chiefly on one point, have thinned the uterus and disposed it to give way, whereas, if the case had been left entirely to natural efforts, the delivery might have been delayed so long as to warrant the perforation of the head, which afterwards would have been una- vailing, even if time had permitted. I remember a case, occurring many years ago at the West- minster Hospital, in which the uterus ruptured during the first stage of labour, and the woman died immediately. The prepa- ration was carefully preserved by my friend, the late Mr. Clement Cruttwell, of Bath. In every case, except the last detailed, vomiting of coffee-coloured fluid, collapse of the coun- tenance, and immediate cessation of labour pains, have instantly followed this dreadful accident. In the year 1769, Dr. Andrew Douglas published a pamphlet, entitled u Observations on the Rupture of the Gravid Uterus,” on referring to which I find that his opinion was, that ruptures of the uterus were accidents of frequent occurrence. I quote his words : u There can be no doubt entertained of the frequency of ruptures of the uterus, when it is known that more than twenty cases, in which the fact was demonstrated by dissection, have been observed in London within the last twenty years. In Paris,