ADMINISTRATION OF DIURETICS. 23 exception of an habitual cough, which was considered too trifling to require treatment at any time. She was attacked in the spring of 1847, with a bilious complaint, for which she was sub- jected to active treatment, and took, as 1 understood, repeated doses of calomel, after which she caught cold. On my first visit 1 found her complaining of great debility, with loss of appetite, but all the secretions were natural. Shortly after this her feet became anasarcous, and notwithstanding the regular exhibition of diuretic medicines, this state increased until it spread to the abdomen, arms, and face. The secretion of urine became very scanty. No relief was obtained from the diligent use of various diuretics, especially squills, and digitalis, which was pushed to the full extent of safety, and given in infusion, that form which appears to be the most efficacious in inflammatory dropsy, and assisted by the warm bath, but her state became worse daily. The urine coagulated much more and more firmly than is com- mon in dropsical cases, and the specific gravity was greater than on these occasionSj being 1018. This excess of coagulum and specific gravity indicated a lurking inflammation, and as no organic derangement could be discovered, granular disease of the kidneys was suspected. In this stage of the disease, a consultation with Dr. Blackall, a great authority in such cases, was held; who recom- mended that the capsules of copaiba should be taken two or three times a day, that the cream-of-tartar liquor should be drank very freely, and that she should use the vapour bath, beginning at 100, and increasing it to 110 and upwards, if it could be borne. A moderate diet was prescribed, with two or three glasses of hock daily. She rapidly improved under this judicious plan of treatment, and Ifas continued free from any return of disease up to the present time. The urine was frequently tested during the progress of her recovery, and the coagulation gradually ceased, and ultimately disappeared. The publication of these cases will, perhaps, class me with the u Eclectic Practitioners,” described in the Edinburgh Monthly Journal, u as men who have no doctrine and no general principles, who gather together ready-made formulas and isolated cases