09 CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. requested to see her on account of some uneasiness in the course of the cicatrix, which was attributed to the friction of her stays. On examination I observed a small pimple on the base of the cicatrix, which soon increased, became a troublesome sore, and rapidly spread, destroying all the parts around, and attacking the other breast. Her state soon became deplorable, and in less than six months she died. In a conversation with the late Sir Astley Cooper, on this subject, he stated that he believed one case in eleven, succeeded after the operation for carcinoma of the breast. The Professor of Surgery, (Mr. Paget,) in his first lecture upon u malignant tumors,” at the Royal College of Surgeons, made the startling announcement, that persons operated upon for cancer, died, on the average, thirteen months sooner of their disease than those who were not operated upon. The average was taken from upwards of sixty cases, at the same time omitting all those who died from the immediate effects of the operation. TWO CASES OF BONY TUMORS. Case I.—A servant of Mr. George Baker, of Cannington, a remarkably strong woman, aged twenty-one, consulted me on ac- count of a tumor occupying the whole space behind the left ear, which had assumed its shape, and extended to the angle of the jaw. It was so firmly attached to the skull that it was only by fixing her head very firmly, and grasping the tumor with both hands, I could perceive the slightest lateral motion ; so slight, indeed, that another surgeon, who saw the patient with me, thought it quite immovable. We both thought it bone. I made an incision through the scalp, which proved that our opinion was correct; but it was so closely bound down by the pericranium, that it became very difficult to detach any part of it. At length, however, I succeeded in doing so all around the base, and found that it was connected with the mastoid process by a bony attachment. With considerable difficulty I got a strong spatula between the skull and the tumor, and holding the