CONCLUSION. 174 of surgery, put a stop to the horrible massacre of St. Bartho- lomew. The story is an interesting one, and may not be unac- ceptable to some who are unacquainted with it. It is related by John Bell, in his matchless style, and as graphically as the celebrated case of wound of the gluteal artery, in the “ Leech- Catcher,” which was always alluded to by Mr. Abernethy, and may be found in “ Bell’s Discourses on Wounds.” “ The ligatures of the arteries was invented by the celebrated Paroeus, who was first surgeon to four successive kings of France.* His high fame descending thus for ages, must make it desirable to know what was the real character of the man ; and there is no one point upon which his character turns so much as this single invention, for of all the improvements of his practice, this of tying arteries, was that of which he was the most proud. He ventured to say, ‘For the good of mankind, and the improve- ment and honour of surgery, I was inspired by God with this good thought.’ As it was the highest of all his improvements, so it was that for which his enemies envied him the most. “ The fortune of Paroeus was very singular. He was at once the chief surgeon, the counsellor, and the private friend of four successive kings of France. He attended them in their retirements and looser hours; he followed them into the field, through all those dangers which were in those days part of the duties of a king, and which his writings display to us, with a faithfulness and minuteness of description which the historian should hardly disdain. He had the good fortune on one occasion manifestly to save the life of the king, when his arm had been so hurt in bleeding, that it was three months before Paroeus could accomplish the cure. And this man was of such rare abilities, and so much valued by the king, that he alone was saved alive on that horrid massacre of St. Bartholomew’s Day, which re- mains an eternal blot upon the French name. “But of all his good fortune, this is the most remarkable, that it was he alone, who, by his influence over the king, put a stop to this unparalleled butchery, after it had continued in all the * Henry 2nd ; Charles 9th ; Francis 2nd ; Henry 3rd.