CASES OF AMPUTATION. 86 opium, and wine, liberally given. On the following morning his state was so much improved, that the left hand was removed above the wrist. All the wounds were healed at the expiration of seven weeks, during which time he had no fit, but afterwards they recurred as frequently as ever. When this patient was admitted, his condition was so de- plorable, that it was not thought probable he would survive twenty-four hours. As soon as he was sufficiently rallied, am- putation of the right arm was proposed, but, as his case was considered hopeless by his friends, it was refused. Extraordinary instances of recovery are recorded, in which the arm has been torn from the body by violence. The follow- ing is copied from Caulfield’s remarkable characters :—66 Samuel Wood, a native of Worcestershire, was employed by a miller on the Isle of Dogs. On the 15th of August, 1737, being en- gaged as usual in the duty of the mill, unfortunately at the time it was in full action, he became entangled in the cogs of the wheel, which, carrying him completely round, placed him in the most imminent peril of his life, and lacerated his arm from his body. He was providentially thrown on a quantity of meal, but lay for a considerable time in a helpless condition, before he was dis- covered. On the day following the accident, he was conveyed to St. Thomas’s Hospital, where he remained until a perfect cure was effected by Surgeon Fane.” A somewhat similar case is recorded of a soldier under the Duke of York, at the Helder, whose arm was blown out of the socket by a cannon-ball. He was not discovered for two days, when the wound was found filled with sand. No hasmorrhage had taken plkce, and he ultimately recovered. Amputation below the Knee—Secondary Hemorrhage. Case II.—John Mosse, of Woolavington, was admitted into the Bridgwater Infirmary for disease of the foot, for which the leg was amputated at the usual place below the knee, on Tues- day. The stump was opened on the Friday following, when the whole surface was found in a state of sphacelus. The sloughs,