PREFACE. VI. other.” A celebrated Surgeon used to say in his lectures, “That men never approached so near the Gods, as when they devoted their lives in giving health to their fellow men.” My own ex- perience has taught me, that the medical attendant, by prompt and judicious counsel, by kind and soothing attention, and by sympathizing in joys and sorrows, in the most trying and anxious moments of life, often becomes the confidential and attached friend of the patient and his family. It must, however, be admitted that instances do sometimes occur where the sacrifice of time, health, and convenience, has been ill requited, ungraciously ac- knowledged, and speedily forgotten ; but these are rare.* Charles Patin, a Physician, used to say for the credit of his art, that it had enabled him to live in perfect health until he was eighty-two years of age, that it had procured for him a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, and that it had acquired for him the friendship and esteem of many very respectable and celebrated persons. I cannot adduce such a parallel, but I am thankful to enjoy good health, after forty years most laborious country practice, and gratefully acknowledge that my profession has en- abled me to educate, and establish in respectable positions in life, eight sons, and that it has introduced me to a large circle of acquaintances, and secured many valued friends. The liberality of our profession is proverbial. No other class of * At the anniversary dinner of the Medical and Surgical Association, at York, the Dean drew a parallel between the clerical and medical professions ; and after paying a just tribute to the latter for the zeal, active benevolence, and universal kindness which he and his brother clergymen so constantly witnessed in their visits to the sick, concluded an eloquent speech with the following happy and most appropriate quotation : “ Utilisiste labor per quem vixere tot ogri, Utilior per quem, tot didicere mori.” Equally gratifying was it to hear the late Chancellor Pott express himself in similar terms, when he met the same Association at Exeter. In alluding to his honoured parent, the celebrated surgeon, who was the distinguished ornament of the time in which he lived, and whose matchless writings are a rich legacy to the profession, he observed that he had been taught that the paths of public service were never far asunder, and had common objects of well-doing, and benefitting others for their end ; that the motto of the medical profession was a declaration of its usefulness : “ Quae prosunt omnibus artes;” and that the much honoured Bishop Hall, the first English satirist, in one of his beautiful little satires, which Pope had the good sense to admire, begins with these words : “ Worthy were Galen to be weighed in gold. Whose help doth sweetest health and life uphold ”