ADMINISTRATION OF DIURETICS. 22 by gradually augmenting the dose, he was emptied, and recov- ered perfectly. This case occurred as far back as the year 1811, and as the patient lived in my own neighbourhood, I did not lose sight of him. He continued free from any return, and died many years afterwards of another disease. I may add that this medicine was given by Dr. Parry, in some cases, to the extent of thirty and forty grains a day, and that he often prescribed it in asthma, combined with almond emulsion, occasionally adding to each dose a few grains of powdered myrrh, with the best effect. Mr. Harris, aged 28, became rather suddenly affected with anasarca, without any known cause. It began in the lower limbs, but soon became general, and increased to such an extent that the whole trunk, arms, head, and face, were involved in the swelling. I observed in this, as in the former case, that the im- pression of his hand and fingers remained for a considerable time wherever he supported his head. All kinds of purgatives and diuretics, and every variety of treatment which was suggested, failed. The only medicine which produced any effect on the kidneys was the tincture of squills, of which he took sixty drops three times a day. This afforded a partial relief only, and never increased the water beyond a given point. An unprofessional person recommended the following plan, the effect of which I carefully watched - A teaspoonful of finely powdered broom-seed was given every other morning in a wine-glassful of sherry, and one ounce and a half of Florence oil, an hour afterwards. After the fourth dose, the urine was much increased in quantity, and by contin- uing it for another week, he was completely evacuated. He remained well for six months, after which time he left my neigh- bourhood, but I believe he did not eventually recover. I have, however repeatedly tried this plan since, but have been disappointed. The last case which I shall relate, will, I think, prove an interesting one :— Miss 0——, aged fifty, had enjoyed good health, with the