STRICTURE OF THE VAGINA. 146 traction as great as ever, and believing that I had not kept up the dilatation long enough, I gradually introduced a very large piece of sponge, and allowed it to remain several days ; but, on removing it, I again found that I had gained nothing. As my patient was unwilling to submit to severer treatment, and fancied that her recovery was only protracted, because the remedies had not been continued for a sufficient length of time, the same plan was persevered in for a month, with no better success. The sponge tent was now introduced and removed with so much ease, that she was in the habit of doing it herself; when on one occa- sion, the string broke, and a very large piece of sponge was left in the upper part of the vagina, the stricture closing below it. Several ineffectual attempts were made to remove it. This was at length effected, by introducing a smaller tent into the orifice, of the stricture, which admitted the blades of a pair of stone forceps, with which it was grasped and brought away. It was now evident that nothing but the actual division of the stricture, in many different places, and to a considerable extent, would succeed in obtaining a permanent cure. This practice was adopted, and a very large dilator made of cork, and covered with caoutchouc, introduced ; but so great was the disposition of the parts to contract, even after the incisions which had been made so freely had healed, that it was neccessary to wear the in- strument for many months, before the cure could be pronounced to be complete. I have had frequent opportunities of examining this patient. She remains quite well, and it is now ten years since the opera- tion was performed. I found it extremely difficult to get an effectual dilator. Common rectum bougies, wax candles, and such means as are usually employed, were extremely incon- venient, and failed; but the dilator which Mr. Laurie made, under my direction, answered so well, that I should recommend it with confidence in all such cases. A piece of cork, about eight inches long, and of the size of a wax candle, was covered with caoutchouc, a strong silk ligature was passed through the upper end of the cork, brought down