116 PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. been so weakened by her long-continued indisposition; and it is probable that, had she been duly impressed with the seriousness of her former illness, and had pursued a proper plan as long as her medical adviser thought necessary, perfect recovery would have followed. This case strongly exemplifies the danger of giving up medical treatment when only partial benefit is ob- tained, and before the recovery is complete. The following case will be found very interesting, and by no means so rare as may be imagined, although the affection is seldom so severe. A. B., dressmaker, had long been in weak health, until at length she fell into a state of confirmed chlorosis. Her irritability of temper at length rendered it necessary, in the opinion of those about her, to place her under restraint, and she was confined in an asylum for the reception of lunatics. As no benefit was derived from this step, and her general health became rather worse than better, she returned, after a time, to her friends. I advised a cautious and regular perseverance in a plan which will be detailed hereafter, from which, after a reasonable time, she derived benefit. The following extracts from the letters of the lady who interested herself in this case, will give the best description of her future progress :— u I really think that she has already benefitted by the plan; her appearance is not so corpse-like, the headache less frequent, and the palpitation of the heart less troublesome, her spirits have also been less oppressed, though still under delusion. It is difficult to make her take pills regularly, as she is under an impression that all we give her is to put an end to her, and at other times she will try to get at the box and swallow them all at once.” The report some time afterwards was in the following words :—“ A. B. has perfectly recovered her health, and looks better than I ever saw her do.” The two following cases, which did not occur in my own practice, shew the fearful results of neglecting the derange- ments of health in young females, and fully corroborate my experience. Mary Brixey, aged 18, was tried at the Central Criminal