CROWING INSPIRATION OF CHILDREN. 33 was no convulsion, which invariably happened when the attack was severe. Case V.—M. A. T., a sister, a delicate child, born at eight months, was very well until six months old, when she was seized exactly as her brothers had been, without any pre- vious indisposition. These attacks recurred frequently until the end of May, after which time she had slight ones. Convulsions, lividity of the countenance, and evacuation of the contents of the rectum and bladder, always accompanied the attacks. On one occasion she lay apparently dead, when the lungs were inflated, and to this her recovery was attributed. In the month of June, when three quarters of a year old, the bones of the head, which had closed as firmly as usual at that period, except the anterior fontanelle, separated again, and the division of the sutures could be easily traced 'with the finger. After this she appeared to get much better, and the spine, which seemed inclined to bend before, became strong, and although she occa- sionally made a croupy noise, and had very slight attacks of lividity of the countenance, with temporary suspension of the breathing if she cried much, there was no severe symptom or convulsion. She continued pretty well until the 3rd of April, following, was a remarkably active, sprightly child, had eight teeth, and was then cutting the eye teeth. Whilst asleep in the garden, she was suddenly attacked as formerly, but soon recovered. This was supposed to arise from teething, and the gums were freely divided immediately. She now began to show symptoms of hooping-cough, and was often unwell, making a slight croupy noise, which, however, did not appear to hurt her, as she often laughed before it was scarcely over. Her nurse thought it a trick. She appeared to be going through the disease favourably, but on Tuesday night did not sleep as well as usual, from more frequent fits of coughing, and was irritable the next day, scratching those about her on the slightest cause. On the following day (Wednesday) she had another slight attack. Her bowels having been carefully attended to, and the cough having been more troublesome during the night, some ipecacu- G