IX. PREFACE. Guardians, formerly a dissenting preacher, and afterwards a disciple of the u Agapemone,” denied that the fracture was compound, and advised that payment should be resisted. In this opinion he was seconded by an ex-officio Guardian, who had made himself conspicuous by talking on all occasions “ De omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis,” and, by assuming an authoritative tone and manner, had acquired some influence over a portion of the Board. The medical officer appealed to the Commissioners, who, not being conversant with such mat- ters, referred the case to a hospital surgeon, of great experience, in London, who at once decided it to be a compound fracture. Hereupon a long correspondence ensued between the Commis- sioners and Local Board, the objectors contending for the correctness of their opinion, by ruling that, to constitute a com- pound fracture, the bone must penetrate the skin ; whereas, in this case, the skin had been destroyed for many years, therefore it could not come under the definition of compound fracture, and persisted in refusing payment. A more contemptible in- stance of special pleading is not to be found. The illustrious Boerhaave * used to say that the poor were his best patients, for that God was their paymaster. My own ex- perience has been so extensive and familiar with that class, as to become well acquainted with their general habits and character, and to convince me that they are well deserving of our care; and I could adduce many instances in which I have seen the finest traits of human nature exhibited by them. The encouragement which is given to quackery by the public, by irregular practitioners, and, to their everlasting disgrace be it said, by some who are legally entitled to practise, has tended to lower the medical profession greatly in public estimation. The late Dr. Beddoes was of opinion, that although there might be an increase of advertised medicine, the old women with their herbs much exceeded the quack medicines ; and he believed that * This great Physician consecrated through life the first hour after he rose in the morning to meditation and prayer, declaring that from thence he derived vigour and aptitude for business, together with equanimity under provocations, and a perfect conquest over his irascible passions. B