INJURY OF THE HEAD. 61 larger portion was removed by a circular saw, which gave plenty of space for detaching the numerous broken pieces. One very large portion was driven down under the frontal bone, immedi- ately over the longitudinal sinus, the removal of which was effected with much difficulty, and followed by profuse bleeding from the sinus. This, however, was completely checked by the introduction of a plug of lint. He was bled freely, and the usual antiphlogistic practice pursued. His recovery was perfect, although delayed by the supervention of an acute attack of rheumatism. Case III.—Isaac Bevan, aged 15, was knocked down by the vane of a windmill, which was rapidly revolving on a very windy day. The blow was so violent that it broke the wood-work of the frame, and drove the boy forwards to a considerable distance. Being in the neighbourhood at the time of the accident, I saw him immediately. There was an extensive laceration of the scalp, and fracture of the temporal and occipital bones. He was stunned, but not wholly insensible, and had vomited. He was removed to the Bridgwater Infirmary in a cart, a distance of ten miles, six or seven hours after the accident. On enlarging the wound, the injury was found to be so great, that I considered the case almost hopeless. The bones were broken into many pieces, some of which were completely detached and driven into the brain, portions of which were discharging from the wound. I removed sixteen pieces, the largest of which was driven down to the base of the skull, and got up with great difficulty. He remained in- sensible after the operation, but on the following morning he was free from fever. Although he did not regain his speech or senses until the tenth day, he completely recovered in a short time, without any active treatment. Case IV.—John Greenfield, aged 18, a strong healthy farm- servant, was brought to my house at six in the evening of Monday the 9th of September, having about two hours before received a kick in the head from a cart horse, which knocked him down, but did not stun him, for he raised himself on his knees, before a man who saw the accident from a short distance could come to his