14 LOSS OF BLOOD. patient is now able to take his accustomed exercise, and return to his usual habits; observing a moderate diet, and avoiding all exciting causes. I have always felt that, of all the remedies we employ, the lancet requires the greatest discrimination. I have witnessed the happiest effects from early and copious bleeding, and again, a total failure when pushed to a fearful extreme; and I have often regretted its too frequent employment. In 1847 this gentleman fractured the neck of the thigh-bone, from which he recovered so well, that he was able to walk toler- ably, and continued to enjoy health until 1851, when he died. I was not sufficiently alive to the necessity of caution in cases where patients dreaded the loss of blood, until warned a second time by the following case :—A robust man, aged sixty, who had enjoyed uninterrupted good health, was attacked, after exposure to cold, with symptoms of inflammatory dropsy. I saw him early in the disease and proposed bleeding, at which he shuddered, and said that he was afraid of being bled, but would willingly submit to any other treatment. As I had known him for many years, and believed him to be a strong man, I pressed him to submit, from the conviction that it was right and neces- sary. He very reluctantly consented, but stipulated that he should be blindfolded. He sat upright in bed, and when about seven ounces of blood were drawn he exhibited slight symptoms of faintness ; he was immediately placed in a horizontal posture, and drank some sal volatile, but he became more and more faint, and in spite of the liberal administration of restoratives, he so frequently relapsed into the same state that I was obliged to remain at his bed side upwards of six hours before I could leave him safely. He made a rapid recovery, and all his dropsical symptoms disappeared. Case IV.—William Ford, a labourer aged 47, after unusual exposure to cold, was seized in the night of Wednesday, 23rd of April, with shivering, followed by fever and general pain of the limbs. Believing himself to have an attack of ague, he drank very freely of brandy and water on the Thursday and Friday; but