105 POPLITEAL ANEURISM. removal from the miserable room in which he lay, to be placed on a table in a large and light one. The question now was, whether under the circumstances, it would not be safer to am- putate the thigh at once, than to attempt to tie the artery; but the patient’s objection was such, that it was determined to adopt the latter course, even should it be necessary afterwards to remove the limb, which was more than probable. I regard this case as one of those extraordinary escapes which we sometimes witness in practice ; and if I had entertained any doubt as to the safest and best course to be pursued in such diseases, the result of this case would have confirmed my opinion. I have tied the artery, and assisted others many times in popliteal aneurism, without a single instance of failure, and I greatly prefer this simple and safe operation, which is attended with infinitely less pain, trouble, and anxiety, to the clumsy, tedious, and uncertain treatment by compression. OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Amongst the various diseases of the rectum, procidentia is perhaps one of the most common and troublesome. My atten- tion was directed to this disease many years ago, by the late Mr. Hey, with whom I had a good deal of correspondence on the subject. I select two cases, as illustrative of the practice recom- mended by that eminent surgeon :—- Case I.—A medical man in extensive practice had suffered from piles and procidentia, for several years, attended with much discharge of blood. Notwithstanding general and local treat- ment, it increased to such a degree as to induce him to contem- plate retiring from practice. By the advice of Mr. Hey, the following operation was performed. A permanent frill sur- rounded the verge of the anus, which incommoded him greatly; it could be returned, but with great pain. Two or three small tubercles appeared on the internal part. I dissected off all the flap around, and close to the verge of the anus, and drew down a small portion of the rectum, to enable me to remove Q