48 CASE OF HYDROPHOBIA. entering inta his bed, his bedfellow observed him to shudder considerably. On the morning of Sunday, Sept. 1st, the boy refused to take his tea, although he complained of thirst, alleging and wondering that he could not swallow. He took, however, some solid food—a little bread and butter. About noon, on this day, he was found to be affected with slight headache, slight sickness at the stomach, and a spasmodic convulsive affection of the muscles of the throat. The countenance was expressive of anxiety, the tongue white, the pulse frequent, and the skin hot. On offering him a glass of water, he was seized with a violent convulsion of the face, head, throat, and trunk of the body, whilst attempting to bring the glass to his lips ; after repeated attempts to swallow, each of which was attended with a degree of shud- dering and horror, he succeeded at length in taking a spoonful into his mouth, but was immediately seized with a spasmodic affection of the throat, threatening suffocation. He took three grains of tarter emetic, which induced vomiting and purging. In the afternoon all the symptoms were increased. The spasms were induced by slight causes, such as an agitation of the bed- clothes ; the pulse beat 110 in a minute, and there was much thirst. On Monday morning, Sept. 2d, 10 o’clock a.m., the boy was found sitting up in bed, the countenance flushed, and the skin hot; the sight of water, of the spoon by means of which it was intended to inspect the fauces, a draught of air, the rapid motion of any object near the face, the opening of the window,— all induced immediate spasmodic catching motions of the face, neck, and arms, and a sort of swinging movement of the trunk of the body; occasionally these convulsive motions took place spontaneously, without any apparent external cause. Articula- tion was sometimes easy and distinct, but sometimes difficult, agitated, hurried, with hesitation and a spasmodic effort. The countenance denoted great anxiety. The patient always sat up in bed. The tongue was protruded easily, and was whitish. The pulse was 120. Haemorrhage had taken place from the nose. Thirty ounces of blood were taken from the arm. About 5 p.m., every symptom appeared in an aggravated form; the