PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 119 arrive at the truth. An evasive answer is generally returned to every question, and the reluctant patient eludes inquiry by assurance and reassurance that it is altogether unnecessary ; and when the assistance of the mother is invoked to clear up the doubt, she often at once betrays her inattention to, or ignorance of, the real state of her daughter’s health. The truth is seldom elicited on the first visit; but, if the enquiry be conducted with caution, and, above all, with the strictest regard to delicacy, suffi- cient information is obtained to satisfy the physician, and lead to a successful mode of practice. This precisely happened in the present instance, for, on a second interview, mutual confidence was established, and such facts disclosed as verified my sus- picions. The treatment adopted gradually benefitted her so much, that she considered herself quite recovered; and having a great aversion to be thought an invalid, and to medicine, she could not be prevailed on to persist long enough to establish her health completetely and permanently, notwithstanding repeated warnings. I saw her on occasional visits to the family, and felt assured that she was relapsing into her former state. An invita- tion to a ball was too great a temptation to be resisted; she caught cold, and was confined for a short time by an acute inflammatory attack, which terminated in consumption in less than a year. A very similar case fell under my care soon afterwards, in which curvature of the spine preceded the attack on the lungs, which was slowly and painfully fatal. Many cases justify a belief founded on experience, that, notwithstanding the constitution may be set right, and the health and natural functions apparently restored, yet, unless the means from which much good has already been obtained be continued until the recovery is con- firmed, danger is still to be apprehended. A young woman, aged nineteen, far advanced in consumption, fell under my care at the Bridgwater Infirmary some time since, from whom I learnt that she had lost a sister in the same disease, a year before. The catamenia had never appeared in either. She was accompanied by another sister, somewhat younger.