PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. Ill by non-professional persons is very natural ; and it is a well- known fact that chlorotic diseases are very apt to simulate other affections, as diseases of the brain, the heart and respiratory organs, as well as of the liver. Painful menstruation, than which there is scarcely a more intractable disease, is frequently a distressing consequence of the neglect of establishing healthy functions in the young female. The remedy which relieves in one case, totally fails in another, although no difference in constitution may be perceptible. I have found local bleeding, either by leeches or cupping, gene- rally afford the most effectual relief, but such means cannot always be resorted to.* This disease is not confined to the delicate and luxurious, but is common in every situation of life, no class being exempt. I proceed to notice some of the affections which accompany the chlorotic state, and to elucidate them by cases which have fallen under my own observation. These affections, require the nicest discrimination, as error in the treatment may lead to a fatal termination. And, first, of those which affect the head :— “ J. B., a lady aged twenty, several years since suddenly became low, desponding, and hysterical, having previously enjoyed good health, and been of a remarkably cheerful disposi- tion. She gradually recovered from this state, with very little treatment. It was observed, however, that she became pale, and never recovered her colour. About two years since she became ill whilst on a visit in London, was low and hysterical, frequently shedding tears profusely, and saying she should never recover. She got better on her return home, under the use of tonics, chalybeates, and mild purgatives. On Tuesday, December 5th, she complained of violent headache, for which she took some domestic medicine, and the next day applied for advice. She was * It has been said that the dilatation, and in some cases the division of the neck of the uterus effectually, cures this disease, but this is a severe and doubt- ful remedy. The late Dr. Prichard, found great benefit from the application of leeches to each groin, and he successfully employed, in profuse catamenia and leucorrhoea, the tinctura lyttse in the dose of one drachm in infusion of roses, alone or with a little sulphate of magnesia, three times a day.