76 NECROSIS OF THE FEMUR. brawny, and slightly discoloured. About sixteen months before, in turning rather suddenly, it broke. Very little union took place for nine months, and it never became strong. It did not appear that he had suffered much pain before the fracture, but since that time there has been a good deal, but not of a severe character. His health was much affected, but his countenance did not indicate malignant disease. The concentrated tincture of iodine was applied freely over the limb, which was followed by erisypelas. This was relieved by poultices. An issue was made on the outside of the limb, which discharged freely. Some- time after a small circumscribed space in the front and upper part of the thigh indicated the presence of fluid, which, on being opened, discharged a sanious fluid. An abscess then formed in the groin, and a large quantity of sloughy cellular membrane escaped. The wounds gaped, and presented a malig- nant aspect. The bone became disunited, and he was gradually worn down by fever, colliquative sweats, and enormous discharge, yet suffered but very little pain. The whole shaft of the bone, from the condyles to the head, was necrosed throughout, and the disease had spread to the ilium, where there was a large abscess. CASE OF DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. In the eleventh volume of the Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association, my friend Mr. Turner, of Manchester, has published an elaborate and excellent paper on dislocation of the astragalus, in which he states that it is an accident of unfrequent occurrence, but, in its characters and consequences, extremely serious. Every additional example, therefore, of the successful treatment of this important accident, cannot fail of being acceptable to the profession. The following case occurred lately in the practice of my son, Mr. J. B. Too- good, with whom I visited the patient, who thus describes it :— u I met with the accident (dislocation of the astragalus) five months since, and, after having set it, Mr. Wilkinson and his