70 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. immoveable, the extension is then made, and the reduction quickly completed. u I lately had a case in one of the most muscular men I ever saw, who, having met with a similar accident on a former occa- sion, dreaded, and with good reason, any attempt at reduction, and declared that he would allow one trial only to be made, and if it did not succeed, he would be content to let the limb remain unreduced ; for that, on the occasion alluded to, he had submitted to the efforts of four surgeons and a physician, with sixteen assistants, for three days; and that at length, after bleed- ing and other remedies, he became perfectly exhausted, when the bone was replaced. Notwithstanding the head of the bone being under the pectoral muscle, the whole operation, performed in the manner described, did not occupy two minutes. So satisfied, indeed, do I feel of the great importance of this point, that I do not hesitate to say, that all dislocations of the shoulder may be speedily and easily reduced by fixing the scapula in this manner, without any bandage whatever.” ON DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Complete dislocation of the knee-joint is so very rare an acci- dent, that I believe few surgeons have ever seen it. I furnished Sir Astley Cooper with the following case, which he published in his work on Dislocations. He had never met with a similar one, nor has any surgeon of my acquaintance connected with the London or provincial hospitals, although I have related it to a considerable number ; neither do I remember to have read of such a case. I learnt also, in conversation with Dupuytren and Roux, that it had not occurred in their practice. Dec. 5, 1806.—Francis Newton, a strong, athletic man, thirty years old, fell from the fore part of a waggon heavily laden with coals, and, entangling his foot in the frame-work of the shaft, was dragged a very great distance before he was released. I saw him two hours after the accident ; the left knee was very much swollen ; the tibia, fibula, and patella, were driven up in