PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 123 An opinion, too, generally prevails, that the treatment of this disease is very simple and well understood, and that recovery seldom fails to succeed the exhibition of active doses of calomel and drastic purgatives, followed by repeated and often large doses of iron and steel. To this end, Griffith’s steel mixture is constantly prescribed—an excellent medicine, if judiciously ad- ministered. But it must be evident to all who give the sub- ject the consideration it deserves, that the same treatment cannot be equally applicable in every case. There can be no doubt that aperients and tonics—particularly some of the preparations of steel—are the remedies from which relief is chiefly to be ob- tained ; but in a disease which presents itself under such various forms, and is attended with multiform complications, these must require such modifications in the administration as can only be safely determined on enlarged experience, under the guidance of which, if such medicines are conjoined with proper regimen and other auxiliaries, they will seldom fail to effect a cure. It is by no means an uncommon practice to increase the strength of the tonic, in proportion to the debility of the patient, than which there cannot be a greater or more dangerous error. It often occasions serious inconvenience, and sometimes acute inflamma- tory attacks, which endanger life. The treatment which has been most successful in my hands, has been to prohibit irregularities of every kind, such as late hours, long confinement in crowded places, as well as everything calculated to disturb the mind and body; above all, to guard against cold—especially humid cold. The diet should be plain and simple, and the careful regulation of the bowels by the mildest medicine, if any be required. A safe course will be to keep the patient in bed for a day or two, when the change commences. As a general rule, I have found the sulphate of iron, in doses of one or two grains daily, in combination with a mild aperient, the most successful plan. The slightest deviation from a natural state, in young females, should not be allowed to pass unnoticed; for if it be true that prevention is better than remedy, it is undeniably so in such cases.