CASE OF EPILEPSY, 36 subject to such attacks as the preceding, and appeared chiefly to suffer from defective nutrition. He was however quite well until he was past fourteen, although less robust than his brothers. One day, whilst at dinner, he suddenly fell from the table in an epileptic fit, without any apparent cause. No disease of this kind could be traced to the father, mother, or any branch of the family ; and the only cause which could be assigned for the attack was, that he had been accidentally exposed to an extraordinary state of excitement, which had prevailed the whole morning throughout the town in which he lived. These attacks recurred at uncertain intervals, with more or less violence, for more than two years. Every variety of plan which could be sug- gested by men of deserved reputation and considerable celebrity in the treatment of these diseases, was adopted, but without any positive or decided benefit. The prominent symptom was an obstinate state of the bowels, which required attention, and were difficult to manage. He was immediately removed from his studies, and allowed to amuse himself in any way he liked. He chose a carpenter’s bench, and generally employed himself in the open air. At the expiration of three years he had so far re- covered, that he had no longer any serious attacks, although he continued in a very nervous excited state, until one day there was an alarm in the street that a man had fallen down in a fit, when immediately he had an attack. He soon got over this, and gradually became so much better, that he was desirous of entering a profession, and was placed in the same office with a brother, where he remained the usual period. Since that time he has recovered strength and confidence, and has since led an active and energetic life. There are some points in this case worthy of remark: The original attack occurred whilst sitting at dinner partaking of roasted beef. From that time he never sat at table with his family for three years, and could not bear the sight of beef, which even now (sixteen years afterwards) he does not like. His meals were sometimes placed in the garden, on a chair, or on the floor, and he helped himself in a sudden spasmodic manner, and, if