173 CONCLUSION. time since at Birmingham, to consider the propriety of present- ing a testimonial to Mr. Hodgson, for his long and valuable services, the late Sir Robert Peel, after bearing testimony to the zeal and assiduity of the medical profession, and especially to the kindness and benevolence which characterized them, added, “ That he had peculiar pleasure in attending on this occasion, because, having had many opportunities of intercourse with the medical profession, he was proud to acknowledge, in as marked a manner as he could, his deep conviction, that in no profession could there be found more frequent instances of liberal and dignified sentiment, or more proofs of active and enlightened humanity.” I do not think our profession has received the en- couragement and protection from Government to which they have a just claim, and to which so well-merited an eulogium, from such an authority, fairly entitles them. It is a well known fact that the average duration of a medical life is short, and full of heavy responsibilities; and a melancholy truth, that after a life of constant toil and anxiety, the medical practitioner frequently fails in procuring more than a decent livelihood, and is harassed at the close of life with the reflection, that after all his exertions, he leaves his family scantily provided for, and, not infrequently, in a state of destitution. With what delight, then, must the profession hail the contemplated Medical Benevolent College, the founder of which, Mr. Propert, is entitled to their lasting gratitude, and whose name will be handed down to posterity as one of its greatest benefactors. It may be truly said that the general character of our god- like profession, is to benefit the human race. The discovery of vaccination, by the immortal Jenner, which has saved hundreds of thousands from a most loathsome disease; and more recently, that of the use of chloroform, by my friend Dr. Simpson, which so completely annuls human suffering, must be ranked amongst the greatest blessings conferred on mankind. A reference to earlier history, will show how much the medical profession has always laboured for the public good, and how successfully. The influence of one of the most celebrated fathers