6 COUNTER-IRRITATION. curative means employed ; as other remedies, aided by nutritious diet, were used; the favourable progress may be fairly attributed to the combined plan. A less severe but more extensive appli- cation of counter-irritation is sometimes followed by the best effects, as in the following case :— Case V.—The daughter of a clergyman, whose general health had been much deranged for a considerable time, was seized rather suddenly with Dyspnea, which increased so rapidly that I found her, a few hours after the attack, in a state of great exhaustion. The surface was cold and clammy, the lips and countenance livid, with a feeble and interrupted circulation. The slightest motion threatened immediate suffocation. Such cordial antispasmodics as were at hand, were administered, warmth was applied generally, and the chest rubbed freely with a strong liniment, composed of croton oil and tartarized antimony. Her sister, either in her anxiety to relieve her, or having mis- understood my directions, applied the liniment entirely over the chest, sides, and back, the consequence of which was, that she was smartly blistered over the whole surface. On my visit early the following morning, I was agreeably surprised at her improved condition ; the breathing was comparatively easy, the general surface warm, and of a more natural appearance, with a free and open pulse. She gradually recovered, and although for some- time occasional attacks recurred, they became much milder and were always relieved by the same remedy. I entirely coincide with the late Dr. Prichard, who deservedly enjoyed a European reputation, that large issues are decidedly more beneficial in intense disease, than any other mode of keeping up counter-irritation ; and he recommends, in certain states of the brain, issues made by a long incision of the scalp over the sagittal suture. He says, “ this remedy is not found in experience to be more painful than the usual application of setons, and is incomparably more efficacious.” This, which I have heard designated the u Tomahawk practice of Bristol,” I have often employed in threatening disease of the head, with the most decided advantage, but never with regret; and patients are now