100 BONY TUMORS. tumor firmly with one hand, whilst I was endeavouring to raise it with the spatula in the other, the patient, who had been very ungovernable during the operation, made a desperate effort to get away from me, by which the tumor was torn from its attachment. It proved to be a solid piece of bone, weighing three ounces. The operation was a difficult one, and attended with a good deal of hemorrhage. The skull was smooth under the tumor, except at the mastoid process, which was rough, and appeared diseased. There was no exfoliation, and she recovered in a fortnight. Case II.—In this case the tumor was situated on the meta- carpal bone of the ring finger of a boy of sixteen, and had grown to such a size as not only to render the finger useless, but to impede very considerably the motions of the hand. As all treat- ment had been unavailing, the removal was recommended, which was effected in the following manner :—An incision was begun at the carpus, by which the middle and little fingers were sepa- rated from the diseased ring finger, whose metacarpal bone was turned out at its articulation at the carpus. Notwithstanding the numerous vessels which were divided in the operation, none required ligatures ; the parts were brought together and retained by plaister and bandage, and speedily healed. He had a useful hand with very little deformity. CURE OF GANGLION BY IODINE. The powerful effects of iodine in promoting absorption are well known to the profession generally, and its application is daily becoming more varied and extensive. Mr. Ray relates two cases of hydrocephalus, which he states to have been clearly marked, in which he applied it with success. If on further trial it should be found efficacious in so formidable and fatal a disease, it will indeed be a most valuable remedy, and judging from analo- gous cases, I should be induced to give it a fair trial, with greater confidence than the operation of evacuating the fluid. I have employed it a good deal in effusions into joints and sheaths of