ON THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY, WITH REMARKS. Midwifery is considered by some members of our profession too unimportant a branch of medicine to engage the attention of scientific men, who contend that the practice is degrading, and ought to be left to old women and nurses. The successful practice of midwifery however, at the outset of life, as surely establishes a professional man’s reputation, as the contrary retards his progress ; and it appears to me that the careful study of this branch of our art is absolutely necessary to avoid the mischief of “ meddlesome midwifery,” than which nothing can be worse. Impressed with this conviction, I attended closely to the subject during the early part of my life, and have practised it extensively nearly forty years. I propose to give the result of my practice during the first seven years, with such remarks as may be useful. My register contains a list of eleven hundred and thirty-five cases attended during that period, of which number the greater part were, of course, natural labours. Eight cases presented with the face to the pubis, five of which terminated naturally ; in one the forceps was used ; in o$e the child was turned; and in one the funis descended with the head, and the uterus was ruptured in delivery. Presentations of the face generally terminate without artificial aid, but the forceps will sometimes be required. I have employed them in three succes- sive labours in the same patient, to whom I was called in consul- tation with another practitioner, who on one occasion had patiently waited the efforts of nature for more than fifty hours. In a few cases, if called early, I have turned and delivered by the feet, and in one case, turned the face to the sacrum. I have often attempted this, but succeeded once only. This patient was delivered of her first child by the crotchet, and in a subse- quent labour in which I attended her, with the forceps, in a presentation of the face. Having been engaged to attend her, I desired to be called very early, and on making an examination, my finger passed directly into the child’s mouth ; the membranes