9 COUNTER-IRRITATION. relief. He was low and nervous for some time, but the only remarkable symptom which remained was the extreme slowness of his pulse, which was generally under fifty-eight beats in a minute, and seldom exceeded that number. His diet and bowels were regulated, and he was enjoined to lead a perfectly quiet life, and avoid all excitement; and as a precautionary measure, counter-irritation on the scalp was recommended as a likely means of averting danger. Unfortunately that course was not adopted, and although he gradually improved in health for some time, his state was far from being satisfactory. Presently the former attacks returned, accompanied with sickness, and other symptoms, which excited the greatest alarm in the minds of his family. He was now taken to London, a course which was advised soon after the commence- ment of his illness, as it was thought possible that a minute ex- amination of the head might lead to the detection of some mis- chief occasioned by the blow which had produced the attack and consequent symptoms. A consultation with a distinguished physician, and two surgeons of great eminence and experience, was held. It was suspected that a thickening of the bone could be discovered, and that a corresponding enlargement of the inter- nal table of the skull had taken place, which by its pressure had produced irritation of the brain, and all the symptoms which followed. Although his medical advisers were not unanimous in this opinion, they all agreed that the treatment from which benefit was to be expected, was active counter-irritation, and strict attention to the general health. The head was shaved, and iodine, with mercurial ointment, fully and fairly employed by friction on the scalp, with the happiest effect, and he has now perfectly recovered. ON THE EFFECTS OF LOSS OF BLOOD. Case 1.—The following case illustrates, in a very striking manner, the great advantages of carrying blood-letting sometimes to a fearful extent, and the state of reaction as an effect of re- D