BURNING FEVER OF HIPPOCRATES, 164 been using mercury very largely, caught cold, and became seriously ill with fever. His head appeared to be affected on the fifth day ; and on the seventh, when I was first called into consultation with another physician, who had attended him with great care and judgment from the commencement of his illness, we found him in the highest possible state of excitement. He was stark naked, standing upright in bed, his eyes flashing fire, exquisitely alive to every movement about him, and so irascible as not to be approached without increasing his irritation to a degree of fury. He was put under coercion, and, amongst other expedients, emetic tartar was ordered to be administered to him, in doses of a grain each time, at proper intervals. u On the elventh day of the disease, I was informed by my colleague, when we met, and by the attendants, that he was become quite calm, and seemed much better. It was remarked, indeed, that he had said repeatedly that he should die ; that under this conviction he had talked with great composure of his affairs ; that he had mentioned several debts which he had con- tracted, and made provision for their payment ; that he had dictated messages to his mother, who was abroad, expressive of his affection, and had talked much of a sister who had died the year before, and whom, he said, he knew he was about to follow immediately. To my questions whether he had slept previously to this state of quietude, and whether his pulse had come down, it was answered, ‘ No, he had not slept, and his pulse was quicker than ever.’ Then it was evident that this specious im- provement was unreal, that the clearing up of his mind was a mortal sign, c a lightening up before death/ and that he would forthwith die. On entering his room, he did not notice us ; his eyes were fixed on vacancy ; he was occupied entirely with him- self, and all that we could gather from his words was some indistinct mention of his sister. His hands were cold, and his pulse immeasurably quick. He died that night.” Every one who has been much engaged in practice, must have witnessed instances of the mind clearing up in an extraordinary manner in the last hours of life, when terminated in the ordinary