3 CO U N TER-1 lttl IT A TI ON. curvature, large enough to contain in each forty small horse beans, which was attended to daily, and kept open for upwards of two years. During this long period she was not entirely confined to the house, or to a horizontal posture. By day she rested on a couch, which was fitted to a small four wheeled carriage, in which she took exercise, and had the benefit of air; a screw placed at the upper part, raised the head and shoulders at pleasure, so that she could work, draw, and amuse herself in a variety of ways, and by pushing the lower part of the carriage under a table, she was able to join her family at meals; all of which rendered her confinement less irksome. Under this treatment her general health gradually improved, the swelling diminished, until the con- tents of the abscess were absorbed, without any external opening, and she obtained a complete and lasting cure. She was married shortly afterwards, and has since enjoyed uninterrupted good health for more than thirty-five years. Recovery from lumbar abscess, particularly in delicate females, is of rare occurrence ; and although numerous cases of this disease have fallen under my observation, this is the only one ot permanent restoration to health which I have witnessed, either in my own practice or that of others. The careful maintenance of the general strength, by air and exercise, undoubtedly con- tributed much to the favourable result, which probably would have been different, had the local remedy been less extensively or less assiduously employed. I may here mention an anecdote of the last named celebrated Surgeon. As soon as my patient had left his house, she exclaimed that she would never see so unfeeling a man again. I represented to her that his kindness was as great as his manner was uncour- teous, and this she afterwards experienced fully. During her stay in London, he frequently called and sat with her of an evening, on his return from lecturing at St. Bartholomew’s, and on the last occasion he adopted a singular mode of impressing on her the general management of her case. He placed a chair in the middle of the room, and said, “ Now attend, that is the patient, and I am