BITE OF A COMMON VIPER. 47 sweats ; excruciating pain in the bowels, and diarrhoea. In this state I found him one hour and a half after the accident. The countenance was now extremely anxious, sunk and cold, as well as the whole surface of the body, and particularly the hands and feet; he complained of giddiness in the head, and the circulation was so languid that the pulse was scarcely perceptible at the wrist. The back of the hand was much swollen, red, and very painful, and soon assumed a livid hue ; there was no streak up the arm in the course of the absorbents. Some brandy and water had been given before my arrival ; it was repeated, with fifty drops of tincture of opium. This was rejected immediately, as was a second dose, but after a short time the stomach became more tranquil, and cordials, with opium, were retained ; the skin became warmer, and the pulse more full and distinct. The symptoms, however, did not wholly subside for many hours, par- ticularly the spasmodic affection of the tbroat and organs of respiration, which were of the longest duration and most dis- tressing. Six grains of calomel and two of opium were directed to be taken at night, and an active purgative in the morning, with cold applications to the hand and arm. The night was passed without sleep, and he was affected with troublesome strangury. The violent symptoms were much abated, but the swelling had spread to the elbow, and the limb was very painful, On the following day the swelling of the fore-arm had subsided, but it extended to the shoulder, breast, neck, and back, down to the loins, the whole of which was painful, cedematous, and of a mulberry colour. The patient gradually recovered, but several weeks elapsed before the natural appearance of the skin was restored. CASE OF HYDROPHOBIA. On Saturday evening, August 31st, 1816, an apprentice of Mr. William Holloway, Bridgwater, aged about 12, first expressed himself as feeling indisposed, refusing to take his usual supper. He was persuaded, however, to drink some warm cider. On