PREFACE. XIV. But it must not be forgotten that u Plebs amat remedia. If any real grounds for such a charge exist, the public, and not the profession, is to blame. They have always refused proper remu- neration to the general practitioner, and the only way in which some compensation for time (the estate of the medical man) could be obtained, has been in some instances by adopting a course repugnant to his feelings. In proof of the moderate expectations of the general practition- ers, I relate a fact which came under my own observation. The general practitioners of a town unanimously resolved to charge one shilling a day for attendance, without reference to the number of visits, which was so violently opposed that it was soon aban- doned, from the apprehension of the introduction of a stranger, and from a threat by a lawyer, who headed the opposition, to indict the whole body for a combination to raise their charges. Shortly afterwards one of the most respectable practitioners was sum- moned to attend the child of a wealthy tradesman, which he did assiduously, twice daily for fourteen days, besides occasional visits during the convalescence. Three powders were the only medi- cines supplied, for which the usual charge of two shillings and three-pence was made ; and as it was not the custom to receive pence, the sum of two shillings was paid about a year after ; but not the slightest compensation was made for the many hours devoted to this service. Although a strenuous advocate for just and fair remuneration for time and skill, I am decidedly opposed to the administration of medicine unnecessarily; but as the public have their option, I do not think any great wrong is committed by administering in such a case, in self-defence, a few more saline draughts than is absolutely required, as the only mode of being reimbursed from former loss. An equitable payment for professional attendance, the patient providing his medicine from the chemist, would be an effectual mode of re- moving such a stigma from the whole body. The cases of patients are sometimes reported before their final termination is known. It often happens that patients are dis- charged from Hospitals after severe disease, and operation in