79 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE LEG. TWO CASES OF COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE LEG. Case I.—Mr. A., aged fifty-five, was thrown from a gig, and suffered a compound fracture of the leg. I found him lying on the road, about a mile from his house, bleeding profusely. lie was carefully carried home on a hurdle, when I discovered that the lower end of the tibia was dislocated and considerably dis- placed, the fibula fractured, and about four inches above, both bones were broken, the tibia protruding through a wound two inches in length. The tibia and fibula were again both broken a little below the knee. The reduction of the dislocation was very difficult, and it was impossible to keep the end of the tibia, which had passed through the skin, right, in consequence of the complete detachment of the bone by the upper fracture. The broken ends of the bones were placed in apposition, as well as the case would admit, the leg put up into splints, and cold appli- cations directed. It became a point of serious consideration whether amputation would not be the safest course under such complicated injury. The patient was fifty-five years of age, and, with the exception of being subject to nervous and spas- modic affections, of a sound constitution and temperate habits ; the soft parts, although much lacerated, were not contused, and he was in a situation possessing every convenience for cure. These circumstances induced me to hope that the first symptoms would not be such as to endanger his life, and that if the sup- puration was not excessive, the limb might be preserved; I therefore felt justified in the attempt to save it. First Day.—Thursday night, ten o’clock. He is restless and un- easy, complaining of great pain, and starting of the limb; oppres- sion and anxiety about the praecordia, with sickness and frequent tendency to evacuate the bowels. He took forty drops of laud- anum, and afterwards an effervescing draught every four hours. The pulse 60, with but little heat of skin. He got a little sleep during the night, and was much the same on the Friday morning, but complained of pain in making a deep inspiration; he still