Xll. PREFACE* I have lately been consulted by the lady of a general officer, just returned from India, for a little boy who had hernia, for which she had been using for some time a quack’s pills and oint- ment ; and so confident was she of their efficacy, from the reports she had read, and the cures which had been related to her, that she actually brought a supply with her from India, believing that the demand was so great in England, that there was much diffi- culty in procuring them. The following disgusting case is related to show to what an extent superstition and ignorance will go; and as it may well appear incredible, I will detail the particulars. In the village of Bawdrip, in Somersetshire, lived a man by name Richard Their, who by profession was a gelder. His wife, Judith, a handy, kind hearted, but very ignorant woman, was a nurse, and very useful to her neighbours ; and this pair were conspicuous characters, and authorities in the parish. They had a son with a scrofulous disease of the ankle and foot, which had resisted every means employed for its cure, and was condemned for ampu- tation. But Judith would not consent to this course, and undertook the case herself, on which she exhausted all her remedies in vain. At length the poor boy died, and meeting the mother some time afterwards, she recounted the various means she had used, and, amongst others, one which she was ashamed to mention before, lest, in the event of his recovery, he might be “betwitted” in after life. On my expressing a wish to learn what it was, after some hesitation she told me, that when she delivered William Tout’s wife, her neighbour, she preserved the after-birth, which she carefully dried in the sun, with the chord, and having reduced it to powder, she gave her son a tea- spoonful every morning, until the whole was taken. What a helpmate Judith would have proved to Dr. Hermann, the inventor of “Isopathy,” which is based on the principle that u Every diseased organ has its remedy in the same organ” ; thus : if you have diseased liver, eat liver; if a headache, eat brain ; if you suffer in the bladder or kidneys, nourish yourself on bladder and kidneys. As these organs may not appear very tempting to certain squeamish persons, M. Hermann has made tinctures of