127 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. In three cases the arm presented, in neither of which did any particular difficulty occur. It is rather remarkable that amongst so large a number of cases, four only of original presentations of the arm have occurred in my own practice up to the present time, although I have been called to many, in consultation with other practitioners. Some have proved extremely difficult, but in all delivery was effected by patient perseverance, without dismem- bering the children. In eleven cases the breech presented, but nothing worthy of remark occurred in any of them. The practice of bringing down the feet, with a view of expediting delivery, is bad. It is often done by young practitioners who will learn by experience, that the safest course is to allow the breech to be expelled as it presents. In three cases the feet presented, one of which was remarkable: both feet could be distinctly felt low in the vagina, through the membranes, which were entire on my arrival, and remained so until the uterus was almost fully dilated, when they burst, and to my astonishment the shoulder presented. I lost no time in turning, which was easily accomplished, the pelvis being unusu- ally capacious. There were twelve cases of twin births. Twenty-one cases of severe hemorrhage occurred, two of which were fatal; one soon after the delivery, and the other six days after, from fever. Uterine hemorrhage is more frequent, more embarrassing, and more dangerous than any other accident in the practice of mid- wifery. It often occurs, in spite of all precautions which can be taken to prevent it, sometimes to such an extent, that, although the woman escapes with life, her constitution receives such a shock that the recovery is difficult and protracted ; and at other times, after repeated attempts to rally, she sinks into a state of irretrievable weakness, and dies. The danger does not, however, always depend on the quantity of blood lost, as the following case will prove :— Mrs. P., a healthy young woman, aged 24, was delivered on