120 PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. whose countenance betokened that she had passed the first stage of chlorosis. I pointed out the necessity of the immediate and complete separation of these two sisters (having seen so many proofs of the infectious nature of this English scourge), and directed such remedies as showed, after a short time, by her amended looks and improved form, that she was on the point of being restored to health. She menstruated for the first time in two months, and has been quite free from complaint ever since. The action of the heart is sometimes so greatly disturbed in this disease, as to lead to the belief that it is the seat of organic mischief, and the cause of all the patient’s sufferings. Medical practitioners who have not paid much attention to this class of diseases, often form erroneous opinions in such cases, and are consequently foiled in their treatment Chlorosis often simulates other diseases beside the foregoing, of which the following cases are examples. A young lady from Cornwall consulted me for an affection of the heart, which was considered by herself, as well as her friends, to be organic ; and this opinion was strengthened by the failure of all the remedies employed for her relief, which only appeared to aggravate her complaint. Local and general bleeding, calomel, and other purgatives, had been repeatedly tried, with counter- irritation, digitalis, sedatives of various kinds, and low diet. I was much struck with the extreme pallor of the countenance and ex-sanguineous appearance of the tongue and gums. Very slight exertion was attended with breathlessness, faintness, and violent beating of the heart ; the legs were swollen, and great debility was present. On entering into an examination of the case, I inquired the state of the catamenial discharge, but it was immediately checked by the assurance that it was unnecessary, as the point had been attended to, and that her condition was natural. After much trouble, the truth was arrived at; her case proved to be one of long-standing, and confirmed chlorosis, from which she entirely recovered, under very different treatment, and she has enjoyed excellent health ever since. A lady consulted me by letter on her daughter’s case, who was