17 LOSS OF BLOOD. together, was seized with shivering on going to bed. She be- came much worse during the night, and at four o’clock in the morning I found her with decided symptoms of Pneumonia. Forty ounces of blood were immediately drawn, and during that, and the following day, she lost about 100 ounces more, and was kept under the influence of tartarized antimony. On the third day the violence of the symptoms was subdued, but she was by no means in a satisfactory state. Active mea- sures could not be carried further, and for the next ten days the case was carefully watched, and such treatment and regimen en- joined as circumstances appeared to justify. She had however apparently so much improved, that she insisted on being dressed, and taken into another room; but was scarcely seated, when a vio- lent fit of coughing came on, and she brought up upwards of a pint of pus so suddenly, that time was not given to reach a vessel; and I found her, two hours afterwards, sitting in a chair in a very exhausted state, surrounded by the discharge. Her recovery was perfect, under a nutritious diet and restorative plan of treat- ment; she followed her usual occupation, bore children, and wa9 living in good health when I left the neighbourhood, twenty- five years afterwards. I should now hesitate to adopt such heroic practice ; for although this patient recovered, I am more inclined to attribute the success to the natural powers of her con- stitution, than to the judgment or skill of her medical adviser. That accomplished physician, and excellent pathologist, Dr. John Hughes Bennett, in his lectures on clinical medicine, gives the following rules for guidance in blood letting in Pneumonia. “ If you are called to a case at a very early period, before exudation is poured out, and before dullness, as its physical sign, is characterized : but when, notwithstanding, there have been rigours, embarrassment of respiration, more or less pain in the side, and commencing crepitation, then bleeding will often cut the disease short. When, on the other hand, there is perfect dullness over the lung, increased vocal resonance and rusty sputum, the exudation blocks up the air cells and can only be got rid of by that exudation being transformed into pus, and E