9:1 PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. appeared to have been occasioned by an angle of a calculus, nine of various sizes being found in the bladder. The oause of failure in evacuating the contents of the bladder, in this case, arose from the shortness of the instruments employed. Baron Hurteloup, to whom I related it, at once pointed it out, and said that if a catheter two feet long had been used, the operation would not have been required. WOUND OF THE THKOAT. Many of the cases in which the operation of Staphyloraphy has been performed, as detailed in the Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal, have been successful, and the failure of some appears to have arisen either from the want of food, or the diffi- culty of administering it. Probably the plan adopted in the following case, with such complete success, may be applicable in cases of staphyloraphy, and obviate one of the difficulties of this important operation. Richard Watson, aged forty, cut his throat on the 10th of June, 1817, with a common case knife. I saw him ten minutes after- wards ; the bleeding, which had been very profuse, had ceased; he was breathing with great difficulty; he had no pulse at the wrist, and appeared to be dying. On raising him from the ground into a chair, he began to revive, and after a short time the pulse returned, and the sweating ceased. On examining the wound, it was found so extensive, that it appeared extraordinary how the carotid artery should have escaped; the trachea was completely cut across below the os hyoides, and the anterior part of the cesophagus divided. The knife being blunt, the parts were a good deal lacerated, and as the wound was so high, all the parts connecting the jaw were completely divided, together with the thyroid and lingual arteries. The injury was so great, that it appeared useless to attempt anything ; but finding no return of bleeding, I connected by suture some of the divided parts, lea- ving the trachea exposed, through which air and bloody mucus escaped. During that day he remained in a very precarious state,