THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. 131 to be poured out, or such a draining remains, as to keep the practitioner, the patient, and her friends, in a state of anxiet)r for many hours. She sometimes recovers in a rapid and extraordinary manner, the constitution appearing to suffer nothing from such great loss; at others, if energetic means have been too long delayed, the recovery is slow and precarious, or she falls into a state of weakness, and dies. Hemorrhage, before the commencement of labour, always claims attention, and so does any unusual discharge during its progress and after delivery. Some discharge is always expected afterwards, and as but little appears externally in these cases, the hemorrhage slowly proceeds internally, until the symptoms above detailed announce its extent and danger. The safety, nay, the life of the patient, depends on the care, experience, and watchfulness, of the attending practi- tioner, who should never rely on the report of the nurse or friends, but satisfy himself, if any unusual symptoms appear, that they do not arise from loss of blood. It is too much the practice of nurses, as well as friends, however kind and attentive they may be to the woman during her labour, to leave her to her fate as soon as she is delivered, and devote all their attention to the child.'*' Women are sometimes lost after profuse hemorrhage, for want of attention in administering proper restoratives. In states of great exhaustion, patients frequently refuse nourishment, and the heart would cease to act if stimulants were not constantly and judiciously given, and under such circumstances a woman will make no effort herself, but would prefer, and indeed often entreats, to be left alone. That many cases are lost from want of diligent perseve- rance in recruiting the powers of life, is certain ; and I feel con- vinced that I have been instrumental in saving many lives by gently but firmly insisting on this point, and compelling the woman (if I may be allowed the expression) to live in spite of herself. Bread and milk is always at hand, and is seldom objected to. It should be boiled, and made rather thick, then quickly cooled, and some compound spirit of ammonia added to it. It is astonish- ing how large a quantity may be taken in a short time, and how