34 CROWING INSPIRATION OF CHILDREN. anha wine was given at eleven o’clock on Thursday morning, which operated well. At one, whilst lying in the nurse’s lap, she had a most violent attack, and was, for some time, believed to be dead; but after pouring an ounce and a half of brandy and water down her throat, she slowly and with great difficulty re- covered. This was followed by convulsion and long continued spasm of the muscles, so that the body was quite rigid and could not be bent, although kept for a considerable time in a warm bath. She appeared to sufler great pain for two hours, after which she became easier, and remained so till seven o’clock, when the spasm returned with equal violence, and recurred every two minutes, affecting the right side chiefly, until five o’clock the next morning. No relief was obtained from the ap- plication of leeches, warm bath, the warm water injection, or lancing the gums. About eight o’clock she screamed violently; but was sensible, and took nourishment several times. At ten the spasms returned, but with less violence, and they con- tinued, with little variation, during the whole of Friday, until Sunday morning, when she appeared to get somewhat easier ; and although she was less drawn, and the dreadful grinding of the teeth had subsided, there was still a constant frowning and knitting of the brows, denoting great pain. She appeared sen- sible during the greater part of Sunday, took food occasionally, and slept a good deal, but it was doubtful whether she saw dis- tinctly ; there was no squinting. On Sunday night she became affected with spasmodic twitchings of the muscles, and was sometimes harrassed with cough. She had a repetition of her former attacks at four in the morning, and again at ten, from which, however, she soon recovered. Another fit recurred at twelve o’clock, whilst lying perfectly quiet, in which she expired. The body was examined early on the following morning. It was not emaciated. Upon the removal of the pericranium, the skull-cap presented a natural appearance, the fontanelle not being perfectly closed by ossification. It required more than the usual degree of force to tear off the skull-cap from the dura mater; and when this was effected, it was found that a large por-