112 PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. then observed to be very pale, low, and constantly shedding tears, but still complaining of her head. She was considered chlorotic; a purgative was directed, and leeches were applied to the head, with so much relief, that she wished to accompany her sisters to a party in the evening. On the following morning she still com- plained of her head, and suddenly had a violent convulsive attack; her features were drawn on one side, she lost the power of her right arm and leg, the pupils were largely dilated, and she was unable to articulate. She was bled from the arm and head freely, with relief, and recovered partially, but was not able to speak distinctly, or to grasp with her right hand. She still felt pain in the head, but expressed herself as being much better. In the evening she had a second attack, resembling apoplexy, and became quite insensible, with stertorous breathing. The usual treatment was actively employed, without the least relief, and she died at four in the morning, eight hours after the second attack. A post-mortem examination was made at eleven o’clock. The features were so changed, that her friends could not recognize her. The whole surface was extremely pallid. The only morbid appearance which could be discovered, on a careful dissection of the brain, was some serious effusion under the arachnoid membrane, but in every other respect it was healthy and firm. There was a slight effusion into the right side of the chest, and adhesions to the pleura, the heart was large, but the lungs and all the other viscera were in a healthy state ; and there were no other marks of local or general derangement which were not strictly applicable to a defective performance of the functions which it is the object of these remarks to explain. On Monday, August 12th, 1839, 1 was consulted on the case of a lady who was stated to be about two months advanced in her first pregnancy, and suffering from sickness and vomiting more severely than usual under such circumstances, attended with pain in the head, and sensation of great weakness. From the descrip- tion, I apprehended that the symptoms could not be referred entirely to that cause, and hinted the probability of some affection of the head existing at the same time. In consequence of this,