PREFACE. Xlll. them, which his patients take in spoonfuls, under the scientific names of stomachine, cystine, umbria, etc. This work, pub- lished at Augsburgh, contains fifty cases of radical cures, as well entitled to credit as those published by the Homoeopathists. In this age of popular delusions, the more absurd the novelty, the more fashionable it becomes. Of all the impostures practised on the public, or monstrous insults offered to the human under- standing, that mockery of medicine, Homoeopathy, is the greatest. That enthusiatic and speculative minds may be betrayed into a belief of the efficacy of infinitessimal doses is possible; but, to imagine that men of sober judgment could ever subscribe to so ridiculous a doctrine, is to tax credulity too highly. It is well known how important the regulation of diet and regimen is in the treatment of disease; and if the Homoeopathists had the honesty to acknowledge that their success (if any?) depended on enforcing a stricter dietetic plan, and not on their mysterious remedies, they would have been entitled to more respect. When men, educated to a profession, suddenly become converts to new and strange doctrines, it may fairly be presumed that such con- versions are not the result of conviction, but of other causes, especially if they have not been so fortunate as to obtain the confidence of the public. But because deserters from a profes- sion, to which they are neither honour or ornament, have openly joined the ranks of quacks, a cry has been raised, against the general practitioners especially, that they have encouraged its introduction by pursuing a system of overdrugging their patients.* * The author of the Latin poem, “ Zodiacus Vitse,” calls ignorant and inter- ested physicians, “ Carnificeshominum, sub honesto nomine hunt;” “ Mankind’s fell butchers, with a nobler name;” and then addresses the princes of his time to rid the world of these pests of society : “ Vos quibus imperium est, qui mundi ficena tenetis, Ne tantum tolerate nefas, hanc tollite pestem Consulite humano generi Yel perfecte artem discant, vel non medeantur,” “ Ye who the reins of empire bear. The human race in pity spare ; Its scourges to destruction give. And we shall then be well, and live.”