LACERATION OF THE VAGINA AND CERVIX UTERI. 161 slightest discharge of any kind, and a long firm cicatrix could be plainly felt. I believe the success of this case may be fairly attributed to management. When the reaction commenced, with so much pain in the abdomen, I was importuned by the friends to take away blood, under the impression that inflammation was going on, in which opinion they were joined by the surgeon who was present at the delivery: but I felt so satisfied that the symptoms arose from a different cause, and that the loss of a small quantity of blood, although attended perhaps with apparent immediate relief, would in all probability be fatal, that I determined to trust to opium, cordials, nourishment, and perfect quiet. The plan was admirably seconded by the unceasing attention of her husband. Her recovery was quite complete in every respect, and she has been in the enjoyment of good health for more than twenty years. During the awful state of suspense, when her dissolution was momentarily expected, I accidentally opened the door of an ad- joining room, when I saw the husband, his children and brothers, kneeling, devoutly engaged in earnest prayer, bathed in tears. This affecting scene, and the result of the case, forcibly brought to my recollection that passage in Holy Writ, which says, u the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.” I may here mention an instance of the prevailing superstitions of the country. The nurse, who was strongly imbued with them, although an experienced person, expressed her astonishment that the patient struggled so hard, yet did not die ; and after whis- pering with some bystanders, said to me that she believed the reason she did not die, was because she lay under a couple (meaning a couple of the roof), and wished to move the bed to another part of the room, that she might be released. The same question has been proposed to me on other occa- sions, and in one much disappointment was expressed at the failure of the result, for many days after the experiment had been made. Case II.—I was requested to visit the wife of Robert Y