175 CONCLUSION. quarters of Paris during two days. The feelings of the king, after those dreadful days of carnage and most sacrilegious murder, and the familiar and even tender manner of his complaining to Paroeus, are told by the Duke de Sully, very feelingly ; for he was himself of the reformed religion, and though yet a child, with difficulty escaped. “ ‘ The hour is now come (said the king) when all France shall be of one religion.’ ‘Now, by God’s light sire, (replied Paroeus,) I think you will never forget your promise to me, that there were four things you would never force me to do :—To enter again into my mother’s womb ; to go out in the day of battle ; to leave your service ; or, to go to mass.’ The king then took him aside, and opened up to him the troubles with which his soul was disquieted. ‘Ambrose, (says he,) I know not how it is with me, but it goes so heavily, that within these three days, I am as in a fever; indeed I am ill, as ill in mind as in body ; sleeping or waking, the murdered Huguenots, are ever before my eyes, with hideous faces weltering in their blood. Would to God the children and the aged, at least, had been spared !’ The order for stopping the massacre, which was proclaimed the following day, was the result of this conversation.” Nothing is more common than to hear men who have been bred to the medical profession, regret the choice, and ex- press an anxious desire for the arrival of that period when they may be able to relinquish a practice which makes such constant demands on their time and personal comforts. If I may offer a word of parting advice to those who anticipate much enjoyment from retirement, it is that they should pause before they decide on a step which may end in disappointment. Accustomed as those who take a deep interest, and enter heart and soul into their profession, have been during the greater part of their lives, to daily active exercise of body and mind, and having devoted their energies almost exclusively to its cul- tivation, they will find it difficult to withdraw their minds from a favourite pursuit, and turn to other occupations. They will feel the loss of excitement, and time will hang heavily on their