159 CASE OF LACERATION OF THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE VAGINA AND CERVIX UTERI, SUCCESSFULLY TREATED. In a paper published by Mr. Birch, in' the 13th vol. of the Medico Chirurgical Transactions, he states that lacerations of the posterior part of the vagina, and cervix uteri, always prove fatal. I have not found such to be the case in my practice. Case I.—Mrs. Collins, a delicate woman of thirty, was seized with uterine hemorrhage at the seventh month, which recurred twice slightly before the completion of the eighth, when it increased suddenly to an alarming extent. It was then ascer- tained that the placenta was lying over the os uteri and immediate delivery was determined on. At ten in the morning, on the 19th of April, this was effected without any particular difficulty, but with considerable hemorrhage, which continued, after the expul- sion of the placenta, to such a degree as to render it advisable to introduce the hand for the purpose of checking it. The placenta was lying in the vagina loose, and was removed. I then discov- ered a very extensive laceration of the posterior part of the vagina, which extended to the cervix uteri. Another surgeon, who was present at the delivery, made, at my request, a careful examination, and satisfied himself of the nature and extent of the rupture. The uterus was well contracted. For two hours she remained in a most alarming state, the hemorrhage continuing with constant restlessness, fainting, and exhaustion. About half- past twelve, she appeared to be rapidly sinking, when a violent fit of vomiting came on, which seemed to relieve her, and she slept for half an hour ; but during that period it was often doubt- ful whether she was still alive. She was quite cold over the surface, and this state continued for three hours. Cordials and opium were administered unsparingly, and she gradually became warmer, and complained of great pain in the belly. She suffered much from exhaustion, but had some sleep during the night. Second day : Her countenance was rather improved, the pulse perceptible, but very small. She had occasional sickness, and