ADMINISTRATION OF COD LIVER OIL. 28 advantageously suspended sometimes, and preparations of steel substituted in its stead, and sometimes both remedies may be judiciously conjoined. “To give some idea how generally it is prescribed, I enquired of the nine chemists in this place what quantity of the oil they had sold from the first of November last to the first of April, and I found that one had disposed of forty gallons, and had nearly exhausted ten on hand ; another twenty-two gallons; and the third sixteen, besides other oil obtained from London, which some preferred. I conclude, therefore, that so large a quantity of a remedy, not of the most agreeable kind, would scarcely be consumed in a small locality, unless it had been found beneficial; and I observe that some of my medical brethren, who at first were prejudiced against it, and deemed it a species of quackery, averring that they could not prevail on their patients to swallow so nauseous a dose, have prescribed it freely, and find, to their astonishment, that patients rarely make any serious objection to it.” The following case is an example of the beneficial exhibition of cod-liver oil :— I was consulted by a gentleman nearly twenty years since, who had lost two brothers in consumption, and whose symptoms were so threatening as to excite very great apprehension for his own safety. He had gradually been emaciating for some months, with slight cough, hoarseness, and some ulceration of the throat, attended with much debility. Under general treatment and careful attention he slowly recovered, and continued in good health until a year ago, when he became alarmed at the return of some of his former symptoms. His appetite and spirits failed, and he suffered so much from irritation in the throat, as to oblige him to give up his duty in the church. As there was nothing in his case to forbid the use of the oil, I advised him to give it a full trial. He began to take it in June last, and in the following January he wrote to tell me that he soon experienced its good effects; that he had quite recovered his voice and strength, and that he had increased fourteen pounds in weight. He also added