ON CYNANCHE LARYNGEA. 38 his mother, who slept in an adjoining room, breathing in a slow, laborious manner, with a shrill or stridulous sound. I found that she had been attacked with cynanche laryngea early in the morning, and was suffering from pain, cough, fever, and a sense of suffocation. General and local bleeding, with large and repeated doses of emetic tartar, and afterwards of calomel, together with counter irritation, were immediately resorted to ; indeed all the usual remedies were actively and most energetically employed for ten hours, when she died quite suddenly. The remedies pro- duced languor and faintness, but no effectual relief, although a partial abatement of the most violent symptoms lulled me into a false security, and prevented me from adopting that course which I believe, would have saved her life. Never did I more sincerely regret that the operation of bronchotomy was not performed; but the duration of the disease was so short, that I did not feel myself justified in proposing it until other means had been tried. It terminated in a more sudden and unexpected manner than I was prepared for. The dissection proved that the disease was confined to the upper part of the tube, which was blocked up by flakes of coagulable lymph; and as the surrounding parts were all in a healthy state, there is every reason to believe that the operation would have been attended with complete success. Although the operation did not succeed in the case which I am about to relate, it will be found an interesting one—the patient, after a partial restoration, having died of secondary asphyxia. Mr. Honiball, aged fifty, had been suffering for some days from what was considered a bad cold, attended with hoarseness and sore throat, for which some domestic remedies were used. He became much worse about ten o’clock at night, when he sent for a surgeon, who bled him largely, both generally and locally, and treated him very actively during the night, without any relief of the symptoms. I saw him at five on the following morning, and advised the immediate performance of tracheotomy, which he refused to submit to, but rapidly getting worse, and gasping for life, he consented when in articulo mortis. But before the opera-