60 INJURY OF THE HEAD. soon as he recovered from it, he was bled. Soon after this he had another, after which he lay motionless on his back, the fits succeeding each other at intervals of a quarter of an hour, until three o’clock, when he expired. The pupils contracted on ex- posure to light, and he gave tokens of sensibility ten minutes before his death. On denuding the cranium, not the slightest injury could be discovered. The right temporal muscle was removed, but no fracture could be detected at the part on which pressure seemed to have produced the epileptic fit. The left temporal muscle was black, with extravasated blood, from the blow which seemed to have been received on this part. The vessels of the dura mater were loaded with blood, and on removing it, the right hemisphere was found enveloped in coagulated blood. On re- moving the scalp, two fractures were immediately visible—one on the right side, extending about two inches upwards and down- wards, in a right line through the squamous suture, the other running through the centre of the mastoid process and petrous portion of the temporal bone, to the centre of the base of the skull. A piece of the petrous portion, about the size of a pea, was entirely detached, but not displaced so as to cause pressure. Case II.—William Govier, aged 44, was thrown from his horse on the night of November 16, 1826, and sustained a severe fracture of the skull. He walked with assistance to a cottage at some distance. Although insensible at first, he soon recovered his senses, and retained them. On a careful examination of the nature of the injury, it was found to be very extensive, the fracture running through the anterior superior angles of the parietal bones, and upper portion of the frontal bone, immedi- ately over the longitudinal sinus. Several loose pieces of bone were driven into the brain to a considerable depth, so that it was a good deal lacerated. It was determined at once to proceed to an operation. Accordingly, an angular portion of bone was first removed with Hey’s saw, with the intention of raising the de- pressed pieces, but this was found to be impracticable, until a