101 CURE OF GANGLION BY IODINE. tendons, and lately in the following case, with decided benefit:— A delicate little boy was brought to me from a considerable distance with a large ganglion on the flexor tendons of the wrist, extending into the palm of the hand. I have generally got rid of these effusions by a smart blow, which has burst the sheath, or where that could not be effected by blisters ; but this is a tedious and painful process. As I could not adopt either of these plans in this case, I determined to paint the whole over with a saturated solution of iodine, which completely removed both in about seven or eight days. THE TAXIS. In corroboration of the opinion of Mr. Hunt, that the Taxis, carefully and patiently applied, will generally succeed in re- ducing strangulated hernia, I can bear testimony to its truth, having had occasion to perform that operation once only, in a case of congenital hernia, during an extensive practice of forty years, thirty-three of which I filled the office of senior surgeon to the Bridgwater Infirmary. I believe T have met with the average number of cases, and have frequently been called into consultation with others when the operation was considered necessary. The taxis has been so successful, that I have rarely had recourse to bleeding, and never to the tobacco glyster. I have often employed the warm bath advantageously, and par- ticularly in one case which I despaired of reducing, and went home (a distance of three miles) for my instruments, leaving my patient in a warm bath, under the care of my assistant. I was detained by an accident which occurred immediately on my re- turn, before my own house; and when I reached my patient, I found him still in the bath, (full two hours having elapsed since he was placed in it,) nearly parboiled, but not very faint, and on removing him, the hernia was returned with very little trouble. Mr. Browne, of Preston, has informed me that he had frequently succeeded in reducing hernia, by giving two grains of opium * *Mr. Stanley has, on the same principle, successfully employed chloroform in the reduction of strangulated hernia, and is of opinion that it will probably supersede the use of tobacco or other means.