160 LACERATION OF THE VAGINA AND CERVIX UTERI. still some hemorrhage; complained of excessive exhaustion, but not of noise in the ears, nor loss of sight, and never quite fainted. Cordials and opium were given, and perfect quiet enjoined. In the evening reaction commenced, the pulse became full, but easily compressed, the pain in the belly was increased, with feeling of great sinking and weakness. The catheter was passed, and effervescing medicine, with opium, administered. Third day: The night was passed without sleep, and the pain in the belly was much increased, with restlessness, thirst, full, fre- quent, weak pulse, sickness, and of feeling sinking. The belly was fomented, the catheter passed, and a warm water injection admin- istered; cordials and nutritious food were given, with perfect quiet. In the evening she was much the same, but had slept a good deal, at short intervals, during the day. Fourth day : She had no sleep during the night. I found her extremely restless, hot, and flushed in the face, with a pulse of 140, complaining of extreme weakness and fainting, with sickness and frequent vomiting; the belly was tense, the countenance exceedingly anxious ; she was very talkative, and desponding. All the symptoms had become so much worse, that I hardly ex- pected to find her alive on my next visit. The catheter was passed, a warm water injection administered, and an opiate. Fifth day : I had the satisfaction of finding my patient in every respect better this morning. She had slept a great deal ; the pulse was less frequent; the skin moist; the tongue, which had been dry and brown, was now moist, but the edges were aphthous. She had made water freely, and the bowels had been relieved. The sickness had returned once only. She was much more tran- quil, had taken nourishment freely, and thought better of herself. After this day my anxiety as to the result of the case ceased, and the improvement was so regular, that at the end of a month she complained only of weakness and slight purulent discharge. About ten or twelve days after delivery, finding there was a copious purulent discharge, I passed kny finger gently into the vagina, and ascertained that although the rent was still large, it was filling up. At the expiration of six weeks there was not the