141 DROPSY OF THE AMNION. been delivered of a second foetus this morning, when I was called to her, and found her in hard labour, with the membranes very much distended, which I instantly punctured, when upwards of ten or twelve quarts of water were evacuated, succeeded, of course, by a complete subsidence of the abdomen. The issue shows the difficulty attending the diagnosis of such morbid appearances.” The placentas were not brought away until late on Saturday night, and then partially only, and it was not until the Tuesday following that the whole was expelled ; there was no hemorrhage. She had a good recovery, has been quite well, and borne children since. In speaking of ascites during pregnancy, Dr. Burns says : —u If, in spite of treatment, the swelling increase, paracentesis must be performed, and I am surprised that there ever should have been a moment’s doubt as to its propriety, for there certainly can be none as to its safety.” This appears to me a bold asser- tion. Cases have occurred in which a trocar has been incautiously plunged into the uterus in ascites during pregnancy, with fatal effect ; and judging from this, in which the parietes of the uterus were rendered so thin by the great accumulation of water, as literally to make the fluctuation evident to the bystanders, on gently striking the abdomen, it appears to me sometimes diffi- cult, if not altogether impossible, to determine whether the fluid be contained in the abdominal or uterine cavity, a mistake that would most probably be fatal. In the tenth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, a case is related of the presentation of a bag of water after delivery. This is the only case I have seen recorded, but I had met with a similar one in my own practice some years before. The labour had been a protracted one, and in the early stage a large quantity of liquor amnii was discharged by the sudden rupture of the membranes. In this, as in the case referred to, the placenta was retained, and after waiting a full time for the expulsion, I passed my hand, and found a large bag of water, which puzzled me much, feeling assured from the diminished size of the uterus, that there could not be a second child; but on pursuing my object, I found the placenta closely adhering to the side of the