24 ADMINISTRATION OF DIURETICS. without any kind of discernmentand who are thus spoken of by Professor Cruveilhier, in his address to the Anatomical So- ciety, 1845 :—“ The true eclectic works without conviction, without principle, without idea. He is continually enlarging his circle, in order to enclose within it facts of the most contradictory nature ; they sacrifice in every sort to every god, and create a kind of scientific pantheism, not less fatal to true science, than pantheism, properly so called, is to true religion.” The great aim and object of medical science is to cure disease, and I, for one, am always glad to avail myself of the experience of practical men, in obscure and difficult cases, however lightly they may be esteemed by some ; I do not, therefore, subscribe to this sentiment. The practice of my old master, the late Mr. Dawe, of Bridg- water, who acquired considerable reputation from his treatment of dropsy and diseases resulting from slow inflammatory action, was very different. During my pupilage I have often seen pa- tients who consulted him, with bloated and livid countenances, oppressed breathing, aedematous extremities, and other symptoms of great obstructions, with greatly diminished secretion from the kidneys, so much relieved that they have continued well for many months together, and by the occasional repetition of the same treatment, have lived for years in comparative health. His plan was, to give a dose containing eight grains of calomel, with the same quantity of jalap, and one grain of emetic tartar in the morning. This acted violently on the stomach and bowels, and used, according to his own expression, u to ruffle his patient a good deal during and after its operation he directed a little wine or other cordial; afterwards the patient generally fell asleep, and awoke relieved. He then prescribed three grains of powdered squills, with two of digitalis, every night for six successive nights, and a mixture with bitter infusion, and small doses ot tincture of squills and spirit of nitre, twice a day. The digitalis was then omitted, and the other medicines continued for six nights more; and if the symptoms were not much relieved, the digitalis was resumed again. If the case was unusually ob-