30 TREATMENT OF PSORIASIS. arsenicalis, and baths of sulphuret of potash, none of which had the slightest effect; and the poor girl’s strength failed her so fast that I began to think the disease would destroy her, when fortu- nately I was induced to consult you, who advised my trying pitch, in the form of pills. I did so, giving her at the commence- ment ten moderate-sized pills three times a-day, and gradually increasing the dose until she took the enormous quantity of ninety pills every day; thirty at a dose. She had not taken the pills more than a week before there was a decided improvement apparent; and in six weeks or two months, she became quite free from every symptom of the disease, and has up to this time con- tinued quite well; and what is most extraordinary, there is not the slightest mark left on the skin. “ North Petherton, Aug. 6, 1840. “ My dear Sir,—I regret very much that I did not make notes of the case which I send you, at the time you attended this patient with me, as I am sure the beneficial effects of so simple a remedy cannot be too widely circulated. “ I remain, my dear Sir, “ Yours truly, “R STRONG. “To Jonathan Toogood, Esq., Bridgwater.” This is not a solitary case. I have witnessed the efficacy of this remedy frequently. I do not subscribe to the doctrine—that specifics alone cure diseases of the skin, having seen numerous cases of failure, in which constitutional treatment has subse- quently succeeded. The best mode of administering the medicine is in the form of pills, composed of three parts of pitch, to one of powdered resin.* In my correspondence with Dr. Willan, he says, in a letter dated July 27, 1810. “ The effect of this treatment is slow, although generally suc- * As a local application in cases of Tinea, and other scaly eruptions of the skin, I have prescribed for many years past an ointment, the basis of which is the white oxyd of mercury. It is a safe, elegant, and successful remedy, but requires much care in its preparation, and may be procured at Mr. Bucklee’s, Chymist, New Bond Street, London. It will be found an excellent remedy in that trou- blesome itching, affecting the anus, particularly in old people.