PREFACE. 11. that the old see afar, that they stand on the height of experience, as a warder on the crown of a tower; and the old must not forget, that if they see further than those who went before them, that they stand on their shoulders, and escape many disadvan- tages under which they laboured. The late Sir Charles Bell, in his address to the reader, in the second volume of his “ Operative Surgery,” says: “Ever since I became aware of the true means of improvement, it has been my study to seek the conversation of the elder members of the profession. In this search I may confidently say that I have found their conversation pregnant with information, and their practice safe, as well as bold, in the proportion of their acquain- tance with anatomy. The best Surgeons are for the most part the best men in a more extended sense; for humanity of disposi- tion does not merely insure careful study before the duties of the profession are undertaken, but stirs on to active and virtuous exertions through a whole life.” It is extremely difficult if not impossible, to impart the results of personal experience to others, although important observations may be expressed in writing, so as to render them useful in practice. The following case will better explain my meaning : I was desired to see a gentleman, who had complained only the day before, and who would not have consented to call in medical advice, had not his son, who accidentally visited him on that day, urged it. He did not appear, from the symptoms which presented themselves, to have any disease of a definite character, but complained of general indisposition, referring it chiefly to his bowels. I directed such means as suggested themselves to my mind, and as his son, who lived at a distance, intended to return in the evening, I visited him again early in the afternoon. Whilst at his bed side witli his family, something suddenly oc- curred, which impressed me unfavourably as to the result. I hardly know how to describe it properly ; it was not exactly a fainting, but seemed to be a sudden failing of the powers of life, with an alarming expression of countenance. It was so transient