PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 113 I was desired to visit her on the following day, when I found her suffering from almost constant sickness and vomiting, with considerable pain in the head. She was bled, and directed to take aperient and saline medicine. The next day (Wednesday) she was but little relieved; leeches and cold lotions were applied to the head, and aperient medicine was repeated, in spite of which the sickness and pain in the head continued much the same. On Thursday morning I found she had passed a very restless and sleepless night; and her husband imagined that she muttered or spoke indistinctly, or was unable to express what she wished, but of this he was not certain. The pulse, which had never exceeded ninety, was observed on this visit to be irregular, and the beat very unusual, sometimes being full and strong, and at others small and intermitting; there was, however, no heat of the head, or suffusion of the eyes; nothing particular could be remarked as to the state of the pupils ; there was no intolerance of light or sound, and the skin was quite natural. At this time she frequently yawned, and could not support the erect posture for any length of time. She was bled to the amount of twelve ounces, which lowered the pulse ; she became faint, and remained so for upwards of an hour, after which the pain was relieved, but the sickness continued. Friday; she slept very little during the night; complained but slightly of her head, the sickness and sen- sation of weakness and exhaustion being most felt; she frequently yawned and coughed, which terminated in sickness. Small doses of carbonate of ammonia, and a little wine, were given with arrowroot, at intervals during the day, and she retained more on her stomach than at any time since the attack, and by the even- ing all pain had entirely disappeared. At night she took three grains of carbonate of ammonia, with one of opium, which procured three hours’ sleep ; but the sickness and vomiting returned at intervals. On the whole, she had more sleep during that night and the next day than at any time since her illness; retained more food on her stomach, and no longer complained of pain, but still of great exhaustion and weakness. At nine she got out of bed, and walked alone into an adjoining room, whilst her bed was making. R