MILD MERCURIAL FRICTION. 51 distended, partly with fluid, and partly tympanitic. All hopes of cure had long since been abandoned, and he sought some miti- gation of his sufferings from large doses of opium. Ten grains of mercurial ointment were carefully and slowly rubbed into the thighs every night, and five drops of Fowler’s arsenical solution given three times a day. The good effects of this treatment were soon apparent; in ten days the abdomen was reduced in size five inches by measurement, and by a steady perseverance in this plan for six weeks, with a milk diet, all the wounds healed, the swelling of the abdomen completely subsided, the legs be- came straight, and he so perfectly recovered that he shortly afterwards married, and never had any return of his former symptoms. Case II.—A medical man was attacked \yith sore throat, which had resisted all the ordinary methods of cure, and affected his constitution considerably. It had continued many weeks when I was consulted, and he was suffering very much, with loss of appetite and sleep. He fancied he had swallowed a pin, which was still sticking in his throat, and keeping up the irritation. A careful inspection of the parts convinced me that the sore had all the characteristics of a venereal ulcer; but he was equally positive that it could not have arisen from such a cause, not having had the slightest symptom of the disease for fifteen years, since which time he had been married, and had several healthy children. He was, however, prevailed on to take small doses of oxymuriate of mercury in sarsaparilla, which at first appeared to do good, but after a short time the disease became worse. He consulted many friends, whose opinions were as various as the treatment recommended. As he got worse and worse every week, he undertook a journey to London, which he accomplished with difficulty by easy stages, his strength had be- come so much impaired. He consulted several surgeons of great eminence and experience, all of whom agreed in opinion as to the nature of the disease, although they differed in their mode of treatment. One ordered a regular course of mercury in the