SLOUGHING OF THE BLADDER, FROM RETENTION. 151 twenty-four hours. Nurses are sometimes deceived on this point, the bladder being partially evacuated only. I well re- member a case in which the patient was reported to have emp- tied the bladder regularly ; but from symptoms which occurred fourteen days after delivery, I suspected it was only partially effected, which was confirmed by the introduction of the cathe- ter, when a much larger quantity was drawn off than had been previously discharged at any one time since the delivery, and the operation was required twice a day for more than a week, before the bladder regained its power. In every doubtful case, ocular proof is safer than the report of the nurse. CASE OF TUMOR OF THE PELVIS. Some years since I was consulted by Mrs. Ash, of Catcott, on account of difficulty of making water, which had existed for three weeks. An attempt had been made to pass the catheter, and partial relief only had been obtained. She had strong pains recurring at short intervals, like those of labour, at each of which some urine was forced away. On laying my hand on the abdo- men, a large tumor, like the uterus imperfectly contracted after delivery, but more circumscribed, and harder, could be felt; and on passing my finger into the vagina, the tumor was also distinctly felt, occupying the whole of the pelvis, excepting a small space near the pubis, where the finger could be passed with difficulty. It was connected to the posterior part of the vagina by a firm membranous band, hard and unyielding, feeling much like a child’s head included in a thin uterus, and pressed firmly on the meatus urinarius and rectum. She had occasionally experienced some difficulty in making water, but never until now had reten- tion. She was obliged suddenly to get out of bed from an urgent desire to make water, without being able to pass any. These symptoms first appeared a year before, but had never become so troublesome as to demand attention. It appeared strange that a tumor should have attained so considerable a size, without pro- ducing greater inconvenience or pain. By bending the catheter