106 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. the tubercles. The operation was painful, but he did not suffer much afterwards, and there was no hemorrhage. A compress of lint, dipped in brandy and water, was applied ; he passed a good night, and complained next day only of wind oppressing the stomach. In the evening, he had much bearing down, and passed two or three ounces of coagulated blood with relief. On the third day, a dose of castor oil procured a proper evacuation, without procidentia or hemorrhage, and he got well without an untoward symptom. Case II.—I performed a similar operation on a lady for a disease of seven years standing. The gut descended after every evacuation, which was followed by a copious discharge of blood. A pendulous flap constantly remained down, which could never be returned; and whenever she had an evacuation, a larger por- tion protruded, with part of the internal lining of the intestine. I had some doubt whether the removal of the prolapsed part only would be sufficient to establish a cure, but it succeeded perfectly, without the recurrence of bleeding or protrusion. But all cases do not require such severe treatment. Many are much relieved, and some cured, by local applications and attention to the state of the bowels. Case III.—A gentleman who had long suffered from frequent copious bleedings from the bowels, was completely cured by the daily injection of half a pint of cold water into the rectum, night and morning, with cold sponging around the nates, and the con- stant use of a lotion composed of oak bark, infused in boiling lime water. His bowels were regulated by Ward’s paste, which is often found very useful in cases of this kind. Case IV.—I was called to a young lady who was suffering from hysteria to an unusual extent; she was a good deal emaciated, and the distress and anxiety of her countenance plainly indicated that some other cause existed for her complaints. I had a good deal of difficulty in arriving at the real state of the case, as she was living with an elder sister, and both were exceedingly shy in giving me information. At length I found she had been afflicted with piles for a long time, attended with great pain, and diffi-