LOSS OF BLOOD. 10 fetid evacuations with marked benefit. She became more sensible to external objects, but could not answer any question. At eight in the evening she had relapsed into a state of almost total insensibility, the head was very hot, particularly at the back part, the pupils contracted if the eyes were kept closed, but after they had been open some time, they were largely dilated, and she looked about with a vacant stare. The respiration was rather difficult and accompanied with stertor, the skin was warm but not hot, pulse 90 and tolerably firm, the speech inarticulate. She had passed two black stools, involuntarily. Sixteen ounces of blood were drawn from the temporal artery, after which she became somewhat sensible, put out her tongue when desired and answered questions sometimes correctly. Cataplasms were ap- plied to the feet, cold applications continued to the head, and the calomel and jalap repeated, followed by a purgative mixture. She was relieved and remained more sensible during the greater part of the following day, Tuesday, occasionally returning correct ans- wers. The bowels were imperfectly acted on, from the difficulty of giving and retaining medicine: but she was sensible when they were moved, always asking to be assisted. In the evening she became much worse, the insensibility was greater than before, she appeared more sunk, was roused with greater diffi- culty, and only by vociferating in the ear. The head was very hot, the pulse as in the morning, the respiration difficult, and frequently stertorous. Occasionally she attempted to get up in the bed. The most striking good effect was immediately pro- duced by bleeding that I ever witnessed. The temporal artery was opened, and before two ounces of blood were drawn she became more sensible; and when ten ounces had flowed she sat up in bed, answered every question rationally, took food and medicine by herself, and expressed great relief. The loss of blood produced temporary weakness, which soon went off. The local applications were continued, fifteen grains of jalap and five of scammony given, and a blister was placed on the nape of the neck. She passed a quiet night, and from this time her recovery