153 TUMOR OF THE PELVIS. through Mr. Palmer, of a case which has excited in my mind reflections that did not arise out of my own cases. An im- portant question is—what was this tumor? Was it, or was it not, ovarian f u We know that many of those that have occurred, as ob- structing parturition, were of that description, such as that of Dr. Merriman, to whom I feel obliged for the handsome men- tion he has made of my paper. The doctor has observed that I gave no opinion respecting the nature of my cases. In this he is correct. And why did I not do it ? It was because I had learned, more than twenty-five years ago, from a source that 1 did not feel at liberty to quote, that two cases had occurred in London, which terminated fatally, in both of which the tumors were found to be ovarian ; but from the same source I received an account of another, in which there were found no less than four tumors seated in the broad ligament. These could not be all ovarian, if any one of them was. Now, as I think that some were ovarian, and others not, and as all those on whom I operated recovered, I forbore from expressing any opinion ; but now I venture to express my belief, that the case of the far- mer’s wife in West Derby was fully as likely to be ovarian as of any other nature. In this case mere puncture could do no good; and it was not till I had nearly cut it in two that it enabled the head of the child to drop so much as to enable Mr. Myers to deliver with the perforator and crotchet. In this case, as in yours, this free incision laid the foundation for the dissolution of the tumor. u Now, whether yours was ovarian or not, I will venture to ask whether there would be any more danger in making such an incision per vaginam into an enlarged ovarium, than into a tumor of any other description, or any less room to hope for equal success in getting rid of the disease; and therefore whe- ther, in many cases of incipient ovarian diseases, it might not put a stop to the further progress of an affection which, if suf- fered to proceed, proves, almost invariably, fatal ? As I have not seen your case in print, I conceive it has not yet appeared x