59 INJURY OF THE HEAD. to have his head supported ; and, it is worthy of remark, that every time he got up, a few drops of blood fell from his nose; he took neutral salts, and other febrifuges, which acted properly, and strict antiphlogistic regimen was observed. The pulse was 90, and small; the intellect unimpaired, and he gave signs that his memory was strong as ever ; conversed rationally, and with his accustomed cheerfulness. On Sunday, his friends were all con- vinced of his amendment; his head was still more relieved, and the bowels open. In the evening, however, his face became flushed, and the pulse fuller and harder. Thirty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which sunk the pulse, and greatly relieved him. In compliance with his urgent solicitation, a blister was applied to the nape of the neck.” On Monday I visited him again, at 9 a.m. He had passed a quiet night ; got out of bed twice without assistance ; was very tranquil, but had not been sensible at times. He complained a little of his head; the pupils were natural, and contracted very readily ; pulse regular, but frequent; respiration and skin natural. He felt weak, and mentioned a tingling sensation and numbness of the left arm, which came on at three in the morning. He was perfectly sensible, and not only related all the circum- stances of the accident, but referred to a former one which occurred some years before. On minutely examining the head, he shrunk on pressure being made on the temporal muscle of the right side, and on increasing the pressure, he immediately had a violent epileptic fit, from which he soon recovered, and became as sensible as before, continuing to relate the history of his former accident, taking it up at the point he had left it on the occurrence of the fit. Another trial was made, by pressing very firmly on the same spot, which did not, however, produce a simi- lar effect, although he shrunk from it, as if it gave pain. At 11 o’clock he had another fit. At 12, he expressed himself as feeling much better, raised his head from the pillow and shook it, saying that he felt no pain, but only a weight on his fore- head ; he complained still of the numbness and tingling of the left arm and hand. At one, he had another severe fit, and as