LOSS OF BLOOD. 11 remarks on the effects of the loss of blood, read some years before, happily led to the abandonment of this measure. For- tunately, both for my patient and myself, her repugnance to general bleeding prevented me from using the lancet, and so saved her life. I prescribed leeches to the temples, a blister to the nape of the neck, and a cold lotion to the head; opiates and the effervescing medicines were immediately rejected. She became much better, and earnestly requested to be allowed a little brandy, which I gave her; it obviously afforded much relief, and I began to see clearly the nature of the case. From this time light cordials, a mild diet, rest, quietude, a strict attention to the state of the bowels, constituted the treatment, which was followed by a gradual and progressive amendment. Some of the symp- toms remained, however, for a considerable time. The pain in the head continued troublesome for many weeks, and a pulsatory movement in the side of the neck harassed the patient for several years. In this case the effects of the loss of blood stole on me almost imperceptibly, and I was not then aware that such symptoms, as experience has since taught me, would arise. It has also made me ever since attend very much to the pre- judices of a patient, and carefully examine whether they be well founded. In this instance I really believe my yielding to them saved the life of my patient. I watched this case with the most intense solicitude, during this period of imminent danger, for many days and nights. Her complete recovery rewarded all my pains; and I had, moreover, the satisfaction of finding that not a vestige of the original disease remained. She soon became pregnant, and bore several children afterwards. Some years after I was called to visit her, at a distance of one hundred and fifty miles, and found her in a sinking state, having been attacked with acute pain in the abdo- men, for which she had been copiously and repeatedly bled, and she sunk under the disease and remedies. Case II.—Dr. Cole, aged 34, became affected with inflamma- tion of the larynx. Having previously suffered from the same disease whilst employed on the staff in the Peninsula, he was