LOSS OF BLOOD. 15 getting worse, he walked upwards of a mile to my house, on Saturday, the 26th. His countenance denoted great anxiety; his skin was hot and dry ; respiration hurried and difficult, with pain in the right side of the chest; increased by deep inspiration, which occasioned cough. The pulse 100, full and jarring. He was bled to fifteen ounces. Ten grains of calomel, with an equal quantity of jalap, were given, and immediately afterwards some sudorific medicine. Sunday. Has passed a bad night; the bowels have been copiously evacuated, but there is little change in the symptoms. Thirty-two ounces of blood were drawn, a large blister applied to the chest; and he was directed to take calomel and antimony every three hours. At six in the evening he was not at all relieved. Twenty-eight ounces of blood were taken, which reduced the pulse from 100 to 88, and produced great perspira- tion, but no faintness. Monday.— Eight, a.m. Has passed a restless night, without any abatement of the symptoms; the breathing is more difficult, the pulse 100, full and tense. He was bled to forty ounces, in an erect posture, which reduced the pulse, and produced copious perspiration, with slight loss of sight, but no faintness. The calomel and antimony were continued, with fifteen drops of tincture of digitalis in saline mixture, every four hours. At one o’clock he was much in the same state; his breathing was short and difficult, with troublesome cough, bloody expectoration, and a strong, full pulse. At six in the evening, there was much difficulty of breathing, with considerable pain, and a full pulse of 100. Fifteen ounces of blood were abstracted with great advantage; the pulse fell to 80, and the violence of the symp- toms abated. Another large blister was applied to the chest. Monday Evening. Has passed a quiet day, and is in every respect better. Tuesday. He continued nearly in the same state during this day. Wednesday. Has passed a sleepless night, and is very hot and feverish, with hurried, difficult, and painful respiration,