RECOVERY FROM TAKING LAUDANUM. 45 But a very small dose will sometimes produce fatal conse- quences. I remember an instance in which twelve drops of Battley’s sedative were given at bed-time, and the patient never awoke afterwards. She was a feeble woman, about fifty-five, and had been suffering from a cold and cough for some days. She took the draught at nine o’clock, and an hour or two after- wards a glass of almond emulsion, with a small quantity of compound tincture of camphor. At noon the next day she was found in a profound sleep, from which she could not be roused, perspiring profusely, and with a ghastly countenance. She died at two o’clock p.m. It was ascertained most clearly that no mis- take had happened in preparing the medicine. The stomach was cautiously removed, and its contents analysed with the greatest care and accuracy by a celebrated chemist, in the habit of con- ducting such examinations, perfectly unacquainted with the history of the case, but nothing of a deleterious nature could be detected. The suspected cause of death was then explained, when a second examination was made, but no trace of opium could be discovered. Two berries were found in the stomach, the nature of which was not known. Another case occurred in my practice in a lady of eighty, who had been suffering from cough, for the relief of which she had for some time been taking at night small doses of poppy syrup, and occasionally a little compound tincture of camphor, but not having either of these medicines by her, her servant gave her a draught containing seven drops of the solution of acetate of morphia, which a relation in the same house, who was in a con- sumption, was in the habit of taking. I was summoned to her the next morning, and found her in a deep sleep, from which she could not be roused, and covered with a profuse clammy per- spiration, and she died in a few hours. It is probable that these fatal consequences may have resulted from some peculiar idiosyncrasy in the constitution, but I am not aware of any mode of discovering it beforehand.