134 THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. the cause of which could not be correctly ascertained, an ex- amination being refused, but which was suspected to be internal flooding, or rupture of the uterus. In one case the uterus was ruptured from turning, from violent and sudden action. The woman was delivered, and died a few hours afterwards. Ilnpture of the uterus, in my opinion, happens much more frequently than is imagined or admitted ; and many deaths which occur soon after delivery, and are not accounted for, may with truth be attributed to this cause. Ten cases have come within my knowledge, two of which were in my own practice. One is mentioned above; the other was so unusual, and, from peculiar circumstances, so interesting, that I will detail it :— The patient was a strong, healthy woman, about thirty; it was her sixth labour, some of which had been very lingering, and on two or three occasions she had been exposed to con- siderable hemorrhage, from imperfect contraction of the uterus after delivery. The membranes ruptured early in the morning, but no pains came on until the middle of the third day, when they continued regularly for three hours, by which time the uterus was largely dilated; the t head had made considerable advance, and there was every reason to believe that the child would soon be born. The pains, however, gradually ceased, and for one hour and a half were entirely suspended, when she suddenly complained of excruciating pains in her legs, and soon after of the belly, and violent forcing in the passage. From the toes to the knees the lower extremities were cold and somewhat livid ; the pulse was very small, quick, and depressed ; there was no vomiting, or collapse of the countenance, usually attend- ant on such cases. As the child remained in the same position, I did not suspect the dreadful mischief which had taken place, particularly as the circulation and warmth returned after admin- istering a slight cordial. But she had no labour pains, and still complained bitterly of forcing and violent pains in the abdomen and chest, which she described as bursting. About two hours after, the breathing suddenly became oppressed, the pulse sank,