DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 71 front of the thigh, and the os femoris occupied the upper part of the calf of the leg, the internal condyle being nearly through the skin. It was a complete dislocation, and the appearance of the limb was so dreadful, that I despaired of being able to re- duce it; but to my surprise it was more readily effected than I imagined. By placing two men at the thigh, whilst I extended the leg, the reduction was immediately effected. The whole limb was placed in splints, and the strictest antiphlogistic treat- ment observed, with the most perfect quiet. The symptoms were very mild, and, by carefully watching him, he suffered very little inflammation or pain. At the expiration of a month, I allowed him to get up, and on the 29th of January he came a distance of four miles, in a cart, and walked from an inn to my house, with his leg but little swollen, and having some motion of the joint. He eventually recovered very good use of his limb, and walks with so little inconvenience, that he has followed his business as a waggoner ever since, and I have seen him walking by the side of his team with very little lameness. The successful issue of this case clearly proves u that in dis- locations of the tibia forwards, or of the femur backwards, the injury to the ligaments and other soft parts about the knee-joint, is not necessarily such as to render the recovery of the limb in a perfectly useful state a forlorn hope, as has been represented by writers of high authority, some of whom have almost re- garded amputation as prima facie necessary to save the life of a patient.” I may mention here, although not in connexion with the sub- ject, that during a visit at Glasgow in 1845, Dr. Laurie showed me a remarkable case of a patient with a large collection of ah in the knee-joint, and on enquiring the result some time after- wards, he kindly favoured me with the following account :— u Glasgow, Nov. 8, 1845. u My dear Sir,—The poor lad with air in his knee-joint be- came so much worse, that amputation gave him the only chance of recovery ; but to that he would not submit. He returned into the country, and died a week or two ago. I have no doubt