PHYSICAL DEVELQPEMENT OF YOUNG FEMALES. 115 years she had been gradually getting out of health again ; her countenance had become very pale, she was extremely dull and inactive, was easily fatigued, and suffered from palpitation of the heart, and many other symptoms before described. In the early part of the month of September she went to bed as well as usual, and her mistress, on hearing a noise about an hour afterwards, went into her room, and found her stretched on the floor in a state of insensibility. Medical assistance was obtained, but nothing more was done than administering a stimulant. On the following morning, having recovered her senses, she stated that she remem- bered having felt a rushing in her head, and getting out of bed, but nothing more. She complained of pain and heaviness in the head; was bled, and took some medicine, and remained in bed about a week. Soon after this she again became worse, and on the 3rd of October she was observed to be more pallid than ever. On the evening of that day she went to the adjoining house on an errand, and fell down in the passage, where she remained for two hours, quite insensible, before she could be brought into her own house. She cut her head in the fall. On the following morning she recovered her senses, but had no recollection of the past. On her admission into the Infirmary on Sunday, she walked up the stairs without assistance, and described herself, for the next two days, as being better. She was up part of Tuesday, walked about the ward, took her meals well, and was observed to be very cheerful. She went to bed at the usual hour, and on waking between six and seven in the morning, expressed herself to the other patients as being much better. About seven o’clock she was found dead by the nurse, the patient in the adjoining bed not being aware of her death. Nothing more could be ascertained, on minute inquiry, than that she had occasionally been heard to breathe hard and moan during the night. The head was carefully examined a few hours after, when between two and three ounces of coagulated blood were discovered in the ventricles of the brain. On reviewing all the symptoms, my opinion was, that the fall would not have been attended with such serious consequences, if her general health had not