37 CASE OF EPILEPSY. possible, unobserved. He could not be left alone, and his mother, who devoted herself to him, remained in his room until between one and two o’clock in the morning, after which time he used to tell her that she might then go, for that he should not be ill; nor was he. But he always felt confident on horseback, and used occasionally to follow hounds, accompanied by a servant. He was often in a highly nervous state at night, and could get no sleep until a late hour, alleging, as a reason, that he was dis- tressed because he could not remember where he had left his hat or some of his tools, or should not be able to recollect what shoes he was to put on in the morning. The first decided improvement took place after a journey he voluntarily made to the Lakes, alone ; and he continued rambling about the country, for some months, since which time he has tra- velled a great deal, and undertaken long continental excursions, without apprehension. I may add, in proof of the great ten- dency of these affections to return, that he lately experienced very uneasy sensations, on hearing an account of a person falling in a fit. ON CYNANCHE LABYNGEA. Cynanche laryngea sometimes is ushered in by an attack of common sore throat, and sometimes the two diseases are co- existent. Mrs. Burt, aged sixty-four, was seized with shivering, after exposure to cold, on Saturday morning, followed by fever and sore throat. The uvula and both tonsils were much inflamed and ulcerated; and in this state she continued to suffer much inconvenience until the following Wednesday morning, when she was so much relieved, as not to require further attention. Her son being under my care at the time, I saw her at ten o’clock the same evening, when she declared herself free from all com- plaint, and told me that she had been sitting up at work the greater part of the day, and at that moment was preparing to assist in taking her son out of bed, and making it for the night. On visiting him the following morning, I was alarmed by hearing