BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF. 155 tongue, tlie wliole to be cut out with a round cutter about the size of half-a-crown piece; ornament the centre of the surface of the beef with fillets of rabbits contises Avitli tongue and truffle, turned round into the shape of palm leaves, and simmered in a little fresh butter for the purpose; at each corner insert a silver skewer garnished with a large cock’s-comb, a decorated quenelle, and a thick scollop of red tongue; place a border of decorated quenelles and large crayfish round the edge of the dish, and send to table. 546. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA d’ORLEANS. Pbepaee, braize, and trim the beef as in the foregoing case, thoroughly absorb the oily matter from the surface of the fat, and cover it ad over with the fodowdng preparation;— Take two dozen very green pickled gherkins, chop them very fine and put them into a smad stewpan; stir them over a quick fire tdl their moisture be entirely absorbed by the heat, tlien take the stewpan ofi* the fire, and after adowing the contents to cool, add the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix wed together, and use as paste, as directed, for the purpose of covering the entire sml’ace of the beef with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick ; smooth it over with the blade of a knife dipped in hot w^ater; decorate the centre and ends of the rod of beef with carrots and turnips. Trench-beans and asparagus-heads, cut and prepared for the purpose, in fancy designs, by placing, for instance, young carrots and turnips cut in the shape of a crescent, alternately side by side so as to form a circle, and in its centre a group of heads of asparagus boded green, and again round this a border of large marrow-fiit peas boded green; at each end place a row of smad carrots and turnips in the shape of smad odves, whde round the rod of beef thus decorated pour a wed-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29), garnish round with a border of potato croquettes fried of a light colour (made in the form of pears, -with a stalk of parsley stuck in the point, to resemble the stalk of a pear) ; glaze the decoration of vegetables sdghtly with a paste-brush dipped in some thin glaze, so as not to disturb the order of their arrangement, and send to table. 547. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA MILAKAISE. Bone and trim about twenty pounds of the prime cut from the centre of a wed-covered sirloin of beef; daule the under and upper fidets with ham, season with a dttle chopped green thyme and winter- savory, mignionette, pepper and salt; rod the beef up tight, and secm-e its shape with string, place it with the trimmings and usual accessories recommended in the foregoing cases, in a braizing pan; moisten witli a bottle of red ’vine and two glasses of brandy, and set the whole to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about tw’euty minutes; then add a sufficient quantity of good stock, to reach rather better than had' way up the beef; place thereon a w’ed-buttered paper, cover with the dd of the pan, and set the whole to braize gently for about five hours— taking care frequently to baste the beef with its dquor. "When the_ beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it— first straining off the braize, and divesting it of every particle of grease ; then clarify, and afterwards reduce it to the consistency of thin glaze, to which add half a pot of red currant jelly, a glass or two of Mfflaga or fine old Madeira. Dish up the roll of beef pour this sauce over it, at each