479 THE SERVICE OF WINES. A question of the highest importance, but into which I may but brieflv enter, is to determine to which of all these wines a decided preference should be given, both with regard to taste, and also in respect to their influence on the health of difi’erent temperaments. It is easier to settle the latter part of the question than the former, inasmuch as it is difficult, not to say impossible, to lay down rules for the guidance of the palate. Thus there are some who delight in the perfumed yet austere bouquet of Bordeaux, while others prefer the delicate fragrance of Champagne; some give the palm to the generous and mirth-inspiring powers of Burgundy; while the million deem that Madeira (when genuine), Port, and Sherry, from what are termed their generous nattires, ignoring the plentiful admixture of alcohol, are the only wines worthy of notice. All these tastes are no doubt well enough founded on good and suffi- cient reasons, and may prove safe indicators for the preservation of health;—for instance, a person of sanguine temperament feels a necessity for a light sapid wine, such as genuine Champagnes and Ehenish wines; while the phlegmatic seek those of a more spirit- uous, generous nature—Burgundy, Port, Madeira, or Sherry. Those who are a prey to spleen—lowness of spirits—melancholy—are prone to select, as a sure and pleasant remedy for their frightful ailments, the wines of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Eoussillon, and Burgundy. The bilious, who generally are blessed with a good appetite, provided always that they do not smoke, require a generous wine, which, while capable of acting both as an astringent and a dissolvent of the bile, is of facile digestion; such are the properties of all first- class Bordeaux wines. Bordeaux is said to be a cold wine; this false notion arises out of mere prejudice—nothing can be more contrary to truth : this health-restoring wine, as I have already stated, is of easy digestion, and possesses, moreover, the advantage of being very considerably less inebriating than any other first-class wine. In short. Burgundy is exciting, Champagne is captious, Eoussillon restorative, and Bordeaux stomachic. It now remains to show the order in which the several sorts of wines, enumerated above, should be served at table. Custom and fashion have ever had more to do with this practice than any real consideration for health or taste. It is generally admitted by real gourmets, that red wines should precede the introduction of white wines,—those recommended as proper accompaniments to oysters and fish excepted. The custom most in vogue at the best tables in London and Paris is, to com- mence by introducing, simultaneously Avith the entrees, any of tho following Burgundy wines :—Avallon, Coulanges, Tonnerre, Ver- manton, Iraney, Mercurey, Chassagne, and, generally, all those wines known under the specific names of Macon and Auxerre : these may bo vaiied or replaced by other wines, denominated Saint Denis, Saint Ay, and Beaugency; these again lead to the further libations of Beaune, Pommard, Volnay, Eichebourg, Chambertin, Saint Georges, Eomanee. With the second course, roasts and dressed vegetables, and savoury entremets, honour your guests by graciously