24i2 FORCE-MEAT CHARTKEUSES. Then smootli tlie ca^-ity witTi a spoon dipped in liot water, and fill it to within an inch of its surface with a thickly-garmshed ragout d la Toulouse cold (No, 187). Cover in the top with force-meat, leaving the piece of paper on, and keep the chartreuse in a cool place till wdthin tAvo hours of dinner-time. It should then be put to steam in a deep stewpan, containing sufficient water to reach nearly half way up tlie mould. The Avater must be kept continually boihng by the side of a sIoav fire, and the steAvpan covered Avith its lid cc^taiuing li\^e embers of charcoal. When the chartreuse is done, turn it out of the mould carefully into its dish; cover the top with a border of button-mushrooms, placed near the edge, and in the centre put a star, formed Avith eight ver}- small fillets of foAvl, decorated Avith black truffles (previously turned in the form of a crescent, on a buttered sautapan, covered Avith very thin layers of fat bacon, and gently simmered in the oven for three minutes) ; garnish the base of the chartreuse Avith some thin Toulouse ragout, glaze the sides lightly, and serve. 791. CHARTREUSE, A LA BELLE-VUE. Btjttee smoothly the iurfide of a plaiu cybnder mould, and dispose rovmd the bottom and sides a l)old decoration, formed with black trut- fles and red tongue; after which carefuUy fill up the interior of the moxild Avith some very delicate que- nelle force-meat, prepared from the, fillets of three partridges. About an hour before dinner-time, the chartreuse must be put on to steam, as in the foregoing case; when done, turn it out on to its dish 5 fill the centre with a ragout of scol- lops of fillets of partridges, with the addition of some prepared truffles, cocks’-combs, and kernels in a rich Madeira sauce (No. 8) ; glaze the chartreuse, and serve. 792. CHARTREUSE, A LA CARDINAL. First, trim the fiUets of three pairs of soles, and contises them with scollops of the outside part of lobster-tads. Prepare some lobster quenelle force-meat (No. 2I6), in Avhich mix the fillets of tAVO Avhit- iugs. Then, butter the inside of a plain charlotte-moxdd, and dispose therein the prepared fiUets of soles, as represented in the annexed illus- tration ; next, lino the bottom and sides of the chartreuse with some of the lobster force-meat, in the same Avay as directed for the chartreuse a la Parisienne; fill the cavity with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), the sauce of which must be kept stiff, and used cold for this purpose ; cover in the top with a layer of force-meat, and steam the chartreuse for one