292 ENTKEES OF VEXISON. until they become somewhat firm to the touch; they must not, how- ever, be kept in the water longer than will sufiice to set the pre- paration. The puddings when taken out of the water, should be huug up in the larder to cool. 956 BLACK-rUDDIXGS, A l’ANGLAISE. Tue chief diflerence from the foregomg, in making black-puddings according to tbe English method, lies in the omission of the nutmeg, bay-leaf and thyme, and in the addition of boiled Emden grits or I’ice; in all other respects, the same directions must be followed. "Wlien about to dress the black-puddings, they should be scored all over to prevent them from bimstiug while being broiled, and when done, are to be dished up with stripes of dry toast jfiaced between each piece of pudding: the centre of the disli should be filled Avith mashed potatoes to keep them quite hot. 957. WHITE-PUDDINGS, A LA ROYALE. To half a pound of the breast of roast fowl thoroughly poimded and passed into a puree, add half a pint of boiled double cream, half a pound of fresh made and very fine bread-crumbs, one onion chopped fine, and boiled down in some white broth, and foim oimces of butter and eight yolks of eggs; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; mix well together, put this preparation into the linings, and finish them in the same manner as the black-puddings. When about to send to table, score the puddings before they are broiled, and place them on the gridiron upon a sheet of oiled paper; when nicely broiled, serve them dished up with either of the following sauces: Supreme, Richelieu, Poixn'ade, essence of shalots, of truffles, or of mushroom. EXTKEES OF YEXISOX, COJIPRISINti Haricot of Venison. Civet of Venison. Venison Scollops. Venison Chops. Venison Fry. Cutlets of Roebuck, d la Chasseur. Fillets of Roebuck, d la Kinnaird, ,, with Poivrade sauce. Civet of Roebuck. 958. HARICOT OF VENISON. Trim a neck of venison into cutlets 'without pariug off' any of the fat, season them -with pepper and salt, and fry them quickly broA'm on both sides before they are more than half done; then pour off aU the trrease, shake a handful of flour over the cutlets, and toss them about over the fire for three mmutes, moisten "with a pmt of red wine and a quart of good stock; add half a pint of small button-onions, and twice that quantity of turnips and carrots, cut into small fanciful shapes of the size of the onions, and a garnished faggot of parsley; stir the haricot over the stove-fire with a wooden spoon imtil it boils, and then remove it to the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for about an hour and a half; when, if the cutlets are found to be