iH ENGLISH SOUPS. to the giblets, and put the soup in the larder till dinner-time; when, having allowed the giblets to boil in the sauce a few minutes, add a little lemon-juice, and send to table. 353. CLEAR GIBLET SOUP A L’IRLANDAISE. Prepare the giblet broth in every respect as directed for making tlie foregoing soup, trim and put the giblets away in a soup-pot, skim off every particle of fat from the surface of the broth, and clarity it by incorporating therewith tlie whites of three eggs whipped up with a little cold water; set the consomme thus prepared on tlie stove to boil, then add to it half a bottle of sherry, and as soon as it boils up again, place it by the side of the stove, tliere gently to simmer for twenty minutes, in order to set the eggs. Then strain the consomme through a napkin on to the giblets, reseiwing one quart of it in a stevsq)an, in which boil the white parts of three heads of celery, and four lai'ge leeks, cut into inch lengths, and shred as for julienne soup, adding this to the giblet’s; ascertain tliat the seasoning be palatable, and send up to table. 354. OX-TAIL SOUP. Procure two fresh ox-tails, cut each joint, after dividing them, into inch lengths with a small meat saw, steep them in water for two hours, and then place them in a stewpan with three can-ots, three turnips, three onions, and two heads of celery, four cloves and a blade of mace. Fill up the stewqian with broth from the boiling stockpot; boil this by the side of the stove-fire till done, drain the pieces of ox-tail on a large sieve, allow them to cool, trim them neatly, and place tliem in a soup-pot. Clarify the broth the ox-tails were boiled in, strain it through a napldn into a basin, and then pom’ it into the soup-pot containing the trimmed pieces of ox-tails, and also some small olive-shaped pieces of carrot and turnip that have been boiled in a little of the broth, and a small lump of sugar; add a pinch of minionette pepper, and previously to sending the soup to table let it boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for a few minutes. This soup may be served also in various other ways, by adding thereto a vure'e of any sort of vegetables; such, for instance, as a puree oi peas, carrots, turnips, celery, or lentils. 355. CALF’S-EEET SOUP A LA iVINDSOR. Place in a two-gallon stockpot a knuckle of veal, a pound of raw lean ham, two calf’s feet, and an old hen minus the fillets; which reserve for maldng quenelles witli, for further use. To these add two caiTots, two onions stuck with four cloves, celery, a bouquet of parsley, green onions, sweet basil, and lemon-thyme, tied neatly together, moisten with half a bottle oi light French white wine, and put the stockpot on a moderate fire to boil for ten minutes or so; then fill it up from the couLmon stock, or any white broth you may have ready, set it to boil on the stove, skim it well, and after lour hours’ gentle ebullition, take the calf’s feet out and put them in water to clean them; then take all the bones out, and lay them on a dish to cool, to be trimmed afterwards so as to leave tire inner part of the feet only, all the outer skin being thinly pared off', that the feet may