280 THROA.T SWEETBREADS. crumb one-balf with two coatings of bread-crumbs, bj dipping them the first time in beaten egg, and the second in clarified butter; place these in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, and prepare the other half separately in a similar manner, -without bread-crumbing them ; both must be seasoned with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry the bread-crumbed scollops of a light colour, but the others should be merely simmered over a slow fire, in order to keep them as white as possible j glaze the former and toss the latter in a little Bichamel sauce, dish them up, alternately placing a bread- crumbed scollop with a white one ; fill the centre with the small scollops of tongue, &c., previously warmed in a little Becharml sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 908. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, WITH SHALOT GRAVY. Beead-cbtjmb the whole of the scollops, as directed in the foregoing case, fry them of a light colour, drain them on a piece of paper, and glaze; dish them up in a close circle, pour some rich shalot gravy (No. 167) under them and serve. 909. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA DAUPHINE. Cut the sweetbreads into oval scollops, place them in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, season "with pepper and salt, a little nut- meg and some chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and simmer them gently over the fire for ten minutes; they must then be removed into a dish, and when partially cold, covered ■with a thin coating of puree of fowl, mixed with an equal proportion of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firndy set by cooling, dip them in beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. Twenty minutes before sendiug to table, let them be carefully fried in plenty of hog’s-lard, made hot for the purpose ; drain them on a napkin to absorb all the grease, dish them up in a close circle, pour some purie of mushrooms (No. 122) in the centre, and serve. 910. SCOLLOPS OF St\T:ETBREADS, A LA D’UXELLES. These are prepared in almost every particular just as the foregoing, except that Uxelles sauce (No. 16) must be substituted for the purie to mask the scollop with. After having simmered, let tliem be masked with the sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed; then fried, dished up and served with either of the foUnwing sauces :—Brown or ■white Italian, Foivrade, halt* glaze, scollops of mushrooms or truffles, picree of truffles, plain gravy, ox puree of mushrooms. 911. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA MARECHALE. These must be seasoned with a little pepper and salt, masked over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and afterwards bread- crumbed upon this ; they should then be placed in circular order in a sautapan -with some clarified butter, and fried of a bright-yeUow coloiu’. Wlien done, dish them up in close order, and let the centre be filled 'with Toulouse ragout (No. 187). 912. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA SOUBISE. Peepaee and dish up these, as the foregoing ; fill the centre with Souhise sauce (No. 119), and serve