151 SKATE—^WHITEBAIT. 534, SKATE WITH FINE-HERBS, AU GRATIN. Butter a baking-dish or sautapan, and after first turning the pieces of skate round, lay them neatly in the dish, strew over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and a very little shalot; season with pepper and salt, and moisten -ndth two glasses of sherry and a spoonfid ofi consommi; then shake some fine browned bread-crumbs or rasp- ings over the whole, and set it in the oven to bake; when done, place the pieces of skate on the dish, in the same position which they occu- pied on the baking-dish; reduce the liquor they have been baked in, and add it to some Espagnole or brown Italian sauce, mix therewith a small piece of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon-juice; pour the sauce round the fish; shake some fresh raspings over the whole, and then set the dish (if it be silver) on the stove to gratinate or consolidate the sauce and fish for a minute or two ; pass the red- hot salamander over it, and send to table. 535. CRIMPED SKATE, A LA PASCALINE. Turn the pieces of skate round in the usual manner, boil, drain, and dish them up ; then pour over the fish a weU-seasoned sauce d la Pascaline (No. 15) made rather piquante; garnish round with glazed croutons of fried bread, on which should be placed a neatly-trimmed piece of the liver, and send to table. 536. SKATE, A LA ROYALE. Boil the skate till it is half done, drain it, and after alloiving it to cool, cut it into pieces about two inches long, place these in a basin and marinade them in oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Twenty minutes before dinner, drain the pieces of skate on a napkin, and then having first dipped each piece separately in some frying batter prepared for the purpose, fry them of a fine colour in plenty of hogs’-lard, heated for the purpose ; dish the skate up in a pyramidal form, sauce round with Ravigotte or Poivrade sauce, garnish the dish with alternate groups of fried parsley and pieces of the liver, and serve. 537. WHITEBAIT, This very delicious fish is in season during the months of June, Jidy, and August: it is then eaten in the greatest perfection at Greenwich and Blackwall. Owing to the extreme delicacy of this fish, and its very fragile nature, it cannot be conveyed any distance during the season, without injuring its quality, neither can it be kept many hours after it has been taken. The following is the best method of preparing whitebait for the table: Drain the fish on a clean napkin, thoroughly absorbing aU the water ; then roll them in flour, and afterwards drop them into some heated fiying fat: as soon as they become crisp, drain them on a sieve, and after drying them for a minute or two before the fire, sprinkle on them a little salt, dish them on a napkin, and send to table accom- panied by plates of white and brown bread and butter, and quarters of lemon,—to be handed round, with cayenne pepper. 538. SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. Open a sufficient quantity of oysters for the purpose, and put them