EXTREES or BEEF. 251 nud tlie juice of lialf a lemon; boil these ingredients down to one- third of thoir original quantity, add enougli Espajnole sauce for tho entree, and mix the preparation ivith the minced beef; dish this up in a conical form, shake some light-coloured raspings of bread-crust over it; place a border round the base, consisting of six poached eggs, the same number of oval scollops of red tongue, and oval croutons fried in butter of a light colour and glazed. Pour some of the sauce reserved for the purpose round the base, and serve. 811. HASHED BEEF, PLAIX. Slice the beef up in very thin pieces, season with pepper and salt, and shake a little flour over it. Next, chop a middle-sized onion, and put it into a steivpan with a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, and an equal quantity of mushroom-catsup ; bod tliese together for two ininutes, and then add half a pint of broth or gravy; bod this down to half its quantity, throw in the beef, set the hash to boil on the stove- fire for five minutes longer, and then serve with sippets of toasted bread roimd it when dished up. 812. HASHED BEEF AXD BROILED BOXES. Slice the beef up as in the foregoing case, and set it aside on a plate. Cut the bones nito pieces about two inches long or square, having a little meat left on them ; score them ad over by making deep incisions across them, season with plenty of pepper, and a little salt, and put them on a plate. Slice two onions and fry them brown, then add enough brown sauce for the hash, or if there be none ready, shake a table-spoonful of floiu over the onions, stir this over the fire for a minute, then add half a pint of good broth or gravy and a table- spoonfid of mushroom-catsup; stir the whole on the fire until reduced to two-thirds of the original quantity, and then rub it through a tammy into a purie; mis this with the sliced beef, make the hash quite hot, dish it up with the broiled bones (glazed) round it, and serve. 813. SLICES OF BRAIZED BEEF, A LA CLAREMONT. This entr6e with its undermentioned varieties may be served, when it happens that any braized beef remains from a previous day’s dinner. Tlie beef must be cut in rather thin round, or oval slices, placed in a sautapan in neat order, and warmed wdth a gravy-spoonful of good stock; these must then be dished up in a circle—overlapping each other closely—pour some Claremont sauce (No. 58) over them, and serve. Note.—Slices of braized beef warmed and dished up, as in the fore- going case, may be greatly varied by being afterwards garnished with macaroni prepared with grated cheese, a little glaze and tomata sauce, also with all sharp sauces, with purges of vegetables, and with vege- table garnishes. 814. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Cut some slices (not too thin) of cold boiled round, or edge-bone, of salt beef; trim them neatly, as also an equal number of pieces of the white fat of the beef, and set them aside on a plate. Boil two