119 T E 0 U T, COMl’RISINO Trout u rItalieii’iie. ,, a la Gasconne. „ a la Chevaliere. Trout d. VAurore. „ d la Ph'igueux. ,, in paper cases, with fine herbs. „ d la Vei'fpr^. „ au gralin. „ d la Regale. „ broiled, with Dutch sauce. 423. TROUT A L’lTALTENNE. Boil tlie trout in salt and water, divest it of the skin, glaze and place it on a dish; then mask it with some Italian sauce in which has been mixed a pat of anchovy butter, a very little nutmeg, and lemon-juice. Garnish with crayfish and quenelles of whitin*g. Boil and dish up the trout as directed in tlie foregoing instance, and pour round it some of the sauce denominated a la Gasconne (No. 68). Garnish with fillets of soles prepared as pauqnktes (for which see No. 1131), and between each paupiette place a group of crayfish tails that have been tossed in a little glaze, and some poimded lobster-coral. Boil, skin, and trim one or more trout, and cover them all over witli some D'Uxelles or Papillotte sauce: when the sauce, by getting cold, has become set on the trout, roll them in very fine bread- crumbs, and afterwards egg them over and roll them again in the bread-emmbs, in which Parmesan cheese has been mixed in the pro- portion of one-third; place the trout on a buttered baking-sheet, and about half an horn’ before dinner, first sprinlde them over with a little melted fresh butter, and then put them in the oven to be baked of a fine light brown colour. Dish them up and sauce round with the following ragout:—Eeduce half a bottle of dry Champagne or Sauteme, with some essence of mushrooms, down to one-fourth part, then add a ladleful of Allemande sauce, incoiporate with it a pat of anchovy butter, a little lobster-coral, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon- juice ; sauce the trout round, and garnish with a border of small fiUets of soles that have been contises, one-half with truffles, and the remainder with tongue, and then turned round in the shape of half- moons, and simmered in a little butter, salt, and lemon-juice. In the inner circle, place small groups of prawns’ tails tossed in lobster- coral and glaze, soft roes of mackerel tossed in a spoonful of sauce, coloured with some green B,avigotte, and between the trout a row of large crayfish trimmed and glazed. Send up some of the sauce in a boat Paeboil the trout sufficiently to remove the skin, and, when ti'immed, place them on a buttered sauta-pan; season with peppei and salt, sprinkle over them a good spoonful of chopped parsley, three times that quantity of chopped mushrooms, and two chopped shalots; add a small ladleful of finished brown sauce, and two oi 424. TROUT A LA GASCONNE. 425. TROUT A LA CHEVALIERE. 426. TROUT AU GRATIN.