CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES. 241 Btewed peas, then pour some brown sauce round the base, glaze the chartreuse, and serve. This kind of chartreuse may be garnished with scollops of pheasants, partridges, larks, &c.; and also with blanquettes of fowls, lambs’ sweet- breads, &c. The ornamental part of these entrees may be much varied, by using asparagus-heads, green-peas. Trench-beans, artichoke-bottoms, glazed button-onions, carrots, and turnips turned in fanciful shapes and forn^. A good eflect is produced by arranging a decoration in relief on the top of the chartreuse after it has been turned out of the mould on to its dish; its base may also be garnished with alternate groups of vegetables cut in small fanciful shapes and prepared in tho usual manner. TOECE-IMEAT CHAETEEUSES, COMPRISING Chartreuse, d la Parisihine. Chartreuse, a la Cardinal. „ a. la Belle Vue. 790. CHARTREUSE, A LA PARISIENNE. Tiest prepare some quenelle force-meat (No. 242), with the fillets of three fowls; trim the tails of sixty boded crayfish, trim also eight Loner or minion fillets of fowls, and then simmer these in a little clari- fied butter and lemon-juice over the fire tdl they are done; then put them on a plate, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to keep them moist, imtil they are wanted for further use. Next butter a large-sized char- lotte-mould, and dispose roimd the inner angle of the bottom a close border of crayfish-tads; whde up the sides of the mould, some long strips, or pipes of black truffle (cut out with a tin vegetable-cutter), must be arranged alternately with the prepared fiUets of fowls, so as to form a decoration representing the “ Grecian-key border;” round the top of this, which, when the mould is turned upside down, forms the base, place another close border of crayfish-tads: after which, the bottom and sides of the chartreuse must be fined with a coating of the prepared quenelle force- meat, thus:—butter a circular piece of paper, cut exactly to the size of the mould, and spread thereon a layer of the force-meat, an inch tldck; smooth this over with a knife dipped in hot water, and then, with great care, take hold of the sides of the paper wdth both hands, and turn it upside down into the mould; pass the bottom of a small hain-^narie filled with hot water over the paper, that the butter may become melted, by which the paper will be easdy removed. Next, cut three pieces of paper to fit in with each other, so as efiectuaUy to fine the mould; butter these, and then spread them with force-meat, as directed for the bottom piece, and apply them in the same way, E