OX-CHEEKS. 185 this, however, must be thiner than that directed to be used for mixing with the ox-cheeks—and serve. 632. OX-CHEEKS, A l’allemande. Bbaize the ox-cheeks as directed iu the foregoing case; when done, put them in press, and after beitig trimmed, place them on a but- tered baking-sheet, and mask them all over with the following prepara- tion :—Bake some pieces of crumb of bread of a light colour, pound and sift them ; use this powder to mix into a paste with port wine, a table-spoonful of cinnamon-powder, and 2 oz. of pounded sugar ; mix the whole well together, and spread it all over the ox-cheeks. Three quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put the ox-cheeks in the oven, when moderately hot, to get warmed through; then, place them on their dish, garnish round with groups of small quenelles of potatoes (No. 312) and stewed prunes, sauce them round with German sweet sauce (No. 61), and send to table. 633. OX-CHEEKS, A LA POETUGUAISE. Beaize the ox-cheeks; when done, put them in press, trim and place them in a fricandeau pan, with the clarified and reduced broth in which they have been braized ; and having warmed them in this, and glazed them with it, dish them up ; garnish round with a border of eggs, farcis, or stufied and fried (No. 380), pour some Portuguese sweet sauce (No. 59) round the ox-cheeks, and send to table. 634. OX-CHEEKS, A LA POMPADOUR. Beaize the ox-cheeks very tender, and after having put them in press, and then trimmed them, mask them over with a coating of reduced Atelet sauce (No. 36) ; when the sauce has become set by cooling on the ox-cheeks, egg them over and bread-crumb them with very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one fourth of grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle over a little butter, place them on a weU-buttered baking-sheet, and an hour before dinner, put them in the oven to bake of a fine bright colour; dish them up, garnish round with a ragout of ox-palates in a brown Italian sauce (No. 209), finish with a border of croquettes of ox-palates, and send to table. Note.—Besides the foregoing methods of dressing ox-cheeks, they may also be served with a Jardiniere, MacMoine, tomatas farcis (No. 1160), braized red cabbage, Soubise, or Bretonne purges, stewed peas, or asparagus peas. Although in the preceding cases, it is directed that two ox-cheeks should be used for a remove, it does not follow that in all cases two are requisite; more frequently, one will prove to be quite sufficient for the purpose.