372 COLD ENTKEES. 1222. MAYONAISE OF CHICKENS. Roast two cliickcus, and when cold, cut them up into small joints remove the skin, trim them neatly and steep them in a basin with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Pre- pare a decorated aspic-border, as directed in the preceding article; when this has been turned out on its dish, pile up the pieces of chickens in the centre upon some shred lettuces in a conical form; mask them with some white May- onaise sauce (No. 97), garnish with lettuce-hearts and quarters of egg boiled hard, or with plover’s-eggs; crown the Mayonaise Avith some chopped aspic, or a crouton of jelly. 1223. DARNE, OR SLICE OF SALMON, A LA MONTPELLIER. Pro CUBE a prime cut (four inches thick) from an unspht salmon of good size; slip the blade of a sharp knife tmder the skin, and detach this without removing it; liU out the vent with a piece of carrot covered with fet bacon; wrap the slice of salmon in layers of fat bacon, and tie them on with string. Place the fish on its drainer in a stewpan, moisten with some mirepoix (No. 236), and set it to boil very gently over a moderate fire for about three-quarters of an horn’; then remove it, and allow the fish to remain in its own liquor until it is nearly cold; drain it upon an earthen dish, and set it aside to become firm. The darne must then be freed from its skin, &c., trimmed, and lightly masked over with glaze mixed with some lob- ster-coral. Cut out a round or oval piece of crumb of bread, about the size of the salmon, and an inch thick, and fry it of a light colour; spread this all over with some Montpellier butter (No. 183), smooth the surface vrith a knife dipped in warm Avater, and put it on the bottom of the dish intended to receive the salmon. Next place the darne of salmon upon this, and spread the upper part with rather a thin coating of the Montpellier butter, v/hich, after being smoothed over, must be decorated nith a bold wreath of roses or laurels, com- posed of black truffles. Ornament the enti'ee with aspic-jeUy, by placing fancy-shaped croutons of this round the base. 1224. TROUT, A LA VERTPRE. ’ Boil three small trout in some mirepoix (No. 236), and when cold, remove the skins; spread them over completely with a thin coating