218 ilBAT PIES. Binall tinffies, cocks’-combs and mushrooms, at each end place a heart sweet-bread contisi with black truffles, and on the sides a border of dessert-spoon quenelles, made with game force-meat, in which has been mired some lobster-cond; pour a Parisian sauce (No. 40) round the partridges, and serve. Note.—In addition to the foregoiog methods for dressing red-legged and common partridges, they may fflso be treated accoi^ing to the various directions given for dressing pheasants. MEAT PIES POE EEMOVES, COllPRISINO Chicken Pie, d ia Heine. Pigeon Pie, d I'Anglaise. Grouse Pie, d I’Ecossaise. Partridge Pie, d Chasseur. Giblet Pie, with fii.e herbs. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. 730. CHICKEN PIE, A LA HEINE. Cut two chickens into small members as for fricass -; cover the bottom of the pie-dish tvith layers of scollops of veal an- ham placed alternately; season with chopped mushroom and parsley, pepper and salt, then add a little white sauce ; next, place in the dish the pieces of chicken in neat order, and round these put a plover’s egg in each cavity; repeat the seasoning and the sauce, lay a few thin slices of dressed ham neatly trimmed on the top ; cover the pie with puff-paste, ornament this vsdth pieces of the same cut into the form of leaves, &c., egg the pie over with a paste-brush, and bake it for one hour and a half. A very good chicken pie may be made by omitting the plover’s eggs, mushrooms, ham, and the sauce—substituting for these, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped parsley, bacon, and a little mushroom- catsup, some common gravy, or even water. 731. PIGEON PIE, A l’aNGLAISE. Dhaw, truss, and singe, six young pigeons ; then, stuff them -with the chopped livers, mixed with some parsley, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. Next, cover the bottom of the dish with rather large scoUops of beef, taken either from the fillet or rump; season with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt; over these place the pigeons, and between each pigeon put the yolk of an egg boiled hard, placing two or three in the centre also; add some white or brown sauce, whichever may be at hand, in sufficient quantity tc> produce sauce enough for the dish, or if neither of these be ready, then substitute some gravy or common broth; repeat the seasoning, cover the pie with pufl-paste, bake it for an hour and a half, and send to table. Veal and Ham Pie. Mutton Pie, d I'Anglaise. Pie of Woodcocks or Snipes, d I'Irlandaisa. Fieldfare, or Blackbird Pie. Lai'k Pie, d la Melton Mowbray. 732. GEOUSE PIE, A L’EGOSSAISE. When the grouse are picked, cut off the legs and wings, and tuck the thighs inside; then, cut away the lower parts of the backs, which,