THROAT SWEETBREADS. 279 one-half with truffle, and the remainder with red tongue, or mixing the latter with green gherkins. 905. SWEETBREADS, A LA ST. CLOUD. These should be scalded and pressed in the usual way, and studded over in neat circular order ^vith pieces of black truffle or red ton^e, cut out in the form of large hob-nails; then make twelve openmgs with a blunt wooden skewer in each sweetbread, and introduce in these the nail-Uke pieces of tongue perpendicularly. Braize them according to the directions for the foregoing, and when done, dish them up with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187); garnish the entree round the base with a border of small quenelles decorated with truffles, and place a group of trimmed crayfish-tads, previously tossed in a little glaze, coloured with lobster-coral; slightly glaze the sweet- breads, and serve. 906. SWEETBREADS, A LA PARISIENNE. Aeteb the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed, let them be larded in the foUowing manner : one with shreds of very black truffles, another with shreds of the tip of a red tongue, and the third with some green stalks of parsley; braize them between layers of fat bacon, and moisten with a wine mirepoix (No. 236). When they are done, dish them up against a triangular croustade, garnished with a weU-arranged Parisian ragout (No. 203) ; stick an ornamental sdver skewer, gar- nished with a double comb, a large truffle and a decorated quenelle, in the centre of the croustade, and round the base of the skewer, stud a border of crayfish-tads, slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. Note.—Sweetbreads may also be served roasted for persons of delicate health, being very nutritious, and easy of digestion. In such cases they may be served with a little plain gravy. Supreme or brown sauce. THEOAT SWEETBEEADS, COMPRISING Eptgramme of Sweetbreads, Scollops of Sweetbreads, d la Marechale. Scollops of Sweetbreads, with Shalot Gravy. „ ,, d la Soubise. „ ,, d la DaupMne. „ „ d la Poulettc. „ ,, d la d’ Uxelles. Croquettes of Sweetbreads. 907. EPIGRAMME OP SWEETBREADS, Peocijee four throat sweetbreads, and steep them in water for several hours, changiog the water frequently, untd they are freed from redness: they must then be scalded for five minutes in boding water, and after being immersed in fresh water to cool them, shoidd be put in press between two dishes, to flatten. Next, put one of the sweetbreads to braize m some white broth: when done, set it aside to get cool, and let it be afteiwards cut into small circular scoUops, and placed in a small stewpan, with an equal quantity of scoUops of red tongue and mushrooms. Cut the three remaining sweetbreads, in a slanting direction, into oval scodops a quai’ter of an inch thick; bread-