268 SHEEP’S-TONGUES, COMPRISING Sheep’s-ton^W, d PEiarlate, with Spinach, &c. Shecp’s-tongucs, d la Napoliiaine. „ d la Maintcnon. ,, with Gherkin sauce. Sheep’s-temgues should first be pickled in the manner directed for briskets of beef, &c.; for the preparation of which, see No. 564. 870. SHEEP’S-TONGUES, A l’eCARLATE, WITH SPINACH. Erom six to a dozen tongues suffice for an entrde; these must be braized in some wiue mirepoix (No. 236), or common broth, garnished with the usual complement of vegetables, &c.; after about three quarters of an hour’s gentle boiliag, they will be done: they must then be placed upon a dish, on their sides, and another dish with a weight in it should be laid upon them to press them evenly. "When the tongues are cold, trim them neatly, and place them in a deep sautapan with some half glaze, and about twenty minutes before sending to table, put them in the oven, to be warmed through, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, to prevent their being dried up; roll them in their glaze, dish them up in the same manner as cutlets,fill the centre with spinach (No. 112),mix a spoonful of Espagnole with the remainder of their glaze, pour it round the tongues, and serve. 871. sheep’s-TONGUES, A LA MAINTENON. These must first be braized, and when done, put in press between two dishes, and afterwards neatly trimmed. Tlie tongues must then be finished in everv respect the same as mutton cutlets d la Maintcnon (No. 838). 872. SHEEP’s-TONGUES, A LA NAPOLITAINE. Beaize and trim the tongues as above, cover them all over with a thin coating of d’ Uxelles sauce (No. 16), andwhen this has becomefirmly set by coohng, dip each tongue in some beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs; flatten them smoothly with the blade of a knife, and then place them on a dish in the larder, until within about twenty minutes of dinner-time. The tongues must then be fried of a Hght- brown colour, in clean hog’s-lard made hot for the purpose, then drained upon a napkin, and dished up in the form of a close circle, the centre of which must be fi lled with macaroni dressed \vith cheese and a little Bechamel sauce; p<.ur some Napolitaine sauce (No. 63), under them, and serve. 873. SHEEP’s-TONGUES, WITH GHERKIN SAUCE. Prepare, finish, and dish up the tongues according to the directions in the first case, pour some gherkin sauce (No. 19J in the centre of tne entree, and serre. Note.—Sheep’s-tongues prepared after the foregoing directions, may be served with every kind of brown sauce or ragout; and also with any of the vegetable garnishes or pureh described in this work.