147 PIKE, OK JACK. entirely with bread-crumbs mixed with one-third of ^ated Parmesan cheese : then place the carp in a buttered baking-dish or sheet, and half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake : they should be of a bght-brown colour: set the fish on an oval dish, sauce them round with some good Venetian sauce (No. 26), garnish with quefielles of carp mixed with some puTse of mushrooms, and send to table. 519. CARP, STEWED A l’AITGLAISE. Por dressing carp in this way, see the directions for stewing eels a VAnglaise (No. 503). 520. SMALL CARP, FRIED. Cleanse and scale the carp, split them down the back, open them flat, season ivith pepper and salt, dip them in flour and immediately fry them of a fine colour; dish them on a napkin, garnish round with fried parsley, and send to table with either Italian anchovy or Dutch sauce, separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred, the carp may be bread-crumbed for fiying in the usual way. Te^^ch being somewhat similar to carp, may be dressed in the various ways in which that fish is prepared for the table, with equal success ; both these kinds of fish make excellent Matelottes, and, indeed, it is not unusual to prepare Matelottes of carp, tench, and eels all in the same dish. Tench may be sent to table either fried or boiled with Dutch sauce. FEESH-WATEE EISH, SECTIOIT III. COMPRISING Pke or Jack, stuffed and baked. ,, ala Chamhord, ^c. „ fried in slices, a la Eollandaise. „ crimped in slices, a la Hollandaise. Fillets of Pike. Perch, a la Stanley. ,, ala Wastrefische. ,, ala Venitimne. Fillets of Perch, d VItalienne, ^c. 521. PIKE, OR JACK, STUFFED AND BAKED. Scale, draw the gills, and thoroughly cleanse and wipe the pike wdth a clean cloth ; fill the paunch with well-seasoned veal stuflhng; sew it up with a trussing-needle and fine string, and either turn the tad. round into the mouth, securing them together by means of string, or truss the pike into the shape of the letter S ; make several deep incisions in a slanting direction on both sides of the fish, and place it in a baking-dish ; season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley and mushrooms, and a little shalot, and from six to eight ounces of fresh butter:—moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and a little good stock, or essence of mushrooms; cover with a well-buttered paper, and put the pike thus prepared in the oven to bake—observing, that it should be &quently basted with its liquor. "When done, dish it up; then L 2