9 SPECIAL SAUCES. required, anti, just before tlhiner-time, add a good spoonful of tarragon leaves, cut into diamond-shapes and blanched green, a pat of butter, a little nutmeg, and a spoonful of Tajfragon-vinegar. 27. BRETONNE SAUCE. Cot two large onions into thin slices ; fiy them of a light brown colour, in a little butter; then add sufficient brown sauce, according to the quantity required, a little consomme, and a pinch of pepper; boil the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour, and then pass it, as you would a puree, through the tammy, and put it into a hain-marie for use. 28. BOURGUIGNOTTE SAUCE. Put four shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, thyme, and bay-leaf, together with three glasses of red wine and some mushroom-ti’im- mings, into a stewpan, on the fire, there to boil for five minutes; add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it on the side to clear itself; skim it, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then pass it tlirough the tammy into a hain-marie. 29. POIVRADE SAUCE. Take a caiTot, an onion, and a head of celery; cut them into very small dice, and place them in a stewpan, with two ounces of raw lean of ham cut similarly, some thyme, and a bay-leat, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, and some parsley; fiy these with a little butter, ot a light bro"wn colour; moisten with two glasses of sherry and one of French vinegar; reduce the above to one-half its quantity, and Lhen add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme; stir the sauce till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a hain-marie for use. 30. GENOISE SAUCE. Cut some ham, carrot, celery, onion, parsley roots, and mush- rooms, into very thin slices; place these in a stewpan witli a little butter, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves, and fiy them on the stove for a few minutes; moisten with half a bottle of red wine (claret suits best). Boil the whole for five minutes; add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it to clarify by the side of the stove-fire; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a hain- marie for use. Just before dinner-time, add a piece of anchovy butter, a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice. 31. MATELOTTE SAUCE. Take the wine in which the fish has been stewed, and add to it a ladleful of brown sauce, and some trimmings or essence of musl> rooms; stir this on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim and reduce it, and then pass it into a hain-marie; finish by adding a little anchovy butter, grated nutmeg, and a pinch ol sugar. " Xote. Use Caossr, ar.d Bi ACKwia.i.’s Conserve of Tomat.as.