TUEBOT AND BRILL. Ill it in the oven to simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to baste the turbot with its liquor eveiy five minutes, so that it may thus be made to absorb the greater portion while stewing. Wlien the turbot is done, drain it from its liquor on to a large earthen dish, and put it to cool in the larder, reserving the liquor in which it has been stewed to be reduced and mixed with a sufficient quantity of Parisian sauce (No. 40), to be used for garnishing the turbot when dished up. Wlien the turbot is cold, place it on a buttered baking-sheet, and spread it over with a thin layer of reduced Allemande sauce, over which shake some veiy finely-sifted bread- crumbs, fried of a light colour; moisten the fish with a little con- somme and wine, and put it in the oven about twenty minutes before sending it to table, that it may get thoroughly warm through; when about to dish it up, slide it gently off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and sauce it round with part of the Parisian sauce prepared for the purpose; garnish it round with gi’oups of crayfish tails, muscles, oysters, button-mushrooms, and small round truffles, tossed in a little glaze to give them a bright appearance. Send up the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 399. BROILED TURBOT A LA PROVENCALE. Peocure a small plump turbot, make an incision in the back, and, Avith a strong knife, cut away an inch of the spine, trim the fins close, score it rather deep on the back, and then place it on an earthen dish to steep for four hours in a marinade made of the follow- ing ingredients : sliced carrot, onion, sprigs of parsley, bay-leaf and thyme, three cloves of garlic, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of salad-oil. Let the turbot be frequently rubbed and turned in this marinade, that it may be thoroughly impregnated with its flavour. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner, remove every particle of vegetable from tlie turbot, place it, with the white side under, on a gridiron (pi’eviously rubbed with chalk or whit- ing), and set it to broil on a clear fire, of moderate heat: twenty minutes will suffice to broil it on one side; it must then be care- fully removed on to a deep baking-sheet, upon its back, first placing the whole of the marinade in the baking-sheet or dish ; moisten with half a bottle of light white wine, and then put the turbot in the oven to bake ; observing that it must be basted eveiy five minutes Avith its liquor. When the turhot is done, lift it carefully on to its dish, put the whole of the marinade in Avhich it has been baked into a steAvpan with the remaining half bottle of wine, boil the Avhole together for five minutes, strain it Avith pressure through a tammy into a steAvpan, and reduce it with some Allemande sauce; add a pat of anchovy butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, a spoonful of capers, and a little cayenne; garnish the turbot round Avith this sauce, adding groups of muscles fried in batter, and some lobster cut into neat scollops and tossed in lobster-coral to give them a scarlet hue. Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. 400. TURBOT A LA CAREME. Prepare a turbot according to the foregoing directions, omitting the garlic; when it is done, reduce the liquor and incorporate it in a sufficient quantity of Dutch sauce, having Supreme sauce foi