272 EN-lKEES OF VEAL. quently basted with its own liquor,—care being taken that the larding is nicely glazed ; when nearly done the bacon must be removed from the udder, and the noix placed in its dish ; garnish it roimd with a Fimnciere ragout (No. 188), incorporated with the glaze from the noix ; stick three ornamental silver skewers, previously garnished with a large truffle, cock’s-comb, and a cray-fish, in the udder; glaze the larding, and serve. 883. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA TOULOUSE. PiiEPAKE this as in the foregoing case, and when dished up, garnish with a white I'oulouse ragout (No. 87), ustug Allemande sauce for the purpose; stick in three ornamental silver skewers, garnished \vith a large cock’s-comb, a truffle, and a decorated quenelle ; keep the udder white, glaze the larding, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a garnish of prepared vegetables d la Macedoine (No. 143). 884. GRENADINS OF VEAL, WITH SPINACH, ETC. Tetw a fricandeau piece of white veal, and cut this into eight or ten fillets, beginning at the thick end; these must be flattened with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, and trimmed somewhat in the shape of fillets of fowl. They should then be closely larded with fflt bacon, placed in neat order in a deep sauta or fricandeau pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered over with layers of fat bacon; moisten with sufficient good stock, just to reach up to the larding, place the but- tered paper, and cover with the lid. The grenadine will require to be braized for about one hour and a quarter, duriug which time they must be frequently basted; when nearly done, remove the paper and glaze them. Next, drain them on a napkin, trim them, and dish them on a foundation of force-meat, in close order; fill the centre with some puree of spinach, pour some half glaze round the base of the entree (made with the liquor from the grenadins), and serve. Note.—Grenadins may also be garnished with all kinds of ragouts and vegetable garnishes directed to be served vnih f7'icandeaux. 885. TENDONS OF VEAL, WITH STEWTID PEAS, Tendons of veal consist of that part which lies along the breast end of the ribs, forming an opaque gristly substance, which in the ox becomes bone. To extract these, an incision must be made right down the extreme edge of the breast of veal, without damaging the tendons, which should then be laid quite bare with the knife up to the commencement of the ribs, where they must be divided from them. The bony part, if any remain, must be pared away, and the tendons put to steep in water for an horn- or so. They must then be tied up securely xvith string, and put to bod in the stockpot for about four hours ; or else, if there be no stockpot boiling at the time, place them in a stewpan, with the usual complement of vegetables and seasoning, covered over with a buttered paper; moisten with three quarts or fresh broth or water, set them to braize on a slow fire, for about four hours, and when done, put them in press betiveen two dishes, imtil they are cold. The tendons must then be cut slantwise, into rather