469 MINCE-MEAT. fruit is entirely dissolved; and then rub it through a hair-sieve into a large basin; add two ounces of clarified isinglass, and fill a jelly-mould (ready imbedded in rough ice) with the preparation. AVhen the cheese is set firm, turn it out on its dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream. Notz.—These cheeses may be made of every kind of fruit before directed to be used for both jellies and creams; and also with pears, apples, and quinces. 1444. MINCE-MEAT. Thoeoughlt cleanse lour pounds of currants, and remove the stones from four pounds of raisins; cut up two pounds of candied citron, one pound of candied lemon, and one pound of orange-peel, into shreds, or very small dice ; remove the skin, and then chop four pounds of fresh beef-suet, and place this with the currants and the candied peel in an earthen pan; next chop the raisins with four pounds of peeled apples, and add them to the other ingredients. Trim away all the sinewy parts from eight poimds of roasted sirloin of beef, and chop all the lean of the meat quite fine; this will pro- duce about four pormds, which must also be placed in the pan. To the foregoing must now be added four pounds of moist sugar, four ounces of ground spice—consisting of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon in equal proportions, with the grated rind of twelve oranges, and of the same number of lemons; the whole must then be thoroughly mixed together, and pressed down to a level in the pan. Two bottles of brandy, and a like quantity of Madeira, sherry or port, should be poured iato the mince-meat. Put the lid on the pan, place a cloth over it, and tie it down close, so as to exclude the air as much as possible, and also to prevent the evaporation of the brandy, &c. The mince-meat should be kept in a cool place, and will be fit for use a fortnight after it is made. 1445. LEMON MINCE-MEAT. Boil four lemons till quite tender, then pound them in a mortar or chop them up while warm, adding to them two pounds of pounded loaf sugar; let this stand till next day, then add two pounds of suet, two pounds of currants, one pound of raisins chopped, a little brandy, one ounce of mixed spice, and port wine, to taste, say half a pint of brandy and wine together. 1446. MINCE MEAT, A LA ROYALE. To equal proportions of roast-beef, raisins, currants, suet, candied citron, orange, lemon, spices and sugar, add a proportionate weight of stewed pears and preserved ginger, the grated rind of three dozen oranges and lemons, and also their juice, one bottle of old rum on© bottle of brandy, and two of old nort. ’