344 ENTREES OF FISH, five minutes, pour off nearly all the butter, and then mask each filled with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (No. 7) ; rub eight hard-boiled yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and spread this kind of vermicelli equally over all the fillets; then pass the hot salamander over them to deepen the colour of the yolk of egg, dish the fillets up in a close circle, fill the centre with a ragout of mushrooms, small quenelles, and muscles, tossed in some Aurora sauce (No. 41), pour some of it round the base, and serve. 1122. FILLETS OF SALMON, A LA PARISIENNE. Cut these into the shape of fillets of fowls, season with a little pepper and salt, and mask them over with a coating of reduced Alle- mande sauce; when this has become cold, bread-crumb them twice over in the usual manner, and put them in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; fiy the fiUets over a brisk stove-fire, of a light colour, and when done, drain, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with some ragout d la ParisUnne (No. 203), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1123. SALMON CUTLETS, A LA MAINTENON. Trim the salmon into fiUets, as above, and place them iu a sautapan with some clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, grated nut- meg, chopped mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and two shalots, and try them over a stove-fire for five minutes ; then add two gravy-spoon- fuls of Allemande sauce (No. 7), a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; simmer the whole together for two minutes longer, and remove them from the fire. Cut as many sheets of small note- paper, into the shape of hearts, as there are cutlets; oil them over with a paste-brush, place one in each, divide the sauce equally, and then fold the edges down aU roimd, by neatly and firmly twisting them imder iu pleats, so as thoroughly to prevent the sauce from escaping ; place the cutlets upon a clean gridiron, over a clear fire of coke, of very moderate heat, and broil them without allowing the paper to burn; dish them up in a close circle, fidl the centre with tried parsley, and send some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) separately in a boat. 1124. FILLETS OF TURBOT. These are described in the section treating of turbots dressed for removes, &c. (No. 405). 1125. FILLETS OF GURNETS, WITH CABER SAUCE. Fillet the gurnets, remove the skin, and if the fish are large, divide each fillet into several pieces, so that they may not be larger than fillets of fowls; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and place them in the oven, or over a stove-fire, to simmer for about five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with small quenelles of the same kind of fish, pour some caper sauce (No. 90) over the entrk, and serve. Note.—Fillets of gurnets prepared and dished up as the abcrve, may aloo be sensed with any of the following sauces :—Italian, Eavigotte, Maitre-d^hotel, Oyster, Muscles, or Crayfish.