337 FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS. croustade of fried bread, about four incbes high, and cut in an angular form ; place a decorated quenelle between each woodcock, a large ti^e on the top of tbe croustade, and a border of Avbite cocks’-comba round this; garnish the entrk with a Financiere ragout (No. 188), glaze the larding, and serve. 1097. WOODCOCKS, A LA PEKIGORD. Draw three fine fat woodcocks, reserving the livers and trad; stuff them nnth the usual preparation of trufiles (No. 660), and truss them as for roasting; then, rim an iron skewer through the birds, and place them upon a double sheet of paper thicldy spread vdth butter; cover them with some reduced mirepoix (No. 236), having the vegetables left in it; wrap the paper round them and secure it with string; tie the woodcocks both ends upon a spit, and roast them before a rather brisk fire, for about three-quarters of an hour: they must then be taken ofl' the spit, and dished up in the form of an angle; fill the centre ndth small quenelles, pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) over the woodcocks, place a dozen croutons roimd the entrk, and serve. The above-named croutons are thus prepared:—Try the trad, &c., in a smaU stewpan with a Little butter, a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and half a shalot; season ndth pepper, salt and nutmeg, and then add a table-spoonful of reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 3) : rub this through a tammy, and spread it upon twelve neart-shaped croutons of fried bread. These croutons should be placed in the oven for three minutes, to warm them. 1008. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A L’AKCIENNE. See “ Pdlets of Partridges ” (No. 1084). Add the trad to the legs of the woodcocks; prepare an essence with the carcasses, and use this to work the sauce; in ad other respects proceed in the same manner. 1099. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA PERIGUEUX. Trim the fidets of three woodcocks, using the under or minion fidets to form three more, by patting them together with the handle of a knife; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt. Prepare some farce with the trad, as in No. 1097, and spread it upon as many croutons of fried bread as there are fidets. Simmer the fidets over the fire without allowing them to acquire any colour; drain off the butter, then add a dttle of the Perigueux sauce (No 23), worked -ftath the essence made from the carcasses, toss the fidets in this, and dish them up in a close circle round a smad croustade of fried bread, cut in the form of a vase; place one of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven for three minutes) between each fidet; fid the croustade with some purk of truffles (No. 121), pour the Perigueux sauce over the fidets, and serve. 1100. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA MINUTE. E.OAST three woodcocks iust before dinner-time ; cut them up into smad joints in the usual manner, reserving the trail, which must be made into a puree and spread upon a dozen smad heart-shaped erd?/-