206 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. the skin and fillets, with some forcemeat of fowl in which has been mixed sufficient puree of truffles (No. 121) to colour it; the chickens must then be trussed as for boiling, and after being covered with thin layers of fat bacon, should be braized, and when done, dished up side by side. Garnish them round with alternate groups of very small quenelles, half of which must be coloured with chopped truffles and the remainder with lobster coral; sauce with a Financicre ragout (No. 188), in a Poivrade sauce (No. 29), and serve. 693. CHICKENS, A LA TURQUE. These must be trussed, boiled, and dished up as usual; they should then be garnished vdth a close border of rice boiled in broth with a little saffron and Cayenne pepper; place round the rice alternate groups of Smyrna raisins stewed in a little Malaga wine, and tongue cut into small pipe-hke forms about half-an-inch long ; pour a lightly- seasoned curry sauce (No. 47) over the chickens, and serve. 694. CHICKENS, A l’ESPAGNOLE. Truss two chickens as for boiling, then take a deep fricandeau pan, spread it thickly with butter, and lay therein, in circular order, a dozen pieces of raw ham cut in the shape and about twice the thick- ness of a crown-piece; upon these place the chickens, and garnish with carrot, onion, faggot of parsley, a clove of garlic, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and then set them upon a moderate fire (with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid), to simmer for about forty minutes: taking care to turn the chickens occasionally, in order that they may be equally coloured of a light brown all over. This being done, the butter should be drained off from the chickens, and the vegetables removed; then add a glass of sherry or Madeira, two spoonfuls of Tomata sauce (No. 22), and the same quantity of Brown sauce, a smaU piece of glaze, lemon-juice and a little Cayenne pepper. Let the whole simmer together on the fire for five minutes, then draw the strings from the chickens and dish them up; garnish them round with the pieces of ham placed alternately with a crouton of the same shape; ronud these place foiur groups of Spanish-peas {garhanqas) boiled and divested of the hulls, and some dressed tomatas au gratin (No. 1161) ; pour the sauce over the chickens and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing chickens for smal' Eemoves, Flanks, or Entrees, they may also be served with rice, macaroni, 7wm7Zes, oyster sauce, d VAnglaise, d Vlwire, d VEstragon, &c., and indeed in every variety of form described for dressing capons.