106 ITALIAN SOUPS, COilPKISIKO Macaroni Soup a la Royale. Semolina Soup a la Palermo. ,, ,, a la Medicis. „ „ u la Veiiitienni, „ „ d la St. Pierre. „ „ d la Pisaru. 384. MACARONI SOUP A LA ROYALE. Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, with two ounces of fresh butter, a little minionette pepper, and salt. When the macaroni has boiled half an hour, drain it off upon a sieve, cut it into half-inch lengths, and boil it in two quarts of good chicken or game consomme for ten minutes; take it off the stove and mix with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, two ounces of gi’ated Parmesan chese, and a little minionette pepper; set the leason in the soup by sthring it on the stove-fire for three minutes, and send to table. Vermicelli or any other Italian paste may be substituted for the inacai’onL This soup is sometimes designated “ a Vltalienne." 385. MACARONI SOUP A LA MEDICIS. Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni, and cut it into inch lengths ; at the same time, trim the tails of tliirty crayfish, and the same number of quenelles of fowl, coloured with crayfish butter; place these in the silver lining of a soup tureen accordmg to the foUow'ing dhections :— Butter the bottom of the lining and spread thereon a layer of ma- cai’oni, then a layer of gi’ated Parmesan cheese, after which place a layer of crayfish tails; repeat the layer of grated cheese, and place on that a layer of small quenelles: and thus proceed until the several articles prepared for the purpose are disjiosed of. Then add a pint of strong consomme, and cover the top with grated cheese; melt a small pat of fresh butter over the fire, and sprinkle it on the top of the whole preparation; then set the tureen lining thus filled to qrati- nate in the oven, which will require about half an hour. Lastly, place the lining on a dish to be served from the side table, while the bright clear consomme is to be sent up in another tureen. In helping the soup at table, first put a small ladleful of the pre- paration of macaroni, &c., on a soup plate, and add to it a ladlefid of the consomme. 386. MACARONI SOUP A LA ST. PIERRE. Cut some macaroni that has been boiled, into inch lengths, place them in a stewpan with four ounces of lobster-coral butter and a little cayenne, simmer it gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then place a fourth part in a silver soup lining; on this sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese, then put a layer of blanched soft roes of mackerel, over which place some grated cheese, again cover this with some prepared scollops of salmon; and thus repeat the foregoing instructions until tho ingredients are all used up, finishing tliis part