ROAST PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, ETC. 349 fill of gravy; stir this over the lire until it boils, and use it as duected -above 1140. ROAST PHEASANT. DnAvy the pheasant by making a small opening at the vent, make an incision along the back-part of the neck, loosen the pouch, &c., with the fingers, and then remove it; singe the body of the pheasant and its legs over the flame of a charcoal-fire, or with a piece of paper rub the scaly cuticle ofi:' the legs with a cloth, trim away the claws and spurs, cut ofi' the neck close up to the back, leaving the skin of the breast entire, wipe the pheasant clean, and then truss it in the following mamier:—Place the pheasant upon its breast, run a truss- ing-needle and string through the left pinion (the wings being re- moved), then turn the bird over on its back, and place the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand across the breast, holding the legs erect; thrust the needle through the middle joint of both thighs, draw it out and then pass it through the other pinion, and &sten the strings at the back; next, pass the needle through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs, thrust it again through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly: this will give it an appearance of plumpness. Spit and roast the pheasant before a brisk fire, for about half an hour, frequently basting it; when done, send to table -with brown gravy under it, and bread sauce (No. 80), separately, in a boat. 1141. ROAST PARTRIDGES. These should be trussed, roasted, and served in the same manner as pheasants. Sometimes, for the sake of variety, both pheasants and partridges are larded in the same way as sweetbreads, but the practice is not generally liked. 1142. ROAST QUAILS. Deaw and truss these in the manner directed for pheasants; cut some tliin square layers of fat bacon, just large enough to cover a quad, spread a vine-leaf over each of these, cut it to their size, and then tie them neatly on the breasts of the quails. Run an iron skewer through the quails, fasten this on to a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire, for about a quarter of an hour, then dish them up with water-cresses round them, glaze the layers of bacon, pour some gravy under the quails, and serve. 1143. RUFFS A2UD REEVES. These birds must not be drawn, neither do they require much trussing, being very plump; a small wooden skewer should be run through the thighs and pinions, with a string passed round it, and fastened; cover these also with a layer of bacon and a vine-leaf, run them upon a lark-spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter, and set some toasted bread under them, to receive their droppings. When done, dish them up on square pieces of the toast, garnish with water-cresses, pour some gravy under them, and serve the following sauce separately in a boat:—A myowi-spoonful of good butter-sauce (No. 70), a piece of glaze, Cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice. Oetolans and Wheateaes are served in the same manner as the foregoing.