• ENGLISH SOUPS, 9G bouquet made with basil, marjoram, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, four cloves, mace, and four shalots. Let the sauce boil, skim it well, and when the hare is thoroughly done, pass the sauce through a tammy into a soup-pot; put this on the fire to tlirow off any remaining roughness, and that it may be reduced if necessary; and then pour it into tlie soup-tureen, which should contain three dozen small quenelles made with the meat reserved for that pui’pose, as before mentioned; also the scollops of hare prepared by lightly fiying the fillets in the sauta-pan, and which must be afterwards scolloped. Ascertain that the seasoning be correct, and send to table, 358. LEVERET SOUP A LA ROSSIE. Get a good-sized leveret, cut it into pieces, and fiy these in a stew- pan with two ounces of butter; as soon as they are coloured, mois- ten with half a bottle of sherry, allow the wine to boil, then add two quarts of consomme or hlond of veal, garnish with caiTot, onion, celery, mace, cloves, and peppercorns, a bouquet of bay-leaf, thyme, basil, maijoram, and winter savory ; let these herbs be used in small quantities, in order that they may give flavour, without predominat- ing. When the soup has boiled three-quarters of an hour, let the pieces of hare be drained on a sieve, and at the same time pass tlie brotli into a basin ; afterwards place the pieces of hare on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed, put them into a soup-pot. Next, clarify the consomme in the usual manner, and strain it through a napkin on to the pieces of leveret; and, just before send ing to table, add to the soup three dozen very small quenelles of le veret, and some white celery cut into shreds and boiled in a small quantity of the soup. 359. OX-CHEEK SOUP. Procure a fresh ox-cheek, and put it to braize in a small stockpot with a knuckle of veal and some roast-beef bones, fill the pot up from the boiling stockpot, or with water; garnish with the same comple- ment of stock vegetables used for ox-tail soup (No. 354), adding six cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. As soon as the ox- cheek is done, take the meat off the cheek bone, and put it in press between two dishes. Strain off the broth, adding to it a ladleful of gi’avy to colour it, and proceed to clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs. Wliile the consomme is clarifying, trim the ox-cheek and cut it into neat scollops an inch square and half an inch thick; put these into a small soup-pot and add to them some small carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and boiled in a little broth, a lump of sugar, and also a dozen and a half very small white button onions. Strain the clarified consomme thus prepared into the soup-pot, and having allowed the soup to boil a few minutes by the side of the stove-fir^ just before serving, add two dozen blanched Brussels sprouts, and a pinch of minionette pepper, and send to table. 360. DEER'S-HEAD SOUP A LA CHASSEUR*. Procure a young deer’s head, perfectly fresh, scald it and cleanse it thoroughly; proceed then to prepare the soup in exactly the same • This will be found a very useful soup in those parts of the country where deei abound.