392 VOL-AU-VENT, TOXJETE, AND PATTY CASES, OOMPRISIN’O Voi-au-vent Cases, for an Entree. Timbale of Nouilles Cases. Tourte ditto ditto. Patties, « la Mazarine. Puff-paste Patty Ca.ses. Mutton Patties, d la Windsor. Croustade ditto. 1262. VOL-AU-VENT CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. PoR this picrpose, one pound of puff-paste will be required, and when mixing it, the juice of one lemon must be added. The paste must be rolled perfectly square at the ends, and folded likewise with the greatest correctness, in order to ensure the vol-au-venfs rising per- fectly straight all round, w'hich cannot be the case if it is roUed un- evenly. Pive turns and a half must be given to the paste, allowing about seven minutes to elapse between each turn: observing that previously to folding up the last turn and a half, the paste must be pased over with a paste-brush dipped in water, or a little lemon-juice ; attention must be paid, in giving the last two tm*ns, to roU the paste out, and also to fold it, especially when giving the last turn on spread- ing it to the size the vol-au-vent is intended to be made so ,.s co be able to cut it as thick as the quantity of paste will admit of; just be- fore cutting out the vol-au-vent, the piece of paste must be wetted on one side wnth the brush dipped in water. Next, roU out about four ounces of common paste to the diameter of a dinner-plate, lay this on the puff-paste, just passing the rolling-pin over to cause it to adhere, and then place it on the baking-sheet, previously wetted in the centre to receive it. For the pui'pose of guiding the hand when cutting it out, the cover of a stevqian or bain-marie should be placed on it; then with a smaU sharp-pointed knife proceed to cut round the edge of the cover, forming perpendicular flutes or scoUops; the knife must be held comparatively loose, yet securely, with the tips of the fingers only. Kemove the trimmings and the cover, egg over the sui’face, and be fareful not to smear the edges of the paste, as that would prevent it from rising evenly ; then with the point of the smaU knife, held slant- ing, make a slight incision aU round the surface, within about three- quarters of an inch of the edge, and with the point notch round the extreme edge of the inner circle, so as to separate it entirely from the inner edge of the outer circle. The vol-au-vent should now be put into the oven (not too hot, as excess of heat prevents the paste from rising) ; as soon as it begins to rise, let a trivet be quickly slipped under it, and the oven immediately closed. "When it has risen about two inches, and before it has acquired any colour, a broad band of double paper (or a wooden hoop from an old sieve), measuring two inches more in circumference than the vol-au-vent, about eight inches high, and fastened in the form of a hoop, must be placed roimd it to protect the sides from being suddenly caught by the heat, which otherwise would not only scorch it, but also check its full develop- ment : it shoiild remain in the oven quite an hour to be thoroughly