OF VEGETABLES. 31 128. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES IN GLAZE*. Cut atout one pound of truffles in various fancy shapes, such as small round balls, olives, or like quarters of orange, small pillars, and circular scollops; place them in a small stewpan, with a little fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a piece of glaze; put on the lid of the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to simmer for five or ten minutes; toss the truffles thus prepared in their glaze, and use them to garnish the centi’e of an entree, or for any other appropriate purpose. 129. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES A LA PARISIENNE. Pbepare the truffles as directed in the foregoing case, and, having boiled them down in their glaze, add a good ragout-spoonful of Parisian sauce (No. 40). 130. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES WITH SUPREME SAUCE. Prepare the truffles in fancy shapes, simmer them with a small quantity of butter and glaze, and boil them down in their glaze: then add a spoonful of Supreme sauce. This garnish may be sei’ved with all entrees, fillets of poultiy or game. 131. GARNISH OF WHOLE TRUFFLES, t Brush and clean any quantity required of fine fresh truffles, boil them in a wine mirepoix (for making which see No. 236)—one hour’s gentle boiling will suffice; just before using them, take the truffles out of the mirepoix, glaze them, and dispose them round or about the entree or remove, in a circle or in groups. 132. GARNISH OF jMUSHROOMS IN ALLEMANDE SAUCE. Clean and turn a pottle of mushrooms, put them into a small stewpan with an ounce of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and about two tablespoonfuls of water; boil them quickly on the fire for five minutes, drain the mushrooms, and put them into a bain-marie containing a large ragout-spoonful of Allemande sauce; re- duce the liquor the mushrooms were boiled in, and add it to the mushrooms. This garnish is proper for all white entrees, and espe- cially for entrees of game or fowl d la BaujMne or d la Villeroi. 133. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS IN ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. Prepare the mushrooms as directed in the foregoing recipe, drain them on a napkin, and place them in a stewpan or bain-marie, with sufficient finished Espagnole sauce, according to the quantity required, adding the essence of the mushrooms, cleared from the butter, and reduced. This sauce is appropriate for every kind of brown entree. 134. GARNISH OF YOUNG CARROTS. Turn a bunch of young caiTots, keeping them in their own shape, as far as may be consistent with uniformity of size; boil them in water for three minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a stew'- pan, with an ounce of sugar, a pat of butter, and a little salt; moisten * This is the foundation of all garnishes of truffles and mushrooms; an infinite variety may be made by adding to the truffles prepared as above some special sauce, the addi- tion of which will then give its name to the garnish, f The finest truffles are imported by Cp.osse and Blackwell.