HEAKT SWEETBREADS. 277 899. MINCED VEAL, AND TOACHED EGGS. Pare off the outside part of 1 lb. of veal, and then let it be chopped very fine, or cut it into thin shreds. Put about half a pint of Bechamel sauce (No. 5) into a ste-\vpan and reduce it by boiling, imtil it be- comes rather thick, then add the minced veal, and a little cream ; season with pepper and salt, and a very little nutmeg ; stir the whole well together over the fire until waian, and dish it up in a conical form ; place six poached eggs roimd it with a circular scollop of glazed red tongue or ham between each egg; pom a little Bechamel sauce (No. 5) roimd the base of the entree, and serve. 900. ANOTHER METHOD. Put a pat of butter iuto a stewpan on the fire, and when melted, throw in a table-spoonful of flom ; stir this with a wooden spoon over the fire for two minutes; then gradually mix in half a pint of broth, put the sauce on the fire, stirring it until reduced to the thickness of Bechamel sauce; then add the minced veal, a gill of cream, a small piece of glaze, and a little nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir this on the fire for three minutes, aud serve as in the foregoing case. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, tongue or ham, either minced or cut into shreds, may be added to the veal, in either of the two foregoing cases. 901. MINCED VEAL, A LA PORTUGUAISE. See the directions for dressing beef in this method (No. 810). HEAET SAVEETBEEADS,* COMPRISING Sweetbreads, larded, with Stewed Peas, &c. Sweetbreads, larded, d la St. Chud. ; „ a la Monarqiic. „ „ d la Parisienne, kc „ „ d la Conti. 902. SWEETBREADS LARDED, WITH STEWED PEAS. Three heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a dish. They must be procmed quite fresh, otherwise they are unfit for table, and should be steeped in water for several horns, and the water frequently changed; the sweetbreads are then to be scalded in boiHng water for about three minutes, and immersed in cold water for half an horn; after which they must be drained upon a napkin, trimmed free from any sinewy fat, and put between two dishes to be slightly pressed flat, and then closely larded with strips of bacon in the usual manner. The sweetbreads must next be placed in a deep sautapan on a bed of thinly sliced carrot, celery and onions, with a garnished faggot of parsley and • Sweetbreads, or Pancreas, are the two white glands found in calves; the one being placed immediately below the throat, and the other, of a rounder form, lying nearer the heart; hence they are designated heart and throat sweetbreads : the former is the most delicate,and when in perfection, is white and fat; tlie latter is of an elongated form, not so fat a® the other, and is only used for secondary purposes.