ENTREES OF I.AMBS’ HEADS 288 "Wlien about to send to table, place tbe bead uutb tbe ears curled upon its disb, and the larded sweetbreads at its four comers ; between these, put the croquettes of brains, previously fried, pour the scoUops of tongue, mushrooms, and sauce, round the head, glaze it, and serve. 938. lambs’ ears, a la financiere. Peocuee a dozen lambs’ ears, scald these, then immerse them in cold water; when cold, wipe them dry, and singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire ; they must then be gently braized in some hlanc (No. 235) for about three quarters of an hour, and when done, drained upon a napkin; the thin part of the ears should be carefully scraped with the back part of the blade of a knife to remove the skin, leaving the white cartilaginous part entire; this last must then be slit in narrow bands, without cutting through the ends, so that when the ears are turned down, these bands by curling over should appear like a row of loops; place the ears as they are trimmed in a deep sautapan or stewpan containing some of their own liquor, cover them udth a buttered paper and the lid, and set them aside tiU dinner-time. "WTiile the ears ai’e braizing, prepare some veal force-meat, and fiU a plain low cylinder border mould (previously buttered) with the force- meat ; poach this in the usual way, and when about to send to table, turn it out upon its dish, place the lambs’ ears all round the top of it, and in each of these put a round ball of black truffle; fill the centre with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a ragout a la Tortue (No. 189). 939. lambs’ ears, a la dauphine. Scald, singe, braize, and trim the lambs’e ars as in the foregomg case, but they must not be slit. Fill them with force-meat made with the fillets of a fowl, or some veal, in which has been mixed a spoonful of white sauce and some chopped mushrooms; mask the ears over with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set upon them, roll them in bread-crumbs, and dip each separately in some beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, then bread-crumb them over again, place them upon a dish, and set them aside in the larder. When about to send to table, fry the ears in plenty of heated hog’s- lard, of a fine bght colour, dish them up in a circular row, or pyra- midally, pour some Supreme or Bechamel sauce, containing a few mush- rooms cut into shreds or scollops, round and imder them, and serve. 940. lambs’ ears, a la venitienne. Peepaee these exactly in the same manner as for d la Financiere (No. 938), dish them up in a circle on the dish, fill the centre with small round balls, or croquettes of rice, prepared as follows ; Bod four oimces of rice in white broth tdl done quite soft, then season with a pat of butter, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, Cayenne pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, and form it into small roimd balls the size of marbles, roll these in flour, and fry them in clarified butter in a sautapan. Pour some Venetian sauce (No. 26) over the ears, and serve.