430 FRITTERS. it of a light colour; when done, shake some sugar upon it, and use the red-hot salamander to glaze it. 1330. PEAR TART. If mellow pears he used for this purpose, the foregoing directions may he followed; hut if stewing pears are made use of, these must he first stewed with some sugar, a little water, and some lemon-peel and cloves tied together. IVIien the pears are nearly done, allow them to cool previously to making the tart, which, in this case, should he covered witli tart paste (No. 1255); when so far finished, sprinkle it over with a paste-hrush dipped in some heaten white of egg, and some sifted sugar strewn upon it, it should then he haked of a light colour. 1331. FRUIT TARTS IN GENERAL.* "When peaches, apricots, or any of the larger kinds of plums are used for making tarts, the stones should he removed, and the kernels taken out and blanched; the fhiit should he then neatly arranged in the tart-dish in the form of a dome, vsdth the kernels amongst it, and some sifted sugar strewn over all. These tarts should invariably he covered with tart-paste, and finished as directed in the foregoing case. For making cherry, damson, raspberry, and currant tarts, follow the same dii’ections; except that the stones need not he removed from the two first of these. FEITTEES, eOMPBISIXG Apple Fritters. Pine Apple Fritters. Orange Fritters. Peach Fritters. Spanish Puffs. Custard Fritters. Princess Fritters. Portuguese Fi-itters. German Fritters. Diavolini. 1332. APPLE FRITTERS. Cut the apples in ratlier thick slices, scoop out the cores with a tin-cutter, then pare off the rind, and place the pieces of apples in a basin with a small glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of sugar, and some grated peel of lemon or orange, letting them steep in this for several hours, if’ possible. When about to send the fritters to table, throw the pieces of apple into a basin containmg some light-made hatter (No. 232), then take them out one at a time, and drop them into some heated hog’s-lard, to he fried of a light colour ; when they are done, dram them on a sheet of paper, break ofi" all the rough parts, place the fritters on a baking-sheet, shake some fine sugar upon them, glaze them with the red-hot salamander, and serve. Note.—Pear fritters are made in the same manner as the above. * The finest bottled fruits and all other preserves, are procurable at Cbosse and Blackwell’s, Soho Square