CLEAR CONSOJMME 64 261. QUENELLES OF FOWL IN CONSOjMME. Mould three or four dozen of very small qmnelles of fowl in the following manner: — Take up a spoonful of chicken force-meat, smooth it over with the blade of a small knife, which must be occa- sionally dipped in hot water, in order to prevent the quenelle from sticking to it; and with another teaspoon dipped in hot water, scoop out the quenelle from the filled teaspoon, and drop it gently on the bottom of a buttered sauta-pan. When this part of the operation is completed, a stewpan cover is held with the left hand in a slanting direction towards tlie inner part of the edge of tlie sauta-pan,—witli tire other hand sufficient boiling water should be poured in to poach the quenelles: tlien set the sauta-pan by the side of the fire to simmer for about ten minutes, when the quenelles will be done. Take tliem out and lay them upon a clean cloth to drain; after which place tliem in the soup tureen, and having poured thereon two quarts of bright consomme of fowl, send to table. 262. CLEAR veraiicelli soup.* Take half a pound of vermicelli, break it small and blanch it—by allowing it to boil three minutes in water; drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stew^pan with two quarts of strong bright consomme of fowl or game, or blond of veal, according to taste or circumstances. After allowing the soup thus prepared to boil up on the stove-fire, skim the froth from the surface, and set it to continue boiling gently on the comer of the stove till the vermicelli be sufficiently done. Then pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, separately, to be handed round to the guests simultaneously with the soup. This should be observed as a general rule, in serving up all soups containing Italian pastes in any form. 263. AIACARONI CLEAR SOUP.' Boil one pound of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, an ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and minionette pepper. When the macaroni is done, which will take about half an hour, drain it on a sieve, wash it in clear water, and then drain it upon a napkin, that it may be cut into pieces an inch long. Then put it into a soup-pot witli two quarts of blond of veal, or consomme of fowl or of game, ac- cording to circumstances ; let it boil ten minutes longer, and serve. 264. ITALIAN PASTE SOUP. Take half a pound of Italian paste, blanch or parboil it first, and afterwards boil it in two quarts of bright strong consomme, as directed for vermicelli soup, and send to table. 265. LASAGNES SOUP. Lasagnes are a kind of Italian paste resembling ribbons, and must be treated in e.xactly the same way as when using macaroni for soup, excepting that they do not require so much boiling. 266. CLEAR CONSOAOIE WITH RICE. Take half a pound of Carolina rice well picked and washed, blanch or pai’boil it for ten minutes, drain the water off; and after adding • Note. The best Italian pastes of every description are imported by Crosse and Biackwell, Soho Square.