221 IlEilOVES OF TIES. their flavoui*: an important consideration \vith amateurs of tins kind of game. 739. FIELDFARE OR BLACKBIRD PIE. These birds are only fit for table during tbe months of November, December, and January, and are in the greatest perfection during severe frosty -weather. Procure a dozen fieldfares or blackbirds— which should be fat and fresh killed ; pick them very clean, draw and singe them : next cut the legs and -wings off and tuck the thigh bones inside the birds, and stuff them mth the folio-wing preparation: Soak the crumb of two Prench-roUs in a little milk, put them in a ste-wpan -v\dth two ounces of fresh butter, a little grated lemon-peel, a small shalot chopped fine, and a handful of parsley also chopped; season -with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of aromatic spices (No. 1250) ; stir this over the fire until the whole forms a compact paste; then add the yolks of two eggs, and use this stuffing as above directed. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish -with scollops of oeef pre-viously fried bro-wn, place the birds in close circular order upon these; between each bird put a slice of streaky bacon, and fill up the centre -with stewed mushrooms prepared as follows. Clean a plateful of mushrooms, cut them up and put them in a ste-wpan -with a small pat of butter, half a pint of rich gra-^y or bro-wn sauce, two table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, a httle Cayenne pepper and salt; stew these over a quick fire for ten minutes, and then, if gra-vy be used for the purpose instead of sauce, thicken it by mixing in a small pat of butter kneaded -with a table-spoonful of flour. The pie must be afterwards covered -with puff-paste, baked for one hour and a half, and then sent to table. 740. LARK PIE, A LA MELTOK MOWBRAY. Pick clean four dozen Dunstable larks, singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, cut off the -wings and legs, and with the point of a small knife remove the gizzards, and then set the larks aside on a dish. Next cut two pounds of veal cutlets and a pound of ham into scollops; fry these in a sautapan -with a little fresh butter, a pottle of button mushrooms, some parsley and two shalots, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme chopped fine; season with cayenne and salt, and the juice of a lemon. To these add half a pint of Veloute or Espagnole sauce, ana the same quantity of rich gravy; boil the whole together for -three minutes, then place the veal and ham scollops, one upon the other in the bottom of the dish; put the larks neatly and close to each other upon these, pour the sauce over them, and place the mushrooms in the centre; cover with putf-paste, bake the pie for one hoiu’ and a quarter, and serve.