289 ENTREES OF PORK. 941. lamb’s ears, fried in batter. &3E Calf’s ears so prepared (No. 916). 942. T.AArR S FEET, A LA POULETTE. Eemove tlie sliank-bones from a dozen lambs’ feet, without tearing or cutting tluougb the part that covers the bone; scald them for about five minutes in boiling water, and then immerse them in cold water; wipe and singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, rub them over Avith lemon juice, and braize them in some hlanc (No. 235) for about an hour; then drain them upon a cloth, trim ofi* the extremities neatly, make an mcision in the hoof, and remove the roimd tuft of wool; place the lamb’s feet in a stewpan containing some button-mushi-ooms and enough sauce d la Poulette for the enti-ee, toss them in this over the stove-fire until quite warm; then dish them up neatly, and serve with a border of fieurms, or croutons of fried bread. 943. l.vmb’s feet, a la d’uxelles. Beaize and trim the feet as in the foregoing case, cover them with a coating of i)’ Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firmly set by cooHng, bread-crumb them tiviee over in the usual manner, and fry them in hog’s-lard: Avhen done, drain them upon a cloth, dish them up Avdth fried parsley upon a napkin, and serve some Italian sauce (No. 12) separately in a boat. 944. lamb’s feet, fried in batter. See Calf’s feet (No. 918). ENTEEES OF POEK, COilPKISIXG G.-iskin, or Spare-rib, of Pork, d la Soubise. ,, „ ala Zyonnaise. ,, ,, d la Perigueux. Pork Cutlets, with plain gravj, &c. ,, d la sauce Eohert, &c. „ d V Aurore. „ d I’Indienne. Pig’s Feet, d la Ste. Meneliould. ,, d la Perigord. ,, d la Eichelieu. Black Puddings, d la Frangaise^ ,, d I’Anglatse. White Puddings, d la Eoyale. 945. GRISKIN, OR SPARE-RIB OF PORK, A J,A SOUBISE. Teim a griskm of pork and lard it closely, then put it in a deep dish with sliced onion and carrot, parsley, a gill of salad oil, some slices of peeled lemon, and a little mignionette pepper; aUow the griskin to steep in this for several hours, or a whole day if possible. When about to dress the griskin, twist it round, run a stout iron skewer through, and fasten it upon the spit tightly with string; cover the larding with buttered paper, and roast it before the fire for about an hour; as soon as a kind of vapour arises, and it sputters towards the fire, it is time to take it up. WTien the griskin is placed upon its dish, pour some Soubise sauce (No. 119) round it, garnish with a border of potatoes fried in clarified butter, glaze the griskin, and serve. u