ENl’REES OF BEEF. 25S ■mtli fried parsley, and send some Havigotte sauce in a boat, to be banded round. To save trouble, the piths when fried, may be dished up without a napkin or tried parsley, and the sauce poured under them. But in this case, unless they are eaten as soon as dished up, the vapour arising from the sauce destroys much of their crispness. Note.—Ox-piths when fried according to the foregoing directions, may also be served with any of the following sauces, viz.:—PiquanUy Poivrade, Italian, Tomata, &c. 828. OX-PITHS IX CASES, WITH FINE HERBS. Pbepaee these, in the first instance, according to the directions con- tained in the foregoing article. They must then be drained upon a napkin, cut into inch-lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with sufficient d’ Uxelles sauce (No. 16) for the entrh; they should then be gently mixed together, and put into about a dozen small square or round paper cases, the surfaces of which are to be strewm with raspings, or fried bread-crumbs, and then placed upon a clean baking-sheet. About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cases in the oven to get thoroughly warmed; dish them up neatly in a pyramidal form, and serve some fine herbs, or brown Italian sauce, separately in a boat. 829. CROUSTADES, OR PATTIES OF OX-PITHS. In this case, the ox-piths must be prepared according to the first part of the directions for dressing them d la Eavigotte; they must then be cut into half-inch lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with about half their quantity of prepared mushrooms, and two artichoke bottoms, previously cut into small dice; to this may be added some finished Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a little cayenne and lemon-juice; warm the whole together on the stove-fire, and garnish the croustades, or patties, with it. OX-TONGUES, COMPRISING Oi-tongues, with Spm.ach. Ox-tongues, a la Jardiniere. with Brussels-sprouts. „ d VAllemmdc. a la Macedoine. „ with Sauer-Kraut. 830. OX-TONGUE, WITH SPINACH. Peocuee a piclded tongue, run an iron skewer through it from the root to the pointed end, tie a piece of string on one end of the skewer, and fasten it at the other, so as to keep it in shape. The tongue should then be put on the fire in cold water, and kept gently boding for about three hours, when it must be taken up, and after removing the outer cuticle, shoidd be placed in the larder to cool; it should then be neatly trimmed, wrapped in a piece of buttered paper, and nut into an oval stev-pan, with a Little common broth. Three qiiar-