5 SPECIAL SAUCES. Parisian Sauce. Mustard do. Plain curry do. Wastrejische do. Flemish do. Caper Sauce for fish. Do. for boiled mutton. Cream Sauce for salt fish. Cl leans Sauce, Devil’s do. Egg do. 8. FTNANCIERE SAUCE. Put one glass of sherry or madeira into a stewpan some essence of truffles and a little cayenne; reduce tliese to half their original quantity, then add a ladleful of finished Espagnole sauce; let it boil for five minutes longer, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Put one glass of madeira into a stewpan with a spoonful of red tomata sauce, and a little cayenne ; reduce these to half their quan- tity, then add a ladleful of Espagnole or brown sauce, and some essence of mushrooms; having stirred this over the fire until it boils, set it by the side to claidfy;—skim it thoroughly, and reduce it to a proper consistency; pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie; and just before using this sauce, mix in two anchovies (that have been pounded with a very small piece of fresh butter, and passed through a tammy) with a httle lemon-juice. Place the trimmings of the birds of which the salmis is to be made, in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of salad-oil, four shalots, one bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; pass these on the stove fire for five minutes; add two glasses of any sort of good white wine ; reduce this to half its quantity, add a ladleful of Espagnole and some mush- room trimmings or essence; set the sauce to boil, and then put it by the side of the stove to clarify. Having well skimmed it, pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, pouring a small portion of the sauce on the members of the birds to keep them moist, and to waiin them in. Chop the trimmings of the birds that have been roasted off for an entree,—(w'oodcocks or snipes are generally chosen for this purpose,) place the trimmings in a stewpan, with six shalots, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, and half a bottle of red wine (claret is preferable); sim- mer these over the fire for ten minutes, add a ladleful of essence of game, and a gi’avy-spoonful of reduced Espagnole sauce; stir this on the fire until it boils, and then place it by the fire to clear itself; ten minutes after, skim it thoroughly, and having reduced it to the consistency of a thin glaze, pass it through a tammy on to the members of the birds. Just before dishing up, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 12. BROWN ITALIAN SAUCE. Chop four shalots very fine, place them in a corner of a clean napkin—securing them tightly, and immerse them in cold water to 9. TURTLE SAUCE, FOR CALF^S HEAD. 10. SALMIS SAUCE. 11. SALMIS SAUCE A L'ANCIENNE.