293 SCOLLOPS OF VENISON, ETC. done tender, remove tliem into a deep sautapan; tlien add the vegetables Avith a ragout spoon (AAdth holes in it), and after the sauce has boiled up and been skimmed, reduce it, if necessary, to its proper consistency, and pass it through a tammy into a sautapan containing the cutlets, &c.; then add a little salt, if needed; simmer the whole together on the stove-fire, dish the cutlets in the usual way, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 959. ANOTHER IMETHOD. Fry the cutlets brown, pour off aU the grease, add a pint of red wine, a pint of Espagnole, and the same proportion of consomme, season with a carrot, an onion, head of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley; allow the whole to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire until tlie cutlets are tender; they must then be removed into a sautapan, Avith a little of the sauce to warm them in, the Hd put on, and kept warm. The remainder of the sauce must then be strained through a sieve into a smaller steAv^an; and after it has been clarified, by gently boiling it by the side of the stove-fire, and thoroughly skimming all that rises to the surface, reduce it by boihng to its proper consistency, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, dish the cutlets up, fill the centre Avith some glazed carrots and turnips, previously prepared for the purpose; place some groups of small glazed button-onions round the entree, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Some neat frills of paper may be put on the bone of each cntlet. 960. CIVET OF VENISON. This dish, although not very choice, is often servnd at the tables of wealthy epicures ; in general, the inferior parts of venison,—such as the shoulder and scrag end of the neck—are used for this purpose. The venison must be cut up into pieces, and for its preparation folloAv the directions for making a civet of hare (No. 1070}. 961. VENISON SCOLLOPS. Venison for this purpose ought to be kept until it has become quite tender : a piece of the end of the neck may be used. Cut the fillet from the bones, with aU the fat adhering to it, remove the enter skin, and then cut it into scollops—taking care not to trim off more of the fat than is necessary; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season Avith pepper and salt, and fry them broAvn on both sides; pour off aU the grease, add some scoUops of mushrooms, a piece of glaze, and a glass of port Avine ; simmer the whole together over the stove-fire for about three minutes, and then pour in some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) ; toss the scoUops in the sauce on the fii’e until quite hot, and then dish them up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (No. 312), and serve. These scoUops may also be served with Portarlington sweet sauce (No. 66), in which case the mushrooms must be omitted. 962. VENISON CHOPS Cut the chops about an inch thick, from the end of the hainich or the best end of tlie neck, flatten them a little Avith a cutlet bat,