347 riLLElS 01 TROUT. paper, fastened ■with two pins: this must not touch the whitings. Bake the dolphins in a moderately-heated oven, for about forty minutes ; ascertain whether they are done through, and then remove the paper and bacon; absorb aU the grease, place them carefully upon their ^sh, garnish the entrk -ndth a ragout of button-mushrooms, oysters, and crayfish-tails; surmount the whole with a large trulfle, glaze the dolphins with a little lobster coral diluted in the glaze, pour some Supreme sauce (No. 38), finished with an essence made from the bones and trimmings, round the entree, and serve. JSfote.—Billets of whitings may also be prepared according to the several directions given for dressing fillets of soles. 1134, FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA CHEVALIERE. Divide the fillets of two good-sized trout into moderate-sized oval scollops or fillets; mask them over with reduced d' Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and bread-crumb them twice over this with bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese in the proportion of one-third ; the fillets must be first dipped in beaten egg, and then sprinkled with clarified butter, preparatory to their being bread-crumbed a second time. Pry them of a bright-yeUow colour, drain, and dish them up in a close circle, fiU the centre with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel or herrings, and crayfish tads; pour some Crayfish sauce (No. 54) round the entree, and serve. 1135. FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA REGENCE. Trim the fillets into pieces resembling fillets of fowls; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; simmer the fillets over the fire for five minutes, turn them over, and when done on both sides, dram and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with a ragout d la Regence (No. 210), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1136. EPIGRAMME OF FILLETS OF TROUT. Trim the fillets as above, bread-crumb one half, in the ordinary manner, and place these in a sautapan, with clarified butter; put the remainder into another sautapan, ■with clarified butter, writhout being bread-crumbed, and season with pepper and salt. Pry the fillets, drain and dish them up in a close circle, placing one of each kind alternately; fiU the centre with some scoUops of fflets of soles, tossed in a spoonful of Bichamel sauce, and some chopped and parboiled parsley; pour some Aurora sauce (No. 41), over th.: plain fiUets (taking care not to smear those that are bread-crumbed.), pour some of it round the base, and serve. Note.—^PUlets of plaice, flounders, and perch, may be dressed in the same manner as directed for fiUets of soles or whitings. 1137. FILLETS OF MACKERE3.. See Mackerel (No. 480).