21 SI’ECIAL SAUCES. indeed, with any other sort of plain boiled fresh-water fish, for which purpose tlie ingredients it contains render it peculiarly fitted. 89. FLEMISH SAUCE. Knead two otmces of fresh butter with an equal quantity of flour, to which add an onion, some sprigs of parsley, a little shred carrot, and a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a little minionette pepper; moisten with half a pint of cream and the same proportion of good consomme.. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and, after having kept it boiling for twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy into a bain-marie, containing the red part of a carrot, some parsley- stalks and roots, and some horse-radish, the whole of which should be previously cut into small diamonds and blanched; finish by mixing in a small spoonful of Tarragon-vinegar and three or four green Indian gherkins cut into shreds ; make the sauce hot, and serve. 90. CAPER SAUCE, FOR FISH. Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce of flour, a very little grated nutmeg, and minionette pepper; to these add a table- spoonful of capers, a piece of glaze, and a little essence of anchovies ; moisten with about half a pint of good consomme; stir the sauce on the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off; add a little lemon-juice, and serve. This kind of sauce is peculiarly adapted for broiled salmon. 91. CAPER SAUCE, FOR BOILED MUTTON. To about half a pint of good butter sauce, add a tablespoonful of capers, with a little pepper and salt. 92. CREAM SAUCE, OR BECHAMEL, FOR SALT-FISH. Place four ounces of sifted flour in a stewpan, with an equal quantity of fresh butter; knead them together well with a wooden spoon; add an onion, a carrot, a head of celeiy—the whole cut up thin—some branches of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns ; moisten with about a pint of good white consomme and half a pint of cream, adding a little salt; stir the sauce on the fire until it boils; let it continue to boil for twenty minutes, stirring it the whole time ; then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, to be kept for use. 93. BEURRE NOIR, OR BLACK BUTTER SHARP SAUCE. Place about six ounces of good fresh butter in a small stewpan, put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fritter, so as to acquire a light-brown colour; then take it off the stove, skim it, and quickly pass it through a sieve, into a stewpan containing four tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, ditto Har- vey’s sauce, ditto mushroom catsup, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce ; boil the whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or broiled mac- kerel. With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley forms an indispensable adjunct.