FRESH-WATER FISH. 140 moisten it with port wine, and set the whole to stew gently on the stove-fire. When done, take half the liquor in which the lampreys have been stewed, and reduce it mth some brown sauce; add a glass of port wine, and as soon as the sauce is reduced to a proper consist- ency, incorporate with it a pat of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon-juice, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, containing some button-mushrooms, stewed small button-onions, and some small quenelles of perch. Drain the lampreys, place them on a dish, sauce them over with the ragout, garnish ronnd with crayfisli, and send to table. 498. LAMPREY, A LA FOLEY. Take two fine lampreys, thoroughly cleansed, form each into a circular shape, and fasten them with stiing: then stew them in claret, with thi; addition of vegetables, &c., as in the foregoing cases ; as soon as the lampreys are done, reduce two-thirds of their liquor with an equal pro- portion of brown sauce, and some essence of mushrooms—when suffi- ciently reduced, incorporate mth this some crayfish butter, and a little essence of anchovi(;s, a very little nutmeg, lemon-juice, and cayenne, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing three dozen crayfish tails, and as many button-mushrooms,—previously pre- pared for the purpose. Then drain the lampreys on a napkin, and after- wards place them, one resting on the other, in the dish, sauce them over ^\^[th the prepared ragout; garnish round with a border of glazed crou- tons and fried small fiLets of perch. 499. LAMPREYS, A LA BEAUCHAMP. Truss the lampreys as directed in the previous article, stew them in old Madeira, cider, and the requisite vegetables, &c.; add two-thirds of their liquor to an equal quantity of good brown sauce, work the wliole by boiling on the fire, skim and reduce it to its proper consist- ency, add some lobster-butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-^narie containing some small round truffles, lobster quenelles, and tails of crayfish. Dish up the lampreys as in the last case, and sauce them over with the prepared ragout; garnish round with some glazed pastry fleurons, and send to table. Lampems are treated in the same manner as lampreys, being similar in flavour. 500. SMELTS, FRIED, ETC. When preparing smelts* for frying, take the gills out carefully, trim the fins, wipe the fish with a clean cloth, dip them first in flour, and afterwards in beaten egg, and then in fine bread crumbs; fry them in some heated hogs’ lard, of a fine colour; dish them up on a napkin, and garnish them with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, Crayfish, or Lobster sauce. Smelts may also be dressed with advantage in Normande matelotte, in cases, with fine-herbs, a Vltalienne, a la Royale, &e.; by observing the directions given for dressing mullets or whitings in a similar manner. * This kind of fish, which is in general estimation, is in season from August till Marcli, when after depositing their spawn in fresh water, they return to the sea.