89 ENGLISH SOUPS. wanted. Meanwhile, with the hones and trimmings prepare the souchet broth according to the directions given for making the pre- ceding souchet, and finishing in precisely the same manner, 346. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF SOLES. Havtkg filleted the souls and trimmed the fillets, take hold of each and fold one end over the other; batter the ends together with the handle of a knife, pare off any rough fragments that may remain about them, and place them in circular order in a stewpan; then pour over them the souchet prepared in the usual manner with the bones and trimmings, &c. Let the fillets thus arranged boil for five or six minutes ; ascertain that tliey are done, and serve them in a water-souchet dish, with parsley roots and leaves, previously pre- pared for that purpose. Water souchets of fillets of trout, char, and indeed of almost eveiy species o^ the more delicate kinds of fresh-water fish, are made according to the foregoing directions. ENGLISH SOUPS COMPKISIKG Turtle Soup, Do. clear. Mock-Turtle Soup. Do. clear. Mulligatawney do, Giblet Soup d I’Anglaist. Do. d VIrlandaise. Ox-tail Soup. Calves’-feet Soup d la Windsor. Hare Soup d I’Anglaise. Do. d la St. George. Leveret Soup d la Rossie. Ox-cheek Soup. Deer’s-head do. Grouse do. d la Montagnarde. 347. TURTLE SOUP. Procuee a fine lively fat turtle, weighing about 120 lbs. : fish ot this weight being considered the best, as their fat is not liable to be impregnated with that disagreeable strong savour objected to in fish of larger size. On the other hand, turtle of very small size seldom possess sufficient fat or substance to make them worth dressing. When time permits, kill the turtle overnight that it may be left to bleed in a cool place till the next morning, when, at an early hour, it should be cut up for scalding—that being the first part of the operation, If, however, the turtle is required for immediate use, to save time, the fish may be scalded as soon as it is killed. The turtle being ready for cutting up, lay it on its back, and with a large kitchen-knife separate the fiat or belly-shell from the back, by making an incision all round the inner edge of the shell; when all the fleshy parts adhering to the shell have been carefully cut away, it may be set aside. Then detach the intestines by running the sharp edge of a knife closely along the spine of the fish, and remove them instantly in a pail, to be thrown away. Cut off the fins and separate the fleshy parts, which place on a dish by them- selves till wanted. Take particular care of every particle of the green fat, which lies chiefly at the sockets of the fore-fins, and more