315 I’lGEONS, ETC. in bread-crmnbs, then dip tbem in beaten egg and bread-crumb them over again, and place tbem on a dish in the larder. About twenty minutes before dinner-time, place the pigeons carefully upon the wire aning of a frying-pan, and immerse tbem in plenty of clean bog’s-lard, made quite hot for the purpose; as soon as they have acquired a Hght- brown colour, remove tbem from the frying-pan on to a napkin to absorb any grease. Then, pHe up some Maxiedoine of vegetables (No. 143) m the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round this in circular order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish; put a decorated fillet of chicken in between each pigeon, surmount the entrie with a group of nicely-turned small vegetables, pour some AllemaTide or Bechamel sauce round the base of the entrSe, and serve. 1025. PIGEONS, A LA SEVILLE. These are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the foregoing, excepting that they must be braized in some wine mirepoix (No. 236), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat bacon and only moistened half their depth; braize them gently for about twenty muiutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. "When the pigeons are done, drain them upon a napkin, remove the strings, and dish them up with their backs resting up against a small croustade of fried bread, previously made fast on the bottom of the dish; garnish with a Spanish ragout, place a large crayfish between each pigeon, and a decorated minion fillet of fowl upon their breasts, smmount the whole with a small larded sweetbread, and serve. Tlie ragout above alluded to consists of small truffles, carrots, pieces of ham, mushrooms, and a few boiled garbangas, or yellow peas; these must be first slightly fried in a little oil, and a spoonful of Tomata sauce, a glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of the powder of the sweet red Pimento, and a piece of glaze added; simmer the whole together over a slow fire until the carrots are done; then skim off all the grease, add a small ladleful of finished Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and two dozen cloves of garlick, previously boiled in water; the ragout must be allowed to boil gently by the side of the stove for five minutes longer; then, after it has been skimmed, add the juice of half a lemon, and use it as directed. 1026. PIGEONS, AU GPvATIN, IN A CASE. E.EMOVE all the bones from six young pigeons, then make some force-meat of fat livers (No. 249), and stufl' the pigeons with this; they must next be trussed and gently braized for about a quarter of an hour in a small quantity of moistening, after this removed on to a dish and placed in the larder to become cold. Make a circular case of stout paper, oil it over, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to make it firm; line this case with some of the force-meat, and place the pigeons in it in neat order; fill up the cavities mth the remainder of the force-meat, cover them over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and then set the case in the oven to be baked for about half an hour. The bacon must then be removed, and all the grease absorbed by gently pressing a clean napkin upon it, and put on its dish. Place some scollops of mushrooms and troffles, simmered with a spoonful of fine- herbs on the top, pour some brown Italian sauce (No. 12'i over the tntrie, and serve.