57 QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL. AND FORCE- MEATS FOR GRATINS. COJIPEISINa Bread Panada for quenelles. Pate a choux Panada. Preparation of Calf’s Udder. Quenelle of Chicken or Fowl. Do. of Pheasant or Partridge. Quenelle ot Hare. Do. ot Babbit. Do. of small Birds. Do. of Fish or Lobsters. 240. BREAD PANADA FOR QUENELLES. Take the crumb of two new French rolls, and steep it in tepid water for ten minutes, then put it into a napkin and wring it tightly, in order to remove the water from the bread. Put the crumb into a stewpan with two oimces of fresh butter, a little salt, and two spoonfuls of white broth. Put these on tlie stove-fire, continuing to stir the panada the whole time with a wooden spoon until it assumes the appearance of paste, and no longer adheres to the bottom of the stewpan, then add three yolks of eggs, and turn it out on a plate, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, and having covered it with a round piece of buttered paper, place it in the larder until required for use. 241. PATE A CHOUX PANADA*. To half a pint of white chicken broth add four ounces of fresh butter and a little salt; put the stewpan containing these on the fire; as soon as it begins to simmer, mix in with the fore-mentioned ingredients five ounces of sifted flour, and by continuing to stir this batter on the fire for five minutes, it will become a delicately firm paste, which must be worked over the fire until it freely leaves the sides of the pan. Then take three yolks of eggs and quickly mix them in the batter; put it on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, and keep it in the cool till wanted for use. This kind of panada is preferred by some cooks to bread panada; being considered by them more delicate and less liable to produce fermentation in warm weather; however, bread panada has the advantage of not collapsing, as is the case with the pate a choux panada, if prepared some time before ihQ,qiienelle in which it is used be eaten. 242. PREPARATION OF CALF’S UDDER. The udder is an elongated piece of fat-looking substance, attached to the inner part of a leg of veal. It is easily separated from the meat by a knife, and should then be bound round with twine in the shape of a sausage, so as to prevent it from falling to pieces on taking it out of the stockpot; the udder so tied up is then put into the stockpot to boil. Having allowed the dressed udder time to cool and get firm, either on the ice or otherwise, pare off the outside with a knife, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a AngHcc, ''petty shoes.”