SMALL PASTRY. 426 1318. PUFF-PASTE RINGS, OR WREATHS. Give eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll this out to the sixth part of an inch in thickness ; then stamp out twenty circular pieces with a fluted tin cutter about one inch and three quarters in diameter, and stamp out the centre of these with a plain circular cutter about three quarters of an inch in diameter, then place the rmgs on a wetted baking-sheet; shake some flne sugar over them, and bake them of a very light colour (at very moderate heat). When they are done, decorate them with some whipped white of egg and sugar, over wliich strew some coarse sugar; put them to dry in the screen, and then finish decorating them by placiug or inserting some strips of currant or apple-jeUy in between the folds or dots of the decoration. Note.—Puff-paste turned or folded eight times, then rolled out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and stamped out with ap- propriate fancy-shaped tin cutters—either in the form of crescents, leaves, trefoil or shamrock, stars, &c,, and after being baked as directed in the foregoing case, may also be decorated in the same manner; a cornet of paper should be used for this purpose. 1319. POLISH CAKES. Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out as in the foregoing cases, and then cut it up into square pieces measuring rather better than two inches each way ; wet these in the centre, and then fold down the corners, so as to make them all meet in the middle of the piece of paste ; place a dot of paste in the centime of each, pressing it down with the end of the finger, egg them over, and bake them in a rather sharp oven, of a fine bright light colour, and just before they are done, shake some finely-siffced sugar over them ; put them back again in the oven to melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot sala- mander over them to give them a glossy appearance. Decorate this kind of pastry with bright red-cmTant or apple-jeHy. 1320. HARRY THE VIIL’s SHOESTRINGS. This kind of pastry is prepared in the first instanee m exactly the same manner as the foregoing, as far as folding the comers down. Then cut out a small angle from each of the parts that have been folded down, which will then present the appearance of four bows joined together ; place a small ring of puff-paste in the centre of each, which must be fastened on by first wetting the part; they should be then egged over and baked of a bright light colour, and afterwards glazed as directed in the foregoing cases. Previously to dishing them up, fin a comet of paper with some firm red-currant-jeUy, and use this to draw rather bold hues all roimd the angular parts of the bows, and also roimd the ring that has been placed in the centre; then, with another paper cornet filled with bright apricot or green gage-jam, fill in the centre of the bows: this kind of decoration produces a very brilliant effect. 1321. PUFF-PASTE PLAITS. Give nine turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and then cut this into bands about five inches in width, and divide these into narrow strips a