TURBOT AND BRILL. 113 when done, drain and place it on a dish; reduce the liquor, add to it some Allemande sauce, in which mix two pats of butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne; work the sauce well together on the fii’e, and then add two dozen button-mushrooms, the same quantity of blanched oysters or muscles, and an equal proportion of very small quenelles ot whiting; cover the turbot with the sauce, and garnish it round with some trimmed large crayfish and glazed croutons of fried bread. 403. TURBOT A LA BECHAMEL. Prepaee some good rich cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6), put the flakes of some boiled turbot in it, toss them lightly together on the fire, serve the turbot piled up on the dish in the foi’m of a dome, and garnish it round with potato croquettes, fleurons of puff paste, or croutons of bread. This method of dressing tm’bot, as well as turbot a la creme au gratin, is generally had recourse to for the purpose of turning the previous day’s fish to a good account; nevertheless the sauces, in both cases, really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express purpose. Turbot dressed as above may also be served in a vol-au-veiit. 404. TURBOT A LA MARECHALE. Prepare a turbot as for Matelotte Normande (No. 402), drain it, and set it on a dish to cool; then spread it over on both sides with some reduced Allemande sauce; shake some fine bread-crumbs over this, and after dipping it in some eggs seasoned with a little salt, and whipped up in a dish for the purpose, bread-crumb it over again thoroughly. About twenty minutes before dinner, place the turbot on a wire receiver, and fry it in a convenient-sized pan, containing some clean hog’s lard, heated to a proper degree. As soon as the coating on the turbot is coloured of a very light brown colour, take the fish out of the fat on to a cloth, press it lightly with a clean napkin, in order to absorb any grease there may be on it, and placing it on a baking-sheet, keep it in the hot closet till required to be dished up, put the turbot then on a dish, and pour round the following sauce:— Eeduce the liquor in which the turbot has been baked, and add to it some Allemande sauce, and mix in a pat of anchovy butter, some green Ravigotte, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Next, garnish round with quenelles of whiting shaped with two dessert-spoons, one half of which must be coloured with lobster-coral, and the other with some black truffles chopped very fine, and mixed in the quenelle force-meat previously to their being shaped. Send to table some of the sauce as usual in a boat. 405. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L’iNDIENNE. UuT a small turbot into neatly-trimmed fillets or scollops, eet them carefully in a deep sautapan with a little fresh butter, h.ui^ two spoonfuls of Captain White’s curry paste; put the lid on the sautapan, and place it on a slow fire, or in the oven, to simmer gently foi twenty minutes; then take it out, and add thereto some* I