roR SOUPS. 75 The puree in this and similar cases, should be kept rather thinner than when intended to be served without a gai-nish. 304. SOUP A LA FABERT. Take six quails, draw, singe, and cut them into quarters—making two fillets with the pinions left on as for o. fricassee, and bone the legs —leaving only sufficient length of the thigh-bone to give it the shape of a cutlet,—rolling the skin round so as to give it a cushion-like appearance. Place these in a stewpan, the bottom of which has been covered with thin layers of fat bacon; take care to preserve the shape of the members, and braize them in a light wine mirepoix (No. 236). Having thus prepared the quails, when done, drain and trim them, and afterwards place them in the soup-tureen, together with their own stock, which when freed from every particle of fat must then be clarified, and also a proportionate quantity of julienne vegetables— prepared as for the soup bearing that name; and then, over these, liour a puree of green-peas nearly boiling, and send to table. 305. PUREE OF SPRING HERBS. Take a double-handful of sorrel, thi'ce cabbage-lettuces, a handful of cheiwil, the same proportion of dandelion, and a little balm and burrage. Wash these thoroughly and place them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and set the whole on the stove-fire to simmer, quickly stin-ing them the whole time; then add three pints of good consomme of veal or fowl; allow the soup to boil gently by the side of tlie fire for half an hour; and just before sending to table, finish the soup by mixing in it gradually, a leason of six yolks of eggs and half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and pounded sugar. Put some duchess ’ crusts in the soup-tureen, pour the soup thereon, and seiwe up Be careful that the soup be not allowed to boil, as, in that case, the eggs would curdle, and thereby render the soup unsightly, if not unpalatable. 306. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS A LA VICTORIA. Just before dinner-time, roast off two plump spring chickens; as soon as they are taken off the spit, cut the breasts and legs into small members, put them into the soup-tureen with two dozen small quenelles of fowl, and then pour on the whole a puree of green-peas, nearly boiling and prepared in the usual manner, and send to table 307. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS A LA PRINCESSE. Pkepaee a steamed custard in the manner following:—Take one pint of cream of rice (No. 317), mix gradually thex’ewith eight yolks of eggs, pass this preparation thi’ough a tammy, into a plain round mould—previously buttered for the purpose — and after having steamed it in the same way as you would any other custard, allow it to get cold, turn it out of the mould, and then cut it into small pillar- like shapes an inch long: put these into the soup-tureen with a little consomme, to prevent them from being clogged together, pom* a boiling puree of green-peas on them, and send to table. * From the French liaison, a connection or binding.