SICILIAN BISCUITS. 417 ounces of chocolate dissolved Avith a wine-glassful of Avater; work the whole well together, and use it whde hot; but, if it should become cold, and set before the operation is terminated, the preparation may be easily liquified by stirring it over the fire. Cakes both large and small may be glach, or glazed, in this manner in almost infinite variety, by using any kind of liqueur, or a very strong infusion of tea or coffee instead of the chocolate here recom- mended. 1298 Z. SUISSE LECRELETS. Ingeedients :—Eight ounces of honey,four oimces of sweet-almonds, blanched and shred, half an ounce of cinnamon-powder, a quarter of an ounce of ground cloves, half a nutmeg grated, six ounces of pounded sugar, half an ounce of carbonate of potash, six ounces of candied orange, lemon and citron, a wine-glassnil of Kirschen-wasser, ditto of orange-flower-water, and the gi’ated rind of two lemons, one pound of flour, including the quantity required to manipulate the paste on the slab. Put the honey in a copper egg-bowl on the stove-fire, and when it is melted, skim off the froth, and immediately add the shred almonds, the ground spices, and the grated lemon-peel; mix these weU together ■with a wooden spoon, and then add the sugar, the Kirschen-wasser^ the orange-flower-water, and the candied peels ready shred for the purpose ; and, after having mixed m these, then add the carbonate of potash dissolved in a table-spoonful of water, and also fourteen ounces of flour, leaving the remainder for manipulating the paste on the slab). This paste must now be gently stirred over the fire for three or foui minutes longer, and then placed in a covered pan in a cool place for three days pre-viously to its being used ; the further process must be directed as follows :— Cut the XecreZei-paste into foxu equal parts; and, after having first strewn the slab "with some of the flour reserved for the purpose, roU out each of the four pieces to about the eighth part of an inch thick; these squares must now be placed on baking-sheets, pre-viously buttered and floured for the purpose; and, after bemg deeply marked out or cut into small oblong-squares, must be rubbed over -with a paste- brush dipped in water to remove the flour from the surface. Next, bake the Lecrelets in a rather slack oven of a light colour, and when they are about three parts done, let them be nearly cut through into shape, and immediately they have been brushed over with some thin white icing, replace them in the oven to finish being baked. When the Lecrdets have been -withdrawn from the oven a sufficient time to have become cold, break them up as marlted out, and put them away in a tin box in a dry place. These cakes are well adapted for dessert, luncheon, or as a pleasant adjunct for the supper-tray. 1298 m. SICILLAN BISCUITS. iNGEEDTENTS:—Eour eggs, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, ten ounces of flour, a stick of vanida pounded. Whisk the eggs, the sugar, and the vanida together in a copper egg-bowl, over a ve.y slow stove-fire until the batter begins to frel waan ; it must then be removed from off the fire, and whisked briskly 2 E