DRESSED EISH IN GENERAL. 12(3 some pieces of liver and charlton*,—which should be boiled apart from tlie fish, so tliat the oil contained in the liver may not spoil the colour or flavour of the cod. Send up to table with a boat of Oyster sauce (No. 50). 445. SLICES OF COD A LA SEVILLE. Wash and diy half a pound of Carolina rice; fiy it in salad-oil, drain it on a sieve, and afterwax’ds put it into a large fricandeau pan; then cut some pieces of crimped cod, about four inches square, and fiy them of a fine colour in some salad-oil, after which drain and place them on the rice. Next cut a Spanish onion into veiy tliin slices, and fry these in some of the oil used for the fish; drain off the oil and add six large ripe tomatas, from which the seeds have been squeezed ; simmer tlie tomatas and tlie onion together on the fire for five minutes, and pour the whole on the fish and rice; season with a little cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice; moisten with a pint of good broth ; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid of the pan, and put the whole to bake in the oven. In about half an hour, the fish and rice will be done, when take the pieces of cod out of the rice, place them on an earthen dish, and with a wooden spoon stir the rice over the fire, in order to mix it with the seasoning; after which put the rice on a silver dish, and place the pieces of cod-fish on it; sauce it round with some Muscle sauce (No. 52), and send to table. This is a favourite dish in Spain. 446. COD A lTndienne. Teiw some pieces of cod in the shape of fillets; keep them rather thick; place them neatly in a deep sauta-pan, previously buttered; tlien moisten them with some Indian Curry sauce (No. 47) prepared for the purpose; cover with a stevq>an-lid, and set the fillets on a sharp fire to simmer ; about twenty minutes will suffice to stew tliem; then dish up the fiUets—the one overlaying the other—in the form of a circle; pass the sauce through a tammy, pour it over tliem, and send to table. 447. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD A LA HOLLANDAISE. In order to produce this fish in peifection, it is advisable to bespeak some very thin slices of crimped cod, not more than half an inch thick, of the fishmonger, a day or two beforehand. About an hour or two before dinner, sprinkle the slices of cod with salt; and ten minutes before sending to table, boil them quickly ; as soon as done, dish them up, and send them to be eaten immediately, with some delicately-prepared Dutch sauce (No. 42). This method of preparing crimped fish is a favourite one in Hol- land; where, however, plain butter is taken with it, prepared as follows:— Put the butter in a small stewpan, wdth a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; then keep stirring it by a slow fire till the butter is sufficiently melted, taking care that it does not become oily 448. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD A LA COLBERT. Procure some very thin slices of crimped cod; bread-crumb and • A soft whitish substance in curling folds found inside cod-fish.