calf’s head. 181 a large panful of cold water, in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed, after which, put it on the fire in a large stewpan with cold water, and as soon as it boils, skim it well, and allow it to boil for five minutes, then take it up and put it into cold w^ater to cool. Next, drain it on a napkin, cut the ears out, leaving a sufficient base round then., to allow them to stand up; cut the cheeks, &c., into pieces two inches square, round the angles, and pare off any rough •’uticle there may be about them; this done, proceed to rub each piece of calf’s-head with lemon-juice, then place the whole, including the tongue, in a large stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, parsley roots, sweet-basil, a garnished faggot of parsley, &c. four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with half a bottle of sherry or Madeira, and two ladlefuls of good white stock, and set the whole to braize gently on a moderate fire, for about two hours. When the pieces of calf’s-head are done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle round the tongue (previously trimmed, glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish) ; then cut the brains into scoUops, and place them in the flanks, and at each end place the ears, pre- viousy trimmed and curled; pour some parsley and butter (No. 77) over the remove, and send to table. The calf’s ears should be trimmed as follows:—Tirst drain them upon a napkin, then scrape off all the glutinous surface from the thin part with the edge of a spoon, leaving the white gristly membrane quite clear; wash them in warm water, put them back upon the napkin, and then slit them into narrow stripes, taking care not to run the knife through the ends, but merely from the inner part to within half an inch of the point, so as that, when the ear is turned down, it may present the appearance of a looped frill It is customary to send a piece of boiled streaky bacon on the side- table when calf’s-head is intended to be eaten plain. A boatful of sauce d la Diable (No. 17), as an accessory to plain calf’s-head, is generally preferred to parsley and butter, the latter being considered too insipid. 625. calf’s-head, plain with piquante sauce. Peepaee the calf’s-head as directed in the preceding article; then put about one pour i of chopped beef-suet into a large stewpan with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire until the suet is melted, then add the pulp of two lemons and a small handful of flour: moisten with common white broth or water, add a little salt and a few pepper-corns, and then set the calf’s-head to boil gently for about two hoims. When it is done, drain the pieces upon a napkin, and dish them up neatly round the tongue trimmed and glazed, and placed m the centre of the dish; place the ears, after trimming them, at each end, and on either side of the tongue place half the brains (which should be boiled in vinegar and water with a little salt and some fat from the stock-pot), make an incision lengthwise in each haH portion of the brains, then pour a well-made Fiquante sauce (No. 18) over the whole : garnish round with eight fried eggs and some croutons, and send to table. Calf’s-head, prepared according to the foregoing directions, may also