467 CREAMS. eggs are set; then strain the cream through a tammy into a large basin, and mix in with it half a pint of whipped cream, and one oimce and a half of clarified isinglass. Pour the cream into a mould im- bedded in rough ice. 1437. ORANGE-FLOWER CREAJM. Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a stewpan, with two ounces of pounded sugar; stir these over a slow fire until the sugar is merely melted, and pour in a pint of cream, adding eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a very little salt; stir this preparation over the fire to set the yolks of eggs, and then strain the cream through a tammy into a basin ; add half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass to it, mix well together, and then pour the cream into a mould imbedded in rough ice. Note.—The flavouring of this kind of cream may be varied according to taste, by substituting lemon, orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, or any other kind of essence or liqueiu, for the foregoing. 1438. PISTACHIO CREAM. PaeboiIi eight ounces of pistachio kernels for two minutes in bod- ing water; then remove the skin, wash and wipe the kernels, and pound them in a mortar with six ounces of sugar and a dessert- spoonful of orange-flower water; rub the whole through a fine hair- sieve, and place it in a large basin. Add to the pounded pistachios a spoonful of the green extract of spinach (ISTo. 285), a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass ; mis well toge- ther, pour the cream into an oded mould, and then set it in ice in the usual way. 1439. ITALIAN CREAM. Put eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan with four ounces of ratafias, eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a smad stick of cinnamon, a wine-glassful of cura5ao, and a pint of cream; stir this over a stove-fire, in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, and then strain it through a tammy into a basin. Add thereto half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after having wed mixed the whole together, potu it into a mould ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. 1440. RUSSIAN CILA.RLOTTE. Teim about six ounces of finger-biscuits perfectly straight, so as to make them fit closely to one another, and fine the bottom and sides of a plain mould vrith these ; then fid the interior of the charlotte with any one of the foregoing creams. The same kinds of fruit as are used for making a Macidoine jelly may be introduced in the cream. 1441. CELESTESTA STRAWBERRY CREAM. Imbed a jedy-mould, or plain c/iar?o^^e-mould, in some rough ice contained in an earthen pan ; dne the bottom and sides of the mould with picked strawberries: which must first be dipped in some per- fectly-cold liquid jedy ; then fid the interior of this kind of charlotte with some strawl)erry-cream, prepared for the purpose. 2 H 2