CLEAR CONSOM.ME 68 Steam this in the same way as you would any other custard; and, when done, put it to cool in the larder. Cut tlie custard thus pre- pared into fanciful shapes, and having placed them in the toeen, pour on gently two quarts of boiling, sti’ong, bright consomme, of the same kind that is used to mix the custard v/ith. 278. PAYSANNE SOUP. Tins is to be prepared in exactly the same manner as the Flemish soup, except that, instead of tlie Brussels sprouts, the following must be used: the leaves of two summer cabbages cut into pieces the size and shape of a shilling, the hearts of four lettuces slit into thick shreds, a few leaves of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil. After these have been boiled with the other vegetables ten minutes, add to them two dozen scollops of braized beef ; season with a little minionette pep- per, and serve. 279. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA JARDINIERE. For a dinner of sixteen covers, order a dozen small rolls to be made of the size and shape of an egg; rasp them, and take tlie crumb out carefully without disturbing the shape of the rolls. When the cramb is taken out, put the rolls or hollow cmsts on a baking sheet in the oven, for the purpose of making them crisp, as well as to give them a light brown colour. An hour before dinner, put the crusts thus prepared into a deep silver dish, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of consomme of fowl to cover them. Place tlie dish containing the crasts on a trevet over a stove-fire of moderate heat, and there allow the crusts to be- come gratinated, that is to say, to acquhe, by means of boiling down, a concentration of flavour, and that appearance of crispness, which is as alluring to the eye as it is savoury to the palate. When the consomme is pei’fectly absorbed by the crusts, put them in the oven in order to increase their crispness, but be extremely careful tliat they do not bum. Just before sending to table, pour on to the crusts thus prepared a jardiniere, composed of small pipe-like pieces of carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, a few small button onions, green- peas, French beans, aspai’agus-heads, and also a few flowerets of white cauliflower. Only a small quantity of consomme should be put with the crusts and Jardiniere*, as it is usual to serve up a tureen of clear consomme separately, from which the guests are served; a small ladleful of the gratinated crusts, &c., should be fii'st put into the soup-plate, and some of the consomme added afterwai'ds. 280. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA PRINCESSE. Prepare the same number of rolls according to tlie preceding in- structions. A few minutes before dinner, add to the cmsts three dozen small quenelles of chicken rolled into the shape of pieces of macaroni, an inch long, half a pint of asparagus-heads, and a little boiling con- somme. Send up two quai’ts of consomme in a soup-tureen, and serve as described in the last-mentioned soup. 281. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA ROYALE. Prepare the cmsts as before stated, adding four ounces of grated •This observation is applicable to all gratinated soups.