COLD ENTREES. 380 it m circular order, aud decorate tlie upper part of each with black truffles; the fillets must then be covered with a little bright aspic- jelly, to produce the same thickness upon the upper surface as the under. "W^hile this is goiug on, a border of vegetables should be prepared as follows: first, cut some carrots and turnips with vege- table cutters, as for a chartreuse, and boil them separately in broth; prepare also some French-beans or asparagus-heads, and green-peas, which, when boiled, must be used to ornament a border-mould iu exactly the same manner as a chartreuse ; observing that each piece of vegetable must be first dipped in some aspic-jelly, previously to its being placed in the inoidd. When the mould is lined, the void left must be fiUed up with some sort of vegetables cut «maller, and tossed in aspic- jeUy seasoned with a little mignionette-pepper and salt, a very little salad-oil and tan’agon vinegar; it must then be imbedded in pounded rough ice, until set quite firm. The border should now be turned out upon its dish, and the fiUets of fowls, previously stamped out with a tin-cutter dipped in hot water, must be placed on the top of the border, in close circular order, each one overlaying the other ,- fin the centre of the entree witli a copious Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), tossed in a little glaze and aspic-jelly; garnish the base of the entree with bold croutons of jelly, and serve. Or, when the border is dished up, fiU the centre with the Mace- doine, and place the fillets, Avith the broad ends resting full on the top of the border; thus causing the pointed ends to meet at the stunmit; crown this with a bouquet of chopped jelly, insert a narrow slip of red tongue, cut in the form of a cock’s-comb, between each fillet, and place an angular crouton of jelly so as apparently to support the tongue : garnish the base with croutons of jeUy, and serve. 1240. SANDWICHES, A LA REGENCE. Foe this purpose, it is necessary to order one or more dozens ot very small round or oval rolls, about the size of an egg ; cut a small piece off the top of each, about the circumference of hall-a-crown piece, and remove aU the crumb Jfrom the inside. These roUs must then be filled with the following preparation. First, shred the white meat from the breast of a roast fowl, and put this in a basin ; then shred the fillets of six washed anchovies, and some red tongue or dressed ham in equal proportion to the fowl, and place these with the latter; add about one-sixth part of the whole, of Iridian gherkins or mangoes, also shred fine; iseason with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, add sufficient Eimoulade sauce (No. 95) to moisten the whole, and use the preparation as directed above. The rolls must then be covered with the circular pieces reserved for the purpose, and dished up on a napkin. ]}iote.—These sandwiches may also be prepared with lobster; in which case, neither ham nor tongue should be used. 1241. SitNDWICHES OF FILLETS OF SOLES. SixiMEE the fillets of soles in a sautapan with a little clarified but- ter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; when done, put them in press be- tween two dishes, and afterwards divide each fillet into foim scollops ; trim, and put them into a basin with a little mignionette-pepper, salt^