CALF'S LIVILK, ETC. 281 They may also be scored with all kinds of garnishes of dressed vegetables, "pare'es of vegetables, or any kind of sauce served with cutlets. 913. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA PODLE'TTE. Whek the sweetbreads have been scalded in the usual manner, cut them into circrdar scollops, place them in neat order in a sautapan, with a little clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley and lemon-juice ; simmer them over a moderate fire for about ten minutes, and when done, remove them into a stewpan containing enough sauce d la Poulette for the entrie, add some scollops of mush- rooms or truffles, toss the whole together gently over the stove-fire until sufficiently hot, and then dish them up in a pyramidal form, and serve with a border of croquettes of potatoes round the entree. Note.—ScoUops of sweetbreads d la Pusse, and d la Provengale, are prepared in the same manner as veal cutlets under these names. 914. CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREADS. When the sweetbreads have been scalded, put them into a small stewpan with two shalots, a little mignionette-pepper and salt, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; moisten with some stockpot toppings, and set them to braize gently for about twenty minutes ; when done, drain them on a plate to get cold, after which let them be cut up into very small dice, and mis with some stiff-reduced Allemande sauce ; season mth a little pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; stir the whole gently over the stove-fire for two minutes, spread the prepara- tion on a dish about an inch thick, and put it in the larder to get cold. The croquettes then must be shaped, bread-crumbed, and fried in the same manner as directed for veal croquettes. Note.—Some red tongue, mushrooms or tmffles, cut hito small dice, may also be mixed m mth the sweetbreads. CALF’S EAES, FEET, LIVSE, AND BEAINS, COMPRISING Calf’s Ear, d la Tortue. „ fried, with Tomata Sauce. C&lPs Feet, d la Pascaline. ,, fried, with Italian Sauce. CalPs Liver, braized, with Vegetables. CalPs Liver, fried, with Fine-herbs Sauce CalPs Brains, with Matelotte Sauce. ,, with Nutbrown Butter. ,, fried, d la Provengale. „ Scolloped. 915. calf's ears, a la tortue. Pkocuee four white calf’s ears (cut with a broad base), scald them in boiling water for five minutes, after which plunge them in cold water, and let them be wiped dry ; then hold them on the point of a skewer over the flame of a charcoal fire, to singe off any remaining hairs ; wipe them clean, rub them over with lemon-juice, and braize them in some hlanc (N o. 235) for about an hour and a half or two hours. When the ears are done, drain them on a wet napkin, and with the back of the blade of a small knife scrape off aU the soft skin;