SPONGADA DI TOLEDO. 473 ■eery strong coiFee, made in the ordinaiy way, must be substituted for the maraschino. These souffles may be ^eatly varied by altering the flavour; using for that purpose any kind of liqueur, orange-flower-water, vanilla, orange, lemon, &c., &c., &c. 1459. BISCUITS GLACES. The preparations described in the foregomg articles serve equally for this pirrpose; small square, oblong, or round paper cases being filled with the same, and afterwards placed in a tin or zinc box, made expressly for such purposes; and which may be easily obtained at small cost, either at Eavey’s, in Conduit street, or Temple’s, in Mot- comb street; the only houses where culinary utensils are to be had in greatest perfection. 1460. LA SPONGADA DI EOMA. Ingeedients :—One pint of clarified syrup, six ounces of dissolved chocolate, a table-spoomul of vanilla sugar, an equal quantity of cinnamon sugar, four ounces of shred pistachios, two ounces of Diavolini, or ginger comfits, six whites of eggs, hlix the syrup, dissolved chocolate, the whites of eggs (previously broken up with a fork in a basin), the vaniUa and cinnamon sugars ; and, when these are well mixed together, let them be strained through a sieve, and poured into the freezing-pot, previously set with ice, &c., in a pail for the purpose. Next, let the freezing pot be worked or twirled round with the left hand, while the spongada is being at the same time worked with a spatula held in the right hand, bearing in mind that this method of working the ice, while it is being frozen, is requisite, in order to facilitate the addition of the fixed air, necessary to promote its lightness, and by means of which its volume is thus increased twofold. "When the spongada has become firm, and at the same time light, the ginger comfits and the shred pistachios shoiild be lightly mixed in with it; and immediately after, let the spongada be moulded in any kind of iced-pudding-moidd; and after it has been properly immersed in rough ice prepared in the usual way, for about three hours, let the spongada be carefully turned out upon a napkin and served for a second-course remove, 1461. SPONGADA DI TOLEDO. Ingeeuients :—Eight ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of bitter ahnonds, pounded with half a pint of water, and strained through a^ sieve to produce half a pint of milk of almonds, one pint of strong clarified syrup, a wine-glassful of Kirschen-wasser, six whites of eggs, six ounces of burnt ahnonds, slightly bruised, and half a pint of cream whipped. Mrx the milk of almonds, the syrup, whites of eggs, and the Kirschen-wasser weh together, and strain them through a sieve into a freezing-pot ready set in ice, work this as directed in the preceding article, and when it has increased to twice its original quantity, let the bruised burnt aunonds and the whipped cream be lightly added in with the spongada. Mould as in the former case.