TOUllTEH 232 aud ill these openings insert sman round thin scollops of rea tongue, black truffle, or green gherkins, Next, place these in a sautapan, with 4 oz. of clarihed butter, season with a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, or a round of paper buttered, and set them aside in the larder till wanted, Wliile this is going on, make an extract, or essence, with the bones and trimmings of the whitings, as follows:—Put the bones, &c., into a stewpan, with two shalots, one bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, eight pepper-corns, a blade of mace, and a handful of parsley ; moisten with two glasses of white wine (French is preferable), and a pint of Avhite broth. Set this to bod gently on the stove-fire for half an hour, then strain it through a sieve; boil it down nearly to a glaze, and mix it vdth enough Allemande sauce, or Bechamel, for the entr6e, and pass it through a tammy into a stewpan, containing the quenelles of whiting before alluded to, ivith the addition of a dozen button- mushrooms, double that quantity of crayfish-tails and claws, trimmed, and 3 oz. of truffles, cut into thick slices; toss the whole together gently over the fire until quite hot, then garnish the tourte with this ragout, and ■with the fillets before mentioned (previously set in the oven for ten minutes to simmer, and afterwards drained on a napkin), make a border round the inner edge of the VoVau'‘vent, or tourte ; place a group of crayfish-tails, previously warmed in a small stewpan, \\ith a bit of glaze, and a morsel of lobster-coral butter (to colour them), and crown the whole -with a large crayfish, trimmed, having one prong of each claw stuck into its tad; sauce neatly with the remainder of the sauce, and serve quickly. 769. TOUKTE OF GODIVEAU, AU MADERE. Prepare about 1 lb. of godiveau (No. 250), and make it into small quenelles in the fodo’ning manner:—Shake a handful of flour over a pastry-slab, or kitchen-table ; drop the godiveau thereon -ttdth a tea- spoon, in small quantities ; then rod each of these •with the fingers dipped in floiu-, to the size and form of a common cork; set them in regidar order upon a bakiug-sheet, and put them to bake in the oven for about ten minutes; when done, remove them into a ste'wpan, containing some Madeira sauce (No. 8), in sufficient quantity for the entree, and also two artichoke-bottoms, cut into angular pieces, a few scoUops of sweetbreads, some ox-piths, cut into inch-lengths, and a few large button-mushrooms; set the whole to bod on the stove-fire for three minutes ; garnish the tourte, and on the top of the ragout, place eight trimmed crayfish, m the centre of which put a large truffle, or smaU sweetbread, larded and glazed; pour in the remainder of the sauce, and serve. 770. TOURTE OF OX-PALATES, A LA FRANCAISE. Prepare the ox-palates as directed in the first part of the article treating of the Pate chaud of ox-palates. Put the scoUops into a stev'pan containing one-fourth part of their quantity of red tongue cut into round scoUops, and a like proportion of button mushrooms and scoUops of truffles; to which add enough Poivrade sauce (No. 29) for the entree; bod the whole together, and garnish the tourte with this ragout, pu't the cover on, and serve.