103 NATIONAL SOUPS. scollops of any sort of fish (crimped cod or whiting is the best for the purpose) prepared as follows: cut two slices of crimped cod into small scollops, and put them into a deep sauta-pan with a little Lucca oil, mmionette pepper, and a little salt, some chopped tarragon and chervil, and the juice of half a lemon; fry these on the fire, put them into tlie soup-tureen, and when the soup is poured on them, throw in a small plateful of duchess’ crusts fried in Lucca oil, and send to table. 380. BORSCH, OR POLISH SOUP. Place in a good-sized stockpot a large knuckle of veal, an old hen, partially roasted and coloured, a couple of marrow-bones, one pormd of streaky lean bacon (trimmed and parboiled for the purpose), two caiTots, two heads of celery, and two onions stuck witli six cloves; also a large faggot of parsley and green onions tied together with a little thjme, sweet basil, bay-leaf, and mace; then add a tea- spoonful of white peppercorns. Fill the stockpot up with prepared juice of beet-root-, set it upon the stove-fire to boil, and after being skimmed, let it boil gently by the side of the fire for an hour; then add a fowl, a duck, a partridge (trussed for boiling), and six pork sausages. Obseiwe, that the foregoing articles be not overdone, and be careful to take them up directly tliey are sufficiently braized; then place them on a dish, and set them in the larder to get cold. While the stock is in preparation, peel two raw beet-roots, and shred them, also two onions, and an equal quantity of the white part of two heads of celeiy% as if for julienne soup; fry these vegetables in a little butter, of a light colour, moisten with a quart of broth from the boiling stock, and having gently boiled them down to the consistency of a demi-glaze, set them by in a soup-pot in the larder. Then chop four ounces of fillet of beef with the same quantity of beef suet, add a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; pound this force-meat thoroughly, and use half of it to make thirty small round quenelles, by rolling them with a little flour on the table ; poach these in a little broth, and having drained them upon a napkin, add them to tlie shred vegetables put by in the soup-pot. With the remainder of the force-meat make the same number of very small oval quenelles, which, after being rolled with flour, set in a small sauta-pan to be fried of a light colour, just before dinner-time. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in halves lengthwise; take the yolks out and pound them with two raw yolks of eggs, a little gi-ated horse-radish, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; fill the eggs again with this farce, and having replaced the halves together, dip them in a beaten egg, and then roll them in bread-crumb, and set them aside to be fried at tlie same time as the small quenelles before mentioned. After five hours’ boiling, strain off tlie stockpot; when eveiy particle of fat is removed, clarify it in the usual way, and then keep the consomme boiling, in order to reduce it to the quantity required for tlie soup. ■* The beet-root juice to be used in the borsch is thus made :—Procure two dozen fine beet-roots, scraped and washed, bruise them in a mortar, and place them in a large-sized -jarthen pan, into which throw in a pailtul of water, and two pounds ol bread-crumb. Cover the pan with the lid, carefully cementing it down with a paste oi flower and water, in order to exclude the air; and set the pan in a moderately warm place, sj as to accelerate the fermentation. Ten days will suffice to produce the desired result: oa uncovering the pan it will be found to contain a bright red, acidulated liquor.