SECOND-COURSE DISHES 352 and tlien immerse tliem m cold water; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a stewpan with some hlam (No. 235), and braize them gently over a slow fire for about an hour; when done, drain them upon a napldn, trim and dish them up in the following order:—First, place five heads of celery the same way in the dish, then four, two, and one, respectively; garnish round with some small circular croustades of fried bread, about an inch in diameter, and fiUed with beef marrow, previously boiled for three minutes in water with a little salt, and afterwards tossed in a stewpan with a little Liquid glaze, lemon-juice, pepper and salt; pour some bright Espagnole sauce (in- corporated wdth a pat of butter and a little lemon-juice) over the celery, and serve. 1152. CELERY, A LA VILLEROI. Braize eight heads of celery in the manner described in the pre- vious article, and when done, drain it upon a napkin to absorb all the moisture ; split each head into halves, mask them with some reduced Allemande sauce (No. 7), and place them upon an earthen dish to become cold. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, and bread-crumbed over again. Just before sending to table, place the pieces of celery carefully upon the Avire lining of a frying-pan, immerse them in plenty of clean hog’s-lard heated for the purpose, and fry them of a bright-yellow colour; drain them upon a cloth, dish them up on a napkin with some fried parsley, and serve. 1153. SALSIFIS, A LA CREME. Scrape off the outside part until the salsifis become white, and throw them into a pan containing cold water, mixed with a twentieth part of vinegar or lemon-juice, to prevent them from losing their white- ness, then bod them in hot water, wnth a little butter, mignionette- pepper, salt, lemon-juice, or vinegar. When done, drain them on a sieve, cut them up into inch lengths, and put them into a stewpan with a ra^oMi-spoonful of cream Bichamel sauce (No. 6), a pat of butter, a little mignionette-pepper and lemon-juice ; toss them over the fire, and dish them up in the form of a dome; place some croutons of fried bread or Jleurons round the dish, and serve. 1154. SALSIFIS, FRIED IN BATTER. Prepare the salsifis as above, and when done, drain and cut them into pieces about three inches long ; put these into a basin with two table-spoonfuls of oil, one of French vinegar, some mignionette-pepper and salt; allow them to steep in this until within about ten minutes before sending them to table; they must then be drained upon a napkin, dipped in some light-made batter, and fried m hog’s-lard made hot for the purpose; when done, drain them on a cloth, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve. 1155. SPINACH, WITH BUTTER. Pick aU the stalks from the spinach, wash it in several waters, and drain it upon a sieve; throw it into a stewpan of hot water with a itandful of salt, and keep it boiling until it becomes thoroughly tender and soft to the touch; then di’ain it in a colander, immerse it in cold