210 REMOVEb OF DUCKS. Tlirec pounds of ruinpsteaks chopped fine, seasoned with three sba- iots, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Truss tlie cygnet in the usual manner, spit it, then envelope it with well-buttered paper, and encase it ■wdth flour-and-water-paste in a similar way to that practised for haimches of venison ; after which let the whole be agam secured \vith stout paper well greased and fastened on with twine. About four hours will suffice to roast the cygnet, during which it should be frequently basted. When done, remove the coating, froth it with flour and butter in thp usual manner, and dish it up with a rich browm e:ravy under it; and send a boatful of port-wine sauce to be handed round with it. Note.—Cygnets may be prepared for the table, according to the directions for dressing wild geese. EEMOVES OF DUCKS, COMPRISING Ducks, d la Macedoine. Braized Ducks, with stewed Peas. Braized Ducks, with Turnips. d la Proven^ale. 703. DUCKS, A LA MACEDOINE. Tsuss two ducks for boiHng, and put them into an oval stewpan with a carrot, an onion, two cloves and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with a quart of white broth, cover with an oval piece of well- buttered paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on the stove to boil; ^en put some live embers on the lid, and remove the ducks to the side of the stove to braize gently for about an hour. WKen about to send them to table, drain them upon a napkin, remove the string, and dish them up with alternate groups of a copious and varied Macidoine of vegetables (No. 143)—such as carrots and turnips, cut in fancy shapes and nicely glazed, after being previously boded in broth, asparagus heads. French-beans, green-peas, cauliflower, &c., as they may happen to be in season. Sauce the ducks with some Allemande, and serve. 704. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH TURNIPS. These should be trussed in the usual way, and placed in an oval stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with sufficient white stock to cover the ducks, put a buttered paper over them and set them to boil gently on a slow fire for about an hour. AVhile they are being braized, cut some turnips into fancy shapes, such as large olives, half-moons, &c., fry them in two ounces of butter and a little sugar; when they are all equally brovmed, throw them into a stewpan, containing about a pint of Espagnole sauce, with the addition of some of the broth the ducks are braized in. Allow the turmps to boil very gently by the side of the fire until done ; they must then be drained upon a sieve, their sauce clarified, skimmed, reduced to its proper consistency, and passed through a tammy iato a small stewpan containing the turnips. Dish the ducks up, place the turnips neatly round, pour the sauc^^ over them, and send to table.