200 KEMOVES OF <;aPOXS. smaL carrots, turnips, flowrets of cauliflower, green-peas, asparagus- heads, and IVench-beans cut in the form of diamonds. Sauce the capons with Bechamel sauce, glaze the tongue and serve. In some cases the tongue may be replaced by an ornamental croustade of bread, fried of a light colour, and fiUed with mashed potatoes, in wliich should be inserted some young caiTots, and French-beans (cut in the form of pointed olives), and placed in alternate rows. 671. CAPONS, A LA MACEDOINE. Tms method is very similar to the foregoing, with this exception, that the capons when dished up, should be garnished with a well- prepared Macedoine (No. 143) ; a border of very small heads of cauli- flowers and bundles of sprue asparagus about two inches long, should also be placed alternatively round the edges of the dish; sauce with Allemande, and serve. 672 CAPONS, A LA PEINTANIERE. Teuss and boil two fat capons, and when they are done, dish them up with a nicely-trimmed and glazed tongue, in the centre; sauce them with a Printaniere sauce (No. 21) ; garnish them roimd with a border of small deep cups, cut out of young turnips; these when boiled in white broth with a little butter, sugar, and salt, should be drained on a napkin, and fiUed with carrots scooped out in the fonn of very small peas or ohves, and also with yoimg green-peas: these cups when disposed alternately round the dish, will be foimd to pro- duce a very pretty effect. 673. CAPONS, A l/lVOIRE These must be trussed and braized in the usual manner, and when done, the broth in which they have been braized shoidd be strained through a sieve, then divested of every particle of grease, and clarified with a little white of egg. After this has been strained, it should be boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze, and when the capons are dished up, should be ponred over them, and sent to table. It is also customary in serving this remove to use a rich Supreme sauce (No. 38), with smjdl quenelles of fowl for garnish. 674. CAPON, AU GROS SEL. This is dressed in the manner described in the first part of the fore- going article; a little rock salt should, however, be placed upon the breast, just before sending it to table. 675. CAPON, A l’estragon. Beaize the capon in the usual way; when done, the broth in which it has been braized must be clarified, and a few sprigs of green tarragon thrown into it wlule boiling; the consommi should then be strained through a napkin, and boiled down nearly to the consistency of half-glaze, to be poured over the capon when served.. Some leaves of green tarragon must be boiled for a minute or two in water, and used to ornament the breast of the capon. 676. CAPON AND RICE. Aetee the capon has been drawn, wash the mside thoroughly clean, and absorb aU the moisture with a napkin. Then nearly fill the capon