FILLETS OF WILD FOWL. 339 for twelve hours (time permitting), frequently turning them over, that they may become thoroughly impregnated with its flavour. When about to dress the widgeon, run them upon an iron skewer, placing the vegetables, &c., on their breasts ; wrap them round with two sheets of oiled paper, fastened on with string; tie them on the spit at both ends, and roast them before a brisk fire for a space of time proportionate to their size, in comparison to wild ducks, observing that they must be roasted with the gravy in them 3 allow them to cool, cut them in the ordinary way for salmis, use the trimmings and the gravy that has run from the wild fowl mto the dish, to make the sauce with, which is to be prepared as directed in No. 28. Pour the sauce when finished on to the pieces of wild fowl, adding some button-mushrooms; warm the salmis without boiling, dish it up in a pyramidal form, garnish with croutons, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 1105. FILLETS OF WILD DUCKS, WIDGEOK, OE TEAL, A LA BIGARRADE. Prbpaee these, in the first instance, as directed in the foregoing article; spit them, and cover the breasts with their seasoning, wrap them up securely with paper, and roast them before a brisk fire; when nearly done, remove the paper, &c., and set them closer to the fire, that they may acquire a light-brown colour. Take them up, and fillet them, leaving the pinion-bones on, score, trim, and dish them up at once, placing a crouton between each fillet; add the gravy that runs from the wild fowl to some Bigarrade sauce (No. 33), pour this over the fillets, and serve. 1106. FILLETS OF WILD FOWL, A LA PROVENCALE. Peepaee the fillets as above, dish them up in the same manner, pour some Provengale sauce (No. 25), to which has been added a glass of Madeira, over the entree, and serve. 1107. WIDGEON, A L’AMERICAINE. i^AST these quite »plain, basting them frequently with fresh butter while-roasting: when done, cut them up into small joints, and place these in a stewpan with half a pound of red-currant jelly, the juice of a lemon, and two glasses of port wine; allow the whole to simmer gently over a moderate stove-fire for ten minutes; dish up the entree \vith fried croutons roimd it, pour the sauce over the -widgeon, and serve. 1108. FILLETS OF TEAL, A L’ANGLAISE. Roast the teal quite plain; when done, cut the fillets out, score them across, and dish them up with croutons of fried bread; pour some essence of orange (No. 171) over the fillets, and senn. z o