477 FRANCATELLI’S INSTEUCTIONS FOE THE SEEVICE OF WINES, DENOTIKG THE ORDER IN WHICH THEY SHOULD BE DRUNK AT THE DINNER-TABLE. The judicious service of wines at the dinner-table is essential to the complete success of a well-ordered and recherche dinner; for on the manner and order in which this service is conducted will chiefly depend the more or less favourable judgment awarded (in- dependently of their real claims to superiority) to the wines put before the guests. First, let it be remembered that all possible care should be taken in removing the bottles from their bins, and afterwards also, in handling them for the purpose of drawing the corks, and decanting the wines, not to disturb any deposit that may exist in the bottles, for that deposit, if shaken, destroys not only the brilliancy of the wine, but impairs its flavour and bouquet. The different kinds of Sherries, Ports, Madeira, and all Spanish and Portuguese wines in general, are the better for having been decanted several hours before being drunk. During winter their aroma is improved by the temperature of the dining-room acting upon their volatile properties for an hour or so before dinner-time. By paying due attention to this part of the process, all the mellow- ness which good wines acquire by age, predominates to the delight of the epicure’s grateful palate. The lighter wines, such as Bor- deaux, Burgundy, and most of the wines of Italy, should be most carefully handled, and decanted an hour only befoie dinner-time. In winter, the decanters should be either dipped in warm water or else placed near the fire, to warm them, for about ten minutes previously to their being used. In summer, use the decanters without warming them, as the genial waimth of the atmosphere will be all-sufficient, not only to prevent chilling the wines, but to develop their fragrant bouquet. Moreover, let these, and all delicate wines, be brought into the dining-room as late as may be consistent with convenience. And now, as regards the order in which wines should be served during dinner:—I would recommend all bon vivants desirous of test- ing and thoroughly enjoying a variety of wines, to bear in mind that they should be drunk in the following order: viz.— When it happens that oysters preface the dinner, a glass of Chablis or Sauteme is their most proper accompaniment: genuine old Madeira, or East India Sherry, or Amontillado, proves a wel- come stomachic after soup of any kind,—not excepting turtle,—■