193 REMOVES OF VENISON, knife) an ornament resembling leaves, or scoUops, spread out in a fan-bke form; glaze the bam, and put it on its disb, raised on an oval croustade, two inches and a half high, formed to tlie shape of the ham, cut round in flutes, and fried of a light colour; round the base, place; a dozen or fifteen small fluted croustades of fried bread, [filled witli green-peas, asparagus-heads, carrots and turnips, scooped out m the form of very small olives, and nicely glazed. Glaze the ham, put the paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. Send some bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence of ham, previous to reduction of the sauce, in a sauceboat, to be served with the ham from the sideboard, when it is carved. JSfote.—Granada, Bayonne, and foreign hams in general, are pre- pared for the table, according to the directions given for dressing Westphalia hams. EEMOVES OE VENISON, EEC DEEE, AND EOEBUCIC COJIPKISING Haunch of Venison, (< VAnglaise. Haunch of Red Deer, d la Kinnaird. „ d V Allemande. Necks of Red Deer, d la Marie Stuart. ,, d la St. George. „ d la St. Andrew. Haunch of Red Deer roasted, d I’JEcossaise. Fillets of Red Deer, d la Royale. „ d la Glengarry. 651, HAUNCH OF VENISON ROASTED, A l’ANGLAISE. Saw off the shank-bone, remove the sinew, pare away the dark dry skin from the sldrt, and also the dried suface of the imder part. Then cover the haunch with a large sheet of buttered paper, and over that, place a covering of flour and water paste, about half an inch in thickness; envelope the whole with two large sheets of cartridge- paper, and having fastened these on with string, place the venison in a cradle-spit, or, if that be wanting, the haunch of venison should’be first put on the common spit, preparatory to its being covered as aforesaid. K the haunch be a fine one, it should be allowed from four hours to four and a half to roast, and about twenty minutes before it is done, the paste and paper should be removed, and a little salt sprinkled over it. Then with a dredger-box shake over some flour to froth and colour it; baste it with four ounces of fresh butter, and about five minutes after, take the haunch up from the fire, place it on its dish, pour a rich brown gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send to table, with a sauceboat filled with sw'eet sauce (No. 65). 652. HAUNCH OF VENISON, A l’AT.LEMANDE. Trim and remove the spine bone from a small haunch of venison, place it in an oval braizing-pan with four carrots, four onions, two heads of celery, a garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a bottle of red wane, and sufficient broth to cover the siuface of the venison ; lay on it a buttered paper, and o