419 SMALL PASTET IN GENEEAL, COMPRISING Fanchonnettes. Cheesecakes. Mirlitons. Pithixders Cakes. B'Artois Cake. German Tourte of Aj*ricots. Parisian Turnover of Apples. Barioles. Conde Cakes. Koyals. B'Artois of Apricot. Apricot Nougats. Pastry Custard, or Cream. Talmouses, Talmouses, with Cheese. Florentines. Cupid’s, or Love’s Wells. Puff-paste Walnuts. Bread-and-Butter Pastry. Puff-paste Rings, or Wreaths, Polish Cakes. Harry the VIII.’s Shoestrings. Puff-paste Plaits. Apple Tartlets. Cherry Tartlets. Puff-paste Tartlets. Mosaic Tartlets. Parisian Loaves. Marygolds. Filbert-cream Tartlets. Coventry Tartlets. Apple Tart, with Quince. Pear Tart. Fruit Tarts in general. 1299. FANCHONNETTES. Peepaee some pastry custard in the manner directed for the projiU rolles (No. 1294), season it either with two ounces of grated chocolate, an infusion of coifee, a glass of liqueur, or a few drops of some kind of essence, such as orange-flower, vaniUa, hitter almonds, or lemon; when this is ready, fill two dozen plain-lined tartlets with it; bake these of a light colour, and when done, take them out of the moulds, and lay them flat upon the marble slab to cool. Meanwhile, whip three whites of eggs quite firm, then mix in three ounces of pounded sugar, and use some of this to mask the fanchonnettes over with, giving to them a flat smooth surface ; next, "with a comet filled with some of the whites of egg, form a star, or some other design on the top; when they are aU done, shake some sifted sugar over them, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake them of a very Hght-fawn colour. "When they are b^ed, previously to dishing them up, ornament them, by placing some neat strips of bright currant or apple-jelly in between the folds of the decoration. These fanchonnettes may be infinitely varied, by altering their form and design, when masking them with the whipped whites of eggs, according^to taste and fancy. Strips of pistachios, almonds, or cur- rants may also be used for this purpose. 1300. CHEESECAKES. InOBEDIENT s required:—Eight ounces of pressed curd, two ounces of ratafias, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, sis yolks of eggs, some grated nutmeg, a little salt, the rind of two oranges or lemons, rubbed on sugar, and afterwards scraped off. Press the curd in a napkin to absorb the superfluous moisture, then pound it thoroughly in a mortar, and mix in the above-named ingre- dients ; when the whole is incorporated together into a kind of soft paste, take this up in a basin. Next, line two dozen or more tartlet- 2 E 2