ENTREES OF TARTRIDGES. 334 and when decorated or fried in batter, used to place round the scollops, 1087. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, IN CASES. Fillet three young partridges, cut the fillets into small scollops, and place them neatly in a large sautapan with two small pats of very fresh butter, merely melted in the sautapan without being clarified ; season with mignionette-pepper, salt, and nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, parsley, truffles, and two shalots; simmer the scoUops briskly over the stove-fire, and when done, add two large gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce worked with some fumet or extract (made from the carcasses), and the juice of half a lemon; toss the whole together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill eight or ten small plaited circular, or heart- shaped, paper cases that have been oiled and baked iu the oven for five minutes to make the paper firmer. Place the cases upon a baking-sheet lined with clean paper, and lay a thin circular layer of fat bacon upon each case. Twenty miautes before sending to table, put the cases of scollops in the oven to be warmed through, then dish them up, pour a little of the same sauce in each, and serve. Note.—Scollops of partridges may be dressed as directed for scollops of pheasants; fillets may fflso be served in every variety of form directed for the treatment of fillets of fowls. 1088. CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A l'ALGERIENNE. Split four young partridges into halves; remove the breast and backbones, and pass the legs through the skin of the thighs, so as to give them the form of cutlets; trim them without waste, and place them in circular order in a sautapan with two pats of fresh butter simply melted; season with mignionette-pepper, salt, and a httle nut- meg, and then finish them as directed for spring chickens, d la Algirienm (No. 981). 1089. CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA MAITRE d’hOTEL. Pbepahe these as in the foregoing case, then mask them with iV UxeUes sauce (No. 16), bread-crumb them twice, in the usual man- ner, pat them into shape, and place them in a sautapan with some claimed butter; fry them of a bright yellow colour, drain them upon a sheet of paper, glaze them slightly, and dish up; poiu some MaUre-cTHotel sauce (No. 43), mixed with a piece of partridge glaze, under them, and serve. Note.—Cutlets of young partridges may also be dressed d m Pompa- dour, d la Marechode, or d la Valen^ay (see No. 997). 1090. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES, WITH PLOVER’s EGGS. Eoast the partridges, remove the skin, pare off aU the meat, and use the bones to make same fumet or extract (No. 218) ; chop the meat quite fine, pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a spoonful of sauce, and rub this through a tammy or a very fine wire sieve. Put the purie into a stewpan, add some of the/dme^, (boiled down to glaze,) and, if necessary, a little Allemande or Bechaiml sauce; warm the ptir(ie vrith care, to prevent it from becoming rough, which would be the case