136 DRESSED FISH IX GENERAL. aud garnish them round with a border of quenelles of whiting, coloui’ed with chopped and blanched parsley, and some small fillets of soles contises with truffles: place these alternately overhippiug each other. Tht' fillets of soles alter being contises with truffles, should be turned roimd and placed in a sautapan with some fresh butter, previously to being simmered. Note.—MuUets should never be th’awn; it is sufficient to take out the gills only, as the liver and trail are considered the best parts of this fish. According to Yarrell’s History of British Fishes, there are two distinct species of red mullets : the one is called the striped red, the other the plain red mullet, the former being the sort generally exposed for sale by the London fishmongers. Mr. YarreU also in- forms us, that the generic term mullus, from which their name is derived, is said to have reference to the scarlet colour of the sandal or shoe worn by the Homan Consuls, and in later times by the Em- perors—which was called mulleus. It wmuld seem that in those days, the almost incredible price of 240?. was given for three mullets of large size. Geex Mullets should be dressed in the same manner as red mul- lets ; they are sometimes plain boiled or broiled, and sent to table with any of the various fish sauces in use: but this fish, from ita want of flavour, especially requires the assistance of the most skilful cookery. The Geatliistg is seldom seen in the London market, although, from its claims to the notice of epicures, it certainly deserves to be better known; when dressed in the manner described for the prepara- tion of mullets or whitings, it will be found deserving a higher estima- tion than has hitherto been accorded to it. This fish is in season in the months of October and November. Whiting Poult, wFich in shape somewhat resembles perch, and hi colour is hke the whiting, having when fresh much of its silvery hue, is found to be in best condition during the months of November and December, although they are sometimes taken in the spring of the year. Partaking in a great measure of the same character as the grayhng, it should, like that fish, be prepared for table in a similar manner to red mullets. The same method is also to be used in dressing gwynniad, a species of lake fish, commonly found in Wales, Cumberland, and some parts of Ireland and Scotland. 486. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA MAITRE d’hOTEL. Fillet the number of waitings required, cut each fillet in two, trim the ends neatly round, and place the fillets side by side m a buttered sautapan; season with pepper aud salt, strew over them some chopped parsley, cover the fillets with a little melted fresh butter, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them; cover with a buttered round of paper, and set them in the oven, or on the stove-fire—from five to seven minutes will suffice to do them; then, take the fiUets up carefully onto a napkin to draiu, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a close circle, pour some Maitre (THotel sauce (No. 43) over them, and serve. Note.—Fillets of whitings thus prepared may be sent to table with any of the following sauces:—Italian, Ravigotte, shrimp, fine-herbs, crayfish, Dutch sauce. Supreme, with scoUops of lobster, or oyster sauces: the dish is named according to the sauce used for the fillets.