FOR SOUPS. 73 ■puree with; after it has boiled, skim off all the froth, and finish the soup by adding (just before sending to table) a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter, which must be tlioroughly incorporated witli the soup. 296. PALESTINE SOUP. Cleanse, peel, wash, and slice up half a peck of Jerusalem arti- chokes ; put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, and allow them to simmer gently on a slow fire, until they are re- du ed in quantity and partially melted—taking care that they do not get coloured in the process. Then add two quarts of strong white consomme of fowl, and after allowing it to boil gently for three- quarters of an hour, proceed to rub tlie whole through a tammy-cloth in the usual way, and clarify the puree. Just before sending to table, add a pint of boiling cream, a small piece of glaze, and a little pounded sugar-. 297. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. Turn or peel the bottoms of a dozen fine artichokes, and, after taking out the fibrous part inside, cut each into four pieces; put them into a large stewpan previously well buttered, and sti’ewn with a little pounded sugar,—placing the pieces of artichokes closely beside each other, and then set them on a slow fire to stew very gently, that they may acquire a light brown colour. Then proceed in every i-espect to finish this soup in the same manner as directed for Palestine soup. 298. PUREE OF ENDIVE. This soup should be made only when endives are plentiful and of good quality, as in the autumn season, when they are full and white. Having trimmed away all the green and outer leaves of about three dozen endives, which should be thoroughly washed and examined in order to pick out any insects, blanch them in boiling water and a little salt for ten minutes; then take them out and throw them into cold water; di’ain them in a colander, and with both hands pi’ess all the water from them. Having so far prepared the endives, cut off the roots and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a little sugar. With a wooden spoon, stir the endives over a slow fire for about ten minutes; then add a ladleful of good white consomme of fowl; allow this to con- tinue gently simmering on a very slow fire, or in the oven, for an hour; and then pass the endives through a tammy as usual. To the puree thus obtained, add one quart of white consomme of fowl; clarify it according to custom, and just before sending the soup to table, mix with it a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter, and serve. This soup is recommended for its lightness and cooling effect 299. BROWN PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. * Take a hundred chestnuts (Spanish or Lyons chestnuts are the best) cut off the points or slit them across to prevent them from bursting and flying about; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fiy them on a moderate fire until they shed their husks readily; then pead them clean, and put them into a stewpan * Note. To save trouble, use Crosse and Blackwell’s Chestnut flour, Soho Square.