215 I’HEASAIn'TS. in each flank of the dish, place a large decorated quemlle, and at the ends put a larded sweetbread; sauce the remove neatly roxmd with some Allemande sauce, so as not to touch the pheasants, glaze the larding, and serve. 721. PHEASANTS, WITH KICE, A l’ESPAGNOLE. These must be trussed as for boding, and then placed in an oval stewpan with carrot, celery, two onions stuck with three cloves each, a garnished faggot of parsley and a couple of red Spanish sausages ; moisten with some red wine mirepoix, cover them up, and set them to stew very gently for about two hours on a slow fire. Wlnle the pheasants are stewing, prepare some rice ia the foUowiug manner: Thoroughly wash ten ounces of Carolina rice, and afterwards bod it for three minutes in water, and drain it on a sieve untd all the moisture is absorbed; then, put a gdl of salad od into a large sauta- pan over a brisk fire, and, as soon as the od is quite hot, throw the rice in and fry it untd it becomes slightly browned, stirring it with a spoon the whole of the time it remains on the fire. Then put the rice into a stewpan, moisten it with a pint and a half of good consomme, se^on with a little Cayenne pepper and a pinch of safiron powder; set it to simmer very gently on the fire for half an hour, and when the pheasants are dished up, work the rice with a tea-spoonfnl of tomata sauce and a little glaze, then mould it in the shape of ordinary quenelles with a table-spoon, and place these closely roimd the pheasants after they are dished up; sauce them over with Poivrade sauce in which part of their broth has been mixed after being first boiled down to glaze, and serve. 722. PHEASANTS, A l’ASPIC. Bone the pheasants and take care to leave the legs and wings entire; then season the inside with pepper and salt, and fill them out with some forcemeat of pheasant (No. 243) previously mixed with some chopped parsley and mushrooms ; truss them so as to give them their original shape and size, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon and wrap them securely in napkins spread with butter, fastened at each end with string. When the pheasants are thus far prepared, place them in an oval stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with good white stock in sufficient quantity to cover them, and then set them to braize very gently on a slow fire for an hour and a half. WTien the pheasants are done, take them up, remove the napkins and strings, drain all the moisture from them upon a clean napkin, and dish them up; pour under them some bright essence of game, made from the carcasses of the pheasants, which, previously to its being used, must be clarified and reduced to half-glaze. 723. PHEASANTS, A LA MONGLAS. Boast two pheasants, and as soon as they come off the spit, cut the meat from the breasts by making an incision in the shape of a heart; this meat must then be cut into very small dice and mixed with two gravy-spoonfols of reduced BecJ\amel sauce or Allemande, and two dozen mushrooms, a couple of black truffles and a small piece of