445 MERINGUE, ETC. ^■ith meringue-'puste, to finish ornamenting the edge and sides, as re- presented in the wood-cut; shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and put the meringue to dry in the hot-closet, taking particular care that it does not acquire any colour. Just before sending to table, place the meringue on a napkin in its dish, fill it with whipped cream flavoured ■«'ith orange-flower or some liqueur, and strew some strawberries on the surface; garnish round the base with quarters of lemons or oranges filled with jelly (No. 1429), and serve. 1362. GROSSE-MERINGUE WITH PISTACHIOS. Peepaee the wiejw^'ue-paste as directed in (No. 1298); then cut six circular pieces of writing-paper to the size of a dinner-plate, and proceed to cover each of these with a kind of wreath formed wdth the meringue-^di'&ie. This is efiected in the following marmer:—First, draw a rather thick circle, about five inches in diameter, round the inner part of one of the pieces of paper above alluded to; then, with a dessert-spoon moidd the paste in the form of very small elongated ovals, and place these crosswise, closely to each other, upon the circle already mentioned, thus forming a kind of WTeath: fill the remaining five papers in the same way, and then, after the meringues have been well covered with sifted sugar, shake off the loose sugar, place them on square pieces of board, and bake them of a very fight colour. "When done, turn the wreaths of meringue upside down upon plates, shake some sifted sugar over the imbaked part, and set them to dry in a very slow oven. Just before sending to table, pile the wreaths or rings of meringue one upon another, with a layer of apricot-jam spread in between each; fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with a glass of liqueur, and serve. 1363. SWAN OF SAVOY BISCUIT, A LA CHANTILLY. Peepaee sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter (No. 1275), and bake it in a plain oval mould,—or fading this, in a deep oblong paper case; when it is done, and has become quite cold, shape it with a sharp knife in the rough outline of the body of a swan; the wings, tad- piece, and the neck and head, must be made of office-paste (No. 1257); the bid should be dipped in rather high-coloured boded sugar, and the eyes may be formed with a little of the same, with a currant stuck in the centre, for the pupd. Just before sending the swan to table, stick the neck into the breast-part, insert the wing-pieces in the sides, and the fan-like piece into the tail-part; cover the bird entirely with a thick coating of whipped cream; first, smooth this over with the blade of a knife, and then, with the point of a smaU knife, imitate the feathers about the wings, tail, and body. Place some spun-sugar round the swan—in imitation of waves, and put a border of petits- choux, glazed with rough sugar and pistachios, round the base, and serve. 1364. SAVOY CAKE, IN THE FORM OF A GLAZED HAM. Bake sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter in an oblong paper case; when this has become quite cold, shape it in the form of a nicely- trimmed ham, with a sharp knife, and hodow it out underneath. That part of the rind which is usuaUy left adhering to the knuckle