BRAIZED AND BAKED HAMS. 191 Then set the ham to boil, or rather to simmer, very gently on a alow fire, from five to six hours: taking care, during the process of braiz- ing, to probe it occasionally after the first four hours, in order thereby to ascertain how much longer it may be necessary for it to remain on the fire to efiect the desired purpose. When the ham is braized sufiiciently tender, and after it has been allowed to remain in its own liquor for an hour or so, drain it on to a dish, divest it of the rind to within four inches of the knuckle-bone: this portion of the rind must be cut with a small sharp knife, so as to form a neat design in the shape of leaves, palms, or scoUops, disposed in a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the ham smooth, without removing any more of it than is really necessary to give it a neat appearance. Put the ham iu the oven on a baking-sheet for ten minutes, first absorbing every particle of grease from the surface with a clean cloth; then glaze it, replace it in the oven again for five minutes; glaze it once more, and place it on its dish; garnish it round with any of the dressed vegetables indicated for Braized Ham, with spinach, <&c. (No. 646), sauce with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed before re- duction with a glass of sherry, and about a pint of the liquor in which the ham has been braized; place a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 648. WESTPHALIA HAJM, BAKED. Teim, and partially bone, a Westphalia ham, by removing the thigh-bone ; soak it, as usual, iu cold water, for forty-eight hours, at least, and afterwards boil it in water for half an hour; this part of the operation should be executed in time to allow the ham to soak a day and night, previously to its being dressed in some wine mirepoix (No. 236) in a deep baking-dish. Cover the ham with two ^sheets of oiled paper, and over the whole lay a covering of paste, such as is used to cover venison with, and applied similarly to a pie-crust, taking care to secure it thoroughly all round, so as to prevent the escape of the volatile properties of the essence of the ham, &c., which by condensation, and subsequent absorption, impart to the ham that peculiarly fine flavour which renders this method of dressing hams so much esteemed by gastronomes. Having prepared the ham in every particular according to the above directions, about five hours before dinner-time, let it be put in the oven to bake slowly, observing that the heat of the oven should be moderate, in order that the moisture be not reduced, so as to render the ham dry, which would spoil it entirely. When the ham has been in the oven about four hours, take it out of its braize, trim it, and then place it on a baking-sheet in the oven, to dry the surface; glaze it in the usual manner, and after having clarified the mirepoix in which the ham has been baked, add as much thereof as will suffice to give flavour to some Espagnole sauce, reduce it to a proper consistency, and use it to pour round the ham, when sent to table. Hams dressed according to the foregoing method, may be garnished as follows :—d la Financiere, d la Perigueux, d la Parisiknne, d la Macedoine, d la Jardiniere, d la Flamande; with stewed peas, asparagus-peas, young carrots, spinach, broad-beans, &c. Note.—K the ham, dressed as above, be intended to be eaten cold, it should be allowed to remain in its braize, until it becomes set in a