COD FISH. 127 fiy them; dish them up with some cold ti’iJdtcZ butter (No. 44) under them; then sauce them round with an essence prepared for the purpose, as follows:— Put ^e trimmings of the fish with a sole, or two or three floun- ders, cut into pieces, into a small stewpan, with carrot, parsley roots, thyme, mace, and peppercorns; moisten with two glasses of white wine, and allow the whole to boil do^vn to half; add a small ladleful of good consomme; set the essence to boil gently for half an hour ; sti’ain and reduce it down one-third, to which add a spoonful of Be- chamel or Allemande sauce, and use it as directed above. 449. CKIMPED SLICES OF COD, IN MATELOTTE NORMANDE. Place some thin slices of cod on a silver dish, previously spread with butter; season them with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle some chopped parsley over them; moisten with two glasses of French white wine and some oyster liquor; cover witli a buttered paper, and half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake, taking care to baste them occasionally. When the fish is done, pour the liquor there may be in the dish into a ragout prepared for the pur- pose, in the usual manner (No. 194), and wipe the edges of the dish with a wet napkin; sauce the slices of cod over with the ragout, and garnish round with a border of fried smelts and large crayfish; place some glazed oval croutons round the inner circle, and send to table. 450. SCOLLOPS OF COD A LA BECHAMEL. Cut and trim some crimped cod into neat scollops; simmer them in a sauta-pan with a little fresh butter and salt; when done, drain them on a napkin, and afterwards toss them gently in a stewpan, with some good cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6); dish them up, pyramidally, in the entree dish, and garnish round with a border of potato cro queues. To save time, or indeed as a variety, these scollops may also be prepared in the following manner:— Boil the slices, or piece of cod, drain it, and then break it gently into large flakes, which toss in some Bechamel sauce; dish up and garnish as dhected above. 451. SLICES OF CRIMPED COD A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Steep some thin slices of crimped cod in a little oil, pepper, and salt; broil them on a gridiron rubbed with whiting, and when done, glaze them over very lightly; dish them up, and sauce them under and round with a well-seasoned Maitre d'Hotel sauce (No. 43), and send to table. 452. COD’S HEAD BAKED. Fill the hollow of the gills with some veal stuffing; put the head into a deep baking dish—season with pepper and salt, a little chopped shalot, and a spoonful of chopped parsley; moisten with two glasses of sheiTy and a little mushroom catsup; put two pats of butter on the fish, and place it in the oven to bake, remembering that it must be frequently basted with its liquor, adding, if necessary, a little con- somme ior the purpose. After the cod’s head has been in the oven ten minutes, sprinkle it over with some bruised raspings of breaa,