308 QULNELLES OF FOWL. the remainder, first masking them over with a coating of Ahemarode sauce. AVhen about to send to table fry the bread-crumbed quenelles of a light coloim, in bog’s-lard heated for the purpose, and ha\dng ^varmed the plain ones, and drained them upon a napkin, dish up the entree, alternately placing one of each sort of quenelle; fiJl the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1003. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A LA MARECHALE. Peepake the quenelles as in the foregoing case; shape them in the form of cutlets, oval, oblong, circular, or like a heart; taking care not to make them more than a quarter of an inch thick. When they have been poached and trimmed, place them upon a dish, and mask them over with some Allemande sauce; when this has become firmly set upon the quenelles by cooling, bread-crumb them over twice in the usual way: once with egg, and the second time, after they have been sprinkled over, with clarified butter. They must then be broiled upon oiled paper, and when done of a light colour on the one side, great care must be used in turning them over, to be equally broiled on the other. When done, dish them up in a close circle, fiU the centre, either with scollops of truffles, mushrooms, fat livers, cocks’- combs, and kernels; with Allemande or Supreme sauce, or vdth essence of fowl, and serve. 1004. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA RICHELIEU. Peepaee some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of two fowls, in the usual manner (No. 242), form this into a dozen flat oblong que- nelles, and poach them dehcately in broth, as directed in the foregoing cases; w^hen this is done, drain them upon a napkin, and after making an opening on the surface, to the extent of two inches long by one inch wide, and then carefully scooping out the inside of the quenelles to the depth of two-thirds of their thickness, fill this cavity with the following preparation: cut a large onion into very small dice, and fry these in a small ste^vpan with a little butter, of a hght-yellow colour; then add an equal proportion of truffles, also cut into very small dice and some mushrooms in the same manner; next, add a spoonful of Allemande sauce (No. 7), a little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, and a small piece of glaze; stic the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use it as directed above. When the preparation with which the quenelles have been filled up has cooled, spread a layer of force-meat over the entire service of each; then place them in a sautapan pre- viously spread with butter to receive them, rub them over carefully Avith a paste-brush dipped in white of egg, and decorate them with truffle and tongue. A^en about to send to table, poach the boudins, by poiming some boiling consomme on them, taking care not to disturb the decoration; when they have been allowed to simmer gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, drain them upon a napkin, glaze them hghtly, and dish them up in a close circle; pour some Richelieu ragout (No. 207) under them, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served \^’ith a puree of mushi'ooms, truffles, or with scollops of fat hvera.