ENTREES OF FOVVTiS. 312 BOW them up in an oblong or oval form, and place them in a steAvpan on a bed of sliced carrot, onion and celery, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, and braized as directed in the foregoing case. When the galantines are done, put them in press between two dishes until they become cold; they should then be trimmed and placed in a sautapan with a little consommi covered with a buttered paper. When about to send to table, put the galantines in the oven to sunmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then glaze and dish them up in a close circle, with a braized lettuce, nicely trimmed (No. 164), placed in between each ; fiU the centre with a Jardiniere (No. 144), pour some half-glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 1013. MINCED AND GRILLED FOWL. Cut off the legs of a roast fowl, trim and score them over on both sides, and season them with pepper and salt; then cut the meat of the breast, &c., into fine shreds, and put this into a small stewpan, with a httle Bichamel sauce (No. 5). When about to send to table, broil the legs of fowl over a clear fire, glaze them, and having previously warmed the mince, pour it out into the centre of the dish, place the legs upon it, and serve. 1014. ANOTHER METHOD. Trim the legs and cut up the mince as in the foregoing case. Next, put an ounce of fresh butter into a small stewpan over the fire to melt, incorporate therewith a spoonful of flour, and stir these together for two minutes ; then add about a giU. of broth, and the same proportion of cream; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze: stir this sauce on the stove, keep it boiling for ten minutes, and then add it to the minced chicken. In all other respects, serve this entrSe in the same Avay as the foregohig. 1015. MINCED CHICKEN, AND POACHED EGGS. Cut up all the white meat of a roast or boiled fowl into mince or shreds, and put these into a small stewpan with a gravy-spoonful of good Bechamel sauce ; when about to send to table, warm the mince, dish it up, and place the poached eggs round it with a scollop of glazed tongue or of ham, and a fried crouton of bread in between each egg; pour a httle white sauce round the entree, and serve. 1016. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH MACARONI. In this case prepare the chicken or fowl in small thin scollops, and add to them some Bichamel: when about to dish them up, first place some macaroni (dressed with grated Parmesan cheese and a spoonful of Bichamel sauce) round the bottom of the dish in the form of a bor- der, and put the mince in the centre piled up hke a cone; pour a httle white sauce round the entrie, and serve. 1017. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH RICE. Prepare the mhice as directed in the foregoing instance. Put six ounces of Carohua rice, after it has been w^eh washed, into a stewpan with a pat of butter and a pint of broth, a httle salt and mignionette- pepper: set the lid on and place it over a slow fire to boil very gently until the grains are become quite soft, and ah the moisture is ab- sorbed ; then add the yolks of tivo eggs and a SDOonful of sauce j