LOIN AND BKEAST OF VEAL. 1G9 of small roots and vegetables, composed as follows:—Turn some carrots and turnips in the shape of either small olives, diamonds, corks, or cloves of garlic, &c., and bod them separately in consomme with a very small piece of fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a grain of salt, observing that the turnips must be kept white, and that the carrots shoidd be boiled do’wTi and rolled in then- glaze: prepare also some small heads of cauliflower, green-peas, Trench-beans cut into diamonds, asparagus-heads, and small new potatoes ; place these vegetables round the mix, in alternate gi’oups, sauce with an Espagnole sauce, or else ^vith the essence in which the mix has been braized,—first clarified, then reduced to half glaze, and added to a well-finished Espagnole sauce; glaze the larded part of the noix, and send to table. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing noix, or cushions of veal, for the table, they may, after being first prepared and braized (either larded or stuck with circular rows of tniffles, cut in the shape of large hob-nads, and inserted in the semicircular lean part of the mix), be served with a Napolitaine, Milanese, or Chipolata ragout, Avith tomatas au gratin, potato croquettes, and sauced with Bechamel sauce, witli stewed peas, or asparagus-peas, tossed in a little Allemande sauce, with a pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little nutmeg. 589. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A L’ANGLAISE. Oedeh a loin of veal to be cut Avithont the chump end, and Avith the skirt left on; trim it square, and placing the veal stuffing (Xo. 662) in an incision made in the flap part for that purpose, Avrap the flap, or sldrt-piece round tight, so as to secure the kidney-fat; fasten it Avith skewers and string, cover it Avith two sheets of buttered paper, to be tiod on Avith string, and place the loin of A*eal in a cradle-spit to roast; or a common spit may be used. If the loin of veal be of the usual size, weighing about 10 lbs., it avQI require about tAvo hom’s and a half to roast it; when nearly done, take off the paper, shake some flour over it Avith a dredger-box, and afterAvards froth it over Avith 4 oz. of fresh butter, prcAnously put to melt in a spoon, in the dripping- pan, before the fire; as soon as the veal has acquired a fine light colour, and the butter and flour have frothed up, take it off the spit and dish it up; pour some brown melted butter under it (No. 82), and send to table. 590. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA MONGLAS. Eoast off a loin of veal, according to the foregoing directions; next, Avith a sharp knife make an incision two inches deep along the sides and ends of the loin, and endeavour to cut out the square piece Avith- out tearing the meat, the joint resembling an oblong case. The fillet thus taken out should be cut into thin round scoUops, and put into a steAvpan Avith an equal quantity of scoUops of tongue and mushrooms : to these add, a ragout spoonful of good Bechamel sauce, and with this mixture fill the loin of veal, previously put on a buttered baking- sheet ; smooth the top over with the blade of a knife, and cover the whole Avith very fine bread-crumbs, fried Avith butter, of a fight colour, and mixed Avith a third part of Parmesan cheese: sprinlde a little melted fresh butter over it, and set it in the oven to get hot, salamander •’t over and dish it up; garnisli vrith a white Toulouse ragout (No 187), and place round a border of croquettes of veal, or sAveetbread; at each