368 ENTREMETS OF EGGS. jelly must be first poured in the mould, for the purpose of causing the pieces of French-beans to hold together. Next, hne the sides of the mould, by placing the pieces of beetroot and potatoes alternately,, each of which must be first dipped in some bright aspic-jeUy, pre- viously to its being placed in the mould; when the whole is complete, fill the border up with aspic-jeUy. Preparatory to placing the vegetables, the mould must be partially immersed in some pounded rough ice, contained in a basin or pan. When about to send this entremets to table, turn the vegetable bor- der out of the mould on to its dish; after the vegetables before alluded to have been seasoned, by adding to them a ro^oui-spoonful of aspic- jeUy, three table-spoonfuls of oU, one of tarragon-vinegar, some pepper and salt, and when the whole have been gently tossed together they should be neatly placed in the centre of the border, in a pyra- midal form. Ornament the base of the entremets with bold croutons of bright aspic-jeUy, and serve. 1215. RUSSIAN SALAD. First, cut a lobster in neat thin scoUops, and place them in a basin; to these add some scoUoped fiUets of anchovies, about one pound of thunny cut up into scoUops, the tails of two dozen crayfish, a similar quantity of prawns’ tails, two dozen oUves farcies, and a good table- spoonfed of French capers; then add a sufficient quantity of red Mayonnaise sauce (No. 99) to moisten these ingredients; mix the whole together gently, and use this preparation to fiU a border of vegetables similar to that described in the foregoing article. Finish the entremets in the same manner, and serve. 1216. GERMAIN SALAD. Femove the skin from the fiUets of three Dutch herrings, cut these up into pieces an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and put them into a basin; with a sharp knife shave some very thin slices from one pound of Hambro’ beef previously parboiled in water for about half an hour), and add them to the pieces of herrings; to these must also be put two dozen turned olives, some white and red beetroot (baked), cut or stamped out in fancy shapes, in the proportion of one- fourth part of the whole of the ingredients, two dozen crayfish-tads, and some curled celery; then add sufficient Remoulade sauce (No. 95) to moisten the whole, and use this preparation to fill a vegetable border as directed in the foregoiug articles. 1217. NOUKLES, A LA VIENNOISE. Put half a pint of consomme into a stew'pan with four ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt; set this over the stove, and as soon as it begins to simmer, throw in about six ounces of sifted flour to thicken the preparation into a soft paste, and keep stirring this over the fire for about three minutes, by which time the paste wdl cease to adhere to the sides of the ste^vpan; add two whole eggs, and four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and work the whole tho- roughly together untd well mixed, then add a gdl of whipped cream and another egg; mix these in with the paste, and mould it with two tea-spoons into small quenelles ; when this is done, place them in close