317 FILLETS OF ITGEONS. 1030. iVXOTIIER METHOD. Beaize the pigeons together with a piece of streaky bacon (after it has been parboiled) ; when these are done, prepare a quart of ^oung peas for stewing in the usual way, to which add about half a pint of the liquor from the pigeons to moisten and flavour them with, and when these have been stew'ed, and all their moisture boiled dowm to a glaze, thicken them by adding two ounces of fresh butter kneaded AV'ith a dessert-spoonful of flom-; cut the bacon into fluted oval scoUops, dish up the pigeons, first placing some of the peas in the centre of the dish to support them upright, then place the scollops of bacon in rows between the pigeons, or round them, pile the peas up in the centre; pour some bright Espagnole sauce, worked with some of the liquor from the pigeons, round the eritree, glaze the pigeons and the bacon, and serve. 1031. FILLETS OF FIGEONS, A LA VILLERQI. Fillet six pigeons, remove the thin skin fr’om them, and also the sinew from the under fillet, which must, however, be left adhering to the upper; flatten them slightly with a small bat, or the handle of a knife, dipped in water, and ti’im them : they must then be covered en- tirely with a coating of D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bi’ead- crumbed twice; once, after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after being dipped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imitate the bones of cutlets; and place the fillets carefully in a sautapan lined with clarified butter. Just before sending to table fry the fillets of a light colour on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze them lightly and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre Avith a MacMoine of vegetables, asparagus-peas, French beans, or stewed peas ; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcasses of the pigeons) round the entree, and serve. 1032. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BORGHESE. Teim the fillets, insert the cutlet bone in each, as in the foregoing case, and put them on an earthen dish; next, bone the carcasses of the pigeons, and remove the skin and sinews from the flesh, and with this make some quenelle force-meat (No. 244). Season the fillets of pigeons with a little pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with a coating of the force-meat, thus increasing their size about one-half; cover the bottom of a sautapan with some clarified butter, about one eighth of an inch thick, and having allowed this to become quite cold, put in the fillets thus prepared in circular rows, and cover them with some clarified butter, which, how^ever, should not be poured over them until it has become nearly cold. About a quarter of an hour before sending to table, place a sautapan containing the fillets upon a rather brisk fire, and allow them to simmer quickly; and when they are done on both sides, drain them upon a napkin, and glaze them brightly; dish them up in close circular order, in the same Avay as cutlets, fill the centre with scollops of trufiles, previously tossed over the fire with a small piece of glaze, half a pat of fresh butter, and a sp^oonfn. of sauce; pour some Madeira sauce (No. 8) round the base of the entrie, and serve