67 SOUPS IN GENERAL. 274. LETTUCE AND WHOLE-PEA SOUP. Pick, -wash, and blanch, a dozen white-heart cabbage-lettuces ; cut them open, and spread tlrem on a clean napkin; season them with minionette pepper and salt; then put two together, face to face, and proceed to tie them up with twine. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the lettuces thereon; pour upon them some broth from the boiling stockpot, over which lay a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stewpan, start them to boil on the fire, and tlien place them on a slackened stove, to simmer gently for about an hour; after which, drain the lettuces on a clean napkin, untie them, and after having cut them into inch lengths, lay them in tlie soup-tureen, together with a pmt of young green-peas boiled for the purpose, and a small pinch of minionette pepper. Take every particle of fat off the broth in which the lettuces have been braized, and add it to the lettuces and peas already in the tureen, over which pour two quarts of bright strong consomms of fowl; ascertain that the soup be palatable, and having thrown in a handful of duchess’ crusts, send to table. 275. ELEMISH SOUP. Take can’ots, turnips, and cucumbers, of each two, and with a vegetable scoop cut them out into the shape of olives or pears. To the foregoing add the white parts of two heads of celery’’, and three leeks, which must be cut into thick shreds half an inch long. Blanch or parboil these for five minutes ; drain them on a sieve, and after- wards place them in a small soup-pot capable of containing three quarts ; add rather better than two quarts of good consomms, and set the soup on the stove-fire to boil, skim it, and place it by the side to boil gently until the vegetables are sufficiently done. While the soup is boiling, blanch the following vegetables, which, when done, put into the soup with the others ; a handful of Brussels sprouts, half a pint of young peas, a few French beans cut small, and a handful of aspa- ra^s heads. Add a pinch of minionette pepper; allow the soup to boil three minutes longer, and having placed some duchess’ crusts in the tm-een, pour the soup upon them, and ser\’e. 276. sportsman's clear soup. With two teaspoons mould about four dozen very small quenelles of any sort of game; poach these in broth, and then drain them on a clean napkin, and afterwards put them into a stewpan containing two quarts of strong bright consomme of game; place the soup on the fire, and allow it to boil very gently by the side for a few minutes; ascertain that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. This soup talces its special title from the species of game of which it may chance to be made. As, for instance. Sportsman’s Clear Soup of Pheasant, of Partridge, of Hare, &c., &c. 277. DESCLIGNAC OR IMPERIAL SOUP. Put eight yolks of eggs into a basin, with a little grated nutmeg and salt; beat them together, mixing therewith half a pint of strong consomme of fowl or game; strain this preparation through a hair sieve into a plain mould, which has been buttered for the pmqiose.