27 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 113. PUREE OP SORREL. Pick, and ^vell wash the sorrel in several waters; drain oft the water, and place the soiTel in a large stewpan on the fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon; as soon as the sorrel is melted, and has boiled a few minutes, turn it out on to a large hair-sieve, there to remain until the water has run off. Next, cut two large onions into thin slices, place these in a stewpan, with two ounces of fresh butter, and put them to fry of a light colour on the stove-fire; after which, add a good tablespoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of sugar, some minionette pepper, and salt; moisten with a gravy-spoonful of sauce, either white or brown, then add the son’el, prepared as above directed, and reduce the puree over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon; when the sorrel is sufficiently reduced, mb it instantly through a tammy, and place it in a small stewpan. Previously to using the puree, make it hot; add a pat of butter and a piece of glaze. 114. PUREE OP ENDIVE. Trim off all the outside leaves of a dozen full white-heart endives ; wash them thor’oughly, and carefully remove all insects, &c.; throw the endives into a stewpan of boiling water, and, after allowing them to remain boiling for the space of twenty minutes, immerse them in cold water. When thus cool, squeeze each endive separately, entirely exti’acting the water; then cut off the root end from each endive, and after first chopping tlie leafy portion, place them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, nutmeg, sugar, and salt; stir the whole over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon for five minutes, moisten with a ladleful of white broth, then cover with a round of buttered paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to con- tinue very gently simmering for half an hour; next add a small ladleful of white sauce and half a pint of cream, and reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire; as soon as it is reduced to its proper consistency, instantly remove it into a small stewpan for use. This kind of puree is usually rubbed through a coarse hair-sieve in preference to a tammy 1 15. PUREE OP CHESTNUTS. Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts and place them in a stewpan with a piece of butter; put the lid on the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire, taking care, now and then, to toss up the chestnuts so that they may get an equal degree of heat; in about twenty minutes the husks Avill easily peel off, and should then be removed. Put the chestnuts into a clean stewpan with a ladleful of good consomme, and place the lid thereon; set tliem to simmer gently on the corner of the stove; when they are done, pound them in a mortar, take them up into a deep sauta-pan, add a little sugar, nutmeg, and half a pint of cream; reduce thepi6?-ec, and rub it through a tammy on to a dish; remove it into a small stewpan; and just before using it, make it hot, mix in a small pat of butter and a piece of glaze. 116. PUREE OF POTATOES. Peel and wash eight potatoes, cut them into slices, and place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, some minionette pepper,