290 ENTREES OF PORK. 946. GRISKIN OF PORK, A LA LYONNAISE. Prepare and roast tliis in the same way as the foregoing, and when done, dish it up with some Lyonnaise sauce (^^o. 24) round it; garnish ^vith a border of tomatas au gratin (No. 1160), glaze the grislon, and serve. 947. GRISKIN OF PORK, A LA PERIGUEGX. This must be prepared and roasted as the foregoing ; when done, senm with some Ferigueux sauce (No. 23), and a border of mushrooms au gratin (No. 1161) round it. 948. PORK CUTLETS, PLAIN BROILED, WITH GRAVY, ETC. These cutlets must be cut from the neck or loin of dairy-fed pork, not too fat; they should be trimmed but veiy little, the rough part of the chine-bone only requiring to be remoimd; the skin must be left on, and scored in six places. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and broil them on a gi’idiron over a clear fire; coke makes a better fire than coal for broiling, as it emits no gas, and causes less smoke. Take care that they are thoroughly done and not scorched; dish them up with any of the following gravies or sauces, and serve:—Plain sage and onion, shalot, onion, fine-herbs, gravies, or essences: Piquante, Gherkiu, Tomata, Poivrade, Poor-man’s, Richelieu, and Gasconne sauces. 949. PORK CUTLETS, A LA SAUCE ROBERT, ETC. Trih the cutlets neatly, observing, however, that nearly half an inch of the fat must be left on, to encircle the fillet of the cutlet; ]dace them in an earthen dish with a table-spoonful of salad oil; season with a bttle salt and pepper, and strew some parsley over them. When about to send to table, broil the cutlets nicely Avith the gravy in them, glaze and dish them up; pour imder some sauce d la Robert (No. 67), and serve. 950. PORK CUTLETS, A l’AURORE. Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a brisk fire, so as to bghtly colour them on both sides before they are done, then pour off all the grease, leaving the cutlets neatly arranged in the sautapan, and glaze them. Next rub the yolks of sis eggs, previously boiled hard, equally over aU the cutlets, and pass the red-hot salamander over them to colour the yolk of egg a shade darker; then dish up the cutlets, with some essence of anchovies (No. 176) poured under them, and serve. 951. PORK CUTLETS, A l’INDIENNE. Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, then pour off all the gi’ease, adding about half a pint of Espagnole sauce, and a spoonful of Cap- tain White’s curry paste; put the lid on the sautapan, and simmer tlie cutlets on the fire very gently for ten minutes longer; then add a small piece of glaze, toss the whole together, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with rice boiled in plain broth, jtourthe sauce over the cutlets, and serve