PEACHES, A LA KICHELIEU. 171 peel, and eiimamon, until done. The pears must then be drained upon a sieve, and when comparatively dry, must be tossed in a sauta- pan with a pound-pot of red-plum or damson-jam, and used to fill in the centre of a bread-lined diarlotte-mo\Adi, and then baked; and, on the charlotte being dished up, some honey, diluted with orange flower- water (warm), poured round the base, and sent to table. 1451. PEACH CHARLOTTE, A LA ERANgAISE. About one dozen not over-ripe peaches, cut into quarters, skinned, and the kernels taken from the stones, should be placed in a sautapan with a ponnd-pot of peach-marmalade; the whole to be tossed over a stove-flre tmtil the pieces of peach are just barely warmed tlnough ; and with this preparation fill a lined cAarZo^^e-mould,—brioche being used for the purpose instead of bread. When this charlotte is sent to table, some currant-jelly, diluted with a glass of noyeau, should be poured roimd the base. 1452. APRICOT CHARLOTTE. This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, substituting apricots for peaches, and apricot-marmalade for peach ditto; and, vraen the charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey, diluted with a liqueur called Ratafia d'ahricots round the base, and serve. 1453. CROUTES AUX PECHES. With the remains of Brioche, Compiegne, Konglailf, or Savarin cakes, cut some oblong shapes, about three inches long, by one inch wide ; sugar over, and glaze these with a heated salamander; then, spread each with some peach-jam, and, after having first made a ring on the dish with some of the jam, proceed to dish up these fingers, each resting upon the other, in the form of a high wreath; on the top of this, some halves of peaches (previously boiled for about three minutes in syrup) must be closed, dressed ; and, having filled the hollow centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green angelica in the summit, decorate the pieces of peach with preserved cherries, raspberries, strawberries, or currant-jeUy; pom some maraschino over the crusts and round the base, and serve. 1454. PEACHES, A LA RICHELIEU. Half a pound of rice boiled thoroughly tender in a quart of milk, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, seasoned with a stick of vanilla, and a pinch of salt; which, when done, must be first worked together with a wooden spoon, and then, with some of this, proceed to form a circular base about two inches high, in the inner part of the dish; and, on the outer part of this base, dress some peaches prepared as for a compote, in a thick circle, each overlapping the other; fill the centre of these with a piece of the prepared rice about three inches high, and upon this eminence build up a pyramid of peaches ; over the whole pom some strawberry jelly. Eotmd the base of the entremet, place a border of preserved greengages; stick a plume made of angebca' on the summit, and finish by pom’ing some vanilla, liquem round the base.