PUEEES OF POULTRY. 97 manner as for mock-turtle; just before sending to table, add tv/o dozen sm^iW quenelles made with deer’s flesh, together with some small scollops of deer simmered in a little fresh butter and fine herbs. Take care that the soup does not boil after the scollops are added to it, 361. GROUSE SOUP A LA MONTAGNARUE. Eoast off tlireo brace of young grouse, take the whole of the meat from the bones, carefully cutting out the lower part of their backs, which being bitter, must be rejected. Set aside four of the fillets, cut them into scollops, to be put in the soup aftenvards. Put the carcasses and bones of the grouse into a stewpan witn naif a bottle of sheriy, a carrot, onion, celery, a few cloves, a couple of shalots, and a blade of mace; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, after which add two quarts of good stock, and having allowed it to boil an hour and a half, strain it off into a basin. Pound the whole of the meat yielded by the grouse, excepting the four fillets before named, mixing with it a little rice boiled in broth ; moisten with the grouse essence, and pass it through the tammy into a puree, and put it into a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time, warm the puree, taldng the usual precaution to prevent it from curdling, pour it into the soup-tureen containing the scollops of the fillets of grouse, and three dozen very small quenelles of the same. PUREES OF POULTRY AND GAME, COMPRISING r^'.rSe of Fowl d la Reine. „ „ a la Prinianih’e. „ „ a la Princesse. „ „ d la Celestine. „ Red-legged Partridges u la Conli. „ Pheasants u la Royale. Payee of Pheasants d la DaupMm. „ „ d I'A nglaise. „ Partridges d la Beaufort. „ „ d la Balzac. ,, Hare d la Conti. „ Rabbits d la mailre d'hStet. „ „ d la Chantilly. 362. PUREE OF FOWL A LA REINE. Roast off tw'o good-sized young fowls, clear all the meat from the bones, chop and pound it thoroughly with half a pound of boiled rice; dilute it with three pints of chicken broth, made with the skins and carcasses of the two fowls used for the puree, and rub it through a tammy with the aid of two wooden spoons into a large dish. Take the puree up into a soup-pot, and put it away in the larder till dinner- time ; then wami it, with the usual precaution to prevent its curdling; mix with it a pint of boiling cream, and having ascertained that the seasoning be correct, send to table. 363. PUREE OF FOWL A LA PRINTANIERE. Prepare the puree of fowls as for the preceding soup ;• just before sending it to table, add the boiling cream, and then pour the puree into the soup-tureen containing a pint of asparagus-heads boiled green. Send a plate of fried croutons to be handed round to tlie guests.