249 ENTREES OF BEEF. mtmld, tlien line tlie sides in a similar manner ; place the scollops of fat livers in a perpendicular position, fill up the interstices with scollops of French trufiles and the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the top with buttered paper. An hour and a half before dinner- time, steam the mazarine in a deep stewpan with a little water, and cover it with its lid containing live embers of charcoal. Care must be taken to prevent the water from boiling over into the mould. When the mazarine is done, turn it out of the mould on its dish, place a border of minion fillets of fowls decorated with truffles, curled round in rings, and simmered in butter, fill the centre with a rich Toulouse ragout (No. 187), poiu some Madeira sauce (No. 8) over the entrie, and serve. ENTEEES OE BEEF, COMPRiaiNG Plain Rump SteaK. Beef Steak, d la Franqaise, ,, with Anchovy-butter. Fillets of Beef in their own glaze, &c. Minced Beef, with Poached Eggs. Minced Beef, d la Portuguaise. Hashed Beef, plain. Hashed Beef, and broiled Bones. Braized Beef, d la Claremont. Bubble and Squeak- 805. PLAIN RUMP STEAK. The steak should be cut rather thick, neatly trimmed, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and broiled over a clear fire; when done, remove it carefully from the gridiron, in order to preserve the gravy which collects on •ts upper siirface. Place the steak on its dish, rub a small pat of fresh butter over it, garnish round with grated horse- radish, and send some beef gravy separately in a sauce-boat. Epi- cures, however, prefer the gravy which runs out of a juicy steak when well broiled to any other addition. Small rihs of beef, and especially steaks cut from between the small ribs, form an excellent substitute for rump-steaks ; both, when nicely broiled, may be served with cold Mattre d'Hotel bntter, anchovy ditto; and also with the following sauces: Brown oyster, muscles, Italian, Piquante, Poor-man’s, Poivrade, Tomata, Provengale, Fine-herbs, &c.; for making which, see Special Sauces. 806. BEEFSTEAK, A LA FRANCAISE. Cut one poimd of trimmed fillet of beef across the grain of the meat into three pieces; flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and trim them of a round or oval form; then cut and trim three pieces of suet, half the size of the former: dip the steaks in a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and place them on the gridiron over a clear fire to broil; when done, glaze them on both sides, dish them up on two ounces of cold Maitre d'Hotel butter (No. 44), garnish roimd Avith fried potatoes, and serve. These potatoes must be cut or tinned in the form of olives, and fried in a little clarified butter.