258 ENTREES OP MUTTON. Meanwhile, remove the carrot, onion, and faggot of par-sley from Iho sauer-kraut, and after*,vards press it in a napkin to absorb all tho grease. Then, glaze the tongue, and place it in its dish, garnish it neatly round with the sauer-kraut and put a border of sm^ turned carrots (previously boiled and glazed for the purpose) round the base; pour some Foivrade sauce over the whole, and serve. Note.—Eein-deer tongues may be di’essed in the same manner as the foregoing; they must, however, be soaked in cold water for four-and- twenty hours previously to their being dressed. ENTEEES OE MUTTON. 1. Mutton Cutlets, sautees, COMPRISING JTutton Cutlets, plain. Mutton Cutlets, with Puree of Endives, &c ,, d la Minute. ,, d la Nivemaise, &c. ,, d la Maintenon. ,, with New Potatoes, &c. ,, d la Bourguigmtte. 836. MUTTON CUTLETS, PLAIN. Choose a neck of mutton that has been killed at least four days, saw off the scrag end, and as much of the rib-bones as may be neces- sary in order to leave the cutlet-bones not more than three inches and a half long; the spine-bones must also be removed with the saw, without damaging the fillet. Next, cut the neck of mutton thus trimmed into as many cutlets as there are bones; detach the meat from the upper part of each bone, about three-quarters of an inch, then dip them in water and flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away the sinewy part, and any superfluous fat. The cutlets must then be seasoned with pepper and salt, passed over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and nicely broiled, over or before a clear &e. When they are done, dish them up neatly, and serve with plain brown gravy under them. Cutlets prepared in this way may also be served with either of the following sauces—Poor-man’s, Piquante, Itahan, Tomata, Provengcue^ Poivrade, Shalot, Gravy. 837. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MINUTE. Tluvr the cutlets as above, then season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with about two ounces of clarified butter. The cutlets must be fried over a rather brisk fire, of a brown coloiu*; then, pour off the grease, and add a large gravy-spoonful of Espagnoh sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; set the cutlets again on the fire to simmer gently for two minutes, dish them up, and pom* the sauce over them. The centre of this entrie may be filled with mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, spinach, potatoes d la Maitre d'Hotel, &c.