301 MARINADE OF CHICKENS. 985. FEITOT OF CHICKENS, WITH TOMATA SAUCE, E'l’C. The chickens must be cut up as for a fricassee and the pieces neatly trimmed; then place them in a basin with some slices of onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, mignionette-pepper and a little salt, three table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, and the juice of a lemon; steep them in this for several hours; and when about to send to table, rlrain the pieces of chicken upon a cloth, shake some flom* over them so as to entirely cover the pieces with a coating of it, form them into shape, drop them into some hog’s-lard made hot for the purpo'ie, and fry them of a yeUow colour. When done, drain the pieces of chicken on a sieve covered with paper, lay them upon a sautap'm, and glaze them over sHghtly ; dish them up in a pyramidal form, garnish the entrie round with a border of fried eggs and croutons of bread, placed alternately; pour some Tomata or Poivrade sauce (Nos. 22 and 29) under t\xefrit6t, and serve. 986. CAPILOTADE OF CHICKENS OR FOWLS, A l’iTALIENNE. This entree is mostly served when there happens to be roast fowl or poultry of any kind in reserve. This should be cut up into small joints neatly trimmed, and placed in a stewpan containing some Italian sauce (No. 12), and scollops of mushrooms and truffles; when about to send to table, allow the capilotade to simmer gently on a slow tire until the pieces of chicken have become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce: about ten minutes will suffice for this purpose. The entrh may then be dished up, and garnished roimd with croutons of bread; pour the sauce over it, and serve. 987. CHICKENS, A LA TOSCANE. Pkepaee these in the first instance as for a fritot, and after the pieces of chicken have been sufficiently steeped, drain them upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture from the exterior, rub each piece over separately with a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, and bread-crumb them upon this; they must then be dipped in, or sprinkled over with, clarified butter, and again bread-crumbed upon this; they should next be patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the pieces of chicken of a fine yellow colour, and when done, draiu them upon a napldn, glaze them over lightly, and dish them up; garnish with macaroni dressed with cheese, pour some essence of fowl imder them, and serve. Note.—This dish may also be served without the macaroni, and is then called d la Vienrwise; in which case some quenelles of potatoes may be added. 988. MARINADE OF CHICKENS, FRIED IN BATTER. Boast one or more chickens or fowls; when done, cut them into neatly-trimmed joints, and put these to steep for several hoiu-s in the following preparation:—Cut into thin slices, a large onion, carrot, celery, parsley-root, a few green onions, some parsley, and a clove of garlic, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, blade of mace, and four cloves; fry all these of a light-brown colour, moisten with half a pint of sherry, and an