no DEESSED FISH IH GENEEAL. TUEBOT AND BEILL, ^ COMPRISING Turbot, plain boiled. Turbot d la Marechale: a la Parisienne. Fillets of Turbot d I’Indiintie. J9 broiled d la Provenqale. „ ,, d la Ravigotte. d la Carime. „ „ d la Vert-pri, or d la Vatel. ravigotte. yf d la creme au gratin. „ „ d VItalienne. 19 in Matelotte Normande. „ „ d la Cardinal. if d la Bechamel. Brill,—John Dory. 397. PLAIN BOILED TURBOT OR A L’ANGLAISE. Procure if possible a turbot conveyed by land-cannage, of moderate size: the larger fish are never delicate; choose it thick and plump, open it to ascertain that the back-bone is free fi’om colour, as ■when it has a reddish appearance, although perfectly fresh, it is sure to boil of a bad colour. Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, and mb it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt; put it into a fit-sized turbot- kettle, add a sufficient quantity of spring water to cover tlie fish, then throw in a good handful of salt, and set the turbot on the stove to boil; as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it tlioroughly, and lift the kettle from the fire do-wn by the side, there to remain gently boiling for half an hour, more or less, according to the size of the fish. When tire turbot is done, lift it out of the water with the drainer; slip it carefully on to a dish prepared to receive it, and send it to table with two sauce-boats filled witli Lobster and Dutch sauces (Nos. 42 and 55). 398. TURBOT A LA PARISIENNE. Choose a turbot weighing about 4 lbs., trim the fins off close, make an incision in the back from head to tail, and, inserting the knife on either side, detach the fish from the bone right up to the fins ; then cut the back-bone through, close to the head and tail, and carefully separate the under part of the fish from the bone, so as not to run the knife through; bone tlie turbot in this manner, wipe it with a clean cloth, season it inside with a little pepper and salt, and spread a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with a spoonful of chopped fine herbs, inside. Then butter a large baking-sheet, and place tho turbot upon it, with the white side uppermost; moisten with a bottle of French white wine, some essence of mushrooms, and oyster liquor; season with a httle pepper and salt, place a buttered paper over the whole, and set the fish to boil on the stove; next put