74 PUREES OF VEGETABLES with a quart of veal gravy, and set them by the side of the stove to boil gently until they become quite soft to the touch; drain them from the liquor, and, after having fii’st pounded, and afterwards rubbed them through the tammy (pouring in the liquor reserved for the purpose to enable the puree to pass quicker), add another quart of veal gravy to clarify the puree,—this, after being set to boil on the stove, must be then removed to the side, there to continue gently boiling tliat it may tlirow up tlie butter to the surface, which must be removed with a spoon as it rises. Finish by mixing in with the puree a small pat of butter, a little sugar, and a small piece of glaze, and serve up. 300. WHITE PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. Prepare a hundred large chestnuts as for the preceding soup, except that white consomme of fowls or rabbits must be used to boil them in, as well as to finish the puree with. When the puree has been clai’ified as directed above, just before serving it up add a pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. 3D1. PUREE OF SPINACH A LA BEAUVAUX. Pick, wash, and boil a large dish of spinach; chop it well and pound it into a soft paste, and then put it into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir it on a stove-fire for about ten minutes; then add a large soup ladleful of Veloute sauce and about a quart of white consomme of fowl, or any other strong white brotli at hand; warm the puree on the stove-fire, and rub it through the tammy. Observe, that as this puree must not be clarified, it should be kept in the coolest part of the larder until twenty minutes before sending it to table; it must then be made hot by stirring it on the stove-fire, and when just on the point of boiling, mix with it a pat of butter, a small piece of glaze, and a little pounded sugar. 302. SOUP A LA FAUBONNE. This soup consists of a puree of green-peas, made in the usual way, in which must be mixed, previously to serving it up, a pint of young peas boiled green, six cabbage-lettuces braized, and cut into pieces an inch long, and two cucumbers cut up into scollops, and after- wards boiled in consomme. There need not be any crusts sent to table with this soup, nor in- deed is it customary to seiwe croutons or crusts of any sort for purees that contain a garnish of any kind. 303. SOUP A LA FERNEY. This excellent soup is thus made: prepare twelve very small custards (made with consomme) in dariole moulds ; cut three turnips into very small fancy shapes, and fry them in a little fresh butter and sugar until they become of a light brown colour; a little consomme should then be added, and they must be allowed to finish simmering on a very slow fire, and when done, must be set to drain upon a clean napkin, and afterwards put into a soup tureen with the small custards; to these add two cucumbers—cut into scollops and boiled in consomme for the purpose; and lastly, pour some boiling puree of green-peas on the above, and seiwe,