348 SECOND-COUESE EOASTS, COMPRISINa lioast Ham „ Rabbits. ,, Pheasants. ,, P.artridges. „ Quails. „ Rufl’s and Reeves. „ Ortolans. „ Wheateai's. ,, Guinea-fowls, Roast Larks. ,, Woodcocks, &c. „ Capons. ,, Poulards. „ Green Goose. ,, Ducklings. „ Pigeons. „ Black Game. „ Pea-fowl. 1138. ROAST HARE. Skik and draw the hare, leaving on the ears, which must be scaldeti, and the hairs scraped off; pick out the eyes, and cut off the feet or pads, just above the first joint; wipe the hare with a clean cloth, and cat the sinews at the back of the hind-quarters, and below the fore- legs. Prepare some veal stuffing, and fill the paimch with it; sew this up with string, or fasten it with a wooden skewer, then draw the legs under, as if the hare was in a sitting posture, set the head be- tween the shoulders, and stick a small skewer through them, running also through the neck, to secure its position; run another skewer through the four legs gathered up under the paunch, then take a yard of string, double it in two, placing the centre of it on the breast of the hare, and bring both ends over the skewer, cross the string over both sides of the other skewer, and fasten it over the back. Spit the hare, and roast it before a brisk fire for about three-quarters of an hour, frequently basting it with butter or dripping. Eive minutes before tal^g the hare up, throw on a little salt, shake some flour over it with a dredger, and baste it with some fresh butter; when this froths up, and the hare has acquired a rich brown crust, take it off the spit, dish it up with water-cresses round it, pour some brown gravy under, and send some currant-jelly in a boat, to be handed round. 1139. ROAST RABBITS. Truss these in the same manner as hares, then spit and roast them before a rather brisk fire, frequently basting them; ten minutes before taking them up, baste the rabbits with the following preparation:— Mir a gfil of cream with a table-spoonful of flour, some chopped pars- ley, two yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mask the rabbits entirely with this, and as soon as it has dried on them, baste them with some fresh butter. This not only adds to the attractive appear- ance of the rabbits, but it concentrates their gravy, and prevents them from becoming dry, which too generally occurs, when roasted accord- ing to the common practice. When done, take the rabbits up with care, to avoid breaking off the light-brown crust formed upon them; dish them up, pour some sauce prepared as follows, under them, and serve. Bon the livers, chop them fine, and put them into a small stewpan with chopped parsley, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a spoon- ful of sauce, pepper, and salt, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a spoon-