SADDLE OF LAMB. 179 Note.—Hind-quarters of lamb should be dressed in the same man- ner as barons of lamb, and may therefore be garnished with every sort of sauce and garnish used for the latter. When the larding is dispensed with, the whole of the fat as a matter of course should be retained on the surface of the lamb, to pro- tect the meat from losing its juices, and consequently render it unfit for table. 618. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA DAUPHINE. Select a moderate-sized saddle of lamb, bone it, and having laid it on the table, season the iuside with pepper and salt, and line it with some quenelle-iovcemevit of veal or fowl, about an inch in thickness, placiug on the forcemeat some fillets of tongue and truffles; after which, fold the skirts of the saddle over—so as to encase the force- meat, &c., thereby giving it a plump appearance; and in order to secure its shape, bind it in a napkin on which butter has been spread: when the saddle of mutton is rolled up tightly in it, tie the ends with twine. Then place the saddle so prepared on the drainer of an oval braizing-pan, cover it with the bones and trimmings; garnish with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the lamb, and set it to braize gently on a moderate fire for about two hours and a half. When the lamb is done, place it on an earthen dish, untie the ends of the napkin, and fold the saddle up tightly, and smooth it m again: fasten the ends as before, and put it in press between two dishes xmtil it is nearly cold. Then, take the lamb out of the napkin, trim it neatly, and cover it over with a coating of well-seasoned reduced Allemande sauce, which must be allowed to set, afterwards being egged over, and then be covered with very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one-fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle some drops of melted fresh butter with a paste-brush over the whole, and put it on a baking sheet in the oven to acquire a light-brown or fawn coloiu’. The saddle of lamb being ready, dish it up, garnish it round with some louchees of wild rabbits d la Pompadour (No. 1010) ; sauce round and under the lamb with some white Italian sauce (No. 13), and send to table. 619. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA GODARD. "Boite, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb, according to the preceding directions; when done, put it in press between two dishes tiU. cold. It should then be taken out of the napkin, trimmed neatly without removing any of the fat, or diminishing its size, and put into a deep baking sheet with the broth in which it has been braized—previously clarified, and afterwards reduced to half glaze for the purpose; put a buttered oval piece of white paper on the top, and half an nour before dinner, put it in the oven to be warmed and glazed of a fine light colour. Then dish it up, and pour round it a rich ragout d la Godard —composed of cocks’-combs and kernels, button-mushrooms, small sweetbreads cut into scollops, and truffles—the whole to be tossed in some good Allemande sauce. Put a border of large quenelles decorated with truffles, and some larded lamb’s-heart sweetbreads—placed alter* nately round the remove, and send to table. N 2