377 boar’s head, with aspic jelly. It must then be sewn up the hack, placed upon a napkin thickly spread with butter, rolled up tightly, and fastened at each end virith string; thus giving to the galantine the appearance of a cushion. This must be then put into an oval stewpan with the carcasses and any trimmings of veal or poultry that may be at hand, also two calves’-feet, two carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves, a faggot of parsley garnished with green onions, two bay-leaves, sweet-basil and thyme, two blades of mace, and a dozen pepper-corns; moisten with two glasses of brandy, and set the pan over a stove-fire to simmer for five minutes, then moisten the galantine with as much white stock as will sufB.ce to cover it, and put it back on the stove-fire to boil; it must then be placed on a very slow stove-fire, or in the oven, to continue gently braizing (not boiling), for about two hours and a half. It should then be removed from the fire, and the galantine taken carefully out of the napkin; the latter, after being washed in clean hot water, must be spread out upon the table, and the galantine, after being placed in it again, and boimd up tightly as before, should be put back into its braize and left in to become partially cold: it must then be put in press between two dishes with a heavy weight upon it. Strain the stock, remove all the grease from the surface, and clarify it in the usual manner, then pass it through a napkin or a jeUy-bag, and place it on some rough ice to become firmly set. "When the galantine is quite cold, take it out of the napkin, and use a clean cloth to absorb any moisture or grease there may be on the surface; it must then be glazed, and placed u;pon its dish. Decorate it with aspic-jelly, as represented in the foregoing wood-cut, and serve. Note.—Galantines of turkeys, geese, capons, fowls, pheasants, par- tridges, &c., are made in the same way as the above. 1236. boar’s head, with aspic jelly. Peoctjee the head of a bacon hog,* which must be cut off deep into the shoulders; bone it carefully, beginning imder the tliroat, then * For this purpose, the head must be cut off before the pig is scalded, and the bristles singed off" with Lighted straw; by this means, it will have all the appearance of a wild boar's head.