SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. 133 of butter ; moisten with two glasses of sherry, some essence of mush- rooms, and a little consomme, and put them in the oven to hake,— taking care to baste them every five minutes until they are done. Then remove the gurnets on to their dish, and detach the glaze from the bottom and sides of the dish in which they have been baked, with a glass of sherry; reduce the essence to a demi-glaze, and incorpo- rate it into one of the following sauces, with a pat of butter and a little essence of anchovies ; pour the sauce over the gurnets and send to table. Either Piquante, Italienne, Gasconne, Provenfole, Poiv^ade, Genoise, or Tomata sauce, Wl suit this fish, when prepared in the above manner. 475. GURNETS, A LA DAUPHINE. Cut off the heads and fins from two gurnets, bod them in water with a little salt and vinegar ; when done, drain and skin them, then cover them with some stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce (No. 7), and when this has cooled upon them, egg them over and cover with bread- erumbs, and place them on a battered baking-sheet; half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake, and as soon as they have acquired a fine colour, dish them up, and garnish roimd with some Padgotte sauce, containing some crayfish tails, and send to table. 476i GURNETS, A LA GENOISE. Boil or bake one or more gurnets in some mirepoix (No. 236) ; drain, skim, glaze, and place them on their dish, and sauce them with Genoise sauce (No. 30) ; garnish round with large crayfish, or quenelles of whiting or gurnet. Gurnets, either boiled or baked, may be sent to table with any kind of fish sauce ; but as they do not possess any decided flavom* of tlieir own, sharp or Piquante sauce should be used in preference. Note.—Billets of gurnets may be dressed in every variety of form, and seiwed with any kind of sauce, similar to soles. 477. BOILED MACKEREL. Boil the mackerel m salt and water, dish it up, and send to table, either with fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. 478. BROILED MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE d’HOTEL. Split ^ the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and oil it over; then place it on a gridiron, over a moderate fire; when the mackerel is done on one side, turn it over on the other; and as soon as it is done through, take it up on a dish and put some cold Maltre d'Hotel butter (No. 44) inside it, and pour a well-finished Haitre cTHotel sauce (No. 43) round it, and send to table. 479. BROILED MACKEREL, WITH NUT-BRO'WN BUTTER. Beoil the mackerel as directed in the last article, dish it up, garnish it round with fried parsley, and pour over it some nut-brown butter (No. 93). 480. FILLETS OF MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE dTiOTEL, Billet the mackerel thus :— Place the fish on the table with its back towards you, then run the knife in just below the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press