47 RAGOUTS. ragout-spoonful of Soiibise sauce and a little Allemande sauce, toss them gently over the fire till they are hot, and place them in the centre of an entree of fillets of fowl d la Marechale, d la D'Uxelles. 207. RICHELIEU RAGOUT. Prepare some quenelle force-meat of chioken, and before iiioulding the quenelles, incorporate witli it two spoonfuls of brown of onions (of which there must be prepared a sufficient quantity for the sauce of the ragout'): mould two dozen small quenelles, poach them, and, after draining them on a napkin, put them into a small stewpan, with a dozen white cocks’ combs and a few scollops of fa, livers; to these add the remainder of the brown 'p'^iree of onions, which must be no thicker than sauce. This ragout may be used for garnishing boudins d la Fuchelieu, or any entrees of poultry or game that are bread-crumbed and broiled. 208. RAGOUT OE CHICKEN’S WINGS. This ragout is only to be recommended when it happens that a number of fowls or chickens have to be cut up for other purposes; in such case, save the wings, which cut off close to the breast, bone them neatly, without tearing or cutting the skin, and fill up the cavity occasioned by taking the bone out with some quenelle force- meat of fowl; shape them neatly and parboil them, immerse them in cold water, then drain and trim them. Line a stewpan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the wings tlierein with a faggot of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, and an onion; moisten Avith white broth, cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them to boil gently by the side of the stove for about twenty minutes, Avhen, if the fowls are young, the wings will be done. Then drain the Avings on a napkin, and, w'hen trimmed, put them into a small steAvpan with some Allemande sauce. This ragout is more generally made use of for filling vol-au-vents, casseroles of rice, and chartreuses; it is also useful, as an accessory, for garnishing large removes. 209. RAGOUT OP OX-PALATES. Steep six ox-palates in Avater for several hours, keeping the vessel that contains them near the stove-fire, so that the Avater may become gradually tepid, which materially helps to cleanse them ; then scald and scrape them clean, trim, Avash, and set them to braize in some hlanc or po'ele (No. 230); about four hours will suffice. When the palates are done, drain and put them in press between tAVO dishes; Avhen cold, shape them out Avith a round cutter an inch in diameter, and place them in a stewpan Avith a sufficient quantity of either of the following sauces: Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, Italiene, Finan- ciere, Poivrade, or Tomata. This ragout is strictly appropriate only for garnishing pates-chauds and vol-au-vents, but it may, in cases of emer- gency, be served as an entree, garnished round with croquettes of po- tatoes ov fleurons of pastiy. 210. RAGOUT OP SHEEP’S TONGUES A L’ECARLATE. Boil and press eight sheep’s tongues that have been cured with saltpetre; trim and cut them into round scollops, and then put these