472 ICED SOUFFLE. 1455. SUPREME OF FRUITS, A LA VICTORIA. Foe this purpose, some Genoese cake about an inch thick should he first prepared, and, out of this, three or four graduated circular pieces should be cut; the largest, with which to form the basement, must he eight inches in diameter, the next six, the third four, and lastly finishing with a round piece an inch and a half in diameter; these being stuck one upon the other with some kind of fruit jam, will thus produce a kind of pyramid. Upon this elevation, closely connected rows of either peaches, apricots, pears, or apples, prepared as for compotes, must be placed; finishing at the summit with a vass or cup formed out of apple or pear, and filled with a Macedoine of fruits. Mask the rows of fruit with some apricot jam, diluted with maraschino ; and with a paper cornet or biscuit-forcer, filled with whipped cream, ornament the base of the entremet in wave-like fashion, upon these place some plumed pieces of green angelica. 1456. POIRES COQUETTES. About twelve middle-sized pears of good quality must be turned smoothly in their own shape, and gently simmered in a little syrup until done. Some rice must be prepared as for a rice cake, which must be made rather stiff, and stemed in a plain border-mould; this, when done, must be turned out on to its dish, the pears are to be placed upright thereon in a circular row, and masked all over with diluted apricot-jam; on the stalk-end place a Mirahelle plum, and through this a piece of green Angelica, so as to form the stalk ; fill the centre with some of the rice (reserved for this purpose), mixed with an equal quantity of whipped cream, at the summit of which a plume of green angelica must be stuck ; ornament the base with a compote of green- gages, and serve. 1457. ICED SOUFFLE, WITH MARASCHINO. Ingeedients :—One pint of clarified syrup, twelve yolks of eggs, and two whole eggs, a large wine-glassful of maraschino. Mix the whole of the ingredients in an earthen basin; then pour the preparation into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed with hot water and wiped dry ; whisk the souffle briskly (the egg-bowl being placed on a stove containing hot ashes) until it resembles a well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter. Next, fill a sow^^-dish-lining with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, a band of stout paper having been secured round the case with a pm or string, to prevent the preparation from flowing over. The souffle must now be placed in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid; the box to be immersed in pounded ice mixed with salt and half a pound of saltpetre well mixed, a wet cloth being placed over the top, and allowed to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served; when previously to sending the souffle to table, the band of paper must be removed, and some sifted macaroon powder or grated chocolate shook over the surface, in order to give it the appearance of a baked eouffl)^. 1458. ICED SOUFFLE, AU CAFE. This is prepared in exactly the same manner as the foregoing, with the exception that either a white infusion of coflee, or a small cup oi