58 QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. mortar; then rub it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and put it on a plate upon the ice to cool, in order that it may be quite linn when required for use. Note.—The two foregoing preparations being the basis of a great variety of force-meats, it is essential that they should be well under- stood before attempting the following more complicated amalga- mations. It should also be observed that all meat and fish intended foi quenelles must be forced through a wire-sieve by rubbing it vigorously witli the back of a wooden spoon, and then be kept on ice till used. 243. QUENELLE OF FOWL. Take of panada and prepared udder, or fresh butter, half a pound of each, to these add ten ounces of prepared fillets of chicken, as directed above, and pound all three together in a mortar; when they are well mixed, add salt, and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a sixpence, a little pepper, and one egg; pound tlie whole together till thoroughly mixed, then add another whole egg and two yolks, and a tablespoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce. Pound the whole thoroughly and quickly, and after having taken the force-meat out of the mortar and put it into a kitchen basin, keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. Previously to taking the quenelle up out of the mortar, its consis- tency should be thus ascertained. Take a piece of the force-meat the size of a large nut, roll it with a little flour into the form of a round ball, put it into a small stewpan half full of boiling water ; place it by the side of the fire to simmer for three minutes, after which take it out and cut it in halves; taste it in order to ascertain if it be correctly seasoned, and see that when cut asunder, the inner part presents a smooth, light, compact surface. 244. QUENELLE OF FILLETS OF GROUSE, PHEASANT, OR PART- RIDGE; QUENELLE OF RABBIT, OR HARE. The process for making these is precisely similar to the foregoing, substituting, of course, the respective sort of game required, for fowl. It requires, however, the addition of a tablespoonful of strong essence of game and mushrooms, and a little Allemande sauce; which not only imparts a richer flavour to the quenelle, but also renders it smoother. 245. QUENELLE OF FILLETS OF SMALL BIRDS. Take the fillets of such a number of small birds (as quails, snipes, larks, plovers, and dottrel) as are likely to weigh about three-quarters of a pound. Prepare them just as directed in tlie process for making quenelle of fowl—adding a little glaze made from their car- casses and reduced with a small quantity of Allemande sauce. 246. QUENELLE OP WHITING. Fillet four large whitings, after having previously skinned them; pound them in a mortar, and force the produce tlu'ough a wire- sieve with a wooden spoon. To this substance add equal propor- tions of bread panada and fresh butter; pound these effectually, so as to mix them well together; add two whole eggs, and the yolks of