144 FRESH-WATER FISH. oue resting on the other in the dish; in the centre of one, place a gi’oup of quenelles of whiting mixed with some chopped truffles, and in the centre of the other, place another group of quenelles of whitings coloured with lobster coral; sauce them with some Pirigueux sauce (No. 23), in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the eels have been stewed in, and finish with a pat of anchovy butter and lemon-juice. G-arnish roimd with large crayfish, placing a group of half-a-aozen of the finest of these in the centre of the dish. 508. EELS, A LA VENITIENNE. Cut the eels into pieces four inches long, stew them in some mire- poix of French white wine; when done, di-ain, trim, and glaze them with some lobster coral-coloured glaze, and dish them up in two parallel conical groups; pour round them, some Venetian sauce, (No. 26), which has been finished with the addition of half the mire- poix, in which the eels have been stewed, a pat of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon: pass this through a tammy into a stewpan containing a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms; some blanched chopped parsley must be added the last thing. G-arnish romid with groups of muscles fried in batter, and serve. 509. EELS, A LA TARTARE. Either cut the eels into three-inch lengths, or truss them whole, in a cu'cular form; place them in a stewpan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, a feAV pepper-corns and salt; jnoisten with a gill of vinegar and some water ; then put them on the fire to bod, and as soon as they are done, set them to cool partially in their liquor:—after w'hich drain, trim, and bread-crumb them with egg, fry them of a fine colour, dish them up with fried parsley, and send to table with some Tartare sauce, (No. 96), in a sauce-boat. Eels a la Tartare may also be bread-crumbed as follows. Mix the yolks of six eggs and three oimces of fresh butter melted over the fire, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; with this preparation cover the eels, and afterwards bread-crumb them,—causing plenty of bread- cnunbs to adhere; put the eels on a buttered baking-sheet, drop some butter through a spoon -with holes in it over them, and about half an hour before dinner, place them in the oven to be baked of a fine colour, dish them up as in the foregomg case, and send to table -with the Tartare sauce, separately in a sauce-boat. 510. EELS, A LA ROULETTE. Stew the eels in the usual manner with white wine, or merely as flirected for a la Tartare, then drain, trim, and place them in a clean stewpan, with some of their liquor to keep them moist. Just before dinner, dish the eels up in a group, in the centre of the dish, sauce them with some good sauce a la Poulette mixed with a pat of anchovy butter (and if the eels have been stewed in white vdne, half their liquor, reduced to a glaze, should also be added to the sauce) ; place round them alternate groups of crayfish tails tossed in lobster butter to give them a brighter colour, and some scollops of perch tossed in some green Ravigotte sauce; place in the centre of the eels, just at the top of the group, six large crayfish, eight glazed croutons of fried bread round the base, and serve.