382 COLL) EAISED PIES AND PEESERVED G.OIE, COMPRISING Veal and Uam Pie, or Timbale. Leicestershire Pork Pie. Capon Pie. Eel Pie, d PAnglaise. Pheasant Pie. Salmon Pie, a la Russe. Yorkshire Pie. Pieserved Hare, and other Game. Devonsliire Squab Pie. Aromatic Spices, for Seiisoning. 1242. VEAL AND HAM PIE, OR TIMBALE.* . PiEST daube or interlai’d about three pounds of white veal (from the leg) with lardoons or square strips of fat bacon or ham; cut this in thick slices across the grain of the meat, and put them on a dish mth an equal quantity of dressed ham, cut also in thick slices. Next, spread the inside of a plain mould with butter, and line it with short paste (No. 1253), about a quarter of an inch thick; line the inside of this with a rather thick layer of force-meat (No. 247), then place the veal and ham in alternate layers, season between each with aro- matic spices, pepper and salt, fill up the hollow places and cover in the surface with some of the force-meat: place some thin layers of fat bacon over the whole, and cover in the top with some of the paste, previously roUed out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch; this must be applied after the edges of the pie have been wetted with a paste-brush dipped in water, and made fast by pressing both pieces of paste together with the fore-finger and thumb, so as to cause them to adhere closely together. The edges should then be neatly trimmed, and pinched round with pastry-pincers; decorate the top of the tim- bale with thin strips of paste, cut out in the form of leaves, &c., arranged according to the upper part of the design represented in No. 1244. Egg the surface over with a paste-brush, make a small hole in the centre of the top of the pie, for the steam to escape, and bake it in the oven for about tliree hours; when it is done, withdraw it from the oven, and about twenty minutes afterwards, place the point of a funnel in the hole at the top of the timbale, and tlirough this pour in about a pint of good well-seasoned strong consommi, reduced to the consistency of half-glaze: stop up the hole wdth a small piece of paste, and keep the timbale in a cool place mitil wanted for use. 1243. CAPON PIE, WITH TRUFFLES. Eiest, bone a capon, spread it out on the table, and season the inside with prepared spices and a little salt; then spread a layer of force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), and place upon this, in alternate rows, some square fiUets or strips of fat bacon, tongue, and truffles; cover these with a layer of the force-meat, repeat the strips of bacon, tlien fold both sides of the skin over each other, so as to give to the capon a plump appearance, and set it aside on a dish. * The difference between a raised pie and a timbale consists principally in the former bcine raised (by hand or otherwise) with a stiff paste, while the latter is prepared in a mould, lined with a more delicate kind of short crust, which is made edible.