EXTKEES OF VENISON. 29-1 trim them without waste, season with pepper and salt, and broil them on a gridiron, over a clear fire of moderate heat; turning them over every three minutes while on the fire; when done through with their gravy in them, hft them carefully off the gridiron without spiUing the grvay that may be swimming on the surface, dish them up with a little rich brown gravy imder them, and serve some currant-jelly or venison sweet sauce (No. 65), separately in a boat. 963. VENISON FRY. Cut the fry into appropriate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, place them in a napkin, and shake them up Avith a handful of flom', then fry them bro%vn and crisp in a sautapan or frjong-pan with some butter; when done, dish them up in a pile with fined pars- ley round, pour either of the following sauces imder it, and serve quite hot: rich brown gravy, essence of anchovies, Paivrade, Espagnole, Italian, or Piquante sauce. 964. CUTLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA CHASSEUR. TfiiM the cutlets in the usual way, and place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and set them in the larder. Put the shoulder on the spit, wrap it in buttered paper, and roast it before a fire of moderate heat imtil done; aU the meat must then be cut from the bone, chopped fine, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar with a spoonful of sauce and a pat of butter, then rubbed through a tammy or very fine wire sieve, into a pwre'e; this must be gathered up iuto a small stewpau and placed with the cutlets. "When about to send to table, fry the cutlets brown, pour off the grease, add a piece of glaze, two large spoonfuls of Espagnole or Poivrade sauce (if the former, add some lemon-juice* also) ; allow the cutlets to sim- mer over tbe fire for a few minutes, and them dish them up ; fill the centre with the purh—previously warmed with care, and to which a piece of glaze has been added—pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 965. FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA KINNAIRD Cut out the fillets from two necks of roebuck, trim these neatly, and lard them closely ; steep them for about two days and nights in some cold marinade (No. 234), and when about to dress the fillets, drain them upon a cloth, place them in a sautapan spreaxi with butter, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236) in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding; place a buttered paper on the top, and put them to braize in the oven; baste them frequently with their owm liquor, and when done, glaze them nicely, and place them on their dish ; garnish with groups of quendles made with roebuck, and small potatoes cut in the form of large olives and fried in clarified butter; pour some Napolitain sauce (No. 63) under the entrie, glaze the fillets, and serve. 966. FIUjETS of roebuck, with poivrade sauce. These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing; w^hcn done and glazed, dish them up with a border of potatoes, cut in the form of olives, and fried in claMed butter, pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) under them, and seiwe.