SMi\iL PASTRY. 422 fire unti] they are about half done, and then remove them from the fire. "WTiile the apples are hemg prepared, roll out a piece of short paste, in a circular form, the eighth part of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner-plate; wet this round the edge, then fasten a rolled cord of paste, the thickness of a small finger, whthin an inch of the edge, and pile the prepared apples up in the centre in the form of a dome: then, spread some apricot marmalade over the surface, and cover the whole in with another circular piece of puff-paste; press them together round the edges, wet the extremities, then, with the forefinger aud thumb of the right hand, twist or fold the edges over in the form of a cord; let the turnover now be egged aU over "with a soft paste-brush dipped in some beaten white of egg, then strew some rough granite-sugar over the entire surface, and bake it of a fight colour. These turnovers may also be made with all kinds of plums; the only difference in their mode of preparation being, that they need not undergo any dressing previously to placing them in the paste, except that the stones should be removed: the plums, peaches, or apricots must be piled up in several rows forming a dome, with some pounded sugar between each layer, and some of the same kind of fruit the turnover is made of should be first boiled down to a jam, for the pur- pose of masking the fruit with, preparatory to its being covered in. 1306. DARIOLES. Ingeedients :—One ounce of flour, two ounces of pounded sugar, one ounce of rataflas, three gflls of cream, one whole egg and six yolks, one ounce of candied orange-flowers, a small pat of butter, a very little salt, half a pound of trimmings of puff-paste. Place the flour, sugar, the bruised ratafias, and the eggs in a spouted basin, work the whole well together, and then add the cream, a very little salt, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower-water, and mix these in with the batter. Line a dozen darwZe-moulds with some trim- mings of puff-paste, place these on a baking-sheet, put a very small bit of butter at the bottom of each dariole, and then, after stirring the batter well together, pour it into the moulds ; strew the candied orange-flowers on the top of each, and set them in the oven (at mode- rate heat) to bake. When done, the dandles should be sfightly raised in the centre, and of a fight colour; take them out of the moulds without brealmg them, Sii^e some finely-sifted sugar over them, and serve them hot. Darioles may also be flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or chocolate. 1307. CONDE CAKES. Chop six ounces of Jordan almonds as fine as possible, mix them with four ounces of sifted sugar, some grated rind of lemon, and the white of an egg: the whole should present the appearance of a rather firm paste. Next, make half a pound of puff-paste, to which give eight turns or foldings, and roll this out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch; then, with a tin cutter, of an oval, circular, crescent, dia- mond, or any other fancy shape, stamp out about eighteen condes and place them on a baking-sheet previously wetted over with a paste- brush to receive them; spread a coating of the prepared chopped