424 SMALL PASTRY. 80 as to make it smooth. "Withdraw the spoon, and after putting the lid on the stewpan, place the cream in the oven, or on a slow stove- fire partially smothered with ashes, that it may continue to simmer very gently for about twenty minutes ; the cream must theu be put out into a basin, and the bruised ratafias, the yolks of eggs, and the orange-flower-water must be added; after which put four oimces of butter into a small stewpan on the fire, and as soon as it begins to fritter, and has acquired a hght-broAvn colour (which gives to it the sweet flavour of nuts), add this also to the cream, and let the whole be well mixed. Use this cream to garnish various kinds of pastry, according to directions given in the several articles for which it is intended. 1312. TALMOUSES. Inoreuients required:—Half a pint of milk, four ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, six ounces of cream-curd, the rind of an orange rubbed on sugar, a very little salt, and half a poimd of puff-paste. Put the mdk, butter, sugar, and salt into a stewpan on a stove-fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, fill in the flour by stirring the whole with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes over the fire; then add the curd (from which aU the superfluous moisture must be extracted by pressing it in a napkin), and work in the eggs one after the other, remembering that this paste must be kept to about the same substance as for pctits-choux. Make half a pound of puff-paste, and give it nine turns: roll this out to the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp out about two dozen circular pieces with a tin-cutter about two inches in diameter, and place them in neat order on a baking-sheet about an inch apart from each other: then place a good tea-spoonful of the preparation de- scribed above, in the centre of each, wet these round the edges, and then turn up the sides so as to form each of them in the shape of a three-cornered hat: egg them over ndth a paste-brush, bake them of a light-brown colour, and when they are withdrawn froni the oven, shake some fine sugar over them. These cakes may be served either hot or cold. 1313. TALMOUSES WITH CHEESE. These are prepared just as the foregoing, except that the sugar and rind of orange must be omitted, substituting in their stead four ounces of scraped Brie, or Neuchatel, cheese: when these cannot be procured, Gruyere or Parmesan cheese may be used for the purpose. 1314. FLORENTINES. [Roll out about half a pound of trimmings of puff-paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, and lay this on the entire surface of a rather large-sized baking-sheet; spread^ a thick layer of green- gage-jam over the paste, and then bake it in an oven of moderate iieat; when done, let it be withdrawn and allowed partiaDy to cool. Then spread it with a coating of whipped whites of egg mixed with Bugar, about half an inch in thickness, and strew some shred pistachio kernels a'll over the surface ; shake some finely-sifted sugar over the