ENGLIS?! SOUPS. 92 afterwards put the pieces of turtle selected for the purpose; boil them in it until they are sufficiently done, and tlien add a little C17- stallized soluble cayenne pej^per, and serve. If considered desirable, a little lemon-juice and a few quenelles of fowl may be added, as also some of the finest pieces of the gi’een fat. Clear turtle soup is prefen-ed by some epicures to that which is dressed in the usual way, from its being free from tlie additional com- pounds used in the full-dressed turtle: it is in consequence much lighter, most delicate and pure, and is imquestionably easier of digestion. 349. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. PaocuEE a scalded calf’s head, or, as it is sometimes called, a turtle-head; bone it in the following manner:—place the calf’s head on the table with the front pai’t of the head facing you; draw the sharp point of a knife from the back part of the head right down to the nose, making an incision down to the bone of the skull; then with tlie knife clear the scalp and cheeks from tlie bones right and left, always keeping the point of the Imife close to the bone. Having boned the head, put it into a large stewpan of cold water on the fire; as soon as it boils skim it well, and let it continue to boil for ten minutes; take the calf’s head out and put it into a pan full of cold water. Then get a proper sized stoclqDot, and after having buttered the bottom thereof, place in it four slices of raw ham, two large knuckles of veal, and an old hen partially roasted, moisten with two quai-ts of brotli, and put the stockpot on the stove-fire to boil until the broth is reduced to a glaze, when instantly slacken the heat by covering the fire with ashes, and then leave the soup to colour itself gradually. Allow the glaze at the bottom of the stewpan to be re- duced to the same consistency as for brown sauce, and fill up the stockpot with water, leaving room for the calf’s head, which separate into two halves, and pare off all the rough cuticle about the inner parts of the mouth, then place it in tlie stock, and after setting it to boil, and thoroughly skimming it, garnish with the usual complement of vegetables, six cloves, two blades of mace, half a pottle of mush- rooms, four shalots, and a good bunch of parsley, green onions, thyme, and bay-leaf tied together, and a little salt. Set it by the fire to boil gently till the calf’s head is done; then take the pieces of head out, and place them on a dish to cool, afterwards to be cut into squares, and put into a basin till required for adding them to the soup. Strain the stock tlirough a broth cloth, and thicken it with some light-coloured roux, to tlie consistency of thin brown sauce; let it boil, and allow it to throw up all the butter, and clarify itself thoroughly; then add half a bottle of sheny, about half a pint of puree of turtle herbs (No. 347) in which six anchovies have been mixed, a little ciystallized soluble cayenne pepper, and the calf’s head cut into squares, as also the tongue braized with it. Let these boil together for about ten minutes, then add tliree or four dozen small round quenelles and a little lemon-juice, and send to table. 350. CLEAR MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. To make this soup, follow the instructions laid down for making clear turtle, merely substituting calf’s head for turtle.