3 SAUCES IN GENEEAL GRAND SAUCES, COMPRISINa Espagnole *, or Brown Sauce. Cream Bechamel. Veloute*, or "White Sauce. Allemande Sauce. Bechamel Sauce. 3. ESBAG.\0LE, OR BROWX SAUCE. Let the stock Espagnole (No. 2) be turned out into a large stew- pan, adding thereto some essence of mushrooms, and sufficient Uovd of veal to enable the sauce to clarify itself; stir it over the fire till it boils, and ffien set it down by the side to continue boiling gently. When the sauce has thoroughly cleared itself, by gentle ebullition, and assumes a bright velvety smoothness, reduce it over a brisk fire to the desired consistency, and then pass it through a tammy for use. 4. WHITE YELOUTE SAUCE. To finish this sauce, proceed in every respect the same as for the- Espagnole, substituting white consomme of veal or fowls, for the blond of veal, in order to clarify it; and the essence of mushrooms must be white, in order to prevent the sauce from taking a dark hue, con- trary to its special character. 5. BECHAMEL SAUCE. Divide the Veloute sauce (according to the quantity required) into three parts; put one-third into a stewpan, and having reduced it, add thereto a quart (more or less) of boiling cream:—after allowing the sauce to boil a few minutes longer, stirring it the whole time,, pass it through the tammy into a basin, or bain-marie ], for use, 6. CREAM BECHAMEL SAUCE. Put six ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan; add four ounces of sifted flour, some nutmeg, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; knead the whole well together; then cut one carrot and one onion into very thin slices, throw them into the stewpan, and also a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and half a bay-leaf, tied together; next moisten these wdth a quart of white broth and a pint of cream; and having stirred the sauce over the stove fire for about half an hour, pass it through the tammy into a basin for use. This sauce is not expensive, neither does it require much time or trouble to make. It is very useful as a substitute for Veloute, or other white sauces, as also for many other purposes, as will be shown hereafter. • These two grand saucesdifFer from the stock Espagnole and Velouti, in beino- worked or finished sauces. ° f This is a French term for a distinct set of copper saucepans, tinned both inside and outside, and used only tor the Special Sauces, when finished. B 2