330 ENTREES OF PHEASANTS. tomatas are melted, pour in half a tumblerful of Madeira; Doil this down to half its quantity, add half a pint of consomme, allow the furmt to boil gently for twenty minutes, and pass it through a tammy with pressure into a stewpan containing a small ladleful of Espagnole sauce; work this in the usual manner and pass it through the tammy into a basin; add one-third to the pieces of pheasant, and pour the remainder into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms and small truffles. Dish up the pheasant as usual, place the croutons (warmed in the oven and glazed), round the salmis, garnish with the ragout and sauce, and serve. 1073. SALMIS OF PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSAKNE. Eoabt the pheasant, just before dinner, with some croutons of toast placed under it, cut it up into small joints and dish them up im- mediately ; place the croutons of toast round the salmis, and pour the following sauce over it:—Chop three shalots, some parsley and mush- rooms, put these into a stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of oil, thyme and bay-leaf, and a little Cayenne pepper; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a small piece of glaze and half a pint of good consommi; boil the sauce briskly until reduced to half its original quantity, then add the juice of half a lemon, and use it as directed, 1074. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA CHASSEUR. Eoast two young hen-pheasants, cut them up as usual, and put the fillets, the pieces of the breasts and backs, into a stewpan ; using the legs to make some puree with. Prepare the salmis sauce (No. 108), with four shalots and some parsley, chopped and parboiled, which are to be added, together with the juice of half a lemon when sending to table. Warm the salmis in the sauce, dish it up in a pyramidal form, garnish it round with a dozen small croustades of fr’ied bread, about a inch and a half high, and the same in diameter, filled with the puree; pour the sauce over the entrie, and serve. 1075. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA RICHELIEU. PiLLET two pheasants, pare away the sinews without trimming, and simmer the fillets in a sautapan "with a little butter, pepper and salt; then cut them into scollops, and put these into a stewpan with some Richelieu ragout ('No. 207). Just before sending to table, warm the scollops without letting them boil; dish them up, garnish round with croquettes made with the legs, and serve. 1076. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA VICTORIA. PiLLET two young pheasants, and prepare the scollops as directed in the foregoing case. Make some purk with the legs; this must be kept stiff, and mixed with one third of its quantity of reduced Alle- mande, then spread out half an inch in thickness upon a dish, and when cold, cut into small heart-shaped croquettes and bread-crumbed in the iiHnn.l manner. Use the carcasses to make some essences with, which, after being reduced to glaze, must be mixed with some Supreme sauce (No. 38), and poured on the scoUops. Ten minutes before sending to table, fry the croquettes puree, dish up the scollops m the form of a dome, place the croquettes in a close circle roimd the entrie, and servo.