REMOVES OF FHEASANTS. 213 a piece of glaze the size of an egg, and set them to sunmer very gently over a slow lire. They must be frequently turned, and care should be taken to prevent the glaze and butter from burning. When tho pheasants are done, let the butter and grease be poured off; add a glass of white wine and some good stock in sufficient quantity to servo for the gravy, the juice of half a lemon and a little pepper and salt; boil these together to detach the glaze from the sides of the stew-pan, and when the pheasants are dished up, pour this gravy over them, garnish them round with groups of potatoes cut into the shape of largo olives and fried in butter, and serve. 716. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHESTOISE. Truss the pheasants as for boiling, braize them in a wine mirepoix (No. 236), and when done, take them up, draw the strings, and allow them to get partially cold; then cover them entirely with some reduced Alleman^ sauce in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the pheasants have been braized in (this, previously to its being boiled down for the purpose of adding it to the sauce, must be freed of all the grease, &c.) This coating of sauce should be allowed to cool, and then must be bread-crumbed over with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with the bread-crumbs in equal proportions. The pheasants must now be placed in a deep sautapan or pie-dish, previously AveU buttered, and the remaining half of the braize added to moisten the bottom of the pan. Three quarters of an hour before dinner-time, sprinkle the pheasants with a little clarified butter, and set them in the oven to be baked of a very light fawn colour—frequently basting them with clarified butter while baking. WTien done, dish them up side by side, garnish round with a border of quefielles of polenta, pour a brown Italian sauce (No. 12) under them, and Serve. The quenelles of polenta above alluded to should be thus made: Put into a small stew-pan six oimces of butter, half-a-pint of water, a Kttle mignionette pepper and salt; set these on the fire to boil, and then mix in with them six ounces of polenta (a preparation of Indian com) ; stir this again over the fire until it becomes a smooth compact paste, and then work in with it two whole eggs and two yolks, and two omaces of grated Parmesan cheese. Shape this composition into quenelles with two table-spoons in the usual manner, and poach them in hot water. 717. PHEASANTS, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. These must be tmssed as for boiling, and placed in a rather large oval stewpan with three white-heart or Savoy cabbages previously cut into halves, the cores taken out, and blanched or parboiled: after- wards the two halves of each cabbage, previously seasoned with mignionette pepper and salt, must be tied up with string; add two carrots, one head of celery, two onions, each stuck with two cloves, one pound of streaky bacon from which aU the mst has been pared off, and which must also be parboiled like the cabbages, one pound of German sausage, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with good stock in sufficient quantity to cover the pheasants, cover with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the stewpan, and then set the whole on a moderate fire to stew very gently for about two hours. Just before sending to table, take out the pheasants, drain them upon