BOILED CAPONS. 201 with rice, boiled quite soft in white broth, and mixed with a spoonful oi white sauce ; it should afterwards be trussed for boiling, and placed in an oval stewpan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, and a carrot. Add as much white broth as will cover the breast of the fowl, over which lay an oval piece of buttered paper; place the Hd on the stew- pan, and about an hour before it is wanted, set it to boil gently on a slow fire. When done, drain the fowl, and having removed the strings, place it upon its dish, garnish it round neatly with rice, previously boiled in white broth, to which has been added a large spoonful of white sauce, two yolks of eggs, a little mignionette pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small pat of fresh butter. Work the - rice over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes, and then, with two table-spoons, mould it into the form of large eggs, and place these round the capon in a close border: sauce the capon with Supreme or Bechamel sauce and serve. If the capon is iutended to be served plain, the sauce, &c., must be omitted, and instead of masking it with sauce, pour some essence of fowl under it; this may be obtained by clarifying some of the broth in which it has boiled, and afterwards boiling it down to the con- sistency of half-glaze. 677, CAPON, A LA MILANAISE. Truss and boil a capon in the usual way, and when done, dish it p, and garnish it with a ragout of macaroni dressed "with truffles, red tongue, and mushrooms; place a border of rissoles (No. 1020) round the dish, and serve. 678. CAPON WITH MACARONI. Boil the capon as dhected for the capons d la Godard; dish it up, and garnish it with macaroni, prepared as follows:—Boil half a pound of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, with a small pat of butter, a httle salt and mignionette pepper; when it is done, drain it iu a colander, cut the pipes iuto pieces, two inches long, and put them into a stewpan, with 6 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, two pats of butter, a little mignionette pepper, and a large spoonful of white sauce; stir the macaroni, or rather toss it, over a brisk fire, and when the cheese is incorporated with the sauce, &c,, use it as directed; mask the breast of the capon with Bechamel, and serve. 679. CAPON WITH NOUILLES.* Braize the capon as directed in the foregoing article, and when done, dish it up, and garnish round with the nouilles, previously pre- pared for the purpose, in the follo-wing manner:—Parboil the nouilles in water for five minutes, throw them on to a sieve to drain the water from them, and afterwards replace them in the stewpan; season with mignionette pepper, a httle grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter; moisten with about a quart of good broth, cover with a round of buttered paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set the nouilles to simmer gently on WoMt7fesareakindof vermicelli prepared in the following manner:—Place sis ounces of silted flour upon a marble slab or paste-board; make a well in the centre, by spreading the flour out in the form of a ring with the back of the hand; then place therein a little salt, and add a tea-spoonful of water to melt it; after which, add the yolks of five eggs, and knead the whole well together into a firm, smooth, compact paste ; and after allowing it to rest for ten minutes, roll it out as thin as paper, and then divide it into bands three inches wide, cut these into veiy fine shreds and spread them upon a large sieve to dry.