271 NOIX OF VEAL. mediately vinder the udder or fatty covering. This part must be carefully cut out, by making a semicircular incision from one end rouud to the other, following the evident natural indication. Flatten the piece of veal shghtly with a cutlet-bat, and then pare ofi‘ the upper and under sinewy covering, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. The/ncandeau must then be closely larded with the strips of fat bacon in the usual manner. Next, strew the bottom of a fricandeau pan with sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a well-garmshed faggot of parslev and green onions; cover these over -with thiu layers of fat bacon* aud then place the fricandeau on the top of all; moisten wdth good stock or broth in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, but not to cover it under; place a round of paper w'ell buttered on the top, and cover with the lid. The fricandeau should be allowed to braize very gently for about three hours, either in the oven or upon a very slow stove-fire, during which time it must be frequently basted with its own hquor; when nearly done, the paper and the hd must be altogether removed, in order to enable the larding to dry, and it shoidd he frequently basted with its own glaze, to give it a bright shiny appearance. Care must be taken to prevent the fricandeau from acquiring too much colour during the latter part of the process. Put some puree of green-peas (No. 106) in the centre of the dish, and with two forks carefully lift up the fricandeau, and place it upon the pwre'e ; pour a little half' glaze round the base, and serve. Note.—Fricandeaux prepared as above may also he served with every Idnd of vegetable puree or garnish described in this work. 881. FKICAIirDEAU, A LA MACEDOINE. This must be trimmed and larded as in the foregoing case; then an incision of about three inches in length should be cut through its entire thickness, and a round or oval tin-cutter placed therein to distend the hollow part, so as to give it the appearance of a circle. Prepare and braize the fricandeau as before, and when done place it in its dish upon a base of quenelle force-meat; fill the centre of the fricandeau with a well-prepared Macidoine of vegetables (No. 143), round which place a neatly-arranged border of small spring turnips split into halves, turned in the shape of deep cups, and idled with green-peas: ornament the base of the fricandeau with a border of young spring carrots, nicely glazed: pour some thin Espagnole round the entrh, and serve. 882. NOIX* OF VEAL, A LA REGENCE. In this case the udder must be left adhering to the noix, or cushion of veal; it must be neatly trimmed, and the udder made to represent the form of a half-moon, with the lean part (within the inner semi- circle) smoothly pared, and larded in the same manner as a, fricandeau. This should then be placed m an oval stewpan upon a bed of vege- tables, covered with layers of fat bacon, moistened with half a pint of sherry or l\Iadeira, and about a pint of good stock. The udder must be covered -vith layers of fat bacon, to preserve it white ; then place a thicldy-buttered paper over aU, and cover with the hd. The noix must be very gently braized on a slow fire, or in the oven, and fre- * 3o£r is the trench technical term for that pan of a leg of veal generally used for fricandeuttx ; the English term for which is cushion, or mouse-piece.