ENTREES OF FOWLS. 302 equal proportion of French vinegar, add a very little salt, and a pinch ot mignionette pepper, and allow the whole to simmer gently imtil the vegetables are thoroughly done; the marinade must then he strained through a tammy with considerable pressure, in order to extract the flavour of all the ingredients. AVhen about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken on a napkin, and afterwards dip them into some light batter, fry them in hogs’-lard of a light colour, made hot for the purpose, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve with some Italian, Piquante, Poivrade, Provenfole, or tomata sauce; or some essence of anchovies (No. 176), of truffles (No. 168), of shalots (No. 167), or of fine-herbs (No. 170), in a boat separately. ENTEEES OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, COMPRISING Supreme of Fillets of Fowls, d I’Ecarlate. „ „ ala Toulouse. ,, „ with Truffles, &c. ,, d la Parisienne. „ „ with Cucumbers, d la Belle-vue. ,, ,, d la Perigord. Fillets of Fowls, d VIndienne. ,, d la Marechalc. ,, d la Valengag. ,, d la Roy ale. ,, d la Financiere, &c ,, d la (T Uxellcs, It should be observed that the whole of the following entrees are expensive; with good management, however, much of the cost may be i-educed, by subsequently using the remains of the fowls here required in the preparation of a variety of other dishes: such as those com- prised in the last section of entrees of poultry, and also for making galantines, ballotines, cutlets, croquettes, pies, <fec. 989. SUPRESIE OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A l'eCARLATE. Take out the fillets of three or four young fowls, in the following manner:—First, slit the skin on the centre of the breast in a straight line, so that, by foldiug it down on both sides, the fillets ^vill be left bare. Next, (fraw the point of a knife along the edge of the breast- bone, cut through the centre of the merry-thought, and then remove the fillets by dividing them from the breast and ribs, carefully running the point of a knife close to the bones, while the fillet is held up with the fingers of the left hand, so as to prevent the knife from injuring it. The fillets being thus removed entire, divide the minion fillets from the large ones, and after the sinew which runs along these has been carefully extracted without tearing them, they should be trimmed and placed in a small sautapan with some clarified butter, covered with a round piece of paper ana placed in the larder; the larger fillets must also be trimmed in the following manner:—Place the fillet upon the edge of the table, with the pointed end to the right, and the smooth side downwards; then bear moderately with the fingers of the left hand upon the pointed end of the fillet, and at the same time slip the edge of a sharp knife (dipped in water) into that part, and slide the knife under the hand, closely bearing towards the skin so as not to waste any more of the fillet than is positively necessary for the pur-