REMOVES OF BEEF. 154 a bed of braized red cabbage (No. 163), gamisb round with alternate ^oups of glazed small onions, and thorouglily weU-boiled beetroot cut mto the shape of small pears or half-moons, and glazed; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) round the remove, and serve. 542. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A i/ALLEMANDE. Beaize the beef in the usual manner, garnish it round with stewed sauer-kraut (No. 165), round which place a border of potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in butter; sauce round with Poivrade or brown sauce, and send to table. 543. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA ROYALE. Peepaee and braize the roll of beef, as directed for dressing the beef d la Flamande ; after trimming and glazing the roU, place it on a dish, and sauce it round with a rich ragout d la Financiere (No. 188) ; garnish round with a border of larded lambs’ sweet-breads and whole truffles, placed alternately round the dish, and ornament the roU of beef by inserting six silver atelets or skewers garnished as foUows:— First rxm the point of the skewer through a large double cock’s-comb, then a large mushroom, a fine truffle, and lastly, a fine crayfish ; use them as directed to ornament the roll ofbeef, and send to table. 544. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA WINDSOR. Beaize the roU of beef perfectly tender, trim, glaze, and place it on a dish; garnish round with alternate groups of stewed peas, and potatoes—turned in the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in butter. Clarify and reduce the braize in which the beef has been done, and with it sauce the beef round, reserving part to be sent to table ia a sauce-boat, to be handed round ixdth the beef. 545. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA CLAREMONT. Peocuee about eighteen pounds of sirloiu of beef, cut square from the centre; bone and trim it, and then proceed to daube * the fiUet and upper part of the beef with tongue and the fiUets of a pheasant, cut into lengths of about four inches, and a quarter of an inch square in thick- ness ; roU the beef and secure its shape with string, place it in a braizing-pan with the bones broken small, and the trimmings, three carrots, four onions, celery, a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and two glasses of brandy, and set the whole to simmer on the stove-fire for about ten minutes ; then add sufficient broth from the stock-pot to nearly cover the beef, place a well- buttered paper on it, cover the pan with its lid, and set the beef to bon gently on a slow fire for about five hours—taking care that, when when the liquor has become somewhat reduced in quantity by boiling, the beef should be frequently moistened on the exposed sujface, by being basted with the braize. When the beef is done, drain, trim, glaze, and place it on its dish ; pour roimd it a ragout d la Claremontj consisting of a brown sauce, mixed with one-fourth part of brown puree of onions and some thin scollops of truffles, mushrooms, and red * To dauhc, is to lard or garnish the inner part of fowls, or any joints of meat, by in- serting long strips of ham, bacon, &c., with the aid of a lai'ding-pin.