STURGEON. 123 mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley, and garnish the inner circle with alternate groups of thin scollops of lobster (tossed in a little lobster-coral butter, to render them of a bright scarlet colom'), and some button-muslu’ooms and scollops of gurnets tossed in a spoonful of Bechamel sauce. Stick on foUr ornamental Atelets, or silver skewers, garnished each with a large truffle, quenelle, crayfish, and mushroom. 435. STURGEON A lA PERIGORD. Prepare the sturgeon as in the preceding case, but instead of bread-crumbing it, glaze and dish it up ; sauce it with a good Phi- gueux sauce (No. 23), in which has been mixed some of its own liquor boiled down to glaze, a pat of anchovy butter, and a little lemon- juice ; garnish with a border of ti’uffle croustadcs made as follows:— Choose a dozen or eighteen large truffles of equal size, boil them in some Avine mirepoix, cut a piece from the top, of the thiclmess of a penny piece, scoop out the inside of the truffles, and cut the pro- duce into thin scollops, Avhich after mixing with a little of the sauce, replace in the truffles; cover them with some small fillets of soles contises Avith some red tongue, and turned round in the shapes and size of half-a-croAvn piece, and simmered in a little butter Send up some of the sauce to table in a boat. 436. STURGEON A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Stuff and braize the sturgeon according to the foregoing directions, trim, glaze, and dish it up; then pour some Bourguignotte sauce (No. 28) round it, garnish with groups of mushrooms, glazed button- onions, small quenelles, and crayfish tails. Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. 437. STURGEON A L’INDIENNE. Braize the sturgeon in some Avine mirepoix, take about a pint of the liquor, reduce and mix it in some Indian curry sauce (No. 47) prepared for the purpose, add a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice, sauce the sturgeon, and gai-nish it round Avith a border of rice cruustades, filled Avith curried praAvns or shrimps; ornament it Avith four Atelets—each garnished Avith a large crayfish, a contise fillet of sole, and a fine smelt, fried : the smelt here alluded to must be trussed previously to its being fried, and the point of a skeAver run through its tail and eyes, and again through the centre of the body, also tln-ough the fillet of sole, and the large crayfish. Send up, as usual in such cases, some of the sauce in a boat. 438. STURGEOxN AU GRATIN, WITH FINE HERBS. This method of dressing sturgeon should be resorted to only Avhen it happens that a sufficient remnant is left from the previous day’s dinner. In such a case, cut the sturgeon into neatly-trimmed scol lops, and toss these in some reduced Allemande sauce, incorporated Avith some of the essence of the sturgeon—previously boiled doAvn to glaze; add some fine herbs, lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pat of anchovy butter; mix the Avhole well together; put the scollops on a silver dish, piled up in the form of a dome; cover them Avith some fried bread-crumbs, mixed Avith one-third part of