ENTREES OF MUTTON. 260 fillet in the centre; sew each of them up closely with string and a small trussing-needle, and tie them round wdth string to preserve their shape. Next, strew the trimmings over the bottoni of an oval braizing-pan, place the carbonnades upon these, garnish with two carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves, two heads of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with a glass of brandy and suffi- cient broth or stock to cover the whole. Braize the carbonnades on a gentle fire for about two hours, and allow them partially to cool in their own liquor; they must then be put in press between two dishes, taking care that the sewn-up part is placed undermost. When cold, trim them neatly in the form of oblong cushions, remembering that nearly the whole of the fat which covers them must be left on: this, however, must be pared smooth. Strain their liquor, remove the grease, clarify it in the usual way, and then boil it down to half glaze, half of which is to be put with the carbonnades in a covered fricandeau- pan, to warm them in; the remaiuder being used to work the sauce Avith. Hall“ an hour before sendiag to table, put the carbonnades in the oven to be warmed through; then take the hd ofi‘, allow their sur- face to dry, and baste them frequently with their own glaze, mitil they assume a bright shmy surface; they must then be placed side by side in their dish, garnished with potatoes preAUOusly cut in the form of olives, and fried in clarified butter; pour a Richelieu ragout (No. 210) vmder them, and serve. 866. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA DAUPHINOISE. Bone two loins of mutton, remove aU the inside fat and the small fillets; season with pepper and salt, and spread some highly-seasoned veal force-meat on the iuside; they must then be roUed, sewn up, and afterwards corded roimd with string to make them retain their shape. Braize the carbonnades in the same way as the foregomg, and when done, put them in press, and cut each into sis pieces in the form of a pointed scollop ; trim these neatly, put them on an earthen dish, and then cover them over with a thin coating of d'Uxelles sauce (No. 16). Next remove them to a cold place that the sauce may the sooner become firmly set; then dip each separately in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. About twenty minutes before sending to table, place the carbonnades upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, immerse them in some clean hogs’-lard made quite hot for the pur- pose, and fry them of a light-brown colour; drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up m a circular form, with the pointed ends placed towards the centre, so as to make them fit in with each other. EDI the centre with a group of small tomatas “ au gratin'' (No. 1160), and place also a border of these round the base; pour some Rrovengcde (No. 25) under the carbonnades, and serA^e. 867. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA FLAMANDE. PiiEPARE these as in the first case; and Avhea they are become sufficiently cold, cut each into sis pieces in the form of pointed scol- lops, trim them smoothly and neatly, and then place them in a deep sautapan with some half glaze made from their OAvn liquor. Half an hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed and glazed, as before directed; dish them up as in the preceding case, fill the centre Avith some prepared Brussels sprouts (No. 156), over the