BRUSSELS BISCUITS. 405 citron peel in equal proportions, a gill of Cognac brandy, a ver}' little salt, and four ounces of white comfits. Put the butter in a basin, work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, eggs, and salt, gradually, throwing in a handful of each, and two eggs atli time, when the whole is thoroughly mixed, the candied peel (cut in shreds), also the brandy and the rind of two oranges or lemons (rubbed on sugar) must next be added. This paste should now be poured into tins of an oblong shape, about two inches deep, spread with butter, and after the comfits have been strewn over the sui-face, a little fine sugar should be shaken over the top previously to placing them in the oven on baking sheets: they must be baked of a very light colour. Note.—This kind of cake is a general favourite in Scotland, being served on most occasions, at breakfast, luncheon, or for casual re- freshment, and also with the dessert. 1279. PLAIN SEED CAKE. In&eepients :—One quartern of dough, six eggs, eight oimces of sugar, eight ounces of butter, half an ounce of carraway-seeds and a tea^spoonful of salt. Spread the dough out on the pastry-slab, then add the whole of the above-named ingredients, work them well together with the hands, so as thoroughly to incorporate them with the dough: the eggs should be added two at a time. When the paste is ready, put it into a plain mould (previously spread with butter), and set it to rise in a warm place. As soon as the fermentation has taken place in a satisfactory manner, the cake should be immediately put into the oven and baked of a light coloiu-. WTien done, serve it cold for luncheon, or otherwise. This kind of cake may be varied by introducing raisins, currants, or candied orange or lemon peel. 1280. BRUSSELS BISCUITS, OR RUSKS. Ingredients required:—One pound of floinr, ten ounces of butter, half an ounce of German yeast, four oimces of sugar, four whole eggs, and four yolks, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a giU of cream. Mix the paste in the manner described for the preparation of the Compiegne cake, excepting tliat this must be beaten vdth the hand on the slab until it presents an appearance of elasticity; the sponge should then be added, and after tlie whole has been well worked once more, the paste must be placed in long narrow tins, abont two inches deep, and of about the same width: preparatory to placing the paste in the moulds, these should be first well floured inside (to prevent the paste from sticking), then the paste rolled out to their own length, and about one inch and a halt* thick, dropped into them, and set in a warm place to rise. AVlien the paste has sufficiently risen, it must be gently turned out on a baking-sheet previously spread with butter, then egged all over with a soft paste-brush, and baked of a bright deep-yellow coloirr. Wlien done, cut them up in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, place them flat on a baking-sheet, and put them again in the oven to acquire a light-yellow colour on both sides.