261 MUTTON CUTLETS, BKEAD-CRUMBED. be bread-crumbed as before, ^\^len about to send to table, the cutlets should be tried of a light colour, glazed, and dished up; and the centre garnished with some macaroni, finished with grated Parmesan cheese, and a spoonful of Bichamel, or any other white sauce; pour some Proven rale sauce (No. 25) round the base of the entrk, and serve. 848. JIUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BRETONNE. These are prepared and finished in the same way as cutlets gar- nished Avith a puree of mushrooms, with this exception, that the centre must be filled with small potatoes previously cut or scooped in the form of olives, and fried in butter, of a yellow colour; pour some Bretonne sauce (No. 27) under the cutlets, and serve. 849. MUnUN CUTLETS, A LA MACEDOINE. Peepaee these in the same way as the foregoing, and when they are dished up, garnish the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143) ; pour some half glaze round the base of the entree, and serve. 850. MUTTON CUTLETS, A l’iNDIENNE. Beead-cbumb, fry, glaze, and dish up the cutlets; then garnish the centre with two dozen small quenelles of anchovies (No. 246), the forcemeat of Avhich must be mixed with a little strong curry sauce (No. 47); pom some mangoe sauce imder the cutlets, and serve. The mangoe sance here alluded to is thus made:—Split a fine mangoe, and let the inside be reserved in a small stewpan ; then cut the outside part into narrow strips, and again mince these into shreds, or thin scollops, and place them in the stewpan; add a small ladleful of Espagnole sauce (No. 3); boil the whole together for five minutes, when it will be fit for use. 851. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. These, when dished up as in the foregoing cases, should be gar- nished with Ob puree of chestnuts (No. 115), and some thin Espagnole pomed round them, then serve. Note.—Bread-crumbed cutlets may be served with every sort of vegetable garnish described in this work, and with aU the sauces directed to be served with plain cutlets. BEAIZED J^IUTTON CUTLETS, COMPRISING Mutton Cutlets, a la Soubise. Mutton Cutlete, d la PompadoMr. » u la Lyonnaise. ., d la Prov.eni^ale. ,t with Puree of Artichokes. „ d la Russc. ft d la Chipolata. 852. MUTTON CUTI.ETS, BRAIZED, A LA SOUBISE. Trim one or two necks of mutton (according to the size of the entree') in the way described for plain cutlets; the neck must then be