CHICKENS 299 976. CHICKENS WITH TRUFFLES, A LA FINANCIERE, Prepare these as in the foregoing case, and when they are fried brown, pour off the grease ; add a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), and half a poimd of truffles ciit into scollops or round balls ; simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and then dish up the entree as directed in the foregoing cases ; pour the ragout over it, gar- nish with croutons and crayfish, and serve. 977. CHICKENS, A LA PROVEN?ALE Ctjt four large onions into nngs, put them into a sautapan with a gill of salad-oil, and fry them of a light-brown colour ; then add two chickens cut up and trimmed as for a fricassee; season with mignio- nette-pepper and salt, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of garlic; cover with the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set the chickens to simmer brisldy over a moderate fire for about half-an-hour. Put about two dozen morels or mushrooms into a small stewpan with some chopped truffles, shalots, mushrooms, and parsley ; moisten with a table-spoonftd of salad oil and a glass of Madeira; stew these on the fire for five minutes, and then bod the whole down to a glaze. "When the chickens are done, pour off aU the grease, add the morels, &c., a piece of glaze and some Tomata sauce (No. 22) ; simmer the whole together for five minutes over the fire, then dish up the entrie in a conical form, pour the ragout over it, and serve. 978. CHICKENS, A LA LYONNAISE. Cut these up and fry them in butter, as directed for the chickens with oysters; when they are done, poiu* off aU the grease, add some Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24), simmer the whole together on the stove-fire for ten minutes, and serve. 979. CHICKENS, A LA DL\BLE. PraST draw and singe the chickens, and then twist their legs inside neatly through the sides without tearing the skin; next cut them through the breast-bone, lengthwise, into halves; take out aU the bones, season with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and brod them on both sides, of a light colour; when done, dish them up and glaze them over, pour some sauce d la Diahle (No. 17) imder them, and serve. 980. CHICKENS, A LA TARTARE. Bone the chickens as in the foregoing case, season with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, bread- crumb them, then spread on some clarified butter, and bread-crumb them oyer again ; pat the bread-crumbs close together with the blade of a knife, brod them careftdly to prevent their acquiring much colour, and when done, glaze them Hghtly, and serve with some half glaze imder them. Send some Tartars sauce (No. 96) separately in a boat. 981. CHICKENS, A l’ALGERIENNE. ^ Cut these up as for a fricassee, place the pieces in a deep sautapan with some clarified butter, and about one pound of raw ham cut into neat scoUops; season vsith cayenne, a garnished faggot of parsley and