NECKS OF MUTTON. 177 the upper part of the fillet he laid bare without loosening it from tho bones; they must then be larded closely as a fricandeau, and put to steep in a cold marinade (No. 234), for at least twenty-four hours. It will be readily imderstood that this must be attended to a day before the necks of mutton are required to be used. Trim, lard, and marinade the necks of mutton as directed; and then prepare them for braizing in the following manner:—Place the necks of mutton in an oval braizing-pan on the drainer, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, gar- nished faggot of parsley, &c., four cloves and two blades of mace; moisten with some light wine mirepoix (No. 236), or in lieu thereof, use lialf a pint of sherry or Madeira, and a large ladleful of stock; cover the necks of mutton with an oval piece of buttered paper, and set them to boil on the stove-fire; after which put the lid on the pan, and set the braizing-pan on a moderate fire with live embers on the lid, to continue gently boiling for about two hours; taking care to baste the larded necks frequently with their own liquor. When done, take them up on to a small baking-dish with a little of their own broth, and put them in the oven that the larding may dry for a minute or two, then glaze and dish them up ; garnish them roimd with a border of potatoes turned in the shape of large olives, corks, or balls, and fried in clarified butter; pour some Poivr^ sauce (No. 29), imder them, and send to table. 612. NECKS OF MUTTON, LARDED AND BRAIZED, A L’ALLEMANDE, Trim, lard, and prepare for braizing, two necks of mutton, as directed in the preceding article ; and about two hours before dinner- time, set them on the fire to braize in the usual manner. Wlien done, glaze and dish them up, surround them with alternate groups of que- nelles of potatoes, and prunes stewed in red wine ; pour some G-erman sweet sauce (No. 61) under them, and send to table. 613. NECKS OF MUTTON LARDED, A LA SOUBISE. Trim and lard two necks of mutton, prepare them for braizing with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, three cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a large ladleful of good stock, cover them with an oval piece of buttered paper as well as the Hd of the brazier: set then. .,n a moderate fire to braize gently for about an hour and a half; when done, glaze, and dish them up (having pre- viously poured in the dish a rich of onions d la Souhise, No. 119), place a border of potato croquettes round them, and send to table. Note.—Larding may be dispensed with, when considered objection- able, without deteriorating much from the excellence of any of the foregoing methods of dressing necks of mutton. It is, however, genially regarded as a proper characteristic of these dishes. In addition to the above methods for garnishing braized necks of mutton, they may also be finished by placing round them a garnish of stewed peas, aspara^s, glazed young carrots and turnips, sauer-kraut, baked toraatas, or Injonnaise tomatas, or Piquante sauce. N