35 OF VEGETABLES. small stewpan with some clarified butter and a little pounded sugar; then place the stewpan on a slow fire, and fry the onions of a light- brown colour, taking care to toss them up now and then that they may be equally coloured; when sufficiently coloured they will be neaiiy done. Then place them on a sieve to allow the butter to drain, and put them in a small stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little con- somme ; lastly, set them on the fire and boil them down to a glaze. 150. GARNISH OF WHITE BUTTON ONIONS. Peel and blanch a pint of small button onions, put them into a stewpan with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, a little salt, and a ladleful of white broth; set them on the fire to boil gently for half an hour, then boil them down quickly to a glaze, and finish by add- ing a spoonful of Allemancle sauce. 151. GARNISH OF WINDSOR BEANS. Boil a quart of young Windsor beans, peel off their husks, and place them in a sauta-pan with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a pat of butter, and a spoonful of Bechamel sauce; throw in a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little winter savory; shake the whole well togetlier over the fire, and place them in the centre of an entree. 152. GARNISH OF FRENCH BEANS. Cut a plateful of French beans into tire shape of diamonds, boil them gi’een, drain them on a napkin, and then put them into a sauta-pan with a pat of butter, a little pepper and salt, a spoonful of white sauce, and a little lemon-juice; toss them well together on the fire, and serve. 153. GARNISH OF ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Eemove the outer leaves from four artichokes, pare off with a knife the gi’een surface from the bottom of the artichokes, so as to render them smooth and white; rub over each artichoke as it is finished with lemon-juice, and instantly throw it into a basin of water in which a little vinegar has been mixed; then boil them in a stewpan contain- ing hot water, a piece of butter, minionette pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. When they are done, take them out, and after allowing them to cool, extract the hay or inside fibres; trim them, and divide each artichoke into six pieces. Then place them in a sauta-pan with a spoonful of Supreme sauce, a pat of butter, a little cream glaze, nutmeg, and sugar; toss them gently on the fire, and when tlie whole is well mixed, sei’ve. 154. GARNISH OF GLAZED ONIONS. Peel eighteen onions of a similar size with a small vegetable- cutter, scoop out the heads of their roots—perforating the onions through—and extracting the centre from each; boil them from three to five minutes in water, drain tliem on a napkin, and then place tliem in a sauta-pan well buttered, add a little sugar, and sufficient broth to cover the onions; set them on the stove to boil, and after- wards remove them to a slow fire, or place them in the oven, to sim- mer gently down to a glaze. Take care to turn the onions over in their glaze occasionally, so that they may become equally coloured. n 2