BISCUITS. 415 4 These cakes may be served either for dessert or a second-course dish; in the latter case, some whipped cream must be placed in the centre of the dish. 1298cZ. BROWN BREAD BISCUITS. Ingredients:—One pound of pounded sugar, eight ounces of brown flour, six ounces of Jordan almonds, ground or pulverised with- out being blanched or divested of their brown peUicule, sis drops of the essence of bitter almonds, and one dozen eggs. Break the eggs, placing the yolks in a basin, and the whites in an egg-bowl; add the sugar, flour, almonds, and the flavouring to the yolks, and work these well together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon; then mix in the whites previously whisked Arm for the purpose, and with this batter proceed to fiU as many small oblong or square paper cases as you may require for the purpose; which, after they have been sugared over, should be baked in a very moderate oven. These biscuits are adapted for desert only. 1298 e. GINGER CAKES. Ingredients :—One pound of flour, twelve oimces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of groimd Jamaica G-inger^ eight yolks of eggs. "Work the whole of the above-named ingredients together on a pastry-board or slab ; and, after having gathered the paste up into a compact mass, separate it into four parts, roU these out to the thick- ness of the sixth of an inch, one after the other, and with a tin-cutter, either oval, round, &c., &c., cut out as many cakes as the paste will produce, and place them on a slightly-buttered baking-sheet, pass a paste-brush over them when they are about half done, shake some sugar over them, and set them back in the oven to finish baking, of a very light coloiu. 1298/. CHAMPAGNE BISCUITS. Ingredients :—Eight ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar, eight oimces of fresh butter, eight eggs, a quarter of an ounce of carraway seeds, a pinch of salt. Place the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of thick cream; you then add the sugar, flour, yolks of eggs, the carraway seeds and the salt, gradually; after which, mix in the eight whites of eggs previously whisked firm for the purpose. You now procure a sheet of stout cartridge-paper, which must be folded in reversed plaits so as that, when the paper is opened, it may present the appearance of the plaits of a fan, thus forming angular trenches about an inch deep. Next, fill a biscuit-forcer witli some of the hatter, and proceed to force-out some finger-like biscuits mto the aforesaid paper trenches of about three inches long; shake some sifted sugar over these, and bake them of a light colour in a very moderate oven. These cakes are fit only for dessert. 12985T. ORANGE BISCUITS. These are made with the same kind of batter as described in the foregoing article, omitting in this case the carraway seeds, and sub*