184 REMOVES. 630. OX-CHEEK BRAISED, A LA FLAMARDE. Peocuee two fresh ox-cheeks, hone and trim them, and then place them in a large oval braizing-pan on the drainer, garnish with the usual complement of vegetables, &c., add the trimmmgs, moisten with suSicient broth from the stock-pot to cover the whole, and set them to bod very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about five hours. VVlien the ox-cheeks are thoroughly braized, and are become quite tender, take them up carefully, and put them in press between two dishes, untd cold; then trim them neatly, giving them an oval or oblong shape, and put them into a deep frkar^au pan with the broth in which they have been braized (clarified and reduced to half its origmal quantity), and set them by in the larder, till about three quarters of an hour before dishing up; then put the ox-cheeks m the oven, or on a slow fire, to get gradually warm, and to glaze them brightly, with their own stock. Next place them on their dish, the one resting on the other, garnish them round with a border of Brussels-sprouts boded green, and tossed over the fire in a stewpan, with two pats of butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; or when these fad, in their stead use braized cabbages ; then add a border of alternate groups of wed-prepared, and nicely-glazed carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and also some smaU-sized glazed onions. Sauce with an Espagrwle or Poicrade sauce, and send to table. 631. OX-CHEEK, A LA POLOXAISE. Bone and trim two ox-cheeks ; prepare them for braizing as directed in the foregoing case; moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and aUow them to simmer on the stove-fire for about ten minutes, add sufficient stock to cover them, and again set them on the stove to bod; skim and put them by the side of the fire, to continue gently boding for five hours. When the ox-cheeks are sufficiently braized, and are become quite tender, put them in press between two dishes; when cold, trim, and afterwards cut them across the grain, into very thin slices. Then stick a number of triangular croutons of fried bread, in an oval form, on the dish, within two inches of the edge, and within this coronet, place a layer of the thin slices of the ox-cheeks, over which spread some sauce made in the fodowing manner:— Shred the rind of two oranges very thin, and perfectly free from pith, bod it in water for five minutes, drain and refresh it m cold water, and then add to it a small ladleful of good Espagnole sauce, half a pound of red-currant jeUy, four chopped shalots, a little grated nutmeg, and the juice of one lemon; bod the whole together, stirring it the whde with a wooden spoon, and use this preparation as directed above. Havmg thus contmued alternately, adding layers of ox- cheek and sauce, untd the whole forms a dome ; mask it over with the remainder of the sauce, and after smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife, cover it with some light-coloured raspings of rod, bruised and sifted for the purpose. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put the dish in the oven, when moderately hot, to allow the preparation to get thoroughly warm; garnish with a border of fried eggs and glazed onions, pour some of the same sauce round it—