ENTREES or HARE. 326 acquire any colour; then drain them, and cut them into sloping bcoI- lops; put these into a stewpan with one-third of their proportion of scoUops or red tongue and some mushrooms; add two gravy-spoonfula of AUemande sauce (No 7), warm the Blanqu^tte, gently tossing it over the fire, and dish it up in the form of a dome; garnish it round with the croquettes^ previously fried, mask the Blanquette with a spoonful of the sauce, and serve. 1062. POLPETTES OF RABBITS, A l’iTALIENNE. Eoabt two rabbits, and when they are cold, cut ofi" aU the meat and chop it up fine; put this into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley and two shalots, also chopped, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, and two gravy spoonfuls of reduced Veloute sauce; stir theaa together over the fire imtil well mixed, then add the yolks of four eggs, and spread the preparation out in a square, about half an inch thick, upon an earthen dish; when this has become cold, stamp the Folpettes out with a circular tin-cutter about an inch and a half in diameter; bread-crumb them twice in the usual manner, place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, and fry them of a light colour over a brisk fire; when done, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up in double circular rows, pour some brown Italian sauce tmder them, and serve. Note.—Besides the foregoing methods of dressing rabbits for entrees, they may also be served in almost every variety of form in which chickens or fowls (previously cut up into small joints) are directed to be prepared; purees, minces, salpicons, and every kind of quenelles and boudins, may also be made with rabbits; for which consult those articles in that part of the work treating of entrees ot chickens and fowls, and proceed in the same manner. ENTEEES OP HA BE, COMPRISING Fillets of Hare, larded, with Poivrade Sauce. Cutlets of Hare, d PAncimne. ,, d la Chasseur. Scollops of Hare, with Fine-herb«. „ d VAUemande. „ d la Perigueux. Cutlets of Hare, d la Portuguaise. Civet of Hare, with Mushrooms. 1063. FILLETS OF HARE LARDED, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. Ip the’hares used for this purpose are full grown,three will suffice; they must be filleted, and each fQlet split into halves; these should be trimmed and larded, and placed in a curve at the bottom of a sautapan lined with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten v^ith some mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of buttered paper upon the fillets, and set them in the oven to simmer for twenty minutes, frequently bastmg them with their own liquor; when they are nearly done, remove the paper, dir the larding and glaze it; drain the fillets upon a napkin, trim and dish them up in a close circle, pour some Poirroife, Tomata, or Italian sauoe under them, and serve.