LEICESTERSHIEE PORK PIE. 385 at Christmas time. Their substautial aspect renders them worthy of appearing on the side-table of those wealthy epicnres who are wont to keep up the good old English style, at this season of hospitality and good cheer. 1245. DEVONSHIRE SQUAB PIE. ITrst, make two pounds of short paste (No. 1253), roll it up in a clean cloth, and set it aside till wanted. Then, cut about two pounds of griskin of pork in slices, season these with a little chopped onion, sage and thyme, pepper and salt, and place them on a dish; cut one pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled for a quarter of an hour) also in slices, and put them with the pork; to these add about a dozen good apples, which, when peeled, and the cores taken out, must be cut in thick slices and put on a plate. Next, take rather more than half the paste, roll it out, and line an oblong tin mould, about two inches deep, with it; then, arrange the pork, bacon, and apples in this, in alternate layers, commencing Avith the bacon, over this put slices of apples, and then the pork, and so on until the whole is used up. The remainder of the paste must now be rolled out, and used to cover the pie with; fasten it securely roimd the edges, trim it, and pinch it roimd boldly with the pincers; ornament the top with leaves, &c., egg it over and bake it in an oven of moderate heat, for about two hours, and serve it hot. 1246. LEICESTERSHIRE PORK PIE. Cut the pork up in square pieces, fat and lean, about the size of a cob-nut, season with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of sage and thyme chopped fine, and set it aside on a dish in a cool place. Next, make some hot-water-paste, using for this purpose (if desired) fresh-made hog’s-lard instead of butter, in the proportion of eight ounces to the pound of flour. These pies must be raised by hand, in the following manner:—Eirst, mould the paste into a round ball upon the slab, then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and vdth the back of the right hand indent the centre in a circle reaching to Avithin three inches of the edge of the paste; next, gather up the edges aU round, pressing it closely Avith the fingers and thumbs, so as to give to it the form of a purse ; then continue to work it upwards, until the sides are raised sufficiently high; the pie should now be placed on a baking-sheet, Avith a round of buttered paper under it, and after it has been filled with the pork—previously prepared for the purpose, covered in with some of the paste in the usual manner. Trim the edges, and pinch it round Avith the pincers, decorate it, egg it over and bake it xmtil done: calculating the time it should remain in the oven, according to the quantity of meat it contains. 1247. EEL-PIE, A L’ANGLAISE. two good-sized Thames eels, spread them out on a dish, and sprinkle thern over Avith a little pepper and salt. Make some quenelle force-meat Avith either perch, tench, or carp: and after haAung mixed some chopped mushrooms, parsley, one shalot, spread a thick layer of it mside each eel, roll tliem up, cut the eel into four-inch lengths, and ))hice them on a dish until wanted. Next, line a plain mould with 2 c