65 SOUPS IN GENERAL. two quarts of good clear consomme, boil it gently by the side of the stove-fire till the grains of the rice begin to featlrer or separate, when it will be ready to send to table. Observe, that broths and consommes should be always stronger, when used for soups containing Italian pastes of any kind, rice, or barley ; as these failnaceous substances decrease the flavour and ap- parent strength of soups, and render them less acceptable to the palate of the epicure—unless counteracted by increasing the strength of the consomme 267. CLEAR RICE SOUP WITH ASPARAGUS POINTS. This soup is prepared in the same way as the foregoing—with tlie addition of one pint of asparagus points boiled green and thrown into the soup just before sending to table. 268. CHICKEN AND RICE SOUP. Truss, boil, and cut into small members, two spring chickens; the skin should be removed, and the pieces neatly trimmed and placed in the soup tureen, together with two quarts of clear rice soup, which should be made with chicken broth or consomme, of a light colour. The seasoning of this soup must be light. 269. COCKY-LEEKY SOUP. Take two fowls, which truss, boil, and cut up as for the foregoing soup. To the broth they have been boiled in add two quarts of blond of veal, and in this boil (after hawng first parboiled them in water) the white part of a dozen leeks cut into lengths of about an inch, and these again cut lengthways into four. When the leeks have been boiled thoroughly soft in the broth, add the pieces of fowl; and after allowing the whole to boil ten minutes longer, send to table. Note.—This kind of soup is objected to by many who dislike the odour of leeks; it is considered, however, to be a fine restorative, and is especially recommended to the notice of sportsmen, after a hard day’s riding with the hounds, or fagging over the moors. 270. SCOTCH BROTH. Take a neck of fresh mutton, trim it the same as for cutlets; take the scrag and trimmings, with two can’ots, three turnips, two heads of celery, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and with these make some mutton broth—filling up with either broth from the common stockpot, or with water. While the mutton broth is boiling, cut up the neck of mutton, previously trimmed for the pur- pose, into chops, which should have the superfluous skin and fat pared away, and place them in a three-quart stewpan, together with the red or outer part of two caiTots, three turnips, two leeks, one onion, and two heads of celeiy-—the whole of these to be cut in the form of veiy small dice; add six ounces of Scotch barley previously washed and parboiled, and then pour on to the whole the broth made from the scrag, &c,, when strained and the fat removed. Allow the soup thus far prepared to boil gently until the chops and the vege- tables be thoroughly done. Five minutes before sending the soup to table throw into it a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. F