148 FKESH-WATER FISH. with two glasses of sherry—detach all the glaze ana herbs from tho bottom and sides of the dish in which the pike has been baked, add this to a ladleful of good brown sauce, reduce the w'hole to a proper consistency, and mix in two ounces of fresh butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon-juice, and a trifle of cayenne ; mth this sauce mask the pike and send to table. 522. PIKE, A LA CHAMBORD. This dish is prepared in a similar manner to carp d la Chambord (see No. 512). This is also the case with pike d la Cardinal, ditto d la Jioyale, and ditto fried d VAllemande; in fact pike may be dressed in all respects the same as carp. 523. PIKE, FRIED A LA HOLLAXDAISE. When the pike is cleaned, cut it into slices an inch thick, and place them in an earthen vessel; season with pepper and salt, oil, lemon- juice, chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; turn the slices of pike over in the seasoning occasionally, in order that they may be weD saturated ivith it, and half an hour before dinner-time, drain them on a napkin, dip each separately in flour, and immediately fry them in hogs’-lard, made sufficiently hot for the purpose ; dish them on a nap- kin, place round them a border of fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of well-seasoned Dutch sauce (No. 42). 524. CRBIPED SLICES OF PIKE, A LA HOLLANDAISE. To produce this dish in perfection, the following instructions must be closely attended to in every particular :— Scale* and clean the pike, immediately on its being taken from the water; cut the fish into slices nearly an inch thick, and put them into a panful of spring water—fresh from the pump—which, from its coldness, has the power of crimping the comparatively live fish thrown into it. About twenty minutes before dinner, boil the slices in hot water with a little salt; as soon as they are done, drain and dish them up on a napkin, and send to table with either of the following, in a sauce-boat:—Parsley and butter, Dutch sauce, Maitre d'Hotel, or Cray- fish sauce. 525. FILLETS OF PIKE. Mat be dressed in every variety in which salmon, tui'bot, or soles are capable of being sent to table; and the directions given under those heads will sxiffice. It is necessary, however, to describe here the operation of fiUeting pike. The smaller sized of this fish are best suited for this purpose ; these should be filleted as follows :— Pirst lay the fish on the table, with its back placed towards you, insert the knife just below the gill, press with the left hand slightly on the upper part of the fillet, and then draw the knife down—close to the back-bone; when one fillet is removed, repeat the same opera- tion on the other side. Then lay the fillets alternately on the table, ♦ The easiest way is to place the pike in a sink, and then to pour some boiling watei cTcr it. by which means the scales are effectually remoyed by scraping them off with a knife.