309 BOUDINS OF FOWL. 1005. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA PEPJGUEUX. Tkese must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same manner as the foregoing: after the centre has been scooped out, the cawty of these should be filled up with some puree of truffles (No, 121) ; then, the boudins must be closed-in with a thin coating of the force-meat, and after being rubbed over with a paste-brush, and dipped in some beaten white of egg, should be sprinkled over with black truffles chopped very fine, and must be poached and afterwards dished up in a close circle. Pour some P4rigueux sauce (No. 23) imder them, and serve. 1006. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SEFTON. Peepaee the force-meat in the usual way, and before using it, incorporate therewith about two table-spoonfuls of of mush- rooms (No. 122) ; then divide the force-meat into three equal parts, roll these, Avith the aid of a little flom* shaken over them, into square oblong shapes,* measuring about six inches in length; place these in a deep sautapan, previously spread with butter to receive them, and poach them as directed in former cases; when done, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up in the form of an angle, or in a row, side by side; place two minion fillets that have been larded and glazed across the ends of each, garnish with a white Financiere ragout (No. 188), and serve. 1007. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA d’AETOIS. Peepaee about twelve small oval or oblong flat quenelles of force- meat of fowls, and when they have been poached, drained, trimmed, and then scooped out as directed for the quenelles d la Marichale, fill the cavities with a salpicon-\ composed of truffles, mushrooms, and red tongue mixed with a little reduced Allemande sauce; spread a thin layer of force-meat over the surface, bread-crumb the boudins care- fully, and place them with this side uppermost in a sautapan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins of a light colom*, on both sides, drain them upon a sheet of paper and glaze them lightly, and then dish them up in a close circle; ^ the centre with a Financiere ragout (No. 188) in some Madeira sauce (No. 8), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1008. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SOUBISE. PiEST, prepare some force-meat with the fiUets of two fowls (No. 242), and in finishing this, instead of sauce, add two table-spoonfuls of puree of onions (No 119) ; form this force-meat into about sixteen small oblong quenelles, by rolling them upon the table or slab with a little flour; then cut each of these in two, lengthwise, spread out the • There are fancy copper or tin moulds made for this purpose, and may be had at all ■nraziers’ shops. Previously to filling the moulds with the force-meat, they must be care- fully and thinly spread with butter. These must be merely steamed in water, m the same manner as a pudding, and, when done, turned out of the moulds, and finished as directed for the others. f Salpicon means, literally, anything savoury, such as truffles, tongue, mushrooms, sweetbreads, poultry, or game, that has undergone the process of mincing, jirep<aratory to being mixed with some Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole sauce ; to be afterwards used for such purposes as the above, and also for garnishing patties with.