FRESH-WATER FISH 142 502. EELS, PLAIN BROILED. Bone and cut the eels into three-inch lengths, put them on a dish, season vdth pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and tvvo spoonfuls of oil; twenty minutes before dinner, broil them of a light colour, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces named in the foregoing article, in a sauce-boat, separately. 503. EELS, STEWED A l’ANGLAISE. The eels being skinned, trimmed, and cut into pieces about two inches long, place them in a sten^an, Avith some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, a handful of mushroom trimmings, a few pepper-corns, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a little salt; moisten with half a bottle of port wine, cover with a round of buttered paper, replace the lid on the stewpan, and set the eels on the stove-fire to stew. When they have boiled gently on the corner of the stove for about twenty minutes, they will be done : then dram and trim them, keeping their liquor to make the sauce ; place the pieces of eel in a clean stewpan, and then proceed to make a sauce for them in the following manner:—Put about two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan on the fire, and as soon as it is melted, add tAvo table-spoon- fuls of flour; with a wooden spoon stir them both together over the fire, until the roux, or thickening, becomes slightly colomed; then throw in a couple of shalots, and moisten gradually vrith the b'quor in Avhich the eels have been stewed, adding thereto a small ladlefui of good stock, and a couple of glasses of port Avine. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and set it on the comer of the stove, to continue gently throAving up the scum, which, having entirely removed, reduce the sauce, if necessary, to its proper consistency; and then pass it through a tammy into the stewpan containing the pieces of eel already mentioned. Just before sending to table, add a few prepared button- mushrooms, a pat of fresh butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, lemon-juice, and a very small quantity of essence of anchovy; toss the whole well together over the fire until weU mixed; then dish the eels up in a pyramidal form on their dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish round Avith a dozen croutons of fried bread, and send to table. 504. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA BORDELAISE. Cut some eels into thi’ee-iuch lengths, place them in a stewpan Avith sliced carrot, onion, parsley-roots, mushrooms, thyme, and bay- leaf, mace, four cloves, and a few pepper-coms; season with a little salt, and moisten with a bottle of claret. Set the eels to stew' on the fire, and when done, drain, trim, and place them in a clean stew- pan with a little of their liquor to moisten them. Then put the remainder of the liquor iato a steAvpan Avith a ladleful of broAvn sauce, some essence of mushrooms, and two glasses of claret; let this boil, then set it by the side of the stove to continue gently bofliug, that it may throw up the scum, and become bright; when this is efiected, reduce it to its proper consistency, by boiling it doA\ui quickly, stirring the sauce the whole time with a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the steAvpan and burning. Then pass the sauce through a tammy into a ham-marie, and just before