RAGOUTS. 44 rately in small stewpans, and be placed alternately in groups about the dish they are meant to garnish and ornament; then the boiling sauce should be poured over the turkey, capon, or poulai’ds, when ready to serve. 191. STRASBOURG RAGOUT OP PAT LIVERS. Braize a fat liver in some mirepoix (No. 236), take it out to cool, cut it into scollops, and trim them neatly; put them into a small stewpan with some of the mirepoix freed from eveiy particle of fat, add a proportionate quantity of scolloped truffles, and just before using tliese, set them on the stove and boil them down to a glaze; add a sufficient quantity of Financia-e sauce, and serve. 192. PERIGUEUX RAGOUT. Prepare some scollops of fat livers and truffles, as for the fore- going ragout; to these add some small quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and some button mushrooms; then add a ladleful of Perigueux sauce (No. 231, and boil the whole together for two or three minutes. 193. MATELOTTE RAGOUT. Peel and blanch half a pint of button onions, fiy them of a light- brown colour over a slow fire; when done, drain them on to a sieve, in order to free them from the butter, and place them in a bain-marie with an equal quantity of white button mushrooms, crayfish tails, and small quenelles of whiting; to these add a ladleful of Matelotte sauce (No. 31), and after allowing the ragout to boil for two or three minutes, use it for garnishing the Matelotte, or any other dressed coloured fish it is intended for. 194. MATELOTTE NORMANDE RAGOUT. Prepare tliirty crayfish tails, and place them in a stewpan with about half a pint of muscles, three dozen of parboiled oysters, and an equal proportion of white button mushrooms; to these add a ladleful of Matelotte Normande sauce (No. 32), allow the whole to boil up a minute or two on the stove, and use the ragout to garnish soles or otlier fish for which it is prepared. 195. BOURGUIGNOTTE RAGOUT. Peel and blanch half a pint of small button onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter, moisten with half a pint of good broth, and set tlie onions to stew gently on a moderate fire; when nearly done, boil them down to a glaze, and add tliem to an equal quantity of white button mushrooms and veiy small quenelles; to these put sufficient Bourguignotte sauce (No. 28) for the purpose required; allow the ragout to boil up on the stove fire for a minute or two, and use it to garnish the entree it may be intended for. 196. CRAYFISH RAGOUT. Take out and trim the tails of thirty crayfish; with the bodies and shells make some crayfish butter (No. 184), to be used in colour- ing some quenelles of whitings, afterwards moulded with teaspoons, poached, and placed with the crayfish; to these add some Allemande