SECOND-COURSE DISHES. 854 1159. CAULIFLOWERS, WITH PARIMESAN CHEESE Prepare and dish up the cauliflowers as directed above. Put a large ra^ou^-spoonfld of Bechamel or Veloute sauce, into a stewpan, %vith four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, a small piece of glaze, some lemon-juice, nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir this preparation over a stove-fire, until it be well mixed, without boiling; then, pour it on to the cauli- flowers, so as to mask them entirely with it. Smooth the dome over with the blade of a knife, and cover the top Avith a coating of grated Parmesan cheese; place them in the oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour ; when they have acquired a bright-yellow colour, put a border of croutons of fried bread round the base, and serve. The croutons may be stuck round the bottom of the dish in the form of a coronet, previously to dishing up the cauliflowers, so as to prevent them from spreading. 1160. TQAtLtTAS, A LA PROVENCALE. Slice off that part of the tomata that adheres to the stalk, scoop out the seeds without breaking the sides of the fruit, and place this in circular order in a sautapan, containing about a gill of salad oil. Next, ' chop up half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, and four shalots ; put these into a stewpan Avith two ounces of scraped fat bacon, and an equal proportion of lean ham, either chopped or grated fine; season Avith pepper and salt, and a little chopped thyme. Fry these over the stove-fire for about five minutes; then, mix iu the yolks of four eggs, fiD the tomatas with this preparation, shake some light- coloured raspings of bread over them, and place them over a brisk stove-fire, holding a red-hot salamander over them for about ten minutes, by which time they will be done; dish them up in the form of a dome, pour some broAvn Italian sauce (No. 12) roxmd the base, and serve. 1161. MUSHROOMS, AU GRATIN. PuiTNET, or large mushrooms, must be used for this purpose. Cut the stalks, trim the edges, and remove the skin, then fill each mush- room Avith a similar preparation to that directed to be used for tomatas d la Provengale ; shake some raspings of bread over them, and place them in a sautapan, thickly spread Avith butter; put them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour to gratinate, and then dish them up in a pyramidal form; pour some brown Italian sauce roimd them, and serve. 1162. LARGE TRUFFLES, A LA SERVIETTE.* When the truffles have been thoroughly cleansed by brushing the mould off in water, drain them in a sieve, then place them in a stew- pan linea with thin layers of fat bacon; pour some Avine mirepoix (No 236) on them, place some layers of bacon on the top, and set them to boil on the stove-fire; the lid must then be put on, and hermetically closed round with stiff flour-and-water paste to concentrate the flaimur of the truffles. AUoav them to simmer gently by the side of a slow fire, or in the oven, for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish • Note. Tbfi 6nest French truffles are imported by Cnosst: and Blaokavell, Soho Square.