GARNISHES 34 parsley-leaves. This kind of garnish is very appropriate for braized beef, lamb, and hams. 143. 'WI-IITE MACEDOINE OF VEGETABLES. Prepaee some carrots and turnips in fancy shapes of small size, let each sort be separately boiled down to a glaze in a little broth, with the addition of a little sugar and salt, and a very small piece of butter; when done, put the whole together in a small sauta-pan ; to these add a cucumber cut up and prepared for the purpose in scol- lops, a spoonful of boiled green peas, a spoonful of French beans cut in the shape of diamonds, a spoonful of asparagus heads boiled green, and also some very small flowrets of boiled cauliflower; add a grary’-spoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, ov Suioreme sauce, a little nut- meg and sugar; shake the whole lightly together over the stove-fire, and use this garnish for the entree intended. 144. GARNISH OF BROWN MACEDOINE. Prepare the vegetables for the Macedoine according to the direc- tions given in the preceding recipe; when nearly ready, use some finished Eespagnole sauce, instead of the other sauces there mentioned. 145. GARNISH OF GREEN PEAS. Boil about a pint of young peas, drain them, and place them in a sauta-pan, then add a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, a pinch of sugar, a little chopped and blanched mint, some nutmeg, a pat of butter, and a piece of glaze ; shake the whole up well together over the fire, and seiwe them in the centre of an entree. 146. GARNISH OF STEWED PEAS. Put a quart of young peas into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, on these pour a quart of cold spring water, and commence kneading the peas and butter together Avith the hand in tlie water; as soon as all the butter adheres to the peas, pour the Avater off, and then add a dessert-spoonful of sugai’, a little salt, an onion, and a faggot of parsley, and gi’een onions; set tlie peas to steAv on a moderate fire; Avhen they are done set them on a brisk fire to boil quickly, in order that they may by this means absorb all their moisture; then add a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, Avith a pat of butter, and dish them up in the centre of an entree. 147. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS HEADS. Trim and cut the heads of as many asparagus as may be required, boil them gi’een, and drain them on a napkin, then place them in a sauta-pan Avith a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little sugar, nutmeg, and a piece of glaze ; toss them gently over the fire, and seiwe 148. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS PEAS. Cut a bundle of sprue asparagus into peas, boil them green, and follow the directions contained in the foregoing article. 149. GARNISH OF BUTTON ONIONS FOR MATELOTTE. Peel a pint of small butten onions, boil them in Avater for five minutes, drain tliem on a napkin, and afterwards place tliem in a