ENTREES OF PARTRroGES. 332 for five minutes, and then add half a pint of French white wine. Boil this until reduced to half its original quantity, then add half a pint of good consomme and a ladleful of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), stir the sauce over the fire till it hods, then remove it to the side to clarify by gentle ebullition; after a quarter of an hour’s simmering, remove the grease and scum, pass the same through a tammy, and bod it down over a brisk stove-fire; then incorporate a small piece of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, and pass it again through a tammy into a basin; pour one-third to the partridges, and put the remainder into a hairwmarie containing some scoUops of truffles and mushrooms. When about to send to table, warm the salmis without boding dish it up in the usual order, mask it with the ragout and sauce, garnish round with glazed croutons, and serve. 1080. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PERIGORD. Peepaee the partridges as before directed; chop the trimmings and use them to make the sauce as directed in No. 1078. Cut out a dozen small heart-shaped croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, make an incision round tlie inside of the edges, fry them in butter, empty them, and then idl the cavities with some purie of truffles (No. 121) ; warm the salmis "with a little of the sauce, and dish it up so as to form a wed in the centre; place six of the croutons round the top of the entrie, fid the centre with smad quenelles of partridges, pour the sauce over the salmis, garnish the base with the remainder of the croutons, and serve. 1081. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH MUSHROOMS. Boast and trim the pai-tridges as usual, use the trimmings to make the sauce (No. 10), then pour it to the partridges, and add some button-mushrooms or truffles; warm the salmis, dish it up in a pyra- midal form, pour the sauce over it, garnish with croutons, and serve. 1082. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA LUCULLUS. Fillet four young partridges, trim the large fidets and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter; season vsith a dttle salt, and place a round of buttered paper upon them; remove the sinew from the minion fidets without tearing them, trim them neatly, and place them in a smad sautapan spread with butter; dip a soft paste-brush in some beaten white of egg, and pass it over their surface, and then decorate them with black truffles. After this is completed, mask them with clarified butter, and place some very thin layers of fat bacon upon them. Use the carcasses to make some fumet, which must be boded down to half glaze, and part of it incorporated with some white puree of mushrooms * (No. 122) ; place the fidets on the stove-fire for five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, without having acquired any colour, drain off the butter add a little of the purie of mushrooms, toss the fidets over the fire for a minute, and dish them up with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each; sauce the fidets with the puree, place the decorated fidets (previously simmered in the oven for about five minutes) across the aoutons, fid the centre with scodops of truffles, pour the sauce or purie round the base, and serve. • This purie must be of tlie consistency and colour of Supreme sauce.