SAVOY CAKE. 401 allow the cream to become too hot, as that would set the yolks of eggs, and thereby decompose the custard. 1274a. SAVAllIN CAKE. In OBEDIENT s :—Two poimds of flour, four ounces of sugar, twenty ounces of fresh butter, fiiteen eggs, half an ounce of salt, one ounce of German yeast, and foiu ounces of blanched and shred almonds. Pirst, set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour, and the yeast, in the same manner as directed for making brioche. Then, while the sponge is placed in a moderate temperature, to admit of its rising gradually and satisfactorily, place the remainder of the floiu in a large white pan or basin, hollow out the centre, and liaving first placed therein the salt, moistened Awth a tea-spoonful of water, the butter, sugar, and ten whole’eggs broken, proceed to manipulate the whole with the right hand, beating up the paste until it easily leaves the sides of the pan; you then break in the remainder of the eggs, two at a time, imtil the paste has absorbed the whole; and, after having continued to work it five minutes longer, proceed to fill an appropriate-sized mould with it in manner following:—Pirst, let the inside of the mould he well buttered, after which, strew the shred almonds equally over and about the surface of the interior; next, work the paste up again for a minute or two, and put a sufficient quantity thereof into the mould to rather more than half fill it. You now place the Savarin in a moderate temperature to rise until it has nearly filled the mould; when, after first sticking a broad hand of thick paper round the upper part of the mould, so as effectually to prevent the hatter from running over the sides of the mould, while it is being baked, put it into an oven of moderate heat, and hake it for about two hours. When done, turn the Savarin out of the mould, and after first running a knife into several parts of the surface, pour gently a rather thick orange syrup, containing a glassful of cura9ao, over and into the Savarin, and send to table quite warm. Idiis kind of cake is sometimes, in order to vary its appearance, after being first well soaked with a warm rich syrup, roUed aU over in orange or lemon sugar. 1275. SAVOY CAKE. Ingeedients :—One pound of the finest quality of sugar (pounded), fourteen eggs, four ounces and a half of the finest fiour, and four ounces and a half of potato flour. Pirst, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, taking care not to drop the least portion of the yolks into the whites, as any mix- ture of these renders it impossible to whisk the whites firm. The yoUvs must he put into a kitchen basin, and the whites into an egg bowl, to he kept in a cool place imtil used. Add the sugar to the yolks, throw in as much salt as wiU stand on a sixpence, and either some vanilla, lemon, or orange sugar, or else a few* drops of any kind of essence, such as orange, lemon, orange-flowers, vanilla, or* hitter almonds. Work these together with a wooden spoon, until the whole presents the appearance of a thick creamy batter. The whites must now he whisked into a firm substantial snowy froth; while this is going on, let both thewheaten and potato flour be well mixed in with 2 D