!<) SPECIAL SAUCES. 78. PLAIN EAVIGOTTE SAUCE.* Take one tablespoonful each of Tarragon-vinegar, Chili ditto, and Ilai’vey's sauce; put this into a small stewpan, and set it to boil down to half the quantity; then add about half a pint of good butter sauce (No. 70), and a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon, with chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley, in sufficient quantity to give a bright colour to the sauce; stir the whole well together and serve. This sauce is proper for boiled fowls or chickens, dressed fillets of various sorts of fish, when a plain dinner is served. If a small piece of glaze be added it will tend much to improve the quality of all plain sauces. 79. PLAIN DUTCH SAUCE. PoUK a large gi’avy-spoonful of melted butter into a small stewpan, add four raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, some minionette pepper, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt; stir the sauce brisldy on the fire in order to set the yolks in it, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie; previously to using it add a little Tarragon-vinegar or lemon-juice. 80. BREAD SAUCE. Pot a gill of cream and a little milk into a small stewpan with a large gravy-spoonful of bread-crumbs, a small onion, some j^epper- corns, and a little salt; stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled ten minutes, then take out the onion, work in a pat of fresh butter, and serve. 81. FRIED BREAD SAUCE. Mixce a little lean ham and put it into a small stewpan with one chopped shalot, some gi’ated nutmeg, minionette pepper, and half a pint of good gravy; simmer the whole on the stove-fire till reduced to half, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into another small stewpan, containing four tablespoonfuls of fried bread-crumbs of a hght-brown colour, and some chopped parsley; and a little essence of chicken and the juice of half a lemon; stir the sauce till it boils, and serve. This kind of sauce is appropriate for all small birds, such as wheat-ears, ortolans, ruffs and reeves, &c., &c. 82. BROWN GRAVY FOR ROAST ^TAL. Peace four ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan and knead it with a good tablespoonful of flour; add a ladleful of good brown gravy, some essence of mushrooms or mushroom catsup, a little grated nutmeg, and minionette pepper; stir the sauce on the stove, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes. If it becomes too thick add a little more gravy, so as to keep it of the same consistency as any other sauce; finish with a little lemon-juice. If there is no gravy or essence of mushrooms at hand, use, is; their stead, a ladleful of water, a piece of glaze, some mushroom catsup, and a little Indian soy; these will answer nearly the same purpose. * Note. CuossE and BLiCKWELL’s vinegars are the best. C 2