381 SANDWICHES. oil, and vinegar. Some small oval roUs must be ordered for this pui'pose; after the tops are cut off, and the crumb removed, first strew the bottom of each roU with small salad, then place a scollop of sole upon this, add a httle Mayonaise sauce (No. 97), then strew some small salad on the surface, cover with the tops, and dish them up. Note.—Saud^^dches of lobster or salmon are prepared in a similar manner. 1241a. BADMINTON SANDWICH. Cut some square pieces from a half-quartern loaf of stale bread, barely a quarter of an inch thick ; toast these of a light colour, and immediately on their being taken from the fire, let them be split or divided with a sharp knife, the inner or untoasted sides must be spread with anchovy butter, and over this place closely some fiUets of anchovies; cover the whole with the other piece of toast previously spread with anchovy butter, press down the sandwich with a knife, and after having cut the preparation into small oblong shapes, dish them up, and serve. 1241Z». BRETBY SANDWICH. First cut some thin slices of white bread and butter; then, cover half these, first, with finely-shred white-heart lettuce, then, with very thin slices of roast or boiled fowl; these to be placed alternately side by side vrith fillets of anchovies ; strew some shred lettuce over this, place a slice of bread and butter over the whole, and after slightly pressing the sandwich with the blade of a knife, proceed to cut the preparation into oblong shapes, about two and a-half inches long, by one inch in width. Dish up the sandwiches neatly, and serve. 1241c. SUMMER SANDWICH. Between thin slices of white or brown bread and butter, place some very thin slices of any of the following kind of meats : ham, tongue, boiled or roast beef, roast mutton, poultry or game, season with pepper and salt and a little mustard; strew some mustard and cress, small salad, or, if preferred, some finely-shred lettuee, over the meat; press the sandwich together with the blade of a knife, cut it into small oblong shapes, which, having dished up neatly, seud to table.