ICED PUDDINGS 136 Macedoine of fruits must be made as follows :—First, extract the juice from one pound of muscatel grapes, and add a sufficient quantity of syrup, to give body to it; this must then be put into the freezing-pot, and worked in the usual way. Just before using the ice, a propor- tionate quantity of light-coloured fruit must be added, and mixed in lightly with the ice, so as not to bruise them : tiiese fruits should consist of small pieces of pine-apple, peach, apricot, white rasjiberries, strawberries, and bigaroon-cherries ; this Macedoine should be finished just before dishing up. The pudding must be turned out of the mould on to its dish, the centre filled with the Macedoine, as represented in the annexed wood-cut, and immediately served. 1342. ICED PUDDING, A LA CHESTERFIELD. Grate one pound of pine-apple into a basin, add this to eight yolks of eggs, one pint and a hdf of boiled cream, one pound of sugar, and a very little salt; stir the whole together in a stewpan over a stove- fire until the custard begins to thicken; then pass it through a tammy, by rubbing with two wooden spoons, in the same manner as for a purie, in order to force the pine- apple through the tammy. This custard must now be iced in the usual manner, and put into a mould of the shape represented in the an- nexed wood-cut; and in the centre of the iced cream, some Machine ice of red fruits, consisting of cherries, currants, strawberries, and rasp- berries in a cherry-water ice., must be introduced ; cover the whole in ivith the lid, then immerse the pudding in rough ice in the usual way, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould on to its dish, ornament the top with a kind of drooping feather, formed with green angelica cut in strips, and arranged as represented in the wood-cut; garnish the base \vitn small gauffres, filled with some of the iced cream reserved for the purpose, place a strawberry on the top of each, and serve. 1343. ICED PUDDING, A LA KINNAIRD. Blanch eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two of bitter ditto; dry them in a cloth, put them into a sugar-boiler, and stir them over a slow fire, in order to roast them of a Light coloui-; as soon as the almonds have acquired sufficient colour, throw in six ounces of pounded sugar, and continue stirring the whole over the fire until the sugar has melted, and acquired a light-brown colour; they snouJd now be withdrawn from the fire, and stirred about with the spoon until they have become nearly cold; they must then be thoroughly pounded in a mortar, and added to eight yolks of eggs, eight ounces of sugar, and one pint and a half of boiled cream; stir the whole with a wooden