ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 360 1184. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A L’ITALIENNE. Turn the artichokes into any fancy shape, place them ui circular order in a deep sautapan tliicldy spread with butter; season witir mignionette-pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon-juice; moisteii with a little consomme, put the lid on, set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour—during which time they vrU, if pro- perly attended to, acquire a deep-yellow colour. Bull them up in their glaze, dish them up, pour some Italian sauce (No. 12) round them, and serve. 1185. WHITE HARICOT-BEANS, A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. These are seldom to he met A\dth in England, except in a dried state: when procurable, they should he treated in the following manner:— Put a large stewpan, half fiUed with water, on the stove-fire to boil; then throw in the beans, with a pat of butter and a little salt, and allow them to boil until they are become quite tender; drain them in a colander; then put them into a stewpan with about 6 oz. of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; toss them whole AveU together over a stove-fire, until well mixed; then, dish them up with croutons round them, and serve. Kote.—When the haricot-beans are in a dried state, they should be steeped in cold water for six horns at least, previously to their being dressed for the table, and must be boiled in cold water; in all other respects, finish them in the above manner. 1186. "WHITE HARICOT-BEANS, A LA ERETONNE. Boil the haricot-beans as directed above, and when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stewpan with some Bretonne sauce (No. 27), and set them to simmer over the stove-fire for five minutes; toss them together, and dish them up as the above. 1187. AMERICAN YAMS, A LA FR^\NCAISE. Cut the yams into slices about half an inch thick, trim them into rather large oval-shaped scollops, and throw them into a panful of water; wash and dram them upon a cloth, then place them in circular order in a deep sautapan, thickly spread with 4 oz. of fresh butter, and season with a little grated nutmeg and salt; moisten with a pint of broth or water, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently over a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to turn them over, in order that they may acquire a bright-yellow <r]azed colour on both sides; dish them up in close circt^r order, pMed up in rows; pour the following sauce imder them and serve:— Knead two pats of fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with a giU. of cream, a spoonful of poimded sugar, a very little salt, and a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water; stir this over the fire until it thickens, and then use it as directed. 1188. POTATOES, A LA MAITRE d’HOTEL. The small French kidney, or Vitelotte-^oi^toe^, are best adapted for this purpose: boil or steam them in the ordinary way, and when done, cut them into sHces about the eighth of an inch thick, put them into