406 CAKES. These form a superior kind of rusks, and are well adapted for the refreshment table at evening parties, or for the breakfast table. Note.—Eusks may also be made with &nbc/ie-paste, pound cake, or Savoy cake; in the latter case a few carraway seeds are sometimes added. 1281. POUND CAKE. Ingeedients required:—One pound of flour, one poimd of butter, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, a wine glass of brandy, a little salt, and the rind of two oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. Place the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it assumes the appearance of thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, and the eggs gradually ; when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, add the brandy, sugar and salt; mix well together, and bake the cakes in any kind of mould (previously spread with butter), or in a tin hoop lined Avith bnttered paper. Plumbs, currants, ahnouds, pistachio-kernels, candied-peel, or dried cherries may be added. 1282. FLEMISH GAUFFRES. Ingeedients requil’ed;—Eight oxmces of flour, six oimces of but- ter, six eggs, one oimce of yeast, half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream (whipped), the rind of two oranges rubbed on sugar, or a stick of vanilla poimded with half an ounce of sugar, and a little salt. Put the flom* into a gallon-sized basin, spread it out in the centre, then add the mflk (^vith the yeast dissolved in it over the fire imtil the whole becomes tepid) ; mix these gradually and thoroughly; then take the spoon out, scrape the sides of the basin wdth a knife, cover it with paper, and set the batter to rise in the screen. "V^en the sponge has increased to twice its original quantity, the butter should first be merely melted by the fire, and then added ^\ith the salt, orange sugar, and two whole eggs; mix these well in with the sponge, then add the whipped cream and the yolks of the four eggs, and lastly, after having whipped the four whites into a substantial froth, mix them lightly in with the batter, and again set it to rise in a warm place, either on the top of the screen or on the kitchen table, that it may rise to twice its original quantity. While the batter is being prepared, let the gauffre-rrans, be heated over the flame of a charcoal fire, and when sufilciently hot to admit of their baking the gauffres, rim a little clarified butter through them with a paste-brush, then fill one side of the irons with some of the batter, handling it gently with a spoon; close the irons, and then turn them upside down (that the batter may run into the opposite side), and set them over the flame of the charcoal fire, and when done of a bright-yeUow colour on one side, turn the irons over, that gauffres may be baked also on the other side. They must then be turned out of the irons, and after the edges have been trimmed mth a pair of scissors, set them in the oven or before a fire on a baking-sheet covered with paper. Eepeat this until the whole of the batter be used up ; then, shake some orange, lemon, or vanilla sugar over them, pile them up neatly on a napkin, and serve. These gauffres are generally served as a remove in the second course.