41li CAKES. sheet in the form of a gherkin, pointed at the ends, and elevated at the centre : fill the halnng-sheet with these, placing them about two inches distant from each other; egg them over, shake some fine chopped loaf sugar (about the size of small hail stones) overthem, then, shake some sifted sugar upon them, and put them in the oven (at very moderate heat), to bake of a bright-yellow colour. When the Mecca loaves are done, allow them to become cold ; then after they have been dished up in double circular rows, fill the well or centre with some whipped cream seasoned with a little sugar, and a small glass of liqueur, and serve. 1296. queen’s cakes. PiEST, prepare eight yolks of eggs of nouilles paste (No. 1256), roll this out as thin as paper, cut it into bands, and shred these ex- tremely fine ; after the nouilles have been allowed to dry upon a siev'e for a short time, put them into a convenient-sized steAvpan, with a pint of boiling cream, two pats of butter, six ounces of sugar, and a glass of brandy; set them to bod very gently over a slow stove-fire (covered Avdth the lid), and when the cream has been absorbed by the nouilles, withdraw them, add the yolks of six eggs, and stir the whole well together ; then place this preparation upon two baking- sheets (spread with buttei*), in layers about the eighth part of an inch thick, and bake these of a deep-yeUow colour. T^en done, spread one of them with apricot-jam, cover this over Avith the other, and then stamp the cakes out Avith a circular thi-cutter, in the form of half-moohis ; dish these up in double circular rows, so as to form a cone, and serve. These cakes may also be garnished Avith any other kind of preserve, or even with pastry-custard (jNo. 1311) ; they may be cutout, either in oblong, circular, oval, leM-like, or diamond shapes. In order to vary their appearance, their surface should be first lightly spread Avith a little meringue-'^di&te (No. 1298), and then streAvn AAuth chopped or shred pistachios, granite-sugar, or small piiik or white comfits. 1297. ALMOND CAKES. Inqeedients :—Sis ounces of floiu*, eight ounces of sugar, tAvo ounces of ground or finely-pounded almonds (Avith a few bitter al- monds), sis yolks of eggs, two whole eggs, four whites whipped, a glass of brandy, a little salt, foirr omices of chopped almonds mixed AA-ith two ounces of sugar, and half the white of an egg. First work the butter in a basin Avith a spoon, until it presents a creamy appearance; next, add the flonr, sugar, almonds, brandy, eggs, and salt, gradually; then mix in the whipped whites of eggs, lightly: pour this paste on a baking-sheet about an inch and a half deep (previously buttered), and bake it of a light colour. When the cake is nearly done, spread the prepared chopped almonds over the top, and then pnt it back again into the oven to finish baking : when done, the almonds should be of a Ught-faivn colour. Turn the cake out carefully, and when cold, cut it up into bands about an inch and a half Avide, then again divide these into diamond-shaped cakes, and dish them up pyramidally. Some whipped cream may be placed in the centre of the dish, and the cakes neatly dished up round it.