440 ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. Chios. _ The centre of these cakes may also be filled with a Macidoine of fruit in jelly, or with any of the various kinds of creams; the latter should be whipped on the ice, until nearly set. 1351 APPLES AND RICE, ORNAMENTED. First, turn or peel smoothly about two dozen golden pippins (afterthe cores have been removed); boil these very gently in some Light syrup for about ten minutes, when they wfil be sufficiently done. Then prepare some rice in the same man- ner as for a cake, observing that for this purpose, it must be kept firmer. Prepare also a circular or oval raised pie-case (No. 752), about three inches high, taking care that its diameter suits the dish it is meant for. When the case is baked, fill it with the prepared rice, and pile the apples up in a pyramidal form, as represented in the wood- cut, placing some of the rice in the centre of these. Mask the whole with some diluted apricot-jani, place a preserved cherry in the whole of each apple, and insert some pieces 01 angelica cut in the form ol pointed leaves in between the apples. This dish should be served hot, and must, therefore, be dished up only a short time previously to its being served. 1352. APPLES AND RICE, PLAIN. Ditide a dozen apples in halves, take out the cores, peel them, and place them in neat order in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter; strew some lemon-sugar over them, put the lid on, and then bake them without allowing them to acquire any colour. Prepare some rice boded with milk, sugar, a little butter, and some cinnamon; when thoroughly done, work this up with a spoon, and then dish it up in the form of a dome; arrange the apples neatly upon this, pour Borne melted apricot-jam over the whole, and serve quite hot. 1353. APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE. Prepare some apple marmalade with about a dozen apples. Split a dozen apples into halves, peel them, and remove the cores, and then place them in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter; shake some sugar and grated lemon-peel over them, and bake them in the oven. Prepare next a small quan- tity of pastry custard (No. 1311), also an ornamented case (No. 752), which should be partially baked. Wlien the foregoing articles arc ready, nearly fiU the case with the marmalade of apples, leaving an