rOTIED GAME AND SlfJELLFlSH. 375 tion, formed with leaves, rings, dots, crescents, &c.,cut out of truflaies and tongue, and arranged so as to represent a circular wreath, with a star or scroll in the centre. Decorate the sides of the mould in the same manner, dipping each piece of the decoratio.uL in a little melted aspic- jeUy, to make it adhere to the mould; when the decoration is com- pleted, fill the mould up with the prepared purk, and imbed the mould in ice to set the aspic. When it has become quite firm, ^p the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, instantly withdraw it, wipe it with a clean cloth, and turn it out upon its dish. Gramish the aspic roimd with a roU of chopped aspic-jelly, place some croutons round the base, and serve. Note.—The above may be made also with pheasant, partridge, or any other kind of game. 1230. POTTED PHEASANTS, A LA KOYALE. Tbuss a pheasant as for boiling, and braize it ivith 1 lb. of ham, in some weU-seasoned wine mirepoix (No. 23G) ; when done, drain them upon a dish, strain their liquor into a stewpan, and when divested of all the grease, boil it down to glaze. Meanwhile, chop and pound all the meat from the pheasant with the ham, and add to these 6 oz. of clarified fresh butter, a ra^ozii-spoonful of good sauce, and the glaze t season with Cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub this preparation through a fine wii’e-sieve on to a dish. Next, fiU some small round or oval earthenware potting-pans with this preparation, smooth the surface over with a spoon dipped in water, place them in a covered stewpan, and submit them to the action of steam for about half an hour. The potted pheasant must then be allowed to cool; then, with the bowl of a spoon, press down the meat m the pots, wipe them clean, and run a little clarified fresh butter over the surface. Note.—AU kinds of game should be potted in the above manner, and iviU then keep fresh-flavoured for months. For those who ap- prove of it, more spice and aromatic herbs may be added; but it should be observed, that an immoderate use of these impairs the flavom* of the game. 1231. POTTED FOWL AND TONGUE. Pare ofif all the meat from a roast fowl, chop and pound it tho- roughly with about one pound of boiled red tongue or dressed ham ; add sis ounces of clarified fresh butter, three ounces of good glaze (made with the bones of the fowl), and a gravy-spoonful of good Bichamel sauce (No. 5) ; season with Cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and salt; and when the whole has been thoroughly mixed by pounding, rub the produce through a fine wire-sieve, and then finish this as duected for the potted pheasant. 1232. POTTED LOBSTER. Lobsters for potting must be quite fresh. Take the meat, pith, ^d coral out of the shells; cut this up in slices, and put the vmole into a stewpan with one-third part of clarified fresh butter, and to every pound of lobster, add fom’ whole anchovies (washed and wiped (fry) ; season with mace, pepper-corns, and a little salt, then put the lid on the stewpan, and set the lobster to simmer very gently over a