TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 247 between eacli of these, insert a decorated minion fillet; cover tho latter vith thin layers of fat bacon, and secure the entree round wdth a band of buttered paper made fast with string. Three quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put the tinban in the oven to bo baked; when it is done, remove the paper and the bacon from the r-mall fillets, glaze the larded fillets brightly, garnish the well of the entrk with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), pour some of the same round the base, and serve. 800. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA FINANCIERE. Take out the fillets from fom- rabbits, trim and lard them closely. With the flesh of the legs, prepare some quenelle force-meat, and use part of this to make a cylindrical foundation, as in the foregoing case ; when cold trim the top of this roimd, and after it has been spread \vith a thin coating of the force-meat, lay the larded flUets round its sides in a slanting position, with the small end of each turned over at the top, and made to reach about an inch down the cylinder ; between each fOlet of rabbit, a closely-studded row of cock’s-kernels must be deeply inserted in the coating of quenelle force-meat, and these should be covered with thin strips of fat bacon to keep them white. A buttered band of paper must be placed round the turban, and secured with string. An hour before dinner-time, put the tinban in the oven to be baked; when it is done, remove the paper, glaze the larded iUlets, and afterwards pick the bacon off the kernels without dis- turbing them; fill the centre of the entrie with a Financicre ragout (No. 188), ponr some round the base, and serve. 801. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF HARES, A LA CONTI. Take out the fillets of three young hares, and by splitting each fillet into halves, lengthwise, of equal thickness, twelve ^ets Avih be obtained; these must then be neatly trimmed and contish from one end to the other with scollops of black truffles. Use the flesh of the legs to prepare some quenelle force-meat; and, as in the foregoing rases, a fonndation must be made with part of this, to raise the tur- ban upon it. When the cylinder of force-meat has been poached or steamed, and is cold enough, place it upon the foimdation of paste, trim the top round, and spread it over with a coating of force-meat; lay the decorated fillets of hare slantingly round the sides with their tapering points secured inside the cylinder with a little force-meat, and cover the turban with thin layers of fat bacon, secured round with a band of paper in the usual way. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban m the oven to be baked, and when it is done, remove the paper and bacon, dish it up, fill the centre with scoUops of black ti-uffles and white mushrooms, pour some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) over and round the entr6e, and serve. Note.—The two foregoing entrees may be varied in their appearance,