PUREES OF 26 pieces, or slices; first blanch, and tlien drain them on a na^ kin and aftenvards place them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt; let them stew gently on a slow fire to extract the moisture, turning them occasionally, and taking care that they do not become at all coloured. When the turnips are nearly meltecl, add a small ladleful of Veloiite or Bechamel sauce; stir the puree with a wooden spoon on the fire, in order to reduce it to the consistency of a soft paste; then add half a pint of double cream; reduce the purh still further, then rub it through a tammy, next remove it into a small stew'pan, and previously to using it, make it sufficiently hot, mixing in a pat of fresh butter, and serve. 110. PUREE OF CELERY. Cut the white part of six or eight heads of celeiw into half-inch lengths, boil these in w'ater for five minutes, plunge them in fresh water, and drain the celeiy in a napkin; then place them in a stew- pan with tw'O ounces of butter, some white broth, a little sugar and grated nutmeg; cover tlie celery thus prej^ared with a round of buttered paper, place the lid on the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire to extract the moisture and melt the celery, taking care that in the course of process it does not colour; when the celery is melted or softened, moisten with a ladleful of white sauce, and half a pint of cream; reduce quickly on the fire, stirring the puree the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the puree is reduced to its proper consistency, proceed immediately to rub it through the tammy, after which take it up into a small stew’pan; previously to using it, make the puree hot, and mix with it a little double cream and a pinch of pomided sugar. 111. PUREE OF CAULIFLO'^'ERS. Cut two or more heads of white fresh cauliflowers into small pieces, and after trimming these, boil them in some boiling water with a little salt, minionette pepper, and a pat of butter; when done, drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a deej) sauta-pan, with a large gravj’-spoonful of reduced Allemande or Avhite sauce; stir the purh on the fire with a Avooden sjroon, and keep it boiling until reduced to the consistency of a soft paste. Then instantly rub it through a tammy, remove the into a small stewpan, and previously to using it make it hot. and mix in a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, and a little double cream to whiten it, and make it more delicate. 112. PUREE OF SPINACH. Pick, wash, and boil a small dish of spinach, refresh it in cold water, squeeze it thoroughly free from water, examine it cai’efully by separating it with tire point of a knife on the chopping board, so as to remove any straw's, &c., left in it, next pound it well in the mortal’, and then take it up in a deep sauta-pan, add a small ladleful of good white sauce, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a pinch ot sugar; reduce the puree over a brisk fire to preserve its colour; rub it through a tammy, and remove it into a small stewpan; just before using it, make it Avarm, and add tw'o pats of fresh butter and a small piece of glaze.