237 BORDERS OF'I’OTATO-PASTE. scollops of red tongao cut in the form of cocks’-combs, placed alternately round the inner edge of tlie casserole, glaze it lightly, and serve. Note,—Casseroles, or Borders of rice, may also be garnished with fricassee of chickens, lamb’s-feet, Uanquettes of sweetbreads or fowlS; and with aU kinds of scollops, whether of poultry, game or fish. OKNA3IENTAL BORDEES OF POTATO-PASTE, COMPRISING Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Scollops of Larks and Truffles. ,, garnished with Lamb’s Feet, d la Pascaline. ,, garnished with Ox Pa- lates, d VIndienne. Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Scol- lops of Sheep’s tongues, with fine-herbs. ,, garnished with CalPs Brains, d la Pavigotte. 782. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF LARKS AND TRUFFLES. A BOEDER of potato-paste resembles in a great measure a casserole of rice, and is prepared as follows ;— Eor an ordinary size entrie, fifteen large potatoes should be baked, and their pulp afterwards rubbed through a fine wire-sieve upon a dish ; this must be put iuto a middle-sized stewpan with four ounces of butter, the yolks of six eggs, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture becomes a smooth compact paste; it should then be rolled into a ball, placed on a bakiug-sheet, and shaped to the height and circumference designed. The border should now be moulded in the same way as a casserole of rice, for which purpose consult the mouldings represented in the designs of casseroles of rice (No. 777), and are to be executed with a piece of raw carrot or turnip, cut in the form of a chisel. "When the border is moulded, it shoiild be egged over with a soft paste-brush, and baked in an oven, of a light yellow colour; when done, part of the inside must be removed, and the cavity smoothed over with the back of the bowl of a spoon. The border ought to be kept iu a dry place till wanted for use. Put the border in the screen or hot closet to get warm, five minutes before sending to table; garnish it with a ragout of scollops of larks and truffles (No. 205), place a border of small quenelles of fowl roimd the edge, lightly glaze the border, pour a Httlc of the sauce round the base, and serve. 783. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH LAMliS’ FEET, A LA PASCALINE. Peocuee a dozen lambs’-feet ready scalded, remove the shin-bone, parboil them for five minutes, immerse them in cold water, draiu them on a napldn to absorb the water, then stick them one at a time upon the point of an iron skewer, and singe off the hair (if not already re- moved by scalding), over the flame of a charcoal fire. Next, braize