MILT.E-FEUILLES CAKE. 439 1349. ICED PUDDING, A LA PKINCESS ALICE. Fiest, remove the skins from the kernels of about fifty green wal- nuts, then pound these with ten ounces of sugar, until the whole forms a kind of soft and pulpy paste; take this up into a basin, mix it with a pint of single cream, then pass it through a tammy into a puree, and let this he frozen in the usual manner. While the above is in course of preparation, two dozen greengages must he boiled with twelve ounces of sugar and half a pint of water, until the fruit is dissolved, when the whole must be rubbed through a tammy or sieve: this should then be frozen, adding, if necessary, a little thin syrup. The pudding-mould must now be lined with the greengage ice, and the centre filled with the walnut-cream ice; then place the lid on the mould, and immerse the pudding in rough ice in the usual manner, until dishing-up time, when the pudding must be turned out on to its dish, garnished round vsdth small almond-^raM/res fiUed with whipped cream, with a preserved cherry placed on the top of each, and served immediately. 1350. MILLE-FEUILLES CAKE,* A LA CHANTILLY. Gite ten turns to one pound of puff-paste (No. 1261), then divide it into two pieces, and roll them out to the thickness of the tenth part of an inch; then, with a cir- cular tin-cutter about five inches in diameter, stamp out eight or ten flats; place these on baking-sheets, stamp out the centre part from each of the flats, leaving only a circular band about two inches wide; shake some fine sugar over them, and bake them of a very light colour, and when done, allow them to become cold. The flats must now be raised one upon another, with layers of some land of preserve between each, and placed on a baking-sheet, in order that the cake may be entirely covered with a thin coating of whipped whites of eggs mixed with sugar ; this must be smoothed over with the blade of a knife, and should then be ornamented with a paper cormt filled with some of the white of egg, as represented in the wood-cut: as soon as this is completed, shake some fine sugar over it, and dry it ot a very light colour in a slow oven, or else in the hot- closet. "When the decoration of the cake has been dried, it must be ornamented with bright red-currant and apple-jelly, placed tastefully about the design so as to give it more effect. On sending to table, fill the centre of the cake with whipjped cream flavoured with some kind of liqueur, garnish the dome ot cream with strawberries and serve. ’ The above may also be ornamented with spun sugar or with pista- * Or “ thousand-leaved ” cake, so called froin *he lightness of the pnff-paste wita which it is n:ade. *