425 BREAD-AND-BUTTER PASTRY. top, and nnisli baking tbe Florentines of a very light colour, taking care that the rmringm-^aste is allowed sufficient time to become per- fectly crisp. A few minutes after the Florentines are taken out of tee oven, tliej must be stamped out with a tin-cutter, or else cut out with a knife, in oblong or diamond-shapes. 1315. CUPID'S, OR love’s wells. Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, then roU it out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch; stamp out about eighteen circular pieces from this with a fluted tin-cutter, one inch and a half in diameter, and place these in rows on a baking-sheet previously wetted to receive them. Then, stamp out as many more pieces with a smaller fluted cutter only one inch in diameter, and after stamping out the centre of these, wet the surface of the others over with a paste-brush, and lay one of the smaller ones on each of the others; press them down with the fingers, egg over the tops, and bake them of a bright light colour ; when they are nearly done, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two, and then pass the red-hot salamander over them to give them a bright glossy appearance. Previously to serving these “ love’s wells,” flu them either ivith preserved cherries, greengage-jam, or currant- jelly. 1316. PUFF-PASTE WALNUTS. Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roU it out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch ; then, stamp out twenty circular pieces with a fluted cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, and after wetting each of these with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold them up, at the same time pressing the two parts of the paste slightly, so as to cause them to adhere closely together; they must then be placed on a baking-sheet in rows, egged over, and baked of a bright light colour. Just before they are done, some fine sugar should be shaken over them with a dredger, and they must then be put back again into the oven for a little while to melt the sugar; pass the red-hot salamander over, and withdraw them. Previously to serving this kind of pastry, a broad strip of red-currant or apple-jeUy should be placed across the centre. 1317. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PASTRY. Give six turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roU it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; cut this into bands about three inches wide, then cut these again into strips rather better than a quarter of an inch wide, and place them (on the cut side) on a baking- sheet in rows, about two inches apart, so as to allow them suflicient room to spread out. Bake these strips of paste in a rather sharp oven and just before they are doRO, glaze them: that is, shake some fine sugar over, and then salamander them. About two dozen of these are required for a dish : they must be spread with some kind of pre- serve, and stuck together in pairs, to imitate bread-and-butter ; dish them up on a napkin, piled up in several circidar rows, in a pyramidal form. This kind of pastry may also be dished up with some stiffly-whipped cream, seasoned with a glass of liqueur, in the centre.