11 SPECIAL SAUCES. one lemon, nutmeg, pepper, lemon-juice, a piece of glaze, and a little salt. Previously to using the sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley and fennel. This sauce is eaten with roast veal, 38. SUPREME SAUCE. There are hvo methods by which this sauce may be made w'ith equal success; that most generally adopted is, to use reduced Velouto sauce which has been w^orked with some essence of mushrooms and white consomme of fowls, and finished by adding a little boiling cream at the last stage of reduction; the sauce should be then passed through a tammy into a hain-marie, and just before using it, a small piece of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon-juice must be added. The other method, and which I prefer to the former, is to put a sufficient quantity of Allemcinde sauce into a hain-marie, and finish it for the purpose, by mixing in a piece of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon-juice; care must be taken that the Siq^reme sauce be not thick. 39. SUPREME OE GAME. This is made like the previous sauce, except that, according to the first method, some essence of game must be used instead of the chicken consomme, and in the second recqie, the Allemancle sauce used for the purpose should be w’orked with an essence of game (pheasant or partridge), and also finished with a piece of game glaze. 40. PARISIAN SAUCE. Put some Allemancle sauce into a hain-marie, add thereto a spoon- ful of essence of truffles, a jiiece of game or chicken glaze, according to the purpose for which the sauce may be required, whether for an entree made of game or poultry; add some crayfish butter in suffi- cient quantity to colour it of a pinky tint, a little cayenne and lemon- juice; when these ingredients are w'ell-mixed in the add two dozen small truffles cut in the shape of small olives. 41. AURORA SAUCE. Put some Bechamel sauce into a hain-marie, and just before the sauce is required for use, mix in a small piece of lobster butter, a leason of three yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of Tarragon-vinegar, and a little cayenne. 42. DUTCH SAUCE. Put the yolks of six eggs, a small piece of glaze, six ounces of fresh butter, a spoonful of white sauce, some nutmeg, minionettc pe^iper, and salt, into a small stewpan; stir these quickly with a wnoden spoon, over a slow fire, or else immerse the bottom of the stewpan into a deep sauta-pan half full of boiling w'ater, which must be kept over a slow fire, while the sauce is wnrked : as soon as the sauce assumes a smooth compact body, take it aw'ay from the fire, work it smartly, and then pass it through a tammy into a hain-marie for use. If the sauce should appear to curdle or decompose, add a spoonful of any white sauce nearest at hand, which will set it right again.