48 BROTHS scollops into a small stewpan, ■with any kind of sauce that may be suitable for the entree they are meant to garnish. 211. REGENT’S RAGOUT. Fillet an eel, cut it into scollops, and simmer these in a stewpan with a little butter, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt; when done, drain tlie scollops on a napkin, and then put them into a stewpan containing an equal proportion of white button mushrooms, cocks’ combs, small round truffles, and small quenelles of whiting co- loured with lobster coral; to these add a small ladleful of Regency sauce (No. 49), then allow the ragout to boil up on the stove-fire, and use it for gaiTiishing the dressed fish it is intended for. BROTHS AND CONSOMMES IN GENERAL, FOR SOUPS, &c.. COMPRISING Nultritive Soup. Empotage, or Consomme for soups in ge- neral. Brown Consommi of fowls. , „ pheasants or part- ridges. _ „ rabbits. ^Yhite Consomme of fowls. „ „ pheasants or part- ridges. Brown extract of larks, &c. „ „ hare or rabbit. Common gravy. Blond of veal, or veal gravy. 212. NUTRITIVE SOUP. Into a tliree-gallon stockpot, put a knuckle of veal, six pounds of the shoulder part of beef (commonly called the gravy-piece), and a bone of roast beef or mutton. Fill the stockpot with cold water to within two inches of the brim, and set it upon a stove-fire to boil, taking care not to hurry its ebullition, but allow it to take place gently, so that it may have time to throw up its skum; this should be removed, as it rises to the surface, and a little cold water should be thrown in occasionally to effect that purpose. When the stock has thrown off all its skum, which will easily be perceived by the water becoming clear again, lift it off the stove, and put it by the side. Then proceed to garnish it with four leeks and two heads of celery, trimmed and tied together, two good-sized carrots, two turnips, and two onions, into each of which two cloves nave been inserted; add one good tablespoonful of salt, and let the whole boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour. During this time, an old hen and a partridge should be partially roasted, and then put into the stock; this should continue to boil during five hours unremittingly : care being taken that the stockpot be kept full. Previously to the soup being served, take off every particle of fat that appears on the surface, with a ladle ; take out the vegetables— carefully placing tliem on a napkin, then remove the fowd and the parti’idge from the stock: these ojierations should be so managed as not to disturb the brightness of the broth. Cut the fillets of the fowl and the partridge into slices, and place them in the soup-tureen