ENTRIES OF POULTRY. 2U5 967. CIVET OF ROEBUCK Is prepared in. the same way as civet of hare (No. 1070). ENTEEES OF POELTKT, COMPRISING Fricnssec of Chickens, with Mushrooms, &c. Chickens, d hx Lyonnaisc. u la St. Lambert, d la Dauphine. d la Financiere. d la Chevaliere. d la Eomaine. d la Liable, d la Tartare. d VAlgerienne. d la Florentine. ,, l*. bCl. Chickens, d la Marengo. ,, with Oysters, &c. „ with Trufiles, &c. „ d la Provengale. Curry of ditto, d VIndimne, Fritot of Chickens, with Tomata Sauce, &c. Capilotade of Chickens, d I’Ttalimne. Chickens, d la Toscane. Marinade of Chickens, fried in Batter. 968. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH MUSHROOMS, ETC. Peocttbe two fat plump chickens, and after they have been drawn, singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, and then cut up into small members or joints, in the following maimer :—First, remove the wings at the second joint, and the legs at the knotty bend of the first joint; then take hold of the chicken with the left hand, and with a sharp knife, make two parallel cuts, lengthwise, on the back, about an inch and a half apart, so as partly to detach or at least to mark out where the legs and wings are to be removed ; the chicken must next be placed upon its side on the table, and, after the leg and fillet (with the pinion left on the upper side) have been cut, the same must be repeated on the other, and the thigh-bones must be removed. Then, separate the back and breast, trim these without waste, and cut the back across into two pieces; steep the whole in a pan contain- iag clear tepid water, for about ten minutes ; frequently squeezing the pieces with the hand to extract all the blood. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with thinly-sliced carrot, onion, and a bttle celery, three cloves, twelve pepper-corns, a blade of mace, and a gar- nished faggot of parsley ; place the pieces of chicken in close and neat order upon the vegetables, &c., moisten with about a quart of boiling broth from the stockpot, or failing this, with water; cover \idth the lid, and set the whole to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about half an hour, when the chickens will be done. They must then be strained in a sieve, and their broth reserved in a basin; next- immerse the pieces of chicken in cold water, wash and drain them upon a napkin, and afterwards trim them neatly and place them in a stewpan m the larder. Then put 2 oz. of fresh butter to melt in a stewpan, to this add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir the roux over the fire for three minutes wibhout allowing it to acquire any colour; it should then be removed from the stove, and the chicken-broth being poured into it, the whole must be thoroughly mixed together into a smooth sauce ; throw in some trimmings of mushrooms, and stir the sauce over the fire until it bods, then set it by the side to continue gently boiling to throw up the butter and scum. Wlien the sauce