194 EEMOVES OF VF>N1S0N put on the lid, and after having allovred it to boil on a brisk stove-fi-/e, place it in the oven or on a moderate fire to continue braizing very gently for about from five to six hours—taking care to moisten the surface frequently with its own braize. When the venison is done, take it up on a deep baking-dish, put about a pint of its own broth under it, trim it neatly and mask it all over with a thick coating of the following preparation: bake some slices of bread of a Hght-brown coloim, and ^terwards pound and sift them, put one pound of this into a basin, and add thereto half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, four ounces of fine sugar, and as much port wine as will suffice to moisten the whole into a thick paste; use this to cover the haunch of venison, smooth it over with the blade of a knife, and put it in the hot closet to dry the surface of the crust. When about to send to table, place the venison on a dish, pour some Victoria cherry sauce (No. 64) round it, garnish with alternate groups of prunes stewed in wine, and potato quenelles; put a ruffie on the bone and serve. 653. HAUNCH OF VENISON, A LA ST. GEORGE. Teim a haunch of venison in the usual manner, and with the point of a small knife make a cii’cular incision about eight inches in diameter, just below the knuckle, on the upper part of the haunch, and with a large knife remove the surface of the part so marked out, in order to leave the place bare, preparatory to its being thickly and neatly larded as for a fricandeau. Then prepare the venison for braizing—in every respect following the directions given fbr that part of the process in the preceding article. Having carefully and frequently moistened the surface of the venison during the time it is braizin and kept a supply of live embers of charcoal on the lid of the braizing- pan, tlie venison, when done, wfil present, if properly attended to, a bright appearance. It should then be taken up to drain on to a common dish, and after being glazed, and dished up wfith a rich Finan- ci'ere ragout (No. 188), in a Poivrade sauce made with port -wine, garnish the haunch with eight ornamental silver skewers, each tumished with a large double Avhite cock’s-comb, a large black truffle, a cray-fish, and a decorated quenelle; put a liandsome ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 654. HAUNCH OF RED DEER ROASTED, A l’eCOSSAISE. Prepare and roast this kind of venison as described for dressing a haunch of venison d VAnglaise ; observing that it is necessary to allow it to hang longer than any other sort before dressing it, as it ^vill be found to eat tougb, if due attention be not paid to the time of keeping it. 655. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA GLENGARRY. Trim and remove the whole of the chine-bone of a haimch of red deer, saw off the shank and scrape the leg-bone so as to show about an inch. Then pare off the whole of the surface, (excepting the fat part,) in an oval form, and lard it closely like a fricandeau; place the haimch in a large earthen pan wdth sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaves, and thyme, cloves, mace, and bruised pepper-corns, adding to these a gaUou of common vinegar, a handful of salt, and half a gallon of water; let the haunch steep in this pickle for about ten days.