GLOSSAM. Allkmaktde. Reduced, or concentrated white Sauce, thickened with cream and yolks of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon-juice. Angelica is a plant, the tender tubular branches of which, after being preserved in syrup, are used for the purpose of decorating entremets, &c. Baba, a kind of very light plum-cake. Bechajiel is velout(f Sauce boiled down with cream in e<iual narts. This Sauce takes its name from a celebrated cook. Bisque. A Soup generally made with shell-fish. Blanch. To parboil: to scald, vegetables, &c., in order to remove their hulls or skins, such as almonds, &c. Boudin. A delicate kind of entree, prepared with quenelle force-meat or mince. Bouquet (garnished), or faggot, consists of a handful of parsley, six green onions, a small bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, neatly tied together with twine. Braize, mirepoix, marinade, poele, blanc, are various kinds of compounds used for imparting flavour to braized meats; and also for keeping Calves’- Heads, Poultry, &c., white, while they are being braized. Braizing signifies a slow process of simmering, or stewing over & smothered charcoal-fire. Brioche. A species of light spongy cake, resembling Bath-buns. Caramel. Burnt sugar, occasionally used as a make-shift for colouring. Charlotte consists generally of very thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified butter, and placed in symmetrical order in a plain mould garnished with fruit or preserve. Chartreuse of Vegetables. A mixed preparation, consisting of vegetables symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould, the interior of which is garnished with either game, quails, pigeons, larks, fillets, scollops, tendons, &c. Chartreuse a la Parisienne, &c. An ornamental entree or side-dish, composed chiefly of quenelle force-meat; the interior being garnished with ragouts, scol- lops, &c. Compote generally means confectioned fruits, preserved in syrup, or apple and any other kind of fruit jelly ; this word is also used to designate certain sa- voury dishes prepared with pigeons, quails, or larks, mixed with peas, or mush- rooms, &c- Consomme. Clear strong broth, much used in the preparation of Soups, Sauces, &c. CoNTiSE. When small scollops of truffles, red tongue. See., are inlaid, as orna- ments by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be contis^s. Croquettes and Rissoles. A preparation of mince, with a bread-crumbed coat- ing. These words both signify something crisp. Croquantes. A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar Cboustades, Pates-chauds, Tourtes, Timbales, Casseroles of Rice. Various ornamental pie-cases, made either of paste or prepared rice.