176 REMOVES OF JIUTTON. be used if preferred, or even the clarified and reduced essence in which the mutton has been braized ; but it is essential that the vegetables intended to be used for garnishing should be dressed with Allemande or B^chamd sauce. Saddles of mutton prepared and braized according to the foregoing instructions may also be sent to table in all the varieties described for braized legs of mutton. 608. BOILED NECKS OF JIUTTON, A l’ANGLAISE. Saw off the scrag of two necks of mutton, and shorten the rib-hones to four inches in length; next, detach the spine-bone from the fleshy part of the neck, and afterwards saw off' the whole of the spine ad- hering to the base of the ribs ; pare the fat smooth, and about Wo hours before dinner-time, put on to boil in a stewpan -witli water, a little salt, and two or three carrots and turnips. When they are done, dish them up so as that the uncovered ends of the rib-bones may fall in between each other—representing a chevaux-de-frize. Garnish roimd with mashed turnips, and with turned carrots, between each spoonful of the mashed turnips, or else placed round in a row. Send two sauceboats fiUed udth gravy and caper-sauce (No. 91). 609. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A L’IKLANDAISE, Trim two necks of mutton as directed in the previous article, put them to braize in an oval stewpan wfith carrot, onion, celery, and garnished faggot; moisten Mith common stock, and put them to boil on the stove ; after which set them by the side of a moderate fire, and wliile the necks of mutton are being braized, turn two or three dozen potatoes in the shape of small eggs, and place them in a ste'wpan with half a dozen small onions ; season udth pepper and salt, moisten with a ladleful of broth, and put them on a moderate fire to boil gently : taking care that the potatoes are kept as whole as possible, although they must be thoroughly boiled. When the necks of mutton are done, take them up, trim them if necessary, and dish them up as directed in the foregoing article ; strain the broth in wliich the mutton has been boded, remove all the grease from its surface, and reduce it to half glaze: add part of it to the potatoes, and Anth these garnish the necks of mutton roxmd neatly, pour tlie essence imder, glaze them, and send to table. 610. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. Trim two necks of mutton and prepare them for braizing with carrot, onion, celery, faggot, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with two ladflefuls of stock, cover -with an oval piece of buttered paper, and the hd ; put them to braize gently on a moderate fire for about two hours and a half: when done, glaze and dish them up, giving them an appearance of Chevaux-de-frize,; garnish them round with a well-prepared Jardinihe of every variety of small vegetables in season, sauce them with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. 611. BRAIZED NECKS OF I^IUTTON LARDED—AS ROEBUCK, WITH rOIVRADE SAUCE, For the preparation of this remove, it is necessary that the necks of mutton be trimmed as directed for braizing, and afterwards that