GARNISHES 36 155. GARNISH OF BROCOLI OR CAULIFLOWERS. Cut one or more heads of cauliflower or brocoli into small buds, trim these, and boil tliem in a stewpan with some butter, salt, and a little minionette pepper, in the water; when they are done, drain them on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a little Allemande or Bechamel sauce, and serve. 156. GARNISH OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Boil a plateful of Brussels sprouts, drain them well, and put them into a stew'pan with a spoonful of white sauce, two pats ot butter, salt, nutmeg, minionette pepper, and lemon-juice; toss the wiiole well together over the fire, and serve. 157. GARNISH OF CHESTNUTS FOR ROAST TURKEY. Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with a little clarified butter, fry them on a slow fire mitil the husks easily peel off from the chestnuts; clean them thoroughly, and place them in a stewpan with two lumps of sugar, a little salt, a pat of butter, and a ladleful of good consomme; set them to boil, and then place them by the side of the fire to continue boiling gently imtil they are nearly done; then boil them down to a glaze; occasionally tossing them over, so as to cover them witli their own glaze, and give them a bright shiny appearance. 158. GARNISH OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Peel a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, and then turn or cut them into the shape of olives, small pillars, cloves of garlic, half-moons, round halls, quarters of orange, or diamonds, first wash them, place them in a stewqian with a little sugar, salt, a pat of butter, and a ladleful of wdiite broth; set them to boil on the fire for about twenty minutes ; when they are nearly done, boil them down in their glaze, add a little Allemande or Bechamel sauce, toss them together over the fire, and serve. 159. GARNISH OF CLOVES OF GARLIC. Peel as many heads of garlic as will produce a pint of cloves *, boil these for ten minutes in plenty of water, drain them on to a sieve, and then place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, some minionette pepper, a little salt, and a ladleful of consomme; boil them gently until they are nearly done, then let them boil down quickly to a glaze; add a spoonful ot Allemande or Espagnole sauce (according to the colour of the entree), and a little lemon-juice; toss them up over a stove-fire, and serve. 160. GARNISH OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS. Fresh white haricot beans, in their proper season, form a very ex- cellent change among the more ordinary vegetables. Its cultivation is, however, much neglected by gardeners in England. When fresh haricot beans are not procurable, get a pint of dried haricot beans, and steep them in cold water for tw-elve hours; let them be washed and placed in a stewpan with a pat of butter, mi- * A head oi garlic contains within its outer husk, or skin, a number of triangular seeds, usually called cloves ot garlic.