197 KOAyr TURKEY. cut them into pieces the size of a small walnut; place these in a stew- pim, and after pounding the parings with about two pomids of fat ham or bacon, add them to the truffles. Season with mignionette pepper and salt, grated nutmeg and chopped bay-leaf and thyme, and one clove of garlic; a few fat livers of poultry may also be added, after being pounded separately. Set the stewpan containing the foregoing ingre- dients on a slow &e, and allow them to simmer very gently for about haK an hour, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. They should be removed from the stove, and after allowing this preparation time to get partially set by cooling, proceed to stuff the turkey with it; keep the crop fidl, and with a small trussing-needle and twine draw' the crop up in a purse-like form, and fasten the ends of the twine to the back of the tui’key so as effectually to close up the paunch. The turkey must then be placed upon an earthen dish, and put away in the larder till the next day, (time permittiug,) when it should be trussed in the usual manner for roastiug. The tm-key when placed on a spit for roasting shoffld have the breast covered with thin layers of fat bacon, and the entire of the turkey shoidd be carefully wrapped round with thick paper well buttered, and securely fastened on to the spit at each end with string. It should then be roasted, and care should be taken when about to remove it from the spit, that the crop is not tom. Dish up, and glaze it, pour imder it a rich Perigueux sauce (No. 23), garnish wdth large quenelles of fowl, and truffles, and serve. The quenelles and truffles are, however, not indispensable to the completion of this remove. 661 ROAST TURKEY, A LA CHIPOLATA. Draw and prepare a turkey for stuffing, ffU. it with well-seasoned veal stuffing and chestnuts, or, if preferred, pork sausage-meat may be substituted for the veal stuffing. The chestnuts are prepared as follows:—Take about sixty chestnuts, and after splitting them across the outer skin, fry them with a little butter in a frying-pan until they shed their husks easily; when peeled, bod them in a little good consommd till done: half shoffld then be re- served to be put in the sauce, and the remainder used as direeted above. The turkey being thus prepared, truss and cover it with thin layers of fat bacon as directed in the foregoing case, and having roasted it of a hght coloirr, dish it up and garnish with alternate groups of the ingredients composing the Chipolata ragout (No. 190), pour some of the sauce roimd the remove, and send to table. 662. ROAST TURKEY, A l’AI^GLAISE. Stuit a tutkey with some well-seasoned veal stuffing, let it be trussed in the usual manner, and previously to putting it down to roast, cover it with thin layers of fat bacon, which should he seemed on wdth buttered paper tied roimd the turkey, so as entirely to envelop it on the spit; then roast it, and when done, dish it up, garnish with stewed chestnuts, and small pork sausages, nicely fried; pour a rich Poivrade sauce (No. 29) round it, glaze the turkey, and send to table. 663. ROAST TURKEY, A LA FINANCIERE. The^ turkey may be stuffed either with veal stuffing or quenelle ol fowl; it should be roasted in the usual niauner, and when done, dishet?