42 i P.VEISIAN TURNOVERS OF APPLES. ing mane or feathers, a wreath, or a star, &c. Shake some finely- sifted sugar over the cake, and bake it of the lightest possible colour: indeed, it should be free from any colour, the characteristic appear- ance of this kind of pastry being its whiteness. Pithiviers cake should be eaten cold. These cakes may also be made in tartlet moulds, thinly lined with pulF-paste, and after being neatly fiUed with the Pithiviers cream (the edges being previously wetted round), the mould must be covered in with circular pieces of puff-paste, stamped out with a cutter to fit them; then fastened down by pressing the two pieces of paste to- gether with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, and finished and baked aa directed in the foregoing case. 1303. d'artois cake. Ptjff-paste or large D’Artois cakes, prepared as directed in the foregoing cases, may be garnished either with apple marmalade, mince- meat, or any kind of preserve; in this case, however, when the cake has been covered in with the puff-paste, previously to marking out the design on its surface, it must be egged over with a paste-brush; when it has been baked of a bright-yeUow coloiu', shake some finely-sifted sugar over it, after which put it back again in the oven for a minute or two, and then pass the red-hot salamander over it to give it a bright glossy appearance. The same direction applies to the smaller D’Artois cakes. 1304. GERMAN TOURTE OF APRICOTS. Cut a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and put them into a small sugar-boiler or stewpan, with the kernels extracted from the stones, fom* ounces of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of water; stir this over the stove-fire until the fruit is dissolved into a jam, and then withdraw the stewpan from the fire. EoU out some trimmings of puff-paste, or else about half a pound ■ of short paste, to the diameter of about eight inches, place this on a I circular baking-sheet, and with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, twist the paste roimd the edges so as to raise it in imitation of cording; then cut up a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and place these in close circidar rows on the paste, shake some sifted sugar (mixed with some rind of lemon) over the apricots, and then b^e the tourte (at moderate heat) ; when it is done, pour the marmalade of apricots over the others, shake some sifted sugar mixed with a tea- spoonful of cinnamon-powder over the surface, dish the tourte on a napkin, and serve it either hot or cold. This kind of tourte may be made of every kind of fruit, the process in each case being similar to the above—consisting in baldng one-half of the fruit on the paste, while the remainder is added after the tourte is baked, being first boiled down into a kind of jam for that piupose. In aU cases, some cinnamon-sugar must be strewn over the surface. 1305. PARISIAN TURNOVER OF APPLES. Peel about a dozen apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; after which, put them into a stewpan vnth eight ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water; toss the apples over a slow