SAUCES. 14 add the liquor from the muscles, a piece of glaze, and half a pint of cream; stir the whole on the stove fire till it boils, and keep it boil- ing for ten minutes:—tlien add a leason of four yolks of eggs, and pass it through a tammy on to the muscles. Just before sending the sauce to table, throw in a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched paosley, and a little lemon-juice. This sauce is well adapted for broiled whitings, turbot, cod, haddock, and gurnet. 53. SHRIMP SAUCE. To about half a pint of melted butter, add a little lobster coral, cayenne, some picked shrimps, a little essence of anchovies, and le- mon-juice. 54. CRAYFISH SAUCE. Boil thirty crayfish in the usual manner, trim the tails, and with the bodies and shells make some crayfish butter (No. 184), which in- corporate into about half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce; add a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pass tliis sauce through a tammy on to the crayfish tails. 55. LOBSTER SAUCE. Cut the fleshy part of a lobster into small square pieces ; reserve the spawn and coral, and pound it with two ounces of butter, and pass it tlirough a sieve. Then put about half a pint of melted butter, or the same quantity of reduced Veloute sauce, into a stewpau. incorporate therewith the lobster butter, a small piece of glaze, cay- enne, and lemon-juice, add the pieces of lobster, and send to table. 56. STURGEON SAUCE. Take some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braized, and having reduced it to one-third of its quantity, add half a bottle of claret or port, a ladleful of worked Espagnole sauce, and some essence or trimmings of mushrooms; allow the sauce to clear itself by boiling gently on the side of the stove fire, skim it, reduce it, and then pass it through a tammy into a hain-viarie. Just before using the sauce, mix in a pat of butter, some nutmeg, cayenne, essence of anchovies, and lemon-juice. 57. BORDELAISE SAUCE. Mince two ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan with cwo cloves of garlic, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, some sprigs of tarragon, and half a pint of clai’et, set these to simmer gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, a small gravy-spoon- ful of worked Espagnole sauce, and a little blond of veal; having allowed the sauce to boil gently by the side of the stove fire to clear itself, pass it with pressure tlirough a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 'Uhis sauce must be kept rather thin, and, to be perfect, should be bright and wholly free from grease; it is especially adapted, by its flavom’ and character, for being served with broiled meats and fishes generally. When this sauce is se’wed with broiled fish, add to it, just before sending to table, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice.