BRAIZES, ETC. 56 onions, inserting four cloves into one of the latter; add the pulp of two lemons, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, and a little salt, place the stewpan on the stove-fire for about ten minutes, carefully stirring the ingredients the whole time, in order to prevent them from ac- quiring a brown colour; then pour in a sufficient proportion of water to produce the quantity of bla?ic required. Allow the blcmc to boil one hour, then strain it through a hair-sieve, and use it for the pur- pose intended. 237. MIREPOIX FOR BRAIZING LARDED FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, ETC. Take two pounds of veal, one pound of fat bacon, ana one pound of lean ham, four carrots, four onions, a pottle of mushrooms, six shalots, a clove o.f garlic, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns; cut tliese ingredients up into small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of butter, and fry them brown; tlien add a bottle of Madeira or sheriy, and a quart of good broth; boil the mirepoix by the side of a stove-fire for about an hour and a half, and then strain it through a tammy (with considerable pressure, to extract all the goodness) into a basin, to be kept for such purposes as will be hereafter directed. 238. WHITE ROUX, OR THICKENING FOR SAUCES. Take some fresh butter—say one pound, put it into a stewpan on a moderate fire to clarify; skim it, and then pour it off into a thick-bottomed stewpan, care being taken that none of the milk be allowed to mix with the butter. Till the butter up witli sifted flour in sufficient quantity to form a paste requiring some strength to Avork it with a wooden spoon; the roux should then be placed on a mode- rate fire, and continually stiiTed with the spoon until it becomes somewhat softer; then take the spoon out, wipe the sides of the stewpan, put the lid on it, and place it in a moderately-heated oven, and there let it remain for about three-quarters of an hour—taking care to stir it every ten minutes, and to watch it closely, in order to prevent the possibility of its getting burnt or coloured, an accident which would render it useless for white sauce. At the expiration of tlie time above-named, or before, if the roux be sufficiently done (which may be easily ascertained by its becoming thinner), it should be taken out of the oven, and j^ut aside until wanted for use. This roux is used for thickening Veloute or white sauce. 239. BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING FOR BROWN SAUCE. This is made exactly in the same w’ay as the white roux, with the exception that it should remain longer in the oven, to allow it to acquire a fawn or buff colour, before it is taken out. When the roux is considered to be done, three or four shalots should be thrown in, in order to diminish the action of the heat of the copper stewpan on its contents, and for the purpose of imparting flavour to it. This roux is used to thicken Espagnole or brown sauce