ENTREES OF VEAL. 275 They sliould next be placed in a sautapan with some half glaze, made from their own liquor, and put away in the larder. T^venty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be warmed through, then place them on the stove-fire to glaze; dish them up ip a close circle, fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour some thin Espagwle sauce roimd the base of the entree^ and serve. 891. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA PERIGORD. Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, then dip them in some whipped white of eggs, and afterwards in some black truffles chopped very fine; flatten this on securely with the blade of a knife, and place them in clarified butter in a sautapan, in circular order. Twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a gentle fire, on both sides, until done through—taking care that the chopped t ruffles do not bum; when done, drain them on a piece of paper, glaze, and dish them up, fill the centre with scollops of red tongue and truffles; pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23), and serve. 892. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA ZINGARA. Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter. In another sautapan, prepare a similar number of thin oval scollops of raw ham. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets and the ham, glaze both, and dish them up—alternately placing a cutlet and a piece of ham; fill the centre with scolloped mushrooms and tmffles, pour some thin Espagnole sauce into the sautapan the cutlets have been fried in, to this add a little cayenne and lemon-juice; simmer these together on the fire, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 893. VEAL CUTLETS A LA DUCHESSE. Prepare these in the same way as the cutlets, d la Breux; and when they have been trimmed, mask them all over with a coating of Atelet sauce (No. 36) and bread-crumb them as for a Villeroi. Fry the cutlets of a bright-yeUow colour in clarified butter, dish them up, and fill the centre with circular scoUops of red tongue and button mush- rooms tossed in a Little thick Allemande sauce; pour some Tomata sauce (No. 22) round the base of the entree, and serve. 894. VEAL CUTLETS, IN PAPILLOTES. Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little clarified butter; when they are nearly done, add some mushrooms, parsley, and three shalots, the whole chopped fine; fry these together over the fire for five minutes, and then add two gravy- spoonfuls of Velouti, or any other white sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon- juice, and a small piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a gentle fire for a few minutes, then add a leason of four yolks of eggs, toss the cutlets about to mix the leason in with the sauce, and let them become cool. In other respects, finish in the same way as directed for mutton cutlets, d la Maintenon (No. 838). 895. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL, WITH MUSHROOMS. The veal for this purpose must first be roasted, and when cold, cut into round thin scollops about an inch in diameter; to these add, T 2