470 PEAR CHARLOTTE. 1447. APPLE CHARLOTTE To prepare this entremct in great perfection it is necessary that a crumb-loaf of close-made bread should be ordered two days previous for the purpose ; this, it must be owned, is not positively necessary; therefore, in its stead, a stale quartern loaf may answer the purpose well enough. Urst of all, some apple marmalade must be prepared as follows:— Let two or three dozen apples be peeled, cored, sHced up, and placed in a stewpan with one pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, and some lemon-peel and cinnamon tied together; moisten with half a pint of water, place the lid on the ste-wpan, and then set the apples to boil sharp on a quick stove until they are melted. You then remove the lid, and with a wooden spoon continue stirring the marmalade over a brisk fire until it is reduced to a rather stiff consistency. A plain round charlotte-moiAd must now be lined at the bottom Avith small thin circular pieces of bread, dipped in clarified butter, and placed so as to overlap each other until the bottom of the mould is Avell covered. Next, cut some oblong-squares of thin bread, also dipped in clarified butter, and set these up the sides of the mould overlapping each other—in order that they may be thus enabled to hold fixmly to the sides of the mould. Pill the cavity with the apple- marmalade, cover in the top with a thin circular piece of bread dipped in butter, place the charlotte on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a rather brisk oven, of a light colour; and when done, turn it out on to its dish, glaze it on the top with sifted sugar and a red-hot salamander; pour some diluted apricot-jam round the base, and serve. 1448. APPLE CHARLOTTE, ANOTHER WAY. The apples in this case must be cut up thin, and placed in a deep sautapan containing three ounces of dissolved butter, six ounces of pounded sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a pinch of cinnamon powder; toss tlie whole over a stove-fire tmtil the apples begin to melt their angles ; then add a pound-pot of apricot-jam, toss the whole gently together, and place this preparation in the centre of a charlotte- mould, lined as directed in the foregoing article, and proceed in aU other respects as therein prescribed. 1449. CHARLOTTE, A LA PARISIENNE. First, bake a thin sheet of G-enoese, and when this has become thoroughly cold, proceed to cut it out into twenty-four oblong squares, measuring four inches long, by an inch wide ; also about twelve half- moon or crescent shapes, of an equal size, in order that these may closely fit in with each other, so as to efiectuaUy cover the bottom of a cAarfo^^e-mould ; a circular piece must also be prepared, with which to finish the centre. AH these pieces must be glazed over with icing prepared of two colours in equal numbers ; as, for instance, one-half being pink, amber, green, or chocolate; while the other half is to be white. With the foregoing, line the mould, and then fill the centre with any kind of cream described at No. 1431 and following numbers. 1450. PEAR CHARLOTTE, A L’ALLEilANDE. Peel, quarter, and core a dozen baking-pears ; stew them in three pints of water Avith three quarters of a pound of sugar, some lemon-