ITALLVN SALAD. 3G7 red tongue or lean ham, and four anchovies (previously washed and filleted), cut these also in small dice, and place them with the chicken. Next, put two rayoM^-spoonfiils of \elouti sauce, and a dessert-spoonful of curry-paste into a stewpan, boil these over the stove, stirring it meanwhile, until reduced to the consistency of a thick sauce ; then add the chicken, &c., and the juice of half a lemon, mix the whole weU together, and use this preparation in the following manner:— Cut some thin slices of the crumb of a sandwich-loaf, and with a circular tin-cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, stamp out two dozen croutons; fry these in clarified butter to a bright-yeUow colour, drain them on a napkin, and place one-half on a baking-sheet covered Avith clean paper; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on each of these, and then cover them ivith the remaining twelve croutons. iS'ext, grate four ounces of fresh Parmesan, and mix this with a pat of butter into a paste, divide it in twelve parts, roU each into a round ball, and place one of these on the top of each sandwich; about ten minutes before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed thoroughly, pass the red-hot salamander over them, to colour them of a bright yellow, dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 1213. AXCHOVY SANDWICHES.* Order a dozen very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off the top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish, and set them aside. Next, chop four hard-boiled eggs very fine, and put this into a small basin with a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon, chervil, chives, and brunet; season with four table-spoonfiils of salad-oil, one ditto of French-vinegar, pepper and a little salt; mix the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with; then, place some small fillets of anchovies (previously prepared) over the sandwiches, at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of fillets across these at a similar distance. Dish the sandwiches up on a napkin, in the form of a pyramid, and serve. 1214. ITALIAN SALAD. Boil two heads of fine rvhite caidiflower, a similar portion of asparagus-points, French-beans cut in diamonds, a few new potatoes, (which after being boiled must be stamped out with a small vegetable cutter), half a pint of green-peas, and three artichoke-bottoms, also cut up in small fancy shapes wiien boiled. All these vegetables must be prepared with great attention, in order that they may retain their original colmu*; the cauliflowers should be cut up in small buds or flowerets, and the whole, w’hen done, put into a convenient-sized basin. Next, boil two large red beetroots, six large new potatoes, and twenty large-sized heads of very green asparagus, or a similar quantity of French-beans ; cut the beetroot and potatoes in two-inch lengths, and with a tin vegetable cutter, a quarter of an inch in diameter, punch out about two dozen small pillar-shaped pieces of each, and put these on a dish, with an equal quantity of asparagus-heads or French-beans, cut to the same length. Then, take a plain border- mould, and place the green vegetables in neat and close order, aU romid the bottom of the mould; observing that a small quantity of aspic- * Note. The finest Goi-gona anchovies are imported hj Crosse and Blackwfll. Soho Square. ' ^