182 REMOVES. be served witli either Italian, Bavigotte, Tomata, Poivrade^ or Poor-iuan’a sauce. 626. calf’s-head, a la financiere. . Bone a calf’s-head, blanch it in boiling water for about ten mi- nutes on the fire, then put it into cold water for ten minutes; drain it upon a napkin, trim off all the rough parts, and cut it into large scollops, leaving the tongue and ears whole, as usual; the brains should be carefully taken out of the head, and boiled separately, as directed in previous cases. The pieces of calf’s-head after being first rubbed over with lemon- juice, should be placed in a braizing-pan with half a bottle of sherry or Madeira, two ladlefuls of good stock, carrot, onion, celery, gar- nished faggot of parsley, &c.; four cloves, two blades of mace and a few pepper-corns; cover with a thickly-buttered oval piece of strong white paper, and put on the lid; then set it to braize gently for about two hours, with live embers on the lid. Twenty minutes before dinner-time, drain the pieces of calf’s-head on to a napkin, dish them up in the form of a wreath, round the base of a fried croustade (pre- viously stuck on the centre of the dish with a little flour and white of egg mixed together), at each end place the ears, on the croustade place the tongue (separated down the centre, and rather spread out), and the brains laid thereon; around these should be stuck in the croustade six or eight ornamental skewers, each furnished with a double cock’s-comb, a large mushroom, a truffle, and a crayfish ; pour round the whole a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), and send to table. 627. calf’s-head, a la beauvaux. Select a small, well-shaped white calf’s-head, bone it carefully, as before directed, keeping the skin as whole as possible. When the head has been boned, wash it thoroughly, wipe it with a clean cloth, season inside with pepper and salt, and then fill up the entire vacant space occasioned by the extraction of the skull and jaws, with a well-seasoned gweneZZe-forcemeat made of veal, mixed with some chopped parsley and mushrooms; when the calf’s-head is thus again plumped up to its original size, by means of the forcemeat, it must be secured, by sewing up all the apertures with small twine and a truss- ing-needle of proper size. "When this part of the process is completed, roil the calf’s-head up tightly in a well-buttered napkin saturated with lemon-juice (to keep the head white); then place the calf’s-head in a braizing-pan with one pound of chopped suet, carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot, cloves, mace, pepper-coms, and a spoonful of salt; moisten with good common white stock, cover with the lid, and set it to boH gently for about two hours. About half an hour before dinner-time, take th^ calf’s-head up on a dish, remove the napkin, trim the ears, slit them and turn them down, that they may appear friDed; then place the calf’s-head, per- fectly drained from any moisture, on the centre of the dish, and remove all the twine with which it has been sewn up, and mask it all over, excepting the ears, with a preparation of four yolks of eggs, mixed with a pat of melted butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg; then cover the whole with fine bread-