COLD ENTREKS. :3G0 order ou a stewpaii-cover previously spread with butter, and when about to poach them, they must be slipped off into some boding con- somme, after gently boding for about ten minutes, drain them on a sieve, and place them in a deep sdver dish or souffle-lining. Pour sufficient thin bright Espagnole sauce over them to reach the sm-face, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and set the nouMes in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes ; just before sending to table, pass the red-hot salamander over the sui'iace to give them a bright-yellow coloui*, and serve. Noukles are mostly served immediately after the fish, but are also suited for the second course ; they may also be dressed with Allemande sauce instead of Espagnole, wdien preferred. COLD ENTEEES EOE BALL SIJPPEES, Ac., COMPRISING Aspic-Jelly. Fricassee of Chickens, witli Aspic-Jelly. Salmis of Partridges. Mayonaise of Fillets of Soles, &c. ,, of Chickens. Dame, or Slice of Salmon, a la ^lontpellicr. Trout, d la Vertpre. Chicken Salad. J.obster Salad. Tongue, with Aspic-Jelly. Ham, with ditto. Aspic of Fowl, d la Beina. Potted Pheasants, d la Boyalc. Potted Fowl and Tongue. „ Lobster. „ Prawns or Shrimps. ,, yarmouth Bloaters. Galantine of Poulard, with Jelly. Boar’s Head, with Aspic-Jelly. Chickens, d la Belle- Vue, Lamb Cutlets, d la Frincesse. F'illets of Fowls, d la Victoi'ia. Sandwiches, d la Begence. „ of Fillets of Soles, &c. 1218. ASPIC JELLY. Take about thirty poimds of loiuckle of fresh veal, wash the meat in plenty of water, and put it into a stock-pot, with four hens, and eighteen calves’-feet previously boned, and parboiled in water for ten minutes; fill up the stock-pot with about four gaEons of spring water, and set it on a stove-fire to bod.; as the scum rises to the surface re- move it with a skimmer, and keep pouring in small quantities of cold water, to check the boding occasionaUy, so as to enable the albumen (which forms the white scum), when cffectuaUy dissolved by the heat of*the water, to be thrown up in larger quantities than woidd be the case if the process is hurried; otherwise the aspic so prepared would be more difficult to clarify. The aspic being well skimmed, should then be garnished with four carrots, three large onions stuck with two cloves each, foiu heads of celery, two cloves of garde, a large faggot of parsley and green-onions, with two bay-leaves, and a large sprig of thyme; four blades of mace and a tearspoonful of pepper-corns. Next, set the stock-pot down by the side of the stove-fire, to bod very gently for about six hours ; all the grease shoidd then be carefudy removed from the top, and the aspic strained through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins, and put away in the larder to cool. "When the aspic has become firm, scrape off the grease from the surface, and rmi a