310 LOUCUEES OF FOWL. bides of these halves a httle ^vitll the point of a small Imife, and then insert between them a small portion of salpicon, prepared as for the boiidins d la d'Artois; this, after bemg spread out to the thickness of 1‘ather less than a quarter of an inch, and allowed to become cold and firm, must then be cut up into small strips, or bands, for the purpose of being inserted in between two halves of the quenelles or loudin; the sides of these should then be securely closed in, and patted smooth all over with the blade of a knife dipped in floiu, and are then to be placed in a sautapan, previously spread wth butter to receive them. I*our some boiling broth to the houdins, and poach them in the usual ^vay; then drain, trim, and bread-crumb them with beaten egg, and place them carefully in a sautapan ^vith some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the houdins of a light colour, glaze them lightly, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with some Soubise sauce (No. 119), pour some half-glaze, or essence of fowls, imder the entree, and serve. 1009. BOUDINS OF FO\VX, A LA REINE. Eoasx two fowls, remove all the brown skin, cut off all the meat from the bones, and use the latter to make some essence with. Chop the meat fine, and then poimd it in a mortar "with a pat of butter and a large spoonful of reduced Bechamel sauce; season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and rub the whole through a very fine wire-sieve, or tammy-cloth; then put this puree into a small stewpan, and after adding thereto half' a gdl of scalded double-cream, and a piece of glaze as big as a walnut, stir it over the fire until the whole is mixed, and spread this preparation on a dish, in a square form about two inches in thickness, and set it in the larder to become cold. Then, cut the square into two oblong pieces, and divide these again, each into about eight small oblong shces, about three inches long by two in width, and a quarter of an inch thick. Spread each of these over with a thin coating of some very delicate force-meat of fowl; flour them over, then dip them separately in some beaten egg, bread- crumb them, and set them on a dish in the larder xmtil dinner-time. The houdins must then be placed upon the Avu’e drainer of a frying-pan, and immersed in some clean hog’s-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and fried of a light-faAvn colour; they should be drained, and dished up in a close circle, with some Bechamel or Supreme sauce poured under them, and then sent to table. 1010. BOUCHEES OF FOWL, A LA POMPADOUR. Pbepaee some very delicate force-meat with the fillets of two fowls; when finished, incorporate therewith two spoonfuls of puree of mushrooms, made with double cream (No. 122). Porm this into about sixteen small oval, or circular flat quenelles, or houdins, about a third of an inch in thickness; place them in a buttered sautapan, and poach them delicately: that is, let them be only two parts done; drain them upon a napkin, then place them on a dish, covered over with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in the larder imtil dinner-time. The houchees should then be dipped in some very light batter, mixed with whipped cream, instead of water, and fried in plenty of clean hog’s-lard, made hot for the purpose; they must then be dished up in 'rcular order and the centre fiUed either with stewed peas, asparagus-