307 QUENELLES OF FOWL. then drain them upon a napkin, glaze lightly and dish them up in a close circle: place the decorated munon fillets in a row on the top of the inner edge of these, fiU the centre with scoUops of button-mush- rooms tossed in a little Allemande sauce (No. 7), pour some half-glaze under the fillets, and serve. ENTEEES OE QEENELLE-EOECE-MEAT OE EOWL, COMPRISING Quenelles of Fowl, d VEssence. „ d la Toulouse. „ d la Marechale. Bjudins of Fowls, d la Richelwt. ,, d la Perigueux. ,, d la Sefton. 1001. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A l’ESSENCE. Peepake some quenelle force-meat (No. 242), with the fillets of two fowls, in which should he incorporated a spoonful of reduced Alle- mande sauce (No. 7) ; this should then he moulded into quenelles in the following manner: Eirst, take up as much of the force-meat as will, fill a sHver table-spoon, then smooth it over the top in a dome-hke form with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; next, with another spoon of the same size and shape, which must be dipped in hot water, scoop the quenelle out of the spoon, and lay it upon the under side at the bottom of a deep sautapan, previously spread with butter for the ;purpose; repeat this until the whole of the force-meat that is meant tor the entrie be used up, and then place a covering of buttered paper over them, and pour sufficient boilmg consomme in at the side of the sautapan to float the quenelles. About ten minutes’ gentle simmeriag by the side of the stove-fire will suffice to do them; they must then be drained with care upon a napkin, dished up in a close circle; pour some bright ccmommi of fowl (boiled down to nearly the consistency of half-glaze) under them, and send to table. Note.— Quenelles of fowl prepared in this manner, may also be served with the following sauces: Supreme, Jtalienne, Perigueux, Allemanae, Bichamel, and Richelieu. 1002. QUENELLES OF FOWT., A LA TOULOUSE. Eoe this entrSe it will be necessary, when about to mould the quenelles, first to shake some flour over a slab or table, and then to take up six spoonfuls of the force-meat and drop them separately upon the^ slab; next, shake a little flovu over them, and proceed to roU each into the form of an egg; these must then be placed in rows m a deep sautapan (previously spread with butter), about two inches distant from each other, and flattened to a quarter of an inch in thickness,^ by gently pressing them down with the fingers; after which, pour in some boiling broth, and set them by the side of the fire to poach. When the quenelles are done, drain them upon a nap- kin, trim them neatly, still retaining their oval shape, and place one half of them in a sautapan with a I ittle vrhite consomm6; bread-cnmib X 2 Boudins of Fowls, d la d'Artois. „ d la Cardinal. ,, d la Soubisc. „ d la Heine. Bouchecs d la Pompadour.