CAKP. J45 511. EELS, A l’INDIENNE. Stew tlie eels as directed in the foregoing cases, dish them np in the form of a circle, garnish the centre with plain boiled rice, sauce the eels with a good cm-ry (No. 74), and garnish roimd with some rice croquettes to be made as follows To four gravy-spoonfuls of boiled rice, add one of good Allemande sauce, some nutmeg, and a little gi'ated Parmesan cheese; stir the whole on the fire till it has boiled two or three minutes, and set it on a plate to cool; then mould the croquettes in the form of corks, pears, or round balls, bread-crumb them with egg in the usual way, fry them of a fine colo;ir, and use them as directed. Eels stewed and glazed according to the diSerent modes above de- scribed, as well as when bread-crmnbed and fried, or baked, may also be sent to table with the following sauces:—Bourguignotte, Tomata, Italian, (white or brown), Cardinal, Matelotte, Normande, Eavigotte, Provengale, Poivrade, Piquante, Aiuora, or Crayfish sauce. 512. CARP, A LA CHAMBOED Choose, if possible, a carp* weighing about six pounds, and after scalding, drawing, and thoroughly cleansing the fish, stuif it with some quenelle force-meat of whitings. Then lay the carp on a buttered sheet of paper placed upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, cover the entire fish with a coating of force-meat of whitings about half an inch thick, keeping the head clear, and with some “ contises ” fillets of soles, form thereon a decoration resembling scales, but larger; in the angles of these, place the tail of a crayfish, trimmed for the purpose ; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with a white wine mirepoix, and set it to braize gently on a moderate fire, carefully pre- venting it from boiling fast, as that would tend to displace the fillets, &c. with which the carp has been decorated. If the fish is of large size, it wtH require about an hour to braize it; when done, drain it from its braize, remove the layers of fat bacon, &c., and place it on a large silver dish; garnish round the extremity of the imier edge of the dish with alternate groups of small quenelles of whitings a la Peri- gueux, button-mushrooms, white muscles, and crayfish tails; sauce round the carp, without covering any part of it, with some Allemande incorporated with part of the Kquor in which the fish has been braized, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice; glaze the head of the carp, and after ornamenting each end of the dish with a group of large crayfish, send to table. 513 CARP, A LA ROYALE. Cleanse a carp of largo size, wipe it with a clean cloth, and lay it on a buttered paper, place it upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, and cover it entirely with quenells force-meat of whitings coloured with * This fish is held in high estimation on the Continent, especially those caught in the Rhine and Moselle. In England they are seldom found good, and this is the case also with tench; both these fish being found when cooked to taste muddy: this is chieflv owing to their being taken from stagnant ponds. Those only can be expected to bo free from this disagreeable peculiarity that are caught in running streams. When about to clean carp for dressing, it is quite necessary to extract an angular sub- stance, called the gall-stone, which is to be found at the back of tlie head ; if notreinoved, this is sure to impart a bitter taste, and render tlie best fish unfit for table. X,