250 ENTREES OF BEEF. 807. BEEFSTEAKS WITH Aj^TCHOVY BUTTER. These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, but anchovy- butter must be substituted for Maitre d'Hotel. Note.—French beef-steaks are always cut from the fillet, and may be served with any of the savoury butters described in this work; they may also be garnished with Indian piclde, water-cresses, turned olives, and with all tlie varieties of common picldes, or with either of the sauces named for small rib-steaks. 808. FILLETS, OR SCOLLOPS, OF BEEF IN THEIR GLAZE Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef into four pieces, flatten and trim these round or oval, season vdth pepper and salt, put them with a like number of smaller pieces of beefisuet in a sautapan con- taining two ounces of clarified butter. Ten minutes before sending therd to table, set the sautapan on a brisk stove-fire, and fry the fillets of a brown coloim ; when they are done on both sides, pour off the grease, add a table-spoonful of glaze and twice as much brown sauce, twenty mushrooms, with some of their liquor, and the juice of half a lemon; allow the whole to boil for one minute on the fire, dish the fillets with a piece of fat on each, place the mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce over all. A^ote.—Fillets of beef prepared in this manner maybe dressed with either oysters, muscles, olives, truffles, gherkins cut into scollops, fried onions, fine-herbs, morels, &c., added to the sauce after they have been fried, instead of the mushrooms, as in the foregoing case. They may also be served when finished, with the addition of a piece of glaze and enough brown sauce for the entree, with every kind of puree of vegetables and vegetable garnish described in this work; as also with any of the sauces recommended to be served -with broiled steaks. In all cases, the garnish of these entrees must be placed in the centre of the fillets, in a conical form, and the sauce poured round the fillets. 809 MINCED BEEF WITH POACHED EGGS. Pare the fat and skin off one pomad of roast beef, cut it into thin small slices, and then mince these very fine by chopping them. Put the mince into a stewpan with two large gravy-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and a small piece of glaze, stir the whole over the fire rmtil quite hot, dish it up in a conical form, place six poached eggs round the mince, pour a little brown sauce ro\md the base, and serve. For those who like high seasoning, some grated nutmeg, lemon- peel, and Cayenne pepper may be added to the mince. §10. MINCED BEEF, A LA PORTUGUAISE. Trim one poimd of roast or braized beef, cut it up in pieces the size of a finger, and then with a sharp knife mince these into small shavings, and put them into a stewpan. Next, put two glasses of port vine into a ste-wpan with one chopped shalot, the rind of au orange cut into small shreds, a little grated nutmeg, Cayenne pepper,