101 NATIONAL SOUPS, and lay thereon, about two inches apart from each other, some small round balls of raviolis farce of the size of a cobnut, in rows. This farce is prepared as follows;—Put the white parts of a boiled or roasted fowl, pheasant, or partridge, into a mortal’, pound the meat thoroughly, and add thereto about four ounces of iresh-made curd, two ounces of grated Pai-mesan cheese, two spoonfuls of blanched spinach, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; moisten with four yolks of raw eggs, and mix the whole well together into a smooth compact body, ready for use. Wrap the outer part of the paste, when the raviolis farce has been laid on it, over the outer row of balls, cover them as if for making puffs, finish them by fastening down the paste with the thumb, and then cut them out with a small round fluted cutter into half-moons: and as they are cut out, place them on a large dish, there to be left for some time, in order to diy the surface, so that it may more re- semble Italian paste. Having repeated this operation until you have made five or six dozen raviolis, after they have been dried in the larder, proceed to blanch them; this is done by throwing them into a large stewpan containing some boiling broth, and allowing them to continue boiling therein for a quarter of an hour; then drain the raviolis on to a napkin. Next take the lining of a soup-tureen, butter it, place therein a layer of raviolis and a layer of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately, until the silver tureen-lining be filled; shake some grated cheese on the top, and moisten with two glasses of old Madeira, and a ladleful of the gravy made for the purpose, and then put the lining into the oven, or on a slow stove-fire, there to reduce the gravy and to gratinate. Brown the top over with the heated sala- mander, and send to table with the remainder of the clear consomme in the soup-tureen. This soup should be thus sei’ved; With a gravy-spoon help a part of the gratinated raviolis, in a soup-plate, and add to these a ladle- ful of the consomme. 376. EICE A LA TLORENTINE. Peepaee a thin puree of rice, and moisten it witli consomme of fowls; finish by adding two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a leason of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, and a little minionette pepper; then pour the soup thus prepared into the soup-tureen, and send to table with two plates of very small croquettes of rice, which are to be handed round with the soup. The croquettes of rice, here alluded to, are thus made:— Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and boil it in a little broth with two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of minionette pepper, and a little salt; when done, add two ounces of gi’ated Parmesan cheese and four yolks of eggs; work the whole on the stove-fire for five minutes, spread it on a p .ate—and when this paste is sufficiently cold, mould it into ven’ small round balls. Just before dinner-time, dip tliese in some beaten egg and I’oll them in flour; then put them into a lai'ge-sized parsley frier, and immerse them in a quantity of hot clean lard; fry them of a fine deep yellow colour, and send to table in two hot plates, on napkins, to be handed round with tlie soup as before stated.