CALF'S LIVER, ETC. 283 for the entrie; put the liver in the oven to be glazed -with its own liquor, and when done dish it up with groups of small carrots, tiu-nips, and glazed onions round its base, poiir the sauce under it, and serve. 920. FRIED calf’s liver, with fine-herbs sauce. Cut the liver up into neat scollops about a quarter of an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a sautapan with a little clarified butter ; when this is done, pour off" all the grease, add some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), simmer the whole together on the fire for about three minutes, and serve. 921. calf’s brains, with matelotte sauce. Steep three sets of brains in water for several hours, care being taken to change the water frequently—and remove the loose skin that contains them ; after being washed, and placed in a stewpan, contain- ing some boiling water, and seasoned with a gill of vinegar, some thinly-sliced carrot and onion, thyme and bay-leaf, pepper and salt, let them bod gently for about twenty minutes. The brains must then be drained upon a cloth, and six croutons cut in the shape of large cocks’-combs previously stuck on the bottom of an entree dish, so as to form as many compartments; place a lobe of brains in each of these, make a shght incision in each portion of the brains, and insert in it a scolloped circular piece of red tongue; pour a Matelotte ragout (No. 193) over the entree, and serve. 922. calf’s brains, with nutbrown butter. Peepaeb, and dish up the brains as in the foregoing case; pour some nutbrown butter (No. 93) over them, place a bouquet of med parsley in the centre, and serve. 923. calf’s brains fried in batter, a la provencale. Tilese must be cleaned, gently boded in water, vinegar, &c.; and when drained, cut into oval scollops, and steeped in a basin with a little od, vinegar, pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry them in batter in the usual way (see directions for calf’s ears No. 916), after which dish them up with some Provengale sauce (No. 25) vmder them, and serve. Note.—They may also be served with Tomata, Italian, Piquante, or Poivrade sauce. 924. calf’s brains scolloped. When the brains have been dressed, cut them into rather small scol- lops, and put them into a sautapan with a few scolloped mushrooms and truffles, season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, pour in some Allemande sauce (No. 7) and juice of half a lemon; toss the whole gently together over the fire, and with this preparation fill as many sdver scodop sheds as wdl hold it; cover these over with a coating of fried bread-crumbs or raspings, place them for two minutes in a hot oven to gratinate, dish them up on a napkin, and serve.