260 ENTREES OF ilUTlON. 842. ANOTHER METHOD. The cutlets, when fried, may be glazed, then dished up, and tho garnish d la Nwernaise placed in the centre. The advantage of. the iirst method is, that the cutlets partake of the flavour of the vegetables by simmering with them. 843. MUTTON CUTLETS, WD'H NEW POTATOES. These are prepared in the same way as cutlets d la Minute, and when dished up, must be garnished with new potatoes d la Maitre d'Hotel (No. 1188). Mutton cutlets prepared in the same manner may he garnished with any of the following vegetable garnishes, viz.. Jardiniere, Macedoine, asparagus-peas, stewed peas, Brussels-sprouts, &c. 2. Mutton Cutlets, beead-ceumbed, COMPRISING JIutton Cutlets, Bread-crumbed and Broiled, Mutton Cutlets, Bread-crumbed, d la Bri' with Shalot Gravy. tonne. ,, „ with Puree of Mush- „ „ d la Macedoine. rooms. „ „ d I’Indimne. ,, ,, with Cucumbers. ,, „ with Puree of Chestnuts. ,, ,, d la Milanaisc. 844. ISIUTTON CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED AND BROILED WITH SHALOT GRAVY. Teim the cutlets in the usual maimer, and season them with pepper and salt; then egg them slightly over with a paste-brush dipped in twa yolks of eggs, beaten up on a plate for the purpose; pass each cutlet through some fine bread-crumbs; then dip them separately in some clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over once more ; put them into shape with the blade of a knife, and lay them on a gridiron, to be broiled over a clear fire, of a light-broivn colour; then, glaze and dish them up, and serve them with plain or shalot gravy. These cutlets may also be served with any of the sauces directed to be used for plain broiled cutlets. 845. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. Beead-ceu:mb the cutlets as in the foregoing case; then place them in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, fry them over a brisk fire, of a light colour, and when done, remove them on to a napkin or a sheet of paper, and glaze them; dish them up, fill the centre with a white of mushrooms (No. 122), pour some half glaze round the entrie, and serve. 846. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH CUCUMBERSL Peepaee these in the same way as the foregoing, and garnish them, when dished up, with some scollops of cucumbers (No. 138). 847. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA jNHLANAISE. In this case, the bread-crumbs used for the cutlets must be mixed 'vith 2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese: in other respects they are to