ENTREES OF POULTRY. 296 has boiled half au hour, skim it, reduce it by furtlier boihug to its proper consistency, and then incorporate with it a leason of four yolks of eggs, mixed vatli a pat of butter and a little cream : set the leason in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly bods, then pass it through a tammy into the stewpan containing the pieces of chicken, and add thereto half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms. Wlien about to send to table, Avarm the fricassee without allowing it to bod, and dish it up as foUows: First, put the pieces of th(/ back in the centre of the dish, place the legs at the angles, the bones pointed inwardly ; next, place the fillets upon these, and then set the pieces of breast on the top ; pour the sauce over the entree, and place the mushrooms about the fricassee in groups ; surround the entree with eight or ten glazed croutons of fried bread cut in the form of hearts, and serve. Note.—Truffles cut into scoUops or shaped in the form of olives ; crayfish-tails, button-onions, or artichoke-bottoms cut into small pointed quarters, may also be served with a fricassee of chickens. 969. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA ST. L^YVIBERT. Cut into small dice the fodowing vegetables, &c.: one carrot, an onion, one head of celery, and 4 oz. of raw ham; put these into a stcAvpan with a small piece of butter, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, three cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pcpper-corns ; stir these over a slow fire for about ten minutes, Avithout adoAving them to acquire any colom*, then moisten the whole Avith a pint of French Avhite AAlne, and the same quantity of common broth ; bod this gently for half an hour, and then strain it through a sieve into a basin. Next, cut the chickens up as directed in the foregoing case ; melt 3 oz. of butter in a steAvpan, throw in the pieces of chicken, and toss them over the fire imtil they become set and feel firm to the touch, without, however, acquiring any colour ; then shake in two table-spoonfuls of flour, toss the whole together over the fire for two minutes, and pour in the broth prepared for the purpose ; stir the fricassee over the fire untd it bods, and finish it in the same Avay as the foregoing. "When about to send to table, warm and dish up the fricassee, place about it smad groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and French-beans, cut into smad fanciful shapes : and garnish the base, by placing a border composed of about eight smad artichoke-bottoms, nicely turned and boded, each fided alternately Avith glazed carrots, and green-peas : pour the sauce round the entree, and serve. 970. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA DAUPHINE Prepare a fricassee in the same manner as described in No. 968, and place the pieces of chicken when trimmed on an earthen dish; after haAong reduced the sauce to the consistency of Allemande, incor- porate the leason, &c., and Avhen this is set in the sauce, pass it through a tammy into a smad basin ; dip each of the pieces of chicken in this, and replace them on the dish; when the sauce has become set upon them by cooling, rod them in bread-crumbs, let them be dipped in beaten egg, and bread-crumbed over again. When about to send to table, place the pieces of chicken thus prepared carefudy upon the wire lining of a frying-pan, immerse them ad at once in plenty of