137 MULLETS. 487. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA IIORLY. Tillet the whitings, and remove the sldn from each, by first placing the fillet on the table, with the skin downwards, then inserting the point of the knife between the skin and the flesh, bearing lightly witli the left hand on the fillet, gradually draw the knhe under, so as to separate the skin from the fish without wasting its flesh; having thus trimmed the fillets, next put them into a basin with pepper and salt, thyme and bay-le^, three chalets cut into slices, and some sprigs of parsley; add two table-spoonfiils of oil and one of IVench vinegar, and after the fillets have been steeped for about a couple of hours, drain them on a napkin, dip. them thoroughly in flour, and fry them of a fine light colour; dish them up in a pyramidal form, with some parsley firied of a green colour, and serve up with the fish a sauce-boat of either of the following sauces:—white or brown Italian, Tomata, Poivrade, Dutch, Ravigotte, or Gasconne. 488. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA MARECHALE. Teim the fillets of any number of whitings, as in the previous instance; cut each in two, trim the pieces neatly, and place them separately on a large earthen dish. Then mask each fillet with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, first seasoning the fillets witli pepper and salt; when the sauce has stiffened on them, dip each fiUet in some very fine bread-crumbs, afterwards in beaten eggs, and then in bread-crumbs again; smooth and shape the fillets with the blade of a knife, and as each is finished off, place it Avith care in a sautapaii containing some clainfied butter. Ihrenty minutes before dinner, set the fillets on a brisk stove-fire to fry; as soon as they have acquired a light colour on the imder side, turn them carefully over with a knife, and when the fillets are nicely coloured on both sides, remove them on to a napkin, in order to absorb the butter that may remain about them; then dish them up in-the form of a wreath, and sauce them in the centre with some Dutch sauce—^with the addition of an infusion of horseradish in Drench vinegar—some shrimps, oysters, muscles, prawns, crayfish, or merely some chopped and blanched parsley, according to taste or convenience. 489. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA ROYALE. Teim and marinade the fillets of whitings in the manner directed for Saring whitings a la Horly (No. 487). About twenty minutes before er, drain the fillets on a napkin, and then dip each fillet separately in some light-made frying-batter, and throw them one after another into some frying fat heated for the purpose; as soon as they are done, and have acquired a light-brown colour, take the fillets out of the fat on to a cloth, with the comers of which touch them lightly ty absorb any grease they may retain; then dish the fillets up either in a pyra- midal form, or else in a circle, and poui* some white Ravigotte, white Italian, Venetian, or Dutch sauce, imder and round them, and send to table. 490, WHITINGS, BOILED. When the whitings are trimmed, boil them in spring water with a little salt—about seven minutes will suffice to do them; take the fish out of the water as soon as done, dish them up on a fish-plate covered