149 PERCH. with the skin downwards, insert the edge of the knife close to the skin, at the extreme end, and by drawing the knife too and fro, keeping the blade closely pressed to the skin, it Avill come away from the Met, Then cut these Mets into smaller ones, according to taste or con- venience, or into scollops, as the case may require. 526. PERCH, A LA STANLEY. TnoEOnoHLY cleanse two or three fine bright perch, which should weigh not less than one pound and a half each ; stew them in Rhenish wine, and when done, drain them on a napkin, dish them up, and gar- nish with a Parisian ragout (JSTo. 203), omitting the truflles but con- taining the liquor the perch have been stewed in. Garnish round wth a border of large crayfish, and send to table. 527. PERCH, A LA WASTREFISCHE. Boil the perch in French white wine, and when done, after removing the skin, dish it up, and stick the red fins straight up in a row, down the centre of the fish ; on each side of the fins thus placed, decorate the perch by laying on its uppermost Mets streaks of carrot and parsley-roots, shred exceedingly fine, and boiled; also in alternate rows Avith these, some blanched leaves of green parsley. Pour round the perch the following sauce:— Beduce the liquor in which the perch have been stewed with a pro- portionate quantity of white Veloute sauce ; add a pat of fresh butter, some white essence of mushrooms, a little nutmeg, and lemon-juice ; mix the whole well together, and serve, 528. PERCH, A LA VENITIENNE. Boil the perch, skim and dish them up, placing the red fins in a row down the centre ; moisten them over with some sauce a la Venitiknne (jSTo. 26), and send to table. In addition to the foregoing methods for preparing perch for the table, this fish may also be dressed in the same way as pike, carp, and tench, in Matelotte, d la Dauphim, Water Souchet, d VAlhmande, d la Ginotse, d la Hollandaise, d la Maitre d'Hotel, and also with Shrimp, Pai’sley and butter, and plain Butter sauce. Note.—Perch should be servnd in Mets only, when it happens that they are small, or that they are plentiful; otherwise it is usual to dress this kind of fish whole. 529. FILLETS OF PERCH, A l/lTALIENNE. Follow the directions given for Meting pike, divesting the Mets of the skin in like manner; trim them neatly, by roimding them at one end, and bring the other end to a point. Then lay the Mets in a circle in a sautapan, with some clarified fresh butter ; season with a little salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Twenty minutes before dinner- time, set the Mets on the stove-fire, or in the oven, for about ten minutes to simmer ; and when they are thoroughly done, drain them on a napkin, and dish them up in the form of a close circle ; sauce them with a white or brown Italian sauce, and send to table. Fillets of perch thus prepared, may also be sent to table with either of the following sauces, from which the dish will take its name :—d la Ravigotte, d la Maitre d'Hotel, d la Cardinal, d la Vertpri, d la Hdlandaise.