REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 212 708. PHEASA2JTS, A LA CHIPOLATA. These are to be trussed and nicely roasted, and when taken from the spit, should be dished up and neatly garnished with a Chipolata ragout (No, 190). 709. PHEASANTS, A L'ITALIENNE. Truss two pheasants as for boiling, and place them on the spit in the usual way, then cover the breasts with a reduced wine mirepoix, retaining the vegetables in it; wrap them in two large sheets of well- buttered paper, securely fastened at each end with string; place a long stout-made iron skewer at the backs of the pheasants, which must be likewise tightly secured with string to prevent them from slipping round. Eoast the pheasants for an hoitr, take them up, place them on their dish, garnish with a border of raviolis (No. 375), pour an Italian sauce (No. 12) over them, and serve, 710. PHEASANTS, A LA BEAUVEAUX. The pheasants must be boned, except the legs and wings, which should be left entire: stuff them with a farce made with fat livers of fowis or game (No, 249) : then truss them so as to give them the appearance of being whole; run a strong iron skewer through them, fasten this upon a spit with string at each end of the skewer; cover the breasts with some reduced mirepoix (No. 236), and wrap them up in two sheets of buttered paper, which must also be securely fastened ■with string. Hoast the pheasants an hour and a quarter, and when done, dish them up with a ragout of scollops of fat livers and truffles (No. 191) in a Financiere sauce, and serve, 711. PHEASANTS, A LA FINANCIERE. Truss and roast the pheasants, and when done, dish them up with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188). 712. PHEASANTS, WITH PUREE OF CELERY. Truss the pheasants for boiling, braize them in some good stock, garnished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley; when done drain them upon a napkin, dish them up, and pour over them a white puree of celery (No. 110) ; garnish round -with a border of potato croquettes, and serve. 713. PHEASANTS, A LA SOUBISE. These should be larded through the breasts, lengthwise, -with strips of fat bacon about four inches long and a quarter of an inch square, seasoned with pepper and salt and chopped parsley; they must be afterwards trussed for boiling, then braized as in the foregoing case; when done, dish them up with o, puree of onions a la Soubise (No. 119) poured over them, and send to table. 714. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPIIINE. See Poulards d la Dauphine. (No. 684.) 715. PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSANNE. Truss the pheasants as for boiling with the legs tucked inside: then put them into an oval stew-pan with four ounces of butter, and