ENTREES OF BEEF. 25i Just before sendiug to table, the candons should be fried iu come clean liog’s-lard, made quite bot for the purpose ; they must be pded up in the dish, in a pyramidal form, with gi’een fried parsley iu the centre, round the base, and on the top. Send some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) in a boat. Note.—Instead of bread-crumbing the camions, if preferred they may be dipped in a light-made batter, and then fried. 822. PAUriETTES OF OX-PALATES, A LA FINANCIERE. Beaize and out up the ox-palates as in the foregoing case ; then trim the twenty-four pieces thus produced into oblong scollops, measuring about two inches by three and a half; lay these on an earthen dish, and spread upon each a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of veal or poultry, in which some fine-herbs have been mixed. The ox-palates should then be rolled firmly in the form of cartridges, and six of these, disposed lengthvdse iu a buttered sheet of writing paper, must be rolled up tightly in it, and placed in a deep sautapan: the remainder are to be finished in the same manner, and kept in the cool until wanted. Half an hour before dinner-time set the paupkttes on a stove-fire, at the same time adding to them about a quart of boihng broth or consomme; as soon as they begin to bod, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire for twenty minutes. The paupiettes must be dmined on a napkin, the ends of each neatly cut off, then placed in a sautapan vdth a little half glaze, and again set on the fire to be rolled in this as it bods down ; after, they shoidd be dished up in a pjo’amidal, or a conical form, and a Financiere ragout (No. 188) poured over the entree, and sent to table. 823. OX-PALATES, A LA TORTUE. Beaize the ox-palates as before directed, put them in press, and when cold, stamp them out in scodops, with a circular tin cutter two inches iu diameter, and put them in a smaU deep sautapan with a little of the sauce intended for the entree. Twenty minutes before sending to table, make the scodops quite hot, and place them in neat order in, and round, the base of an ornamental erdustade of fried bread, previously prepared for the purpose, and made fast on the centre of the dish, ivith a dttle paste made of flour and white of egg ; dispose the ragout d la tortue, omitting the pieces of cad’s-head (No. 189), tastefudy about the entree, and serve. 824. CURRY OF OX-PALATES. Peepaee the scodops of ox-palates, as in the foregoing case, and put them iu a good curry-sauce (No 47). Just before sending to table make the curry quite hot, and dish it up vdth boded rice pressed into a border-mould, and then timied out on its dish. The above is the simplest maimer of serving this entree, but it looks much better when dressed with an ornamental rice border, in which case some plain boded Patna rice must be served separately. 825. ATTEREAUX OF OX-PALATES, A LA d’uXELLES. Beaize four ox-palates; when done put them in press between two dishes; as scon as they are cold, trim both sides, cut them into inch-