328 E\'TKEES OF HAKE. piece, fill the cavities of the croutons with the puree, and place them lo a sautaparx with a round of buttered paper upon them. Just before dinner-time, simmer the cutlets over a gentle fire for about five mi- nutes, turn them over when done on the imder side, and allow them to remain two minutes longer ; pour off the butter, add a little glaze and a spoonful of the sauce, toss them in this, and dish them up in a close circle; placing one of the croutons (previously warmed) in between each cutlet; fill the centre with scollops of the kidneys and small fiUets, truffles and mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, pour the sauce rormd the base of the entree, and serve. 1068. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, WITH FINE-HERBS. Cut the fillets of three hares into scollops, flatten them shghtly with the handle of a knife dipped in water, trim them neatly and place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them on both sides over a brisk fire for about five mi- nutes ; pour off the butter, add some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14) and half a pottle of mushrooms; simmer the scollops over the fire for two minutes, pile them up in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish round with croquettes, made with the hind-quarters, as in No. 1020, and serve. 1069. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, A LA PERIGUEUX. Peepaee the scollops and fry them as directed in the foregoing case; pom oft' the butter, add some Firigueux sauce (No. 23) and some scoUops of truffles; simmer them over the stove-fire for three minutes, dish them up in the form of a dome, garnish round with croquettes in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—ScoUops of hares may also be finished with the foUovdng sauces:—Poivrade, Italian, Tomata, Espagnole, and Bourguignotte; in either case scoUops of truffles, tongue, or mushrooms, may be added. 1070. CIVET OF HARE, WITH MUSHROOMS. Cut the hare into smaU joints, then pai’boU one pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into square pieces the size of smaU walnuts; fiy these in a stewpan untU they acquu’e a Ught-brovm colour, then take them out on a plate, and fry the pieces of hare brown also. Next, shake a handful of flour over them, and toss them over the fire for three minutes ; add the fried bacon, a pottle of mushrooms, an onion stuck with four cloves, a carrot and a garnished faggot of parsley; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a pint of port wine, and a quart of good broth, stir the cket on the fire tiU it boUs, and then remove it to the side that it may clarify itself by gentle ebuUition. Pry lifllf a pint of button onions in a small stewpan with a little but® ter, for five minutes, and when the civet has boUed about half an hour, throw these in ; as soon as the pieces of hare become tender, remove the scum and grease from the surface, take out the onion, carrot, and faggot; and if there appear to be too much sauce, pour it into another stewpan, and reduce it by boiling, stirring it with a wooden i^won to prevent its burning, then pass it through a tammy upon the civet. Pile up the pieces of hare in the centre of the dish, and gar- msh round with the mushrooms, &c.; pour the sauce over it, place n