108 PANADAS AND LIGHT SOUPS FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, COMPRISING Chicken Panada. Nutritious liquid custards of chicken, Pheasant or Partridge Panada. „ „ game. Chicken or game custards. Ceylon moss gelatinous chicken bro^. Venison Panada. 390. CHICKEN PANADA. Roast off a young fowl, take all the Avhite parts and pound them with the cmmb of a French roll soaked in broth; dilute these with a little chicken broth (made from tlie remains of the roasted fowl) to the consistency of a soft batter or creamy substance; pass it through a tammy as in preparing any other puree. Previous to serving this ■panada it should be moderately warmed, and put into custai'd cups. In the composition of every sort of dietetic preparation for the use of infants and invalids, it is strictly necessary to avoid the use of herbs^ vegetables, and spices: even salt should be used spai’ingiy. 391. PHEASANT OR PARTRIDGE PANADA. Pheasant or Partridge panada is prepared in the same manner as described for making tlie chicken panada: game being substituted for poultiy. 392. CHICKEN OR GAME CUSTARDS. Cut a young fowl into quarters, take the lungs away from the back- bone, wash the fowl, and then place it in a stewpan -with a little pai-sley, chervil, half a head of celery, and a turnip. Fill the stewpan with tlu’ee pints of cold w^ater, place it on tlie fire, and as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, and set it by the side of the fire to remain boiling for an horn*; after w’hich strain the broth into a basin through a napkin, and use it in the following manner:— According to the number of custard-cups required to be filled, place so many yolks of eggs in a basin; to these, add the same number of custai’d-cupfuls of prepared chicken broth, and with a spoon or fork, beat these together, in order to mix them thoroughly; then pass tliem, by pressure, through the tammy, fill the custard-cups, steam them in tlie usual manner, and send them up quickly. These custards should be eaten very soon after being made, as they become heavy when warmed a second time., 393. VENISON PANADA. Take a pound (more or less) of the lean part of either a roasted haunch or neck of venison, mince it, and then pound it with the crumb of a French roll which has been soaked in good broth; dilute with a little consomme, and pass the panada through a tammy as usual. Just before sending this panada up, warm it carefully, so as not to allow it to get too hot, as it w^ould then be liable to become somewhat decomposed and rough, and rather indigestible for a delicate stomach.