POTATO CAKE 447 1367. NOUILLES CAKES, A l’ALLEMANDE. Pkepaee about six yolks of noutlles (No. 1256), put them into a stewpan with one quart of milk of almonds,* eight ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two sticks of vanilla and a very little sdt; cover with the lid, and set them to simmer very gently by the side of a slow stove-fire; by the time that the nouilles have absorbed all the milk they will be sufficiently done, and must then be withdravra from the fire and emptied into a basin. Add the yolks of sk eggs, and the whipped whites of three, mix the whole lightly together, and pour it mot a mould previously spread with butter, and strewm with shredded almonds. The cake must then be baked in the usual maimer, and when done, turned out of the mould on its dish, and served with some Victoria cherry sauce (No. 64). Note.—This kind of cake may also be made with macaroni, vermi- celli, or semolina, and it may be flavoured in the same manner as rice cakes or timbales. 1368. VERMICELLI CAKE. Parboil twelve ounces of vermicelli, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, eight oimces of sugar, the zest or essence of the rind of two oranges extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a little salt; cover with the lid, and set the stewpan to simmer very gently on a slow fire until the vermicelli has entirely absorbed the cream. Then, add the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of three, mix the whole lightly together, and put this preparation into a mould previously spread with butter, and strewn with bread-crumbs; bake the cake in the oven for about an hour and a half, and when done, turn it out on its dish; pour some damson sauce round the base, and serve. 1369. MACCARONI CAKE Is prepared in the same way as a vermicelli cake. 1370. SEMOLINA CAKE. This is also made in the same manner as a vermicelli cake, except that it does not require to be parboiled. Sago and tapioca are treated in a similar way. 1371. POTATO CAKE. Bake eighteen large York potatoes, and when done, rub their pulp through a wire sieve; put this into a large basin, add four oimces of butter, eight ounces of sifted sugar, a spoonful of pounded vanilla, a gill of cream, the yolks of six eggs, and the whipped whites of two, and a little salt; work the whole well together, and then place it in a mould previously spread with butter, and strewn with bread-crumbs; * Milk of almonds is prepared in the following manner:—First, remove the skins from eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter almonds, then pound them thoroughly in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of water; when they are well pulverised, place them in a basin, add a quart of spring water, mix well together, and allow this to stand for about an hour; the milk may then V“ d-awn off by straining it through a napkin.