420 SMALL I’ASTKY. ^ans witli some 'vvell-worlfed trimmings of pnff-pastc, garnish these with the cheese-custard, place a strip of candied peel on the top of each, put them on a baking-sheet, and then set them in the oven (at mode- rate heat), to be baked of a very light-brown colour; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over them, and serve them quite hot. Currants, dried cherries, sultanas or citron, may be used instead of the candied peel. 1301. MIRLITONS. Ingbedients required:—Puff-paste trimmings, three whole eggs, three ounces of sugar, one ounce of ratifias, half an ounce of candiea orange-flowers, one ounce of butter, and a little salt. Put the above into a basin having a spout: the ratafias and orange- flowers must be bruised, and the butter merely melted; work the whole well together with a wooden spoon, until the batter presents the appearance of a rich creamy-looking substance, it must then be instantly poured into two dozen small deep tartlets, lined with puff- paste trimmings; shake a rather thick coating of sifted sugar over the mirlitons, and when it has nearly melted on their surface, put them in the oven (at very moderate heat), and bake them of a light- fawn colour. When the mirlitons are done, the centre should rise out from the tartlet to the height of about half an inch, resembling the crown of a boy’s cap. These cakes may also be flavoured with chocolate, grated previously to its being added to the preparation; or with pistachios or almonds, both of these must be pounded first. they may also be flavoured with different essences. Previously to pouring the batter into the tartlets a spoonful of apricot or pine-apple-jam may be placed in them. 1302. PITHIVIERS CAKES. Ingeediekts required:—Hall' a pound of puff-paste, eight ounces of almonds or nuts, sis ounces of sugar, four oimces of butter, two oimces of ratafias, a spoonful of orange-flower-water, the yolks of four eggs, and a very little salt. First, pound the almonds with a little white of egg, until they be- come pulverised; then add the remainder of the ingredients, and poimd the whole well together until thoroughly incorporated, when it should present the appearance of a rather soft creamy paste; take this up in a basin. While the above preparation is going on, half a pound of pufl'-paste should be made, to which seven turns or foldings must be given; take two-thirds of this, and knead, or rather fold it, by twisting over the corners, so as to form it into a cushion; knead the other piece in a similar manner, and then roU them both out in a circular or ova. form, to the size of a small dish or dessert plate; place the thinnest piece on a baking-sheet, wet round the edges with a paste-brush dipped in water, fill the whole of the centre with a layer of Fithiviers cream, about an inch thick, and place the other piece of puff-paste over the top of this; press it all round the edge, by bearing on it with the thumb of the right hand; then trim the edges roimd neatly (in the manner practised to cut a vol-au-vent), and with the point of a small knife, handled lightly and freely, sketch or mark out some neat or elegant design, such as a lyre, a vase of flowers, a helmet with flow-