DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 120 three glasses of sherry. Half an hour more or less before sending to table, according to the size of the fisli, put the trout thus pre- pared into the oven to bake, taking care to baste it every five mi- nutes ; when done, put the trout out on a dish, reduce the sauce, if necessaiy, incorporate in it a pat of ancho\y butter, add the juice of half a lemon, and pour the sauce over the trout; then shake some baked bread-crumbs bruised fine, over the whole, replace the fish in tlie oven for five minutes, and then send them to table after placing romid them a border of lobster croquettes. 427. TROUT A L’AURORE. Boil and trim one or more trout, mask them over with some re- duced Allemande sauce, put them on a silver dish, and then place a wii-e sieve over the trout; mb the yolks of six or more eggs boiled hard through the sieve with a wooden spoon, on the fish, taking care that the curling shreds which fall through the sieve cover the sui’- I’ace of the trout equally. About half an hour before dinner, put tlie trout in the oven to get coloured of a fine amber hue; pour round them some Aurora sauce (No. 41), and garnish them with a border of muscles fried in batter. 428. TROUT IN CASES, WITH FINE HERBS. Procure as many small trout as may suffice for a dish, clean, par- boil, trim, and place them each in a separate paper case previously oiled, and then baked for five minutes, for the pui-pose of hardening the paper to enable it to contain the sauce; add to each trout a moderate quantity of fine herbs sauce (No. 14); put them in the oven twenty minutes before dinner-time to bake, and when done, dish them up, and send to table with some of the sauce in a boat. 429. TROUT A LA ROYALE. Clean and draw a fine trout, stuff it with some quenelle force- meat of whitings, stew it with a bottle of Chablis wine, a few mush- rooms, parsley, green onions, thyme, and a bay-leaf, pepper-corns, and a blade of mace: when done, remove the skin, glaze, and put it on its dish in the hot closet till required for dishing up. Then strain the liquor in which the trout has been stewed, reduce it to half glaze, add to it some Supreme sauce, work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice, and tlien pour the sauce into a stewpan containing some small quenelles of whiting, button-mushrooms, and prawns’ tails. Allow the whole to boil toge- ther for a few minutes, sauce the trout, and garnish them round with a border of croustades of quenelle of whiting, poached, bread- crumbed, and fried; the interior should be removed and filled with soft roes of mackerel tossed in a little of the sauce. 430. BROILED TROUT, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. Split a trout at the back, oil it over, season with pepper and salt; just before dinnertime, broil it, and send it to table with some Dutch sauce in a boat separately. In addition to the different methods given here for dressing trout, this kind of fish may be prepai’ed in eveiy vai’iety of form and style in which salmon is sent to table.