245 TUKBANS AND MaZAHINES, l)ro\vu fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), in sufiicient quantity for the entree^ toss the whole together over tlie fire, and use this ragout as directed above. A border of large double white cocks’-combs may be placed roimd the edge of the croustade, and a fine large Perigord truffle in the centre. 797. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH QUAILS AU GRATIN, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Let a croustade be cut in the form of a cup, not more than five inches high, the carving of which must present eight bold fluted scollops at the upper part, and be brought to a tapering point towards the foot, as represented in one of the foregoing illustrations. When the croustade has been fried, the inner crumb must be removed, and the cavities lined with a weU-seasoned farce of fat livers (No. 249), pi’e- viously prepared for the purpose, leaving sufficient room for the insertion, in each of the scolloped flutes, of a quail that has been boned and filled with some of the farce, then trussed and partially braized; these must then be neatly garnished roimd with some of the farce, covered over with thin layers of fat bacon, and a thick band of buttered paper, secured with string, round the croustade, to prevent it from acquiring more colour while in the oven. About an hour before dinner- time, set the croustade in a moderately-heated oven, to be baked. Just before sending it to table, remove the paper and bacon, absorb all the grease with the comer of a clean napkin, and place it carefully on its dish. On the breast of each quail place a very small fiUet of fowl of circular form, contisis or decorated with black truffle, and then sim- mered in a buttered sautapan, covered with thin layers of bacon, to keep them white; between each quad place a large white cock’s-comb, fill the centre with a Bourguignotte ragout (No. 195), finished with the addition of some extract made from the carcasses of the quails, reduced to glaze, and serve. Note.—Ornamental croustades of bread may also be garnished with furh of fowls d la Reine, ditto of game a. la Polonaise, &c.; and with almost every kind of ragout or garnish directed to be used for pates- chauds, voVau'vents, borders of rice and potato-paste, for which see those articles. TUEBANS AND MAZAEINES, COMPRISING TurLau of Ox-palat«s, u, la Perigeax. ,, Fillets of Fowls, d la Prince de Galles. Fillets of Rabbits, d la Finan- ciere. Turban of Fillets of Hai'es, d la Conit. ,, Fillets of Soles, d la Ximenes. Mazarine of Whitings, d la Venitienne. „ Fat Livers, d la Toulouse. 798. TURBAN OF OX-PALATES, A LA FERIGUEUX. Bbaizb eight ox-palates, and when done place them between two dishes, to press them flat; prepare about 2 lbs, of gratin force-meat