222 MEAT PUDDINGS, COMPKISING Beefeteak and Oyster Pudding. Pudding of small Birds, d la Chipolata. Mutton Pudding. Snipe Pudding, d la D'Orsay. Kidney Pudding. Sausage Pudding. 741. BEEFSTEAK AOT) OYSTER PUDDING Line a two-quart pudding basin with some beef-suet paste; fill this ining with a preparation similar to that described for making beef- steak and oyster pie, except that the sauce must be more reduced. Wlien the pudding is filled, wet the edges of the paste round the top of the basin with a paste-brush dipped in water, cover it with a piece of suet-paste roUed out to the size of the basin, fasten it down by bearing aU round the edge with the thumb ; and then with the thumb and fore-finger, twist the edges of the paste over and over so as to give it a corded appearance. This pudding must be either steamed or boiled three hours; when done, turn it out of the basin carefully, pour some rich brown gravy imder it, and serve. 742. MUTTON PUDDING. Line a basin as in the above case, fill the lining with thick mutton cutlets, slightly trimmed, or if preferred, with steaks cut from the leg; season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme and one small shalot (mopped fine, and between each layer of meat, put some slices of potatoes. Cover the pudding as in the foregoing article, steam or boil it for three hours, and serve some rich gravy under it when sent to table. 743. KIDNEY PUDDING. Cut''two poimds of sheep’s or lamb’s kidneys into scollops, put them into a basin with some chopped parsley, shalot, and a little thyme, and season with pepper and salt; then add a large gravy- spoonful of good sauce, and the juice of half a lemon: mix these in- gredients well together. Line a basin with suet-paste, and fiU the pudding with the foregoing preparation ; cover it in the usual way, steam or boil it for two hours and a half, and when sent to table, pour under it some rich brown gravy to which has been added a little Indian soy, and serve. 744. PUDDING OF SMALL BIRDS, A LA CHIPOLATA. ^losT kinds of small birds may be used for tliis purpose, such as larks, sparrows, fieldfares, and wheatears, &c. Take two poimds of small birds which have been picked clean, remove the gizzards, and fry tliem over a brisk fire until they are browned; add chopped musl^ooms, parsley, and shalot, season with a little grated nutmeg, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and a large ^avy- spoonful of brown sauce, alsp two dozen roasted chestnuts previously peeled, and a like number of small pieces of parboiled streaky bacon: