90 ENGLISH SOUPS. or less all ai’oimd the interior of the fish, if in good condition. Let this fat, which, when in a healthy state, is elastic and of a bluish colour while raw, be steeped for several hours in cold spring water, in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed of all impm'ities. Then, with a meat saw, divide the upper and under shells into pieces of convenient size to handle; and, having put tliem with the tins and head into a lai’ge vessel containing boiling water, proceed quickly to scald them; by this means they wall be separated from the horny substance which covers them, which will then be easily removed. They must then be put into a larger stockpot nearly filled w'ith fresh hot water, and left to continue boiling by the side of the stove-fire until the glutinous substance separates easily from the bones. Place the pieces of turtle cai’efully upon clean dishes, and put them in tire larder to get cold; they should then be cut up into pieces about an inch and a half square, w'hich pieces are to be finally put into tlie soup when it is neaiiy finished. Put tlie bones back into the broth to boil an hour’ longer, for the double purpose of extracting all their savour and to effect the reduction of tlie turtle broth, ivhich is to be used for filling up the tm’tle stockpot here- after. In order to save time, while tlie above is in operation, the turtle stock or consomme, should be prepared as follows : With four ounces of fresh butter, spread tlie bottom of an eight- teen-gallon stockpot; then place in it three pounds of raw ham cut in slices,—over these put forty pounds of leg of beef and Imuckles of veal, four old hens (after having removed their fillets, which are to be kept for making Ae quenelles for the soup); to these add all the fleshy pieces of the turtle (excepting those pieces intended for entrees), and then place on the top the head and fins of the turtle; moisten the whole w'ith a bottle of Madeira and four quarts of good stock; add a pottle of mushrooms, tw'elve cloves, four blades of mace, a handful of parsley roots, and a good-sized bouquet of parsley tied up with two bay-leaves, thyme, green onions, and shalots. Set the con- somme thus prepared on a brisk stove-fire to boil sharply, and wdien the liquid has become reduced to a glaze, fill the stockpot up instantly, and as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, garnish with the usual complement of vegetables, and remove it to the side of tlie stove to boil gently for six hours. Kemember to probe the head and fins after they have been boiled two hours, and as soon as they are done drain them on a dish, cover them with a wet napkin well saturated with water to prevent it from sticking to them, and put them away in a cool place with the remainder of the glutinous parts of the turtle, already spoken of The stockpot should now' be filled up with the turtle broth reserved for that purpose, as directed above. When the tm’tle stock is done, strain it off into an appropriate-sized stock- pot, remove evei’y particle of fat from the suii'ace, and then proceed to tliicken it with a proportionate quantity of white roux to the con- sistency of thin sauce. Work this exactly in the same manner as practised for Espagnole or brown sauce, in order to extract all the butter and skum, so as to give it a brilliant appearance. One bottle of old Madeira must now be added, together with a puree of herbs of the following kinds, to be made as here directed: Sw<?.et basil must form one-third proportion of the whole quantity