438 ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. they become soft and pulpy; take up this paste into a basin, add a pint of single cream, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a tammy into a purh; then fk’eeze this in the usual manner. "While the above is being prepared, a pmt of cherry-water-ice must be made as follows;—Eemove the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries, and bruise them thoroughly in a mortar, so as to break the stones, then take them up into a sugar-boiler, add twelve ounces of sugar, and boil the whole together over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes; rub this through a hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze it, adding a little thin syrup, if necessary. TJse the cherry-water-ice to line the pudding-mould with, garnish the centre with the filbert-cream-ice, cover the mould with its lid, and immerse the pudding in rough ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be turned out on its dish, garnished round with viaSer-gauffres filled with some of the filbert-cream reserved for the purpose, and served immediately. 1347. BISCUITS GLACES, IN SMALL CASES. To eight yolks of eggs, add one pint of cream, four ounces of rati- fias, ten ounces of sugar, and a very little salt; stir the whole in a stewpan over a stove-fire until the egg is sufficiently set; then pass the custard through a tammy into a basin, and when it has become cold, add two wine-glasses of maraschino, and freeze this in the usua_ manner. Just before dishing up the biscuits, half a pint of whipped cream must be lightly added to the iced custard; the small paper cases must be filled with this, and afterwards sprinkled over with some finely-bruised high-coloured ratifias, then dish the biscuits upon a napkin, and seiVe. Note.—These iced biscuits may be also infinitely varied, by chang- ing the flavourings: for which pimpose, all kinds of liqueurs, and essences of almonds, vanilla, orange, lemon, coffee, chocolate, or orange- flowers, may be used: they may also be made by adding a puree of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, or pine-apple, to the custard. 1348. NESSELRODE PUDDING. Boil three dozen chestnuts in water, and when done, peel, pound, and rub them through a sieve ; put this pulp into a stewpan with eight yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, two sticks of vanfila, previously pounded, half a pint of pine-apple syrup, and a very little salt; stm these ingredients over a stove-fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, then rub the whole through a tammy, and put the cream into a basin. Cut four ounces of green citron, six ounces of pine-apple (previously simmered m the syrup above alluded to), and place these in a basin with six ounces of dried cherries, and four ounces of Smyrna raisins; to these add two wine-glasses of maras- chino, and allow the fruit to steep for several hours. Place the chest- nut cream in a freezing-pot immersed in rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner; then add half a pint of whipped cream and the fruit. Mix the pudding, and continue working the freezing-pot for a few minutes longer; when the pudding is thoroughly set finn, put it into the mould, cover it down, and immerse it in ice until it is required to be sent to table.