PATE-CIIAUDS. 227 aud then set them over a brisk fire to he tried brown; next, add a glass of Madeira, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; cover the sautapan with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and again place it upon a moderate fire, that the rabbits may stew very gently for twenty minutes longer- then add some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) in sufficient quantity for the entrde, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, garnish the pdU-chaud as in the former case, and send to table. 754. PATE-CHAUD OF LEVERETS, WITH TRUFFLES, A LA PERIGUEUX. The leverets must be cut into small members or joints as follows :— Tirst, take oft" the hind legs and make two pieces of these ; detach the shoulders, and cut the loins transversely into pieces about two inches long; split the head into halves, trim the whole neatly without waste, and place these members in a sautapan Avith three ounces of clarified butter : season with pepper and salt, and set them on a brisk fire to be fried brown. Next, add four ounces of truffles cut into thick scollops, and a small piece of glaze, cover Avith the lid containing live embers of charcoal, and replace the sautapan on a slow fire, to simmer for tAventy minutes longer. Then add the Perigueux sauce (No. 23), allow the whole to bod together for three minutes, garnish the pdU-chaud, and serve. 755. PATE-CIIAUD OF LEVERETS, A LA FIXANCIERE. PuEPABE these in the manner directed in the foregoing article, and when the members of the leverets are ready to receive the sauce, add a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188) ; after the AAffiole has boded together for three minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. A border of large white cocks’-combs may be placed roimd the edge of the pie, and a larded sweetbread or a large truffle in the centre. 756. PATE-CHAUD OF GODIVEAU, A LA CIBOULETTE. To one pound and a half of sifted flour, add three-quarters of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, and about a gdl and a half of cold Avater, then knead the Avhole into a fine smooth paste. Take rather more than tAvo-thirds of this, mould it into a round bad Avith the palm of the hand, and afterwards roll it out to the size of a common dinner-plate ; then Avith the fingers of both hands, take up the edges of the paste to the depth of two inches, and gather it into the shape of a round or oval purse (according to the shape of the dish) : and having previously buttered a raised pie- mould for the purpose, line it Avith the paste, by first rolling it out and then pushing the paste into the mouldings of the case AA'itk another piece of paste, used as a cushion for the purpose. When the mould is thus lined, fill it Avith some godiveau (No. 251), previously mixed AA'ith some chopped chives or green onions, parsley, and mush- rooms ; smooth the top over Avith the blade of a knife dipped in AA'ater, cover the pie Avith the remamder of the paste, and after it has been neatly fastened and trimmed round the edge, nip it round with the pastry-pincers ; place upon the top a circular piece of pull’-paste, egg tills over Avith the paste-brush, and score it with the point of a small knife, funning some device or ornament. Make a small hole in tho Q 2