ENTREES OF LAMD. 286 then dip them in some clarified butter and bread-ermnb them over again; put them in shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets of a bght coloim, drain them upon a sheet of paper, glaze and dish them up; fill the centre with asparagus- peas (No. 148), pour some thin Espagnole or half-glaze round them, and serve. 932. LAMB CUTLETS, A LA CHEVREUSE. These must be cut rather thick, allowing two ribs for each, but they should not be trimmed; prepai’e and braize them in the same manner as veal cutlets d la Ereux (No. 890) ; and when done, pressed, and trimmed, mask them over with a puree of onions mixed with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; when cold they should be dipped in beaten egg, and afterwards rolled in bread-crumbs; put them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in order upon a dish or sautapan, until dinner-time. Then fry them in heated hog’s-lard, of a bright- jellow coloiu, dish them up, put a small paper frill on the bone of each cutlet; fiU the centre with small circular scollops of truffles, mush- rooms, and fat fivers, tossed in some Supreme sauce (No. 38), pour some of the sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Note.—In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing lamb cutlets, they may also be served in every variety of form in which veal or mutton cutlets are prepared. 933. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF LAMB. Loins of lamb are used for this, and should be prepared and finished according to the directions for carbonnades of mutton (No. 865). 934, lamb's sweetbreads, a la toulouse. About ten heart sweetbreads are necessary for an entrie; steep these in cold water for a couple of hours, and then scald them slightly to set them, for the purpose of being afterwards larded; they must next be nlaced in a deep sautapan, covered with thin layers of fat bacon or else spread with butter; moisten with sufficient sfrong consommi to reach nearly up to the larding; place a but- tered paper upon them, and put them to boil brisldy on a stove-fire for five minutes, then set them in the oven, or cover them with a fid con- taining five emblems of charcoal, and place them on a moderate stove-fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, frequently basting them with their own liquor. Wlien the sweet- breads are nearly done, remove the fid and the paper, put them in the oven or pass the red-hot salamander over them to dry the larding, and then glaze them. When dished up, each sweetbread should be placed in the dish upon a base, formed of quenelle force-meat made of fowl or real, and shaped to resemble a dariole-movdd: these of course should