CHERRY BREAD. 451 1384. PANCAKES SOUFFLES. Prepare some potato-flour sow^e-batter (No. 1372)—about baK the usual quantity wiU suffice; make also tbe usual quantity of pan- cake-batter. Tben fry tbe pancakes, and as they are done, spread them over with apricot-jam, and pile them up one upon another in the form of a dome, with a thick layer of the sou^^-batter in between each pancake. "When the whole is complete, put them in the oven to bake for about half an houi’; when done, shake some sugar over the top, and serve immediately. PUDDINGS IN GENEEAL, Brown-bread Pudding, d la Gotlia. COMPRISINQ Ginger Pudding. Cherrj Bread. Pine Apple 5 J Mehl Prie. Lemon )» Krapfen, or German Puffs. Orange 9J Semolina Pudding, d la Baden. Bread ,, plain. Bampfnudeln, or Geiman Dumplings. Rusk Pudding, d la Coburg. Apple 99 ,, d la Frangaise. „ d la Viennoise. Biscuit ,, d la Prince Albert. Plum 19 Cabinet Pudding. Tapioca 99 Chestnut „ 1385. BROWN-BREAD PUDDING, A LA GOTHA. Get ready the following ingredients;—Twelve ounces of brown bread-crumbs, six; oimces of pounded sugar, six eggs, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon-rind, a little ciunamon-powder, one pound of moreUo cherries, and a little salt. INIix: the bread-crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, and whipped cream, the lemon, cinnamon, and the salt, together in a large basin; then add the whipped whites of six eggs, and set this aside. Next, spread a plain mould with butter, and strew it with brown bread- crumbs ; then, spread a large spoonful of the preparation at the bot- tom of the moidd, and arrange a layer of cherries (with the stones left in) upon it; cover this with some of the preparation, and upon it place more cherries, and so on until the mould is filled. The pud- ding must now be placed on a baking-sheet, and put in the oven (moderately heated), to be baked for about an hour; when done, turn it out of the mould on its dish, pour a purie of cherry-sauce roimd the base, and serve. In Saxony, it is customary to eat this land of pudding as a cake, when cold; in this case it should be entirely covered -with sifted sugar, mixed with one-fourth part of cinnamon-powder. 1386. CHERRY BREAD. Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish-cherries, and pound them in a mortar so as to bruise the stones; they must then be placed in a small preserving-pan with about a pmt of claret or port- wine, and twelve ounces of sugar; allow this to boil upon the stove- 2 o 2