ENTREES OF FOWLS. 304: aste-brush, dipped in white of egg slightly heat up ; the truffles, after eing first cut into thin scollops, and stamped out with tin fancy cut- ters in various forms, should then he stuck upon this prepared surface, according to taste, forming therewith stars, scrolls, palms, mosaics, &c. When all the fillets are decorated, run some clarified butter over them, in sufficient quantity to cover their surface ; place a cover- ing of buttered paper upon them, and set the sautapan aside in the larder. The minion fillets must also he decorated with red tongue, in the same way as the others. When about to send to table, simmer the fillets on both sides, carefully pre- venting them from becoming at all coloured; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle, placing a fiUet of red tongue between each of the large fillets; next place the minion fillet in a close border on the top of the inner edge of these, fill the centre with a ragout ala Parisienne (No. 203), pour some of the sauce roimd the base of the entree, without in any way masking the decoration of the fillets, and serve. 993. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS WITH CUCUMBERS, A LA BELLE-VUE. In this mstance the fillets must be prepared and finished in exactly the same way as stated in No. 989; but when dishing them up, instead of the fillet of tongue, place between the fillets a scollop of cucumber, prepared as follows:— Cut two large well-shaped cucumbers into slanting scollops of about » quarter of an inch in thickness ; trim these neatly in an oval form, .-'Cooping out the seeds, and after having parboiled these oval rings, or links, in salt and water, drain them upon a napkin, and place them in order at the bottom of a sautapan previously spread Avith butter; then proceed to fill up the centre of these with some quenelle force- meat of fowl, mixed with some chopped and parboiled parsley, to colour it green; smooth the surfaces over, place a circular piece of buttered paper upon them, and poach them by pouring some boding consomm^ in at the side of the sautapan, so as not to disturb the rings. Let them simmer gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, tlien be carefully drained upon a napkin, bghtly glazed, and used as directed above. HU the centre of the entrh with prepared scollops of cucumbers (No. 138), previously tossed in some of the sauce; mask thefiUets, without covering the links of cucumbers, with some Supreme sauce, and serve. 994. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PERIGORD. Pee PARE this according to the directions for Supreme d VEcarlata (No. 989) ; the minion fillets, however, must be decorated with black trufile. When about to send to table, dish up the fiUet as usual in a close circle roimd the base of a smaU ornamental croustade of bread, previously fried of a light coloim, and stuck in the centre of the dish