357 ASPARAGUS, AND FRENCH BRANS. 1170. ASPARAGUS-PEAS, A LA CREME. Boil a quart of asparagus-peas in plenty of water and a liandful of Balt: the water ninst boil before the peas are put in ; when they are done, drain them in a colander, immerse them in cold water for three minutes, and then drain them upon a sieve. Next, place the aspara- gus-peas in a stewpan with a small faggot of green omons and parsley, two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; put the hd on and set them to simmer gently over a slow fire for ten minutes. Then remove the faggot of parsley, and if there be any Hquor in the peas, boil it down quickly, and in- corporate with them two small pats of fresh butter, and a leason of four yolks of eggs mixed with hall* a gdl of cream ; toss the peas over a stove-fire to set the leason in them, and dish them up in the form of a dome, with a border of jleurons round them, and serve. 1171. FRENCH-BEANS, A LA MAITRE d’IIOTEL. Pick and string the beans, cut them up, and shred each bean into three or four strips ; wash them in plenty of water, drain them in a colander, and throw them into a ste^vpan containing boiling water and a handful of salt, and bod them briskly untd they become tender: they must be drained in a colander, then immersed in cold water for five minutes, and drained upon a napkin to absorb all the moisture. Next, put a gravy-spoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce into a stew- pan -with four ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped and parboded parsley, a very little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; stir these wed together over the stove-fire, and when perfectly mixed throw in the beans, and toss the whole together over the fire untd quite hot; then dish them up with a border of croutons round them and serve. 1172. FRENCH-BEANS, WITH FINE HERBS. Boil the beans as directed in the foregoing case. Put two pats of fresh butter into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped and parboded parsley, and two shalots also chopped, a little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon; simmer this over a stove-fire mitd melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the whole together, and dish them up with croutons round them. 1173. BROAD-BEANS, A LA CREME. Poe this purpose the beans must be young. Bod them in watei^ Avith a faggot of parsley and some salt: when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, some chopped parsley, and as much chopped winter-savory as wdl cover the tip of a spoon, with pepper, s^t, and nutmeg; toss the beans over the fire for five minutes, and then incorporate with them a leason of four yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon; when the leason has become set in the beans, dish them up with Jleurons round them, and serve. 1174. GREEN PEAS, PLAIN. Put the peas into boding water with some salt and a bunch of green mint; keep them boding briskly for about, twenty minutes, and