100 NATIONAL SOUPS. adding a pint of cream and a piece of glaze ; then pour the hot soup into a tureen containing twelve small custards previously prepared for the purpose, in manner following;—Pass eight yolks of eggs through a tammy into a stewpan, to these add a tablespoonful of spinach-gi’een (No. 285), a little grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, some essence of game, and half a pint of cream; beat the whole well together, and pass this mixture through a tammy into a basin, and tlien pour it into twelve small dariole moulds (pre- viously buttered), place them in a stewpan containing hot water to the depth of an inch, and set them to steam by the side of the stove- fire; taking care that the ste^^^an has tlie lid on, and some live embers of burning charcoal placed upon it. A quarter of an hour will suffice to steam tliese custards; when done, turn them out of tlie moulds with care, and place them instantly in the soup-tureen as directed. NATIONAL SOUPS, COSirRISING Raviolis d, la Napolitaint. nice la Florentine. Soup a la Pidmontaise. Do. d la Biarnaise. Bouillabaisse d la ProveiK^ale. Borsch, or Polish Soup. Ouka, or Russian do. Tschi, or Cabbage do., d la Ritsse. Olla Podnda, or Spanish national da Turkish Pilaff, or Pilau. 375. HAVIOLIS a la napolitaine. Pbepabe a consomme gravy soup, in the following manner:— Butter the bottom of a small stockpot, and place in it some slices of raw ham, three pounds of gravy beef, a small knuckle of veal, and either an old hen or two partridges. To these add two heads of celery, the same number of leeks and carrots, sprigs of tliyme and winter savory tied into a faggot with some parsley, cloves, mace, and peppercorns; moisten with a large ladleful of broth, and put the gravy thus marked on a stove-fire to boil down to a glaze, taking the usual precautionary measures to prevent it from burning. As soon as the glaze is sufficiently coloured, fill the stockpot up with good broth; when it boils skim it, and set it down by the side of the stove- fire to boil gently for three hours; then strain off the consomme, clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs, and pass it through a nap- kin into a soup-pot, to be used as follows RAVIOLIS. Mix half a pound of sifted flour with four yolks of eggs, a little salt, and half a pat of butter; let these ingredients be placed on a paste slab, putting the yolks of eggs, &c., in the centre of die flour; then knead them into a firm, smooth, compact paste; and after allowing it to rest in a damp cloth for half an horn*, spread it out with the rollin"-pin until it becomes nearly as diin as a sheet of paper. Place die paste thus rolled out, lengthwise, on the slab, then with die paste-brush dipped in water moisten its whole surface.