KEMOVES OF VEAL. 1G8 which divides the mix, or cushion, from the under part of the fillet; cut the mix away, following the separation right through, roimd to the knuckle, terminating at the left, under the udder, which must he left adhering to the mix. Pare off the sinewy parts from the mix, trim the udder without reducing its size, and then, with a sharp-pointed knife, malce a very slight incision in a circular direction on the surface of the mix, round the inner edge of the udder; next remove the outei’ ^^art with a knife, trimming it smooth and neatly; lard tlie trimmed part closely with fat bacon, in the usual manner, and prepare the mix for braizing as follows:—First place at the bottom of a large fricaiideau or oval stew- pan, on the drainer thereof, some sliced carrots, a head of celery, two onions, ^^dth a clove stuck in each, and a garnished faggot; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the mix of veal; siUTOund it with the trimmings, and moisten with half a bottle of sherry or Madeira, and a sufficient quantity of good stock, barely to reach the surface of the veal; cover with a weU-b uttered white paper, and set it to bod on the stove; place the lid on the pan, and put it on a slow fire, or in the oven, to braize gently for about foiu’ hours (unth live embers on the lid), rememberiug to baste the larding frequently with the liquor, in order to moisten the veal and glaze it of a bright colour; the udder should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to preserve its whiteness during the braizing. MHien the mix is done, drain and glaze it, remove the layers of bacon, and dish it up; garnish it round with groups of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of fowl (colomed with crayfish butter), cocks’-combs and kernels, and turned truffles tossed in glaze; smround these with a border of lambs’ sweet- breads, one-half of which should be larded, and tlie others, contisds with tongue, placed alternately; stick four silver skewers, each garnished Avith a large double cocks’-comb, a large truffle, mushroom and cray- fish, into the mix, sauce with a rich Madeira sauce (No. 8), and send to table. 586. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA FIXAXCIERE. Phepaee and braize a mix or cushion of veal in every respect the same as the foregoing; the wine may, however, if thought proper, bf. omitted; when the mix is done, glaze and drain it, dish it up, pour a rich Finandh'e ragout (No. 188) imder it, garnish roimd with a border of quenelles and crayfish, and send to table. 587. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOIXE. Peepaee the noix of veal as in the foregoing cases, dish it up, garnish it with a Macedoine of carrots, turnips, green-peas, asparagus-heads and cauliflower-buds, tossed in some good Allemande sauce, with a pinch of sugar, and the glaze produced from the small carrots and tur-nips; place round these a border of small artichoke-bottoms, fiUed alternately with green-peas, small carrots, and turnips; glaze the larded part of the noix, and send to table, 588. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA JARDINIERE. The mix, or cushion of veal, must be first trimmed, larded, and braized, according to the directions given for the mix d la Financihe; when done, dish it up, and garnish it round with a Jardiniere, or gamisb