MACCARONI, 3G5 1205. EGGS, A LA SUISSE. Speeai) the bottom of a silver dish with two ounces of fresh butter, cover this with rather thiu slices of fresh Grruyere cheese, break eight whole eggs upon the cheese, without disturbing the yolks; season with grated nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, and salt; pour a gill of double cream on the surface, strew the top with about two ounces of grated G-ruyere cheese, and set the eggs in the oven to bake for about a quarter of an hour: pass the hot salamander over the top, and serve with strips of very thin dry toast separately on a plate. 1205. MACCARONI, A L’ITALIENNE. Beeak up the maccaroni iu three-iuch lengths, and put it on to bod. in hot water, with a pat of butter, a little mignionette-pepper and salt; when done, draia it on a napkin, and as soon as the moisture is ab- sorbed, dish it up in the foUowiug manner:—Pirst, put two large ra^OMf-spoonfrils of good tomata sauce into a stewpan, and bod it over the stove-fire ; then add two pats of fr’esh butter with as much glaze, and work the whole wed together; next, strew a layer of the macca- roni on the bottom of the dish, then pour some of the sauce over it, and strew some grated Parmesan cheese over this: and so on, repeat- ing the same imtil the dish is fuU enough; strew some grated cheese over the top, put the maccaroni in the oven for five minutes, and then serve whde it is quite hot. 1207. aiaccaroni, with cream. Boil one pound of maccaroni, and when done, cut it up in three- inch lengths, and put it into a stewpan, with four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a simdar quantity of Gruyere cheese also grated, and a gdl of good cream ; leason with mignionette-pepper and salt, and toss the whole wed together over the stove-fire untd wed mixed and quite hot, then shake it up for a few minutes to make the cheese spin, so as to give it a fibrous appearance, when drawn up with a fork. The maccaroni, when dished up, must bo garnished round the base with fleurons of pastry, and then served. 1208. maccaroni, au gratin. Cut the maccaroni up as above, put it into a stewpan with three- quarters of a pound of grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruyere in equal quantities), four ounces of fresh butter, and a ra^oM^-spoonful of good Bechamel sauce; season with mignionette-pepper and salt, toss the whole together over the fire untd wed mixed, then pde it up in the centre of a border of fried croutons of bread (previously stuck round the bot- tom of the dish) ; strew the surface with fine bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions; run a dttle melted butter through the holes of a spoon, over the top of the maccaroni, and then put it in the oven to be baked of a bright-yedow colour : it should then be served quite hot. 1209. timbale of maccaroni, a la Florentine. Decorate a plain mould with some noi«7fes paste (No. 1256), mixed with a dttle sugar; then line the mould with some tliin strips of fine short paste (No. 1253), which must be placed exactly in the same