G1 CLEAE CONSOME SOUPS IN GENEEAL, COMPRISINO Spring Soup. ^ Do. a la VeHpri. JuliSnne Soup. Jardiniere do. Chiffonade do. yivernaise do. Xavier do. Dauphine do. Darley do. d la Princesse. Quenelles of fowl in consommi. Vermicelli clear Soup. Macaroni do. do. Italian Paste Soup. Lasagnes do. Clear rice do. Do. with asparagus points. Chicken and rice Soup. Cocky Leeky Broth. Scotch Broth. Hodge-podge. Knuckle of veal and rice Soup. Brunoise do. Lettuce and whole pea do. Flemish do. Sportsman’s do. clear. Soup d la Desclignac. Partridge Soup d la Chasseur. Paysanne Soup. Tendons of veal d la Jardiniere. Do. with peas and lettuces. Ox-tail Soup. Soup of gratinated crusts d la D'Orleans. Do. d la Princesse. Do. with lettuces. Do. d la Regence. Do. d la Paysanne, 252. SPKING SOUP. Take four carrots and as many turnips scraped and washed, scoop them out into the form of small olives or peas, with a vegeta- ble scoop of either shape; add the white part of two heads of celery, twenty-four small onions (without the green stalk), and one head of firm white cauliflower cut into small flowerets. Blanch or parboil the foregoing in boiling water for three minutes, strain them on a sieve, and then throw them into three quarts of bright consomme of fowl; let the whole boil gently for half an hour by the side of the stove-fire; then add the white leaves of two cabbage-lettuces (previously stamped out with a round cutter the size of a shilling), a handful of sorrel-leaves, snipped or cut like the lettuces, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, and a small piece of sugar; let these continue to boil gently until done. When about to send the soup to table, put into the tureen half a pint of young green peas, an equal quantity of asparagus-heads boiled green, and a handful of small croutons d la duchesse, prepared in the following manner :—Cut the crust off a rasped French roll into strips ; stamp or cut out these with a round tin or steel cutter, into small pellets about the size of a shilling, and dry them in the oven to be ready for use. Before sending the soup to table, taste it to ascertain whether it he sufficiently seasoned. 253. SPRING SOUP A LA VERTPRE. This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing—except that the croutons d la duchesse are omitted, and in tlieir stead a furee of green spinach, in sufficient quantity to tliicken and colour tlie soup, should be added.