CAKES. 404 cherries (slightly chopped)-, one pound and a half of currants, one pound and a half of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, in equal quantities,—all these must be cut in small shreds; eight ounces of ground or pounded almonds, eight whole eggs, the zest or rind of four oranges (rubbed on a piece of sugar and afterwards scraped off), half an ounce of gi’oimd spices, consisting of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, mixed in equal proportions, half a pint of Cognac brandy, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Place the butter in a large white earthen pan, and work it with a wooden spoon imtil it presents the appearance of a creamy substance ; next add gradually the flour, sugar, and the eggs, stiU continuing to work the batter the whole of the time. When these have been thoroughly mixed, the cherries, cmuants, candied-peel, ground almonds, brandy, spices, and salt, must also be added gradually, and as soon as these ingredients are incorporated vdth the batter, let the preparation be poured into a convenient-sized tin hoop (previously hned with double bands of buttered paper), and placed on a stout-made copper baking-sheet, with two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, to prevent the composition from becoming calcined by the lieat of the oven. A moderate heat will be sufficient to bake this cake, and care must be taken not to put any fire under the oven while it is baking, so as to increase the heat. These cakes when baked should be iced over with sugar in the following manner:— Pii’st, mix eight ounces of very fine pounded almonds with double that quantity of fine sifted sugar, a little orange-water, and sufficient whites of eggs to form the whole into a soft paste; spread a coating of this all over the surface of the cake (after it has become cold) ; and when it is hardened by drying, let the whole be iced over with the following praparation:— Place about six whites of eggs in a convenient-sized basin, add about one pound and a half of the finest sifted loaf-sugar, and work these well together, with a clean wooden spoon, adding occasionally a little lemon-juice, imtil the whole presents the appearance of a very thick yet comparatively liquid shiny substance of a pm’e white. Use this icing to mask the entire siuface of the cake, with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick; allow this to become firmly set, by <lrying, for which pmqDOse the cake should be placed in a warm tem- ’Derature, and kept covered with a large sheet of paper, to preserve it from dust, &c. When the icing has become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides of the cake writh raised ornaments of gum paste, (stamped out from boards cut for the purpose) and arranged with taste, either in the form of garlands, wreaths, scrolls, &c.; or else, the cake may be decorated with piping, using for that purpose some of the icing worked somewhat thicker, by adding to it more sugar and a little prepared gum-dragon. WTien intended for a wedding cake, the ornaments must be all white, and some blossoms and sprigs—or, even wreaths of orange- flowers should also be introduced. 1278. SCOTCH BREAD. Iistguedients :—One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, eight eggs, half a 'pound of candied lemon, orange, and