CUTLETS OF HAKE. 327 Note.—^These fillets may also be garnished in the same way as directed for fillets of rabbits. 1064. FILLETS OF HARES, A LA CHASSEUR. Pekpakb the fiUets and place them in a sautapan as directed in the foregoing case. Use the carcasses for making some extract, or fumet, reserve the hind-quarters, run them on a large iron skewer, place them on a large sheet of paper thickly buttered, season with pepper and. salt, and strew over them some thinly-sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme; wrap the paper round the legs, and fasten the skewer on the spit with string, then roast them before the fire for about half-an-hour, basting them frequently. When done, pare off all the meat, chop it very fine, and pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a spoonful of Espagnole sauce; rub it through a fine wire sieve or a tammy, and put the purie into a small stewpan. When about to send to table, braize and glaze the fillets as directed in the foregoing case, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with the purie, pour round the base of the entree, and mask the purie with some bright Espagnole sauce worked with the fumet; glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. 1065. FILLETS OF HARE, A l’ALLEMANDE. Laed the fillets asin the foregoing cases, steep them in some mari- nade (No. 234) for six hours at least; drain and put them in a sau- tapan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix, braize and glaze them in the usual manner, and when done, dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with large prunes stewed in red wine with a small stick of cinnamon, poxir some cherry sauce d la Victoria (No. 64) round the base, place a border of quenelles of potatoes (No. 312) round the entree, and serve. 1066. CUTLETS OF HARE, A LA PORTUGUAISE. UiLi/ET three hares, cut each fillet across into halves, flatten these slightly with a bat, trim them into the shape of cutlets, and scrape some of the ribs to resemble cutlet-bones; season with a little pepper and salt, mask them over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and bread-crumb the cutlets twice; once dipped in beaten egg, and afterwards sprinkled with clarified butter; pat them gently into shape, a.nd place them in a sautapan with clarified butter. WThen about to send to table, fry the cutlets of a light colour, drain, glaze and dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with yams previously cut into the form of olives, and fried in butter; pour some Portu- guese sauce (No. 59) round the base, and serve. 1067. CUTLETS OF HARE, A l’AHCIENNE. These must be trimmed as directed in the foregoing case, and placed in a buttered sautapan without being bread-crumbed; then season with pepper and salt, pour a little clarified butter over them, and with halt the hind-quarters make some purie in the usual way— keeping this rather thick. Use the carcasses to make some fumet with, to l3e worked into some Espagnole sauce for the entrie. Cut as many croutons of bread as there are cutlets, and of the same shape ; draw the point of a small knife round the inside of the edge of the croutons, and when they are fried of a light colour, remove tlie inner