165 FILLETS OF VEAL. nnd a single ladlefal of good strong brotli, braize the beef gently on a slow fire, wdth live embers on the lid of the pan, taking care to baste tlie beef fi*equently with its own liquor; when done, glaze and dish it np ; strain the braize through a silk sieve into a stew-pan, take ofi" all the fat, add a small pot of red cnrrant-jeUy, the grated rind of two oranges, and the juice of four; reduce the whole to the consistency ot sauce, pom* it rouud the beef, garnish with a border ot quenelles of potatoes (No. 312), glaze the beef afresh, and send to tabie. Braized ribs of beef may also be sent to table in a variety of other forms; as, for mstance, d V Anglaise, d la Milanaise, d la MacMoine, d la Royale, &c., for which see Braized Bolls of Beef. BEMOYES OE VEAL, COMPRISING Roast Fillet of Veal, a VAnglaise. ,, ,, ala Macedoine. ,, ,, a la Jardiniere, Roast Neck of Veal, a la Creme. ,, ,, a la Monimorency. „ ,, a la Dreux. „ „ a la D’ Uxelles. „ ,, a r Bear late. „ „ a la Royale. Cushion of Veal, a la St. George. „ ,, a la Financiere. ,, ,, a la Macedoine. Cushion of Veal, a la Jardiniere Roast Loin of Veal, a la Memglas. ,, ,, a la Dauphine. ,, ,, a la Royale. ,, ,, h la Financiere. ,, ,, a la Creme. lire.'ist of Veal, a VAnglaise. ,, a la Bourgeoise. ,, a la Windsor, ,, a la Financiere. ,, a la Romaine. ,, a la Royale. 576. EOAST FILLET OF VEAL, A l’ANGLAISE. Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be procured fresh Killed, as it does not improve either in flavoiu" or colour by being kept. Take out the bone from a good fat fiUet of veal, and with the cutlet- bat, flatten the udder so as to lengthen it out; make a deep incision between the udder and the fiUet with a knife, and fill it with about 1 lb. of weU-seasoned stuffing (No. 662) ; sew it up with small twine, wrap the udder tightly roimd the fillet, and secure its shape with skewers and tndne ; spit the fiUet in the usual manner, cover it weU with buttered thick white paper, roast it about two hours and a half'; just before it is done, take off the paper, and, after first shaking some flour over it from a dredger, baste the veal with a little fresh butter, and fioth it: then dish it up, pour round it some Ught-brown sauce incorporated with 4 oz. of fresh butter, some essence of mushrooms, and a little lemon-juice, or else use No. 82 ; garnish roimd with potato croquettes, and send to table. 577. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOINE. Boast a fiUet of vea’ according to tbe foregoing directions, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round mth a MacMoine of such vegetables as the season of the year may afford ; sauce round with Supreme or Bichamel, and send to table.