411 MECCA LOAVES. 1292, DUCHESS LOAVES. These are made of the same kind of paste as the foregoing: this must be laid out on the pastrj-slab, in small pieces about the size of a pigeon’s egg, then rolled out with a little flour, in the form of a finger, and placed in order upon a baking-sheet spread with butter ; they should now be egged over, and baked of a bright light colour. Just before they are quite done, shake some finely-sifted sugar over them, set them back again in the oven until the sugar is nearly melted, and then pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a bright glossy appearance; the loaves must now be immediately withdrawn from the oven, and allowed to cool. Just before sending this kind of pastry to table, make an incision down the sides, and fill the small loaves with apricot-jam, then dish them up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve. 1293. PETITS-CHOUX,*' WITH CARiVMEL. Peepaee these as the above, except that they must be rolled and baked in the form of round balls, which, when done, should be about the size of an egg. About two oimces of roughly-chopped pistachios, a few cleaned cturants, and an equal proportion of loaf sugar, chopped small, should be mixed together on a plate; then boil about four ounces of sugar, fii’st dipping each petit-choux slightly in this, then gently roll in the prepared pistachios, &c., so as to mask its surface with these. When the whole have been thus passed in the sugar- caramel, allow them to cool previously to dishing them up, 1294. PROFITEOLLES. Peepaee two dozen petits-choux as directed in the first part of the foregoing article ; when they are baked and have become cold, cut a circular piece from the top of each, about the size of a shilling ; then, fill them with some custard, prepared as follows :—Put the yolks of four eggs into a small stewpan, with two ounces of pounded sugar, a good table-spoonful of flour, two oimces of grated chocolate, and a very httle sdt; mix these well together with half a pint of cream, add a small pat of butter, then stir the whole over the stove-fire, and allow it to boil for about ten minutes; this custard should now be passed through a tammy (with pressure) into a basin, and when it has become cold, three table-spoonfuls of whipped cream should be added; then serve. This custard may also be flavoured either with lemon, orange, vanilla, orange-flower, or any kind of liqueur; in which case the chocolate must be omitted. 1295. MECCA LOAVES. The paste for these is prepared as in the foregoing cases, with the addition however of a few spoonfuls of whipped cream, which must only be incorporated just previously to the loaves being laid out on the baking-sheet in the following manner:— Take a table-spoon, and fill it half full from the stewpan, containing the paste; then, dip the point of a knife in some beaten egg, and use it to force the paste from the spoon, gently dropping it on the baking- • Pronounced by English cooks, “ Petty-shoes.”