FILLETS OF SOLES. 345 1126. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA DIEPPOISE. Tbim the fillets, and spread them on the outside with a preparatioo of fine-herhs, mixed with three yolks of eggs ; then double them up pat them together, and insert the claw of a crayfish into the narrow end of each. Place the fillets in a sautapan thickly spread with butter, moisten with the liquor from the oysters used for the sauce, and season with a little mignionette-pepper, and salt; cover these with a circular piece of paper spread with butter, and set them to simmer gently over a stove-fire for about ten minutes ; when they are done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle, show- in<y the crayfish claws; fill the centre, garnish the base of the entrie with some Norman matehtte ragout (No. 194), and serve, 1127. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA MAITEE d’hOTEL. Teim the fillets neatly, take hold of both ends (keeping the whitest side uppermost), and bring them together, one overlaying the other; then place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, season ■with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice; simmer them over the fire for ten minutes, and when done, drain and dish them up in a close circle; pour some Maitre-d'hotel sauce (No. 43) over them, and serve. Note.—Pillets of soles prepared as the foregoing, may also be served ■with either of the foUo^wing sauces:—Ravigotte, Italian, Aurora, Pas- caline, Crayfish, Oyster, Shrimp, and Dutch. 1128. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA VENITIENNE. DiiiLET four soles, trim the fillets, and place one half hi a sautapan, with some clarified butter, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, in the man- ner directed in the foregoing case; simmer the remainder (■without trimming them) also with the same seasoning; when they are done, drain them upon a plate, and allow these to cool. Then, cut up the latter into small dice, mix them ■with some reduced Allemande sauce, and season ■with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, mignionette- pepper, and grated nutmeg; spread this preparation out upon an eartnen dish, about the six;th part of an inch thick, and when it has become firm by cooling, cut it out into pieces about the size and shape of the fillets, and bread-crumb these in the usual manner. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over the stove, and fry the cro- quettes in plenty of clean hog’s-lard, made hot for the purpose ; when done, drain both upon a napkin, and dish them in a close circle, placing alternately the croquettes and fillets; fill the centre ■with small quenelles of whitings, pour some Venetian sauce (No. 26) over these and the white fillets only, and serve. 1129. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA PROVENCALE. Teim the fillets of soles, divide each, and steep them for several hours in a basin with mignionette-pepper, a little salt, lemon-juice, salad-oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and two shalots. Then, drain the fillets on a cloth to absorb all the moisture, flour them over, dip them in some light batter (No. 231), and fiy them in clean hog’s-lard; when they have acquired a light colour, drain them upon a napkin, dish them