23G CASSEROLES OF RICE. Por a casserole of ordinary size, wash about a pound and a half of Carolina rice in three waters, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a stewpan mth nearly t-^vdce its quantity of water, six ounces of butter, a small ladleful of stock-pot toppings and a piece of raw ham; cover Avith a circular piece of buttered paper and the lid, and set the rice to boh on the stove, after which it must be put in the oven, or on a smothered stove-fire, to simmer very gently. During the time that the rice remains on the fire, it should be carefully turned over with a spoon twice or thi’ice. li^en all the grains become perfectly soft, the rice must be worked into a firm compact paste with the bowl of a laa’ge wooden spoon ; it should next be roUed into the form of a ball, and placed on a baking-sheet, previously covered with a circular piece of buttored paper, and shaped to the height and circumference de- sired. Next, for the purpose of imprinting upon the casserole the ornamental moihdings represented in the annexed illustrations, it will be necessary to cut a piece of turnip, carrot, or raw potato, in the form of a cMsel, to be used for indenting or moulding the design. Wlien the casserole is moulded, it must be sprinkled over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and afterwards baked of a fine yellow colour; the interior must then be removed witn a spoon, leaving the walls of the crust about half-an-mch thick; smooth the inside of the rice vrith the back of a table-spoon dipped in water, and keep the casserole in a dry place till it is wanted for use. 778. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA POLOXAISE. Pbepaee Q,purie of fowls (No. 1009), and when on the point of sending to table, stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently hot, care being taken to prevent its becoming rough; then fill the casserole with t\x&purh, place eight eggs (previously boiled four mmutes, and the shells removed), round the top of the puree; between each egg, put a small fillet of fowl decorated with tongue or truffle, sauce the surface o^ the puree with some Supreme (No. 38), and serve. 779. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA REINE. This must be garnished with a puree of fowls in a similar manner to the foregoing, and a border of quenelles of fowl placed round the hmer edge of the surface ; sauce with Supreme, glaze the casserole with light-coloured glaze, and serve. 780. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH A PUREE OF GAME, A LA BELLE-VUE. Just before dinner-time, warm ihe, puree of game (No. 1090) pre- pared for the purpose, garnish the casserole of rice with it, place round the inner edge of the surface a border of very small fillets (decorated contisSs with truffles or tongues), of the kind of game the puree is made from, pour a little Allemande sauce over the centre of the pxirk, glaze the casserole lightly, and serve. 781. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH WINGS OF FOWLS, A l'allemande. The casserole of rice must be garnished with a ragout of wings of ft)wls (No. 208), to which may be added some small truffles and mushrooms ; ornament it Avith a border of large cocks’-combs, and