BROTHS r>o used (removing the fillets in the same way); put them into a stockpot with a small knuckle of veal, and about one pound of lean of ham; fill up with water, then set it to boil on the stove-fire. Meanwhile slice up a caiTot, an onion, two turnips, a head of celery, and a leek; fiy these roots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, till tliey become slightly browned, then throw them into the consomme after having previously well skimmed it. Add three cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt; let it boil gently about three hours, and then strain it off for use. This prepai’ation will seiwe for all kinds of clear consomme soups, such as au Chasseur or a la Desclignac, &c. 216. BRO^VN CONSOMME OP RABBITS. Take three or four wild rabbits, cut them up in pieces, and j)ut them into a small stoclqjot with five pounds of laiuckle of veal which has been roasted enough to colour it; fill up with light broth or water’, tlien set it on tlie stove to boil, skim it well, and gai’nish w'ith carrot, onion, and celery, two cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt. Let this boil gently for thi’ee houi’s, and tlien strain it off for use. This consomme is very essential in clarifying Espagnole or brown sauce, and is also serviceable for all soups in which quenelles of game are sen-ed. 217. MHIITE CONSOMME OF FOWLS. Take two or more old hens or fowls, or, in their stead, the carcasses of fowls, or any other sort of poultry you m.ay have. Let them steep in cold water to cleanse them from any blood they may contain; then drain and put them into an appropriate-sized stockpot or stew- pan, and fill it up with common broth or water; garnish with celery, onions, turnips, carrots, and leeks. Set it to boil gently by the fire for two hours, if made with carcasses, but if old hens are used, it will require at least an hour longer. When done, skim off tire fat and pass the consomme through a napkin into a basin for use. This consomme may be considered as the proper basis of all white soups, and is most useful in clarifying and flavouring all white sauces. 218. WHITE CONSOMME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. The same process is to be followed in making this consomme, as the foregoing, substituting, of course, game for poultry. This consomme, after being partially reduced to glaze, is used for the purpose of imparting the flavour of game to any white sauce, such as Supreme, Allemande, Bechamel", Veloute, or white Italian sauce. It is also useful for mixing white purees of game. 219. BROWN EXTRACT OF LARKS OR QUAILS. After having filleted the larks or quails, and removed the gizzards from the ti’ail of the larks, put a ste^vpan on the fire with an omice of fresh butter in it; when the butter begins to fritter, put the bones or carcasses of larks or quails into the stew’pan and fry them brown. Then add half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two shalots, and two * So called after the celebrated cook Bc^chamel, who lived in the reign of Louis XIV.