24 COLD SAUCES. This sauce may also he coloured, by using for that purpose eitlier some pounded lobster coral, or extract of spinach (No. 280). 101. PROVENCALE SAUCE. Pound four yolks of hard boiled eggs, together with four anchovies, a spoonful of capers, some tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, a clove of gaiiic, pepper and salt, a gill of salad-oil, and a tablespoonful of Tarragon-vinegar; rub the whole through a tammy with a w'ooden spoon as for SL]nu-ee; add a little lemon-juice, and seiwe. This kind of sauce is well adapted to be seiwed with broiled eels or fowls, and more especially with fish salads; in which case, a spoonful of chopped parsley should be added. 102. COLD POIVRADE SAUCE. Put a good spoonful of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin, add thereto four tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, one of Chili vinegar, a little Tarragon-vinegar, pepper, and salt; work the Avhole well toge- ther with a whisk, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a little shalot. This sauce is good wutli plain boiled artichokes, and also for brawn, by adding a little sugar for the brawn. 103. BOAR’S HEAD SAUCE. Grate a stick of horse-radish, and place it in a basin with four ounces of red currant-jelly, a spoonful of mixed mustard, the grated rind of an orange and lemon, together wuth the juice of both; two ounces of pounded sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil; mix these ingredients thoroughly togetlier, and seiwe. 104. ANOTHER METHOD EOR IMAKING BOAR’S HEAD SAUCE. Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, free from any of the white pith, cut it into fine shreds, parboil this, and drain it on a sieve; then put it into a small ste\\7)an containing the juice of the two oranges, together with one iDOund of red cuiTant-jelly, half a pint of port wine, and half a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder; simmer the whole together in a stewpaii, and seiwe wdien cold. 105. BRAWN sauce'. Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad-oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustai'd, some pepper and salt, and serve. A'/tf. AB r’rench and Italian produce used in every kind of culinary preparation, are be had in a genuine state, of superior quality, at Crossk and Blackwell’s, Soho Square.