373 LOBSTER SALAD. of Montpellier butter (No. 1S3), and mark out the mouth, gills, and the eyes, with some narrow strips of black truffles; then, cut some of these into thin slices, and after- wards stamp them out with a cir- cular tin-cutter, in the form of half-moons, and proceed so to ar- range them upon the trout, as to imitate fish scales. Prepare a foundation of fried bread, covered withMontpeUier butter,as directed in the preceding case; place it on the dish, arrange the trout upon it in a row, and ornament them with a rich border of aspic croutons. 1225. CHICKEN SALAD. Prepare the chickens as directed for a Mayonaise (No. 1222). Pile the pieces of chicken up in the dish, upon a bed of seasoned shred let- tuces, in a conical form; pour some white Mayonaise sauce (No. 97) over the pieces, place a border of hard eggs cut in quarters, and hearts of cabbage-lettuces round the base; stick a white-heart of a lettuce on the top, and serve. Note.—Chicken-salads may also be ornamented and garnished with plover’B-eggs, decorated with truffles; and with eggs boiled hard, cut in quarters, and ornamented either with thin fillets of anchovies and capers, or coloured butter, either lobster coral (No. 182), or green Ravigotte (No. 185), or with tarragon or chervil-leaves, laid flat on the eggs, or else stuck in the point. 1226. LOBSTER SALAD. Break the shells, and remove the meat whole from the tails and claws of the lobsters; put this into a basin, with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and reserve the pith and coral to make some lob- ster-butter (No. 182), which is to be thus used:—First, spread a cir- cular foundation of the lobster- butter upon the bottom of the dish, about seven inches in dia- meter, and the fourth part of an inch thick; then, scoop out the centre, leaving a circular band. Drain the lobster on a cloth, cut the pieces in oval scollops, and mth some of the butter (to stick the pieces firmly together), pile the lobster up in three successive rows, the centre being left hollow ; fill th is with shred lettuce, or salad of