CAKES. 398 be reserved, which, after being rolled out, must be used to enclose tho other part of the brioche. This precaution is necessary to prevent tho ii’uit from protruding thi’ough the paste, as it becomes calcined by the heat of the oven, and gives an unsightly appearance to the sponge. \VTien fruit has been mixed in a ftnocAe, it should be (when baked) glazed with fine sugar by the salamander. Gruyere or Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, are sometimes introduced in a brioche for a second-course remove; the first shoidd be cut up in dice, the latter grated. As in the above cases, this Ivind of brioche must be enclosed in a portion of the paste reserved for that purpose. 1270. BABA, OR POLISH CAKE. Ingrediekts :—Two poimds of floxu’, twenty ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, six ounces of muscatel raisins, four ounces of currants, two ounces of candied citron, a good pinch of saftron, two wine-glasses of brandy, and the same quantity of rmn, half an ounce of salt, about fifteen eggs, and one ounce of German yeast. First, set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the veast, in the same way as directed for preparing brioche. Then, spread out the remainder of the flour so as to form a hollow in the centre : place in this the butter, and salt, previously dissolved with a drop or two of water, four ounces of poimded sugar, and break in fifteen eggs : mix the whole thoroughly, working the paste with the hands on the slab. When this is eflected, gather the paste up closely, and take up portions of it with the hands, and jerk or throw these down again on the other part of the paste; continue working it in this fashion for five minutes, then, if the sponge is sufficiently risen, spread it out over the paste and mix both together lightly. A large mould should now be spread with butter, and lined not more than h^f through with a thin coating of the paste, and as soon as this has been eflected, all the fruit, the rimi, the brandy, and an infusion of the saflron, must be added ; the whole of which must be instantly weU mixed and lifted into the mould. The baba should next be set, to rise gradually, in a place where the temperature is moderate and fr*ee fr’om any current of air; and as soon as it has risen in a satisfactory manner, which may easily be kuoAvn by its increasing sufficiently in quantity (through fermenta- tion), to nearly fill the mould,—although at first only h^ filled, tho baba should be immediately placed in the oven on a thick baking-sheet, with a thick roll of paper round the bottom of the moidd to protect the baba from receiving too much heat at first. From one hour and a half to two hours will suffice to bake it. Particidar care should be taken in baLmg the baba, to prevent its acquiring a deep colour; to obviate this, it must be baked in an oven of moderate heat. 1271. COMPIEGNE CAKE. Ingredients :—Two pounds of flour, twenty-two ounces of butter, half a pint of double cream, six ounces of pounded sugar, two wine- glasses of maraschino, one oimce of German yeast, fifteen eggs, and half an oimce of salt. Set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast in