n-NTIiEMETS OF EGGS. 36G manner as when lining a charlotte-mould with bread; fill the Umhdlf with flour, cover it in -\vith some of the paste, and bake it for about one hour; it must then be again emptied, and all the flour brushed out with a paste-brush, put back into the mould, and kept in the screen nntil wanted. While the timbale is being made, parboil half a poimd of Naples maccaroni in Avater for a quarter of an hour, then drain it on a sieve, and afterwards put it into a stewpan with a pat of butter, a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream, four oimces of sugar, a stick of vaniHa, and a very little salt; then set the maccaroni to bod very gently over a slow fire imtil it is thoroughly done—by which time the maccaroni wiU have entirely absorbed the milk, &c., then add about one oimce of gi’ated Parmesan cheese; toss the whole well together over the fire, remove the stick of vanilla, and fill the timbale with the maccaroni; then turn it out of the mould on to its dish, shake over it some finely-pounded sugar, glaze it A\dth the hot salamander,', and send to table. 1210. NOUILLES, A LA PALERME. Make three-quarters of a pound of nouilles (No. 1367), parboil them in water with a pat of butter and a little salt for about ten minutes; then drain them on a sieve, and aftenvards put them in a stewpan with a pint of chicken-broth, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, mignionette-pepper and salt; place a circular piece of buttered paper on the top, put the lid on, and then set the nouilles over a slow fire, to boil very gently until the whole of the broth has been absorbed. Next, add a ^11 of cream, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two pats of butter, and a small piece of glaze; toss the whole well together over the fire, and then pile them up in the centre of a border of croutons previously stuck round the bottom of the dish; shake some vermicellied yolks of eggs, and some gi’ated Parmesan cheese over the surface, put the entremets tlie oven to be baked of a fine bright-yeUow colour, and send to table. 1211. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES, A LA V.;\NILLE. Parboil the nouilles in water for ten minutes, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards put them m a stewpan Avith a pint of cream, a table-spoonftd of pounded vanilla, a pat of butter, six ounces of sugar, and a little salt; cover them AAuth a circular piece of buttered paper, and put on the lid; then set them on a slow fire to boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour, by Avhich time the cream A\ill be ab- sorbed by the nouilles; add the yolks of six eggs, and mix the whole AveU together. Next, spread a plain round or oval mould AAuth butter, roll some nouilles paste out on the slab A\lth the fingers, and use this for the purpose of lining the mould with—coiled round as closely as possible, thus forming a kind of timbale : fill this Avith the prepared nouilles, place it on a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to be baked of a fine light colour; Avhen it is done, tmn the timbale out of the mould on to its dish, shake some fine-sifted sugar over it, glaze it with the red-hot salamander, and serve. 1212. INDIAN SANDWICHES. Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in A-ery small square, dice-hke pieces, and place these on a plate ; take about four oimces of