318 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 1C33. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Pii2PAEE these in the same way as the foregoing, and when about to send to table, simmer them briskly over a stove-fire, and when done, drain, glaze, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre •vnth a ragout d la Bourguignotte (No. 195), pour some of the sauce round the entrSe, and serve. 1034. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A l’ALLEIVIANDE. Peepabe these in aU respects according to the foregoing dii’ections, and when the fillets have briskly simmered over a sharp fire, so as to become firmly set before they are more than hall" done, they must be immediately removed &om the sautapan on an earthen dish, and after being separately dipped in some light-made batter mixed with good cream, should be firied crisp in plenty of clean hog’s-lard made qmte hot for the purpose; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a puree of green peas, artichokes, or asparagus, with either a Jardiniere, or Macedoine, stewed peas or dressed young Windsor beans; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcasses) uoder the entree, and serve. 1035. DUCKLINGS, A LA ROUENNAISE. Teuss two fat ducklings for boding, put them in a stewpan, with about three quarters of a pound of streaky bacon (previously par- boiled), a carrot, an onion, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and cover them with thin layers of fat bacon and a round of buttered paper; moisten with a quart of white broth, and then set them to braize gently for about three quarters of an hoiu. Cut a bunch of young turnips into the shape of large olives, or half-moons, and fry these in a stewpan with two ounces of clarified butter, and a dessert- spoonful of poimded sugar, over the fire, until they acquire a deep yeUow colour; then strain off the butter, and put the turnips into a smaller stewpan containing sufficient bright Espagnole sauce (No. 3) for the entree ; add a little of the liquor from the ducks to flavour them, and set them to boil gently by the side of a stove-fire until they are done, at the same time attending to the reduction of the sauce to its proper consistency. When about to send to table, the ducks may either be served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed; pile these in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fiUets and breasts for the top; garnish the entree with the turnips, place a bor- der of scollops of streaky bacon round the base, poiu the sauce over the ducks, and serve. 1036. DUCKLINGS, STEWED WITH OLIVES. Pkepaee these as in the foregoing case, and when done, cut each up into neatly-trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs, and two fillets with the pinions left on them; then cut the breast into two pieces, and also the back; clarify the liquor, and after it has been reduced by boding to half-glaze, waim the pieces of ducklings in it, and dish them up as before directed; garnish the entrh with a ragout of olives, place the scoUops of streaky bacon round the entree, po;ir the sauce over the ducklings, and serve.