ENTREES OF MUITON. 259 838. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MAINTENON. These are prepared, in the first instance, according to the fonner part of the directions for cutlets d la Minute; season with pepper and salt, add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same quantity of parsley, and three shalots also chopped. Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, poim off the grease, and add two large spoonfuls of brown sauce, a very little grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon; allow the whole to simmer together on the fire for five minutes, and then set them in the larder to cool. Meanwhile, take as many sheets of large-sized note-paper as there are cutlets, cut each somewhat in the form of a heart, and then let them be oded. Next, place a cutlet with an equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and with the fore-finger and thiunb of the right hand, hvist the edges of the paper tightly under into very close folds: and repeat this with the remamder. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven m a sautapan, to get warm through: then with a heated iron skewer, mark the papers so as to make it appear that they have been broiled; dish them up on a napkin vsdth fined parsley in the centre, and send some brown Italian or fine-herbs sauce in a boat. 839. JIUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Teim the cutlets and arrange them in circular order in a sautapan ^vith a little clarified butter. Then, fiy them quickly on a brisk fire to brown them on both sides, and before they are quite done, pour olf all the grease ; add half-a-pint of red wine (port or claret), about half-a-pottle of prepared mushrooms, and the same quantity of small button-onions (previously simmered in a little butter, over a slow fire imtil nearly done) ; season with a pinch of miguionette-pepper and a little salt, some grated nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar ; set the whole to boil on the stove for two minutes, and then add a small ladleful of brown sauce; allow the cutlets (covered) to simmer very gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time they will be done, and the sauce sufficiently reduced. The cutlets must then be dished up closely, in a circle ; add half-a-glass of red wine and a dozeii small quenelles to the sauce, bod the whole together for a minute, and garnish the centre of the entrie with the mushrooms, &c., pour the sauce over the cutlets, and ser\n. 840. ]\IUTTON CUTLETS, -WITH PUREE OF ENDIVES. These are prepared and finished in the same manner as the cutlets a la Minute; and when they are dished up, the centre of the entree must be filled with a, puree of endives (No. 114). Note.—Cutlets dressed in this way may be served with purees of vegetables of aU sorts. 841. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA NIVERNAISE. Teim and prepare the cutlets as in the foregoing case, and when •they have been fried brown, pour oft’ the grease, and add a garnish of carrots and turnips a la Nivemaise (No. 137); allow the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, dish up the cutlets, and fill the centre with vegetables, pour the sauce over tho entr6e, and serve.