SAL'CES. 12 Dutch sauce may he flavoiu’ecl with various sorts of vinegar, horse- radish, or lemon-juice, according to fancy, or as the case may require. 43. MAITRE D’liOTEL SAUCE. Put some Bechamel sauce into a stewpan, make it boil, and incor- porate with it six ounces of fresh butter, some chopped and blanched pai'sley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 44. COLD MAITRE D’IIOTEL SAUCE. Put about six ounces of fresh butter on a plate, knead it together with some chopped parsley, i:>epper, salt, and lemon-juice. This butter is chiefly used for French beefsteaks, for broiled mackerel, and other sorts of broiled fish, as will be shown hereafter. 45. PRIAX’ESS SAUCE. Put into a small stewpan the rind of one lemon, and half a stick of horse-radish, both grated; a little nutmeg, pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar ; simmer these on a slow fire for a few minutes, and then add a small ladleful of AUemande sauce; stir the whole on tlie fire till it boils, then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce, add a pat of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. This sauce will prove an excellent accessory, to be served with any entree of poultry or game, when dressed d la Daiiphine, or ala Villeroi; as also for fillets of dressed fish, bread-crumbed, and denominated a la Princess; in which case, a little ancliovy butter may be added. 46. ALBERT SAUCE. Grate three large sticks of horse-radish, put them into a ste^^q)an ith a pint of good broth; let this simmer gently on a moderate fire for half an hour, then add a little white sauce and half a pint of cieam; reduce the whole over a brisk fire, and pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce, make it hot, and mix, in a little French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, some salt, a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and two yolks of eggs. This sauce is well adapted to be eaten with braized fillet of beef, garnished with potatoes cut into the shape of olives, and fried in butter. 47. INDIAN CURRY SAUCE. Take two large onions, one carrot, and one head of celeiy, and slice them very thin; place these with two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, and fry them over a slow fire till the onions are nearly melted, but without becoming brown; add three blades of mace, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, and two table- spoonfuls of Crosse and Blackwell’s curry paste, a tablespoonful of curry powder ,and as much roux or flour as may be required to thicken the quantity of sauce needed; moisten with some good broth or consomme, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils; then set it by the side to clear itself of the butter, &c. Having skimmed and reduced the sauce to a proper consistency, pass it through a tammy