VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 29 Wlien this puree is required to be made very firm and thick, it is necessary to increase the quantity of onions used for the purpose, and to add a couple of hot mealy potatoes. 120. PUREE OF TOMATAS. Cut four ounces of raw ham into small pieces, and place them in a stewpan with two shalots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns; add a small piece of butter, and fry these ingi'edients on the fire of a light colour; to this add either a dozen squeezed ripe tomatas, or a sufficient quantity of pre- seiwe of tomatas, and a small ladleful of Veloute sauce; reduce the puree thus prepared on a quick fire; then rub it through a tammy, and place it in a small stewpan for use. Finish by adding a little glaze and a small piece of fresh butter, just before sending to table. 121. PUREE OF TRUFFLES. First peel and then pound ten ounces of truffles; put them into a stewpan with a pat of butter, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of tliyme, some grated nutmeg, and a veiy small clove of garlic ; set these on the stove to simmer for a few minutes, then add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a small piece of glaze; reduce the puree quickly, and rub it through the tammy on to a dish; remove it from thence into a small bain-marie for use. Omit the gai’lic, should its flavour be objectionable. 122. PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. Clean a pottle of white button mushrooms, chop them up, adding meanwhile the juice of half a lemon to prevent them from turning black; when chopped fine, place them in a deep sauta-pan with a pat of butter, and with a wooden spoon stir them on the fire for five minutes; moisten with a ladleful of good white sauce, reduce the purh quickly, and then add half a pint of double cream; stir the puree on the fire for five minutes longer, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stewpan for use. 123. PUREE OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Boil a good plateful of Brussels sprouts, place them in a deep sauta-pan with a ladleful of good white sauce, nutmeg, minionettc pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar; reduce the whole on a brisk fire, stin’ing all the time with a wooden spoon ; rub the purU through a tammy in the usual manner, and afterwards put it into a small stewpan ; previously to using the puree, add a little spinach- green, a pat of butter, and a piece of glaze. 124. PUREE OF CUCUMBERS. Mince two ounces of lean ham, place it in a small stewpan with a pat of butter, a little nutmeg, and a few peppercorns; to these add four cucumbers, trimmed and cut up for the purpose; set the stew- pan on a slow fire, there to simmer for twenty minutes, at the expi- ration of which time, add a small ladleful of white sauce; reduce the puree quickly on a brisk stove, and when it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, pour in half a pint of good sweet double cream and a teasjDOonful of sugar; reduce the puree for five minutes longer on