BOILED AND STEWED BEEF. 163 ing a brisket a VEcarlate; it will require a fortnight or three weeks thoroughly to impregnate the beef with the flavour of the herbs, spices, &c. When the round of beef is sufficiently salted, put it on to bod in home-brewed ale; as soon as it is done, dish it up with carrots, turnips, baked Spanish onions, summer-cabbages or Brussels- sprouts, and small suet dumplings—the whole of these to be placed in groups round the beef; pour some gravy under it, and send to table. Eoimds of beef prepared in the foregoing manner are more frequently sent to table cold,—for breakfast and luncheon; especially at Christmas time, when they are considered a desirable feature on the side-board. 570. STEWED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR. Peocube three or fom* small ribs of beef weU covered with fat, saw off the spine-bone close up to the rib-bones, and unth the saw shorten the rib-bones to about ten inches ; then dauVe or interlard the lean right through with fillets of fat bacon or ham, a quarter of an inch square—seasoned with prepared herb-seasoning (No. 1250). Next, cxme the ribs of beef, as described for the preparation of the hunting- beef, and when it is ready, wash the brine off in cold water, place the ribs of beef in a braizing-pan on a dramer, garnish w.th the bruised carcasses of any sort of game, foirr carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, and a weU-garnished faggot, moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and sufficient broth to cover the beef. Set the pan on the fire to contiaue gently boiling for about four hours: when the beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it, put in the oven to dry the surface, and glaze it again: then dish it up, garnish it round with glazed Spanish onions, and carrots—tiumed in the shape of pears ; sauce the ribs of beef roimd with a weU-finished Madeira sauce (No. 8), and send to table. It is usual to dress ribs of beef in this manner to be eaten cold;— for this purpose it is necessary to allow them to cool in their own braize, by which means they are materially benefited, as they absorb a considerable proportion of the essence—thereby acquiring both flavour and delicacy. When the ribs of beef are cold, take them out of their braize, trim, glaze, and dish them up; siuround them with a border of bright aspic-jeUy (to be made from the liquor in which the meat has been braized), and send to table. 571. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA PIEMONTAISE. Teim and dmihe with ham and truffles three small ribs of fresh beef; prepare them for braizing with the trimmings, three carrots, three onions, two heads of celery, a garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, two blades of mace, and two cloves of garlic; moisten mth a bottle of sherry and a ladleful of broth; set the beef to bod very gently on a slow fire—with live embers on the lid of the pan—for about four hours, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor; when the beef is done, drain, trim, glaze, and keep it in the hot closet for a few minutes; during this time, strain ofi' the liquor in which the beef has been braized, ffivest it of every particle of fat, clarify it, and then add one-half to a pound of Naples macaroni, pre- \dously boiled in water with a httle salt and butter, for about ten miiiutes, and then drained on a sieve, cut into three-inch lengths, and M 2