291 pig’s feet. 952. PIGS’-FEET. A LA STE. MENEHOULD . PoB this purpose prociire the feet of bacon hogs, as the feet of porkers are not large enough to be worth dressing for the table. They must first be pickled in common salt brine, for about ten days, and then, after beiog washed, should be gently braized m common broth, seasoned with carrot, onion, celery, and garnished faggot of parsley; if the feet are large, they will require about four hours gentle boiling. When done, drain them on an earthen dish, cnt them into halves, and remove all the large bones, press them mto shape with the hands, and put them in the larder to cool. Next, season the pieces of pigs’-feet with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste- brush dipped in clarified butter, then roll them in fresh made bread- crumbs, and pat these closely on with the blade of a knife; broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire, taking care that they are fre- quently turned imtil warmed through: they are then to be dished up and served with Piquante sauce (No. 18). 953. PIGS’-FEET, A LA PEPJGORD. These should be braized and the bones taken out, and before they become quite cold, filled inside, and partially covered, with some force- meat of fat livers in which has been mixed some chopped truffles; and Avhen this is placed on the feet, some scollops of truffles must also be intermixed with it. The feet must next be wrapped up in appro- priate-sized pieces of pigs’ caul, and then bread-crumbed over this. When about to send to table, broil the feet upon oiled paper placed upon the gridiron, to prevent them from burning or falling to pieces, which, from the delicacy of the force-meat (if properly prepared), they are liable to. When nicely broiled on both sides, glaze and dish them up, and serve with some Perigiieux sauce (No. 23) under them. 954. pig’s-feet, a la eichelieu. Beaize the feet, remove aU the bones, and cut each foot in halves, lengthwise; spread them all over with a coating of D' Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firmly set by cooling, bread- crumb them twice over, the first time dipped in egg, and the second in clarified butter: place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and fry them over a stove-fire of moderate heat, so as to allow them time to warm through before they acquire much coloiu. Wlien done, dish them up, and senm with some liichelieu ragout (No. 207) under them. 955. BLACK-PUDDINGS, A LA FRANCAISE. To one pint of pig’s blood, add rather more than half a pint of boiled double cream, three quarters of a poimd of the fat from the inside of a pig, cut into rather small pieces, and four large onions chopped and fried in a little butter ■without becoming coloured; season with a little chopped bay-leaf and thyme, nutmeg, pepper and salt; mix well together, and stuff the linings prepared perfectly clean for the purpose with the above, taking care to allow room for tying them into lengths of about six inches. Some water must be kept nearly at the boiling-point, and then removed fi’om the fire doun to the side, and the puddings immersed, and allowed to remain in it TT 2