NECK OF VEAL. 1G7 582. NECK OF VEAL, A LA D’UXELLES. Peepaee a neck of veal in every particular the same as described m the foregoing article, braize it, and allow it partly to cool in its own stock; drain, trim, and spread a coating of tbickly-reduced d’ Uxelles sauce (No. 16) over it; when tbe sauce bas become set, proceed to bread-crumb tbe neck of veal in tbe usual manner with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, observing that one-fourtb part of grated Parmesan cbeese should be iutroduced into tbe bread-crumbs used for the pui'pose. Place tbe neck of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, and three-quarters of an boim before dinner-time, put it in tbe oven, and bake it of a fine bright bgbt-brown colour: during this part of tbe process, be careful to sprinkle a bttle clarified fresh butter over tbe bread-crumbed surface of tbe veal, in order to prevent it from drying or burning. When the neck of veal is done, place it on a dish, gar- nish round with a Toulouse ragout (No. 187), and send to table. 583. NECK OF VEAL, A l’ECAELATE. Teim and lard a neck of veal in tbe usual manner, mark it for braizing according to tbe instructions set forth for tbe preparation of neck of veal d la Montmorency, and braize it in a similar manner; dish it up, garnish it round with a border of circular scoUops of tongue that have been glazed; sauce round with either Supreme, Allemande, or Bechamel sauce, and send to table. 584. NECK OF VEAL, A LA EOYALE. Trim and braize a neck of veal, and afterwards let it get partially cool in its own braize; drain it on an earthen dish, and mask it entirely with a coating of thick and web-seasoned Allemande sauce; as soon as tbe sauce bas become set upon tbe neck of veal, bread-crumb it with egg and bread-crumbs, in which introduce a fourth part of grated Parmesan cbeese; place it on a buttered baking-dish, three- quarters of an hour before dinner, and put it in tbe oven to bake. "When done, dish it up, garmsb round with a Toulouse ragout, surround the whole with a border of quenelles, decorated with truffles, and large crayfish; place a heart sweet-bread (decorated with pieces of the tip of a tongue, cut into the shape of large hob-nabs, and inserted in cir- ciJar rows in the sweet-breads, previously to their being simmered in a bttle white braize) at each end of the dish, glaze the crayfish bghtly, and send to table. Note.—Necks of veal, either braized or roasted plain, or larded and braized, may, in addition to the foregoing, be sent to table garnished ivith a Macedoine of vegetables, a Jardinibre, potato croquettes, mush- rooms, or tomatas au gratin (in the last two cases, the neck of veal must be sauced -wfith Espagnole, Poivrade, or brovm Itaban sauce), d la Milanaise, d la FinancUre, &c. &c. 585. NOIX OE CUSHION OF VEAL, A LA ST. GEOEGE. The mix, or cushion, is that part of a leg of veal to which the udder adheres. In order to separate it from the round, or fibet, the leg shoibd be placed on the table, with the knuckle from you, then with the left hand, take hold of the upper part of the fibet of veal, and with the right insert the point of a knife into the separation