99 PUREES OF GAME. 370. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES A LA BEAUFORT Prepare a jpuree of partridges m the manner described for malung the furee of red-legged partridges ; warm and finish the furee in the same manner, and just before sending to table, pour it into tlie tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of partridges, the tails of three dozen crayfish, and half a pound of cocks’ kernels (pre- viously simmered in a little white broth, with butter, lemon-juice, a«d salt), and serve. 371. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES A LA BALZAC. Prepare a puree of partridges in the usual manner, and finish by incorporating with it two ounces of crayfish butter and a piece of game glaze; then pour the hot puree into a tureen containing three dozen cra}^sh tails, and three dozen quenelles of partridges—in the preparation of which two tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles have been mixed, previously to moulding the quenelles; and send to table. 372. PUREE OF HARE A LA CONTI. Skin, paunch, and cut up a hare into pieces. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan wnth two shalots, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf. When the butter has been made hot on the stove-fire, put the pieces of hai’e into the stewpan, and having fried these of a brown colour, moisten them with a bottle of Sau- teme wine; when the wine has boiled ten minutes, add tliree pints of good consomme; and then, after allowing the hare to boil gently on the side of the stove-fire for about an hour and a quarter, strain the pieces of hare into a sieve, reserving the broth in a basin, and after having separated the meat from tire bones, &c., pound it thoroughly with a little boiled rice; dilute it with the stock it was boiled in, and pass it through the tammy into a puree. Just before sending to table, make the puree sufficiently hot, and having tested its degree of seasoning, serve with a plate of fried croutons, to be handed I'ound to the guests. 373. PUREE OF RABBITS A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Eoast off three good-sized young rabbits; and, while they are before the fire, season them with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and baste with half a pint of cream mixed with two ounces of fresh butter and two ounces of flour. This batter should not be used until the rabbits have been roasted ten minutes, and care should be taken to make it adhere to the rabbits while they continue roasting; when they are done, clear off all the meat, and pound it in a mortar with four ounces of barley, previously boiled for the purpose ; dilute with the consomme made from the carcasses, rub tlie whole through the tammy, and put this puree into a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time make it hot, and incorporate therewith half a pint of cream and a pat of fresh butter ; then pour it into a tureen contain- ing three dozen small quenelles of rabbit, in preparing which a little grated Parmesan cheese, minionette pepper, and a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, must be added. 374. PUREE OF RABBITS A LA CHANTILLY. Prepare a puree of rabbits as fur the preceding soup, finish it by H 2