COLD RAISED PIES. ,384 wdgeons; then boil and trim a small York liam and two tongues. Season and garnish the inside of the fore-named game and poultry, as directed in the foregoing case, with long fillets of fat bacon and tongue, and Trench truJffles; each must be carefully sewn up with a needle and small twine, so as to prevent the force-meat from escap- ing while they are being baked. AVhen the whole of these are ready, line two round or oval braiz- ing-pans with thin layers of fat bacon, and nfter the birds have been ar- ranged therein in neat order, and covered in with layers of bacon and buttered paper, put the Hds on, and set them in the oven to bake rather slowly, for about four homs: then ■withdraw them, and allow them to cool. While the foregoing is in progress, prepare some highly-seasoned aspic-jeUy -with the carcasses of the game and poultry, to which add six calves’-feet, and the usual complement of vegetables, &c., and when done, let it be clarified: one-half should be reduced previously to its being poured into the pie when it is baked. Make about sheteen pounds of hot-water-paste (No. 1251), and use it to raise a pie of sufficient dimensions to admit of its holding the game and poultry prepared for the purpose, for making which foUow the directions contained in the foregoing article. The inside of the pie must first be lined ■with thin layers of fat bacon, over which spread a coating of well-seasoned force-meat of fat livers (No. 247) ; the birds should then be placed in the foUuwiug order:—First, put the goose at the bottom -with some of the small birds round it, filling up the cavi- ties ■with some of the force-meat; then, put the turkey and the jjheasants ■with thick slices of the boiled ham between them, reser\ing the woodcocks and ■widgeons, that these may be placed on the top; fill the cavities with force-meat and truffles, and cover the whole ■with thin layers of fat bacon, run a little plain melted butter over the sur- face, cover the pie in the usual manner, and ornament it -with a bold design. The pie must now be baked, for about six hours, in an oven moderately heated, and when taken out, and after the reduced aspic above alluded to has been poured into it, stop the hole up with a small piece of paste, and set it aside in the larder to become cold. Note.—The quantity of game, &c., recommended to be used in the preparation of the foregoing pie may appear extravagant enough, but jt is to be remembered that these very large pies are mostly in request