180 REMOVES OF LAMB. 620. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA FDTAJSrCIERE. PliEPAEE a saddle of lamb exactly as tbe foregoing, and when dished up, garnish it with a rich Financihe ragout (No. 188) ^ glaze the remove, and send to table. 621. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA ROYALE. For the preparation of this remove, follow the directions for loin of veal d la Royale (No. 592). 622. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MACEDOINE. Bone, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb, as for d la Godard (No. 619), warm and glaze it, also, in the same manner; dish it up, garnish it round with a rich and weU-prepared MacMoim of vegetables tossed in some Allemande sauce: surroimd the remove with a border of arti- choke-bottoms, or small turnips cut in the shape of cups—(boiled in white broth with a lump of sugar and a little salt) and filled,—half with green-peas, and the remainder with very small turned or scooped carrots, nicely glazed; glaze the remove, and send to table. 623. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MILANAISE. Prepare and braize a saddle of lamb, as previously directed; when glazed, dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as follows:— Boil one poimd of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, a pat of butter, alittle salt and mignionette pepper; when done, drain it on a sieve, and afterwards on a clean napkiu, cut it iuto pieces two inches long, and put this into a stewpan with two pats of butter, six ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small piece of glaze, a ragout- spoonful of good white sauce, mignionette pepper, and a little salt: toss the whole well together over a stove-fibre until quite hot, and then use it to place round the remove, as also some tr^es, and tongue cut it into small circular scollops; these are to be warmed in a table- spoonful of half glaze, and placed round the remove in alternate groups with the macaroni; glaze the saddle of lamb before serving, and send to table with it a sauceboat containing some of the clarified and reduced broth, in which the lamb has been braized, to be hande^ round with the remove. CALVES’-HEADS AND OX-CHEEKS, &c. COMPHISING Ciilfs-heid, d VAnglaise. Ox-cheek braized, d la Flamande^ „ plain, with Piquante sauce. „ d la Polonaise. „ d la Financiere. „ d rAllemande. „ d la Beauvaux. „ d la Portuguaise. ,, d la Tortue. „ d la Pompadour, ., d la Marigny. 624. calf’s-head, a l’anglaise. Procure a fine fat white scalded calPs-head, bone it in the manner described for preparing mock-turtle soup (No. 349); then put it into