rOTATOES, ETC. 361 a ste^vpall with a ra^oui-spoonful of white sauce or broth, 4oz. ot butter, some pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; toss them over the stove-fire imtil the butter, &c. is mixed in with the potatoes, then, dish them up with croutons; round them, and serve. 1189. NEW POTATOES, A LA CREME, Cut some recently-boiled new potatoes in slices, put them into a stewpan with a gill of cream, 4 oz. of fresh butter, a very little nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon; set them to boil on the stove-fire, toss them well together, and dish them up with croutons. 1190. POTATOES, A LA CREME, AU GRATIN. Cut some boiled potatoes in slices, about an inch in diameter, pre- pare the same kind of mixture as directed for caulifiowers au gratin (No. 1159): stick some neatly-cut pointed croutons of fried bread round the bottom of the dish, in the form of a coronet; place a close circular row of the shces of potatoes within this border of croutons; spread a layer of the mixture over them: then, repeat the row of potatoes and the mixture imtil the dish is complete. Smooth the top over with some of the sauce, shake some fried bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over the surface, so as entirely to cover it: put the potatoes in the oven for about twenty minutes, to be warmed through, and serve. 1191. SEAKALE, A LA SAUCE. Tie the seakale up in small bundles, and put it in boding water with a little salt: about twenty roinutes will suffice to bod it tender: drain and dish it up on a piece of toast, and send some butter sauce (No. 71) separately in a boat. Note.—Seakale may also be served with Espagnole or Bichamel sauce, in which case it must be placed in the dish, and the Bichamel or Espagnole sauce poured over it: if the latter, a pat of butter and a little lemon- juice shoxdd be first worked in Avith it. 1192. BRUSSELS-SPROUTS. Boil the sprouts green, put them into a stewpan with 4 oz. of fr'esh butter, some mignionette-pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon-juice, and a ro^ouf-spoonful of Veloute sauce (No. 4) ; toss the whole well together over a stove-fire imtd the butter is incorporated with them; then, dish them up with a border oi fleurons, and serve.