SAUCES. 18 I^ote.—This kind of sauce should not be made above twentv minutes before it is wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, when ex- posed much longer to heat of any kind, it is liable to be decom- posed ; should this occur, it may be remedied by simply adding a little cold spring water in winter, or a small piece of clean ice in summer; and then working tlie sauce briskly together with a spoon. This method is efficacious in restoring any sort of butter sauce when turned or become oily, to its original smootliness. 71. BUTTER SAUCE EOR ASPARAGUS. Peepare some sauce as directed in the foregoing recipe, and add a little double cream, with a teaspoonful of Trench vinegar. This sauce is also served with cauliflower, brocoli, seakale, salsifis, &c., &c. 72. ANCHOVY SAUCE. * Prepare some butter sauce, add a sufficient quantity of essence of anchovies to give flavour, and a little lemon-juice. 73. PLAIN LOBSTER SAUCE. Cut all the fleshy part of the lobster into small square dice, place them in a bain-marie with sufficient butter sauce (No. 70), a little cayenne, and lemon-juice, and also some lobster coral forced through u hair-sieve ; stir the sauce with a spoon on the fire till it boils, and send to table. The coral may also be pounded with a little butter, and after being rubbed through a sieve or tammy, worked into the sauce. Either method may be adopted, but the latter is generally preferred, 74. PLAIN SIIRDIP SAUCE. Take half a pint of picked shrimps, half a pint of butter sauce -(No. 70), a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice; stir these together in a small stewpan over the fire, and serve. 75. FENNEL SAUCE. Chop and blanch sufficient fennel to colour the sauce of a bright green, and put it into a bain-marie, containing half a pint of butter sauce; add a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 76. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Let a pint of green young gooseberries be well picked, tlirow them into an untinned sugar-boiler, containing sufficient boiling water to blanch them in ; boil them quickly on the stove-fire for ten minutes (more or less), but observe that the gooseberries be thoroughly done; drain them on a sieve, remove them into a small stewpan, and bruise them with a wooden spoon. The gooseberries after being boiled may be rubbed through a sieve or tammy into a 'purce, which has the effect of giving a smoother appearance to the sauce. This sauce is serv'ed with plain boiled mackerel. 77. PARSLEY SAUCE, USUALLY CALLED PARSLEY AND BUTTER. Put a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley into half a pint of good butter sauce; and just before sending to table add a very little lemon-juice.