393 TOURTE CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. baked. Wlicn tlie vol-au-vent is done, withdraw it from the oven ; instantly remove the cover, and after carefully detaching all the greasy crumb from the centre, without in any way injuring the sides of the case, lift it out, taking particular care to stop up any thinly- covered places in the inside of the case with small flakes of the crumb which has been removed; this precaution is necessary in order to pre- vent the sauce from escaping through any Assures that may exi«t. 1263. TOURTE CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. First, prepare half a poiuid of puft-paste, and give it four turns, in the usual manner; make also half a pound of common short paste, take half of this, knead it into a round ball, roll it out to the size of a dinner-plate, put it on a round baking-sheet, and place a tampoon* of paper in the centre. The puff-paste must then be rolled out about twenty inches long, wetted over with the brush dipped in water, and folded lengthwise in three; this must be rolled again in its width, just sufficient to make it about four inches wide: the paste should then be slightly wetted over, and then folded as before: by this time, it should form a band, measuring about twenty inches long by nearly two inches wide, and about half an inch thick. The edges of the paste must now be pared away, with a small sharp knife, held perpendicu- larly in the right hand, whilst the paste must be slightly pressed on the slab with the fore-part of the fingers. Next, add the trimmings of the puff-paste to the remaining half of the common paste, knead both together, roU this out to the size of a plate, and after having first wetted the foimdation round the edge, place it over the tampoon, and press it down all round with the thumb; then wet the edge of the tourte round again, and apply the band in the following manner. Take hold of the band at both ends, and begin by fastening that held in the right hand roimd the edge of the tourte, and continue fixing the band all round as fast as it is dropped in its place with the left hand; press the first end down so as to thin it, wet this part with the brush, and after paring away a little of the other end, so as to thin that also, fasten both together by effectually joining them. Press the band down all round with the thumb, and flute it round the edge by jagging it slightly with the back of a knife. The tourte must then be edged over with a paste-brush, so as to carefully avoid smearing the edges of the band. Place it in a mode* rately-heated oven, and let it be baked of a light colour; when done, * From the French word tampon, a kind of small, hard cushion : in the ^ resent case, It should consist of a large sheet of rather soft paper, twisted into the form of a circnlaj cushion, about four inches in diameter.