LAMB CUTLETS AND FILLETS OF FOWL. 379 firm by cooling. The head must next be taken out of the braize or stock, and put in the oven, upon a deep baldng-dish, for a few minutes, just to melt the jelly which may adhere to the wrapper ; it must then De taken out quickly, and the wrapper carefuUy removed, after which, glaze the head with some dark-coloured glaze; place it on its dish, ornament it with aspic-jelly, and serve. Note.—On the Continent it is usual to decorate boars’ heads with coloured gum-paste, and sometimes with natural flowers: the latter produce a very pretty eflect, when arranged with taste; the former method is objectionable, from the liability of the gum-paste to give way, and run down the sides of the head: it has, moreover, a vulgar and gaudy look. 1237. CHICKENS, A LA BELLE VUE. Tetjss two chickens or fowls for boiling, and braize them in white broth in the usual manner; when done, set them to cool, and mask them completely mth some reduced Bechamel sauce (No. 5), in which should be mixed a fourth part of aspic-jeUy. Previously to saucing the chickens, the Bichamel thus prepared must be stirred in a stewpan imbedded in rough ice, until it just begins to get firm ; it should then be immediately poured over the chickens; these should be decorated, upon the breasts, with black trufiles or red tongue, and placed upon their dish with a trimmed and glazed tongue in the centre ; ornament them, by placing a roU of chopped aspic-jeUy round the base, then outside this some bold croutons of aspic-jelly, and serve. 1238. LAMB-CUTLETS, A LA PEINCESSE. These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as cutlets of veal d. la Dreux (No. 890) ; then braized, pressed and trimmed. Next, cover the bottom of a sautapan with some bright aspic-jelly, not quite a quarter of an inch deep ; when this has become set firm, by coobng, place the cutlets flat upon it, in circular order, then run a little aspic-jelly over them, just enough to cover them, and place the sautapan in ice, to set the jelly; as soon as this has become quite firm, use a tin-cutter (in the form of a cutlet) dipped in hot water, to stamp the cutlets out; dish them up in close circular order upon a little aspic-jeUy, placed on the bottom of the dish, to raise the cutlets, and garnish the centre with a web-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), tossed in some bright aspic-jeUy, instead of sauce; ornament the base with a border of bold croutons of jeUy, and serve. 1239. FILLETS OF FOWL, A LA VICTORIA. Peepaee the fillets of three young fowls as for a Supreme (No. 989) ; when they have been simmered, drain them upon a napkin, and put them in press between two dishes ; when cold, trim them neatN, dip each fillet either in some Supreme (No. 58) or Bichamel sauce (No. 5), mixed with one-fourth part of aspic-jelly, place them with the smoothest side uppermost in a dish or sautapan, and set them on some rough ice. Next, cover the bottom of a large sautapan with some bright aspic-jeUy, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch: when this has become firm, by cooling on the ice, place the fillets upon