DRESSED EISH IN GENERAL. 118 419. SALMON A L’ECOSSAISE. To dress salmon or trout in perfection in this style, it is quite ne- cessary that the fish be dressed a short time after being caught: sportsmen well know that it is only while this kind of fish is yet jdmost alive, that it retains that white creamy substance which ap- pears between the flakes of the boiled fish, and which makes it so truly delicious: this is little known to tlie London epicure. If it be practicable to procure what is termed a live salmon, take out the gills, draw it, wash the fish and crimp it on either side, by making deep incisions with a shai'p knife, and then throw it into a large vessel, containing clean, cold, spring water, fresh from the pump—to remain there about two hours. In crimping any sort of fish, the colder the water is the better; the coldness of the water, petrifying the fish to a certain degree, gives it the firmness so much desired. As soon as tlie salmon or trout is crimped, put it into the fish-kettle containing boiling water in sufficient quantity to cover the fish, at the same time throwing in a good handful of salt; let the fish boil on tlie side of the fire, remembering that crimped fish require considerably less time in boiling than when plain. As soon as the fish is done, take it out of the water immediately: leaving fish of any kind in the water after it is done, detracts from its flavour and firmness. ^Vhen the salmon is dished up, send it to table with Lobster sauce. Parsley and butter, or the following sauce:—Put half a pound of fresh- churned butter into a clean stewpan, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little gi'ated nutmeg, a pinch of minionette pep- per, some salt, and juice of lemon; set the stewpan in a bath of hot water, and keep stirring the butter quickly as it melts, with a wooden spoon; when the whole of the butter is melted, work the sauce well together, and send to table. With crimped salmon or trout, this kind of melted butter will be found to surpass all other sauces. 420. SLICES OF SALMON A LA TARTARE. Steep some slices of salmon in a dish with a little salad-oil, pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley; about half an hour before dinner, place the slices of salmon on a clear gridiron rubbed over with whiting, and broil them on a clear fire; when done on one side, turn them on the other: botli sides should be of a fine light brown; dish them up, and send to table with either some Tartare, Cambridge, or Eemoulade sauce in a boat (Nos. 94, 95, 96). 421. jMATELOTTE of salmon. Boil and take the skin off one or more slices of salmon, mask them with some glaze mixed with pounded lobster-coral; place them on a dish, and garnish witli a rich Matelotte ragout (No. 193). 422. SLICES OF SALMON A LA VENITIENNE. Boil, trim, and glaze the slices of salmon, as in the foregoing case, and sauce them round with a sauce d la Venitienne (No. 26). Garnish with a border of croguettes of fillets of soles.