KR0MESKY3 OF FOWL. 313 work the rice with a wooden spoon, then fill a circular border moidd (previously buttered inside) with it, and turn it out upon its dish; fill the centre of this with the mince, and serve. 1018. MINCE, OR SCOLLOPS, OF FOWL AU GRATIN. Cut the meat ofi* the breast and other white parts of a roast or boiled fowl, either into shreds or scoUops; put these into a small stewpan with some Allematide sauce (jS^o. 12), about a table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small piece of glaze and half a gfil of cream; toss the whole together over the fire until w'eU mixed, and then place the scoUops in the dish, piled up in a dome; cover this entirely ^^nth a coating of fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former with one third of the latter; sprinkle a very little clari- fied butter over the surface, place roimd the entrie a border of neatly cut fancy croutons of bread, of fleurons, of croquettes of rice, or of potatoes (previously fried), and then put it into the oven for about ten minutes, taking care that it does not get burnt. Next pour some Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 1019. KROMESKYS, A LA EUSSE. Cut the fillets of a roast fowl into very small neat dice, and put them on a plate with half their quantity of mushrooms and truffles, also cut into small dice. Stir the Bechamel or Allemande sauce over the fire imtil stiffly reduced, and then throw in the minced chicken, &c., mix the whole well together, to spread it out upon a dish about an inch thick, and put it to cool in the larder. Next, cut this prepa- ration into small pieces somewhat in the form of a common cork, and place them on an earthen dish. A calf’s udder, previously braized for the purpose, must be cut when cold into very thin layers, just large enough to wrap one of the Kromeshys roimd with; they must then be 3ed in some light batter, and fried crisp in plenty of hog’s-lard 0 hot for the purpose. Dish them up with fried parsley in the centre and round the base, and serve them the moment they are done. 1020. CROQUETTES OF FOWL AND MUSHROOMS. The mince for these is prepared in the same way as for Kromeshys, and when it has become cold, must be cut up in pieces about the size of a plover’s egg, and rolled with a little bread-crumb, either in the form of corks, pears, or very small cutlets; they must next be dipped in beaten eggs and bread-crumbed a second time ; roll them smooth, and if they have been shaped like pears, a stalk of green parsley shoiild be stuck into each to imitate the stalks of pears. Just before sending to table, irj the croquettes of a light colour in hog’s-lard made quite hot for the piupose, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve. 1021. MINCE, OR SALPICON, FOR PATTIES. Cut the fillets of a roast fowl into small dice, then take two dozen mushrooms, one truffle, and a small piece of red tongue and cut these also in a similar way; mix all these with the fowl, add enough sauce, either Bichamel, Allemande, or Espagnole, and use this for gamisliin" patties, or croustades. “