160 REMOVES OF BEEF. scorched, which would spoil not only its appearance, but also injure the flavom*. Towards the last five minutes of the fillet’s roasting, and before it is taken up from the fire, glaze over the larding with some thin light-coloured glaze, twice or thrice, take it off the spit, and disli it up ; garnish it round Avith small turned potatoes, fried in clarified butter, placing at each end a bouquet of scraped horseradish ; pour a bright Finandere sauce round it (No. 8), glaze the fillet over afresh, and send to table. 560. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA NIVERKTAISE. Braize a larded fillet of beef according to the instructions given for tlio fillet of beef d la MacMoine (No. 553) ; when done, glaze it brightly, dish it up and garnish it round with a Nivernaise (No. 137), and send to table. 561. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA ROYALE. Closely lard a thick fillet of beef, dauhe or interlard it with small square fillets of lean ham, fat bacon, and truffles; prepare it for braizing Avith the trimmings and the usual quantity of vegetables, &c., one or two carcasses of game, and moisten Avith a bottle of Madeira. Set the fiUet to simmer gently on a slow fire in the usual way, carefully basting it occasionally Avuth its liquor; when done, glaze it brightly, and affcer- Avards dish it up ; strain off the braize, clarfly and reduce it, then add it to a Finandere ragout (No. 188), Avith which garnish the fillet of beef; place round it a border of large crayfish, whole truffles, and cock’s-combs, and send to table. 562. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA PARISIEMS^E. Boast a larded fiUet of beef according to directions given for the fillet of beef d VAnglaise (No. 559) ; Avhen done dish it up, and sur- round it Avith alternate groups of green peas, and crayfish tails (tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral butter to make them of a bright scarlet) ; sauce the fillet round Avith a rich Finandere sauce (No. 8), finished AAuth some crayfish butter, and a little lemon-juice, and send to table. 563. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA PROVENCALE. Steep a larded fillet of beef in the marinade as directed for the fillet of beef d VAnglaise, adding to the ingredients therein mentioned four cloves of garlic and the pulp of an extra lemon ; allow the fillet suffi- cient time to become thoroughly saturated Avith the marinade; roast it off, as before directed, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round Avith tomatas au gratin (No. 1160), and pour roimd it some sauce d la Pro- vengale (No. 25), for making which, use the marinade in which the fillet of beef has been pickled. Note.—Bdlets of beef may also be dressed plain, that is, AAdthout being larded, as some dislike the mixture of fat bacon with beef. In all other particulars, the directions for dressing braized rumps, roUs or larded fillets of beef are to be followed, when dressiag fillets plain. For purposes of economy, the fillet of beef should be thus prepared for braizing: trim the fillet as if intended to be larded, and then cover the upper or smooth part Avith layers of beef-suet prepared for tho