ENTREES OF VEAL. 274 887. VEAL KERNELS, A LA DUCHESSE. When the kernels have been braized, pressed, and trimmed, as directed in the foregoing part of the preceding article, let them be smoothly masked over with some well-reduced Alleman^ sauce; and after the sauce has been allowed sufficient time to become firm by cooling, bread-crumb the kernels, fr}'^ them in properly-heated fiying- fat, of a light colour, and, having dished them up as directed in the preceding case, let the entree be garnished and sauced similarly. 888. VEAL KERNELS, A LA TALLEYRAND. Parboil and trim the kernels, then place them in a fricandeau pan between thin layers of fat bacon; moisten vrith some wane mirepoix (No. 236), and braize them gently for three quarters of an hour; when done, put them on an earthen dish to cool, and mask each of them all over with a coating of stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce, mixed with 1 oz. of truffles, chopped fine; when the sauce has become firmly set as it cools, dip each in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them carefully. About Wenty minutes before sending to table, fry them of a bright-yellow colour, with clarified butter, in a deep sautapan; drain them upon a napkin, dish them up in a circle, garnish the centre with a ragout composed of small scoUops of fat livers, truffles, mush- rooms and cock’s kernels, the whole of which must be tossed in good Allemande sauce; pour some thin Espagnole sauce (finished with some of the mirepoix) under the kernels, and serve. 889. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FINANCIERE. Pro CUBE a neck of very white veal, saw off the chine-bone, and the upper end of the ribs, leaving the cutlet-bones about three inches and a half long; then, divide it into cutlets; flatten these with a bat dipped in water, trim them neatly, and lard the lean of the cutlets closely vnth bacon, in the usual way. Next, prepare the cutlets for braizing in the same manner as directed for a fricandeau; about one hour and a quarter will suffice to braize them, when they must be nicely glazed, dished up with the larded part of the cutlet uppermost, and the centre of the entrSe filled with a rich Finanxdkre ragout (No. 188) ; pour some of the sauce roimd the base of the cutlets, and serve. 890. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA DREUX. These should be cut rather thicker than usual, but neither flat- tened nor trimmed; they must be interlarded or studded through the lean part with about a dozen oblong pieces of red tongue, or ham, and black truffles about an inch long and a quarter of an inch in depth and thickness; these must be placed in a braizing-pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered with thin layers of fat bacon, some mace, four cloves, twelve pepper-coms and a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions in the centre, and the whole again covered with layers of bacon; moisten with two glasses of sherry and as much good stock as will suffice to cover the surface of the cutlets, and set them to braize on a slow' fire for about one hour and a half, with the lid on; when done, allow them partially to cool in their own liquor. Then put them in press between tw'o dishes, and when cold, let them be trimmed smooth, so as to show the truffle and tongue-studding.