69 SOUPS IN GENERAL. Parmesan cheese and a little minionette. Just before dinner-time, lay upon the crusts (gratinated in the usual way) some shapes of chicken custard, described in the preparation of DescUgnac soup; and serve up according to tlie preceding detail. 282. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA FERNEUSE. Prepare the crusts as before described, cut three lai’ge sound turnips into small fancy shapes, fry them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt, over a slow fire until they have gradually acquired a light brown colour; then add a pint of consomvie, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire until thoroughly done. When about to send the soup to table, pour the turnips thus prepared on to tlie gi’a- tinated cmsts, and to them add a pint of young peas boiled green, and a few white button onions boiled in broth. Serve as before stated. 283. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA BEAUJON. Prepare the crusts as before, and when they are gi’atinated, add a pint of reduced puree of young carrots, put these into the oven for ten minutes, and just before sending to table, pour over the crusts thus prepared half a pint of large heads of asparagus and some shreds of celery kept ready boiled in broth for the purpose, and seiwe with the consomme in a tm’een separately. PUREES OF VEGETABLES IN GENERAL FOR SOUPS, COIIPKISINO Purie of Peas d VAnglaise. Do. of Green Split-Peas. Do. of Red Haricot beans d la Conde. Do. of White Haricot Beans. Do. of Lentils d la Heine. Do. of Lentils d la Souhise. Do. of Lentils d la Brunoise. Do. of Green-peas. Do. of Roots d la Croissy. Do. of Carrots d la Crecy, Brown yuree of Turnips. White do. of Turnips. Palestine Soup. Puree of Artichokes. Do. of Endive. Brown puree of Chestnuts. White do. of Chestnuts. Puree of Spinach d la Beauvaux. Do. of Peas d la Favhonne. Do. a fa Ferney, Do. d la Fabert. Do. of Spring Herbs. Do. d la Victoria. Do. d la Princesse. Do. ot Young Carrots d la Stanley. Crecy Soup with whole Rice. Do. ol Potatoes d la creme. Do. of Potatoes d la Victoria. Quenelles of Potatoes. Do. ol Asparagus d la Condi. Do. d la St. George. Bonne Femme Soup. Soup d la Uollandaita. 284. PUREE OF PEAS A L’ANGLAISE. Take a quart of yellow split-peas, wash them several times in water, drain them, and put them into a small stockpot with half a pound of raw ham, two ’^eads of celery, one carrot, and an onion with four cloves stuck in it, add three quarts of common broth, let the soup boil, skim it well, and then set it by the side of the stove-