53 MEDICINAL BROTHS, ETC. as it boils skim it, and then remove it to the side ot the stove, to continue boiling gently for an hour, after which the beef tea should be strained through a napkin for use 227. CRAYFISH BROTH, FOR PURIFYING THE BLOOD. Take two pounds of the lean part of very white veal, cut it into small pieces, and pound it well in a mortar; to this add three dozen crayfish and a handful of green chervil, and pound these together so as to thoroughly bruise the crayfish. Then remove the whole into a stewpan, and pour upon it three pints of cold spring water; add a little salt, and place the stev^^an on the stove to boil; after which set it by the side of the stove-fire, and keep it gently simmering for three-quarters of an hour; it may then be strained through a nap- kin for use. This kind of brotli, in order to promote the desired effect, should be taken by the convalescent upon an empty stomach. 228. DECOCTION OF SNAILS FOR INVETERATE COUGHS. Take two dozen garden snails, add to these the hind quarters only of two dozen stream frogs, previously skinned; bruise them together in a mortar, after Avhich put them into a stewpan with a couple of turnips chopped small, a little salt, a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, and three pints of spring water. Stir these on the fire until tlie broth begins to boil, then skim it well, and set it by the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour; after which, it should be strained by pressure through a tammy-cloth into a basin for use. This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts, success- fully, the straining effects of a severe cough, and alleviates more than any other culinary preparation the sufferings of the consumptive. 229. MUCILAGINOUS BROTH FOR PERSONS IN DELICATE HEALTH. Take a young fowl, cut it into several parts, and 'wash them thoroughly; put these into a stewpan capable of containing three quarts of water, add thereto three pounds of the lean of very white veal, a couple of turnips, one carrot, and one head of celery—the whole to be cut into small pieces; fill up the stewpan with spring water, and put it on the stove to boil, taking care to remove the skum as it rises to the surface. After the broth has thrown off the albumen of the meat in the shape of skum, add to it two ounces of Previte’s preparation of Ceylon moss, taking special care to well mix the preparation with the broth. Keep the pan gently boiling by the side of the stove-fire for one hour and a quarter; then pass the broth through a napkin into an earthen vessel, and put it by for use. This broth is nutritious and cooling, and its use in cases of sore throats will often prove beneficial