lambs’ heads, ears, and feet. 287 be previously poached. Fill the centre of the entree with stewed peas, pour some Espagmle sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—Lamb’s sweetbreads prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with asparagus. Macedoine or Jardiniere of vegetables ; also with Toulouse or Finandere ragouts; and indeed in every form directed for other sweetbreads. 935. blanquette of lamb’s sweetbreads. Theoat sweetbreads will serve for this purpose, about eight bei^ sufficient for a dish; steep them in water, scald them, and then braize them in a small stew-pan with very little moisture: they will be done in about a quarter of an hour: put them on a dish to cool, cut them into scoUops, and put them into a stewpan containing some sauce i la Poidette, toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the blan- quette in a conical form, garnish it roirnd with a border of potato croquettes made in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, cucumbers, or asparagus-peas may be added. 936. SCOLLOPED laaib’s sweetbreads. Braize the sweetbreads, when cold cut them into rather thin small scollops, and finish these according to the directions for scoUoped calf’s brains (No. 924). LAMBS’ HEALS, EAES, AND EEET, COMPRISING Lamb’s Head, a la Pascaline. Lamb’s Ears, d la Finandere. „ d la Dauphine. ,, d la Venitienne. Lamb’s Ears, fried in Baxter Lamb’s Feet, d la Paulette. „ ala dC Uxelles. „ fried m Batter. 937. lamb’s head, a la pascaline. The lamb’s head must be scalded in the same way as a calf's head for mock turtle, then boned, and filled up with force-meat made of the liver, as for a gratin (No. 249) ; sew the head up with a trussing needle and small twine, secure it in shape by fastening it in a napkin previously spread with butter, and set it to braize in a stewpan seasoned with a carrot, an onion, one head of celery, a garnished fag- got of parsley, six cloves, and a blade of mace ; moisten with good stock, and allow it to boil gently for about an hour and a half. While the above is in preparation, four lambs’ sweetbreads should be larded and prepared ready for glazing ; two sets of lambs’ brains must also be cleansed, and boded in a little vinegar and water, with sliced carrot and onion, pepper and salt, afterwards drained, cut, and made into croquettes. Four lambs’ tongues, after being braized, must be cut into scollops, and placed in a stewpan with an equal quantity of scoUoped mushrooms, and enough of Pascaline sauce (No, 15), for the entree.