ENTKEES OF VEAL. 276 Bome button-mush rooms also cut into scollops, and enough Allemande sauce (No. 7) for the entree. Just before sending it to table, warm the blanquette, and dish it up with a border of croquettes of veal, of rice or potatoes. This dish may be varied by substituting scoUops of trufQes, cucumbers, or red tongue, for the mushrooms, 896. CROQUEITES OF VEAL. Cut about 1 lb. of roasted veal into very small dice, or mince it into very fine shreds ; add this to about half its quantity of mush- rooms, truffles or red tongue, cut up in the same manner. Next, reduce by boiling enough Allemande, lUchamd, Veloute or Supreme sauce for the entree; and when it has become rather stifi", throw in the miuce ; season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg; stir the whole weU together, and then spread the preparation on a dish, about an inch thick ; smooth it over with the blade of a knife, cover with buttered paper, and put it into the larder to cool. It must then be divided into about two dozen pieces, and each of these rolled in bread- crumbs in the form of a common-sized cork or a round ball, or in the shape of a pear, and after being dipped in some beaten egg, must again be rolled in bread-crumbs, and placed on an earthen dish till wthin twenty minutes of dinner time ; the croquettes must now be fried in clean hog’s-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and when done, drained upon a napkin to absorb aU the grease, then dished up with fried pai’sley, and served immediately. Note.—When croquettes are shaped in the form of pears, some parsley stalks of equal lengths should be stuck in at the pointed ends, before they are fried, to imitate the stalk of a pear. 897. VEAL AND HAM SCOLLOPS, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. Peocuee about 1 lb, of veal, either from the leg, the chump-end ot the loin, or best end of the neck : cut this into round or oval scollops, season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter: an equal number of similarly-cut scoUops of ham may either be put with these, or separately. Pry the veal and ham scoUops nicely brown, pour off the grease, add the brown Italian sauce (No. 12) and some button-mushrooms; simmer the whole together for three minutes, dish them up, alternately placing a scoUop of veal with the ham ; fill the centre Avith the mushrooms, pour the sauce round the entrie, and serve. 898. SCOTCH SCOLLOPS. Teim the scoUops as in the foregoing case, season with parsley and shalots chopped fine, pepper and salt; place the scoUops after they have been bread-crumbed in the usual Avay, in a sautapan with aUttlo clarified butter: mark the scoUops of ham separately; prepare also two dozen smaU round quenelles with some highly seasoned veal force- meat. AVTien about to send to table, fry the scoUops of veal and ham of a Ught colour, glaze them, and dish them alternately in a close circle—first placing a scoUop of veal and then one of ham ; fiU the centre with the quenelles (previousljr poached), pour a Uttle thickened brown gravy with a Uttle glaze in it, or some weU-finished Espagnola sauce, round the entree, and serve.