ORNAMENTAL ENl'REMETS. 441 round the edge: this is effected by dipping the pointed end of the bowl of a spoon into the hot sugar, and then drawing it out, and dropping the sugar from the bowl, in the form of the intended design, on a baking-sheet slightly oiled; before it becomes set, fix it round the part it is to ornament. Just before sending the croquante to table, fill the inside with whipped cream, aiTange some strawberries, preserved cherries or cut angelica, neatly on the surface, and serve. 1361. MERINGUE, A LA PARISIENNE. b'lEST, make half a pound of office-paste (No. 1257) ; then, slightly rub the outside of a tin vegetable-cutter, about one and a quarter inch in diameter, and cover this to the extent of about three and a halt' inches in length, with some of the office-paste rolled out rather thin; fasten the join neatly with egg, and place it on a baking-sheet; roll out the remainder of the paste to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and, out of this cut two circular pieces or flats, one measxu*- iug about six inches, and the other foim inches in diameter; place them on a buttered baking-sheet, egg them over, prick them wdth a fork, and bake them of a light colour, in a slow oven. When they are done, and have become cold, file or scrape their edges even and smooth, and cut the ends of the pillar even, that it may stand perfectly level; then fasten the base of the pillar on to the centre of the largest flat, with a little white of egg and fine sugar mixed together; next, fasten the smaller flat on the top of the pdlar in like manner, taking care that it is quite straight, and put the whole to dry in the screen. Whip twelve whites of eggs mto a firm substantial froth, and then mix in one pound of finely-sifted sugar; use part of this to mask the entire surface of the foimdation already described, and set this to dry at the entrance of the oven; when it has become comparatively hard, fill a paper cornet or biscuit-forcer, with some of the meringue--paste, and use this to form the design roimd the pedestal of the meringue^ as represented in the wood-cut: when this is done, shake some sugar over it, and put it into the oven to be baked of a very light-fawn colour. With part of the werm^w€-paste, a kind of cup or deep saucer, measuring about seven inches in diameter, must be formed, by cover- ing a flat dome (made of tin) with the paste to the thickness of about an inch; this must be well sugared over and baked firm, without al- lowing it to acquire much colour. When this is done, take the me- ringue carefully off the dome, and place it upside down in a soup plate, and after the white of egg has been partially removed from the inte- rior, smoothed with a spoon, and then sugared over, set it to dry is the hot-closet, or at the entrance of the oven, if the latter is not toft hot. As soon as the meringue has become dry and hard, fasten it on the pedestal -with a little of the paste, and use a paper cornet filled