AND CONSOMMES. 49 and upon these put some of the vegetables (which have been drained on the napkin) neatly cut with a vegetable cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter; then pour in the broth, to which add a little brown con- somme of veal to give it colour. Let it be sufficiently seasoned with salt, and a few grains of minionette pepper, then serve. 213. EMPOTAGE, OR CONSOMME FOR SOUPS IN GENERAL. When preparing for company, take about thirty pounds of gravy beef, and a similai* quantity of knuckles of veal, together with four Avild rabbits, and put the whole into a lai’ge stockpot which has been previously spread with butter, add common broth in sufficient quan- tity so as nearly to cover the meat. Put the stockpot on the stove- fire to boil until the broth is reduced to a light-coloured glaze; then fill it up with tlie remainder of the grand stock, and after it has boiled and been skimmed, garnish it with carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery; add also two blades of mace and six cloves. In all cases be sparing of salt, especially in the first stages of prepara- tion. Allow the broth to boil gently on the side of the stove for six hours, and then pass it into kitchen-pans for further use. In connection with this subject, I may here point out that, if it be contemplated to have as one of the removes a piece of beef braized, a saving of provision may be effected, by using in the first instance, instead of about thirty pounds of stock beef, only ten pounds of that quality in preparing the grand stock ; the deficiency being made up by twenty pounds of sirloin. This latter must be boned, and the fillet taken out, either to be used to ornament the remove or for an entree, as occasion may require; the meat must then be rolled up tightly and strung round in the manner of Hambro’ beef. This will thus answer the double purpose of giving strength to the consomme, and of serving afterwards as a remove. When the beef thus prepared has boiled gently in the stockpot for about five hours, take it out and put it in pi’ess between Lvo dishes till wanted ; it must be then trimmed, and placed in a long braizing- pan Avith a little good stock to warm it in; glaze it nicely, and having dished it up, garnish the remove Avith such vegetables as have been prepared for the purpose. 214. CONSOMME OF FOWLS FOR SOUPS. Take two or more fowls, according to the quantity of broth re- quired ; roast them before a brisk fire until half done; and then put them into a small well-tinned stockpot, nearly filled up Avith Avater, and place this on the fire to boil; skim the consomme, and then add one good-sized carrot, two turnips, one onion, one head of celery, two cloves, a small piece of mace, and a little salt. Set the stock on the side of the stove to boil gently for about two hours, and tlaen strain it off for use. This kind of consomme is admirably adapted for persons of delicate health as a restorative. It is also very serviceable in imparting deli- cacy of flavour to all clear soups. 215. BROWN CONSOAIME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. Eoast off tAvo pheasants, after having taken out the fillets for the purpose of making tliem into an entree, or four partridges may be