I SPECIAL SAUCES. nutes, and tnen add a small ladleful of hlond of veal or conscmmc ; let the whole be reduced to half the original quantity; and just before using the sauce, tln’ow in a spoonful of chopped and hlanched pars- ley. 18. PIQUANTE SAUCE. * Chop, separately, six shalots, as many green gherkins, and a table- spoonful of French capers; place these in a small stewpan with a gill of French vinegar, some thyme and a bay-leaf, and a good pinch of minionette pepper; set the whole to boil on the fire till the vine- gar is reduced to a third of its original quantity; then add a small ladleful of finished Espagnole sauce, and a little hlond of veal; let the sauce boil gently on the side of the stove-fire to clear itself; skim it well, take out the thyme and bay-leaf, and pour it into a small bain- marie for use. 19. GHERKIN SAUCE. Take six green gherkins; cut them into very thin slices; place them in a small stewpan with a little French vinegar and minionette pepper; allow these to simmer quickly for a few minutes on the fire, then add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little blond of veal, stir the sauce on the stove till it boils, then set it by the side to clear itself; sldm it, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. 20. WHITE RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. Put into a small stewpan two tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, the same quantities of Tai’ragon-vinegar and of Flarvey sauce; reduce these, by boiling, to half the quantity; then add a small ladleful of good Bechamel sauce, or, if not at hand, the same quantity of white sauce; finish by mixing in two pats of fresh butter, and, just before using the sauce, throw in a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. When white sauce is used instead of Bechamel, a little cream must be added. 21. GREEN RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. Wash and blanch some chervil, parsley, tarragon, and chives (of each a small handful), and also a little burnet; cool these in fresh water as soon as they are blanched, and thoroughly extract the water by pressing them in a napkin; pound the herbs thus prepared in a mortar, with two pats of butter; after which rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon, and place the residue in a small basin, to be kept on ice, or in a cool place. About five minutes before requiring the sauce for use, put into a small stewpan a ladleful of Allemande, and, when thoroughly warmed, mix in with it the prepared Puivirjotte, in sufficient quantity to give a bright green colour to the sauce; add a tablespoonful of Tarragon- vinegar, and the same quantities of Chili vinegar, and of Harvey sauce, previously reduced, by boiling, to half the quantity. Tliis sauce is very generally used for fillets of fish. 22. TOMATA, OR LOVE-APPLE SAUCE. Procure a dozen fine ripe tomatas, and, having first picked off the stalks, extract the seeds and watery parts, by squeezing them * Note. All kinds of pickles, vinegars, and sauces, of best qualifv, are to be procured at CnosSE and Blackwki.l’s, Soho Sanaro,