340 ENTEEES OF OETOLANS AND WHEATEAES COJIPIIISING Ortoliins, in Cases, with Madeira sauce. Wheatears, m Cases, with Fine-herbs. ,, in Croustadcs, d la Frovcn^ale. 1109. ORTOLANS IN CASES, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. These very delicious birds are a great rarity in England; they aro in season in September, and are to be bad only of first-rate poulterers, wbo mostly import them from Belgium. Cut four fat livers of fowls, and an equal quantity of fat bacon, into square pieces; first fry tbe bacon in a sautapan over a brisk fire, then add tbe bvers, with a table-spoonful of fine-berbs, and season Avitb pepper, salt, and a bttle nutmeg; when aU tbis is fried browm, add to it half its quantity of panada (No. 239), and pound tbe whole together in a mortar imtd well mixed; add three yolks of eggs, then mix the above web. together by pounding, and take tbe farce up into a basin. Next, cut eight small oval croustades of bread, just large enough to hold an ortolan each, making a shght incision round the inside of the edge of each erdustade, and fry them in butter, of a light colour; remove the inside crumb, line them with a thin coating of the ■farce, place an ortolan in each, then put them on a baking-sheet with a little oil, and bake them in the oven. When they are done, glaze and dish them up, pour over them some Madeira sauce (No. 8) mixed with a small pat of anchovy-butter, and the juice of half a lemon, then serve. 1110. ORTOLANS IN CROUSTADES, A LA PROVENCALE. Place the ortolans in a sautapan with three table-spoonfuls of salad od, a bruised clove of garlic, some chopped trufiles, mushrooms, and parsley; season with mignionette-pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon; fry them in this over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, addmg a small piece of glaze and a spoonful of Espagnole sauce when done; toss the whole together, and then put the ortolans into smali oval croustades of bread, firied in od. Pour the fine-herbs over them, and place them upon a jjaking-sheet in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, that they may acquire a bright Hght-brown colour; then, dish them up, pour some Provengale sauce (No. 25) over them, and serve. 1111. WHEATEARS IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. These are in season in August, and are seldom exposed for sale in the London markets: they are more plentiful at Brighton, being chiefly caught in that neighbourhood: wheatears are not more than two-thirds of the size of larks, but when in good condition, are so unctuous as to resemble small lumps of butter, and are esteemed by epicures as very choice eating. Cut the legs off the wheatears, chop some truffles, mushrooms, and one shalot, and fry these in a sautapan with two pats of butter; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; then add a spoonful of sauce, two yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a small