TUIBALES OF MACAIIONL 234 about half of it to dram upou a napkin. Butter the inside of a plain round oval or square mould, according to the shape of the dish ; cut the macaroni into half-inch lengths, and cover the bottom of tlie mould Anth these, placing them on end; cover this Avutli a thicl: layer of chicken quenelle force-meat; then line the sides of tlie mould in the same way, aud as soon as this is completed, smooth the inside with the back of a spoon dipped in hot water ; fill this ca\dty with a llanquette of fowl (No. 204), the sauce of which must be thick, and cover the whole with a layer of force-meat, to be applied as follows:— Spread some force-meat upon a round of buttered paper to fit the mould; smooth the simface with a knife dipp iu hot water, then take hold of the paper with both hands and turn it upside dowm upon the timbale: the paper is to be left on, as that can be easily removed when the force-meat has become set by steaming. About an hour and a half before dinner-time, place the timbale in a stewq>an twice its size upon a trivet or ring to prevent it from touching the bottom, so that the water contained in the stew-pan, which must only reach half-way uj) the mould, may circulate freely imder it. The stewpan must be covered with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and placed, after it has boded, upon a slow fire to simmer gently but con- tinually, in order to keep up the steam dirring the whole of the time. Just before sending to table, remove the piece of paper from the tim- bale, and take a firm hold of the bottom of the mould with the left hand; place the dish upside down upon the mould with the right hand; then, with the left hand uppermost, place the dish on the table, and carefully lift the moidd off the timbale. Pour some Suprime sauce (No. 38) over the entree, garnish the base with v/hite cock’s-combs, truffles and mushrooms, and serve, 774 TIMBALE OF NOUILLES, A LA CHASSEUR. Peepaee about one pound of nouilles (No. 679), parbod these in water for ten minutes; drain, and put them into a stewpan with a quart of good consomme, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of mignionette pepper; cover the whole with a roimd piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on a stove-fii’e to boil very gently imtd the consomme is reduced ; add a gravy-spoonful of Allemande sauce, two oimces of grated Parmesan cheese, and Wo dozen very smaU quenelles of game, previously poached; toss the whole to- gether lightly over the fire imtil the cheese is well mixed with the other ingredients; garnish the timbale case, previously prepared for this piu-pose, turn it out of the mould into its dish, glaze it over, poim a little half glaze round the base, and serve. 775. TIMBALE GARNISHED WITH SOFT ROES OF MACKEREL. PiYE minutes before sending to table, garnish the timbale case, which must be quite hot, with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel (No. ...99); then turn the timbale out of the mould into the dish, glaze it nicely, pour a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve.