‘24G TURBANS AND JIAZARINES. (No. 249) ; decorate or contises twelve minion fillets of fowls, and cover them with thin layers of bacon till wanted. Next, roll out about 4 oz. of firm common j>aste, to the size of a dessert-plate, and bake it in a slack oven ; this is to serve for a foun- dation to raise the entree upon. Next, trim the ox-palates, split each in two with a sharp knife, in the same way as thin layers of bacon are cut; trim eight of these, spread the rough side with a thin layer of the gratin force-meat, then roll them up; put the piece of paste before alluded to on a round baking-sheet; spread it with a layer of the force- meat, a quarter of an inch thick, and after having trimmed the roUed ox-palates, to make them fit in with each other in cir- cular order, place them firmly together on the foundation of paste prepared to receive them, taking care to put a bttle forcemeat between eacli, to fill up the fissures, and imite them; upon each fissure, one of the decorated fillets must be neatly laid, and turned under to secure it. The remaining eight pieces of ox-palates must then be trimmed, garnished with force-meat like the former, and afterwards cut to the size of two-thirds of the others, and with these smaller rolls of ox-palates, a second tier must be formed upon the first, in similar fashion, and upon each joining, a decorated fillet is to be placed lilcewise. Any roughness occasioned by the force-meat must be neatly smoothed over with a Icnife, dipped in water; a thick carrot, or piece of bread, cut in the shape of a pillar, and covered with fat bacon, should be placed in the centre of the entrie, to support its shape while being baked. The whole of the turban must be covered in with thin layers of fat bacon, and these must be secured on by means of a thick band of buttered paper, cut in sHts roimd the base (to enable it to fit closer), and seemed roimd the entree with string; this -will serv'e also to keep the turban in shape. One hour and a half before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked; when done, remove the paper, &c., and with the end of a large skimmer, place the turban on its dish, fill the centre with a ragout of small truffles, pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) round the base of the entree, lightly glaze the palates, without touching the fillets—which must be kept as white as possible—and serve. 799. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA FRINGE DE GALLES. Pbepaee some quenelle force-meat of fowls (No. 242) or veal; and with part of it fill a plain cylindrical mould, measuring about four inches high and six in diameter, previously buttered inside. This must be steamed in a covered stewpan, with a little water in it; and when done, turned out of the mould upon a plate, and allowed to cool; it should then be placed upon a foundation of baked paste, the angles of the quenelle rounded, and the whole of it covered with a thin coating of force-meat: upon this turban of quenelle, six larded fillets cf fowls should be placed with the point made to turn over the top ;