ENTREMETS OF EGGS. 364 wMcIi have been laid some thin fillets of anchovies; dish these up in a close circle, pour a little half-glaze under them, place a pinch of mignionette-pepper in the centre of each egg, and serve. 1201. POACHED EGGS, WITH mVM. Poach the eggs as in the foregoing case, and when done, dish them up on thin oval scollops of fried ham; pour some thin Poivrade sauce (No. 29) under them, and serve. 1202. EGGS, A LA DAUPHINE. Boil ten eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut each egg into halves, length^vdse; scoop the yolks out and put them into the mortar, and place the whites on a dish. Add four ounces of butter to the yolks ot' eggs, also the crumb of a Prench-roU soaked in cream, some chopped p^sley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; pound the whole well together, and then add one whole egg and the yolks of two others; mix; these weU together by pounding, and use this preparation for filling the whites of eggs kept in reserve for the purpose: smooth them over with the blade of a small loiife dipped in water, and as they are fiUed, place them on a dish. Next, with some of the remaining part of the preparation, spread a thin foundation at the bottom of the dish, and proceed to raise the eggs up, in three or four tiers, to a pjTamidal form, a single egg crowning the whole: four hard-boiled yolks of eggs must then be rubbed through a wire sieve, over the entremets, for them to fall upon in shreds, hke vermicelli; place a border of fried croutons of bread round the base, and set the eggs in the oven for about twenty minutes, that they may be baked of a bright-yeUow colour; when done, withdraw them, pour some thin Bechamel round the entremits, and serve. 1203. EGGS, A l’AUEORE. Boil the eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each egg into halves, lengthwise; take the yolks out and place them on a dish, shred the whites up in fine strips and put these into a stewpan with some Am*ora sauce (No. 41), toss them over the fire imtil qmte hot, and then dish them up in the centre of a border of croutons previously stuck roimd the bottom of the dish. First place a layer of the whites, then shake a httle grated Parmesan cheese, after which rub some of the yolks through a wire sieve upon this, and so on, repeating the same until the whole is used up, finishing with the yolks of eggs, resemblins: vemiicelh. Put the entremets in the oven to be baked of a bright-yeUow colour, and then serve. 1204. EGGS, WITH NUTBROWN BUTTER. Put four ounces of butter into an omelet-pan over the fire: as soon as it begins to fritter, break the e^gs in to it, without disturbing the yolks ; season with pepper and salt, fry the eggs over the fire for five minutes, and then remove them gently on to their dish. Next, put two ounces more butter into the pan, fry it of a browm colour, then add two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, bod the whcle together for two minutes, pour it over the eggs, and serve.