ICED PUDDINGS. 437 spoon in a stewpan over the stove-fire, until tlie yolks of eggs are suflB.ciently set in the custard, and then pass it through a tammy in the same way as a puree. This custard must be iced in a freezing- pot in the usual manner, and after- wards put into a mould resembling that represented in the wood-cut, and after being covered in with its lid, immersed in rough ice, there to remain until it is sent to table. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to its dish, the top garnished with a drooping fea- ther, formed of strips of green an- and served. Note.—The centre of this pudding may be garnished with apricot or orange-marmalade, previously to its being again immersed in the rough ice. 1344. ICED PUDDING, A LA PKINCE ALBERT. Peepaee some rice custard ice, as directed for the pudding d la Cintra (No. 1339) : about half that quantity will sufB.ce. Slice up a dozen ripe apricots, and boH them with twelve ounces of sugar, and half a pint of water, until the fruit is dissolved ; then pass it through a sieve—if it should be too thick, add a little thin syrup, and freeze this in the usual manner. The two ices being ready, a pudding-mould should be lined with a coating of the apricot-water ice, about half an inch thick, and the centre filled up entirely with the iced rice-custard; cover the pudding with the lid of the mould, and immerse it in rough ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on its dish, garnished with some wafer-^aw/res filled with whipped cream seasoned with noyeau, and served immediately. 1345. ICED PUDDING, A LA PARISIENNE. Paeboil and remove the skin from eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two otmces of bitter ditto, wash and dry them on a cloth, and then thoroughly poimd them with twelve ounces of sugar in a mortar, until they present the appearance of a soft paste ; this must then be added to eight yolks of eggs, and a quart of boiled cream; stir the whole together in a stewpan over a stove-five, until the eggs are sufB- ciently set in the custard, and then pass it thorough the tammy in the same manner as a puree. Pour this into a freezing-pot—ready packed in rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner ; when this is efl:ected, fill an ice pudding-mould with it, cover it in with the lid, and innnerse it in rough ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on its dish, and the top and base garnished with a compote of apricots; after mixing a glass of noyeau in with the syrup, pour it over the pudding, and serve. lo46. ICED PUDDING, A LA DUCHESS OF KENT. Kemove the skins from one pound of filbert-kernels, and pound these with ten ounces of sugar (adding a few drops of water), until