CIL\.E. 13d 494. CILVE, IN MATELOITE. Teim the char intcuded to he dressed, place them in an oval stew- pan with an onion and carrot cut in thin slices, also a hay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, a bouquet of parsley and green onions, a blade of mace, a few pepper-corns, some parings of mushrooms, and a little salt; moisten with a bottle of claret, and set the whole to stew gently on a stove-fire for about twenty minutes or lialf an hour, according to the size of the fish. As soon as the fish are done, drain them on a wet napkin ; remove their skin with a knife, and place them neatly on the dish. Then, reduce the liquor in which the char have l3een stewed (after first being strained and skimmed), with a sufficient quantity of brovm sauce for the p'orpose; w'hen the sauce is reduced, add a h'ttle nutmeg, a pat of butter, and some lemon-juice, and pass it through a tammy into a stew^an containing some prepared button- mushrooms, button-onions, and very small quenelles of whitiug ; warm the ragout, pour it over and about the char, garnish the matelotte with a border of large crayfish, and some croutons, and serve. 495. CHAR, A LA HOLLANDAISE. Boil the char in salt and water, dish them up on a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of Dutch-sauce. Char, thus plain boiled, may also be sent to table with parsley and butter, green Ravigotte, or Crayfish sauce. 496. CHitE, A LA BEAUFORT. Pla.ce the char when trimmed in an oval stewpan, with sliced carrot and onion, a faggot of parsley and green onions, mace, mush- rooms, pepper-corns, thyme, bay-leal*, and salt; moisten wdth French white wine, and set the fish to stew gently on the stove fire. When done, draiu them on to a napkin, skin and mask them with some glaze mixed with some bruised coral of lobster, place them on their dish, and sauce them round with a Parisian ragout (No. 203) mixed with the liquor in which the char has been stewed, after this liquor has been reduced to glaze; garnish round with a border of lobster croquettes. 497. LAMPREY ISIATELOTTE. To cleanse lampreys,* it is necessary to put them into a large earthen vessel with plenty of salt, with which they should be w'eU scoured, and afterwards thoroughly w'ashed in several waters: by this means they are freed from the slimy mucus which adheres to this kind of fish. The lamprey should then be trimmed and cut into pieces about three inches long, or it may be left whole, accordiug to taste ; it should be placed in a stewpan with sliced carrot and onion, mace, pepper-corns, thyme, and bay-leaf, parsley, mushrooms, and salt; * Of this kind of fish there are two different sorts in general use for the table; one being the sea or marine lamprey, which is abundant at Gloucester and Worcester, where it is dressed and preserved for the purpose of being given as presents. The other sort, the lampern, is much smaller; this is to be found in the Thames, and may easily be obtained at any of the London fishmongers from the month of October till March, at which period they are in season. The lamprey is considered to be in best condition during tlie months of Ajiril and May, when it ascends the Severn from die sea, for the purpose of depositing its spawn.