RAGOUTS. 4G dish to be put in the larder to cool; next cut them into neatly trimmed scollops, and put these into a stewpan; add either some Allemande, Bechamel, Suprmne, or Dutch sauce, whichever is most suit able for the kind of fish these scollops are intended to garnish. 202. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SALMON OR TROUT. These scollops should be prepared in every respect in the same manner as the foregoing, except that, previously to adding the sauce, a little lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice should be mixed in. 203. PARISIAN RAGOUT. An equal quantity of trimmed crayfish tails, button mushrooms, small round truffles, and cocks’ kernels should be put into a stewpan containing some Parisian sauce (No. 40); make the ragout hot previ- ously to using it. 204. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF POULTRY OR GAME. Fillet one or more heads of poultry or game, according to the quantity of ragout required; trim, and place them in a sauta-pan with a little clarified fresh butter, season with a little salt, cover them with a buttered paper, and set tliem over a moderate fire to simmer ; as soon as they become firm and white on the under side, turn them over that they may be effectually done through, taking care that they do not become brown; then drain them on a napkin, and cut them on the slant into scollops, trim them neatly, and put them into a stew’pan with some Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, previously reduced with either an essence of fowl or game, as the case may be, according to the nature of the scollops, whether of poultiy or game, 205. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF LARKS. Cut out, trim, and slightly simmer, in a little butter, the fillets of two dozen larks; drain them on a napkin, and place them in a small stewpan, with a sauce made as follows: Fry the cai’casses of the larks in a stewpan, with a pat of butter, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, a little salt and grated nutmeg; when they are of a light-brovsm colour, moisten Avith three glasses of French white wine; allow the carcasses to stCAv gently on a moderate fire for half an hour; pound the whole the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a tammy into o. puree; take this up into a small stewpan, add a little reduced broAvn sauce, and pour it on to the scollops; Avarm them Avith care, for if they be alloAved to boil, it will spoil the look of the puree, and render it rough. 206. RAGOUT OF COCKS’ KERNELS A LA SOUBISE. Put about half a pound of cocks’ kernels, Avith cold Avater, into a stewpan, let it stand by the side of a sIoav fire to remove the little blood they contain, taking care that the Avater does not become too warm; as soon as they Avhitcn, drain them on a sieve, and put them into a small stewpan, Avith a pat of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt, toss them over the fire for tAvo or tliree minutes, moisten Avith a little white chicken broth, and set them to simmer gently on a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; tliey Avill be then done Drain them on a napkin, put them into a small stewpan, with a