SECOND-COURSE ROASTS. 350 1144. ROAST LARKS. Cut off the heads and legs, and pick out the gizzards at the sides with the point of a small knife; season with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and nutmeg; rub the larks over with beaten yolks of eggs, bread-cnunb them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and roll them in bread-crumbs a second time; then run them on a lark-spit; fasten this on a common spit, and roast them before a very brisk fire, for about a quarter of an hour, basting them with fresh butter melted in a spoon before the fii’e. When done, dish them up in rows, or m a circle, fill the centre with bread-crumbs fried of a hght-brown colour in a sautapan with butter, and serve them with the sauce recommended for ruffs and reeves. 1145. WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. These are both trussed and roasted in the same manner. First, pick them entirely, neck and head, then twist .the legs at the joints, so as to bring the feet dovm upon the thighs; run their bill through the thighs and body, and fasten a noose with string round the bend oi the joints, across the lower part of the breast; bring both ends round the head and tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the woodcocks with layers of bacon, and tie these round with string; roast them before the fire, for about five-and-twenty minutes, fre- quently basting them with butter or dripping; place some toasted bread under the birds, to receive the droppings from the trad, and when they are done, dish them up with a piece of the toast under each, and water-cresses round them. Serve some extract of wood- cocks (No. 173) separately, in a boat. 1146. ROAST CAPONS. Deaw and truss these as directed for trussing pheasants; place them upon a spit, fasten the feet to it with string, to prevent the capon from twisting round while roasting: about three quarters of an hour will suffice to roast them. Wken done, dish them up with water-cresses, pour some bright gravy under them, and serve with bread-sauce in a boat. Poulards, fowls, chickens, and turkey poults, are treated in the same manner as the foregoing. 1147. GREEN-GOOSE. Deaw the goose, pick off all the stubble-feathers, scald the legs, and rub off t& skin with a cloth; cut the tips of the feet, and twdst the legs round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs; then truss the goose in the ordinary way, as direcced for pheasants. Place it on a spit, and roast it before a brisk fire, for about three quarters of an hour; when done, dish it up with water- cresses round it, pour some gravy under, and serve. Ducklings are roasted and served in the same way as the above. 1148. ROAST PIGEONS. Teuss these with thin layers of fat bacon and a vine-leaf over the breasts; roast them before the fire for about twenty minutes, and when done, dish them up with a sauce made with the livers, in the manner directed for making liver-sauce for rabbits (No. 1139).