187 REMOVES OF PORIL lines a quarter of an incli apart; then spit the joint, and roast it for about two hours and a half; when done, dish it up, pour a rich brown gravy under it, and send to table with apple sauce. The stuffing for the pork should be thus prepared: chop a dozen sage leaves and six large onions, boil these in water for three minutes, and after having drained them on a sieve, put them into a stew-pan with pepper and salt, and a pat of butter ; set the stuffing to simmer gently over a very slow fire for ten minutes, and then use it as directed above. 638. ROAST LOIN OF PORK. Teim, score, and separate the bones of the loin of pork with a small chopper or meat saw ; make an incision in the upper part of the loin for placing the stuffing, sew it up with small twine, and having passed a strong iron skewer through it lengthwise, tie it firmly on to a spit at both ends. About an hour and a quarter before dinner-time, put the pork down to the fire to roast, and when done dish it up; pour some brown gravy tmder it, garnish it round with a border of nmflll potatoes fried ot a light colour, and send to table with apple sauce. 639. ROAST NECK OF PORK. Saw the chine bone neatly off, stuff the neck of pork with sage and onion, spit, roast, and dish it up as directed for the loin, and serve. 640. ROAST GRISKIN OF PORK. The piece called griskin is that part of the pig which is cut from the side of a bacon-hog, being the lean from the neck and loin: this should be lightly spriffided with salt the day before dressing it for table ; it must then have a long iron skewer passed through it length- wise, and tied on to a spit. About an hour and a quarter before dinner put it to roast, and when the griskin has been down an hour, shake some flour over it with a dredger, and afterwards sprinkle some chopped sage and onions upon it. When the pork is done, dish it up, pour some brovra gravy imder it, and send to table with two sauceboats containing apple and sage and onion sauce, the latter to be prepared as follows: chop a dozen sage-leaves and four onions, and after having boiled them two minutes in water, drain, and put them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, pepper and salt; set these to simmer on a very slow fire for ten minutes, and then add half-a-pint of good brown gravy, bod the whole together for five minutes, and serve. 641. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A l’ANGLAISE. In selecting a sucking-pig for the table, those of about three weeks old are generally preferred, their meat being more dehcate than when allowed to grow larger. Let the pig be prepared for dressing in the usual way, that is, scalded, dravm, &c., pettitoes cut off, and the paimch filled with stuffing previously prepared for the purpose as follows : chop two large onions and a dozen sage-leaves, bod them in water for two minutes, and after having drained the sage and onion on to a sieve, place it in a stew-pan with a nat of butter, pepper and salt, and set the whole to simmer gentl}'^ for ten minutes on a very