ESSENCES AND GRAVIES 40 lemon and a ladleful of strong consomme; add a little minionette pep- per, and then set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire till it is reduced to half its original quantity; then pass it with pres- sure through a sieve, and use it as a gi'avy for plain broiled bread- crumbed entrees. 171. ESSENCE OF ORANGE FOR '\VILD FOWL. Chop two shalots and put them into a small stewpan Vitli the rind of an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper; moisten with two glasses of port wine and a little strong gravy; set the essence to sim- mer gently on the fire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. 172. ESSENCE OF ASPIC-JELLY. Put the following ingi'edients into a small stewpan: a few branches of green taiTagon, a little chen il, a handful of chives, a bay-leaf, and sprig of thyme, minionette pepper, a blade of mace, and a little chopped raw lean of ham; moisten with a large ladleful of good con- somme; set the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Next, take it off the stove, proceed to clai’ify by mixing with it half the white of an egg whipped up wdth a spoonful of water; add a spoonful of Tarragon-vinegar, and place it on the fire to boil, whipping it wuth a wire whisk the while; as soon as it boils up, remove it on the side, to continue boiling gently in order to set the egg; then strain it through a napkin, and use it for braized fowls or chickens a VEstragon or d VIvoire. 173. ESSENCE OF WOODCOCKS. Chop up any carcasses of woodcocks or snipes that may be left from the previous day’s dinner, place them in a small stewpan with four shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, minionette pepper, a little mace, and a small piece of butter; fry the whole on the stove- fire till the ingi’edients become lightly coloured; moisten with a small glass of white wine; and after allowing it to boil down to a glaze, add a ladleful of good consomme, and set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for half an hour; skim and strain it through a silk sieve, and finish by adding a little lemon-juice. This essence or gravy should be sent to table with roasted wood- cocks or snipes; it will also be found useful for making a light hash of remnants of woodcocks or snipes, for breakfast. 174, ESSENCE OF GAME FOR BROILED FARTRIDGES, ETC. This essence is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, substituting the remnants or carcasses of pheasants or partridges, for woodcocks, 175. ESSENCE OF GxVRLIC FOR BROILED FOWL. Chop a little raw lean of ham, some parsley, thyme, and a bay- leaf; place these in a small stewpan with a blade of mace, two pounded anchovies, and six cloves of garlic; moisten with two tea- spoonfuls of French vinegar, and set the whole on the fire to simmer gently for five minutes; add a small piece of glaze and a ladleful of