156 REMOV'ES OF BEEF. end garnish with macaroni dressed with Parmesan cheese, and at the flanks of the dish place groups of Raviolis (No. 375) prepared for the purpose, and send to table. 548. BRAIZED ROI.L OF BEEF, A LA RICHELIEU. Braize the roll of beef in exactly the same manner as directed for beef d la Flamande (No. 539) ; when done, drain, trim, glaze, and dish it up ; garnish it round ivith glazed onions, and round the outer circle of the well of the dish, place a border of quenelles of pheasant (previously mixed with a little Soubise sauce), which, after being first poached in the usual manner, are to be bread-crumbed and fried of a light colour; then sauce lightly with the essence in which the beef has been braized (clarified and boiled do^vn to the consistency of half glaze for the purpose). Send some of the essence separately in a sauce-boat, and serve. 549. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA DAUPHIXOISE. PoR this purpose, the roll of beef should be braized sufficiently tender to enable it to be cut with a spoon; it should be allowed to cool in its own liquor, and when nearly cold, drained out carefully on to a dish, trimmed and placed on a deep baking-dish, and then covered over entirely with a coating of thick Soubise sauce, thickened with four yolks of eggs: when the sauce has become firmly set on the beef by getting cold, egg it over, and bread-crumb it twice; sprinkle a little clarified butter over the surface of the beef; and about half an hour before serving the dinner, set the beef thus prepared in a very hot oven, that it may be baked of a fine light colour; place it on its dish, sauce it roimd with a brown Italian sauce (No. 12), and garnish it with a border of tomatas prepared au gratin (No. 1160), and send to table. 550. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, GARNISHED WITH GLAZED ROOTS. Braize, trim, glaze, and dish the roU of beef up as directed for Beef a, la Flamande; garnish it round with young carrots, turnips, and onions, turned and stewed in the usual manner, and placed’ in alternate groups; sauce the beef with some Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. 551. BRAIZED RUMP OF BEEF. . This piece of beef is considered to be the best for braizing, and should be chosen of fine quality for this purpose: rich grained, of a deep bright-red colour, and well covered with a thick coating of delicate-looking fat. Bone the beef, and, after having trimmed it, secure its shape with string, and braize it as directed for braized rolls of beef, following those instructions, according to the manner in which the rump of beef is intended to be dressed; as, for instance, d la Fla rna.nde, d la Printaniere, ^c. ^c. ^-c.