8 SAUCES. separately in the hand; then place them in a stewpan, containing four ounces of raw ham cut into dice, a few shalots, a bay-leaf, and tliyme, fried in a little butter until they become brown; put the tomatas with these on the fire until they ai’e melted; then, after having passed them through the tammy into a jniree, mix the produce with a little Veloute sauce, a small piece of glaze, and a little consomme ; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue boiling gently, that it may clear itself; skim it thoroughly, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. It is, perhaps, needless to observe, that, when the ready-prepared tomata sauce, as sold by oilmen, is used, as must be the case when tomatas are not in season, it will be necessary only to attend to tha latter pai’t of the foregoing directions. 23. PERIGUEUX SAUCE.* Chop six or eight truffles extremely fine, put them into a stewpan with two glasses of white wine, a little lean ham, some thyme, and a bay-leaf; set these to boil gently on the stove-fire for a few minutes, then add a ladleful of brown sauce and a little consoinme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it well, take out the ham, the bay-ieaf, the thyme, and, after reducing it to a proper consistency, pour it into a bain-marie for use. Just before dinner-time, add a small piece of butter, to soften the flavour. 24. LYONNAISE SAUCE. Peel four Portugal onions, cut them in halves, trim off the ends, so as to leave the onions an inch and a half thick ; slice them across, that the pieces may sepai’ate at the junction of the several folds, or layers, of the onion ; fry them in a deep sauta-pan, in half a pint of salad oil; as soon as they assume a fine light colour, drain tliem on a hair-sieve, and afterwards lay them on a napkin, in order to ex- tract all the oil; after which put them into a small stewpan, with a good pinch of minionette pepper, a veiy small ladleful of reduced brown sauce, and a piece of glaze; set the sauce to boil gently for a quarter of an hour, and finish by adding a little lemon-juice. 25. PROVEXCALE SAUCE. Cut two ounces of the lean part of a ham into very small dice, place them in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, four cloves of garlic, some thyme, a bay-leaf, a spoonful of capers, the pulp of a lemon cut into slices, a good pinch of minionette pepper, and a few parsley stalks; stir these on the stove-fire for five minutes, then add a small ladleful of reduced brown sauce and a piece of glaze. Boil the sauce on a quick fire for a few minutes longer, and then pass it through a tammy as you would a puree; remove it into a stewpan, add a little consomme, and set it to boil iwtly by the side of the stove for a few minutes, skim it, and pour it into a bain-marie; finish by adding a little anchovy butter. 26. VENETIAN SAUCE. PuEPARE a sufficient quantity of Allemande sauce for the pmqiose * Xote. The best truffles are to be bad at Ckosse and Blackwell's, Soho Squan?.