93 ENGLISH SOUPS. 351. MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. * Cut up two or more chickens as ior fricassee, place them neatly in a stewpan, in which previously put carrot, onion, celery, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace; fill up with good veal broth, and when the members of chicken are nearly done, strain them off into a sieve, saving their broth in a basin. Cool the pieces of chicken in spring water, and then take them up on a clean napkin, trim them neatly, and place them in a soup-pot, to be put into the soup after wards. Then cut four large onions in halves, taking out the head or root part, and again cut these into slices; place them in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, a carrot, and two heads of celeiy cut small, and fry these over a slow fire until the onion is nearly melted, and become of a fine light brown colour; then throw in as much flour as will suffice to thicken the quantity of soup you wish to make; stir this on the fire two or three minutes, and after adding a good tablespoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of curiy paste, proceed gradually to mix in with these, first the broth the chickens were boiled in, and afterwards as much more consomme of veal as may be found requisite to produce the quantity of soup desired. Place this on the stove-fire, stirring it the whole time, and as soon as it boils, put it by the side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way; then rub it tlu’ough the tammy into a puree, and pour it upon the pieces of chicken. Half an hour before dinner-time, place the soup on the stove-fire, stir it till it boils, place it by the side to continue boiling gently for ten minutes, by which time the chickens will be done; skim the soup, ascertain that the seasoning be correct, and send to table with two plates of plain boiled Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. 352. GIBLET SOUP A L’ANGLAISE. Take four sets of giblets properly cleaned and trimmed, put them into a stewpan full of boiling water to scald for five minutes; drain them in a colander, immerse them in cold water, and tlien place them on a napkin to drain. Singe the necks and wings over the flame of a charcoal fire, and carefully pick out all the stubble feathers, cut the giblets up into inch and a half lengths, place these in a stew- pan with two heads of celery, carrots, onions, turnips, in equal pro- portions; also, four cloves, two blades of mace, and a bunch of parsley, with a moderate quantity of basil, winter savory, lemon thyme, and green onions, a sprig of common thyme and one bay- leaf. Fill the stewpan with four quarts of hlond of veal, and after allowing these to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire till they are done (which will be seen when the pieces of gizzard are become tender), immediately drain them in a large sieve, pouring their broth into a basin. Immerse the giblets in cold water, then pick them out free from any particles of herbs or vegetables that may adhere to them; place them on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed, put them by in the soup-pot. Next, pour the giblet broth into an adequate- sized stewpan, and having thickened it in the usual manner with a sufficient quantity of roux to the consistency of thin sauce, set it to boil on the stove-fire, and afterwards place it by tlie side to clarify itself. When the sauce has been cleared of the butter, &c., add hall a bottle of sherry and a little cayenne, and then pass the sauce on * Note. Use Captain White’s cuitj paste, Crosse and Blackwell, Soho Square.