REMOVES OF PHEASANTS 211 705. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH STEWED PEAS. Beaize the ducks as directed in the foregoing case, and when done, dish them up with stewed peas roiuid them ; sauce with a brown sauce in which some of the broth from the ducks has been reduced. They may also he prepared as follows :— Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan on the fire : when melted, add two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir this over the fire until the roux becomes of a fawn-colour; then add a quart of good broth or gravy, carefully working the whole while mixing. Stir this sauce on the fire, and when it bods, put the ducks trussed for boding iuto it, and also a quart of young peas, and a faggot of parsley and green onions. Adow these to stew very gently by the side of the stove for about an hour ; when the ducks are done, take them out of the sauce, skim ofi" aU the grease, remove the faggot of parsley; and if there is too much sauce, bod it down to its proper consistency, pour the peas and sauce over the ducks, previously dished up, and serve. 706. BRAIZED DUCKS, A LA PROVENCALE. These should be braized as in the former cases, and when dished up, garnished with the foUowipg preparation : Cut sis large onions into halves, remove the ends of these, and slice them up. Meanwhde, heat half a pint of salad od in a deep sautapan over the fire ; fry the onions in it of a hght-brown colour, carefully stirring them Avith the end of an iron skewer to avoid breaking the pieces. When the onions are done, drain them upon a sieve, and afterwards put them into a small stewpan with the juice of a lemon, a little mignionette pepper and a piece oi glaze about the size of a walnut, and set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; add some finished Espagnole sauce in sufficient quantity for the purpose, bod the whole together, pour it round the ducks and serve. This dish is sometimes designated d la Lyonnaise. In addition to the foregoiug methods for serving braized ducks, they may also be garnished with a Jardiniere, stewed olives, a Eivemaise, or with sauer-kraut (No. 165) ; for preparing which, see Vegetable Garnishes. EEMOYES OF PHEASANTS, COMPRISING Pheasants, d la Pengucux. Phoasants, d la Daiiphinoise. a la Chipolata. „ with braized cabbage. 5> d Vltalihme. ,, dla Flamande. d la Beauvcatcx. ,, d rAllemande. ?J d la Financiere. ,, d la Eegence. ?» witli puree of 001017. „ d VEspagnole. ,, A VAspic. d la Soubise. )) d la Dauphinc. „ d la Monglas. d la Paysanne. 707. PHEASANTS, A LA PERIGUEUX. Follow in every respect the directions for dressing turkevs d la Pengmux (No. 660). ^