PARISIAN CAKE, 399 the usual way (see Brioche, !Xo. 12G9), aud while it is risia", prepare the paste as follows;— Place the remainder of the flom’ on the marble slab, spread it out in the centre to form the well, place in this the salt, and sugar (with a very little water to dissolve the salt), the butter and eggs, and pro- ceed to niiY these thorougldy in the same way as Irioche; just before adding the sponge, mix in the maraschino and the whipped cream. The paste must be instantly lifted into an appropriate-sized mould, previously spread with butter, and deposited in a comparatively-cool place to rise, or ferment in the usual manner; as soon as it has nearly reached the surface of the mould, stick a band of paper round the edge, and put it in the oven to bake, at a very moderate heat; remem- bering that an essential characteristic of this kind of cake, is a light colour. It is customary to eat the Compiegne cake hot, and it is served in various ways. When tmmed out of the mould, a small piece should be taken out of the cenfa'e of the top, and a few glasses of maraschino poxned in through the opening ; or, the cake may be cut up in hori- zontal slices h^ an inch thick, and previously to putting them together again, some apricot marmalade may be placed between each. Dried cherries and angelica may be introduced in the composition of these cakes, previously to their being baked. 1272. GERMAN KOUGLAUFF. Ingeedients :—Two pounds of flom’, one pound and a quarter of butter, eight whole eggs, and eight yolks ; one and a quarter ounce of German yeast, fom’ ounces of sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon powder, and grated lemon-peel, or the rind of lemon rubbed on lump sugar, and afterwards scraped off, half an ounce of salt, half a pint of single cream, and six ounces of Jordan almonds. First, place the butter in a convenient-sized white kitchen pan, and work it with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, by which time the butter shoidd present the appearance of a thick cream ; the cinnamon, lemon and sugar, the pounded sugar, about one-fourth part of the flour, and three eggs should then be added, and the whole quickly worked together for a few minutes ; then add the remainder of the flour and eggs gi’adually, still continuing to work the paste with the wooden spoon. When the whole has been used up, spread the paste out in the centre, and add the yeast (previously dissolved with the salt in the cream made tepid for the purpose) ; work the whole thoroughly, then pour this batter into a large mould, previously spread with butter, split the almonds, and place them roirnd the inside of the mould in close order. Bake the kouglaiiff in an oven of moderate heat. Its colom should be of a bright reddish yeUow. In Germany, it is customary to shake some cionamon sugar all over this kind of cake as soon as it is turned out of the mould. 1273. PARISIAN CAKE. Ingeedients :—Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, six oimces of sugar, eight whole eggs and eight yolks, one pint of single cream, eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two oimces of bitter ditto, eight ounces of pistachio kernels, four ounces of candied orange-peel, half an ounce of salt, one and a quarter ounce of yeast.