202 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. a slow fire for about an hour; then remove tbe paper, and add a ro^owf-spoonful of Allemande sauce and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then use them as before du’ected; sauce the poulard, or capon, with Supreme or Allemande sauce, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing capons, they may jilso be served with celery-sauce, oyster, green liavigotte sauce, or with cray-fish, or Financiere ragouts. Poulards are dressed in the same manner as capons. CHICKENS EOE BEHOVES OB PLANKS, COMPRISING Chickens, d la Beine. „ d ritaliennc. „ d la Sauce Tomato. ,, d la Vmttimno. ,, d la Dauphine. ,, d la Montmorency. ,, d la Milanaise. „ d la Chivry. 680. CHICKENS, A LA REINE. Truss two small spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with lemon-juice, and wrap them up separately in a sheet of thickly-but- tered paper; then place the chickens in a stewpan, with a garnished faggot of parsley, a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves; moisten udth some of the surface of the boiling stockpot, in sufficient quantity to nearly cover the chickens; set them to boil gently for about forty minutes, when they wiR be done. When about to send to table, drain the chickens upon a napkin, and after having removed the paper and string, dish them up side by side, and cover them with Supreme sauce, garnish the dish with four groups of very smaU quenelles of fowl, and serve. 681. CHICKENS, A l’iTALIENNE. Truss and boil two smaU chickens according to the foregoing direc- tions ; when done, divest them of the paper and dish them up ; sauce with a rich brown Italian sauce (No. 12), garnish ^vith a border of mushrooms/ams (No. 1161), and serve. 682. CHICKENS WITH TOMATA SAUCE. These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, with this exception that, when dished up, they must be sauced with a well- finished tomata sauce (No. 22), and a border of tomatas au gratin (No. 1160), should be placed round them. 683. CHICKENS,A LA VENITIENNE. The chickens when boiled and dished up, must be sauced ^vitb a Vhiitiknne (No. 26), and garnished with a border of raviolis (No. 375). Chickens, d la Florentine. „ d la Cardinal. „ d VAllemande. „ d VIndienne. ,, d VAfricaxne. „ dla Tvrque. „ d VEspaynole.