20 SAL'CES. 83. CREAM SAUCE FOR ROAST NECK OF \TEAL. Knead four ounces of fresh butter with two ounces of sifted flour ; add half a pint of good cream and a small ladleful of white consomme, a little nutmeg and minionette pepper, some essence of mushrooms, and a garnished parsley-faggot; stir the sauce till it boils, and keep it gently boiling for twenty minutes; then extract the onion and faggot, and pass the sauce through a tammy, into a bain-marie for use. 84. EGG SAUCE. Boil some eggs hard; when cold, break and pick off their shells, and then cut them up into square dice-like pieces, and put them into some good melted butter, with a little pepper and salt; stir gently on the fire till the sauce is hot, and then serve. 85. EGG SAUCE, ANOTHER METHOD. Boil four eggs hard, take the yolks out, and cut the whites into small shreds and put them into a stewpan; place a wire sieve over a clean plate, and rub the yolks through it on to the jilate, keeping the vermicelli-like substance which this operation will produce as whole as possible; pour some good butter sauce on to the shred whites of eggs, adding thereto a teaspoonful of English mustard, a little pepper and salt, and lemon-juice; just before seiwing, warm the sauce, and mix in lightly the vermicellied yolks of eggs, and serve. 86. SAUCE MOUTARDE, OR MUSTARD SAUCE. Into about half a pint of good butter sauce, mix two tablespoon- fuls of prepared English mustard and one of French ditto; make the sauce hot, and seiwe. This sauce is seldom used for any other dish than broiled herrings. 87. PLAIN CURRY SAUCE.* Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, together with rather more than an ounce of flour and a good tablespoonful ot curry-paste or powder; knead these well together, then add a little shred carrot, celery, and onions ; moisten with about a pint of good strong consomme; stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and, after having kept it boiling for about twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy, as for a puree; then remove the sauce into a bain-marie or stewpan, to be used when required. This economical method of making curiy sauce should only be resorted to in cases of emergency or necessity, otherwise it is desirable to follow the directions contained in No. 47. 88. WASTREFISH SAUCE, FOR BOILED FRESH-WATER FISH. Cut into small shreds the rind of an orange, the red part of a carrot, a handful of parsley-stalks, and an equal proportion of pai’sley-roots ; blanch these, and, having drained tliem on a sieve or napkin, place them in a small stewpan, containing about half a pint of Dutch sauce, with the addition of two spoonfuls of reduced essence of fish, a little cayenne, and lemon-juice ; stir the sauce on the fire without allowing it to boil, and serve it with perch, w,