MULLETS. 135 brown sauce; bake and dnish them exactly in the same manner as previously directed. 482. IttULLETS A l’iTALIENNE. "When the mullets are trunmed, put them in a buttered sautapan, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with three glasses of Prench white -wine, and some essence of mushrooms; bake the fish, taking care to baste them frequently while in the oven; when done, dish them up, and mask them over with some glaze mixed with some finely- bnii&ed lobster-coral; sauce them round with some Italian sauce (No. 12), incorporated with the liquor in which the mullets have been baked, after it has been reduced, also a little essence of anchovy, but- ter and lemon-juice, and send to table. 483. MULLETS, A LA GENOISE. Peepaee the mullets in a sautapan, as beforermentioned, moisten with two glasses of claret, and some essence of mushrooms; when the mullets are baked, glaze them with some lobster-coloured glaze, and dish them up. Then reduce the liquor in which the muUets were baked, and incorporate it with some Genoise sauce (No. 30), together with a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice; sauce the mullets round, garnish with a border of large crayfish and quenelles of whiting, and send to table. 484. MULLETS, AU RAGOUT CARDINAL. Peepaee the mrdlets as a VItali'enne, dish them up after being glazed of a fine scarlet hue ; garnish them roimd with a rich cardinal ragout (No. 200) ; finish by placing a border of large crayfish and decorated quenelles of whiting round them, and send to table. 485. MULLETS, A LA CHESTERFIELD. When the mullets are trimmed, put them into a buttered sautapan with half a bottle of dry champagne, some essence of mushrooms and a little pepper and salt; bake them in the oven, taking care to baste them frequently; when done, glaze and dish them up, reduce their hquor, and add it to some bisque of crayfish sauce, previously prepared as follows:— Thoroughly wash and draw the gall from two dozen crayfish, put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of carrot and celery cut fine, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley; moisten with the remaining half-bottle of champagne; bod the cray- fish, and when done, remove the sheds from the claws and tads, re- serving the shells for the purpose of making crayfish butter after- wards (No. 184). Next, pound the bodies, tads, and claws in the mortar, trJie the produce up into a stewpan, moisten with a large ragout spoonful of good Allemande sauce, and after warming the puree over the fire, rub it tlirough a tammy in the usual manner ; remem- bering that it must be kept sufficiently thick to be able to mask the fish with it. Then reduce the liquor in which the muUets and cray- fish have been dressed to half glaze, and incorporate a sufficient quan- tity of it with the bisque, to give it flavour; add a pat of lobster or crayfish butter, made with the sheds reserved for this purpose, a dttle essence of anchovies and lemon-jmce ; poiu the sauce over the mudets,