102 NATIONAL SOUPS. 377. SOUP A LA PIEMONTAISL. Prepare a hxoyvn puree of turnips (No. 294), in which mix a large gravy-spoonful of tomatas; just before sending to table, incorporate with the soup a paste composed of four anchovies washed, filleted, and pounded, with a clove of garlic and a pat of butter, all passed through a fine hair sieve; and pour the soup into a tureen contain- ing four dozen very small quenelles of potatoes (No. 310), and apluche of chervil and tarragon (that is to say, the leaves of cheiwil and tarragon picked and parboiled green), and send to table with some grated Pai'mesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round with the soup. 378. SOUP A LA BEARNAISE.* Let a quart of garbangas, or large yellow Spanish peas, be put in soak the overnight, place them in a small stockpot with a piece of raw ham, and having filled up with common broth, set tlie stockpot on the stove-fire to boil; skim it well, and put it by the side to boil gently for four hours. Meanwhile, cut three large onions, one carrot, and two heads of celery, into small dice, put tliese into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter and two cloves of garlic; fry them of a very light brown colour, and after adding half a dozen fresh tomatas, mix the whole in with the garbangas. As soon as the garban- gas are done, pound and mb them through the tammy—diluting with good consomme; take the puree up in a small soup-pot, and clarify it in the usual manner, by allowing it to throw up its roughness while boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire: remember that this puree must be kept rather thin. During this process, cut a white-heart cabbage into quarters, removing the core, shred them as fine at possible, place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter on a moderate stove-fire, and fry them as you would vegetables for julienne soup. ^Vhen they are considerably reduced in quantity, and be- come of a yellowish colour, moisten them with a little broth; keep them gently simmering until they are thoroughly done; add them to tlie puree, together with a pinch of minionette pepper, and about half a pint of whole garbangas reserved for this purpose, and from which take off the hulls previously to putting them into the soup. When the cabbage has boiled a few minutes in the puree, pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with an accompanying plate of grated Parmesan cheese, to be handed round with the soup. 379. BOUILLABAISSE OR PROVENCALE SOUP. Cut four large Portugal onions into slices, and fry them in a gill of Lucca oil; when they begin to assume a light bro\vn colour, add thereto a sprig of thyme and two cloves of garlic, and shake in a good handful of flour; stir this on the stove-fire for a few minutes, moisten with half a bottle of Sauteme wine, and add three pints ol good consomme; stir this sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue gently simmering for half an hour, and rub it through the tammy like any other puree; then take it up and pour it into a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time, make the soup hot, and finish by incoiporating with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; pour the soup into the tureen containing a plateful of * Note. These Spanish peas are to be had at Ca088E and Blackwell’s, Soho Square.