ICED PUDDINGS. 435 1340. PUDDING, A LA CERITO. First, prepare about eighteen finger, and the same number of almond cornet-gauffres (No, 1284), andarrange the &ngeT-gauffres roimd the inside of a phiin circular char- lotte-mould. Prepare also an iced custard, as directed for the Stanley cake, except that this must be fla- voured with vanilla. An iced Maci- doine of fruits in a strawberry-water- ice must also be got ready. About an hour before sending the pudding to table, garnish the sides of the gauffres (previously placed in the mould as directed above), with a coating of the va- nilla-cream ice, about an inch thick, and cover the bottom of the mould in the same manner ; then fill up the centre with the iced Maci- doim of fruits, place a round piece of paper on the top, and cover with the Hd; next, immerse the pudding in rough ice, mixed with salt, in a pail or tub ; cover this over with a damp cloth, and set it in a cool place till wanted. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to its dish, with the decorated top placed upon it, and gar- nished round the base, and on the centre, with the small gauffres, made in the form of cornets or cornucopias, each being filled with a little of the vaniUa-cream ice, and a strawberry placed on the top then serve immediately. To prepare the decorated top above alluded to, a circular piece of gauffre, the size of the mould, must be ornamented with sugar-icing, pressed out of a cornet of paper, so as to imitate a scroll, as shown in the above wood-cut; the icing must be allowed to dry in the screen, and the decoration should then be completed by introducing some red-currant and bright apple-jeUy in between the scrolls. 1341. ICED PUDDING, A LA PRINCE OF WALES First, prepare eight yolks of eggs of custard, as for the Stanley cake (No. 1338) ; previously to passing this through a tammy, add two pottles of picked scarlet steaw- berries, tossed in a sugar-boiler with ten ounces of pounded sugar over a brisk fire, irntd they begin to simmer; when the whole has been passed into a purh, allow it to cool; then freeze it in the usual manner, and fill a cylindrical pud- ding-mould with it, stop it down with the lid, and immerse it in rough ice. While the foregoing part of the process is in preparation, an iced 2 r 2