CLEAR CONSOMME 66 Be sparing in the use of salt, so as not to overpower tlie simple but sweet flavour which characterises this broth. 271. HODGE-PODGE*. Make the mutton broth as shown in the preceding directions, and in addition to its contents add a pint and a half of green-peas (either marrow-fats or Prussian-blues). Allow the soup to boil gently until the ingredients be thoroughly done, then mix in with them one pint of furee of green spinach and parsley: taste to ascertain that the seasoning be correct, and serve. 272. KNDCKLE OF VEAL AND RICE SOUP- Take a good-sized knuckle of fresh veal, cut it into four pieces— sawing the bones through. Place the pieces in a small stockpotwith two c^fs-feet, a parti’idge (an old one will do) that has been roasted for a quarter of an hour; to these add tliree quarts of common broth or water. Put the soup on the stove-fire to boil, skim it well, garnish it with one carrot, one turnip, an onion in which has been inserted four cloves, and one head of celery; also a little salt and a few pep- percorns. Having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about three hours, proceed with care to take up the part- ridge, the calf’s-feet, and also the glutinous pieces of veal, which place on a dish to cool in the lai’der. Then pass the broth through a napkin into a stewpaii, and after having taken off eveiy particle of fat, add to it half a pound of Carolina rice, which must be blanched or parboiled for the purpose. Allow the rice to boil gently in the broth till it is nearly done, then cut the fillets of partridge into pieces about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch wide, take tlie glu- tinous pieces of the veal and the inner tendons of the calf s-feet, and cut these also in pieces in a similar manner to tlie partridge ; put tlie whole into the broth with the rice, and after boiling them togetiier for five minutes send to table. This kind of soup may be also finished with the addition of a pint of green-peas, which must be boiled a few minutes before serving up the soup, and placed in the tureen previously to pouring in the soup. Aspai’agus points may be used for the same pui’pose. 273. BRUNOTSE SOUP. Take caiTots, turnips, heads of celery, leeks, and onions, of each a couple; cut them into small dice and fry them in a stewpan, over a slow fire, with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pounded sugar, and a sprinkling of salt. When the vegetables have acquired a light brown colour, pour into them three quarts of good strong bright consomme or blond of veal, and put tlie soup on the stove to boil; skim it well, and then remove it to the side, there to continue gently boiling imtil the vegetables are thoroughly done. Add half a pint of green- peas, a handful of French beans (cut into the form of diamonds), and half a pint of asparagus points (tlie whole having been previously boiled gi’een for the puipose), also a few duchess’ crusts; and having- tested the flavour and seasoning of the soup, send to tabic. * From the French. EocJie-pnt.