87 FISH SOUPS. add a ragout-spoonful of essence of turtle herbs, two glasses of sherry, a leason or binding of six yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice. When about to send the soup to table, pour it into the tureen containing the scollops of sturgeon cut into square pieces, three dozen small round pellets of yolks of eggs (prepared as for mock-tuitle), and all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon cut into scollops also. The pellets of yolks of eggs here alluded to are thus prepared:— Talce tlie yolks of six eggs boiled hard, pound them in the mortar with a pat of fresh butter, a piece of bread-crumb twice the size of an egg, soaked in milk, and afterwards squeezed in a napkin to extract all the moisture from it; to these add a little nutmeg, pepper, aod salt, and one whole egg. Mix the whole well together by pounding,, and then proceed to mould this paste into small round balls or pellets, the size of a nut, and poach them as you would any other quenelles. 341a. sturgeon soup a la chinoise. Peocdee the head of a large sturgeon, saw it in halves from the back of the head down to the snout; then saw the halves into pieces the size of your fist, and place them in a large-sized pan with cold water to soak for several hours; taking care to wash them and change the water frequently. Next, put the pieces of sturgeon into a large stewpan in plenty of cold w^ater, and set them on the fire to boil gently until the husk or shell is easily detached from the pieces of cartilage or gristle; place the latter, when thoroughly freed from die meaty and fatty substances, in a large stewpan; moisten with good veal stock in sufficient quantity to make soup enough for the number of guests. Garnish with caiTots, onions, celery, a faggot of parsley, green onions, maijoram, thyme, and sweet basil, three blades of mace, twelve cloves, and twenty peppercorns; boil gently for about two hours. As soon as you find that the pieces of cartilage are become ti’ans- parent and rather soft to the touch, they must be immediately drained upon a sieve, and the liquor placed in a clean stewpan and set beside a stove-fire, adding half a bottle of good sherry and a small pinch of cayenne. Allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove for about half an hour, taking care to remove all the skum and grease that rises to the surface; after which add the pieces of cartilage and the juice of a lemon, and serve. This soup is very strengthening; the wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne may be dis- pensed with for invalids. The head of the sturgeon forms an excel- lent substitute for tui’tle, and may be dressed after the same manner. 342. STURGEON SOUP A L’INDIENNE. Prepare the sturgeon consomme as for tire preceding soups, bearing in mind that it should have no more colour than it acquires from tlie r®asted hens. Having strained the stock when done hito a lai’ge basin, and preserved all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon, get a carrot, one head of celery, and two onions, cut these into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of raw ham cut into small square pieces; fry the whole of a light brown colour over a slow fire. When this is done, add to the fore-named ingredients some sifted flour, in suffi-