BREAD CKOUSTADES. 244 The croustade thus carved, must next be fried of a bglit fawn colour, in some clean hog’s-lard, made quite hot for the purpose, the inside crumb rarefully taken out, and the cavity smoothly covered with a thin coating of quenelle force-meat: the object of which is to prevent the escape or absorption of the sauce from the entree, afterwards placed in it: when this is done, the croustade must be put in the oven for five minutes, to bake the quenelle force-meat, and to be kept hot until served. , 794. (iROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH CALVES’-TAILS, A LA POULETTE. Scald two calves’-tails with the skin on, in the same way as calves’- heads; cut these up in joints, parboil them in water for five minutes, and then immerse them in cold water; after which drain them on a napkin, trim and place them in a stewpan wth some hlanc (No. 235), or failing this, with a carrot, an onion, garnished faggot of parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns; moisten with three pints of broth, or water, in which latter case add some salt; and set them to boil gently for about an hour by the side of the stove-fire. When the tails are done, drain them on a napkin, trim them neatly, and place them in the crdustade in pyramidal form, pour over them a rich sauce d la poulette, containing two dozen button-mushrooms; garnish the imier edge of the crdustade with a border of fiuted scollops of red tongue, glaze a large black truffle, place it on the top, and serve. 795. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH LAMBS’ BRAINS, IN JIATELOTTE SAUCE. The brains must be prepared as directed in No. 786, and when they are done, put to drain upon a napkin, preparatory to their beiug cut into scoUops, and afterwards placed in circular order in the crdus- tade. Pour a matelotte sauce (No. 31), made in this case of white ivine with a little cayenne and lemon-juice, and containing some small button-onions, previously simmered in butter, 3 oz. of truffles cut in scollops, a dozen small quenelles, a few mushrooms and trimmed cray- fish-tads ; crown the top with six large crayfish, between which place a fried crouton of bread, cut in the shape of a leaf; in the centre of these, put a large truffle, and serve. 796. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF FAT LIVERS, A l’EPICURIENNE. When about to send the crdustade to table, garnish it with a ragout of fat livers, prepared as follows:— Wrap two Strasbourg livers in thin layers of fat bacon, and simmer them very gently in a wine mirepoix (No. 236) for half an hour; then remove the stewpan from the fire, and allow the livers to cool in them liquor; they must now be taken out, cut into scollops without waste, and placed in a small deep sautapan, containing 4 oz. of black Perigord truffles cut into scollops, a dozen small quenelles of game, and a few button-mushrooms; to these add about half the mirepoix, freed from every particle of grease, and set the whole to bod briskly over the fire imtd the moisture be reduced to a glaze ;• next, pour in some