GARNISHES 30 the fire, and then nih it through the tammy in the usual manner and take it up into a small stewpan for use. 125. PUREE OF FRENCH BEANS. Shred a good plateful of French beans, boil them quickly of a green colour, taking care to boil with them a handful of picked parsley and a few green onions; wlien they are done, drain the whole on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a deep sauta-pan with a gravj'-spoonful of good white sauce, a piece of glaze, and a little sugar; reduce the imree on the fire, and then rub it through a tammy, take it up into a small stewpan, and just before using it mix in a small pat of butter and a little spinach-green. 126. PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Thus 'puree is made exactly in the same manner as the purh of potatoes, merely substituting Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes. 127. PUREE OF SEAKALE. Boil a punnet of good white sealcale, and drain it on a najikin; cut it into half-inch lengths, and place it in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, some minionette pepper, nutmeg, salt, a little sugar, and some white broth; place thereon a round of buttered paper, and cover the stewpan with its lid; set it on a moderate fire to simmer for twenty minutes, then add a small ladleful of good white sauce; reduce the puree quickly to the condition of a soft paste, and then add half a pint of cream; after reducing it five minutes longer, rub the puree through the tammy, and take it up into a small stewpan for use. VEGETABLES FOE GAENISHING COMPRISING Garnish of Truffles in Glaze. ,, a la Parisienne. „ ill Supreme. „ of whole Truffles. „ Mushrooms a VAllemande. ,, do. in Espagnole. „ of young Carrots. „ Carrots cut in fancy shapes. „ Turnips. „ Carrots and Turnips d la NN- vernaise. „ Cucumbers in scollops. ,, Cucumbers farcis. „ Celery d la creme. „ Celery d VEspagnole. „ Young CaxxoXs d la Flamar.,de. White Macedoine of vegetables. ,, Brown do. ,, Green Peas. Stewed Peas. Garnish of Asparagus-heads. „ Asparagus Peas. „ Button Onions, for malelotte. „ White Button Onions. „ AVindsor Beans. „ French Beans. „ Artichoke bottoms. „ Glaized Onions. ,. Brocoli, or Cauliflower. ,, Brussels Sprouts. ,, Chestnuts for roast Turkey. „ Jerusalem Artichokes. „ Cloves of Garlic. „ White Haricot-Beans. „ lied Haricot-Beans. „ Braized Cabbage Lettuces. ,, Braized Cabbages. „ Stewed Eed Cabbages. „ Sauerkraut. „ Sauerkraut d la Fran^aitc.