178 EEMOVES OF LAME, COMPRISING Baron of Lamb, u la Montmoi'ency. j, ala Printanierc. Saddle of Lamb, h la Godard. „ d la Financiers. „ ala Jardiniere. „ a la Roy ale. „ a la Maitre <JHotel. „ ala Macedoine, Hind-Quarters of Lamb. Saddle of Lamb, a la Dauphine. „ a la Milanatse. 614. BARON OF LAMB, A LA MONTMORENCY. Pro CUBE the hind quarters of a fine fat lamb, take off the trans- parent skin which covers the fat of the saddle, and with the point of a small knife, make a slight incision, in an oval form, aU over the surface of the upper part of the legs; and afterwards vrith a sharp thin-hladed knife, pare off the skin, so as to leave the place bare ; tliis ^\’ill give to the surface of each leg, the appearance of fi'wandeaux prepared for larding. Then saw off the shank bones, as weU as the projecting part of the spine bone; cut off the tad, and truss the skirts neatly up with small skewers. Next, place the baron on the spit for roasting, and be careful to cover it with buttered white paper. Two hours and a half before dinner, put the lamb down to the fire to roast, and about ten minutes before it is done, take off the paper; and after allowing the larding to get lightly coloured, glaze it well over, then take it off the spit, and dish it up ; garnish it round with groups of button mushrooms, truffles, fine white cocks’-combs, and scollops of red tongue; round the whole place a border of s^oon-quenelles de- corated with truffles, and a lamb’s sweetbread larded between each quenelle; sauce with good Allemande sauce; glaze the lamb brightly, and send to table. 615. BARON OF LAMB LARDED, A LA PRENTANIERE. Trim, lard, and roast a baron of lamb according to the directions contained in the foregoing article; dish it up, pour roimd it some Printanikre sauce (No. 21), garnish it with groups of small new potatoes first partly boiled, and afterwards fried of a light colour in clarified butter, glaze the lamb all over, and send to table. 616. BARON OF LAMB, A LA JARDINIERE. Prepare and roast the baron of lamb according to the preceding directions; and when dished up, garnish it round with a rich and varied Jardiniere of such vegetables as are in season ; sauce the lamb round with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. 617. BARCN OF L^VMB, A LA MAITRE d’hOTEL. Prepare the baron of lamb as pwviously directed, dish it up and pour round it a rich Maitre d'Hotel sauce (No. 43) ; garnish it round • with alternate groups of small buds of cauliflowers, and fried olive- shaped potatoes ; glaze the lamb well, and send to table.