141 PBESH-WATEE FISH, SECTION II. COMPRISING Kcls, spitchcocked. ,, plain broiled, ,, stewed, a VAnglaise. Matelotte of Eels, a la Bordelaisc. Carp, a la Chambonl. ,, a la Roy ale. ,, ala Bourguignottc. Eels, a la Dauphinoise. „ ala Venitienne. „ ala Tartare. ,, alaPoulette. „ a rindiennc. ,, a la Parisienne. „ a la Genoisc. ,, a la Perigueux. „ ii la ProvengaJe. ,, a VAllemande. ,, ala Venitimne. Small Carp fried. Tench. 501. EELS, SPITCHCOCKED. As eels,* when brought into the kitchen, are frequently alive, it is first necessary to kill them: this, from their tenacity of life, is found by many not easy to accomplish: it is, however, merely necessary to insert the point of any sharp instrument into the spine, at the hack of the head, to the depth of an inch, and the eel will become perfectly motionless. Then take a firm hold of the eel with a cloth in the left hand, and with the right hand proceed to detach the skin just below the gills with the point of a small knife; when there is a sufficient quantity of skin loosened, so as to gain a purchase, hold the head firmly with the left hand, and with a cloth in the right, force the skhi to slide off the fish. Then cut off the head, make an incision about two inches in length at the vent, and the same at the neck, draw the gut, &c., trim away the fins, wash and thoroughly cleanse each fish; Avipe them with a cloth, and then, after sprinkling them with salt, let them lie on a dish for an hour or so, previously to dressing them. After having trimmed the eels, lay each on its back in a straight line on the table, and with a knife, open it from one extremity to the other; detach the back-bone, and take it out; then cut the eel into several pieces about three inches long, season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle them over with chopped parsley and shalot; dip each piece of eel separately in some beaten egg, and afterwards in some fine bread crumbs. Place the eels thus prepared on a dish in the larder, until within twenty minutes of dinner time; then proceed to fry them of a fine colour, and dish them up with fried parsley round them, and send to table. Either of the following may be served in a sauce-boat with spitchcocked eels:—Dutch, Italienne. Venitiknm, Poivrade, Piquante, Tartare, Tomata, or Gasconne sauce. * There are four distinct sorts of eels, the snig, the broad -nosed, the grig, and the sliarp-nosed; the latter is the kind generally known. The London markets ai'e supplied principally from Holland: Thames eels are however in high repute, being caught in a running stream, their skin is brighter and more silvery; they are preferable, too, from (heir greater sweetness, to the Dutch eels