71 FOR SOUPS. mortar, after which place them in a stewpan, add the broth, and then pass the puree through the tammy-cloth in tlie usual manner; it should then be poured into a soup-pot, and if too thick to clarify, a little broth should be added; stir it over the stove-fire until it boils, and then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling xmtil it becomes bright: of course all the skum must be carefully removed while boiling. Finish the soup by adding two small pats of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar. Conde crusts should be handed round with this soup. 287. PUREE OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS Is made like the preceding, except that white haricot beans must be substituted for red; moreover, in finishing this puree, in addition to the butter and gugar, half a pint of boiling cream should be poured in. Sene with Conde crusts on a plate. 288. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA REINE. Take one quart of reddish-brown lentils, prepare them exactly as described for the treatment of red haricot beans in making that puree; finish, also in a similar manner, and serve with Conde crusts. 289. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA SOUBISE. This is made like the foregoing, but there "must be added a puree of fom’ large onions, prepared in the following manner:—slice up the onions, fry them brown in a little butter, adding to them a little broth; having allowed them to simmer gently on tire fire until done, pass them in the usual way through a tammy, and mix the puree thus obtained with tlie soup ; and when it has cleared itself by boiling, taste it to ascertain its seasoning, and send to table with Conde crusts separately. 290. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA BRUNOISE. This soup is recommended to be served when there happens to be in the larder any remaining stock of puree of lentils, or brunoise soup, which can be mixed for this pui’pose. The Conde crusts should be omitted. 291. GREEN-PEAS SOUP. Take two quarts of green-peas, a double-handful of parsley four stalks of green mint, and a good handful of green onions Having put two quarts of common broth on the stove-fire, throw in the above ingredients as soon as it begins to boil; when the peas are thoroughly done, drain them and the other vegetables in a colander, then pound them well together; the puree thus far prepared should be put into a stewpan together with its own liquor, warm it until it becomes sufficiently dissolved, and then rub it through a tammy-cloth in the usual manner. Just before sending to table, warm the soup on a brisk stove-fire, adding two pats of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar. Send Conde crusts on a plate *. * In order to avoid unnecessary repetition, it should be observed, that Condi crusts Diust be served with the succeeding jjwms of vegetables, except when other wis directed