172 remo\t:s of veal. an inch tliich, place some square fillets of boiled tongue lengthwise, and between the fillets of tongue, put some pieces of black trufiles, cut square to match the size of the pieces of tongue; then roU up the breast of veal carefully, secure its shape with the aid of small iron skewers and string, and to prevent the forcemeat from escaping, cover the ends with layers of fat bacon. Put the veal thus prepared, into an oval braizing-pan with the trimmings, and the usual complement of roots, &c., moisten with tAvo ladlefuls of good stock, and set it to braize gently on a slow fire; wiien done, drain, glaze, and dish it up, garnish roimd Avith Preneh-beans cut in diamonds—wiiich, after being boiled green, must be dressed Avith a spoont'ul of Bichamel sauce, a little mignionette pepper, nutmeg, salt, fresh butter, and lemon-juice; round these place a border of young carrots nicely glazed, and send to table. The braize in wiiich the breast of veal is done should be divested of grease, and clarified, and after being reduced to half glaze, served separately in a sauce-boat. 598. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A LA FINAXCIERE. Trim, stuff, and truss a breast of veal as directed for the prepara- tion of a breast of veal d V Anglaise, roast it off in the same manner, dish it up, and surround it Avith a rich Financicre ragout (Ifo. 188), and send to table. 599. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROMAINE. Prepare a breast of veal as for d la Windsor, and braize it accord- ingly; when done, glaze and dish it up, garnish it Avith lazagnes (No. 264) prepared as macaroni, surround the whole Avith a border of rice croquettes, made Avith rice boiled in consomme, and to which should be added a little Allemande sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, and mignionette pepper; and when the preparation is cold, mould the croquettes according to taste, bread-crumb and fry them of a light colour, and use them as directed. Send the remoA^e to table, accompanied Avith a sauce-boat containing Sicilian sauce (No. GO). 600. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. Por this preparation, follow the directions given for loin of veal u la Eoyale. Note.—Li addition to the foregoing methods of preparing breasts of veal for the table, they may, after being either roasted or braized, also be garnished with a Jardiniere or Macedoine of vegetables, Avith stewed peas, or Avith a ragout d la Claremont, d la Toulouse, d la Cnipolata, &c., &c.; as convenience or fancy may suggest.