414 Bi&juns 1298a. ITALIAN BISCUITS. Ingeedients :—Six eggs, eight ounces of pounded sugar, five ounces of floui', some orange or lemon sugar for flavouring, a pinch of salt, and six ounces of chopped almonds. First, divide the yolks from the whites of the six eggs, placing the whites in an egg-howl, and the yolks in a basin; add the sugar, the flavouring, and the salt, to the yolks, and with a wooden spoon continue working these until they present the appearance of a rather stifi'creamy batter. Then add half the flour, and when this has been well mixed in, let the six whites previously whipped firm, be also lightly mixed in, together with the remainder of the flour, taking care to keep the batter as firm and light as possible. You now fill a biscuit-forcer with some of the batter, and then pro- ceed to gently force out the batter on to baking-sheets (previously buttered and floured for the purpose), in round or oval shapes, twice the size of a five-shilling piece ; and when the whole of the batter is used up in this manner, let the chopped almonds be equally stre^vn over the biscuits; and, after some sugar has been shook over their sirrface with a dredger-box, they must be baked of a very light colour, in a rather slack oven. These cakes are most appropriate for dessert; but, when made of the size of a five-shilling piece, by first spreading any kind of fruit, jam, on the under part, and sticking two of them together, they may be neatly dished up, for a second-course dish, with some whipped cream in the centre. 12986. VENETIAN BISCUITS. I'lKST prepare some Genoese as directed at No. 1289, which, when cold, must be carefully split in convenient-sized pieces, and after spreading the insides with apricot-jam, let them be pressed together again. You next spread a thin coating of white icing on one square of Genoese, and then spread a similar coating of pink icing on the other square; after which, each square must be cut into small oblong shapes of equal sizes ; and when the icing has become dry, may be dished up, either for a second course-dish, or for dessert. 1298 c SWEDES. Ingeedients :—One pound of pounded sugar, twelve ounces of finely-shred almonds, four ounces of flour, a stick of vanilla (pounded and sifted), and one'whole egg, and the white of another. Let the whole of the fore-named ingredients be well mixed together in a basin, and then with a tablespoon proceed to mould the preparation into round balls the size of a large walnut, which are to be placed on pieces of sheet-wafer, previously cut to the size of half-crown pieces; these must now be placed on baking-sheets, and after slightly shaking some fine sugar over them, are to be baked of a light colour in a slack oven. These cakes may also be finished in manner following: the prepa- ration siiotdd be spread about half an inch thick upon sheet-wafer, and after being baked of a light colour, and immediately on its being taken from the oven, should be cut into leaf-like shapes, and bent over a rolling pin, till the pieces become cold and crisp.