REMOVES OF GOOSE. 209 email piece of butter, and two ounces of sugar; when nearly done, the apples should be boiled do^vn quicldy, in order to_ glaze them of a bright light brown colour: be careful that they remain whole. Poiir a rich gravy roimd the goose, and send to table. 701. WILD GOOSE, A L’ABERDEEN. AVhen the goose is drawn, scald the feet and remove the rough cuticle that covers them ; theu «nge it over the flame of a charcoal- fire, wipe it with a clean dote, and pick out aU the stubble, and stuft’ the goose with the following preparation:— To one pound of chopped beef-suet, add the same quantity of bread- crumbs, half a pound of butter, tw^o whole eggs, a little chopped thyme, sweet-basil, and marjoram, two shalots, and a handful of parsley; season with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead the whole well together, and stufl’ the goose with it. Then truss the goose, and put it on the spit in the same fashion as directed for a haunch of venison. It will require about three hours to roast; when done, dish it up with a border of glazed Portugal onions (No. 1164), pour some Foivrade sauce (No. 29), under it, and send to table. The goose shoidd be frothed with flour and butter in the same manner as venison, after the crust has been removed. 702. WILD GOOSE, A L’ALLEMANDE. Prepaue the goose at first as directed in No. 698, then place it in a deep earthen dish, and strew upon it the following vegetables cut into thin sbees: two carrots, two onions, one head of celery, a hand- ful of parsley, four bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, and sweet-basil in small quantities; also four blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a spoonful of Jamaica pepper-coms, two lemons peeled and cut into slices, a pint of salad oh., and half a pint of Trench vinegar. Allow the goose to remain in this marinade or pickle for a couple of days, taking care to turn it frequently. When about to dress the goose, put it on the spit, cover it with stout paper wnU buttered, lay the whole of the vegetables, &c., on the breast, cover these with two sheets of buttered paper, and fasten them on securely with string. Put the goose thus prepared dovrn to the fire to roast for about two hours, taking care to baste it frequently; when done, take it Irom the spit, glaze and dish it up, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes rolled in fried bread-crumbs, and pour under it a sauce, made as follows:— Grate a large stick of horseradish; peel and sbee up two lemons, removing the pips, and put these in a stewrpan with foiu shalots, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a tea-spoonful of pepper-corns, two bay-leaves, a large sprig of thyme, and half a pint of Trench vinegar; set these to boil on the fire tmtb reduced to half the quantity, then add a large spoonful of rich gravy, one poimd of ciurant jelly, and the juice of two Sevibe oranges ; abow the whole to bob together for five minutes, and then strain the sauce through a tammy wdth considerable pressure into a smab stewyan, and make it hot for use. 703. CYGNET A LA NORWICH. Peoctjee a Norwich-fed cygnet ithese birds are in best condition in September), stuff it with the fobo'ndng preparation: — * r