114 DKESSED FISH IN GENEKAL. Veloute sauce (No. 2), and set the wnole to boil together a few mi- nutes on the stove; then dish up the fillets, one overlaying the other —in a circle; pass tlie sauce tlirough a tammy, make it hot, and mix in a pat of butter; mask the fillets with the sauce, and serve. 406. FILLETS OF TUllBOT A LA RAYIGOTTE. Pakpare the fillets of turbot as directed in No. 405, place them in a sauta-pan with some fresh butter, season widi pepper and salt, and lemon-juice; ten minutes before dinner set them on a moderate fire, and when sufficiently simmered on one side, turn them care- fully on the other, so as not to break them; when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and dish them up, overlaying each other—so as to form a close circle; sauce them with some white Eavigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 407. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA VERTRE. Prepare the fillets as for the previous entree, and dish them up in a similar manner; fill the centre with thirty crayfish tails; pour some sauce a la Eavigotte (No. 21), over the fillets, and serve. 408. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L’lTALIENNE. Prepare, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as in the previous case, and sauce the entree with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), in which incorporate a pat of anchovy butter and a teaspoonful of chopped capers. 409. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA CARDINAL. Cut, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as directed in tormer ■cases ; sauce them with some Cardinal sauce (No. 48), and garnish the centre of the entree with prawns or crayfish tails, small quenelles of whiting or lobster, and a few small button-mushrooms. Fillets of turbot may be dressed in a variety of ways, according to the sauce or garnish used, from which accordingly the fillets de- rive their denomination; as, for instance, a la Maitre d'Hotel, a la sauce Homard, or Lobster sauce, d la sauce aux Huitres, or Oyster sauce, &c., &c., &c. 410. BRILL. This species of fish, bearing a great resemblance to turbot, may be dressed in every variety of form in which turbot is capable of being sent to table ; it may also be sensed plain boiled, with either Lobster, Shrimp, Cra}ffish, Anchovy, Caper, Dutch, Oyster, Muscle, or Eavigotte sauce. 411. JOHN DORY. T HIS kind of fish, although a great favourite with many, is very celdom sent to table in any other shape tlian as a plain boiled fish, eather with Lobster or Dutch sauce; it may, however, be broiled with Champagne sauce, for which see tm’bot di’essed in that maimer (No. 398).