400 CAJKES. First, let the pistachio kernels he scalded, remove the hulls, sphi each kernel into four strips, and place these aside in a small basin. The candied orange-peel must then he shred into small thin narrow strips, and put with the pistachios. Next, remove the hulls from the almonds, wash and pound them into a very soft paste (adding a few drops of water to prevent them jErom becoming ody), then mix them with the cream, and after they have steeped for half an hour, let the whole he rubbed through a tammy, the same as a puree, and kept in a very cool place xmtil wanted for use. For mixing this cake, follow in all respects the directions given for the Grerman kouglahff (No. 1272), adding the pistachios and orange- peel after lining the mould with the plain paste : the yeast must be dissolved in a little tepid water, and the almonds and cream added cold. It should be baked nearly of the same colour as a Savoy cake. Note.—It is necessary to put aU these cakes back in the oven for two or three minutes, after they are turned out of the mould, to pre- vent them from becoming shrivelled on the surface, or from otherwise shrinking and falling in, which is unavoidably the case when any steam has collected upon them. 1274. VICTORIA CAKE. Ingredients :—Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, twelve eggs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six ounces of ground or pounded almonds, also a few bitter ditto, eight ounces of dried chei;- ries, four ounces of green citron cut up in shreds, half an ounce of cinnamon powder, half a pint of whipped cream, one ounce and a quarter of Grerman yeast, two wine-glasses of brandy, and half an ounce of salt. Mix the above ingredients according to the directions given for the German kouglaiiff; except that the yeast must be dissolved in a spoonful of tepid water, and the cream whipped previously to its being added the last thing. Wlien the cake is mixed, it should be placed in a tin hoop, measuring about ten inches in diameter by four inches deep. A double sheet of paper, spread with butter, should be first placed on a stout copper baking-sheet, and the hoop, also lined with paper, next placed upon it, ready to receive the mixture. As soon as the fermentation of the paste has taken place in a satisfactory degree, causing it to increase to t^vice its original quantity, let it be immediately put in the oven (at moderate heat), and baked of a light colour. This kind of cake may be served as a second-course remove ; some apricot marmalade diluted -vith a little lemon juice and warmed, should be sent to table with it separately in a sauce-boat, or, if pre- ferred, instead of the apricot, some German custard sauce, made in the following manner:— Put four yoUxs of eggs in a middle-sized bain-marie, and add two ounces of poimded sugar, two wine-glasses of Sherry, and the rind ot an orange or lemon grated on sugar. Place the bain-marie containing these ingi’edients in a larger stewpan with water sufficient to reach about one inch up the outside of the bain-marie; set this on a slow stove-fire, and commence whisking or milling the contents briskly until it appears hlie a rich-1 oolong frothy custard. Be careful not to