4G5 CEE A MS, COMPIilSING Blanc-Matujtr, ^larascbino Bavarian Cream. Strawberry ditto. Apricot ditto. Coffee Ci-eam. Chocolate ditto. Burnt ditto. Orange-flower ditto. 1430. BLAJslC-MAJSrGEE. PaeboiIi twelve ounces of Jordan, and two ounces of bitter almonds, in a quart of water for about two minutes ; drain them on a sieve, remove the skins, and wash them in cold water ; after they have been soaked in cold water for half an hour, potmd them in a mortar Mth four ounces of sugar, until the whole presents the appearance of a soft paste. This must then be placed in a large basin, with twelve ounces of loaf sugar, and mixed with rather more than a pint of spring water; cover the basin with a sheet of paper, twisted round the edges, and allow the preparation to stand in a cool place for about an honr, in order to extract the flavour of the almonds more efiectually. The milk shoidd then be strained off from the almonds through a napkin, with pressure, by wringing it at both ends. Add two ovmces of clari- fied isinglass to the milk of almonds, pour the blanc-manger into a mould imbedded in rough ice, and when set quite firm, turn it out on its dish with caution, after having first dipped the mould in warm water. 1431. MAEASCHINO BAVAEIAN CEE AM. AVhip a pint of double cream, tmtil it presents somewhat of the appearance of snow, taking care not to overdo it, as it would then produce butter. When the cream is whipped, add one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, a gill and a half of genuine maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and four ounces of pounded sugar ; mix these well together, and pour the cream into a moidd, previously very slight!}' oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds; set the cream in rough ice, and when it has become firm, turn it out on its dish. The mould having been oiled prevents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream in warm water, previously to turning it out. This kind of cream may also be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs ; also with the essences of orange, lemon, orange-flowers, vandla, roses, and bitter almonds. 1432. STEAWBEREY BAVARIAN CREAM. Pick the stalks from a pottle of scarlet strawberries, and bruise them in a basin with six ounces of pounded sugar; rub this through a sieve, and mix it with a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass; pour the cream into a mould, previously 2 n Pistachio Cream. Italian ditto. Russian Charlotte. Celestine Strawberry Cream. Currant and Raspberry transparent Cheese. Apricot Cheese, d la Chantilly.