359 CUCUM15EUS, ETC. 1179, VEGETABLE-MAKROW. Cut tlie vegetable-marrows, according to their si/e, mto foui’, six, or e.ght pieces, just as oranges are divided; peel and trim them neatly, place them in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter, and season ^\'ith a very little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar; moisten with hall a pint ol white broth, and set them to boil gently over a stove-fire for about ten minutes; then boil them down in their glaze; toss them gently in this, and dish them up neatly in a conical form. Pour a little Espagnole sauce into the sauta- pan, and simmer it Avith the remainder of the glaze, mix in a pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon, pom* this over the vegetable- marrow, and serve. 1180. ANOTHER METHOD. Teim the vegetable-marrows as above, boil them gently in water AAdth a pat of butter and a little salt, di-ain and disli them up, pour some white sauce (No. 71) or Bechamel (No. 5) over them, and serve. 1181. CUCUMBERS, A LA POULETTE. Cut the cuemnbers into scollops about an inch in diameter, put them into a basin with a table-spoonful of salt, and twice that propor- tion of vinegar, and allow them to steep in this for several hours. Then, pour off aU the moistiu’e from the cucumbers, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a very little grated nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire luitil they become quite tender: this wdll require about half an hour. The butter must then be poured off, and a gravj'^-spoonful of Veloute sauce (No. 4) added; simmer the cucumbers over the fire for a few minutes, finish by incorporating with them a leason of four yolks of eggs, mixed with half a gill of cream, a spoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; dish them up with a border o^Jleurons, and seiwe. 1182. CUCUMBERS, A l’eSPAGNOLE. Cut the cucumbers into lengths of about two inches, scoop out all the seeds, pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the ends; parboil them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain, them upon a napkin. FiU each piece of cucumber witli some quenelle force-meat of chicken (No. 242) ; then, place them in neat order in a deep sautapan, lined wdth thin layers of fat bacon, and cover them also with the same; moisten witli consomme, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; wdien they are become qiute tender, drain them upon a cloth, dish them up in a pyra- midal form, pour some bright Espagnole sauce (No. 3) over them, and serve. 1183. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A LA SAUCE. AV’’ash them thoroughly in plenty of water, peel or turn them in the form of large olives or small pears; boil them in Avater AAdth a pat of butter and a little salt, for about a quarter of an hour; AA'lien done drain them upon a cloth, dish them up neatly, pour some butter sauce (No. 71) over them, and serve.