388 DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. iiuger in, pour them both gradually in upon the flour, and mix them quickly together with the hand, taking particular care to knead the whole firmly, and at once, into a compact paste: then press this smoothly together in a napkin, and afterwards keep it covered up in a stewpau in a warm place till used. 1252. FRENCH-PASTE, FOR RAISED PIES. In&eedients :—One pomid of flour, four ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, a gill and a halt* of cold water. Place the flour on the slab, spread it out in the centre, then add the salt, water, and butter, and proceed to work the whole together with the bauds into a very firm paste in the following manner:—When the ingredients have been worked into a paste, this must be brough*’ to the edge of the slab; then use the palms of both hands, applying them alternately, with great force, to spread and divide the paste into small parts; sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste, and kneaa it together: this is called breaking and kneading, and must be repeated three or four times. The paste must then be gathered up, placed in a clean rubber, and finally kneaded together by pressing upon it with the elbow. It will then be ready for use. 1253. SHORT-PASTE FOR TIMBALES, ETC. Ingeedients :—One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and nearly half a pint of water. Make a well in the centre of the flour, place in this the yolks of eggs, salt, butter, and two-thirds of the water, then work the whole together with the hands into a somewhat firm paste; dip the fingers into the flour, to separate and of the paste that may adhere to them, sprinkle a little vrater over it, and then work the whole together into a ball, and keep it in a cloth till wanted for use. 1254. SHORT PUFF-PASTE. Ingeeuients :—One pound of flour, twelve ounces of butter, a little salt, one egg, and about half a pint of water. Spread the flour out in the usual manner, place the egg, salt, haH the butter, and two-thirds of the water at first, adding as much of the remaiuder as may be necessary afterwards; work these together into a smooth and somewhat firm paste, then spread this out with the hand, and after the remaining half of the butter has been placed in the centre, the sides should be folded over so as to entirely enclose the butter. Wlien the paste has stood five mmutes, shake some flour with the hand over the slab and on the paste, then roll it out to the length of about two feet and a half, and about a foot wide; this must be then folded into three, and after turning the paste round so as to bring the sides to face you, roll it out again in a similar manner; after an interval of about ten minutes, repeat the roUing* twice moVe: the paste will then be fit for use. Each time that the paste undergoes the process of rolling, as here described, it is termed by cooks, “ giving it a turn.” Tbh: kind of paste requires only four turns.