230 VOL’AU’YENTS AND TOUETES, COMPRISING Vol’au'v67it, a la Nesle. „ a la Financiere. ,, of Turbot, a la Bechamel. ,, of Salmon, a la Ravigotte. ,, of Cod, d la Creme. Vol’au’vent of Salt Fish, a I’Anglaise. Tourte of Whitings, a la Dauphine. ,, of Godiveau au Madere. „ of Ox Palates, d la Frangaise. „ of Lobsters, d la Cardinal. 762. vol'au’vents, a la nesle.* Cleanse one set of Ccalf’s-brains, and boil them in a stewpan "with water, a small carrot and an onion both sliced very thin, two cloves, a little mace, twelve pepper-corns, and a little salt, for a quarter of an hour; when done, remove them from the fire to get cold. Prepare also a throat sweetbread, which must be steeped in tepid water for two hours or more, then scalded, cooled in water, and gently simmered on the stove in some toppings of white consomme for a quarter of an hour ; when done, put the sweetbread on a plate to get cold. Prepare also twelve quenelles of fowl, moulded in dessert-spoons, and poached, a like quantity of large button-mushrooms, and the same proportion of double cocks’-combs, and round balls of black truffles. Put these into a middle-sized stewqian, add to them the calf’s-brains and sweet- bread, previously cut into neat scollops, and just before dinner-time, pouj’ over the wuole sufficient Allemande sauce (No. 7) for the entrie (pre\dously mixed udth a small piece of good glaze, and two tea- spoonfuls of Chili vinegar). Toss the whole lightly together over the fire, and with this ragout garnish a handsome voVau’vent, cut either square, oval, or round, so as to suit the shape of the dish. The top of this entree may be ornamented with very small fillets of fowls, decorated with red tongue or black truffle: or a border of small quenelles, decorated similarly, may also be placed round the edge of the voVau^vent, and a small larded sweetbread in the centre of these. 763. vol'au'vent, a la financieke. See the directions ix, paU-chaud, d la Financiere (No. 759) ; substi- tuting a voVau’vent for the shell or crust. 764, vol’au’vent of turbot, a la bechamel. This entrie is generally served when there happens to be any turbot reserved from a previous day’s dinner ; in which case, the fish must be pulled, or cut into scoUops, warmed in a rich Bechamel sauce (No. 5), made with a full proportion of cream ; let the voVau'vent be filled with this, and sent to table. 765. vol’au'vent of salmon, a la ravigotte. PiiocuEE 2 lbs. of fresh salmon, cut it into rather thick roimd scol- lops about two inches in diameter; place these in a sautapan, with • Instriictions for maldng a vol’aii’vent case v.'ill be found in that part of the worit treating oi I’uif-pirr.te.