REMOVES OF GOOSE. 208 697. GOOSE, A LA FLAMANDE. Truss and braize a goose; when done, disli it up and garnish it roimd Avitli alternate groups of glazed carrots, turnips, Brussels- sprouts, and indeed almost every variety of vegetables in season, pre- viously prepared for the purpose; glaze the goose, and pour some bright brown sauce (with the addition of some of the braize in which it lias been done, reduced to a glaze for that purpose) round the vege- tables, and send to table. 698. GOOSE, A l’allemande. Procure a double-handful of mugwort, rub off all the buds, and blanch them in boiling water for two minutes; then drain and put them into a small stewpan, wth a large onion chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and four ounces of butter; set these to simmer gently on the fire, for ten minutes, and having put this stuffing in the goose, truss and place it in an oval stewpan with four ounces of butter, and set it on a moderate fire, with some live embers on the lid. Care should be taken to turn the goose every now and then, so as to give it an equal colour all over. When it is done, pour off all the grease, add the juice of one lemon and one orange, together both the peel of an orange cut into very thin shreds previously par- boiled in water; add also a spoonful of brown sauce and a little consomme. Allow these to boil together for two or three minutes, dish up the goose, garnish it roimd with groups of potatoes—cut into the shape of large olives and fried in butter—pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. 699. goose, a la dauphixoise. Stuef a goose with chestnuts prepared as follows:—Slit, scald, and peel about sixty large chestnuts; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little salt, and a quart of good broth, one shalot chopped fine, and a garnished faggot of parsley; set the chestnuts to stew upon a slow fire, and when they are done, put them in the goose and truss it. Then place the goose in a deep earthen dish, moisten with a wine mirepoix (No. 236), and cover the dish efiectuaUy with some stiff-made flour-and-water paste, so as entirely to prevent the aroma of the several ingredients from escapiog. Set it in the oven to bake for about two hours, and when it is done, remove the crust, dish up the goose, strain the gravy through a sieve into a stewpan, skim off every particle of grease, and then boil it down to the bare quantity required for saucing; to this add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, half a pound of currant jelly, and some orange peel shred fine; boil the whole together for two minutes, then pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. 700. GOOSE, A LA NORMAXDE. Chop one large onion fine, blanch, and afterwards drain it upon a sieve; then fry it with a little butter of a light-brown colour, and mix it with mashed potatoes, in sufficient quantity to stuff the goose; this being done, truss it and roast it in the usual manner, and when removed from the spit, dish it up ; garnish it round wdth a border ot email round apples neatly turned, and stewed with a little broth, a