EEMOVES OF CHICKENb. 204 Chickens, d la Montmorency, may also be dished up with an orna- mental croustade in the centre, in which should be fixed five atelets garnished as shown in the wood-cut, p. 203. 686. CHICKENS, A LA MILANAISE. These should be trussed and boiled, and when done, dished up with a ragout d la Milanaise, see Capon a la Milanaise (No. 677) ; they may also be garnished wth a border of rissoles (No. 1020). 687. CHICKENS, A LA CHIVRY. Truss the chickens so as to look very plump, boil or braize them in some white pode (No. 231) cfr broth ; and when done, dish them up in the following manner:—Some small rings of onions about the size of a shilling should be first boiled in white broth, then filled with blanched ravigotte of chives, tarragon, and chervil, and afterwards used to ornament the breasts of the chickens. Place these in their dish, pour imder them a Chivry or Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 688. CHICKENS, A LA FLORENTINE Truss two chickens and lard the breast very closely with black truffles cut into strips, which must be used instead of bacon for this purpose; the chickens should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon (to prevent the truffles from drying and breaking off), then braized in white broth, and when done, dished up with an ornamental crous- tade of bread fried of a light-brown colour and placed m the centre of the dish: garnish with alternate groups of small quenelles of fowl coloured with lobster spawn, truffles cut in the form of olives, mushrooms, large double cocks’-combs, and small croquettes of rice mixed with a httle grated Parmesan cheese; sauce the chickens, without masking the breasts, with some Allemande sauce, in which have been added two table-spoonfuls of tomata sauce, and a little Chih vinegar. Pill the croustade with trimmed cray-fish tails tossed in a little of the sauce, and serve. If this dish be intended for a grand dinner, four ornamental silver skewers garnished with a double cock’s- comb, truffles, decorated quenelle, and a cray-fish, may be inserted in the croustade. 689. CHICKENS, A LA CARDINAL. Draw two chickens, taking care to leave the crop entire, cut off the feet two inches from the joint of the leg, and make an incision just imder the thigh; insert the legs inside, and then put the chickens in a basin of cold water to soak for a quarter of an hour ; after which, with the aid of the forefinger, detach the skin as much as possible from the breasts and legs of the chickens without tearing it; they must then be placed upon a napkin, and all the water absorbed from them; after which the interstices between the skin and fillets, &c., should be covered with some quenelle of fowl coloured of a deep red with lobster spawn. The chickens are then to be trussed for boiling in the usual manner, being covered with thin layers of fat bacon to protect the skin while braizing; place them in a stew-pan with the customary vegetables, &c., moisten with white broth and set them to braize very gently on a slow fire—care must be taken to prevent their boding