442 ORNAMEOTAL ENTREMETS. 1356. FLAN OF PEACHES. Fob this purpose, a crust or case should he prepared in the follow- ing manner. First, make one pound of short paste (No. 1255) ; then, spread with butter the inside of a fluted circular or oval mould, about two inches high, and eight inches in diameter; line this with the paste, cut the edges level, and then raise them aU round, and pinch the part that rises above the mould with a pair of pastry pincers. Next, fill the case with flour, mixed wdth one-sixth part of chopped suet, and bake it imtil it is about three parts done; the flour must then be removed, and the case brushed out clean, with a paste-brush; after which it must be nearly filled with halves of peaches, previously skinned and simmered in some thin syrup for about five minutes; the flan must now be placed again in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, and when withdrawn, a close row of halves of peaches (previously simmered in syrup added to the juice of a pint of red currants) should be neatly arranged, and a peach kernel being placed on each piece of peach, let the jelly be poured over the whole, and serve. Note.—For the preparation of flans of apricots, and all kinds of plums, foUow the above directions; except that in either of these cases, the currant juice is to be omitted. 1357. NEAPOLITAN CAKE, A LA CHANTILLY. Fiest, Aveigh one pound of flour, eight ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of pounded almonds, and eight ounces of butter; place these ingredients on the pastry slab, add five yolks of eggs, the zest of the rind of two oranges extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a very little salt; work these well together, and when they are tho- roughly mixed, Imead the paste into the form of a rolling-pin, and divide it into twelve equal parts; these must be again kneaded into round balls, roUed out to the diameter of about seven inches, placed upon baking-sheets, spread -vvdth butter; after having cut them all of the same size with a circular tm-cutter, let them be egged and pricked all over with fork, and baked of a light colour, and when done, placed on a level slab or table, with a baking-sheet upon them, to keep them straight as they become cold. These flats must then be laid one upon another, with a layer of some kind of preserve spread between each: apricot, greengage, straw- berry, orange, or raspberry-jam, may be used for the purpose. Pre- viously to placing the last piece on the top of the cake, it should be first decorated with merm^rife-paste or sugar-icing; the sides must be masked with some kind of bright preserve,—such as greengage, apri- cot, red-currant or apple-jelly, and afterwards ornamented with a design similar to that represented in the wood-cut, formed either of