SMALL PASTRY 428 witli the fruit in a small basin, to fill the tartlets with as in the fore- going cases. 1325. PUFF-PASTE TARTLETS. Give eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste (No. 1261), roU it out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and then with a circular tin-cutter, about one inch and three quarters in diameter, stamp out twenty flats ; again use a small cutter, measuring one inch, in diameter, to stamp out the centre of these: next, gather up the trimmings, knead them together, and roU them out to the eighth part of an inch in thickness, and stamp out as many flats as there are rings; place them on a wetted baking-sheet, moisten the edges with a sol't brush dipped in water, stick the rings of paste on these, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, and bake them of a very light colour (at very moderate heat). When the tartlets are done, mask the bands or rings with a little meringue-Tpaste, dip them either in some chopped or very finely-shred pistachios or almonds, and place them in the screen to dry. Previously to serving these tartlets, they may be filled, either with cherries, currants, plums, &c., prepared as (firected above, or else with any kind of preserve. 1326. MOSAIC TARTLETS. PiiEPAEE two dozen puff-paste tartlets as dii’ected above, and fill each of them with a spoonful of apricot or greengage-jam; wet roimd the edges, and place a mosaic of paste on the top of each, egg these over slightly, and bake them of a light colour; when they are done, shake some fine sugar over them, and glaze them with the red-hot salamander. 1327. PARISIAN LOAVES. Peepaee some small slender finger-biscuits, spread them with apricot or greengage-jam, and stick two of these together; then, hold one at a time on a fork, mask them over slightly with some meringue-Y>aste, and with a paper cornet filled with some of the same, draw parallel lines across the cakes in a slanting direction; when they are aU completed, shake some sugar over them, and put them in the oven to be baked, or rather dried, of a very light-favoi colour. When done, insert some narrow strips of bright currant-jelly, green- gage-jam, and apple-jeUy between the bars of the decoration. 1328. MARYGOLDS. Give eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, stamp out twenty flats with a circular fluted tin-cutter, about one inch and three quarters in diameter, and place these on a wetted baking-sheet; roU out the trimmings rather thin, and with two smaUer cutters, stamp out as many rings of the size of a shilling as there are cakes, and place one of these on the centre of each of the marygolds, previously wetted aU over the surface. Then, place some almonds split into four strips lengthwise, closely round the rings, in a somewhat slanting direction; these must be slightly pressed into the paste to make them hold on, and should be arranged so as to give to the cake, as much as possible, the appearance of the flower they are intended to resemble. When they are all completed, shake some sugar over them with the dredger,