82 SHELLFISII SOUPS. thick ; a circular incision having been made on one side of the bread before it is fried, the inner part is afterwards easily taken out, and in its place should be put a farce, made with the trail of half the snipes (the remainder should be used in the j>uree). This farce is to be prepared thus;— Put the trail into a small stewpan with a little fresh butter, pep- per, and salt, and after frying it lightly on the fire for a minute or two, add a tablespoonful of good brown sauce, and then rub it through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon. Fill the croutons with this farce, smoothing the surface with a small knife ; and previously to seiwing them, put them on a sauta-pan in the oven for five minutes to warm them; serve tliem on a plate to be handed round with the soup. Take care not to throw the croutons into the soup, as that would destroy their crispness. 331. BISQUE OP CRAYFISH A L’ANCIENNE To make soup enough for sixteen persons, procure sixty cray- fish, from which remove the gut containing the gall, in the following manner;—Take a firm hold of the crayfish with the left hand, so as to avoid being pinched by its claws; with the thumb and fore-finger of the right hand, pinch the extreme end of the central fin of its tail, and with a sudden jerk, the gut will be withdrawn. Then mince or cut into small dice, a caiTot, an onion, one head of celeiy, and a few j^arsley roots ; to these add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a little minionette pepper, and two ounces of butter. Put these ingredients into a stewpan, and fry them on the fire tor ten minutes; then throw in the crayfish and pour on them a bottle of French white wine. Allow this to boil, and then add a quart of strong consomme, and let them continue gently boiling for half an hour. Then pick out the crayfish, and strain the broth through a napkin by pressure into a basin, in order to extract *all the essence from the vegetables. Pick the shell off fifty of the cra^dish tails, trim them neatly, and set them aside until wanted. Keseiwe some of the spawn, and also half the body shells, witli which to make the crayfish butter (No. 184) to finish the soup. Take all tliat remains, and add thereto six anchovies washed for the pui’pose, and also a plate of crusts of French rolls fried of a light brown colour in butter. Pound all these thoroughly, and then put them into a stew- pan with the broth that has been reserved in a basin, and having warmed the hkque tlius prepared, rub it through a tammy into & puree. Then take the piLree up into a soup-pot; finish by incorporating therewith the crayfish butter, season with a little cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the bisque quite hot into the soup-tureen containing the crayfish tails, and send to table. ^ 332. BISQUE OP CRAYFISH A LA MALMESBURY. Cleanse thoroughly two quarts of muscles, steam them in a weU- covered ste^vpan, and then pick out all the white muscles from the shells, and put them into a steAvpan with some of their own liquor. To these add forty tails of crayfish, and three dozen veiy small qtieneUes of whiting which have been mixed with sufficient chopped and blanched parsley to give them a green colour. Just before din-