GARNISHES •J2 with a pint of broth or consomme, and set them to boil on the stove- fire; when they are done, boil them down quicldyto a glaze, roll the carrots in this glaze, and use them to garnish the intended dish. 135. GARNISH OF CARROTS IN OLIVES, ETC. Scrape and wash four good carrots, cut the red part, either with a small root-knife, vegetable scoop, or cutter, into various fancy shapes, as olives, small round balls, pillars, half-moons, diamonds, or fluted shapes; parboil, drain, and prepare them as directed above; finish them in the same manner, and, having run them down in their own glaze, either use them as they are, or else add a ragout-spoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or, indeed, any other kind of sauce that may be appropriate for the dish they are meant to garnish. 136. GARNISH OF TURNIPS. Peel four turnips, cut or turn them into fancy shapes, as directed in the preceding article, boil them for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, place them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, salt, and a small pat of butter; moisten witli some white broth, put them on the stove, and, when they are nearly done, boil them down quickly in their glaze, without allowing them to acquire much colour. These turnips may be used for a garnish, merely rolled in their own glaze, or a spoonful of either Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or finished Espagnole sauce may be added. 137. GARNISH OF CARROTS AND TURNIPS A LA NIVERNAISE. Cut or turn the red part of three carrots into the shape of small olives or round balls, place these in a small sauta-pan, with a little clarified butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; fry them on the stove-fire, so as to give them a light colour, then place them on a sieve to drain off the butter, and put them into a small stewpan, with a piece of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt; moisten them with some consomme, and set them to boil gradually until nearly done, when they must boil rapidly to glaze. Having thus disposed of the caiTOts, prepare an equ^. quantity of turnips, cut in a similar shape, and boil them down to a glaze, similarly to the carrots, and when both are done, mix them together, and use them for entrees of braized mutton, beef, or any sort of cutlets. 138. GARNISH OP CUCUMBERS IN SCOLLOPS. Cut three cucumbers into inch lengths; divide each piece, length- wise, into two or more pieces, according to the size of tlie cucumber, so that, when trimmed, they should be rather larger in size than a shilling; in trimming them, first scoop out the seedy part with a small root-knife, then peel off the green rind and pare away the angles slightly, so as to give them a somewhat rounded appearance. Next, place them in a basin, Avith two spoonfuls of French vinegar and one of salt, and allow them to remain in this pickle, or marinade, for about a couple of hours, then drain them on a sieve, and place tliem in a stewpan, with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, and a ragout-spoonful of white consomme; set them on a slow fire to sim- mer gently for half an hour, Avhen they will be nearly done; boil them down quickly to a glaze, and keep them sepai’ately, until th(7