ENTEEMETS OF VEGETABLE!:.. 358 when done, drain them in a colander, dish them up with chopped boiled mint on tlie top, and send some small pats of very fresh butter separately on a plate. 1175. STEWED PEAS. Put a quart of young peas into a pan, wdth foiu’ ounces of butter and plenty of cold water ; rub the peas and butter together, with the fingers, until well mixed, then, pour off the water, and put the peas into a stewpan, Avith a couple of cabbage-lettuces shred small, a faggot of green onions and parsley, a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt; put the lid on, and set the peas to stew very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour : when done, if there appears to be much liquor, boil it down quickly over the fire. Next, put about two ounces of fresh butter on a plate, with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and kuead them together; put this into the peas, and toss the whole together over the stove-fire rmtil weU mixed; dish the peas up, gar- nish round Avith Jleurons, and serve. 1176. PEAS, A LA FEANCAISE. These must be prepared as aboAn (No. 1175), omitting the lettuces; stew them in the same manner, and Avhen done, add a little light- coloured glaze, and finish with four ounces of kneaded butter and flour, Avith a httle more sugar than in the foregoing case. 1177. TURNIPS, GLACES WITH SUGAR. Turn about two dozen pieces of turnips into the form of rings, about two inches in diameter, or else in the shape of small pears; put them into a deep sautapan, thickly spread Avith fresh butter, and streAvn Avith about two ounces of poimded sugar ; moisten with about half a pint of good consomme, and set the turnips to simmer very gently over a moderate stove-fire for about forty minutes; when they are nearly done, remove the Ud, and place them over a brisk fire to bod the moisture down to glaze, gently rolling the tmnips in this, with great care, to avoid breaking them. They must then be dished up in neat order, and the glaze poAmed over them. 1178. YOUNG CARROTS, A L’ALLEMANDE. Turn Iavo bunches of spring carrots, keeping their original shape, but making them equal in size; parboil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes ; then drain them into a colander, and immerse them in cold water, afterwards drain them again, and lay them upon a napkin. Next, place the carrots in a deep sautapan, Avith two ounces of fresh butter, an equal proportion of loaf sugar, and about a pint of good consomme; put the lid on, and set the carrots to bod A'ery gently over a moderate stove-fire for about half an hour; then set them to bod briskly until their liquor is reduced to glaze, when they must be gently roUed in this, and dished up in a rmmd- bottomed quart basin, so as to form a perfect dome when turned out upon the dish ; pour round some Allemande sauce (No. 7), mixed Avith some chopped and parboded parsley, also the remainder of their glaze over the carrots, and serve.