BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE, 238 them gently in some blanc (No. 236), for about three-quarters of aa hour. When the feet are done, drain them on a napkin, cut out the black substance to be found between the cushions of the hoof, trim them neatly without waste, and put them into a stewpan with a little of their own liquor. Five minutes before sending to table, pour off the liquor from the feet, previously warmed, then add half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms, and enough Pascaline sauce (No. 15) for the entree ; toss the whole together over the stove-fire for two minutes, and garnish the border of potato-paste with this ragout; glaze the border lightly, and serve. 784. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF OX-PALATES, A l’iNDIENNE. PiiErAEE the ox-palates according to the directions contained in (No. 209), add enough well-reduced Indian curry sauce (No. 47) for the entree, warm the ragout and garnish the border of potato with it, hist before sending to table. Some plain boded Patna rice must be served in a plate. 785. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF sheep’s tongues, with FINE-HERBS. Scald eight sheep’s tongues effectually, so as to be able to remove tho outer skin easdy ; then trim them, and afterwards put them into a stei^qian with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a dozen pepper-coms ; moisten with a quart of broth, and set them to braize gently for about an hour. When done, drain them on a dish, and set them in the larder to get cold, afterwards to be cut into neat circidar scollops; put these into a ste"^\q)an with half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms, and enough well-reduced fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), for the entrh; toss these together over the stove-fire to warm them thoroughly, then garnish the border of potato- paste with tliis ragout, glaze it round, and serve. 786. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH CALF’s- BRAINS, A LA RAVIGOTTE. Steep two sets of caK’s-brains in tepid water for several hours to cleanse them, and as soon as the thin membrane which covers the brains becomes loosened, detach it gently with the fingers; change the water frequently, and when the brains have become comparative!}^ white, put them into a stewpan with a quart of boding water, half a giU of vinegar, some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, mignionette-pepper, and salt; allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then remove the brains carefully with a large spoon into another stewpan, pass their liquor through a sieve on them, and set them aside till within twen^ minutes of dimer-time. The brains must then be warmed in their liquor, and afterwards cut into thick scollops lengthwise, and placed in the border of potato m circular order, overlapping each other; pour a Piavigotte sauce (No. over the brains, glaze the border, and serve.