ORANGE PUDDING. 455 1395. CHESTNUT PUDDING. Bake or boil fifty fine chestnuts, rub their pulp through a sieve, and place this in a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, a pounded stick of vanilla, and a very little salt; stir these ingredients over a stove-fire until the preparation thickens, and then quicken the motion of the spoon, so as to prevent the paste from adhering to the bottom of the stewpan. As soon as it leaves the sides of the stewpan, remove it from the fire, add eight yolks, and the whites of six eggs whipped firm ; pour the pudding mixture into a plain mould, previously spread with butter, and then steam it for about an hour and a halt. When the pudding is done, turn it care- fully out of the mould on its dish, pour some warm diluted apricot-jam over it, and serve. 1396. GINGER PUDDING. Ingredients required:—Six ounces of fiour, six ounces of sugar, six eggs, eight ounces of preserved ginger, a pint of cream, six ounces of butter, a little salt. Put the cream, sugar, butter and salt into a stewpan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, take off the stewpan, throw in the flonr, and stir the whole together quicldy; then put this paste back again on the fire, and continue stirring it for about five minutes; it must then be withdrawn, and the six eggs mixed in gradually with it. The ginger, cut into small pieces, must now be added to the preparation, which must then be poured into the mould previously spread with butter. Steam it for an hour and a half, and when done, dish up the pudding with a custard-sauce made with the syrup from the ginger. 1397. PINE-APPLE PUDDING. This is made in the same manner as the above, pine-apple bemg substituted for ginger. 1398. LEMON PUDDING. Ingredients required:—The juice and grated rind (rubbed on sugar) of six lemons, a pint of cream, six ounces of bruised ratafias, twelve yolks and the whites of four eggs, whipped, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon powder, twelve ounces of poimded sugar, and a very little salt. Mix the above altogether in a large basin, and work the ingredients together with a whisk for about ten minutes. Next, put a border of piiff paste round the edge of a tart dish, spread the dish with butter, pour the batter into it, strew some shred pistachio kernels on the top, and bake it for about half an hour (at moderate heat). WTien done, shake some shifted sugar over it, and serve. 1399. ORANGE PUDDING. Tnic is made as the above; double the quantity of oranges may be used for this purpose, owing to their not containing so much acid as lemons; but the rind of three will suffice for the zest.