305 FILLETS OF FOWLS. by means of a little flour-paste ; fill tliis croustade. -mtli some purie of trufaes (jSTo. 121), pour some Supreme sauce (No. 38) over tbe plain fillets, and round the base of the entree, and serve. 995. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A l’INDIENNE. Teiai the fillets of three yoxmg fowls, and form the million fillets into three large ones, by patting them together; when trimmed in shape, place them and the others in a sautapan, with some clarified butter, and a similar number of thin slices of raw ham (preriousiv soaked in water) cut in the shape and size of the fillets. When about to send to table, fiy the fillets of fowls and the ham of a light-brown colour, pour off all the grease, then add a spoonful of glaze, a pat of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg; toss the whole together gently over the stove-fire imtil mixed ; dish them up, alternately placing a fillet, a piece of ham, and then a fried crou- ton of bread, of the same shape. Pour some Espagnole sauce (No. 3 ' and some small scollops of mangoes into the sautapan containing the fillets and ham, simmer this over the fire for five minutes, then pour it over the entree, and serve. 996. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA MARECHALE. Teivi the fillets of three or four fowls, and with the minion fiUets form three or four large ones ; make a slight incision down the centre of each fillet, so as to hoUow it out a little: this must be done on the rough side. Then, chop a truffle, one shalot, and a little parsley very fine, and simmer these for five minutes in a small stewpan, -with a bit of butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze, add the yolks of two eggs, and with this preparation fill the hollow made in the fillets, and then mask them over on both sides with a little stiffly- reduced Allemande sauce (No. 7) ; when this has become firmly set upon them by cooling, bread-crmnb the fillets twice over: having once after dipped them in beaten eggs, and again after they have been sprinkled over with clarified butter ; pat them gently into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them upon a dish in the larder, TSventy minutes before sending to table, cover the gridiron with a piece of oiled paper, place the fiUets upon this, and broil them (on both sides) over a clear coke fire, of a bright-yellow colour; when they are done, glaze them lightly, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour some reduced essence of fowls under them, and serve. Note.—Eillets of fowls d la Marecliale may also be served witn every kind of delicate vegetable garnish ; with white or brovn Italian Bcruce; Avith Marechale, Supreme, Venetian, Provengale, Perigueux, or Crayfish sauce: and also with either of the following essences :— Anchovy, truffle, fine-herbs, or shalot. 997. FILI.ETS OF FOWLS, A LA VALENCAY. Teim eight fillets of fowls, and lay them flat upon an earthen dish. Prepare a sufficient quantity of purh of truffles (No. 121), in which incorporate two yoUcs of eggs, and then spread this over the fillets on both sides ; when the coating has become firmly set by cooling, bread- crumb the fillets over twice once with egg, and the second time, X