DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 112 its foundation; add some lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; work the sauce well together over tlie fire, and pour it round the turbot; glaze the fish lightly, garnish it with groups of fine large crayfish and quenelles of whiting coloured with some gi'ecn Eavigotte (No. 185). Sei-ve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 400a. turbot a la vatel. Pbepare and dress a turbot according to the directions given for turbot a La Parisienne (No. 398); when done, drain and place it on a dish, reduce the liquor in which it has been baked, and incorpo rate it with some Supreme sauce, finished with green Ravigotte butt^fi’ (No. 185); add two dozen oysters, some button mushrooms, ana thirty crayfish tails, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Cover the turbot with this sauce, and gai’nish it round with fried smelts—trussed with their tails in their mouths (and previously boned and stufifed), with an inner row of small fillets of soles, which have been contises, one-half with truffles, and the other with thin scollops of the red part of the tail of a lobster turned round, and simmered in a little butter in a sauta-pan. Serve as usual some of the sauce in a boat. 401. TURBOT A LA CREME AU GRATIN. Boil a turbot, drain it on a dish, and while it cools prepare some cream Bechamel sauce (No. 5); reduce it, and add the yolks of four eggs, four ounces of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, a little minionette pepper, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice. With a spoon cut the turbot into flakes, and put them in the sauce, taking care to waste none of the delicate meaty part of the fins, the cheeks, and glutinous membranes of tlie fish. Stir the whole lightly together, and pile it neatly in the shape of a dome on the dish ; cover it thoroughly and smoothly with some finely-sifted bread-crumbs fried and mixed with a fom’th part of grated Parmesan cheese ; garnish round with fried croquettes of potatoes; and twenty minutes before sending to table, put the turbot thus prepared in the oven to gratinate; pass the red- hot salamander over it, to melt the cheese, and pour round the inner circle of the croquettes some Bechamel sauce made with good rich cream. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. 401a. turbot a la creme au gratin, another way. This, as well as the foregoing, may be prepared from the rem- nants of a previously dressed fish, as follows :— Place the flakes of turbot in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6), pile it up in the centre of the dish, shake some grated Parmesan cheese on the surface, pour some double cream over this, and having placed the dish over a moderate stove-fire in order to gratinate the fish slightly, at the same time hold a red-hot salamander over it to give the surface a very light brown colour; which, when satisfactorily terminated, some potato croquettes, or pastry fleurons, should be neatly placed round the qdge of the dish, and immediately served. 402. TURBOT AS MATELOTTE NORMANDE. Prepare a small plump turbot, in every respect according to the directions given for dressing a turbot a la Parisienne (No. 398);