ENTREES OF FISH. 342 buttered paper over the quenelles^ and set them to simmer gently by the side of a stove-fire for about twenty minutes. Wlien done, drain them upon a napkin, stick some thick pieces of the antennae, or horns, cf the lobsters in one end of the quenelles, dish them up in close circular order, pour some Vertpr6 sauce (No. 21) over them, fill the centre with picked prawns’-tails (previously warmed in a little glaze and lobster coral), and serve. 1114. BOUDINS OF WHITINGS, A LA SUPREME. Pound the fillets of four skinned whitings, and rub them through a fine wire sieve ; put the produce in a mortar, wdth two-thirds of its quantity of fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada (No. 239) ; pound these until well mixed, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding three yolks of eggs, and continue pounding for five minutes, then add two whole eggs, and after these have been thoroughly mixed in by pounding, take the force-meat up into a basin. Previously to using the force-meat, add a spoonful of Alhmande or Bichamel sauce; next, shake some flour over a slab or table, divide the force-meat with a table-spoon into fouideen equal parts, roU these with the hand dipped in flour into small oval shapes, and place them immediately in a sautapan spread with butter; mask them over with a soft paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate them with black truflles. Poach the houdins with bofling water, in the usual manner; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle, so as to show the decorated part; flU the centre with a ragout consisting either of muscles, oysters, shrimps, crayfish, or mushrooms; pour roimd some Supreme sauce (No. 38), finished with some reduced essence made from the bones of the fish, and serve. 1115. QUENELLES OF WHITINGS, A LA PRINCESSE. Mould sixteen quenelles in table-spoons, with some force-meat of whitings prepared as directed in the above case, mixed with a spoonful of puree of mushrooms (No. 122) ; place the quenelles in a sautapan spread with butter, poach them in the usual manner, and when done, drain, and dish them up in close circular order; pour some Princesse sauce (No. 45) over the entree, fill the centre with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel (No. 199), and serve. 1116. BOUDINS OF SALMON, A l’iTALIENNE. Pound about one pound of fresh salmon, and pass it through a fine wire sieve; then put it again into a mortar with two-thirds of its quantity of fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada (No. 239) ; pound these thoroughly for about five minutes, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding three yolks of eggs ; mix these well together, then add one whole egg, and a spoonful of reduced Allemande sauce, continue pounding for ten minutes longer, after which take the force-meat up into a basin. Mould four large queneUes with ra^o«^-spoons, and place them in a deep sautapan spread with butter; lay a small fillet of sole contise with black truffles round the edge of each quenelle, poach them in the usual way, and when done, drain them upon a napkin, then dish them upright against a narrow crdustade of fried bread, previously fastened in the centre of the dish; place a large crayfish between each quenelle, garnish the top of the