189 AKD SUCKING-PIGS. the remainder 'with one pound of pork sausage-meat, and use this kind of stuffing to fill the paimch of a sucking-pig; se'w it up with a trussiug-needle and string, spit, and roast it in the usual manner: and when done, dish it up as directed in the foregoing cases; ob- serving, that the stuffing should be kept as whole as possible in the separated sides, G-amish 'with a richly varied Chipolata ragout (No, 190), and again round this place eight decorated quenelles : a dozen large cray-fish should also be placed up the centre, one over- laying another: glaze the pig and serve, 644. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA PROVENCALE. Ho AST sixty large chestnuts, remove their husks while yet hot, and after pounding them in a mortar with four ounces of butter, rub the produce through a wire sieve, and put the piirh into a ste-wpan; add thereto, a few chives, sweet-basil, parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf well chopped, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the yolks of three eggs; mix well together, and use this preparation to fill the paxmch of a plump sucking-pig, and roast it in the manner already directed. Then, cut it up and place it upon the dish, garnish the remove 'with a border of tomatas au gratin (No. 1160), pour some Gasconne or Provengale sauce under it, and send to table. 645. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA NAPOLITAINE. Take half a pound of polenta,* mix it in a ste'wpan 'with a quart of good consomme, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same quantity of butter; season -with nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir the whole on the fire quickly till it bods, and then continue stirring it on the fire until it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, when add four ounces of picked Sultana raisins and a small pot of orange marmalade: mix the whole lightly together, and -with it fiH the paimch of the sucking-pig: roast it in the usual way, di-ride and dish it up, garnish ivith a border of polpettes (No. 1062), pour a well-made NapoHtaine sauce (No. 63) under the pig, glaze the remove, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing different methods for dressing sucking-pigs, they may also be served d la Financiere, -with Poivrade, tomata, Maitre cCHotel, Piquante, Robert, or Bretonne sauce. BEAIZED HAMS, coiirmsiNG Braized Ham, with Spinach, &c. '//’cstphalia Ham, roasted, d la St. James. Westphalia Ham, d VEssence. ,, d la Parisienne. t, baked. Granada and Bayonne Hams. 646. BRAIZED HAM, WITH SPINACH, ETC. When about to dress a ham, care must be taken after it has been trimmed, and the thigh-bone removed, that it be put to soak in a large • A kind of farina much used in Italy, obtained from Indian corn, and procurable at Crosse and Blackweia’s, Soho Square.