MEDICINAL BROTHS, ETC, 52 onions, celerj', three cloves, and a blade of mace; and after it has boiled gently by the side of the stove-fire for three hours, sti-ain it through a napkin into basins for use. This consomme is used for clearing and working the grand Espagnole sauce, for colouring clear soups, and also for finishing some of the special sauces. MEDICINAL BKOTHS AND CONSOMMES FOB INVALIDS, COMPEISINQ Plain chicken broth. Crayfish broth. Pectoral do. do. Decoction of snails. Mutton do. Mucilaginous chicken broth. Beef tea. 223. PLAIN CHICKEN BROTH. Cut a young fowl or chicken into four parts, wash tliese well in cold water, and put the pieces into a stewpan with one quart of spring water, and a very little salt; set it to boil on the stove-fire, skim it well, and then add the heart of a white cabbage lettuce, and a handful of chervil; boil the broth for about an hour, and then strain it through a napkin into a basin. 224. PECTORAL CHICKEN BROTH. Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put them into a stewpan with three pints of spring water; set it on the stove-fire to boil; skim it well, and add a little salt. Take two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, wash it in several waters, and add it to the broth—together with one ounce of marsh-mallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose of better extracting its healing properties. The broth should then boil one hour, and be passed through a napkin into a basin, bo be kept ready for use. 225. MUTTON BROTH. Take three pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of veiy fresh mutton, cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water, and put them into a stewpan with two quarts of cold spring water; place the stewpan on the fire to boil, skim it well, and then add a couple of turnips cut into slices, a few branches of parsley, a sprig of green thyme, and a little salt. When it has boiled gently by the side of the stove for an horn’ and a half, skim off the fat from the sm-face, and tlien let it be strained through a lawn sieve into a basin, and kept for use. 226. BEEE TEA. Take two pounds of the lean part of the gravy piece of beef, and carefully pare away every portion of fat, skin, or sinew; cut this into small square pieces tlie size of a nut; put the beef into a stewpan capable of containing two quarts, and pour three pints of boiling water upon it; add a little salt, put it on the stove-fire, and as soon