ENTREES OF MUTTON. 2G4 remove them from the fire, that they may partially cool in their own liquor; and then put them in press between two dishes. When the cutlets are cold, trim them neatly, and cover one side only with a rather-thick coating of the foUo'wing preparation:—Clean two large sticks of horse-radish, and grate them ; put this into a small stewpan with a small pat of butter, two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, a pinch of mignionette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of sugar; put the lid on, and set the whole to stew very gently for twenty minutes on a very slow fire ; then add two gravy-spoonfuls of Veloute sauce, boil the whole weU together for ten minutes, mix with this sauce the yolks of four eggs, and a small piece of glaze, and use this preparation as directed above. Next, mask the coated side of the cutlets with a paste-brush dipped in some white of egg that has been beaten up, and sprinkle this surface over with very fine bread-crumbs, previously fried of a fight colour, with a little butter : place the cutlets in neat order in a sautapan, with a little half glaze, and a quarter of an hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be Avarmed through, without allowing them to acquire any more colour; dish them up with a very small paper ruffle on the bone of each cutlet, pour some half glaze (made "with their own liquor, previously strained, divested of all grease, and after- wards boiled down) imder them, and serve. Note.—Mutton cutlets, when braized according to any of the fore- going directions, may be served with aU sorts of dressed vegetables, such as stewed peas, asparagus-peas. French-beans, broad-beans, Macidoine of vegetables. Jardiniere, braized lettuces, &c., and also with all kinds of puries of vegetables: for making which, see those articles. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, COJIPP.ISIXG Scollops of Mutton, with Fine-herbs. Scollops of Mutton, with Olives/arc»^. „ d l(i Claremont. „ with Mushrooms and ,, with Oysters. Truffles. ,, d I’Tndihme. 859. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH FINE-HERBS. Bone a loin of mutton, and with a sharp knife pare ofl* the sinewy skin which lies beneath the fat of the upper and under or minion fil- lets. Next, cut these fiUets into neatly-trimmed scollops, and place them in a circular order in a sautapan with two ounces of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire, imtil browned on both sides ; then pour off the grease, and add suffi- cient fine-herbs sauce (No. 14) for the entree; allow the whole to simmer together over the fire for three minutes, and then dish up the BcoUops, either in a pyramidal form, in a close circle, or else in an omamenfal border of potato or rice. These scollops may also be garnished with a border of croquettes of mutton, mushrooms, potatoes, or rice.