ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 2 A 2 them in the folds of a napkin, and send the following sauce separately in a sance-boat:—Miy a gdl of the finest salad-oil Avith a table- spoonful of chopped pai'sley, the juice of a lemon, some mignionette- pepper, a little salt, and tAVO table-spoonfuls of half-glaze (made by boiling doAvn about a giU of the mirepoix, in which th^e truliles have been boded), wliich send to table in a sauce-boat. 1163. TRUFFLES, A LA PIEMONTAISE. Cut half a pound of fresh truffles into scoUops, place them in a sautapan A\*ith tAvo table-spooidids of Lucca-od, one of chopped parsley, a little chopped thjane, a clove of garlic, some mignionette- pepper and salt; fry them over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes, remove the garlic, then add a gravy-spoonful of Italian or Espagmk sauce, a smj^ piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the Avhole together over the fire, and poui’ it over the hoUoAV crusts of tAVO French rods, from which the top cmst part has been removed, then tluckly spread with butter, and afterwards placed in the oven for ten minutes to become crisp. 1164. PORTUGAL ONIONS, A l'ESPAGNOLE. Peel the onions, and stamp out the cores with a long vegetable- cutter about quarter of an inch in diameter; parbod them in water, for ten minutes, and then drain them upon a cloth. Spread the bottom of a deep sautapan Avith butter, place the onions in it, moisten with broth sufficient to just cover them, and set them to boil gently over a slow fire, occasionally turning them in their liquor ; Avhen they are nearly done, add a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, bod them doAvn quickly to a glaze, and when this is done, rod the onions in it, and dish them up in a close circle. Next, pour a gravy-spoonful of puree of fresh tomatas, and an equal quantity of bright Espagnole sauce, into the remainder of the glaze, boil this together over the stove-fire, pour it round the onions, and serve. Note.-—These onions are better adapted for gamishiug removes of braized beef, &c., than for being served as a second-comse dish. 1165. ARTICHOKES, WITH BUTTER SAUCE. Teim the bottoms of six artichokes, cut off the tips of the leaves, and boil them in water with a dttle salt, for about three-quarters of an hour; when done, drain them upon a sieve, and immerse them in cold water for five minutes; loosen the fibrous substance in the inside Avith the handle of a table-spoon, and after this has been ad removed from the artichokes, put them back into some hot water for a few minutes to warm them through ; drain them upside-doAATi upon a napkin to absorb ad the moisture, and then dish theiu up on a napkin; pour a dttle butter sauce (No. 71) inside each, and send up some of the sauce in a boat. 1166. ARTICHOKES, A LA BARIGOULE. Teim six sraad artichokes, and with the handle of aai iron table- spoon, scoop out ad the fibrous part inside. Put about a pound of