285 ENTREES OF LAJMB. cutlets from the neck, insert a small piece of hone in each, and bread- crumb them over a coating of Allemande sauce, dip them in some beaten egg, bread-crumb them again, and place them in a sautapan with danfied butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets in both sautapans; as soon as they are done, glaze them lightly and dish them up—alternately placing a plain cutlet and one that is bread-crumbed; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour some Espagnole half-glaze round the entree, and serve. —Epigrammes of lamb may also be garnished with a Uaruguette, with scollops of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, &c. 928. BREASTS OF LAMB, A LA VILLEROI, WITH PEAS. Beaize two breasts of lamb, in the stock-pot, or in any kind of white broth ; when done, take them up carefully, remove all the bones, and reserve these for the purpose of making cutlet bones with; put the breast in press between two dishes, and v/hen cold cut them into about twelve pieces, in the form of an elongated heart, or of a cutlet; stick a small bone in at the narrow end, and spread a coating of re- duced Allemande sauce over them; when this is set firm by coolmg, roll them first in bread-crumbs and then dip them in beaten egg, and bread-cnimb them over again. When about to send to table, fry these cutlets in plenty of hog’s-lard quite hot, dish them up, garnish them with stewed peas, pour some half-glaze round the base, and serve. Note.—Breasts of lamb prepared d la Villeroi may also be served with spinach, endives, cucumbers, asparagus-peas. Macedoine, &c. 929. BREAST OF LAMB, A LA MARECHALE, WITH NEW POTATOES. Teim and prepare these, in the same way as the foregoing, but the coating of sauce must be thinner in this case ; bread-crumb them twice over the sauce, first dipped in beaten egg and then in clarified butter, over which bread-crumb them the second time; put them in shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in a sautapan with a little clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets of a light colour, drain them on a sheet of paper and glaze them lightly; dish them up, and serve some white Italian sauce (No. 13) under them. They may also be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. 930. LAMB CUTLETS PLAIN, WITH CUCUMBERS. In trimming these cutlets, care must be taken not to pare off any More of the fat than is positively necessary to give them shape. When trimmed, place the cutlets in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, fry them on both sides of a light-brown colour, pour ofi‘ the grease, throw in a little glaze, toss them over the fire in this, and dish them up; garnish the centre with prepared scollops of cucumbers (No. 138), pour a little Espagnole or half-glaze rouncf the entree, and serve. 931. LAMB CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED, WITH ASPARAGUS-PEAS. Teim the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, rub them over %vith a paate-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread-crumbs;