115 SALMON, Salmon a Ici Chainboroi. „ a la Regence. „ a la Genoise, „ d la Cardinal. ,, d la Victoria. coMpnisixo Salmon d la MarSchah. „ d I’Anglaise. „ d I’Ecossaise. Slices of Salmon d la Tartan. Matdotte of Salmon. ,, d la VenitiirMit. 412. SALMON A LA CHAMBORD. Take a whole salmon, and when properly cleansed, truss it in the shape of the letter S, wdiich is effected in the following manner:— Thread a trussing needle with some twine, pass this through tlie eyes of the fish, and fasten the jowl by tying the string under the jaw; then pass the needle through the centre part of the body of the salmon, draw the string tight, and fasten it round the extremity of the tail; the fish will then assume the desired form. Boil the salmon in salt and water; when done, drain it on a dish, and immediately take off the whole of the skin, and put the fish to cool in the larder. In the meantime, prepare some quemlle force- meat of whitings, part of w’hich should be coloured with some pormded lobster-coral, and as soon as the salmon is cold, spread a layer of this over the whole surface of the fish, taking care to smooth it with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; this part of the process being completed, ornament the salmon by laying some fillets of soles which have been contises with truffles in a slanting position across the hack, fastening the ends under the belly of the salmon by means of the force-meat; mark out the head and eyes of the fish with fillets of black tmffles. Then place the salmon on a buttered drainer of a fish-kettle, and cover the fish with thin layers ot fat bacon; moisten with a bottle of dry Champagne, garnish with a faggot of parsley, tlayme and bay-leaf, sliced carrot, and onion; place a buttered paper over the whole: and put the lid on. Next, make it boil on the stove-fire, and then put it in the oven or on a slow fire to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; drain the salmon and place it on a dish, and put it in the hot closet till wanted for table. Meanwhile, strain tlie liquor in which the salmon has been braized, reduce it to a glaze, add some finished Espagnole or brown sauce, essence of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, a pat of anchovy butter, and lemon-juice; and pass the sauce through a tammy mto a bain-marie. Just before sending to table, remove the layers of bacon, and ai’- range groups of quenelles of whiting, mushrooms, tmffles, large cray- fish, and soft roes of mackerel, round the salmon, sauce the fish I’ound in the inner circle with the hot sauce, and serve. Let there be some of tlie sauce, with tmffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles of whiting in it, sent to table in a boat. I 2