REMOVES OF BEEF. 158 the sauce throagh a tammy into a Iain-marie. When about to serve the dinner, place the fillet on a dish, and surround it with groups of macaroni dressed with cheese, in the usual manner, some raviolis (No. 375), tossed in a little glaze, and some sultana raisius stewed for ten minutes in a little white wine; glaze the beef over, pour the sauce round the fillet, on which, at each end, and at the centre, with an ornamental skewer fix a turnip, cut in the shape of a cup (par- boiled in salt and water coloured with cochineal), and filled with grated liorse-radish, and send to table; observing that some of the sauce should be sent in a sauce-boat sepai’ately. 553. FILLET OF BEEF, A LA MACEDOINE. Trim, lard, and prepare a fillet of beef according to the first part of the preceding instructions; moisten it with two ladlefuls of good stock, and proceed to braize the fillet in exactly the same manner; when done, glaze and dish it up. Grarnish it round with groups of carrots, turnips, French-beans, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower—the carrots and turnips to be turned or cut into the shape of small olives, or cloves of garlic, the French-beans in the shape of diamonds; and observe that each kind of vegetable shoidd be separately prepared and tossed in a little Bichamel or Allemande sauce, previously to being placed round the fiHet of beef. Sauce round the fillet with the clari- fied and reduced braize in which it has been done, glaze the fiUet and send to table. 554. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA JARDINIERE. Beaize a larded fillet of beef according to the foregoing instructions, and when done, glaze and place it on its dish: garnish it round with alternate groups of turned cairots and turnips, to which give the shape of olives, round balls, diamonds, small half-moons, or any other suitable fancy shape—all which must be previously boiled in broth, with a grain of salt, a little sugar, and a small piece of butter; intermixed with these, place also some groups of green-peas, French-beans cut in diamonds, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower. Sauce the fillet of beef round with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence in which the fillet has been braized (previously clarified and reduced for this purpose), glaze the fillet and send to table. 555. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, DRESSED AS CHEVREUIL. (roebuck.) Procure part or a whole fillet of beef, as occasion may require, 1 emove the sinewy skin which covers the fat side, trim it neatly, and lard it closely; then lay the fillet for a day or so to steep or pickle in a pan containing a sufficient quantity of cold marinade (No. 234), pre- pared for the purpose. Next, when the fillet has become saturated with the marinade, drain it, and prepare it for braizing exactly in the same manner as in any one of the preceding cases; moisten with a bottle of sherry, and braize the fillet of beef in the usual way; when it is done, glaze it well, and place it on its dish. G-amish it round with potatoes turned in the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in clarified butter; sauce the fillet round wdth a weU-made Chevreuil sauce (No. 69), with the addition of half the essence in which the beef has been braized, and which as usual, has been previously