33 OF VEGETABLES. are wanted for immediate use; then set them on the fire to boil, in order to absorb any moisture they may have thrown out, previously to adding a ragout-spoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or brown sauce, as the case may require. 139. GABNISII OF CUCUMBERS FARCIS. Cut three or more cucumbers into two-inch lengths, with a vege- table-cutter, scoop out the seeds and peel off the green rind, i^are away the sharp angles at the ends, and then parboil them in Avater for three minutes, plunge them in cold water, and put them to drain on a napkin ; then fill uja tlie cavities Avith some quenelle force-meat of foAvds. Next garnish the bottom of a deep sauta-pan Avith some thin layers of fat bacon; place therein the cucumbers thus prepared —and in the centre put a faggot of parsley and green onion; cover the whole Avith layers of fat bacon, and moisten with some white consomme of chicken. Let them simmer veiy gently on a slow fire for about an hour, and just before the cucumbers are wanted for use, drain them on a napkin and then put them into another sauta-pan Avith their OAvn liquor—freed from all grease, and afterwards reduced to a demi-glaze; just roll the cucumbers lightly in this glaze over a shaiq) fire, so as to cause the glaze to adhere to them, and thus give them a bright appearance. This kind of garnish of cucumbers is frequently used for whole entrees and removes, such as larded entrees of sweetbreads, fricandeaux, fillet of beef, carhonades, fowls, &c., &c. 140. GARNISH OF CELERY A LA CREME. Trim and well wash six heads of full-sized white celery, cut them into half-inch lengths, boil these in Avater for fi\’e minutes, drain them on a sieve, and immerse them in cold Avater; then place them on a napkin. Next, put the celery in a steAvpan with a lump of sugar, a pat of butter, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten AAdth a ladleful of Avhite consomme, and set it to boil gently on a stove-fire for about an hour; as soon as the celeiy is Avell done, boil it doAvn in its glaze, and then add a spoonful of good reduced Bechamel sauce. When this garnish is required as a sauce for fowls, &c., it will be necessary to increase the quantity of Bechamel sauce, and also to add a little cream. 141. GARNISH OF CELERY A L’ESPAGNOLE. Prepare the celery as directed in the foregoing article, and Avhen it is tlioi’oughly done, add a ragout-spoonful of finished Espagnole sauce and a small piece of glaze. 142. GARNISH OF YOUNG CARROTS A LA FLAMANDE. Turn a bunch of young carrots into the shape of small pears, boil them in Avater for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, and tlien place them in a steAvpan Avith a pat of butter, one ounce of sugar, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten Avith a ladleful of consomme, and set them to boil gently on a stove-fire for half an hour; as soon as tliey are done, boil them doAvn to a glaze, and then add a ragout-spoonful of good Allemande sauce, and a spoonful of blanched D