GENOESE CAKES. 409 bruise tlie pistaeliios. The nougat must now be spread out in the form of a square on a baking-sheet or marble slab (previously oiled), to the thickness of about the eighth part of an inch ; some roughly- Droken granite sugar should be strewed over the surface, and before it becomes cold, the square must be divided into two bands, and then again each of these cut in about a dozen small oblong nougats. Wlien about to send to table, pile them up in close circular rows on a naukin, and serve, 1287. SMALL NOUGATS, A LA CHANTILLY. Ingeedients required:—Three-quarters of a pound of ripe filberts, and six ounces of poimded sugar. Scald the nuts, remove the skin, then split each kernel in four— lengthwise, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven meanwhile, stir the sugar in the boiler over the fire in the usual manner, and as soon as it is ready, mix in the above; have half a dozen small dariole-moxAda ready, oiled inside, put some of the nougat into each of the moidds, and use a small stick made of hard wood (about half an inch iu diameter) to work the nougat up the sides, or into the flutes of the moulds; pare away all that may rise above the edge of the moulds, and then turn them out on to a baking-sh-eet. About eighteen will suffice for a dish. Several persons should assist in moulding these nougats, in order to insure their all being of one colour; otherwise, from being frequently obliged to warm the nougat, it is liable to become dark. When about to send these nougats to table, each should be fiUea with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or maraschino, and a few strawberries (when in season) placed on the top ; dish them up neatly in a pyramidal form on a napkin. 1288. GENOESE CAKES. Ingeedients required:—Half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, four eggs, a small glass of brandy, and a little salt. Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt, well together in a basin with a wooden spoon; then add the butter (merely melted by the side of the fire), and when this is thoroughly incorporated with the batter, pour it into an appropriate-sized baking-sheet, previously spread with butter, to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and bake this in an oven moderately heated. When the Genoese paste is done, it should be turned out upon a sheet of paper, and cut or stamped out, either in circular, oblong, oval, angular, leaf-hke, or any other fancy shapes that taste may sug- gest. These may then be decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for meringues (No. 1298), or with icing prepared as directed for wedding cakes (No. 1277), and ornamented with pista- chio-kernels, currants, &c. Those cut in the form of leaves, rings, oblongs, &c., may be ornamented by forming a design composed of leaves and pearls (using for that purpose some menn^zte-paste in a paper comet, or small biscuit-forcer) ; when the Genoese cakes are ornamented in this manner, shake some fine sugar over them with a dredger, and diy them either in the screen or at the entrance of the oven; then, fimsh decorating them by placing some neat stripes or