416 BISCUITS. Btitiiting in their place some orange-sugar and candied-orange-peel cut into small shreds; some very small moulds must he slightly buttered, fiUed with some of the hatter, some sugar silted over them, and then baked of a very light colour in a very moderate oven. 1298TEACH BISCUITS. Peepaee some butter as directed for fingers (Ko. 1276), and, with this, proceed to form some small round biscuits (using a biscuit-forcer for that pui’pose) on a baking or sheet of paper ; if the former, it must be previously buttered and floured, shake some sugar over the biscuits, and bake them of a very light coloiu*; and, when they are done, and removed from the baking-sheet or paper, spread the under parts with some kind of preserved fruit (peach marmalade being most appro- priate), stick two of these together; thus forming as nearly as possible the shape and size of a peach, these must now be very thinly covered aU over with some white icing, which, when dry, must be very slightly brushed over with a soft pencil-brush dipped in a very small quantity of . carmine, thereby giving to the cake merely a tinge of colour similar to that displayed by the ripe peach. These cakes may be dished up with whipped cream in the centre of the dish. 12981 APEICOT BISCUITS. These are prepared in aU respects according to directions given in the preceding article, excepting that they should be made smaller,— so that they may form a near resemblance to apricots in size and form, apricot jam being used to stick them together with; and, when so far prepared, are to be dipped in the following preparation:—To one pound of fine loaf sugar placed in a sugar-boiler, add half a pint of spring water j boil these over a brisk stove-fire until the sugar while boiling throws up pearl-like bubbles; the degree of boiling required for glazing being ascertained by taking a small quantity of the boiling sugar between the fore-finger and thumb (previously dipped in cold water), and if the sugar when pressed with the fingers presents the appearance of strong glue, it should then be removed from the fire, and ten minutes afterwards, whatever flavouring is intended to be used, must be in a liquid state, such as liqueurs, strong vanilla, orange or lemon syrups, or infusions: any one of the foregoing must be gradually mixed in \Anth the boiled sugar, quickly stirring and working the sugar in the pan the while ; and, when thoroughly mixed, the cakes shoidd be dipped in—and being afterwards placed on a Avire drainer, placed in the hot closet for a few minutes to set. The yellow tinge required for the glaces in this case may be given by using either some orange-sugar or a small decoction of saffron; the latter is objectionable, on account of its flavour. 1298 h. CHOCOLATE GLACES. The foundation for these may be made either of pound-cake, Ge- noese, or song-cake; the batter for making either of the foregoing may be flrst baked in a baking-sheet, and afterwards cut out in shapes and sizes to suit taste or convenience; or otherwise may be baked in ap- propriate moulds or cases for the purpose; they must then be dipped in the following preparation:—Tirst, boil the sugar as directed in the foregoing article, and when it has reached its proper degree, add six