FILLETS OF FOWLS. 303 pose of removing it; it must then be trimmed neatly round at the thick end, and nearly to a point at the thin end. The fillets should now be arranged, all in the same direction, in a sautapan with some clarified butter; then seasoned with a little salt, covered with a circu- hir piece of buttered paper, and placed with the others. It is neces- sary to observe that if the large fillets incliue from right to left when placed in the sautapan, the minion fillets should be curved in the opposite direction: the latter may be decorated, or contish with truffles or tongue; in which case they must be covered with thin layers of fat bacon. "V^en about to send to table, place the sautapan containing tlie large fillets over a stove-fire, and as soon as they become set and w hitened on one side, turn them over immediately on the other, and do not let them acquire any colour; then, quicldy pour off all the butter, add a large spoonful of Supreme sauce (No. 38), and having tossed the fillets in it over the fire without allowing them to boil or simmer, dish them in a close circle with a roimd scollop of red tongue (previously warmed in a little half glaze for the purpose) between each of them; fill the centre with scollops of button-mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, place the minion fillets, in a similar row to the others, upon the top of them; pour some Supreme sauce round the entree, and upon each of the fiUets, without masking the pieces of tongue, and serve. 990. SUPEEME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA TOULOUSE. Peepaee the large fillets as in the foregoing case, and when the smaller ones have been trimmed, lard them closely, and place them in a sautapan upon thin layers of fat bacon, in a curvnd form. A quar- ter of an hour before sending to table, finish the large fillets as in the foregoing case, substituting Alhmande for Supreme sauce, and this should, be incorporated with some reduced essence of fowls, a pat of butter, a Little cream and lemon-juice. The larded fillets must be moistened with a little half-glaze, placed in the oven for about six minutes, and nicely glazed; then, (fish up the large fillets in a close circle with a crouton of bread, cut in the form of a deep crescent, fried in butter, and glazed; fill the centre with a ragout of cock’s-combs, truffles, mushrooms, small quenelles, and cocks-kernels, tossed in some of the sauce; dress the larded fillets round the top of the others, poiu some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 991. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, WITH TRUFFLES. Peepaee this in the same way as in No. 989 ; decorate the small fillets with truffles, finish and dish up the entree as therein directed, and fill the centre with scollops of truffles tossed in a small stewpan with a little glaze, and a very small piece of fresh butter; poiu the Supreme sauce (No. 38) rormd the base, and on the fillets, and serve. 992. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PARISIENFiE. Teim eight or ten large fillets of fowls, and decorate them with black truffles, in the following manner:—Tirst, spread the bottom of a sautapan large enough to contain the fillets, with fresh butter; tlien place the fillets therein, all curved in the same direction, Avith the smooth side uppermost. Next, rub each fillet over slightly with a