ENTEEMETS OF EGGS, ETC. COMPRISING i ;ggs, d la Tripe. „ au gratin. „ Brouilles, with Truflios, &c. Omelet, with Fine-herbs. ,, with Shalots. „ with Pannesan Cheese. ,, with Kidneys. ,, with Oysters. Poaclied Eggs, with Anchovy Toast. „ with Ham. Dauphinc. „ d I’Aurore. „ with Nutbrown Butter. Eggs, d la Suisse. Maccaroni, d I’ltalihina „ with Cream. „ au gratin. „ d la Florentine. Nouilles, d la Palerme. „ a la Vanille, Indian Sandwiches. Anchovy Sandwiches Italian Salad. Russian Salad. German Salad. Nouhles, or Niochi, d la Viennoise. 1193. EGGS, A LA TRIPE. Boil eight eggs hard, immerse them m cold water for three minutes, take off the sheUs, cut them ia rather thick shces, and put these into a stewpan. Next, cut three small onions ia slices, separating the folds ia riags; these must be first parboiled ia water, and then after being boiled in Avhite broth, should be drained on a sieve and placed ^\'ith the eggs; add two ra^ouif-spoonfuls of good BecJiamel sauce (No. 5), as much garlic as can be held on the point of a knife, a pinch of mignionette-pepper, a little nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon : toss the whole together over the stove-fire, and when the eggs are quite hot, dish them up in a conical form; garnish round with croutons or jieurons, and serve. 1194. EGGS, AU GRATIN. Boil the eggs hard, and when done, take off the shells, cut them in slices, and set them aside on a plate. Next, put a large ra^ow^-spoonfiil of white sauce into a stewpan to boil over the stove-fire, and when it is sufficiently reduced, add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small pat of butter, a little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, the yolks of four eggs, and the juice of half a lemon; stir this quickly over the stove until it begins to thicken, and then withdraw it from the fire. Place the eggs in close circular rows in the dish, spread some of the preparation in between each layer, observing that the whole must bo dished up in the form of a dome; smooth the surface over with the remainder of the sauce, strew some fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese over the top, put some fried croutons of bread or fleurons round the base, and set them in the oven to bake, or (jratinate for about ten minutes, then send to table. 1195. EGGS, BROUILLES, WITH TRUFFLES. Break eight new-laid eggs into a steu-pan, to these add fom* ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of truffles (cut up in very small dice, and simmered in a little butter), a gid of cream, a small piece of glaze, a