COLD SAUCES. 22 93a. ORLEANS SAUCE. Take tlie red part of a boiled caiTot, the fdlets of six washed anchovies, the white of two eggs boiled hard, and six green gher- kins ; cut these into small square dice-like shapes, and place them in a small bain-marie, add half a pint of Poivrode sauce, boil together gently for five minutes, and use this sauce for braized meats. 93b. devil’s sauce.* Chop three shalots fine, and place them in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, and a pinch of cayenne pep- per; boil these together for three minutes; then add half a pint of thin strong Espagnole sauce, and a tablespoonful of Tomata sauce; boil again, and finish by stirring in a small part of anchovy butter (No 179). This sauce is most appropriate for broiled meats. COLD SAUCES, Canibridcre Sauce. Jtemoutade do. Tartar do. Mayonnaise do. Green do. do. Red, or Coral do. do. 'COJri'KISING Mayonnaise Sauce of sarorj' jelly. Provenqalc Sauce. Cold Poivrade do. Wild Boar’s Head do. Brawn do. 94. CAAIBRIDGE SAUCE. Take the yolks of six eggs boiled hard, the fillets of four anchovies, cleaned, and put them into a mortar, with a tablespoonful of French capers, some tarragon, chervil, chives, and a little burnet, blanched; pound these well together with a teaspoonful of English mustard, the same quantit}" of French, and some pepper and salt; moisten with good salad-oil, and a little Tarragon-vinegar, taking care that the sauce be kept rather thick. Having sufficiently moistened the sauce, take it out of the mortal’ into the tammy placed over a dish for that purpose, and proceed to rub the sauce through the tammy in th§ same manner as 0.2'niree; pass the back part of a knife along the under part of the tammy, in order to detach therefrom any adhe- sive pai’ticles; take the sauce up into a small basin, to be kept on the ice till wanted for use, and just before sending to table add some chopped parsley. Obseiwe, that this sauce be kept about the same degree of thickness as reduced Veloutc sauce ; salt must be used in moderation, owing to the presence of anchovies in the composition. 95. REAIOULADE SAUCE. Blanch some taiTagon, chervil, chives, bumet, and parsley; extract the water and pound these herbs together, with four yolks of hard eggs ; moisten with a gill of salad-oil, and a tablespoonful of Tarra- gon-vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pass the sauce through a tammy as for a pmrh, and then take it up into a small basin; keep it on the ice till it is required for use.