319 FILLETS OF DUCKLLN-GS. 1037. DUCKLINGS, WITH STEWED PEAS. Prepake these as directed in the foregoing cases. Stew a quart ot young peas (No. 146), and finish them with a little of the glaze made from the liquor in which the ducklings have been braized ; the members or small joints of the ducklings must also be warmed in some of tho same glaze, and dished up in a pile upon some of the stewed peas, garnish the base of the entrk with the remainder: place a row of scoUops of the streaky bacon upon these, pour some bright Espagmle sauce (No. 3) over the entree, and serve. 1038. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA BIGARRADE. Draw and singe these, and pick out any remaining stubble-feathers on the ducklings; then separate the breast from the legs and backs, by running the knife in just above the thighs and cutting through the upper part of the back imder the wings; roast the backs and use them for making the Bigarrade sauce with (No. 33). Place the breasts in a deep earthen dish, season with a little mignionette-pepper, salt, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of a lemon, and allow them to steep in this for several hours ; about three quarters of an hour before dinner, run a large iron skewer through the breasts of the ducklings and tie them on a spit, then place the whole of the seasoning upon them, wrap them up with a large sheet of oiled paper, and set them before the fire for about twenty minutes: at the end of that tune, remove the paper and seasoning, and allow the ducklings to acquire a bright colour; then remove them from the spit, observing that they should be done with the gravy in them. The fillets must then be tj^en out, slightly trimmed and scored, and placed in a sautapan with a Httle half-glaze or some of the sauce, and allowed barely to simmer over a stove-fire to warm ; they should then be dished up in a close circle with a fried crouton of bread in between each fillet: poiu the Bigarrade sauce over the entree, and serve. 1039. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA MACEDOINE. These must be prepared in the same manner as the foregoing: when the fifiets are trimmed, place them in a sautapan with some half- glaze made from the carcasses, and when about to send to table, warm them without allowing them to bod, as that would make them tougli; dish them up in a close circle with a crouton of fried bread in between each fillet, fill the centre with a Macidoine of vegetables (No. 143), pour some bright half-glaze round the base, and serve. 1040. SALMIS OF FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. Prepare the breasts of the ducklings and roast them ofi:' in the manner directed for those a la Bigarrade ; cut them out, trim and score them, and place them in a sautapan with a little half-glaze. Next, roast the legs of a light-brown colour, and when done, break them up, and put them into a stewpan ^vith four shalots, a handful of parsley, a dozen pepper-corns, some mushroom trimmings, a bay-leaf, and sprig of thyme; moisten with a pint of Claret or Sauterne wine, and set this to bod very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; then, strain it off through a sieve, add this extract or essence to an equal proportion of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and work it in the ordinary manner ; when it has been cleared by gentle ebullition, and