224 REMOVES OE BLACK GAME AND GROUSE, COMPRISING black Game, d la Montagnardc, black Game, d la Paysanne. „ a ritalienne. „ d la Norwegienne, &c. „ d la Suedoise. 747. BLACK GAME, A LA MONTAGNARDE. Cut off the legs and wings, tuck the thighs inside the birds, and eplit them down the back; season well with pepper and salt, rul) them over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and then broil them carefully on a gridiron, over a clear fire perfectly free from smoke: or place the birds in a baking-dish or sautapan with a piece of butter; set them to bake in the oven, and baste them frequently. When done, glaze them nicely, and dish them up with a border of potato croquettes, and then pour under them some Poivrade sauce (No. 129), finished with a piece of anchovy-butter and some lemon-juice. 748. BLACK GAME, A l'iTALIEKNE. Truss the birds as for boiLing, put them into an oval stewpan with garnished faggot of parsley, two carrots, two heads of celery, two onions, each stuck with three cloves, a blade of mace, twenty pepper- corns and two cloves of garlic; moisten them with a gill of brandy nnd a large ladleful of good stock; place a buttered paper on the top, put the Hd on, and set them to braize on a very slow fire, with some live embers on the Hd. If the birds are young, one hour and a quarter will suffice to braize them; but if old they will require longer time. "When the birds are done, draiu, glaze, and dish them up, garnish with macaroni finished with the liquor from the birds, freed from every particle of grease, and boiled down with the macaroni; to this add sis ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a spoonful of tomata sauce (No. 22), and four oimces of fresh butter; pomr some brown ItaHan sauce (No. 12) over the birds and roimd their base, and serve. 749. BLACK GAME, A LA SUEDOISE. These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval stewpan with one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound of German sausage, a good-sized carrot, two heads of celery, two onions stuck with four cloves each, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a tea-spoon- ful of black p^percoms; moisten with three pints of fermented juice of beetroot (No. 380) and two glasses of brandy, cover with buttered paper and the Hd containing live embers, and set them to braize slowly on a stove-fire partiaUy smothered with ashes. 'VVlien the birds are done, take them up on a dish and keep them covered up in the hot closet until they are dished up. Next, strain the Hquor through a napkin, skim off all the grease, bod it down nearly to half-glaze, then add to it a smaU ladleful of finished Espagnole sauce (No. 3), together with a glass of red vrine; allow this sauce to boil by the side of the