62 CLEAR CONSOMME 254. JARDINIERE SOUR Prepare the same vegetables as for spring soup, boil them in a strong consomme, and just before sending the soup to table add to it a pint of puree of green peas. 255. JULIENNE SOUR Take tliree red carrots of a large size, as many sound tui’nips, and the white parts of the same number of leeks, heads of celery and onions. Cut all these vegetables into fine shreds an inch long. Put them into a convenient-sized stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Simmer these vegetables on a slow stove-fire, taking care they do not bum; wdien they become slightly brown, add three quarts of hlond de veau, or light-coloured consomme; let the soup boil, skim all the butter off as it rises to the sui’face, and when the vegetables are done, throw in the leaves of two cabbage-lettuces and a handful of son’el, shred like the carrots, &c., add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil; boil the whole for ten minutes longer, taste the soup in order to ascertain whether the seasoning is correct, and serve. 256. CIIIPFONADE SOUR Truss two spring chickens, and boil them in some good white consomme. When done and cooled, cut them into small members, paring off the skin; put these into a well-tinned stewpan, together with the stock they were boiled in, which should be clarified, if it be not sufficiently bright. Set the stewpan on the stove-fire to boil, and then add the white leaves of four cabbage-lettuces, a small handful of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and one head of celery shred fine. See that the soup be perfectly seasoned and of delicate flavour, and send to table. 257. NIVERNAISE SOUP. Take four turnips, cut them into the form of small cloves of garlic, fry them in a little butter and sugar in a stewpan over the fire to give them a light brown colour, then drain them upon a sieve and put them into a soup-pot. Scoop out the red part of two large-sized red carrots, blanch or parboil these for ten minutes, and, when sti’ained, add them to the turnips; then pour upon the vegetables tliree quarts of strong bright consomme, and set the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire until the vegetables are thoroughly done, taking care to skim off the butter as it rises to tlie surface. Ten minutes before dinner-time, tlirow into tlie soup, while boiling, some very small Brussels sprouts that have been previously parboiled; and just be- fore sending this soup to table, add to it about two or three dozen very small quenelles of pheasant. 258. XAVIER SOUR Mix with six ounces of sifted flom’, half a pint of double cream, four ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of grated Paimesan cheese, a little minionette pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When these ingredients have been thoroughly mixed together witli a wooden spoon, put the stewpan containing them on the fire—stirring it quickly and continually, until it begins to thicken, when it should be