ENTllEES OF VEAL. 273 large scollops, measuring about two inches in diameter, and when neatly trimmed, should be placed in a sautapan with some half-glaze to warm them in. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the tendons in the oven, or on the stove-fire, to simmer for ten minutes; then allow them to boil briskly, so as to reduce the glaze, in which they must be gently roUed, to make it adhere to them; dish them up in a close circle upon a base of quenelle force-meat, fill the centre with stewed peas, pour a little thin Espagnole sauce into the sautapan, to be mixed with the glaze by boiling, use this to put round the entree, and serve. _N'ote.—Tendons of veal prepared as above, may also be served with every other kind of dressed vegetable garnishes, as well as with aU sorts oipurees of vegetables ; for making which see those articles. 886. TENDONS OF VEAL, A LA VILLEKOI, WITH PUREE OF CELERY. Prepaee, braize, and trim the tendons, as directed in the foregoing case ; put them on a large earthen dish, and mask them over with a coating of stifily-reduced Allemande sauce ; when this has become firmly set upon the tendons, by cooling, let them be dipped in beaten egg and bread-crumbed, and afterwards fried of a light colour in clean hog’s lard, made quite hot for the purpose. Let them be dished up in a close circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with some puree of celery (No. 110), pour some half glaze or a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce roxmd the entree, and send to table. Note.—Tendons prepared in this manner may also be garnished as the former. 887. VEAL KERNELS, WITH PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. Veal kernels are an oblong fatty substance, containing a kind of small kidney of great delicacy, lying to the left of the blade-bone of the shoulder; these must be steeped in water for about half an horn’, then parboiled for five minutes, immersed m cold water, drained upon a napkin, and put in press between two dishes. Prom ten to sixteen kernels suffice for an entrie. The kernels must be trimmed without waste, and placed in a deep circular fricandeau pan, upon thin layers of white veal; then moisten with some white-wine mirepoix (No. 236), and set them on a slow fire to braize very gently for about three quarters of an horn’, bearing in mind that the heat of the stove is to be so regulated as to cause their liquor to be reduced to one-half its original quantity. The kernels must then be cai’efuUy removed into a sautapan, and their half glaze, when strained and divested of all grease, poured upon them. Place them on a brisk fire, and let them boil quickly till their moisture is reduced to a glaze, roll them gently in this, causing as much of it as possible to adhere to them, to give them a bright appearance. Then dish them up in a close circle upon a base of force-meat of veal, with a crouton of fried bread of the same shape between each kernel; fill the centre with some puree of arti- chokes (No. 117), pour some half glaze romad the entree, and serve. Note.—Veal kernels prepared and dished up in this manner may bo garnished with all kinds of dressed vegetables and jowre'es. T