433 ICED PUDDINGS. fire until the eggs are set firm in the rice, and then finish the fritters as directed in the preceding article ; using plain sugar to glaze them. 1337</. GERMAN FRITTERS. Divide one pound of Brioche-paste into twenty-four equal parts; next, mould these into small finger-shapes, and bake them of a very light colour. These fingers must now be placed in a deep sautapan, and a pint of cream, previously boiled with a stick of vanilla in it, is to be poured over them, and they are to be allowed to soak therein until quite cold; after which they must be bread-crumbed by being first dipped in lieaten egg, and then roUed in the bread-crumbs. About twenty minutes before the fritters are required to be served, fry them of a bright light colour, in heated hog’s-lard, shake some vanilla sugar over them, and when neatly piled on a napkin, send to table quite hot. ICED PDDDHSTGS AND OENAMENTED ENTEEMETS, COMPRISING Iced Cake, d la Stanley. Iced Rice Pudding, d la Cintra. Iced Pudding, d la Cerito. ,, d la Prince of Wales. ,, d la Chesterfield. „ d la Kinnaird. ,, d la Prince Albert. ,, d la Farisienne. ,, d la Duchess of»Kent. Biscuit glacis, in small cases. Nesselrode Pudding. Iced Pudding, d la Princess Alice. milefeuilles Cake, d la Chantilly. Apples and Rice, ornamented. Apples and Rice, plain. „ d la Fortuguaise. „ in the form of a Porcupine. „ d la Fortuguaise, another way Flan of Peaches. Napolitain Cake, d la Chantilly. Croquante of Oranges. ,, of Fresh Walnuts. „ of Ratafias, d la Chantilly. Meringue, d la Farisienne. Grosse-Meringue, with Pistachios. Swan of Savoy Biscuit, d la Chantilly. Savoy Cake, in the form of a Glazed Ham 1338. ICED CAKE, Eibst, make a Parisian cake (in a fluted mould), as directed in No. 1273. Next, prepare a compote of greengages in syrup; these must be kept whole, and of as green a colour as possible. Then, prepare a custard in the following manner: -—Mix ten yolks of eggs with a pmt and a half of boiling cream, eight ounces of sugar, and sufficient cinnamon and lemon-peel to flavour it; add a very little salt, and stir the whole in a stewpan over the fire until it begins to thicken ; the custard should then be immediately passed through a tammy or sieve, into a basin, and allowed to become A LA STANLEY.