THE MODERN COOK COMMON STOCK AND STOCK SAUCES. 1. COMMON STOCK, OR GRAND STOCK FOR GENERAL PURPOSES, When about to prepare for the reception of company, it is advis able to begin, if there be sufficient time, two days beforehand in summer, or three days in winter, by getting ready the grand stock —an article so essential to all the after preparations, that it may be looked upon as the basis of operations. The meat required for this purpose should be sent in the over night if possible. The quantity to be ordered must, of course, depend upon the extent of the dinner party, and the number of entrees. For a dinner of twelve entrees, two legs of white veal (about forty pounds Aveight), the same quantity of gravy beef, and forty pounds of leg of beef and knuckles of veal, Avould be required. First take the legs of veal in hand, and cut out the noix or fricandeau pieces, which is that part adhering to the udder; set these pieces apart to be used either for fricandeaux, (jrenadins, or noix, for removes or entrees, as the case may be. Cut all the meat away from the bones, keeping the veal separate from the beef. Break up the bones, and put them,—together with the inferior pieces of beef, into a large stock-pot half full; fill this up with cold water, set xt on the fii’e to boil; skim it well, garnish it with carrots, turnips, celery, and leeks; aA’oid the use of spices or herbs, and use salt sparingly. When the broth has boiled gently for seven hours, sti-ain it through a broth napkin into lai’ge kitchen basins to cool, and place them in the larder for the next day’s use. In connection with this subject, I will now describe the prepara- tion of the two gi’and stock sauces, Esparjnole and Veloutc, as tliesc, being the basis of the various special sauces xised in modei'n cookery, should, together with the gi’and stock, be fii’st attended to. 2. STOCK SAUCES, BROWN AND WTIITE.* The first thing to be attended to on the folloAving morning is tc “mai’k off,” or prepare the stock sauces, viz. the Espagnole or bi’own sauce, and the Velonte or white sauce, in the following manner :— Take Hvo large stewpans, well tinned and thoroughly clean; spread * Although great care and watchful attention are requisite in every branch of the culinary art, the exercise of these qualities is most essential in the preparation of the grand stock sauces. If the first process which these undergo be not successfully effected, no subsequent care will remedy the mischief.