481 1. CLARET CUP. Ingredients:—One bottle of Clarot, one pint bottle of Gorman Seltzer-water, a small bunch of balm, ditto of burrage, one orango cut in slices, half a cucumber sliced thick, a liqueur-glass of Cognac, and one ounce of bruised sugar-candy. Process :—Place these ingredients in a covered jug well immersed in rough ice, stir all together with a silver spoon, and when the cup has been iced for about an hour, strain or decanter it off fiee from the herbs, &c. 2. BADMINTON CUP. Ingredients:—One bottle of red Burgundy, one quart of German Seltzer-water, the rind of one orange, the juice of two, a wine-glass of Cura9ao, a bunch of balm, ditto of burrage, a sprig of verbina, one ounce of biniised sugar-candy, a few slices of cucumber. Process:—Place these ingredients in a covered jug embedded in rough ice for about an hour previously to its being required for use, and afterwards decanter the cup free from the herbs, (fco. 3. CHAMPAGNE CUP. Ingredients;—One bottle of Champagne, one quart bottle of German Seltzer-water, two oranges sliced, a bunch of balm, ditto of burrage, one ounce of bruised sugar-candy. Process :—Place these ingredients in a covered jug embedded in rough ice for an hour and a quarter previously to its being required for use, and then decanter it free from the herbs, &c. 4. SAUTERNE CUP. Ingredients:—One bottle of Sauterne, one pint of Vichy-wator, two oranges sliced, a bunch of balm, ditto of burrage, one ounce of bruised sugai^candy. Process:—Place these ingredients in a covered jug embedded in ice for an hour and a quarter previously to the cup being required for use, and then decanter it. 5. MOSET.LE CUP. Ingredients:—One bottle of sparkling Moselle, one quart of German Seltzer-water, a bunch of balm, ditto of burrage, two oranges sliced, one ounce of bruised sugar-candy. Process:—Place these ingredients in a covered jug embedded in rough ice for an hour and a quarter previously to the cup being required for use, and then decanter it free from the herbs, &c, 2i