311 ENTEEES OF FOWLS. peas, or puree, a Macidotne of summer vegetables, Pokrade, or Tomata sauce. If garnished with dressed vegetables, some essence of lowl should be poured round the base ot the entree. ENTEEES OE FOWLS Oil CHICKEiVS, COMPRISING Galantines of Legs of Fowls, d la Financiere. ilinced Fowl, with Rice. „ ,, d la Jardiniere. Scollops of ditto, aw (/raft/i. Minced and Grilled Fowl. Kromeskys of Fowl, d la Rmte. IMinced Chicken, and Poached Eggs. Croquettes of Fowl, with Mushrooms, &c. Minced Fowl, with Macaroni. Mince, or Salpicon, for Patties. 1011. GALAXTIXES OF LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA FINANCIERE. The legs must be carved from the carcasses of the fowls Avith the whole of the skin from the back left adhering thereto; then bone these entirely without di\dding the leg, or, as it is commonly called, the drum-stick part. The feet should be cut with part of the leg-bones left on, scalded, and the outer skin carefully removed, Avithout tearing them ; trim these neatly, leaving only part of the claws in, and stick them into the small aperture of the legs, whence the drum-stick bones have been removed: when properly done, this gives them a neat and plump appearance. They must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and about a dessert-spoonful of force- meat, in which has been mixed some fine-herbs, placed in the centre ; a large needle and some coarse thread should be used to draw the skinny part of the legs up into a purse, and must then be fastened to secure them in shape. The galantines must next be larded closely on the plmnp part of the thigh, in the same manner as a sweetbread, and then placed in a deep sautapan, the bottom of which should be strewn Avith sliced carrot, onion and celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and covered with some thin layers of fat bacon, upon which the galantines are to be placed. Moisten with sufficient consomme, or broth, to reach nearly up to the larding : place a buttered paper on the top, cover Avith the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set them to braize gently for about half an hour over a moderate stove- fire, or else in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When they are done, remove the lid and the paper, and put them in the oven for a couple of minutes to dry the lardmg; then glaze them nicely, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle similarly to cutlets ; fill the centre Avith a Financkre ragout (No. 188), pour some of the sauce rormd the entree, and serve. Note.—Galantines dressed in this manner may also be served with endive, sorrel, puree of green-peas or asparagus, stewed peas, or d la Macidoine. 1012. GALANTINES OP LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA JARDINIERE. In this case, the legs of the fowls should be entirely laid open with the knife, and all the bones removed; they must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned Avith pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of force-meat, mixed with fine-herbs, placed in the centre of each; then