353 2 A . VEGETABLES FOR ENTREMETS. water, and afterwards squeeze all the water from it. The spinach must next be carefully turned over "svith the point of a knife, to remove any straws or stalks that may have been overlooked; it should then be chopped or pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a coarse wire sieve, and placed in a stewpan with about two ounces of butter, a little salt and grated nutmeg; stir the spinach over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes quite warm, then add a gravy-spoonful of good sauce, a small piece of gkze, and about four ounces of fresh butter. Work the whole together, with a wooden spoon, imtil well mixed, then pile the spinach up in the centre of the dish, garnish it round with jrdutons, and serve. 1156. SPINACH, WITH CREAM. PfiEPABE the spinach as above, season with a little nutmeg, salt, and two ounces of fresh butter; stu it over a stove-fire until quite warm, then add a gill of double cream, two pats of butter, and a good dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar; work the whole well together over the fire, and dish up the spinach as directed in the foregoing article. 1157. ENDIVE, WITH CREAM. Pick off all the outer leaves, leaving only the white; trim the roots, and wash the endive in several Avaters, carefully removing any msects that may be concealed in the inner folds of the leaves. Put a large stewpan half filled Avith water on a brisk fire, and when it bods, throw in the endives, with a handful of salt, and allow them to con- tinue boding fast untd they become quite tender; drain them in a colander, immerse them in plenty of cold water, then squeeze all the moisture from them, and place them on a sieve. Next, take each head of endive separately, cut off the root, and again look over the leaves, spreading them on the table with the point of a knife ; when this is completed, chop them very fine, ana pass them through a coarse wire sieve. Then, place them in a stewpan Avith a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir this over the fire for ten minutes, add half a pint of double cream, a gravy-spoonful of Bechamel or Velouti sauce, and a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar; keep the endives boiling on a stove-fire untd suffi- ciently reduced so as to be able to pde them on a dish when sending to table; garnish roimd with croutons or jieurons, and serve. 1158. CAULIFLOWERS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Eemove the green stalks, diAude them, if large, into quarters, and AAuth the point of a small knife pick out all the small leaves; wash the cauliflowers, and bod them in hot water Avith a little mignionette- pepper, a pat of butter, and some salt: when done, drain them upon a sieve. Next, take a round-bottomed quart basin and fid it Avith the cauliflowers, placing the flowerets next the sides, that the white only may show when dished up; previously to turning them out upon the dish, drain them again on a napldn, by turning the basin up- side doAvn upon it; after which, turn the cauliflowers out into their dish, pour some Avhite sauce (No. 71) over them, garnish Avith/ez(ro?is, and serve,