REMOVES OF VEAL. 166 578. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA JARDIiNflERE. Prepare the fillet of veal as before described, dish it up, and ffarnish it round with groups of turned carrots and turnips, small heads of cauliflower, Prench-beans, cut into diamonds, green-peas, and asparagus-heads; sauce with half glaze, or a well-finished Espagnoh sauce, and send to table. 579. ROAST NECK OF VEAL, A LA CREME. Procure a neck of white fat veal, saw off the scrag and spine-bones, shorten the ribs to four inches in length, run a stout iron skewer through the neck of veal, length^v^se, and then secure it on the spit by tying it with string at each end; about an hour and a quarter before dinner, put it do-wn to roast, baste it frequently, and about twenty minutes before taking the veal off' the spit, baste it Avith some good Bichamel sauce, made wth plenty of cream. As in course of roasting the sauce dries on the veal, keep adding a fresh coating, imtil a light-coloured delicate crust is produced aU over the meat; then take it off’ the spit wth great care, in order that the crust may not be distiubed; dish it up, pour a good cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6) under it, garnish it round with gi'oups of French-beans, cut in diamonds and buds of cauliflower, and send to table. 580. BRAIZED NECK OF VEAL, A LA MONTMORENCY. Trim a neck of white veal, according to the directions given in the preceding article; then, with a thin long-bladed knife, pare off the sldn and sinew which cover the fillet part of the neck, leaving tho ribs well covered; lard the part which has been trimmed as closely and neatly as possible, and prepare it for braizing, as follows :— Strew the bottom of the drainer of an oval braizing-pan with three carrots, three onions, two heads of celery, and a garnished faggot; cover the vegetables with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the neck of veal; lay the trimmings round it, and moisten mth two ladlefuls of good veal stock; put a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, upon which place live embers of charcoal, and set it tc braize gently on a slow fire, taking care to baste it frequently ivith its OAvn liquor. When it is done, which will require about three hours, glaze it brightly, and dish it up ; garnish vfitli a white ragout of sTnn.l1 quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’-combs ; then place round the ragout a border of lambs’ sweetbreads, larded, and large quenelles of fowl, decorated with tongue, and send to table. 581. NECK OF VEAL, A LA DREUX. Trim a neck of veal, dauhe or interlard it through the fillet with some truffles, tongue, and fat bacon; first cut these into three-inch lengths, by a quarter of an inch square, and then introduce them into the fiUet-part of the neck of veal, without shoiving through the skin which covers it; it should then be braized according to the directions in the foregoing article, and when done, glazed, and dished up. Gar- nish with a white ragout of scollops of tongue and mushrooms, and round this place a border of large cra}^sh, and glazed whole truffles; glaze the neck of veal, and send to table.