HADDOCKS, AND COD’S SOUNDS. 129 papBi ; iiioisten. ■with three glasses ot white wine, and put the haddocks in the oven to bake for about half an hour. Then remove the paper and bacon, and slip them "with great care on to their dish; sauce them round with Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and garmsh with a bor- der of qmnelles of whiting in which has been mixed a sufficient quantity of very fine chopped parsley, to colour them, and send to table. 456. HADDOCKS BROILED, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. To broil haddocks in perfection, it is necessary, first, to wipe them well over, and then to score them with a sharp knife ; next to steep them in a little salad oil, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before dinner, place the haddocks on a gi’idiron which has been rubbed with whitening and broil them; when done on both sides, dish them up on a napkin, and send some Dutch sauce (No. 42) to 'table in a boat. 457. HADDOCKS BOILED, WITH EGG SAUCE. Boil the haddocks in salt and water ; when done, di’ain and dish them up, and send them to table •with egg sauce (No, 84) in a boat. This fish, when plain boiled, may be sent to table with almost every kind of fish sauce. 458. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA EOYALE. Fillet one or more haddocks; remove the skin by passing the Jvuife under the fillet, so as to detach the tail end of the skin from the fish, then take a firm hold of the piece of detached skin, and inserting the knife, -with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw the skin towards you, and keep mo-ving the knife to and fro, at the same time pressing the blade firmly on the skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut each fillet into two or more smaller fillets, trim them neatly, by paring off the rough edges; place them in a basin with two sliced shalots, some sprigs of parsley, oil, and lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. About ten minutes before dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and afterwards dip each fillet separately in some light batter, and fiy them of a fine colour in some hogs’-lard, heated for the purpose ; when done, drain them on a napkin to absorb the grease; dish the fiUets in the form of a wreath, lying shoulder to shoulder, pour in the centre some white Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 459. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA MARECHALE. Peepaee these in the same manner as fillets of turbot d la Mafe- chale (see No. 404). 4G0. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A l’iTALIENNE. Fillet one or more haddocks, remove the skins, cut and trim them mto smaller fillets ; place these neatly in a sautapan -with some cla- rified butter ; season -with pepper and salt, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, sprinkle some chopped parsley ; over all place a round of buttered paper, and put them in the oven, or on a moderate fire, to sunmer for about ten minutes; then drain the fillets on a napkin, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a wreath, one fillet rest- ing on the other, and pour some Italian sauce mixed -with a pat of butter, a little ancho-vy and lemon-iuice over them, and send to table. K