346 ENTREES OF FISH. up, pour either some Provengde, Dutch, Fine-herbs, Ravigotte, or Maltre d’Hotel sauce xmder them, and serve. 1130. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA HORLY. Teim the fillets of soles, and steep them for several hours in the same kind of seasoning directed to be used for No. 1129—substituting two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar for the lemon-juice. Drain the fillets on a cloth, in order to absorb the moisture, then shake them in some flour, drop them into some clean hog’s-lard, and fiy them of a light colour ; drain the fillets upon a sieve covered with paper, dish them up in a pile, pour either some Tomata, Italian, Piquante, Pavi- gotte, or Provengdle sauce round them, and serve. 1131. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA ROTJENNAISE. Fillet three large soles, divide each across, and trim them in the shape of fillets of fowls ; mask them over with a coating of d' Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firm upon them by cooling, bread-crumb them twice over in the ordinary way; stick apiece of the horns of a lobster into the narrow end of each fillet, so as to give them the appearance of cutlets, and place them in a sautapan, with some clarified butter. Fry the fillets of a bright-yellow colour, on both sides ; drain, and then dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre wdth a Eouennaise ragout (No. 197), and serve. 1132. PAUPIETTES OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA CARDINAL. Teim the fillets of four large soles, spread them upon a napkin, garnish each with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with some lobster coral, and roll each fillet up in the form of a small barrel; spread four sheets of letter-paper with butter, then place four paupiettes in each, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and roll them up tightly, to keep them in shape. Place these rolls of paupiettes in a sautapan, and put them in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then remove the papers, dram the paupiettes upon a napkin, pare oif the ends with a sharp knife, and dish them up on their ends, side by side, in a close circle, so as to show the coral; fill the centre with some Cardinal ragout (No. 200), pom some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 1133. DOLPHINS OF 'WHITINGS, A LA PARISIENTIE. Sein fom fine fresh whitings, and remove the back-bones without detaching the fillets from the head; roll out, and bake a circular piece of common paste, nearly the size of the bottom of the dish ; fasten thereon a pfllar-shaped croustade of fried bread three inches high, and one inch in diameter. Prepare some force-meat of whitings, colomed with lobster coral, and mask the heads ^d fillets of whitings entirely with it, smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water; then turn the tail-ends of the fish, inwardly, down upon the centre of the head—giving to each the form of a heart; place them upright against the croustade, with their heads resting flat upon the foundation Ox paste, and decorate them over with half-moons of black tniffles, placed thereon so as to represent scales of fish ; cover them with very thin layers of fat bacon, and encircle the entrk with a band of buttered