CALF S LIVER, ETC. 282 trim tliem neatly, and with the point of a knife, cut the white gristle of each into slits,—taking particular care not-to draw the knife through —so that when the thiu part of the ears is turned down, the stripes may form themselves into loops or curls. When the ears are ready to dish up, fill each with a decorated quenelle or a round truffle, garnish with a ragout d la Tortue (No. 189), and serve. 916. calf’s ears FRIED IN BATTER, WITH TOMATA SAUCE. Peepase the ears as directed in the foregoing, and when done, let them be trimmed; scrape off the soft skiu from the upper part, and cut each ear into four pieces lengthwise; put them to steep in a basin with two spoonsful of salad oil, one of vinegar, two sliced sha- lots, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and a little mignionette-pepper and salt. About twenty minutes before dinner time, dram the pieces of ears on a cloth, dip them in some light batter, and fry them in plenty of hog’s-lard heated to the proper degree for the purpose. Wlien fried, dish them up Lo a pyramidal form, pour some Tomata sauce (No. 22) imder them and serve. Note.—Calf’s ears prepared in this manner, may also be served with any of the following sauces: Piquante, Poivva^, Italian, Gherkin, Poor-man’s, Provengcde, or Richelieu. K, however, this kind of fritter IS not eaten as soon as served, it would be better to send the sauce separately. , 917. calf’s FEET, A LA BASCALINE. Separate each foot into halves, by splitting the hoof with a knife, take the bone out, and scald these in boiling water for five minutes ; the feet must then be braized in Uanc (No. 235), and when done, drained upon a cloth, cut into pieces about two inches square, and put into a stewpan containing some button-mushrooms and PascaMne sauce (No. 15) ; toss them in this over the stove-fire imtil sufficiently hot, and serve with a border of jieurons or potato croquettes round the entree. 918. calf’s FEET FRIED IN BATTER, WITH ITALLAN SAUCE. These are prepared in aU respects the same as calTs ears fried, but substituting Italian sauce (No. 12) for Tomata sauce. 919 calf’s LIVER BRAIZED, WITH VEGETABLES. Choose a liver of a bright pinky colour, entirely free from any whitish spots ; wash and wipe it dry, and then lard it through with strips of ham and fat bacon,—previously seasoned with chopped parsley, pepper, and a very little salt; cover the bottom of a stewpan with veal or other trimmings of meat, place the Hver upon them, gar- nish with two carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves each, t^vo heads of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten with t^vo glasses of Sherry, and a quart of strong stock ; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and set the liver to braize very gently on a slow fire for about two hours and a half: frequently basting it with its own liquor while it is being braized. When done, remove the hver into a deep sautapan, with part of its hquor, previously reduced to half-glaze; use the remainder to work some brown sauce