336 ENTREES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. ^ntrie witli some prawns’ tails tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral, pour some Frintaniere sauce round the base, and serve. 1094. CREPINETTES OF PARTRIDGES, A LA D’ESTAING. To the quantity of quenelle force-meat named in the foregoing article, add half that proportion of fat bacon (previously boiled), and four ounces of French truffles, both cut into small dice, also a table- spoonful of Espagnole, and a similar quantity of partridge glaze (in a liquid state), and season with a Little cayenne; mix weU together, and then drop this preparation in table-spoonfuls upon a slab or table, over which some flour has been previously sprinkled; mould the cripinettes into the form of so many eggs, and vsTap each of these in a proportionate-sized piece of pig’s-caul; flatten them slightly by press- ing upon them with the Angers, dip them in clarified butter, and fry them over a brisk stove-fire to a light colour; drain them upon a napkin, dish them up in a close circle, pour some half-glaze of nar- tridges mixed with a small pat of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 1095. SOUFFLES OF PARTRIDGES, A LA ROYALE. PfiEPAEE some purk of partridges (No. 1090), warm it, then add five yolks of eggs, whisk the five whites and mix them in lightly also. Fill a dozen small plaited fancy-paper cases with this preparation, pass a soft paste-brush dipped in half glaze over their surfaces, put them on a baldng-sheet, and bake them in a moderately-heated oven for about twenty miuutes ; then dish them up on a napkin, and serve. These souffles may be served in lieu of patties, after the fish. Note.—Partridges dressed whole are also served for entries, for which see Kemoves (No. 724). ENTEEES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES, COMPRISING Woodcocks, d la Financiers. Salmis of Woodcocks, d la Minute. ,, ala Ferigord. „ d la Bourguignotte. Fillets of Woodcocks, d I’Ancienne. ,, d la Bordelaise. „ d la Ferigueux. 1096. WOODCOCKS, A LA FINANCIERE. Truss three woodcocks in the usual way, and lard the breasts closely ; place them in a stewpan lined at the bottom with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wiue mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of buttered paper upon them, cover with the lid containing live embers of charcoal, and set them to braize gently for about three- quarters of an hour over a moderate fire, or in the oven; frequently basting them with their own liquor. Wlien the birds are nearly done, remove the lid and paper, to dry the larding for a minute or so, then glaze the woodcocks, and drain them upon a plate; remove the strings, and place them in the dish A\nth their backs resting upright against a