84 FISH SOUPS. remain in the larder until wanted. Then cut into small shreds or dice six young carrots, a little celery, and a few parsley roots; and having put these into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a sprig of thyme, some minionette pepper, and a little salt, set the whole on the fire to be fried of a light colour. Next, throw in the remainder of the prawns, as well as the bodies of those from which the tails have been taken ; and then add a pint of Sauterne wine ; allow these ingredients to boil for ten minutes, and then add a quarter of a pound of rice previously boiled in broth, and also a quart of strong white consomme of veal. Having allowed this to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for half an hour, strain the whole into a sieve,—reseiwing the broth in a basin. Then pound the pra\vns, rice, and vegetables all together in a mortar, dilute with the broth which has been reserved, and rub the whole through a tammy in the usual manner; put the puree into a soup-pot, and keep it in a cool place until dinner-time, when, having made it sufficiently hot without allowing it to boil, finish it by mixing in witli it some lob- ster coral butter, a little soluble cayenne pepper, and the juice ot half a lemon. Pour the soup into the tureen containing the fifty prawns’ tails, with three dozen small quenelles of ti’out, and serve. FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS IN GENERAL, COMPRISING Oyster Soup ci la Plessy. Soup of fillets of Soles a la Bagration. Potage of Eels a la Richmond. Do. of fillets of Flounders a, I’Anglaise. Sturgeon Soup d VAmSricaine. Do. d VAnglaise. Sturgeon Soup d la Chinoise. Do. d VIndihine. Water-souchet of Crimped Salmon. Do. of Plain Salmon. Do. of fillets of Perch. Do. of fillets of Soles. 336. OYSTER SOUP A LA PLESSY. Four dozen of oysters will suffice for eight persons. Blanch or scald these by boiling them for a few minutes on the fire, drain them and save the liquor; wash the oysters, and pull off the beards and tendons, leaving only the delicate fat part of the oysters, which put into a basin with their liquor. Next, prepare some quenelles from the fillets of three whitings ; put their bones and trimmings into a small stewpan with six flounders, an eel cut into pieces, some parsley roots, a carrot, one head of celery, a sprig of thyme, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns. To these add a pint of French white wine and the liquor of the oysters; set the whole to boil briskly for ten minutes, then add six whole anchovies (washed for the purpose) and three pints of white consomme. Allow the stock thus prepared to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour; then strain it off through a sieve into a stewpan, and thicken it with some white roux, and as soon as it has boiled, set it by the side of tlie stove to clarify itself in the usual way. When the body of the soup thus far prepared has been nibbed through a tammy, finish it for table just before dinner- time, by mixing in with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, a gill of