DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 130 By varying the sauce, fillets of haddocks prepared in the above manner, are named according to the sauce employed; as for instance;i d la Ravigotte, d la Maitre (THotel, d la Hollandaise, &c. 461. cod’s SOUNDS, AND EGG SAUCE. Pebpaeatoet to boiling cod’s sounds, it is quite necessary that they should be soaked in milk and water for at least sis hours, and then washed and put to boil in a stev'pan containing fresh milk _ and water, then continue gently boiling till they are done—about an hour will suffice for this. When done, drain them on a napkin, cut them into pieces about an inch and a half square, and put them into a stewpan wdth a sufficient quantity of egg sauce (No. 84) ; toss the whole together over the fire, pile them up on a dish in a pyramidal form, garnish them round with neatly-cut boiled parsnips, and send to table. 462. cod’s sounds, a la ravigotte. Prepare and cut the sounds into pieces, as directed in the pre- ceding article ; toss them in some Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), dish them up, garnish round ’svith a border of potato croquettes, and send to table. 463. cod’s sounds, a la gasconne. Prepare the sounds as usual, steep them in oil, vinegar, shalot, and parsley, season with a little mignionette pepper; just before dinner, fry the sounds in batter, dish them up in the form of a wreath, pour under them some Gasconne sauce (No. 68), and send to table. 464. cod’s sounds, a la royale. The sounds should be prepared and fried as in the preceding case; and afterwards dished up similarly, with white Ravigotte sauce (No. 29) poured under them, and sent to table. Cod’s sounds may also be dressed d la Roulette, d VIndienne, d la Bichamel, d la Maitre d'Hotel, in the same manner, of course substi- tuting any of the above sauces for the Ravigotte. BEESSED SOLES, OUENETS, AND MACKEEEL, Soles fried, with Shrimp Kuice. ,, boiled. „ ala Colbert. ,, au gratin. „ with fine-herbs. ,, ala Parisienne. ,, h la Marechale. ,, in Matelotte Normande. „ a la Plessy. COMPRISING Gurnets stuffed and baked. „ a la Dauphine. „ a la Gmoise. Mackerel boiled. ,, broiled, a la Maitre df Hotel. „ broiled with nut-brown butter. Fillets of Mackerel, a la Maitre <PHotel. 465. FRIED SOLES WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. MoDEEATE-faized soles are preferable for fiying, as when large |i*om their size and thickness, they must necessarily remain a coir