SPECIAL SAUCES. Ic 58. CLAREMONT SAUCE. Cut two or more large onions into halves, pare off the ends, cut them into thin slices, and fry them in a stewpan with some butter, of a fine yellow colour; drain off the butter, add a pinch of minion- ette pepper, with a little brown sauce and consomme; set this to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire, skim it, and then, when suffi- ciently reduced, pour it into a bain-marie for use. This sauce, as well as sauce a la Bretonne, is w^ell calculated for making an excellent hash, either with beef, veal, or mutton. 59. PORTUGUESE SAUCE. Grate tne rmd of a lemon, and put it into a small stewpan with a few bruised peppercorns, some mace, six cloves, thyme, and a bay-leaf, with half a pint of sherry; simmer the whole on a slow fire for ten minutes, then add a small ladleful of worked brown sauce, and a little consomme; set this to boil gently by the side of the stove- fire, skim it, reduce it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain- marie for use. This sauce is used for a braized fillet of beef, or minced fillet of beef an graLin a la Forliirjuaise. 60. SICILIAN SAUCE. Chop two truffles, four shalots, a dozen mushrooms, and some pars- ley, separately; put them into a small stewpan with thyme, and a bay-leaf, one clove of garlic, and a little cayenne ; moisten with two glasses of sheiTy, set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes; add a sufficient quantity of Allcmande sauce for the pur- pose required, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then put it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using this sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, the rind of two oranges—pared extremely thin, cut into fine shreds, and blanched—some lemon-juice, and a little pounded sugar. 61. GERMAN SWEET SAUCE. Stew six ounces of dried cherries in two glasses of red wine, together with some bruised cinnamon, cloves, and lemon-peel, for twenty minutes on a slow fire; pass the whole through a tammy into a puree, and put it into a stewpan with a little red iced brown sauce and six ounces of stewed pnines. This sauce is in great request for German dishes; it improves the flavour of braized venison in its varied forms of preparation, and is preferred by many for that purpose to Poivrade or Piquante sauce. 62. CHERRY SAUCE. Put a pot of black currant jelly into a stewpan, together with six ounces of dried cherries, a small stick of cinnamon, and a dozen cloves tied up in a piece of muslin; moisten with half a pint of red wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes; then take out the cinnamon and cloves, and send to table. This kind of sauce is 'well adapted for roast hare or venison