54 BRAIZES, POELES, BEAIZES, POELES, MIREPOIX, ETC., OOMPRISINO Braize for general purposes. White poeie for poultry. Frying batter for fillets of fish, &c Do. for fruit fritters. Boiled Marinade, or pichle. Cold Marinade. 230. BRAIZE FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. Take two pounds of fillet of veal, one pound of fat Yorkshire ham, two heads of celery, and the same number of onions and carrots; cut all these into small square pieces, add a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, one clove of garlic, two blades of mace, and a dozen cloves; throw these ingredients into a middle-sized stewpan in which has been melted down a pound of fresh butter; put the stewpan on the stove-fire, stir- ring its contents frequently with a wooden spoon, Avhile the vegetables, &c., are frying. When this mi.xture becomes slightly browned, pour into tlie pan half a pint of Cognac brandy, allow it to simmer for five minutes, and then add three quarts of common broth. Keep the braize gently boiling for an hour and a half, then strain it off through a tammy cloth (using considerable pressui-e) into a kitchen-pan, and put it away in the larder, to be used for purposes that will be here- after explained. 231. WHITE POELE FOR POULTRY. Cut into dice-shaped pieces two pounds of beef suet, an equal quantity of veal, and the same kind of vegetables, &c., as described in the above-mentioned braize ; to these add the pulp of two lemons, removing the pips; put these ingredients into a middle-sized stew- pan with half a pound of butter, and stir them on a slow fire until the suet is quite melted; then add tliree quarts of common broth, and keep the gently boiling for an hour; it should then be passed through a sieve into an earthen pan, and reserved for tlie puiqDOse of braizing poultry in. Note.—The two foregoing preparations, although vei7 desirable in imparting a rich succulent tlavour to poultry, game, &c., are neverthe- less to be regarded rather as luxurious than essential. Good white or brown stock, as the case may require, can be used as economical substitutes. 232. FRYING BATTER FOR FILLETS OP FISH, POULTRY, GAME, ETC., A LA IIORLY, OR A LA ROYALE. Put into a two-quart basin three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, a little salt, two yolks of eggs, and two ounces of fresh butter previously melted in a small stewpan ; to these add gradually about half a pint of tepid water, and stir the whole together with a wooden spoon until the butter has acquired the consistency and appearance of rich-looking double cream ; it may then be put aside in the larder until within half an hour of its being wanted, when the whites of Blanc or White Braize for dressing calves’ heads. Mirepoix, or Braize for truffles. White roux for thickening sauces. Brawn roiix for do.