28 rUREES OF salt, and a little nutmeg; moisten with a pint of white broth, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it to boil on the fire. 13y the time the broth is reduced, the potatoes will be done; then add half a pint of cream, and with a wooden spoon reduce the on the fire to the usual consistency of mashed potatoes; rub the puree through the tammy on to a dish, and then remove it into a small stewpan; pre- viously to using it, add a pat of butter. 117. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. First, pick off tlie outer leaves of six young full-grown artichokes, then turn, or pare off with a knife, the whole of the outer green part of the bottom of die artichokes, so as to leave it white; when this is finished, rub each artichoke thus turned with a piece of lemon, and put them directly into a pan of water with a little vinegar in it. Then place tlie artichokes in a stewpan with boiling water, a little butter, lemon-juice, salt, and minionette pepper; after three-quai’ters of an hour’s gentle boiling, take the artichokes up, extract tlie fibrous interior from each, and place them in a deep sauta-pan with a ladleful of white sauce, half a pint of cream, nutmeg, a little salt, and a tea- spoonful of sugar; reduce the j^uree quickly over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, and then rub it through a tammy; after which remove it into a small stewpan; finish with a pat of butter and a small piece of glaze. 118. PUREE OF ASPAR.IGUS. Break off the tender portion of a bundle of sprue asparagus, wash them in a large pan, v/ith a good handful of green onions and double that quantity of jiicked parsley; set these on the fire to boil in an untinned pan half full of boiling water, and throw in a spoonful of salt; as soon as the asparagus are done, drain them in a sieve, and remove all the water. Tut the asparagus, parsley, and green onions, altogether into a deep sauta-pan, with a small ladleful of white sauce, the crumb of a French roll (that has previously been soaked in water, and afterwards pressed in a napkin to remove tlie nioistin:e), some grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; reduce the puree quickly on tlie fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stewpan, and keep it in the cool until wanted for use. Finish by adding a pat of fresh butter, a piece of glaze, and some spinach-green, if required, to give it a bright- green colour. 119. PUREE OF ONIONS A LA SOUBISE. Peel and cut into slices eight large onions, parboil them in w'ater for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, immerse them in cold water, and press them in a napkin to extract the water; place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, nutmeg, minionette pepper, a little salt, and a spoonful of white broth; put a round of buttered paper on them, and cover the stewpan with its lid; and set it on a very slow fire, to simmer gently for half an hour. Then turn the onions out into a deep sauta-pan, moisten with a small ladleful of good white sauce and half a pint of cream, reduce the puree quickly on a sharp fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and take it up into a small stewpan. Just before using it. add a pinch of sugar.