4G4 KUSSIAN JELLIES. position, and these must first he dipped in a little liquid jelly. The mould being lined according to the foregoing directions, the hollow may be filled up with either a MacMoine jeUy of fruits, with any kind of cream, or with the remainder of the same, so arranged in it as to have the appearance of marble when cut. 1427. RUSSIAN JELLY Put about two-tliirds of either of the fore-mentioned kinds of jelly into a basin, partially imbedded in rough ice, then whip the jelly with a whisk, until it assumes the appearance of a substantial froth, and begins to thicken; it must then be immediately poured into a mould, and kept in ice imtil required to be served. 1428. PUNCH JELLY. Put the prepared stock from four calves’-feet into a steivpan, to melt on the stove-fire; then withdraw it, and add thereto the follow-* ing ingredients:—Two pounds of loaf-sugar, the juice of sis lemons and four oranges, the rind of one Seville orange and of foim lemons, half a nutmeg, twelve cloves and tw'O sticks of cinnamon, a small cup of strong green tea, a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, and a glass of arrack. Stir these well together, then add sis whites and two whole eggs whipped up with a little sherry and spring-water, and continue whisking the pvmch on a brisk stove-fire until it begins to simmer, then set it down by the side of the fire, and cover the stew- pan with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal; about ten minutes after, pour the jeUy into a flannel or beaver filtering-bag, keep pouring the jelly back into the bag until it becomes quite clear and bright, and when the whole has run through, set it in a mould in ice in the usual way. 1429. ORANGES FILLED WITH TRANSPARENT JELLY, Select half a dozen oranges without specks on the rind, make a hole at the stalk-end with a circular tin cutter, about half an inch in diameter, and then use a small teaspoon to remove all the pulp and loose pith from the interior; when this is effected, soak the oranges in cold water for about an hour, then introduce the spoon through the aperture, and scrape the insides smooth, and after rincing them again in cold water, set them to drain on a cloth. JSText, stop up any holes that may have been made in them while scooping out the pulp, and set the oranges in some pounded rough ice contained in a deep sautapan ; fill three of them with bright pink-orange jelly, and the remainder ’wdth plain jelly. ‘When the jelly has become firm, wipe the oranges with a clean cloth, cut each into four quarters, dish them up tastefully on an ornamental pastry-stand, or upon a napkin, and send to table. jSfote.—Lemons may be prepared in the same way as the above. 1429a. LEMONS FILLED WITH JELLY A LA BELLEVUE. These are to be prepared in this instance as directed in tho preceding article; and are afterwards to be filled with alternate layers of lemon-jelly and Blanc-manger. Cut them up in the same way as oranges.