38 GARNISIIE5. tered round of paper, and moisten with the toppings of white stock. Allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for an hour, drain them on a sieve, remove the strings, press them neatly in a napkin, and open each lettuce with a knife; then smooth the inner part, and with the knife turn the ends of the leaves under so as to give to tlie lettuce a smooth rounded end; cut off the stalk neatly, and place each lettuce successively in a clean sauta-pan; next pass their liquor through a sieve into a stewpan, remove every particle of grease, and boil it down to the consistency of half-glaze; add it to the lettuces, cover them with a buttered paper, and a quarter of an hour previously to tlieir being required for use, set them in tlie oven to get warm. 165. SAUEIIKIIAUT. Procure two pounds of fresh imported sauerkraut, wash it tho- roughly in several waters, and then drain it in a colander. Next, put it into a stewpan with one pound of parboiled streaky bacon, one pound of German sausage, two carrots, two onions stuck with two cloves each, and a garnished faggot of parsley; cover with a round of buttered paper, and moisten with a quart of stockpot toppings. Braize the sauerkraut for about three hours over a slow fire; and when done, drain it in a colander, remove the bacon and German sausage, throAv away tlie carrot, onion, and faggot; then put the saur kraut into a stewpan with a gravy-spoonful of Poivrade sauce, toss it over the fire, and use it to garnish the intended dish. 166. FRENCH SAUERKRAUT. Split four white-heart cabbages into quarters, remove the cores, and shred tliem up fine; wash them thoroughly in several waters, then drain them in a colander. Next, place the shred cabbages in a large earthen pan, throw in a good handful of salt and one pint of vinegar; toss the cabbage in this, and allow it to steep for three hours; then wash and drain it, and put it into a large stewpan, season with half a pound of butter, some minionette pepper, a little salt, and a gill of French vinegar; place on the top one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound of German sausage, moisten with a quart of good stock, cover the whole with buttered paper, and then set the sauer- kraut to braize very gently over a slow fire for two hours ; and when 't is done, proceed in tlie same manner as directed in the previous article.