JELLIES. 4G2 of these fruits, when mixed with currant and raspberry jelly, prepared accordinef to the foregoing directions, will make it most delicious. 1419. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Pick the stalks from two pottles of scarlet strawberries, put those into a basin, and then pour one pint of clarified boding syrup and hall' a piut of red-currant juice on to them; cover them doAvn with a sheet of paper, tightly twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow the infusion to stand in a cool place imtd it becomes cold; then, inter it through a beaver jelly bag in the usual way, and when the whole has run through perfectly bright, mis it with two ounces of clarified isinglass, and set the jelly iu a moiJd, immersed in rough ice. Note.—This jelly should be garnished with a pottle of fine “ British Queen” strawberries. 1420. CHERRY JELLY. Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries and a handful of red currants, and pound them in the mortar in order to bruise the stones and kernels; then take them up and place them in a small pre- serving pan, ■with one pound of fine loaf-sugar and half a pint of spring- water ; set this to bod on the stove-fire for about five minutes, taking care to remove the scum as it rises to the surface: the whole must then be poured into a beaver jelly-bag, and filtered in the usual way. The juice should next be mixed with two ounces of clarified isinglass, and poured into a moidd imbedded in rough ice. The jeUy may be garnished ■with cherries from which the stones must be removed. 1421. MULBERRY JELLY. This is prepared in the same way as strawberry jedy (No. 1419). 1422. MACEDOINE OF FRUITS. This may be made with every kind of jedy, which shoidd be mixea •with a variety of the most dedcate fruits in season: these shoxdd be arranged "with taste, so as to show their forms and colours to the best advantage. The fruits most appropriate for this purpose are peaches, nectarines, apricots, ad kinds of plums, strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, red, white, and black cmrants, cherries, pears, oranges, pomegranates, grapes, &c. 1423. ORANGE JELLY, GARNISHED WITH QUARTERS OF ORANGES Peel sis oranges -with a sharp knife, leaving the transparent pulp quite bare; di-ride each into six, cutting the orange lengthwise, thus giving an angular form to the pieces; put these into a sm^ preserving pan, -«dth a pint of clarified syrup, and set the whole to bod on the stove-fire for not more than two minutes, then pour the pieces of oranges and their syrup into a basin, and set them aside in a cool place. Prepare about a pint of bright orange jedy in the manner directed in No. 1412, using the syrup from the pieces of oranges, which must be drained upon a sieve for that purpose. Next, imbed a plain mould in some pounded rough ice contained in an earthen pan, and proceed to garnish it -with the pieces of oranges and the jedy,