FOR SOUPS. 77 the size and shape required, and poach them in boiling water with a little salt in it. 313. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS A LA CONDE. Order two quarts of very young and green asparagus peas, or two large bundles of good sprue asparagus; break off the heads so far down to the foot of tlie stalks that they will readily snap off without resistance, which will prove them to be young and tender; throw these into a large pan of cold water, together with a handful of spinach, the same quantity of parsley and of green onions. Having got these ready, set a large stewpan on the fire half filled with boil- ing water, with a handful of salt in it. First drain the aspai’agus, &c., into a colander, and then put the whole into the stewpan on the fire to boil fast; when they are done, drain them again in a colander, let some cold water run over them for the purpose of retaining their greenness ; and being well drained of the water, put them into a middle-sized stewpan, with a quart of good Veloute sauce (No. 4), a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. Stir the whole on a brisk fire until it has boiled about three minutes, when it must be passed through a tammy-cloth or sieve on to a large dish, and after being removed into a soup-pot should be placed on the ice in the larder to keep cool, in order that it may the better retain its green colour and delicate flavour. Ten minutes before serving up the soup to table, stir it on a brisk fire until it is nearly boiling, remove it from the stove, and, having mixed in with it a pat of butter and a small piece of light-coloured glaze, send to table with a plate of croutons. 314. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS A LA ST. GEORGE. Prepare a puree similar to the foregoing, place in the soup-tureen about tliree dozen veiy small quenelles of fowl, and about half a pint of small fillets or shreds of red tongue, cut in the same lengths and thickness as vegetables for Julienne soup ; then witli a silver spoon stir the above about gently in the tureen, so as to mix the ingi’edients with the puree (which must be poured on to them quite hot), and send to table. 315. BONNE FEMME SOUP. Trim and wash six cabbage-lettuces, and having also well washed a double-handful of sorrel, shred these as you would do if they were intended for Julienne soup^. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and having melted it on the fire, add the lettuces and sorrel, and with a wooden spoon stir them over the stove until they are stewed, which will require about ten minutes ; then add two quarts of good strong chicken consomme, and having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about half an hour, take it off in order that it may cool a little, and mix in with it a leason or binding of eight yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a small pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar to rectify the acidity of the sorrel. Sth the soup quickly on the fire in order to set the leason in it, taking care that it does not curdle; add a small piece of glaze, pour the soup into the tureen upon some duchess’ crusts, and serve.