132 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 470. SOLES, A LA I’ARISIENIv'E. Trim a pair of fine large soles, slit them down the back, and take the bone out; line the soles 'R'ith some quenelle forcemeat of whitings mixed with some chopped fine-herbs; put them on a buttered sautapan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with two glasses of white wine, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in the oven to bake. When done, put them in press between two earthen dishes, and set them in the larder to cool. In the mean time prepare some stiffly- reduced Allemande sauce, with which, after neatly trimming the soles, cover them all over; and when the sauce, by getting cold, has set firmly upon them, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs ; fry them of a fine light colour, dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), place round them a border of large cray-fish and glazed croutons, and send to table. 471. SOLES, A LA MARECHALE. Bone a pair of soles, line them with quenelle forcemeat of whiting, bread-crumb, with Allemande sauce, and then fry the fish; drain them on a napkin, dish them up, and sauce them round Avith some Venetian sauce (No. 26), and serve. 472. MATELOTTE NORMANDE OF SOLES. Bone two fine soles ; liue them vdth quenelle forcemeat of whitings mixed with some chopped fine-herbs; place them on a buttered sau- tapan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with half a bottle of Prench white wine, some oyster liquor, and white essence of mush- rooms ; put them in the oven to bake, and when done, remove the soles carefully on to their dish. Beduce the bquor, iucorporate it in a rich Matelotte Normande ragout (No. 194), with which sauce the soles all over, and garnish round with a border of cray-fish, and some oval croutons, made with the crust of Prench rolls fried in butter, and glazed, then serve. 473. MATELOTTE OF SOI.ES, A LA PLESSY. Bone, stuff and bake a pair of large soles, as described in the pre- ceding directions, and when done, put them iu press betAveen two earthenware dishes ; as soon as they have cooled, mask them over Avith some fish quenelle forcemeat, coloured Avith lobster coral; smooth them over Avith the blade of a large knife, dipped in hot water; then place the soles carefully on a silver dish buttered for the purpose, and after ornamenting the centre of each sole Avith a bold decoration,— composed of truffles,—cover them Avith some very thin layers of fat bacon : moisten Avith a glass of Prench white AAine, and put them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, in which time they aaHI be done. Eemove the bacon, glaze them slightly, and garnish them round Avith a Parisian sauce (No. 40), Avith the addition of some fine Avhite muscles; place round the Matelotte a border of fried smelts, previously boned and stuffed Avith forcemeat, and serve. 474. GURNETS STUFFED AND B^UiED. Cut off the fins and head from two or more gurnets, stuff them Avith veal stuffing, sew them up, and score them AAuth a sharp knife on both sides, then place the gurnets iu a buttered baking-dish, season them Avith pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and tAvo pats