KEMOVES OF PIES. 219 if permitted to remain, would, from their bitter taste, spoil the pie. Cover the bottom of the dish with large scollops of beef, seasoned with chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalots, pepper and salt; over these pk^ the grouse, and between each bird put the yolk of an egg boiled hard; lay some small thin slices of streaky bacon or ham upon the top, and then mix a pint of good gravy with two table-spoonfuls of “ Crosse and Blackavell’s Oude Sauce,” and the same proportion of genuine Harvey sauce; pour this preparation into the pie, sprinkle some chopped parsley and mushrooms on the surface, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. 733, PARTRIDGE PIE, A LA CHASSEUR. Cut the partridges into small members, in the same manner as directed for cutting up fowls for a fricassee, and set them apart on a plate. Then, cover the bottom of the pie-dish with neatly-trimmed scollops of veal, and thiu slices of streaky bacon—first partially boiled to exfract the salt; cover these with six spoonfuls of the following preparation: Make about half-a-pint of Soubise sauce (Ho. 119), to this add half that quantity of w^hite sauce, a pottle of button-mush- rooms, some chopped parsley, and a little thyme; season with Cayenne pepper and salt. "VVlien the veal, &c., is covered Avith the Ibregomg, place the members of the partridges in neat order upon the whole; pour the remainder of the sauce on these, and smooth over the surface with a knife; place on the top some yolks of eggs boiled hard and cut into halves, and between each yolk put a small piece of streaky bacon ; cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for one hour and a half, and serve. 734. GIBLET PIE, WITH FINE-HERBS. Procure two sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, afterwards immerse them in cold water and drain them upon a napkin. Then, cut the giblets into pieces about two inches long, trim them neatly and place them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with foim cloves, a garnished faggot of parsley, and season with pepper and a little salt; moisten with a quart of good broth and a glass of sherry, and set them to stew gently on a slow fire. When done, remove the carrot, onion, and faggot of parsley; dram the giblets into a sieve, skim off aU the grease from the broth, and after having put it back into a small stewpan, thicken it with a Little roux, and bod the sauce over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hom, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. Eeduce the sauce by boding to about a pint, :md then remove it from the fire. Next, cover the bottom of the dish with scodops of fidet of beef, season with fine-herbs, consisting of mushrooms, parsley, a very dttle sweet-basd, and two shalots, adding Cayenne pepper, and salt; over these pour half the sauce, then fid the dish up with the giblets, which place in neat order; sprinkle some fine-herbs upon them and pour the remainder of the sauce over the whole. Cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for an hour and a quarter, and send to table. 735. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIE. Cut three pounds of fidet of beef or rump-steaks into large scodops, fry them quickly over a very brisk fire, so as to brown them before they