79 ^/R PEARL-BARLEY. 318. CREAM OF RICE A LA VICTORIA. Prepaee the cream of rice as above directed, and twenty minutes before sending to table add to it about a quarter of a pound of whole rice, well boiled in white consomme of fowls : this rice must be boiled in the puree for twenty minutes ; and just before serving the soup, mix in with it a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter. 319. CREAM OF RICE A LA CARDINAL. Prepare a cream of rice in the usual way, and pour it into a soup-tureen containing thirty tails of crayfish and three dozen very small quenelles of fowls. A good tablespoonful of crayfish or lobster butter, and tire juice of half a lemon, should be mixed in with the soup previously to poiu’ing it upon the crayfish tails, &c. 320. CREAM OF RICE A LA JUVENAL. To a cream of rice prepared according to tbe instructions for making the cream of rice ii la B.oyale, there must be added, with a leason of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; having thoroughly incorporated these, while stirring the soup over the fire (taking care that it does not boil), pour tbe soup into a tureen containing three dozen very smdXl quenelles oi fowds, coloured with a little spinach-green (No. 285). 321. PUREE OF RICE A LA CHASSEUR. Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and after drain- ing all the water from it, put it on to boil with a quart of consomme of pheasant or partridge. When the rice is sufficiently done, rub it through the tammy, and having clarified it in the usual way, by adding some of the same sort of consomme the rice is boiled in, about five minutes before sending the soup to table, mix in with the cream of rice the puree of one pheasant or two paiTridges (as the case may be). Be careful not to allow the soup to get too hot after adding the puree of game to it, as it would be sure to decompose, and become rough and unsightly. Should this accident, however, occur, it may be remedied by taking the soup away from the fire, putting a little consomme to it, and quickly rubbing it through the tammy again; by these means it will resume its proper smoothness. This remedy will be found effectual for rectifying similar accidents, should they occur, with meat purees in general. 322. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY A LA VICTORIA. Wash a pound of pearl-barley in several waters, blanch, and drain it upon a sieve, and having allowed some cold water to run over it for a few minutes put it into a stewpan with two quarts of white consomme of fowls, and set it to boil by tlie side of a slow fire for four hours. When the barley is sufficiently done to admit of its being bruised easily, set one-third of it aside in a small soup-pot, and immediately proceed to rub the remainder through a tammy; then mix the cream of barley thus obtained with the whole barley which has been set aside. Ten minutes' before serving up this soup, add to it half a pint ot boiling ci’eam