OF VEGETABLES. 37 nionette pepper, salt, and two quarts of cold water; set them to hoil gently by the side of a stove for about an hour; when done drain them on to a sieve, place them in a clean stewpan witli a pat of butter, a gravy-spoonful of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; shake them well together over the fire, and serve. 161. GARNISH OF RED HARICOT BEANS. These should be prepared exactly in the same manner as the white beans. There is, also, a species of small brown peas, called lentils —to be had of all oilmen, which may be prepared after the same metliod as the haricot beans. They are useful in the winter season, when there is a scai’city of fresh vegetables. 162. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGES. Trim, wash, and thoroughly cleanse four good savoy cabbages, cut them in halves, and boil them in Avater for a quarter of an hour; re- fresh them in cold water, drain them, and place them on a napkin; cut the stalks away, season them with salt and minionette pepper, tie them up with a string—joining two halves together; cover the bottom of a stewpan Avith thin layers of fat bacon, place the cabbages in it; add a carrot, an onion stuck Avith three cloves, and a faggot of pars- ley, tliyme, and bay-leaf; moisten Avith sufficient broth to cover tlie cabbages, and spread a buttered round of paper over the Avhole ; then, set tliem on the fire to boil, place the lid on the steAvpan and allow it to remain gently boiling on a very sIoav fire for about an hour, Avhen they Avill be done. Then drain the cabbage on to a sieve, remove the strings, press it in a napkin so as to be able, aftei’Avards, to cut it into square, oblong, I’ound, or oval shapes, according to taste; and thereAvith garnish the entree or remove it is intended for. 163. GARNISH OF STEWED RED CABBAGES. Tnur, wash, and quarter a couple of red cabbages, shred them as you AA'ould if about to make pickled cabbage; then put about four ounces of butter at the bottom of a steAvpan, and place the shred cab- bages in it; season Avith minionette pepper and salt, and half a gill of French vmegar, cover the steAvpan Avith its lid, and set it on a mode- rate fire to steAv gently; take care to stir it occasionally Avith a Avooden spoon. When the cabbage has, by melting, been reduced to half its original quantity, moisten Avith a large-sized ladleful of topping from the boiling stockpot, to nourish the cabbage; alloAV it to simmer gently on a sIoav fire for an hour longer; then drain the cabbage in a sieve, afterwards press it in a napkin to extract the butter, &c., and use it for the purpose of garnishing the entree or remove for Avhich it has been prepared. . 164. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGE LETTUCES. Trim, Avash, and blanch a dozen full white-heart cabbage lettuces, drain tliem on a napkin, cut and spread them open, season Avith pepper and salt, tie them up Avith a string, and place them in a steAv- pan on thin layers of fat bacon; add a carrot, a faggot of parsley and green onions, and an onion stuck Avith tAvo cIoa’Cs ; cover Avith a but-