383 YOIIKSIIIKE, ()U CHUISTMAS TIE. Next, pare off the sinewy skin fum the mouse-piece, or inner part of a leg of veal, daube it with seasoned lardoons of tat bacon, then place this, and an equal quantity of dressed ham, with the capon. Prepare four poimds of hot-water paste (No. 1251) ; take two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball on the slab mth the palm of the hand, and then roU it out in the form of a band, about two feet long and six inches wide; trim the edges, and pare the ends square, taldng care to cut them in a slanting direction; wet them with a paste-brush dipped in water mixed with a little flour, and Avrap them over one another neatly and firmly, so as to show the join as little as possible. Next, roU out half the remainder of the paste, either in a circular or oval form, about a quarter of an inch thick, to the size the pie is intended to be made; place this, with buttered paper, under it, on a, baking-sheet, wet it round the edge with a paste-brush dipped in water, and stick a narrow band of the paste, about half an inch high, aU round it, to within about an inch of the edge; the waU or crust of the pie is to be raised up round this, and by pressing on it with the tips of the fingers, it should be made to adhere effectuaUy to the foundation. Then, by pressing the upper part of the pie with the Ungers and thumbs of both hands, it wiU acquire a more elegant appearance, somewhat resembling the curved lip of a vase. The base must be spread out in proportion to the top, by pressing on it AAuth the thumb. The bottom and sides of the pie should now be Uned with a coating of force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), or, if preferred, with veal and fat bacon, in equal proportions, w'eU-seasoned, chopped fine and pounded; next, place in the veal and ham, previously cut up in thick slices and weU-seasoned, and fill up the cavity with some of the force-meat; then add the capon and cover it over, and round, mth the remainder of the force-meat, placing some truffles in with it, and cover the whole with thm layers of fat bacon. EoU out the remainder of the paste, and after wetting this, and the pie round the edges, use it to cover in the pie, pressing the edges of both tightly with the fingers and thumb, in order to make them adhere closely together; trim the edge neatly and pinch it round with the pastry pincers. The pie should then be egged over, and decorated, for which latter purpose a similar kind of paste must be used, being first rolled out thin, then cut out in the form of leaves, half-moons, rings, &c., and arranged according to the designs contained in No. 249: or, if preferred, a moulding raised from decorating boards with some of the paste may be used instead. The pie must then be placed in the oven, and baked for about four hours, and when done, should be withdrawn, and about a pint of strongly-reduced consomme (made from the carcasses of the capons, two calves’ feet and the usual seasoning), shoidd be introduced within it through a funnel: it must then be kept in a cold place until wanted for use ; when the qover should be carefully removed without breaking it, and after the top of the pie has been decorated with some bright aspic-jeUy, it may be put on again and sent to table. Note.—For making pies of turkeys, fowls, pheasants, grouse, par- tridges, &c., foUow the above directions. 1244. YORKSHIRE, OR CHRISTMAS PIE. First, bone a turkey, a goose, a brace of young pheasants, four partridges, four woodcocks, a dozen snipes, four grouse, and four