72 PUREES OF VEGETABLES i 292. PUREE OF ROOTS A LA CROISSY. Cut into tnin shavings six large carrots, and slice very small the same number of turnips, three onions, and three heads of celery; add a handful of sorrel, and a little chervil and tarragon; put these into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter on a slow fire, and let it remain there until the vegetables are steamed suffi- ciently to reduce their quantity to one-half; then add two quarts of broth, and put the pan on the fire to boil; skim it, and remove it to the side to boil gently for about an hour and a half; after which, proceed to drain the roots from the broth in a colander, pound them in a mortar, and having mixed them with tlie liquor, warm the puree thus obtained, and rub it through the tammy-cloth in the usual way. Then put the into a soup-pot (with more broth if needed), and allow' it to boil on the stove-fire; after this, place it by the side to clarify itself by gentle ebullition; and w'hen it ceases to throw up any froth or skum, finish the soup by adding one pat of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar, and send to table. 293. PUREE OF CARROTS A LA CRECY. Shave off the red part of about twelve large carrots, add one head of celery and one onion; blanch these in boiling water on th'e fire for ten minutes; drain them in a colander, and afterw'ards put them into a small stockpot with two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce of lump sugar, and a little salt. Set the carrots thus prepai’ed on a slow fire to steam, and Avhen they have become considerably reduced in quantity (without burning or acquiring any colour) add to them two quarts of good broth, and let the carrots boil gently for an hour; then drain them—pound and rub them through a tammy in the usual w'ay, and clarify the puree in the same manner as directed in the preceding article. Finish this soup by incorporating with it one pat of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar. 294. BROWN PUREE OF TURNIPS Slice up about eight large sound turnips, put them into a stew'- pan, into which a quarter of a pound of fresh butter has been pi'e- viously melted, and add a tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Fry the turnips thus prepared over a rather brisk fire, in order to give them a light brown colour; when this is effected, add two quarts of good stock, allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then drain, pass, and proceed to clarify the puree in the usual manner. Observe, that this kind of puree should not be thick. 295. WHITE PUREE OP TURNIPS. Slice up a dozen large sound turnips, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put these to simmer on a slow fire, without allowing them to acquire any colour. When the turnips begin to melt, add tw'O quarts of white consomme of fowl; and hav ing set the whole to boil gently on the corner of the stove for about three-quai’ters of an hour, proceed to drain, pass, and pound the turnips—reserving the brotli they have been boiled in to clarity the