6 SAUCES. extract their acrid taste ; squeeze out the water and put them into a stewpan with a handful ot white mushrooms chopped very fine, some thyme, a hay-leaf, and a tahlespoonful of salad-oil; pass these on the fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white Avine, and, when this is reduced to half its quantity, then add a small ladleful of finished Espagnole and a little hlond of veal; set the sauce to boil; and havmg freed it from the oil, take out the thyme and hay-leaf; reduce h to tlie consistency of other sauces, and pour it into a bain-marie, vu be kept for use. 13. 'WHITE ITALIAN SAUCE. The preparation of this sauce differs from the preceding only in substituting Yeloute sauce for Espagnole. 14. riNE HERBS SAUCE. Chop, separately, a large gravy-spoonful of prepared white mush- rooms, tliree shalots, and a handful of parsley; place tliese in a stew- ]>an with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of minionette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; ])ass the whole on the fire for five minutes, add a small ladleful of finished Esjmgnole or Yeloute sauce (according to the colour required); boil it quickly, finish with a little lemon-juice, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. 15. PASCALINE SAUCE. Chop a handful of Avhite mushrooms very fine, and place them in a small stewpan Avith a small piece of butter; stir them on the fire for three minutes; add a glass of French Avhite Avine, and after alloAA’ing these to simmer on the fire a little while, add a small ladle- ful of AA’hite sauce and a little essence of foAvl; reduce the sauce quicldy, and then take it off' tlie stOA^e and mix in a leason of three yolks of eggs, and a small pat of butter; set the leason in the sauce OA'er tlie fire, and then pour it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using the sauce, add to it a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 16. D’UXELLES SAUCES. Chop, separately, half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, six shalots, and tAvo ounces of tmffles; place these in a steAvpan Avith tAvo ounces of fat bacon scraped into a kind of pulp, a pat of butter, some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; then stir the Avhole on the fire for five minutes ;—add tAvo glasses of French white Avine, reduced by boiling to half the quantity; and then a small ladleful of Avhite sauce; reduce the Avhole quickly on the fire, and mix in a leason of six yolks of eggs; finish Avith the juice of a lemon. Set the leason in the sauce by stirring it again on the fire ; jilace the sauce in a small basin, and keep it for the purpose of covering all those entrees deno- minated d la 2)’previously to bread-crumbing tliem. 17. POOR man’s SAUCE. Chop an onion A’ery fine, put it into a stCAVjian with a small piece of butter, and gently fiy the onion on the fire until it assumes a light- brown colour; then add a tablespoonful of Avhite Avine vinegar, and a pinch of minionette pepper; .alloAV these to simmer for three mi-