SAUSAGE PUDDING, 223 boil these ingredients for three minutes, then fill the pudding with them, and cover it with paste, as usual. This pudding must be steamed on account of its richness. When done, turn it out of the basin with care, in order not to break it; pour a rich brown sauce under, and serve. This pudding may be made in a plainer manner, by omitting the mushrooms, lemon-juice, sauce, and chestnuts—following in ad other respects the same process. 745. SNIPE PUDDING, A LA d’ORSAY. Pick eight fine fat fresh snipes, singe them over a charcoal flame, and divide them into halves, remove the gizzards and reserve the trail for further use ; season the snipes with a little Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and set them aside on a dish tdl wanted. Then peel a Portugal onion, cut it into thin slices and fiy these in a stewpan with a smad piece of butter; when they are slightly browned, throw in a table-spoonfiil of flour, and stir them together on the fire for three minutes; then add a handful of chopped mushrooms and parsley, a smad bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a small blade of mace and a clove ot garlic; moisten with a pint of claret; stir the whole upon the fire, and when these have boded ten minutes, add the trail and a piece of good glaze. Set the sauce to bod for three minutes longer, and then rub it through a tammy into a purie upon the snipes. Next, line a pudding basin with suet-paste, fill it up with the foregoing preparation, and when covered with a piece of paste and properly fastened round the edges so as to prevent the escape of the volatde properties of the sauce, steam it in a covered stewpan for two hours and a half. When the pudding is done, turn it out of the basin with care, pour a rich brown game gravy under it, and serve. 746. SAUSAGE PUDDING. Pbocuee two pounds of Cambridge sausages, and twist each into three round balls ; put these into boiling water, on the stove, merely to parboil them for a minute or so, then throw them into cold water and afterwards remove the skins. Line the pudding basin with suet paste, fill it with the sausages, and pour the following preparation upon them: chop one onion and three sage leaves, boil these in water for two minutes, drain them upon a sieve, and then fry them in small stewpan ivith a piece of butter; as soon as they become of a light- brown colour, add a table-spoon&l of flour and a tea-spoonful of curry paste, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with half a pint of good broth; stir the sauce upon the fire, and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, rub it through a sieve or tammy, and use it as above directed. Cover the pudding with paste, steam or bake it for two hours, and when turned out of the basin, send to table with plain gravy under it.