190 REMOVES OF HAM. pan filled with cold water; the length of time it should remain in soak, depending partly upon its degree of moisture, partly whether the ham be new or seasoned. If the ham readily yields to the pressure of the hand, it is no doubt new, and this is the case with most of those sold in London in the spring season; for such as these, a few hours’ soaking will suffice; but when hams are properly sea- soned, they should be soaked for twenty-four hours, Foreim hams, however, require to be soaked much longer, varying in time morn two to four days and nights. The water in which they are soaked should be changed once every twelve hours in winter, and twice during that time in summer: it is necessary to be particular also in scraping off the slimy surface from the hams, previously to replacing them in the water to finish soaking. When the ham has been trimmed and soaked, let it be boiled in water for an hour, and then scraped and washed in cold water; place it in a braizing-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, garnished faggot, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with sufficient common broth to float the ham, and then set it on the stove to braize very gently for about four hours. To obtain tenderness and mellowness, so essential in a well-dressed ham, it must never be allowed to boil, but merely to simmer very gently by a slow filre. This rule applies also to the braizing of all salted or cured meats. When the ham is done, draw the pan in which it has braized away from the fire, and set it to cool in the open air, allowing the ham to remain in the braize—by this means it will retain all its moisture— for when the ham is taken out of the braize as soon as done, and put on a dish to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham having partially cooled in its braize, shoffid be taken out and trimmed, and afterwards placed in a braizing-pan with some of its own stock; and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put either in the oven or on a slow fire. WTien warmed through, place the ham on a baking- dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it; replace it in the oven again for about three minutes to dry it, and glaze it again; by that time the ham, if properly attended to, wdl present a bright appearance. Put it now on •'its dish, and garnish it, with well-dressed spinach (No. 1165), placed round the ham in table-spoonfrds, shaped like so many eggs; pour some bright Espagnole sauce round the base, put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. Note.—Any of our home-cmed hams, dressed according to the fore- going directions, may also be served with a garnish of asparagus-peas, young carrots, a Jardiniere, Macedoine, green-peas, broad-beans. French- beans, or Brussels-sprouts. 647. WESTPHALIA HAM, A l’ESSENCE. Trim and remove the thigh-bone from a Westphalia ham, and let it soak in cold water for two or three days, according to the probable length of time it may have been cured; then boil it in water for an hour, and after having washed it in cold water, put it into a large braizing-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, a faggot of parsley and green onions, throne, sweet-basil, and bay-leaf, four cloves, and tw’^o Wades of mace; moisten with two glasses of brandy, half a bottle of sherry, and sufficient broth to float the liam.