252 ENTKEES OF OX-CIIEEKS. Bummer or savoy cabbages, remove tbe stalks, chop them fiue, and put them into a ste^\’pan with four ounces of fresh butter and one ounce of glaze ; season with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry the slices of beef in a sauta or frying pan, commencing with the pieces of fat; stir the cabbage on the fire until quite hot, and then pile it up in the centre of the dish; place the slices of beef and the pieces of fat round it, pour a little thin brown sauce over the whole, and serve. ENTEEES OE OX-CHEEKS, COMPRISING Braized 0.t-cheeks, with Puree of Green Braized Ox-cheeks, a la Proven^ale. Peas. ,, ,, with stewed Cabbage. „ „ ala Flainande. „ ,, d la Jardiniere. ,, ' d la Bretonne. 815. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, WITH PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS. Bone an ox-cheek, and steep it in cold water for two hours; then par- boil it in water for five minutes, immerse it in cold water, drain, and trim it, break up the bones, and put them at the bottom of an oval stewpan, place the cheek upon them, and garnish with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve pepper-corns; moisten with Wo quarts of broth or water (if the latter, add some salt) ; set the ox-cheek to braize very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about two hours ; when done, take it up carefully, and put it in press beWeen two dishes. Half the broth may be used for preparing some brown sauce with, and the remainder boiled down to a half glaze. Next, cut the ox-cheek up into twelve pieces of equal size, shape them, either round, square, oblong, or oval; trim them neatly; and place them in a sautapan with the half-glaze. Ten minutes before sending to table, put the ox-cheeks, covered with the hd, to simmer gently on the stove-fire until they are warmed through, and then set them to boil quickly over a brisk fire for three minutes ; roU them in their glaze, and afterwards dish them up in a circle, closely overlapping each other; fill the centre of the entree with some thick purie of green peas (No 136), pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve. 816. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA FLAMANDE. This is prepared, cut and dished up as the foregoing. Between each scollop of ox-cheek insert a piece of carrot previously boiled in broth and roUed in its own glaze; fill the centre with a garnish ol Brussels-sprouts, round which place a neat border of prepared turnips cut in fancy shapes; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce roimd tht entree, and serve. 817. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA BRETONNE. Peepaeb and dish up th(^ pieces of ox-cheek as directed in the first case; and just before sendhig to table, fill the centre with Bome purk of potatoes (No. 116), pour some Bretonne sauce (No. 27) over the pieces of ox-cheek, and servo.