389 SHOKT-PASTE, ETC. 1255. SHORT-PASTE FOR TARTS. Ingredients :—One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, a very little salt, two whole eggs, and about a gill of water. Spread the flour out on the slab with a hollow in the centre, then add the butter, sugar, salt, and the water, and break in the two eggs; work the whole together with the hands into a firm paste, and use it for covering fruit tarts, and lining tartlets, &c. 1256. NOUILLES-PASTE. Ingredients :—One pound of flour, about ten yolks of eggs, a tea- spoonful of salt, and merely sufficient water to melt the salt. Place the flour on the slab, form a hollow in the centre, then put the salt in, with a little water to melt it, and add the yolks of eight eggs; work the whole well together, at first rubbing the ingredients betu^een the hands, and then, if necessary, add two more yolks of eggs, and finish working the paste by pushing it from you Avith the palms of the hands, using considerable pressure; sprinkle a few drops of Avater over it, then knead the paste into a baU, and keep it wrapped up in a cloth until wanted for use. This paste must be kept very stiff. 1257. OFFICE-PASTE. Ingredients :—One pound of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar, "tAVO Avhole eggs, and two yolks. Place the flour on the slab, forming a hollow in the centre, then add the sugar and the eggs, and proceed to Avork the Avhole up into a stiff compact body. If, hoAvever, the paste should appear dry, and present any difidculty in kneading, another yolk or two may be added. Tliis paste is mostly used for making ornaments for the second course. 1258. ALMOND-PASTE, Ingredients :—Eight ounces of Jordan ahnonds, a pound and a lialf of sugar, Avith half' an ounce of gum-dragon. Eirst, scald the almonds, remove the skin, wash them, and aUoAv them to steep in cold water for about twelve hours. Next, put the gum into a gaUey-pot, adding to it rather more than a gib of Avater, cover this over with paper twisted round the edge of the galley-pot and allow the gum to steep until it has absorbed aU the Avater; it must then be placed in the centre of a strong cloth, which should be tAvisted round at each end by two persons (in the manner practised in wringing wet cloths) Avith considerable pressure, so as to squeeze the gum through the cloth, which must then be gathered up into a small basin. Pound the sugar and sift it through a very fine laAvn- sieve. The ahnonds must now be drained on a napkin, afterwards placed in a mortar, and pounded into a very smooth paste; in order to pre- vent them from tiuning oily, AA'hile they are beiug pounded, it Avill bo necessary to add a fcAv drops of Avater or lemon-juice occasionally. As soon as the almonds present the appearance of a smooth paste, rub this through a very close hair-sie\'e on to a plate. Next, place th«