138 DKhSyjbU laSH IN GENERAL. with a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of either of the follow- ing sauces:—Anchovy, Shrimp, Plain butter, or Dutch. 491. WHITINGS, FRIED. To prepare whitings for frying, it is necessary first to skin them as follows:— With a cloth in the left hand, take a firm hold of the v hiting at the back part of the head, just below the gills, then loosen the skin on each side of the fish, just at the commencement of the upper dorsal fin, by inserting the point of a small knife, and with the right hand pull the skin ofl* sharply, first on one side and then on the other. AVhen the fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the tad. round into its mouth, and fasten the ends together with a short peg of -wood; dip each fish into some beaten eggs, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs. A quarter of an hour before dinner, fry them of a fine colour in some fat heated for the purpose, dish them on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces:—Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, or Plahi butter. 492. WHITINGS, BROILED. Trim and score the whitings on both sides, rub them over "with oil, and boil them on a gridiron, previously rubbed with whitening; when broiled on one side, turn them over on the other, taking care to keep them of a fine colour; when done, dish them on a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces: Dutch, white Bavigotte, Yenetian, brown oyster sauce, or Maitre d‘Hotel. Note.—Whitings in cases with fine herbs, stufied and baked a la Villeroi, a la Cardinal, &c., are dressed in the same manner as mullets. PKESH-WATER EISH, SECTION I. COMPRISING Char, a la Gmotse. „ in Matelotte „ a la Hollandaise. „ ala Beaufort. Lamprey in Matelotte. „ ala Foley. Char is in season from July till October, and forms a most deli- cious variety for the table in the summer season. When perfectly fresh, it makes perhaps the best water souchet of any fish.* 493. CHAR, A LA GENOISE. Boil the fish in salt and water, and when done, skin and glaze them; dish them up, sauce with some Genoise sauce (No. 30), gar- nish with a border of small quenelles of whiting, and cra'^sh tails, and r»end to table. * Water Soucbet of char is described among the W ater Souchets. Lamprey, a la Beauchamp. Smelts fried. „ in Matelotte, ,, in cases, with fine-herbs. ,, ala Roy ale.