170 REMOVES OF \T:AL. corner of tlie loin stick an ornamental silver skewer, garnished with a large cock’s-comb, mushroom, decorated quenelle, crayfish, and truffle; glaze the sides of the loin of veal, and send to table. 591. LOIN OF VEAL, A LA DAUPHINE. Peocuee a loin of very w'hite veal, cut square, with the whole of the flap, or sldrt, left on; bone it entirely, taking care, at the same time, to divest it of every portion of sinew; daube or interlard the lean part of the fillet with small fillets of tongue, or ham; the veal must then be laid square on the table, and with some quemlle force-meat of chickens (mixed with chopped parsley and mushrooms), spread the whole of the iuner part, about an inch thick; the kidney and fat should then be replaced in the centre, the loin roUed up tight, and its pdlow-like shape be secured with small iron skewers, and fastened ■with string. Then put it in a large oval braizing-pan, on the drainer: garnish 'with the trimmings, a couple of carrots, onions, celery, and garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with two large ladlefuls of good consommi, cover Avith an oval of double paper, well-buttered, put the hd on, and then set the pan to boil on the stove-fire; after which, put it to braize in the oven, or on a slow fire, with live embers on the lid; baste the veal frequently with its oAvn liquor, and when it is done, drain, trim, and mask it all over with a coating of the following mixture:—To six yolks of eggs, add 2oz. of fresh butter, melted, and two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, mix this well together, and use it as directed above. Cover the wfflole Avith very fine bread-crumbs, mixed Avith a third proportion of grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkle some drops of melted, or oiled butter, over it, and placing the loin of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven to bake of a light-broAvn colour; when done, dish it up, pour round it a Parisian ragout (170. 203), and garnish Avith a border of quenelles of veal, or fowl, decorated Avith truffles, and send to table. 592. LOIN OF VEAL, A LA EOYALE. Peepaee and braize a loin of veal, as directed in the preceding article; when done, allow it partially to cool in its OAvn braize, then strain it on the drainer of the braizing-pan, and absorb any grease there may be on it wdth a clean napkin; cover it all over Avith a quenelle farce of veal, mixed with a little lobster coral; decorate the ends and centre Avith a bold design, using for the purpose some black truffles, in order that the decoration may show AveU on the scarlet surface. Next, place the loin of veal in a large oval braizing-pan with just sufficient consomme to bathe it, to the depth of an inch, cover the loin with very thin layers of fat bacon, or, in Heu thereof, a weU- buttered oval covering of paper; set it in the oven, or on a moderate stove-fire, Avith live embers on the lid, to bod or simmer gently for about three-quarters' of an hour, when it AviU be done. Then drain the veal, and divest it of the bacon or paper used to cover it; pour round it a ragout of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of fowl, cocks’- combs and kernels; garnish with a border of large truffles and cray- fish, glaze the loin of veal with thin light-coloured glaze, and send to table. 2^ote.—This remove may also be decorated with ornamental skewers