240 CIMRTUEUSES OF VEGETABLES, put the partridges, bacon, and saveloys on a dish to cool; squeeze the broth from the cabbage by pressing it tightly in a strong kitcnen rub- ber ; then chop it and afterwards put it into a stewpan with a spoon- ful of brown sauce, and stir it quickly over a brisk fire until it resembles a somewhat firm paste. Use this preparation to garnish the bottom and sides of the chartreuse, about an inch thick. The partridges must be cut up neatly into small members, tossed in enough brown sauce to moisten them, and then placed in the cavil^y of the chartreuse in close ordei’, so as to give it solidity when turned out ot the mould on its dish ; a layer of prepared cabbage should be placed over these, and the whole covered with a circular piece of buttered paper. An hour before dinner, the chartreuse must be placed in a ste^vj)an with sufficient water to reach up only one-third the height of the mould ; then set the lid on, and put the stewpan near or upon a slow fire to keep the water gently simmering, so that the steam may warm the chartreuse through. "V^en about to serve, turn the char- treuse up-side-down in the dish, and draw the mould off Avith care, remove the paper, and garnish the base with a close border of the bacon and saveloys cut into scollops; pour some brown sauce (Avorked Avith essence of vegetables) round the entrk, glaze the chartreuse carefully, so as not to disturb the order of the vegetables, and serve. These directions Avill serve for the preparation of several kinds of chartreuses: pheasant, duckling, pigeons, &c., being substituted for partridges. 788. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH QUAILS, ETC. The preparation of this kind of chartreuse is very similar to the foregoing, cabbage-lettuces being substituted for savoys ; the following are the only alterations required; the mould required must be either oval or round, according to the shape of the dish intended to be used, and should be lined AA-ith buttered paper, and ornamented AAnth carrots and turnips prepared accordhig to the directions given in the first part of the previous article, and afterwards cut out, either Anth a small knife, or proper-shaped tin-cutters, to suit the design intended to be represented, from one of the patterns given in the foregoing designs. The caA/ity left in the mould, after it has been decorated vdth the vegetables, must be fiUed xip with the braized cabbage lettuces warmed in the same manner as directed for the last-mentioned chartreuse. When about to send to table, turn the chartreuse out on its dish, place the quails (prepared as iox Cipdte-chaud, No. 759, and kept AA'arm) upon the u,pper part of the chartreuse, Avith their breasts outAvard; fill the centre of the entree \A-ith a Jardinihe of vegetables (No. 144), gaimish the base Avith small scollops of the streaky bacon and saveloys, pour some thin bright Espagnole sauce round the entree, glaze the chartreuse lightly, and serve. 789. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH TENDONS OF ■\T:AL and STEWED PEAS. In this case the chartreuse siioiild be prepared in the same manner as described in the foregoing recipe, and when turned out on its dish preparatory to serving it, the top of tlie border must be garnished Avith braized tendons of veal (No. 885), placed in the same way as cut- ieta are dished up; the well or centre of the entrk, must be filled Avith