OX-l’ALATES. 253 318. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA PROVENCALE. This Nvhen dished up must be garnished round the base with a border of ripe tomatas prepared au gratin (No. 1160) ; fill the centre of the entrk with some Frovengale sauce (No. 25), and serve. 819. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. When the ox-cheek is prepai-ed for braizing, as directed in No. 815, about one pound of G-erman sausage must be added, also half a pound of streaky bacon, and two savoy-cabbages, previously cut in halves, parboiled in water, the stalks removed, and afterwards tied up with string. The whole must be covered with a round buttered paper, and set to braize gently for about two hours; as soon as it is done, the ox-cheek should be put in press, and when cold cut into scoUops and placed in a sautapan with some half glaze; the bacon and sausage must be also cut in neat scoUops and kept hot in a sautapan with a little half glaze. The cabbage must first be drained in a colander, and then pressed in a napkin, and afterwards cut out in cork-shaped pieces. The scollops of ox-cheek should be dished up in a close circle, alternately placing a sccUop of ox-cheek with the bacon and sausage: and so on, until the whole is used up. Next, place the cabbage round the base in a neat border, and upon each piece of cabbage set a ring of carrot, with a piece of turnip cut in the form of a very small pear, in its centre; fill the well of the entree with a garnish of carrots and turnips, cut in very small fancy shapes, pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. The carrots and tuimips, above alluded to, must, of course, be boiled in broth, with a little sugar, and afterwards boiled down in their glaze. 820. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA JARDINIERE. Beaize, cut up, and dish the ox-cheek as directed in the first article; then fill the centre of the entree with a garnish of vegetables d la Jardiniere (No. 144), pour some half glaze or thin Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. DEESSED OX-PALATES, COMPRISING Canelons of Ox-palates, with Poivrade Curry of Ox-palates. sauce. Ox-palates in cases, with fine-herbs. Paupiettes of Ox-palates, d la Financiere. Attcreanx of Ox-palates, d la D' Uxelles. Ox-palates, d la Tortile. 821, CANELONS OP OX-PALATES, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. Cleanse and braize six ox-palates, and put- them in press, as di- rected in No. 209, between two dishes until they are cold. The ox-pa- lates must then be trimmed and split in halves, lengthwise ; each of these must be again divided across in two, crosswise ; the tweniy-four pieces thus produced should be laid upon a large dish, and coverecl on one side only with some thick cold d’Uxelles sauce (No. 16). The canelons must then be rolled up in the form of a cartridge, and each first dipped in beaten egg (seasoned with a little salt) and afterwards bread-crumbed.