ENTREES OF MUTTON. cut up into thick cutlets, and placed on a dish -without heiug further trimmed. Next cut lib. of fat bacon into narrow strips, about the sixth of an inch square, and an inch and a half long, and -with these the cutlets should be larded in the following manner:—Take a middle- sized larding-pin, and run it half thi’ough the lean of the cutlet: then, place a strip of bacon in the open end, and draw the larding-pin through, lea-^g the bacon in the cutlet: repeat this, until the cutlet has been studded Avith eigV strips of bacon, and proceed in the same manner with the remainder. Stew some of the trimmings over the bottom of a large stewpan, or fricandeau pan, and place the cutlets upon them in circular order, Avith the bone-end pointing to the centre; cover them -with the remainder of the trimmings, and garnish -with a couple of sliced carrots, a large onion, stuck with four cloves, a garnished faggot of parsley, and one head of celery; season -with a dozen pepper- corns and a blade of mace, moisten -with a glass of brandy, and sufficient fresh broth or stock to cover the whole; place a buttered paper on this, put on the lid, and set the cutlets to braize very gently on a slow fire, or in the oven, for about one hour and a half; when they are become nearly tender enough, draw the pan off the fire, and allow them to get partially cold in their own liquor. The cutlets must then be carefully taken out, one at a time, -with a small slice or skimmer, and placed in ro-ws on a large earthen dish: when the whole are thus removed, another dish must be placed upon these to press them slightly, in order to give them an even surface. As soon as they have become firm by getting quite cold, trim them neatly -with a sharp knife, by paring off the surface of each cutlet (-without waste), so as to show the bacon inserted in the lean; put them into a deep sautapan with some half glaze, made with the broth they have been braized in, which must be strained, divested of all the grease, clarified, and afterwards boiled do-wn for the purpose. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets on a brisk fire to warm, allow them to bod quickly for five minutes, then rod the sautapan about carefuUy, so as to glaze them all over, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with some Soubise sauce, or purie (No. 119), pour the remainder of the half glaze romid the base of the entrie, and serve. 853. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA LYONNAISE. Peepaee, finish, and dish up the cutlets, as in the foregoing case; then fill the centre with some Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24), and serve. 854. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, WTTH PUREE OF ARTICHCKES. These are prepared exactly as for Soubise, and when dished up should be garnished -with a purSe of artichokes (No. 117) ; pour a little Bechamel sauce, or some half glaze round their base, and serve. 855. IVIUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA CHIPOLATA. Peepaee and dish up tliese in the same manner as the foregoing, garnish them with a Chipolata ragout (No. 190), and serve. 856. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA POMPADOUR. These must be prepared, in the first instance, nearly in the same manner as the Soubise cutlets, except that, iustead of the larding, they