ENTREES OF WILD FOWL. 338 tons. Prepare the sauce as directed in No. 11, and add it to the woodcocks. Warm the salmis mthout boiling, dish it up in. a pyra- midal form, and place the croutons round the base; add a dessert- spoonful of chopped and boiled parsley to the sauce, poim it over the entrh, and serve. 1101. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Eoast the woodcocks, cut them up, and prepare the croutons as in the foregoing case; make an essence witli the trimmings, and add this to a Bourguignotte ragout (No. 195). Warm the with a little of the sauce, dish it up, garnish with the ragout and sauce, place the croutons round the base, and serve. 1102. SALMIS OF SNIPES, A LA BORDELAISE. Eoast six fat snipes, split them into halves, and prepare a dozen croutons with the trail, as directed in No. 1097; dish up the snipes in double circular rows, first placing a row of croutons, then six pieces of snipes upon these, and again the croutons, closing with the remainder of the snipes: fill the centre with a ragout of button- mushrooms, truffles, and small quenelles, pour some Bordelaise sauce (No. 57) over the entree, and serve. ENTEEES OE WILD EOWL, COMPRISING Salmis of Wild Duck. Fillets of Widgeon, d la Proven^ale. ,, Widgeon, or Te.'il. Widgeons, d VAm^icaine. Fillets of Widgeon, d la Bigarrade. Fillets of Teal, d I'Anglaise. 1103. SALMIS OF WILD DUCK. Eoast a wild duck before a brisk fire, for about five-and-twenty minutes, so that it may retain its gravy; place it on its breast in a dish to get cool; then, cut it up into small joints—comprising two fillets, two legs with the breast and back, each cut into two pieces— iind place the whole in a stewpan. Put the trimmings into a stew- pan with half a pint of red Avine, four shalots, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf; the rind of an orange, free from pith, the pulp of a lemon, and a little cayenne; bod these down to half their original quantity; then add a small ladleful of worked Espagnole sauce (No. 3), allow the sauce to bod, skim it, and pass it through a tammy on to the pieces of wild duck. When about to send to table, warm the salmis Avithout boding, dish it up, pour the sauce over it, garnish the entree with eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, nicely glazed, and serve. 1104. SALMIS OF WIDGEON, OR TEAL. Truss three of these for roasting, place them in an earthen dish, and strew about them thirdy-shced carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; season with mignionette-pepper, a little salt, the juice of a 'Cmon, and' a gdl of salad od, and allow them to steep in this marinade