2G9 SHEEP’S-EJBL:VD AND KIDNEYS, COMPRISING 6he«p K Kidneys, la Brochette. „ bread-crumbed, <i fEpicu- rimne. Sheep’s Kidneys, with Fine-heibs. „ d la Claremont. Sheep’s Head, d la GalUmaufre. 874. SHEEP’S-KIDNEYS, A LA BROCHETTE. Slit the kidneys lengthwise, without cutting through the sinew; remove the thin skin which covers them, and place them in a small dish; season with pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of salad oil, and allow them to steep in their seasoning until broiled. They must then be run on a small silver or any other kind of skewer (two or three on each), and placed upon a gridiron over a clear fire to be broiled, with the open side downwards; when done brown, they must be turned up, as, from the heat of the fire, their sides become con- tracted, which causes them to form a sort of cup, to hold the gravy in when the kidneys are done: care must be taken not to spill this gravy in dishing them up : fill each with a small piece of cold Maitre- d'Hotel butter (No. 44j, pour a little half glaze under them, and send to table quite hot. Broiled kidneys may also be served with anchovy butter, plain gravy, or a pat of iS^esh butter, and a spoonful of Harvey sauce. 875. SHEEP’S-KIDNEYS, BREAD-CRUMBED, A L’EPICURIENHE. Split the kidneys as before directed, season them with pepper and salt, dip them in clarified butter, and roll them in fresh-made bread- crumbs ; place them on the skewers, and broil them on both sides: when done dish them up with a small piece of epicurean butter (No. 186) in each, the juice of a lemon and a little half glaze under them, and serve quite hot. Pbepaee some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), slit the kidneys length- wise, quite through; remove the skin, and then slice them into thin scollops. Place a sauta or frying pan, -with two ounces of butter in it, on a brisk fire ; fry the kidneys brown, then add a glass of sherry or Madeira; let this boil tiU reduced, then pour in the sauce prepared for the purpose ; allow the whole to simmer together on the stove for three minutes; dish them up with some pastry Jleurom round them, and serve. Peepaee the kidneys in thin scollops, season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a little butter; then throw in a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same of parsley, and tAvo shalots, also chopped ; after alloAving the whole to fry a few minutes longer, shake in a table-spoonful of flour, mix together, and moisten with a glass of sherry; let this boil for two minutes, then add a large spoonful of brown gravy or broth ; allow tlic whole to simmer on the fire for five minutes, add a little lemon-juice, and seiwe. 876. sheep's-kidneys, with fine-herbs. 877. another method.