25 FUREES OF vegetables. rUREES OF VEGETABLES FOB GABNISIIING COMPRISIKO Puree of Peas. ruree of Artichokes. >1 Windsor Beans. $9 Asparagus. Onions d la Souhise. Carrots. 99 ff Turnips. 99 Tomatas, f} Celery. 99 Truffles. ft Cauliflowers. ft Mushrooms. 99 Spinach. 99 Brussels Sprouts. ft Sorrel. 9t Cucumbers. ft Endive. 99 French Beans. 99 Chestnuts. 99 Jerusalem Artichoke*. ff Potatoes. ff Seakale. 106. PUREE OF PEAS. Boil a quart of marrowfat or Pi’ussian-blue peas, in the usual manner, with some mint, a few green onions, and a handful of parsley; strain off the water, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar; then take this up into a stewpan, and after adding a little sugar, a gravy-spoonful of good white sauce, make it hot, and pass it through a tammy as usual; put the puree into a small stewpan, in which it must be warmed before using it, mix in a small piece of glaze, and a pat of fresh butter. 107, PUREE OP WINDSOR BEANS. PaocuuE a quart of young Windsor beans, and boil them with a handful of parsley, a few green onions, and a little winter savory; drain them and pound the whole together in a mortar; take them up into a stewpan, add a gravy-spoonful of good white sauce, and make the puree warm. Eub it through the tammy with a wooden spoon ; then take it up into a stewpan, and just before using it make it suffi- ciently hot; mix in a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a little sugar, and some spinach-green (No. 285). 108. PUREE OF YOUNG CARROTS. Clean a bunch of young carrots, slice them up thin, wash and drain them in a sieve; then place them in a stewpan, with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and sugar; sweat them on a slov/ fire, turning them over now and then. When the carrots begin to get coloured, moisten with a ladleful of good broth, and set them on the fire; allow them to boil down gently to a glaze, then pound them in the mortar, and rub them through the tammy into a -puree; put this puree into a small stewpan, and when required for use, add a spoonful of thick Allemande sauce, a pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar 109. PUREE OF TURNIPS A LA CREiME. Peel and wash a dozen good turnips, cut them into small square • All the purees here described being intended for entrees, should be kept firm, that they may stand up well when placed in the centre of an £/iOe..