43 RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL, COMPRISIKa Toulouse ragout. Financih'e do. Calf’s head do. d Tovtue. Chipolata do. Strasbourg do. of fat livers. Pirigueux do. MateloUe do. Do. Normande do. Bourguignotle do. Craj'fish do. Roucnaise do. Ragout of scollops of sweetbreads. Ragout of soft roes of mackerel. Cardinal ragout. Ragout of scollops of soles. Do. of salmon or trout. Parisian ragout. Ragout of scollops of game, Sac. Do. of larks. Do. of cock’s kernels, d la Soubise. Richelieu ragout. Ragout of chicken’s wings. Do. of ox palates. Do. of sheep’s tongues, d Vtcarlate. Kegent’s ragout. 187. TOULOUSE RAGOUT. Prepare some fine large white cocks’ combs and kernels, button musbrooms, small scollops of sweetbreads, and a proportionate quantity of truffles tmried in the shape of scollops or olives; place these in a small stewpan, and add thereto a small ladleful of Alle- mande or Supreme sauce, toss the whole together over the fire a few minutes, it will be then ready for use. Place in a stewpan a similar ragout to the foregoing, wdth an equal portion of small quenelles, and add a small ladleful of Avell-finished Financiere sauce; allow the whole to boil slightly on the fire. Use this ragout for garnishing the remove or entree, as the case may be. Put a large gravy-spoonful of fine white cocks’ combs into a hain- marie or stewpan, a similar quantity of cocks’ kernels, small truffles, button mushrooms, quenelles, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives; to these add a sufficient quantity of Turtle sauce (No. 9) for the purpose, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a minute or tAvo, and seiwe. Twist one pound of pork sausages into small round balls, sepa- rate these, fry them, and Avhen they are cold, trim and put them into a hain-marie, containing a proportionate quantity of cocks’ combs and kernels, button mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, carrots, and turnips turned in the shape of olives, and boiled doAvn in their own glaze, also some round balls of braized streaky bacon, and an equal pro- portion of chestnuts, pealed and boiled in consomme; add a ladleful of Financiere sauce (No. 8), a little essence of truffles and mushrooms; then set the ragout on the fire to boil for tAvo minutes, and serv'e, Note.—The above is the simplest mode for preparing this ragout; it is far better, hoAvever, that the Avhole of the ingredients of Avhich this verj' rich and popular ragout is composed should be kept sepa- 188. EINANCIERE RAGOUT. 189. GALE’S HEAD RAGOUT A LA TORTUE. 190. CIIIPOLATA RAGOUT,