159 FILLETS OF LEEF. clarified and reduced to half glaze for the purpose; glaze the larding and send to table. If preferred, the fillet may be roasted instead of braized. 556. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A l’ALLEMANDE. Peebaee a fillet of beef in every respect accorduig to the foregoing directions, when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish it round with stcYiedsauer-kraut (No. 165), sauce it with roivrade or Espagnole sauce, and send to table. The fillet of beef d VAllemande may also be garnished with stewed prunes, quenelles of potatoes (No. 312), and sauced round with German sweet sauce (No. 61). 557. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. Laed a fillet of beef, prepare it for braizing in the usual manner, moisten it with a bottle of good Madeira, and then set the fillet to braize gently on a slow fire ; keep basting it frequently with its own liquor, and when done glaze it and place it on its dish. Garnish it round with a Jardiniere (No. 143), a MacMoine (No. 144), or some nicely- fried potatoes ; clarify the whole of the liquor in which the fillet has been braized, reduce it to the consistency of half glaze, and use it for the purpose of saucing the fillet, and send to table. 558. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA mLANAISE. Beaize a larded fillet of beef in an oval braizing pan garnished with the usual quantity of vegetables, &c.; moisten with a bottle of sherry or Malaga; when the beef is done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as follows:—BoH three-quarters of a pound of macaroni, cut it into two-inch lengths, and put it into a stewpan containing some scollops of mushrooms, truffles, tongue, and the fillets of one fowl: to these add a ragout spoonful of Bichamel sauce (No. 5), four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and a pat of butter; season with a little grated nutmeg and mignionette pepper, toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed, and use it as directed. Sauce the fillet round with the essence (clarified in the usual manner), and send the remainder to table in a sauceboat, to be handed roimd with the fillet of beef. 559. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A l'AFTGLAISE. Proctiee a good thick fillet of beef, trim and lard it in the usuAj. man- ner, place it in a large earthen dish, strew over it carrot and onion cut into thin slices, thyme, bay-leaf, and branches of parsley, some thin sbces of the pulp of a lemon, and a little mignionette pepper; pour about a gill of salad-oil over the whole, and allow the fillet of beef to to steep in this marinade for several hours—taking care to turn it over occasionally, so that it may absorb a portion of the oil impregnated with the flavour of the various ingredients contained in this kind of marinade. About an hour and a half before dinner, remove every particle of vegetable from the fillet of beef, run a strong-made iron skewer through it lengthwise, fasten it on the spit by tying it with string at each end, and then put it down to the fire to roast—basting it frequently; take care that the fire is not too fierce, as in that case the larding be