128 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. and when its oaldng is completed, place it on its dish; then add a spoonful of brown sauce and half a glass of wine to the liquor in which the head has been baked, and allow the whole to boil down to the consistency of sauce; add a pat of butter, a little essence of an- chovies, and lemon-juice; work the whole together, pour the sauce round the cod’s head, and send to table. HADDOCKS AND COD’S SOUNDS, COliPKISIKO Haddocks d la Royale. „ stuffed and baked. „ d la Belle-vue. „ broiled, with Dutch sauce. „ boiled, with Egg sauce. Fillets of Haddocks d la Royale. Fillets of Haddocks d la Mariclialu ,, ,, d VRalihim. Cod’s sounds and Egg sauce. „ „ d la Ravigolte. ,, ,, d la Oasconne. „ „ d la Royalt. 453. HADDOCKS A LA ROYALE. Bone and stuff two haddocks with some quenelle force-meat of whiting; place them head to tail on a baking-sheet; then season them with a little pepper and salt, and bake them. After allowing the haddocks to cool, cover them with a thin layer of quenelle force- meat of whitings, and place tliereon some contises fillets of soles, in a slanting direction; mask the heads with a little of die force-meat, mixed with some pounded lobster-coral, and form the eyes and mouth with truffles; cover the haddocks with very thin layers of bacon,— placing over all a buttered paper. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put the haddocks in the oven to finish baking; just before serving, take off the paper, and remove the layers of bacon, and with a clean napkin absorb all the grease and moisture there may be upon them; then carefully remove the haddocks on to their dish, sauce them round with some Parisian sauce (No. 40), and garnish them with some quenelles of lobster, with a large scollop of truffle intervening between each quenelle, and send to table. 454. HADDOCKS, STUFFED AND BAKED, Are prepared in the same manner as cods’ heads baked, previously described. Haddocks, after being baked, may also be served with Poivrade, Piquante, Tomata, Italian, Oyster, Muscle, or Caper sauces. 455. HADDOCKS A LA BELLE-VUE. Skin two haddocks; tniss them as you would whitings for fry- ing, and put them into a baking dish; cover them with a layer of quenelle force meat of whitings, coloured with lobster-coral; then place across their backs some fillets of soles contises with green gherkins, taking care to leave the space of an inch between each fillet, so as to insert some small truffles cut in the shape of olives; cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, and over all place a buttered