173 REMOVES OF LEGS, LOINS, AND NECKS OF MUTTON, COMPRISINQ Boiled Leg of Mutton, a I'Anglaise. Braizeil ,, with roots. „ ,, a la Provengale. ,, ,, ala Soubise. ,, ,, d la Bretonne. „ „ ala Jardiniere. Braized Saddle of Mutton, a la Macedoine. Necks of Mutton, d I’Anglaise. ,, d I’lrlandaise. ,, d la Jardiniere. ,, larded with Poicradc sauce. ,, d VAllemande. „ d la Soubise. 601. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON, A l’ANGLAISE. Select a leg of Soutlido’nTi mutton, ratlier fat, and not kept above three or four days ; trim it, and put it on to boil in a stock-pot or braizing-pan, filled up with cold water; when it boils, remove the scum, and put it on the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for about two hours and a half: a handful of salt and a couple of turnips and carrots shoidd be put into the pot to boil with the leg. ^VTien the mutton is done, drain and dish it up, garnish it round with mashed turnips, dressed with a little sweet cream, a pat of butter, pepper and salt; mould the mashed turnips in the shape of large eggs—with a table-spoon, and place these closely round the leg of mutton, introducing beWeen each spoonful of mashed turnips a carrot nicely turned, that has been boiled, either with the mutton, or in some broth separately: pour some gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send it to table, accompanied with a sauce-boat fuU of caper-sauce (No. 91). 602. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, GARNISHED WITH ROOTS. Trim a leg of Southdown or Scotch mutton, interlard it with fillets of ham or bacon cut a quarter of an inch square and about six inches long, seasoned with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg and some chopped parsley; pare off the ends of ham, &c., and place the leg of mutton in an oval braiziug-pan with two carrots, a head of celery, a couple of onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a glass of brandy, and two large ladlefuls of fresh stock, cover with an oval buttered paper and put on the lid ; then set the braizing-pan on the fire to bod gently for about four hours, from time to time moistening the mutton with its Kquor, and keeping a continual supply of live embers on the lid of the pan. AVhen done, take it up on to a deep baking-sheet, with a little of its own liquor, and put in the hot closet till wanted. In the mean time, strain ofi’ the braize, divest it of all the fat, clarify it in the usual manner, and when strained, reduce it to the consistency of half glaze, and set it aside in a small hain-marrc. 'Chen glaze the leg of mutton nicely, and place it on its dish; garnish it round with alternate groups of young carrots and turnips turned and boiled in broth as usual, for the purpose, and afterwards boiled down in their own glaze, also some glazed young onions; pour the clarified essence under the leg of mutton, put the ruffle on the bone and send to table.