SOUFFLES. 448 bake the cake for about an hour, and when done, dish it up with a fruit sauce poured round the base, made in the following manner:— Pick one pound of either currants, raspberries, cherries, damsons, strawberries, or apricots; place them in a stewpan with eight ounces of sifted sugar and half a giU of water: boil the whole doAvn to the eojisistency of a thick puree^ and then rub it through a sieve or tammy. SOUPFLES IN GENERAL, COMPRISING Potato-flour Souffle. Souffle of Hice. Chocolate Souffle. Coffee Souffle. Ginger Souffle. Pine-apple Souffle. Souffle of Apricots. 1372. POTATO-FLOUR SOUFFLE. Ikgeedients :—Six ounces of potato-flour, ten ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, twelve eggs, two sticks of vanilla, and a little salt. Put the milk or cream to boil, then throw in the vaniUa, cover the stewpan with its lid, and allow the infusion to stand for about half an hour, in order to extract the flavour of the vanilla. Next, put the potato-flour, the sugar, butter, salt, and one egg into a stewpan, and mix the whole weD together ; then add the milk and the vanilla, and stir the preparation on the stove-fire until it boils, when it must be worked with the spoon to make it perfectly smooth ; after adding the yolks of ten eggs, set it aside, while the ten whites are being whipped quite firm, and then add these in with the souffle batter: pour the whole lightly into a soufflU dish, having a broad band of buttered cartridge paper round the outside, and then set it in the oven to bake : this will take about three-quarters of an hour. "When the soaffli is done, place it (on its baking-sheet) upon another baking-sheet covered with hot embers of charcoal, and let it be thus carried to the dining-room door; just before dishing it up, remove the bands of paper, shake some sifted sugar over the top, place it in the soufflU dish, and serve immediately. Note.—Souffles of flour, ground rice, semolina, arrow-root, tapioca, tous-les-mois (a kind of potato-flour), should all be prepared as the above; substituting either of these for the potato-flour. Soufflh may be flavoured “with orange, lemon, cinnamon, orange-flowers, or with any kind of essence or liqueur. 1373. SOUFFLE OF RICE. iNGBEDiEtfTS:—Six ounces of rice, ten ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, ten eggs, two lemons, a quart of milk, and a little salt. Wash the rice and parboil it in water for five minutes; then put it into a stewpan with the sugar, butter, milk, and salt, and set this to Souffles of Raspberries. Brown-bread Souffle, d FAllemande. Omelette Souffl€e. Pancakes, plain. ,, d /a Celestine. Pancakes Souffles.