104 NATIONAL SOUPS. In the meantime, trim the meat off the fowl, duck, and pheasant, into neat scollops; cut the bacon and sausages into small round balls, and carefully place all these ingredients in the silver lining of a soup-tureen, keeping the shredded vegetables and braized beef quenelles on the top; put them in the hot closet until dinner-time. Then grate or pound a couple of beet-roots, place this in a stewpan on the fire, and boil it up for a few minutes, extract the juice by strong pressure through the tammy-cloth, and use it to colour the consomme, so as to give it the appearance of claret. Just before sending to table, pour the boiling consomme to the ingredients con- tained in the soup-tureen, adding a pinch of minionette pepper; send up the fried eggs cut in halves, and also the fried quenelles, in a plate, to be handed round witli the horsch. 381. OUKA, OR RUSSIAN SOUP. Place in a 'stockpot a large knuckle of veal, about a pound of raw ham, and two old hens, roasted for the purpose; fill up with com- mon brotli, set it to boil, and having skimmed it, garnish it with the usual vegetables, adding thereto either a handful of parsley roots or a couple of parsnips. After five hours’ boiling, strain off the consomme, and clai’ify it in the usual manner; strain it again through a napkin into a soup-pot, to be set aside until wanted to finish the soup. While the stock is boiling, take two pounds of crimped salmon, two large live pei’ch, a Thames eel, and two fine mullets; fillet and cut these into scollops, placing them neatly in a deep sauta-pan; season with a pluche of picked parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves (the latter in a small proportion), some boiled shred parsley roots, minionette pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, and the fourth part of a bottle of Chablis or Sauteme; having first allowed these scollops to boil on the stove for five minutes, moisten with a quart of essence of fish (made with the carcasses and trimmings of the fish used for the scollops), let them boil quickly for ten minutes longer, and then pour the consomme to them; after they have boiled together two or three minutes, pour the soup into the tureen con- taining three dozen small quenelles of whiting, in which some lobster- eoral and purh of mushrooms have been mixed. Ascertain that the seasoning is appropriate, and send to table. This soup is a species of souchet, and may be varied by using different Kinds of fish. It is much esteemed by those Avho are fond of fish. 381a. tschi, or cabbage soup a la russe. First, cut four onions into small dice, and fry them with a little butter in a stewpan over a slow fire, and when they assume a light- yellow-brown colour, add to these a white-heart cabbage which has been previously shred fine for the purpose, and, after having con- tinued to fiy this also with the onions for about ten minutes, two tablespoonfuls of flour should be added; stir the whole well together, moistening with three pints of good consomme, season with a little nutmeg and minionette pepper, and when, after the soup has boiled gently by the side of the stove for about an hour, in order to clarify it, let it be well skimmed; and previously to sending the soup to table, add a pluche of tarragon leaves and some lemon-juice. Pre< viously to pouring the Tschi into the soup-tureen, place therein