146 FRESH-WATER FISH. lobster-coral; smooth the surface of the force-meat with the blade of a kmfe dipped in whipped wliite of egg; place some fillets of soles contises w'ith green gherkins crossw ise upon the carp, leaving the space of an inch between each fillet—these spaces are to be filled up by mserting in the force-meat some pieces of tnifile, cut in the shape of small ohves; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and braize the carp as in the former case, io a white wine mirepoix; when done, place it on a large oval dish, remove the layers of bacon, &c., sauce it round with a Ginoise sauce (No. 30), and garnish it with a border of large quenelles of soles, half of which must be coloured with lobster- coral, and the remainder with chopped and blanched parsley; within the inner circle of the quenelles, place alternate groups of prepared oysters and the tails of prawns; at the extremities, and on the flanks of the dish, place groups of crayfish, and send to table. 514. CARP, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Stew the carp whole in red wine, when done, drain and place it on an oval dish; sauce it with a rich Bourguignotte sauce (No. 28), garnish with soft roes and crayfish, and send to table. 515. CARP, A LA PERIGUEUX. Stew the carp in -wine, drain it, and dish it up; sauce it with Perigueux sauce incorporated with a pat of anchovy butter and some lemon-juice; garnish with a border of lobster quenelles, and serve. 516. CARP, A LA PROVEXCALE. Stew the carp in a mirepoix of wliite wine, when done, drain and dish it up ; pour some Provengale sauce over it, garnish it with groups of muscles fried in batter, and scollops of perch, tossed in green liavigotte sauce; place a border if crayfish round the dish, and send to table. 517. CAP.P, A l’allesiande. Cleax one or more carp, cut the fish into sHces about two inches thick; place the slices in a basin, and season them with a gill of oil, a Httle tarragon-vinegar, mignionette-pepper, and salt, bay-leaf, thyme, and shalot; let the carp steep in this marinade till within about half an hour of dinner-time ; then drain them on a napkin, and dip each piece separately in flour, bread-crumb them in the usual w^ay with egg and bread-crumbs mixed with one-fifth of Parmesan cheese ; fry the pieces of carp of a fine colour, and dish them up on a napkin, placing the pieces so as to make the fish look whole ; surround the carp with a border of fried parsley, and shces of lemon, and send to table with two sauce-boats containing some butter sauce, (see No. 70,) and some Ginoise sauce (No. 30). 518. CARP, FRIED A LA VENITIENNE. Stew one or more carp in a white wine mirepoix (No. 236); drain them on an earthen dish, and after removing the skin, proceed to mask them with a coating of stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce (No. 7), m which has been added some of the liquor the fish have been stewed in. "When the sauce has cooled upon the carp, first strew over some bread-crumbs, then egg them over with a paste-brush, and cover them