341 ENTilEES OF FISH. piece of ancliovy-butter, and a little glaze; place two wbeatears in each case (previously oiled and baked to stiffen the paper), pom* the sauco over them, and bake them in the oven upon a sautapan lor about a quarter of an hour; pour a little bright Espagnole sauce over them, and serve. FISH ENTKEES, COMPRISING Boudins of Lobster, d la Cardinal. Quenelles „ d la Vertpre. Boudins of Whitings, d la Supreme. Quenelles „ d la Princesse. Bonulins of Salmon, d I’ltalimne. Quenelles ,, d la Ravigotte, Blanqnctte of Sturgeon. Scollops of Sturgeon, with Fine-herbs. Cutlets ,, d la Bourguignottc. Fillets of Salmon, d VAurore. „ d la Parisimne. „ d la Maintenon. Fillets of Turbot. Fillets of Gurnet, with Caper Sauce. Fillets of Soles, d la Dieppoise. „ ala Maitre-d'Hotel, ,, d la Venitimne. „ d la Prorengale. „ d Vllorly. ,, d la Royale. Paupiettes of Soles, d la Cardinal. Dolphins of Whitings, d la Parisienne. Fillets of Whiting, &c. Fillets of Trout, d la Chevalierc. ,, d la Regence. Epigramme of Fillets of Trout. Fillets of Perch, &c. ,, of Mackerel. ^1112. BOUDINS OF LOBSTER, A LA CARDINAL. Chop the meat of two good-sized lobsters very fine, put this into a mortar with the pith, and part of the coral, reserving the remainder for the sauce ; add two-thirds of its proportion of butter, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub the produce through a fine wire sieve upon a plate; put the lobster back in the mortar with half its quantity of Panorfa (No. 239), and pound these until well mixed; add three yolks of eggs, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix thoroughly by pounding, add one whole egg, and then try the force-meat, by poaching a small portion of it in boiling water; when done, cut it through the middle, and if the inside presents a smooth compact surface, take the force- meat up into a basin, but if it appears soft and rough, add a little more Fanada, and another egg; divide the force-meat into three parts, roll these upon a slab with a little flour into oblong houdins, about six inches in length by two inches square; poach them with boiling water in a deep sautapan by the stove-fire, lor about twenty minutes, turning them over carefully when done on one side; drain them upon a napkin, trim the sides, and mask them with some Cardinal sauce (No. 48); place across them some small fillets of soles, contish with truffles, and dish them up in a triangular form; fill the centre with a ragout d la Cardinal (No. 200), and serve. 1113. QUENELLES OF LOBSTER, A LA VERTPRE. Mould eighteen table-spoonfids of gweneZZes with some lobster force- meat prepared as directed in the foregoing case; place them in cir- cular order, in a sautapan spread with butter, and poach them with boiling water, which must be poured upon a stewpan-cover held in a sloping direction against the side of the sautapan; put a round of