VOL AU VENTS. 229 quails In a fricandeau pan which has been previously lined with Uiin layers of fat bacon; in the centre place a garnished faggot of parsley; cover the whole with more layers ol fat bacon, moisten with a mne mirepoix (No.23G), and having put a buttered paper over all, set the lid on the pan and place it on a stove-fire, or in the oven, to braize very gently for about three-quarters of an hom\ As soon as the quails are done, drain them on a dish, set them to cool, and trim them neatly. Next, fine the inside of the pie A^dth some of the remainder of the farce of fat fivers, to within an inch of the top, place the quails in it in cirerdar order, with the breasts uppermost, and a thin layer of the force-meat between each ; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, place a double round of paper well-buttered on the top, and then set the pie in the oven to bake: this will take about an hour. "When done, remove the bacon, drain off all the grease care- fully, place a decorated small fillet of fowl in between each quail, and on the breast of each, a large white button-mushroom, round the edge a border of large white cocks’-combs, and in the centre a larded heart sweetbread; sauce sparingly with a bright Financiere (No. 8) mixed with some reduced extract of quails made from the bones. Fote.—Observe, that the raised pie for this purpose, must be only half baked previously to filling it -nith the quails : as it has to undergo another baking. This remark refers also to the two succeeding cases. 769. PATE-CHAUD OF LAKES BONED, A l’eSSENCE. Tolloav the preceding directions, but substituting larks for quails. 761. PATE-CHAUD OF SNIPES, A LA BORDELAISE. Bone eight snipes, and with the trad and one pound of fat fivers, make some force-meat for gratin (No. 249), and with part of this fill the snipes; truss them in the same way as directed for the quads, and braize them accordingly, after Avhich foUow in ad respects the second part of the directions. Wlien the pie is baked, drain off care- fully ad the grease; between each snipe place a large white cocks- . comb, on the breast of each put a small fillet of fowl, decorated with red tongue, and afterwards turned round in a circle, with a round bad of black trujfle in the centre: these fidets must be placed in .a small sautapan between thin layers of fat bacon, and set in the oven for about three minutes; garnish the edge of the pie with a close border of scodops of red tongue cut in the form of large cocks’-combs, in the centre put a large truffle, bearing a double comb, and a border of these round its base ; sauce the pie carefudy with a rich Bordelaise (No. 57), mixed with some reduced extract of snipes, made from the bones, and serve.