SPECIAL SAUCES. 17 the side to continue gently boiling that it may clear itself; sldni it thoroughly, and having reduced it to a }:)roper consistency, pour it into a bain-marie, and finish it by mixing in two teaspoonfuls of French mustai’d and a little minionette pepper. This sauce is peculiarly adapted, from its piquante, full, yet delicate flavour, for entrees of broiled pork. 68. SAUCE A LA GASCONNE. Take a small spoonful of French capers, with about an ounce of truffles, and chop each separately, very fine; put these into a small stewpan, together with one clove of garlic, a tablespoonful of salad oil, some pepper, and nutmeg; fry them lightly on the stove-fire for two or three minutes; moisten with a glass of French white wine, set the whole to boil on the stove-fire for three minutes; then add a small ladleful of white Veloute sauce, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme; stir the sauce on the fii’e till it boils, then set it by the side to continue boiling gently; skim it well, and after having added another glass of wine, reduce the sauce and thicken it with a leason of three yolks; pour the sauce into a bain-marie, and just before iTsing it mix in a spoonful of chopped and blanched chives, parsley, and tarragon, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice. 69. CHEVREUIL OR PIQUANTE SAUCE POR ROEBUCK. Chop four ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan, witli a good pinch of minionette pepper, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a few green onions, and some sprigs of parsley; moisten with a gill of French vinegar, boil the whole on the fire till reduced to half its original quantity, and then add a small ladleful of brown sauce, a small tumblerful of red wine, and a little consomme; stir this on the fire till it boils, and after having cleared and skimmed it in the usual manner, reduce it to a proper consistency, and finish by adding a spoonful of red currant-jelly and the juice of an orange. 70. BUTTER SAUCE. Butter sauce, or, as it is more oftei^ absurdly called, m.eltecl butter, is the foundation of the whole of the following sauces, and requires, very great care in its preparation. Though simple, it is nevertheless a very useful and agreeable sauce when properly made; so fiir from this being usually the case, it is too generally left to assistants to prepare as an insignificant matter; the result is therefore seldom satisfactory When a large quantity of butter sauce is required, put four ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan, with some grated nutmeg and minionette pepper; to these add four ounces of sifted flour; knead the whole well together, and moisten with a pint of cold spring water; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and after having kept it gently boiling for twenty minutes (observing tliat it be not thicker than the consistence of common white sauce), proceed to mix in one pound and a half of sweet fresh butter, taking care to stir the sauce quickly the whole time of the operation. Should it appear to turn oily, add now and then a spoonful of cold spring water; finish with the juice of half a lemon, and salt to palate; then pass the sauce through a tammy into a large bain-marie for use. c