PREFACE. iX the work. lu conuertion with this subject, the Author veutures to ofter a few suggestions for the consideration of Epicures. In the first place, the English custom of dividing a grand dinner into several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense and convenience. It is a needless complication that necessarily leads to useless profusion, and much additional trouble. Our neighbours across the channel—the best authorities in all gastronomic questions —allow of two courses only in the largest dinners. With them, Eish and Hors-d’oeuvres,—such as patties, croquettes, &c., form part of the Eirst Course, and not a distinct course, as they are considered east of Temple Bar. The Erench, too, regard the dessert as a mere delasse- ment after dinner, intended rather to propitiate than to thwart digestion. The great and increasing intercourse between this country and the Continent, as weU as the probable relaxation of the duty on foreign wines, will tend naturally to extend our use of many kinds especially appropriate to the dinner-table. On this head, the Author, without pretending to give any elaborate or detailed instructions respecting the service of wines at dinner, cannot refrain from alluding to an injudicious habit, frequently adopted at English tables—that of in- troducing sweet Champagne in the Eirst Course. This wine, from its sweetness, naturally counteracts the flavour of savoury dishes—there is a mutual repulsion between them. Madeira, Sherry, and Bm’gundy are better suited to the Eirst Course ; their stimulating and generous qualities tending considerably to assist digestion. In Erance, sweet Champagne is not introduced until the latter part of the Second Course : by that time, the palate has become more fit to appreciate the delicate bouquet of this delicious and exhilarating beverage. The Author begs further to add, that the ordinary practice in Lon- don of serving Turtle and Venison indiscriminately, as mere acces- sories to recherche dinners, is, in his opinion, most injudicious. Tm’tle and Venison being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, it follows that when they form part of a dinner, the Eemoves and Entrees are comparatively neglected. Very light Entrees should only be served with these ; and on such occasions, indeed, it would be pre- ferable to arrange the dinner in the Eussian fashion—placing the desert upon the table at first, while the whole of the dinner is served from the side tables. By this means, t\vo advantages are gained : a less number of dishes is required—especially in the Eirst Course ; and tlie dinner has a better chance of being served hot—an indispensable