457 FONDU OF PARMESAN CHEESE. 1404. PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients :—Three-quarters of a pound of raisins, tliree-quarters of a pound of currants, half a pound of candied orange, lemon, and citron, one pound and a quarter of chopped beef suet, one pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, four eggs, about three gills of milk, the grated rind of two lemons, half an ounce of nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves (in powder), a glass of brandy, and a very little salt. Miy the above ingredients thoroughly together iu a large basm several hours before the pudding is to be boiled; pour them into a mould spread -with butter, which should be tied up in a cloth. The pudding must then be boiled for four hours and a half; when done, msh it up with a Grerman custard-sauce spread over it (No. 1392)- 1405. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients :—Ten ounces of tapioca, a quart of milk, six ounces of sugar, six yolks of eggs and two whipped whites, the grated rind of a lemon, two ounces of butter, and a little salt. Put the tapioca, sugar, butter, salt, grated lemon, and the milk into a stewpan, stir this over the fire until it bods; then cover the stewpan with its lid, and set it on a very slow stove-fire (partially smothered with ashes), to continue gently simmering for a quarter of an hour. The tapioca shoidd then be withdrawn from the fire, and after the six yolks and the two whipped whites of eggs have been thoroughly incorporated in it, pour the preparation into a mould or pudding basin previously spread with butter ; steam the pudding for about an hour and a half, and when done, dish it up with either a plain arrow- root or custard-sauce over it. Sago or semolina may be prepared in the same manner. Note.—In addition to the foregoing, puddings may also be made with every kind of preparation described for making timbales or cakes of rice, vermicelli, maccaroni, nouilles, &c. These may be either steamed in a mould or pudding-basin, or baked in a pie-dish. 1406. FONDU OF PARMESAN CHEESE. Ingredients :—Twelve ounces of fresh Parmesan cheese grated, lour ounces of fiour, twelve eggs, four ounces of butter, a pint of milk or cream, a pinch of mignionette-pepper, and a very little salt. Mix the flour, butter, pepper and salt, well together with the milk, and then stir this over the tire until it boils; work the batter quickly A\dth the spoon to render it perfectly smooth, then add the grated cheese and the twelve yolks of eggs ; whip the whites quite firm, and add them also, very lightly. Pill the soujjle case with thefondu, bake it for about three-quarters of an hour, and send it to table as soon as it is ready. Note.—Half the quantity of Gruyere with the other half of Parme- san cheese is sometimes used. It is also customary to season fondus with mustard, lemon-juice, Cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, for those who prefer high seasoning to the more delicate flavour of the Parmesan cheese: the latter is most likely to be approved of by 6 true epicure.