ENTREES OF QUAILS. 322 1046. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA BORDELAISE. Trim the quails into cutlets in the same way as directed in the foregoing case, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan -with a little clarified butter; fry them over a brisk fire, and as soon as they have acquired a light colour on both sides, pour off all the grease, add a spoonl'ul of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire ; then dish them up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the centre with scoUops of truffles and mushrooms, pour some Bordelaise sauce (No. 57), over the cutlets, and serve. 1047. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA TALLEYRAND. Fillet eight quails, and with the carcasses make some essence (No. 218) ; trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the legs) into them, to imitate cutlets; then place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Prepare sixteen fried croutons of bread cut in the shape and size of the fiUets, and fill these with some farce made from the quails’ livers; prepare also some scollops of fat livers, truffles and mushrooms, and put them into a small stewpan with a little AUe- mande sauce (No. 7) ; finish some Supreme sauce (No. 38) by incorpo- rating therein the reduced essence of quails, and keep it in a small bain-marie. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over a moderate stove-fire, and when done, pour off aU the grease, add a little of the Supreme sauce, toss the fillets in it, and dish them up as follows:— First, place eight of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven) at the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre ; then place a fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the croutons, and then place the last row of fillets; fill the centre with the scollops, pour the Supreme sauce over the fillets, and serve. 1048. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA PARISIENNE. Prepare the fiUets and the croutons as directed in the foregoing case, and finish and dish them up m the same way; fill the centre of the entrie with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 1049. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH TRUFFLES. Fillet eight quails; trim each fillet into two scollops, and place the whole of these into a sautapan with some clarified butter; season with a little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. Use ^e carcasses to make some extract or essence with, which when done must be clarified, boiled down to glaze, and incorporated with some finished Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and put into a small bain- marie. Simmer the scollops over a moderate fire, and as soon as they are done, pour off aU the butter, and add half the sauce with about half a pound of truffles cut into scollops ; toss them over the stove-fire for two minutes without allowing them to bod ; pile them up in the centre of the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over them, garnish the entrie with a border of potato croquettes or fleurons, and serve. 1050. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH CUCUMBERS. Thebe are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing. When about to send to table, simmer them over the stove-fire, and when