mi PUEl'AOE. practitioner from attempting too much. Excess m the quantity aud variety of spices and condiments—the bane of English cookery—is especially to be guarded against. Nothing vitiates the palate more than a superabundant use of such stimulants. In the preparation of soups and sauces, this rule must be constantly borne in mind. In a treatise professing to treat of cookery as an art by which re- lined taste is to be gratified rather than a coarse appetite satisfied, it would be out of place to attempt to translate its rules into the hack- neyed terms employed in “ Guides ” and “ Oracles ” for economical makeshifts. r Such attempts, too frequently made by English writers on gas- tronomy, at once betray their origin. The greater part of these authorities are persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor practised the art to any extent, take upon themselves to instruct the public, not from the fulness of their knowledge, but either as a pecu- niary resoui’ce, or to gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, while we possess in England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, generally of far better quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our cookery in theory and practice has become a by-word of ridicule, aud that we should be compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant for the most part of our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts r They manage these things better in Erance cookery is there con- sidered as an important art, and its successful endeavours are regarded with a due appreciation. In Paris its great professors have achieved an almost historical celebrity, and their school of cookery has become pre-eminent. This can only be attributed to their assiduous study of its elementary principles, which, when properly understood, will be found to conjoin the highest enjoyment with due attention to the preservation of health. The palate is as capable and nearly as worthy of education as the eye and the ear. A large proportion of the dishes contained in this work are quite new to the public, not merely as regards their names, but as respects their composition. This will be found to be the case particular!}'- with the Soups, dressed Eish, Eemoves, Entrees, Hors-d’oeuvres, and dressed Vegetables. The second course, moreover, is treated at greater length, and with more care than has hitherto been the case in English Cookery Books. A copious and varied collection of Bids of Eare, adapted to every season of the year has been added as an essential accompaniment to