44G RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES. as an ornament must be imitated by spreading a layer of chocolate- icing over it, in the form of a scollop shell; the remaining part of the surface of the ham should be masked with a coating of diluted bright apricot-jam, to imitate glaze. Just before sending the ham to table, fill the hoUow part with some MacMoine of fruit in jelly, or else \vith some kind of cream; then place the ham on its dish, fix a handsome paper ruffle on the knuckle with a small silver skewer; garnish the ham round the base with croutons of some kind of sweet jelly, pink and white; place an ornament of the same on the top, and serve. EICB CAKES AND TIIMBALES, COMPRISING Rice Cake, with Almonds, Macaroni Cake. Timbale of Rice. Semolina Cake. Nouilles Cake, o VAllemandc. Potato Cake. Vermicelli Cake. 1365. RICE CAKE, WITH ALMONDS. Wash twelve otmces 6f rice, put it into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, eight otmces of sugar, half an ounce of bitter, and four ounces of sweet almonds (pounded), one quart of milk, and a very little salt; set the whole to boil very gently by the side of a slow stove-fire, and by the time the milk has become absorbed by the rice, the latter will be sufficiently done—or, if not, a little more rnilk should be added previously to setting it to boil a little longer. When the rice is done, mix in the yolks of sis eggs, and the whites of three, whipped. Next, shred four ounces of sweet almonds, and strew them equally over the inside of a plain mould, previously rather thickly spread with butter; then, pour in the prepared rice, and bake the cake for about one horn* and a half; when done, turn it out on to its dish, pom some diluted apricot-jam round the base, and sen-e. Note.—Eice cakes may also be flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower, lemon and cinnamon, coflee, or any kind of liqueur: dried cherries, currants, sultana-raisins, candied-orange, lemon or citron, or pistachio kernels, may be added. 1366. TIMBALE OF RICE. The only difierence between this and a rice cake consists in the mould being lined either with short or puff-paste: noui??es-paste, how- ever, is sometimes used for the purpose: it should be rolled in the form of very small pipes, and the mould closely lined with them. The prepared rice should then be poured into the mould, and baked for about an hour and a half. Wlien done, turn the timbale out of the mould on its dish, glaze it over with sugar, and \nth the salamander, fflen pour some kind of diluted preserve (warm), round the base.