395 MUTTON PATTIEy, A LA WINDSOR. etove-fire for five minutes; then, throw them into a sautapan, full two mches deep, previously slightly spread with butter; cover them down evenly with a circular piece of buttered paper, and allow them to become perfectly cold. The preparations must then be turned out of the sautapan on the table, upon a sheet of paper ; and the crdustades or tvwhdles should be stamped out of this with a plain circular tin- cutter about an inch and a half in diameter, and placed on a dish ; they must next be roUed in very fine fresh-made bread-crumbs, after- wards dipped in beaten egg, and then bread-crumbed over again; smooth the bread-cnimbs on the timbales by rolling and patting them, place them in neat order on a dish, and with a plain circular cutter, an inch in diameter, stamp out the surface of each, exactly in the centre, making only a slight incision. When about to send the tim- bales to table, place them carefully in neat order on the wire lining oi a deep frying-pan (half filled with clean hog’s-lard made quite hot), immerse them in the fat, and fry them of a bright yellow colour; when done, drain them on a cloth, and empty them carefully with a fork. Note.—Crdustades or small timbales may also be made of vermicelli, prepared in the same way as nouilles. Kice may also be used for the same purpose. 1267. PATTIES, A LA MAZARIN. Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thickness of a penny-piece, and stamp out two dozen tops with a plain circular tin-cutter, about one inch and a half in diameter; then, gather up the trimmings, knead them together, roll them out, and stamp two dozen more ; place these on a baking-sheet, about an inch and a half apart from each other, and wet them over with a soft brush ; garmsh the centre of each with a little force-meat of any kind, place the tops on them, and use the upper part of a smaller cutter to press them down, so as to fasten the two parts together ; they must then be egged over, and baked in a rather brisk oven; when done, dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 1268. MUTTON PATTIES, A LA WINDSOR. Teim the lean parts of a loin of mutton, free from fat and sinew; cut this up into small scollops, mix these with some fine-herbs, con- sisting of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot; season with pepper and s^t, and add a ra^owi-spoonful of reduced Espagnole sauce: use this preparation to fill some crdustades lined with short paste, cover them with some of the same kind of paste, and bake them of a light colour. When done, remove the tops from the pat- ties, pour a little thin Espagnole, or Italian sauce in each, cover them with puff-paste tops (made similar to crdustade tops), and serve. Note.—Crdustades and patties are garnished with scollops or ragouts of chicken, game, all kinds of fillets of fish, the tails of crayfish, prawns, and shrimps ; with oysters in scollops, small dice, and also with lob- ster cut up in small dice. They may be sauced either with Supreme, Bechamel,ov Allemande, Lobster, Oyster, or Crayfish sauces.