186 REMOVES OF PORK AND ROASTED SUCKING PIGS, COMI’BISIKG Boiled Leg of Pork, d VAnglaise. „ „ d I’Allemande. Kofist Leg of Pork. Koast Loin of do. Roast Neck of do. Roast Griskin of do. 635. BOILED LEG OF PORK, A L^ANGLAISE. Saw off the shank hone of a salted leg of dairy-fed pork, then put it into a large braizing-pan or stock-pot: fill this nearly fall with cold water, and add six carrots, as many turnips, one head of celery, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Set the pork to boil gently by the side of the stove fire for about three hours—the exact tune depending on :>ts size. While the pork is boiling, trim a dozen and a half of small turnips and as many young carrots, boil these separately, and reserve them for garmshing tne remove. When the pork is done, drain, trim, and dish it up; place the carrots and turnips alternately round the remove, pour some plain gravy under it, put a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. A peas-pudding is usually served from the side-board, made as follows: soak a pint of yellow split peas in cold water for about six hours ; drain and tie them rather loosely in a napkin or pudding-cloth, and bod them with the pork—about three hours wdl suffice. Take them up, pound them in a mortar with two pats of fresh butter, and rub them through a fine wire-sieve then put this puree into a stew- pan, add the yolks of four eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, and after having spread a napkin with fresh butter, place the piiree in the centre, draw the corners up on the left hand, and with the right tie up the pudding with string ; then place it to boil for an hour, after which turn it out carefully on to a vegetable dish, and serve, 636. BOILED LEG OP PORK, A L’ALLEMANDE. Pickle a leg of pork with four ounces of saltpetre, ditto of moist sugar, half-a-pint of vinegar, cloves, mace, sweet-basd, and marjoram, thyme, and bay-leaf, and the usual quantity of common salt; bod it as directed in the foregoing article. When done, dish it up, and after garnishing it with sauer-kraut (No, 165), surround it with a border of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions ; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) over it, and send to table. 637. ROAST leg op pork, a l’anglaise. Procure a leg of fresh dairy-fed pork ; make a large incision just below the knuckle, between the skin and meat, for the purpose of introducing the stuffing of sage and onion, which must be secured by sewing it up with smaU twine ; then with a sharp-pointed knife score it all over in the foUowing manner : with the left hand hold the pork firmly, and with a very sharp knde score the skin across in paraUel Roast Sucking Pig, d rAnglaise, „ „ d la Perigord. „ ,, d la Chipolata. ,, „ d la Provengale. „ ,, d la Napolitaine