13 SPECIAL SAUCES. extracting the parsley), as for a puree, and take it Tip into a bain- marie, or add it to whatever kind of meat is pi-epared for the curry; observing that the broth thereof should be used for making the sauce. 48. CAPUINAL SAUCE. Put some reduced Teloute sauce into a stewpan, add some essence of mushrooms, lobster butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon- juice, and cayenne; work these well together, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Obseiwe; that for whatever kind of meat or fish this sauce may be intended, the essence or liquor of the meat or fish should be first reduced to glaze, and then incorporated into the sauce, in order to give it a characteristic flavour. 49. REGENCY SAUCE. Cut an eel of a pound weight into thin slices, and place them in a stewpan with six cloves, two blades of mace, some thyme, a bay- leaf, sweet-basil, a carrot, mushrooms, an onion, and a little salt; moisten with tliree parts of a bottle of good claret, and put the whole to boil gently on the fire for half an hour; after which pass the essence thus obtained through the tammy with pressure, so as to extract every particle. Then mix the produce with a ladleful of reduced Espagnole sauce, and having boiled, skimmed, and reduced it, finish by working into it some essence of truffles, anchovy hotter, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and a small pinch of sugar. This sauce is peculiarly well adapted for every sort of coloured fish, either fresh-water or salt. 50. YTITTE OYSTER SAUCE. Put the oysters into a stewpan, and set them to boil for five minutes on the stove fire, drain them on a sieve (saving their liquor in a basin), wash and beard them, taking care to cut off the tendons, as that part when eaten is troublesome to the teeth, and put them into a bain- marie—resexwing only the fat part; then put four ounces of butter (more or less according to the quantity of sauce) into a stewpan with two ounces of flour, cayenne pejxper, and salt; knead tliese well together, and moisten with the oyster liquor, some cream, and a piece of glaze; stir the sauce on the fire, keeping it boiling for ten minutes; then pass it through a tammy upon the oysters. Just before sending to table, add a little lemon-juice. 51. BROWN OYSTER SAUCE. Prepare this precisely as the last sauce, but instead of the cream, use an equal quantity of brown gravy. Brown oyster sauce is a veiy desirable accessory to beefsteaks, beef pudding, beefsteak pie, broiled slices of cod-fish, and various other plain dressed dishes. 52. MUSCLE SAUCE. Cleanse, wash, beard, and blanch or parboil two quarts of muscles; take all the white fat muscles out of the shells, and place them in a bain-marie, reserving tlieir liquor in a basin. Then knead four ounces of butter with two ounces of flour, some nutmeg, pepper, and salt;