BRAIZED MUTTON CUTLETS. 2G3 must be studded \vitli red tongue and black truffles ; when the cut- lets, after being braized, have been trimmed, mask each of them with a coating of reduced Soubise sauce (No. 119); and when this has become firmly set, by cooling on the cutlets, dip them separately in three whole eggs, seasoned with a little salt, and beaten up for the purpose, and afterwards bread- crumb them; flatten the bread-crumbs on smoothly with the blade of a knife, put the cutlets carefully away on a dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time. The cutlets must then be laced in rows, on the wire lining of a deep frying-pan; when the og’s-lard is sufficiently hot for the purpose, immerse the cutlets in it, and fry them of a deep yeUow colour; then, drain them on a nap- kin, or a sheet of paper, ui order to absorb aU the grease, and dish them up in a close circle upon a vegetable border. FiU the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), pour some half glaze round the base, and serve. 857. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA PROVENyALE. Beaize and trim the cutlets as in the foregoing case; except that in the present instance the cutlets must be left plain, omitting alto- gether the larding or studding. Wiule the cutlets are being braized, set about making the following preparation:—Cut three Portugal onions mto very small dice, parboil these in water, drain them on a sieve, and then place them in a small stewpan, with loz. of fresh butter, the same quantity of glaze, a little mignionette pepper and salt, and some grated nutmeg; set the lid on the stewpan, and place the onions on a very slow fire, to be thoroughly stewed, without acquiring any colour. Next, add a gravy-spoonful of white sauce, a Little grated garlic on the point of a knife, and stir the whole on the foe until reduced to a paste; then add the yolks of three eggs and a little lemon-juice; mix well together, and use this preparation to cover the surface of one side only of the cutlets ; shake a rather-thick coatiog of bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, over this, and then place the cutlets in a sautapan containing a little half glaze. About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets m the oven to be warmed through, pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a deep yellow colour, mash them with thin glaze, and dish them up; then pour some Prcvengale sauce (No. 25) imder them, and serve. 858. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA RUSSE. Cut twelve thick cutlets, as directed in the first article of this sec- tion; insert eight strips of lean ham through the lean part, iu a circular form; prepare them for brazing in the usual way, and in addition to the customary complement of vegetables and seasoning, add two cloves of garlic and a couple of capsicums ; moisten with a pint of Madeira and a quart of good stock ; set the cutlets to braize for an hour and a half, on a very slow fire, and when nearly done