1() SAUCES. 63. NEAPOLITAN SAUCE. ScEAPE a stick of horse-radish quite clean, gi’ate it, and place this in a small stewpan with two ounces ot glaze, a small pot of currant-jelly, half a ])int of red wine, and a spoonful of worked bro^vn sauce; boil the whole gently on a stove-fire for twenty minutes, then pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a and put it into a bain-marie for use. This kind of sauce is generally used with larded fillets of beef. It may also be seiwed with entrees of venison. C4. CHERRY SAUCE A LA VICTORIA. Put a small pot of red currant-jelly into a stewq^an, together with a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of two oranges, a piece of glaze, and a large gravy-spoonful of reduced brown sauce: moisten with half a pint of Burgundy wine, boil gently on the fire for twenty minutes; pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain- marie, add the juice of the two oranges, and just before sending to table boil the sauce. This sauce is especially appropriate with red deer or roebuck, when prepared in a marinade and larded. 65. RED CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE POR VENISON. Bruise one stick of cinnamon and twelve cloves, and put tliem into a small stewpan with two ounces of sugar, and tlie peel of one lemon pared off very thin, and perfectly free from any portion of white pulp; moisten with three glasses of port wine, and set the Avhole to simmer gently on the fire for a quarter of an hour; then strain it through a sieve into a small stewpan containing a pot ot red currant-jelly. Just before sending the sauce to table, set it on the fire to boil, in order to melt the currant-jelly, so that it may mix with the essence of spice, &c. 66. BLACK CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE FOR VENISON. This sauce is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing —substituting black currant-jelly for red; it is preferred by many to the other, as it possesses more flavour. 67. SAUCE A LA ROBERT. Peel two lai’ge onions and cut them in halves, pare off the ends, and cut them into veiy small dice in the following manner:—hold the half onion in the left hand, set it firmly on the table with the cut side downwards, tlien, with a knife held in the right hand horizon- tally, apply tlie edge of the point, and cut the onion into slices parallel with the surface of the table without drawing the knife quite through; then turn tlie piece of onion half round, and cut it nearly through in a vertical dnection ; this will form the wdiole into small dice-like pieces. Next, put these into a small stewpan with about an ounce of fresh butter, and fry them of a light yellow colour; then drain the butter, and add two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar; set this on the fire to simmer, and when the vinegar is near!}' reduced, add a small ladleful of Espa<jnole sauce, and half tfiat quantity of consomme; stir this on the fire till it boils, then set it on * Note. All kinds of preserves are obtained in gri.alest perfection at Cp.OSSE .and Black- well’s Soho Square.