CAKES. 418 until tlie batter becomes cold; the flour must now be lightly added in, and when thoroughly mixed, must be shaped upon prepared baking- sheets with the aid of a biscuit-forcer, in fingers, ovals or rounds; sugared over similarly to finger or Naples biscuits, and baked in a slack oven, 1298 n. RUSSIAN BISCUITS. Ingredients :—Eight ounces of pounded sugar, ten eggs, su ounces of flour, four ounces of almonds pounded and dried over the fire in a sugar-boiler, quarter of an ounce of aniseed. Let the yolks of the eggs and the sugar be whisked together in an egg-bowl over a slow-fire, until they present the appearance of a thick batter; the whites, preidously whisked firm, must now be lightly added, as also the flour, pounded almonds, and the aniseed. The batter thus produced, may either be baked in small moulds, or as is most appropriate for these biscuits, they should be baked in long tin moulds, or, failing these, in stout paper cases, ten inches long by three inches deep, and two and a half inches wide. When the last named are baked, and have been allowed to become thoroughly cold, cut them into rather thin slices, which, being placed on baking- sheets, should be again baked of a very light colour on both sides. 1298 0, ALBERT BISCUITS. Ingredients :—Ten ounces of pounded sugar, eight oimces of finely-chopped almonds, six ounces of flour, twelve yolks and fourteen whites of eggs, two oimces of candied orange-peel shred fine, a tea- spoonful of cinnamon-powder, haK that quantity of ground cloves, and a little grated lemon-rind. Work the sugar and the almonds with the yolks and two whites of eggs, for twenty minutes, then incorporate the remaining twelve whites firmly whisked together with the flour, candied peel, and spices. Next, pour the batter into a convenient-sized paper case, and bake it in a moderate oven; and, when done and sufficiently cold, let it be cut up into thin slices for dishing up. This preparation may also be baked in small moulds, or forced out upon paper or baking-sheets previously buttered and floured for the purpose. 1298^. VICTORIA BISCUITS. Ingredients :—One pound of pounded sugar, twelve ounces of dried flour, six ounces of pounded or ground bitter almonds, six ounces of fresh butter, a wine-glassful of Kirschen-wasser, and the rind of two lemons grated. Eirst, let the butter be worked up in a basin with a wooden spoon, until it assumes a creamy appearance; then add the remainder of the ingredients, finishing with the Kirschen-wasser ; and when the batter is ready, pour it into small moulds, ready buttered and interiorly coated with potato flour. WTien these cakes or biscuits are baked of a very light colour, first, spread the surface with orange marmalade, and over tliis glaze them according to directions given for finishing Apricot biscuits.