278 HEAB'I' SWEETBREA' >iL green onions placed m the centre, and covered with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with about a piut of good stock, place a round of but- tered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and after having put the sweetbreads to bod on the stove-fire, remove them to the oven or on a moderate fire (in the latter case live embers of charcoal must be placed on the lid), and allc v them to braize rather briskly for about twenty minutes—frequently basting them with their own liquor. Wlien done, remove the lid and paper covering, and set them again in the oven, to dry the surface of the larding; glaze them nicely, and dish them up on some stewed peas (No. 1175). Sweetbreads prepared in this way, may also be served with dressed asparagus-peas. French-beans, scollops of cucumbers, braized lettuces, celery, Macidoim of vegetables, Jardinihe, and also with every kind of vegetable purie described in this work. To raise the sweetbreads above the garnish or sauce served with them, it is necessary to place as many foundations as there are sweet- breads in the dish; these may be made, either by boiling some rice iu broth until it becomes quiet soft, then working it into a paste; after this has been spread on a dish about an iuch thick, a circular tin- cutter must be used to stamp it out. They may also be prepared from veal force-meat, or even fried croutons of bread will serve the purpose. 903. SWEETBREADS, A LA MON^ARQUE. These must be larded and braized as the foregoing; then cut a kind of pillar out of a piece of stale bread, of angular shape, about three ' inches high, each side of the angle, measuring about two inches ; this should be fried in hog’s lard, of a bright-yellow colour, and stuck in a perpendicular position in the centre of the dish with a little paste made of flour and egg. The sweetbreads are to be so arranged as to have one end resting up against this croustade, and between each a deco- rated minion fillet of fowl is to be placed ; crown the top with a row of white double cocks’-combs, stick in an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a large coclvs’-comb, a mushroom, a large crayfish and a truffle ; pour a Financiere ragout (No. 188) round the entree, and serve. 904. SWEETBREADS, A LA CONTI. Aeter the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed flat, make about a dozen incisions round the sides of their upper surface with the point of a small knife, in a slanting direction, to the depth of half an inch; in these incisions insert circular scollops of black truffle, and repeat this so as to form an inner circle in the same manner. Next, prepare the sweetbreads for braizing, placing them upon a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of bacon, layers of the same being placed fflso over the sweetbreads; moisten with good white stock, and braize the sweetbreads about twenty minutes. When the sweetbreads are done, drain them on a napkin, and glaze them lightly, vdthout drying the glaze on; when about to dish them up, garnish with a ragout composed of small que- nelles of fowl, button mushrooms, cocks’-combs and kernels, crown the whole with a large truffle, place a crayfish between each sweetbread, pour some Pirigueux sauce (No. 23) under the entrk, and serve. jVbig—qqie sweetbreads may be varied by scolloping, or contiser