125 COD FISH, COMPBISINO Cod, and Oyster Sauce. Do. stuffed and baked. Do. d la crime au gratin. Crimped slices of Cod, and 03’ster sauce. „ „ ,, d la Seville. Fillets of Cod d VIndienne, Crimped slices of Cod d la Uollandaist, ,, ,, ,, d la Colbert. „ „ „ in Matelotte Nor* mande. Scollops of Cod d la Bechamel. Slices of crimped Cod d la Maitre cVHotel. Baked Cod’s head. 441. COD, AND OYSTER SAUCE. Boil tlie cod, whether it be crimped or plain, in boiling spring water, into which throw a handful of salt; as soon as the fish is done, drain it instantly, and place it on a dish, with a clean wet napkin over it, to keep it moist: just before dinner, take off the napkin, and send the cod to table with a sauce-boat full of white Oyster sauce (No. 50). Cod-fish is rarely dressed whole, as, in addition to its unwieldy size, the length of time required to boil so large a fish deprives it materially of its peculiar attraction, which is never so effectually obtained as when the fish is crimped, and cut into slices, previously to its being boiled. Clean, trim, and stuff a cod with some well-seasoned veal-stuff- ing; secure this by sewing up the belly; then truss the fish in the shape of the letter S; make several deep incisions on either side, and place it in a deep baking dish previously well spread with fresh butter; season with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt; moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and the liquor of two dozen oysters; then set the fish in the oven to bake; and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste it with its own liquor; when it is nearly done, sprinkle it over Avith some fine raspings of bread, and again put it in the oven for ten minutes longer. When the cod is baked, draw the strings out of it; place it on its dish, then, pour two glasses of sherry into the dish in which the cod has been baked, and also a little consomme—to detach the glaze from round the pan; pass tlie AA’hole through a tammy into a steAvpan; add some brown sauce; reduce the whole to a proper consistency ; Avork in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne, and lemon-juice, beard the oysters, and add them to the sauce; pour it round the cod, and send to table. Is prepared in a similar manner to turbot d la creme au gratin (for Avhich see No. 401). 444. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD AND OYSTER SAUCE. Put crimped slices of cod in boiling spring water containing a handful of salt, as before directed ; as soon as it boils up again, set the fish-kettle by the side of the stove to continue boiling for about a quarter of an hour; when done, drain and dish up the fish with 442. COD STUFFED AND BAKED. 443. COD A LA CREME AU GRATIN