OX-TONGUE. 25? tcrs of an hour before sending it to table, put the tongue in tlie oven, or on a slow fire, to get warmed through ; then glaze it, and dish it up with some prepared spmach (No. 112) round it, pour a httlo Espagnole sauce, or some half glaze round the base, and serve. 831. OX-TONGUE, WITH BRUSSELS-SPKOUTS. This is prepared hi the same manner as the foregoiug, except that Brussels sprouts (No. 1192), must be substituted for spinach. 832. OX-TONGUE, A LA MACEDOINE. Peepahe the tongue as iu the foregoing cases, and when about to send to table, glaze and dish it up with a white Macidoim of vegetables (No. 143) placed neatly round it, and serve. 833. OX-TONGUE, A LA JARDINIERE. The tongue, when dished up, must be garnished round ivith groups of glazed carrots and turnips, cut iu small fancy shapes, and boiled in broth, with a pinch of sugar and a httle salt, previously to their being boded down in their own glaze; these must be alternated with simdnr groups of flowerets of cauhflowers, heads of asparagus-peas, or French-beans cut in the form of diamonds and boded green. Pour some half glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base, and send to table. 834. BRAIZED-OX TONGUE, A l’ALLEMANDE. Scald a fresh ox-tongue in boding water upon the fire for about ten minutes; then immerse it in cold water, remove the root and any superfluous fat. Next, place the tongue in an oval stevrpan with a carrot, an omon, one head of celery, a garnished faggot, four cloves, and a blade of mace; add a glass of brandy and suflicient good broth or stock to cover the whole, and set it to braize gently for two hours and a half upon a slow fire. When the tongue is done, take it out of the braize, trim and put it into a stewpan with its own hquor, previously divested of all the grease, strained through a sieve, and boded down to half its quantity. About half an hour before sending to table, set the tongue on a very slow fire to simmer imtd it is warmed through ; rod it in its glaze, dish it up with some cherry sauce d la Victoria (No. 64) imder it, garnish it round with a border of potato qmneUes (No. 312), and serve. 835. OX-TONGUE, WITH SAUER-KRAUT. Foe this purpose choose a smoked tongue, and let it soak in cold water for fom’-and-twenty horn’s previously to its being dressed. The tongue must now be parboded for half an hour, and immersed in cold water; then remove the root, and truss it with a skewer and some strmg to keep it in shape; next, place it in an oval stewpan with one pound and a half of sauer-hraut (previously wed washed in several waters), two carrots, two onions stuck with six cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with sufficient stockpot toppings to cover the whole; place a wed-buttered paper on the top, and cover with a lid containing some five embers of charcoal; then set these to braizo very gently on a slow fire, for about three hours. WThen the tongue is done, take it up on a dish, trim it, and'put it in a smad oval stew- pan with a httle good stock, to be kept hot by the side of the stove, s