FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS. 297 clean liog’s-lard lieatecl for the purpose, fry them of a light colour; and when done, draiu them upon a cloth, dish them up on a clean jiapkiu with fried parsley, and serve some white Italian sauce (No. 13) separately in a boat. JSfote. This entree may also he dished up without a napkin, and some Allemande or Bechamel sauce, containing a few scollops of mush- rooms or truffles, may be poured under, and round it. 971. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA FINANCIERE, Prepare this as directed in No. 968, and when it is dished up, garnish it with groups of cocks’-combs, mushrooms, _ truffles, mid some small quenelles of fowl; iilace eight large crayfish in an upright position round the entrk, and a larded sweetbread on the top. 972. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA CHEVALIERE. When the chickens have been drawn and singed, remove the legs and wings, and then, with the point of a knife, slit the skin of tho breast, spread it off the fillets, and remove these with the pinion-bone left on them; each fillet must be trimmed, then closely larded, and placed in a small sautapan upon thin layers of fat bacon ; the min- ion fillets should also be trimmed (the sinew being first extracted), then decorated or contises with black truffle and placed in a sauta- pan with butter; the remainder of the chickens must be cut up and made into a fricassee in the ordinary way. "Wlien this is done, the foui’ legs must be neatly trimmed and set aside in the larder, and the smaller pieces placed in a stewpan with a few button-mushrooms, cocks’-combs and kernels, and truffles; then, reduce the same by boil- ing it to the consistency of Allemande sauce, incorporate these with a leason of four yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, mignionette pep- per, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; when tins has become set in the sauce by stirring it over the fire for two minutes, pass two thirds of it through a tammy on to the fricassee, and reserve the remainder for the purpose of masking the legs with it. These must be afterwards bread-crumbed and fried of a fight colour. The larded fillets should be moistened with a little half-glaze, and put in the oven, or on a slow stove with fire on the lid, to braize or simmer for about twenty minutes; they are then to be glazed. In dishing up this entrk, first place all the small members of the chicken in the bottom of the dish in neat and square order; the legs are next to be added, and then the larded fillets must be placed between these with the taper end pointing upwards ; the four minion fillets (turned round in the form of rings) should be placed so as to rest upon the upper part of each of the legs, and the whole surmounted wth a large truffle, and a border of large crayfish, and white double cocks’- combs should be placed round the entree ; add the remainder of the sauce, and sen^e.