443 CROQUANTE OF RATAFIAS. almond or gum-paste (raised from carved boards used for such pur- poses) ; or else with piping, as used for wedding-cakes. The cake jhould then he placed on its dish, the centre filled with whipped cream, and some sti’awherries piled on the top; when these are not in season, preserved cherries, verjuice, or angelica may be substituted. 1358. CROQUANTE OF ORANGES. Let the peel and all the white pith be carefully removed with the fingers from about a dozen sound, and not over-ripe, oranges; then divide them by pulling them into small sections with the fingers, taking care not to break the thin skin which envelopes the juicy pulp, then place them on an earthen dish. Next, put about one pound of the finest lump-sugar into a sugar- boiler with sufficient spring water to just cover it, and boil it down until it snaps or becomes brittle, which may be easily ascertained thus : take up a little of the sugar, when it begins to boil up in large purling bubbles, on the point of a knife, and instantly dip it into some cold water: if the sugar becomes set, it is sufficiently boiled, and will then easily snap in breaking.* The sugar should now be withdrawn from the fire. The pieces of orange stuck on the points of small wooden skewers must be slightly dipped in the sugar, and arranged at the bottom and round the sides of a plain circular mould (previously very lightly rubbed with salad- oil), according to the foregomg design. "When the whole is complete, and the sugar has become firm by cooling, just before sendiug to tablo, fill the inside of the croquante with whipped cream seasoned with sugar, a glass of maraschiuo and some whole strawberries, and then turn it out on to a napkin, and serve. 1359. CROQUANTE OF FRESH WALNUTS. The fittest season for making this, is when the walnuts are just ripe enough to be easily taken out of the shell; about sixty will be required hv the purpose. They must be carefully shelled and divided into halves, then freed from the thin whitish skin which covers the kernels, and kept iu a clean napkin until used. In all other respects, this kind of croquante must be finished as in the preceding case. 1360. CROQUANTE OF RATAFIAS, A LA CHANTILLY Pbocube one pound of small ratafias; boil down one pound of the finest loaf-sugar as directed in the foregoing case. Then, slightly rub the inside of a basket-shaped mould with oil, and proceed to fine this with the ratafias lightly dipped in the sugar—^taking care to ar- range them in neat and close order ; when the croquante is completed, and the sugar has become firmly seti turn it out of the mould. With the remainder of the sugar, form the handles, and a scroll-pattern border, which is to be placed round the join of the basket, and also ■" When boiling sugar for this purpose, it is customaiy to add a pinch of cream of tartar and calcined alum mixed, or, a few drops of acetic-acid.