454 PUDDINGS. the mould must then be filled up with some vanilla-custard prepared for the purpose, part of which must, however, be reserved for tho sauce. The pudding should be steamed in the usual way for about an hour and a quarter, and when done, turned out on its dish, and the sauce poured over it. 1392. PUDDING, A LA FRANCAISE. Take the following ingredients :—Twelve ounces of chopped mar row, eight ounces of flour, eight ounces of apricot-jam, four oimces of chopped apples, sis ounces of dried cherries, sis ounces of candied orange-peel and citron, four ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, sis cloves (pounded), a tea-spoonful of cinnamon-powder, the zest of the rind of two oranges on sugar, five whole eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and about half a pint of cream. Put the above ingredients into a large basin, and mis them well together; spread a mould with butter, shake a little flour about the inside, fill it with the pudding, and after tying it up in a cloth, bod it for about four hours, and when done, dish it up with a German custard- sauce, made as follows:— Put four yolks of eggs mto a Iain-marie or stewpan, together with two ounces of pounded sugar, a glass of sherry, some orange or lemon peel (rubbed on loaf sugar), and a very little salt. "Whisk this sharply over a very slow fire, until it assumes the appearance of a fight frothy custard. 1393. PUDDING, A LA VIENNOISE. Ingeedients required;—Twelve ounces of brioche, or crumb of bread cut up into small dice, two glasses of Madeira, the rind of two lemons, two ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds pounded, six ounces of sultana raisins, a burnt-sugar custard, made with eight yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, two ounces of burnt-sugar, and sweetened with six ounces of loaf-sugar. Put the brioche, almonds, rind of lemon (rubbed on sugar), and the sultanas, into a large basin; pour the Madeira to this, and when it has been absorbed by the brioche, &c., pour as much of the burnt-sugar custard on it as will suffice to complete the quantity required to fill the mould. Then, spread the inside of tho mould with butter, decorate it with candied orange-peel, and fill it with the above preparation. This pudding must be steamed for about an hour and a half, and when done, turned out on its dish, some custard or arrow-root-sauce poured over it, and sent to table. 1394. CABINET PUDDING. Speead the inside of a plain mould with butter, and ornament tht. sides with dried cherries and candied citron; fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of sponge-cakes and ratafias or macaroons; then fiU up the mould with a lemon custard made with eight yolks of eggs, a pint of milk or cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the grated rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but merely mixed up. Steam the pudding in the usual way, for about an hour and a half, and when done, dish it up either with arrow-root- sauce or a custard.