GAUFFRES. 407 1283. FRENCH GAUFFRES. Ingredients required:—Eiglit ounces of flour, four ounces of pounded sugar, one pint of whipped cream, eight eggs, one stick of vanilla, a little salt, and a glass of ciu’a9ao. Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolks of eggs, the pounded vanilla, and the Curasao, and mix these well together, gradually adding the whipped cream : just before using the batter, add the whipped whites of eggs, and mix them in lightly so as to thoroughly incoi'porate them with it. Bake these gauffres in the same way as the foregoing, observing, however, that the iron be very carefully heated, and the superfluous heat allowed to go off previously to filling them with the batter; as, owing to the presence of sugar in their composition, they readiUy acquire colom*. AVhen done, shake some vaniUa-sugar over them, and send to table. These gauffres may be spread with some kind of preserve; such as apricot, currant-jelly, &c. 1284. iVLMOND GAUFFRES. Ingredients required:—Eight ounces of Jordan ahnonds (either chopped extremely fine, or*else cnt into very fine shreds), four ounces of pounded sugar, a good table-spoonfnl of flour, two whole eggs, and a very little salt; flavour with orange-flower water, or flownrs (can- died) . Mis the almonds, sugar, flour, and the flavouring together in a basin, with a wooden spoon. Then heat a baking-sheet in the oven, rub it aU over equally with a piece of white wax, and when this has cooled, spread the gauffres very thinly over it with a fork ; put them in the oven (at a slow heat), and when they are about half-baked, Avithdraw them, and with a circular tin-cutter about two inches in diameter, stamp out as many gauffres as the sheet will admit of, and put them back again in the oven that they may acquire a hght-fawn colour; they should then be instantly taken out and formed in the shape of smidl cornucopise—two or three persons assisting,—so as to finish them off before they have time to get cold, as in that case they become brittle, and consequently unmanageable. But when it hap- pens that one person only is able to attend to them, it will be neces- sary to keep the gauffres at the entrance of the oven while they are shaped, and, as they are finished, to place them on another baking- sheet. These gauffres may also be cut into pieces two inches square, and coiled round a small roUer iu the form of barrels; the ends of these, after being first covered with whipped white of egg mixed with a little sugar, should then be dipped in some finely chopped pistachios, and placed on a baking-sheet to dry in the skreen. In either case they may be filled with whipped cream seasoned with vanilla, orange flowers, or maraschino, and some strawberries placed on the top oi this: they are sometimes also garnished with vanilla cream-ice. Note.—This kind of gauffres may be varied in their appearance, by strewing some currants, or finely shred or chopped pistachios over tho Eui’face, previously to their being placed in the oven.