371 MAYONAISE OF CHICKENS, 1220. SALMIS OF P.YETRIDGES, WITH ASPIC JELLY. Peepaee the salmis as directed m No. 1078, keep the pieces of partridges separate from the sauce, which, when partially cold, must be mixed with one-third of its quantity of aspic jeUy, and gently stirred on the ice, until it assumes sufficient body to admit of its being used for masking the pieces of partridges ■ndth : these must be raised on theii* dish in a pyramidal form; povu* the remainder of the sauce over the entrie, which should be garnished in the same manner as the foregoiug. Note.—Salmis of pheasants, woodcocks, quads, &c., ai’e prepared for baU-suppers, and similar entertainments, in the same way as partridges. 1221. MAYONAISE OF FILLETS OF SOLES, ETC. Teim the fillets of three soles, simmer them in a sautapan with 2 oz. of butter, pepper, salt and lemon-juice; when done, put them in press between earthen dishes, and as soon as they are cold, divide each fiUet into three scollops, trim the ends round, put them into a basin with a Little od, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them steep in this. Next, prepare an aspic border-mould, in the foUowing manner:— I’ound some rough ice fine, and put it into a deep pan; imbed the inoidd partiaUy in this, pour a small quantity of aspic-jelly in the bottom of the mould, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch, and upon this place a decoration, made as foUows:—Cut some black truffles and boded white of eggs, in very thin slices; stamp these out into the form of rings, diamonds, leaves, &c., and arrange them with taste on the surface of the jeUy; when this is complete, the decoration must be covered in with a spoonfid of aspic jelly, poured over with great care, so as not to disturb it: as soon as this has become set, fill the mould up with aspic,and when that also has become set, turn the border out of the moxdd on its dish. Fid the centre with the fillets of soles (previously drained upon a napkin), neatly piled up in a conical form, pour some green Mayonaise sauce (No. 98) over them, garnish the base of the fillets with a neat border of trimmed prawns’-tads, and crown the Mayonaise Avith the white-heart of a cab- bage-lettuce, stuck into half an egg, boiled hard. iVoie.—Edicts of turbot, salmon, trout, mackerel, or gurnets, may be treated as the above; the sauce can be varied according to Nos. 97 and 99, and may also be garmshed round the base of the fillets, either with plover’s-eggs cut, crayfish-tads, or quarters of the white- hearts of cabbage-lettuces. Some slued lettuce, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, may first be placed at the bottom of the aspic- border, to pde the fillets upon. 2 O