207 REMOVES OE GOOSE, COMPRISING Goose, d VAnglaise. d VEsiouffade. Goose, d la Normandt Wild Goose, d VAberdeen. ,, dla Flamande. .. d TAllemande. „ dla DaupMnoise, „ d VAllemande. Cygnets. „ d la Norwich. 695 GOOSE, A l’anglaise, Deaw a fine fat goose, and stuff it witli the following seasoning:— Chop six large onions and about one third of the quantity of green- sage-leaves ; parhod. these in water for three minutes, then drain them upon a sieve, and afterwards put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter, pepper and salt, and allow the whole to simmer gently over a slow fire for a few minutes, stirring the seasoning the whole of the time with a wooden spoon. When the goose is stufied, truss it for roastmg, run the spit through it, then fasten it on by the means of a strong iron skewer laid upon the back of the goose, and Secured at each end with string. The goose should now be put down to the fire to roast, which will require about an hour and a half, according to its size—taking particular care to baste it frequently; when done, take it off the spit, dish it up with a rich brown grav}’’ under it, and send to table with a boat of apple-sauce. Deaw a fine fat young goose, and stuff it in the following manner:— EarboiL two large onions and chop them fine; to these add six sage- leaves, and a proportionate quantity of green thyme and mugwort: these also must first be parboiled and then chopped. Put the onions and the herbs into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; and set the whole to stew gently on a very slow fixe for about ten minutes. Then put the stuffing into the goose, and truss it in the usual way; place it in an oval stewpan with haff-a-pound of butter, a garnished faggot of parsley, an onion stuck with four cloves, one head of celery, and a carrot cut into slices, and moisten with two glasses of sherry. Put the lid on the stewpan, place it on a slow fire, with some live embers of charcoal and ashes on the hd, and allow the goose to simmer gently for about an hour and a half, taking particular care to turn it, so as to give it an equal coloui' aU over. When done, pour off all the fat, and a ragout-spoonful of reduced brown sauce, and a little consomme to detach the glaze from the sides of the stewpan; and having allowed it to boil quickly, in order to reduce the sauce to its usual consistency, the goose should be dished up, and garnished round with a border of glazed turnips then pour the sauce over it, and serve. This dish may also be garnished with macaroni, with glazed carrots, or onions. ’ 696. GOOSE, A l’estouffade.