95 ENGLISH SOUPS. have a more transparent appearance ; cut them into inch lengths, by- half an inch in width, and put them by in a small soup-pot till required. Strain the comomm<‘ through a napkin, thicken it mode- rately with a little white roux (going through tire regular process for making white Veloute), then add thereto a little essence of mushrooms, and finish by incorporating with the sauce thus prepared a leason of six yolks of eggs mixed with a little grated Parmesan and half a pint of cream; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into it, and season with a little crystallized soluble cayenne. Pour the soup into the tui’een containing two dozen very small quenelles (made with the fillets of the old hen), some boiled macaroni cut into inch lengths, and tlie tendons of the calf’s feet, previously warmed in a little consomme, with tlie addition of half a glass of white wine. Sth- the soup gently in the tm'een to mix these ingredients together, and send to table. 356. HARE SOUP A L’ANGLAISE. Skin and paunch a hare, and cut it up as follows :—first take off the legs close to the loins, and divide them into three pieces, slip the shoulders off and cut them into two parts, cut the back into six pieces, and divide the head in halves. Next place a stewpan on the stove- fire, containing four ounces of butter, a carrot, two onions, a head of celery cut into small slices, and fry these of a light colour; then add the pieces of hare, over which, when also fried brown, shake a good handful of flour, and moisten witli half a bottle of port wine, at the same time adding a garnished bouquet, three cloves, a blade of mace, and two quarts of hlond of veal; stir the whole on the fire until it boils, then take it off and set it by the side to boil gently for an hour and a quarter, taking care in tlie meantime to skim off the butter, &c., as it rises to the surface. Take out the pieces of hare when done, from the sauce, and place them on a dish; select the finest pieces of meat, remove the bones, and set these pieces aside in a soup-pot; clear the remainder of the meat from the bones, and pound it thoroughly, with the vegetables, from the sauce; when these are ])Ounded, mix them again with the sauce, and pass the whole through a tammy into a puree, and pour it on to the pieces of hare reserved in the soup-pot. Observe, that this soup must not be thick, consequently it may be necessary after passing it through the tammy to add a little hlond of veal to thin it. Just before sending to table, make the soup hot, but be careful that it does not boil; ascertain that its seasoning be palatable, and serve. 357. HARE SOUP A LA ST. GEORGE. Get two good-sLzed leverets and fillet them. Place the fillets in a small sauta-pan with a little fresh butter, penper, and salt; cover them with a roimd of buttered paper, and put them in the lai’der till dinner-time. Eeserve a sufficient quantity of the meat from the leveret’s hind-quarters, in order to make some quenelle; cut the remainder into small pieces, and try them exactly in the same manner as directed in the preceding soup ; shake into them a sufficient quantity of flour to thicken the sauce of the soup, moisten with a bottle of claret, and two quarts of blond of veal; add a garnished