107 ITALIAN SOUPS. of the operation by sprinkling over the whole some grated cheese and adding a pint of good consomme ; lastly, place the lining in the oven to gratinate, which must be carefully attended to. Send the soup to table with another tureen of clear bright consomme, to be seiwed to tlie guests in the same manner as described in the preced- ing article. 387. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA PALERMO. ]\Iix four ounces of wheaten flour with the same quantity of Turkish wheat flour, place these on the paste-board or slab, and having made a hollow in the centre, place in it four yolks of eggs, a little cream, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; proceed to work these into a firmly-kneaded paste. Spread this out very thin with the aid of a rolling-pin, and having cut it into bands an inch wide, shred these so as to resemble vermicelli. Strew these shreds on a large baking sheet covered with paper, and put them to dry for four hours in the hot closet. A quarter of an hour before dinner-time, throw the shreds thus prepared into two quarts of boiling game consomme; skim this, and place the ste\vpan containing the soup by the side of the stove-fire, to continue gently boiling until the time for serving; then, after adding a pmch of minionette pepper, send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate to be handed round’with the soup. 388. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA VENITIENNE. Throw six ounces of semolina into two quarts of boiling consomme of game; after boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire for a quarter of an hour, add a glass of Madeira, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, half a pint of cream mixed with four yolks of eggs, a little crystallized soluble cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. Set this preparation on the stove-fire—taking care not to let it cmdle —then pour the soup into a tureen containing the fillets of two dozen larks which have been simmered with fine herbs. Stir the soup gently into the tureen, in order to mix the scollops with the semolina. In Italy, the fillets of a small delicious bird c^ed Becca- ficas are used instead of larks. 389. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA PISANE. Bone and braize two calf’s feet, and having pressed them between two dishes, cut them out into round pieces the size of a shilling, with a tin cutter; place these in a stewpan together with three dozen very small quenelles a la Xavier (No. 257) and a glass of Madeira; allow' them to simmer on the fire for five minutes, and add them to a similar quantity and description of soup as directed in the preceding article, but omitting the fillets of larks,—and send to table. Note.—The foregoing soups may be prepared with equal success, by using any of the numerous sorts of Italian pastes, instead of keeping to those described for the purpose. The soups may also be infinitely varied by changing their garnishes.