JELLIES ‘IGO then be strained through a napkin into a basin, and used for the re» (juired purpose. Isinglass may also be clarified by adding a very small quantity of ■whipped white of egg, after it has been dissolved in water as directed above, and then allowed to cool pre"vdously to mixing in the white of egg; it must then be allowed to boil gently by the side of the stove- fire, and when perfectly cleared of all the scum, should be strained through a napkin. Note.—There are several kinds of gelatine in use which serve the same purpose as isinglass, with more or less success ; aU these may be clarified in the same way as the above. 1412. PREPARATION OF PAPER FOR FILTERING ORANGE OR LEMON-JUICE, FOR JELLIES, Wash several sheets of white blotting-paper (of the best quality) in cold water; then boil them in two quarts of water for about twenty minutes, strain the water from the paper and poimd it in a mortar imtil reduced to a fine pulp; mix this with a spoonful of washed white sand, then add both to the juice intended to be filtered, and throw the whole into a clean beaver jeUy-bag. Pass the juice through the filtering bag until it drops as bright as spring-water. 1413. ORANGE JELLY, A l'ANGLAISE. Etjb the rind of six oranges upon twelve ounces of the best loaf- sugar and put this into a basin; then squeeze the juice from a dozen ripe oranges and four lemons, and add this to the sugar. Next, cla T-ify two ounces of isinglass as directed in No. 1411, and mix this with the juice and sugar in a sugar-boiler, add six drops of prepared cochineal, and stir the whole over the stove-fire till the jelly becomes tepid; then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin, and when it has become quite cold and is commencing to congeal on the surface and sides of the basin, stir it well together, and pour it into a mould pre'viously imbedded in rough ice. When the jeUy is set firm, dip the mould in rather warm water, "wipe it with a cloth, and turn it out carefully on its dish. 1414. LEMON JELLY, A l’ANGLAISE. This is prepared in the same way as the above, substituting lemons for oranges ; it-will be necessary, however, to add four ounces of sugar, on account of the acidity of the lemons. 1415. ORANGE JELLY, A LA FRAN5AISE. Peel off the rind from six oranges, as thin as possible, and put it into a pint basin. Then clarify one pound of the finest loaf-sugar with a pint of spring-water and half the white of an egg, and strain it through a napkm on to the rind; cover the basin down -with a sheet of paper twisted tightly round the edges, to prevent the volatile es- sence of the essential oil contained in the rind from escaping. Extract the juice from twelve oranges and four_ lemons (by pressure) into a basin, remove the pips, and filter the juice as directed in No. 1412; this being done, strain the infusion syrup through a napkin into a basin, add the ^tered juice, two ounces of clarified isinglass and six