458 JELLIES, COMPRISING Calfs-foot Jelly, with Wine. Clarification of Calfs-foot Jelly, fcr general purposes. Orange Jelly, made with Calf’s-foot Stock. Clarified Syrup, for Jellies. To clarify Isinglass. Preparation of Paper for filtering Orange or Lemon Juice for Jellies. Orange Jelly, d VAnglaise. Lemon Jelly, d VAnglaise. Orange Jelly, d la Frangaise. Pomegranate Jelly. Pine Apple Jelly. Currant and Raspberry Jelly Strawberry Jelly. Cherry Jelly. Mulberry Jelly. Macedoine of Fruits. Orange Jelly, garnished with quarters of Oranges. Maraschino Jelly. Variegated Jelly, d la Victoria. Panach€e Jelly. Russian Jelly. Punch Jelly. Oranges filled with transparent Jelly. 1407. CALF’S-FOOT JELLY, WITH WINE. Split four calf’s feet, break tip the bones, and put the whole into a gallon-sized stewpan or stock-pot; then fill it up -with cold water, and set it on the fire to boil; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and when the stock has been thoroughly skimmed, set it down by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for about five hours. The stock must then be strained off through a sieve into a basin or pan, and set aside in a cool place untfi. it has become fibnn. The grease should be scraped off the surface with a spoon, and a little boiling water thrown over it, in order to wash away any that may remain; it should then be wiped wdth a clean cloth and put into a stewpan to melt over the fire. Next, add two pounds of loaf sugar, a pint of sherry, two glasses of brandy, twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of four lemons peeled very thin, and without any of the pith, as this is bitter; then pour in the whites of six eggs and two whole eggs whipped up with a little cold water and the bruised shells; whip this weU together over the fire, and when it is near boiling, throw in the juice of eight lemons, stir the jelly with the whisk for a minute or so, and then set the stewpan down by the side of the fire; put on the lid with some live embers upon it, and allow the jelly to stand by the side of the stove-fire for a quarter of an hour longer, to set the eggs. Next, throw the jelly into a jeUy-bag fixed on a stand, ready with a basin placed under, to receive it as it passes through the bag; con- tinue pouring the jelly back again tlmough the bag several times, until it runs quite bright and clear; then cover over the stand with a cloth, and leave the jelly to run until the whole is passed. This kind of jelly may either be served in glasses, or set in moulds imbedded m rough ice; when it has become quite firm, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and then turn the jelly out carefully on its dish. 1408. CLARIFICATION OF CALF’S-FOOT JELLY, FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. Put the prepared stock of four calf’s feet into a stewj^an with two pounds of sugar, the rind of four lemons, and the juice ot eight; whip