466 C RE Ails. oiled With oil of sweet almouds, set it in rough ice, and when it has become firm, turn it out on its dish. Note.—Easpberries, mulberries, currants and raspberries, may be prepared for making Bavarian creams, by following the above directions. 1433. APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM. Split a dozen ripe apricots, and remove the stones; place the pieces in a small preserving-pan, with twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and a gill of spring water, then stir them on the fire and let them boO, until the fruit is entirely dissolved; this puree must then be rubbed through a clean hair-sieve into a large basin, and mixed with a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isin- glass ; pom tne cream into an oiled mould, and set it in rough ice, in the usual way. This sort of cream may be prepared with all kinds of plmns, instead of apricots. 1434. COFFEE CREAM. Eoast eight oimces of Mocha coffee-berries in a small preserving- pan over a stove fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, until it assumes a light-brown colour; then blow away the small burnt particles, and throw the roasted coffee into a stewpan contain- ing a pint of boiling milk or cream, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it aside to allow the infusion to draw out the flavour of the coffee. Next, strain this through a napldn into a stewpan, containing eight yolks of eggs and twelve ounces of sugar, add a very small pinch of salt, stir the cream over the stove-fire until it begins to thicken, then quicken the motions of the spoon, and when the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set, strain the cream through a tammy or sieve into a large basin. Mix half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a h^ of clarified isinglass in with this, pour the whole into a mould ready set in rough ice for the piupose, and when the cream has become firm, dip the mould in warm water, and turn the cream out on its dish. 1435. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Geate eight ounces of vanilla chocolate, put this into a stewpan ■with eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of eggs, and a pint of cream ; stir the whole over a stove-fire until the preparation begins to thicken; and the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set -without allo-wing them to ciudle, strain the cream through a tammy, ^vith pressure, into a basin; add half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, mix the whole well together, and pour it into a mould, pre- viously imbedded in rough ice, to receive it. 1436. BURNT CREAM. Put two ounces of poimded sugar into a ste'wpan, with the grated rmd of two lemons; stir these -with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, until the sugar begins to assume a rather light-bro-wn colour; then pour in a pint of cream, add to this eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of eggs, and a little salt, and stir the whole over a stove-fire until the