429 APPLE TART AVITII QUINCE. and bake them of a light colour. Wbeu done, insert some very naiTow strips of bright firm red-currant or apple-jelly between each piece of almond, and place a piece of apricot or greengage-jam, in the ring. 1328 fl. FILBERT CREAM TARTLETS. Line two dozen tartlet-moulds with some short-paste, and then till them with the following preparation:—First, extract the kernels from a sufficient quantity of fresh filberts to produce half a pound of sound kernels; let these be first pounded in a mortar, adding a dessert-spoonful of water, in order to prevent them from turning oily; and when they are thoroughly bruised, add two oimces of fresh butter, four ounces of sugar, a liqueur-glassful of white noyau, and the yokes of four eggs ; and, having beaten the whole well together, use the preparation as directed above. Bake the filled tartlets in a moderate oven, and when done, remove them from the moulds on to a clean baking-sheet, and let them be glazed on the surface of the cream with the foDowing mixture:—To a small glass- ful of white noyeau, add about two ounces of glazing-sugar, work these weU together until they form a rather thick icing, which use as directed above; and after this last part of the process is com- pleted, place the tartlets in the screen to dry the icing. 1328 i. COVENTRY TARTLETS. Line two dozen deep-fluted tartlet-moulds with some short-paste, and fin these with the following preparation:—Procure about twelve ounces of hard fresh curd, which place in a mortar with foim ounces of pounded sugar, the yolks of four eggs, two oxmces of fresh butter, as much grated nutmeg as would hold on a sixpence, a small pinch of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower-water; bruise all these smoothly together mitil the whole forms a compact creamy substance, and then use it as directed above. Bake the tartlets of a light colour, and when done, turn them out. upside-down upon a sheet of paper, and allow them to cool. Next, proceed to mask over the upper part of each tartlet with some apricot-marmalade, and place thereon a tasteful decoration formed with angelica, dried cherries, &c., &c., Tliese cakes may be vaiied in appearance by using currant or apple-jehy instead of apricot, &c., and ornamenting them with small cut fancy shapes or designs, made of worked puff-paste, or almond- paste. 1329. APPLE TART WITH QUINCE. Peel the apples, remove the cores, cut them in shces or quarters, and arrange them neatly in the pie-dish; then add the quince, which must be previously sliced up very thin, and stewed in a small stew- pan over a slow fire with a little water, sugar, and a small piece of butter; add sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the quantity of apples the tart may contain, and strew some zest of lemon (L e., the rind rubbed on sugar and then scraped off) over the top. Cover the tart with puff"-paste, first placing a band of the same round the edge of the dish; scollop it round the edges by pressing them with the back of a knife, egg the tart over, then ornament the top by drawing out some fanciful design with the point of a knife, and bako