SAUCES. 10 32. NORMAN MATELOTTE SAUCE. PtEDucE some white Veloute sauce with some essence of mushrooms, three glasses of French white wine, and the liquor from the muscles and oysters used for the matelotte; add a leason of four yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, some nutmeg, and lemon-juice; and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 33. BIGARRADE SAUCE. With the carcasses of tw'o or more roasted ducks, make an essence, clarify it, and reduce it to half glaze. To this add a small ragout- spoonful of worked Esjmgnole, the juice of one orange, and the rind of two others entirely free from any portion of the white pith; and having cut the rind into diamond shapes, blanch these pieces for thi’ee minutes in boiling water, and then put them into the sauce, which, after boiling for five minutes, pour into a bain-marie for use. 34. AROMATIC SAUCE. Put into a small stewpan a few sprigs of winter-savory, of sweet basil, and lemon thyme; six leaves of sage, and two bay-leaves, two shalots, some nutmeg, and pepper, and a ladleful of good consomme; boil this quickly on the fire for ten minutes; pass it through a sieve into a stewpan, and reduce it with an equal proportion of white sauce; add a leason of four yolks of eggs, and pass the sauce into a bain-marie, containing two dozen stewed morels. Just befoi’e using this sauce, add a pat of butter, some lemon-juice, and a spoonful of cliopped and blanched tarragon and chervil. 35. RUSSIAN SAUCE. Having chopped and blanched some tai’ragon, chervil, and parsley, in equal proportions, ^rut these into some reduced Veloute sauce thickened with tw'o yolks of eggs. Just before using the sauce, add a little grated horse-radish, a pinch of sugar, some pepper, lemon- juice, and a little mustard. This sauce is eaten with braized beef. 36. ATELETS SAUCE. Cut tw'O ounces of raw lean of ham into veiy small mince-meat; put it into a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, one .shalot chopped, a little nutmeg, and minionette pepper; moisten with a few spoonfuls of consomme, and set tlie whole to simmer on the fire for ten minutes; after which, add a small ladleful of white sauce, and having reduced it to a proper consistency, mix in a leason of six yolks of eggs, and a pat of butter; finish with a little lemon-juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin. This sauce is used for covering all preparations for those entrks denominated a la Villeroi, or a la Dauphine, previously to their being dipped in the beaten egg for the purpose of being bread-crumbed. 37. POLISH SAUCE. ScuAPE a stick of horse-radish, and put it into some Allcmande sauce with a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugai*, tlic grated rind of