RAISED I'lES FOR ENTREES. 228 centre for the steam to escape, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter^ and when it is done, remove the top carefully with a knife; score the godiveau to the bottom, in the shape of squares or diamonds; pour some Poivrade, Italian, or Espagnoh sauce over it, and after replacing the cover, send to table, 757. PATE-CHAITD OF YOUNG PARTRIDGES, A LA CHASSEUR. When the partridges have been drawn and singed, cut them into small joints as follows :—Pirst, remove the legs and wings ; then cut the fillets ^vith the pinion-bone adhering to them, leaving the breast- piece entire, as also the back, after having detached the thighs. Let aU these be neatly trimmed without waste, and observe that the skin of the thighs must be rolled irnder to give them an appearance of pliunpness. Next, place them in neat order in a deep sautapan with three ounces of clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg; fry them brown over a brisk fire, after which add a glass of Madeira or sherry, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, four ounces of truffles cut into thick scoUops, and two dozen button- mushrooms. Cover this with the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set the sautapan again on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour: then, remove the Hd, add some brown Italian sauce in sufficient quantity for the entrie, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes longer, add the juice of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; toss these in with the partridges, &c., garnish the pie, keeping back the truffles and mushrooms to place on the top, lastly pour the sauce, and serve. 758. PATE-CHAUD OF OX-PALATES, A l’iTALIENNE. Peocuee six fresh ox-palates, steep them in tepid water for six hours, then throw them into a large stewpan of boiling water and scald them for about five minutes ; after which immerse the palates in cold water, and scrape off aU the white cuticle from the surface; next, wash them in plenty of cold water, and drain them on a napkin. Then place them in an oval stewpan, moisten Y"ith some hlanc (No. 235), covered with buttered paper, and put on the Hd, and set them to braize very gently over a slow fire for about fom hours. As soon as the palates are done, put them in press between two baking-sheets or earthen dishes, and when they are cold, take a circular tin-cutter an inch in diameter, and cut them into scoUops without wasting any part. Put these into a stewpan with about two dozen large button- mushrooms cut into scoUops, also two dozen raviolis (No. 375), and enough bro'wn ItaHan sauce for the entree; boil the whole together for two minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. 759. PATE-CHAUD OF QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. Foe a smaE entrSe, eight fine fat quails wUl suffice; bone these by making an incision in that part of the back nearest the crop, through which aU the bones, &c., must be drawn out, so as to give them as much as possible the appearance of being whole. Next, fiU each quad with some farce of fat Evers (No. 219), and truss them with their legs turned back: be careful that the crop is securely fastened in order to prevent the stuffing from escaping—a large worsted needle and very fine twine must be used for the purpose. Then, place the