DIFFERENT KINDS OF TASTE. 387 baking sheet, and put it in the oven to hake slowly for about two hours: it should then he withdrawn and allowed to cool. Let the paste he removed, the edges and sides of the pan washed, and the contents of the pan pressed down tight, so as to exclude any confined air, and after pouring over the smdace some weU-reduced glaze (made from the carcass), to the depth of about a quarter of an inch, keep the pie in a cool place until wanted for use. When this kind of pie is intended to he kept for any length of time, some clean hog’s-lard should he run over the surface to the depth of about an inch; wLen this has become set firm by cooling, the pan should he covered in with strong white paper pasted over it, or in lieu of this, a bladder (soaked in water, and well washed) may be tied over it. Note.—All kinds of game should he preserved in the above method ; but, if preferred, game may be used instead of livers for making the force-meat. Indeed, this is by far the best plan when the preserved game is iutended for keepiug, as force-meat, when made with livers of any kind, is more liable to fermentation than when made with fresh- killed game. 1250. AROIVIATIC-SPIGES, FOR SEASONING. Take of nutmegs and mace, one ounce each; of cloves and white pepper-corns, two ounces each; of sweet-basil, marjoram, and thyme, one ounce each, and half an oimce of bay-leaves : these herbs should be previously dried for the purpose: roughly pound the spices, then place the whole of the above ingredients between two sheets of strong white paper, and after the sides have been twisted or folded over tightly, so as to prevent as much as possible the evaporation of the volatile properties of the herbs and spices, place them on a baking- sheet in the skreen to become perfectly dry; they must then be poimded quickly, sifted through a fine hair-sieve, corked up tightly in a dry bottle, and kept for use. DIPFEEENT KINDS OE PASTE, VIZ.: Hot-water-Paste, for Raised Pie. French Paste, for do. Short Paste, for Timbales, &c. Short Puff-Paste. Tart-Paste. Abut7to-Paste. Office do. Almond do. Gum do. Puff do. 1251. IIOT-WATER PASTE, FOR RAISED PIES. Ingeedients:—One pound of flour, four oimces of butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, about a gfil and a half of hot water. Place the flour on the pastry-table, spread it out with the back of the hand, so as to form a well or hoUow in the centre, into this put the salt. Next, put the butter and water into a stewpanover the fire und when they are sufficiently heated, so that one can just bear the 2 c 2