REMOVES OF BEEF. 152 m a stewpan on tlie fire to blanch or parboil; after boiling lor & lev/ minutes, drain them on a sieve, reserving their liquor to make tlie sauce with; immerse the oysters in cold water so as to wash off any scum or surf that may adhere to them; take away the beard and gristly substance, and place the oysters thus prepared on a plate, while the sauce is being made iu manner foUowmg: Into a small stewpan put two ounces of fresh butter, one table-spoonful of flour, a very little pepper, and salt; with a wooden spoon mix the whole thoroughly, moisten with the oyster liquor and half a pint of cream, add a small piece of glaze, and then stir the sauce on the fire till it bods ; keep stirring this for about ten minutes, by which time it will be suJficiently reduced to admit of the oysters being added to it; then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, mix the whole well together, and after putting the oysters in the silver scollop-shells, (or, clean scoured oyster-sheUs will do,) cover them with fried bread-crumbs. About ten minutes before serving, place them in the oven tdl they are sufficiently hot to send to table, dish them on a napkin, and serve. 538SCOLLOPED OYSTERS ANOTHER WAY. The oysters being prepared as set forth in the foregoing recipe, first boil down their Hquor to a fourth part of its original quantity, add thereto half a pint of white sauce, the yolks of two eggs, a little grated untmeg, Cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies and a similar quantity of Harvey sauce; and, after stirring the whole over the fire for five minutes, the oysters should be mixed in, and then, after being placed neatly in the shells,—finished as directed in the preceding article. Scolloped muscles, cockles, shrimps, lobsters, or crayfish, may be prepared in lilce manner; a little essence of anchovies should however be added to the sauce for aU these—except muscles and cockles; and for lobsters, the coral should be added also. REMOVES OE BEEF. COMPRISIXG Braized roll of Beef, d la cTOrleans. „ „ d la Milanaise. ,, „ d la Richelieu. ,, ,, d la Dauphinoise. „ „ garnished with glazed roots. Braized rump of Beef. 539. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA FLAMANDE. Take a piece of sirloin of beef, well covered with fat, weighing about twenty pounds; bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the upper part; daube or interlard the fillet in a slanting position, by inserting with a large daubing needle some pieces of ham or bacon about a quarter of an inch square and four inches long; then roll the beef up close, and fasten it round with a string so as to secure its shape. Break up the bones and place them with the trimmings af: Braized Roll of Beef, d la Flamande. ,, „ d la Printaniere. ,, „ d la Polonaise. ,, „ d I’Allemande. „ „ d la Roy ale. „ „ d la Windsor. „ „ d la Claremont.