394 l^UFF-PASTE, PATTY CASES, ETC. witlidi’aw it, make an incision with a small knife all round tho bottom of the croivn, inside the band, remove the crown or top, take out the tampoon, and the case will then be ready for garnishing. 1264. PUFF-PASTE PATTY-CASES. jMake one pound of puff-paste in the manner described in No. 1261, and give it seven turns, wetting the last turn before folding it; then roU the paste out so as to leave it scarcely a quarter of an inch thick, and about three minutes afterwards, take a fluted circular tin-cutter about two mches in diameter, and use this to stamp out as many patties as may be required; previously to stamping out each patty, the cutter should be first dipped in very hot water, as the heat thus imparted to the cutter causes it to slip easily through the paste, and produces the same effect as if it were cut with a sharp knife; in con- sequence of there being little or no pressure on the edges, the paste has thus a much better chance of rising while baking, especially in the summer season. As soon as the patties are cut out, they shoiild be •mmediately placed in rows, on a baking-sheet previously wetted over, about two inches apart from each other; then egg them over with a soft brush dipped in beaten egg, being careful not to smear the edges, and stamp them in the centre, making a slight incision through their surface, Yuth a plain circular tin-cutter about one inch and a half in diameter (this cutter must also be dipped in hot water each time it is used). The patties should then be quicldy put in the oven and baked of a light colour; when done, let the covers or tops be removed, pick out the inner crumb carefully with the point of a small knife, and then place the patties with their tops on a baking-sheet lined with clean paper. 1265. CEOUSTADE CASES. E-oll out half a pound of timbale paste (No. 1253) to the thiclmess of a penny-piece, then take a circular tin-cutter, about four inches in diameter, and stamp out a dozen flats; next, press one of these on the end of a circular piece of wood, about six inches long by about one and a quarter in diameter (or failing this, cut a carrot to that shape). Line a danb?e-mould, previously slightly spread with butter, with the paste so prepared: use the thumb to make the paste lie evenly in the mould, trim away the edges, raise the sides a little, then fill each croustade so finished with flom, mixed with a fourth part of chopped suet, and bake them of a light colour; when done, empty them, brush them out, and place them on a dish. The tops must be stamped out with a small circular fluted cutter, from some puff-paste, rolled seven turns; put these on a baking-sheet previously wetted to receive them, egg them over with a soft brush, place a much smaller circular piece of paste on the top of each, egg these over, and then bake them of a bright light colour ; when done, trim them, and place- each on the top of one of the erdustades after they are garnished. 1266. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES CASES. Peepaee the nouilles as directed in No. 774, and parboil them in water for ten minutes, then drain them thoroughly on a sieve ; after- wards toss them with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of good i>e- chcmcl sauce (No. 5), and little grated nutmeg, in a stewpan over the