131 SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. siderable time in the frying-fat, and will thereby contract a strong flavour, as well as imbibe a 'greater portion of the fat; they are also less likely to appear crisp, so essential a requisite in aU fried fish. Clean the soles thoroughly, puU off the brown skin, cut off the head transversely, and with a pair of large scissors trim away the fins close up to the fillets ; then wash and mpe the soles dry, and roll them in a little floiu; dip them first in some beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs, and place the fish on a dish in a cool place until within twenty miuutes of dinner-time; then fry them in some hot lard; when done, drain them on a napkin, and dish them up with some fried pai'sley, and serve with a sauce-boat full of shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, or lobster sauce. 466. BOILED SOLES. Don boiling, crimped soils are preferable ; but when these are not to be obtained, choose large and thick fish—such, for instance, as Torbay soles. Trim the soles, and rub them over with lemon-juice ; sprinkle over some salt, and put them on in boiling water; when done, dish them up, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with Dutch, lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or French caper sauce- 467. SOLES, A LA COLBERT Clean and trim the soles, wash and wipe them dry with a clean cloth ; then flour them over and fry them, after which cut them open at the back, and carefully take out the backbone ; fill the inside with some cold Maitre d'Hotel butter (No. 44) ; turn the soles on their backs in a dish, pour round them an essence of fish, or of anchovies (No. 176), and serve them quite hot. 468. SOLES, AU GRATIN. Speead some fresh butter on a silver dish, and place the soles, head and tail, on it; season wdth pepper and salt, sprinkle some opped parsley over them, and moisten with two glasses of white wine; half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake; when they have been in twenty minutes take them out; and, after saucing them all over with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), shake some fine raspings of bread over the whole, and put the soles back in the oven to gratinate for a few minutes ; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander over them, and serve. 469. SOLES WITH FINE-HERBS. Teim the soles close up to the fillets; put them on a buttered sautapan ; sprinlde over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot; season with pepper, and salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with two glasses of white wine ; cover them with a buttered paper, and set them in the oven to bake. "Wlien done, drain their liquor into a small stewpan containing some Allemande sauce; add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a pat of fresh butter, and lemon-juice; work the whole well together on the fire; wipe the edges of the dish with a clean napkin dipped in hot water, and sauce the soles over; place round them a border of glazed thin crdutovs, and send them to table. ’ K. 2