150 SKATE, WHITEBAIT, AND SCOLLOPED SHELL-EISH, COMPRISING vrimped Skate, boiled. Crimped Skate, a la Pascaline. „ ,, fried. ,, ,, alaEoyale. , ,, with nut-brown butter. Wliite Bait. ,, ,, a Vltalimne. Scolloped Oysters. „ with fine herbs au gratin. Muscles, Lobsters, Cockles, &c. Thebe are many varieties of skate, amongst these that generally called the blue or grey skate is deemed best for the table, .^though not held in much repute, it nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of the epicure, when properly dressed. In order to clean this fish, skin it on both sides, draw and wash it thoroughly; then lay the skate flat on the table, and cut it up in the following manner: First, with a sharp knife separate, on both sides, the fleshy parts of the fish from the back-bone, drawing the knife in a curving direction; afterwards, cut these wing-like pieces into long strips, by cutting right through the cartilaginous or finny parts; then, place these strips in a pan filled with fresh water from the pump, in order to crimp them. In like manner cut the fleshy parts remaining, and also the back-bone itself into three-inch lengths, and place them also in the cold water to be crimped. Eeserve the liver of the fish to be dressed with it. The water in which the fish is placed should be changed often, until the erimpiag be effected. 530. CRIMPED SKATE, BOILED. Tubn the fiu-pieces of skate round and fasten them with string, boil the fish in hot water with a handful of salt in it; when done, drain and dish it up on a napkin, placing the pieces of Hver in the centre; garnish round with a row of green parsley and send to table with either of the following, in a sauce-boat: Lobster, Crayfish, Shrimp, Anchovy, Dutch, Muscle, or Oyster sauce. 631. CRIMPED SKATE, FRIED. "With a clean napkin, absorb aU the moisture from the pieces of skate intended to be fried; after which, dip each piece into flour preparatory to its being again dipped in beaten egg, and then rolled in very fine bread-crumbs ; turn the pieces of skate round into shape again, and fry them of a fine bright colour, and dish them up on a napkin with a border of fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces recommended for boiled skate. 532. CRIMPED SKATE, WITH NUT-BROWN BUTTER. Boil the skate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with a border of fried parsley, and pour over it some web-seasoned nut- brown butter (No. 93). 533. SKATE, FRIED A lTtALIENNE. BBEAn-CEUMB and fry the fish as directed for fried skate; when done, place it on a dish, pour under it a good brown Italian sauce (No. 12), and serve