396 OAKES IN GENEEAL. COMPRISING Brioche Paste. Baba, ov Polisl) Cake. Compiegne Cake. Geimau Kouglauff Parisian Cake. Victoria Ciike. Savarin. Savoy Cake. Finger, or Naples Biscuits. Plum Cake. Scotch Bread. Plain Seed Cake. Brussels Biscuits, or Rusks. Pound Cake. Flemish Gauffres. French Gauffres, Almond Gauffres. Nougats. Parisian Nougats. Small Nougats, d la Chantilly, Genoese Cakes. Genoese Cakes, with Almonds. Madeleines. Spanish Cakes (^Pctits-choux). Duchess Loaves. Petits-choux, with Carvnci. Profitrolles. Mecca Loaves. Queen’s Cakes. Almond Cakes. Meringues. Italian Biscuits. Venetian do. Swedish Macaroons. Brown-bread Biscuits. Ginger Cakes. Champagne Biscuits. Orange do. Peach do. Apricot do. Chocolate Glacis. ^^arieties of other Glacis. Suisse Lecrelets. Sicilian Biscuits. Russian do. Albert do. Victoria do. 1269. BRIOCHE PASTE. Ingredients : one pound of flower, ten ounces of butter, hau an ounce of German yeast, a tea-spoonful each of salt, and sugar, and about seven eggs. Put one-fourth part of the flower on the slab, spread it out to form a well, then place the yeast in the centre, and proceed to dissolve it with a little tepid water; when this is effected add sufficient water to TniT the whole into a rather soft paste; knead this into the form of a round ball, put it into a stewpan capable of containing tliree times its quantity, score it round the sides with a knife, put the lid on and set it to rise in a rather warm place: in winter it may be put in the skreen, but in hot weather, the fermentation will proceed more satisfactorily if it is merely placed on the kitchen table, or in some such place of moderate warmth. This part of the ope- ration is termed settiug the sponge. Next, put the remainder of the flour on the slab and spread it out in the centre to form the well; then place the salt and sugar, and a tea-spoonful of water to dissolve these, after which the butter must be added; break in six eggs, and work the whole together -with the hands until well mixed, first working it between the hands, and then rubbing it with both fists held flat on the slab, and mo\nng them to and fro. so as to thoroughly reduce any remaining lumps in the paste. By the time the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently: to be per- fect, it must rise to three times its original size: when spread out on