SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES. 333 1083. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. Eillet fotiT young red-legged pai’tridges, leaving tlie pinion bones on the fillets; trim these neatly, lard them closely, and place them in a sautapan lined with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some white-wine mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of paper upon them, and braize the fillets over a moderate fire or in the oven, and when they are nearly done, glaze them nicely. Dish them up in a close circle, with a decorated minion fillet between each; fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish-tads tossed in a little partridge glaze with some lobster coral; pour some Allemande sauce mixed with some fumet of partridges round the entrSe, and serve. 1084. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A l’ANCIENNE. Eun an iron skewer through four young partridges, place them on a double sheet of thickly-buttered paper, cover them wdth some reduced mirepoix (No. 236), with the vegetables left in it; wrap the paper round, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for about half an hour ; then, take them up on a dish, and set them to cool without removing the ^aper. Cut the fillets out of the partridges, remove the skins, and tnm them neatly without waste ; place them in a sautapan with a little half-glaze made with the carcasses. Make some puree with the meat from the legs, and use the gravy that runs from the birds after roasting, to moisten it with. Warm the fillets without boiling, dish them up with a heart-shaped erduton of fried bread between each, fill the centre with the puree, pour some salmis sauce (No. 11) over the entree, and serve. 1085. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PARISIENNE. Tki3I the fillets of fom’ young partridges, mask them over with a coating of Allemande sauce (No. 7), dip them in beaten eggs, and bread- crumb them; then, sprinkle them over with clarified butter, and bread- crumb them again; pat them gently into shape, and place them in circular order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Contises the minion fillets with black truffles, lay them in a buttered sautapan in the form of crescents, and cover them with clarified butter. Ery the large fillets of a bright-yeUow colour, drain them on a napkin, glaze them slightly, and dish them up with a circular scollop of red tongue between each; fill the centre with some Parisian ragout (No. 203), place the minion fillets round this, pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1086. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH TRUFFLES. Eillet the partridges, remove the sinews from the fillets and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter; season with a little salt, and simmer them in the oven or over a stove-fire for five minutes ' then, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain them upon a napkin and cut them into scoUops; place these in a stewpan with four ounces of tniffles (previously simmered with a small piece of butter and glaze), and to these add some Espagnole sauce worlied with a fumet made from the carcasses. Warm the scollops mthout boiling, dish them up in the form of a dome, garnish round with some croquettes made ■with the legs ; or, the minion fillets may be reserved,