INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE SERVICE OF WINES. 480 ushering to their notice sparking Champagne and Moselle, tlie deliciously perfumed Cumim'es, the brilliant Sillery, the glorious Hermitage, Cote-rotie, and Chateau-Grille. With the service of the entremets de douceur—or, as we have it, the sweets—let iced-creaming, sparkling Champagne or Moselle be handed round; but far superior to them, I would recommend a trial of Ai pe'tillant, Arbois, Condrieux, Rivesaltes, Malaga, Frontignan, Grenache, Malmsey, Madeira, and East India Sherry. So little wine is drunk at dessert in this country, that it would be superfluous to enter into particular's about the service further than to refer the reader to the list of wines appropriated to this part of a dinner. And what shall be said with respect to the class of wines best adapted to make their appearance on the table after dinner ? ^Vhy simply this ; if you have done reasonable honour to some of the good things which I will suppose your table to have been supplied with, pray let the wine alone for the present, and order up the coffee—hot, strong, and bright! Let it be made with pure — picked overland Mocha, — fresh roasted pale — coarsely ground,—and pray do forbid your housekeeper to clarify it with egg; but tell her to use a bit cf genuine Russian isinglas, not the spurious filth made from all sorts of abominations, and sold at most Italian warehouses under the name of isinglas. The Cafetiere a la Dubelloy, or one of Adams’ Percolators, is best adapted for making good coffee without the trouble or necessity for clarifying it. And as to liqueurs ? Try Eau de vie d’Andaye, Eau de la Grande Chartreuse, or ten-yeaa'-old Cognac. Before I take my leave of you, dear reader, let me here acknow- ledge how much I feel indebted to the press generally for the flattering notices of my “ Cook’s Guide,” which in a great measure through such favourable introduction has, in the short space of six months, gone through three large editions. And as I now write at “ the wee hour beyont the twal,” as the Scots say, and we have entered on a new year, I will wish you all good fortune, and that you may possess the means of enjoying the delectable wines we have passed in review, and a dinner dressed by an Aberlin, a Brunet-Montrose, a Jules Magdelin, a Georges Comte, a Sedille, or a Valentin :—and then, indeed, you will be of the most fortunate on this globe. C. E. FRANCATELLI. Boyne Terrace, Netting Hill, January, 1862.