PASTRY CUSTARD. 423 almonds on the surface of each, shake some fine sugar over them witli the dredger, and hake them of a very light-fawn colour. 1308. ROYALS. Mix the whites of two eggs with as much finely-sifted sugar as they will absorb, so as to form a kind of soft paste; this must be effected without workiug it more than is necessary to mix the ingi'e- dients together: a few &ops of any kind of essence may be added to flavour the cakes. Make half a pound of puff-paste, and to finish these cakes, proceed in all respects as directed in the foregoing article. 1309. d’ARTOIS OF APRICOT. Ma-r-v. one pound of puff-paste, and give it seven turns or foldings; then, take one-third part of it, and after kneading this weU together, roll it out to the size of a square baking-sheet—measixring about four- teen inches by twelve, and lay the paste upon it; next, spread a rather thick layer of apricot-jam over the paste to within about an inch of the edges; then, roU out the remainder of the puff-paste to the size of the bdmg-sheet, and place it neatly over the surface of the apricot; fasten it round by pressing upon the edges with the thumb, and trim the edges by cutting away the superfluous paste from the sides with a knife. The D'Artois must now be marked out in small oblong shapes with the back part of a knife, and after the whole surface has been egged over, score them over neatly, forming a kind of feather pattern on each cake. Bake them of a bright hght-brown colour, and when they are done, shake some finely-sifted sugar over them out of the dredger, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two, to melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot salamander over them to give to the pastry a bright glossy appearance. When the D'Artois have become sufficiently cold, cut them up, and serve them dished up in several circular rows piled on a napkin. Note.—This kind of pastry may also be garnished with Pithiviers- cream, pastry-custard, apple-marmalade, or any other kind of preserve. 1310. APRICOT NOUGATS. Eolii out some trimmings of puff-paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch; lay this all over the surface of a baking-sheet, spread it with a rather thick layer of apricot-jam, and then strew some shred pistachio kernels or Jordan almonds over tins, shake some finely- sifted sugar over aU, and bake them in a very moderately-heated oven. When done, allow the pastry to cool, and then use any kind of fancy tin-cutter to stamp them out. 1311. PASTRY CUSTARD, OR CREAM. Ingeedients :—Bout ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, six yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, one oimce of ratafias, a spoonful of orange-flower-water, and a very httle salt. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt, with two whole eggs, in a stewpan with a wooden spoon ; then add the cream and the butter, and stir the whole over the stove-fire until it bods ; it must then be well worked together,