117 SALMON. kettle containing the salmon, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire for three-quarters of an horn-. Then drain the salmon, place it in a dish, on a croustade, and keep it in the hot closet till wanted Meanwhile, reduce the liquor in which the salmon has been braized with the remaining half-bottle of wine, and mix with it some Car- dinal sauce (No. 48); remove the layers of bacon, glaze tlie fish lightly and sauce it. Garnish it round with groups of truffles, mushrooms, crayfish tails, and quenelles of lobster As usual, send up some of tlie sauce in a boat 416. SALMON A LA VICTORIA. Braize a salmon in a mirepoix (No. 237) made with claret; when the fish is done, skin it, and place it on a low croustade, on a dish. Then, after divesting the mirepoix in which the fish has been done, of all grease, put one-tliu’d of it into a stew-pan, boil it down to a demi-glaze, and work it in with some brown sauce; add a pat of ancho’vy butter, and a good piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice; mix the whole well together, and pour the sauce over the salmon. Garnish it round with groups of crayfish tails, hied fillets of smelts, and small quenelles of whiting. Send some of the sauce up to table in a boat, and put some thin scollops of lobster in it. 417. SALMON A LA MARECIIALE. Truss a salmon in the shape of the letter S, boil it in salt and water, skin and cover it with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and set it to cool in the larder; then shake some very fine bread- crumbs over it, and after fixing them on tlie sauce by gentle pres- sure with the blade of a knife, egg the salmon over with a paste- brush dipped in three Avhole eggs beaten up with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; again shake some bread-crumbs over it, smoothing them on the salmon with the blade of a knife; place the fish on a deep baking-dish, previously buttered for the purpose, moisten with a little white wine and consomme, or some mirepoix. About three- quartei's of an horn’ before dinner-time, put the salmon in the oven, and bake it of a deep yellow or very light brown colour; then place the salmon carefully on a dish, sauce it round with Crayfish or Su- preme Dutch sauce, in which has been added an infusion of horse- radish, and garnish round with a border of quenelles of gurnets, and fried smelts trussed as whitings are for frying. 418. SALMON A L’ANGLAISE. Boil the salmon, either whole or in slices, in salt and water; wdien done, dish it up on a silver drainer, without a napkin. Plain boiled fish should never be sent to table on napkins, nor garnished round with cold wet parsley, neither is it advisable to garnish with fried small fish, the latter thereby generally becoming soddened and spoilt; the mixed vapour arising from both kinds of fish when thus covered up, is detrimental to the flavour of each Dish up the salmon, and send it to table with either of the follow- ing sauces: Lobster. Shrimp, Crayfish, Dutch, Parsley and butter, or Muscle sauce