TOUKTES. 281 8 oz. of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. When about to send to table, set the sautapan containing the scollops in tlie oven, or on a stove-fire for about five minutes, then turn them over in the pan with a fork, taking care not to break them; allow them to remain on the fire five miuntea longer, and drain them upon a clean napkin. Next, put the scollops into a stewpan, with sufficient Allemande sauce (No. 7) for the entree, add two tea-spoonfuls of tarragon-viuegar, the like quantity of Harvey sauce, a tea-spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little cayenne; toss the whole together lightly over the fire, and with this garnish a handsome voVau'vent, and serve. 766. vol’au’vent of cod, a la creme. Crimped cod is best for this purpose, although plain cod may be used, but, in either case, the fish must be dressed ui bofiing water, with plenty of salt thrown iu at the same time. A few minutes, in most instances, will suffice to bod. this kind of fish, especially if it be crimped. K allowed to remain in the water after it is done, it be- comes soft and tasteless. 'When the cod is boiled, drain it upon a napkin, and as soon as aU the water has been absorbed, put the flakes and the sounds carefully, without breaking them up, into a stewpan, containing enough rich cream Bechamel (No. 6) for the entree, to this add 2 oz. of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and the juice of a lemon; toss the whole together over the fire, with care, so as to avoid breaking the pieces; when it is quite hot, garnish the voVau'vent, and serve. 767. vol’au’vent of salt fish, a l’anglaise. The whitest and thickest fish are the best for this purpose. About 2 lbs. will suffice : cut from the middle of the fish, and soak it in cold water for forty-eight hours previously to its being dressed, the water being changed eveiy six hours. Set the fish on in cold water, and when it bods remove the scum, and set it by the side of the stove to finish boiling. As soon as it is done, drain it on a sieve, or a napkin, and when all the water is absorbed from it, remove it in large flakes into a stewpan, containing some scollops of dressed parsnips, in the proportion of one-third to the quantity of the fish, and a like quantity of slices of eggs, boiled hard; to these add enough cream Bichamel sauce (No. 6) for the entree; toss the whole gently over a stove-fire, until quite hot, then garnish a large wZ’aw’yeni with this ragout, and serve. 768. tourte* of whitings, a la dauphine. Peocitre four large fresh whitings, fillet them, and set one-half aside on a plate in a cool place; with the remainder prepare some quendle force-meat (No. 245), which, when finished, gather up in a basm, and mould with dessert-spoons into quenelles. Trim the four remaining fillets, cut each in two, ti’ansversely, and after paring ofl” the angles, decorate or contises them in manner following; Place the^ fillet lengthwise upon the edge of the kitchen table, then maiie nicisions across with a knife, cutting down in a slanting direction, * Directions for making this kind of TMrte will be found in that part of the work which treats of Puff-nastry.