23 COLD SAUCES. 96. TARTAR SAUCE. Place a round-bottomed basin in a deep sauta-pan containing some l>oinuled ice, put two raw yolks of eggs into the basin v.'itli a little pepper and salt, and with a wooden spoon proceed, with the back part of the bowl, to work the yolks of eggs, dropping in at intervals very small quantities of salad-oil, and a little Tarragon-vinegar, until a sufficient quantity of sauce is produced ; bearing in mind, that the relative quantity of oil to be used in proportion to the vinegar is as live to one. When the sauce is finished, add some chopped tarragon and chervil, and half a shalot. In making this sauce, should it decompose through inattention, it may instantly be restored to its proper consistency by mixing in it a good spoonful of cold white sauce. 97. MAYONNAISE SAUCE.* Place two raw yolks of eggs in a round-bottomed basin, and set this in a deep sauta-pan containing some pounded ice; add a little pepper and salt to the yolks, and proceed to work them quickly with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon, moistening at inter- vals with salad-oil and French vinegar, which must, however, be sparingly used at first, and gradually increased as you proceed, until, by this means, the quantity of sauce desired is produced ; add a little lemon-juice to make the sauce wirite. Previous to using the sauce, add a little aspic-jelly (No. 1218), which must be just barely melted before incorporating it with the Mayonnaise, as in the case of its being made w^arm it might have the effect of turning and decomposing the sauce. 98. GREEN M.UYONNAISE SAUCE. Blanch some tarragon, chervil, a little burnet, and some parsley: extract the w'ater therefrom ; pass the linviyotte thus produced through a sieve, and proceed to incorporate it with some Mayonnaise prepared according to the foregoing instructions. This sauce is usually coloured with spinach-green (No. 28G). 99. RED OR CORAL MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Pound some lobster coral, pass it through a sieve, and mix it in with some Mayonnaise sauce; add a little cayenne pepper and a spoonful of mustai'd. This sauce should be used exclusively for lobster and fish salads. 100. MAYONNAISE SAUCE OF SAVORY JELLY. Set a round-bottomed basin in some pounded ice, place therein half a pint of light-coloured aspic-jelly, a little pepper and salt, a gravy-spoonful of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of Tarragon-vinegar; whip this mixture quickly with a whisk, adding, from time to time, some oil and vinegar in the same proportions as heretofore directed, by whipping briskly, you will find the sauce assume a wihte smooth appearance; add a little lemon-juice, to wiiiten it, and some chojtped tarragon and chervil; or, if preferred, this sauce may be used without the latter. This kind of Mayonnaise sauce is considered as being the most delicate, and is particularly adapted for aspics of fillets of fowls, or any sort of white fish. * Note. Use Cbosse and Blackwell’s l.ucca oil