78 SOUPS MADE WITH RICE 316. SOUP A LA IIOLLANDAISE. Peel three carrots, and an equal number of turnips and cucum- bers ; scoop these out into the shape of small olives, and, after blanch- ing them, boil them in two quarts of good strong hlond of veal; when the vegetables are done, remove the soup from the fire, and mix in with it a leason of eight yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, and a little sugar; set the leason by stirring the soup over the fire, and then pour it into the soup-tureen, containing about half a pint of young peas boiled green, and an equal proportion of French beans cut into diamonds, and seiwe. SOUPS IMAUE WITH KICE OR PEARL-BARLEY, COMPRISISO Cream of Rice u la Royale, Do. a la Victoria. Do. a la Cardinal, Do. d la Juvenal. Do. d la Chasseur. Cream of Pearl-barley d la Victoria. Cream of Pearl-barley d la Rein* Do. d la Printaniere. Do. d la Royale. Do. d la Princesse Alexandrind. Do. d la Duchesse. 317. CREAM OF RICE A LA ROYALE. Wash and blanch one pound of Carolina rice, drain it from the water, and put it into a stewpan with about three quarts of white consomme of fowls; set it to boil on the stove, and skim it well, after which remove it to the side of the fire to boil gently until the grains of rice are thoroughly done. Then rub the whole through a tammy—moistening witli more broth if necessary. When this is done, put the puree into a small soup-pot to be clarified by ebullition in the same manner as a sauce, and just on tlie point of sending it to table, add half a pint of boiling cream, and then pour the soup into the tureen containing a dozen small custards of chicken, made thus:— Roast a young fowl, from which take the whole of the breast and all the white part of the legs; chop and pound them with a large spoonful of white sauce, then pass this trough a tammy with the wooden spoons; put the puree thus obtained into a quart basin, toge- ther with eight raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; having well stirred these together, mix with them half a pint of consomme of fowls, and then pour this preparation into twelve small dariole moulds, previously buttered for the purpose; set them care- fully in a fricandeau pan, containing sufficient boiling water to reach half way up the moulds, put the lid on the pan, and place it either on a very moderate fire, or in the oven—observing that in the former case some live embers of charcoal must be put on the lid. About ten minutes will suffice to poach the custards, when they must be turned out of the moulds on to a napkin, and afterwards placed in the soup-tureen, previously to pouring the puree upon tliem.