45 IIAGOUTS. or Supreme sauce, with which mix in a little of tbe butter made with the shells of the crayfish, and serve the ragout with the dish it is meant for. 197. ROUENAISE RAGOUT. Peepare an equal proportion of the following shell-fish—oysters, muscles, and shrimps; to these add some button mushrooms and quenelles of lobster, and moisten tbe ragout with a sauce made in the following manner ; reduce some of the liquor of the muscles, oysters, and mushrooms, with two glasses of French white wine, and the addition of a small ladleful of Veloute sauce; finish by mixing in four yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, and a little cream: stir the sauce on the stove-fire till it boils, and then pass it through a tammy on to the ragout. Before sending to table, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. About a dozen smelts, trussed in the same manner as whitings for flying, and boiled in a little salt and water, and afterwards skinned and glazed, should be prepared to garnish round the fish with which the Rouenaise ragout is served. 198. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS. First blanch, and then braize, a little white broth, three or more throat sweetbreads, for about twenty minutes ; tlien take them up on a plate, and allow them to cool; cut them into neat scollops and place them in a small stewpan with a small ladleful of any sort of sauce appropriate to the entree which this ragout is intended to garnish. A similar kind of ragout may be prepared with lambs’ sweetbreadsj calfs, sheep’s, or lamb’s brains. 199. RAGOUT OF SOFT ROES OF MACKEREL OR OTHER FISH. Parboil the soft roes of six mackerel or carp, in a little boiling water mixed with two spoonfuls of French vinegar and a little salt; drain them on a napkin, and put them into a sauta-pan containing some Allemande or Supreme sauce; add some chopped and blanched parsley, and a little nutmeg and lemon-juice; toss the whole gently together over the fire, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, and place them in the centre of the fillets of fish prepared to receive them. 200. CARDINAL RAGOUT. Prepare two dozen small quenelles of lobster, which place in a stewpan, with thirty picked and trimmed prawns’ tails, two dozen button mushrooms, and a similar quantity of small round truffles; to these add a sufficient quantity of cardinal sauce for the remove or entree; then boil tlie ragout for three minutes on the fire, when it will be ready for use. 201. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SOLES, ETC. Fillet two pairs of soles, or a proportionate quantity of any other sort of fish, place them in a sauta-])an with some clarified butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them in the oven foi' about ten minutes; when they are done, drain them on a napkin and afterwards place them on a