403 FINGER BISCUITS. Tlie best way to ascertain whether the cake be done is to run a wooden skewer down the centre, and if, when withdi’awn, the skewer is dry, and free from any portion of the cake in an unbaked state, it will be safe to turn it out of the mould ; it should then be of a light coloirr and smooth siu-face. Note.—Savoy cakes may also be made by using twelve, sixteen, or even twenty eggs to one pound of sugar; but when a cake of large size is required, the proportions must be at the rate of twelve, fourteen, or at the utmost sixteen eggs to one pound of sugar; even in the latter case, such batter would not prove successful where four pounds are required to fiU one mould. Savoy-cake batter made in the pro- portion of sixteen or twenty eggs to one poimd of sugar, is best adapted for small sponge cakes, finger biscuits, drops, &c. 1276. FINGERS, OR NAPLES BISCUITS. Peepare the batter as directed in the foregoing case; then fill a biscuit-forcer with some of it, and after securely folding down the open end, proceed to use the batter in the following manner:—Cut a sheet of foolscap paper in two, fold these lengthwise, in order to mark a straight line along the centre of the half-sheets; the forcer must then be held in the right hand, pressing the batter out by working the thumb upon it, while the pointed end must be guided with the left hand. In this manner the biscuits must be spread, or rather dropped in straight hues, resembling fingers, about three inches long by half an inch wide : they should form two rows, being divided by the line in the centre of the paper. When the sheet is full, place it upon a large sheet of kitchen paper (or demy) containing about one pound of the finest sifted sugar, placed in the form of a ridge along the upper part of the paper as it lies on the table before you; the sheet con- taining the biscuits being placed just below the sugar, it will only be necessary to lift up the other paper at each comer with the hands, and by giving it a slight jerk, the sugar will be thrown on to the biscuits: then, by taking hold of the paper, holding the biscuits at each upper comer, and gently shaking it as it is held up in a perpen- dicular position, the sugar will be made to slide over the whole at once. By this means the biscuits are effectually glazed without waste. The finger biscuits must be immediately placed on a baking-sheet, and put in the oven (at very moderate heat) ; about a quarter of an hour will suffice to bake them. When done, they should be of a very light yellow colour. Note.—With the same kind of batter, and by using a biscuit- forcer,* the shape of these small biscuits may be easily varied accor- ding to taste or fancy. 1277. PLUM CAKE. Ingredients required:—One pound and a half of flower, one pound and a half of butter, one pound of fine sugar, one pound of dried * These biscuit-forcers are also made of tin, resembling j. funnel in shape; they have bag of wash-leather, or canvas cloth, affixed round the upper part, with a string rim- nnig through the top, which, when the bag is filled with batter, is drawn tight, thus efl'ectually preventing it from escaping »t ffie upper end, while it is forced out at the point below. The use of this utensil, however, is objectionable, from the leather or can- V.T.S contracting a nauseous odour. In other respects it answers the purpose well enono-h, 2 D 2