calf’s-head. 183 crumbs, fried in a sautapan, with a little butter, of a fine bngbt colour, and place tbe bead in the oven for five minutes, that the bread-crumbs may dry on, taking care to cover the ears with wet paper to keep them white, and prevent them from cocking up and spoiling their eftect. As soon as the bread-crumbs have dried on, remove the paper from the ears, sauce round with a ragout, composed of the tongue cut into scollops, as also the brains, some button-mushrooms, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives ; allow these to boil up for two or three minutes in a weU-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29) ; garnish roimd with some quenelles of veal or chicken, coloured with Ravigotte, or spinach-green (No. 285) ; stick in four silver ornamental skewers, garnished with a crest of red tongue, a large truffle, and a decorated quenelle, and send to table. 628. calf’s-head, a la toktue. Boite, blanch, and trim a calTs-head, cut it up into large scoUops, keep the ears whole, neatly trim the pieces, and toss them in tne juice of a lemon ; put them into a stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, gamished-faggot, cloves, mace, and a few pepper-coms ; moisten with half a bottle of Madeira or sherry, and two large ladlefuls of good stock ; cover with a weU-buttered stifi" paper, and put on the hd; set the whole to braize on the stove for about two hours. When the pieces of calf’s-head are done, drain them on a napkin, and afterwards msh them up, in the form of a close vrreath, round the base of a fried bread crdustade; place the ears at the ends and on the flanks : if the party be large, two extra ears should be procured, as the four make the dish look much handsomer : next, place the tongue, cut dovm its centre, and spread out on the top of the crdustade; on this put the brains, which must be kept whole and white, and round these, on the crdustade, should be stuck six ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a double cocks-comb, a large mushroom, a quenelle, a truffle, and a large crayfish; sauce roimd with a weU-made sauce d la Tortu'e (No. 9) ; garnish the dish roimd between the spaces of the ears, with four larded and glazed sweetbreads, and eight decorated quenelles, and send to table. 629. calf’s-head, a la maeigny. Peepaee and braize a calf’s-head as directed for dressing a calf’s- head d la Beauvaux. When done, take it out of the napkin, and drain all the moisture from it, place the head on a dish, remove the twine used to secure its shape, trim the ears, and then sauce it all over (the ears excepted) with a weU-seasoned Ravigotte sauce ; garnish round with a border of crayfish, and green gherkins, and send to table. ^ Note.—It is not necessary, in all cases, to garnish each remove as richly as heretofore set forth: many of the accessories, on every-dav occasions, might be regarded as extravagant. What to omit in such cases must be left to the judgment of the experienced cook, acquainted with the means and taste of his master.