2 STOCK SAUCES. the bottom of each with fresh butter, over which lay about oue pound of lean ham cut in slices; then add the finest pieces of the veal in equal proportion to each stewpan. In that intended to be used for the brow’n sauce put two or three whole wild rabbits (or the mere carcasses may suffice); put into the stewpan marled fonthe white sauce two old hens, or carcasses of fowls. Pour into each pan a sufficient quantity of grand stock to reach the upper surface of the veal; place the pans with their covers on, on brisk fires, and let them boil sharply till the broth is nearly reduced to a glaze; then take diem off the fire immediately, and slaken the stoves, by putting on some charcoal ashes to decrease their heat; after which, replace the pans on the fire, adding to the brown sauce one pound of glaze, to be reduced together with tlie stock, by which it will acquire a redder hue; it will also accelerate its progress,—a point of great import- ance; for if sauces or broths remain too long on tlie fire, the delicacy of their flavour is sure to be impaired. As soon as the broth of the white sauce is reduced to the con- sistency of pale glaze^s fill it up with some grand stock; garnish it with a good-sized carrot, one onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a garnished faggot or bouquet, made of jiarsley, green onions, a bay-leaf, and thyme, tied together neatly. Set it on the stove to boil; skim it well, and then place it to simmer gently at the side of the stove. Pay strict attention to the broivn sauce, in order to pre- vent the possibility of its being caught by tbe fire in the least degree. Such an accident always tends to lessen its unctuousness. Ascer- tain when the brown sauce is sufficiently glazed, by dipping the end of a knife into it, twirling the handle round in the hand, so as to take up a quantity of glaze on the point of the blade; if you can then roll it into a ball without its sticking to the fingers, and it is of a beautiful brown red colour, you may proceed to fill it up in exactly the same manner as described for the white sauce. About two hours after the above-mentioned operations have been attended to, pass the broths through napkins into lai’ge kitchen basins. Then pour the roux or tliickening into the large stewpans to be used for mixing each of these sauces; take off* all the fat, and pour the hrown broth upon the brown roux, and the white broth upon the white roux. While the sauces are being mixed they should be well stiiTed. When thoroughly mixed, they must be kept sufficiently liquid to enable them (after boiling on the stove-fire, and while they are simmering on the side) to throw up the whole of the butter with which the roux was made, together with the skum, by which means they assume a velvety appearance, from which the white sauce takes its name Veloute. Finally, add a large ladleful of white chicken broth to the white sauce, and the same quantity of consomme to the brown sauce; let them clarify for about twenty minutes longer; and then, if suffi- ciently reduced, pass them through the tammy cloths into white basins, and put them away in the larder for future use. * When time presses, or the veal used for this purpose is not white, the process of boiling down to a glaze recommended above, may be dispensed with ; and, consequently, the white broth or water added at once.