PUREES OF VEGETABLES 70 fii’e to boil gently for about three hours. The peas having then be- come entirely dissolved, pass them tlirough a tammy-cloth with the aid of two wooden spoons, to be used in the following manner: spread the tammy-cloth over a large dish, pour the puree, or part thereof, into the hollow thus formed; then let two persona take hold firmly of each end of the tammy-cloth with the left hand, so as cai'efully to secure the puree against flowing over; then, with the right hand, they should work the edge of the spoon, the bowls being back to back, in the cloth, in regular time and with some force until tlie Avhole of the puree is rubbed through: it will be, however, neces- sai’y to scrape off witli the back of a large knife any portion that may adhere to the clotli. When this is done, hasten to remove the puree from the dish into a soup-pot of adequate size; add a large ladleful of consomme, carefully stirring the puree on the stove-fire vmtil it begins to boil, then remove it to the side of the stove, to con- tinue gently boiling until it has clarified itself by throwing up all the froth, which shoifld be removed as it rises to the surface. As- certain whether the seasoning be palatable, and send to table with some dried and sifted mint in a plate; and in another plate serve some Conde crusts, prepared as follows:— Take a piece of stale bread, pare away the crust, and then cut the crumb into very small square dice, fry these in fresh butter till they become slightly browned, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them on a sheet of paper, moving them about for a short time that the butter may be absorbed. Keep these croutons in a dry place until wanted. Just before dinner-time, they should be put inside the oven for a few minutes. 285. PUREE OF GREEN SPLIT-PEAS. Follow the foregoing instructions, taking care, however, to sub- stitute gi'een split-peas for yellow. When the puree is ready, in order to give it as much as possible the appearance of having been made with green-peas, mix in with it some extract of spinach*, adding two small pats of butter and a little sugar. Serve separately some mint in powder, and Conde crusts on plates. 286. PUREE OF RED HARICOT BEANS. Take one quart of red haricot beans, and having put them to soak the overnight, drain off the water on the following morning; put the beans into a small stockpot, with carrots, celer}', an onion stuck with three cloves, and a Imuckle of raw ham; add tlu’ee quarts of good stock, and set the whole on the stove-fire to simmer gently for about fom’ hours. Then remove the carrot, celery, onion, and the ham; drain off the broth from the beans, and pound them in a • Extract of spinach is thus prepared: Wash and pound in a mortar a sufficient quantity of spinach for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy appearance, turn it out upon a strong kitchen rubber, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up and held in the left hand by two persons, who must take care to fold the extremity of the cloth firmly round the handle of a wooden spoon, which will give them a strong purchase, acting as a windlass, and will enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to express all the moisture of the spinach. To receive this extract, a stewpan should be placed ready; it should be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and must be put upon a hair sieve to drain off any remaining watery particles. Work the spinach-green through the sieve with a spoon, and this will form the extract.