397 BRIOCHE PASTE, the paste prepared to receive it, it should present the appearance of a sponge, from which it takes its name. Both the above shovdd be then immediately, gently, but thoroughly mixed. A napkin must be spread in a wooden bowl, or a basin, some flower shaken over it, and the &noc7te-paste lifted iuto it; then shake a little flour over the paste, and after throwmg the ends of the napkin over all, set the bowl containing the paste in a cool place, free from any current of air. It is usual to make this kind of paste late in the evening previously to the day on which it is required for use. The first thing on the following morning, the inocAe-paste must be turned off the napkin on to the slab; then shake some flour under and over it, and fold the paste over half a dozen times, pressing it down with the knuckles each time; put the paste back again into the bowl in the same way as before; and about three hours afterwards, knead it again in a similar manner, previously to its being baked. If the paste, Avhen finished, appears to be full of small globides of air, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is certain to be well made, and, when baked, will be both light and of a bright clear coloui’. If the paste is intended to be made into one brioche only, take five- sixths of it, mould this into the form of a round ball or cushion, and place it in a plain moidd or paper-case* (previously spread with butter) with the smooth surface uppermost; press it down in the case with the knuckles, and, after moidding the remaining piece of paste in a similar manner, first, wet the surface of the other part over with the paste-brush dipped in water, and then, after inserting the pointed end of this into the centre of that portion of the brioche which has been already placed m the case, press the head down upon it Avith the back of the hand; egg the brioche over Avith a paste-brush, score the sides slightly, in a slanting dnection, place it on a baking- sheet and put it in the oven (at moderate heat). As soon as the brioche begins to rise, and has acquired a slight degree of eolom’, let it be covered over Avith a sheet of paper: about two hours Avdl sufB.ce to bake a large brioche of double the quantity of paste described in this article. Note.—Bnoches may be varied in their form, when intended to be- served as fancy bread, for brealdast, &c.; in which case they should be moulded in the shape of tAvists, fingers, rings, &c. When served on the refreshment table, at routs, public breakfasts, balls, &c., ch’ied cherries, citron, candid orange or lemon-peel, pine-apple or angelica, steeped in some kind of liqueur, may be introduced; in either of these cases, previously to mixing in the fr’uit, part of the paste must * The case is thus made. For a large brioche, intended to be served as a second-course remove, take a large sheet of Bristol-board, and cut a hand from this, measuring about two feet long by eight inches broad; the two ends should be sewed together witli strong thread, and some small bands of paper, smeared over with flour-and-water pastct, should be stuck over the sewing to make it more secui'e. This hoop should then be placed upon a circular piece of the pasteboard, cut to fit its circumference, and both these must be securely fastened together by placing small strips of paper (pasted over) all round tlie angle of the bottom part of the case; these must be placed close together and crosswise, with one end fastened under the case, while the other is lapped round the angle and fastened at the side. These strips of paper, after becoming very dry, should receive another row over them to make the case stronger. ' " ’