63 SOUPS IN GENERAL. well worked with the spoon for about five minutes. By this time the batter will have assumed the appearance of a firm compact paste; two whole eggs and two yolks should then be w'orked into it; then add a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. When this paste is so far ready, make up two half-sheets of paper in the shape of a funnel, Avith a hole at the point, a quarter of an inch in diameter, and fasten them Avith a pin. Into each of these paj^ers or/oj'cers put as much of the paste as Avill nearly fill it; dose the large end in the sameAA-ay as youAvould a paper of broAvn sugar; and Avith gentle pressure force the paste out at the pointed extremity on to a large stewpan cover (previously buttered) in the shape of large peas: this is done Avith a sudden jerk of tlie Avrist. When the steAV- pan lid is covered AAuth these fragments of paste—^which, hoAvever, must not be close enough to touch each other—prepare some boiling consomme in a steAvpan over the fire, and shake off the peas into it (which will be easily effected by just passing the lid containing the fragments of paste over the fire), in order to detach them, and thus facilitate their slipping into the broth. Let these boil very gently for five minutes; strain them on a sieve, and then throAv them into three quarts of strong bright consomme of foAvl or game prepared for the purpose; allow them to boil again gently for five minutes; add a louche of tarragon and chervil, and let these boil a short time pre- viously to serving up the soup. Send some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round simultaneously Avitli this soup. 259. DAUPHINE SOUP. Take half a pint of strong consomme of foAvl, and pour it gradually into a steAvpan containing eight yolks of eggs beaten up Avith a little salt, nutmeg, and pepper; Avhen the egg is Avell mixed with the con- somme, strain it through a sieA^e into a roimd plain mould, Avhich should be previously buttered carefully for that purpose. Put the mould, holding the preparation, into a large steAvpan containing Avater to the depth of about an inch, and cover the stewpan Avith the lid; let the water in it simmer—or gently boil—on the corner of the stove- fire, so as to produce sufficient steam to set the custard. When this is done, take it out of the Avater; and after having allowed it time to cool, cut it into shapes resembling thick Avafers, Avhich put into tAVO quarts of strong consomme of foAvl, together Avith a pint of green asparagus-heads, previously boiled for that purpose, a small piece of sugar, and a fcAv tarragon-leaves. Allow the soup to boil very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about three minutes, and then send to table. 260. BARLEY SOUP A LA PRINCESSE.* Take half a pound of Frankfort pearl baidey, AA^ash and blanch it; and put it to boil in one quart of bright consomme of fowl. When the barley is sufficiently done, put it into the soup tureen Avith the members of tAvo spring chickens (previously roasted and cut up for the purpose); to these add a sufficient quantity of consomme of fowl; and after having tested the seasoning of the soup, send to tabic, * Note Frankfort pearl barley is to be had of CROSSE and Blackwell, Solio Sejuare.