DIIESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 134 with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end of the fillet, and hearing with the blade of the knife tipon the side of the back- bone, draw the knife gently down to the tad, then turn the mackerel over and take the fiUet ofl’ the other side : when this is done cut each fillet into two, trim the ends neatly, and place them side by side cai a buttered sautapan, season witli pepper and salt and chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and then pour a little oded butter upon each, and cover with a round of buttered paper. About twenty minutes before dinner, either put them in the oven or on a stove fire to simmer, and when done, drain the fidets on a napkin, dish them up in the form of a ^vreath, the fidets resting upon each other; sauce them over with some Maitre d'Hotel sauce (No. 43), and send to table. The soft roes, if any, in the mackerel, should be parboded in boding water containing a dttle vinegar and salt; then di’ain them on a nap- Idn, and place them in the centre of the fidets when dished up. Fidets of mackerel, prepared as described in the first part of the above directions, may be sent to table with either of the fodowing sauces :— Vertjpre, Ravigotte, Itdlwnne, or Genoise. DEESSED MELLETS, &c.. filullets in cases, with fine-herbs. ,, a Vltalikme. „ a la G^ise. ,, au ragout Cardinal. ,, ala Chesterfield. Gray Mulcts, Graylings, &c. COMPRISING Fillets of Whiting, a la Maitre d"Hotel. „ „ ala Horly. ,, „ ala Marechale „ ,, ala Boy ale. Whitings boiled. „ fried. ,, broiled, &c. 481. MULLETS IN CASES, WTTII FINE-HERBS. Scale and trim the mudets, place them in a sautapan spread ivith fresh butter for the purpose; season with a little pepper and salt, cover them with some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), moisten with two glasses of sherry or white wine. About half an hour before dinner (the exact time depending on the size of the fish), put the mudets in the oven to bake; occasionady basting them with their own dquor. When done, put each of them separately in an oblong paper case saturated with od, and then Hghtly coloured in the oven ; add a glass of wine to the sauce remaining in the sautapan, shake it about to detach the glaze from the sides, and then mix the whole with the remainder of the fine-herbs sauce reserved for the purpose; reduce the whole, mix m a dttle essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon; add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, sauce the mudets over in their cases, dish them up, and send to table. Mudets may be dressed with fine-herbs also, in the fodowing man- ner :—Trim and place the mudets on a buttered sautapan, season with pepper and salt, strew over them chopped mushrooms, shalot, and parsley; moisten with two glasses of sherry and a large spoonful of