321 OUTLETS OF QUAILS. they must then he trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a stew- pan with thin layers of fat bacon under tl>em, a garnished faggot of parsley in the centre, and covered with layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), and braize them gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Prepare a rich Financihe ragout (No. 188), the' sauce of which must he finished with some of the liquor in which the quails have been braized. "Wlien about to send to table, warm the quails, drain and dish them up, garnish the centre with the ^inancihe, pom some of the sauce round the entrie, and serve. 1044. QUAILS, A LA ROYALE, Boke eight quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force-meat, and truss them in the usual manner; place them in a stewpan with some sliced carrot, an onion, two cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley; moisten with a pint of white broth, cover with a round of buttered paper, put the lid on, and set them to braize very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then allow them partially to cool in their own liquor, after which they must be taken out and placed upon a dish in the larder to become cold ; the strings should then be removed, and the quails entirely covered with a coating of d ’ Uxelles sauce (No. 16) ; when this has become firmly set by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten egg, and bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, place the quails upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, and immerse them in plenty of clean hog’s-lard made quite hot for the purpose; fry them of a light-brown colour, then drain and dish them up on a border of quenelle force-meat previously turned out on the dish; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), place a decorated minion fiUet of chicken between each quaii, pour some Allemande sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 1045. CUTLETS OP QUAILS, A LA MARECHALE. Split the quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of the back-bones, leaving the leg entire, which must be passed through the skin of the thigh to give them the appearance of cutlets ; flatten them shghtly with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask them over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (No. 7), and bread-crumb them twice upon this: once after being dipped in beaten egg, and then in clarified butter: pat them into shape with the blade ot a Imife, and place them in neat order in a sautapan A\dth some clarified butter. Bry the cutlets of a light colour over a rather brisk fire ; when done, drain and glaze them lightly, and dish them up in the same way as other cutlets ; fill the centre with either a Macidoine of vegetables (No. 143), or scollops of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, or a puree of artichokes; pour some half-glaze, or a little Supreme sauce, roxmd the entree, and sei’ve. Y