]SIIREP01X, MARINADES, ETC. 55 two eggs, well whisked into a snow-like frotli, should be incorporated with it. 233. PRYING BATTER, POR ALL SORTS OP PRUIT PRITTERS. Put into a basin three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, three ounces of fresh butter (melted), one wine-glassful of Cura9oa, and a veiy little salt; mix these gently together with a wooden spoon, gradually pouring into the basin about half a pint of bitter ale. When the batter becomes mixed to the thickness of double cream, set it aside while you Avhisk the whites of three eggs into a substantial froth, and instantly incorporate this with it. jNIany prefer such fritters as pineapple, peach, apricot or plum, fried with a plainer kind of batter, in making which water is substi- tuted for ale. 234. BOILED MARINADE. Cut into slices, and put into a stewpan, four carrots, the same number of onions, and two heads of celeiy, to which add parsley, four bay-leaves, thyme and sweet basil, a dozen cloves, a few blades of mace, two cloves of garlic, and one poimd of raw ham (cut into small square pieces), a tablespoonful of peppercorns, and half a pound of butter. Stir these ingredients together over the fire until they become lightly browned; then pour over them a quart of French Avhite wine vinegar, and let the marinade boil quickly for five minutes, then add two quai’ts of common stock; allow the whole to boil gently for one hour; strain it off through a tammy cloth (using con- siderable pressure), into a kitchen pan, and reserve it for use. This marinade is used for the purpose of preserving larded beef, mutton, venison, or roebuck, as well as to braize either of these in, when it is wished to dress them d la Chevreuil or roebuck fashion. 235. COLD MARINADE, OR PICKLE. Take a large earthern vessel capable of containing whatever joint is intended to be marinaded or pickled; then cut into very thin slices or shreads, four carrots and as many onions; add to these, cloves, mace, peppercorns, tlyme, bay-leaves and basil, and a handful of salt; after having mixed all these together, pour in, according to the quantity of marinade that may be required, cold spring water and vinegar in the proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter; keep the pan (containing the marinade) covered with its lid in a cool place, for the purpose of pickling therein, joints of red deer, roebuck, mountain hares, fillets of mutton or beef, &c. In Scotland, this sort of marinade will prove very serviceable, especially if cooking for a shooting party, and when the larders are well supplied with moor and Highland game. 236. BLANC OR WHITE BRAIZE POR CALVES’ HEADS OR EARS, AND ALSO POR LAMBS’ PEET OR EARS. Chop one pound (more or less, as occasion may require) of beef suet, and the same quantity of fat bacon ; put these into a stewpan together with a gamished* faggot of parsley, a couple of carrots and * A garnished faggot of parsley, consists of a handful of parsley, half a dozen green onions, and a bay-leaf and sprig of thyme tied together neatly with twine.