ENTHEMETS OF VEGETABLES. 356 vlean hog’s-lard into a frying-pan on the fire, and when quite hot, £17 the bottoms of the artichokes in it for about three minutes, then turn Aem upside-dovTi, and fry the tips of the leaves also; drain them upon a cloth to absorb aU the grease, and fill them with a similar preparation to that directed for tomatas d la Proveiirule (No. 1160) ; cover them over with layers of fat bacon, tie them up with string, and place them in a large stewpan or/ncandeau-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten ■with half a tumbler of white -wine, and a little good consomme, or with some ■wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; put the Hd on, and after they have boiled up on the stove-fire, place them in the oven to simmer very gently for about an hour. When done, drain them upon a cloth, remove the strings and the bacon, fill the centre of each artichoke with some Italian sauce (No. 12), dish them up ■with some of the sauce in a boat, and serve. 1167. ARTICHOKES, A LA LYONNAISE. Pull off the lower leaves without damaging the bottoms of the artichokes, which must be turned smooth ■with a sharp knife ; cut the artichokes into quarters, remove the fibrous parts, trim them neatly and parboil them in water with a little salt for about five minutes; then drain them in a colander, and immerse them in cold water, after which drain them upon a cloth, and arrange them in circular order in a sautapan thickly spread ■with about four ounces of fresh butter; strew a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar over this, season with mig- uionette-pepper and salt, moisten ■with a glass of white wine, and a gravy-spoonfiil of good cohsommi, and place them on a slow fire to simmer very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that they do not burn. When done, they should be of a deep-yeUow colour and nicely glazed; dish them up in the form of a dome, show- ing the bottom of the artichokes only; remove any leaves that may liave broken off in the sautapan, add a rayoui-spoonful of bright Espagnole sauce, t^wo pats of butter, and some lemon-juice; simmer this over the stove-fire, stirring it meanwhile with a spoon, and when the butter has been mixed in with the sauce, pour it over the arti- chokes, and serve. 1168. ARTICHOKES, A l’iTALIENNE. These are prepared in the manner described in the foregoing article, except that when about to finish them, brown Itahan sauce (No. 12) must be substituted for Espagnole. 1169. ASPARAGUS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Pick the loose leaves from the heads, and scrape the stalks clean, wash them in a pan of cold water, tie them up in bimdles of about twenty in each, keeping all the heads turned the same way; cut the stalks even, leaving them about eight inches long. Put the asparagus in hot water with a small handful of salt in it, to boil for about twenty minutes, and when done, drain them carefully upon a napkin to avoid breaking off the heads • dish them up on a square thick piece of toasted bread dipped in the water they have been boiled in, and send 10 table ■with some white sauce (No 71) separately in a sauce-boat.