83 SHELLriSH SOUPS. ner-time, warm the muscles, &c., in a little consomme, put them into the soup-tureen, and then pour the bisque of crayfish quite hot on to them. Let the Usque be prepared in the same way as described in the Usqiie of crayfish a Vancienne. When there is not sufficient time for thickening the iniree by the addition of the fried crusts of the French rolls, a little well-boiled rice, some reduced Veloute sauce, or even the crumb of two French rolls soaked in hot broth and pounded with the crayfish, may be used, but the fried crusts are to be pi’eferred. 333. BISQUE OP CRAB A LA FITZILVRDINGE. PuocuEE one large boiled crab, pick tire white meat from the claws into shreds, and put it away between two plates in a cool place until wanted. Scoop out all the pulpy part of tire crab, as well as all tire white meat to be found in the shell, and pound these well, with about half the quantity of rice boiled iir broth ; dilute the whole with a quart of good consomme, and then rub it through a tammy into a puree, put it into a soup-pot, arrd keep it irr a cool place. Just before sending to table, stir the puree over the fire witlr a wooderr spoon, taking care that it does not get too hot, as that would cause the soup to curdle. Finish seasonirrg the soup by mixing with the puree a pint of boiling crearrr and a little cayenne pepper; then pour the soup irrto a tureen containing the shredded irreat taken out of the claws, previously made warm irr a srrrall quan- tity of consomme, and send to table. 334. BISQUE OF LOBSTERS A LA STANLEY. Take all the meat out of two hen lobsters, reserviirg the pith, coral, and spawn, separately. Cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, one head of celery, and a carrot, cut into small shreds, a small piece of mace, thyme, pepper, and a little salt; fry these over the fire for five minutes, and then, having moistened them with about a pint of Khenish white wine, allow the whole to boil smartly on the fire for about twenty minutes. Drain the lobster, &c., into a sieve, then pound this thoroughly irr a mortar, and put it again into the stewpan with the pith or irrside part reserved for the purpose, and also the broth, adding tlrereto about a quart of clarified and reduced Veloute sauce, and a pint of stroirg consomme, then rub the puree through the tammy; and after haviirg taken it up into a soup- pot, place it in the cool until wanted. Ten minutes before dinner-time, put the bisque to warm, stir- ring it the whole of the time, taking care to prevent its curdling. Finish seasoning it with some lobster butter, a little soluble cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a piece of light-coloured glaze, the size of a walnut. Pour the soup into the tureen contain- ing fifty tails of prawns, with three dozen small quenelles of whiting, and serve. 335. BISQUE OF PRAWNS A LA CERITO. PROCURE tv/0 pounds of fresh prawns, pick and trim fifty of the largest of tliem, which, when done, put into a small stewpan, to o 2