FOR FINISHING SAUCES. 41 good hlond of veal, and allow the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour; reduce it to half its original quantity, and then strain it through a tammy into a small stewpan ; finish by adding a little lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. 176. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES FOR STEAKS, ETC. Wash and clean six anchovies, pound them in a mortar, with a tahlespoonful of capers and two shalots; place these in a small stewpan with thyme and a bay-leaf, mace, minionette pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom catsup ; set these ingredients on the fire to simmer gently for five minutes, and then moisten with a ladle- ful of good consomme; boil the whole till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into a small stewpan; finish by adding a small piece of glaze and a little lemon-juice. 177. ESSENCE OF SAGE AND ONIONS FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. Chop two large onions and a dozen sage leaves separately, put them into a small stewpan with a pat of butter, some pepper and salt, and fry them on a slow fire; as soon as the onion begins to get lightly coloured, moisten with a ladleful of hlond of veal, and allow the essence to boil on the fire till reduced to half the quantity; strain it through a tammy into a small stewpan for use. This gi’avy may also he used for bread-crumbled mtrees of broiled pork. 178. ESSENCE OF ONIONS FOR BROILED PORK. Cut three onions into slices, and fry them in a small stewpan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; when they are of a light colour, moisten with a ladleful t- of hlond of veal; reduce the essence by boiling to half its quantity, and strain it into a hain-marie for use. 179. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash and wipe diy six anchovies, separate the fillets from the bones, and pound them in a mortar, with two pats of butter and a little cayenne pepper; rub this mixture through a hair-sieve, gather this up and keep it in a small basin for use, in a cool place. 180. RAVIGOTTE BUTTER, f Wash and wipe four anchovies, blanch a good handful of gi’een tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and pai’sley; press these in a napkin to expunge the water; and put the anchovies, herbs, two pats of butter, a spoonful of capers, a little cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt, into a mortar, and pound them well together; then rub the mixture through a hair-sieve, gather it up, and keep in a small basin on the ice for use. 181. PROVENgALE BUTTER. This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, adding, however, fom: cloves of garlic to the other ingredients. * Whenever the term ladleful occurs in the course of this work it refers to a bowl- shaped spoon, capable of holding about a pint. t Woie. The finest Gorgotu anchovies are imported by Crosse and Blackwell. Soho Square.