m 1. HOW TO PREPAEE CAUDLE. IVIix four ounces of Eobinson’s Patent Groats with balf a pint of cold ale, pour this into a stewpan containing a quart of bot ale, add a small piece of bruised ginger, a small stick of cinnamon, and six cloves; stir tbe caudle over the fire while gently boiling for ten minutes, and then strain it off free from the spices, into a jug; add sugar, and rum or brandy to taste. 2. ROYAL POSSET FOR A COLD. Mix a table-spoonful of Eobinson’s Patent Groats with a wine-glass- ful of cold water, pour this into a stewpan containing nearly half a pint of ordinary French white wine, sweeten with honey, flavour with a few drops of essence of cloves, or failing this, a few cloves will do ; stir the posset over the fire while boiling for six minutes, and drink it quite hot just before going to bed. 3. HOW TO MAKE GRUEL. Take of Eobinson’s Patent Groats, one table-spoonful mixed with a wine-glassful of cold water, pour this into a stewpan containing nearly a pint of boiling water, stir the gruel on the fire while it boils for ten minutes; pour it into a basin, add a small pat of butter, and a pinch of salt; or if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits may be added instead of the butter and salt. Note.—When gruel is made for an invalid, and if the constitution be delicate, the butter must be omitted. 4. A PUDDING FOR INFANTS. To two ounces of Eobinson’s Patent Barley add one ounce of sifted sugar, half an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and nearly a pint of milk mix thoroughly, and stir it over the fire till it boils; then add twd yolks of eggs, and bake the pudding in a buttered pie-dish. 5. infant’s food. To a good table-spoonful of Eobinson’s Patent Barley mixed with a wne-glassful of cold water, add one and a half gills of boiling water; stir this over the fire while boiling for six minutes, and then feed the infant. The same proportion of milk may be used instead of water, when the baby is weaned. 6. SCOTCH PUDDING. To six ounces of Eobinson’s Patent Barley add six ounces of sifted sugar, mix both together with one quart of milk in a stewpan, theji