JELLIES. 459 six whites and two whole eggs together, with half a pint of spring- water ; throw this in with the stock, and whisk the whole together over the stove-fire, until it is on the point of boiling, then add the juice of another lemon and a little spring-water; withdraw the jeUv from the stove, and set it down by the side, to continue gently sim- mering for about ten minutes longer, covered with the stewpan lid containing some live embers of charcoal. The jelly may then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and when it has run through perfectly bright, let it be kept in a cool place to be used as occasion may require. This kind of foundation or stock-jelly, prepared without any de- cided flavour, may be used for making all kinds of jellies: it will then only be necessary to add, to the quantity required to fill a mould, a gid and a half of any kind of liqueur: and if the jelly be too stiff, a little thin syrup may also be added. It may be used likewise for making fimit jeUies, with the addition of a pint of the filtered juice of currants, raspberries, cherries or strawberries, or half a pint of the clarified infusion syrup of peaches, apricots, or pine-apples. 1409. ORANGE JELLY, MADE WITH CALF’S-FOOT STOCK. To the stock produced from four calf’s feet, add two pounds of loaf- sugar, the juice of six lemons and a dozen oranges, and the rind of eight oranges; put the stewpan on the fire to melt the stock, and then pour in the whipped whites of eggs, and continue whisking the jelly on the stove-fire until it begins to simmer; it must then be set down by the side of the stove-fire, covered with the stewpan lid, and allowed to continue simmering till the egg is set: the jelly must then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and just before putting it into the mould, a few drops of prepared cochineal should be added to give it an orange-pink tinge. Note.—Lemon jelly is prepared in the same way as the above, sub- stituting lemons for oranges. 1410. CLARIFIED SYRUP, FOR JELLIES. To every pound of the finest loaf sugar, whatever quantity may be required, add rather more than a pint of spring-water ; and when the sugar is dissolved, add half the white of an egg whipped up with a little water; whisk the whole well together, set the stewpan on the stove-fire, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, set it down by the side of the fire to continue gently boiling, until it has thrown up aU the scum: remove this as it rises to the surface, and then strain the syrup through a napkin into a basin, and keep it in a cool place for use. 1411. TO CLARIFY ISINGLASS. * First wash the isinglass m cold water, to free it from the dust that is apt to gather about it; then put it into a stewpan, and to everv two ounces add half a pint of spring-water, and about one ounce of sugar; stir this on the stove-fire till it boHs, then throw in the juice of half a lemon, ^d set the stewpan by the side of the stove, to con- tinue gently boding for about ten minutes, in order to dissolve the shreds of isinglass, and that it may thereby throw up aU. the scum, which should be removed as it rises to the surface; tlie isinglass may ♦ Note. Use genuine Russicin isinglass imported by Crosse and Blackt^ell, Solw Square.