188 REMOVES OF PORK slow fire; then add a double handful of bread-crumbs, two pats of butter, and the yolks of two eggs; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use the stuffing as before directed. When the sucking-pig is stuffed, sew the paunch up with twine, spit the pig for roasting, carefully fastening it on the spit at each end with sm^ iron skewers, which should be run through the shoulders and hips to secure it tightly, so that it may on no account slip round when down to roast. The pig will require about tw'o hours to roast thoroughly, and should be frequently basted with a paste-brush dipped in salad oil. (Oil is better adapted for this purpose than either dripping or butter, gi\ing more crispness to the skin; when basted with oil, the pig wiU, w^hSe roasting, acquire a more even, and a finer colour.) W^en done, take it up from the fire on the spit, and immediately cut the head off with a sharp knife, and lay it on a plate in the hot closet. Next, cut the pig in two, by dividing it first with a sharp knife straight down the back to the spine, finishing with a meat-saw; a large dish should be held under the pig while it is thus being divided, into which it may fall when completely cut through; place the two sides back to back on the dish, without disturbing the stuffing, split the head in two, put the brains in a small stew-pan, trim off the snout and jaws, leaving only the cheeks and ears, place these one at each end of the dish, surround the remove with a border of small potatoes fried of a light colour, in a little clarified butter; pour under some rich brown gravy, and send to table with the following sauce: to the brains, put into a small stew-pan as before directed, add a spoonful of blanched chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, a piece of glaze the size of a large walnut, some well-made butter sauce, and the juice of a lemon: stir the whole weU together over the fire, and when quite hot, send it to table separately in a boat, to be handed round with the sucking-pig. 642. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA PERIGORD. Peocube a plump fresh killed sucking-pig, and fill the paunch with the following preparation. Wash and thoroughly clean two pounds of fresh truffles, pare them and afterwards cut them into pieces resembling small walnuts, but without trimming them much ; pound the parings and trimmings in a mortar with about two ounces of butter; then put them into a stew-pan with the truffles, and add thereto about one pound of scraped fat bacon, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme and sweet-basil chopped fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small clove of garlic, and half-a-pound of fat livers of fowls pounded for the purpose. Set the whole over a moderate fire, stirring it the while with a wooden spoon: when the truffles have simmered on the stove for about ten minutes, take them ofi' and allow them to cool, fill the paunch of the sucking-pig with the above, sew it up with twine, spit and roast it as directed in the preceding article; when done, dish up in the same manner, taking care to send with it aU the truffles: pour some Ferigueux sauce (No. 23) under it and send to table. 643. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA CHIPOLATA. Eoabt sixty chestnuts, peel and then boil them with a quart of conscmmp for twenty minutes : reserve half in a small stewpan, and mix