CAKES. 410 dots of auy land of bright preserve, such as red-carrant jelly, apple jelly, apricot jam, green-gage jam, &c., between the leaves or pearls of the white of egg decoration. By these means a very pretty effect IS produced, and as no artificial or unwholesome substance is used in its composition, it may be partaken of with safety. 1289. GENOESE CAKES, WITH ALMONDS. Peepaue these as directed in the foregoing case, and when they are nearly done, mask the smfface with the white of an egg beat up Avith an ounce of sifted sugar; then strew four ounces of chopped almonds, mixed with two ounces of sugar, and a few drops of orange- fiower water, aU over the coating of egg; shake a little sugar on the top of this, and put the Genoese cakes back again in the oven, to finish baking. A^ien done, the coating of almonds should be of a light-fiiwn colour: they must then be carefully removed from the baking-sheet, cut or stamped out in shapes, according to fancy, and dished up on a napkin, in a pyramidal form. 1290. MADELEINES. These are made with the same kind of batter as Genoese cakes, to which currants, dried cherries, candied peel or angelica, may be added. • When the batter is ready, let it be poured iuto a sufficient number of small fluted or plain dariole or madeteim moulds (previously buttered inside) ; these must be placed on a baking-sheet spread with some charcoal ashes, to the depth of half an inch, and then baked in an oven of a moderate heat. When they are done, turn them out of the moulds, and dish them up in a pyramidal form. These cakes may also be parti^y emptied, then filled up with some kind of preserve, and the small circular piece, removed previously to taking out the crumb, should be replaced. 1291. SPANISH CAKES, PETITS-CHOUX. Ingeedients required:—Half a pint of milk or water, four ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, five ounces of flour, three eggs, a feAv drops of essence of orange, a very little salt, and two ounces of chopped almonds. Put the water, butter, sugar, and the salt into a stewpan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to bod, withdraw the stewpan from the fire, and add the flour; stir the whole well together with a wooden spoon over the stove-fire for about three minutes ; by which time the ingredients should present the appearance of a soft compact paste. The essence of orange (or any other kind of flavour) should now be added, and also one egg ; incorporate these with the paste, then mix in the other two eggs, and if the paste should be stiff, another egg, or a yolk only, may be added. This paste should now be laid out on a baking-sheet in small round balls, the size of a pigeon’s egg, egged over with a paste-brush, some chopped almonds (mixed with a spoon- ful of pounded sugar, and a veiy small quantity of white of egg) strewn upon them, with some sifted sugar shaken over, and then baited of a very light colour. These cakes may be served plain, or garnished inside with cream or some kind of preserve.