60 FORCE-MEATS FOR GRaTINS. game, the preparation will most likely not bear keeping so as to be eatable when opened for use. 250. FARCE OF FAT LIVERS FOR GRATINS. If the farce be required for turbans of fillets of fowls or rabbits, or ‘pdtes-chauds of game or small birds, it should be made of fat livers or leg of veal, and prepared in exactly the same manner as dhected for making farce of livers for game pies ;—excepting that, to finish it for use, it is necessary to add one-third the quantity of well-made bread panada, and an equal proportion of raw eggs to bind it, and give it body. In order to ascertain whether this farce is perfect, roll a small quantity in a little flour on a plate, then put it on a small baking sheet in the oven for five minutes; when done through, cut it asunder, and if it preserves its shape and remains firm to the touch, it may be used with safety; but if it appears to shi’ink or melt in the oven, then a little more panada and another egg must be added, which will render it more compact. 251. GODIVExiUX IN GENERAL. To one pound of either veal, fillets of fowls, pheasants, partridges, &c., chopped exceedingly fine and smooth to the touch, add one pound of beef suet, two whole eggs, the crumb of one French roll soaked in water and well wrung in a napkin, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Chop these ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then pound them in a mortar until the whole presents the appearance of a compact body. Then place the substance upon a plate, cover it with buttered paper, and set it upon ice to cool for a couple of hours. After the godiveaii has been cooled, put it in the mortar again and pound it with considerable force, taking care to mix in with it by degrees about tliree-quarters of a pound of clean washed rough ice. This last process will cause it to resemble somewhat the quenelle of fowl. Put it away in a basin in a cool i:>lace till wanted for use. Godiveau of any kind, when well made, is very delicious eating, and is not so expensive to make as quenelle. It is used for garnish- ing roZ-aw-renis, 25ctics-c/iauc?s, tourtes d la cihoulette, and also for stuffing calves’ heads, as a substitute for quenelle force-meat.