220 EEMOVES OF PIES. are half done; then, place them on the bottom of the dish, lea\dng the centre open, in two successive layers ; till the centre with four dozen oysters previously parboiled and bearded, season with pepper and salt, and pour the following preparation over tlie whole. When the scol- lops of beef have been fried in a sauta or frying pan, pour nearly all the grease out, and shake a table-spoonful of flour into it; stir thia over the fire for one minute, then add a pint of good gravy or broth, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom-catsup, an equal quantity of Harvey sauce and the liquor from the oysters; stir the whole over the fire, and keep it boiling for a quarter of an hour. Half an hour after this sauce has been poured into the pie, cover it with puff-paste in the usual way, bake it for an hour and a half, and serve. 736. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Teim the veal and ham into scollops, and season with pepper and salt in moderation. Next chop a handful of mushrooms and some parsley very fine, and put them in a small stewpan with a small pat of butter and one shalot also chopped fine; fry these lightly over the fire, then add nearly a pint of Veloute sauce or good stock ; bod the whole for five minutes and pour it into the pie ; place six yolks of eggs boiled hard in the cavities, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. 737. MUTION PIE, A l’ANGLAISE. Procuee a neck of mutton, remove the scrag and the spine-bone, shorten the ribs to about three inches, and use these trimmings to make some stock or gravy for the pie. Next cut the mutton into neat chops, pare off the superfluous fat, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in the dish in circular order, one resting upon another in the same way as cutlets are dished up : fill the centre with small new potatoes, or old ones turned into round balls; boil the mutton stock down to the quantity required to nearly fill up the dish, season with pepper and salt, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie an hour and a half, and send to table. 738. PIE OF WOODCOCKS OR SNIPES, A l’iRLANDAISE. Pick the birds clean, cut off the legs and wings, singe them, and then cut each woodcock or snipe into halves: remove the gizzards, leaving the trail, and set them aside on a plate. Then, cover the sides and bottom of a white glazed earthen oval pan (used for pre- serving game) with very thin layers of fat bacon, place the woodcocks or snipes in the pan in close layers, each well-seasoned with ground black pepper and salt, and a small proportion of prepared aromatic spices (No. 1250). 'V\^en this is done, fill up the pan with a sufficient •quantity of clarified fresh butter to cover the birds, place some layers of fat bacon on the top, cover the pan hermetically with a firm flour- and-water paste : bake the pie in a moderately-heated oven for about two hours; when it has become cold, remove the crust, wash the edges and sides of the pan, and run a little fresh clarified butter on +^he top; when cold, ornament vsdth a neat border of picked double parsley, set the pie on a folded napkin, laid on its dish, and serve. This is perhaps the best method for making pies of woodcocks or snipes, as from the simphcitv of the inoredients used, the birds retain