ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 316 1027. PIGEONS, A LA MAINTENON. Split four young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and then season with pepper and salt; fry them in a sautapan with a littlo butter, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when this is done, add a large spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little essence of mushrooms, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice; simmer the whole together for five minutes, and allow them partially to cool. Next, trim oft’ the corners from as many sheets of note paper as there are pieces of pigeon, and after the paper has been oiled over with a paste- brush, place the pigeons in them—dividing the sauce equally; twist the edges of the paper neatly and firmly so as to secure the sauce from oozing out, and broil them over a very moderate fire; dish them up in close circvdar order upon a napkin, and send to table with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), separately in a boat. 1028. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH MUSHROOMS. Truss and then braize four pigeons, with three quarters of a poimd of streaky bacon. Peel half a pint of button onions, and after they have been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over a very slow fire without alloAving them to acquire any colour; they must then be drained upon a sieve, and afterwards placed in a small stewpan mth half a pottle of mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in square dice. AVith the broth from the pigeons, make enough brown sauce for the entree, and as soon as it has been sufficiently worked, add this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, &c., and set the whole to boil very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes: then skim oft" the grease, and place this ragout in a stewpan Avith the pigeons. When about to send to table, make the compote of pigeons hot, dish up the pigeons with a crouton of fried bread between each, put the pieces of bacon in the cavities formed between the pigeons, group the mushrooms and onions in the centre, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 1029. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH PEAS. Truss the pigeons as for boding. Parboil three quarters of a pound of streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into rather large dice-shaped pieces; put these into a middle-sized stew- pan and fry them of a light colour over a stove-fire, remove these on to a plate, and then throw in the pigeons and fry them also, until they acquire a light-brown colour, and place them with the bacon. Next, add two table-spoonfuls of fiour to the fat in the stewpan, and stir this roux over the fire until it acquires a light colom’, then gradually mix in -with it a quart of broth; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, add the pigeons, bacon, a quart of green peas, a faggot of parsley and green onions, and a little mignionette-pepper, and keep the compote gently boiling by the side of a stove-fire for about three quarters of an hour; then skim oft" all the grease, and remove the faggot, and if the sauce is not sufficiently reduced, place the pigeons in another ste-wpan, and with a colander-spoon remove the peas and bacon also; allow the sauce to bod briskly on the fire, stirring it the while, imtil reduced to its proper consistency, and then pour it to the comptote. When about to send to table, make the compote quite hot, and dish it up in the same way as the foregomg.