ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES. 331 1077. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA PALERME. Prepare some scollops ■witli the fillets of two hen-pheasants, use the legs to make some purie with (No. 1062), fihush some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) with the essence made from the carcasses, and pour this to the scollops, and add to these some scolloped tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles. Prepare also a dozen small croustades of nouilles (No. i266), fry them of a light-yellow colour, empty them, and fill them with the purde; dish up the scoUops, place the croustades round the entree, and serve. Note.—Tillets of full-grown pheasants are too large to dress for entries; but when young pheasants are used for such a purpose, the fiUets may be treated according to the various methods directed for dressing fillets of fowls. Por Ihe preparation of houdins and quenelles of pheasant, follow the directions given for making loudins and quenelles ot fowl. ENTEEES OE PAETEIDGES, COMPKISING Salmis of Partridges, d la Financiere. Fillets of Partridges, d I'Ancienne. ,, d la Frovcnpale. ,, d la Parisienne. ,, d la Perigord. Scollops of Partridges, with Truffles. with Mushrooms, &c. „ with Fine-herbs, in Fillets of Partridges, d la Lucullus. cases. ,, a la Prince Albert. 1078. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA FINANCIERE. Truss three partridges, run them upon an iron skewer, wrap them round with a large sheet of buttered paper, fasten the skewer upon a spit with string, and roast the partridges before a moderate fire for about five-and-twenty minutes; then take them up place them on their breast in a dish, without removing the paper, and when cold, cut them up into small joints; first taking off the legs, next the fillets with the pinion-bones left on, then dividing the breast and back, and trimming these whole; place these joints in a stewpan, beginning with the pieces of breasts, the fillets, and then the legs and back. Make some essence with the trimmings, to be used for working the sauce with; pour a little of this to the pieces of partridges, and warm them without boiling; dish them up with the inferior joints under, garnish the salmis with a Financiere ragout (No. 188) finished with the essence, place a dozen heart-shaped croutons of jfried bread round the entrie, and serve. 1079. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PROVENCALS. Eoast, cut up, and trim the partridges as in the foregoing case, chop the trimmings, and put them into a small stewpan with three shalots, a clove of garlic, bay-leaf and thyme, a few pepper-coms, and a small blade of mace, two ounces of chopped lean of ham, and two table-spoonfuls of salad oil; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire