PUREES OF VEGETABLES 76 308. PUREE OF CARROTS A LA STANLEY. Having prepared about two quarts of puree of young carrots, when ready to serve up, pour it boiling into the soup-tureen containing a pint of young peas boiled green, and three dozen very small quenelles of fowl. 309. CRECY SOUP WITH WHOLE RICE. Wash, blanch, and boil in consomme, half a pound of Carolina rice; add this to a sufficient quantity of Crecy or carrot soup, either pre- pared for the occasion, or reserved from the previous day’s dinner. jNlix these together gently, and take care not to break the grains of rice, nor to serve it too thick. Note.—This may be varied by substituting macaroni, vermicelli, or any other kind of Italian paste for tlie rice. This rule is applicable to pw'ees of vegetables in general, 310. POTATO SOUP A LA CREME. Cleanse, peel, wash, and slice up, about twenty large-sized good potatoes. Put them into a stewpan with one large onion, and one head of celery—also sliced up; add four ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; set them to simmer on a slow hre, stirring them occasionally, until they are nearly dissolved into a kind of puree. Then add to them three pints of good white consomme, and after having allowed the potatoes to boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy, and having removed the puree into, a soup-pot, add, if requisite, a little more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual manner required for other purees of vegetables. Just before sending to table, add a pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. Serve the fried crusts with this soup. 311. POTATO SOUP A LA VICTORIA. Prepare a puree of potatoes as directed above, and finish it in the same manner. When about to send to table, place three dozen of small quenelles of potatoes (No. 312) in tlie soup-tureen, with half a pint of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and the same pro- portion of French beans cut into diamond shapes and boiled, and then pour the boiling puree thereon, and serve. 312. QUENELLES OF POTATOES. Bake si.x large potatoes, cut them into halves, scoop them out on to a wire sieve, and rub them through it, on to a dish, with a wooden spoon; then put the potato thus obtained into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of double cream, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Stir this on a rather brisk fire until the paste ceases to adhere to the spoon; then remove the potatoes from off the fire, and mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, and also two whites of egg which have been whipped to a froth, observing that this preparation must be kept of the same consis- tency as any other quenelles. Then mould the quenelles according to