270 ENTREES OF VEAL 878. sheep’s kidneys, a la claremont. Scollop and fry the kidneys as directed for those dressed with fine herbs; and when they are browned, add some Claremont sauce (No. 58) ; simmer the whole together for three minutes, and serve with a border of potato croquettes. 879. sheep’s-head, a la gallimaufre. PnocTTiiE the head and pluck of a fresh-killed sheep, split the head into halves, remove the brains, steep the whole in water, and wash them thoroughly. Next, place the head, heart, and liver in a stew- pan, with carrot, onion, garnished faggot of parsley, and green onions, two blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a tea-spoonful of pepper-corns; moisten with a glass of brandy, and sufficient broth or water (if the latter be used, salt must be added) ; cover the whole with buttered paper, and put the lid on; then set the stewpan on a gentle fire to braize for about one hour and a half. When the head, &c., are done, take them up carefiiUy on a dish, strain the broth, and after having divested it of all grease, boil down one-half to thin glaze, and with the remainder make some brown sauce. The pieces of the head should he trimmed, seasoned with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and two shalots, then rubbed over Avith a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, well covered with bread-crumbs, and placed on a dish in the larder. The liver and heart must be minced up fine, and when the sauce has been reduced to the usual consistency, add it to the mince together with a spoonful of fine-herbs and a little lemon-juice. When about to send to table make the mince quite hot, and turn it out on its dish, place the pieces of the head—previously broiled, on both sides, of a bright yellow colour, and afterwards nicely glazed—upon the mince; pour some of the thin glaze round the entrie, and serve. Note.—Sheep’s or lamb’s heads, when braized and bread-crumbed, may also be served with any kind of sharp sauce. ENTREES OF VEAL, COMPRISING Fricandeau, with Puree of Green-peas. ,, d la Macedoine, &c. Noix of Veal, d la Regence. „ a. la Toulouse. Grenadine of Veal, with Spinach, &o. Tendons of Veal, with stewed Peas, &c. ,, d la Villeroi, with Puree of Celery, &c. Veal Kernels, with Puree of Artichokes. ,, d la Talleyrand. Veal Cutlets, d la Financiere. Veal Cutlets, d la Dreux. ,, d la Perigord. ,, d la Zingara. ,, d la Duchesse. ,, in Papillotcs. Blanquette of Veal, with Mushrooms. &c. Croquettes of Veal. Veal and Ham Scollops, with Italian sauce Scotch Scollops. Minced Veal, and Poached Eggs. d la Portuguaise. 880. FRICANDEAU, WITH PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS. The fricandeau piece consists of that part of the leg of veal generally called the cushion, and is found on the inner side of the leg, lying im-