BOILED AXD STEWED BMSKETS. IGl purpose, by taking some large pieces of suet and placing them bet^Teen a wet clotli, and with the cutlet-bat flatten them until they do not exceed half an inch in thickness ; fasten the layers on tlie fl'Uet witli string, and for braizing the fillet, follow the directions given in the foregoing dishes. BOILED AND STEWED BEISIxETS, EDGEBONES, BOUNDS, AND BIBS OF BEEF, COMPRISING Boiled Brisket of Beef, li I'Anglalsc. „ „ a I’Ecarlate. Stewed Brisket of Beef, a la FlamanJe. Edgeboneof Beef, a I’Anglaise. Round of Beef, a I’Anglaise. ,, a la Chasseur. Ribs of Beef, a la Chasseur. ,, a la Piemontaisc. „ a la Mode. „ a la Bourgeoisc ,, au Madere. ,, a la Baden. 564. BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF, A l'AKGLAISE. Peoctthe a piece of brisket of beef, well covered wdth fat, and which has been in salt about a week or ten days; wash the beef in cold water, and then place it on the drainer in a large oval braizing- pan; garnish with three carrots, two large onions with two cloves stuck in each, and two heads of celery; pour in sufiicient cold water to fill the pan nearly, and set it to bod on the fire. As the scum rises to the surface, take it off with a spoon, and when the beef has been tlioroughly skimmed, set the pan down by the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling for about four or five hours,—according to the size and weight of the brisket; when the beef is done, take it up on to an earthenware dish, trim, glaze, and then dish it up ; garnish it round with plain boded turnips and carrots, that have been neatly cut into the shape of pears, eggs, or small fluted leaf-like shapes ; at each end place a group of smad suet dumplings, pour some gravy under the beef, and send to table. Some Piquante sauce (No. 18), lightly seasoned, should be served in a sauce-boat, to be handed round with the beef. 565. BOILED BRISKET OP BEEF, A L’ECARLATE. The brisket of beef, d VEcarlate, shoidd be prepared according to the foregoing instructions, in every respect—Except the salting or curing operation, which must be thus effected : To six pounds of common salt, add four oimces of saltpetre, half a pound of moist sugar, some bruized bay-leaves, thyme, wimter-savory, and sweet-maijoram, a dozen cloves, and a few blades of mace : with this mixture rub the piece of brisket of beef for a few minutes every day—for four or five days rimning ; after which, merely turn it over in the brine once a day, for the succeeding five days;—altogether making up ten days for salting the beef. The brisket of beef is then ready for use,—provuled it is to be eaten while hot; but it intended to be eaten cold, the beef should remain in the brine at least a fori-