324 ENTREES OF RABBITS. five for five minutes, disli up the larks in double rows, with croutom of bread in between each row, fill the centre with the truffles and mushrooms, poiu* the sauce over the entree, and serve. ENTEEES OF BABBITS, COJIPKISING Rabbit, d la Chasseur. „ fried in Batter, with Foivrade sauce. ,, d la Bourguignonne, „ d la Perigueux. Fillets ot Rabbits, larded, d la Toulouse, Sea, ,, d la Marichale, Sic. Blanquette of Rabbits, d VEcarlate. Polpettes of Rabbit, d I’ltalienne. 1055. RABBIT, A LA CHASSEUR. Cut up the rabbit into small joints, as follows :—first, take off the hind legs even with the louis, then remove the shoulders, split the head mto halves, and divide the loins into sis pieces; trim these neatly without waste, and place them in a sauta^an with two ounces of clarified butter, pepper and salt. Fry them ot a light-brown colour over a rather brisk fire, and add a table-spoonful of chopped fine- herbs, consisting of mushrooms, truffle, parsley, and shalot; then put the lid on, and set the rabbit over a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; next pour off all the grease, add a large gravy-spoonful of Espagnole sauce, some scollops of mushrooms and truffles, two dozen small quenelles of rabbit, a small piece of glaze, a little nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon; simmer the whole together on the stove- fire for three minutes, then pile up the pieces of rabbit in the dish, arrange the ragout over this in neat groups, pour the sauce over the entrk, place some erdutons of fried bread round it, and sen’-e. 1056. RABBIT FRIED IN BATTER, WITH FOIVRADE SAUCE. Cut the rabbit up as ia the foregoing case, and then follow the directions given for dressing chickens in this manner (No. 988). 1057. RABBITS, A LA BOURGUIGNONNE. Cut the rabbits up into small joints, season with pepper and salt, and fry them slightly over the fire, without allowing them to acquire much colour, adding half a pint of button-onions previously parboiled in water, a very little grated nutmeg and half a pottle of mushrooms; toss these over the fire for five minutes, then add a tumblerful of Fi-ench white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), and set this to bod sharply untd reduced to half the quantity; next, add two large gravy-spoonmls of VelouU sauce (No. 4), simmer the whole together gently for ten minutes longer, and finish by incorporating a leason of four yolks of eggs, the. juice of half a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parboiled parsley ; dish up the pieces of rabbit in a pyramidal form, garnish the entree with the onions, &c., placed in groups round the base, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 1058. RABBITS, A LA PERIGUEUX. Cut these up, and fry them with a little butter of a lignt-browTi colour: pour off the grease, add some Perigueux sauce (No. 23), four