143 EELS. using it, make it hot, and incorporate with it the following prepara- tion ;—mix a pat of butter with three anchovies, a tea-spoonful of capers, a clove of garlic, and a little nutmeg, pound the whole together and pass them through a sieve: having well worked this into the sauce, pour it over the matelotte, and dish up the latter as foUows ;—place the pieces of eel on the dish, in circular order,—each piece resting on the other, with a glazed crouton of bread between,—fill the centre \vith quenelles of perch, place a ti’immed and glazed crayfish across each croutm, and garnish round the inner edge of the dish with alternate groups of white muscles, button-mushrooms, and stewed button-onions. 505. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA PARISIENNE. Cut the eels into four-inch lengths, put them into a stewpan with sliced carrot, &c.; moisten with a bottle of French white wine, some essence of mushrooms, and the liquor produced by three dozen blanched oysters; stew the eels thus prepared; drain, trim, and put the pieces of eels into a clean stewpan, with a little of their own hquor to keep them moist and to warm them in. Put the remainder of the liquor into a stewpan Avith a large ladleful of white veloute sauce, and two glasses of white wine; reduce the whole quicldy on the fire, incorporate therein a leason of four yolks of eggs, a large pat of crayfish butter, some lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg; pass the sauce into a bain-marie containing the three dozen oysters before alluded to, some button-mushrooms, and crayfish-tads. When about to dish up, first place upon the dish an oval piece of bread, about three inches high, cut in flutes all round and fried of a light colour; then set the pieces of eels in a perpendicular position up against the fried bread, garnish the croustade with a group of small quenelles of whitings, sauce with the ragout prepared for the purpose, gamisli round with large crayfish, and small fluted bread croustades filled with soft roes of mackerel or carp, and send to table. 506. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA GENOISE. Either cut the eels into three or four inch lengths, or truss them in an oval or round shape; prepare them for stewing with the usual vegetables, &c., moisten vdth claret or Burgundy wine, and set the eels on the fire to stew. When done, drain, trim, and glaze them with some lobster coral in the glaze; pile the eels up in a pyramidal group on a dish, sauce with some good Genoise sauce (No. 30), made with the liquor in which the eels have been stewed; garnish round Avith alternate groups of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of carp, and crayfish tads, and send to table. 507. EELS, A LA DAUPHINOISE. Bone two large eels, fill them with force-meat of whitings mixed with some simmered fine-herbs; then sew the eels up with a large worsted needle and some coarse thread; truss them in a circular form, place them in an oval stewpan with some mirepoix (No. 236), and set them to stew on the fire, or in the oven, basting them fi’equently with their own liquor, and taking care that they are not aUowed to boil fast, as that would cause them to break, and otherwise disfigure them. Wien the eels are done, glaze and dish them up,