325 BLANQUETTES OF RABBITS. ounces of truJBles cut into scollops, and two dozen small quenelles of rabbit, and summer tbe whole together over the stove-fire for fi^’e minutes; dish up the entrie with croutons round it, garnish with the ragout, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 1059. FILLETS OF RABBITS LARDED, A LA TOULOUSE. PiLLET four or six rabbits (according to the niunber of guests) trim the fillets and lard two-thirds of each—beginning at the thick end; then place thefn in a circular row, all curved in the same direc- tion, in a sautapan, the bottom of which should be lined with thin layers of fat bacon. About twent^^ minutes before sending to table, pour a little strong consommi or thin half-glaze to the fillets, place a round piece of buttered paper upon them, and set them in the oven to simmer for ten minutes; then remove the paper, dry the larding and glaze it, frequently basting the fillets with their own glaze; next, drain them upon a napkin, trim and dish them up in a close circle, fill tne centre with ragout d la Toulouse (No. 187), pour some of the sauce round the base, glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. Note.—Edicts of rabbits larded, may also be garnished with either a ragout d la Parisi^nne, or d la Financiere; with small quenelles, scollops of truffles, of mushrooms, or of cucumbers; and with any kind of dressed vegetables or purees. 1060. FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA MARECHALE. Eillet four rabbits, slightly flatten, and then trim the fillets, mak- ing an incision round the interior part of them; fill this with some d’ Uccelles sauce (No. 16) ; mask them over with a thin coating of Alle- tnande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, bread- crumb them twice: once dipped in beaten egg, and then, after being sprinkled over with clarified butter; brod the fidets over a clear fire of moderate heat, with a sheet of oded paper placed upon the grid- iron ; when done of a light colour on both sides, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with scoUops of the kidneys and inner fidets, mixed with truffles and mushrooms, and tossed in a Httle Alle- mande sauce; glaze the fidets, pour some bright Fspagnole sauce, worked with essence made from the carcasses, round the base of the entrSe, and serve. Note.—These fidets may also be served with some bright aspic, with cucumbers, a puree of celery, or white Itadan sauce. 1061. BLANQUETTE OF RABBITS, A l’ECARLATE. Eillet three rabbits, cut off the hind-quarters, place them upon an iron skewer; lay this upon a large sheet of thickly-buttered paper, season with pepper and salt, and strew upon it some thinly-sdced carrot, an omon, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; wrap the paper round them, and then tie the skewer upon a spit, and roast them before the fire for about twenty minutes; then take them up on a dish, and leave them in the paper tdl they have become cold; the meat must next be peeled off, cut into smad dice, and made up into croquettes (No. 1020). Trim the fidets, and place them in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, pepper and salt, and simmer them in the oven or over a slow fire for about ten minutes, mthout adowing them to