BREAST OF VEAL. 171 gamislied with a piece of red tongue, cut in the shape of a cock’s-comh, a large double white cock’s-comb, a mushroom, and a red quenelle, orna- mented with truffle. 593. ROAST LOm of veal, a la FmANCIERE. Procure a loin of veal, cut square without the chump, and with the flap, or skirt, left on; bone it carefully, truss it tightly in the shape of a pillow, and after fii’st laying the flUet bare, by paring olf the whole of the skin and sinew which covers it, lard it closely, as you would a fncandeau. When the loin is so far prepared, get it ready for braizing in a large oval braizing-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with two ladlefuls of good stock, cover with an oval of paper, weU-buttered, place the lid on the pan, with live embers on it, and then set the veal to braise gently on the fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its ovm liquor. AVhen done, drain, glaze, and dish it up; pour roimd it a rich brown Financiere ragout (No, 188), garnish with a border of plain quenelles, and crayfish, and send to table. 594. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA CREME. To prepare this, follow the directions given for dressing neck of veal a la Creme (No. 579); garnish in the same manner, and send to table. 595. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A L’ANGLAISE. PiEST take the tendons out of the breast of veal intended to be dressed, and reserve them for an entrie; then bone it completely, cut tho ends square, and trim it; place about 1 lb. of weU-seasoned veal stuffing (No. 662) along the centre of the inner part, roll the veal up tight, so as to secure the stuffing in the middle; fasten it with string and small skewers. About an hour and a half before dinner-time, spit the breast of veal, cover it with buttered paper, and put it down to roast; when done, dish it up, pour roimd it either some brown melted butter (No. 82), Light Espagnole sauce, or Bichamel, and send to table. 596. BREAST OF VEAL, A LA BOUEGEOISE. Bone, trim, and roll a breast of veal, according to the preceding instructions ; prepare it in an oval stewpan, with 4 oz. of fresh butter, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire, untd it becomes coloured all over; tlien add a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, moisten Avith a large ladleful of good stock, and put it to braize gently on the stove-fire, or in the oven; half an hour after, add two dozen small carrots, nicely turned, and in another half hour, add as many heads of poiddle-sized onions, a pinch of sugar, and a Little salt. When the veal is done, take it up, and after taking away the strings and skeivers, put it on a baking-sheet in the oven, and glaze it; dish it up, garnish round with the glazed carrots and onions, and after removing all the fat from the surface of the stock, or essence of the veal, and reducing it down to the consistency of half glaze, use it to sauce the breast of veal, and send to table. 597. BREAST OF VEAL, A LA WINDSOR. Bone and trim a breast of veal, lay it on the table, and after spread- ing the inner paid with quenelle force-meat of veal or rabbits, at least