162 REMOVES OF BEEF, night, by which time only it can he expected to have sufficiently absorbed the flavour of the herbs and spices. The foregoing instructions apply equally to every kind of salted meat. 566. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF, A LA FLAMANDE. Pare off the breast-bone and rough parts adhering to a well-covered piece of fresh brisket of beef; place it on the drainer of a large braizing-pan, garnish with carrots, onions, celery, faggot of parsley, green onions, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good broth (from the boiling stock) to cover the beef. Set the pan to boil gently for about five hours; when done, dram the brisket on a dish, trim and place it on a baking-sheet, pour a little broth under it, glaze it well and put it in the oven to dry, and glaze it again; then place the brisket of beef on its dish, garnisli it roimd with alternate groups of turned carrots and turnips (boiled down with consommi and a little sugar), Brussels-sprouts, and glazed onions; sauce the beef round with a Avell-finished Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Briskets of beef prepared in the foregoing manner, may also be sent to table in every variety of method described for the preparation of roUs of beef, as well as rumps and fillets—in their various forms. 567, EDGEBOKE OF BEEF, A L’ANGLAISE, Procure a fine edgebone of beef well covered with rich a)id delicate- looking fat; take out the kernels, and salt it in the usual manner, by merely rubbing the salt weU into the meat: rej^eat this operation every morning during four days, and then be caretul that the beef is turned over in its brine every morning for seven successive days: by this time the edgebone of beef ^vill be ready for use. Next, put it on in cold water, with a couple of carrots and turnips in the pot, and set it to boil gently for about four hours : when done, drain it, trim off the soiled parts of the fat, dish it np, and surroimd it vdth alternate groups of well-tiumed carrots, turnips, smnmer cabbages, and small suet dumplings; pour gravy rmder the beef, and send to table. 568. BOILED ROUKD OF BEEF, A l'AKGLAISE. PoLLOW the foregoing directions in every particular—(obsendng that a round of beef should remain ten days in the brine, and that the time it will require for boiling must necessarily vary, according to the weight of meat) ; in fact,—dress the roimd of beef according to the old English manner, garnishing it with the same sort of vegetables as directed to be used for the edgebone, and send it to table ivith some lightly-seasoned Piquante sauce, separately in a sauce-boat. 569. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR, OR “HUNTING BEEF.”* Cure a round of beef according to the directions given for the salt- * The apparently large quantity of ale required to dress a round of beef in this fashion seems at first sight preposterously extravagant; but it should be borne in mind that this, like otliers of the more expensive kind of dishes which are supposed to be indulged in only by the wealthy, is in ]X)int ol’ fact not so extravagant as it appears; inasmuch as that the liquor in which the spiced beef has been boiled, serves to ameliorate the soup which is now so bountifully supplied twice a week to the poor of the adjacent parishes, by the generous owners of the noble mansinos throughout the land.