GROUSE AND GUINEA-FOWLS. 351 1149. ROAST BLACK-GAME, AND GROUSE. Both these should be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, then roasted before a brisk fire, and five minutes before taking them up should be frothed with floiu' and butter, according to the directions for roast hare; when done, dish them up with gravy under them, and send to table with fried bread-crumbs, and bread-sauce, in separate sauce- boats. , 1150a. PEAHENS. Truss these in the same way as pheasants, except that the head must be left adhering to the skin of the breast, and fastened at the side of the thigh; let the peahen be closely larded all over the breast, and roasted before a moderate fire for about an hour; when nearly done, glaze the larding, and on removing the fowl from the fire, dish up with water-cresses, pour some gravy under, and serve with bread- sauce separately, in a sauce-boat. 11505. GUINEA-FOWLS. Two of these are generally served for a dish, one of which should be larded, and the other covered with a layer of fat bacon; roast them before a brisk fire for about forty minutes, glaze and dish them up with water-cresses: pour some gravy under, and serve bread-sauce separately, in a boat. VEaETABLES EOE ENTREMETS, OE SECOND- COTJESE DISHES, COMPRISING Brajzed Celery, with Espagnola sauce. ■Celery, d la Villeroi. Salsifis, d la Creme. ,, fried in Batter, Spinach, with Butter, „ witli Cream. Endire, with Cream. Caidiflowcrs, with White Sauce. „ with Parmesan Cheese. Tomatas, d la Provengale. Mxuihrooins, au gratin. Large Truffles, d la Serviette. Truffles, d la Piemontaise. Portugal Onions, d VEspagnole. Artichokes, with Butter Sauce. ,, d la Barigoule. ,, d la Lymnaise. ,, d I’ltalienne. Asparagus, with White Sauce. Asparagus Peas, d la Creme. French Beans, d la Maitre-<Ph6tel. French Beans, with Fine-herhs. Broad Beans, d la Creme. Green Peas, plain. Stewed Peas. Peas, d la Eranpaise. Turnips glacis, with Sugar. Yomig Carrots, d I’Allemandc. Vegetable Marrow. Another method. Cucumbers, d la Poulette. ,, d rEspagnole. Jerusalem Artichokes, d la Sauce. ,, d I’ltalienne. White Haricot Be.ans, d la Maitre-d’hotel, ,, d la Bretonne. American Yams, d la Franpaise. Potatoes, d la Maitre-d’hotel. New Potatoes, d la Creme. Potatoes, d la Creme, au gratin. Seakalc, d la Sauce. Brussels Sprouts, WITH ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 1151. BRAIZED CELERY, Cle.o' twelve heads of celery, cut them about six inches in length, and trim the roots neatly; parboil them in water for ton minutes.