XIV GLOSSARY Croutons. Sippets of bread of various sues and shapes, fried in clarified butteV and used to garnish salmis, fricassees, dressed vegetables, &c.; they are also served with certain Soups, chiefly with pure'es. Cold Entrees. These consist of fricassees, salmis, cutlets, ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultry, and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish, or shell-fish : Boars’-heads, potted meats, &c. They are appropriate for ball sup|>ers, public breakfasts, and upon all occasions where a cold collation is served. Entrees. A conventional term for Side-Dishes, comprising cutlets,//■icosse'es, fricandeaux, fillets, scollops, salmis, boudins, sweetbreads, pdte's-chauds, char- treuses, &c. Entremets, or second-course side-dishes, consist of four distinct sorts, namely, cold entre'es; dressed vegetables ; scolloped shell-fish and dressed eggs; and lastly, of the infinitely varied class of sweets, consisting of puddings, yateaiix, tiTiibales, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, creams, fritters &c. Espaonolf. and Veloute. The two main Sauces from which all others are made; the first is brown and the other white. Fanchonettes and Florentines. Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce. Is a coarse kind of forcemeat used for raised pies and gratins. Flans, Darioles, and Mirlitons. Varieties of French cheese-cakes. Fbicandeau and Gre.vadins consist of the primest parts of veal, or fillets of poultry, &c., smoothly trimmed, larded, and brightly glazed with a concentratio i of their own liquor; they are served as side-dishes. Fricassee consists of chickens cut in pieces, and prepared in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, cocks’-combs, &c., as accessories. Gauffres. a light spungy sort of biscuit. Glace. Anything iced. This word is also sometimes used figuratively, by French cooks, to signify a smooth glossy surface Gratins. A term applied to consolidated soups and sauces; also to certain dishes of high character, consisting of game, poiiltry, fish, vegetables, or macaroni, &.C., improved by great care and finish, through the use of concentrated sauces or gravies. Hors-d’(EUVres (Hot). A species of very light entrdes, such as patties of all kinds, rissoles, croquettes, scolloped fish, shell-fish, macaroni, poultry, game, sweetbreads, brains, ox-piths, horlys of fish, poultry, or game, &c. Hors-d’(euvbes (Cold). These should be eaten immediately after the soup and fish ; they are considered as appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and consist of sardines, "anchovies, tunny, Dutch herrings, savoury butters, oysters, oiled salads. Jardiniere. A mixed preparation of vegetables, stewed down in their own sauce. Luting. A paste made of flower and water, and used for fastening the lids on to fire-j'aus when preserving game, &c., in order to prevent evaporation. Macedoine of vegetables is a jardiniere, with the addition of some kind of white sauce. Macedoine of fruit. A kind of jelly. Madeleine. Resembling queen-cake. Matelotte, a dish of mixed fresh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, a.*; Eels. Meringues. A kind of light trifle. Mignionnette Pepper. A preparation from either white or black pepper-corns which, after being broken, chopped, or ground coarse, so as to resemb.c mig nionnette seed, should be sifted in order to remove the dust. Nougat. A mixture of almonds and sugar. Nouilles. a kind of vermicelli. Paner, to bread crumb