ENTEEES OF LAMB, COMPRISING Shoulder of Lamb, larded, d la Financiere. Neck of Lamb, d la Regence. Epigramme of Lamb, with Mushrooms. ,, „ d la Villeroi, with Peas. Breasts of Lamb, d la Marechale, with New Potatoes. Lamb Cutlets (plain), with Cucumbere, &c. Lamb Cutlets, bread-crumbed, with Aspa- ragus Peas. ,, d la Cl^evreuse. Braized Carbonnades of Lamb. Lamb’s Sweetbreads, « la Toulouse, &c. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads. Lamb’s Sweetbreads Scolloped. 925. SHOULDER OF LAMB LARDED, A LA FINAN'CIERE. Saw off the upper part of the shank-bone of a shoulder of lamb, then bone it entirely—with the exception of about three inches of the shank or leg bone, which must be left in. Spread the shoulder open, season with pepper and salt, garnish it with a thick layer of ve^ or fowl forcemeat; then with a small trussing-needle and some fine string draw the outer edges of the skinny part of the shoulder into a purse- iike form, and tighten the strings so as to give it the appearance of a cushion; and, after removing the superficial skin in a circular shape, lard it closely. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with shced carrot, onion, celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley; cover this with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the shoulder of lamb upon it; moisten Avith sufficient good stock to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper on the top, and cover with the lid; then set it to braize very gently upon a slow fire for about an hour and a half,—Avith some live embers of charcoal on the lid—and take care to baste it frequently. When done, remove it into a deep sautapan, and after having strained the liquor, free it from aU grease, bod it down to half glaze, pour this on to the lamb, and put it in the oven to glaze, repeatedly basting the larding till the moisture is lessened. The bcdlotim* or shoulder of lamb must then be placed upon its dish, and garnished with a Financiere ragout (No. 188) ; put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. 926. NECK OF LAMB, A LA REGENCE. Pbepare this in exactly the same way as directed for necks of mutton larded en chevaux-de-frise (No. 611). When braized, glaze it nicely, and place it upon its dish, garnish it with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), and serve. Note.—Necks of lamb prepared as the foregoing, may also be served Avith a Macedoine of vegetables, or a Jardiniere. 927. EPIGRAMME OF LAMB, A LA TOULOUSE. Teim a neck of lamb into cutlets, and place them into a sautapan Avith some clarified butter; then braize a breast of lamb untd quite tender, take it up, remove the bones and put it in press between two dishes; when cold, cut it into as many cutlet-shaped pieces as there are • Shoulders of Lamb prepared in the foregoing manner—called, in French, “ Ballot' ines "—may also be served with every kind of dressed vegetables, or purees of vegetables.