nAUXCII AND NECK OF RED DEER. 195 taking care to turn it over twice a-day, and at the expiration of that time, the venison will be fit for dressing. After the venison has been marinaded, place it in a large oval braizing-pan, and garnish with four carrots, four onions, four heads of celery, two garnished faggots of parsley, &c., eight cloves, and foin* blades of mace ; moisten Avith a bottle of Madeira, and t^ee large ladlefuls of good broth: cover vrith a sheet of thick brown paper well buttered, let it boH, and then place the Hd on mth live embers of charcoal upon it, and put the pan on a moderate stove-fire to braize gently for seven hours—moistening the larding of the venison fre- quently with its own liquor, by which means when the venison is done, it will be nicely glazed. It should now be taken up on to a baking sheet, and placed in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding: then glaze and dish it up. Poiu’ a weU-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29) under it, garnish it round with quenelles of grouse, bread- crumbed and fried, and at each end place groups of venison fry; put a ruffle on the leg-bone, and send to table v/ith sweet sauce, separately in a boat. 856. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA KINNAIRD. Pbepaee and dress a haunch of red deer exactly as the foregoing; when done, glazed and dished up, garnish it round with alternate groups of fried potatoes (cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in clarified butter) and round potato croquettes; pour a well-made sweet sauce (No. 66) imder it and send to table. 657. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA MARIE STUART. To make a handsome remove, two necks are required ; from these, saw off the chine-bones and shorten the ribs to about five inches in length ; then remove the whole of the sinewy covering from the meaty part of the necks, leaving a perfectly even svn-face, which must be larded closely in the usual manner—observing that when about trim- ming the necks of deer, care must be taken to leave the whole of the fat that covers the ribs. When the necks have been larded, marinade them in the pickle prescribed for the haunch; and allow them to steep in this about six days and nights, when they will be ready for dressing. Take them out and prepare them for braizing in like manner to the haunch, proceeding in aU respects the same way. AVhen done, take them up on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven to dry the larding for a few minutes, glaze them, and place them on their dish in the form of a Chevaux-de-Jrise : this is effected by placing the necks on their base, and allowing the rib-bones to faU over, or between each other, showing the larded parts outside. Garnish them with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), and a border of quenellesoipheasant d la Richelieu (No. 1004), at each end: and along the ridge occasioned by the meeting of the rib-bones, place a line of trimmed cray-fish; glaze the larding of the venison, and serve. 658. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA ST. ANDREW. Peepabe and braize two necks of red deer in the manner last men- tioned; when done, glaze and dish them up after the same directions; garnish with a rich Financihe ragout (No. 188), with Poivrade sauce; surround them with a border of quenelles of grouse, decorated with