255 OX-PITUS. equare scollops, and place these on a large earthen dish, together vith about hjilf their quantity of square pieces of truffles and mush- rooms ; pour some reduced D' Uxelles sauce (No. IG) over the whole, and when the sauce has become set, run the scoUops upon twelve small silver skewers, intermixing the truffles and mushrooms^ alter- nately with the ox-palates; gather the sauce from the disli ndth a knife, and spread it upon the attereaux to give them a square, smooth form. They must then be roUed in bread-criunbs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, and again bread-crumbed. Half an hoxu’ before send- ing to table, the attereaux in clean hog’s-lard, made hot for the purpose; dish them up neatly wnth parsley, fried green and crisp, placed in the centre, and serve. 826. OX-PALATES IN CASES, WITH FINE-HEKBS. Peepaee the ox-palates in small circular scollops, and put them into a stewpan containing about two-thirds of their quantity of scollops of truffles and mushrooms; to these add sufficient reduced fine-herbs sauce (No, 14) for the entree, mix the whole, and with this fill twelve small square, or plaited circular paper cases, previously oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes ; cover them with a layer of rasp- ings of bread, or bread-crumbs fried of a light colour, and place them upon a baking-sheet covered with clean paper. About haK an hour before sending to table, put these cases in the oven to be baked, or rather warmed through, and then dish them up on a folded napkin, with fiied parsley round the base of the entree, and serve. OX-PITHS, COMPRISING Os-piths, d la Bavigotte. Croustades of Os-piths, in cases, with fine-herbs. 827, OX-PITHS,* A LA EAVIGOTTE. Peocuee about 1 lb. of ox-piths, steep them m water for a coupie of hours, wash them thoroughly, and then carefully remove the mem- branous covering, and change the water. Next, sKce up an onion and a small carrot very thin, and put these iuto a stewpan with a quart of hot water, mignionette pepper, and salt, a little thyme and bay-leaf, three cloves and a blade of mace, and half a giU of vinegar; set these to boil on the fire, drop in the ox-piths and allow them to boil gently for ten minutes; then set them aside to cool. Drain them on a napkin, and cut them in three-inch lengths, then place them in a basin, with a few sprigs of parsley, three sliced shalots, some migmonette pepper, and salt, three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and one of vinegar. The ox-piths must be left to steep in this pickle tfil within about ten minutes of dinner-time, when tliey must be drained upon a napkin, then dipped separately in some light batter, and fried in clean hog’s-lard made quite hot for the. purpose. Dish them up * The pith consists of the spinal marrow, which is more generally taken from sides of beef; that taken from veal and mutton is ;ilso occasionally used.