JELLIES. 463 first pouring a little jelly on the bottom of the mould, then, when tho jelly IS set, arrange a layer of the pieces of oranges upon it in close circular order, one resting upon another; pour sufidcient jelly upon these to reach their surface, and when this has become firm, place another layer of oranges upon it, and so on, until the mould is filled. 1424. MARASCHINO JELLY. To one pint of clarified syrup, add two ounces of clarified isinglass, the filtered juice of two lemons, and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino; pour this into a jeUy-mould ready set in rough ice. Note.—Jellies flavom-ed with noyeau, Idrschen-wasser, Dantzic brandy, cedratti, and all other kinds of liqueurs, when made with isinglass, are prepared as the above. 1425. VARIEGATED JELLY, A LA VICTORLI. Peep ARE some jehy, with Dantzic brandy (sometimes named “ gold-and-silver-water”). Parboil and remove the skin from six; ounces of pistachios, and shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly- mould in some pounded rough ice contained in a pan, pour a Little of the jeUy into the bottom of the mould, and then strew some of the prepared pistachios in it; when this has become firm, pour in a little more of the jelly and strew a few of the pistachios in it; as these layers become set, repeat the same until the mould is filled, and allow the jeUy to remain imbedded in the ice for a sufficient time to congeal it properly. 1426. ptLNAchee* jelly. This may be prepared with any land of light-coloured jelly, which must be divided into two equal parts: add a few drops of cochineal to one half, and leave the remainder plain. Then, imbed the mould in rough ice, pour enough of the pink jelly into the mould to reach about a quarter of an inch up the sides, and when this has become set, pour as much of the plain jeUy upon it; when this has congealed, repeat another layer of the pink jeUy, and go on alternating the dif- ferent coloured layers of jeUy until the mould is filled. The design for this kind of jeUy may be varied according to taste, by attending to the following directions:— rfil two small plain moulds with different coloured jelly, such as pink and white noyeau, or amber and very light pink-orange jelly, and when these are become firm, tmm the jellies out of their respective moulds upon a clean napkin. Next, imbed a plain mould in some rough ice, and then cut the different coloured jellies into strips, or any kind of fancy shaped ornaments, which must be so managed as to admit of their being fitted into each other, thus entirely covering the bottom of the mould with the design so formed; a little of the jelly must first be poured at the bottom of the mould, to cause the decoration to adhere together. The sides of the mould should then be ornamented by placing ffiternate strips of the different jellies in a perpendicular • Derived from another French word, panache, a plume—a graceful feather. This jelly first received its name at the period of the first French revolution, when it customary for the representatives of tho French people to wear a tri -coloured j liimu ai their hats.