STURGEON AND SALMON, 343 croustade with scollops of mushrooms, pour some white Italian sauce (No. 13) round the entrei, and serve. 1117. QUENELLES OF SALMON, A LA RAVIGOTTE. Mould a dozen quenelles in table-spoons, with some force-meat of sahnon prepared as directed above ; poach them in the ordinary way and when done, drain and dish them up in close cncular order; pour some Ravigotte sauce (No. 21) over them, fiU the centre with scollops of whitings tossed in a httle Allemande sauce, and serve. 1118. BLANQUEITE OF STURGEON. Beaizb about two pounds of sturgeon in some wine mirepoix (No. 236), for about three quarters of an hour, and set it to cool in its own liquor; then drain and cut it up into scollops, and place these in a stewpan with some scollops of truffles and button-mushrooms, to which add some Allemande sauce finished with part of the mirepoix reduced for the purpose : warm the hlanquette, dish it up in the form of a dome, garnish round -with lobster ci'oquettes, and serve. 1119 SCOLLOPS OF STURGEON, WITH FINE-HERBS. Peocuee about two pounds of sturgeon, place it in an earthen pan, strew over it sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and season with mignionette pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and a gdl of salad-oil; allow this to remain for a day or two, frequently turning the fish over in the seasoning. "When about to dress the sturgeon, drain it upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, and cut it up into heart-shaped or oval scollops, about the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; place these in a sautapan with some clarified butter, six ounces of scollops of truffles, some mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots chopped fine, and season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg; fiy the whole on a moderate fire, turning the scollops over when lightly browned on one side. When they are done, drain off the grease, pour in some finished sturgeon sauce (No. 56), toss the whole together over the fire for three minutes, dish the scoUops up in the form of a dome, garnish round with a border of crayfish-tails, and serve. 1120. CUTLETS OF STURGEON, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. PiEST steep the sturgeon as directed in the foregoing case; then, cut it up into heart-shaped fillets, about the size and rather thicker than fillets of fowls : stick the claw of a crayfish into the pomted end of each cutlet, and place them in a curved form in a sautapan with some clarified butter: season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a Httle lemon-juice. Iky the cutlets of a fight-brown colour on both sides; pour off the grease, toss them in a little glaze, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with some Bourguignotte ragout (No. 195), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 1121 FILLETS OF SALMON, A l’AURORE. Cut about two pounds of salmon into oval fillets ; place these in a sautapan with some clarified butter, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; fry them over the stove-fire, for