APllICOT CHEESE. 468 1441a. CREAM A LA RORLilNE. Blanch four ounces of Jordan almonds -with one ounce of bittei almonds, and wlien freed from their hulls, washed and wiped dry, let them be chopped rather fine. Next, place them in a sugar-boiler and stir them over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon until they have acquired a very light-brown colour; these abnonds should now be thrown into a pint of milk that has been kept boiling for the pur- pose ; to this add six ounces of sugar and eight yolks of eggs, and stir the whole quickly over the fire until the yolks are set; when the cream must be immediately removed from the fire, and stirred for a few minutes longer, previously to its being rubbed through a tammy like a purie. The produce will present a light fawn- coloured thick cream; this must be mixed first, with rather better than an ounce of clarified isinglass, and then, three gills of whipped cream are to be lightly yet well incorporated. Pour the cream into a mould, and set it in ice as usual, 1441&. CREAM A LA CHATEAUBRIAND. Set a jelly-mould in ice, and then proceed to ornament the bottom and sides with blanched almonds that have been split and well soaked to whiten them, each beiug first dipped in some rather strong and perfectly colourless jelly, previously to its being stuck to the sides of the mould. "When the mould is thus ornamented, pour some of the same jeUy into it, and by gently and gradually moving the mould round (side-ways) in the ice, cause the jeUy to form a thin coating over the almonds. When the latter part of the process is satis- factorily effected, proceed to effect another coating about the third of an inch thick, with some pistachio cream (No. 1438); and when this is firmly set, fill up the cavity with some cream a la Romaine (No. 1441a). Note.—An infinite variety of creams, usually designated “ en surprise,may be thus produced by using two different preparations of different creams, such as currant and orange-flower, apricot and vanilla, peach and noyeau, chocolate and white coffee, &c. 1442. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TRANSPARENT CHEESE. Pick the stalks from a quart of ripe red currants and a pottle of rasnberries ; put these into a small preserving-pan with one pound of pounded sugar and a gill of water; stir the whole on a stove-fire and keep it boiling for about five minutes; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a large basin; add two ounces of clarified isinglass, and then pour it into a jeUy-mould, ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. When this kind of cheese is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the cheese out on its dish; fill the well or cylinder with some stifl3^y-whipped cream, and serve. 1443. APRICOT CHEESE, A LA CHANTILLY. Bemove the stones from eighteen ripe apricots, and put them into a small preserving-pan with one pound of loaf sugar, and a giU of spring water; stir this on a brisk stove-fire, until the whole of the