198 REMOVES OF TURKEY, up and "arnislied with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188); at eaoli end place a larded sweetbread, and at the sides, a sweetbread decorated with scollops of truffles inserted in the form of a rose; between these should be placed groups of largo truffles and quenelles of fowl; glaze the turkey and send to table. As this is rather a sumptuous kind of garnish, suitable for great occasions only, the sweetbreads, large truffles, &c., may be dispensed with, and the Financiere ragout only retained. G64. BOILED TURKEY, WITH CELERY SAUCE. Draw a fine young hen turkey, and remove the angular part of the breast-bone, stuff it with veal stuffing, and truss it for boiling; wrap some buttered paper round it, and place it in an oval braizing-pan with carrot, onion, one head of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley; add as much white poele (No. 230), or white stock, as will suffice to cover the turkey, then set it on a stove to bod; it should after that be removed to the side, or placed on a slackened stove to contmue gently boiling till done; then take it up out of the braize, remove all the string, &c., and set it to drain upon a napkin; dish it up, pour over it a well-made puree of celery (No. 110), place round it some stewed heads of celery, and send to table. 665. BOILED TURKEY, WITH OYSTER SAUCE. The turkey should be boiled as directed in the last article; when done, dish it up, and previously to sending it to table, pour over it some well-made oyster sauce (No. 50), and serve. 666. CAPOX STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES, A LA PERIGORD. This should be prepared according to the directions given for dressiug a turkey after the same fashion (No. 660). 667. CAPON, A LA GODARD. The capon being drawn and singed, trim the feet and wings; then remove the angular part of the breast-bone by inserting a strong- bladed knife, taking care not to tear the breast nor cut the fillets. Next, cut the under part of the thighs close up to the bend of the joint, and by introducing the finger through the vent, loosen the skin all round the thighs in order to facilitate the slipping of the legs inside, so as to show the feet only. Then lay the capon flat on its breast, and having turned the skin of the breast upon the back, and twisted the pinions round to make them lie even with the back, run a trussing- needie and string through the pinion on the left, pass again through the lower joint of the pinion, and from thence through the upper joints of the thighs; the needle must afterwards be brought round and inserted through the other wing in the same manner; the strings should then be drawTi tight, and fastened. The legs must now be secured by running the needle through the upper part, leaving the drumsticks under, and then again the needle shonld be drawn tlirough the back, and the strings tightened to secure their position; the tail- end must be pushed into the vent, and the string passed through it twice (up and down), and tied: all this giving to the capon an appearance of plumpness. It should then be rubbed with half a lemon, ajid wTapped in a sheet of buttered paper (to keep it white), and