13KAIZED LEG AMD SADDLE OF MUITON. 175 The clarified essence, after being reduced to a half glaze, should be sent to table in a sauceboat to be served with the mutton when carved; it‘poured round the mutton, it would mix with the Soubise sauce. 605. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA BRETONNE. Prepare and braize a leg of mutton as directed in the foregoing case; when done, glaze and dish it up on a bed of white /lancoi-beans dressed d la Bretonne (No. 1186) : gaimish it round with a border ot potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in butter, of a light colour; ornament the bone with a paper ruffle, and send to table. 606. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. Bone and braize a leg of mutton according to the preceding direc- tions ; and when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish it round with alternate groups of prepared small carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, Prench-beans cut in diamonds, small new potatoes, cucumbers, aspa- ragus-heads, and green-peas—the whole or any part of these, according to the season. Pour round the mutton some Espagnole sauce in which has been incorporated, after reduction, the clarified essence in which the mutton has been braized; put on a ruffle, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing garnishes for braized legs of mutton, they may also be appropriately served with new potatoes d la Maitre cTHotel, fresh /iaricoi-beans, stewed peas, and a border of young carrots glazed, artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters, and tossed in Alle- manda sauce, or with a Maoedoine of vegetables (No. 143). 607. BIUUZED SADDLE OF MUTTON, A LA MACEDOINE. Procure a well-covered saddle of mutton, and extract the spine- bone with the knife, without injuring the fiUets, or perforating any part of the fat which covers tliem ; trim the tail-end quite roimd, cut the flaps square, season the inner part of the saddle with pepper and salt, and having roUed up each flap or skirt-piece, so as to give it a tight and neat appearance, secure its shape by passing some string round it several times. After this, the mutton should be prepared for braizing with carrots, onions, celery, garnished faggots, cloves, and mace; moisten with a sufficient quantity of good stock to merely cover the mutton; place a buttered paper and the lid over all, set tlic liraizing-pan on a moderate fire, and after it has boiled, let it continue gently braizuig for about four hours,—carefully basting it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up on to a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to dry the moisture from the surface, prepara- tory to its being glazed : then dish it up, and garnish it round with prepared small vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, cauliflowers. French-beans, cucumbers, asparagus-heads, small new potatoes, and green-peas: each separately tossed in a little Allemanae sauce (after being flrst prepared in the usual manner, and the carrots and turnips boiled down in their glaze, as also the cucumbers), poirr some Allemande sauce roimd the saddle of mutton, and send to table. Note.—Instead of sauciug this remove with Allemande, Espagnole may