164 KEMOVES OF BEEF. put into a stew pan witli a pincli of inignionette-pepper; then stew the macaroni for a quarter of an hour longer, by which time it wiU be done; add a table-spooni’ul of tomato-paste, two pats of fresh butter, and six ounces of fresh-grated Parmesan cheese; toss the w^hole well together over the fire, and place the ribs of beef on their dish ; surround them Avith the macaroni thus prepared, glaze the beef afresh, pour into a sauce-boat the remaining half of the clarified braize reduced nearly to the consistency of half glaze, and send to table. 572. SMALL BIBS OF BEEF, A LA MODE. Prepaue the ribs of beef for braizing according to the foregoing instruction, moisten with half' a bottle of sherry or Madeira and two wine-glassfuls of brandy; then set the pan containing the ribs of beef on the stove-fire to simmer for about a quarter of an houi’; after Avhich add two ladlefids of good consomme, cover the whole with a buttered paper and the lid, and set the pan again on the fire to continue gently simmering for three or four hours,—(according to the weight or size of the piece of beef). When done, drain and trim it, place it in a sautapan with a little of its own Liquor, put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two—previously to glazing it: unless, indeed, it has been already glazed during the latter part of the braizing, which is the better method—frequent basting wnth its oivn liquor imparting additional flavour; Avhen glazed, dish the ribs of beef up, and garnish them round wdth groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions; sauce round with the essence in which the beef has been braized, clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze, for the purpose, and send to table, 573. SMALL RIBS OF BEEF, A LA BOURGEOISE. Trim three small ribs of beef, dauhe and prepare them far braizing Avith their trimmings and the usual complement of vegetables, &c.; mois- ten Avith two large ladlefuls of good broth ; set the beef to boil very gently on a slow fire till done, Avhich Avill require about four hours and a half, if the piece of beef be small; taking care to turn it over in its braize occasionally: when the ribs are done, drain, trim, and glaze them: dish them up Avith a border of glazed carrots, onions, turnips, Brussels-sprouts or stew^ed cabbages, round them ; pour the essence on them, and serve. 574. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. Prepare the ribs of beef for braizing in the usual manner, moisten with half a bottle of Madeira and a ladleful of good consommi; braize the beef gently for about four or five hours ; when done, trim, glaze, and dish it up Avith alternate groups of fried potatoes in the shape of large olives, and any green vegetable the time of year may aftbrd; use the clarified braize, reduced to an essence, as sauce, and send to table, 575. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA BADEN. Trim and daube three small ribs of beef Avith some fillets of lean ham and fat bacon ; place them in an oval braizing-pan, garnish Avith six shalots, a grated stick of horseradish, and a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions; moisten Avith a bottle of Ehenish Avine