BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES. o35 if allowed to boll; disli it up in a conical form, place some peached eggs or plover’s eggs (if in season), round the base, with a scollop of red tongue cut in the form of a cock’s-comb between each egg; pour a little bright Espagnole sauce over the puree without maskmg the eggs, and serve. 1091. MINCED PARTRIDGES, WITH POACHED EGGS. This entree is mostly served when there happens to be any roast partridges or pheasants in reserve from a previous day’s dinner: the same remark may in some degree apply to salmis: although it must be admitted that a salmis made with fresh-roasted game is preferable. Cut the meat from the birds, either into shreds, or very small thin scollops or dice; add a little pepper and salt, and as much salmis, Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, as will suffice to moisten the mince; some truffles, mushroons or red tongue, cut up in the same manner, may also be added if approved of. Warm the mince, dish it up, garnish it round with poached eggs, or potato croquettes, and serve. BOUDINS, QUENELLES, AND SOUEFLES OF PAETELDGES, COMPRISING Boudins of Partridges, d la (TOrsay. Crepinettes of Partridges, d la d’Estaing. „ d la Frintaniere. Souffles „ d la Royale. 1092. BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA D’ORSAY. Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fiUets of three partridges (No. 243). Take two ounces of French truffles, about the same pro- portion of mushrooms, red tongue, and dressed calf’s-udder; cut all these into even-shaped and very small dice, and add them together with a large spoonful of puree of mushrooms (No. 122) to the force- meat ; mix thoroughly, and mould this preparation into three oblong houdins, about six inches in length and two inches square: place these upon similar-sized pieces of buttered paper laid on a stewpan-lid, and shp them off into a stewpan containing some boiling broth; allow them merely to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire for about twenty minutes, and when done through, drain them upon a napkin, trim them square, mask them over with some reduced Supreme eauce place three larded minion fillets across each houdin, garnish the entree with a ragout d la Parisienne (No. 203), and serve. 1093. BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PRINTANIERK Prepare some force-meat with the fillets of three partridges (No. 243), and rnoidd this into three houdins, as directed in the foregoing case, poach them in the same manner, and when done, mask them with some Frintaniere sauce (No. 21) mixed with some partridge glaze : place a decorated minion fillet at each end of the boi^ms, and a larded lamb’s-sweetbread in the centre of these; fill the well of the