BLACK GAME, 22d stove-fire for five minutes; skim it and pass it througli a tammy into a small stewpan, and keep it hot. Then place the black game on their dish side by side, garnish them round with carrots prepared in the Swedish fashion, and roimd this place another border composed of neatly-cut scollops of the streaky bacon and German sausage; pour the sauce over the remove, and serve. The carrots above alluded to should be thus prepared: slit the out- side or red part of a dozen large carrots into thin stripes, cut these again into thin shreds of about two inches long. Next, place them in a stewpan with four ounces of butter and half a pint of vinegar ; season with four oimces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and a little salt; set them to stew very gently upon a partially-smothered char- coal fii’e, taldng care to timn them over now and then with a spoon: about an hour vdll suffice to do them: when, if any moisture remains it must be boiled do^vn, and they will be ready for use. 750. BLACK GAME, A LA PAYSAXKE. See pheasants d la Paysanne. (No. 715.) 751. BLACK GAME, A LA NOUWEGIENNE. Teitss these as for roasting, lard the breasts closely with weU-fur nished rows of larding; set them to braize in an oval stewpan, moistened with a mirepoix (No. 236) made with two parts of good stock and one third of Trench \inegar; baste the birds frequently while they are being braized, when done, set them upon a baking- sheet in the oven for two minutes to dry the larding, then glaze and dish them, up; garnish with a border of stewed red cabbage dressed in the same way as Trench sauer-liraut (No. 165), and round this place a border of small sausages prepared as follows : Chop one pound of calf s liver with ten ounces of fat bacon and six ounces of brown bread-crumbs, season with black pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel, some parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, and some sweet-basil, all chopped fine; add the yolks of three eggs, mix the whole thoroughly, and then form this preparation into small flat, round, or oval sausages, wliich must be wrapped up in pig’s caul; fry these of a brown colour, and use them as directed above. Sauce the remove with a Poivrade (No. 29), mixed with half the liquor in which the birds have been braized, previously cleared of all grease and boiled down to half-glaze ; glaze the larding, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing black game, they may also be served d la Soubise, d la P^rigueux, d la Financicre, with a puree of celery, Richelieu sauce, braized cabbages, and d la Dauphinoise , for the preparation of which, see those articles. Note.— Grouse should bo dressed m the same way as black game. Q