OMi^LETrf. 3G3 little nutmeg, migmonette-pepper, and salt; stii* this quickly until a wooden spoon over tlie stove-fire until the eggs, &c., begin to thicken, when the steivpan must be withdrawn; continue to work the eggs with the spoon, observing, that although they must not be allowed to become hard, as in that case the preparation would be curdled and rendered imsightly, yet they must be sufficiently set, so as to be fit to be dished up: to effect this it is necessary to stick the croutons or Heurons round the inner circle of the dish with a little flower and white- of-egg paste; dish up the eggs in the centre of these, and serve. 1196. OMELET, WITH FINE-HERBS. Beeak six eggs in a basin, to these add half a gdl of cream, a small pat of butter broken in small pieces, a spoonful of chopped parsley, some pepper and salt; then put four ounces of fi’csh butter in an omelet-pan on the stove-fire; while the butter is melting, whip the eggs, &c., well together until they become frothy; as soon as the butter begins to fritter, pour the eggs into the pan, and stir the omelet, as the eggs appeiir to set and become fii’m; when the whole has become partially set, roll the omelet into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to acquire a golden colour on one side, over the fire, and then turn it out on its dish; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce, or hall- glaze under it, and serve. 1197a. OMELET, WITH SHALOTS. Peepaee and finish this omelet, in all respects hke the foregoing, except that some chopped shalots must be added to the parsley. 11975. OMELET, WITH TARMESAN CHEESE. Break six eggs into a basin, then add a gdl of cream, four ounces of grated Paianesan cheese, some mignionette-pepper and a little salt; l)eat the whole weU together, and finish the omelet as pre\dously directed. 1198. OMELET, WITH KIDNEYS. PiEST prepare the kidneys with fine herbs (No. 876) ; then, make an omelet as directed for “ Omelet with Fine-herbs” (No. 1196), and when it is fried, before folding it up, place the prepared kidneys in it; roll it up into shape, dish it up with a little haU-glaze round the base, and serve. 1199. OMELET, WITH OYSTERS. This is made in the same manner as the foregoing, merely substi- tuting some oysters, prepared as for scoUops (No. 538), for the kidneys. 1200. POACHED EGGS, WITH ANCHOVY TOAST. Fib.8t, break some new-laid eggs into separate small cups, or cfonbi^c'- moulds; then, drop them one after the other into a ste\\q)an contain- ing boihng water mixed with a table-spoonful of white -vinegar and a little salt; keep this boihng while the eggs are being dropped in at the side of the stewpan, and when they have boiled for two minutes, drain them on a napkin, trim them and place each egg upon a square or oval piece of dry toast, spread with anchovy butter (No. 179), over