llEMOVES OF TURKEY. 19G truffles; at each end place a croustade of bread cut in the shape of a vase, and fried of a light colour, and fill it mth a group of four largo truffles; and on the flanks of the dish, put a group of large cray-fish: glaze the larding, and send to table. 659. FILLETS OF RED DEER, A LA ROYALE. Take ov/t the fillets of two necks of red deer, which must be cut with part of the loin adheriug to them ; trim and lard them all over the upper sxu’face, after which steep them in a marinade (No. 233) for six days. Then proceed to dress them in the same manner as directed for the haunch d la Glengarry. When the fillets are done, take them out of their braize on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze them nicely, and afterwards dish them up, side-by-side, on an oval croustade of fried bread, about two inches high, and cut round in flutes; garnish with a ragout composed as follows; braize six pork sausages, and after they have been allowed to cool, cut them up and throw the pieces into a large bain-marie; to these add an equal quantity of round balls of streaky bacon (previously braized), some button mushrooms and green gherkms. A rich Poivrade sauce must be poured on the ingredients ; let the whole boil on the stove-fire for two minutes, pour the ragout round the fillets, and place a border of quenelles of potatoes (No. 312) (rolled in fried bread-crumbs) roimd the edge of the dish, and serve. REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPONS, COMPRISING [{oast Turkey, d la Perigord. ,, d la CMpolata. ,, d I'Anglaise. ,, d la Financiere. Boiled Turkey, with Celery sauce, „ with Oyster sauce, Capou stuffed with Truffles, d la Perigord. „ d la Godard. „ d la Chipolata. „ d I’Anglaise. ,, d la Jardiniere. Capon, a la Macedoine. „ d la Printaniere. ,, d rivoire. „ au gros scl. „ d I’l'Jstragon. ,, d la Perigord. „ and Rice. ,, d la Milanaise. ,, with Macaroni. „ with Nouilles. 660. ROAST TURKEY, A LA PERIGORD. Foe this purpose, choose a fine young hen turkey, make an incision at the back of the neck, and through it draw out the entrails, &c.; with a knife cut away the vent and close the opening thus made, by sewing it up with twine, then singe off the hairs, and by scalding the legs, divest them of their black skm. The neck should then be cut off close into the back, and the crop left entire; clip the talons and claws, wipe the turkey clean, and lay it upon a napkin. With a strong kitchen knife break the breast-bone, and after detaching the angular part, remove it vith the fingers. Previous to this operation some truffles should be prepared as follows, to be used in stuffing the turkey:— Have about four pounds of truffles thoroughly washed; peel and