COLD ENTREES, 376 slow fire for about a quai-ter of an hour. After this, it must be tho- roughly pounded in a mortar,- rubbed through a sieve, put into small pots, steamed, and when cold, should be pressed down with the bowl of a spoon, and the surface covered with a little elarified butter. 1233. POTTED PRA'VVNS, OR SHRIMPS. Pick one poimd of fresh-boiled prawns or shrimps, and reserve the heads and shells; poimd them in a mortar with fom* anchovies (pre- viously washed and wiped dry for the pm’pose), and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve, and put the produce, with the picked shrimps into a steivpan with six oimces of clarified fresh butter; season with some grated nutmeg, Cayenne pepper, and a little salt; simmer the whole together over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then toss the shrimps in the seasoning occasionally, until they be- come nearly cold; they must then be put into pots, ivith a Kttle clarified butter poured over the surface, and set aside in a cool place, for use. 1234. POTTED YARMOUTH BLOATERS. Take six fresh-cured bloaters, immerse them in scalding water, and remove the skins; wipe them dry, take out the bones, and put the fillets of the herriogs into a stewpan with half a pound of clarified fresh butter, a blade of mace, and enough cayenne to season them set this on a slow fire to simmer for about ten minutes, then tho- roughly pound the whole well together in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve. Put this preparation into pots, run a little clarified butter over the surface, and keep them in a cool place for use. Note.—Smoked, or kippered salmon, or Pinnan haddocks, may be potted in the same way as the foregoing. By submitting any of the above-described potted sheU-fish, &c., to the action of steam, a sufii- cient time for the meat to be thoroughly penetrated by the heat, they may keep good for months. Much will, however, depend on the freshness of the butter used in this preparation: should it become rancid, as frequently happens'after keeping for a few weeks, it AviU, of course, considerably impair the flavour of the potted fish. 1235. GALANTINE OF POULARD, WITH ASPIC-JELLY. Chop up one pound of white veal, with the same quantity of fat bacon, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning (No. 1250) ; when these are chopped quite fine, pound the whole in a mortar, with ^the yolks of three eggs, and remove the force-meat into a basin. Peel one pound of truffles, and cut up a boiled red tongue, and about one pound of fat bacon or boiled calf’s udder, into long narrow fillets, about a quarter of an inch square. Next, bone a fine poulard, and draw the skin from the legs and pinions, inside; then, spread the poulards out upon a napkin, and ^vith a sharj) knife, pare OS’ some part of the fillets, to cover the thinner parts of the skin ; season slightly with pepper, salt., and aromatic spices; spread a layer of the prepared force-meat, about an inch thick, then place the fillets of tongue and bacon upon this, about an inch apart, and insert rows of truffles between these; after which, spread another layer of force-meat over the whole, then repeat the tongue and truffles, and so on, imtil a sufficient quantity of both has been placed in the noidard.