300 ENTREES OF POULTRY. green-onious, and a clove of garlic ; fry the chickens over a brisk fire until they acquire a fine yellow colour; then pour oif the grease, and add a glass of Madeira, a tea-spooniul of curry-paste, a piece of glaze, two gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce, and half a pottle of mush- rooms ; simmer the whole together over the fire for ten minutes, then add a pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon. Dish up the entree, in a pyramidal form, reserving the pieces of breast and the fillets to be placed uppermost; garnish with the ham and mushrooms, pour the sauce over all, place twelve croutons of bread round the base, and serve. 982. CHICKENS, A LA FLORENTINE. PoR this pui’pose, choose two very small spring chickens, bone them in halves, trim them neatly, season with mignionette-pepper and salt, and place them in a deep sautapan with half a gill of salad-oil, and a garnished faggot of parsley and green-onions containing a clove of garlic; then add half a pound of raw ham or streaky bacon, cut up into square pieces and parboiled in water for ten minutes, a table- spoon&l of the powder of sweet red pimento, half a pint of small button-onions, also parboiled in water for five minutes, the same quantity of small carrots turned in the form of olives, and half a pottle of mushrooms. Set the whole over a moderate fire until the pieces of chicken, &c., acquire a light colour, then pour olf aU the grease, add a glass of Malaga wine and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a brisk fire until the moistening is reduced to a glaze ; toss the pieces of chicken, &c., about in this to make it adhere to them, and immediately dish up the entree, reserving the mushrooms, &c., to be placed in groups about the dish; next, pour a spoonful of Espagnole sauce into the sautapan, add the juice of half a lemon, allow this sauce to simmer, pour it over the entrk, and serve. 983. CURRY OF CHICKENS, A l'INDIENNE. Cut these as for a fricassee, trim them neatly, place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, and fry them over a stove-fire imtil they become firm to the touch; then pour off all the grea,se, add sufficient curry-sauce (No. 47), for the enti-ee, and set the curry to simmer very gently over a slow stove-fire until the pieces of chicken have become perfectly tender; the entrh may then be dished up, the sauce poured over it, and with some plain boiled rice separately. 984. ANOTHER IMETHOD. Fry the pieces of chicken or fowl in butter, until they are brightly browned aU over, and remove them into a stewpan; then slice up three large onions and two heads of celery, and put these into a stew- pan, together with a clove of garlic, a garnished faggot of parsley, a blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry the whole over a slow fire until they acquire a light-brown coloru: add a large table-spoonful of Cook’s meat-cirrry-paste, and a similar proportion of flour; mix all the above together and moisten with a pint of good broth or gravy ; stir the sauce over the fire and keep it boiling for about twenty minutes, then rub the whole through a hair-sieve or tammy, and afterwards pour it to the pieces of chicken. _ Set the curry to simmer gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken become tender, when the entree may be served as in the former case.