DIFFERENT KINDS Of PASTE. 390 pounded abnonds in a convenient-sized sugar "boiler, Avith about one- tbird part of the sugar, and stir these together over a stove-fire with a new wooden spoon, working the paste briskly and carefully the whole time, in order to prevent it from burning or acquiring the least colour. As soon as the paste ceases to adhere to the sides of the pan, turn it out on to the slab, and begin to work in the remainder of the sugar and the gum: the latter must he previously worked on the marble slab with the hand, and some of the sugar should be added at intervals. "When the whole of the ingredients have been worked together, the paste should form a white, stilf, and smooth compact body. Note.—Almond paste, prepared as the above, is mostly used for making croquantes, small baskets fiUed with whipped cream and straw- berries, &c.: it may also be used for making second-course ornaments; being preferred by many for that purpose on account of its trans- parency. 1259. ALMOND-PASTE, ANOTHER IMETHOD. Ingredients :—Two poimds of Jfine-sifted sugar, eight oimces of pounded almonds, and one ounce of steeped gum-dragon. When the ingredients have been prepared as directed in the fore- going case, work about half the sugar in with the gum; then work the almonds with part of the remainder, add both together, and manipu- late them with the remaining portion of the sugar, until the whole is thoroughly incorporated. If the paste is not stiff enough, a httle more fine-sifted sugar should be filled in. In order to obtain this paste of a pure and dazzling whiteness, a very small quantity of cobalt blue, in powder, may be worked in with it: the colour must be first mixed on a plate with a drop of water, preparatory to its being used. Note.—About one-third part of starch, or hair powder, may be used to work in with this kind of almond paste; this addition makes it less brittle, and consequently increases the facility of using it to cast mouldings, cutting out borders, &c. When, however, starch powder is introduced, double the usual quantity of gum-dragon is required. 1260. GUM-PASTE. Ingredients :—Two ounces of gum-dragon, one poimd of fine- sifted sugar, and one pound of starch powder. Tirst, steep the gum-dragon in a small basin with nearly half a pint of water, cover it over with paper, and put the basin^ in a warm place: when the gum has absorbed aU the water, press it through a cloth as directed for the almond paste, then work it on the marble slab with the pabn of the hand, mixing in the sugar at intervals; when the gum has absorbed all the sugar, the powder must be gra- dually worked in with it. The whole, when finished, should have the appearance of a very stiff compact smooth paste. Then gather it up into a roimd ball, put it on a plate covered with a basin, and keep it in a damp place, to prevent its becoming dry and hard. 1261. PUFF-PASTE. Ingredients :—One pomid of flour, one pound of butter, the yolk of an egg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and about half a piat of water.