216 r.EMO\Ti:S OF PAETKIDGES. red tongue should be also cut into dice and mixed with the pbeasant. With this preparation fiU up the breasts of the pheasants, smooth them over with the blade of a knife, and then cover them with bread- crumbs fried of a light-brown coloim; set the pheasants in the oven or hot closet to keep warm, and when about to send them to table, place them in their dish side by side, pour under them a white ragout of cocks’-combs, mushrooms, and truffles, and serve. Note.—This dish is generally served when there happens to be some ready-di’essed game left from the previous day’s dinner. EEMOVES OP PAETEIDGES, COMPRISING Partridges, « la Seville. Partridges, u la Itavigotte. Ked-legged ParUidges, d la Plessg. ,, d la Soubise. „ „ d la Cerito. „ d I’EUsler. 724. PARTRIDGES, A LA SEVILLE. Truss four or six partridges as for boiling, fry them of a Light- brown colour in four ounces of fresh butter, and then set them aside upon a plate; cut about one pound of raw ham (that has been pre- viously soaked and parboiled) into small pieces in the form of olives, and two dozen small pieces of the red part of a carrot cut with a round scoop, vdth the same number of small button-onions ; fry these also of a light-brovTi colour, Avithdraw them from the fire, and then put them with the partridges back into the stewpan ; add a faggot of parsley garnished with thyme, bay-leaf, sweet-basil, and one clove of garlic ; season with a little salt and Cayenne pepper, moisten with two glasses of Madeira or Malaga, and a table-spoonftil of tomatas ; then set the stewpan (covered with the lid containing live embers) on a slow fire, to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Observe, that the moistening of the partridges should be reduced to one half of its original quantity while braizing. When done, dish them up in a triangular form, skim off the grease from the carets, &c., add a gravy- spooMul of finished Espagnole and the juice of half a lemon; boil the whole together for two minutes, place the ham, carrots, and onions, in separate groups round the partridges, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour it over the partridges, and serve. In the centre of the partridges, place some garhangas or yellow Spanish peas, prepared as follows :— Soak a pint oigarhangas in tepid water for twelve hours; then drain and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of ham, a carrot, an onion, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a little mignionette-pepper; inoisten with three pints of broth, and set them to boil gently for three hours. 725. RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES, A LA PLESSY. These are to be trussed as for boiling, braized in a white po'ele (No. 230), and when done, to be dished up in a triangular form, and garnished with neat groups of small quemlles of partridge and white