441 APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE. opening or well in tlie centre; then pile the pieces of apples upon the marmalade in the form of a dome, leaving the centre ho^.ow; fill this mth the pastry-custard, and cover the whole with some orange marmalade. Next, whip four whites of eggs quite firm, mix in four oimces of sifted sugar, and use this men/i^'we-paste to finish the apples, according to the design placed at the head of this article : this is done by first masking over the entire surface of the dome, formed by the apples, with a smooth coating of the prepared whites of eggs, and then with a paper cornet fiUed wth some of the same, marking out the design: when this has been eflected, shake some sifted sugar upon it, and bake the meringue of a very light-fawn colour. Just before sending this entremets to table, finish ornamenting it by filling up the inner part of the cross with alternate strips or layers of red-currant and apple-jeUies, and also with greengage or apricot-jam; these must be arranged so as to show their colours distinctly, which will produce a very pretty efiect. This entremets should be served hot. 1354. APPLES IN THE FORM OF A P.ORCUPINE. Pbepaee some marmalade with about eighteen apples; place this in an oval case of raised pie-paste previously baked for the purpose; leave a hollow in the centre of the marmalade, fill this up with some pastry custard (jSTo 1311), and spread some apricot-jam over the whole. Next, prepare some meringue-^aste as directed in the fore- going article, and spread this over the surface of the apples, giving it at the same time the form of a porcupine; when this has been effected, about six oimces of Jordan almonds, previously shred in strips, must be regularly inserted in close rows, to imitate the quills of the porcu- pine, and the head and feet should be marked out with angelica cut out in imitation of these. Shake some sifted sugar upon the whole, and bake the meringue coveriug of a very hght-fawn colour. Just before sending to table, fill out the circle of the eyes with apple-jelly, with a currant ioserted in the centre of each to form the pupils, and use a paper cornet filled with red-currant-jelly, to draw some stripes lengthwise, between the rows of almonds placed on the back. 1355. APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE, ANOTHER WAY Bemove the cores from a dozen golden pippins, or small russets; peel them smoothly, and then simmer them in a pint of bght syrup until they are nearly done; they must then be drained on a sieve. Next, spread the bottom and sides of a baked pie-case raised in a mould about two inches high (tart-paste should be used for this ] pose), with apple marmalade mixed with one-third part of orange- jam, and arrange the apples in close circular order in this: each apple must be fiUed with orange-jam, and the entire surface then masked over with a rather thick coating of transparent red-currant or apple- jelly. Some tasteful design should be formed on the layer of jelly in. the form of a wi’eath or scroll; this should be done either with almontA paste, or with puff-paste to which ten turns have been given, then stamped out with appropriate tin-cutters, and placed on a baking- sheet, sugared over and baked, without allowing it to acquire anv colour. The latter style of ornamenting is preferable.