XV GLOSSARY. Panure. Cutlets, scollops, croquettes, or any other entree that is bread-crumbed. Piping. A kind of decoration made of icing, used for ornamenting cakes, pastry stands, small pastry, &c.: it is thus effected:—Take a short funnel or conically- shaped instrument of tin, and insert the same within a larger-sized and similarly- shaped paper funnel or cornet, the pointed end of which must be cut off so as to allow the tin instrument to protrude: place the icing or glazing {a mixture of finely-pounded sugar and white of egg worked into a smooth and firm paste) in tlie comet or forcer, the upper part of which must be completely closed; the glazing is then forced out at the point by pressure of the thumb on the upper part of the comet, Ploche, or plushe, the leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, or sorrel, suipped or cut small; these are used mixed or separately, according to directions. Profitrolles. a light kind of pastry, creamed inside. PoREE. A kind of pulpy maceration of roasted meats, and of vegetables, or fruits, finished by being passed through a tammy or sieve. Qoenelle. a delicate sort of forcemeat, used in the preparation of entrees. See. liAGOOT. A rich compound, consisting of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, fat livers, &c., mixed in a rich sauce, and used for garnishing highly-finished removes and entries. Releves or Removes. The top and bottom dishes (as they are designated in England), served to replace the soup and fish on ordinary' tables. These usually consist of roast joints, turkeys, capons, highly or plain dressed fillets, or rolls, &c., of beef, calves’-heads, &c. Roux. A mixture of fresh butter and flour, which, after being baked, is used for thickening sauces. Salmis. A highly-finished hash, made with game or wild-fowl, cut up and prepared in either a rich gravy or sauce. Saute. Cutlets, scollops of game, poultry, or fish, &c., lightly fried in butter. Souffles. The word souffle means strictly somethLig puffed up, and is generally applied to a light kind of pudding, served as a remove to second-course roasts; it is made with any kind of farinaceous substance, and may be flavoured either with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. Trifle. A second-course dish, composed of sponge-cake, macaroons, fruit-jams, custard, whipped cream, brandy, and other liqueurs. Turbans and Mazarines. Ornamental entries, made of forcemeats, and fillets of either game, poultry, or fish. Vol-au-vent. a figurative expression applied to puff-paste of the lightest kind.