AND CONSOMMES. 51 glasses of sherry or Madeira. Let these simmer gently for five minutes, after which add one quart of common broth. Allow the extract to boil slowly by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour, pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin, and reserve it for working the sauces intended for (jratins of quails or larks, and also ioxfimet sauces fox pdtes-chaucls of either of the forementioned small birds. Exti’act of woodcocks or snipes is obtained in a similar manner. 220. EXTRACT OP HARE OR RABBIT. This is made by putting the bones or carcasses of either into a stewpan with two or three glasses of any sort of white wine, a bay- leaf, a sprig of thyme, and two shalots; and then submitting it to the action of a rather slow fire, until the liquid becomes reduced to a glaze, when a quart to three pints of common broth should be added. Put it on a brisk fire to boil, skim it well, and then put it by tlie side of the stove to simmer gently for an hour and a half; after which time, pass it tlirough a na])kin into a basin, and keep it for use as occasion may require. 221. COMMON GRAVY. Spread tlie bottom of a middle-sized stewpan with butter, and cover it witli thin slices of beef suet; place some slices of onions over this, and then add six pounds of gravy beef cut into thick slices, and any trimmings of meat there may be to spare; moisten with a quart of common broth, and set the stewpan over a brisk stove-fire to boil. When the broth is reduced to glaze, slacken the heat of the stove, by partially smothering it with ashes, and allow the gravy to acquire a deep red brown colour; then, fill the stewpan up with common broth or water, garnish with two carrots, two heads of ' celeiy, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, and, if the gravy has been filled up with water, add a spoonful of salt. Put the gravy to boil on tlie stove-fire, skim it thoroughly, tlien remove it to tlie side to continue gently boiling for about three hours; next, strain it through a broth-cloth into another stewpan, and proceed immediately to clarify it in the following manner: whisk up three whites of eggs with a little spring water, and after having removed all the grease from the surface of the gravy, incoiqiorate the whites of eggs in with it; whisk it over the stove-fire until it is nearly boiling, and then set it to simmer by the side for a quarter of an hour, and strain it tlirough a broth-cloth into a basin for use. 222. BLOND DE VEAU, OR VEAL GRAVY. Having first well buttered a large stewpan, lay therein one pound of the lean of a York ham cut in slices, a knuckle of veal, and the under part of a leg of veal; to these add an old ben and a couple of wild rabbits. Pour three pints of common broth over the meat, &c., and after putting the cover on the stewpan, place it on the stove- fire to boil down to a glaze; then slacken the heat so that it may gradually become browned. When the glaze darkens to a deep red tinge, fill it up with common broth or water, and set it on the stove; as soon as it boils, skim it tlioroughly, garnish with carrots, tumipsj E 2