FISH SOUPS. 86 339. SOUP OF FILLETS OF THAMES FLOUNDERS A L’ANGLAISH FiivLET ten Thames flounders, simmer the fillets in a little fresh butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. When done, place them in the soup-tureen with three dozen quenelles of Spey trout, and pour on them a soup made according to the following direc- tions : Put the hones and the trimmings of tlie flounders and the trout, from which the small quenelles are to be made, into a stewpan with caiTot, celery, parsley roots, a sprig of tliyme, and a few peppercorns. To these add three pints of common broth from the boiling stockpot (if possible) and a couple of glasses of Sauterne. WTien it has boiled for three-quai’ters of an hour, strain off the broth into a small soup- pot, and make it into a smooth white Veloute sauce; just before pouring it into the soup-tureen (containing the fillets of flounders and the small quenelles of trout already mentioned) finish it by mix- ing in with it a leason of six yolks of egg, a gill of cream, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon- juice, and cayenne pepper. 340. STURGEON SOUP A L’AMERICAINE. Procure six pounds of fresh stui’geon, one-third of which must be trimmed and tied so as to preserve it from falling to pieces while being braized, then put it in a stewpan, and cover it with some mire- poix (No. 236) or wine braize prepared as directed. Let it boil, and then set it in the oven for about an hour and a half, more or less, according to the size of tlie fish. Wlren this portion of the sturgeon is done, let it be put away in the larder to get cold, in order that it may be afterwards cut into scollops to be put into the soup. While tlie above is in course of preparation, make a brown sauce with the remainder of the sturgeon as follows; Butter a large stewpan, then cut two onions in slices and strew them over the bottom; on these place the sturgeon cut in thick shces, also two old hens partly roasted, and well colom’ed, a carrot, one head of celeiy, some parsley roots, thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a dozen peppercorns; then add a large ladle- ful of good stock, and put the whole to boil briskly on the fire until the broth is nearly reduced; slacken the stove to prevent the glaze thus obtained from being burnt, by which the unctuousness would be lost. Then proceed with tliis sauce exactly as shown for tlie treatment of brown sauce or Espagnole. Having thus produced a bright, thin, brown sauce, finish the soup by mixing in a ragout- spoonful of puree of turtle herbs, a piece of ancho^7 butter, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, and a glass oi Madeira. Let the scollops boil a few minutes in the soup previously to adding the butter, &c. Wlien about to serve up the soup, pour it into a tureen containing tkree dozen small quenelles of lobster, and send to table. 341. STURGEON SOUP A L’ANGLAISE. Prepare the sturgeon for this soup in tlie same way as for the preceding, with the exception that the sauce must be white. Having made a thin white Veloute sauce, in sufficient quantity for the pur- pose, and seasoned it with the same ingredients as before-named.