ENTREES OF QUAILS. 320 afterwards reduced by boiling to its proper consistency, strain it through a tammy into a hain-marie. When about to send to table, warm the fiUets carefully, dish them up as in, the former cases, fill the centre with scollops of truffles and mushrooms, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. Note.—In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing duck- lings for entries, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treated according to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and flanks; for which see those articles. ENTREES OF QUAILS, COMPRISING Quails, with stewed Peas. „ d la Perigueux. ,, d ia Financiere. ,, dla Royale. Cutlets of Quails, d la Marechale. Cutlets of Quails, d la Bordelaise. Fillets of Quails, d la Talleyrand. ,, dla Parisienne. Scollops of Quails, with Truffles. ,, with Cucumbers. 1041. QUAILS, WITH STEWED PEAS. Truss eight quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for boiling, put them into a ste'wqjan with half a pound of streaky bacon, and a garnished faggot of parsley in the centre, cover them vrith thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), and braize the quails gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Prepare about a pint of stewed pe’as, and finish them with a little of the mirepoix reduced to a glaze; dish up the quails in a circle with their breasts placed outwards, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a scollop of streaky bacon in between each quail, pour some Espagnole sauce, finished with some of t]ie mirepoix, round and over the free, and serve. 1042. QUAILS, A LA PERIGUEUX. Draw eight fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouch, or skin of the throat; fill each with some truffles cut into very small olives, and prepared as for stuffing fowls, &c. d la Perigueux (No. 660); then truss them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next, cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin layers of bacon, and place the quails thereon; put a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of garlick in the centre, cover them with layers of bacon, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; braize them gently for about three- quarters of an hour, and when done dish them up with their backs resting upright against a small ornamental crdustade of fried bread previously fastened on the centre of the dish; place a large white cock’s-comb between each quad, and some double cocks’-combs in the centre, with a large truffle to crown the whole; pour some Pirigueux sauce (No. 23), over the entrie, and serve. 1043. QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. Remote the bones entirely from eight fat quails, reserve the livers, and add to them half a pound of fat livers of fowl, with Avhich prepare some force-meat - (No. 249), and stuff the quails with part of this;