85 FISH SOUPS. eream, a little soluble cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; then pour the soup into the tureen containing the oysters reserved for that purpose, with about tliree dozen quenelles of whiting, and seiwe. 337. SOUP OF FILLETS OF SOLES A LA BAGRATION. Fillet three large soles, and place the fillets lengthwise in a sauta-pan wdth about two ounces of claidfied butter, season with a little pepper and salt, and some lemon-juice, cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for ten minutes, when they will be done. Take the fillets up, and set them in press between two dishes, and when cold, with a round tin cutter, stamp them out into small scollops, and place them in a small stewpan in the larder until wanted. Make some quenelle of the fillets of one large sole, colour it with some lobster coral, and mould it with two teaspoons into very small queyielles, which, when poached, place with the scollops of soles; to these add about three dozen blanched muscles. Mix with these ingredients about two quarts of tlie same kind of soup-sauce as used for the preceding soup, and when about sendng it up for table, place the scollops of soles, the muscles, and the red quenelles (first warmed in a small quantity of the soup) into the tureen, and then mix in with the soup a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pour it on to the scollops, &c., and serve. 338. EEL SOUP A LA RICHMOND. Fillet three Thames eels, and cut the fillets into small scollops; place these, in circular order, in a large sauta-pan containing about four ounces of clarified butter; season with cayenne pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley; set the covered sauta-pan on the stove-fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then add two glasses of sherry, after which let it boil sharply for a few minutes longer. Put the scollops of eels thus prepared into the soup-tureen, with three dozen tails of crayfish, and instantly pour over these a soup sauce, previously prepai’ed according to the following dhec- tions: Cut into shreds or dice, caiTot, celery, parsley roots, one shalot, and half a pottle of mushrooms. Put these into a stewpan with a sprig of thyme, a small bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, a few peppercorns and one blade of mace. Fry these ingredients with four ounces of butter until they begin to be of a light brown colour ; then thro w in tlie bones and trimmings of the eels, three dozen bruised crayfish, and a pint of Chablis wine. Allow this to boil briskly on die fire for five minutes, then add three pints of hlond of veal, and after it has boiled gently by the side of tlie stove-fire for three-quarters of an hour, strain the stock through a tammy-cloth with considerable pres- sure, in order to extract all the goodness from the vegetables, &c. Put the broth thus prepared inU a stewnen, and having thickened it with some white roux to the consistency of a thin sauce, work it according to the method observed for all sauces. Observe, that as this sauce is lor soup, it should be lighter in substance. Finish with a leason of eight yolks ol egg and season accordingly, and mix in with »t a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley.