329 ENTREES OF PHEASANTS. dozen croutons of fried bread cut in tlie shape of a heai’t loimd the base, and serve. Levesets, when cut up in small joints, may he dressed in the same manner as rahhits; which see. ENTREES OE PHEASANTS, COMPRISING Salmit of Pheasant, d la Bourguignotte. Scollops of Pheasant, d la Richelieu. „ d la Bresilienne. ,, d la Victoria. ,, d la Paysanne. „ d la Palerme, „ u la Chasseur. 1071. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. Roast the pheasant, let it become cold, and then cut it up as follows:—Eirst, remove the legs, then cut off the ffllets with the pinion- bones adhering thereto, sepai’ate the breast from the back, trim them both, cut them crosswise into halves, and place all the pieces in a stew- pan. Next, chop up the trimmings and put them into a stewpan with three shalots shced up, a small bay-leaf and sprig of thyme, a few pepper-coms, a blade of mace, and a pat of butter; fry these over a stove-fire until they are slightly browned, moisten them with half a pint of Claret or Burgundy, and set the whole to boil upon the stove until reduced to half the quantity; then add half a pint of white con- somme, and after the/amei has simmered by the side of the stove for a quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve into a stewpan containing sufficient Espagnole sauce for the entrk, and work it in the usual manner (by clarifying and reducing it), then pass it through a tammy into a basin. Pour one-third of the sauce over the pheasant, and put the remainder into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms, small truffles, glazed button-onions, and about twenty very small que- nelles. When about to send to table, warm the members of pheasant without allowing them to boil; dish them up, first placing the pieces of back, then the legs, and the fillets, surmounting the whole with the breast; garnish the salmis with the ragout disposed in groups round the base, place some heart-shaped croutons between these, pour the remainder of the sauce over the entrie, and serve. 1072. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA BRESILIENNE.* Roast the pheasant, and afterwards cut it up into small joints as in the foregoing case. Make a little farce with four pheasants’ livers (or these f^ng, fowls’ livers may be substituted), and use this to fill eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Chop the trimmings, and put them into a stewpan with two cloves of garlic, some chopned mushrooms, a blade of mace, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, twelve pepper- corns, and a tea-spoonful of the powder of sweet red pimento, four ounces of lean ham, and a good table-spoonful of salad oil; fry these over a moderate stove-fire for five minutes, then add six ripe tomatas, and after these ingredients have been stirred over the fire until the • Nde. The sweet red pimento, or Spanish pepper, is imported by Crosse .and Blac» WELL, Soho Square.