1^48 TURBANS AND MAZARINES. by larding one-balf of tbe fillets, and decorating the remainder with truffles or red tongue. 802. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA XOIENES. Tjiim tbe fillets of four middle-sized soles, contises half with red tongue, and the remainder with thin scollops of green Indian gher- Idns; prepare some quenelle force-meat with four whitings, with part of which mahe a cylindrical foundation in the manner described for the fillets of fowls d la Prince de Galles. Spread a coating of force- meat over this, and then place the fillets of soles roimd it in a slanting position, alternating those decorated Avith tongue with the others; the fillets must be neatly turned under the base, and securely fastened in- side the cylinder with the point of a knife and a little force-meat. Cover the turban with thin layers of fat bacon, and fasten a band of buttered paper round it with string. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked; when it is done, remove the paper and bacon, place the timhan carefully on its dish, garnish the centre with a ragout of muscles (No. 197), pour some Tomata sauce (No. 22) round the base, and serve. 803. MAZARINE OF WHITINGS, A LA ^^:NITIENNE. Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of five whitings, and mix therewith a large gravy- spoonful of puree of mushrooms (No. 122), some chopped parsley, two ounces of black truffles also chopped, and two whisked whites of eggs. Next, butter a plain round mould, line the inside with white paper, and then fill it with the force-meat. An hour before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in the usual way, and when done, turn it out of the mould on its dish; place a border of contises fillets of whitings round the top, fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish-tails and muscles, pour some Venetian sauce (No. 26), round the sides of the mazarine, and serve. 804. MAZARINE OF FAT LIVERS, A LA TOULOUSE. Pro CUBE two fine Strasbourg fat livers, cut therefrom twelve flat scollops in the form of flat fingers, and with the trunmings make some force-meat (No. 249). Next line a plain roimd mould with buttered white paper, and then fill it with the prepared ingredients thus: Spread a layer of force-meat half an inch thick at the bottom of the