456 PUDDINGS. 1400. BREAD PUDDING, PLAIN. Ingredients :—Twelve ounces of bread-crumbs, six ounces of.sugar, two ounces of butter, a pint of milk, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, six yoUcs of eggs, and two whites whipped, and a little salt. • Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, butter, lemou- sugar, and salt; then pour in the nulk boding, cover up the whole and leave it to steep for about ten minutes; the eggs may then be added, and after the whole has been well mixed together, pour the preparation into a mould, or pudding basin, previously spread with butter. Steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish it up with some arrow-root-sauce made as follows: Mix a dessert- spoonful of arrow-root with twice that quantity of sugar, half the juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and a giU of water, and stir this over the fire until it l)oils. 1401. RUSK PUDDING. Ingredients :—A dozen rusks, a plain custard of six eggs, a pint of cream, six oimces of sugar, a glass of maraschino, a little salt, and four ounces of dried cherries. Spread a plain mould with butter, arrange the cherries round the sides and bottom, dip the rusks in the custard, and place them in the mould with a layer of raspberry-j‘am between each layer of rusks ; fill up the mould with the custard, and steam the pudding in the usual manner. When done, dish it up with a German custard-sauce (No. 1392). 1402. APPLE PUDDING. Peel two dozen grey russets, remove the cores and cut them up in slices; then put the apples into a deep sautapan with four ounces of butter, the rind of two lemons, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and one poimd of apricot jam; toss the whole over a slow stove-fire imtil the apples begin to dissolve, and then set them aside to cool. Next, line a,good-sized pudding basin with some light-made suet paste, fill this with the prepared apples, place a covering of paste on the top, fasten it down securely, and then steam it in.the usual manner for about two hours. When the pudding is done, dish it up, pour some warm apricot jam over it, and serve. 1403. BISCUIT PUDDING, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. Ingredients :—Twelve ounces of crumbled Savoy cake, a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of two, the rind of a lemon rubbed on sugar, foim ounces of pounded sugar, and a little salt. Pour the pint of cream (boiling) on to the crumbled Savoy cake and let it steep for a few minutes ; then add the sugar, the eggs, the lemon-sugar and the salt: mix the whole lightly together, pour the preparation into a mould spread with . butter, and steam the pudding for about an hour and a quarter. When done, dish it up with a puree of cnri’ants and raspberries for the sauce, or else serve a custard sauce over it.