105 NATIONAL SOUPS. about three dozen small sausages made in manner following, viz.;— To four ounces of lean fillet of beef, add an equal quantity of beef suet; first chop, and then pound these well together in a mortar, season with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and some chopped pars- ley ; add three yolks of eggs, mix well together by pounding the whole ten minutes longer, after which proceed to roll the sausage meat into small round or oval shapes the size of a cob-nut; and, after frying these of a light colour in a little clarified butter, use them as directed above. 382. OLLA PODRIDA, OR SPANISH NATIONAL SOUP. Place some slices of raw ham at the bottom of the stockpot, add five pounds of gravy beef cut in slices, and a roasted old hen; gar- nish Avith the usual vegetables, two cloves, and mace; moisten with a quart of both, set the stockpot on the fire, and let the broth be re- duced to a glaze; fill it up with water as soon as it boils, skim it, and then set the stock to boil gently by the side of the stove. When the consomme has boiled two hours, throw in a large fowl and two part- ridges trussed for boiling, six pork sausages, and two Spanish sava- loys (which are to be had at Crosse and Blackwell’s,) watch the braizing of these, to prevent their being overdone; take them out when they are sufficiently braized, place them upon a dish to get cool, then divide the fowl and partridges into small members, trimming them neatly, and cut the sausages and savaloys also into small round balls, and place all these in a soup-pot, together with three carrots and as many turnips cut into the form of rather large-sized olives, and some shred celery and leeks, previously boiled in consomme with a small lump of sugar; to these must also be added some boiled yellow Spanish peas (garhancas) free from their hulls. After four hours’ boiling, strain the stock off, clarify it, and strain it again through a napkin; add it to the fore-named ingre- dients Avith a pinch of minionette pepper; boil the whole for ten minutes, and send to table. 383. TURKISH PILAPF, OR PILAU.’ Place a knuckle of veal on some slices of raAv ham in a stockpot, also a roasted shoulder of lamb and a large fowl trussed for boiling; fill up Avith common broth or water, and having skimmed the broth, garnish with the usual vegetables. As soon as the foAvl and lamb are done, take them up, and Avhen cold cut the meat off the shoulder of lamb into small cutlet-like pieces, and the fowl into neatly-trimmed members. Place these in a small soup-pot Avith half a pound of Carolina rice, boiled in some of the consomme, after it has been clari- fied and seasoned Avith an infusion of rather less than a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, and cayenne; and then having reduced tlie consomme to two-thirds of its original quantity, pour it upon the fore- going ingredients, adding six ounces of dried cherries or Sultana raisins; boil these together for a quarter of an hour, and send to table. This kind of soup is very nutritious, and, from the cayenne and saffron contained in it, is calculated to give tone to the stomach.