453 PUDDING, A LA COBURG. prevent tlie paste from adliering to it, and set in a rather cool place to rise: this will require about four houi’s. The paste must then be kneaded on the slab, and after it has been again placed in the cool for about half an hour, let it be cut up into about thirty pieces of equal size; knead these in the form of roimd balls, and place them by half- dozens, on separate sheets of paper spread with butter; the sheets of hrapfen must now be placed on baking-sheets, and set to rise in a warm part of the kitchen: when the krapfen have risen, immerse them in some clean hogs’-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and fry them of a light colour; as soon as they are done, drain them on a clean cloth, shake some cinnamon and orange sugar over them, dish them up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve them ivith some warm apricot-jam diluted with a little water or syrup. 1389. SEMOLINA PUDDING, A LA BADEN. Ingeedients required:—Twelve ounces of semoHna, sh; ounces of pounded sugar, eight ounces of butter, eight eggs, a piut of cream, a table-spooniul of orange-flower-water, two ounces of ratafias, and a little salt. Mix the semoHna with the sugar, the orange-flower-water, half the butter, two eggs, the cream, and salt, in a stewpan; stir this over a stove-&e until it bods, then work it perfectly smooth, and keep work- ing the paste over the stove-fire until it ceases to adhere to the sides of the stewpan; then, withdraw it from the fire, and gradually mix in the remainder of the eggs and butter, and also the bruised ratafias. Next, spread the inside of a plaiu mould with butter, and fill it with the preparation of semolina; put the bottom of the mould in a deep sautapan, half filled with hot water, and place it in the oven to bake for about an hour and a quarter; when done, turn the pudding out on to its dish, pom' either a fruit or custard sauce over it, and serve. 1390. DAMPFNUDELN, OR GERMAN DUMPLINGS. These are made with the same kind of paste as the krapfen (No. 1388), but half the quantity will suffice for this purpose. 'V^en the fermentation of the paste has properly taken place, let it be laid on the pastry-slab, kneaded iuto a dozen small rolls, and then placed in a deep sautapan, about an inch apart from each other: as much warm milk must be poured over them, as will sufiS^ce to cover their surface, and as soon as they have risen to nearly twice their original size, put them iu the oven to be baked of a Hght colour; just before with(frawing them from the oven, see that the milk is not absorbed by dampfnudeln, and let them be glazed over with sugar and the red-hot salamander. Dish them up on a napkiu, and send some vanilla-custard sauce separately ia a sauce-boat. 1391. PUDDING, A LA COBURG. Doe this purpose it is necessary to have some ready-baked brioche. This should be cut ia circular sHces, about an inch less in diameter than the mould iatended to be used for the pudding; the slices of brioche must be placed on a dish, and soaked ia maraschiao. The sides of the mould should be spread with butter, and ornamented with dried cherries and candied citron ; and previously to placmg the pieces of brioche in the mould, let each of them be spread with apricot-jam;