ENTREES OF LARKS. . 323 done, pour off tlie butter, add some scollops of cucumbers (No. 138^ and some of tbe essence made from the carcasses boiled down to a glaze; toss them over the fire for two minutes, and pile them up in the centre of the dish; garnish the entrk round with a border Oa croquettes made with the legs, and serve. ENTEEES OE LAEKS, COMPRISING Larks, d la Minute. Larks, witli Fine-herbs. „ d la Chipolata. „ with Truffles, d I’ltalienne. 1051. LARKS, A LA MINUTE. Cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a small knife; then place the larks in a deep sautapan previously spread with butter; season with pepper and salt, and ^ them over a brisk fire until they have acquired a brown colour, and are nearly done ; all the grease must be poured off, and a large gravy-spoonful of Espagnole sauce, half a pottle of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat ot butter, and the juice of half a lemon, should then be added; toss them over the stove-fire until the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with fried croutons of bread round them, pour the mushrooms nnd sauce over the entree, and serve. 1052. LARKS, A LA CHIPOLATA. Pbbpaee and fry the larks as directed in the foregoing case, and when done, pour off the grease, and add some Chipolata ragout (No. 190) ; toss and simmer this over the stove-fire for five minutes, then dish up eight of the larks upon as many small oval croutons, place eight more croutons on these, and set a like number of larks upon them; fiE the centre with the ragout, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 1053. larks, with fine-herbs. Teim the larks and draw the gizzards, place them in a sautapan with a little butter, pepper and salt; fry them of a bght-brown coloiu’ over a brisk fire, and then add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley, and two shalots also chopped; simmer these vtith the larks for five minutes longer, then add a gravy-spoonful of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, the juice of half a lemon and a little grated nutmeg; toss the whole well together over the fire for two minutes, and dish them in a neat pyra- midal form, place some croutons of fried bread round the entrie, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 1054. larks, with truffles, a l’italienne. Eet these as directed in the foregoing cases, and when they have acquired a light-brown colour, pour off the grease, add some brown Itidian sauce (N d. 12), half a pottle of mushrooms, and about two •ounces of truffles cut into scoUops; toss the whole together over the T 2