91 ENGLISH SOUPS. of herbs intended to be used; winter savory, marjoram, and lemon- thyme, in equal quantities, making up the other two-thirds: add to these a double-handful of parsley, half a bunch of green onions, a handful of green shalots, and some trimmings of mushrooms; moisten witli a quart of broth, and having stewed these herbs for about an hour, rub the whole tlirough tlie tammy into a puree. This puree being added to the soup, a little crystallized soluble cayenne pepper should then be introduced. The pieces of turtle, as well as the fins, which have been also cut into small pieces and the larger bones taken out, should now be allowed to boil in the soup for a quarter of an hour, after which carefully remove the whole of the skum as it rises to tlie surface. The degree of seasoning must be ascertained that it may be corrected if faulty. To excel in dressing turtle, it is necessaiy to be very accurate in the proportions of the numerous ingredients used for seasoning this soup. Nothing should predominate, but the whole should be hai’- moniously blended. Put the turtle away in four-quart sized basins, dividing tlie fat (after it has been scalded and boiled in some of the sauce) in equal quantities into each basin; as also some small quenelles, which are to be made with tlie fillets of hens reserved for that purpose, and in which, in addition to the usual ingredients in ordinai’y cases, put six yolks of eggs boiled hard. Mould these quenelles into small round balls to imitate turtles’ eggs, roll them with the hand on a marble slab or table, with the aid of a little flour, and poach them in the usual way. When the turtle soup is wanted for use, wai’ni it, and just before sending it to table, add a small glass of sheriy or Madeira, and the juice of one lemon to every four quarts of turtle. The second stock of the turtle consomme should be strained off after it has boiled for two hours, and immediately boiled down into a glaze very quickly, and mixed in with the turtle soup previously to putting it away in the basins; or else it should be kept in reserve for the puiq)ose of adding proportionate quantities in each tureen of turtle as it is seiwed. 348. CLEAR TURTLE SOUP. Proceed in the preparation of the turtle stock, in every respect, according to the preceding instructions. The glutinous parts of the turtle having been cut into squares, select the dark-coloured pieces proceeding from the back shell, and keep them for the clear turtle. When the turtle stock has boiled six hours, strain it off and divide it into two equal parts; the one to be finished in the usual manner, the other to be first freed from every particle of grease, and afterwards clarified in the usual manner, with two whites of eggs whipped up with a little spring water, and tlic addition of a glass of French white wine, or the juice of a lemon; add a proportionate quantity of turtle herbs, to give the requisite flavour, and set it to boil on the stove-fire, whisking it the whole time. As soon as the egg begins to separate in the stock, remove it to the side of the stove, pour in half a bottle of Madeira, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the egg be thoi’oughly set. Then proceed to strain it through a napkin into a large stewpan, in which