432 FRITTERG. tiiem of a light colour ; -when done, drain them on a sheet of paper, break off any rough parts, sugar them, glaze them ovci with the red- hot salamander, and dish them up on a napkin. Note.—This kind of fritter may be varied by changing the flavour- ing, and also by adding a proportionate quantity of either grated chocolate, pulverized almonds, essence of coffee, or lightly-burnt sugar. 1337 a. PRINCESS fritters. This kina of fritter is prepared from the remains of Brioclie, Baha, Savarm, Compicgne cake, or Kouglaiiff; which ever of the foregoing happens to be used for the specified purpose, should be first cut up into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and then again cut out into small circular shapes with a tin-cutter, about the diameter of a five- shdling piece ; place these in a sautapan previously strewm with orange sugar, and pour over them sufficient cream to cover them, shake some more orange sugar over the entire surface, and when about to fry the fritters, dip each separately in very bght and deHcately-made frying- batter. When these fritters are fried crisp, let them be brightly glazed with sifted sugar and the red-hot salamander; and, after being dished up, pour some apricot-jam, diluted with a little orange flower- water, roimd the base, and serve. 1337 6. PORTUGUESE FRITTERS. Ingeediekts :—Eight otmces of Carolina rice, four ounces of sugar, two ounces of fresh butter, a quart of milk, a small stick of cinnamon, and a pound-pot of orange-marmalade, and six eggs. Thoroughly pick and wash the rice, and then place it in a convenient-sized stew- pan, together with the sugar, butter, milk and cinnamon; allow the whole to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire, imtil the w'hole of the milk is absorbed by the rice, w'hen, if the simmering has been gradual and slow, the grains of rice wdl be satisfactorily done. Next, add the orange-marmalade, and the yolks of the six eggs; stir the whole over a quick stove-fire until the eggs are set firm in the prepa- ration ; it must now be turned out upon a clean dish or baking-sheet, and spread equally to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and when this has become cold, must be cut out in oblong shapes, which, after being first dipped in light frying-batter, are to be med crisp, glazed with ciunamon-sugar, and dished up on a napkin. 1337 C. DIAVOLTNI. Ingeedlents :—Eight ounces of groimd rice, fom- ounces of sugar, a quart of milk, two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of essence of ginger, six eggs, one pound of presented ginger. Mix the rice, sugar, milk and butter together in a stewpan, and stir the produce over a stove-fire until it thickens; it must then be re- moved from the fire, and after being worked quite smooth, and the lid being put on the stewqian, set it either in the oven or over a slow ash- fire to finish doing ; this will be effected in about half an hour. The rice must now be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger pre- viously cut into very small dice-like shapes, the essence of ginger and the six yolks of eggs, being added thereto, stir the whole over a quick