314 ENTEEES OE PIGEOJNS A2^D DUCKLmGS, COSIPIUSLNG Pigeons, i la Gauthier. „ d la Crapaudine ,, d la Duchesse. ,, d la Seville. „ au gratin, in a c^^e. ,, d la Maintcnon. Compote of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. „ witli Peas. Fillets of Pigeons, d la Villei'oi. Fillets of Pigeons, d la Borghese. ,, d la Bourguignotte, „ d I’Allemande. Ducklings, d la Itouennaisc. „ stewed with Olives. ,, with stewed Peas. Fillets of Ducklings, d la Bigarrade." „ d la Macedoine. Salmis of Fillets of Ducklings. 1022. PIGEONS, A LA GAUTHIEK. Peocuke four young fat pigeons, di-aw, singe, and truss them with their legs thrust inside. Next, put a half-pound of fresh butter into a small stewpan -with the juice of a lemon, a little mignionette-pepper and salt; place this over a stove-fire, and when it is melted, put the pigeons with a garnished faggot of parsley in it, cover the whole with thru layers of fat bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and set them to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes, when they will be done. The pigeons must then be drained upon a napkiu, and after all the greasy moisture has been absorbed, place them in the dish in the form of a square, with a large quemlle of fowl (decorated with truffles) iu between each pigeon ; fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish-tads (No. 196), pour some of the sauce over and roimd the pigeons, and serve. 1023. PIGEONS, A LA CRAPAUDINE. Aetee the pigeons have been cut in halves, lengthwise through the breast, flatten each of these -with a cutlet bat, and then remove the bones from the breasts and legs; season mth pepper and salt, and simmer them in a sautapan with some clarified butter over the fire until they become partly set; they must then be put in press between two dishes, and when they have become cold, should be bread-crumbed twice : first after being dipped in the beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter. When about to send to table, brod the pigeom of a light colour over a clear fire; then glaze them lightly and dish them up, pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29), to which must be added some chopped and parboded shalots and parsley, and seiwe. 1024. PIGEONS, A LA DUCHESSE. Eemove the bones entirely from six very young pigeons; stuff them with some quenelle force-meat of veal mixed with a spoonftd of sauce and some chopped mushrooms; sew them up neatly so as to give them an appearance of plumpness; put them in a stewpan with some white poele (No. 230), and braize them very gently over a slow fire for about twenty miuutes ; the pigeons must next be removed on to a dish and allowed to become partially cold ; they should then be covered ad over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce (No. 7), and when this is become set upon them by cooling, rod them first