265 SCOLLOPS OF MTJTl’ON, Note.—The garnishes here alluded to will ser\'e for ujution scollops generally. 860. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTOX, A LA CLAREMONT. Prepaee the scoUops as in the foregoing case, fry them brown, pour off all the grease, and add enough Claremont sauce (No. 58), for the entree, set the whole to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, and serve. 861. SCOLLOPS OF IVrUlTON, WITH OYSTERS. These are prepared according to the foregoing directions, and when the grease has been poured off, add as much brown oyster sauce (No. 51) as will suffice for the entree, simmer the whole together on the fire for three minutes, and serve. 862. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, A lTnDIENNE. Prepare the scollops in the usual manner, fry them brown, pour off the grease, add then some curry sauce (No. 47) and a minced mangoe ; simmer the Avhole together on the fire for five minutes, and send to table with some plain boiled rice served separately. 863. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH OLIVES FARCIES.* These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, and when they have been fried and the grease poured off, add twn dozen olives farcies, two large gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a little cayenne and lemon-jmee, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole together, allow the scollops to simmer briskly on the stove-fire for three minutes, and then serve. 864. SCOLLOPS OF aiUTTON, WITH IMUSHROOMS AND TRUFFLES. Sautez or fry the scollops brown, then *pour off the fat, and add a small glass of Madeira, a dozen button-mushrooms, three ounces of truffles cut into scollops, a little cayenne, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole together over the stove fire imtil mixed, and then add enough finished Espagnole sauce for the entree, and a little lemon-juice; cet the scollops to simmer on the fire for three minxites, and serve. PEAIZED CAEBONNADES OP MUTTON, COMPRTSTNG Carhonnades of Jlutton, d la Richelieu. Fillets of Mutton, larded, with Chevreuil „ „ d la Danpldnoise, gfiuce, or Roebuck fashion, &c. j, „ d la Flamandc. Ilaricdt of JIutton, d la Nivernaise. 865. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA RICHELIEU. Bone two loins of mutton, leaving the small fillets adhering thereto; divest them of all the inside fat, season with pepper and salt, cut oft' the loose ends and flaps, and then roll them up tight, keeping the • Olives farcies, or stuffed olives, are sold in small bottlea, and may be procured .at Cross .and Blackwell, .‘^oho Square