HAUICOT OF MUTTO^’. 267 part where the carbonnades join to each other; place a crescent of timhp round the base of the sprouts, add a neat border of glazed carrots, and garnish the base of the entree with a Jardiniei'e (No. 14*4) ; poirr some bright tlnn Espagnole sauce uuder the entree, and serve. Note.—Carbonnades, prepared and trimmed as directed in Nos. 865 and 867, may also be served with every sort of vegetable garnish, or puree of vegetables, described in this work. 868. FILLETS OF MUTTON LARDED, WITH CIIEVREUIL SAUCE, OR ROEBUCK FASHION. Ba:move the fillets from two louis of mutton, pare off all the siuewy skin that lies beneath the fat, and divide each fillet, lengthwise, into four, these, together with the smaller fillets thus trimmed also, will make up ten; trim these and lard them closely with strips of fat bacon, in the usual way. The fillets must then be steeped iu a cold marinade (No. 234) for about forty-eight hours; after which, drain them upon a napkin to absorb any unnecessary moisture. Next, place the fillets in a sautapan thickly spread with butter, and turn them round in a semicircular form; moisten with a little mirepoix (No. 236), or a glass of sheny; cover them with a buttered paper and set them in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes; they must then be glazed, trimmed neatly round the en(fc, and dished up in a close circle, overlapping each other; fill the centre with potatoes cut in the form of olives, and fried in butter; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) imder the fillets, and serve. Note.—Pdlets of mutton prepared as the foregoing, may also be garnished with quenelles of potatoes, with Chevreuil sauce (No. 69), Victoiia sweet sauce, Tomata, Fiquante, Gherkins, or Provengale sauce. 869. haricot of mutton, a la nivernaise. Cut a neck of mutton into untrimmed cutlets, pare off any super- fluous fat, put them into a large stewpan with four ounces of butter, and fiy them over a brisk fire until they become brown; then pour off the greater portion of grease, and shake in a good handful of flour, stir the whole over the fire for about five minutes, moisten with three pints of broth, and stir the haricot on the fire till it boils. Mean- while, prepare some carrots and turnips, cut in the form of small pears, olives, half-moons, or any other fancy shape, and thi’ow these into the haricot; a dozen small onions may also be added: season \vith a garnished faggot of parsley, and some mignionette pepper. Keep the haricot gently boiling by the side of the fire for about one hour and a half; skim ofl' all the grease, remove the faggot of parsley, place the cutlets and vegetables in another stewpan, and after having boiled the sauce down (if necessary), pass it through a tammy upon the cut- lets. When about to send to table, warm the haricot, dish the cutlets in the usual manner, fill the centre mth the vegetables, pour the sauce viver all, and sersx-. Note.—Breasts of mutton with the superfluous fat removed, and cut into small square pieces, make a very good haricot, or stew. The foregoing may be varied by substituting ^een-peas, young carrots, turnips, or new potatoes for the vegetables directed to be used..