59 QUENELLE FOilUE-MEATS. two others gradually; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix well by pounding the quenelle vigorously, and then take it up into a basin for use as required. Quenelle of every sort of delicate fish is pi’epared' in a similar manner to the above. 247. QUENELLES OP LOBSTERS. Take the meat of two or more hen lobsters, cut this into thin slices, and pound it thoroughly with two ounces of fresh butter; force it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and add two-thirds of its quantity of panada, and a similar proportion of fresh butter. Pound these well together, adding by intervals three whole eggs and a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg: mix well together by pounding, and then take tlie quenelle up into a basin for use. 248. FORCE-MEAT OP LIVER AND HAM, FOR RAISED PIES. Take the whole or part of a light-coloured calf’s liver, or several fat livers of any kind of poultry, if to be obtained. If calf’s liver be used, cut it into rather small square pieces, and, if time permit, steep them in cold spring water in order to extract the blood, so that the force-meat may be whiter. Take the pieces of liver out of the water, and place them upon a clean rubber to drain the water from them. Meanwhile, cut some fat ham or bacon (in equal pro- portion to the liver) into square pieces, put them into a sauta-pan on a brisk fire to fry, after which add the pieces of liver, and fry the whole of a light brown colour: season with cayenne pepper and salt, and a little prepared aromatic spice (No. 1250), some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and three shalots. After this take the pieces of liver and ham out of the pan, lay th.em on a chopping-board, and chop them fine; then put them into a mortar with the remaining contents of the pan; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a wire sieve on to an earthen dish. This kind of force-meat, or farce, is an excellent ingredient in making raised pies. 249. FORCE-AIEAT, OR FARCE, FOR PRESERVING GAME IN. To six pounds of boned game, of the kind intended to be pre- served, add four pounds of fat bacon or ham, and two pounds of fat livers (or, failing these, calf’s liver); cut the whole into small square pieces, and proceed as follows: First fry the pieces of bacon in a large sauta-pan, and when they become slightly browned, throw in the game and livers; season with pepper and salt, aromatic spices, chopped mushrooms, and three or four shalots; fry the whole till the game is thoroughly done. Then chop and pound all these ingredients together; and afterwards rub them through a wire sieve; after which put the farce into a clean pan, and keep it covered over with buttered paper. It should be used the same day that it is made, for the sooner preseiwes are out of hand the better. The use of this/arce will be shown in its proper place. Note.—When about to preserve game in earthen pans for the spring or summer season, great care should be taken in selecting fresh game for that purpose, as when preserves are made with stale