450 PANCAKES. Note.—SouJjUs of currants, strawberries or gooseberries, are made in the same way. 1380. BROWN-BREAD SOUFFLE, A L*ALLEMANDE. Put one pound of brown bread-crumbs into a stewpan, with a pint of cream, ten ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of butter, and a iittle salt, and flavour it with some cinnamon-powder and lemon-sugar. Stir this over the stove-fire \mtil it boils, then remove it, and add the yolks of ten eggs; next, w'hip the whites quite firm, and mix them in lightly with the preparation, then pour it into the soupe-ca.se, and bake ft in the usual manner : when done, shake some cinnamon-sugar over it, and serve. 1381. OMELEITE SOUFFLE. Put the yolks of six eggs into a large basin, add six ounces of pounded sugar, a dessert-spoonful of potato-flour, ditto of orange- flower-water (or any other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes), and a very little salt; stir these together wth a wooden spoon for about ten minutes ; then whip the six whites, and mix them in lightly with the batter. Next, put two ounces of butter into an omelet-pan, set it on a stove-fire, and as soon as the butter begins to sputter, pour the whole of the omelet-batter into it; set the pan ever the fire, and as the batter becomes partially set round the sides and at the bottom of the pan, toss it over and over gently, and then turn the omelette out neatly, and as much as possible in the form of a dome, on to a silver dish previously spread Avith butter; put it in the oven, and bake it for about twelve minutes, -when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some sugar on the omelette, and serve it imme- diately. 1382. PANCAKES, PLAIN. Mix four ounces of flour with four ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of bruised ratafias, a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower-water, four yolks and two whole eggs, a pint of cream and a very little salt. When nfilk is used instead of cream, two ounces of butter should be added, and must be melted previously to its being mixed in with the batter. When about to fry the pancakes, melt about two ounces of butter in a small ste>vq)an, and keep this by the side of the stove; before throwing any of the batter into the pan, first pour a little of the butter over the bottom; fry the pancakes on both sides of a very light-browm colour, pile them one upon another on the dish and serve immediately. Plain pancakes should be eaten with a litde lemon- juice and some pounded sugar. 1383. PANCAKES, A LA CELESTEsUi. Peepahe the pancakes as above, and as each is fried, spread some apricot-jam upon it, then roll it up, and place it on a baldng-sheet in the oven; when a sufficient numoer is ready, shake some sifted sugar over them, glaze them with a red-hot salamander, and then dish up the pancakes on a napkin in close circular order, in double or treble rows, and serv^e them quite hot.