SOUFFLES. 449 dimmer very gently on a slow fire for an hour, by wbicb time the grains of the rice will have become quite soft; the whole should now be well worked with a wooden spoon, and the ten yolks of eggs, with the rind of the lemons rubbed on sugar, should then be added, and if the rice be too firm, a little cream also. The ten whites of eggs must be whipped very firm, then lightly mixed in with the prepara- tion, and poured into the souffle case or crust, baked for about three- quarters of an hour, and served immediately. 1374. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. This is made by adding eight ounces of finely-scraped vanilla cho- colate to two-thirds of the same kind of preparation directed to bo used in making a patato-flour souffle. The same number of eggs are also required. 1375. COFFEE SOUFFLE, Put eight ounces of Mocha cofiee into an untinned stewpan or sugar-boiler, and roast it of a light colour, by stirring it continually over a charcoal fire. "When the cofiee has acquired a light-brovm colour, toss it up in the pan, blow away the small bmmt particles, and then tlu-ow it into a pint of boiling cream ; put the lid on the infusion, and allow it to stand for about half an hour, in order to extract the flavoTU’. Then, strain the infusion away from the coffee-berries, in a 1)asin, and use it to mix up the souffle, in exactly the same manner as described for the potato-flour souffle. 1376. GESTGER SOUFFLE. Peepaee a potato-flour souffl6, and add to it eight ounces of pre- served ginger cut up into small dice-like pieces. The vanilla must of course be omitted. 1377. PINE-APPLE SOUFFLE. Follow the directions for making a potato-flour souffle, adding to it about one pound of preserved pine-apple, cut up into small pieces ; the syrup of this should also be added. 1378. SOUFFLE OF APRICOTS. Remove the stones, and peel eighteen ripe apricots, then put them, together with the kernels, into a stewpan with twelve ounces of pounded sugar; stir this over the fire with a wooden spoon, and as soon as the fruit is boiled down to a jam, withdraw it from the fire, and mix it with half the usual quantity of the preparation for a potato-flour souffle. The same number of eggs are required, and in all other respects the same directions should be foUowed. Note.—Souffles of peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums, are pre- pared in the same manner ag the above. 1379. SOUFFLE OP RASPBERRIES. Put one pound of picked raspberries into a small preserving pan, with twelve ounces of pounded sugar, stir the whole over a charcoal fire imtil it has boiled for about five minutes, and then rub it through a sieve. Use this preparation as directed for making a souffli of apricots. 2 a