ENTREES OF FOWLS. 306 after beinfr sprinkled over vritli clarified butter. Then, place the fillets in neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter; and when about to send to table, fry them of a light colour on both sides, drain them upon a napkin, and then dish them up closely in a circle; place the minion fillets (which should be decorated with truffle, and simmered in butter), in a row upon the top of the inner edge of the others; fill the centre with scollops of truffles, previously simmered in a little glaze and a very small piece of butter ; pour some Supremo sauce (No. 38) under the entree, and serve. 998. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA ROYALE. Trim the fillets of four fowls without removing the small fillets, then closely lard one-hall of them, and decorate the other fonr with black truffle, in the same way as described for fillets a la Parisienne (No. 992) ; place these fillets in separate sautapans, tlie larded ones npon thin layers of fat bacon, and moistened witli some half-glaze, and the decorated fillets covered with clarified butter. Just before send- ing to table, put both in the oven for about five minutes; then with- draw the decorated fillets, glaze the larded ones, put them back for jwo minutes, and glaze them again. Dish them up, placing alternately a larded fillet with a decorated one; fill the centre with a ragout of scollops of fat livers and truffles tossed in a little Allemande sauce (No. 7) ; pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 999. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA FINANCIERE. Cut out the fillets of four fowls, with the pinion-bones left adher- ing thereto, trim them in the usual way, and lard the whole of the fillet closely; then place them in order in a sautapan upon thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some strong consomme, and set them to braize in the oven, or else covered with a lid containing some live embers of charcoal: about ten minutes will suffice to do them ; they must next be glazed, and placed into the oven to dry the larding, and then glazed a second time. The fillets mnst then be dished np, and arranged in their natural order, that is, the right hand fillets to the right, and the left hand to the left. Edl the centre with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 181), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Note.—Fillets of fowls, larded and prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with purees of endive, green-peas, asparagus, d la Mace- doine ; with stewed peas, scollops of cucumbers, asparagus-peas, &c. 1000 FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA d’UXELLES. Trim the fillets of three or four fowls, removing the minion fillets, which should be decorated with black truffles as described in No. 992, and afterwards placed in a sautapan with clarified butter. Cover the larger fillets with a coating of D'Uxelles sance (No. 16), over which, when it has become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, bread- crumb them twice; once after dipping them in beaten eggs, and the second time after they have been sprinkled over Avith clarified butter. They must then be gently patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to •end to table, fry the fillets on both sides, of a bright-yellow colour