CUSTAIID FRITTERS. 431 1333. PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. Peel the pine-apple without waste ; if it is small, cut it into slices m the same manner as apples ; but if the fruit happens to he large, it should be cut up in pieces about the size of a finger; these must be then steeped with a glass of maraschino and a spoonful of pounded sugar, m a basiu for several hours, previously to their being fried in batter; this should be mixed with cream. In other respects, finish these as directed for apple fritters. 1334. OR^LNGE FRITTERS. Choose some thin-skinned oranges, peel them, divide them iiito quarters, remove the pips, and then put them to steep in a basin with a glass of brandy, a spoonful of sugar, and some grated rind of orange. Previously to frying the fritters, drain the pieces of oranges from the brandy, &c., throw them into some light-made batter (No. 232), then take them out one by one, drop them gently in some heated hog’s- lard, and fiy them of a light colour; finish these in the usual manner. 1335. PEACH FRITTERS. Cut the peaches into quarters, remove the skins, and put them to steep in a basin with a glass of noyeau and a spoonful of sugar; then firy them in batter, as directed in the foregoing cases. Note.—Fritters of apricots and large plums are prepared as the above ; brandy being used instead of Liqueur, to steep the fruit in. 1336. SPANISH PUFFS. Peepaee zom.e petits-cTwux paste (No. 1291). Next, cut a sheet of foolscap-paper into four pieces, spread these with butter, and then take up as much of the paste as will stand in a small tea-spoon ; press it out in rows on the paper, in the form of round balls: this shoiild be done just before frying them. "When about to send to table, take hold of the sheets of paper containing the pufis, at one comer, and as they are immersed in the hot hog’s-lard, shake them gently off the paper; fry them of a light colour, and when done, drain them on a wire-sieve covered with paper to absorb any grease : some fine sugar must then be shaken over them, previously to their being dished up on a napkin, in a conical form 1337. CUSTARD FRITTERS. Ingeediehts :—One pint of cream, ten yolks of eggs, one ounce of potato-flour, six ounces of sugar, a little cinnamon and grated lemon- peel. Mix the above ingredients together in a basin, after having first boiled the cinnamon and lemon in the cream ; strain the whole through a sieve, and then pour the custard into a plain mould, previously spread with butter : steam the custard in the usual manner, and when done, allow it to become cold, preparatory to its being cut up into slices^ about half an inch thick, and then divided into squares of about two inches each: place these on a dish, and sprinkle them with a little cinnamon-powder, and a spoonful of brandy. When about to send to table, dip each piece of custard separately in some light-made batter (No. 232), then drop them into some hot hog’s-lard, and fry