192 REMOVES OF HAM. jelly, it must be then taken out, tnmmed, glazed, and disked up, with some aspic-jelly, made with the addition of the essence of ham. 649. WESTPHALIA HAM, ROASTED A LA ST. JAMES. Peepaee a AVestphalia ham in every respect according to the first part of the previous directions, and having allowed it to steep in the mirepoix the allotted time, run a large iron skewer through it, and fasten it at each end on to the spit with string; next reduce the mirepoix, vegetables, &c., of which it is composed, and cover the under part of the ham therewith ; then wrap the whole of the ham up with large sheets of cartridge-paper, previously weU oiled for the purpose; over the paper put a covering of venison paste, as is usual when about to prepare venison for roasting. Cover the said coating of flour and water paste, with greased paper, and tie on this with string. About five hours before the ham is required for table, put it dovm to roast before a moderate fire; when it has been down about three hours and a half, take it up, make a hole in the paste, and with a funnel, infuse half a pint of brandy, or in preference to this, if you have it, as much Malaga wine; stop the hole up with paste, and put the ham down to the fire to roast for twenty minutes longer; then take it up, and remove it carefully from the spit, so as not to lose any portion of the essence contained within the coating of crust that surrounds the ham. Trim the ham, and set it to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven, glaze it and dish it up, using the essence reserved for the pur- pose, in order to give flavour to the sauce intended to be served with it. Westphalia hams, thus dressed, may be sensed with any of the garnishes described as appropriate for baked hams. 650. BRAIZED HAM, A LA PARISIENHE. * Trim, soak, and bod a ham, either Westphalia or home-cured, as the case may be ; when it has boiled in water about an hour, take it up and put it into cold water, and after having scraped the rind clean, place it in an oval braizing-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, and garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, and two blades of mace • moisten with a glass of brandy and half a bottle of sherry, and sufficient broth to cover the surface the ham; put the lid on, and as soon as it has boiled, set the pan on a slow fire, to continue gently braizing for about five hours and a half. When the ham is done, take it up and trim it, leaving, as usual, enough of the rind adhering to the knuckle part, and on this cut out (with the point of a sharp * Note. All foreign haras are imported in perfection by Crosse and Blackwell, Soho Square.