88 WATER SOUCHETS. cient quantity to thicken the soup, and stir it on the fire a few minutes longer; tlien take the stewpan off the stove and mix the sturgeon broth in carefully, so as to keep the sauce smooth. Add two tablespoonfuls of Crosse and Blackwell’s cwry paste, and after allowing it to boil, lift it off the fire and set it by the side of the stove, there to throw up all the butter it contains, and to clarify itself in the usual way. When this is effected, rub the soup-sauce, including the vegetables, &c., through a tammy into o. puree, which put into a soup-pot with the scollops and tlie cartilaginous parts of tlie stm’geon; after boiling the whole togetlier for a quarter of an hour, skim tlie surface, and finish by adding a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and the juice of a lemon. Send to table with a plate of plain boiled Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. 343. WATER SOUCHET OE CRIMPED SALMON. Perfection in the preparation of this dish can only be attained by using the fish a few hours after it is caught. Moreover, those en- gaged in catching the fish should be instructed to cut it into slices half an inch thick, and to keep it in cold spring water for a couple of hours or so; when, as is well known, the salmon will acquire tliat degree of firmness peculiar to all crimped fish. Place the slices of salmon in a stewpan with some shred parsley roots previously boiled for the purpose, and also the water they have been boiled in, some picked parsley leaves, minionette pepper, and sufficient salt to season it; moisten with some essence offish, which should be made either from the inferior pieces of the salmon or else with half a dozen flounders or slips. Let the water souchet thus far prepared boil briskly until the salmon be done, wdiich will require about six minutes. It should be served quickly, but just before sending to table, you may add a little bright consomme. Many, how- ever, prefer the latter omitted, considering tliat it diminishes the sweetness of the crisp creamy salmon. With all water souchets send plates of broum bread and butter. 344. WATER SOUCHET OF PLAIN SALMON. Trim and fillet the required quantity of plain salmon; place the fillets neatly side by side in a stewpan, and put them by till dinner- time. Meanwhile prepai'e the water-souchet broth as follows:—Put the ti’immings of the salmon into a ste^\'pan, with carrot, celeiy, and pai’sley roots, the whole sliced up. Add a little minionette pepper and salt, and about two glasses of French white wine; fill up with water or weak broth, allow it to boil, and then set it by the side of tlie stove to continue gently boiling for half an hour; then strain the souchet off through a napkin on to the fillets of salmon, set them to boil briskly on the fire for about five minutes, add tlie shred parsley roots and picked parsley leaves; and when the whole has boiled together for three minutes, serve the water souchet in a deep silver dish or small soup-tui’een. 345. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF PERCH. Procure four good-sized perch, clean and fillet them. Place the fillets neatly in a deep sauta-pan, and put them in the larder until