JELLIES. 4G1 drops of prepared cocliincai; stir these together, and then pour tho jelly into the mould previously imbedded in rough ice. Note. Lemon jeUy d la Frangaise is prepared in the same manner as the foreo-oing, except that the cochineal must be omitted, and four ounces of sugar added to cj^ualify the acidity of the lemons. 1416. POMEGEANATE JELLY. Extract the bright pips from six ripe pomegranates, bruise these in a basin, with one pound of roughly-pounded sugar, add thereto a gin of spring-water, and then filter the preparation through a beaver jeUy-bag, without the aid of paper pulp, in order to preserve the deli- cate flavour of the fruit: when either paper or sand is made use of for the purpose of filtering the juice of any kind of delicate flavoured fruit, although the juice is rendered brighter, it certainly loses much of its original flavour. The filtered juice of the pomegranates must then be mixed with two ounces of clarified isinglass, six drops of cochineal, and, if necessary to make out the quantity of jelly required to fill the mould, some thin clarified syrup may be added. Set a jeUy mould in a basin of rough ice, and fill the mould with alternate layers of jeUy and the bright pips of this fr-uit. Note.—A glass of noyeau or maraschino may be added, if approved of. 1417. PINE-APPLE JELLY. Peel a pine-apple of about one-poimd weight, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these into a basin. Clarify one pound of loaf-sugar with a pint of spring-water, the juice of two lemons, and half the white of an egg whipped with a little water; when thoroughly skimmed, strain the syrup on to the pine-apple, allow it to bod for three minutes, then cover it down with a sheet of paper twisted roimd the basin, and allow the infusion to stand for several hours, in order to extract the flavour. When about to mix the jeUy, strain the syrup through a napkin into a basin, and put the pieces of pine-apple to drain upon a sieve; add two ounces of darified isinglass to the pine-apple syrup, and then pour the jeUy into a mould previously imbedded in rough ice. 1418. CUREANT AND EASPBEEEY JELLY. Pick the stalks from one quart of red currants and a pottle of rasp- berries, then put these into a large basin with half a pound of pounded sugar and a gill of spring-water; bruise them thoroughly, by squeezing them with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon against the sides of the basin, then throw the whole into a beaver jelly-bag, and filter the juice, pouring it back into tho bag until it runs through perfectly bright; next add half a pint of clarified syrup, and two oimces of clarified isinglass to the juice, and pour the jelly into a mould placed in rough ice to receive it. Note.—This kind of jelly serves for the foundation of several others • for instance, it may be garnished with a Macedoine of fruits, with white raspberries, with currants, strawberries, peaches, or cherries ; either