39 ESSENCES, GRAVIES, AND PREPARED SAVORY BUTTERS. FOR FINISHING SAUCES, &c., COIIPKISIKO Essence of Shalots. „ Truffles. „ Mushrooras. ,, Fine Herbs for broiled meats. „ Orange for wild fowl. „ Aspic-jelly. „ Woodcocks. „ Game for broiled partridges, &o. „ Garlic for broiled fowls, &c. „ Anchovies for broiled steaks, &c. Essence of Sage and Onions for geese and ducks. „ Onions for broiled pork. „ Anchovy butter. Eavigotte butter. Proven fale do. Lobster do. Montpellier do. Crayfish do. Green ravigotte do. Epicurean do. 167. ESSENCE OF SHALOTS. Peel a dozen shalots, cut them into thin slices, and place them in a small stewpan with two tahlespoonfuls of French vinegar; set them to simmer gently on the fire until tlie vinegar is neai’ly boiled dowm; then moisten with a pint of consomme, set the essence on the fire to boil, and when it is reduced to half its original quantity, strain it with pressm’e tlirough a napkin into a bain-marie, and keep it hot till wanted. 168. ESSENCE OF TRUFFLES. Chop or pound four ounces of truffles—or if you have any trim- mings, use them instead; place them in a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a very small quantity of bruised gai’lic; moisten with a glass of French white wine, and allow the whole to simmer on the fire till the wine is nearly boiled down; add half a pint of good consomme; set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes, and then pass it with pressure tlirough a napkin or tammy into a small basin or stewpan. This essence will be found extremely useful for flavom-ing sauces and ragouts, in which the flavour of truffles should predominate. 169. ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS. Chop any quantity of mushrooms, place these in a ste^^'pan with a little lemon-juice and a small piece of butter, simmer tlrem on the fire for two or three minutes, and then moisten with a ladleful of white broth; set the essence to boil gently on the stove for ten minutes, and then pass it with pressm’e through a sieve into a basin for use. This essence is useful for flavouring sauces. 170. ESSENCE OF FINE HERBS FOR BROILED MEATS, ETC. Chop six shalots, a handful of mushrooms, and the same quantity of parsley, each separately; place these in a small stewpan with a sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a small piece of butter; put the whole on the fire to simmer gently for two or three minutes, stirring the ingi’edients with a wooden spoon; moisten with tlie juice of half a