174 EEMOYES OF IIUTTON. 603, BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA PROVEXCALE. Bone a leg of four-year old mutton, commencing at the thigh bone, by detaching the meat from round it witli a knite, and throw^ng it back right up to the joint of tlie leg-bone; then cut the sine-wy liga- tures, and remove the tliigh-bone entirely; saw off the shank and scrape the end of the bone remaining in the leg as in preparing a cutlet. Then interlard the interior with seasoned lardoons or fiUets of ham or fat bacon, introduce the Provenrale stuffing (described below), and sew the hollow opening whence the bone has been extracted with small twine; place the leg of mutton in a braizing-pan with carrots, turnips, celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, two garnished faggots, and six cloves of garlic; moisten with half a bottle of sherry, and two large ladlefuls of good fresh stock, cover with an oval of buttered paper and the lid ; set the pan on the stove to boil, and then put it on a small stove-fire, with live embers on the Hd, and allow it to con- tinue gently simmering for about four hours; taking care to moisten it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up on to a baking-sheet with some of its own liquor, and set it in the hot closet for a few minutes. Strain the remainder of the liquor through a sieve, and remove all the fat, clarify it, strain the essence through a napkin, and reduce it to half glaze, and add it to some Gasconne sauce (No. G8). Then dish up the mutton, garnish it round with tomatas or mushrooms dressed au gratin (No. 1160), pour the Gasconne sauce under the remove, and send to table.—The Provenrale stuffing for the leg of mutton is to be made as follows: Chop half a pottle of mushrooms very fine, and put them into a small stewpan; to these add some chopped parsley and shalot, with an equal quantity of grated lean and fat ham, and a little grated lemon-peel: season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg: set the whole on the fire and stir it with a wooden spoon for five minutes, that the watery parts of the miishrooms may evaporate; add the yolks of four eggs, and after setting the yolks of eggs in the fine-herbs, by stirring the whole on the fire, add them to some quenelle force-meat made with the fillets of a partridge, mix these well together, and use the stuffing as directed above 604. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA SOUBISE. Bone a leg of mutton, and lard it as in the foregoing case, stuff it with some quenelle force-meat, made with game, and secure the stuffing with twme. Then prepare the leg of mutton for braizing T^dth a couple of carrots and onions, a head of celery, and garnished faggot, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with two large ladlefuls of common stock, cover these with buttered paper, then put on the lid, and set it on a moderate fire to braize gently for about four hours: taking care to moisten it frequently with its liquor. When the mutton is braized perfectly tender, take it up on to a bakiug-sheet with some of the liquor in which it has been braized, and put it in the oven to finish glazing. In the mean time strain off and clarify the remainder of the liquor, and keep it in a small bain-marie; and after having glazed the mutton brightly, dish it up on a bed of well-made Souhise purh of onion (No. 119), garnish round with potato croquettes, and send to table.