SHELLriSH SOUPS. 81 Take che larger bones out of the carcasses of the quails, and having roughly chopped the latter, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, three shalots, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of minionette pepper ; set these on a brisk fire, and pass or fry them brown, then add half a pottle of chopped mushrooms and a bottle of Sauterne wine. Allow this to boil quickly for ten minutes, and then add about half a pound of rice, which has been partly boiled in broth, and a quart of blond of veal; after the fore-mentioned ingredients have been gently boiling for about an hour, drain them into a sieve, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar; then replace them in the stewpan, add the broth they were boiled in, stir the puree on the fire to warm it a little, and rub it through the tammy in the usual way. Wlien this is done, place the puree in a well-tinned soup-pot, in a cool place. Just before dinner-time, warm the puree of quails, care- fully observing that it does not get too hot; finish seasoning it by mixing in a little crayfish butter, a tablespoonful of partridge glaze, and a little salt if needed; pour the soup into a soup-tm’een con- taining the fillets of quails cut into neatly-trimmed scollops, as well as three dozen veiy small quenelles made with the fillets kept in reserve for the purpose, and send to table. 329. BISQUE OF BABBITS AU VELOUTE. Fillet two young rabbits, make half the fillets into force-meat for quenelles; pare off all the meat from the rabbits, and with the car- casses prepai'e a brown consomme in the us.ual manner. Put the remainder of the fillets and all the meat that has oeen cut from the rabbits into a stewpan, with two ormces of fresh butter, three shalots, bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, nutmeg, minionette pepper, and salt, and fry them brown. Then add two glasses of sherry; and after allow- ing the whole to boil briskly for about three minutes, pour m the consomme mad6 from the carcasses. Let the stock thus far prepared boil gently by the side of a stove-fire for about an hour, then drain the contents of the stewpan into a sieve, pound them thoroughly,, and after having mixed the produce with their own stock, mb the puree thus obtained through a tammy, together with a large ladleful of good Veloute sauce. The puree should then be put into a soup-pot,, and kept in a cool place until within ten minutes of dinner-time,, when it must be stirred over the fire to make it sufficiently hot; and after ascertaining that its seasoning is correct, pour the bisque into a soup-tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of rabbit, made with the fillets which have been reserved for that purpose, and serve. 330. BISQUE OF SNIPES A LA BONNE BOUCHE. Pkocure six fat snipes, perfectly fresh and not fishy; fillet them, and follow the instructions given for making the bisque of quails d la Prince Albert (No. 328), but omitting the crayfish butter. Warm the puree of snipes just before it is wanted for table, pour it into a soup- tureen containing the scollops made from half the fillets, and three dozen small quenelles made from the remainder. Send up with this soup, to be handed round, some croutons of fried bread cut in small circular pieces about the eighth of an inch