PUREES OF GAME. 08 364. PUREE OP FOWL A LA PRINCESSE. Prepare the puree of fowl in the usi;al manner, and having mixed the boiling cream in it, pour it into the tureen containing three dozen very small quenelles of fowl, and four ounces of Frankfort pearl-bar- ley, well blanched and boiled for two hours in some white chicken broth. Ascertain tliat the seasoning be delicate, and send to table. 365. PUREE OF FOWL A LA CELESTINE. Koast off two fowls; as soon as they are cold, pound the meat thereof in a mortar, together with six ounces of bleached Jordan almonds, and eight yollcs of eggs, beginning with the almonds, then adding the yolks of eggs, and lastly the fowl. Dilute with the chicken broth made with the carcasses of the fowls; rub the puree through the tammy, and put it into a sou23-pot, to be kept in the cool till dinner-time : when, after having warmed it, add a pint of boiling cream, and send to table. A plate of duchess’ crusts should be sent to table with this soup, to be handed round. 366. PUREE OP RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES A LA CONTI. Koast off two brace of red-legged partridges ; take the meat from them, make a consomme with their carcasses, pound the meat tho- roughly, mixing therewith half a pound of barley boiled for the pur- pose ; dilute with the consomme, rub it through the tammy, and having made the pxiree sufficiently hot (taking care that it be not too thick), send to table with a plate of conde croutons, to be handed roimd 367. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A LA ROYALE. Koast off a brace of pheasants, take out the fillets and white part of the legs; make a co?iso??m^ with the remainder. Pound the fillets, &c., with a proportionate quantity of boiled rice, dilute with the con- somme, and nib the puree through the tammy; finish with a small piece of game glaze or essence, and serve. The croutons to be sent in a plate as usual. 368. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A LA DAUPHINE. Prepare a puree of pheasants as in the preceding case; when about to send the soup to table, pour it into a tureen containing four dozen small potato quenelles, and serve. The potato quenelles should be prepared as follows:—Bake four large York potatoes and rub the pulp through a wire sieve; put this into a stew^jan with two ounces of butter, half a pint of cream, pepper, salt,^ and nutmeg. Stir tliese on the fire until the mixture forms a compact paste; then take the stewpan off the stove, and proceed to incorporate with the paste three yolks and one white of egg; and then mould the small quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them as you would any others, in water or broth. 369. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A L^VNGLAISE. Prepare a puree of pheasant in the usual manner, and having finished it as in the foregoing article, pour it into a tureen containing the fillets of one pheasant cut into scollops, and seiwe.