COLD ENTREES 370 little boiling water ujjon the top, to wash away any that remains;, throw' this water off, and with a clean cloth absorb all the remaining moisture. The aspic must now be put into a large stewpan, and set to boil on a brisk stove-fire, and then removed to the side that it mav throw- up its scum for ten minutes; this should be removed as it rises, and the aspic must afterwards be allowed partially to cool, preparatory to its being clarified; for which purpose, put into a stewpan the whites of six eggs, four whole eggs, about one pound of fresh veal, as much game or fowl, perfectly free from bone, sinew, or fat, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar • to these add a bottle of IVench or Ehenish white wine, and a little spring water j whisk the whole well together imtil thoroughly mixed, then add this preparation to the aspic, and continue whisking the whole together over a brisk stove-fire until the eggs, &c., begin to coagulate ; then, immediately pour in the juice of six lemons mixed with a Kttle spring water, and remove tlie aspic to the side of the stove-fire ; put the lid on the stewpan, place some five embers of charcoal upon it, and leave it to simmer very gently for about half an hour, Next, pour it into a flannel jeUy-bag, prepared in the usual way to receive it, and keep pouring the jelly through the bag for a few minutes, when it wiU become perfectly bright, then allow it to run into the basin until the whole has passed. Pour the aspic into dera sautapans or stewpans, and set it in the lai’der to be- come firm. Care should be taken throughout the process to avoid putting anything into the aspic that would be likely to prevent it from becoming of a pale straw colour: half may be coloured of a darker shade, by mixing in with it a few drops of caramel or broAvn- ing,*' Preidously to mixing the eggs, &c., with the aspic, a small quantity should be put into a dario^e-mould upon the ice to prove its strength ; as although it is necessary (especially during hot weather), that all ieUies should contain a large proportion of gelatine, yet, if this pre- dominate, the jelly becomes very difficult to clarify. 1219. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH ASPIC-JELLY. Pbepabe a fricassee of chickens, as directed in No. 968 ; keep the pieces of chickens separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly reduced, prei'iously to incorporating the leason of eggs in it; and when this has been done, add about one-third of its quantity of aspic jelly; stir them together on the ice, and when well mixed, dip the pieces of chicken in it, and dish them up as you proceed. The entrie should be raised in a conical form, and neatly masked with the remainder of the sauce, so as to detach each piece of chicken in relief. Place some fine cocks’-combs, white button-mushrooms, and glazed truffles in the cavities; surmount the whole with a large truffle, in which a large white cock’s-comb has been inserted, garnish the base with some chopped jelly, rolled with the blade of a krufe in the form of a thick cord, and place a border of angular or fancy-shaped croutons of bright aspic-jelly round this. * This is made by baking some sugar m a small copper pan, and allowing it to boil down veiy gradually over a slow fire, until it becomes a very dark brown in colour; some cold water must then be added to melt the caramel, and after it has boiled up, it should' be kept in a small bottle for us«.