3SG COLD liAISED PIES. short paste (^^o. 1253), arrange the pieces of eels iu it, iu neat order, season between each layer with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pep- per and salt, and a spoonful of good BSchamd sauce; cover in the pie, m the usual manner, with some of the paste, pinch the edge round, ornament the top, egg it over, and bake it iu the oven for about au hoiu* and a half: w'hen done, dish it up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—When eel-pies are intended to be eaten cold, the top should be carefully removed, and the pie ornamented with aspic-jeUy. 1248. SALMON-PIE, A LA KUSSE. jMakje two pounds of short paste (No. 1253), roll it up in a cloth, and keep it in a cool place tdl wanted. Cut two pounds of fresh salmon in slices about half an inch thick, and set them aside on a plate; fiUet six anchoiies, turn two dozen olives (removing the stone, by paring off the outer part without altering the shape), bod six eggs hard, and place the w^hole of these on a dish. Chop a pottle of mush- rooms, two shalots, a handful of parsley, a little green-thyme, sweet basd, and tarragon: put these ingredients into a stewpan with two oimces of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and simmer them over the stove-fire for about five minutes; then add about half a pint of good brown sauce, and the juice of a lemon, stir the whole together over the stove-fire for five minutes longer, and then take it oft’. Next, rod out two-thirds of the paste to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, and after having thinly spread the inside of an oblong mould with butter, line it with this, and fiU it with alternate layers of the slices of salmon, hard eggs, olives, and fillets of anchovies, at the same time spreading some of the fine-herbs sauce in between each layer; the pie must be covered in with the remainder of the paste in the usual man- ner ; bake it in a moderately-heated oven for about one hour* and a half, and when done, dish it up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—These pies may also be made with sturgeon, trout, mackerel, char, gurnets, eels, soles, &c.: the addition of some sUced thunny* tends considerably to improve the flavom*. 1249. PRESERVED HARE, AND OTHER GASIE. Bone a hare, lard it with narrow square strips of fat bacon, wel seasoned with aromatic spices (No. 1250), and s^t: then garnish the inside with some force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), and fold the hare so as to give to it a plump oval form ; then place it in an oval stewpan with a small glass of brandy; cover it with thin layers of fat bacon, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it in the oven, in order that the hare may be suificiently baked to set the meat: it should be then withdrawn. Meanwhile, Hne the bottom and sides of an oval w'hite earthen pan (sufficiently large to contain the hare) with thin layers of fat bacon, over these spread a coating of the force-meat about an inch thick, and place the hare in it, press it down tight, spread a thick layer of the force-meat on the top, cover this with layers of fat bacon, and place a covering of common paste over the whole; then, set the pan on a * Thunny Is a fish abounding in the Mediterranean, and which is procurable, preserved in oil at Crosse and Blackwell’s, Soho Square.