42 ESSENCES AND GRAVIES. 182. LOBSTER BUTTER. Procdke some lobster spawn or coral, and pound it with tivice as much butter, one anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper; rub it through a hair-sieve, collect it into a small basin, and keep it in a cool place till wanted for use. 183. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. Blanch some tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley, a handful of each; expunge the water, and pound them with the yolks of six boiled eggs, six cleaned anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of French capers, and half a dozen green gherkins ; when these ingre- dients are tlioroughly pounded together, mix in six ounces of fresh butter, then add, by degrees, two tablespoonfuls of Tarragon-vinegar, and six of salad-oil; season with pepper and salt; rub the butter thus prepared tlirough a sieve or tammy, colour it with some spinach-green, and keep it in a basin on the ice till wanted for use. 184. CRAYFISH BUTTER. PtEMOVE the shells from three or four dozen crayfish, place them on a baking-sheet in the oven to diy; let the shells cool, and then pound them in a mortar, with a little lobster coral and four ounces of fresh butter; thoroughly bruise the whole well together, so as to form them into a kind of paste, put this into a stewpan, and then set it on the stove-fire to simmer for about five minutes; tlien rub it through a tammy with considerable pressure into a basin contain- ing some cold water, with a piece of ice in it; as soon as the coloured crayfish butter is become set, through the coldness of the water, take it out, and put it into a small basin in a cool place till wanted for use. 185. GREEN RAVIGOTTE BUTTER. Blanch a handful of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley; press them in a napkin, and pound them Avith four ounces of fresh butter, cayenne pepper and salt; mb the butter through a hair-sieve, and keep it on the ice in a small basin for use. 186. EPICUREAN BUTTER FOR THE TABLE. Pound four cleaned anchovies, a few chives, a good teaspoonful of green tarragon-leaves, four green West India gherkins, two boiled yolks of eggs, three ounces of butter, and a good teaspoonful of French mustard; mix thoroughly, season with little salt, and rub the butter through a hair-sieve; gather it up into a small basin, make it sufficiently firm by keeping it on the ice, and mould it into pats for the purijose of being sent to table to be served with the cheese