PUDDIXGS. 452 lire, remove the scum as it rises, and after the cJierries have boiled for about ten minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour it into a silver souJJU-case. "Wliile the above part of the entremets is in course of preparation, a dozen pieces of crumb of bread, or French rolls, shaped in the form of eggs with a sharp knife, should be fried of a light-fawn colour, in some clarified butter. After these have been drained on a clean cloth, place them in close circular rows in the puree of cherries ; shake some cinnamon-sugar over the surface, set the cherry-bread on a baking-sheet in the oven, to simmer slowly for about half an honr, and when done, send to table. 1387. MEHL TRIE. Inghedients required :—Six ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar, two sticks of vanilla, a very little salt, a quart of cream, and a pint of milk. Put thefloui', sugar, and salt, into an appropriate-sized stewpan, and mix in with these the cream and milli; with the vanilla; then, stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a brisk charcoal fire, until it has boiled down to about one-half of its origiual quantity; the mehl prie should then be withdrawn from the fire, and kept hot by the side of the stove, the stewpan containiug it being kept covered with its lid. Next, place an xmtinned baking-sheet on a trivet over a charcoal stove- fire, and when it has become too hot for the hand to remain upon it, spread the centre over with a thin coatiug of the mehl prie (which may be done with the back of a wooden spoon), and as this becomes browned, it Avill detach itself from the baking-sheet; it must then be removed, and before it has cooled, should be cut or stamped out with a tin-cutter. This must be repeated until the process has furnished a plateful of crisp chips. When about to send the mehl prie to table, the custard pudding should be poured into a sou^e'-dish, and the chips sent up separately on a plate ; when served at table, a small ladleml of the custard should be first poured on the guest’s plate, and then a spoonful of the chips placed upon this. 1388. KRAPFEN, OR GERMAN TUFFS. Ingeedients required:—One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, six eggs, a gill of eream, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of German veast, a very little salt, with the rind of two oranges rubbed on a piece of sugar and the zest then scraped off. First, set the sponge, with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, in the usual manner, and let it rise in a warm temperature; meanwhile spread the flour out in the form of a ring, and place the sugar, salt, butter, eggs, and cream in the centre; then work the whole well together with both hands ; gather it up in a heap towards the edge of the slab; and with the knuckles of both hands bent under, rub the paste quickly before you on the slab; then gather it up again in a heap by taking up small portions at a time with both hands held together, and fling it down on the slab with some force. This must be constantly repeated for about five minutes. As soon as the sponge has sufliciently risen, let it be added to the paste, and thoroughly incorporated with it. The /;ra;^cn-pasto should now be gathered up, and placed in a clean napkin previously strewn over with flour to