NOUGATS. 408 1285. NOUGATS. Ingredients required:—Two pounds of Jordan almonds, and one pound of sifted sugar. Scald the almonds, remove the skins, and after they have been washed and dried in a napkin, split each almond into halves ; then place them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a slow oven to acquire a very light fawn colour. While the almonds are undergoing this process in the oven, place the sugar in a convenient-sized sugar-boiler, and stir it Avith a wooden spoon over a slow fire to melt it: as soon as it is entirely dissolved, and begins to form small purling bubbles on the surface, the almonds (which by this time should be ready and quite hot) must be instantly thrown in, and very gently mixed with the sugar, care being taken not to break or bruise them. The vessel containing the nougat should be kept at the entrance of the oven or near the stove-fire, so as to prevent its becoming cold before it is used up. The mould intended to be used must then be first carefully oiled inside with a paste-brush, and set to drain on a plate that the super- fluous oil may run oft’. Some of the nougat should noAV be dropped on a slightly-oiled baking-sheet, and spread out with a lemon to the thickness of about the eighth of an inch; and as these pieces are thus spread or pressed out, they must be immediately placed in the mould, and pressed into its form with the assistance of the fingers and a lemon, and made to adhere effectually to each other; great celerity must be used in this part of the operation, as in the event of the nougat being allowed to become brittle by cooling, it would be foimd impossible to build it up, unless by melting it, which is seldom found to succeed. When the nougat has become set by cooling, turn it out of the mould, and serve it on a napkin or upon an ornamental stand. The foregoing proportions, as well as the directions for splitting the almonds, refer oiily to large nougats; when it is intended to make a smaller one, the almonds shoidd be shred. In aU cases, the propor- tion of ahnonds and sugar should be as two of the former to one of the latter. For the purpose of varying their appearance, as soon as the nougat is turned out of the mould, some shred pistachio-kernels and rough granite-sugar,* should be strewed over its surface. 1286. PARISIAN NOUGATS. Ingredients required:—Eight ounces of pistachio-kernels, four ounces of sugar, and one stick of vanilla. Scald the pistachios, remove the skins, absorb aU the moisture by gently rubbing them in a napkin, then split each kernel into halves, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the screen. Pound the vanilla with one ounce of sugar, sift it, and then put this and the four oimces of pounded sugar into a small sugar-boiler, together with a tea-spoonful of the prepared extract of cochineal: stir these over the stove-fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar is entirely melted, and as soon as it begins to purl on the surface, immediately add the pistachios, and gently mix the Avhole together, taking care not to * Granite-sugar is generally prepared by breaking up some loaf-sugar of the finest quality into veiy small pieces with the end of a rolling-pin; after sifting away all the line sugar, the pieces are then passed through a colander with large holes. All that passes flirough this may be used for the above purpose. But when the granite is required finer, it must he riddled through a wire sieve.