29G DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL IIERNI.E. signs may be atldcd the absence of any disturbance or interrup- tion of tlie functions of the alimentary canal, will be generally found sufficient to prove that the tumour cannot be an inguinal hernia.'l' Hamatoede.—This disease, which consists in a collection of blood either in the tunica vaginalis testis, within the tunica albuginea, or in the cellular tissue of the scrotum, is distin- guished from inguinal hernia by many of the same signs as hydrocele, from which it chiefly differs in not being transparent, nor of so light a weight; while, on the other hand, it may present the same form, the same volume, and be of the same indolent character, accompanied, however, with a more obscure sense of fluctuation. I have, notwithstanding, known a heema- tocele mistaken for a strangulated inguinal hernia, and the ope- ration proposed for its relief, in the case of an elderly person, who, it was afterwards found out, had long laboured under hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis. In this person the complaint was suddenly induced by a violent blow over the region of the ingui- nal canal, and was quickly followed by pain and tension of the part, accompanied by urgent sickness and vomiting, and con- stipation of the bowels. The patient was sent into the hospital, to have the operation performed, when a more strict investigation into the history of the case was made, and the conclusion arrived at that it was not a hernia, but a hsematocele, suddenly super- vening upon an old hydrocele; an opinion which was fully con- firmed by the subsequent history of the case. Varicocele.—There are few diseases, perhaps, which have been more frequently mistaken for an inguinal hernia than a vari- cose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; and yet, to a close observer, it would seem hardly possible to confound the two complaints with one another. This disease more frequently affects the veins of the cord of the left side than those on the right. It presents itself under the form of a soft, indolent, and inelastic swelling, which is, for the most part, situated just above the body of the testicle, but sometimes extends as high as the external abdominal ring; its surface is unequal, and nodulated; it easily yields under the pressure f For an interesting case where the presence of a small strangulated ingui- nal hernia was masked by a hydrocele of the cord, and the operation per- formed, see Liston’s Operative Surgery, 3rd edit. p. 538.