238 THE CONJOINED TENDONS, sorted into tlic linca alba and crista of tlie os pubis. But, in addition to these attachments, the most inferior fibres of the conjoined tendons are reflected, somewhat in a spiral manner, downwards and outwards, to be inserted, behind the ligament of Gimbernat, into the inner part of the ilio-pcctineal line of the os pubis, passing behind the spermatic cord as it lies in the lower part of the inguinal canal. (See Plate III. figs, r, s.) It is in this manner that the conjoined tendinous fibres of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis muscles close up a considerable portion of the space which is included between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; thus constitut- ing a principal part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. (See Plate III. fig. r, s.) The mode in which the conjoined tendons of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles form the lower part of the poste- rior wall of the inguinal canal may be very clearly demonstrated in the following manner : —Let the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle be reflected, together with the spermatic cord, upon the upper part of the thigh, so that the entire of the triangular space which is included between the epigastric artery and the lower portion of the rectus muscle shall lie fairly ex- posed to view. (See Plate III.) The index finger of the left hand may now be placed upon this space a little above and parallel with Poupart’s ligament, whilst with the other hand traction is made alternately upon the lower fleshy fibres of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles, which, for this purpose, should be separately detached from their respective connexions to the crista of the ilium and ligament of Poupart. When these in- structions arc observed, the finger which rests upon the posterior wall of the inguinal canal will be elevated, at every movement of the muscular fibres held in the right hand, by the tension of tendinous fibres belonging to each. It will be perceived, at the same time, that the tendinous fibres belonging to the trans- versalis muscle are more curved in their direction, and extend further outwards from the border of the rectus, than those appertaining to the internal oblique muscle. (See Plate III. fig. r.) By a tedious dissection we may, in some subjects, suc- ceed in separating the tendinous fibres which are proper to each muscle from one another, and both of these from the fascia trans- versalis, which lies behind them : in many instances, however.