275 OF THE El'IGASTlUC ARTERY. are covered by the fascia iliaca. i. The internal abdominal ring displaced from its natural situation by the continual weight of the hernia, and dragged downwards and inwards, as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in such a manner as to destroy the obliquity of the inguinal canal, by the gradual obliteration of its posterior wall. k. The trunk of the external iliac artery. /. The external iliac vein. These vessels lie upon the fascia iliaca, which separates them from the fibres of the psoas muscle, m. The epigastric artery displaced inwards from its usual course by the continual pressure exercised against it by an old and large external inguinal hernia. This vessel is ob- served to make a considerable bend in its course instead of at once mount- ing, in an oblique direction, towards the umbilicus; and, after running along the posterior surface of the pubic division of Poupart’s ligament, to ascend along the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in order to reach its ultimate destination, n. The posterior surface of Gimbernat’s ligament, a part of the crural arch. o. The vas deferens, cut across as it is descending into the pelvis, in its course from the inguinal canal to the side of the bladder. Of the changes which are sometimes observed in the situa- tion of the vessels of the spermatic cord, in large and old scrotal hernice.—It has been already mentioned tliat the sper- matic cord commonly lies behind the hernial sac, in cases of oblique or external inguinal hernise a statement which will, on examination, be found to apply strictly only to the majority of instances of this form of the disorder, and more especially so, when they are as yet small, and of recent formation ; but it should be known, also, that some important deviations from this general rule arc not unfrcquently met with in the dissection of large and old scrotal hernia). In such cases, the component structures of the spermatic cord are oftentimes much loosened from the inti- mate connections which they naturally have with each other ; and, instead of lying, as is usual, in close apposition with each other, at the back part of the hernial sac, are found widely separated from one another for a considerable distance, and in such a manner as to be situated rather upon the sides, or even in front of the swelling. The displacement and separation from each other of the vessels of the spermatic cord now de- scribed, are commonly most marked towards the lower part or fundus of the hernial sac, and diminish in the vicinity of the external abdominal ring, while within the inguinal canal the t Vide the description of complete external inguinal hernia, at p. 266. T 2