CONGENITAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 278 (iense band whicli is formed by the lowermost of the fibres of the interco- lumnar fascia being more closely aggregated together by the pressure of the sac of a large scrotal hernia. It constricts tlie hernial sac in this situation. /. The hernial sac, formed of the peritonseum, distended with air. g. The spermatic vessels separated from the vas deferens (A), and displaced to the outer side of the tumour, where they are situated not very far from its front surface, h. The vas deferens separated from the spermatic artery and vein, and forced to the inner side of the hernial tumour, i. The body of the testicle which, in the common form of scrotal rupture, lies underneath the fundus of the hernial sac. k. k. The skin and superficial fascia laid open and thrown aside. 1. 1. The cremaster muscle dissected from the front of the hernial tumour, and reflected to either side. m. The femoral vein. n. The common femoral artery, o. p. The abdominal parietes of the inguinal region of the right side laid open, and turned down upon the upper part of the thigh, q. The urinary bladder, partially covered superiorly by the peritonaeum. 1. The trunk of the external iliac artery just below the crural arch. 2. The epigastric artery. 3. The internal circumflexa ilii artery. Section II. OF THE VARIETIES OF OBLIQUE OR EXTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. I. OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. CASE IN WHICH THE HER- NIA DESCENDS INTO THE CAVITY OF THE TUNICA VA- GINALIS TESTIS. In the most common form of external or oblique inguinal hernia, the sac which contains the protruded intestines is a morbid production from the peritoiueum lining the general cavity of the abdomen, and is usually situated in front of the spennatic cord; its fundus lying above, and being distinctly separated from the body of the testicle and its serous invest- ment, the tunica vaginalis (see the woodcut No. 6, fig. jT, ^) ; but, in the congenital form of inguinal hernia the viscera, which are the subject of the disorder, descend into the natural cavitv of the tunica vaginalis testis, the communication of which with the great bag of the peritoneum has never been obliterated ; and, consequently, are permitted to come into close contact with the body of the testicle, to which they are sometimes ad- herent.