298 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNI.L. operation for bubonocele performed where there was only a tumour of the testicle.’f* These mistakes have usually occurred where the testicle has not descended completely into the scro- tum, but remains within some part of the inguinal canal, and, becoming attacked by inflammation, induces a series of symp- toms liable to be confounded with those accompanying a stran- gulated congenital hernia. An extremely interesting case came under the notice of Professor Cooper, in which the symptoms which accompanied an attack of acute inflammation of the tes- ticle were such as very strongly resembled those usually regard- ed as pathognomonic of strangulated intestine, and, as Sir Astley Cooper has rightly observed, might have induced a less expe- rienced surgeon to regard the case as one of strangulated hernia, j “ I once attended,” says Mr. Cooper, “ a soldier, with acute inflammation of the testicle, in the Military Hospital of Canter- bury, who experienced so much pain in the abdomen on the fifth day of the attack, accompanied by vast swelling of the cord, almost incessant vomiting, complete and obstinate stop- page of the stools, and severe constitutional disturbance, that a suspicion of hernia was raised. The absence of tension in the abdomen, the limitation of the pain to one side of the belly, the inability of feeling any thing like the testicle of its ordinary size below the tumour, as in a bubonocele, and the history which made it impossible that the case could be a congenital hernia, were circumstances which prevented an erroneous view of the complaint from being adopted.”§ Several instances of a similar nature are related by the justly celebrated Mr. Pott in his ex- cellent treatise upon Hydrocele. || The solidity and peculiar form of the swelling, and the cha- racteristic pain which is excited by pressure upon the part, added to the previous history of the case, will generally be sufficient to enable us to arrive at a correct diagnosis. iSupjmrating inguinal gland.—It sometimes happens that f Vide a System of Operative Surgery, founded on the basis of Anatomy, by Charles Bell, vol. i. 8vo. Lond. 1807, p. 258. t Vide Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, by Sir Astley Cooper, Part II. p. 13. § Vide a Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by Samuel Cooper, 7th edit, p. 1215. 11 Vide the Chirurgical Works of Percivall Pott, F.R.S. 2d edit. vol. ii. pp. 223—31.