THE TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. 236 h. The lowermost fibres of the internal oblique muscle, cut away from their origins from the iliac half of Poupart s li- gament and the anterior superior spinous process and part of the crest of the ilium ; they have been reflected upwards upon the sheath of the rectus muscle, for the purpose of ex- posing the lower margin of the transversalis muscle, and also the internal abdominal ring and posterior wall of the ingui- nal canal. i. A part of the internal oblique muscle, where it forms a por- tion of the lateral parietes of the abdomen. k. The fibres of the lower portion of the internal oblique mus- cle, where they spring from the iliac portion of Poupart’s ligament. L The lower part of the sheath of the rectus muscle, formed by the united tendons of the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles. m. The fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle, which are not attached so far downwards to Poupart’s ligament as the fibres of the internal oblique. n. n. A part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. 0. A large branch of the internal circumflexa ilii artery, which runs in the cellular substance separating the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. p. The internal abdominal ring, or superior aperture of the inguinal canal, by which the spermatic cord issues from the cavity of the abdomen. The letter is placed upon the fascia transversalis where it parts from the circumference of the ring to furnish the fun- nel-shaped sheath of the spermatic cord. The boundaries of the internal abdominal ring are, supe- riorly, the lower fleshy and tendinous margin of the trans- versalis muscle; internally, the epigastric artery ; and in- feriorly, the ligament of Poupart. q. The pubic portion of the fascia ti-ansversalis, where it forms the upper part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. r. s. The conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles, forming the lower part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and which they greatly strengthen where it otherwise would be weakest, viz. behind the ex- ternal abdominal ring. The letter r is placed on the tendon of the transversalis, which extends a little farther outwards towards the epigas- tric artery than the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, which is marked by the letter s.