291 OR DIRECT BUBONOCELE. dimensions of the inguinal canal in them, as well as to the greater degree of resistance which the several structures com- posing its posterior wall are capable of affording to the protrusion of the abdominal viscera at any other point than the internal abdominal ring; while, on the other hand, the large size of the crural ring, and the greater laxity of the parts connected with it, necessarily predispose them to become rather the subjects of femoral hernia. From the observations which have been made by Sir Astley Cooper, it would appear that a direct or internal inguinal hernia is very frequently occasioned in men by the inordinate muscular efforts Avhich are requisite to effeet the expulsion of the contents of the urinary bladder, in consequenee of old and tight strictures of the urethra. *[• The epigastric artery has been observed, in one case, the dissection of which was made by Hesselbach, to run along the inner or pubal side of the neck of the sac of a direct inguinal hernia, instead of taking its usual course along its external or iliae edge. In the subject, a female, in whom this variety in the eourse of the epigastrie artery was noticed, the vessel took its origin from the obturator artery, in place of arising, as is usual, from the trunk of the external iliac artery; and ascended, in a perpendicular direction, upon the inner surface of the abdo- minal parietes. In such a position the epigastric artery could hardly escape from being wounded, should the operation be performed, and the stricture divided, as has been advised by many, inwards, in the direction of the linea alba. Since the investments of the sac of an internal or direct in- guinal hernia are, in general, rather thinner than those which cover an external or oblique inguinal hernia, a greater degree of caution is required to be observed by the surgeon during the operation, lest the contents of the sac should be exposed unawares, and injured by the edge of his knife. t FiJe Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part II. p. 67, and plate x. of the same work.