THE INGUINAL CANAL. 248 and narrower in women than in men. The greater width of the inguinal canal in the male subject,—joined with the larger size of its apertures, the internal and external abdominal rings, — are eircumstances fully adequate to account for the more frequent occurrence of inguinal liernise in the male sex. The direction of the inguinal canal is very oblique, passing downwards, inwards, and forwards ; a disposition which, as it fortunately permits of the opposite walls of the passage be- coming more elosely approximated together under the ordinary pressure of the visceral contents of the abdomen, must tend greatly to prevent the formation of oblique inguinal hernim during every unusual muscular exertion. The inlet, or superior orifice of the inguinal eanal, is the in- ternal abdominal ring, the situation of which, opposite the centre of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process of the os pubis, and just above the ligament of Poupart, has been already described (see the woodcut No. 3, at page 246, fig. o). The external abdominal ring, placed immediately above the spinous process of the os pubis, constitutes the inferior aperture or outlet of the canal. (See the wood-engraving No. 1, at page 220, fig. i.) The anterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed by the ten- dinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which is strengthened by the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia, and is covered by the skin and superficial fascia. (See Plate I. figs. b, d, and r.) The posterior Avail—or that which is next the cavity of the abdomen—is formed, in the upper third of its extent, by the fascia transversal is, the subserous cellular tissue, and the peritonaeum ; but, in the lower or pubal two-thirds, by these several structures greatly fortified by the fibres of the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transA'ersalis muscles, and the triangular ligament, as they descend tOAvards their insertions into the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line of the os pubis, behind the ligament of Gimbernat. (See Plate III. fig. </, r, and s.) The triangular ligament of the inguinal canal.—When the inner and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring is raised and reflected, as in Plates II and III. a thin layer of oblique ten- dinous fibres may be observed to fill up the angular space Avhich is included between the outer edge of the tendon of the rectus