THE DARTOS. 210 a light brown or roseate hue. It is upon the dartos that the verniieular movements and gradual contractions of the scrotum, which occur so frequently when these parts arc exposed to the influence of cold, are dependent. From these circumstances it has been regarded by some authorities as being muscular in its structure and properties, although no muscular fibre has ever been satisfactorily shown to exist in its composition. The dartos is continuous, superiorly, with the superficial fascia of the abdomen ; inferiorly, and posteriorly with the superficial fascia of the perinoeum : its external surface is closely adherent to the skin of the scrotum ; and, by its internal aspect, it is loosely connected by cellular tissue with the fibrous sheath which invests the spermatic cord and testicle. There is pro- longed from it an imperfect septum of a fibro-cellular nature (the septum scroti), which separates the testicles from one an- other, and is capable of permitting fluids to pass without much difficulty fi;om one compartment of the scrotum into the other. It is underneath this structure, and into the lax cellular tissue which connects it to the fibrous sheath of the spermatic cord, that the serous fluid is deposited, in those cases of simple anasarcous swelling of the scrotum and penis, so frequently observed in patients who are affected with general dropsy from diseases of the heart and liver. Blood is frequently largely extravasated underneath the dartos, in consequence of blows and falls upon this part, and upon the perinseum.* Occasionally it happens that the irritating fluids, employed for the cure of hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis, are, owing to the accidental slip- ping of the trocar from its proper situation, forcibly injected un- derneath it, producing high irritative fever, and extensive slough- ing of the parts, if not speedily evacuated by a free incision. Acute anasarca of the scrotum, as it has been well termed by Mr. Liston, is another disease which, also, has its scat in the loose cellular tissue which is subjacent to the structure of the dartos.'I’ Not unfrequently urine is effused underneath the dartos, as happens in those cases of extravasation of urine fol- lowing a rupture of the urethra in the situation of the bulb, or * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Perina:um, p. C9. ■)■ See Remarks on the acute form of auasarcous tumour of the scrotum, by R. Liston, Esq. in the Med. Chir. Trans. London, 1839, p. 288.