THE SUBDAUTOIC CELLULAR TISSUE. 313 3. The subdartoic cellular tissue. —A large quantity of lax cellular tissue, containing in its cellules more or less adi- pose substance, is situated underneatli the dartos, betwixt it and the external spermatic fascia. It is largely supplied with blood from the branches of the superficial perinaeal vessels, which freely ramify in its thickness. This covering of the testicles is deserving of especial notice, since it is into its structure that the copious effusion of serum, which constitutes the common form of anasarcous swelling of the scrotum, so frequently met with in patients the sub- jects of general dropsy, takes place. This structure is also the seat of that insidious and destructive form of diffuse in- flammation, which has been denominated by Mr. Liston acute anasarca of the scrotum, as well also as of those devastating extra- vasations of urine which are liable to occur after any rupture of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament. Large effu- sions of blood also take place into it in consequence of any con- tusion of the scrotum, by which some of the branches of the superficial perinseal or pudic vessels are ruptured, or when they have been accidentally punctured in the operation of tapping for the cure of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis ; and the same kind of swelling is sometimes observed to happen after the operation of lithotomy. Violent inflammation of this tissue, followed by sloughing of the greater part of the scrotum, has been frequently occasioned by some of the irri- tating fluids usually made use of to inject the tunica vaginalis for the cure of hydrocele being permitted to escape into it, either through the awkwardness or carelessness of the surgeon, or some sudden and unforeseen movement of the patient, whereby the end of the cannula is not maintained in its proper position. It is a question that is sometimes asked in the wards of an hospital, how it happens, while the whole thickness of the scrotum is destroyed by gangrene produced by some of the injuries and diseases just now described, that we see the tes- ticles remain in the midst of the sloughing tissues wholly unaffected by the mischief which is going on around them ? I'he explanation readily suggests itself, when it is recollected that these organs derive their nervous and vascular supply from a distant part of the body, which is far removed from