218 THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. ccss of tlic ilium. Occasionally another split is to be found in the tendon of the external oblique, which is situated above and to the inner side of that which forms the external abdominal ring, and through it the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle may be clearly distinguished, as they are only covered by some of the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia. EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. Exhibits the first stage of the "dissection of the anatomy of the structures concerned in inguinal hernias. Tlie skin and superficial fascia have been reflected down- wards upon the thigh, in order to show the tendinous aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle, the external abdominal ring, spermatic cord, and testicle, &c. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. Poupart’s ligament, which is extended between these two processes of bone. d. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. e. The fleshy fibres of the same muscle. f. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, where it passes in front of the rectus muscle to be attached to, g. The linea alba. h. The linea semilunaris, which is situated at the outer edge of the rectus muscle. i. The inferior and outer pillar of the external abdominal ring, which is formed by the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament; it is thicker and stronger, though narrower than k. The superior and inner pillar of the same opening. l. The intercolumnar fibres, which serve to bind the two pillars of the external abdominal ring more strongly together. m. The spermatic cord, after it has emerged through the external abdominal ring ;—some of the fibres of the cremaster muscle are seen upon its outer side. n. The testicle, concealed by the tunica vaginalis reflexa. ’ 0. The iliac portion of the fascia lata of the thigh, which is attached to the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, p. The pubic portion of the fascia lata, covering the pecti- neus and adductor longus muscles. q. The falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, where it bends inwards, underneath Gimbernat’s liga- ment, and arches over the upper part of the crural canal. r. The deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen reflected, along with the skin, upon the upper part of the thigh.