COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR 266 the funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis and the cellular substance of the cord (the subserous cellidar tissue) ; —posteriorly, it is separated from the great bag of the perito- naeum by the several structures that compose the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. (See the wood-engraving No. S, at p- 246, figs, i and m.) Complete external inguinal hernia.—When the hernial tu- mour emerges through the external abdominal ring, or lower aperture of the inguinal canal, it is denominated a complete in- guinal hernia or oscheocele. Under these circumstances, the outlet of the canal is more or less enlarged, and loses its natural triangular appearance. (See Plate V. figs, h and c, and also the Avood-engraving No. 6, fig. e.) After passing through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, the hernial sac descends in front of the spermatic cord until it rests just above the testis, and is noAv additionally covered by the spermatic fascia, the dartos, and the common integuments of the scrotum. (See the Avoodcut No. 6, figs./, §•, /i,and f.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. This plate represents the coverings of the sac of an oblique or external inguinal hernia on the left side. It also shows that the obliquity of the inguinal canal is destroyed hy the yielding of its posterior wall, under the long-continued pres- sure of the protruded viscera. It will likewise be observed, that the epigastric artery has, from the influence of the same causes, been removed from its natural course, and driven inwards as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, where it must almost inevitably be wounded, should the surgeon, while operating upon an individual affected with a stran- gulated inguinal hernia, in which those changes have taken place (a case by no means of unfrequent occurrence), direct the edge of his knife inwards, towards the linea alba, when enlarging the constricted neck of the sac. «. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring, somewhat displaced from its natural position, by the protrusion of the hernial sac through the inferior aperture of the inguinal canal. c. The superior pillar of the external abdominal ring. Between the letters b and c the lowermost of the inter-