THE CREMASTER MUSCEE. afterAvards, however, separating from each other, and being spread out over tlie front and lateral aspects of it and the tunica vaginalis reflexa ; after which, having ascended along the inner side of the cord, they terminate by being inserted into the crista of the os pubis and lower part of the sheath of the rectus muscle. (See Plate II. figs, n, o, and p.) In this manner the fibres of the cremaster muscle form a successive series of curves, the convexity of which is directed downwards towards the testis : the shortest of these curves consist of the superior fibres of the muscle, simply passing across the upper part of the sper- matic cord as it lies beneath the external abdominal ring; Avhilst the inferior set are much longer, extending over the testis and lower part of the cord. In this country the cremaster muscle is generally regarded as being derived from the internal oblique, since the disposition and appearance of many of its fibres greatly resemble those of the last-named muscle. The upper edge of the cremaster is, however, frequently separated from the inferior border of the internal oblique muscle by a considerable interval, Avhieh is occupied by common cellular tissue, in which sometimes a large mass of adipose substance is deposited. (Vide Plate II.) In some cases, Avhich are however very rare, the fibres of the eremaster are also found upon the posterior aspect of the spermatic cord; a disposition which, it Avould appear, depends upon the cord piercing the fibres of the internal oblique muscle, instead of merely emerging from beneath its lower edge.* This condition of these structures I have never seen. M. Jules Cloquet, a distinguished anatomist and surgeon, has devoted considerable attention to the mode of formation of the cremaster muscle in the male subject, and has been led, in con- sequence of his researches, to the eonsideration that the cre- master does not exist in the foetus previously to the descent of the testicle into the scrotum ; but that it is produced by the gubernaculum testis, and testis itself, contracting adhesions, as they descend through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, to the middle portion of the muscular fibres forming the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle ; and that, by thus dragging these fibres along Avith them in their descent, (their origin and insertions remaining fixed,) a series of inverted loops or * See Reclierches Anatomiques sur les Hernies, p. 14—18.