DISSECTION OE THE TOSTERIOR WALL 258 The second, or middle fossa of the peritono’um, is not so deep as the preceding ; it is situated on the inner or pubal side of the epigastric vessels, betwixt them and the ligamentous cord, which is formed by the obliteration of the umbilical artery of the foetus. If a hernial sac should commence to be protruded into the inguinal canal in this situation, it would at first be only covered by the subscrous cellular tissue and fascia transvcrsalis ; since, at this point, these structures alone form the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. The hernia would also belong to that division of inguinal hernioe usually denominated direct or in- ternal. The third, or most internal of the inguinal fossee of the peritonaum, is situated on the pubal side of the ligamentous cord, which results from the obliteration of the umbilical artery, between it and the outer edge of the rectus muscle. It is placed directly behind the external abdominal ring, and corre- sponds with the strongest portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by — besides the subserous cellular tissue and fascia transversalis — the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles.')' A direct or internal inguinal hernia may also be formed by the protrusion of a hernial sac through this portion of the pos- terior wall of the inguinal canal; which would then be covered not only by the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transver- salis, as in the preceding instance, but also, in all probability, more or less completely, by the conjoined tendons of the inter- nal oblique and transversalis muscles. The peritonaeum, and subserous cellular tissue, should now be detached from the inner surface of the inguinal region and iliac fossa, so as to expose to view the vas deferens and sper- t The three inguinal pouches of the peritonaeum have been distinguished by M. Velpeau under the names ot fossette inguinale externe, fossette in- guinule interne, and fossette vesico-inguinale. Vide Traite complet d’Ana- tomie chirurgicale. 3d edit. vol. ii. p. 72. I Vide Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Hernia, 2d edit. Plate X. in which six hernial sacs are shown. Two of the sacs on each side were protruded through that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which is comprised between the epigastric and umbilical arteries (figs./r, i, I, and k); and one on each side, between the remains of the umbilical artery and tlie outer edge of the rectus muscle (figs.j, »0.