THE EXTF.llNAE AUDOMINAE UINU. 21.0 s. Tlte external circiinirtexa ilii artery. t. The superficial epigastric artery. u. The external pudic artery. V. The umbilicus. w. The suspensory ligument of the penis. X. The fascia lata covering the gluta-us medius muscle. The external abdominal rins;* — lliis name has been civen to the aperture in the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, ■which is formed by the divergence of the ten- dinous fasciculi as they approach the crista of the os pubis. In the healthy condition of the parts, the external abdominal ring is an opening of a triangular figure, the base of the triangle being formed by the crista of the os pubis, and its sides, which are of unequal length, by the two bundles of tendinous fibres, which have been denominated the columns, or pillars, of the ring ; of these, one is superior and internal, and descends, as has been already stated, to become inserted into the body and symphysis of the pubis ; the other forms the inferior and outer pillar of the ring, and consists chiefly of the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament, where it is about to be inserted into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. The external is the narrower but stronger of the two pillars of the ring, and supports the sper- matic cord, in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, as they severally emerge from the lower part of the inguinal canal, or oblique passage in the abdominal parietes, by which these structures issue from the interior of the belly to reach their connections with the external organs of genera- tion. The apex of the triangle is the part at which the pillars commence to separate from each other; here it is rounded off by the lowermost of the transverse flbres, which connect the two columns together. The direction of the external abdominal ring is oblique, stretching upwards and outwards from the crista of the os pubis. The term of ring which has been given to this open- ing in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is obvi- ously ill-adapted to convey the idea of its flgure in the healthy and natural state of the parts ; but it should be recollected that, Avhen a hernial sac has been protruded through it, it assumes a • Also called the ring of the external oblique, inguinal ring, lower or external aperture of the inguinal canal; unneau inguinal, anneau du grand oblique ; annulus iuguinalis anterior.