CHANCES IN THE COURSE 27() wliolc of tlic cord is almost invariably found lying behind the sac.-j* d'liis decomposition and separation of the vessels which com- pose the spermatic cord have been particularly investigated by Scarpa, who has shown in a very clear and satisfactory manner, that they are dependent upon the forcible distension of the common cellular sheath of the cord produced by the increased size of the hernial tumour. J Mr. Hey, of Leeds, has related the history of a case, in which he unexpectedly divided the vas deferens, while laying bare the sac of a large strangulated scrotal hernia ; and it is well known that the same accident has several times happened in the practice of other surgeons.^ For this reason, among others, it is always advisable in the operation for strangulated scrotal hernia, more especially when the rupture is large and of long standing, not to extend the in- cisions quite to the lower part of the tumour ; since, if any variety in the course of the spermatic vessels should exist, it is t That even a small liernial sac may, however, sometimes insinuate itself between the component parts of the spermatic cord, and cause their separation from one another, is shown by the history of the following case which occur- red in the practice of Sir Astley Cooper:—“ I was desired to see a boy, a patient of Mr. Clarke, surgeon in the Borough, who had a tumour which extended from the upper part of the scrotum, through the abdominal ring- along the cord to the abdomen. The lad’s father was anxious for the re- moval of the disease, but on examination it did not project sufficiently to enable me to judge whether there was either fluctuation or transparency. However, as it interfered with the boy’s usual occupation, I resolved to cut down upon it with extreme caution. When I had reached by incision the surface of the cyst I found the spermatic vessels running upon it, and was obliged to open the cyst by its side to avoid these vessels. The cyst con- tained a portion of the small intestine, everywhere adhering to its inner surface, which had prevented the return of the bowel into the abdomen. The vas deferens could be discovered behind the sac, so that there was a hernia, the sac of which had insinuated itself between the spermatic blood- vessels and the vas deferens.”— Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia ; 2d edit. Parti, p. 16. J Vide Scarpa on Hernia, translated by Wishart, p. 70. § Vide Practical Observations in Surgery by Mr. Hey, 2d edit. p. 140. Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I, p. 15. Nouveaux Elemens de MddecineOperatoire, par M. A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit. tom. iv. p. 209. Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit. p. 214.