THE EXTEllN’AL ORI.IQUE MUSCLE. 217 clc, in a broad aponeurosis, which, after passing in front of the rectus, unites at the linca alba, with the tendon of the same muscle of the opposite side. In front of the upper and middle portions of the rectus muscle the tendon of the external oblique is very thin and de- licate, and is, moreover, intimately blended with the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, which lies underneath it; but, nearer to the pubes, it becomes much thicker and stronger, and is, also, much more easily separated by the knife from the sheath of the rectus. On tracing the tendinous fibres of the external oblique mus- cle, as they pass downwards and inwards from opposite the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium towards their inser- tion into the inferior third of the linea alba and body of the os pubis, it will be found that, as they approach the crista of the os pubis, they separate from one another, so as to be divided into two distinct fasciculi, of which the innermost and superior is the broadest and weakest, while the external and inferior, though much narrower than the first, is, nevertheless, much thicker and stronger. The first of these fasciculi is inserted into the body and symphysis of the os pubis, where it also decussates with the corresponding portion of the tendon of the opposite muscle. (See the w'oodcut No. 1, at p. 220, fig. d.) The second or stronger fasciculus is fixed into the tuberosity or spinous pro- cess of the os pubis, and the adjacent portion of the ileo-pec- tineal line, where it mainly contributes towards the formation of Gimbernat’s ligament, presenting there a free and sharp mar- gin, somewhat concave in its outline, and directed towards the common femoral vein. (See fig. b, c, of the woodcut. No. 1.*) There is frequently a very great difference in many subjects as to the precise distance from the symphysis pubis at which the above mentioned divergence of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle commences; — in the greater number of instances it is about one inch and a half from the symphysis pubis, while in some it is much nearer than this; in other cases again it is still farther distant, so that it is situated almost opposite the anterior superior spinous pro- * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Groin and Femoral Hernia, page 84, and the wood-engraving at page 85 of the same work, fig. ni. n.