THE INGUINAL CANAL. O47 «. Tlie anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. 6. The insertion of Poupart’s ligament, or inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring, into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis, c. The ligament of Pou- part, stretched between the spinous process of the os pubis and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, d. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, dissected up from its connections, and thrown down upon the upper part of the thigh, e. A portion of the fleshy fibres of the same muscle, detached from the rest. J\ The superior or internal pillar of the external abdominal ring reflected with the rest of the aponeurosis, g. The lower portion of the internal oblique muscle, cut away from its connections to Poupart’s ligament and the crista of the ilium, and thrown upwards upon the sheath of the rectus muscle, h. The fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle, in their natural situation, t. The tendon of the same muscle, as it is about to become blended with the tendon of the internal oblique mus- cle, and so form part of the conjoined tendons, where they constitute a por- tion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, strengthening it behind the external abdominal ring. k. The sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle, formed by the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. 1. The outer or iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, forming what has been termed the external pillar of the internal abdominal ring. m. The inner or pubic portion of the same membrane, the outer edge of which constitutes the internal pillar of the ring ; it contributes also to the formation of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, n. The triangular ligament, or diagonal brace of the inguinal canal, formed by some of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side. 0. The internal abdominal ring, or superior aperture of the inguinal canal. The epigastric artery is seen as it runs deeply along the internal or pubic margin of the ring. It is by the dilatation of this opening that the various forms of external or oblique in- guinal hemiae commence their descent from the abdomen, p. The skin and superficial fascia dissected, and thrown down upon the upper part of the thigh. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed, in its upper part, by the peritonaeum, the subserous cellular tissue, and the fascia transversalis; and, in the lower part ofits extent, by these structures additionally strength- ened and supported by the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. The inguinal canal. — Tliis ncame lias been given to the oblique passage through the iliae region of the abdominal parietes, by which the spermatic cord in the male, and the round litrament of the uterus in the female, descend from the interior of the belly to reach the structures with which they are connected externally. The length of the inguinal canal varies between one inch and a-half to two inches in extent; being usually a little longer