GENERAL AND SURGICAL REMARKS. 225 and adheres closely to the anterior and inferior edge of Pou- part’s ligament, and to the iliac portion of the fascia lata, in the interspace between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis; the superficial lamella is, on the other hand, of a much more loose and cellular texture, at the same time that its thickness is liable to frequent variations, which are dependent upon the quantity of adipose substance that may be deposited in its tissue. The superficial pudic and epigastric vessels, with three or four small absorbent glands, have also been seen as they lie betwixt the two lamellae of the fascia, opposite the crural arch. The superficial fascia is more closely connected to the tendon of the external oblique muscle in the course of the linea alba than elsewhere, while opposite the crista of the os pubis it descends into the scrotum, covering the spermatic cord after its emergence from the external abdominal ring, and finally becomes continu- ous with the membrane of the dartos. The delicate cellular tissue which connects the internal sur- face of the superficial fascia to the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle should not be overlooked, as it is by the destruction of it that those dangerous extravasations of urine into the perinseal region, which occasionally supervene upon a rupture of the urethra from inveterate strictures si- tuated in front of the triangular ligament, &c. are enabled to make their way with such alarming and frightful rapidity upwards upon the hypogastric region ; a course which is the very opposite of that which would be indicated by the common law of gra- vitation of fluids, but which is satisfactorily explained by re- ference to the connexions and relations of the superficial fascia of the perinseum, the dartos, and superficial fascia of the ab- dominal parietes.* It is, also, in this structure that the diffused inflammation and extensive suppuration which not unfrequently follow injuries inflicted, and surgical operations performed upon this region, are commonly found to have their scat. The mode of formation of the external abdominal ring, by the divergence from each other of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle as they approach the crista of the os pubis, is deserving of particular attention ; as are, like- • Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Perinseuin, pp. ll and 12, and Sur- gical Observations by Sir Charles Bell, p. 90. 8vo. Lond. 1816. Q