THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 285 its included intestine, and so allow it to come into contact with the testicle. Mr. Todd, who has recorded two instances in which he had an opportunity of dissecting large herniee of this description, differs from Mr. Hey in his opinions as to its natm-e, and considers that it is by no means peculiar to infancy ; but, on the contrary, that it may be formed at any period of life,:]; and, also, that it does occur more frequently than surgeons are aware of. His idea of this species of rupture is, that in it the hernial sac is protruded completely within the cellular sheath of the cord ; and, that Avhen it descends near to the point of insertion of the spermatic vessels into the testicle, its fundus comes in contact with the upper part of the tunica vaginalis testis, and receives from it, on its lower surhice, a serous covering proportioned to the magni- tude of the tumour, or the degree of distension of the sac. Mr. Liston, whose views of the nature of this disorder accord with those entertained by Mr. Todd, operated upon a patient admit- ted under bis care into the hospital of University College some years since, for an inguinal hernia of this kind, the contents of which had become strangulated, and could not be reduced by the taxis. This man did not become the subject of rupture until he had attained the twenty-first year of his age.^ 'I’he coverings of the hernial sac in this species of rupture are of the same kind as those which arc met with in the com- mon scrotal hernia, Avith the exception, however, that the upper part of the tunica vaginalis is interposed in front of the tumour, underneath the fascia propria, and hitherto has always been opened by the knife of the surgeon in those instances in which the operation has been performed. || f yide Practical Observations in Surgery, by W. Iley, F.R.S. Second Edition, 8vo. London, 1810, p. 226. t I'ide Observations on IJernTa, by Charles H. Todd, in tlie Dublin Hos- pital Reports, vol. i. p. 237. Mr. Todd relates the case of a man affected with a scrotal hernia of this nature, in which the disease did not occur until the thirty-seventh year of his age. ^ Vide A Clinical Lecture on Hernia, by Mr. Liston, in the Lancet of March 21, 1835, page 885. Also Mr. Liston’s Operative Surgery. Second Edition, p. 468. II Upon this subject see Mr. Liston’s 0[)erative Surgery. Second Edi- tion, p. 468, and Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia. Second Edition. Part I. page 79—83.