270 COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR becoming pale and semi-transparent. Towards the fundus or inferior extremity of the hernial sac, the fibres of the cremaster are so much displaced as to present the appearance of an irre- gular network, the meshes of which are of very unequal size and figure. (See Plate V. fig. 5, 5.) The spermatic fascia, springing from the circumference of the external abdominal ring, is, in many cases of scrotal hemise, considerably increased in its thickness and density. In some cases I have seen it twice and even three times thicker than it is naturally; nevertheless, in some cases of large scrotal hernise, this investment of the sac undergoes very little alteration, and remains very thin and delicate. The external abdominal ring is frequently distended to the magnitude of half-a-crown, but it rarely exceeds this size. At the same time the aperture loses the triangular figure which it naturally possesses. (See Plate V. figs, i, c, and the wood- engraving No. 6, fig. e.) The intercolumnar fibres, or bands, which serve to connect together the pillars of the external abdominal ring, are pushed upwards and outwards by the hernial sac as it protrudes from the inguinal canal, and are thrust together in such a manner as to form, by their close approximation to each other, a broad and very strong fillet, which limits the farther distension of the ring, and thus communicates a circular form to the aperture when distended by the protrusion through it of an hernial tu- mour. The intercolumnar fibres become, at the same time that they are displaced upwards and outwards, very much in- creased in thickness and strength ; and to this circumstance is owing that sudden constriction in the bulk of the hernial tu- mour, which, in every case of large scrotal hernia, serves to define with precision the situation of the external abdominal ring. (See Plate V. figs, i, c, and the woodcut No. 6, fig. e.) The superficial fascia presents, in the majority of instances of oblique inguinal hernise, its ordinary appearance ; being sepa- rable only into two lamellse, between which are situated the cutaneous vessels which supply the superficial coverings of the inguinal region. In other instances, again, it is very much thickened and greatly increased in density, admitting of being readily divided into three or four laminse. The external pudic artery lies over the middle of the tumour formed by the hernia.