OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 307 whole extent of the tumour ; for, unless this were done, sutR- cient space would not be obtained for the secure and easy com- pletion of the operation. The first incision may be made, according to the choice of the operator, in one of three ways; viz. by simply sweeping the knife over the convex surface of the tumour, in the direction of its long diameter ; or by raising the integuments covering the swelling into a thick transverse fold, one half of which is held by an assistant, while the surgeon takes the other in his left hand and cuts it through, either from its surface to its base; or in the opposite direction, first transfixing it below with the bistoury, the back of which is turned towards the sac, and then cutting outwards. The first of these modes of proceeding is to be preferred when the external investments of the hernia are unusually tense, whilst the other two are more applicable when they are very lax. In the division of the integuments the external pudic artery is cut across, and, occasionally, also the superficial epigastric artery. If either of these vessels should bleed freely, it is best to secure it immediately with a ligature, before proceeding any further in the operation ; since, if this be omitted, secondary hemorrhage is very likely to occur after the wound has been closed and the dressings applied, and so to give rise to consider- able disturbance of the parts. The several coverings which the hernial sac derives from the intercolumnar fascia, the cremaster muscle, the fascia trans- versalis, and the subserous cellular tissue, are, in the next place, to be divided either with the knife and dissecting forceps, or by cutting them layer by layer, a director being previously intro- duced underneath them. It should, however, be clearly under- stood, that such great variety is continually met with in the ap- pearance, number, and thickness of the several investments of the hernial sac, that it is frequently impossible to recognize them separately in the operation. It may be of some use to mention here, that the subserous cellular tissue is sometimes very thick, and resembles so closely the omentum, that it may for a moment deceive the surgeon in the operation, especially in cases of direct or internal inguinal hernise, and lead him to conclude that the sac has been opened before it has been actually exposed. X 2