11 •28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE DRAWING. Lineal Drawing Copies for the Earliest Instruction. Comprising 200 Sub- jects on 24 slieets, mounted on 12 pieces of thick pasteboard. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” In a Port- folio, 5^. 6(i. Drawing Copies for Elementary Instruction. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” 2 Sets, each consist- ing of 12 Subjects, mounted on thick paste- board. 3s. Od. each Set, in a Portfolio. Deacon’s Elements of Perspec- tive Drawing, or the Science of Deline- ating Real Objects. Being a Manual of Directions for using a Set of Models, com- posing a variety of Picturesque Forms. Suitable for the Practice of Beginners. Illustrated with Eight Plates, 8vo. 4*-. Drawing Models, consisting of Forms for constructing various Buildings, Gateways, Castles, Bridges, &o. The Build- ings will be found suflRciently large to be drawn from by a numerous Class at the same time. In a Box, with a smalt Trea- tise on Drawing and Perspective. Price 21. 10*. Length of the Box, 18J inches ; breadth, 13 inches ; height, 8J inches. Traclisell’s Drawing Models, consisting of Rectilinear Figures, Polygonal and Mixtilinear Models, Jlodels chiefly for Shading, and Models for application and further practice. Price of the complete set 1(W. Any Figure may be purchased separately. The whole Collection, with the exception of the houses, is painted white, to resemble plaster. A complete Collection on a larger scale, such as that used in the Mechanics’Institu- tion, Liverpool, 15L A detailed Prospectus may be had on application. Drawing Materials. A Quarto Copy Book of 24 leaves, common paper, 6d. Ditto . . ditto paper of superior quality, 1#. 3d. Pencils with very thick lead, B.B.B. 2s. per half dozen. Ditto .... ditto . . F. at U. (id. ditto. Drawing Chalk, 9d. per dozen sticks, in a Box. Port-crayons for holding the Chalk, 4d. each. EDUCATIONAL MODELS FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS, MECHANICS’ INSTITUTIONS, AND FOR PRIVATE INSTRUCTION. A Set of Apparatus for Hydro- statics, Hydraulics, and Pneumatics; with a I’amphlet containing full Descriptions and Directions for Performing many Ex- periments. Price 61. 6i. in a box. Apparatus for Cohesion, Capil- lary Attraction, Electric and Magnetic Attraction, Impenetrability and Inertia; with Descriptions and Diagrams. Price 2U. in a box. A Machine for Illustrating Cen- trifugal Motion; including a representa- | tion of the Governor of a Steam Engine. 1 In a box, 1 Of. Attwood’s Machine for Explain- j ing the Laws of Falling Bodies: with ' Apparatus attached for Illustrating the i Theory of the Pendulum. Price of Att- wood's Machine, with a “ Companion,” 21. 2s. ; additional Apparatus, for the Pen- dulum, U. Is. Sets of Mechanical Powers; containing the Lever—Wlieel and Axle— A Series of Pulleys—The Inclined Plane— Wedge—Screw; with Examples of the Parallelogram of Forces—Centre of Gravity —Friction—Collision of Elastic Bodies— Compound Lever. £ s. d. 1. For large Lecture-rooms (size of the frame : height 3 feet 1 inch; width, 3 feet) 8 8 0 2. For Schools and smaller Lecture- rooms (height of the frame, 2 feet 6 inches; width 2 feet 3 inches) 5 5 0 3. A Smaller Set, omitting the Pa- rallelogram of Forces and Col- lision of Elastic Bodies (height of the frame, 2 feet 1 inch; width, 1 foot llj inches) . . 2 12 (i 4. A Commoner Set (height of the frame, 2 feet; width, 1!) inches) 1 C 3 The Bent Lever. Convertihle into a Bent Lever or Toggle Joint Press. With weights, and a description. Price 10^.