GENERAL AND SURGICAL REMARKS. 224 have rcffarded this membrane as derived from tlie intercolumnar faseia, which has already been described as lying upon the apo- neurosis of the external oblique muscle, while others,—more correctly, I believe, — consider it as a separate and distinct structure, having its origin from the margins of the external abdominal ring. By drawing the cord and testicle in various directions, it is easily shown that the spermatic fascia adheres very firmly to the circumference of the external abdominal ring, and that it de- scends thence upon the spermatic cord, gradually becoming narrower until it approaches the testicle, when it expands so as to cover the whole of that gland. In some subjects the spermatic fascia is sufficiently thick and strong to admit of being easily dissected throughout its entire extent; but, in the greater number of instances, it becomes so extremely thin and delicate in its structure, as it descends upon the cord, as to render the proceeding very difficult and frequently unsatisfactory. In the female subject the spermatic fascia is neither so strong nor so extensive as in the male; for it is soon blended with the cellular and adipose substance which covers the crista of the os pubis, and in which the round ligament of the uterus is inserted. The use of this fascia is, according to Sir Astley Cooper, to furnish additional support to the testicle and its coverings; and, by its loose connections Avith it and the cord, to allow of the free motion of the gland, enabling it more easily to elude the con- sequences of pressure and violence.* In cases of old and large scrotal hernia the spermatic fascia is commonly found to be much increased in its thickness and density. General and surgical remarks. — It may prove useful, be- fore proceeding any further in the dissection of this region, to replace the structures which have already been exposed, and to review them as they noAv appear. Underneath the skin is placed the superficial fascia, which, as has been shown, consists of two lamellm; of Avhich the deeper one is the stronger and more membraniform in its structure, • See Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the Anatomy and Diseases of the Testis, 4to. p. 83.