230 THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. s. The skin and superficial fascia of the inguinal region reflected upon the upper part of the thigh. The external epigastric and pudic arteries are seen as they ramify in the deep lamella of the superficial fascia. t. The symphysis of the ossa pubis. u. The suspensory ligament of the penis. V. The corpus cavernosum penis of the left side. w. The corpus spongiosum penis. X. The umbilicus. The internal ohlujue muscle. — This muscle is attached, superiorly, to the lower margin of the four inferior or false ribs ; inferiorly, it is inserted into the anterior two-thirds of the crista ilii, and into the iliac two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament; poste- riorly, it is prolonged, by a tendinous aponeurosis (part of the fascia lumborum), to the spinous processes of the lumbar verte- brse ; and anteriorly, it is inserted into the linea alba, the crista of the os pubis, and the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line. The direction of the superior fibres of the muscle is obliquely up- wards and forwards; the central portion is directed transversely inwards to the mesial line; whilst the inferior set incline very obliquely downwards and inwards. At the linea semilunaris the tendon of the internal oblique muscle splits into two layers, one of which passes in front of, and the other behind the rectus muscle, reuniting at its internal edge, where it enters into the composition of the linea alba. In this manner is con- stituted the sheath of the rectus muscle. This division into two lamellce of the tendon of the internal oblique muscle exists, however, only from the ensiform cartilage to about midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis ; below which point the whole of the tendon passes in front of the rectus, leaving that muscle only separated from the peritonaeum by the fascia transversalis and subserous cellular tissue. The structure of the muscle is fieshy, except anteriorly and posteriorly, where it is aponeurotic and tendinous. Relations—superficially, with the external oblique muscle; by its internal surface, with the transversalis, rectus, and pyramidalis muscles; at its posterior part it is in relation with the latissimus dorsi and long muscles of the back. Its lowermost fibres contribute, in the greater num- ber of instances, to the formation of the cremaster muscle. '['he most inferior of the fleshy fasciculi of the internal