251 THE SPERMATIC CORD. vas deferens is situated to the inner and posterior side of the rest of the vessels composing the spermatic cord. Tlie spermatic arteries spring from the sides of the aorta, at a little distance below the origin of the renal arteries. The artery of the left side passes in front of the vena cava, and both pass obliquely in front of the ureters, lying betwixt them and the peritonaeum. In their course from their origin to the supe- rior aperture of the inguinal canal, the spermatic arteries furnish several delicate branches to the cellular tissue, investing the ureters and outer surface of the peritonaeum. For the manner of their distribution to the glandular structure of the testicle, the reader is referred to the description of the anatomy of that organ, as given in a future part of this work. In the female the spermatic arteries are distributed to the ovaries and fallopian tubes. The spermatic vein^ on the right side, ordinarily opens into the vena cava, a little below the junction of the renal vein with that vessel: on the left side, the spermatic vein usually empties its contents into the great trunk of the renal vein of the same side. The vascular plexuses which are formed upon the lower part of the spermatic cord, by the subdivision of these veins into seve- ral branches, which freely communicate with one another by frequent anastomoses, have been named by anatomists the corpus pampiniforme. These veins are, particularly on the left side, frequently greatly dilated and varicose ; a condition which con- stitutes the complaint well-known under the denomination of varicocele or cirsocele. The lymphatics of the testicle and spermatic cord are very numerous, and form, by their junction with each other, several trunks of considerable size, which ascend upon the spermatic veins, and terminate in the absorbent glands, which lie on each side of the aorta, in front of the lumbar vertebra?. The disposition of the absorbent vessels of the testicle, ren- ders necessary the precaution of previously examining with great care into the state of the lymphatic glands of the iliac and lum- bar regions, before deciding upon the extirpation of the organ when affected by malignant and cancerous diseases, as, for example, fungus hsematodes and schirrus. The nerves which are situated among the structures compo- sing the spermatic cord, arc very numerous, consisting,—besides