308 OF THE OPERATION FOR The hernial sac having been in this manner brought into view, it is to be opened at first upon its lower and anterior part. For this purpose, a small portion of it should be taken up be- tween the blades of the forceps, and an opening carefully made into it, the edge of the knife being directed horizontally. Some surgeons prefer pinching up a small piece of the sac between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and after rubbing it between them, in order to ascertain whether any of the intestine is in- cluded, which being decided in the negative, they proceed to open it as before. The aperture which is thus made is to be enlarged to the same extent as the external incisions, by dividing the sac upwards and downwards with the probe-pointed bistoury, guided upon the fore-finger or the director. The next step in the operation is to seek for the seat of the stricture, by carrying the fore-finger of the left hand upwards, between the sac and the protruded viscera. In the greater num- ber of cases the stricture will be found at the margin of the in- ternal abdominal ring, or in the neck of the sac. Sometimes— but this occurs very rarely—the stricture is situated at the ex- ternal abdominal ring, or, perhaps, about midway between it and the internal ring, being there produced by the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. It may, on the other hand, exist in a very few instances in some other part of the sac below the inguinal canal. The sensation which the condensed band of cellulo-fibrous tissue, which commonly forms the stricture, communicates to the finger, strongly resembles Avhat might be supposed would be produced if a piece of strong packthread were drawn so closely around the neck of the sac as to make a defined circular in- dentation in it, the free border of which projects towards its centre. In a direct or internal inguinal hernia the stricture is fre- quently seated in the margins of the lacerated opening in the conjoined fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, through which the hernial sac has protruded. The extremity of the common probe-pointed bistoury — guided upon the fore-finger of the left hand, which forms the best director—is now to be cautiously introduced underneath the stricture; which is then to be divided by turning forwards the edge of the instrument, and gently elevating its handle, at the