228 TIFE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. oblique muscles, to the external abdominal ring, through which they emerge to be finally distributed to the superficial coverings of the spermatic cord and testicle. These nerves frequently adhere pretty closely to the inner surface of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and are therefore liable to be cut across when it is raised up to expose the internal oblique and cremaster muscles. If the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle be now taken up in one hand, and the forefinger of the other introduced through the external abdominal ring from its inner aspect, it will be clearly shown how the spermatic fascia passes off from the margins of the opening, and, descending upon the cord, invests both it and the testicle in a perfect tubular sheath. By the same proceeding it will also be readily understood that when the sac of an inguinal hernia protrudes through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, it will necessarily receive a covering from this membrane. While it is thus distended by the finger, the external abdo- minal ring will be observed to lose its natural triangular form, and to assume a circular appearance, which it constantly presents after a hernial sac has descended through it; and hence is de- rived the appellation of rmg, which has been given to the open- ing. (See woodcut, No. 5, figs. e,f.) If the dissector should choose to do so, he may now define the margins of the external abdominal ring by cutting with his scalpel lightly round the spermatic cord, as it emerges from the lower opening of the inguinal canal. The spermatic cord, after passing through the external abdominal ring, descends in a vertical direction to the testicle ; so that the portion of the cord which lies within the inguinal canal is placed almost at a right angle with that part of it which is included between the ring and the testicle. It may also be here observed, that the spermatic cord, where it passes through the lower opening of the inguinal canal, is partly supported by the inferior pillar of the ring, as it is inserted into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis, and partly by that process of bone itself. The internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring may now be cut away from its insertion, and the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle reflected downwards upon the thigh as before, so that the dissection of the lower portion