210 SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL REGION. tlie blowpipe is withdrawn. This method of proceeding will also be found very useful when a hernial sac is present in the subject which has been selected for making the dissection. The penis, together with the scrotum and testicle of the side upon which it is proposed to commence the dissection, should be drawn ob- liquely downwards and across the upper part of the opposite thigh, in which position they should be fixed by hooks, so that the skin covering them may be held upon the stretch.* The dissection may now be commenced by an incision which is to be carried across from the crest of the ilium, at a short distance beyond the anterior superior spinous process of that bone, to the linea alba, where it should terminate a little below the umbilicus ; from the termination of this cut let another be made downwards, in the course of the linea alba, as far as to the root of the penis. These incisions should divide the skin only. If the last-mentioned incision be prolonged a little way along the dorsum of the penis, and then turned down over the side of the scrotum, the future steps of the dissection will be greatly fa- cilitated. (See Plate I.) The triangular flap of skin which is thus marked out, should, in the next place, be dissected up, com- mencing at the angle nearest to the umbilicus, and carefully de- taching it from the subjacent layer of cellular and adipose tissue (the superjlcial fascia) by successive strokes of the scalpel, until opposite the crural arch ; or, if it should be considered desirable, the dissection of the skin may be continued for a little distance upon the upper part of the thigh. While detaching this flap, the dissector should be careful to observe the white appearance of the internal surface of the skin, as he will thus be insured from cutting too deeply, and injuring the next layer, or the external lamella of the superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes. The skin covering the penis and scrotum, will be found to be much thinner than elsewhere ; and, upon the latter, its inner surface is rendered very uneven by the numerous sebaceous glands which abound in this situation, and appear as so many granular bodies, of a whitish colour. Small superficial abscesses frequently form in this situation, • It is recommended to those who are commencing their dissections of this region to dissect only on one side at a time, so that the other may be reserved for a repetition of the dissection, which will thus be executed with greater precision and exactness.