i\rORTON’S SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PRINCIPAL REGIONS OF THE HUMAN BODY. I. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PER1N7EUM; with Four I.itliographic Plates and Tliree Wood-engravings. Royal 8vo. 6s. plain, 7s. 6d. coloured. “ We most cordially recommend Mr. Morton’s treatise, as a satisfactory guide in the dissection of the perinasum and pelvis.”—British and Foreign Medical Review, July, 18.39, p. 2-14. “ Of the plates and wood-cuts which illustrate the work, it is sufficient to say that they are anatomically correct, clear, and beautifully executed. We have no hesitation in recommending this publication as iikely to prove useful to students actually engaged in the schools, and to those who, having entered into practice, may find occasion to keep up or refresh their recol- lections of the anatomy of the perinatum.”—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1839, p. 553. “ Mr. Morton’s book is a good one. It comprises the recent information, and is likely to be very serviceable to young surgeons.”—Med. Chir. Journ. Land. Jan. 1839, p. 175. “A treatise which contains a variety of useful and solid information.”—Lancel, Feb. 2, 1839, p. 699. “ To give the student the best information and directions as to his proceedings in the dissec- tion of this region—the most accurate description in the simplest language—the detail in ana- tomy, as inseparably connected with the/jrac/ice in surgery; the latter giving importance to the former, and the former decision and safety to the latter, is all that can be looked for, and all to be found here. “ The plates illustrating the letter-press are well drawn, and carefully engraved, and show with great distinctness the parts to be represented; that exhibiting the side view of the pelvis is, we think, clearer and more to the matter than any we have seen before. We can conscien- tiously recommend the work, and are glad to find that other equally important regions are about to be treated of by Mr. Morton—we hope in the same simple and useful manner.”— Medical Gazelle, Mag 25, 1839. II. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE GROIN, THE FEMO- RAL AND POPLITEAL REGIONS. Eight Lithograpliic Plates and Eleven Wood-engravings. Royal 8vo. 13^. coloured, 9s. plain. “ The production is altogether one which we can conscientiously recommend to the working student • « • The work will constitute a complete and elaborate treatise, that cannot fail to be highly useful to surgeons in general.”—British and Foreign Medical Review, Oct, 1839, p. 542. “ The volume does Mr. Morton great credit. We cordially wish his book every success.”— Medical Gazelle, Aug. 10, 1839, p. 728. “ We may say with regard to the present production, that it sustains the good character * which we awarded to its predecessor on ‘ the Pcrinaeum.’ Like that volume, as it is equally well and correctly written, it necessarily contains a variety of solid and useful information. The engravings, by Mr. Bagg, afford additional proof of the perfect competency of that artist to represent human anatomy with fidelity on paper.”—Lancet, Aug. 17, 1839, p. 760. “ The execution of this work is highly creditable to Mr. Morton. So far as we have dipped into them, his descriptions of the anatomy of herniaj are exceedingly correct. The work is well adapted for students, and is calculated to supply them with information of a very valuable character. The plates are extremely well executed. • • • -yyg fggon,. mend the work strongly.”—Medico-Chirurgical Journal, Jan. 1, 1840, p. 167. “ The present part of the work forms a good system of surgical anatomy so far as it goes, and will be highly useful to the surgical student. We trust the author will, in like manner, illustrate the anatomical relations of the neck and its parts.”—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 1, 1840, p. 235. III. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNI7E, THE TESTIS, AND ITS COVERINGS. Five Plates and Eleven Wood-en- gravings. IV. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK, THE AXILLA, AND REND OF TIIF ELROW. {rrepanug.)