THE SPERMATIC FASCIA. fibres of tlic intercolumnar fascia being more elosely aggregated together in such a case, that the constricted appearance usually observed towards the upper part of a large scrotal hernia is pro- duced, an appearance Avhich designs, with precision, the situation of the external abdominal ring. The fibres of the intercolumnar fascia arc commonly found to be more strongly developed in men than in women, and in some rare instances they may exist on both the surfaces of the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle. They are, on the other hand, in some subjects so thin and delicate as to be demonstrated with great difficulty ; and occasionally may even be absent alto- gether. The arrangement of the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia is well deserving of particular attention; since their principal func- tion must be the prevention of the farther separation from each other of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and thus to oppose the formation of inguinal hernim, since the tendency of the viscera to protrude through the inguinal canal will be in a great degree proportionate to the imperfect or weakly develope- ment of this structure. (The intercolumnar fascia is also repre- sented in Plate I. fig. 1.) The spermatic fascia. — The margins of the external abdo- minal ring are not naturally so clearly defined as they have been represented in the first plate of this work, since they are somewhat obscured by the existence of a thin and delicate fascia, through which the fibres of the cremaster muscle may be distinguished. This membrane is the spermatic fascia., and descends from the circumference of the external abdominal ring upon the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, as they emerge from the inguinal canal.* In the male subject the fascia descends upon the outer surface of the cremas- ter muscle, to which it is connected by loose cellular membrane; and externally it is in relation with the sub-dartoic cellular tissue. The spermatic fascia descends to the lower part of the testicle, completely surrounding both it and the cord. Some anatomists * The spermatic fascia is well represented in Plate III. of the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, fig. x. It has received various names from differ- ent authors :—tunica aponeurotica, fascia cremasterica; by Scarpa it is called the aponeurotic web of the fascia lata; tunica vaginalis communis, tunique fibreuse du cordon spermatique, &c. &c.