THE FASCIA TRANSVEB.SALIS. 242 shaped sheath which it derives from the fascia transversalis, and tlms to define what have been termed the margins of the inter- nal abdominal ring. When this has been done, the circular form of the superior aperture of the inguinal canal becomes, on relaxing the traction upon the spermatic cord, more distinctly apparent. There is, however, another plan of proceeding which is much more preferable, in several respects, than that which has just been mentioned, which consists in making a small cut in the fascia transversalis opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, — the lowermost fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle having previously been detached from their attachments to Poupart’s ligament and the crista of the ilium, and reflected inwards, as has been already directed to be done with the corre- sponding portion of the internal oblique muscle, — and then, gently to insinuate the handle of the scalpel between the mem- brane and the subserous cellular tissue. In this manner the handle of the scalpel may be passed downwards for a consider- able distance upon the front of the spermatic cord. At the first view the fascia transversalis appears of a yellow tint; but this depends only upon its translucent nature, which permits the proper colour of the subserous cellular tissue, a structure which is always more or less loaded with adipose sub- stance, to be seen through it. The fibres of which the fascia transversalis is composed are arranged, for the most part, in an oblique direction, downwards and outwards from the edge of the rectus muscle ; but these are, however, crossed in various directions by numerous others, which give to the membrane a reticular appearance. Not un- frequently the fascia transversalis consists of two laminm, which are united with each other opposite the posterior edge of the ligament of Poupart. The anterior of these laminae arises from the ligament itself, while the posterior is but the continuation of the fascia iliaca, which quits the iliacus internus muscle to bo reflected upon the lateral and anterior parietes of the abdomen. On the outer side of the internal abdominal ring it is not difficult to separate these laminae from one another, but, around the margins of that opening, and between it and the edge of the rectus muscle, they are so closely blended together that it is almost impossible to disunite them. When this division of the