316 THE TUNICA ALBUGINEA. and thus forms a series of small isolated sacs of serous mem- brane, Avhich may become distended with fluid, and constitute another of the varieties of encysted hydroeele of the cord. Small cartilaginous bodies are occasionally found in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, either loose and unattached, or connected to the body of the testicle by a delicate pedicle. They are pro- duced by inflammation of a chronic nature. EXPLANATION OF FIG. 2, PLATE III, opposite p. 237. The investments of the cord and testicle have been removed, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis freely exposed by an incision on its anterior surface. 1. The spermatic cord divested of all its coverings, excepting that which it derives from the subserous cellular tissue, and named the tunica vaginalis communis. 2. The body of the testicle exposed to view. It is covered ante- riorly and laterally by the tunica vaginalis testis propria. 3. The upper part of the epididymis, or, as it is termed, the g/o6«-5 major, or caput. 4. The globus minor, or cauda epididymis. 5. 5. That portion of the tunica vaginalis reflexa which lines the inner surface of the superficial investments of the testicle. It has been laid open by a free incision upon its anterior surface, and the edges of the opening turned aside. 6. The lower part of the cord, covered by the tunica vaginalis testis, which ascends for a short way upon it in the form of a wide cul-de-sac. 9. The tunica albuginea.—This, which is the proper coat of the testicle, and serves to give it its peculiar form, is a strong thick fibrous membrane, which resembles, in many respects, the sclerotic coat of the eye. It invests the whole of the body of the testicle ; is of a Avhite colour, opaque, and possesses, moreover, an extremely firm and resisting texture. It, nevertheless, is capable of great distensibility, as is well seen in those sudden and excessive enlargements of the testicle which depend upon an attack of acute inflammation of the gland; but, the causes of its distension being removed, it quickly regains its original dimensions. Externally it is in- vested upon its anterior and lateral aspects by the tunica vaginalis testis propria, which is very closely united with it; but posteriorly and infcriorly it is pierced by the spermatic vessels