POSTERIOR WALL OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 2 GO p. A liook, inserted a little below the situation of the umbi- licus, to suspend the triangular-shaped flap of the parietes of the inguinal region. g.The internal wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by the fascia transversalis. r. The internal abdominal ring, or funnel-shaped aperture in the fascia transversalis, by which the vas deferens and sper- matic vessels in the male, and the round ligameni; of the uterus in the female, issue from the abdominal cavity, in their descent to reach the external organs of generation. The opening is situated just above Poupart’s ligament. Tlie spermatic vessels are seen to unite with the vas deferens, as they bend over the first portion of the epigastric artery, just before their entrance into the inguinal canal. s. The crural ring, or aperture by the inner side of the femo- ral vein, by which a femoral hernia commences to descend from the cavity of the abdomen. It is below Poupart’s ligament. t. The external cutaneous nerve — a branch from the lumbar plexus — lying behind the fascia iliaca. 1. The trunk of the external iliac artery, as it runs along the inner edge of the psoas muscle, resting upon the fascia iliaca. 2. The external iliac vein, which runs along the internal bor- der of the artery. 3. The epigastric artery, as it ascends from its origin behind Poupart’s ligament, to pass along the inner edge of the internal abdominal ring. 4. Tlie internal circumflexa ilii artery, after its origin from the external iliac artery, and before it pierces the fascia iliaca. 5. The spermatic artery; on each side of the artery runs an accompanying vein. 6. The vas deferens. 7. The internal circumflexa ilii vein, which crosses over the external iliac artery, in its way to open into the external iliac vein. 8. 8. 8. The convolutions of the small intestines, which have been removed from the cavity of the pelvis, and thrown over to the right side. 9. The parietes of the inguinal region of the right side, re- flected upon the upper part of the corresponding limb.