OF ODLKiUE OR EXTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 27S about the centre of tlie erural arch, up towards tlie umbilicus ; but, on the eontrary, is carried so far inwards towards tlie mesial line, that it aseends, after running along the posterior surftice of the pubie portion of Poupart’s ligament, behind the outer edge of the lower part of the reetus muscle; and thus the obli(j[uity of the inguinal canal is destroyed, and an instance is afforded of the external or oblique inguinal hernia becoming apparently direct (but not internal) by the obliteration of its posterior wall; a circumstance which, if overlooked, might lead a surgeon into considerable difficulty, were he,—mistaking the true nature of the case, and regarding it as one in which the hernia is protruded through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, on the inner side of the epigastric artery—in an operation for a strangulated inguinal hernia, Avhcrc this change in the relative position of the external and internal rings had been effected, to direct (as is taught to be done by some authorities in cases of direct internal hernia), Avhile enlarging the stricture existing at the neck or internal orifice of the sac, the cutting edge of the knife towards the linea alba.*|* Py referring to Plate IV. fig. 3, or to the Avoodcut No. 4, at page 203, fig. tr, and comparing them Avith the Avood-engraving at page 274, the alteration Avhich is produced in the course of this vessel, by the continued pressure against it of an old and large external inguinal hernia, Avill be at once easily compre- hended. The transposition of the epigastric artery from its natural course, and the corresponding alteration in the situation of the internal abdominal ring, are subjects of considerable interest to the practical surgeon, since it greatly tends to render the esta- blishment of an accurate diagnosis betAveen external oblique in- guinal hernim of long standing and direct or internal inguinal hernim, previous to the operation, extremely difficult, and, in- deed, in very many cases, totally impossible. t For a case in wliicli this accident occurred, and where the patient very narrowly escaped losing his life from the hemorrhage which ensued upon the division of the stricture inwards towards the linea alba, See Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Hernia, 2d edit. Part i. pages 09 and 79. Vide also Scarpa on Hernia, translated by V\ ishurt, p. 125. T'