rONGENITAI, INGUINAL TIKIINIA. 280 to their anterior and lateral surhices, leaving the ]iosterior aspect of tlicse glands ivliolly uncovered, except by the loose cellular tissue, through which the spermatic vessels run, in their way to reach their final distribution.*f* I^'roni this situation the testes slowly descend, passing through the inguinal canal, into the bottom of the scrotum, where they usually arrive about the eighth month ; in this descent they bring along with them the same partial covering from the peritonamm which they had when situated just below the kidneys ; which, with the production from the peritoncuum already formed in the scrotum for their reception, constitutes the tunica vaginalis testis.j; '.riie formation of a congenital hernia would seem to be greatly promoted by the testicle not descending at the usual period, as in this case the communication between the cavity of the abdomen and the tunica vaginalis,—which always exists pre- viously to the passage of the testis through the inguinal canal, —remains much longer open than ordinarily, and so a greater opportunity is constantly afforded for the escape of some portion of the intestines into it. It is by no means an unfrequent occurrence, to find in the dissection of congenital hernim that the descent of the testicle has been but very imperfectly effected, the gland remaining fixed, either within the inguinal canal, or, even still higher up, in the iliac fossa ; and, under these circumstances, it will, also, generally be found that the developement of the organ is so in- complete, that reasonable doubts may be fairly entertained of its capability to execute its peculiar functions. In other instances, again, a congenital hernia is produced by some portion of the intestines becoming adherent to the front surface of the body of the testicle, as it lies within the cavity of the abdomen, previously to its passage through the inguinal canal, and, in consequence of this unnatural connection, being dragged down along with the gland throughout its descent into the scrotum.^ It must not, however, be understood, from t Vide a description of tlie situation of tlie testis in the foetus, with its descent into the scrotum, by John Hunter, Plate . fig. r. I Op. Cit. Plate III, fig. u and v. § Vide Nouveaux Elemens de Medecine Op4ratoire, 2d edit. tom. iv. p. 184.— Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit, pages 567 and 568.— Pott’s works, new edit. 1779, vol. ii. p. 162.