TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS. 315 8. The tunica vaginalis testis propria.—This is a small sac of serous membrane, originally a process from the peritonocal lining of the abdomen, but from any connexion with which, in the normal state of the subject, it is separated by the obliter- ation of that portion of it which intervenes between the internal abdominal ring and the lower part of the spermatic cord, and which is to be found on dissection lying in front of the sper- matic vessels, as a delicate elongated band of condensed fibro- cellular tissue. (See the wood-cut at p. 243, fig. w.) Previous to the descent of the testicle, the tunica vaginalis already exists as a small narrow pouch of the figure of the finger of a glove. The tunica vaginalis testis is composed of two parts; one which covers the anterior and lateral surfaces of the testicle and epidi- dymis and lower part of the spermatic cord, whilst the other lines the internal surface of the scrotum. Its internal aspect is smooth, polished, and glistening, being moistened by the serosity which constitutes its natural secretion. Upon the testicle its external surface is intimately adherent to the tunica albuginea, while elsewhere it is in apposition with the fibrous sheath common to the gland and spermatic cord. In some subjects the tunica vaginalis testis still retains its original connexion with the cavity of the great bag of the peritonaeum; and when the communication between them is very free, the intestines readily descend into it, forming a con- genital hernia; but sometimes, although the connexion between the two serous membranes still remains open, yet it is through the medium of a very narrow tubular canal, the orifice of which may be suddenly dilated under the influence of any violent muscular effort, by which a portion of intestine is forced down into it, giving rise to a similar kind of hernia as the last, but occurring perhaps at a very late period of life, as happened in the cases observed by M. Velpeau, the details of which will be found in his valuable treatise on Operative Surgery.-f It is occasionally observed, that the portion of the tunica vaginalis, which lies in front of the cord, between the testis and the upper aperture of the inguinal canal, is not obliterated throughout its whole extent, but only at several distinct points, t Vide Nouveaux Elements de Medecine Operaloire, par A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit, tom, iv. p. 182.