317 TUNICA VASCUI.OSA. t Sir Astley Cooper on the Anatomy of the Testis, p. 16. as they enter into the body of the testis, and superiorly by the seminiferous tubes as they emerge to reach the epididymis. Corpus Highmorianum.—The cavity of the tunica albuginea is divided unequally by a process which is furnished from its inner surface towards its upper and back part; this has been named the corpus Hig/mioriamim, or mediastinum testis. It is situated nearer the posterior than the anterior surface of the gland. Numerous membranous bands are extended at different points from the front of the corpus Highmorianum to the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea. These processes, which are named sepimenta testis, serve to separate and support the several masses into wTich the lobular structure of the gland is divided, and also to preserve the shape of the organ. 10. The tunica vasculosa.—This has been described by Sir Astley Cooper as the inner coat or layer of the tunica albu- ginea; the internal surface of which it not only lines, but it is also extended over the fibrous processes which connect the tunica albuginea with the corpus Highmorianum. It is formed of delicate cellular tissue, in which ramify the ultimate branches of the spermatic artery and vein. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the outer layer of the tunica vaginalis bears a strong resemblance to the dura mater of the brain—like it, being tendinous and inelastic, and, like it, forming processes internally; whilst the inner membrane of it resembles the pia mater, being reflected inwards upon the lobes of the testis, and forming a bed, on which the branches of the spermatic artery ramify, and supply with vessels the membranes Avhich envelope the tubuli.'j' Structure of the testicle.—The glandular structure of the testicle, which is of a yellowish colour, slightly reddened by the vessels of the tunica vasculosa, is chiefly composed of a soft, pulpy, filamentous tissue, formed by the numerous convo- lutions of the delicate vessels which serve to receive and trans- mit the seminal secretion. The tubuli seminiferi. — The seminiferous ducts of the testis are aggregated together into small pyramidal masses or 1 obules (lobuli testis), which are closely invested by the tunica vasculosa or pia mater. They are separated from one another by the membranous processes which have been already described