28, UrPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. 8 Kirkes—Paget. A Hand-Book of Physiology. By William Senhouse Kirkes, M.D. ; assisted by James Paget, Lec- turer on General Anatomy and Physiology at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. 12mo, 12s. 6(7. cloth. {Just Published.) With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Guesses at Truth.—By Two Brothers. First Series. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cs. cloth. Second Series. Second Edition, with lai’gc additions. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. cloth. Latham on the English Language. Second Edition. Revised, with large Additions. 8vo. 15s. “Let him, though ho know no characters but those of his mother tongue, read through the book as well as he can, and we will answer that he will, at the close, find himself in the possession of much larger and clearer notions of general grammar, and especially of comparative etymology, than he w'ould have supposed possible at the outset. He will find here an historical and analytical view, comprising the general ethnographical relations of the English Language, and that, too, in a much more readable form than he may imagine. At all events it will set him thinking, and, in whatever nook or eorner'of the kingdom or of the world his lot may be ciist, observing too; for the very dialect of the province will acquire a new interest, and help him in his studies.” English Journal of Education. Schmitz. Cheap Edition of Niebuhr’s Lectures on the History of Rome from the Earliest Times to the Death of Constantine. Edited by Dr. L. Schmitz, Rector of the High School of Edinburgh. Complete in 3 volumes, 8vo. 20s. *,* Vol. I., 8s. (sold separately); Vols. II. and III., Gs. each. “ It is this real utility of structure and treatment which renders the Lectures under review more popular, and to tyros in Niebuhr’s theories more useful, than his history, to which they form a fitting introduction or companion.”—Sjjcctator. Linwood. Lexicon to Alschylus. Containing a Critical Explanation of the more difficult Passages in the Seven Tragedies. By the Rev. W. Lixwood, A.M., M.R.A.S. Second Edition, revised throughout. 8vo. 12s. “ We have much pleasure in recommending the work to the notice of students, who will derive verj’ great assistance from it in the study of iEschylus.” Classical Museum, No. I. Schmitz. A History of Rome, From the Earliest Times to the Death of Commodus, a.d. 192. By Dr. L. Schmitz, Rector of the High School of Edinburgh, Editor of Niebuhr’s Lectures. One thick volume, 12mo, 7s. 6(7. cloth, or 8s. 6d. sti’ongly bound in leather. This work presents, in a popular form, the results of the investigations of the most distinguished scholars, especially those of Niebuhr, Arnold, Goettling, Rubino, and Becker. The whole is based upon a careful examination of the original sources. “It will undoubtedly take the place of every other Text-Book of the kind in eur Schools and Colleges.”—Bibliotheca Sacra (American), Aug. 1847.