OF INTERNAL OR DIRECT 28 G Section IV, OF INTERNAL OR DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. VENTRO- INGUINAL HERNIA. In this form of inguinal hernia the sac is protruded directly through some part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and upon the inner or pubal side of the epigastric artery. (Sec the wood engraving, No. 9, at p. 287, fig- r. p.) It has already been explained that the peritonaeum naturally presents, in the triangular space included between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle, two deep depres- sions, or fossae,"I* which are separated from one another by the umbilical ligament, and that a direct or internal inguinal hernia may be protruded through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal at either of these points. In most persons the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles do not extend farther outwards from the margin of the rectus muscle than the umbilical ligament, so that the portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, which is situated opposite the middle fossa of the peritonmum, consists only of the fascia transversalis; if, then, an internal in- guinal hernia should commence here,—as is not unfrequently the case,— it will force before it the peritonseum, the subscrous cellular tissue, and the fascia transversalis, and, after emenrimr through the external abdominal ring, will receive additional in- vestments from the external spermatic fascia, the superficial fascia, and skin. On the other hand, if the hernia commence its descent by being protruded through the third or most internal of the in- guinal pouches or fossae of the peritonaeum, the sac—besides being covered by the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia trans- vcrsalis, as in the foregoing instance—must either break through the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, or it must gradually distend them before it, and so derive an investment from them. In the latter ease the hernial t Vide the dissection of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, at p. 258.