231 THE CREMASTER MUSCLE. oblique muscle arise from the iliac two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament; and, after arching over the spermatic cord as it lies in the upper part of the inguinal canal (see Plate II. fig. k, /), end in tendinous fibres opposite the lower part of the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in front of which they pass to reach the linea alba and crista of the os pubis, into which they are im- planted. The tendinous aponeuroses of the muscles of each side are united with one another throughout the entire extent of the linea alba. The portion of the internal oblique muscle which has its origin from the iliac portion of Poupart’s ligament should, in the next place, be examined with particular care and attention. In this situation the fleshy fibres of the muscle pass obliquely downwards and inwards, almost parallel with Poupart’s liga- ment, from which they spring ; and opposite the outer border of the lower part of the rectus muscle end in a tendinous aponeu- rosis, which passes in front of it and the pyramidalis towards the linea alba, where it is joined with the tendon of the muscle of the opposite side. Some of the most inferior of the fibres pur- sue, however, a rather different course from those which are situated just above them; for they become very much curved as they pass over the spermatic cord in the upper part of the inguinal canal, and, becoming tendinous, descend behind the cord where it is contained in the lower part of the canal, and the external abdominal ring, to be finally inserted, along with similar fibres of the transversalis muscle, into that portion of the pectinated line of the os pubis which is situated behind the ligament of Gimbernat. The cremaster muscle.—The principal fibres of the cremaster muscle spring from the middle portion of Poupart’s ligament, between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and from this point nearly to the external abdominal ring. (See Plate II. fig. n.) Some of these fibres, thinner and paler than the rest, pass directly inwards in front of the upper part of the spermatic cord, and are implanted upon the tendinous aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, forming the sheath of the rectus muscle (see Plate II. fig. p) ; but by far the greater number of the fibres of the cremaster descend along with the spermatic cord through the external abdominal ring, being at first closely aggregated together on the outer surface of the cord, soon