237 TIIK CONJOINED TENDONS. t. Tlie spermatic cord, invested by the funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis. The cord is held aside by a hook at the point where it emerges from the internal abdo- minal ring, for the purpose of more clearly exposing to view the structures which form the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. u. The testicle of the left side, withdrawn from the lower part of the scrotum. V. The corpus cavernosum penis on the left side. w. The corpus spongiosum penis. X. The umbilicus. r/. The linea alba. z. The skin and superficial fascia of the inguinal region, re- flected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh. 1. The trunk of the epigastric artery, where it runs along the inner margin of the internal abdominal ring. The fascia transversalis has been cut open in the direction of the course of the vessel so as to expose it fully to view. To- wards the umbilicus the artery is obscurely seen, as it lies underneath the tendon of the transversalis muscle. 2. The external pudic artery. 3 and 4. Branches of the external epigastric artery. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed by the fascia transversalis {q), and the conjoined tendons of the transversalis (r) and internal oblique (s) muscles: behind the first of these structures runs the epigastric artery (1), and more posteriorly are found the subserous cellular tissue and the peritonaeum, with the ligamentous remains of the umbilical artery. For the explanation of Fig. 2, the reader is referred to that part of this work which treats of the anatomy of the testicle. The conjoined tendons of the internal ohlujue and transversalis muscles.—When the inferior flesliy fibres of the internal oblique muscle have been raised and reflected inwards towards the mesial line, as is represented in Plate III, they will be found to ter- minate, in front of the outer portion of the rectus muscle, in a thin but strong aponeurosis which soon becomes intimately blended with the tendon of the transversalis ; a connexion which is so close, that it is absolutely impossible to separate them satisfactorily from one another with the knife. On this account it is usual to describe them together, under the name of the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The conjoined tendons are partly situated in front of the pyrainidalis and lower portion of the rectus muscle, being in-