DISSECTION OF THE TRANS VERS ALIS MUSCLE. 233 arches are produced by tlie gradual displacement and elongation of their intermediate and more moveable portion.* The cremaster muscle is supplied with blood by the cremas- teric branch of the epigastric artery, and the principal division of the external spermatic nerve is distributed to its fibres. In the female subject the cremaster muscle cannot*generally be said to exist; yet, in some instances, the most inferior of the fibres of the internal oblique muscle are observed suddenly to become much paler than the rest, and also to be loosely scattered, as it were, over the round ligament of the uterus where it lies in the lower part of the inguinal canal. When an oblique inguinal hernia is formed in the female subject, .the front surface of the hernial sac derives a partial muscular investment from the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique, which are displaced and dragged downwards by the sac as the hernia is gradually protruded through the inguinal canal —very closely imitating, in fact, the mode of formation of the cremaster muscle by the descent of the testis in the male.*f* Some individuals are possessed of a considerable voluntary power over the contractions of the cremaster muscle, and are en- abled to retract the testes as high as the external abdominal ring, and in some instances even to withdraw them into the lower part of the inguinal canal. Persons endowed with the faculty of thus controlling at will the action of the cremaster muscles have been known to deceive medical officers appointed to examine the recruits of the army ; pretending that they were affected with inguinal hernia, and, in consequence, unfitted for military service.:}: Dissection of the lower edge of the transversalis muscle.— The lower portion of the internal oblique muscle may now be detached from its connexions to the crista of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament, and reflected upwards on the sheath of the rectus, as is represented in Plate III. fig. h. This proceed- ing will be most easily effected if the fibres of the muscle be first divided opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, as in this situation the muscle is separated from the * Vide Recherches Anatomiques sur les Hernies de I’Abdomen; par Jules Cloquet: 4to. Paris, 1817, p. 15. t Cloquet, p. 21 (1). I The Cyclopedia of Pract. Medicine, vol. ii. p. 144, art. Feigned Diseases.