CONCENITAI, INGUINAL IIEUNIA. 279 The appellation of congenital hernia was first given to this form of the complaint by Haller; who believed that it could not happen, except at or near the time of the birth of the indi- vidual, who became the subject of the affection ; and previously to the usual period at which the process, by which the oblite- ration of the connection which originally exists between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and that of the abdomen is ordi- narily commenced.j- This opinion of Haller has, however, been clearly proved, by later observers, not to be of such strict and universal application as he was inclined to consider it, and many examples arc now satisfactorily established, in which this variety of external or oblique inguinal hernia could not have been formed until many years had elapsed since the birth of the patients; and even in some instances, indeed, not until the middle period of life had been arrived at.J There arc sufficient grounds, however, for the belief that the majority of cases of inguinal herniae which happen during early infancy, are likely to prove of the nature of congenital hernia; and, indeed, it is pos- sible, also, that a congenital external inguinal hernia may occa- sionally be formed in the female subject, when the canal of N uck remains unobliterated. It will be recollected that in the foetus the testes are at first situated within the cavity of the abdomen, in front of the psoas muscles, and at a short distance below the kidneys ; and, also, that here they lie behind the peritonseum, which firmly adheres f In sixteen out of seventeen newly born children, who were examined by Camper, the tunica vaginalis was not obliterated, as is usual, at its upper part, but its cavity remained continuous with the greater bag of the perito- nteum. Ilesselbach has seen the processus vaginalis peritonsei remaining open on both sides in the body of a man, aged thirty-eight years; but in whom no protrusion of the abdominal viscera had taken place.— Vide also Recherches sur les Ilemies, par M. J. Cloquet, pages 40, 41, and Plate iv. of the same work. I M. Velpeau has seen the congenital form of inguinal hernia occur for the first time in the persons of three young men, all of whom were above twenty years of age, and in whom tlie testes liad descended at the ordinary period. The operation for strangulated hernia was performed by him in two of these instances: — one was cured, but the otlier died from an attack of peritonitis.— Fit/e Nouveaux El^'mens de Medecine Operatoire, par Alf. A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit. tom. iv. pages 182 and 183.—For similar cases see Lawrence on Ruptures, 2d edit, pages 284 and 574.