OHLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 269 croacliccl upon by the hernial tumour, and its lower edge becomes in consequence rather more arched than ordinary, and the conjoined tendons of the two muscles (the internal oblique and transversalis),—where they descend together to be inserted into the inner extremity of the ileo-pcctincal line of the os pubis, and form the inner part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal,'j'—arc displaced more or less inwards, nearer to the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; so that instead of extend- ing an inch, and even more than this, from the edge of that muscle, they do not reach more than a quarter of an inch, and frequently even a less distance from it than this. In the healthy condition of these parts, the conjoined tendons consti- tute a thin and flat band of fibres; but, when an oblique inguinal hernia has existed for a considerable period, and, at the same time, forms a large protrusion, they are no longer able to resist the tendency which the weight of the contents of the hernial sac has to drag inwards that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, which is composed of the fascia transversalis and the conjoined tendons, and hence they give way, and are pushed aside in the direction of the mesial line of the body, and so change their extended form for that of a thick, naiTOw, and strong band. (See Plate V, figs. 1 and 2, and woodcut No. 5, figs, f, m.) Such of the fibres of the internal oblique muscle as take their origin from the middle portion of Poupart’s ligament are more or less displaced by the hernial sac as it descends through the inguinal canal; so that they no longer run, in an oblique direc- tion, downwards and inwards to their attachment to the os pubis, but are forced upwards by the rounded anterior surface of the sac, as it protrudes between the lower edge of the muscle and the spermatic cord, and are so made to form a thick mus- cular arch, the concavity of which embraces about two-thirds of the circumference of the tumour as it lies within the inguinal canal. The cremaster muscle is frequently found very much altered from its natural and healthy condition, particularly if the hernia should be large and of long duration. The fibres of this muscle may be enlarged to three or four times their ordinary thickness, losing, at the same time, much of their muscular character, and ‘ t Vide Plate III. fig. r, and woodcut No. 3, at page 246, figs, i, g.