327 KXTIIAVASATION OF URINE. prevented from extending upon the tliighs by the connection between tlie superficial fascia and the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament; but, in one instance, which fell under my notice in the Hotel Dieu of Paris, it had broken through this barrier, and spread its ravages as far downwards as the knees : the pa- tient, I need hardly add, died exhausted by the excessive discharge attendant upon the separation of the sloughs ; which, as will be readily imagined, were of extraordinary extent. The extravasation of a fluid, possessed of such acrimonious (pialitics as the urine, is necessarily accompanied by constitutional dis- turbance of a very serious and alarming character, such as frequent rigors — cold clammy perspirations — feeble rapid pulse—dry brown tongue—anxious and haggard countenance— with, frequently, a peculiar dirty yellow hue of the surface of the body. I have been made acquainted with several instances in which this disorder was mistaken for inflammation of the testicle, and treated as such during several days—a blunder which was fol- lowed by the total destruction of the coverings of the scrotum, j" t Tlie subjoined case may serve to exemplify the preceding remarks: T. C. aet. 52, a tinworker, was admitted into University College Hospital in the month of November 1838, on account of extravasation of urine into the scrotum. This man states, that three days since he perceived the right side of the scrotum to swell suddenly while endeavouring to pass his water; to effec which he is obliged to strain considerably, as he has long been the subject of an old inveterate stricture. The part was very red and painful. The next day he was visited by the surgeon of his parish, who said that the swelling of the scrotum was an inflamed testicle, depending upon irritation about the neck of the bladder, for which he prescribed him to take small doses of blue pill and opium at night. As matters, however, got worse, he was brought to the hospital late in the evening of the fourth day. On ad- mission, the right side of the scrotum was tense, shining, and of a dark colour, painful, and crepitating when handled, with evident fluctuation. The house surgeon immediately laid the swelling freely open by an extensive incision, and gave exit to a large quantity of thin, fetid, dirty-coloured pus, mixed with urine. No. 4 catheter was introduced into the bladder with considerable difliculty, and retained there for two days; when it was withdrawn, and changed for No. 7, whici), as it passed easily, was not kept in as before. This mail had laboured under stricture of the urethra for the last fifteen years, during which period he has twice sufl’ered from effusion of urine into the scrotum and perinaeum; the first time was about six years ago, and the