DISK ASKS OF THE SCUOTUM. 823 consequent upon tlie lodgment among tlic riigm of tlic scrotum of some acrimouious fluid, sueli as tlie uriue, ichorous pus, &c. A similar kind of swelling, though perhaps not quite so acute or violent in its nature, frequently attends upon the spreading of erysipelas to the scrotum from the adjacent surfaces. Acute anasarca of the scrotum should be treated, in its early stages, by tlie removal of any exciting causes of a local nature,— should these still exist;—by the application of hot fomentations to the swollen part, which should be well elevated upon a pil- low of sufficient size, introduced between the thighs of the pa- tient, If these means, aided by such general treatment as is suited to the character of the complaint, do not succeed in diminishing the inflammation and tension, then free incisions should be practised without delay, if we would prevent the sloughing of the whole of the affected structures. O C Sarco7nato^ls tumour.—Enormous enlargements of the scro- tum have been frequently observed, but more particularly among the natives of hot climates. These growths are of an innocent character, but may attain an extraordinary magnitude. The only mode of cure which they admit of, is their removal by the knife; nor can this always be done without injury to the penis and testicles."f Cancer of the scrotum.—This disease, which is frequent among chimney-siveepers, commences by the formation of hard, warty excrescences upon the skin of the scrotum, which soon break out into foul ulcers, presenting a very malignant appear- ance ; and, except it is removed at a very early period of its existence, either by the knife or some powerful caustic, such as the chloride of zinc. See, is very apt to involve the testicle itself, and spread along the spermatic cord to the absorbent glands of the lumbar and inguinal regions. When these arc once af- fected, there remains very little prospect of any permanent benefit being derived from an operation. f Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by S. Cooper, 7th edit. p. 1135. Lis- ton’s Practical Surgery, 3d edit. pp. 340-1. Titley on Diseases of the Ge- nital Organs, pp. 299—325. + Vide the Chirurgical Works of Percivall Pott, F.ll.S. Loud. 1779, vol, iii. pp. 225-9. First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, hy Samuel Cooper, 6tli edit. p. GOl. Cases of Diseased Prepuce and Scrotum, hy William Wadd, 4to. Land. 1817, p. 23.