TUNICA VAGINALIS COMMUNIS. 314. the influence of those deleterious agents which liave caused the destruction of the scrotum. 4*. The external spermatic fascia.—This covering of the testicle has already been fully described at p. 223 ; it is the same as the intercolumnar fascia of some writers. Commen- cing superiorly at the margins of the external abdominal ring, it is prolonged downwards upon the spermatic cord and testis, both of which structures it completely surrounds. It is occasionally found greatly thickened in large and old scrotal hemiee.'j' 5. The cremaster muscle.—As a full description of the cremaster has been given at p. 231, it is wholly unnecessary to repeat it here ; suffice it to say, that it is formed by the dis- placement of the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique mus- cle, which are drawn downwards by the testicle in its descent through the inguinal canal into the scrotum. The changes which it undergoes in cases of hernise are mentioned at p. 269. 6. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis.— This is the investment which the testis derives from the fascia transversalis, when it descends through the internal abdominal ring. In the natural state of the parts it is extremely thin and delicate. It has been fully described at p. 24.1, and at p. 268. 7. The tunica vaginalis communis or cellular sheath of the spermatic cord.—This is formed by a prolongation from the subserous cellular tissue of the lumbar region, and is capable of being largely distended, as happens in diffused hydrocele of the spermatic cord. It is also frequently the seat of copious extravasations of blood, when secondary hemorrhage takes place from any of the spermatic vessels after the operation of castration, particularly if the upper extremity of the cord has been permitted to be retracted far within the inguinal canal. The blood which is thus effused is liable to cause diffuse in- flammation, followed by extensive abscess of the iliac fossa. | That part of the tunica communis which invests the spermatic cord is sometimes the seat of large masses of fat, which may form a tumour resembling, in many respects, an irreducible epi- plocele. Again, serous fluid may be collected in some of its cellules, and, gradually increasing in quantity, form a species of encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord. t Vide p. 228 and p. 270. J Vide also pp. 241 and 2o0.