OF KNCVSTEl) OR INFANTILE HERNIA. Section III. TI. HERNIA INFANTILIS. ENCYSTED HERNIA OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. CASE IN WHICH THE HERNIAL SAC IS PROTRUDED INTO THE SHEATH OF THE SPER- MATIC CORD, REHIND THE TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS. In this variety of the external or oblique form of inguinal hernia, the sae is protruded into the cellular sheath of the sper- matic cord, and descends behind the tunica vaginalis of the tes- ticle, instead of passing in front of it, as is the case in the com- mon kind of scrotal hernia. In this manner the hernial tumour projects forwards against the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, the posterior layer of which invests, more or less completely, the lower and anterior surface of the sac, from which it is only separated by some loose cellular tissue. This affection is most likely to occur when only the abdominal aperture of the pro- cessus vaginalis peritonsei has been closed, and Avhen, from some cause or other, the obliteration of that portion of it which lies within the ingninal canal, in front of the spermatic cord, and between the external abdominal ring and the upper extremity of the testicle, has not been so effectually completed as is ordi- narily the case. The wood-engraving represents, by a side view, the condition of the parts as they have been found upon dissection in cases of infantile hernia. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the left side has been laid open, and the hernial sac, with its contents, is seen as it projects behind the posterior layer of that membrane. a. Tlie body of the testicle, which is covered anteriorly and laterally by the tunica vaginalis testis, h. b. b. The tunica vaginalis, the cavity of which is much more extensive than is ordinarily the case ;—a free incision has been made into it, so as to show more clearly the relative position of the hernial sac and testicle to one another; and, also, the mode in which the posterior layer of it is projected forwards by the hernial tumour, which is situated immediately behind it. c. A portion of the cellular substance, which sepa- rates the hernial sac (d) from the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis (*). d. The proper hernial sac, which is a fresh production from the great bag of the peritoneum, e. A knuckle of small intestine, contained within the hernial sac. ./. The intercolumnar fibres which bind togetlrer the pillars of the ex-