318 SEMINIFEROUS STRUCTURE as connecting the anterior surface of the corpus Highmoranium or mediastinum testis with the interior of the tunica albuginea. The number of the seminiferous tubes is very great, being estimated at three hundred; and each of these is not less than sixteen feet in length, and about Torth part of an inch in dia- meter. The extent of the whole, when added together, is said to be near 5000 feet."!* Vasa recta—rete testis. — The seminiferous tubes termi- nate, after passing through the anterior layer of the mediastinum testis, in another set of vessels, less numerous but larger than themselves, which are named, from the straightness of their course, vasa recta. These ascend vertically towards the upper part of the gland, where they emerge to join the epididymis. The portion of the testicle which they occupy is situated at the upper and back part of the gland, and is named the rete testis. Vasa efferentia—coni vasculosi. — The vasa recta empty themselves by twelve or fifteen tubes, into the convoluted ves- sel, of which the epididymis is composed. These are at first straight, but soon assume a very tortuous course, (see the wood-cut No. 10, b and c,) and thus present a conical figure, whence is derived the name of coni vasculosi, which is some- times given to them. These vessels form the globus major of the epididymis. The epididymis.—The epididymis is an oblong, worm-like body, somewhat bent in upon itself at its extremities, which is loosely fixed to the upper and back part of the testicle. (See Plate IV. Fig, 2. s and 4i.) The superior extremity of the epididymis is larger and more rounded that the inferior, and is named the globus major. (Plate III. Fig. 2. ©.) It lies upon the upper part of the testicle, and receives, as has been already described, the vasa efferentia. The middle por- tion of the epididymis has been named the corptis; it is but loosely connected to the body of the testicle by the reflexions of the tunica vaginalis testis. The lower extremity of the epididymis, also termed globus minor, or cauda, is elongated, and tapering in its figure, and gradually terminates in the vas deferens. The epididymis is formed by the frequent con- volutions of the tube, which results from the union of the vasa efferentia; the curves which it forms are pretty firmly fixed t Manuel d’Anatomie, par I. F. Meckel, tom. iii. p. 627. Paris, 1825.