TUNICA VAUINAHS. 325 inflammation of the membrane of the tunica vaginalis. Tlie swelling is usually of a j)yriform shape, and of a very light weight in comparison with its magnitude; it is also free from pain, except when, from its large size, it gives rise to a dragging sensation in the course of the cord towards the lumbar region. The principal diagnostic sign of the disorder is, however, the transparency of the tumour when viewed against tbe light of a candle in a darkened room ; but 1 have seen many fail in their attempt to observe this sign, because they neglected the neces- sary precaution of rendering the skin of the scrotum quite tense, by firmly grasping it from behind. 'I'he tumour is unaffected, except in very rare instances, by coughing or any other muscular effort on the part of the patient. The growth of the swelling increases gradually from below upAvards, and, generally, a portion of the cord may be felt to be free above, between it and the external abdominal ring. Sometimes the testicle is situated in front of an hydrocele, instead of lying behind it, as is most usually the case. I have witnessed this variety in three instances, which, upon making a dissection of the parts, seemed to depend upon an original transposition of the gland, by Avhicli that part of it Avliich is lined by tire tunica vaginalis, was turned towards the jjosterior aspect of the scrotum. Other cases have also been observed, in which this unusual condition of the parts might have been pro- duced by a morbid adhesion of the anterior surface of the tes- ticle to the front of the sac."!" Occasionally it happens that an hydrocele is not transparent when examined Avith a candle, which circumstance may depend upon the opaque nature of the fluid which it contains, or the great thickness of the tunics of the scrotum, more particularly of the external spermatic fascia and cremaster muscle. t Sir Astley Cooper mentions the following case in his work on the Ana- tomy and Diseases of the Testis, which shows the necessity of being ac- quainted with the possibility of the testicle varying from its usual situation in hydrocele: “ A gentleman consulted a surgeon for a swelling in his scro- tum, which he pronounced to be hydrocele. He put a trocar into it, no water followed, and he said, “ I am mistaken; this is a solid enlargement of the testis, and it must be removed.” The patient, excessively alarmed at so severe a sentence, said he should require time to think of it; and another surgeon was consulted, by whom it was injected from the side instead of the fore-part, and the patient perfectly recovered.” O]). cit. p. 168.