239 THE INTERNAL ABDOiVUNAL RING. this is rendered impracticable, from the intricate manner in which the whole of these structures are interwoven with each other. In some subjects the conjoined tendons of the internal ob- lique and transvcrsalis muscles arc by no means so clearly de- veloped or so extensive as they have been described in the pre- ceding pages ; and in some instances, indeed, they would appear to be altogether absent from that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which they ordinarily strengthen and sup- port. Under such circumstances, however, the ftiscia transver- salis is generally much stronger in its texture than usual. The conjoined tendons, being situated behind the external abdominal ring, form the principal obstacle to the direct protru- sion of the viscera of the abdomen through this portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal ; or, in other words, tend greatly to prevent the frequent formation of a direct or internal inguinal hernia. The internal abdominal ring*— The circumscribed space underneath the lower margin of the transversalis muscle (see Plate III. fig. p) has been named by Sir Astley Cooper the internal abdominal ring, to distinguish it from the opening in the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which has already been described as the external abdominal ring, or lower opening of the inguinal canal. In the healthy condition of the parts, no aperture with clearly defined margins, sueh as the name which has been given to it might lead us to expect, Avill be found to exist in the situation of the internal abdominal ring ; since the term by which it is customarily denominated has been applied to it, not so much from a consideration of the na- tural figure of the part, as on account of the form which it pre- sents when a hernial protrusion has taken place througli it. (See the wood engraving No. 4, fig. o.) The internal abdo- minal ring is situated in the fibrous membrane which lines the inner surface of the transversalis muscle, and named by Sir Astley Cooper the fascia transversalis. The exact position of the internal abdominal ring is midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spinous • Also called the annulus inguinalis posterior (Hesselbach) ; upper ingui- nal or abdominal aperture (Monro); inner opening or end of the inguinal canal (Langenbeck and Scarpa); I'ouverture supe'rieure et externe du canal inguinal (J. Cloquet); V orifice poster icur du canal iwgwuuz/(Velpeau).