^^22 THE INTEKCOLUMNAR FASCIA. tachments to the os pubis—a disposition of parts which alone could afford but a feeble resistance to the protrusion through the external ring, of the loose and floating viscera of the abdomen, when compressed by any unusual contraction of the muscular parietes of that cavity. On a closer inspection, however, a regular series of strong tendinous fibres will be observed to lie closely upon the outer surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, crossing, nearly at right angles, the proper fibres of the ten- don, adhering very intimately to each, and thus materially serving to bind them more firmly together. As these fibres extend over from one pillar of the ring to the other, they have been named the intercolumnar fascia. The fibres of the in- tercolumnar fascia take their origin, in a great measure, from the anterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, in the whole of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the root of the spinous process of the os pubis ; near the last-mentioned point of bone some of them appear to spring from the pubic portion of the fascia lata binding down the pec- tineus muscle, immediately anterior to the ligament of Gimber- nat; they thence ascend, in a curvilinear direction, tow^ards the lower part of the linea alba, into which they are finally inserted. The convexity of the curve, Avhich these fibres make in their course, is, for the most part, directed downwards towards the external abdominal ring, but near the apex of that o|3ening they are disposed in the contrary direction. (See the woodcut No. 1. page 220, where the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia arc repre- sented by numerous white lines, upon the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle.) Near the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, these fibres are weak and scattered ; but as they approach the outer extremity of the external abdominal ring they become much more numerous, and, at the same time, greatly increased in thickness and strength, and arc thus well calculated to prevent the further divergence from one another of the pillars of the ring. When the external abdominal ring is distended by the protru- sion through it of the sac of an inguinal hernia, the intercolumnar fascia limits the excessive enlargement of the opening, and com- municates the circular form to it, whence it has derived its name; and it is owing to the circumstance of the most inferior