264 INCOMPLETE EXTERNAL OR of the external iliac vein. in. The epigastric artery, as it runs along the under and inner margin of the neck of the sac of an external inguinal hernia, n. The vas deferens, where it descends, after its exit from the ingui- nal canal, in its course to the side of the bladder, o. The internal abdominal ring dilated by the protrusion through it of tlie sac of an external or oblique inguinal hernia. The aperture so produced generally limits what is termed the neck of the hernial sac. p. The internal surface of the lower part of the rectus abdominis muscle. By contrasting this wood-engraving with No. 9, the reader will at once clearly understand the distinction which is made between external and in- ternal inguinal hernise. In proportion as the hernial tumour increases, it descends fartlier into the inguinal canal, and soon passes underneath the inferior margin of the internal oblique muscle, the muscular fibres of which are displaced in a similar manner to those of the transversalis muscle already mentioned ; and, becoming more closely aggregated together, form a thick and strong muscular fasciculus, which sweeps over the front and sides of the sac, nearly opposite the middle of the space which is included be- tween the superior and inferior apertures of the canal. When the hernial sac has descended beyond the lower mar- gin of the internal oblique muscle, the fibres of the cremaster are spread over its front and lateral surfaces. Incomplete external inguinal hernia.'\—So long as the her- nial sac does not emerge from the lower aperture of the in- guinal canal, it is denominated an incomplete external bubono- cele^ which, it should be remembered, is a very common form of the complaint, and is extremely likely to prove much more dangerous to those who are the subjects of it than the complete form of the disorder, inasmuch as its existence is frequently overlooked both by the patient and his medical attendant; so that it not unfrequently happens that much valuable time is lost, and the means which would be most suited to effect its cure, or, at all events, to prevent its further increase, permitted to remain unemployed, when—were the nature of the affec- tion recognised — they might be had recourse to with the hap- piest results. The works of medical and surgical writers teem t Boyer calls this form of inguinal hernia intra-parietale, and other French writers name it “ hernie inguino-interstitiellel’ By Sir Astley Cooper it is described under the head of mall inguinal hernia.