262 OF EXTERNAL OR traded tlirougli some part of tlic posterior wall of that passage, on the inner or pubal side of the epigastric artery. (See the woodcut No. 9, figs, r, p.) This is named the Direct or In- ternal inguhial hernia. Section II. OF EXTERNAL OR OBLIOUE INGUINAL HERNIA. It has already been observed, whilst making the dissection necessary to expose, by an internal view, the structure and relations of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, that the external inguinal pouch, or fossa of the peritonmum, is situated directly opposite the internal abdominal ring, or superior aper- ture of the inguinal canal, and that, consequently, it is (at least in the male sex) the weakest point of the fasciso which line the interior of this portion of the abdominal parietes, and, therefore, not unfrequently gives Avay under the pressure which is exerted against it by the viscera, when they are forcibly compressed by the contraction of the muscles which bound the abdominal cavity, as constantly happens during any violent or active exertion, such as, for example, leaping, running, &c. The in- testines, on being thus propelled, as it were, into the external inguinal pouch of the peritonseum, carry that membrane before them, enlarging the little cul-de-sac, Avhich it usually forms upon the front of the cord or round ligament of the uterus, where they occupy the upper part of the inguinal canal. (See the woodcut No, 2, at page 243, figs, /, ??i.) As the hernial tumour descends into the inguinal canal, it derives investments from the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis, which, taken together, constitute that cover- ing of the sac which has been termed the fascia propria of inguinal hernise. The lowermost fleshy and tendinous fibres of the transversalis muscle are, at the same time, displaced a little upwards, and moulded more completely into the form of a semi-circular bor- der, which arches over the neck of the sac, and is thus capable, under certain conditions, of forming the seat of the stricture in some cases of strangulated oblique inguinal hernise.