THE FASCIA TR ANSVEIISALIS, 240 process of the ilium, being there placed about a finger’s breadth above the ligament of Poupart. Its distance from the external abdominal ring is not always the same in different subjects ; as it varies between an inch and a half to two inches in extent, ac- cording to the length of the inguinal canal, and the magnitude of its openings. (See the woodcut No. 3, fig. o.) At the internal abdominal ring the fascia transversalis is not covered by the fibres of the transversalis muscle, as it is here that the spermatic cord in the male subject, and the round liga- ment of the uterus in the female, commence their oblique de- scent through the parietes of the inguinal region; receiving, as they emerge, a funnel-shaped investment from the fascia. (See the wood engraving No. 2, at p. 243, figs, i, k.') The internal abdominal ring is bounded superiorly by the fleshy and tendinous margin of the transversalis muscle ; in- feriorly, by the grooved surface of Poupart’s ligament ; and internally, by the epigastric artery and its accompanying veins. (See Plate III. fig. p.) As the epigastric artery, in this part of its course, runs along underneath the fascia transversalis, the dissector must either un- cover it by an incision with the point of his scalpel, — as was done in the dissection from which the drawing was taken—or,— what is more advisable,—he may satisfy himself of its position and course by lightly pressing his fore-finger upon the inner edge of the ring, when, if the vessel has been injected, it will be clearly distinguished as it rolls underneath the tip of the finger. It is through the internal abdominal ring that oblique or ex- ternal inguinal hernise, in all their various forms, commence to be protruded; and it is from the relation which the several struc- tures here situated bear to the neck of the sac, and consequently to the surgical treatment of these diseases, that so much care and attention are demanded from the student in his dissections of this region. (See the woodcut No. 3, at p. 246, fig. o.) The fascia transversalis. —The cellulo-fibrous membrane which lines the internal surface of the abdominal parietes has been thus named in that portion of its extent where it covers the interior of the transversalis muscle. This membrane has received different names in separate parts of its extent; thus, for example, it is called the fascia iliaca, where it covers the psoas and iliacus muscles, and the fascia pelvica where it