Oni-KIUK INOIHNAL IIEUNTA. 26;> Avitli the histories of eases in which the unfortunate sufferers liavc lost their lives, from the strangulation of a very small knuckle of intestine in the neck of the sac of an incomplete external inguinal hernia having been allowed to continue unno- ticed, until it had become too late to attempt to interfere with the most remote chance of success by any operative proceeding.*f* In these, and many similar instances,:}; the rational symptoms of the disorder arc only taken into account, whilst the physical signs of it are neglected (a tumour in the region of the in- guinal canal, painful, tender under pressure, and resisting the taxis ^), and are regarded only as indications of an attack of peritonitis, or some obscure form of inflammation of the bowels; and the patients arc treated during many days in the same manner as persons who actually labour under such complaints ; —how ineffectually it must be easy for any one, who is capable of considering the subject, to conceive. j| Whilst it remains within the inguinal canal, the hernial sac is supported — accordingly as it happens to occur in a male or female subject — by the upper part of the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, which intervene betwixt it and the floor of the canal; — anteriorly, it is covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, the intercolumnar fibres, and the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the lower fibres of the internal oblique, and upper part of the cremaster, underneath which are placed the several investments which it receives from f Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 65 and p. 83. Liston’s Elements of Surgery, 2d edit. p. 586. Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit. p. 223 ; also, Nouveaux E16mens de Medecine Operatoire, par M. Velpeau, 2d edit. vol. iv. p. 177. + Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, p. 130. § Vide a Paper, by the Author, in the Medical Gazette of 23d Dec. 1837, p. 506, “ On the Symptoms of strangulated Intestine.” II See also Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. chap. xiv. p. 65. Of small inguinal hernia. Sir Astley Cooper says, “that this tumour occurs much more commonly than is usually supposed, for I have frequently found it in the dissection of the bodies of persons who have never been suspected of labouring under the disease, nor have ever worn a truss when strangulated. These cases more commonly fall under the care of the physician than the surgeon; for, as the patient himself is not conscious of having a tumour at the groin, the symptoms of strangulation are ascribed to inflammation of the bowels, and the patient dies, as is supposed, of idiopathic peritonitis.”