THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 213 vessels at a little distance above tlic crural arch, and then fol- lowing them downwards in their course towards the saphenous opening of the fascia lata. As the external pudic vessels arc very tortuous in their course, some caution is requisite during this dissection, in order that they may not be cut across un- expectedly ; an accident which may be avoided by drawing the superficial fascia upwards and inwards, so as to efface the nume- rous curves which the vessels make as they arc mounting over the spermatic cord. Some branches of the external circumflexa ilii artery and vein will be noticed near the crest of the ilium. The superjictal li/mphatic vessels. — Three or four small absorbent glands will be found lying between the two laminas of the superficial fascia, parallel with, and immediately above Poupart’s ligament. Numerous delicate lymphatic vessels may be shown, by a little careful dissection, to enter into these glands in their way from the hip, the hypogastric and umbilical regions, and external organs of generation, to the cavity of the abdomen, and hence it is that they frequently become swollen and inflamed in consequence of any disease in these parts; af- fections which are, in many instances, wholly unconnected with any venereal taint. In persons of a strumous habit these glands arc sometimes enlarged, without any very obvious cause, to an extraordinary degree, and at length, after suppurating imperfectly at several points, form a succession of troublesome abscesess, which, if neglected by the patient or his surgeon, frequently degenerate into numerous deep and irregular sinuses or fistulse, which gene- rally prove exceedingly difficult of cure. When the superficial vessels and glands have been thus exposed, the dissector should next proceed to raise up the deep layer of the superficial fascia, together with the other structures which rest upon it; he may commence at the angle nearest to the umbilicus, and then, holding the fascia tightly up from the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, he must divide, by successive strokes of the scalpel, the delicate cellular tissue which connects its internal surface to the tendon under- neath. This cellular tissue should be divided close to the surface of the aponeurosis, the knife being carried in the same direction as the fibres of the external oblique muscle, that is to say, obliquely downwards and inwards. Great care is