THE SUTEUFICIAL FASCIA. 211 deriving their origin from some inflammatory affection of one of tliesc glands. These abscesses, although small, frequently cause, during their formation, considerable pain and uneasiness ; but they are quickly cured by making, as soon as suppuration has been fairly established, a simple incision, of sufficient extent to afford a free exit to the contents of the swelling. The flap of sk in which has thus been raised, may be re- flected downwards upon the thigh, where, if necessary, it is to be fixed by means of a pin. (See Plate I. fig. t, and Wood- cut No. 1, fig. A.-.) The supevjicial fascia covering the lower part of the abdo- minal parietes, consists of two distinct layers, between which the superficial vessels and some small lymphatic glands are placed. The external layer (immediately subjacent to the skin) consists chiefly of a loose reticulated cellular tissue, with more or less of adipose substance deposited in its cellules, accordingly as the in- dividual is corpulent or otherwise. The thickest portion of this layer is over the body of the os pubis, where a large mass or cushion of adipose tissue is deposited in it, the granules of which are much smaller than elsewhere; it is this mass of adipose sub- stance which constitutes, in the female, the mons Veneris. The quantity of this fiitty substance diminishes near the bend of the thigh, beyond which line the external layer of the superficial fas- cia is traversed at numerous points by several bands of condensed cellular tissue, which are disposed in a transverse direction.* The external layer of the superficial fascia may be readily shown to pass over the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s liga- ment, without being adherent to these structures, and after- wards to become continuous with the outer lamella of the super- ficial fascia of the groin ; for, on drawing upon any part of the inguinal portion, we are also able to exercise a certain degree of traction upon the femoral division of the membrane. The superficial vessels.-^-—If the subject be much emaciated, some small arteries and veins will be observed to run, in various directions, underneath the external layer of the superficial fascia ; those which are situated near the centre of the space between * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Groin and Femoral Hernia, p. 95. t For a description of these vessels, see the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 99, and also Plates I. and III. of the same work. n O i /V