4 WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, i Liebig—Playfair and Gregory. Chemistry in its Applications to Agriculture and Physiology. By Justus Lieuig, M.D., Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen. Edited from tlie Manuscript of the Author, by Lyon Playfair, Ph.D., and William Gregory, M.D. Fourth Edition, revised, five, 10.S-. Gd. cloth. “ It is not too much to say, that the publication of Professor Liebitr’s Organic Che- mistry of Agriculture constitutes an era of great importance in the history of Agricul- tural Science. Its acceptance ns a standard h ufiaroidnhle; for fnllmvinr/ closehj in the siraipht path of inductive Philosophy, the conclusions which are drawn from its data are incontrovertihle. We c.an truly say, that ■we have never risen from the perusal of a book with a more thorough conrretiGn of tire profound knowledge, extensive reading, and practical research of its author, and of the invincible power and importance of its reasonings and conclusions, than we have gained from the present volume.”—-Sf/ZiMiunV Journal. Liebig—Gregory. Animal Chemistry 5 Or, Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology and Pathology. By Justus Liebig, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen. Edited, from the Author’s Manuscript, by William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinbnrgh. Third Edition, almost wholly re-wTitten. 8vo. Part I. {the first half of the work) 6s. 6d. cloth, just published. “ Under the heads of animal heat; of the nutrition of the carnivora and herbivora; of the origin and use of the bile; of the relation between the change of matter and the consumption of oxygen ; of the origin and use of the non-nitrogenised elements of food, and particularly of fat, and their relative value as sources of heat; of the effects of alcohol and fermented liquors; of the effects produced on the volume of the inspired air by the different articles of food; and la.stly, of the true functions of the intestinal canal, and the origin, nature, and composition of the faeces, v ith their relation to the food, and to the supply of oxygen;—under all these heads, the reader will find such an amount of new and interesting matter as must satisfy him that we have entered on the true path of discovery, and that the industry of modem chemists has been most profitably employed during the period which has elapsed since the first edition of this work appeared.”—From the Editor's Advertisement. Part II., completing the Work, will be ready very soon. It has been delayed I for the results of important investigations. Latham. An English Grammar for the Use of Schools. By R. G. Latham, A.M., Pellow of King’s College, Cambridge. Second Edition. P2mo, 4s. Gd. cloth. “A work in which Grammar, no longer an assemblage of conventional rules of speech, becomes a philosophical analysis of our language, and an elementary intellectual exercise adapted to the highest purposes of instruction.”—Minutes of Council of Education (St. Mark’s College), Yol. I. 1845. The Classical Museum; A Journal of Philology and of Ancient History and Literature. 8vo. Vol. II., 12s. Gd. cloth. Vols. III. to VI., each 14s. (icL cloth. The work is continued Quarterly. Price of each Part, 3s. Gd. Part XXII. is just published. Sub Rege Sacerdos. Comments on Bishop Hampden’s Case, With an Epitomised Report of the Proceedings. By E. S. Creasy, M.A., of Lincoln’s Inn, Barrister-at-Law ; Professor of History in University College London. 8vo, 3s. ^ o j