244 THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. d. The internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring, cut from its connections with the body of tlie os pubis, and reflected downwards with the rest of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, of which it forms a part. e. The corresponding portion of the internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring, occupying its natural position in front of the body of the os pubis. /. The outer border of the tendon of the rectus muscle, where it is con- tinuous with the inner or pubic portion of the fascia transversalis {<)). g. g, g. The fascia transversalis where it lines the inguinal region. h. The fascia transversalis blended with the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, so as to form with it the floor of the inguinal canal. The fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles have been dissected from their attachments to the iliac portion of the crural arch and wholly removed. i. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, laid open in front to display the component structures of the spermatic cord, which it encloses. k. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, where it invests the spermatic cord, between the external abdominal ring and the testis; behind this portion of the cord are observed some oblique fibres, which constitute the triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. l. A portion of the great sac of the peritonaeum. m. A tubular process of the peritonaeum, which is frequently to be found as a fibro-cellular band in front of the rest of the structures composing the spermatic cord; it consists of the obliterated portion of the original processus vaginalis peritonsei. n. The epigastric artery, as it passes deeply in the subserous cellular tissue, betwixt the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum, and along the pubal side of the internal abdominal ring. 0. Dotted lines, which serve to indicate the course of the epigastric artery, as it ascends in an oblique direction behind the fascia transversalis in its way towards the umbilicus. p. The spermatic veins. q. The spermatic artery. r. The vas deferens. s. The triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. The fascia transversalis is stronger and more fibrous in its structure around the circumference of the internal abdominal ring than elsewhere, and it is more especially so on the inner edge of that opening, between it and the epigastric vessels : in this situation, indeed, the fascia transversalis frequently pre- sents the appearance of terminating by a well-defined edge, over which the spermatic cord turns, to descend from the interior of the belly into the inguinal canal. This sharp margin only exists, how- ever, in consequence of the angular reflexion of this portion of the fascia transversalis, as it doubles upon itself in order to contri-