THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. 254 internal inguinal hernia.* * * § The epigastric artery frequently gives off the ohturatrix artery, the relations borne by which, under various circumstances, to the neck of the sac of a femoral hernia have been already fully noticed in a former part of this work.j" It is important to bear in mind that the epigastric artery lies along the inner or pubic edge of the internal abdominal ring; for, as will be afterwards described, the two principal varieties of inguinal hernia that are of most frequent occurrence com- mence, either upon the outer, or the inner side of this vessel; circumstances which require that a certain direction should be given to the edge of the knife, while removing the stricture at the neck of the sac in the operation for strangulated inguinal hernise, otherwise the artery may be wounded, and so give rise to a very troublesome and even fatal hemorrhage.| The great laxity of the subserous cellular tissue which con- nects the epigastric artery, in the first part of its course, to the adjacent structures, renders it very easy to alter the position of the vessel by any considerable pressure exerted on either side; and thus it is that we so frequently find the artery displaced inwards as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in cases of large and long standing external inguinal hernise. The epigastric artery and its branches have been frequently wounded in the old operation of tapping for ascites, in which it was the custom to enter the trocar at a point midway between the umbilicus and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium.§ The epigastric artery may also be wounded in the operation of placing a ligature upon the external iliac artery, if the inter- nal extremity of the incision, which is requisite for exposing * Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by S. Cooper, 7th edit. p. 718. t Vide Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 114; and the wood en- graving, No. 6. at p. 115; also, Plate V. fig. 4, 5, 6. I For cases where this accident occurred, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. p. 54, and Mr. Cooper’s Dictionary of Surgery, 7th edit, p. 741 ; also the works of Scarpa, Bertrandi, Lawrence, &c. § Vide Medical Communications, vol. ii, p. 482; a Paper by Dr. Car- michael Smith ; also, Mr. Cooper’s Dictionary of Practical Surgery, 7th edit. p. 1081.