INCOMPLETE INTERNAL OR DIRECT RlIBONOCELE. 28.*) guinal hernia, instead of protruding at once through the exter- nal abdominal ring, passes into the inguinal canal, where it is closely bound down and compressed by the firm aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. In this situation the tumour, formed by the hernia, is often exceedingly indistinct externally, especially in corpulent subjects ; and is not likely to be recog- nized, unless a very minute and careful examination be made of the lower part of the abdominal parietes. Under these circumstances, the existence of a strangulated hernia of this kind has been, on numerous occasions, over- looked ; most frequently, however, in females, whose natural modesty induces them to conceal from their medical attendants their knowledge of the fact of there being any swelling or tender- ness in the neighbourhood of the groin. So frequently, indeed, has the strangulation of a small knuckle of intestine in this situa- tion passed unnoticed, or only been detected when it had become too late to prevent a fatal termination to the disorder, that it is an established rule of practice with all experienced surgeons, never to undertake the treatment of any case in which there are present any of the rational symptoms which are common to a strangulated hernia, and the several varieties of abdominal inflammation—such as vomiting, constipation, pain and tender- ness of the belly, &c.—except they are permitted to institute a strict manual examination of all those regions in which hernim are most likely to occur, j- Situation of the spermatic cord.—In most instances of direct or internal inguinal hernia the spermatic cord is situated along the external and posterior side of the sac, instead of being placed directly behind it, as is the case in the external or oblique form of inguinal hernia. A very remarkable exception, however, to this rule was ob- served by the late Mr. Todd, of Dublin ; in which he found, upon making a dissection of the parts, the spermatic cord ex- tended, in an undivided state, across in front of the upper part of the sac to its pubal side, and then descending on that side to the posterior surface of the sac where the testicle was situated. In this case the hernia, in place of passing anterior to the cord, t For cases where strangulated hernice of this kind passed unnoticed until after the death of the patient, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 73.—Lawrence on Hernia, 5lh edit. p. 228. u