OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 2G7 columnar fibres are seen aggregated togetlier, so as to form a strong and dense fasciculus, which constricts the hernial sac opposite this point, and gives the circular form to the external abdominal ring, which is so much insisted upon by surgical writers. d. The ligament of Poupart. e. e. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, divided and turned back, so as to expose J\ the fleshy fibres of the lower part of the obliquus interims muscle. g. The tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle of the left side, opened and turned back. h. The rectus muscle of the left side, lifted up from its na- tural position and turned over, towards the mesial line of the body. i. The fascia transversal is, where it lines the posterior surface of the rectus muscle, above the pubes. k. The great trunk of the femoral artery. l. The femoral vein. 7w. A portion of the great bag of the peritonaeum, which, after removing the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and raising Poupart’s ligament, appeared externally, under the left crural arch. n. The great crural nerve. o. The saphena major vein, near its termination in the com- mon femoral vein. p. The sartorius muscle. q. The iliacus internes muscle. r. The adductor longus muscle. s. The gracilis muscle. t. The rectus femoris muscle. u. The tensor vaginae femoris muscle. V. Part of the glutaeus medius muscle. ui. The vastus externus muscle. y. The umbilicus. 1. The epigastric artery, near to its origin from the external iliac artery. 2. The epigastric artery, behind the outer border of the rectus muscle, into which situation it has been brought by the long-continued pressure of a large and old-standing oblique inguinal hernia. The artery would most certainly be cut were the surgeon, when enlarging the neck of the sac in the operation for the removal of the stricture, to turn the edge of his bistoury inwards, in the direction of the linea alba. The epigastric veins are observed as they accompany the artery, the course of which they follow.