249 THE INGUINAL CANAL. muscle and tlie pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament. These fibres belong to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side ; and, after decussating with the correspond- ing fibres of the opposite muscle, are inserted into the crista and spinous process of the os pubis, and, also, into the inner third of the ilio-pectineal line of the same bone, behind the ligament of Gimbcrnat. By some anatomists this triangular fascia has been supposed to exert a considerable influence in preventing the formation of a direct inguinal hernia ; but after a close inspection of its situation and extent, this opinion, I believe, can hardly be maintained.* These fibres are sometimes so very thin and indistinct, that it is with great difficulty that their existence can be demonstrated. The inferior wall, or flooring of the inguinal canal, is consti- tuted by the grooved surface which results from the union of the posterior borderof Poupart’s ligament with the fascia transversalis. The inguinal canal contains, besides the lower edge of the obliquus internus in tlie male subject, the spermatic cord and upper portion of the cremaster muscle ; and, in the female, the round ligament of the uterus. The subserous cellular tissue.— Betwixt the inner surface of the fascia transversalis and the peritonseum exists a layer of loose cellular substance, which is frequently of considerable thickness, especially in corpulent persons, in whom it is so much loaded with adipose matter as to resemble, in a remark- able degree, the omentum, for which it has been not unfre- quently mistaken during operations for strangulated inguinal and femoral hcrnise.'l' Opposite the posterior wall of the in- guinal canal, the subserous cellular tissue is frequently found to be nearly half an inch in thickness. In cases of phlebitis originating in the veins of the lower ex- * Dr. Quain considers that these fibres not only tend to support the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, upon which they are laid ; but that they also serve to connect the lower part of the linea alba and Poupart’s ligament, on the principle of a diagonal brace, and by means of their elasticity tend to weaken the force of any pressure made upon the part, by diffusing it over a greater extent of surface. — Elements of Anatomy, 4th edit. p. 467. t On this subject, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I, note at bottom of p. 14; and also Part II. p. 11 and 12. Also Scarpa on Hernia, translated by Wishart, 8vo. p. 269.