301 CHAPTER V. OF THE REDUCTION OF INGUINAL HERNI.E BY THE TAXIS. On many occasions the reduction of an inguinal hernia by the taxis is a very easy and safe proceeding, and one which may be undertaken by even the most ignorant persons without any risk being incurred by the patient; as, for example, when the constriction which confines the hernia is of so slight a nature as to yield readily to a very moderate and gentle compression of the tumour. Rut when the hernia is very tightly girded by the stricture, and has been so for a considerable time, then the na- ture of the case is very much altered, and it becomes a matter of the greatest importance that the eflforts employed to return the contents of the sac by the taxis should be directed by superior judgment and skill. There can be no doubt that much of the danger which so frequently attends upon the operation for stran- gulated hernia is the result of the force—too often misapplied for an improper length of time—which it is thought requisite to employ before having recourse to the use of the knife. The details of numerous dissections have been recorded by different writers, which satisfactorily prove that the fatal termination of a great number of the cases in which the operation has been per- formed without success, may be fairly attributed to the exten- sive bruisinff and even laceration of the coats of the tender and O inflamed intestines, which is caused by the rude force with which they had been compressed against the sharp, resisting edges of the openings through which they had been protruded, j" It is, nevertheless, on many occasions, and more particularly so in hospital practice, exceedingly difficult to decide whether the taxis should be tried any longer; for many examples con- t Vide a very interesting case of strangulated inguinal hernia, in which the bowel was ruptured by the patient in his efforts to return it; with observations, by Benjamin Travers, F.R.S. in 23d vol. of Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. 1840, p. 1.