THE SUl’ERFICIAL FASCIA. 2U required on approaching near to the situation of the external abdominal ring, lest the thin membrane which passes off from the margins of that opening downwards upon the spermatic cord (the external spermatic fascia) should be cut, and removed along with the superficial fascia.* To avoid this error an assistant should be instructed to hold the spermatic cord tense, by drawing the testicle obliquely dowmwards and to the opposite side. While raising the deep layer of the supeidicial fascia from the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, it Avill be observed that it is particularly adherent, in the mesial line, to the linea alba, and, laterally, to the anterior or cutaneous sur- face of the ligament of Poupart and iliac portion of the fascia lata. The connection of the deep layer of the superficial fascia to Poupart’s ligament, is much more intimate along the outer or iliac half of that structure than nearer to the spine or tuberosity of the os pubis, where it is rather attached to the pubic portion of the fascia lata, in front of Gimbernat'’s ligament. When the deep layer of the superficial fascia is traced below the crural arch, it will be found to rest upon the fascia lata of the thigh, and to be spread over the saphenous opening, to the margins of which it is closely adherent. The difference which exists in the structure of the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, is deserving of particular notice ;—the external lamella is formed of a loose cellular tissue, and is always more or less loaded with adipose substance, which is deposited in its cellules, whilst the internal lamella is, on the contrary, very strong and elastic, and pre- sents a smooth, compact, and glistening appearance, especially upon its internal surface, so that it may be said to be always membranous, and, occasionally, even aponeurotic, in its pro- pcrties.*f" The dartos.—The superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes changes its appearance in a remarkable manner as it descends over the spermatic cord to reach the scrotum, suddenly losing its adipose, cellular character, and assuming a fibrous structure, of • The spermatic fascia is represented in Plate III. of the Surgical Anato- my of the Groin, fig. x. t By many the deep lamella of the superficial fascia is known under the name of Scarpa’s Fascia. Scarpa himself described it as an aponeurosis derived from the fascia lata of the thigh.— Trait6 des llernies, p. 22.