THE FASCIA TKAKSVERSALIS. 245 bute towards tlie formation of the funnel-sliaped slieath of the cord. When the membrane is extended upon the handle of the scalpel, this angular appearance of it is effiiced, and the whole is thus shown to constitute one continuous and uniform surface.* It is principally owing to the presence of the fascia transver- salis at the superior aperture of the inguinal canal, supported as it is there by the lower fleshy fibres of the internal oblique mus- cle, that the oblique form of inguinal hernia is not of more frequent occurrence ; for, as we have already seen, neither the spermatic cord, nor the round ligament of the uterus, completely fill up the space included within the circumference of the internal abdominal ring. In persons of an originally weak and sickly habit of body, and even in individuals of a contrary disposition, but in whom the muscular system has been temporarily enfeebled by acute and wasting diseases, such as fevers. Sec. it will be frequently observed, on making an examination of the inguinal regions, that the abdominal parietes yield in a very perceptible manner, and become prominent opposite the situation of the internal abdominal ring, whenever they cough violently, or make any other similar exertion tending to excite a forcible contraction of the muscles bounding the abdominal cavity ; and if, under these circumstances, the hand should be applied against this region, the impulse which is communicated to the viscera within will be very sensibly distinguished. In this manner inguinal hernise may be frequently detected in the earliest stages of their forma- tion, long before the patient is himself aware of the existence of the disease. The fascia transversalis is not always of the same strength and thickness in different individuals ; in some persons it is scarcely stronger than a layer of simple cellular tissue, while in some others, generally men, it is perfectly aponeurotic in its structure and properties. Around the circumference of the internal abdominal ring, the * As the fascia transversalis is very thin and delicate in its structure opposite the internal abdominal ring, it is not always acknowledged that the spermatic cord receives an investing sheath from it, as the latter passes through the opening: on the contrary, the spermatic cord has been described as emerging from the cavity of the abdomen betwixt two portions of the fascia, the free margins of which are described as the external and internal pillars of the internal abdominal ring.—See Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit, p. 189.