259 OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. matic vessels, as they converge towards each other, in their course to the internal abdominal ring : — the same dissection will suffice, also, for the examination of the internal and exter- nal iliac arteries, and the origins of their principal branches. (See Plate IV.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. This plate represents a view of the internal surface of the abdominal parietes, in the left inguinal region of the male subject; the peritonaeum and subserous cellular tissue having been removed, so as to expose the other structures which are immediately external to them. a. The crista of the ilium. The letter is placed about the dis- tance of an inch outwards from the anterior superior spi- nous process of the bone. b. The situation of the symphysis pubis. c. The spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. d. d. The ligament of Poupart obscurely seen through the fasciae iliaca and transversalis, which join with one another along its posterior margin. e. Gimbernat’s ligament; it is partially concealed from view by the fascia transversalis, and, also, by the conjoined tendons of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, which here curve downwards to reach their insertions into the inner part of the horizontal branch of the os pubis. f. The horizontal branch of the os pubis, forming a part of the ileo-pectineal line. £[.The inner surface of the rectus muscle, where its tendinous sheath is defective posteriorly. h. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle, from which the fascia transversalis has been dissected, so that its mus- cular structure might be more clearly displayed. i. The iliacus internus muscle, partially stripped of its cover- ing from the fascia iliaca. k.The fascia iliaca, which binds down the iliacus internus and psoas muscles. /. The fascia transversalis, lining the inner surface of the transversalis muscle. m. The cut edges of the muscles forming the lateral walls of the abdomen. n. The lower part of the tendinous sheath of the rectus mus- cle, which ceases about midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis. 0. 0. The linea alba.