288 INTERNAL OK DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. Poupart, where the fasciae iliaca and transversalis unite with each other. f. Ginibernal’s ligament, whicli is implanted into the inner part of the ilio- pectineal line of the os pubis, g. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle, partially concealed from view by the fascia transversalis. h. A part of die tendon of the transversalis muscle, which forms the posterior division of the sheath of the rectus muscle, i. The fascia iliaca, which binds down the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, k. The fascia pelvica which is continuous along the brim of the pelvis with the fascia iliaca. 1. The internal surface of the lower part of the rectus muscle, where the posterior lamina of its tendinous sheath is deficient, m. The internal abdominal ring, or upper aperture of the inguinal canal, by which an external or oblique inguinal hernia commences to protrude (see the wood-engraving No. 4, at page 263, fig. o). n. The trunk of the external iliac artery, o. The exter- nal iliac vein. p. The epigastric artery, which runs along the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac of an internal or direct inguinal hernia, q. The vas deferens, cut across as it is descending from the inguinal canal towards the side of the bladder, r. The internal orifice or mouth of the sac of an internal or direct inguinal hernia, s. The line which leads downwards from this letter, marks the proper direction to be given to the incision of the neck of the sac in the operation for a strangulated internal inguinal hernia. The name of Internal inguinal hernia has been given to this form of rupture by Hcsselbach, with the view of indicating the situation which is held by the internal orifice of the hernial sac relatively to the course of the epigastric artery ; which vessel, as is seen in the wood-engraving, runs along its outer or iliac side. By Sir Astley Cooper this affection is named Direct in- guinal hernia, because, instead of following the same oblique course as the external form of the complaint, it passes at once through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, immediately behind the external abdominal ring.^ Professor Scarpa consi- ders that it should be regarded as a combination of the venlral and inguinal forms of hernia ; for it approximates itself to the nature of the first, inasmuch as the hernial sac is protruded through the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and trans- vcrsalis muscles, opposite the external abdominal ring; and, on the other hand, resembles the more common form of inguinal hernia, in passing in the same manner through the external ab- dominal ring, along with the spermatic cord.j] Incomplete internal or direct inguinal hernia.— It some- times hajipcns that the hernial sac of an internal or direct in- t I'idc 8ir AsUcy Coo[)er on llornia, 2d edit. Pan i. p. 67. 1 I'ulc Scaij)a on Hernia, Iranslalod by VVisliart, 8vo. p. 82.