250 THE SPERMATIC COED. tremity and of the cavity of the pelvis, the subseroiis cellular tissue, lining the iliac fossa, is sometimes affected with diffuse inflammation, ending in extensive suppuration. Previous to their entrance into the inguinal canal, the sper- matic cord and round ligament of the uterus receive each an investment from the subserous cellular tissue, which accompa- nies them as far as their opposite extremities. It is into the sheath which the subserous cellular tissue fur- nishes to the spermatic cord, that the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia descends, and it is to the great laxity and distensibility of this membrane that the disgregation of the component struc- tures of the spermatic cord—so commonly observed in cases of large scrotal hernise of long standing—is mainly attributable. Steatomatous tumours, which are liable to be mistaken for examples of incomplete inguinal herniee, are occasionally develop- ed in that part of this structure which serves to invest the sper- matic cord. Considerable collections of serous fluid are some- times met with, which are either contained in one cavity or cyst, as in some forms of the encysted hydrocele of the cord, or diffused throughout the whole extent of the membrane, as in that form of the disease (of rare occurrence) which has been denominated by Mr. Pott hydrocele of the cells of the tunica communis.* The spermatic cord. — The spermatic artery and accom- panying veins descend from the lumbar region, where they are placed in front of the psoas and iliacus muscles, to reach the internal abdominal ring, or superior opening of the inguinal canal (see Plate IV. figs. 5 and 6). At this point they join at an acute angle with the vas deferens, which here dips down into the cavity of the pelvis in its way from the testicle to reach the side and base of the bladder, to which it is closely applied, as it runs along to its termination in the prostatic portion of the urethra, where it opens upon the anterior and lateral surface of the veru-montanum. (See the Surgical Anatomy of the Peri- nseum, Plate IV. fig. p, and page 34.) In the inguinal canal, and between the external abdominal ring and the testicle, the * For an excellent and interesting account of the various forms of Hy- drocele, the student is refeiTed to Mr. Pott’s Treatise on that disease. Mr. Pott operated upon one case of diffused hydrocele of the spermatic cord, and drew off eleven pints of water.—See Pott's Works, 2d edit. vol. ii. p. 270.