312 THE DARTOS. debilitated persons, the skin of the scrotum becomes very long and lax ; wliile, on the contrary, it is very short and corrugated in persons enjoying robust health, or under the influence of a cold temperature. A large number of small sebaceous follicles are situated underneath the skin of the scrotum; the secretion from which, under some circumstances, acquires an extraordinary degree of acrimony, and excoriates the neighbouring surfaces in such a manner as to produce great distress to the patient. A strict attention to cleanliness by frequent ablutidn of the af- fected parts, and the use of Goulard’s lotion, are generally sufficient to effect a speedy cure of the complaint. The extreme facility with which the skin of the scrotum admits of being extended to an extraordinary degree, is well exemplified in those immense enlargements of this part Avhich are so frequently met with among the inhabitants of eastern climates; and, in this country, is daily Avitnessed among those who are the subjects of large hernim, hydroceles, or malignant disease of the testicle. The extensible quality of the skin of the scrotum allows the surgeon to be less chary of removing large portions of it whenever he conceives it advisable to do so in any of the operations practised upon this part; as, for example, castration, the excision of tumours, fungoid growths, &c. 2. The dartos.—This covering of the testis was formerly considered to be of a muscular nature, but at the present day it is looked upon as a transition structure, intermediate betwixt muscular fibre and condensed cellular tissue, and, in many respects, possessing the properties of each. It is composed of numerous reddish-looking fibres, which are disposed lon- gitudinally, following the same direction Avith each other, being continuous posteriorly Avith the superficial fascia of the peri- nseum, and anteriorly Avith the superficial fascia covering the body of the penis and lower part of the abdominal parietes. The dartos is divided into tAvo separate cavities or compart- ments, by a process Avhich is sent off from its inner surface, and separates the testicles from one another. This process or mem- branous partition {septum scroti) is not so complete, but that it readily alloAvs of fluids, Avhich may be effused underneath the dartos upon one side, to pass across to the other.