THE SPERMATIC CORD. 252 the musculo-cutaneous and genito-crural branches of the lumbar plexus,—of numerous filaments from the mesenteric, renal and hypogastric plexuses of the grand sympathetic, and are sufficient to explain the sympathies which are well-known to exist under many circumstances between the stomach and testicle ; as in orchitis, blows upon the testicle, &c. At its entrance into the inguinal canal, the spermatic cord forms an acute angle with those portions of it which are situated within the cavity of the abdomen, and, after bending over the epigastric artery, follows the oblique direction downwards and forwards of the canal, passing successively underneath the lower margins of the obliquus internus and transversalis muscles. In the lower part of the inguinal canal the spermatic cord is covered anteriorly and upon the sides by the cremaster muscle, and then — continuing its descent towards the testicle — after emerging through the external abdominal ring, it again changes its direction, by making a second curve, the concavity of which is turned towards the outer pillar of the ring and spinous process of the os pubis. The vessels and nerves which compose the spermatic cord, are enclosed, as has been already described, in sheaths derived from the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis; they are partially covered also by the cremaster muscle, and again com- pletely by the external spermatic fascia, which is derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring. Where the vessels of the spermatic cord enter the superior aperture of the inguinal canal, the peritonseum always presents a well-marked depression on its inner surface, the depth of which varies, however, in different subjects. This fossula, or depres- sion of the peritoneum, is frequently prolonged externally, in front of the cord, under the form of a shallow funnel-like tube, which soon terminates in a delicate white fibro-cellular cord, that may be traced downwards until it expands into the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. (See the wood-engraving No. 2, at p. 243, fig. m.) d his fibro-cellular band consists of the ligamentous remains of the processus vaginalis peritonsei, which is generally obliterated at, or soon after, the period of birth. The epigastric artery.—Th\s vessel usually arises from the inner side of the external iliac artery, about three or four lines above the inner margin of the crural arch. The epigastric artery