253 THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. inclines at first a little downwards and inwards, so as to get under eover of the posterior surface of Poupart’s ligament, after whicli it suddenly changes the direction of its course, and mounts obliquely upwards towards the umbilicus, passing, at the same time, un- derneath the commencement of the spermatic cord and along the inferior and inner margin of the internal abdominal ring. In the first part of its course the artery lies embedded in the subserous cellular tissue, between the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum ; but about midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis, it pierces the tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle (to which it is finally distributed), frequently anasto- mosing in the remainder of its passage with the terminal branches of the internal mammary, lumbar, and superficial epi- gastric arteries. (See Plate IV. fig. 3.) The epigastric vein follows the same course as the artery, upon the inner side of which it runs. Occasionally two veins accompany the epigastric artery. (See Plate V. fig. I, 2.) Near its origin the epigastric artery furnishes three branches, of which the largest turns into the inguinal canal along with the spermatic cord, and, being distributed to the cremaster muscle, has been named the cremasteric artery ; its branches anastomose with those of the spermatic and external pudic arteries. The second branch is much smaller than the preceding, and runs along the posterior surface of Poupart’s ligament, to reach the symphysis pubis, behind which it inosculates with the corres- ponding vessel of the opposite side. The third branch descends behind the horizontal branch of the os pubis, and joins wdth some of the branches of the obturatrix artery. As it ascends towards the umbilicus, the epigastric artery gives off, on each side of its course, several other small branches, which are distributed to the inner surface of the transversalis and rectus muscles. Varieties.— The epigastric artery sometimes arises high up from the external iliac, in some instances at least an inch and a half distant from the crural arch. It sometimes arises from the internal circumflex of the thigh, as well as from the femoral artery below the crural arch ; it has also been found arising from the profunda femoris. Hesselbach states having seen it deriving its origin from the obturatrix artery; and in that in- stance it ran along the inner edge of the neck of the sac of an