S20 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTICLE. basis of the cone, which they form, is directed towards the front of the gland, the apex towards the corpus Ilighmorianum. b. The rete testis, consisting of the vasa recta, which are eighteen or twenty in number: they connect the tubuli seminiferi with the vasa efferentia. c. c. The globm major or caput epididymis, which is chiefly formed by the vascular cones of the vasa effe- rentia. d. The corpus or body of the epididymis, e. The lower extremity (^globus minor) or cauda of the epididymis, f. g. The vas deferens: at /’, which is the commencement of the tube, it is observed to be larger and more convoluted than higher up, as atg. The. vas deferens.—The vas deferens, or excretory duct of the testicle, extends from the lower part of the epididymis—of which it is the continuation—to the prostatic portion of the urethra. Very tortuous, and larger in size at its commence- ment and termination, the vas deferens follows a straight course in the remaining parts of its extent. It ascends, with the rest of the structures that compose the spermatic cord, as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it separates at an acute angle from the spermatic artery and veins; and then, bending over the epigastric artery, dips down into the pelvis, and becomes closely applied against the side and base of the bladder, as far as the base of the prostate gland. At this point it joins with the duct of the vesicula seminalis. The vessel which results from their junction {ductus ejaculatorius communis^ traverses the substance of the prostate gland in an oblique direction upwards, forwards, and inwards; and finally opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, upon the anterior surface of the veru-montanum. In its course along the side and base of the bladder, the vas deferens lies in the ano-le • ^ O formed by the reflection of the peritomeum from the posterior and lateral surfaces of that viscus to the side of the pelvis. It also lies on the inner side of the ureter and vesicula seminalis. The interior of the duct,—which, excepting near its extremities, is of very narrow calibre,—is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the urethra. Its external coat is fibrous, very thick, and almost as dense and hard as cartilage. It is accompanied by a small artery, a branch from one of the vesical arteries. The vas deferens may be distin- guished from the rest of the constituents of the spermatic cord by its hard wiry feel, and by its position, for it lies behind and to the inner side of the spermatic artery and vein.-f* t Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Perinaeum, pp. .34-5.