CONGENITAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 282 superior or internal pillar of the ring. e. The inferior or external pillar of the ring. f.f. The superficial coverings of tlie hernial sac in the scrotum. g. A fold of small intestine whicli, in the congenital inguinal hernia, descends into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, where it frequently lies in appo- sition with, or is adherent to, the body of the testicle. Tlic superficial coverings of tlie sac of a congenital hernia arc of the same nature as those of the ordinary scrotal hernia (see page 262), from Avhieh it only differs in the circumstance of the hernial sac not being formed, as in the latter case, by a morbid protrusion of a portion of the great bag of the peritonaeum, but is constituted by the natural cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, the superior extremity of which has never been closed. They consist of the skin, the superficial fascia and dartos, the external spermatic fascia, the cremaster muscle, and the funnel- shaped processes of the fascia transversalis and subserous cellular tissue {i\\Q fascia j^rojjria); within these structures is found the tunica vaginalis testis distended by the hernia. In consequence, no doubt, of the constant disposition with which the processus vaginalis peritonsei is naturally endow'cd, of contracting itself towards its superior extremity, the seat of the stricture in those cases of strangulated congenital hemim which have either been examined by dissection, or in which the opera- tion has been performed, has very commonly been found in the neck of the sac, and in the immediate vicinity of the internal ab- dominal ring. It has, also, been remarked, when strangulation of the contents of the sac of a congenital hernia does occur, that the stricture upon the bowel is much more close than usually happens in the other forms of oblique or external inguinal hernia. In cases of congenital hernia there is no such distinct line of demarcation or furrow observable between the fundus of the hernial sac and the upper part of the testicle, as is noticed in the ordinary form of scrotal hernia. When the canal of Nuck still exists in the adult female it is quite possible that a hernia might be formed, which would bear the same relation to the round ligament of the uterus as the congenital hernia does to the spermatic cord in the male ; but, the distinction of this from the common form of inguinal her- nia of females can be of no practical importance, and, therefore, need not be insisted on.