299 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNIiE. a combination of symptoms, such as are commonly looked upon as indicating strangulation of a portion of bowel, accompany the formation of an abscess seated in one of the glands of the inguinal region, and have led hasty and careless observers to form an erroneous opinion as to the nature of the swelling, which is-mistaken for a strangulated hernia, requiring the ope- ration to be performed for its relief. Much judgment and dis- crimination is often required to be exercised in determining the nature of such cases. On the other hand, the tumour formed by a small hernia, the contents of which are really strangulated, has been mis- taken for an abscess, and much valuable time lost in the appli- cation of remedies which arc incapable of affording the slightest relief. Sir Charles Bell tells us that he has seen four surgeons unanimously of opinion that a bubonocele was a suppurating gland.-j* It is not very many years since I was shown a woman, a patient in a very large hospital, who soon afterwards died in consequence of this error in diagnosis having been committed by one of the dressers of the institution, who laid open a stran- gulated hernia under the impression that it was a simple abscess in the groin. Steatomatous tumours upon the spermatic cord.—Large masses of adipose substance are not unfrequently formed in the inguinal canal, upon the spermatic cord and round ligament of the uterus, and form a tumour possessing many of the cha- racters of an inguinal hernia. These steatomatous tumours arc occasionally accompanied by a small protrusion of the membrane of the peritonseum, constituting a small hernial sac. Femoral hernia.—If close attention were always paid to the situation which is occupied by the neck of the tumour, it would be next to impossible to mistake a femoral for an inguinal hernia; for in the latter it is placed above the ligament of Poupart, while in the former it lies below it. The mistake is most liable to occur in the female, for the round ligament of the uterus does not alford us the same assistance in making a diagnosis, as the spermatic cord in the male.ij; f Vide a System of Operative Surgery, vol. i. p. 259. Also Sir Asllcy Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Note at foot of page 71. t Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 71.