THE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 229 of the internal oblique and cremaster muscles may be pro- ceeded with, as represented in Plate II. EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. This plate represents the second stage of the dissection of the inguinal region, in which the tendon of the external ob- lique muscle has been raised and reflected downwards upon the thigh, in order to display the lower part of the internal oblique muscle, with the fibres of the cremaster covering the front and sides of the spermatic cord and testicle. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. h. The situation of the spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. The curved line of Poupart’s ligament, which is extended between these points of bone. d. The lower part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, raised from its connexions and re- flected upon the upper part of the thigh. e. The fleshy portion of the external oblique muscle above the crista of the ilium. f. A part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, where it covers the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. g. The linea alba. h. The situation of the linea semilunaris, where the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle cease and become tendinous. i. The superior and internal pillar of the external abdominal ring reflected upon the thigh. k. k. The fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle as they arise from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the iliac half of Poupart’s ligament. 1. A part of the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, where it strengthens and supports the lower portion of the pos- terior wall of the inguinal canal, behind the external abdo- minal ring. m. The tendon of the internal oblique muscle, where it forms the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. n. The external head of the cremaster muscle, arising from the middle of Poupart’s ligament. o. The loops or inverted arches which the fibres of the cre- master muscle form in front of the cord and testicle. p. The internal or pubic portion of the cremaster inserted into the lower part of the sheath of the rectus. r. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by the inner or pubic portion of the fascia transversalis.