COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR 2G8 3. The internal circumflexa ilii artery; it springs from the ex- ternal iliac artery opposite the origin of the epigastric. 4. Tlie scrotum of the left side. 5. 5. The external spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fun- nel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, blended toge- ther by the pressure of the hernia, and constituting one of the principal investments of the hernial sac. 6. 6. The subserous cellular tissue, which is interposed between the sheath of the cremaster muscle and the proper hernial sac. 7. 7. The hernial sac, formed by the peritonaeum. 8. A portion of the omentum contained in the sac, and lying in front of 9. A knuckle of the small intestine. The fascia transversalis is, in tjie majority of cases of inguinal herniae, but little altered from its usual healthy condition, excepting that the internal abdominal ring (see the woodcut No. 4, at page 263, fig. o) is greatly enlarged — principally towards the mesial line — by the protrusion through it of the hernial sac. Occasionally it presents, over the situation of the neck of the sac, the appearance of a narrow, circumscribed, and unyielding band of condensed cellulo-fibrous tissue, of the thick- ness of fine packing-twine. In the operation for strangulated inguinal hernim, this co- vering is not unfrequently mistaken for the peritoneal sac, in consequence of its uniform and delicate appearance and texture. The subserous cellular tissue has been found, in several in- stances, to be a little increased in thickness, but unequally so, from the presence of a number of very small bundles of adipose substance that are deposited here and there in its texture. It frequently appears very vascular where it covers the neck of the sac. This investment of the hernial sac has been frequently mistaken in the operation for the omentum—au error whicli has, in some instances, caused the death of the patients, from the hernial sac being reduced, along with its contents, into the cavity of the abdomen, the strangulation of the bowel still re- maining unrelieved. The transversalis muscle undergoes little or no alteration in its form and appearance, by the protrusion of the hernial sac through the internal abdominal ring. In some instances, however, of large and old oblique inguinal hernioc, it is cn-