241 THE FASCIA TU ANSVERS ALTS. desceiuls into the cavity of the pelvis, upon the inner surface of tlie levator ani muscles to reach the sides of the bladder and rectum and base of the prostate gland.* A small portion of the fascia transversalis is now exposed to view (See Plate HI. fig. between the loAver margin of the transversalis muscle and Poupart’s ligament, whicli will be observed, on a closer inspection, to furnish a funnel-shaped sheath or investment to the spermatic cord and round ligament of the uterus as they are passing through the internal abdo- minal ring. (See the woodcut No. 2, p. 243, fig. i, k.) The testis and spermatic cord receive, as they descend from the abdomen into the scrotum, a complete covering from the fascia transversalis ; and, although it may not always be possible for the dissector to exhibit this prolongation of the membrane upon the lower part of the cord as a distinct fascia, in conse- quence of its degeneration into a loose cellular tissue, it can, nevertheless, be always distinctly seen to invest the upper part of the cord and the round ligament of the uterus while they are as yet within tlie inguinal canal. The sheath which is thus fur- nished by the fascia transversalis to the spermatic cord, is rather wider and more loose above, where it parts from the circumference of the internal abdominal ring, than lower down, where it gra- dually contracts to the dimensions of the structures which it in- vests. From this arrangement, the tubular sheatli which the spermatic cord and testis receive from the fascia transversalis, has been denominated the infundibulij'orm, or funnel-shaped pro- cess of the membrane. Underneath the funnel-shaped process of the fascia transver- salis, and in more immediate contact with the vessels which enter into the composition of the spermatic cord, is placed a similarly shaped process from the subscrous cellular tissue of the abdo- minal parietes, but which is much more loose in its texture, and generally contains more of adipose substance than it. These structures, comprised under one term, constitute what has been called i\iQ fascia propria of oblique inguinal hcrnim. It is sometimes recommended to carry the scalpel lightly round the spermatic cord as it is held upon the stretch by draw- ing downwards the testis, and in this manner to divide, close to the inferior border of the transversalis muscle, the funnel- * VideThe Surgical Anatomy of the Perinaeum, p. 29—30. R