THE INTERCOLUMNAIl FASCIA. 221 muscle, and turned down upon the thigh ; the spermatic cord was cut across as it escaped through the opening, and reflected downwards upon tlie scrotum. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. i.The spinous pro- cess or tuberosity of the os pubis, into which the ligament of Poupart is in- serted. c. c. Poupart’s ligament, or lower edge of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which is extended between these points of bone, and constitutes the principal part of the crural arch. Between the letters b and c Poupart’s ligament forms the outer and inferiorpillar of the external ab- dominal ring. d. The superior and internal pillar of the ring; it is broader, but thinner than the inferior pillar. The curved white lines represent the intercolumnar fascia, which consists of a series of tendinous threads, whicli take their origin from the crural arch, spread upwards, diverging as they pro- ceed, and are lost in the linea alba; tliey serve to bind more strongly toge- ther the oblique fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and to connect the two columns of the external abdominal ring. e. The fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle opposite the crista of the ilium. J'.J\ The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the fibres of which are intersected nearly at right angles by the filaments of the intercolumnar fascia. g. g. The linea alba, where the tendinous fibres of the external oblique muscles decussate with one another, h. The spermatic cord which has been cut across as it emerged from the external abdominal ring, and reflect- ed downwards upon the scrotum, i. The external abdominal ring; the let- ' ter is placed upon that part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, situ- ated behind the external abdominal ring, which is formed by the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, k. The skin and superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes dissected from the aponeurosis of the external oblique musele and reflected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh. The size of the external abdominal ring is considerably larger in men than in women ; for a smaller opening suffices for the transmission of the round ligament of the uterus in the female, than that which is required for the passage of the spermatic cord and testicle in the male.* This obviously accounts for the greater frequency of inguinal hernia in the latter than in the former. The intercolumnar fascia. — It will be recollected that the fibres wdiich compose the aponeurosis of the external oblique mus- cle have been described as being arranged parallel with each other, and descending obliquely, downwards and inw'ards, to their at- * The comparative size of the external abdominal ring in the male and fe- male, is well represented in tlie wood-engravings, No. 4. and 5. p. 102 and 104 of the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c.