INGUnvTAT- lIERNI.t: CONTAINING THE C.ECUM, oqo Section V. Inguinal hernia’, containing the cacum, the sigmoid Jlexure of the colon, or the urinary bladder. — An inguinal hernia is sometimes formed by the gradual deseent of the more fixed por- tions of the large intestine; as, for example, on the right side, of the emeum, and, on the left side, of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The urinary bladder has, also, been observed to descend through the inguinal canal into the scrotum.f These cases are, however, comparatively of rare occurrence. In these instances the protruded viscus is only partially covered by a peritonmal sac, usually upon its anterior aspect, but now and then only upon one side, generally the inner one ; for, in descending from its natural situation, the bowel does not lose the relations which it previously held with the serous membrane, which lines the cavity of the abdomen. These changes are permitted to take place by the lax and extensible property of the cellular substance which is so abundant in the iliac fossse, and it is owing to the same cause that their progress is so very gradual. Hernias of this kind do not admit of being replaced so readily as the more frequent forms of inguinal ruptures, and much caution is required, when they are the subject of strangu- lation, in the performance of the operation, lest the intestine should be laid open by the surgeon, who is apt to proceed too carelessly in the dissection of the parts as they present themselves under his knife, thinking himself secure because he has not arrived at a sac, which in reality does not exist. It has just now been stated, that a partial investment from the peritonaeum usually covers these herniae upon their anterior and inner aspects; but it sometimes happens that there is no peritonaeal sac at all; as when only the lower and posterior part of the caecum forms the protrusion, and in some exam- ples of herniae of the bladder. Ilerniae of this nature are sometimes complicated by the t Mr. Pott removed a calculus from the bladder of a boy, the subject of this disorder, by cutting into it as it lay in the groin. Pott’s Chir. Works, vol. iii. pp. 322—328.