DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL UERNl.E. 295 gery, 7th edit. p. 596. with, to serve as the basis upon whicli a correct diagnosis may be safely established. When a hydrocele is combined with a hernia, the former is most commonly situated in front of and below the latter. By a careless observer a congenital hydrocele, which is most likely to be met with in children, may be mistaken for an in- guinal hernia, as the swelling can be easily made to disajipcar into the abdomen by pressure, but returns again whenever the patient coughs, or assumes the erect position ; but its trans- parency and fluctuation clearly denote its true nature. The diagnosis, however, of some cases of congenital hernia, where the intestine is adherent to and strangulated by the neck of the sac, may be rendered extremely difficult and obscure, on account of the presence of a large quantity of flnid in the lower part of the sac, which distends it and gives to it all the characters of a hydrocele.-j- Hydrocele of the spermatic cord.—When an encysted hydro- cele of the spermatic cord is situated below the external abdo- minal ring, it is easily recognized by its transparency when viewed against the light, by the sense of fluctuation which may be perceived on compressing it between the fingers, and by its mobility upon the cord; but the case is far different when the swelling is placed within the inguinal canal, as it is then concealed from sight, nor can we always distinguish a portion of the cord to be free betwixt it and the internal abdominal ring. I well remember a young man being sent into University Col- lege Hospital on account of a swelling of this nature in the ingui- nal canal, wdiich w^as said to be a small inguinal hernia, and for which he had been recommended to wear a truss. Mr. Cooper, under whose care the youth was admitted, cut down upon it, and removed a portion of the front of the cyst, after which the lad was quickly discharged cured of his complaint. | But the round or ovoid form of the swelling, its constant unvarying size, which is commonly that of a chesnut, and rarely exceeding that of an egg, the ease with which it may be moved upon the cord, and its great tenseness and elasticity, to which t For the details of two cases in whicli this difficulty was experienced, see Fott’s Works, vol. ii. p. 415, Cases xxxiv and xxxv. J This case is mentioned by Professor Cooper, in his First Lines of Sur-