PNEUMATOSES. 23 swelling. Larrey* has described two cases of this nature, and has given a representation of one of them. Some very simi- lar instances are mentioned by P. Frank, after penetrating w ounds of the larynx or trachsea, and in cases of fractured ribs; and, indeed, without any external lesion in severe cases of pertussis and in phthisis; in raising heavy weights, and during the pains of labour, t In all these cases there was, doubtless, an internal laceration through which the air pene- trated from the respiratory organs into the cellular tissue. The case is precisely the same in local, or circumscribed em- physema; thus, according to Dr. Frank,J persons in the habit of playing on wind-instruments, frequently suffer from a painful inflation of the cheeks, arising from the air en- tering the cellular tissue of these parts, through laceration of the buccal mucous membrane. It likewise happens that in applying the air-douche, with a view to open and enlarge the Eustachian tube in cases of deafness, load emphysema is sometimes produced in a similar manner. In this way the various forms of pulmonary emphysema are produced, of which w-e shall here only explain briefly the mode of origin; since they will be fully discussed when we treat of the pathological conditions of the lungs. When a portion of lung is so clogged up with fluid or solid depositions that no air can enter it, or when it is bound down by unyielding false membranes, it is impossi- ble that it can follow and correspond with the movements of the thorax at each inspiration, as in the normal state. A vacuum is formed between the lungs and the parieties of the thorax, which the air, entering through the trachsea, endea- vours by the ordinary laws of mechanics to fill; consequently, the expansive portions of the lungs are enlarged to a greater degree than in the normal state, and the result is vesicular emphysema, in which the pulmonary cells of the expansible * Larrey, Clinique chirurgicaJe, tome n. p. 188, plane he 4. t J. P. Frank, Epitome, cap. vi. $ 707. { Op. cit.