CHANGES IN CONSISTENCE. 407 of substances from the blood, which take no part, or but a small one in the general process of metamorphosis, either because, on account of their great size, they cannot be pene- trated by the fluids of the body, or because their circulation has been entirely stopped by the stagnation of the blood in the vessels of the surrounding parts. As in these depositions, the separation of decomposed tissue, which is maintained in the normal state by means of the circulation and the secretions, ceases, these substances undergo further decomposition, and extend this process to the adjacent tissues, which they imme- diately infect. This term decomposition or putrefaction, is a mere illustration of the active cause of softening in these cases, which may convey a slight idea of these processes, but cannot Ik? regarded as any comprehensive explanation, since we have as yet a very unsatisfactory chemical knowledge of the conditions of the decomposition of nitrogenous organic matter, and the concomitant processes. The same is the case regarding the transfer of this process of decomposition to the tissues, on which we as yet have no special knowledge. It is clear that all depositions and all tissues are not affected with equal facility by this decomposing process ; hence, evi- dently the reason of the great differences which occur under this process in individual parts. An accurate knowledge of all similar cases can only be gained, when the decomposition suffered by different organic substances, if left unmolested, or brought under certain conditions be more accurately studied than it has hitherto been. To this group belong further all those kinds of soften- ing which we have previously included under the general term of suppuration—the deposition of fibrinous exuda- tions, which pass into unhealthy pus; similar deposi- tions of tuberculous, scrofulous, and typhous matter, and in part also the softening of cancer. These soften- ings have this peculiarity that they arc mostly preceded by induration, as may be observed in many kinds of inflamma- tory softening. The chief condition inducing the process of