PNEUMATOSES. 22 we shall here merely offer a few general remarks on their causes and mode of origin. These accumulations of gas may be dependant on very different causes. 1. They may arise from the external pressure of the atmospheric air. The mechanism of this form of origin is most strikingly seen in those cases of general emphy- sema which arise from an injury to the lungs, dependant on a penetrating wound of the thorax. If the intercostal opening of the wound be not parallel with that in the ex- ternal skin, emphysema almost invariably results, since the air is forced through the wound at every expiration; and instead of escaping externally, is propelled into the cellular tissue beneath the skin. If, on the other hand, the external opening of the wound is parallel with the internal, and the course of the wound is thus kept open, no emphysema results, since there is no impedimemt to the progress of the air out- wards. The air admitted into the cellular tissue ot the thorax gradually works its way over the body, and the em- physema thus becomes more or less general. The orbits become closed up; the eyes and mouth remain shut, in con- sequence of the swollen condition of the eye-lids and lips; the nose is hidden between the tumid cheeks; the skin of the neck is so monstrously distended that all distinction between the head and the trunk disappears. The skin is most distended at those points where it is connected with the sternum and the spinous process of the vertebral column. The scrotum swells to such a size as to con- ceal the penis. The limbs enlarge and assumo a cylin- drical form; the palms of the hands and the soles cl the feet (in consequence of their firm connexion with the subjacent tissues) being the only parts not affected. The swollen parts feel tense, crepitate when pressed by the fingers, and on removing the pressure no pitting is visible. In unfavourable cases, the patient dies from impeded respiration and apoplexy, in consequence of the com- pression exercised on the air-tubes and jugular veins by the