490 MALFORMATIONS. pieces of bone of indefinite form. They are very rare, and are invariably accompanied by one or two well-developed children, so that, as in the case of the preceding groups, these are also to be explained by injury of the germ. These also are not viable. Cases of this kind are recorded in Meckel, vol. i. p. 57 ; Lycosthenes, chronicon prodigiorum ac ostentorum. Basil, 1557, p. 542 ; Delamarre, Journ. de mdd., chir., pharmac., t. xxxm. 1770, p. 174 ; Rudolphi, in the transactions of the Berlin Akademie der Wissench. 181G, p. 99 , Nockher, medicin. Zeitung des Preuss. Vereins f. Heilkunde, 1837, No. 3; and Nicholson, de monstro liumano sine trunco nato. Diss. Berol. 1837. 4. Malformations, in which the head, and sometimes a part of the upper half of the body is wanting, whilst more or less of the inferior half of the body is present acephalic monsters (acephalus). Numerous cases of acephalia have been observed in the human subject. They form a complete descending series of varieties. In the most perfect acephali the head alone is absent; indeed, rudiments of this organ exist, but they are concealed under the skin, and are only recognizable on an anatomical examination. The trunk is deficient to a certain extent; the viscera are more or less developed; the heart is commonly, but not always, absent, and the same may be said regarding the lungs. In other cases the superior extremities are wanting. In more defective formations of the kind, the greater part of the trunk is also absent, and the two inferior extremities, with the rudiment of a pelvis, alone exist. Indeed, there are instances recorded m which the acephalus has consisted of only a lower extremity (as in the case of a goat, described by Hayn). Acephali almost always occur in company with one or two perfect or less defective twins, whence it appears that in this case also the probable cause of the malformation is an injury of the germ, effected by the co-existing twin; or sometimes, perhaps, hydrocephalus, in a very early period of pregnancy. The acephali are not viable.