ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 24 form, a membranous cyst consisting of areolar tissue, con- nected with the surrounding parts, and furnished with an internal epithelium, encloses, but is unconnected with a second shut sac of a hyaline semi-transparent character, which generally admits of separation into many very' thin layers, and consists of amorphous coagulated fibrin. It is filled as in the other cast's with a serous fluid. The origin of this second sac, as evidently results from the description of Plate v. fig. 5 and 6, must be explained in the following manner: from an already existing organised sac there takes place a new' exu- dation of fibrinous fluid, which by means of the coagulation of its fibrin forms for itself a second membrane within the first. In the same way, it can be readily explained why such cysts sometimes contain altered blood, pus-corpuscles, granular cells, &c. For the means of discriminating these enclosed serous cysts from the living hydatids, we must refer to our chapter on the entozoa. Hence it appears that this form also of serous cysts is essentially nothing more than a variety of fibrinous dropsy, and is directly connected with the encysted dropsies. It occurs partly in serous cavities, as in the pleura, pericar- dium, and peritoneum, and partly in the parenchyma of organs, especially in those whose texture is soft, and admits of the easy formation of a cavity by the pressure of the effused fluid—as the substance of the brain, the cellular tissue, &c. It is little to be wondered at if any one with Bichat and his followers, regards this form of serous cysts ns newly formed serous membrane, since, like this, it certainly consists of areolar tissue with an internal epithelium ; nothing can, however, be gained by such a course ; on the contrary, this mode of considering it possesses the disadvantage that it might easily lead us to suppose the serous membrane first formed, and the fluid in the interior only secondarily secreted from it, whereas in fact, as wc have already shown, the converse process of formation takes place. The enclosed serous cysts, whose mode of origin until now has been considered inexplicable, have usually been included in the entozoa under the name Acephalocysts. In general, the fluid of these cysts contains no corpuscular particles; sometimes, however, there arc R 2