269 MALIGNANT TUMOURS. even their propagation in an organism already infected, is sufficiently explained. The other theories which have been advanced are still less tenable. I deem it, therefore, right that we should candidly avow our ignorance of any thing certain, respecting the general formative causes of the pseudoplasmata. In the consideration of the individual forms we shall frequently revert to this subject. The malignant epigeneses are as little capable of precise clas- sification as the non-malignant tumours. They may, how- ever, according to the higher or lower degree of organisation which they attain before their disintegration, be reduced into certiiin groups, but these are still less strictly separable than in the case of the non-malignant formations; transitions between the individual forms are of common occurrence, and indeed, the same tumour not unfrequentlv shows totally dis- similar elements; the reduction of these formations into numerous species with a multiplicity of names is, therefore, quite unjustifiable. We discriminate, firstly, pseudoplasmata which are slightly or not at all organised ; and secondly, such as attain a higher grade of organization. As representatives of the former class may be pointed out the depositions in typhus, and in scrophulous tumours ; of the second, encepha- loid and scirrhus. Many varieties of tubercle form a connect- ing link between these leading divisions. In the classification of the pseudoplasmata there has hitherto pre- vailed and still, to some extent, prevails a very great confusion. In fact, there is scarcely a part of medicine where more obscurity and pre- judice prevail than here. In the following pages I shall consider the pseudoplasmata mainly in a histological point of view: the question whether the commonly received distinctions between Urn morbid pro- cesses which generally accompany the different pseudoplasmata are positively established, does not properly belong to our subject; it will, however, be borne in mind, although we shall not permit it to carry us too tar from our especial subject.