156 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. connexion with the inflammatory process is not more intimate than that of various other organized formations occurring in exuded fluids, and they are formed under conditions in which there is very little probability of their resulting from inflam- mation, as for instance, in cysts in the thyroid gland. When these granular cells occur in a perfect condition, they vary in diameter from the 200th to the 80th of a line; some of them are perfectly round, others oblong, irregular and even angular. At first sight they appear as an agglo- meration of minute granules, varying in diameter from the 800th to the 1000th of a line. By refracted light they appear dark, of a brown or blackish colour ;* by reflected light, white. These granular cells are not affected by water j if exposed to the prolonged action of acetic acid or ammonia, they separate into the individual granules of which they are composed. Caustic potash and ether sometimes, but not always, dissolve these granules. From my own observations I should say that the forma- tion of these granular cells is best observed in inflamed lungs, where it appears to occur in the following manner. Cells with a nucleus and a nucleolus, differing from pus- corpuscles in their larger size (the 200th to the 100th of a line) and in having a single nucleus, are formed in the fluid or coagulated exudation (fibrinous dropsy). These become gradually filled with minute granules, which at first, when only few in number, readily admit of the nucleus being seen; subsequently, however, they conceal it, and the originally smooth cell-membrane becomes rugged, the granular cell appearing as a spherical agglomeration of granules. Subse- quently the cell-wall appears to vanish, the enclosed granules ' to separate from one another and to fall into irregular heaps, and each individual granular cell to undergo, in a minute scale, the very same process which a mass of coagulated ] fibrin undergoes in its conversion into pus-corpuscles. * Plate hi. figs. 13, 14 and 15.