PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. ici unable to establish this tendency by the addition of an albu- i minous solution, devoid ol salts; while on the other hand, by I the addition of a concentrated saline mixture to blood already exhibiting it, this tendency was sometimes, but not invariably increased. The point is one of sufficient importance to render a further investigation well worthy of being under- taken. CHANGES IN THE CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE BLOOD. With a few exceptions, all our knowledge respecting the chemical changes of the blood has been acquired during the last few years, and although it seems to explain several important points, it is still far from being in a complete and satisfactory state. In the following observations I shall therefore merely bring forward the most important points.* The blood in its chemical composition is a very intricate fluid, containing a large number of different substances. As each of these substances entering into the composition of the blood may undergo either a qualitative or quantitative change; and as, moreover, in certain pathological conditions, sub- stances not occurring in normal blood may be present, it is manifest that the deviations in its composition must be very numerous. To make the subject clearer, we shall divide them into certain groups. 1. Any one constituent may be cither relatively increased or decreased. a. The fibrin may be increased.—In 1000 parts of nor- * The following are the moat important works on this subject : Denis, Essai sur l'application de la Clumie a l’Etude physiolog. du Sang de l’Homme, Paris, 1838. Lecanu, Etudes chimiques sur le Sang humain, Paris, 1837. Andral et Gavarret, Recherches sur les Modific. de Proportions de quelques principes du Sang dans lea Maladies, Paris, 1840. Scherer’s Untersuchungeu z. Pathologic, 1843. Andral’s Hematologie. Simon’s Animal Chemistry; to which may be added the Translator’s Reports on the Progress of Animal Chemistry', in Ranking’s half- yearly Abstract of the Medical Sciences.