425 THEIR INJURIOUS EFFECTS. fur them, and until this exudation has passed into a state of putrid decomposition. An abundant secretion of mucus favou rs the development of worms which have entered the intestinal canal from without. Some states of the organism, on the contrary, disqualify it as a habitation for parasites. Thus, most of the entozoa in the intestinal canal are expelled by increased peristaltic action ; some fluids of the body, as bile, urine, gastric juice, and some medicines, prove deleterious, and indeed, fatal to some of them ; inflammation, or at least suppuration, may injure, and even destroy them. As the organism exerts an influence on the parasites inha- biting it, so conversely the latter react upon the organism. They frequently prove injurious to the system, either by mechanical irritation (even by their mere presence, when occurring in large quantity, or by obstructing canals,) or by exerting a specific action, possibly by fluids which they secrete, or in some other unknown way. This pernicious influence of parasites upon the organism—their morbific pow’er—varies extremely in relation to different species. Whilst some produce scarcely any apparent symptoms, so that their existence during life is frequently not ascer- tained (as in the case of the acarus folliculorum), others give rise to positive diseases, as the (teams scabiei, pul ex penetrans, and Jilaria medinensis. This subject, therefore, allows of no general statements ; and we must post- pone the special consideration of the effects which the different parasites entail upon the organism, to the descriptions of the individual species. The disease which accompanies their presence is, however, invariably either an effect of their presence, and is called into existence by the influence which they exert upon the organism, and by the reaction of the Litter; or the development of the parasites is, in the manner formerly explained, first rendered possible by the presence of a disease: the parasite should never Ik- identified with the disease itself. We now proceed to the consideration of the separate