318 PATI10 LOG IC: AL EPIGENESES. ing; it is, however, rarely the leading constituent; in these cases encephaloid approximates to gelatinous cancer. In consequence of the extreme softness of its elements, cnce- phaloid compresses the parent-tissues in a less degree than solid cancer. It admits of the passage of blood-vessels through its structure, and as they do not become obliterated so frequently as in fibrous cancer, its appearance is usually vascular. In some cases newly-formed vessels occur in it. When, during the softening of encephaloid, the vessels become opened, the effused blood more readily enters the soft tissue, and mixes with it, than in the harder sorts of cancer; the whole mass assumes a sanguineous appearance, and in this way encephaloid merges into fungus haematodes; it must, however, be observed, that the term fungus haematodes is applied to many tumours which have no connexion with encc- phaloid, as for instance, telangiectases and other non-malig- nant vascular tumours. Black granular pigment may likewise enter into the com- position of encephaloid, forming melanotic cancer (carcinoma melanodes). There are certain forms of cancer-cells which are characte- ristic of encephaloid, for instance, parent-cells with young cells in their interior, cells with numerous cytoblasts,* and the irregular caudate and ramifying cells.f My own experience leads me to assert that these forms are not often found in other forms of cancer; but, on the other hand, they do not occur in all cases of encephaloid. Encephaloid grows more quickly, distributes itself more rapidly, and attains a more considerable bulk than any other form of cancer ; tumours of this nature often being as large as a man’s head, or even exceeding that size. It also softens more rapidly than the other forms of cancer, because the cells which are the clement on which softening especially depends, are here the predominating ingredient; and for the * Sec Plate vi. fig. 7 a, 8 cl. f Sec Plate i. fig. 11.