344 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. hydrochloric acid. They are sometimes so minute that it is impossible to recognize their crystalline form, and they pre- sent the character of a granular precipitate. They have hitherto been only observed in the urine. b. Basic phosphate of lime. (8 Ca 0 + 3 P05 according to Berzelius) forms, when recently precipitated an amor- phous, transparent, colourless jelly, scarcely visible under the microscope, but gradually becomes converted into an indefinite granular mass. It is insoluble in water, ether, alcohol, and alkalies, but dissolves in acids without effer- vescing. Phosphate of lime forms a common precipitate in nearly every animal fluid. In the normal condition of the body, it is either held in solution by an acid, or forms soluble com- pounds with certain organic matters, as protein-compounds, gelatin, (?) &c., a class of combinations which have not yet \ been sufficiently studied. If a compound of this nature is : decomposed, and the phosphate of lime meets with nothing to redissolve it, it separates as a precipitate. Whether neutral phosphate of lime occurs as a precipitate in the human organism is unknown. c. Carbonate of lime occurs both as an indefinite granular precipitate, and as a crystalline mass. Perfect rhombohedric crystals of this substance have not yet been observed in the human organism, but have been frequently noticed in animals and plants. They are insoluble in water, ether, alcohol and the alkalies, but dissolve with effervescence in acids—reactions which, when observed under the microscope, are sufficiently characteristic. Precipitates of carbonate of lime occur in almost every fluid of the body. How they arise is a purely conjectural point. Either the salt exists in the animal fluids as bicarbo- nate, and becomes precipitated when by the abstraction of carbonic acid, it is reduced to the state of the simple carbonate, or calcareous salts soluble in the animal fluids (as the oleate, ot lactate of lime, or chloride of calcium) on meeting with the