PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 114 traced to the blastemata from which they spring, and that in accordance with the views of the humoral pathologists, the pseudo-plasma may be dependant on an abnormal chemical composition of the blood. Another explanation may be attempted which equally elucidates the appearance of these peculiar morbid products, namely, that the peculiarity of the epigenesis is not dependant on any property of the blastema, but on changes in the properties of the tissues influencing the blastema; and thus the explanation of these phenomena is again transferred from the department of humoral to that of solid pathology, or, since in many cases these changes are dependant on a change in the nervous influence, to that of nervous pathology. It is, however, in the highest degree probable, that in the majority of cases neither the one nor the other of these views alone is strictly correct, that foi the most part changes in the cytoblastema and changes in the physiological properties of the tissues are conjointly at woik in producing an abnormal epigenesis. These brief observations on a much-disputed question must for the present suffice. The only possible method of thoroughly testing the subject is by an examination of individual pathological epigeneses. The nature of the development of pathological epigeneses is dependant on: 1. The cytoblastema, the quantity, quality, and mode of its production. The more rapidly and abundantly it is se- creted, and in proportion as the chemical composition (which, however, is certainly not accurately known) differs from the normal blood-plasma, so does the influence of the surrounding histological elements decrease, and the formation proportio- nally deviate from the normal type. Thus small quantities of exudation become easily organized, and simple hypertrophy usually consists in small exudations repeatedly occurring after long intervals (weeks or months). We can draw no very definite limit between this process and that of health) nutrition. Abundant and rapidly formed exudations an