PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 374 instance, cholesterin—than in the normal state. It is true, that such a peculiarity has never yet been detected by chemical analysis, but an augmentation of the cholesterin in the bile, is in the highest degree probable, since it is known that in advanced age, it increases to a considerable degree in the blood. Moreover, an augmentation of bile-pigment appears to occur, and to give rise to its deposition. In those rare cases in which gall-stones consist entirely, or for the most part of carbonate and phosphate of lime, the amount of calcareous salts in the bile is probably increased. Moreover, an increased secretion of mucus in the biliary apparatus, appears to take part in the formation of gall-stones, since it acts as a con- necting medium between other precipitated matters, and con- sequently prevents their being discharged: moreover mucus forms the most common nucleus of gall-stones. There are also certain mechanical relations which influence the formation of these concretions ; as, for instance, diverticula of the gall-bladder or ducts, which receive and retain pre- cipitates or foreign bodies forming nuclei around which precipitates can he deposited. The concentration of the bile caused by its retention appears, however, in most cases to be the most efficient agent, even when the other causes arc also in operation. It is probably also the reason why gall- stones are mostly composed of biliary mucus. If a gall-stone is once formed, its further enlargement follows very easily, since the biliary constituents which are most difficult of solu- tion—especially the cholesterin if it be present in tolerable quantity—become deposited on it. Although the preceding observations tend in some measure to elucidate the mode of formation of gall-stones in general, yet it is hardly possible in a given case to explain all the causes influencing the develop- ment from the first commencement, till it becomes a per- fect calculus. The literature of this subject is very abundant. We must especially notice the treatise of Bouisson de la bile, pp. 17C 252, in which are contained an immense number of references to the older writers. ^ec