9 INTRODUCTION. reference to visible changes in the position, size, and connexion of the different organs: hence the origin of the surgical depart- ment of pathological anatomy. The changes accompanying internal disease are less obvious to the eye. They require the finest dissection and microscopic observation, and then often evade detection; their causes and consequences are likewise very obscure. Hence the influence of pathological anatomy on this department of pathology is of, comparatively speaking, recent origin. We may here again repeat what has been already mentioned, that the pathology of the solids is that which will receive the greatest benefit from pathological anatomy, whilst in diseases of the nervous system, and in disordered conditions of the fluids, it will he of less ser- vice. Although at first sight it might appear that our subject was of small importance in relation to therapeutics, this is not in reality the cast;. Scientific treatment necessarily demands an extensive knowledge of the material changes which lie at the foundation of the various morbid symptoms. Hence patho- logical anatomy necessarily forms a portion of the positive basis of therapeutics; and, farther than this, it points out the processes by which the different altered parts may be gradually restored to their normal condition. It not merely points out what requires healing, but in many cases, also, the course that must he adopted in order to aid the curative tendency of nature. It serves likewise as a check on therapeutics, exposing, in a most conclusive manner, the absurdity of many pretended methods of cure. It points out, for example, that in a certain stage of inflammation of the lungs, a fibrinous fluid separates from the blood, and by its coagulation renders a portion of the parenchyma of the lungs impermeable to air; and further, that it requires several days for this coagulated matter to reassume the fluid condition, and he removed. Now, if any one should assert that, in this stage of the disease, he could apply a remedy which would cure the patient in a few