CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. 396 the primary histological elements of the tissues. Indepen- dently of icterus, the elementary cells of the liver frequently appear to he tinged yellow, and to be filled, or covered with minute deeply yellow granules.* The diagnosis of the coloration dependant upon bile-pig- ment is easy, and is based upon its peculiar reaction when treated with nitric acid (see p. 63). Another yellow coloration which appears occasionally in the organs, but which is invariably local, depends upon a change of the haematin in extravasated blood. It is observed after sugillations, pulmonary and cerebral apoplexy, and similar morbid processes. Green coloration of the tissues is but rarely met with. It is sometimes observed in the lungs, the intestinal canal, and the muscles. Thus the upper lobe of the left lung of a soldier, which was emphysematous and void of blood, appeared to the unaided eye of a grayish-green colour. Under the microscope, the pulmonary tissue itself was tinged with green ; the coloration was, with the exception of a few intensely green spots, tolerably regular, did not originate from granular pig- ment, and could not be washed off with water. The cause of the colour could not be discovered. The same is the case with the green coloration occasionally perceptible in the intestinal canal. Most of these green tints probably belong to the changes in the body after death; and at present we can do no more than hazard a conjecture concerning their causes. Many may depend upon sulphuret of iron, which in a very finely divided state sometimes exhibits a blackish-green colour; many may originate from the effects of putrefaction, with which we are but ill acquainted. Probably many changes of this kind depend upon the bile-pigment, which permeates the walls of the gall-bladder after death, and spreads itself, by imbibition, into the surrounding parts, or even sometimes to <i considerable distance, as the following case will show. A hawk * Sec Plate i. fig. 8. i .• ..a-.. BM ■- vr;--