explanation op the plates. 577 A chemical analysis of the contents of this cyst gave the following results : Water (with a trace of butyric acid) 751 Fat (cholesterin and butyrin in about equal pro- portions) 38 Alcohol-extract, with lactic acid. 92 Water-extract 27 Dry cellular substance (probably with a trace of albumen) 92 Fixed salts a trace 1,000 It would appear from the above analysis that the granules described in (3) consisted of butyrin. ^IG‘ 577- Illustrate the epigenesis of black pigment—melanosis. The figures are magnified 220 diameters, hio. 5 and (J. Newly formed black pigment from beneath the peri- toneal coat of the intestines; from an aged woman who died from marasmus. rhe intestinal canal was at various points covered with organised false membranes; it was externally of a greenish-black colour, and throughout its course presented several constrictions. On removing the serous coat it was found to be colourless ; the pigment being depo- sited ra the muscular coat. On placing a portion of this tissue under the rmcroscoi>e, roundish and intensely black granules varying from the 1200th to the 500th of a line in diameter (Fig. 5) were seen deposited in a colourless mass. These black granules were unaffected by acetic acid, which indeed by rendering the adjacent parts more transparent, brought them more prominently into view. A solution of potash did not alter them. On the addition of nitric acid, a large amount of albumen coagulated, and obscured the whole object; hence it could not be determined with certainty whether the granules were soluble in nitric acid. I he pigment-granules were collected in heaps and groups, the portions of parenchyma lying between them being more or less* free from melanosis (Fig. 5 and 6). ' The pigment-granules were, in this case, not enclosed in cells. At some parts there was a tolerably deep yellow-green coloration of the parenchyma (Fig. 6} between the black spots. This colour did not dejx'nd on the granules, but appeared to be dependant on a satu- ration of the tissue with a coloured fluid.