103 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. dance with the laws of chemistry, in a manner that can fre- quently be imitated in the laboratory. These products may vary in form ; sometimes they occur in a very minute granular state, sometimes in indefinite cry s- talline masses, and sometimes in perfect crystals, which are usually so small that their form cannot be recognized by the unaided eye. These varieties depend, as in ordinary chemical processes, on the rapidity or slowness o! the separation, and on the crystallizing or non-crystallizing tendency ot the sub- stances. In chemical composition they van' in accordance with the place of their formation, and the properties ot the fluid which acted as the mother-liquid. There are two classes of morbid products which we must distinguish from each other, namely, those which are tormed in fluid secretions, possessing specific chemical constituents, and such as occur in the parenchyma of organs, in the cellular tissue, &c. The latter closely resemble each other in chemical composition, from whatever part of the body they are obtained; they usually consist for the most part of earthy phosphates and carbonates, (lime and magnesia,) and their ordinary mother-liquid is the exuded plasma ot the blood, which may be regarded in the light ot a mixed plasma, that is, it usually gives origin to unorganized as well as to organized morbid products, so that the process is only in part influenced by the laws of chemistry. A few of the depositions occurring in the parenchyma form an ex- ception to this general law; for instance, gouty concre- tions, which consist of urate of soda. The depositions, on the other hand, which are formed in the fluid secretions, have a varied chemical composition corresponding with differences in the mother-liquid from which they are pro- duced. Earthy phosphates and carbonates occur also here, but many other matters may likewise be present, as for in- stance, the fatty acids, eholesterin, margarin, bile-pigment, uric and oxalic acids, uric oxide, cystin, &c.