523 HERMAPHRODITISM. * See Bischoft', op. cit. vol. I. p. 919. The origin of these malformations is explained by the history of the development of the genital organs, and chiefly depends on arrest of structure. At first there exists in both sexes a common orifice for the urinary apparatus, generative organs, and intestinal canal: an arrest of development at this stage causes cloacal malformation. At an after period the termination of the rectum is separated from the urino-gene- rative aperture; in the male sex the latter becomes closed as far as the orifice of the urethra ; in the female, on the contrary, it remains divided. Now, if an arrest of formation interferes anterior to the period of this change, the external genital organs of a male fetus Itear a close resem- blance to those of a female ; the penis remains small, undeveloped, and is not perforated by the urethra, and consequently is very similar to the clitoris. II. TRUK HERMAPHRODITISM. This comprises the cases where male and female organs of generation actually occur together in one individual. In the human subject few cases are at present known which can be regarded as pertaining to true hermaphroditism, and even some of these are in the highest degree questionable. It is, for instance, very difficult, sometimes, indeed, almost impos- sible to distinguish with certainty, the different corresponding generative organs of the two sexes from each other, as testicle and ovary, or vas deferens and fallopian tube, when they are malformed or atrophied. Moreover, all these individuals are incapable of propagation, and consequently a practical determination of their true sex is impossible. For these reasons the occurrence of true hermaphroditism in the human subject is totally denied by some, and all cases of this nature, referred, as merely apparent, to false herma- phroditism.* I shall, therefore, content myself with giving a brief sketch of the forms which have been hitherto observed of true hermapliroditism, without desiring to be held responsi- ble for the accuracy of the individual observations. The cases which have been observed may be brought into the following groups: 1. The internal sexual organs may differ on the two sides.