6 INTRODUCTION. und degree of this injury is again most variable. From those grave injuries which rapidly terminate in death, down to the slightest form of disturbance, hardly worthy of the term disease, how infinitely multiplied are the varieties. Hence, in this point of view, disease is not strictly distinguishable from the normal state. The idea of disease must also be considered in a different point of view. A disease is not, as many believe, a self- existing entity; it consists rather in a change in the vital pheno- mena of an organism; it is no more an independant organism, or even pseudo-organism, than are the separate states or vital indications of an organism, such as walking, sleeping, eating, or speaking. Diseases may in different cases present the greatest varieties; each vital indication of an organism, every process connected with life may, in various ways, either alone or in combination with other processes, assume a morbid condition. Hence diseases will not admit of the .same species of classifica- tion as if they were peculiar organisms, such as animals or plants: organisms, like diseases, are generally complex in their character, but in every animal and vegetable species all the individuals arc, with very trifling deviations, composed of the same parts, while there are hardly two cases of disease in which the symptoms are precisely identical. And when, for convenience in teaching, such a classification is adopted, we must bear in mind that it is, and ever must be, an imperfect and arbitrary one, and not based on any natural system. As the normal condition of the vital processes is dependant on the normal condition of the individual parts of the body, and on the proper discharge of their various functions, so disease arises when portions of the body deviate from theii normal character, and cither cease to discharge their functions at all, or discharge them in an abnormal manner. These morbid changes, affecting the functions of the body, arc very frequently dependant on material changes, perceptible to the eye, and recognized by the feelings, lhcsc material changes