PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 194 hydrochloric acid. What is done in these cases by acids, appears in others to he effected by gases, especially by sul- phuretted hydrogen and hydrosulphate of ammonia, as for instance in the course of the intestinal canal and in the adja- cent parts. In other parts also, changes of the blood into a mass similar to granular pigment are presented without our being able to perceive their chemical cause. An interesting case of this kind was recently communicated to me by my colleague Ruete. In a case of haemorrhoids with disease of the liver, there occurred without any apparent cause an effu- sion of blood under the conjunctiva of the eye, in the form of knots, by which the conjunctiva was projected forwards; the effused blood was not resorbed, but gradually became of a black colour. The knots broke, and discharged a mass which was immediately brought to me for examination. It was intensely black, and with the naked eye could not be dis- tinguished from the black pigment of the choroid. Under the microscope it appeared as an undefined granular mass, with blackish brown portions. Neither pus-corpuscles nor granular cells were to be seen, nor any other trace of organization or cellular formation. The pigment was not changed either by nitric acid or by chlorine; in its appearance it resembled blood-pigment changed by grangrene or by acids. The chemical composition of this abnormal pigment is not accurately known, but this much is certain, namely, that it is not changed by chlorine, or by acids; and this is impor- tant as a means of distinguishing it from the following variety. A third kind of morbidly formed granular pigment is not an organized epigenesis, but a simple chemical precipitate, and consists of sulphurct of iron. It appears most frequently as a black or blackish blue pigment on the walls of unhealthy fetid abscesses; but also as a slate-grey pigment on the sur- face of the liver, spleen, and intestinal canal. Under the microscope it appears as an aggregation of black granules of indefinite form—of molecules varying in size to the 1 OOtli of