CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. 392 quence of emotions of the mind, and the transient deadness of the fingers. The diagnosis of this condition may be deter- mined by the microscopic investigation of the dead body, by which we learn by measurements that the capillaries have a smaller diameter than in the normal state. But this process presents some peculiar difficulties, which often prevent our obtaining the desired result. For during the preparation of the parts for microscopic investigation, the blood often flows out of the capillaries, which then contract in consequence of their elasticity. The diagnosis in the living subject is more certain since local paleness, during a state of unchanged redness in other parts, allows of our drawing a conclusion regarding this condition. 2. Paleness may depend upon a diminution of the corpus- cles in relation to the other constituents of the blood, and as they are the conveyers of the colouring matter, a less intense redness is naturally occasioned. 3. Upon a diminution of the colouring matter, or a chemical change by which its intensity is diminished, so that while the number of the blood-corpuscles remains the same, each separate one, or at least, a given number contains less colouring matter, than in the normal state. The two last causes appear to bear on anaemia, chlorosis, and similar conditions, but our knowledge is still so deficient on this point, that we must look to chemical investigations for affording us some better grounded, and more certain infor- mation on the subject. It will be clearly seen that the changes mentioned under 2 and 3, combine with 1, and may occasion in addi- tion to a general paleness, a more decided local pallor. A limited local, or a generally diffused pallor may be occasioned by causes, only taking effect during the last moments of life, or even after death. 1 his cadaveric paleness is caused by the contraction of the capillaries in consequence of their natural elasticity, when the heart’s movements have ceased, or the blood following the laws of gravitation is pouted