POST MORTEM CHANGES. 530 To cases of hyperaemia which arise after death (cadaveric hyperaemia, hypostases) also belong those compounded of capillary and venous hyperaemia, which, after the cessation of the circulation, arise according to the laws of gravity; since the blood of a part whose capillaries are connected, gravitates to the lowest portions of it, and there gorges the capillaries and veins. Such a cadaveric hyperaemia, like venous hypera- aemia occurring during life, may when of long continuance result in serous dropsy. Cadaveric hyperaemia arises with the greatest facility in organs whose capillary vessels are very large, and therefore present the most favourable conditions for a subsidence of the blood within them according to the laws of gravi- tation and capillarity. It must be also presumed that the capillaries are open, and connected at very many points. Consequently this species of hyperaemia occur by far most frequently in the lungs, whose capillaries not only anastomose abundantly together, but are also very large; cadaveric hyper- semia combined with more or less serous dropsy (oedema) is found in the majority of subjects, either in the posterior or lower part of the lungs, according to the position of the body. Cadaveric hyperaemia is found in a less degree in the skin, (some of what are termed death spots belong to this class), and in the intestinal canal, where the capillary vessels are con- nected throughout the whole organ, although not with such numerous and extensive anastomoses as in the lungs. Between parts which are not directly connected by capillary vessels, but only by means of larger vascular trunks, as between the heart and the lungs, the lungs and costal pleura, &c., cadaveric hyperaemia never occurs. In cadaveric hyperaemia, it is moreover presupposed that the blood is fluid: the more liquid it is, the more easily does it take place. The intensity depends on the quantity ot blood which the organ contains at the moment of death. It is, accordingly, more considerable in a hyperaemic, slighter or quite absent in an anaemic part. It is possible that such cada- veric hyperaemia may commence in the last moments o 1 c,