225 CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS ENCHONDROMA. organs. It forms a roundish, and generally smooth tumour of variable size, which on a section being made allows even the unaided eye to recognize two distinct constituents, one fibro-membranous, and the other gray, transparent, and soft, resembling firm jelly or softened cartilage. The latter element shows under the microscope roundish or elliptic cells varying from the 150th to the 50th of a line in diameter, and sometimes even larger, which enclose a granular nucleus ranging from the 200th to the 300th of a line in diameter. These some- times occur as primary cells, and contain several nuclei, or even one, two, or three more recently formed and proportio- nally smaller cells in their interior.* * * ยง Besides the nuclei we also occasionally observe irregular, oblong, pointed bodies which are suggestive of bone-corpuscles.f These cells resist the action of acetic acid better than most other animal cells, and, in general, are but loosely connected together, l>eing readily isolated by slight pressure: in some more rare cases there exists between them, as in normal true cartilage, an amorphous firm intercellular substance the entire mass in this case is firmer, and in its physical characters more closely resembles true cartilage. The fibro-membranous portion appears under the micro- scope as fibrous tissue, arranged into sheaths or nets, in the meshes of which is lodged the cellular substance. The latter is sometimes of irregular form, but usually globular, and then frequently protrudes upon the surface of the tumour in the form of rounded eminences.ยง Hence, in the rarer cases, in which a firm, amorphous, intercellular substance exists between the cells (cartilage- corpuscles) enchondroma, viewed histologically, resembles true cartilage; in the more frequent cases, on the other hand, * Compare J. Miillcr, op. cit. tab. iii. f Muller, op. cit. tab. in. fig. 8. J Herz, op. cit. fig. 2. ยง J. Muller, op. cit. tab. i. fig. 12; O. VOL. I. fig. 4. 5, 6, 7. Gluge, op. cit. tab. i. fig. 1,2. U