410 CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. a line). That a naturally soft substance like the brain should be gradually softened and decomposed by the long continued contact and saturation of so mild a fluid as that of serous dropsy, is not improbable, although experience seems to prove that such a softening is not perceptible in all cases ot hydrocephalus. Possibly the softening only occurs when from the presence of a very large amount of fluid, or from other causes, the meta- morphosis and frequent renewal of matter are arrested; so that these cases also rank under the previously described classes of softenings. In many cases a softening, or more correctly the death and decomposition of organs, may be traced to obliteration, or closing of the afferent arteries, as many writers (and amongst others Carswell) have correctly stated. But here the closure of the arteries does not directly occasion the softening; it is only the result of a series of processes, which finally result in softening. The most probable explanation seems to be, that by the closure of the arteries in the part aftected, the necessary renewal of the nutrient fluid, through the afflux of arterial blood, is arrested, and that the part thus passes into a state of decomposition, which extends to the adjacent structures. According to this theory, these cases may also be ranked under the head of those previously considered. It appears very doubtful whether softening can arise from a direct influence of the nervous system, that is to say, diffe- rently from the manner in which the latter acts upon the vascular system, and indirectly induces softening by means of one of the previously mentioned conditions. At any rate it is expedient to meet such assumptions with some distrust, and only to receive them, when it can be proved that mecha- nical and chemical causes are not sufficient to explain the case. In all these softenings of higher degree, the softening itself is properly only a secondary matter—the consequence of de- composition, the death of the tissue. Hence the various forms of death of the tissues in which no softening occurs, become