ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 259 and become encased as in a capsule. In this case the foreign Ibody is the primary cause, and the sac a secondary structure ’which arises in this manner: the irritation of the foreign 1 body causes an exudation whose fibrin organises itself, and ’usually passes into a vascular cellular tissue, which assumes a membranous form, and becomes furnished with an epithelium ; upon its internal surface. Somewhat similar phenomena ensue : after extravasations of blood (apoplectic clots): but in this * case the sac-membrane is generally more or less blended with its contents. 2. Compound cysts. It has been fonnerly stated that from the same cause several (true or false) independent serous cysts may be formed in the same vicinity. These formations are not to be regarded as compound, but as accumulations of simple cysts. It sometimes happens, however, as has been shown by Hodgkin,* that new, secondary cysts are formed out of the wall of the original cyst. These compound cyst- formations may present a double type; for the secondary cysts develop themselves either : a. By the side of the primary cyst, chiefly towards its external surface, and there thus arise locular cvstic structures whose separate cysts vary- in form and size; or, b. The secondary cysts develop themselves on the interior of the wall of the parent-cyst in its cavity, and appear either pedunculated, or sessile with a broad base. They form clustered aggregations of cysts, which are filled with a serous or mucous fluid.| Such pedunculated or sessile growths from the wall into the interior of the cyst, do not, however, always form secondary' cysts, but are often much more solid, and consist of various kinds of tissue. They are then to be considered as a more extended development of the above-mentioned granu- lations, which are frequently formed upon the inner surface of the wall of simple cysts. * Medico-chirurg. Transactions, vol. xv. p. 265, &c., with plates. t See Hodgkin, op. cit. fig. 1—6. s 2