INTRODUCTION. 15 must be rigidly excluded, as unfit to form the basis for any sound conclusions. The comparison must be made on an exact mathematical basis; and conclusions must only be deduced in accordance with the rules of probabilities and the laws of high numbers. The numerical or statistical method must be carried out as fully as possible.* In applying this method to pathological anatomy, we must clearly understand what it is actually capable of effecting, and neither employ false data, nor overrate the results yielded by it. The certainty of its results is dependant on two conditions; Firstly, on the number of the observations; and, secondly, on the accuracy with which each observation is described. The more closely these conditions are fulfilled, so much the more sure and accurate will be the results yielded. A few illustrations will elucidate our meaning. Let us assume that, from the Creation to the present time, at least one billion of men have lived, and, after a longer or shorter life, have died. Of this whole number none have lived beyond a certain age; for instance, no one is now alive who was born in the four- teenth century. Hence, the probability that any man now alive will die, is to the probability that he will not die, as a billion to one. The number is here so large, that no rational being can doubt that death must earlier or later ensue. In this case, the number of observations is the greatest that can possibly occur, and the conditions respecting the nature of the observation are clearly defined. Hence, the probability is so very great, that it may be deemed an absolute certainty. There are likewise other questions respecting which, if the numerical method cannot reply with the same degree of cer- tainty, it may yet yield an answer for the correctness of which there will be the highest degree of probability. For example, suppose it be asked what per centage of mankind die before their thirtieth year ? Here the object of the question—the * Consult Gavarret: Principcs Gen6mux de Statistique Medicale. Paris, 1840.