CAPILLARY HYPER.EM IA AND FIBRINOUS DROPSY. 415 further undergo decomposition, and thus lead to the destruc- tion of tissue, and gangrene. With this condition, there usually also occurs, (either preceding or accompanying it), a solution of the haematin, and a saturation of the tissues with it. All these changes, although from the nature of the case they succeed one another, are yet very frequently simultaneously present in the same organ. 2. The province of fibrinous dropsy. The occurrence of this fluid as a consequence! of capillary hypenemia, leads us to a second very comprehensive series of morbid changes. To this class belong all the changes affecting the effused fluid, which have been formerly described (see p. 52.) The fibrin may coagulate, and thus give rise to false hydatids, apparent serous dropsy, induration of the affected organ, &c. Then follow the great number of changes which arise from the further development of the fibrin—suppuration in the widest sense of the word, with all its modifications and forms, the forma- tion of granular cells, and ulceration—epigeneses of the most varying kind, tumours, hypertrophies, concretions, changes of colour, softening, induration, &c.; in short, almost all the above described elementary changes. Connected with this subject are two questions, whose answers possess a high theoretical and practical interest. They are the following: 1. Is every case of capillary hypenemia necessarily succeeded bv fibrinous dropsy? And, 2. Does every' case of fibrinous dropsy necessarily arise from capillary hypenemia ? or may it arise in some other manner ? Allu- sion was formerly made to these questions, but a perfect answer was impossible till the above facts had been indivi- dually considered. The former question, whether every capillary hypenemia must be succeeded by fibrinous dropsv, is answered bv experience in the negative. We often find the capillaries distended and loaded with blood, without being able to recog- nize the existence of an increased quantity of fibrinous fluid in the surrounding parts, and thus our separation of this depart-