26 PNEUMATOSES. and, in many cases, is accompanied with the development of gaseous products. That such decompositions, accompanied with the development of gas, also occur to the human body, and that some pneumatoses are produced in this way cannot be doubted by any one who is in the slightest degree acquainted with the recent progress of zoo-chemistry. But if these general facts are established, our special knowledge of the subject is very imperfect; and it is at present impossible to explain theoretically, in any given case, the nature of the decomposition, and the properties of the developed gases. The following attempt to determine this point with a greater degree of certainty must only be regarded as provisional. The decompositions of organic matters, which have been hitherto studied, have received different names in consequence of their different natures. We distinguish: firstly, alcoholic fermentation, in which sugar is converted into alcohol and free carbonic acid gas. Secondly, acetic fermentation, in which alcohol absorbs oxygen, and is converted into acetic acid and water, or sugar is converted into lactic acid; in this case no gaseous products are formed. Thirdly, putrefactive fermen- tation, which, according to the nature of the putrifying body, presents very different modifications, but in which gaseous products are usually evolved. The alcoholic fermentation is of very rare occurrence in the human body, unless when fer- menting drinks, unfermented beer, &c. have been taken in large quantities. It appears that in such cases this fermen- tation may occur in the stomach, and give rise to the development of an accumulation of carbonic acid. Acetic fermentation cannot give origin to any pneumatosis, since no gaseous products are developed. Hence, thcie is only left the putrefactive fermentation to be carefully studied. As a general rule, it occurs very rapidly when portions of vege- table or animal organisms are exposed in the presence of water to a temperature corresponding with that of the human body. The gases that are developed vary in accordance with the putrefying substances that give origin to them. Non-