THE ITCH-MITE. 453 intermingled with young just hatched, and when first opened, also with old acari. In addition to these are a few problematical cases, in which peculiar forms of acari have been observed in the human subject. Bory de Saint Vincent describes peculiar acari (dermanyasus), which infested the body of a woman in great abundance, but were not commu- nicated to her husband. (Annalcs des sc. natur. lere serie. 18. p. 125. PI. i. fig. 6.) To these are allied the acari observed by Busk, in a pus- tule, on the foot of a sailor. (Microscopic Journal. Vol. ii. p. 65. PI. in. fig. 7.) We must here also doubtless include the argns persicia, an animal- cule which in the Persian town of Miana is an extreme annoyance to strangers.* Also the nigua (ixodes americanus) .f The acarus dysen- teric, which by early autliorsj is stated to occur in dysentery, is pro- blematical, and, at all events, is not the cause of this disease. 2. Tiie acarus of the human hair-sac (acarus come- donum ; a. folliculorum, G. Simon ; demodex folliculor. Owen; simonea folliculor. P. Gena is). This animal varies from the 12th to the 8th of a line in length, and from the 30th to the 50th of a line in breadth. Its mandibular organs consist of two palpae, which have between them a proboscis. They pass immediately into the anterior seg- ment, which amounts to about one-fourth of the length of the body. On it (the anterior segment) are situate four pairs of short, thiek feet, each consisting of three parts, and furnished at the extremity with three short claws, of which one is somewhat longer than the other two. The anterior segment has four grooved transverse bands, which unite at the middle line in a longitudinid stripe. To the anterior Is joined the posterior segment. It is longer, rounded off posteriorly, and filled with a dark, granular substance. It shows through- out its entire length fine transverse bands. This animal presents very decided varieties and deviations from the form k-«rv. * Fischer, Acad, de Moscow, 1823. t P. Gearrais, Histoire nat. des insectes. Aptures. T. in.—(Nou- vellcs suites k Buffon). Paris, 1844. p. 247. J Nyander, Exanthemata viva iu Linnc armcnitat. academ. t. v. p. y7.