137 PUS. tion of acetic acid, they are clearly brought before us, present various forms; sometimes (generally in good pus) they are < elliptic, and present an excavated cup-like form, resembling fresh blood-corpuscles ;* sometimes, however, they present a spherical or oval appearance.f In some cases they are dis- Mtinct from each other, even lying in different parts of the j i cell-cavity; but they are more frequently in apposition, and ; joined together, so as to present the figure of a trefoil leaf, or | some other form. This composite character of the nucleus in the majority of the corpuscles, as revealed by the action of acetic acid, is very characteristic of normal pus. The only other instances in which this occurs are in young gland-cells, and in the most recent layers of pavement epithelium, but in these cases they are never so general as in pus. Ilence it follow's that the size of the nucleus is liable to great deviations ; from being entirely absent it may occupy the whole cell. Its usual limits are the 800th to the 400th of a line. Nucleoli are rarely found in the nuclei of pus-corpuscles. I shall show further on, that the granules which remain after treating pus-corpuscles with alkalies or honix, and which MesserschmidtJ con- siders as nucleoli, cannot be regarded in that light, since they occur as much out of the nucleus as within it. If some writers altogether deny the existence of nuclei, or have seen them otherwise than as we have de- scribed, it must arise from imperfect observations, or from the circum- stance that normal pus was not examined. The above differences in the nuclei are connected with their chemical composition, and with diffe- rences in the mode of formation of the pus-corpuscles. I shall again return to this subject and attempt to elucidate it. The cell-wall of the pus-corpuscle varies in thickness, and surrounds the nucleus more or less closely. In delicate and young pus-coqiuscles, it is very thin, smooth, membra- nous and transparent: in older and many peculiar sorts * Plate in. fig. 3 ; fig. 9, b. t Plate in. fig. 6, a. > Op. cit. p. 8—10.