509 SUPERNUMERARY ORGANS. Great difference of opinion has prevailed respecting the causes and mode of origin of these malformations with super- numerary parts. According to some, they arise by a coalescence of two separate germs, while according to others, they depend on a furcation of a single germ. Although, at present, it is impossible to decide with cer- tainty on either of these views, yet in the majority of cases, (with certain exceptions to be presently mentioned,) the latter appears to me by far the more probable. The chief arguments in favour of the latter view are the following: 1. The organs that are united are always similar organs : head with head, thorax with thorax, &c.; a fact that can only be explained b a very forced manner by the assumption of a coalescence of two germs. 2. There is a complete transition from the cases where two almost perfect individuals are attached at only a circumscribed spot of the body, to those where one individual bears only some trivial supernumerary parts, or other malformation, as, for example, fissure of the skull; in short, to cases whose origin no one would ascribe to a coalescence of two germs.* 3. Finally, it is totally incomprehensible, how’, in the case of two separated germs or ova, of which each must have its own membranes, a union of two embryos can take place ; and it is just as little to be com- prehended how, in such a union, often more than the lialves of the two systems can be so intimately fused together, as we sometimes find to be the case. These are the principal reasons which lead me to agree in the opinion, that all twin and triplet monsters, with the exception of the cases of foetus in faetu, proceed from a simple germ, or ovum. The question : how’ and from what causes does it happen that a mal- formation with supernumerary parts is produced from one ovum ? can only be answered by experience, and the materials necessary to this reply will doubtless be furnished to us by future observers. At present, little more than the following can be said upon the subject. In some cases the ovum or the germ is malformed ab origins (the yolk of abnor- mal form—ovum in ovo), in others it becomes, after impregnation, so affected by causes still unknown to us, that excessive nutrition of particular portions of it ensues, and hence supernumerary parts are * Sbmmering has pointed out this fact very convincbgly b certain cases. See the vignette on the title-page of his Beschreibung und Abbildung einiger Missgeburten.