PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 74 mal blood, there are from one to three parts of dried fibrin; hut in certain pathological conditions, it may rise to 5'7, or even 10 parts, being more than treble the normal quantity. This is the case in most inflammatory affections, and espe- cially in most of the cases that give rise to fibrinous dropsy, in pneumonia, pleuritis, bronchitis, peritonitis, acute rheu- matism, severe erysipelas, and in many cases of pulmonary tuberculosis; at the same time we frequently find that the qualities of the fibrin arc also altered. After coagulation it is insoluble in a solution of nitrate of potash, differing in this respect from normal venous fibrin, and resembling that of arterial blood. The fact that the fibrin is thus increased is established beyond all doubt, but respecting the causes of this augmen- tation, and in part respecting its signification, there is still much to be explained. Simon, relying on the observation that the quantity of blood-corpuscles is simultaneously dimi- nished, conjectures that this increase takes place at their expense, and that the fibrin is formed from the hsematoglo- bulin. On equal grounds it might be asserted that the fibrin is produced from the albumen of the plasma, since we possess no certain knowledge respecting the conditions under which one protein-compound is converted into another, and respect- ing the production of the fibrin in normal blood. Henle* has offered another explanation. He believes that the increase of the fibrin in all these cases is dependant on an exudation from the vessels (our fibrinous dropsy) containing less fibrin than the plasma, which thus after the exudation contains a relatively larger amount of fibrin than before. But this hypothesis fails to account for the great augmentation of the fibrin in inflammation, and for its relative increase in propor- tion to the quantity of blood-corpuscles. A diminution in the amount of fibrin (when for instance it falls below 1 in 1000 parts of blood) may either actually * Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medicin v. Henle und Pfeufer, vol. t. No. i. p. 119-