EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 570 the patella was examined under the microscope; the cartilage-cor- puscles, as well as the intervening intercellular substance, exhibited the usual characters, excepting that most of the cartilage-corpuscles contained many fat-globules. The free surfaces of the cartilage were almost everywhere covered with a thin membranous layer, which could easily be tom into shreds which appeared gelatinous, of a yellowish-gray dingy colour, and were about the thickness of letter- paper. The different parts of the tumour were then microscopically examined. 1. The thin layer on the outer surface of the cartilage appeared perfectly amorphous, similar to coagulated fibrin, without vessels or any trace of fibres, of areolar tissue, or of epithelium. Isolated cells were visible, most of which resembled those described in Fig. 6. A; others had a very thick cell-wall and granular contents, with a nucleus (Fig. 6. B ) ; others, again, contained several nuclei, (Fig. 6. C). On the addition of acetic acid, the amorphous mem- branous mass became perfectly transparent, and many nuclei came prominently in view. It was, therefore, doubtlessly a blastema in the act of developing itself into a cancer. 2. The pale yellow puriform matter which appeared in the above- mentioned softened parts of the degenerated portion, contained numerous cells in a colourless fluid. These cells were roundish or oval ; the smaller varied from the 200th to the 300th of a line in diameter (Fig. 6. A. a.) ; indeed some (d) were even smaller, (these were, however mere nuclei, measuring only about the 400th of a line;) the larger measured the 100th or even the 80th of a line in their longest diameter. Most of these cells were covered with granules (fat ?), and many exhibited a distinct nucleus and nucleoli; besides these cells there were isolated blood-corpuscles (Fig. 6. A. c. ; the Plate shows them edgeways), and many fat-granules. The fluid coagulated on the addition of acetic acid, the walls becoming very pale (Fig. 6. D. a), or entirely disappearing. The nuclei of the cells appeared more distinctly (Fig. 6. D), and were all single, and easily to be distinguished from the nuclei which appear on treating pus-corpuscles with acetic acid. The dark granules on the cells were not changed by the acid, (E.) Caustic ammonia did not alter the fluid, but rendered the cell- walls, as well as the nuclei, pale, and finally caused them to disappear. The dark granules covering the cells were not affected by tie ammonia, but came more distinctly in view (Fig. 6. E.) With respect to the chemical character of the fluid in wine i ie