150 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. f Plate hi. fig. 1—3. t of formation of pus-corpuscles from a fluid cytoblastema has been directly observed, whilst on the other hand, no one has ever yet suc- ceeded in following under the microscope the conversion of blood- into pus-corpuscles. Other objections to this view may be found in the above-named works on pus, and in Henle.* Another opinion to which I have already alluded, namely, that pus-corpuscles are modified epithe- lium cells, was promulgated at a time when we had no knowledge of the general laws of cell-formations, and knew very little even of the epithelium. Tins view, like the opinion of Gerber and Valentin, that pus-corpuscles are formed by the higher development or retrograde for- mation of the so-termed exudation-corpuscles, rests more on the inter- pretation than on the morphological development of the structure. We shall have occasion to revert to the exudation-corpuscles at the end of our section on pus. Diagnosis of normal pus. The recognition of this morbid fluid is apparently so easy that any one after once seeing it, and observing the above physical properties, would trust him- self to distinguish whether or not a fluid was actually pus: and yet there are numerous sources of deception. Fluids con- taining fragments of epithelium-cells in suspension may readily be mistaken for pus, and in examining the body after death, we sometimes believe that we have discovered suppu- ration, where in fact no morbid process had been going on. The examination of the fluid by the microscope is the best, and, indeed, the only certain means of guarding against such deceptions. If this instrument reveals the presence of normal pus-corpuscles, and on the addition of acetic acid, the charac- teristic nuclei appear,f then we may be sure that we have been examining pus, and normal pus. | As I have repeatedly witnessed the above deceptions, I will by way of warning mention two cases. A woman died from plouritis, with con- siderable purulent exudation into the pleural cavity. On examination I likewise found in the pelvis of the kidney, and in the ureter on each side a whitish-yellow, thick, creamy fluid, which had all the physical characters * Henle und Pfeufer, Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medizin, vol. u p. 202.