361 alternating calculi. Thus we have alternating lamina: of uric acid and urates, if in a prolonged uric-acid diathesis the urine is occasionally very acid, by which the urates are decomposed, and uric acid sepa- > rated; while at other times, on the contrary, the excess of i acid abates, and urate of ammonia is deposited from the satu- i rated fluid upon the surface of the stone. When the uric acid alternates with the oxalic diathesis, alternating lamime of uric acid or urates and oxalate of lime are formed. 1 he by no means uncommon calculi of uric acid or oxalate of lime with earthy phosphates, arise when the uric-acid or oxalic diathesis periodically abates, and in the interval the urine be- comes ammoniaeal by the decomposition of urea. This alkaline tendency is further increased by a copious discharge of mucus from the irritation of the stone, and the occasional retention of the urine by the stoppage of the urethra, or the outlet of the bladder. The alternating laminae of uric acid and phosphate of lime in the same stone may sometimes be induced by medicines— as the alkalies—which are given to hinder the enlargement of the uric-acid calculus, but may, in making the urine alkaline, induce an augmentation by the deposition of phosphates. The nucleus of urinary calculi is often differently composed from the rest of the body. Crosse* found the nuclei of one hundred stones thus composed: seventy-two consisted of uric acid and urate of ammonia, nine of uric acid and oxalate of lime, fourteen of oxalate of lime, one of carbonate of lime, and two of earthy phosphates. In other cases the nucleus was found to consist of cystin, of organic matter, coagulated blood, mucus, or some foreign body. Sometimes the stone exhibits a cavity instead of a nucleus in its interior ; in these cases the nucleus was probably formed of mucus, which subsequently dried up. In some rare cases the nucleus has been known * On the Formation, Composition, and Extraction of Urinary Cal- culi, London, 1835; G. O. Rees, an Introduction to the Chemical Analysis of the Blood and Urine, London, 1845.