100 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. It cannot be expected in pathological anatomy that the ultimate causes of all morbid changes in the organism should be noticed, any more than that all the symptoms should be described ; which gene- rally accompany those changes. On the other hand, it is a most im- portant point to distinguish, as far as our opportunity for observation will allow us, the origin, development and gradual formation of these changes; further, we should investigate the general laws of their forma- tion and development as far as this can be done by cautious conclusions from undoubted observations, and we should compare these laws with those which apply to the normal development of the whole organism, and of its individual parts. Pathological epigeneses naturally divide themselves into wo groups, the organised and the unorganised. The distinction between these groups is a double one. 1. There is a morphologic difference.—Organized bodies exhibit the same perfect form and internal organization throughout as in their separate parts, and as soon as they become parts of the organism. Unorganized bodies are devoid of organization, the highest and most perfect form they can assume being that ot a crystal. 2. There is a genetic dfference.—Unorganized formations are always produced in accordance with the laws of pure chemistry, while organized formations follow the develop- mental laws of organic life. If even in perfectly normal formations, the dimeu y in defining the limit between vital organization and mere che- mistry is considerable, in pathological formations it is much increased, for each may be combined with, and indeed merge into the other, so that in individual cases, it is not always easy to determine to which group a formation belongs. 1 Ins does not, however, hinder us from regarding the two groups as representing opposite types. In their chemical exposi- tions there are no essential differences, except that the orga- nized formations consist, for the most part, ofthes„bst= known in chemistry as compound radicals , w l e le ui • nized consist in part of inorganic matters, althoug l compoun radicals frequently also enter into their composition, and henc