56G EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Fig. 4 & 5. Scirrhus of the liver. Magnified 220 diameters. broad transparent fibres (Fit. 2.). rlhese fibres entirely resembled those of organic muscle. They mostly disappeared on being treated with acetic acid when oat-like masses—nuclei—appeared (Fig. 3. A.), entirely similar to those seen on treating the muscular fibres of the intestine or the uterus with acetic acid. These two elements the cells and fibres—independently of the fat granules and crystals of cholesterin, which will presently be described, are the only ones which appear in this case. Fine sections made, with the double knife, in the tumour, not only shewed the same constituents, but led to the assumption of a similar arrangement of these histological elements. The fibres did not follow a straight course, but formed curves—parabolas, ellipses, or circles— which were filled with cells. This arrangement was especially evi- dent on the application of acetic acid, which caused the nuclei to come prominently forward, and the course of the fibres to be thus ascertained. (Fig 3. A,) shews a part treated in this way with acetic acid. One portion of the fibres runs in a nearly straight direction, while another forms a spherical capsule filled with cells. If we examine these portions with a lower power we clearly ascertain that the fibres not only form circular meshes, but actual spherical capsules; we here find fibrous nodules, without any trace of cells, which only appear when the spheres have been flattened by compression : or, when the fibres of the capsule have been made transparent by acetic acid, in which case the round nuclei of the inner cells distinctly appear, and are totally different from the elongated nuclei of the enclosing capsule. On treating a thin section of the tumour with acetic acid, an amorphous viscid matter coagulated. A small portion of the scirrhus was softened, and punform. I he semi-fluid, pulpy mass consisted of the remains of cells and fibres, neither of which were individually distinct; the whole being dissolved into a semi-fluid, indefinite mass, in which many dark brownish gra- nules of fat were seen, partly isolated, and partly in large masses. Acetic acid rendered the whole mass paler, and gave it a conglo- bate appearance, without our being able to observe a distmct coagu- lation of any particular substance. At one part of the scirrhus we perceived very large cells, mostly with nuclei, and interspersed with crystals of cholesterin (Fig. 3. C). Certain parts of the epididymis and tunica vaginalis were scirrhous. These exhibited the same arrangement of histological elements.