504 MALFORMATIONS. of the eustachian tubes, of the cavity of the tympanum, of the tongue, division of the iris and choroid coat of the eye (coloboma iridis), are described in the special part. 2. Fissures on the trunk and neck (schistocormus, Gurlt), appear under very different forms, according as the cleft occurs on the neck, thorax, abdomen, the pelvis, or the arches of the vertebrae. As in the fissures on the skull, so in these cases, the viscera are frequently protruded, and, according as they lie exposed, or are still covered with a part of the membra- nous investments, form either a prolapse or a hernia. a. Fissures on the neck (fistula colli congenita). Their origin is due to an arrest of formation; the respiratory or visceral clefts, which during the formation of the embryo appear on the cervical region, not uniting at an early stage, as in the normal condition, but remaining open at certain spots. Literature. Fr. M. Asclierson, de fistulis colli congenitis. Berol. 1832 ; Kersten, de fist. c. c. Magdeb. 1836 ; Zeis in v. Ammon’s Mo- natschr., vol. ii. part 4; J. Heine, de fist, colli congen. Diss. Halens. Hamburg, 1840; Miinchmeyer, in tlie Hannover. Annal. 1844. part i. b. Fissures of the spinal column, i. e. of the vertebral arches, (spina bifida), occur in very different degrees, from splitting of the entire spinal canal, which commonly exists in connection with hemicephalia, to the division of the arch of one or more vertebrae, in which case the fissure frequently remains covered by the membranes and skin. It is either an original arrest of structure, or the effect of dropsy of the vertebral canal (hydrorhachis). The literature of this subject is very abundant; we may especially notice Meckel, vol. i. p. 347, and Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. i. p. 615. The reader may also consult Sandifort, Mus. anat. vol. xv. pi. 65 and 66 ; Otto, op. cit. p. 282 ; Cruveilhier, liv. vi. pi. 3 ; and liv. xvi. pi. 4; Kiister, de spina bifida. Gryphise 1842 ; and Anderseck, exercit. anat. circa monstra duo hum. spina bifid, aff. Vratislavise 1842. c. Fissures of the thorax and abdomen occur either alone or together.