325 SCIRRHUS. hand the fibres and cells are separated from each other. When, in the latter case, the tumour is divided into several portions, it is frequently impossible to distinguish some of these parts from encephaloid, and others from fibrous tumour. In seirrhus we frequently find the cellular structure less deve- loped than in encephaloid; we rarely observe in it either large parent-cells, or cells with numerous eytoblasts ; more fre- quently the cells are small, roundish or oval, and granular. Elementary granules arc common after softening has com- menced. Moreover, the viscid fluid is, as a general rule, pre- sent in seirrhus; when it occurs in excess, it forms the tran- sition to gelatinous cancer. Since seirrhus is slower in its development, and more solid than encephaloid, so also is its action on the parent-tissues previously to softening more strongly marked; the elements of these tissues being more firmly compressed, become more readily atrophied. Hence, unsoftened seirrhus exhibits fewer and smaller vessels than encephaloid ; if they are not altogether absent, they arc at all events very small, and may be easily overlooked by a careless observer. Large vessels in seirrhus are, however, not rare, and we frequently find the milk-ducts pervious in mammary seirrhus ; of long standing. Corresponding with these histological differences between I seirrhus and encephaloid, there are also variations in their !' development, growth, and consequences. The growth of seirrhus is much the slower, for the cells on whose propaga- tive power the enlargement of encephaloid is chiefly dependant, arc here ot mere secondary importance ; hence seirrhus rarely attains to the same magnitude as encephaloid. On the other hand, the mechanical consequences of the tumour arising from pressure on nerves and vessels, contraction of canals, &e., are sooner and more energetically manifested than in encephaloid. Conversely the process of softening is slower in seirrhus, the cells forming minute radiating islets of pus, whicli do not become so easily converted into ichorous discharge,