86 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. brown, or occasionally blackish blood, which escapes on making an incision. On cutting into the part affected, the section reveals numerous isolated blood-spots. Venous hypersemia is usually accompanied by an effusion of dropsi- cal fluid from the distended veins; in the dead body, this may, however, be absent, or at any rate may escape observation, since local hypersemia is very limited, and exists only for a short time, and the effused serous fluid may have been resorbed by the lymphatics. The causes of this hypersemia are partly mechanical—as obstruction of the venous trunks, stoppage of the heart’s action, &c., and partly dynamic—as dilatation of the venous walls through the influence of the nerves.* Hypercemia of the capillaries.—The capillaries of diffe- rent parts of the body frequently appear to be dilated to a greater or less degree, and to be over-filled with blood. In the lesser degrees of hypersemia, the diameter of the capilla- ries increases by one half; in the more highly developed cases, the diameter is sometimes double, or even treble the ordinary length, and then the vessels not unfrequently become ruptured. The blood so completely fills up the whole lumen of the ves- sels, that the interstices at their border, which in the normal state are free from blood-corpuscles, disappear. The blood- corpuscles themselves are much more closely pressed on each other than is usual, so as to prevent them from being recog- nized individually, and the whole of the blood forms an appa- rently homogeneous and coagulated mass; but on removing the blood from the vessels by pressure, &c., the corpuscles again become separated, and the fluid assumes its normal appearance. The part affected by hyperaemia is redder than usual. This abnormal redness may be either general or local, according to the extent of the hyperaemia; and decreases gradually as it approaches the unaffected parts. Under the microscope, it is observed that the redness is not uniformly distributed over the * See i>. 42.