468 PARASITES. miliary projection with a distinct opening in the centre. These projections form the orifices of the sexual organs, and are situated without fixed order, sometimes on the left, sometimes on the right margin of the joint; occasionally, however, their position on the separate joints varies according to rule. The head of the worm occupies the anterior thin extremity, and is very minute, commonly hemispherical, broader than it is long, and often appears as if curtailed in front. Its essential character only becomes evident upon the application of magnifying glasses. It then exhibits four lateral mammillary suckers, and between these, in the middle of the head, an arched eminence upon which is always remarked a circle, in whose centre a minute, scarcely perceptible opening exists. Upon this circle are sometimes seated small hooks in double rows. This double circle of hooks may, however, be absent; indeed, it appears, that with advancing age the worm always loses it. The >ead merges into a flat, unarticulate neck, which varies in length and is followed by the articulated I body. The first joints are very short, the following alinos square, while the more posterior are longer than they are broad ; the joints are narrower in front, thicker and broader behind, so that the posterior extremity of each, projects over the commence- ment of the following; the last joints are sometimes twice or three times as long as they are broad. The growth ot the j worm takes place in this manner: from the neck new joints are continually evolved, which push those behind still further hack, and develop themselves in proportion as they regress. The hindmost joints are, therefore, the oldest and at the same time, the most perfect. Yet it appears that new jomb are developed not only from the neck, but may e troduced between the perfectly developed art.cnlat.ons even at the posterior end of the animal. The increase of “m is however, not unlimited ; when the last jo.nts have attained to their perfect development, and are filled with mature ova they detach themselves, and, either uninjured or m a s a of decomposition, arc evacuated by stool. Since the joints