ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 253 six) sometimes a larger number (to forty-four), indeed in one case, a single tumour of the ovary contained three hundred teeth !* Sometimes all the teeth are arrested at one stage of deve- lopment ; sometimes at very different stages, so that there are found co-existing in the same tumour, teeth which correspond to the first, and to the second dentition. In all the cases hitherto observed, ency sted tumours, enclosing bone and teeth, have also contained hairs. In some more rare cases there is formed within encysted tumours a horny matter, which is connected with, or rather grows out of the sac. When such tumours are situated near the surface of the body they commonly break, and the horny substance grows out of the opening, and sometimes attains a considerable size. Home describes a case in which a horn arising in this manner acquired a length of 11 inches with a circumference of 2£ inches; generally, however, they remain much smaller. Sometimes also they are thrown off and then reappear; or they first form themselves when a common encysted tumour has become accidentally opened, and its sac thus exposed to external influences. These horns of varying form and size are usually curved like rams’ horns, and sometimes spirally twisted: sometimes they are transpa- rent like true homy substance, sometimes rough upon their surface, and opaque: they are easily cut with a knife, and in their physical characters present the greatest similarity to the malformed hypertrophied nails, which are not unfrequently observed upon the toes. The same resemblance is maintained in their histological structure. I have closely examined several horns of this kind in our pathological collection. They con- sisted of a horny substance which could be easily cut into shavings. Under the microscope the substance appeared entirely indefinite, and almost amorphous, like the tissue of the * CruveDhier, op. cit. livr. xvm. in which will lie found plates and descriptions of this class of tumour.