MALFORMATIONS. 502 resolvable into distinct groups, which occur in part singly, and in part in connection with each other. a. Fissure of the cranium. The higher degrees, where the skin, bones, and membranes of the brain are divided, and the brain, in a more or less atrophied condition, is exposed, are allied to hemicephalia. In the lower degrees, the fissure is limited to the cranial bones; the integument of the head being present, and forming a hernial sac, in which the brain lies ex- ternally to the skull; this sac commonly contains also a large quantity of serous fluid (hydrencephalocele, Otto). In these cases we frequently observe a union of the placenta with the head. The cause of cranial fissure is certainly, in the majority of cases, hydrocephalus. Individuals with cranial fissure are not viable; even those affected with a slighter degree of the malformation die shortly after birth. For cases, consult Meckel, vol. i. p. 301, &c.; Otto, op. cit. p. 38, G. Frcderici, Monstr. human, rariss. Lipsiae, 1737. c. tab.; Summer- ing, Abbildung u. Beschreibung, &c. PI. n.; and C. E. Rudolphi, Monstror. trium praeter natur. cum secundinis coalitor. disquis. Berol. Geoffroy St. Hilaire* names the whole group Exenccphalicns, and reduces them to the following subdivisions : 1. Notencephalus ,• when the cranial fissure exists in the occipital region, the greater part of the brain lying exteriorly, and occupying a position posterior to the skull upon the back. 2. Proencephalus; when the fissure is in the frontal region, the greater part of the brain lying anterior to the skull. 3. Podencephalus ;f when the skull is incomplete on its upper wall, and the greater part of the brain is exterior, in a position superior to the skull. 4. Hyperencephalus ■, when the roof of the skull is entirely absent, and the brain projects to a great extent; this is the highest degree, and is immediately allied to hemicephalia. Geoffroy St. Hilaire adds two other species, which are characterized by the co-existence of a cleft in the spinal canal. 5. Iniencephalus when the greater part of the brain lies within the cranial cavity, but in part also exterior to it, behind, and somewhat beneath the skull', which is fissured in the posterior region of the head. 6. Exen- * Vol ii. p. 291, &c. and PI. x. f itovs, a foot; the brain being connected to the cranial cavity by a species of pedicle. 1 iviov, the back of the head.