336 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. pathological epigeneses. They boar the same relation to per- fectly formed concretions as the elements of the tissues to tumours. They frequently occur in such small quantities as entirely to escape detection by the naked eye; the microscope is then requisite to detect their presence, and to elucidate their formative relations. From microscopic investigation we learn that precipitates , occur in three different forms—the amorphous, the indefinitely granular, and the crystalline. Amorphous precipitates form a transparent, gelatinous mass, difficult to observe under tbe microscope—as, for ' instance, basic phosphate of lime, or silica in the gelatinous state. Granular precipitates consist of very minute granules of indefinite size and form (generally roundish), in all respects identical with the elementary or molecular granules already described. Minute accumulations of them are generally colourless; in large patches they appear dark when viewed by refracted, and white by reflected light; we may instance albumen precipitated by an acid, or granular depositions of fat. In some few cases they present a coloured appearance ; thus the finely-granular deposits of urate of ammonia fre- quently present a brownish red, and sometimes a beautiful pink colour. Crystalline precipitates consist of more or less perfectly formed crystals, which, however, are usually only microscopic. ■ Many of the forms occurring in these precipitates arc very characteristic, as, for instance, those of uric acid, ammoniaco- magnesian phosphate, cholesterin, andmargarin. Others are less perfect, or so minute that their crystalline form cannot be recognized under the highest powers. These three forms of precipitates are, however, not strictly separated from one another; and it frequently depends upon accidental circumstances whether a precipitate assume one or other of them. The amorphous is generally the primary condition of the precipitate; it subsequently assumes the gra-