461 TRICHOCEPHALUS DISPAR. 5. The trichocephalus dispar, (trichuris, Roed. and Wagl.) or long thread-icorm is a thin, filiform animal, varying in length from an inch and a half to two inches. It consists of a very delicate, capillary anterior portion, which includes about two thirds of the length of the worm, and then passes rather suddenly into a strikingly thicker posterior extremity. It is usually white, although occasionally somewhat coloured. The worm has separate sexes, the males and females being essentially different; and hence the name dispar. The male is rather smaller than the female ; its capillary anterior part is pointed, the thicker posterior portion is spirally coiled, and exhibits on its extremity a long penis (spiculum), invested with a proper sheath. In the female the capillary anterior portion is longer; the thicker posterior part being straight, and only a little inverted at the extremity; the penis with its sheath is absent. The eggs are oval, with resisting shells, and when mature, measure the 40th of a line in length. The trichocephalus dispar is of very frequent occurrence in the large intestines, particularly in the human caecum ; it sometimes occurs in nearly half the subjects examined. Some- times it is found alone, at other times in great numbers. It firmly adheres by its capillary head to the mucous mem- brane. The pathological importance of this worm appears slight, since it is frequently found in great quantities in persons, who during life did not exhibit any symptoms of its presence. Bremser, p. 76, PI. 1, fig. 1 to 5. On the anatomy of the tricho- cephalus, see Meyer, Beitr. zur Anatoinie der Entozoen, p. 4 to 14. A similar trichocephalus, apparently the same species, is found in swine. 6. The trichocephalui uflinis, Rud. a species otherwise occurring only in the ruminantia (of the genera cervus, antilope, ovis and bos) is stated to have been once found in the human subject, on a soldier who had died in Fort Pitt from angina tonsillaris; this worm was found in the left tonsil,* which was tumid and gangrenous. * Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1842, May.