274 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. S undergone a speeific change ? The possibility of such a change cannot he denied, since we know that fibrin is very transmutable: but the assumption of such a change without a demonstration of its nature by organic chemistry, is of no advantage in a scientific point of view. By such a hypothetical transmutation of the fibrin, we may endeavour to explain why the typhous exudation is not converted into normal pus, but breaks up without any distinct organization. This view, however, may be opposed by another equally plausible : it is very probable that iu typhus the normal properties of the tissues are deprived of their ordinary energy, and that their formative power is impaired. In this diminished energy of the original tissues may, likewise, be sought the reason why the exuda- tion does not become organized, but undergoes disintegration. Probably, however, neither the one nor the other view alone is correct, and doubt- less there are a multiplicity of concurrent causes in action, whose mani- fold intricacies cannot be at present unravelled. With this brief view of the subject, I wish to express myself as opposed to the opinion, that there exists in the blood a specific typhous matter, with the deposition of which, in certain parts of the body, the disease localizes itself and terminates. At the same time the local importance of this deposit cannot be questioned. A great number of cases of typhus proceed to a fatal termination from the effects of these depositions, from ulceration, perforation of the intestine, &c. With respect to the histological arrangement of typhous matter, it remains to be observed that foreign ingredients are frequently inter- mingled with it—as epithelial cells, chyle-corpuscles, &c., which must not be confounded with the histological elements of the matter itself. SCROFULOUS DEPOSITS. In scrofulosis, as in typhus, depositions occur in various parts of the body—most commonly in the lymphatic glands and their vicinity, but also in other glands, and other organs. In an anatomical and histological point of view, the scrofulous matter bears so great a resemblance to the typhous, that here we shall only notice their distinguishing characters. The essential difference is, that here the whole proceeding is accomplished much more slowly—the deposit and the soften- ing generally lasting as many weeks, or even months, as in the other case days. The matter also exhibits in different cases great anatomical variations; it is sometimes dense and firm, so that thin sec-