INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. 377 niaco-magnesian phosphate, and phosphate of magnesia). These either form the entire concretion, or are mixed with ’fragments of food, namely vegetable fibres. They frequently < contain a foreign body as a nucleus. These concretions correspond in all respects with the sali- vary and lachrymal calculi already described, and are formed in a similar manner, namely by the earthy salts dissolved in the contents of the intestine becoming from any reason inso- luble and being precipitated. Such precipitates are usually ’thrown off from the system, and we frequently meet with 'them in the intestinal excretions. The liquid evacuations of [persons suffering from diarrhoea, almost invariably contain {precipitates consisting of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, and phosphate of lime. It these precipitates are retained, and l>ecome connected i together by intestinal mucus, or deposit themselves around a Jforeign body, they give rise to the formation of a concretion. {Calculi of this sort are most frequently found in diverticula, as for instance, in the appendix vermiformis of the caecum. The salts forming these c<Uculi seem to rise from two sources—partly from the food which contains salts of lime and magnesia, and partly from the intestinal fluid itself, which, like the tears, saliva, and other animal fluids, under certain conditions of which we are ignorant, contains an excess of earthy salts. I he earthy salts contained in the food are dissolved by the acid gastric juice, and if they are not pre- viously resorbed, arc again precipitated, when the chyle is neutralized in a lower portion of the canal by the alkaline intestinal fluid. About three years ago I found a concretion of this nature in the appendix vermiformis of a phthisical patient. It had the thickness of a .goose-quill, was about an inch in length, and perfectly filled the ml de $ac of this intestinal diverticulum. It was of a whitish yellow colour ; internally it presented a crumbling appearance, while the external por- tion was composed of thin, concentric layers. It was easily reduced to the form of a white powder, which under the microscope presented an indefinitely granular appearance, and dissolved in hydrochloric acid with