CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. 402 quantity of blood, by the copious secretion of fibrinous fluid. If the fibrin coagulate, a new form of increase of volume is called forth. A different one occurs when the exuded fibrin acts as a cytoblastema, and passes into persistent tissue, by which either a true hypertrophy, or a formation of some kind of tumour appears as the final result. But all these pro- cesses do not necessarily lead to an augmentation ot bulk, and it only requires a slight alteration in the process to induce a diminution, rather than an increase of size: as, for instance, when exuded fibrin is converted into fibrous tissue, which in accordance with its character contracts and diminishes the part, as in most cicatrices. We observe, therefore, in many morbid processes, first an increase of volume, which subse- quently diminishes, and is followed by a contraction of the organ attacked, as in Bright’s disease of the kidneys. In many cases of augmentation or diminution of the bulk of an organ, these conditions are extremely complicated, and much more conjectural than those already considei ed, as in the tendency to corpulency (Polysarcia), where there is often a very considerable deposit of fat in the form of adipose tissue in different parts of the body, as in the Panniculus adiposus, (see p. 181). The explanation of this process must be gained from a knowledge of the nature ot diges- tion, which we do not yet possess. It is the same with morbid emaciation, which is far from being satisfactorily explained by suppressed nutrition, or arrested epigenesis, since these explanations themselves need elucidation. Hollow organs are the most changeable in relation to form and size. They increase by the accumulation of their contents as the stomach by food, and the intestinal canal by gas—de- creasing as these are voided. Such an evanescent augmentation or diminution may, however, become permanent, if the cause continue long ; thus, in great eaters, the stomach may attain a considerable size, while in those not taking sufficient nou- rishment, the whole intestinal canal may appear permanently