CALCULI OF EARTHY PHOSPHATES. 359 be saturated with ammonia, and then decomposed by oxalic acid, the lime alone, as oxalate of lime, will be precipitated. If the filtered solution be treated with an excess of ammonia, ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate is precipitated in the pre- \iouslv described crystalline form, and we may then draw a comparison between the quantity of magnesian and calcareous salts. The formation of these calculi is clearly explained by the facts we have already laid down. The urine always contains phosphate of lime and phosphate of magnesia. If from any cause it becomes ammoniacal, both salts are precipitated. But if, on the other hand, it contains an excess of carbonate of potash or of soda, then the phosphate of lime is alone pre- cipitated. As the latter change of the urine occurs much less frequently than the former (only after the conti- nued use of silkaline carbonates, and of vegetable salts which are converted in the organism into carbonates, while carbonate of ammonia very frequently occurs in the urine from the decomposition of urea,) and as phosphate of mag- nesia is generally found in larger quantities in the urine than phosphate of lime, it is easily explained why the magnesian salts should occur more frequently in urinary calculi than phosphate of lime. As soon, therefore, as conditions tending to render the urine continuously alkaline are established, a simple precipitate will probably be converted into a stone ; and in this manner a calculus of this kind may be gradually formed. G. Differing from the calculi already considered, are those, which appear to consist wholly, or partially, of indifferent organic matter (fibrin and other protein-compounds, mucus, &c.) They have hitherto been only seldom observed (by Marcot, Morin, A. Cooper, Brugnatelli, and Scharling.) Con- cretions of this nature are almost entirely consumed before the blow-pipe, and yield an odour of burnt horn ; they are insoluble in acids, but dissolve in alkalies, and exhibit no trace of crystallization. They are produced in an entirely different manner from