395 CHANGES OF COLOUR. >ay be called forth, so that in judging of these conditions of ie dead body, much circumspection should be used. In all these cases of increased redness from hae matin, the lood may present manifold shades of colour, appearing either f a light or dark red, purple, brownish red, of the colour of tr, &c., without our being as yet able to give with certainty he causes of these changes in every individual case, (s<mj *.61, &c.) Sometimes as in extravasated blood, these hanges go so far that the red colour entirely disappears, nd gives place to another tint; thus extravasated blood ►becomes at times blue, orange, bistre-brown, or even black, rhe little that is as vet known concerning these changes has *een already mentioned, (see p. 193, &c.) These modifica- tions in the hrematin may occur after death, as well as before ; und our judgment regarding their causes and importance in the lead body, demands the same careful attention that we icecommended in the case of abnormal redness. In addition to the changes of colour already considered, here arc others, of which the most important arc : Dark coloration from granular pigment (melanosis) which uis already been specially noticed, (see pp» 189 and 233). Yellow coloration of the tissues, depending as far as is yet known upon two very different causes. The most frequent form in which it appears is dependant on the bile-pigment, (the cholepyrrhin of Berzelius), and occurs to the greatest extent in jaundice, when it accumulates in the blood, and passes from thence into all the fluid secretions, colouring :dl solid and fluid parts of the body. Thus we find it in the brain, in cartilage, bone, nerves, lungs, liver, kidneys, ovaries, &c.; then; being different shades of colour, according to the extent of the deposited pigment, alternating from pale yellow, to yellowish green, or even olive green, or dark blackish tint. 1 nder the microscope we sometimes observe that the tissues are merely saturated with a yellowish fluid, while at other times, we discover firm, granular, accumulated deposi- tions of a deep yellowish red colour, between the interstices of