547 EXPLANATION1, of the plates. tumour, about the size of a billiard-ball, tolerably firm, of a bluish- white colour, and covered on its surface with a yellowish purulent- looking matter. It lay quite free in the cavity, having no connection, at any part, with the walls of the uterus. The parietes themselves were very thick ; the degree of their thickness, however varied, being m some places as much as three inches. Imbedded within their sub- stance were found numerous roundish tumours, of all sizes, from that of a pea, to that of a billiard-ball. These tumours, for the most part, lay free, or at least so nearly free, tliat they could lie separated without any difficulty from the substance of the uterus, within which they were imbedded; they were of a whitish colour, very firm in texture, and of a globular form, though most of them were irregularly tuberculated and nodular. When cut into, each tumour was found to consist of a firm, compact, polished, white tissue, but with the naked eye no trace of a fibrous or other well-marked structure could l»e discerned. In the vaginal portion of the uterus was situated another tumour, about the size of a pigeon’s egg. somewhat soft m consistence, and inseparably connected with the substance of the organ ; it had a whitish colour, and when cut into was found to be madeup of a fibrous net-work, the areohe of which were large, and filled with a thick albuminous fluid. A careful microscopic examination of the several parts described above, furnished the following results. The substance of the uterus was composed of its usual organic muscular fibres, from the loOth to the dOOth of a line in diameter. Here and there, between hose fibres were scattered numerous granular cells, of a dark brownish colour such as are depicted in Plate iii. fig. 12—15. lhe ‘umour, which was situated within the cavity of the uterus presented a structure almost exactly similar to that of the uterus itseif, being made up of fibres closely resembling those peculiar o organic muscle, and containing also the same dark-looking granular cells noticed between the fibres of the uterus. Similar characters were also presented by those tumours, both large and small, which were imbedded within the parietes of the uten,. 1 be softened mass at the upper part of the large tumour, which was situated outside the uterus contained, besides small grumous masses of blood and separate blood-corpuscles, numerous pus-corpuscles the presence of which justified the supposition that the softening of the tumour was the result of inflammation. The usual changfs were produced on these pus-corpuscles by the addition of acetic acid namely, the gradual disappearance of the cell-wall of each and the coming Hi to new of its double or triple nucleus ; the nuclei were left N N 2