PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. /I t Untersuch. p. ICO—1G3. of being surrounded with a festoon of minute granules. • Secondly, the changes may be of a chemical nature, since many • substances enter into combination with, or dissolve certain , constituents of the blood-corpuscles. Thus water dissolves their colouring matter, causing them to become transparen , and ultimately to disappear ; nothing but the nuclei (when these are present) remaining. Moreover, acetic and, ammo- nia, and the other alkalies dissolve the corpuscles. Changes of this nature rarely occur in the living body, but frequent y after death. . , . . The most common change noticed in fresh blood, jus drawn from a vein, is this, that some of the corpuscles appear tumid and spherical, or else contracted, irregular or studded with granules. This appearance as we have already observe may be explained on the principles of endosmosis and exos- mosis* Even this change is of rare occurrence. In the dead body these changes are of more common occurrence. Thus Sehererf found that the corpuscles of the blood, contained in the heart of a woman who died from puerperal metritis, were swollen and indented at the edges ; the blood contained free lactic acid, and chemical decompo- sition had therefore already commenced. In gangrenous parts, I have frequently observed that the greater number of the corpuscles were entirely dissolved, not a trace of them being left. In all these cases we may conclude that the modifica- tion of the blood-corpuscles is dependant on the influence of a chemical change in the blood; the nature of this change must be determined by chemical analysis, since very different reagents produce similar changes in the cor- puscles. Sometimes these chemical changes and the conse- quent alteration in the form of the corpuscles, do not com- mence till after death. Thus in typhus, the change in the * According to Andral, the raspberry-like appearance of the corpuscles is dependant on the adhesion of fibrinous granules to them,