450 PARASITES. and objections, it appears to me that the first of these opi- nions is the only correct one. Experiments which have been institutedjupon^the human subject, and in still greater num- ber with the’perfectly^analogous itch-mites of animals, prove that the transference of acari is capable per se of producing the itch in healthy individuals. If males only are transferred, a transient irritation may, indeed, ensue, but no scabious eruption, since the transferred individuals cannot multiply, and their individual operation, unless very many are trans- ferred, is too slight to call forth a perceptible exanthema. If, on the other hand, females are transferred, actual contagion results. Inoculation with the contents of the itch-pustule occasions, at most, local irritation, but no itch (Hering). These facts establish, beyond question, that the itch can be conditional solely on the presence of the acari. The negative proof that there exists no other cause of itch than the trans- ference of acari is more difficult. Nevertheless, most of the objections which are wont to be urged against this view are very easily met. Although acari have not been detected in every case of scabies, this partly depends upon the fact, that most of the physicians who search for the itch-mite have not the tact to discover it, and, therefore, in many cases deny its presence where in reality it abounds. Again, the itch-mite may be already destroyed by the remedies which have been applied, and, nevertheless, new eruptions of pustules succeed, since the irritation of the skin, occasioned by the long-con- tinued presence of the acari, need not necessarily disappeai immediately on their removal; indeed, probably in many cases it becomes temporarily augmented by the irritating ointments applied. Moreover, it is not to be denied that a cuta- neous disease, perfectly similar to the itch, can be produced by other causes than the itch-mite. Many questions upon this subject still remain, therefore, to be resolved by patho- logy. That the itch-mite can be spontaneously produced, as Hering conceives, appears to me, from the above-mentioned general reasons, to be highly improbable. I believe that