DROPSIES 52 can be compared with it. All nutrition depends on an effusion of fibrinous fluid into the parenchyma of organs, and the transition from the normal state into a morbid con- dition is so imperceptible, as to render any line of rigid demarcation an impossibility. And, as the process admits of being associated with many others, it has received a variety of appellations. Many portions of the process of inflam- mation, may be referred to it. The so termed exuda- tion, and the effusion of plastic lymph are nothing more than the result of this same process, and the general nutritive fluid which we term, 11 exudation, or plastic lymph,” is nothing more than the fibrinous fluid now under consideration. I have made this brief statement with the view of avoiding unnecessary repetition ; I shall subsequently have occasion in many places to take up the thread, which I for the present drop, and pursue it further. The subsequent fate of the fibrinous fluid may be much varied; and the course it may take is of high pathological significance. It is mainly dependant on two principal con- ditions : firstly, the fibrinous fluid being coagulable, coagu- lation may occur while the fluid is still in the body; and, secondly, *as it admits of plasticity, and it may act as a cytoblastema for organic formations. Both these points require a full consideration. The fibrinous fluid may remain unchanged in the body tor days, or even weeks; and then coagulate on its discharge and behave in the manner already mentioned. In other cases, however, the fibrin coagulates in the body itself. It then forms a coagulum of more or less firmness; which, under the microscope,' appears either perfectly amorphous or exhibits a confused fibrous, or radiating appearance ; and « somehmes covered with a finely granular, or pulverulent matter. If the fluid is effused in the parenchyma of an organ, these coagu a fill all the interstices between the elementary pai so * See pi. ii. figs. 2 and 3; and pi. ni. fig. o-