187 EPIGENESIS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. are perfectly identical. In both cases nuclei are formed in an amorphous, and, usually, a fluid cytoblastema, which are at first roundish, but subsequently become elongated and pointed, somewhat in the form of an oat grain, and some- times arched. Around these there are formed elongated cells, which gradually join at the extremities, and at length become fibres.* It is not, however, always that this mode of forma- tion can be clearly detected during development. In many eases we see only perfect nuclei, whilst the rest of the cyto- blastema between them seems to bo converted into muscular fibre without any preceding formation of cells, as has been previously described in the development of areolar tissue. After complete development, the newly formed muscular fibres sometimes perfectly resemble the normal ones. Homo- geneous fibres, varying in diameter from the 800th to the 400th of a line and parallel to each other, are formed with nuclei scattered lengthways over them. These nuclei are often distinctly visible, or, at any rate, always become so after the addition of acetic acid.f It is not always, however, that newly fonned muscular fibres arc so distinctly marked ; sometimes an aggregation of them will form a more or less amorphous mass, in which the tendency to fibrillation can be discerned, but the separate fibres cannot be clearly distinguished. On treating such a mass with acetic acid, the nuclei appear in consequence of the fibre's vanishing. These are cases where the develop- ment of the muscular fibres is either incomplete, or where it remains stationary at a lower and imperfect stage. They occur most frequently in tumours, where, probably, in conse- quence of too large a quantity of cytoblastema, the law of analogous formation only acts imperfectly, and the epigenesis never attains its true type. Large masses of simple muscular fibres, such as frequently occur in morbid epigeneses (both in * Plate iv. fig. 4. t Plate iv. fig. 4. Plate vu. fig. 2. Platt vm. fig. 2 and 7.