322 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. serve to give a good idea of the mode in which cncephaloid extends itself. A joiner about forty years of age, had for three years a swelling of the testicle which gradually enlarged. There was subsequently formed a tumour in the abdomen which was perfectly visible on a mere ocular examination. He died after having experienced paralysis of the lower extremities and the bladder. The left side of the scrotum was much enlarged, and on piercing its walls a considerable amount of a clear yellow fluid spirted out. A large portion of the tunica vagin. 1 propria testis was attached to the albuginea by fresh adhesions, which i admitted of ready separation by the finger. The testicle and epididy- mis of the left side were much enlarged, weighing fourteen ounces, j They, however, retained their normal shape and exhibited, indepen- dently of the recent exudation, a smootli surface. They were both of a tolerably firm consistence, and their section exhibited a yellowish tint. -> Internally the mass was coarsely granular, resembling fresh curds. The ’ cord traced from the testicle, exhibited minute knotty swellings before entering the abdominal ring. In the abdominal cavity these increased j in frequency and size, and finally became fused together into a large encephaloid mass, the size of a child’s head, covering the whole of the ' left side of the vertebral column as far as the diaphragm, enclosing the aorta and the left kidney, but not extending into the right side of the i abdominal cavity. It was of a white colour, resembling brain, was soft, and when pressed between the fingers, was easily reduced to a pulpy consistence. Histologically the soft encephaloid in the abdomen con- sisted of minute cells of the most varying forms, between which were very numerous fat-granules and oil-globules. In the testicle these cells were likewise found, but they were deposited in a firm amorpho- granular mass. The chemistry of encephaloid is in much the same condition as that of cancer generally. The analyses which have been hitherto published are either far behind the present state of science, or must be regarded merely as starting points for future chemists, and in their present state do not admit of the deduction of any general con- clusions. In the first category we may place the analyses communi- cated by Lobstein,* * * § and those of Hauser,t and Baudrimont ;J in the latter those of Branded Valentin,|| J. Muller, and Scherer.^- Of the chemical nature of the principal ingredient of encephaloid—the cancer- * Lobstein, Anatomie pathologique, vol. i. -f- Oesterreichische medic. Jahrb. Marz, 1841, p. 317. % L. Gmelin, Chemie, vol. ii. p. 1373. § Berzelius, Lehrbuch der Chemie, 4th Ed. vol. ix. p. 729. || Repertorium, vol. ii. p. 277. Untersuehungen, p. 220, 221.