DROPSIES. 51 more concentrated and abundant in them. Secondly, as we have already shown that serous dropsy is associated with dilatation of the veins and attenuation of their walls, so we learn from microscopic examination of the capillary system, that a dilatation of those vessels and an attenuated condition of their walls, precedes, and is associated with the occurrence of the fibrinous fluid, either in the parenchyma of an organ, or in a cavity. The simultaneous occurrence of the effusion, and the modified condition of the vessels is, however, so constant, that we may conclude with all the certainty possible in such cases, that the dilatation of the capillaries is the cause of the effusion. It naturally follows, that in the gradual transition of the capillaries into veins, there is no rigid limit between fibrinous and serous dropsy, and that one may easily merge into the other. Further, many causes producing a dilatation of the capillaries can likewise act in a similar man- ner on the veins; hence the two processes are very frequently associated together; and thus, in the fluid of serous dropsy, we very often meet with small quantities of fibrin. In serous dropsy, the causes of venous dilatation are fre- quently mechanical, and are, consequently, included in the department of pathological anatomy. Not so with fibrinous dropsy. Here the dilatation is dependant on dynamic causes, whose investigation would, of necessity, lead us far into the department of nervous pathology. We should, moreover, be led to the consideration of many other pheno- mena, as, for instance, the stoppage of the blood in the dilated capillaries, which will be considered in another place. I restrict myself, therefore, at present, to the mere statement that fibrinous dropsy is essentially dependant on the capillary system; that it is associated with, and for the most part arises from a dilatation of those vessels, and a tension and attenua- tion of their walls. 1 he consequence of this process, in relation to the patho- logy, as well as to the physiology of nutrition is so great that, in point of importance, there is scarcely any other that e 2