398 CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. upon madder, the yellow colour which the pigment, of rhubarb yields to many organs, and the ashy gray or olive-green tint imparted to the skin by the internal use of nitrate of silver. To these may be added accidental, or intentional colourings of the skin (tatooing), by means of the penetration or rub- bing in of gunpowder. For some other cases of such colorations by means of medicines, &c., with notices thereof, see Otto’s Lehrb. d. Patholog. Anatomic, p. 34, or South’s translation, p. 33. A full enumeration of the different patholo- gical colorations which appear in the human subject, may be found in Hodgkin’s Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy of the Serous and Mucous Membranes, vol. i. pp. 297—327. II. CHANGES ON FORM AND SIZE. In a general point of view, the observations already made, regarding the changes of colour, may be applied to those of size and form. Every organ has in a normal state a certain size and form,Tut these relations are not so accurately defined, but that many individual modifications ot both may appear. By disease these deviations may be so far augmented as to transfer their consideration to the department of pathological anatomy, without, however, enabling us to draw any very strictly defined limits between their normal and abnormal con- ditions. On dissection, when these modifications are in any degree considerable, they are the first to attract the attention of the most superficial observer, and hence in pathological anatomy they have been regarded before other changes, and thus in its infancy usurped a large portion of the consideration of this science. The more the science is developed, and its attention is directed from the accidental to the essential, and the more it seeks to clear up the causes and importance of individual changes, the less importance will he given to exter- nal modifications. A general consideration of these alterations is of very little value to science; it leads to a mere abstract system of arrangement, while the actual significance of the changes, the category of their causes and consequences, must /