1 19 CELLULAR FORMATION. a line. The nucleoli arc, however, much smaller, their diameter seldom exceeding the 1000th of a line. The chemical relations of the nucleus are very remarkable. It possesses the property of resisting the action of acetic acid, a reagent which attacks the solid cytoblastcma in which the nucleus is situated, as well as the cell-wall surrounding it, rendering the latter pale and sometimes causing its total dis- appearance. Hence acetic acid affords the means of rendering the nucleus visible when it is hidden by the cytoblastcma or the cell-wall. In pus-corpuscles, where the relations of the nucleus are very peculiar, the addition of acetic acid usually causes it to break up into minute granules. By the prolonged action of a solution of borax, caustic ammonia, and more rapidly by caustic potash, we find that the nucleus and the cell-wall disappear simulta- neously, being dissolved by these reagents. After this solu- tion is effected, there usually remain minute granules appa- rently composed of fat, for on extraction with ether, previously to applying the alkalies, they did not appear. These are regarded by Messerschmidt and Lehmann* as the nucleoli of the pus-corpuscles; but I do not believe that they stand in any special relation to the nucleus, since they do not occur in all nuclei, and may further occur free in a fluid containing cells. Relations of the cell-wall generally, and especially towards the nucleus.—Observations on the development of morbid products teach us that sometimes the facts are precisely in accordance with the general law laid down by Schwann, but that there are likewise exceptions to this rule. Undoubted cells are sometimes observed in pus-corpuscles, and generally in encephaloid and scirrhus. The form and magnitude of these cells are extremely variable; they arc, usually round or I* Messerschmidt de pure et same, Lipsite, 1842, p. 11. Lehmaim u. Messerschmidt iiber Eiter und Geschwiire. Archiv. v. Koscr uud Wunderlich, vol. i.