CHANGES OF COLOUR. 397 that had been dead three days was opened. The muscles of the abdomen appeared tinged with green, while those of the chest, the extremities, and other parts still exhibited their normal colour. Under the microscope the greenish muscles and the surrounding tissues appeared saturated with a yellow- ish-green fluid, without the presence of any abnormal, granular pigment. On the addition of nitric acid, the green changed first to blue, then to violet, and lastly to purple and pale red. The colouring fluid was, therefore, precisely similar to bile- pigment. A closer examination of the abdominal cavity showed that the gall-bladder, which was very full, formed the central point of coloration. Further investigations must de- termine whether this kind of coloration of the dead body is set'll in man at any distance from, or whether it is confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the gall-bladder. Blue coloration of the organs is very uncommon, excepting in those cases which have been already named, where it depends upon venous hypenemia. To this head belong the rarely observed cases of coloration of the skin by blue sweat.* As yet very little is known regiirding the composition of this blue pigment, or the causes of its origin. I have several times observed, that in microscopic preparations of the different parts of the body—as of the human skin, exhibiting roots of hair—which had been laid in sugared water between cemented glass plates, a very' finely granular deposit of a beau- tiful blue colour was precipitated, which, however, was yielded in too small a quantity to admit of chemical analysis. A fur- ther prosecution of this subject may lead to an explanation of the blue coloration of the skin, which appears during life. Many abnormal colorations depend upon matters which have reached the body from without; in this manner wre can account for the red bones of animals, which have been fed * An interesting case of the secretion of a bile-pigment from the skin has been described by Dr. Biichner.—Schmidt’s Jalirbucher. vol. xxxvi. No. 2.