21 I FATTY TUMOURS. p 2 Between the true fatty and the true fibrous tumour, there seems an almost infinite number of transition forms. Fatty tumours are more or less clearly distinct from the surrounding parts. Sometimes they are most intimately connected with the normal fatty tissue, and these must be regarded as cases of local hypertrophy. In other cases they are more or less clearly surrounded by a cyst. This cyst usually consists of a kind of sheath of areolar tissue, which is, how- ever, generally very imperfect and of different thickness at different parts; it is connected with the inner layer of areolar tissue which penetrates the tumour, and thus serves rather to connect the tumour with the surrounding parts than to separate it from them. In some cases, however, this sheath is more clearly formed, becoming, indeed, a perfect cyst, entirely dividing the tumour from the parts in its vicinity. These cases form the transition between the true fatty tumours and the genuine encysted tumours. Of this transition we shall speak hereafter in our observations on encysted tumours. The vessels in fatty tumours are usually few-, and for the most part small, as is also the case in normal fatty tissue. Fatty tumours are sometimes congenital, but they likewise arise at every age and in various parts of the body; commonly in the subcutaneous fatty tissue of the shoulders and the buttocks, but also on the face, the extremities, and the internal parts of the body, especially the omentum. They appear to be more frequent in women than in men (v. \Yeither, Chelius). Their growth is more or less rapid, and they often attain a very considerable size. Those of the size of a cherry have been observed increasing to the size of an apple, and indeed to that of the head, and have been known on extirpation to weigh as much as twelve, twenty-one, or twenty-five pounds, and even more. They sometimes appear singly, sometimes several occur simultaneously on different parts of the body of the same individual. Fatty tumours are in themselves always nun-malignant, yet they are apt frequently to reappear