PARASITES. 446 somewhat, posteriorly; the margins not serrated, but only undulated. Length of body 14 of a line. Figures : Alt, op. cit. fig. 4. Also Bur- meister. Genera, and Denny, Anopl. Brit. p. 19. This, like all the species of lice, has been hitherto found by all trust-worthy observers only upon the human skin, at most, in crusts, but never beneath the integument. It appears to me very improbable that the cases in which small louse- like insects have been discovered in abscesses, &c., beneath the skin, (Rust in Bremser, Lebende Wiirmer im lebenden Menschen, p. 55, Hufeland’s Journal, 1813, Part 3, p. 122, et seq.) belong to this place. These were probably acari. See Alt, op. cit. Besides the above species of lice, others probably occur which are true parasites in relation to domestic animals, and are occasionally to be found as incidental parasites on the human subject. These lice belong to a genus very rich in species—heematopinus, whose generic characters are the following: all limbs have climbing feet, the thorax is distinctly separate from the abdomen, and usually much nar- rower ; the abdomen is broad, and consists of five or nine rings. See Burmeister genera.—Denny, Anopl. Brit.—Rayer, Archives de pathologie comparde, t. 1, in several places,—and the two very interesting treatises of Gurlt, fiber die auf Haussaugethieren und Hausvogeln lebenden Schmarotzerinsekten und Arachniden, in Gurlt and Hertwig, Magaz. f. d. gesammte Thierheilkunde, Berlin, 1842, p. 409, 1843, p. 1. c. bugs, cimices. The bed-bug (cimex lectularius) is a well known animal infesting beds, &c., which by night perforates the epidermis with its proboscis, and sucks the blood of man. See figures in Burmeister—and Raspail, t. 2, p. 41, pi. 5, fig. 5 and 7, &c. If we take a comparative review of the human parasites belonging to the class, insects, we arrive at the conviction, that they arise by propagation, and not spontaneously, —a conclusion which, at the present day, scarcely any one will question. And although some, as has been men tioned, are still inclined to attribute the origin of pediculus tabcscentium in certain instances to spontaneous generation, yet I entertain no doubt, that even here, future and more