CONCRETIONS IN THE CUTANEOUS GLANDS. 381 of a not unpleasant odour. That intestinal concretions should rliavo urate of ammonia for their principal constituent, is so improbable, that we must be allowed to suspect that there ■must be some error. I believe that this concretion was either mot discharged from the rectum, but from the urinary passages ■or the vagina; or else that in this person there was a com- tmunication between some of the urinary orguns and the Tectum, through which the urine passed, in which case there ‘Would bo no great difficulty in accounting for the presence of sa concretion of urate of ammonia in the latter organ. rJ'he literature referring to intestinal concretions is very scattered. 'Most of the illustrations which I have given, may be found in Berzelius TThierchemie. p. 355, and L. Gtnelin, n. 2, p. 1446, &c. In the article H Entcrolithen,” by Jaeger,* the reader will find a full and very excel- lent. account of intestinal concretions in man and animals, together with iii copious bibliography : a Memoir by Meckel on the concretions in the 'human intestinal canal, and published in the first volume of his Archiv. rmay also be consulted with advantage. VIII. CONCRETIONS IN THE CUTANEOUS GLANDS. Nearly all the glands of the human body seem capable, through a change of their secretions, of giving rise to the formation of concretions, and the minute cutaneous glands, although very rarely affected in this manner, form no excep- tion to this rule. The anatomical relations of the concretions occurring in these glands arc still imperfectly known; how- ever, it is probable that they occur not merely in the sebaceous glands—both those that are free, and those accompanied by hair, forming hair-glands—but also in the sudaminous glands with spiral ducts. Two kinds of these concretions may be distinguished, which are, however, associated together, and may pass one into the other. If the normal or slightly changed secretion is retained * Encydop. Worterbuch dor medicinischen Wissenschaften, Berlin, 1834, vol. ii p. 172—204.