THE ITCH-MITE. 449 k somewhat the longer. The bases of the extremities, and the mandibular organs are of a red brown colour. The acarus bores channels, often many lines long, in the epidermis of the human skin; and when these have not become destroyed, or obliterated by friction of the clothes, by scratching, &c., they may be perceived with the unaided eye, and more easily with a lens. Upon certain spots where the animal either penetrates deeper in the epidermis and comes in contact with the cutis, or where it deposits its eggs (for which purpose it usually selects the hair or cutaneous glands), vesi- cles and pustules are formed in consequence. The animal does not, however, live in these pustules, but usually soon abandons them, in order to continue its progress. This circumstance must be borne in mind in searching for it; its eggs are frequently seen in the pustules, while the animal is more commonly found at the further extremity of its burrow. It appears as a small whitish speck, with a still smaller brownish point, which depends upon the coloured anterior extremities, and mandibular organs, and admits of ready extraction w ith the point of a needle. The relation ot these aeari to the itch has been much debated, and opinions are still divided upon some points. rl he following are the principal views that have been brought forward on this subject. 1. I he acari art* the cause of tlx? itch which is called into existence by their presence. 2. The acari are the effects of the itch ; they arise cither spontaneously in consequence of conditions established by the disease, or they are parasites to whom the possibility of exis- tence and propagation is afforded by the presence of the itch. 3. They have nothing at all to do with the itch, and their presence in this disease is accidental. Although at the present day it is impossible positively to establish any one of these views, and ns certainly to refute the others, yet after an unbiassed examination of all arguments vol. i. G G