CANCER. 313 in which masses of cancer-cells appear to be enclosed in fibrous capsules, indicate the possibility of such processes. In this sense, Hodgkin’s opinion appears, at all events, as established, and deserving of the consideration of future investigators. But, on the other hand, we must not conclude with Hodgkin, that all pseudo- plasmata proceed essentially from compound cysts. We can certainly never succeed in recognizing this structure in the infiltrated forms of tubercle, encephaloid, and scirrhus. Again, when cysts occur together with the pseudoplasmata, the latter do not arise from the former, but both are formed simultaneously. The cysts render the pseudoplas- mata more complicated, and exert an influence on their form, but have nothing to do with their production. It is on this point that the objection is based which Professor Grose of Cincinnati, has urged against Hodgkin, namely, that there is an essential difference whether or not the contents are produced by the wall of the cyst. If it is . assumed that the membrane of the cyst gives rise to the pseudoplasma, such an opiniou is just as false as that all tubercles arise from hydatids. In the explanation of these points we must not refer to cystoid of t the ovary; for, in consequence of the structure of the graafian vesicle, pecu- niar conditions are there present; in fact, these vesicles may be regarded as normal cysts, differing, however, in character, from those of any (Other ]>art of the body. In an excellent memoir recently published by 'Engel,* the very praiseworthy attempt to explain, on physico-chemical ; principles, the formation and development of cancer, has been made in the same manner as was formerly done in the ease of tubercle. I believe that here, as in that case, this is the path the exact investigator must follow; but the difficulties in this case are greater even than in the former, because cancerous tumours are generally much more highly ((organized than tubercle, and the modification of the blood, which is issutned by Engel to be the basis of the formation of cancer, not merely ^requires confirmation, but an accurate chemical examination. Our bhemical knowledge of cancer is very slight; the older observations, as, s'or instance, those of Lobstein, are at present of little value. More recently, J. Mfiller! and Scherer J have occupied themselves with i t* chemical investigation, hut their results have not thrown any I rreat light on the subject. In the chemical analysis of cancer, in that of idl other organic structures, the most essentiid point to attend to is, that the chemical and histological investigations should * Zeitschr. d. Gesellschaft d. Aerzte zu Wien. Jalirg. j. p. 2G7, &c. t Op. cit. p. 2-1, or West’s Translation, p. 73, where the analyses of he earlier chemists are quoted and criticized. J Untersuch, p. 220.