504 EXPLANATION OF TIIE PLATES. Fig. 5. Cells with two nuclei, magnified 2*20 diameters, a. an oval cell from encephaloid affecting the knee-joint, b. a cell of irregular form from the liver (normal hepatic cell). Fig. 6. Cells containing many nuclei in their interior, from encepha- loid of the uterus. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 7. Large cells, in the interior of which there are smaller hut perfect cells, (parent-cells with young cells,) from encephaloid of the bladder. Magnified 220 diameters. The cell A is complete ; B is the mere outline. Fig. 8. Cells containing yellow pigment (bile-pigment) from a diseased liver. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 9. Cells containing fat, from a fatty liver. Magnified 220 dia- meters. The fat-globules are very small in some ; in others they are larger and more distinct. Fig. 10. Cells containing black granular pigment from a lung com- pressed by empyema. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 11. Nucleated cells of very irregular form, from encephaloid o the stomach. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 12. Very elongated caudate nucleated cells. A, from a semi- organized exudation in the pulmonary pleura. B, from a newly formed sac, attacked to the pulmonary and costal pleura, and con- taining a fluid of the same chemical composition as the serum o the blood. Magnified 220 diameters. In A and B the cell becomes gradually thinner and is finally elongated to a mere thread ; in B b, several such cells are united by their pointed extremities, and form a single varicose fibre. Fig. 13 and 14 demonstrate the origin and growth of cells m mor i products. Magnified 220 diameters. . Fig. 13. Represents different parts of a tuberculous lung. At A we perceive the earliest perceptible stage of the disease , many nuc ei with or without nucleoli, in an amorphous cystoblastema. At the cytoblastema is consumed, and we can only trace a mass o nuclei lying closely on one another. C represents nuclei around which a pale soft cell-wall is already formed. At D there are wholly developed cells. Fig. 14. Shows portions of a scirrhous testicle. ' firm amorphous cytoblastema. in which distinct cells arc bcmg developed ; most of these exhibit an evident nucleus, whde m some, the cell-wall merging into the cytoblastema appears blw a broad, clear ring. At B the cells are more evident, and more d - tinctly separated from the cytoblastema.