474 PARASITES. malcule; other forms, however, sometimes occur. They may present a double cordiform shape (like two contiguous hearts, as they are depicted on playing cards, with their apices cut off), or they may appear circular when the animalcule is viewed from above—in which case the ring of hooks appears in the centre. It seems to be able to retract the cephalic ex- tremity with the circle of hooks; for the latter sometimes occupies the interior of the body. Sometimes the posterior extremity is drawn out to a pedicle, and presents a distinct opening. Sometimes the circle of hooks is absent, being apparently thrown off. Isolated hooks are then seen in the fluid. With higher powers, clear, vitreous globules of varying size, which entirely correspond with those described in the cysticercus, and consist of calcareous salts, are seen in their interior. The animalcules vary from the 8th to the *20th of a line in length, and from the 10th to the 30th of a line in breadth. Sometimes they are free in the interior of the cyst, and in this case form, with the fluid con- tained in it, a kind of emulsion; sometimes they seem adhe- rent to the internal wall, which then presents the appearance as if it had been sprinkled over with fine white sand. Some- times these animalcules are enclosed in small vesicles varying from the size of a pea to that ot a nut, which lie free in the interior of the cyst, or are attached to its walls, or there is found within the common parenchymatous cyst, instead of one simple vesicle, a large number ot various sizes. In certain cases the animalcules have died, and disappeared without leaving even a trace; on a microscopical examination a large quantity of isolated hooks are then perceived in the fluid, or at least in its sediment, besides indefinite detritus and crystals of cholesterin. Wherever these are absent, we have no right whatever to regard the structure as the remains of an echinococcus. Sometimes after the death of the animalcule, the cyst becomes metamorphosed into a con- cretion ; protein-compounds and calcareous salts are deposited within it, and it then closely resembles a cretaceous tubeicle.