PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 298 the arteries. Whether lymphatics and nerves occur in cancer is doubt- ful ; if they are present, they are undoubtedly not newly formed, but belong to the parent tissue. 6. Another element which enters into the composition of cancerous tumours—which indeed, is seldom altogether absent, and often occurs in very large quantity—is a viscid fluid per- fectly analogous to the essential constituent of the gelatinous tumours described in p. 236. This viscid fluid is characte- rised by the presence of a substance resembling mucin or pyin, which on the addition of acetic acid, sulphate of iron, or infusion of galls, coagulates into a colourless, streaky, amorphous mass, as may be observed under the microscope ; a similar but less marked effect is produced by alum, alcohol, and corrosive sublimate. The ultimate composition of this substance, its mode of origin, and its uses are unknown. The above elements are the essential constituents of cancer. In the process of softening they undergo changes which in all essential points are identical with those observed in the soften- ing of tubercle. Of these we shall speak presently. Accord- ing as one or other of these elements predominates, and according to the various modes in which they are associated and arranged, we have the different forms and varieties of cancer, which, however, cannot be strictly separated from one another, but exhibit every possible transition-stage. The most important of these forms will be presently noticed. In addition to the above elements, we sometimes meet with others which, however, do not belong to the cancer itself, but to the parent-tissue in which it was deposited; as for instance, striated muscular fibre, fatty tissue, glands, &c. As many of the above mentioned elements of cancer occur also as normal constituents of the body—as areolar tissue, simple muscular fibre, elastic tissue, and vessels it is not always easy to distinguish whether such elements, when they occur in a cancerous tumour arc newly formed or belong to the parent-tissue.