DROPSIES. 48 2. The fluid of empyema removed by paracentesis, analysed by Quevenne.* 3. The fluid of empyema consequent on pleuritis, analysed after paracentesis by Dr. Merklein and myself. a. Discharged at the first operation, on the 18th of January, 1841. n. Discharged at the second operation, on the 25th of January. On both these occasions the fluid coagulated after some hours. c. Discharged at the third operation, on the 27th of January, shortly before the patient’s death. It did not coagulate, and contained no fibrin; that constituent seemed to be supplanted by pus-corpuscles, which formed a white, creamy sediment at the bottom of the fluid. 4. Fluid of empyema, analysed by Scherer.t a. The fluid yielded at the first operation. b. The fluid yielded at the second operation, eight days sub- sequently. 5. Fluid of ascites, analysed by Schwann.! The form of the analysis is slightly modified, in order that it may admit of comparison with those that precede it. The amount of fibrin is so large, that a doubt arises whether the amount stated was actual fibrin. These analyses are sufficient to show the close similarity, in a quanti- tative point of view, that exists between the fibrinous form of dropsy and the plasma of the blood. The differences are slighter than between serous dropsy and the serum of the blood. Analyses 3. and 4. are especially inte- resting, as showing that there may be very considerable differences in the secretion of the same organ of the same individual under similar circumstances. It seems impossible to make analysis 5. (by Schwann) harmonize with the others; probably the amount of fibnn is much overstated. It is very possible that Schwann neglected to wash the clot before drying it, and that it contained pus-corpuscles, &c. At any rate, this seems to be the case when we consider that the amount of fibrin in the dropsical fluid (according to this analysis), exceeds by twenty-four times the amount in the normal plasma. With respect to the other constituents of fibrinous dropsy, the same observa- tions apply as to serous dropsy. The albumen occurs either as pure albumen, or albuminate of soda. Of the fixed salts, Scherer* found chloride of sodium 7.5, carbonate of soda 0.8, phosphate of soda 0.4, sulphate of potash 0.9, phosphate of lime 0.3, carbonate of lime 0.3 ; total 10.2 in 1000 parts of fluid. * Journal de Pharmacie, Nov. 1837. t Op. cit. p. 106. J Midler’s Archiv., 1838, p. 95. § °P- cit" P- 1H*