349 CONCRETIONS. irritation, it may give rise to the secretion of a too alkaline state of the serum, or of pus, which on their part produce a precipitation of the earthy phosphates held in solution in an acid fluid, as, for instance, the urine. The other manner in which a foreign body acts, is by its causing a precipitate which, without it, would have been discharged, to collect around it, and thus fonn a concretion. Pessaries act in this manner in the vagina; and foreign bodies, in the nasal cavity and intes- tinal canal. They first become encrusted, and ultimately form the nucleus of a concretion. In one of these three ways the nucleus of the concretion becomes formed, and as precipitates are continually being de- posited around the nucleus, the concretion gradually increases. The augmentation proceeds either by layers, or in another manner. The mode of increase, and the consequent texture • of the concretion, depend on the character of the deposits : if they consist of large pieces or crystals, the concrement is uneven and angular; if, on the other hand, the deposit consists of fine granules, it is regularly laminated and smooth. Hence the external form of concretions presents many varieties ; generally it is round, but if several are simul- i taneously present, and they are at all soft, as, for instance, is the tease with most gall-stones, their mutual pressure and friction render their form polyhedric. Their shape also depends on that of the organ in which they are formed ; if it is a narrow canal, the concretion is elongated, acicular, or sausage-like; if dt is of an irregular form, so also is the concretion ; in cavities dividing into branches, as, for instance, in the pelvis of the kidney, the concretions have frequently a ramifying form. These relations are too obvious to require further comment. \\ hen these concretions are large, they receive the name of calculi, or stones; when they are minute and numerous, they are termed sand, or gravel. We now proceed to the consideration of the various sorts of concretions.