406 CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. of softening than others. Thus the spleen very frequently softens, since this organ more frequently than any other becomes overloaded with blood. The same is the case with the lungs ; moreover the brain whose tissue normally possesses but little firmness may, by the addition of much fluid, become softer. There are other organs which from their very nature are incapable of undergoing softening of this nature, as for instance, the bones and elastic tissue. Many of these cases are merely transitory, disappearing when the hypersemia ceases, or the dropsical fluid is resorbed. Higher degrees of softening invariably lead to a partial solution and destruction—a death of the affected tissue or rather, they arise from it. We have had occasion to notice several of these cases of softening in our remarks on suppura- tion, and on the softening of tubercles and of the pseudo- plasmata. It is, however, at present hardly possible to take a general view of these cases of softening, since their causes like their forms are very different, and we are not sufficiently acquainted with their various conditions. The only method by which we can possibly obtain correct views rcgaiding the occurrence of softening, is by endeavouring to work out its various conditions, in the same manner as Engel has done, in relation to the softening of tubercle, (see p. 287)- At present, however, scarcely an attempt has been made, an since the conditions are very numerous and highly compli- cated, there seems to be little prospect of attaining this object for some time. It has been attempted to explain individual kinds of softening by making their occurrence_ dependant on certain general processes, and thus distinguishing inflam- matory softening, softening from gangrene, and softening from obliteration of the afferent arteries. Something is cer- tainly gained by this, but nothing very important, as long as the mechanism and the chemistry of the processes induced are not better known. At present the following o seiva 10 embrace most that is known on this subject. Most softenings arise from the deposition in the organism