44 DROPSIES. relations and circumstances. (Edema, in portions of the body abun- dantly supplied with lymphatics, disappears much more readily than dropsy in cavities where the only absorbents are situated on the surface. By the absorption of the water and salts, in accordance with the laws of endosmosis, the fluid becomes thicker, and ultimately forms a viscid mass, containing comparatively little water, but much albumen (see p. 37, anal. 7). That the dropsical fluid never forms a cytoblastema in which pus-corpuscles or other cells can be developed, I have con- vinced myself by numerous experiments. When pus-corpuscles and other organic forms occur in dropsical fluids, they always arise from other plastic processes accidentally combined with the dropsy. But by chemical influences some of its own constituents may be separated, as, for instance, cholesterin, or albumen, on diluting the fluid with water (see page 39). Diagnosis of the dropsical fluid, and its anatomical relations.—Dropsical fluids may be recognised by the phy- sical and chemical characters already described. They are distinguishable from the spurious dropsical fluids (subsequent- ly to be described), by their containing fluid albumen, which coagulates on the application of heat, or the addition of nitric acid. A precipitate is caused by the addition ot nitric acid, when (as we have already mentioned), the albumen is modi- fied, and no longer coagulates on boiling. It is only in those cases in which the dropsical fluid contains so little albumen that no coagulation occurs, either on boiling, or on the addition of nitric acid, that the diagnosis becomes difficult or doubtful; then, however, a quantitative analysis usually gives the required information. It is distinguished by negative characters from other morbid fluids, as fibnnous dropsy, pus, &c.; it does not coagulate spontaneously, and contains no essential corpuscles, such as occur in blood and pus. By means of a quantitative analysis we can sometimes, but not generally, ascertain whether these substances are mingled with the dropsical fluids. On this subject, see the remarks on the following fluids. If the dropsical fluid is contained in a serous cavity, the sac becomes distended, and compresses the adjacent organs.