579 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. the pulmonary tissue, but never occurred in groups. These cells likewise occurred in the fluid expressed from a fresh section of the lung. On the addition of acetic acid, the walls of the cells became pale and gradually vanished; the pigment-granules were, however, unaffected. 1 his is a case of true melanosis, in which the pigment is developed in its proper cells. Fio. 8 and 9. Walburga S. aged 27 years, a servant, entered the Munich Hospital on the 23rd of May, 1840. She had felt unwell for several days, and on admission had severe fever, diarrhoea, congestion of the head and chest, and difficult respiration. In a few days she presented a well-marked case of typhus; the lungs were considerably affected, there was tumefaction of the parotid glands, and on the 3rd of June she died. Shortly before death both arms became gan- grenous, the right originating from a venesection-wound made at an early stage of the disease, and the left without any apparent cause. An examination made twenty-four hours after death yielded the following results:— i’he examination of the contents of the cranium presented nothing abnormal. llie left parotid was inflamed; its tissue appeared of a violet colour, with minute ecchymoses. Prom this inflamed tissue, mi- nute masses could be expressed, (the size of a pin’s head or less,) of a yellowish white colour, soft and semi-fluid. These appeared to be pus, but when examined under the microscope, exhibited no trace of pus-corpuscles, and apjjeared to be only the blastema for the formation of pus ; they were amorphous, but contained fat- globules and minute granules (margarin) together with a few epi- thelud cells from the salivary ducts. On the addition of acetic acid the amorphous mass instantly disappeared; nothing remaining but the nuclei which resembled those of pus-corpuscles. llie lower lobes of the lungs were infiltrated with bloody serum ; the bronchi were reddened and filled with a frothy fluid. 1 he mucous membrane of the stomach was soft and easily pulled off; at the lower part of the small intestines there were several plaques and small ulcers. The mesenteric glands were slightly enlarged. There was gangrene in both arms. On the left side, from the back of the hand to four inches above the bend of the arm, the subcutaneous cellular tissue was reddened. p v 2