148 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. f Plate hi. fig- 5- was first discharged contained fibrin, it is clear that this constituent was not originally absent, but was doubtless consumed in the formation of pus. Pus formed in this manner from a fluid cytoblastema is of frequent occurrence in the human body. We observe it m the suppuration consequent on wounds, on the external skin after burns or the application of blisters, in fibrinous dropsy into serous cavities, in pleuritis and peritonitis with exuda- tion, and on mucous membranes, as in catarrhs, bronchitis gonorrhoea, and many other analogous cases. This. mode oi formation is frequently combined with that which is now o be described, when the fibrin has in part coagulated previous to suppuration. Pus discharged externally usually exhibits in these cases, perfect corpuscles; there are frequently, however, seen amongst them, imperfect ones of an earlier development, and indeed in some cases, when the pus has been rapi y discharged before its corpuscles can be completely developed,! contains little more than nuclei without any external cap- sulc • The mode in which pus-corpuscles are formed from a solid cytoblastema of coagulated fibrin is somewhat different from the above. In this case, changes take place in the plasma identical with those described in the section on fibrinous dropsy, which accompany the coagulation of the dissolve fibrin. In the coagulated fibrin, and from it alone are the pus-corpuscles formed. The process of development is here much more difficult to observe than in the fluid cytoblastema. We seldom perceive the corpuscles till they are altogether formed; they then appear enclosed in a stroma of amorphous or indefinitely fibrous fibrin.f By acetic acid the stroma becomes transparent and invisible; the capsules of the pus- corpuscles likewise disappear, and their nuclei»»«“^ rent. The mode of formation is very probably the same that already described. At first the pus-corpuscles are scan- * Plate hi. fig. 6, and its explanation. -*■ ■ • • •• -vm VI , .--'op-tr- .tore Urtmftft