331 COLLOID. a tolerably constant, and, therefore probably essential ingre- dient of cancerous tumours. This gelatinous fluid is so increased in certain forms of soft cancer, as to give the tumour a very' peculiar appearance. In some cases this jelly- like matter is enclosed in cellular cavities, varying from the size of a pin’s head, to that of a wall-nut, or even of an egg : the cancerous tumour then presents a very characteristic appearance, and receives the name of gelatinous cancer, or colloid. The stroma of these tumours is invariably fibrous, being sometimes a delicate net-work, and in other cases being very thick, tough and apparently (cartilaginous, such as occurs in fibrous cancer. In the interstices between these fibres, there lies this colourless, transparent jelly, which, when ex- amined under the microscope, is found either to retain its transparent and amorphous appearance, or else to enclose very pale cells,* differing, however, from true cancer-ceUs, being generally speaking, larger and more delicate, and the walls not being so thick. Occasionally, we observe crystals of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate enclosed in the gelatinous matter. No true softening or suppuration occurs in this form of cancer; in the intestinal canal where it is most frequent, the surrounding tissues become gradually infiltrated by the jelly ; strictures are thus formed in the gut, and the contents of the canal being pressed on the soft gelatinous mass, give rise to perforation of the walls. Hence gelatinous cancer is in some degree different in its progress from the other forms of carcinoma. Regarding the causes of this variety of cancer nothing cer- ver, op. cit. p. ‘29 ; Otto’s seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomie, Phy- siologic, und Pathologic, Piute t. fig. 4 ; Cruveilliier’s Anatom, patholog. liv. 10, tab. 4; copied in Hope s Principles and Illustrations of Morbid Anatomy, fig. 180, 181 ; Carswell's Pathological Anatomy, fasc. 3, tub. 1, fig. 8; Broers, Observationes anat. patholog. Lugd. 1839, c. 4, till).; it. Gluge’s Untersuchungen, Part 1, p. 132. * See Plate vin. fig. 11.