241 ENCYSTED TUMOURS. with the false dropsy, which was formerly described (p. 57). It originates in an obstruction of the excretory duct of a secreting part: the retained secretion accumulates and distends a certain portion of the duct or of the secreting organ itseli into a tumour invested with an apparently closed sac, and containing an aqueous fluid, which, at first, chemically resem- bles the normal secretion, but may, subsequently, undergo changes by means of endosmosis and exosmosis. This kind of serous cyst is of less frequent occurrence than the preceding; it occurs in the kidneys, the fallopian tubes, the pancreas, and in the parenchyma of the lungs; it may easily be confounded with the first kind, from which, indeed, it cannot always be distinguished with certainty, especially after the secretion has become changed. Through the kindness of my colleague Prof. Bergmann, I recently observed an undoubted instance of this kind in a kitten, about fourteen days old. The occluded uterus and the fallopian tubes were distended like a bladder, and upon the fimbria which were united by irregular adhesions, there were found several hydatid-like vesicles, the contents of which were clear and contained no albumen. With respect to the hydatid-like vesicles which are not unfre- quently observed upon the surface of the kidneys, it is often impos- sible to determine even by the most careful investigation, whether they belong to the variety under consideration, and are to be regarded as distended uriniferous tubes, or whether they should be comprehended in the first variety. Probably the ovula nabothi should be classed here, and may be viewed as distended uterine glands. 3. A third variety of serous cysts deserves the name of encysted tumours better than the two preceding. It consists of a perfectly closed cyst which externally is firmly connected with the surrounding parts, but internally exhibits a smooth surface resembling that of a serous membrane, and contains a clear serous fluid, devoid of regular corpuscular particles. The cyst itself consists of areolar tissue, and is soft and resembles a serous membrane, or firm, lardaceous or even apparently cartilaginous,according to the degree of development of the aforesaid tissue (see page 169). It varies in thickness in different cases, and its inner surface in general (in perfect VOL. L R