PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 206 malignity depends. In those cases where they become hurt- ful to the organism, and even soften like malignant tumours, that depends not on their own nature, hut on fortuitous external circumstances. They may, for instance, become inju- rious from their size, and from their pressure on surrounding parts; they may rproceed to inflammation and suppuration when they are situated on the outer surface of the body, where from their prominent position they are particularly exposed to mechanical injuries, as blows, the pressure of dress, &c. They may also be combined with malignant growths, especially with tubercles and encephaloid, which may be deposited in them exactly as in normal parts of the body. In scirrhus as we shall presently see, such a union of non- malignant and malignant elements occurs. Pathological anatomy has as yet done but little in eluci- dating the causes of their formation. In their commence- ment they are usually small, and they undoubtedly depend on the formation of a cytoblastema which becomes organized and gradually forms a tumour. Sometimes a mechanical injury, as a thrust or a blow, appears to produce a cytoblastema of this kind, which is then doubtless extravasated blood and coagulated (rarely fluid) fibrin. A cytoblastema of this kind appears, however, usually to be produced by internal causes, such as locally increased secretion with hvpersemia of the capillary vessels, and only seldom to arise from true inflammation. Ihe organization of this blastema usually follows the law of analogous formation ; thus in adipose regions of the body, tumours appear which consist principally of fatty tissue; in parts consisting chiefly of areolar and fibrous tissue, we have fibrous tumours; and in muscular coats, tumours of simple muscular fibre; under the skin we often find encysted tumours whose membranes have a histological composition analogous to that of the cutis, with glands, hair-bulbs, and epithelium. But [ill the relations connected with the formation of non-malignant tumours, do not admit of this mode of explanation. Many