EXPLANATION OK THE PLATES. 568 appeared darker and more compact, and had a sharply defined outline. 4. Some, although proportionately few, of these nuclei were sur- rounded by a pale cell-wall, (Fig. 4. D. a). Different chemical agents had the following effects upon them. Water did not change them in any way. On the addition of ether the fat-globules (A. B.), together with t e granulated corpuscles (C), disappeared. They flowed together an united into large fat-drops; while, by the coagulation of the albumen, the nucleoli and cells (D) were united in an irregular coagula mass, rendering them indistinct. Acetic acid produced a similar amorphous coagulation, resembling coagulated mucus. The nuclei shrivelled, became a little smaller, but were more distinctly marked. The fat-globules and fat-granules were not affected. , The cells and nuclei entirely disappeared in a solution of potash (which had imbibed some carbonic acid from the atmosphere ;) nothing remaining but the granulated corpuscles (C) and the glo- bules of fat, which had not formed a soap with the potash, in conse- quence of there not being a sufficiently elevated temperature. B. The fibrous stroma of the tumour, after the above-named par s had been removed as far as was possible by washing, consisted of distinct, broad, parallel fibres (Fin. 5. A), similar to those of organic muscle, as they appear in the uterus and the intestinal canal. y were firmly united together in membranous masses, m which it was difficult to distinguish the individual fibres (Fig. 5. B) ; indee , a places, the substance appeared, although firm and compact, perfect y amorphous, without any trace of fibres; and the nuclei were so firmly deposited in it, as not to be removable by washing (Fig 5. C.) Here, therefore, the nuclei appear to lie in an amorphous substance. In places, other fibres consisting of caudate cells with distinct nuclei, ranged one close to the other (Fig. 5. D), lay between the above- named band-like fibres (Fig. 5. A.) These caudate fibres formed separate groups, but were of comparatively rare occurrence There wL unfortunately no examination made of the relations of thesedif- ferent fibres to chemical reagents. Thin sections of the unwashed tumour showed that the at-g o u es (Fig 4. A. B), the granulated bodies (Fig. 4. C), and the nuc ei (Fig 4. D), besides small crystals of ammoniaco-magnesnm phos- phate (probably originating subsequent to death) were all deposited