572 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. # similar fibres. The fibres run in a parallel direction and tolerably straight for short distances, but no regular arrangement could be perceived on a large scale. The cells were interspersed, often in large groups, between the fibres; the fibres predominating in some parts, and the cells in others. Occasionally the cancer strikingly resembled in its external appearance normal adipose tissue, but microscopic investigation only exhibited the elements already described—fibres and cells—interspersed with many small globules of fat. The tran- sition of the cancerous into the healthy tissue was very gradual. On examining a portion of the adipose tissue from the vicinity of the can- cer, it appeared at first sight, even under the microscope, to be per- fectly normal; nothing being discernible but the ordinary fat-cells reticulated with vessels ; but when the fat was removed as much as possible from the cells by means of pressure and repeated washings in water, there remained a residuum, which consisted only in a very small degree of the normal constituents of adipose tissue, being principally composed of newly formed cancer-fibres, (Fig. 7). n this, which was certainly the earliest portion of the cancer-matter, it was evident that the fibres were formed from elongated fusiform cells, like the fibres of organic muscle. . Cells of this sort, whose nuclei and nucleoli were rendered very distinct by acetic acid, appeared in large quantities sometimes isolated, sometimes united in groups, in the residuum of the adipose tissue (Fig. 7, C). In other parts there were evident cancer-cells (Fig. 6, A) deposited between the normal fat-cells together wit t e C£l A portion of the degenerated mass from the vicinity of the synovial membrane was submitted to a chemical investigation, which how- re" was unfortunately interrupted. The only results obtained were that 1000 parts of fresh cancer-matter yielded 171 parts of solid constituents, and 829 parts of water and other volatile constitu- ents, at a temperature of 212°, and that the whole mass was rich F.fs. Cancer-cells from a scirrhons breast. Magnified 220 diame- The cancer contained a few of the fibres delineated in Fro. 5 A and Fig. 7, A, between which were interspersed many nuclei (Fig. 8 A), and perfect cells, (Fig. 8, B). The dub-like extremit'es of milk-ducts appeared quite unchanged in the midst of the cancer- “o. Elucidates the origin of scirrhus. Magnified 220 diameters. The man whose scirrhous testicle was described in t ie exp ana