EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 567 A young man. a soldier, had suffered for a long time from a con- stantly increasing swelling of the abdomen. A firm tumour with several hard knotty parts occupied the whole of that region, and could be distinctly felt. Febris hectica: Death. On making a post-mortem examination some purulent fluid was found in the abdominal cavity, while the intestines were mostly covered on their surface with coagulated fibrinous exudation. The liver was so greatly enlarged, that it extended into the pelvis, and occupied nearly the whole abdominal cavity. It weighed when removed upwards of fourteen and a half pounds. About half of this substance consisted of a large number (twenty or thirty) yellowish white nodules, of different sizes. The parenchyma of (the liver, which lay between these nodules, appeared perfectly normal. The enlargement extended tolerably regularly over all the lobes of the liver. The tumours on the liver were all roundish or oval, varying from the size of a walnut to that of a hen’s egg. They were hard and firm to the touch— almost cartilaginous—and exhibited a pale yellowish colour on being cut. A whitish yellow fluid could be expressed from the greater number; in fact, in some the interior was entirely softened and converted into this fluid. Many of them ernunched under the knife, and exliibited a shining fibrous structure, but no concentric layers could be distinguished. The scirrhous nodules had blood-ves- sels, which were visible even to the naked eye. They were inti- mately connected with the normal parenchyma, not being divided from it by any membrane, or peculiar histological stratum. A microscopic examination of these scirrhous tumours gave the following results : A. The pale yellowish fluid expressed from the cut surface of the tumor consisted of: 1. Evident fat-globules of different sizes, partly isolated (Fig. 4. A), and partly collected together in larger masses (B). 2. Larger, dark, granulated, roundish or oval corpuscles, similar to granular cells (Fig. 4. C). They appeared to be cells, containing or covered with small fat-globules. 3. Minute, pale, roundish corpuscles, varying from the 300th to the 400th of a line in diameter, (Fig. 4. D). The greater number had nucleoli, some a single, others a double nucleolus. These cor- puscles (nuclei) appeared isolated at various spots, but the greater number were accumulated in masses. Most were pale, while a few