MALFORMATIONS. 481 difference from ordinary morbid changes, are explained by the following considerations :—immediately after birth almost all the organs exist in a condition which, with slight modifi- cations ol form, they retain throughout life. All organs, indeed, grow until they are perfectly developed; but this growth is, for the most part, merely a simple augmentation of bulk. A few organs only, as the sexual apparatus and the thymus gland, undergo at a later period comparatively important modifications, either developing themselves more highly, or, on the other hand, disappearing. Indeed, in adults the changes of the body are, in the normal state, almost solely confined to renewal of material (metamorphosis of tissues), whilst the form of the organs, with very trivial modifica- tions, remains unaltered. The case is different with the embryo and foetus. Here, as the laws of development teach ns, the various parts and organs of the body are gradually developed from the simple stroma of the ovum. During foetal life we have, therefore, not merely nutrition, as after- wards, but also development; and whilst, after birth, patholo- giad influences only affect existing structures, or, at most, give rise to the introduction of heterogeneous matters, previous to birth morbid influences extend their operation even to the development, so that pathological structures are generated, which differ considerably from those occurring after birth. Tins apjiears to me to be the best mode of expressing the essen- tial nature of malformations, and their distinction from those patho- logical changes, which occur not merely in individuals after birth, but occasionally m the foetus. The relation of malformations to pathological anatomy, spontaneously results from it. If the latter, in the sense in which we here receive it, is allowed to include all cognizable pathological changes occurring in the human subject, then malformations must lie included in it. Whilst, however, the study of ordinary pathological changes prc-supposcs, in addition to an acquaintance with pathology and physiology-, merely a knowledge of normal anatomy, the study of malfor- mations, if it is to lead to the comprehension of their origin, demands a profound knowledge of the history of development; indeed, these two latter subjects are m immediate relation. And hence 1 do not object to