250 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. case the contents of the tumour contained only a trace of fixed salts ; in that of Valentin, on the contrary, more than .3$; finally, Simon found in one of his cases 25.78 of fixed salts, namely 21.7-g- of phosphate of lime and 48 of carbonate of lime, with a trace of iron and chloride of sodium. In Dalrymple’s case the salts probably existed in still greater propor- tions. Similar encysted tumours occur in the inferior animals. I have observed one in the abdomen of a cat, between the skin and abdominal muscles. It contained about half an ounce of a brownish yellow, limpid, inodorous fluid, mixed with white flocculi. Its solid particles were shown by the microscope to be chiefly crystals of cholesterin ; besides these, masses of flattened, irregular, non-nucleated cells, completely analogous to those of the epidermis, and numerous brownish granules were observed. The cyst consisted of a stroma of areolar tissue, from the inner surface of which there sprung, in various spots, soft, cauli- flower excrescences, which resembled granulations or the irregular papillae of the cutis and mucous membrane : glands could not be detected in the cyst, even by the most careful examination. The inner surface was furnished with a fine epithelium consisting of delicate nucleated cells which perfectly corresponded with those of the Rete Malpighii. Although the most simple encysted tumours only enclose the elements which have been specified, others arc occasionally observed, which likewise contain more highly organised tissues, as, for instance, hair, true bony substance, teeth, and horny structures. Of these substances hair appears most frequently in the contents of encysted tumours. It is found partly loose, uncon- nected with the walls of the tumour, agglomerated into irre- gular lumps, or scattered amongst the other elements; and partly implanted and rooted in the cysts. This hair is usually fight coloured, white, blond or reddish, more rarely brown or black ; sometimes it is short, a few fines in length, some- times long, and occasionally it extends to several feet, and is not inferior in length to the longest hair of a woman’s head. In histological structure it perfectly resembles normal hair, exhibiting a medullary and cortical substance, having the usual squamous sheath upon its surface, and running to a point at the peripheral termination. Loose hairs commonly show a stunted bulb, like spontaneously detached normal