94 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. distinct causes: either the coagulum, in consequence of the irritation which it produces, gives rise to inflammation of the surrounding parts, and to the exudation of fibrinous fluid which deposits itself in a coagulated form around the original clot; in which case the outer white layers are new formations, alto- gether independent of the original clot: or the haematin in the outer layers of the coagulum, to which the fluids are readily accessible, may be for the most part absorbed, and the dif- ference in colour between the outer and inner layers thus ac- counted for. In many cases it is probable that both these causes are in operation ; I think, however, that we may con- clude, from numerous observations, that every considerable extravasation of blood causes an effusion of fibrinous fluid around it, and is, therefore, generally combined with fibri- nous dropsy. In its further course of development, the clot appears to be influenced by the general laws, which form the subject of our next chapter. The most distinct products may be evolved from the blood; pathologically, pus, granular cells, melanosis, &c.; normally, cellular and fibrous tissues, vessels, &c.; also concretions. Extravasated blood undergoes a peculiar change in gan- grene. It becomes converted into blackish brown clots with a cadaverous odour, and frequently covered with black gra- nules in which no blood-corpuscles can be recognised. Further information on this subject will be found in our section on gangrene. See also pi. ix. Fig. x. Consequences of extravasated blood, anatomical relations of the surrounding parts, and frequency of its occurrence. The consequences of extravasation of blood are partly gene- ral and partly local. The general are chiefly dependant on the amount of blood which is thus removed from the vascu- lar system, and is consequently prevented from discharging its ordinary functions in the body; when the amount is small, they are very trifling, but if it is large, there may be much debility, or even death induced. The local consequences are