URINARY CALCULI. 351 Calculi of uric acid are very frequent, and often attain a «considerable size. It is very seldom that the uric acid is jx;r- i fectly pure, and that the calculi are white; it is most com- monly associated with the colouring matters of the urine, which communicates to such concretions a yellow, red, or reddish-brown tint. They are sometimes smooth, sometimes (but more rarely) verrucose, and frequently consist of regular laminae. They almost always contain minute quantities of other ingredients. This species of calculus is very easily recognized by the charac- teristic reaction of uric acid ; on dissolving it in nitric acid, with the aid of a gentle heat, evaporating nearly to dryness, and then adding a little ammonia, a very beautiful purple colour is < evolved. Beginners may easily commit the error of exposing the nitric-acid solution to too powerful a heat, in which case the expected reaction does not occur. This is best avoided by adopting Jacobson’s plan of gently warming a minute por- tion of the stone—not larger than a mustard-seed—in a ; watch-glass, with a couple of drops of nitric acid, till by i evaporation the solution forms a thick fluid mass; this must | now be inverted over a second watch-glass containing a few drops of caustic ammonia. The vapour of the ammonia will saturate the nitric acid, and the red colour will appear. I his reaction occurs equally whether the stone consists of pure uric acid or ol urates. We now proceed to explain how the latter may be recognized. Cidculi consisting entirely, or for the most part, of urate, of ammonia, are rare, and usually small. They are seldom white, being more commonly of a clay or yellowish-red colour. T. heir surtitce is smooth, or studded with minute warts; on making a fracture, they appear earthy or laminated. The first step in the recognition of urate of ammonia is afforded by the characteristic reaction of the uric acid, from which, however, it may be, distinguished by the following > means: Uric acid is almost insoluble in water, while urate of am-