EPIGENESIS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. 185 ones have arisen amongst those previously existing. This epigenesis is sometimes the consequence of a morbid process, as in hypertrophy of the heart; sometimes it results from normally increased nutrition, as in the case where a muscle is strengthened by exercise, and consequently increases in the thickness and number of its primitive fasciculi. This is one of those cases where no decided boundary am be established between a normal and morbid process, and where our division becomes arbitrary . Here the epigenesis entirely follows the law of analogous formation; the cytoblastema is, doubtless, the general nutrient fluid which continues to be secreted in increased quantity for a considerable time. The newly formed muscular fasciculi so closely resemble the previously existing normal formation, that they cannot lie distinguished from each other. The morphology of this epigenesis is, there- fore, unknown; even the normal development of this form of muscular tissue is still in several respects unexplained.* The ehemiail relations of this epigenesis are, probably, very simple, for the chemical composition of muscular tissue is very1 similar to that of the protein-compounds. It is an interesting observation that after loss of substance in the muscles, new muscular substance is not formed even in cases where a large quantity of cytoblastema is at once secreted. The cicatrices seen in muscular tissue, are formed from areolar tissue, and the exudation from the surface of muscular tissue (as for instance of the heart), is converted, not into muscular substance, but into areolar tissue. These facts serve to confirm the general law that the cytoblastema more readily follows the law of analogous formation in proportion as it is given out in small quantities, and that very- compli- * The different opinion* respecting the development of this tissue may be seen in Hcnle’s Allgem. Anat. p. (>00 ; llischofTs Entwick- lungsgeschiclite, p. 44 G ; and Valentin in Wagner's Ilandwbrterbuch der Physiologic, vol. i. p. 715.