401 CHANGES OF FORM AND SIZE. volume, and alters their form. In these cases also the action of the cause is compounded of several factors, being influ- enced by direct pressure on the tissues, the blood-vessels, and the nerves. Many changes of organs, especially those affecting their size, and, less frequently, their form, are dependant upon the intensity of their physiological functions, and their greater or less activity. By increased activity, the nutrition and growth, as well as the bulk of most organs are augmented ; while, on the other hand, by decreased activity they remain small, or continue to diminish. Thus, for instance, the muscles in- crease in volume in proportion as they are exercised. But in this case the increased nutrition is not the unconditioned con- sequence of increased activity ; both are only the final points of a series of processes connected together by causes, which are as yet but imperfectly known. By increased activity, a greater flow of blood—a capillary hyperemia, the cause of which has hitherto not been sufficiently explained—is occasioned, attended by an augmented secretion of blastema, which induces the for- mation of new tissue, and causes a local augmentation. Hence we must not necessarily conclude that the increase of size in a part arises of necessity from its increased activity, since every cause which calls fort h hyperemia of the capillaries may also become the cause of an increase in the part effected. According to the different modifications and consequences of hyperaemia, the increase of volume may also vary in its characters. Thus, for instance, venous hyperaemia in the soft parts, mav call forth transient enlargement by the infiltration of serous fluid; indeed, hyperemia may occasion an evanescent increase of volume by an augmentation of the mass of blood contained in the organ; as, for instance, in the erectile organs—the corpora cavernosa of the penis. But capillary' hyperemia can lead in a very different manner to an increase of volume, and it may do this independently of an augmentation of bulk resulting from the increased D D