CHANGES OF FORM AND SIZE. 403 contracted; and in cases in which an artificial anus has existed for some time, the portion of intestine below it be- comes much narrowed. Many hollow organs may entirely or partially disappear, as, for instance, the gall-bladder after biliary fistula, with the simultaneous closing of the cystic duct. As the causes, so also are the results of these changes of form and size very different. They depend upon special relations, upon the situation and importance of the part affected, on the nature of the change, &c.; so that no general laws regarding them can be laid down. Indeed, changes which affect the same organ, and arise from perfectly similar causes, are often very different in their consequences; while, for instance, an enlarge- ment of the muscles of the arm of a blacksmith is a consequence of their increased use, and, so far from being attended with evil consequences, is a sign of power and health, if a corre- sponding augmentation had occurred in the muscular walls of the heart, arising likewise from a continuously heightened activity, very injurious consequences, and even death itself would, as a general rule, occur. We usually designate the diminution and augmentation of the bulk of an organ by the terms atrophy and hypertrophy. These names must, however, be regarded as nothing more than rubrics under which we in- clude a number of changes, which, as we have already remarked, inde- pendently of accidental alterations of form, have often very little in common. It is of esjiecial importance to the consideration of all these changes, accurately to ascertain their causes, to arrange these causes in suitable groups, and to estimate, qualitatively and quantitatively, the action of each. This is at the present time possible only to a very limited degree, and must, for the most part, be left to future investiga- tors. The literature of these changes is, however, tolerably copious. Any one desirous of studying this somewhat unprofitable subject, will find a considerable amount of information on atrophy in Otto’s Patholo- gical Anatomy (p. 23 of South’s Translation), and in J. F. Meckell, 11. 1. p. 314 ; in the Treatises of Andral, Lobstein, and Carswell; and in the article “ Atrophy,” by Cnnstatt, in Wagner’s Physiolog. Worter- buch; Regarding Hypertrophy, the reader may consult Otto (p. 25 of South’s Translation); Meckel, ii. I, p.223; and the Treatises of Andral, Lobstein, and Carswell. D D 2