308 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. being affected by the ichorous discharge; the blood-vessels and lymphatics in the tumour and in its vicinity becoming destroyed ; and the veins, unless they had previously been obliterated, often giving rise to such very serious haemorrhage, as to threaten life itself. The softened cancerous matter may enter the veins and lymphatics, and give rise to inflammation of those vessels, and its consequences. Cancer-cells may, also, as we have already mentioned, enter into the circulation, and becoming deposited in the capillaries, give rise to secon- dary cancerous tumours. But independently of any laceration of the vessels, the fluid portion of the ichorous discharge may enter into the blood by endosmosis, and induce changes in it, in a manner not at present understood. To this pas- sage of the ichorous discharge into the blood, there are usually ascribed a series of general symptoms, which are frequently noticed in the later stages of cancer, and known collectively as cancerous cachexia ; the chief of these are a peculiar, yel- lowish grey colour of the skin, disturbances in the nutritive process, and in the functions of the nervous system. It need scarcely be mentioned that the degree to which these symp- toms are developed is proportional to the amount and the malignancy of the ichorous fluid which enters the blood. Hence it follows that in encephaloid, which softens rapidly, yields a large amount of ichor, and is tolerably vascular, the course of events is much more rapid and severe than in scirrhus. That under these circumstances, the vital powers must become exhausted, and death sooner or later occur, appears to be perfectly self-evident. Such being the course and the consequences of cancer, we can readily understand the advantages to be gained by the surgical removal of the tumour, or its destruction by means of caustics; in fact its pathological anatomy indicates the mode of treatment. Since, as we have seen, every true can- cerous tumour is continuously increasing, and nature has no adopted any means of limiting its growth, as we observe in