160 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. lar cells and elementary granules—are, however, but the final results of a continuous morphological series, between which there exist an infinity of intermediate points. All these formations have a definite mode of development from which they never deviate; they are capable of no higher stage of completion, that is to say, they are not in a mere transition-stage to a more perfect organism. From a pus- corpuscle or a granular cell nothing higher can be produced. Hence the importance of this formation to the organism. It ? is never permanent, but is removed either by internal resorp- tion, or by external rejection. When pus arises from a fluid blastema, then its formation hinders the coagulation of the fluid. But when pus arises from a solid blastema, that blastema itself becomes dissolved and rendered fluid by the formation of the pus, and thus its ex- ternal rejection becomes possible. The uses of the formation of pus to the organism consist in this, that by its means exudations which were originally fluid, and would have become solid, are prevented from coagulating; and those already coagulated again become fluid, and thus the condi- tions requisite for their removal are effected. The distinction between genuine suppuration and the formation of granular cells depends upon the way and manner in which the exuda- ; tion is removed. In genuine suppuration there is an effort to reject the fluid products externally. In pus forming upon : membranes in free connexion with the external surface of the ; body, this discharge is directly effected, as on the mucous ^ membranes and the external skin. When it occurs in en- J closed portions of the body, as in the parenchyma of ■ organs, this tendency to external rejection is not less remark- • able. The pus collects in cavities, forming abscesses, and j escapes either by seeking for itself an external outlet, or its evacuation is assisted by art. . I In the formation of granular cells the exudation is likewise 1 rendered fluid. But the minute granules into vhici t granular cells at last break, arc very much smaller than the