2 INTRODUCTION. the nature of the boundary between these two departments of anatomy, the question often arises—to which of the two cer- tain cases belong. Each draws its materials from the examina- tion of the dead body and its various organs; one investigates healthy, the other diseased conditions. But the ideas of health and disease are very relative, and since no human organ presents the ideal of health in absolute perfection, it frequently be- comes questionable whether certain appearances ought to he regarded as appertaining to pathological or to healthy anatomy. When these dubious changes influence whole organs, or large parts of them, a precise decision is possible, but the farther the investigation is carried out in all minute details, so much the more difficult becomes the decision; and it must be granted that there is a neutral ground, the indisputable property of neither department. The influence of our science on pathology is frequently misunderstood, being sometimes too lowly, sometimes too highly estimated; it consists essentially in the information which it communicates respecting the material changes in the different parts of the body which accompany or produce morbid symptoms. In showing how these morbid products are formed and gradually perfected, it assists pathology; and in elucidating the processes by which the affected part returns to its normal condition, it is subservient to therapeutics. 1o both of these departments of medicine, it yields an important part of the materials absolutely requisite for their firm establishment. They may be incomplete, and consequently susceptible of augmentation; but if based on correct obser- vations, and free from hasty and incorrect conclusions, they will remain permanently valid. They have continued and will always continue the same, independently of the confirmation or subversion of any medical theory. Having thus shown the intimate connexion between pathological anatomy and the medical sciences in general, we will now notice its bearings in relation to the individual branches.