130 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. a proceeding is in most cases a mere sporting with formulae, which in some instances may give probable results, but here, when we are attempting to form general laws, is altogether out of place. I, therefore, reserve the consideration of this subject till the tissues individually are considered. We have already stated sufficient to show the undeniable importance of Schwann’s cellular theory in contributing to our knowledge of the development of morbid epigeneses. This theory gives us the key to the understanding of a large number of processes, by enabling us to take a general view of them. But in its original form it is not sufficient , to explain all the phenomena which occur in the development of morbid products. Since, as has been already shown, it is impossible to include all the phenomena relating to morphological relations m our general laws, it is naturally far more difficult to indicate the general j causes of development, or, in other words, to give a general theory of the development of organized epigeneses. This is the more difficult . since the chemical bearings of the subject, which require as much atten- tion as the morphological, have hitherto been much neglected ; and for that reason I shall not attempt to establish any such theory. SPECIAL RELATIONS OF ORGANIZED PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. The final results of the development of the pathological epigeneses already described are in special cases very different. Some of the products are of a fluid nature—emulsions, which like the blood, contain organized solid parts suspended in a liquid; others are solid. The latter are tissues which are in all respects identical with those of the normal body, as areolar tissue, epithelia, vessels, cartilage, bone, &c.; or on the other hand, they may be of a peculiar nature to which there is nothing analogous in the normal body, as for instance, j tubercle, encephaloid, scirrhus, &c. In many cases the newly formed tissue is homogeneous; in others, on the contrary, it is composed of very different elements. In another point of view, the newly formed tissue is either persistent, or in other words, forms a permanent part of the body, and is there nourished like any other portion of the