80 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. F. The amount of urea may be increased.—In healthy blood it occurs in such minute quantity as scarcely to admit of detection. In cases where its separation by the kidneys is prevented or impeded, as after extirpation of those organs, or in Bright’s disease, it increases to such an extent as to admit of quantitative determination. 2. Substances may occur in the blood which do not exist there in a state of health. a. Free lactic acid.—If the blood has an acid reaction, it reddens litmus paper. The occurrence of free acid in the blood is a sign that the fluid is undergoing decomposition, and occurs in diseased conditions in which a tendency to decomposition in the fluids is suspected—in miliary fever, in acute rheumatism, and in puerperal fever: it is, therefore, of considerable pathological signification, although we are still not in a condition to see how the free acid acts on the blood, and, consequently, on the whole organism. Scherer found that the blood had an acid reaction in the bodies of persons dying from puerperal fever and phlebitis,* and declared that it contained free lactic acid. I have on several occasions noticed this acid reaction in miliary fever and in rheumatism, but only in the dead body; never in blood taken by venesection. If the quantity of the acid is only small, the blood loses its alkaline reaction and becomes neutral; this was observed by Scherer in the blood obtained by venesection, in a case of metritis.f In a practical point of view the acid reaction of the blood is a sufficient indication of the presence of the acid; the separation of the lactic acid requires a difficult and complicated process. b. Carbonate of ammonia.—The occurrence of this sub- stance in the blood is also an indication of decomposition ; it hinders the coagulation of the fibrin, and renders the blood unfit to discharge its ordinary functions. This change is sometimes observed in well-marked cases of typhus. * Untersuch. p. 160, 163, 174, 230. f Op. cit. p. 149.