155 SPURIOUS PUS. and consisted of an aggregation of the same corpuscles, sometimes arranged in a definite manner, sometimes in an amorphous mass. Pure ichor from a vesicle on the gangrenous arm of a typhus-patient, was a perfectly clear fluid of a reddish colour, and to the eye resembled light red wine. It had an alkaline reaction, and under the microscope, no solid bodies—neither blood- nor pus-corpuscles—could be detected in it. It coagulated on the application of heat. In 1000 parts there were obtained by evaporation 60 of solid residue, consisting of albumen with some saline constituents. This fluid was therefore the serum of the blood coloured by dissolved haematiu. A woman with ascites frequently underwent the operation of paracen- tesis ; and finally the canula was allowed to remain, in hopes of exciting adhesive inflammation. The fluid which then escaped was brownish- grey turbid ichor, of a cadaverous odour. Under the microscope, no pus- S corpuscles could be detected, but there was an indefinite granular matter similar to that which is thrown down on the addition of corrosive sub- limate or an acid to a fluid containing albumen in solution. This gra- nular matter was insoluble in acetic acid, ammonia, and potash, and was not even rendered gelatinous by the alkalies. It apj>carcd to be a protein- | compound, since it dissolved in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid, forming a violet coloured liquid. 2. SPURIOUS PUS. The abnormal sorts of pus which we have described form a gradual transition-series to other morbid fluids which have usually been included under the general name of pus, but an* formed in a perfectly different manner, namely by the breaking up and liquefaction of distinct morbid products, such as tubercle, encephaloid, scirrhus, &c. These products will be described in a future page, and their distinctions from pus clearly indicated. In the present section we must describe certain granular forms, which are sometimes found in true pus between the corpuscles, and sometimes occur alone in serum, forming an apparently purulent fluid. In form they present many diffe- rences, and their mode of production, and their signification is by no means invariable. They were first described by Gluge, who termed them compound inflammatory globules ; to me, the term granular cells appears more appropriate, since their