334 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. fluid takes place when the conditions on which its solution depends, are checked. The causes which may hinder it from remaining dissolved are various; they may, however, for con- venience, be arranged in the two following classes: 1. The dissolved substance may undergo a chemical change so as to become altogether, or in a great measure, insoluble in the fluid in which it was previously dissolved. Cases of this nature are remarkably numerous, and occur under a variety of circumstances. Thus, for instance, bicarbonate of lime dis- solves in water, but if it becomes converted into the neutral carbonate it is no longer soluble, and becomes deposited. At the temperature of the human body, urate of ammonia and the other uric-acid salts are soluble to a certain extent in water; if, however, they are decomposed by the addition of an acid, the uric acid becomes liberated, and being much more insoluble than the majority of its salts, forms a deposit in the fluid. If oxalic acid is mixed with an aqueous fluid containing a soluble salt of lime, oxalate of lime is formed, which, being insoluble in water, separates as a deposit. Another cause, closely allied to the preceding, is a change in the solvent fluid. Phosphate of lime, for instance, is soluble in acid, but not in alkaline fluids; hence, if an acid solution of this salt should in any way become alkaline, a precipitation takes place. Another view may, however, be taken of this process; it may be supposed that phosphate of lime in an acid fluid becomes converted into a super- phosphate—the free acid taking up a part of the base fiom the neutral salt of lime—and that the super-salt is soluble in water: and that the alkaline fluid, on the other hand, removes a portion of the acid from the lime and forms a basic salt insoluble in water. Hence, taking this view of the ques- tion, the two causes are in reality identical. 2. All substances soluble in aqueous fluids are merely so to a certain extent, that is to say, a certain amount of water is