CALCULI OF OXALATE OF LIME. 357 rate, very well marked crystals—regular hexagonal tablets— appear; they are, in fact, tabular prisms.* But if the cystin be dissolved in a dilute mineral acid, and the solution suffered to evaporate at a moderate heat, groups of divergent radiating, aeicular crystals appear. Cystin is also characterized by containing a considerable quantity (25.5$) of sulphur. On this circumstance is founded a method, proposed by Liebig, for ascertaining the presence of cy stin. The calculus is dissolved in a strong alkaline solution, to which are added a few’ drops of acetate of lead, but no more than can be retained in solution. When this mixture is boiled, a black deposit of sulphuret of lead is precipitated, which gives it the appearance of ink. Calculi of cystin appear to be most prevalent in children. Scarcely anything is known of their formation, relations, or the causes of their origin, although we may conjecture that the sulphur in the protein-compounds has something to do with the formation of cystin. 4. Cidculi of oxalate of lime arc tolerably frequent, and are either moderately large, with a rough surface, jagged, verru- cose, and of a dark brownish colour—in which case they are named, from their peculiar appearance, mulberry calculi—or they are small, more faintly coloured, and smooth, and are then termed hempseed calculi. They may be best known by the following reactions—they are insoluble in caustic potash, but dissolve without effervescence when boilod in hydrochloric acid. It a portion of the stone is heated before the blow-pipe, and then moistened with a drop of water, it exhibits an alka- line reaction, in consequence of caustic lime having been formed. The solution of the heated mass in water is preci- pitated by oxalic acid. The causes from which these calculi originate are also in a great measure unknown, although in some cases their origin may be explained by the action of oxalic acid which has been introduced into the body by food, &c. Thus, after partaking * Sec Simon, op. cit. Plate m. fig. 33.