482 MALFORMATIONS. the view of those who, like Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire,* desire to form of the doctrine of malformations a special science, under the name of Teratology. Malformations have much less practical interest than other pathological changes, since the greater number of them can neither be prevented, nor, having once arisen, can be removed by remedial mea- sures. For this reason, and because the number of malformations is exceedingly great, I cannot here enter into the details of this subject with the fulness with which it has been treated in various other works on pathological anatomy. I shall content myself with a superficial exhibition of the various malformations ; and, for a complete study of the individual forms, must refer partly to the special depart- ment of this work, and partly to the works and memoirs quoted m the separate cases, and to the special treatises on malformations; of which the following deserve particular recommendation . A. v. Haller, demonstris, in oper. minor, t. hi. Lausanne, 1768, where the best scientific collection of the older literature is to be found; J. F. Meckel Handbuch der pathologischen Anatomie, vol. i. 1812, vol. n. 1816 ; Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Histoire des anomalies de l’orgam- sation, t. i. Paris, 1832, t. n. and in. 1836 ; W. Vrolik, Handboek der zicktekundige Ontleedkunde, vols. i. and n. 1840—1842, also under the title • de menschelijke Vrucht beschouwd in hare regelmatige en onre- gelmatige Ontwikkeling ;+ Otto, Monstrorum sexcentorum desenptio anatomica. Vratislav. 1841, fol.-a splendid work, with thirty plates; F A Ammon, die angebornen chirurgischen Krankheiten des Menschen. Berlin 1840—1841 ; Gurlt, patliologische Anatomie der Haussauge- thiere’ vol n., treating of the malformations occurring in domestic animals—a subject which, in a comprehensive study of this department, must not be disregarded. ... An excellent sketch of the general relations of malformations, with especial regard to the history of development, may be found in the Article “ Entwicklungsgeschichte, mit besonderer Berucksichtigung der Missbildungen,” by Bisclioff, in Wagner’s Handwbrterbuch der Physiol. V°The fabulous malformations of the ancients have been collected by Berger de Xivrey, traditions teratologiques. Pans, 1836. * Histoire des anomalies de l’organisation, vol. in- P- 447, &c. f As, in consequence of the language in w'hicli it is wnt en, . . .... w>n8f>rs. I mav reter T As, m consequents m me , interesting work is accessible to comparatively few reac ers, m‘l5 to a very copious review of it by v. d. Busch in the !“in0'‘ fiir die gesammte Heilk. 1843, No. vi., and 1 > and in.