DROPSIES. 56 The first indication of the developmental process in the coagulated fibrin, is the formation of cells : till then it is amorphous. Sometimes the fibrinous coagula attached to the serous membranes contain cells of an earlier formation ; these, however, are not developed from the fibrin, but appertain to the epithelium of the serous membrane, and having been thrown off during the process of exudation, have thus become en- tangled in the coagulating fibrin. This is especially frequent in recent exudations into the pericardium, and in all probability the case described and illustrated in pi. n. fig. 4, belongs to this class. The fibrin appears to undergo no essential change in its elementary composition by the act of coagulation ; subsequently,* however, certain chemical changes do occur in it. I postpone their consideration to one of the following sections. Diagnosis of fibrinous dropsy, and anatomical relations of the surrounding parts.—The fluid is sufficiently charac- terised by its containing dissolved fibrin, and by its sponta- neous coagulation after removal from the body. The diag- nosis can only be doubtful when a serous fluid contains a considerable quantity of blood, as sometimes happens from the operation of paracentesis; for a serous fluid, mixed with one third or one fourth its quantity of blood, after a time likewise gelatinizes. If, however, the amount of blood is not so considerable (and this may be decided by the colour and the quantity of the blood-corpuscles), then the coagula- tion of the fluid is a certain sign that the dropsical effusion contained dissolved fibrin. It the fibrin has coagulated within the body, the diagnosis is rendered certain by the following tests: by the appearance of the coagulum under the microscope; by its becoming transparent on the addition of acetic acid or ammonia; by its dissolving in caustic potash, and by the liquid in which it floats resembling that of serous dropsy. The surrounding parts arc usually reddened, and when * Von Fellenberg, (Fragments de recherches comparees sur la nature constit. de differ, sortes de fibrine du cheval. Berne, 1841), believes, however, that he has proved by his ultimate analyses, that it loses the elements of hydrogen, or of oxygen and hydrogen m the proportion to form water; a view which being opposed to the experiments of Scherer and others, at all events requires further confirmation.