PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 104 The production of the above morbid products is not always accomplished by means of a finely granular or crystalline precipitate: as a general rule, each simple primary form yields compound secondary forms : the particles of the deposit adhere together by new depositions—by mucus or some other means of connexion—and form larger masses visible to the naked eye, and either soft or firm, according to the nature of their consti- tuents. These arc named concretions, concrements, or calculi; they occur for the most part in the fluid secretions, in cavi- ties or canals, and may be either free or connected with the adjacent walls. Their form is usually irregular, being some- times dependant on that of the cavity in which the concretion was produced, and sometimes on the simultaneous presence of several concretions rubbing against and so flattening each other, and thus often producing a shape almost as regular as that of a perfect crystal. They are frequently composed of con- centric layers deposited round a nucleus. 1 heir fracture is occasionally crystalline, as in many urinary calculi, and in gall- stones consisting of cholesterin, and it is but rarely that a definite external form determines the corresponding internal appear- ance, which, however, appears to be the case in prostatic con- cretions. In other cases these concretions instead of being free are connected with the surrounding tissues, often so intimately as not to admit of separation by mechanical means: this is especially the case with concretions in the cellular tissue, and in the parenchyma of organs. Inserting themselves between organized parts, the histological elements are compressed to the utmost, and their physical properties as well as those of the whole organ are changed. Such depositions are termed ossifications, although hardness is the only character they have in common with bone, and, histologically, they differ most obviously from recently formed osseous tissue. Occasionally such depositions surround organized parts, forming incrustations and filling up their cavities, so as to exhibit a very regular and, at first sight, extremely surprising form. Thus the epithelium cells occasionally present in the urine become