DROPSIES. proceeds with a greater facility than in the former case, there being commonly no hindrance to the activity ol the venous system. But if the fibrin has once coagulated, then the resorption can only extend to the serum; hence, in consequence ot their loosing a portion of the fluid enclosed in them, the fibrinous coagula become tougher and firmer. 1 he coagu- lated fibrin can only disappear by undergoing an organic change, as will be shown in the following section. \\ hether it cannot be rendered fluid, and then gradually resorbed by chemical means, as, for instance, by the use of iodine, and other similar remedies, must, for the present, remain unanswered questions. The dropsical fluid, enclosed in a sac of coagulated fibrin, is in a manner cut off from the resorbent vessels—the veins and lymphatics; and its resorption is a more difficult and tedious process than if it were not thus enclosed. 1 his explains the unyielding character of encysted dropsy. The fibrinous fluid is capable of organization, which is always effected at the expence of the fibrin contained in it. It constitutes the peculiar eytoblastema ; hence there is no developmental capacity in the fluid of serous dropsy in consequence of the absence of fibrin. As far as development is concerned, it is indifferent whether the fibrin is in a fluid or coagulated state, as in either case it acts equally well as a eytoblastema, and its capacity is unlimited, that is to say, there may be evolved from the fibrin the most different forms of tissue, either normal, as cellular tissue, simple muscular fibre, cartilage, bone, vessel, nervous fibre; or pathological, as, pus, granular cells, cancer, tubercle, concretions, &c. The process of development invariably follows general laws, whose bearings 1 have attempted to investigate in the following section on pathological epigeneses. Through this capacity for organi- sation, fibrinous dropsy becomes the common source: of a great variety of morbid growths, as will be shown in the sub- sequent chapters.