452 PARASITES. Acarus in Ersch and Gruber’s Encyclopiidie. Also the following disser- tations : E. M. Hey land, de acaro scabiei liumano. Berol. 1836. J. A. F. Rohde, de scabie et acaro humano. Berol. 1836. C. G. Schwartz, de sarcopte humano. Lipsiae, 1837. H. Sonnenkalb, de scabei humana. Lips. 1841. G. A. Deutschbein, de acaro scabiei humana. Halis, 1S4_. Upon the acari of animals, see E. Hering, die Knitzmilben die '1 lucre, in Nova acta natur. curios. Vol. xvm. Part n. Hertwig m Gurlt and Hertwig’s Magazin, f. d. ges. Thierheilkunde, 1835, No. 2; an Gurlt, in the same periodical, 1843, No. 1, p. 18, &c. Besides the true human itch-acarus, those peculiar to animals are sometimes communicated to man, and may even occasion a scabious disease of the skin, as the acarus infesting the horse (samples tqui), of which Hering (op. cit. p. 591) lias collected several instances, also those of the dog, of the wombat (phascolomys ursinus), of the cat, rabbit, and camel; these are, however, exceptions, and the few recorded cases o this kind still require confirmation. An acarus, which originally lives upon birds, has been repeatedly observed upon the human subject (dermanyssus avium. Duges; acarus qallinee, Degeer; a. hirudinis, Hermann; yamasus maculatus). ihis animal appears to be always a transitory inhabitant of the human subject and only very rarely to induce pathological conditions (erythema and vesicles). Raspail has described, in detail, an interesting case of tie kind (Histoire naturelle de la sante, &c., t. i. PP- 376 and 379) ; although he has correctly depicted the acarus in Plate in. fig- 1-3. he mistakes it for rhyncoprion columba, Hermann ; whereas it is the acarus hirudinis of the same author. . Amongst the acari, we must doubtless include the animalcules men- tioned in our remarks on lice, which have been discovered by some observers! beneath the skin, in the interior of the body, in abscesses &c. Although at present they have not been minutely examined, and we are, therefore, unable even to fix their species, yet the relations under which they have been observed are perfectly analogous to those under which Nitzsch (in Ersch and Gruber, Part 1, p. 250), has observed the sarcoptes nidulans in birds. This careful observer found in the greenfinch (fring ilia chloris, Temminck), upon the wing and under the s in o the breast several yellow tubercles, varying in diameter from three to eight lines, which formed open abscesses, and upon closer examina ion proved to be enormous nests of a species of acarus, and were lined with a peculiar yellow membranous crust. They were quite full of or eggs, * See Alt, de plithirias. dissert, fig. 1 ; Gurlt in Gurlt and Hertwig’s Magaz. fur ges. Tliierh. 1843, No. 1, PI. 1> fig* „ f Rust in Bremser, Lebende Warmer im lebenden Korper, p. do, «c.