PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 376 characters, their chemical composition, and in their mode of formation. They arrange themselves in certain groups between which there is no very distinct line of demarcation. 1. Many intestinal calculi are formed in precisely the same manner as concretions in the parenchyma of organs, of which we shall speak presently. Their formation is due to an exu- dation of fibrin, or a coagulum of blood retained in the intes- tinal canal, and undergoing further changes, the constituents soluble in the intestinal fluid being gradually removed and merely the insoluble portion—the calcareous salts—remaining. Such calculi consist for the most part of protein-compounds— coagulated fibrin—mixed with salts of lime and fragments of food; they are formed after inflammatory exudation of the intestinal mucous membrane, and after haemorrhage into the canal. To this class belong the concretions which wrere analysed by Dublanc. They were discharged by a child after inflammation of the bowels, and formed irregularly shaped, smooth, yellow, hard, transparent pieces devoid of taste or smell. They consisted of fibrin with a trace of fat and phosphate of lime. Two concretions of a similar nature analysed by Davy, yielded in 100 parts : 1 2 Fibrin. . . . 78 74 Salts. . . . 21 7 Other constituents (pigment, resin, faecal matter, &c.) . 5 19 104 100 Sometimes these calculi contain a foreign body as a nucleus, as for instance, a plum or cherry stone, which in consequence of the inflam- matory irritation it excites in the intestinal canal, becomes surrounded with fibrinous deposits. These intestinal concretions may be known by their insolubility in water, spirit, and dilute acids, which last only dissolve the salts of lime ; they are partially soluble in a solution of potash. When boiled in concentrated hydrochloric acid, they for the most part or entirely dissolve, forming a lilac-coloured solution. 2. A second kind of intestinal concretion consists princi- pally of earthy salts (phosphate and carbonate of lime, ammo-