PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 234 nally it is composed of granules of sulphuret of iron. The pigments of melanotic tumours admit, therefore, of distinction into the same varieties as were formerly pointed out in the pathological epigenesis of granular pigments generally, (see p. 196) namely into true and false melanosis, the latter further resolving itself into that produced by altered blood-pigment, and that consisting of deposited sulphuret of iron. The pigment is never the sole constituent of melanotic tumours; it forms only a portion of the whole, and is scat- tered amongst other histological elements, such as perfectly developed or comparatively amorphous fibrous tissue, vessels (which, however, are never abundant), and malignant forma- tions, as tubercle, encephaloid, and scirrhus. Melanotic tumours are, therefore, always compound. The pigment- molecules are sometimes equably distributed amongst the other elements, at other times accumulated at particular points: the tumour, therefore, appears sometimes equally dark throughout, sometimes spotted, and sometimes presents alternating light and dark strata. In true melanosis the colour is brown, of a bistre tint, blackish, or, if only a little pigment is present, gray; in the false variety depending upon sulphuret of iron, it is slate-gray, or greenish black: in that resulting from altered blood-pigment it is blue, violet, or brownish black. The discrimination of these three varieties is easily accomplished by means of the microscope with the aid of chemical reagents, according to the rules given in pp. 192—5. Occasionally the melanotic colour which appears in tumours in the form of spots, depends upon decomposed blood in the interior of vessels (veins). Melanotic tumours have been observed upon almost every part of the body, in the eye, the female genital organs, the lungs, liver, &c., also upon the external surface, the skin, subcutaneous cellular tissue, &c. Sometimes they appear solitary, sometimes in great numbers; and gradually extend- ing over the whole body, form a general disease terminating