FIBROUS TUMOURS. 223 tissue, to normal fibrous tissue, or to simple muscular tissue. They exhibit transitions : 1. Into the amorphous forms of fibrous tumours. 2. Into vascular tumours (rarely). 3. Into fatty tumours. All these transitions arise spon- taneously from the above form. 4. Into cartilaginous and osseous tumours. 5. Into encysted tumours, through the compound Cystoid —in a manner to be described, when we come to encysted tumours. 6. Into malignant tumours, of which hereafter. This transition is of especial importance, but often very difficult to diagnose. 7. Of other transition-forms we shall speak in the appendix to the tumours. In these as in fatty tumours, it is very difficult to understand the earlier classifications founded on external signs.* To this class belong, as has been already mentioned, some forms of hypertrophy of the exter- nal skin and mucous membrane—condylomata and polypi, desmoid, some cases of steatoma and of sarcoma, the greater number of cartilaginous tumours, (Chondroid), many cases of osteo-sarcoma, and fibrous tumours. Miillert distinguishes tendinous and albuminoid fibrous tumours ; the former are fully formed, and on boiling yield gelatin ; the latter are either not fully developed or consist of simple muscular fibre, and on boiling yield no gelatin. For information with regard to the chemical properties of these tumours, we luive to thank J. MG Her and Valentin for their extensive investigations. Muller has shown that we may distinguish * Some of the literature of the subject, (that namely referring to steatoma) has been already given in p. 213. To the works there named! we may add: J. Muller in his Archiv. for 1836, Jahresber.; J. F. Meckel’s Patholog. Anatomie, vol. n. Part ii. p. 165, 242; Gluge’s Atlas d. pathol. Anatomic, Part iv. Fasergeschwulste; G. Valentin in his Repertorium, 1837, p. 270. Several histological delineations are given by M tiller; see Plates a. and ai. of Dr. West’s translation. The above literature has relation chiefly to the peculiar form of fibrous tumour occurring in the uterus and we shall return to this subject in the special department, when speaking of that organ. 1 Archiv. 1836, Jahresbericht.