309 CANCER. tubercular and some other tumours, we see a theoretical in- dication of the necessity of an operation—a view confirmed by practical experience. It likewise follows that every extir- pation or destruction by caustic must be radical, for other- wise the remaining cancerous matter enlarges after the opera- tion, and, in consequence of the more abundant secretion ot cytoblastcma, grows more rapidly than Indore. It is only after the entire removal of the cancerous matter, that the influence of the surrounding healthy parts can induce normal granulations, and lead to cicatrization. It the surrounding parts are not in a healthy condition, or the original cancerous diathesis not eradicated, then even after a perfect operation, a cure will not result. The accurate determination of these cases must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. Since the most injurious consequences are dependant on the occur- rence of softening and unhealthy suppuration, it is expedient that the operation should be performed, if possible, before these changes ensue. It is very true that previously to these changes taking place, the diagnosis of a cancerous tumour in the living body is very uncertain; but still it is tar better that we should run the risk of occasionally extirpating a harmless tumour, than that, by delaying the operation, the patient be subjected to the risk of certain destruction. Cancerous matter appears to be sometimes deposited in other tumours originally of a non-malignant character; these subsequently become converted into cancerous tumours, or form combinations of ameer with the preceding groups. I have hitherto avoided entering minutely into the question regarding the causes of cancer, in order that I might not interfere with the conti- nuity of the subjects discussed in the preceding pages. The parasite- theory appears to afford an obvious and intelligible mode of accounting for the formation of this adventitious product. According to this view, the cancer-cells are independent organisms, (or according to Klenckc’s nomenclature semi-individual cells,) in all cases possessing the property, when conveyed into the interior of the living body, of there further deve- loping themselves, and forming cancerous tumours. We may, there- fore, explain the primary formation of cancer by assuming that ,1