316 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. fibres or other structures. In this case, however, the- uncertainty of a true diagnosis is only apparent ; for such tumours lie in reality between cancer and non-malignant fibrous tumour; they are a combination of the two forms, and become innocuous as the latter predominates. The relations are very similar with the combinations of cancer with melanosis and vascular tumour. Several cases illustrative of the diagnostic value of the microscope in relation to cancer in its various stages, are given in the description of the plates to the second volume. Further observations on the diagnosis of cancer will be found in our remarks on the individual varieties. With respect to its surgical diagnosis, and the detection of cancer of the internal organs during life, we shall add nothing further in the present place, since they are based on many phenomena which are not included in the domain of pathological anatomy. FORMS AND VARIETIES OF CANCER. Cancerous tumours, although they all exhibit the essential characters of carcinoma, yet in their physical properties and in the arrangement of their histological elements, present tin. greatest varieties, which are, however, dependant on two causes : 1, on the organ in which the tumour is developed a point to which we shall return in the second volume; and, 2, on a difference in the arrangement of the histological elements entering into the formation of the tumour. These differences we shall consider at some length. In the exami- nation of a cancerous tumour we sometimes find cancer-cells, and sometimes fibrous tissue predominating, and the degree of development of these tissues also varies in different cases; some- times the principal constituent is a firm, amorphous cytoblaste- ma, and occasionally the most abundant ingredient is a viscid tenacious fluid. This is the case not merely with different cancerous tumours, but it is even observed in different parts of one and the same tumour; so that frequently, indeed most commonly, on taking two neighbouring sections, we find that they present very different physical properties, and a per t ct y distinct histological arrangement. Attempts have been made to regard these differences as different species of cancer , u