235 MELANOTIC TUMOURS. in the death of the patient. They occur more frequently in the female than in the male sex. The progress of melanotic tumours depends upon their com- binations. True melanosis is of itself non-malignant, and so is its combination with fibrous tumour; on the other hand its combination with malignant elements is naturally malignant. False melanosis is generally injurious from its very nature, since its occurrence presupposes an important decomposi- tion of the fluids; when, however, it remains localised it is of less importance. The causes producing them vary with the nature of the tumour: in false melanosis they are usually of a chemical nature, and can frequently be recognized, as has been already shown. The causes of true melanosis arc obscure, although the law of analogous formation appears, at least occasionally, to perform a conspicuous part; thus melanotic tumours in the eye usually arise from the choroid, and melanotic tumours of the skin in the Rete Malpighi, in which the formation of pig- ment is a very frequent phenomenon. Our knowledge of melanotic tumours is still very deficient: every tumour which was entirely or in part of a dark colour, has been arranged under this division, and thus the most different structures have been promiscuously thrown together. A clear insight into the nature of these tumours can be expected only from more extended histological investi- gations : this is especially the case with those forms which, having spread over the entire body, have become constitutional, and which, hitherto have not been examined in a sufficiently accurate manner: and hence a more minute description of the individual forms, and a discus- sion on the question of their malignity or non-malignity, with a critique of the views hitherto adopted of their mode of origin, are quite unneces- sary.* The chemical relations of melanotic tumours may be regarded * The most important literature is comprised in : Carswell’s Patholo- gical anatomy. Melanoma; Schilling de Melanosi, 1831 ; Gluge, Atlas der patliol. Anatomie, Part in. ; Cruvcilhier, Anatomic pathologiquc, liv. xix. and xxxii. fol. plates, Paris, 1830—42.