CANCER. 315 their form and size, and by the number of cytoblasts and young cells, and may be readily distinguished from pus-corpus- cles, as well as from the indefinite cellular structure of tubercular swellings. In most cases the softened cancerous matter exhibits these cells, or fragments of them ; but when these are absent, and when the cancer-cells generally are not perfectly formed, then a certain diagnosis is impossible; and the difficulty is, if possible, increased in those cases where a tumour approximates equally to cancer, tubercle, and unhealthy suppuration. Ilcnce it is sometimes impossible to distinguish whether we arc examining an open cancer, or some other foul ulcer. It is not in accordance with the principles of human reason to erect an arbitrary and constrained distinction, where nature herself hies fixed no definite limit. 2. Before the commencement of softening, the diagnosis is exclusively founded on the presence of cancer-cells; and it is certain, in proportion to their abundance, prcjxmderance, and perfect condition, and to the facility with which they admit of being distinguished from other primary or develop- mental cells. The irregular caudate cells* are especially characteristic, as also are the large cells with many cytoblasts and young cells,f the cells with a thick wall,} and the accu- mulations of cells in fibrous capsules.$ The other forms of cells are very slightly or not at ;dl characteristic, since they occur in the development of other tumours; thus, for instance, the elongated fusiform cells|| occur also in the strictly fibrous tumours. Hence, when a cancerous tumour is met with at a very early stage, and the amorphous cytoblastema predomi- nates, or the cells assume a primary form, and present no marked characteristics, the diagnosis is very problematical. Another circumstance, rendering the diagnosis uncertain, presents itself when the cells are secondary in quantity to * See Piute i. fig. 11. f See Plate vi. fig. 7, s. I See Plate vm. fig. 6. ». $ Sec Plate via. fig. 3. u !■ See Plate vm. fig. 9. <