PUS. 147 what are the causes leading to these differences in the forma- tion of the pus-corpuscle. Let us now throw a glance on the chemical process occur- ring in suppuration. Lehmann and Messerschmidt* have made an attempt to explain it. In the first place molecular gra- nules become separated from the fiuid plasma. These may consist of a peculiar protein-compound, or of fat, are of no very great importance in the normal formation of pus (since in healthy pus they frequently do not amount to one hun- dredth of the mass of the corpuscles) and very often are not converted into true pus-corpuscles. The nuclei are then formed, which doubtless consist of coagulated fibrin. Whether the capsules of the pus-corpuscles are likewise composed of * coagulated fibrin, or whether as Lehmann and Messerschmidt assume, they are formed from the albumen of the plasma, is a point which I shall leave undecided. With our present defi- cient knowledge of the protein-compounds we can merely offer conjectures. At all events the two following points may be regarded as established. Firstly, pus-corpuscles can- not be formed from albumen alone. Secondly, after the full development of the pus-corpuscles, the amount of fibrin in the plasma is exhausted, and the remaining serum of the pus resembles the serum of the blood, or the fluid of serous • dropsy. I he latter point was placed beyond all doubt by a case of empyema, which I observed three years ago at Munich. It is the case referred to iii p. 47, and the composition of the fluid is given in analysis 3. Hie fluid discharged by the two first operations of paracentesis contained fibrin in solution, and in a short time coagulated. On the third occasion it no longer contained fibrin, but, on the other hand, pus-corpuscles. A few days after the hist operation the patient died. On dissection it was found that the pleural cavity was completely invested with a thick pseudo-membrane, which was already half-organized, and must there- fore at all events have existed several days previous to death. The pus could therefore only be formed in the fluid ; but since the fluid which * Op. cit. p. 247. L 2