PUS. 151 if pus, and wa9 mistaken for that fluid by the physicians who were present. As during life there were no symptoms of disease of the kid- leys, and as dissection did not reveal any morbid change in these urgans, the case was regarded as a demonstration of the resorption of .ms, and of its subsequent removal by the kidneys. I examined this assumed pus microscopically, and found in it no trace of pus-corpuscles, mt merely broken cylindrical and pavement epithelium* from the velvis of the kidney and the ureter. In another case in which lie patient died from peritonitis with exudation, the stomach and ipper part of the intestinal canal were perfectly free from remnants •if food and chyle, but contained a large quantity of a thick yellow luid, which was mistaken for pus. In this case also the microscojie showed that the fluid contained no pus-corpuscles, but merely the ■ •ylindrical epithelium of the intestinal canal. Formerly great importance wa3 attached to the distinctions between jus and mucus, and numerous pus-tests were published, which at )resent possess merely an historical value. They were based for the most lart on the chemical relations of the pus-corpuscles towards various reagents. In addition to many which were founded on no sure princi- ple,f we may mention the following. GrasmeyerJ treated diluted pus ►with carbonate of potash. The mixture became converted by prolonged stirring into a thick viscid gelatinous mass, capable of being drawn out n threads. Caustic ammonia acts in a similar manner (Donna’s test). Cloth alkalies cause the pus-corpuscles to swell and gradually to dis- • solve into a viscid mass. These pus-tests explain a peculiar change V vhich pus sometimes undergoes in the body, especially when mixed .vith urine. When, in disease of the bladder, alkaline urine containing a i arge quantity of carbonate of ammonia is mixed with pus, the pus- . corpuscles undergo the same change in the bladder from the alkaline f Taction of the fluid contained in it as they do in the preceding pus- ! ;ests; they become converted into a viscid mass which physicians often nistake for mucus, thus altogether losing sight of its true signification. 3ruithuisen's§ pus-test was founded on false premises; he supposed dmt pus and mucus during decomposition contained different forms of infusoria. Moreover, Guterbock’s|| test, based on the circumstance that pus being fatty burned with a clearer flame than mucus, is of no practical * Plate hi. fig. 4. t Compare J. Vogel, Untersuch. fiber Eiter, &c. p. 96, &c. 1 Abhdlg. v. Eiter u. d. Mitteln ihn von ahnlichen Fcuchtigkeiten zu unterscheiden, 1790. $ Naturhist. Unters. fiber den Untersch. zw. Eiter und Schleim. | 1809. !! Op. cit.