SCIRRHUS. 329 from the solid cytoblastema of a non-malignant tumour, and a certain diagnosis can only be established when a portion of the tumour becomes characterized as more perfectly developed scirrhus. Hence it follows that the determination, whether a tumour is, or is not of a scirrhous nature, is sometimes, even with the best aids to diagnosis, merely presumptive, and occasion- ally the opposing characters are so equally balanced, that not even a conjectural opinion can be hazarded. A very characteristic form of scirrhus is exhibited in Plate vm. fig. 1, 2 and 3; fig. 4 and 5 illustrate a case of cancer of the liver, which may be regarded as pertaining either to scirrhus or eucephaloid ; fig. C and 7, exhibit soft cancer of the knee-joint, belonging more correctly to cnce- phaloid than to scirrhus. Fig. 9, illustrates the formation of scirrhus from an amorphous cytoblastemu. Other cases of scirrhus are illustrated in the second volume. Under the term carcinoma rcticvlare, J. Muller* describes a peculiar variety of cancer which must be here noticed. It embraces those forms in which accumulations of cancer-cells are dej>osited on the meshes of a fibrous stroma, so that a section of the tumour exhibits a more or less regular appearance of net-work.f The fibrous masses oc- cur in the form of thin transparent bands ; the accumulated cells are whitish ; but present a dark appearance when examined under the rnicros- i co{>e by refracted light. The individual cells sometimes resemble the | ordinary granular cells. Like the preceding forms of cancer ; it is not strictly defined, and hence it is not to be regarded as a peculiar spe- ' cies. Another form of cancer described by J. Muller,J under the term carcinoma fascicule turn seu hyalinum, appears histologically to be referable to this class, since it consists of very delicate fibres. It is, however, not firm like true fibrous cancer, but as soft as encephaloid, and highly vascular ; according to Muller, it contains no cancer-cells. Notwith- standing the great number of cancerous tumours which I have examined, I have never yet met with tliis variety ; hence my opinion with regard to the correctness of placing it in the above category must be considered only provisional. All that is known in relation to the chemistry and causes of scirrhus has been already given in our remarks on cancer generally. * Op. cit. p. 15, or West’s translation, p. 44. t Sec Plate vm. fig. 10; also Muller, op. cit. Plate i. fig. 1—9. t Op. cit. p. 23, or West’s translation, p. 66.