226 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 5, 6 ; Gluge, op. cit. tab. ii. fig. 2. in which the cartilage-corpuscles are more isolated, and have a fibrous tissue between them, it presents a greater resemblance to fibro-cartilage, with this difference, however, that in nor- mal fibro-cartilage the cartilage-corpuscles are more isolated and scattered in a thick net of fibrous tissue, whilst in fibrous enchondroma masses of cartilage-cells lie between bundles of fibrous tissue, just as in steatoma accumulations of fat-cells are lodged between masses of fibre. W e may, therefore, regard fibrous enchondroma as a combination of the cartilaginous with the fibrous tumour. In its chemical relations enchondroma resembles ordinary cartilage before ossification, i. e. upon boiling, it generally yields chondrin. This was obtained by J. Muller from en- chondroma of the bones and of the testicle ; on the other hand a much softer enchondroma of the parotid gland yielded, upon boiling, not chondrin, but ordinary gelatin (colla). Fiom this it would appear that chemical differences exist, upon which we require to be further enlightened. The three above mentioned forms of enchondroma depend- ing upon locality present, also, in their structure certain differences which deserve an especial consideration. a. Central enchondroma in the interior of the bones. This form, the most frequent of all, usually appeals in the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and in the phalanges of the hand and foot, as rounded, smooth tumours of variable size, encased in a vesicular, expanded, osseous cortex. The very characteristic external form of these tumours will be best understood from illustrations* The tumour is found, upon closer investigation, to be enclosed in a bony case, which varies in thickness in different spots, but is not unfrequently absent at some points, as if the tumour had burst through its wall. This bony covering arises less from the mechanical distension and expansion of the tumour than, doubtless, * J. Muller, op. cit. tab. iv. fig. 1. 2, 3 ; Herz, op. cit. fig. 1, 3,