540 EXPLANATION OF T1IE PLATES, In the pus discharged from the pleural sac, there were several concretions varying from the size of a pea to that of a nut, of a whitish colour and admitting of being easily torn. When examined under the microscope, they were found to consist of an indefinite fibrous mass, enclosing numerous pus-corpuscles. These fibres were observed crossing each other in every possible direction. On the addition of acetic acid the fibrous mass entirely disappeared, leaving nothing but the nuclei of the pus-corpuscles. The whole substance, including the corpuscles, was entirely soluble in caustic potash. Mag- nified 220 diameters. Fig. 6. Exhibits the formation of pus in mucous membranes. In the fluid cytoblastema which is secreted, we observe the nuclei first produced, and around them the capsules gradually forming. Magnified 220 diameters. A girl suffering from empyema, suddenly commenced to expecto- rate very abundantly—in fact, to the amount of several pounds daily. It was perfectly fluid, creamy in appearance, and of a whitish yellow colour. Under the microscope there were seen (A) a very few perfect pus-corpuscles (a. a), which were very delicate and pale, while there was an increased quantity of nuclei of pus-corpuscles— single, double, and triple (b. b. b). On the addition of acetic acid there was a slight coagulation of mucus (see the lower portion of fig 6); the nuclei of the pus-corpuscles underwent no change, but in those corpuscles which were perfectly formed, the capsules became, as usual, transparent, and the nuclei became visible(**). They had not the ordinary cup-formed shape, but had an indefinite roundish appearance. Similar appearances present themselves in all mucous membranes, in which there is a copious secretion of pus. Fig. 7—11. Various forms of abnormal‘pus. Fig. 7. Scrofulous pus, magnified 410 diameters. The pus was obtained from a swollen cervical gland of a young man, with a well-marked scrofulous diathesis. It had a viscid appearance, was white, and, as is generally the case with scrofulous pus, contained numerous whitish clots. The corpuscles of this pus (A) deviated from the normal form ; they were smaller than usual, (averaging from the 400th to the 300th of a line,) irregularly roundish, rough, pointed, and almost angular. They disappeared on the addi- tion of acetic acid, but the characteristic nuclei (B) did" not make their appearance. The acetic acid coagulated a considerable amount of a viscid matter (pyin ?) which enclosed the corpuscles, and formed