POST MORTEM CHANGES. 528 the following as amongst the most important agencies which exercise an influence upon cadaveric changes. 1. The state of the constituents of the body at the moment of death. The condition of the blood is here of great impor- tance, since this fluid is not only generally the first of all parts of the corpse to suffer further changes and decomposition, but also, by means of these, gives rise to metamorphoses in many other elements of the body. We must here take into consi- deration the quantity and quality of this fluid, and its distri- bution, also the condition of the other parts of the body, the amount of fat they contain, and other characters, as, for in- stance, their vascularity. 2. The state of the temperature, the degree of warmth of the body at the moment of death, the rapidity or slowness with which this warmth escapes, the humidity of the atmos- phere, and the other ordinary relations which either retard or accelerate the course of the chemical changes previously going on in the body. To these may be added, as important in many respects, the situation of the body after death; including the circumstances whether the body lay exposed to the atmos- phere, whether it had been buried, or had been lying in water. 3. In the critical examination of the cadaveric changes, the time which has elapsed since death, is a point of very great importance. Upon these influences depend partly the quality of the changes, and partly their quicker or slower occurrence, and their greater or less intensity. At present, unfortunately, we are unable accurately to establish the influence of the indivi- dual agents, and thus, conversely, from a change in a corpse, to conclude with certainty upon its cause. Since, with a view to pathological anatomy, it is our espe- cial object to draw a conclusion regarding the state of the body at the moment of death, from the changes presented by the corpse, it is advisable always to make the exami- nation with as little delay as possible; examinations after the lapse of a considerable period have little or no value for pa- thological anatomy. It often happens, however, that the