FIBROUS TUMOURS. 221 loped fibres of areolar tissue, whilst tumours consisting of simple muscular fibre, are only found in those parts which consist in the normal condition of simple muscular fibre. Of the causes leading to the origin of these tumours, the same may be repeated as was formerly said with regard to fatty tumours. They are sometimes congenital, but more frequently appear after birth, and often, indeed, not until an advanced period of life: this is especially the case with fibrous tumours ot the uterus. Their first germ is probably always dependant on the deposition of an amorphous blastema (ex- travasated blood and coagulated fibrin) which, in accordance with the law of analogous formation, they convert into fibrous tissue, and the occasion of this deposition is very usually a mechanical injury, as a blow, a thrust, or fall. But the cause when the mischief occurs in deep-seated parts is often beyond the power of art to trace. Experiments on animals are very well calculated to throw light on the origin of these tumours. I will here quote one case which appears to me very instructive in this point of view. 1 injected several ounces of an aqueous solution of hydrosulphate of ammonia into the abdominal cavity of a large dog, through a small wouud in the linea alba, and then immediately closed the orifice by a suture. For the first quarter of an hour after the operation, the animal appeared to suffer violent pain ; within an hour, however, he recovered and remained afterwards as well as it nothing had happened. At the expiration of twenty-four hours he was killed. There was an amorphous (xudation of coagulated fibrin on several convolutions of the intestinal canal under the peritoneum, and blood was extra- vasated between the muscular and serous coats. On the anterior surface of the stomach there was a coagulum of blood of the size of a hazel nut, surrounded by a thick layer of coagulated fibrin, and firmly attached to the outer wall of the stomach. I am thoroughly convinced that this coagulum would, in time, have been converted into a fibrous tumour, if the animal had not been killed. I had frequent opportunities