522 MALFORMATIONS. 1. By fissure and eversion of the urinary bladder with prolapse of its posterior wall, a condition already treated of under the head of fissures. This fissured bladder, although situated above the pubis, has been repeatedly mistaken for the vagina, especially in the cases where the intestinal canal has opened into it (cloacal structure), and where at the same time the male generative organs have been much atrophied. The latter is, indeed, usually the case in this condition ; that is to say, the penis is nearly always imperfectly developed and cleft upon its upper side (epispadias). 2. In rare cases, the approximation of the male genitals to the female habitus, is produced by the penis of the infant being attached to the scrotum by false ligaments and adhesions ; it is thus drawn downwards and appears to have vanished ; the deception is further favoured when the testicles do not descend. 3. Most frequently false hermaphroditism in the male sex, arises from the urethra being fissured beneath and atrophied, (hypospadias) while, at the same time, also, the scrotum and even the perineum are cleft, so that the fissure resembles the female vulva; the resemblance being increased by the circum- stance that like the latter, it is lined with a soft, red, mucous membrane. Generally, also, in such cases the testicles have not de- scended (icryptorchismus), which adds to the deception, so that such individuals have been frequently taken for girls until the period of puberty, when they have suddenly changed into men. For cases see Meckel, vol. ii. p. 207 ; Th. Brand, the case of a boy who had been mistaken for a girl, London, 1787, with illustrations; H. A. Wrisberg, comment, de singul. genit. deform, in puero herma- phrodit. ment. Goetting, 1796 ; F. H. Martens, Beschreib. und Abbild. einen sonderbaren Missgestaltung der Mannl. Geschlechtstheile, Leipz. 1802 ; Rapp in Casper’s Whchensch. 1843, No. 32, p. 522 ; and Otto, op. cit. p. 205. On cloacal structure generally, see Wedel, Diss. monstri human rar. descr. cont. Jenae, 1830, c. tab.; Ulrich, Diss. Marburg. 1833, c. tab.; Otto, p. 308, ct seq.