84 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. is increased or diminished) or it may be local. In the latter case, it is confined to a single organ, or to a larger or smaller portion of the body, while the remaining organs are either normal in relation to their amount of blood, or are in the opposite condition to the affected organ. Pathology has for a long time recognized the existence of general hypersemia or plethora as an established fact, and has described the symptoms by which we may detect it. But all these symptoms (injected countenance, full pulse, tendency to congestion, &c.), are not infallible. We have no certain means of determining whether the whole mass of the blood is actually increased, and still less are we in a condition to determine it with certainty in any particular instance. The mean quantity of blood in the human body cannot be determined with certainty. Valentin* has pointed out a very ingenious means of ascertaining the quantity of blood in animals, which, if certain neces- sary preliminaries are determined, might give tolerably accurate results ; but this method cannot be applied to man. In fact, all the means hitherto proposed for determining the amount of blood in the human body have been very unsatisfactory. We are usually contented with estimating the amount of blood from the degree of redness in the diffe- rent parts of the dead body, from the contents of the large vessels, and from the blood that escapes on making incisions in various parts. I hese means are important, as showing comparatively the amount of blood in the different parts of the body, but they are of little or no value in enabling us to ascertain even approximately the whole amount of blood in the body. To clear up this point, I propose another method, which although difficult and tedious, would yet give far more accurate results. By carefully washing out the vessels of a body by injection with pure water, all the haematoglobulin contained in those vessels may be obtained, and after purification can be estimated quantitatively. Any conclusion respecting the whole quantity of blood deduced from the amount of haematoglobulin is doubtless always uncertain, in consequence of the varying proportions in which that constituent may be present in the * Repertorium, vol. in. p. 281, &c. ; or, Physiologie, vol. i. p. 490.