242 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. forms probably always) becomes coated with a delicate epi- thelium, which essentially resembles that of .normal serous membrane. In the perfect forms, moreover, the cyst con- tains vessels. The fluid in the interior closely corresponds with that of serous dropsy. I believe that this form of serous cysts arises in the following manner. As the first form owed its origin to serous dropsy, so does this to fibrinous dropsy; in the first place there is formed a false hydatid (resembling our first form) whose walls are composed of expanded normal tissue. The dissolved fibrin gradually, however, becomes deposited upon the walls in the form of a closed saccular membrane, which usually consists of several layers; the fluid thus deprived of its fibrin becomes identical with that of serous dropsy. The sac, at first amorphous and consisting of coagulated fibrin, becomes partially organised, is usually converted into areolar tissue, receives vessels, and becomes invested internally with an epithelium. The encysted tumour has now become permanent, and is not capable, like the first kind, of being entirely removed by absorption; for if by the altered relations of endosmosis, the fluid originally effused, should become changed or decreased, nevertheless, on account of the internal epithelium, closure of the cavity by coalescence of its walls will not readily occur, and the cyst will maintain its independance, even through the changing relations of endosmosis, and the varying quantity of its fluid contents. These cysts can only be obliterated by means of adhesive inflammation ; an illustration of this mode of forma- tion of cysts from effused fibrinous fluids is afforded by a case described in the second part, in the chapter on the morbid anatomy of the brain, &c., where a cyst filled with fibrinous fluid had formed itself in the cerebral substance. The case figured and described in Plate v. fig. 5 and 6, also illustrates this mode of formation ; at the same time it serves to eluci- date the origin of a more complicated form of these serous cysts, which, up to the present time, has in general been erroneously included amongst the living hydatids. In this