347 VARIOUS PRECIPITATES. 9. Precipitates may be formed of substances which are readily soluble in the animal fluids, and are only separated by concentration or evaporation of the liquids in which they are dissolved. To this class belong, in addition to many organic sub- stances, most of the salts with alkaline bases, as chloride of sodium, the phospliates and sulphates of soda and potash, &e. These precipitates form amorphous, granular, or crystalline masses, in accordance with their chemical properties and the time occupied in their separation. They invariably appear, when we examine, under the microscope, fluids which have been exposed to the influence of evaporation; but these are mere artificial products, and do not require to be considered in this place. It would be very desirable if our knowledge of these crystalline forms were more accurate, as it would materially assist us in the chemical examination of the animal fluids. The question now arises: Do such precipitates occur in the living body in consequence of concentration of the fluids ? There are cases in which this certainly appears to occur. Thus, after the internal use of sulphate of magnesia as a purgative, I have observed microscopic crystals of this salt in the liquid evacuations ; and probably other purgative salts appear in the faeces in a similar manner. This is, however, a point of little importance in relation to pathological anatomy. On the other hand, it has been recently stated by F. Boudet,* that in concretions containing phosphate and carbonate of lime, there is also a large quantity of salts readily soluble in water (chloride of sodium, sulphate and phosphate of soda). If this is really the case, it is a very interesting fact, since it appears extremely remarkable that such salts do not, in a very short time dissolve, and thus disappear in the fluids moistening and surrounding them, which are not saturated, and further, are continuously being modified by endosrnosis. Hence I think that Boudct’s statement requires further confir- * Journal dc Pharmacie et dc Chimie, Nov. 1844, p. 335, &c.