MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 265 as in normal pus, an emulsion of organised corpuscles, but a fluid with irregular broken up organic molecules,—an organic detritus, which, only in the highly organised pseudoplasmata, contains a few integral or broken cells. The softened pseudoplasmata are thus also morphologi- cally distinguished in an essential point from normal pus, and correspond more nearly with the unhealthy pus ot ulceration. The fluid resulting from the softening of the pseudoplas- mata, is not bland and innocuous, on the contrary, it is usually ichorous, corrodes the surrounding parts, and has a putrid odour. Upon what substances these injurious properties depend, has not been chemically determined, but the fact itself is undoubted. The period which elapses between the deposition of the cytoblastema and the softening is various in different cases, but is always longer than that which is requisite to develop normal pus from a cytoblastema; hen*, again, the softening ot the pseudoplasmata coincides with ulceration. As in suppuration, so also in the pseudoplasmata, the softening is not confined to the newly formed products; the normal tissues amongst which the cytoblastema was deposited are also involved in the destruction, and simultaneously soften. These facts enable us to explain in a sufficient manner the local malignancy of the pseudoplasmata. It is determined by entirely the same causes which we formerly recognized as conditions of ulceration. There exist, however, two causes of which, no doubt, either may be efficient, or both may co-operate. In the first place, from the long incarceration of the coagulated cytoblastema the tissues become injuriously compressed, and since they are in some measure isolated, their nutrition is impaired and their death thus occasioned. Secondly, the corrosive property of ichor, which frequently resembles a putrid fluid, exerts its action upon them, and likewise contributes to their death. Allowing that these causes account for the local malignancy