485 THEIR CAUSES. certain characters which resemble the object that acted on the maternal imagination. This theory is in the highest degree improbable, if it cannot be positively denounced as false.* 3. Diseases and abnormal states of the placenta, of the membranes of the ovum, and of the umbilical cord, may be regarded as causes ot malformations. These generally induce an arrest of tormation, by disturbing the process of develop- ment, and we may point out individual deviations from a normal state, which can with much probability be regarded as causes of certain midformations. Thus shortness of the funis and deficient union ot the vessels forming it into one common cord, favour the origin of abdominal fissures, and of congenital umbilical hernia; or it the funis be of disproportionate length, it may coil around the extremities, constrict them, and thus render their nutrition defective, or even cause their ampu- tation. Union of the feetus with the amnion may likewise give rise to malformations, through pressure or tension.f 4. Amongst the most frequent causes of malformations, we must undoubtedly consider various morbid influences acting directly on the feetus, as mechanical injuries, and dis- eases afecting it. From the experiments of Geoffroy St. Hilaire and \ alentin,| it appears that by various mechanical influences to which hen s eggs are submitted during incuba- tion, the development of the embryo is partly interrupted and partly modified in such a manner as to give rise to mal- formations. Many observations tend to the conclusion that by means of mechanical influences (ill treatment by kicks, blows, or falls,) affecting the womb in the early months of pregnancy, certain malformations by arrest may be produced, as hemicephalia. The experience that malformations, such as acepkalia, which depend upon a very decided arrest of See Bischoff, Op. cit. p, 88.5 ; and G. Rubner, tiber das sogenannte Versehen der Schwangem. Dissert. Erlangen, 1839. t Several cases of this nature have been collected by Henle, in his Zeitsehrift f. ration. Mediz. vol. u. p. 11, &c. I Uej)ertoriutn, vol. n. p. 168.