PUS. 145 dropsy. Consequently the formation of pus must invariably (be preceded by the exudation of a modified blood-plasma. The opinion that healthy pus can be produced from the tissues of the j! body by their decomposition or solution, is at the present day unworthy of a serious refutation. That broken up fragments of tissue may be i < contained in abnormal pus will be presently shown. It appears certain i) that pus cannot be formed from a merely serous fluid containing no j fibrin, like that of serous dropsy. Moreover extravasated blood can ■ only act as a cytoblastema for pus, in so far as it contains plasma. The formation of pus-corpuscles from the cytoblastema does not take place in a very uniform manner ; it occurs in ; one way when the plasma remains fluid, in another when the fibrin coagulates previously to the formation of pus. The process of the formation of pus from a fluid cytoblas- tcma can be best observed in fresh wounds cleansed from blood. In examining the fluid secretion from a wound, we first observe minute granules, lt*ss than the 1000th of aline in diameter, which are chemically identical with the mole- cules insoluble in the alkalies and in borax. There then appear, partly around these molecules, and partly indepen- dent of them, somewhat Larger corpuscles, soluble in the alkalies, but not in acetic acid, identical with the nuclei of the pus-corpuscles. These nuclei appear sometimes isolated, sometimes in groups of twos or threes,* thus forming compo- I site nuclei; around these the cell-wall is subsequently deve- loped, first appearing as a pale transparent membrane,! and subsequently becoming thickened and granular; and thus the pus-corpuscle is formed. The production of pus-corpuscles in this manner is tolerably rapid; in the course of three or four hours after the first appearance of the nuclei perfect corpus- cles may frequently be seen ; in other cases the process is slower. If the above observations describe the general type of the formation of pus in a fluid blastema, there are in special cases * Plate in. fig. 6, a, b. { Plate in. fig. 11, a. VOL. I. L