550 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. midst of the mass, without any connection with the vessels of the bone, must necessarily, from their place and position, have been formed there, and promised to afford some elucidation of the morphology of the formation of the blood, which can so seldom be directly observed. The result of a careful examination was as follows. All the newly formed portions of blood were very large, and visible even to the unaided eye, as streaks or points ; where the naked eye discovered no blood, none was to be seen under the micioscope. It seems, therefore, that the larger and not the smallest capillary vessels are first formed. The form of these masses of blood varied considerably, being some- times roundish, or quite indefinite (Fig. 1.), sometimes elongated (Figs. 3 and 4), while at other times, several portions were united together in a star-like figure (Fig. 4). The masses of blood were not definitely circumscribed, and gradually lost themselves in the paren- chyma; there were not as yet formed any proper vessels of uniformly equal diameter, and distinct vascular walls were still wanting. It is only in Fig. 4 that there is any indication of a distinct separa- tion of the vessels from the parenchyma. The colour of the blood was even now red, varying from a pale yellowish red where it was thin and dispersed, to a dark red where the mass appeared more closely arranged. The blood was fluid, and could be pressed from the parenchyma; it shewed also clearly defined blood-corpuscles, which lay partly scattered separately in the parenchyma (Fig. 1), and partly collected in larger masses (Fig. 3 and 4) ; the former was rarely observed. There was no evidence of a development of these accumulations of blood-corpuscles in common cells, (vascular cells). The individual newly formed blood-corpuscles (Fig. 2), were some- what smaller than common ; their diameter was the 600th, the 500th, or at most, the 400th of a line, and they had not the usual cup-like central depression, but were irregularly spherical and angular. Some- times they appeared separate, sometimes several were united together. On the addition of water, they became pale and gradually disap- peared; the same thing occurred, but more rapidly, with acetic acid. There was no trace of nuclei. This blood had evidently originated in the interior of the paren- chyma (plastic exudation), and at first in portions which corres- ponded with the future larger vessels. It had not been formed in vascular cells, but free in the parenchyma, and appeared earlier than the vessels. It was formed sooner and more rapidly (m less than