469 TAPE WORM- which arc thus thrown off, are continually being replaced by new ones, it is absolutely necessary, in order that the annoy- ance caused by the worm shall cease, that the whole animal, including even the extremity of its head, should be eva- cuated. The taenia solium inhabits the small intestines of the human subject, but only in certain districts; it occurs ordi- narily indeed, almost exclusively—in Germany, England, Holland, Egypt, and the Levant. Commonly there is found but one tape-worm in the intestinal canal; sometimes, how- ever, several are simultaneously present. It is pretty well ascertained that the innumerable ova which a single individual of this class may produce in a short time, cannot develop themselves in the intestinal canal of the patient, but must quit him in order to experience unknown changes out of his hotly. 1 he manner in which this worm finds its way into the intestinal (•anal, cannot yet l>e pointed out; but numerous reasons entitle us resolutely to reject the opinion, that it may have spontaneously originated. We must, therefore, assume a transference of it from without. It cannot be denied that the tape worm, by its presence in the intestinal canal, may cause derangement of the organism ; nevertheless its pathological imjxirtance is commonly over- estimated. It often remains in the body for a long time without its presence being revealed by the slightest symptom; sometimes, particularly when of great size, its movements become annoying and unpleasant. Ste representations in Breinser, PI. m. The disorders occasioned by it will engage our further attention in the special part. See Wawruch. Monographic der Bandwurmkraukheit, Wien, 1844, in which, how- ever, the description of the worm and of its physiological relations, (p. 34, et scq.) do not perfectly correspond with the present state of our knowledge.—Th. v. Siebold, on the eseaj>c of a tape worm through the umbilicus, Oesterr. medic. Wochenschr. 1843, p. 660. 2. The broad tape worm, (bothriocephalus latus, taenia lata, in many respects, so dosclv resembles the preced- ing, that we may shorten its description, and content