PATHOLOGICAL EPIEGNESES. 180 of one or other of these products, and according to the degree 1 of development in which they occur. When the vascular formation predominates, they appear of a blood-red; when there is a paucity of vessels, they are of a pale colour; when the areolar tissue prevails, they are firm ; when the blastema remains amorphous, they have a lardaceous appearance; when it contains a large number of pus-corpuscles, they arc soft and spongy. Hence granulations, when examined under the microscope, sometimes exhibit numerous blood-corpus- cles, (the walls of the vessels being seldom clearly indicated, but sometimes becoming so on the addition of acetic acid,) sometimes numerous pus-corpuscles, sometimes a perfectly amorphous mass, sometimes areolar tissue in various stages of development, and sometimes all these elements together; they generally contain a fluid which coagulates on the addi- tion of acetic acid (pyin). Granulations represent a transition state. They are an epigenesis in the act of development. In proportion as the granulations become further developed, the formation of pus disappears, and the cytoblastcma becomes more and more changed by the formation of areolar tissue, vessels, and sometimes also of other elements, as cartilaginous and osseous tissue, simple muscular fibre, &c. and at last they form a solid persistent epigenesis. They occur both on the external and internal free surfaces of the body, and finally become invested with epithelium or epidermis. Beyond this stage of their progression, they are no longer termed granu- lations, but receive names corresponding with their future relations. Since granulations in most cases contain vessels which are usually in a state of hyperemia and consequently give rise to an effusion of fibri- nous fluid, they supply the cytoblastema requisite for further develop- ment. And since a portion of the blastema is converted into pus, we can understand why granulations secrete pus ; but the formation of pus is not necessarily associated with the presence of granulations.