GRANULAR PIGMENT. 191 the dark-coloured molecules of true pigment which appear dark by reflected light. Sometimes the cells enclosing pig- ment-molecules are very indistinct, or appear to be entirely wanting; indeed, in one and the same melanotic lung, aggre- gations of pigment are often found, some of which, when carefully sliced and examined under the microscope, are found to be enclosed in cells, whilst other aggregations in the same lung, on the most careful examination, present no enclosing cells, but the pigment-molecules appear to be deposited in a state of freedom in the parenchyma. I have never yet succeeded in directly observing the process of development of these pigment-cells. It may be supposed that the cells are first produced, and that at a later period, the pigment-granules are by a metabolic power generated within them; in favour of which view, we may quote those cast's occurring in children with leucosis (albinos), in whom the pigment, originally absent, was afterwards developed.* We knowr also that in white rabbits, whose choroid membrane contains no pigment, it is only the pigment-granules and not the cells which are deficient. When, therefore, pigment is subsequently produced in albinos, it can only happen by the originally empty cells becoming afterwards filled with pigment- granules. According to this view, the above cases in which pigment-granules without surrounding cells occur, may be explained by the supposition that the cells were originally present; but that after the deposition of the pigment in them, they became again resorbed, whilst the pigment itself remained. On the other hand, it may be supposed that the pigment- granules are first formed, and become afterwards surrounded by cells. I believe that I have myself once observed this occurrence in pigment-cells in expectoration, where aggrega- tions of black pigment-granules were surrounded by cells more or less clearly indicated, and it appeared as if secondary cells formed around the pigment-granules, just as in pus- corpusclcs they form around the nucleus. But these observa- ~„ T A case of this nature is recorded in Muller’s Archiv. 1836. Jahres- bericht, p. 192.