MALFORMATIONS. 492 head very imperfect, formed by a shapeless tuberosity, with certain membranous appendages ; upper extremities present. b. The brain and greater part of the cranium may be absent. Brainless monsters (anencephalus, hemicephalus, micro cephalus). Hemicephalia is comparatively frequent and presents different degrees : in the highest, not only the brain, but also the spinal cord is absent, and at the same time there exists a breach of continuity in the spinal canal (spina bifida); in a lower grade of malformation the spinal cord is present. In a still smaller degree, the malformation passes into the cranial fissure, presently to be noticed. Of the cranial bones, the os frontis, ossa temporum, parietalia and the greatest part of the os occipitis are commonly absent. Sometimes malformations of the trunk, or of the extremities are at the same time present. The cause of this malformation is commonly dropsy of the head ; in many cases, alarms, diseases and ill-treatment of the mother have preceded it, and Geoffroy St. Hilaire regards these as its exciting causes. Hemicephali notwithstanding the absence of brain are usually born alive; some have sur- vived several hours, a few several days. Owing to the great frequency of these malformations (they form more than the third part of all cases of human monstrosities) their literature is \ very copious. We may especially refer to Meckel, op. cit. vol. i. p. 195, j et seq.; Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. n. p. 317, et seq. PI. 8 and 9; Otto, op. cit. (who describes upwards of fifty cases, and has figured several) ; Summering, Abbildung und Beschreibung einiger Missgeburten, 1791; E. Sandifort, Anatomia infantis cerebro destituti, Lugd. Batav. 1784, with six beautiful plates ; Cerutti, rarioris monstri, in mus. anat. Lip- siensi adservati descr. anat. c. tab. 2. Lipsue, 1827; H. Mattersdorf, de anencephalia c. rariss. casus anenceph. post part, vivi exposit. Berol. 1836; Krieg in Casper’s Wochenschr. 1843, p. 543. Cases where the ^ child lived for some time after birth, and was submitted to experiments, ; are described by Spessa, Gaz. med. Janv. 1833, and Mullers Archiv. 1834, p. 168, and by Panizza (Giomale del R. Instituto Lombardo, ■ 1841*, fasc. 3, and Oesterr. medicin. Wochenschr. 1843, No. 9). See also Marshall Hall on the history of anencephalia . . 1 Geoffroy St. Hilaire separates this group into two families with several J