pathological relations of the blood. 77 vol. i. p. 190. .simple and easily performed, but does not yield very accurate results. It Is uncertain, on account of the undemonstrated assumption, that aU the water in the blood is associated with the same amount of solid consti- rtuents as the water of the serum—an assumption opposed to the idea lthat a portion of the water may be combined in some other form with •the ha-matoglobulin of the blood-corpuscles, in which case the above ccalculations'would no longer hold good. But besides this, it 1ms dis- mdvantages which influence the accuracy of the results. For it is diffi- cult to remove the whole of the water from the portion of clot, which 3according to this process must always be tolerably large. The retained water increases the apparent weight of the blood-corpuscles in two ways, namely by its own weight, and further, by its amount of solid consti- tuents regarding it as serum, which in this way escapes deduction from • the clot. Hence in proportion to the abundance of corpuscles in the 1 blood, is the uncertainty of this method of analysis, in consequence ot t the increased difficulty of drying the clot. Another method has been proposed by Simon. He attempts a direct estimation of the liaematoglobulin, which cannot be accomplished with any degree of accuracy except by an expert chemist. I, therefore, merely refer the reader to the description of Simon s method.1* Instead of determining the blood-corpuscles collectively, we may esti- mate their individual constituents—the globulin, hirmatin, anil iron— and the ratio of each to the other. This, however, is laborious, difficult, and with our present resources yields only approximate results. Another method of determining the amount of blood-corpuscles in n direct manner has recently been proposed by Figuier.f It is founded on the circumstance, that on adding sulphate of soda to defibrinated blood, the corpuscles can be collected by filtration. He directs that three or four ounces of defibrinated blood be mixed with about double its volume of a saturated solution of sulphate of soda, and that it be projected on a previously weighed filter, moistened with the same saline solution. The serum and the saline solution pass through, while the blood-corpuscles remain behind. They must then be washed with the saline mixture, which must be removed by dipping the filter with the corpuscles in boiling water, which coagulates the ha?matoglobulin while it extracts the sulphate of soda. From repeated trials I can con- firm this statement in all its essential points: I did not, however, always * Animal Chemistry, vol. i. p. 175. t Comptes Rend os, vol. n. p. 101; or Simon’s Animal Chemistry,