CELLULAR FORMATION. 117 I proceeds in this manner. In the first place, one or more finirtute granules (nueleoli) appear, around which the cytoblast : nucleus) is formed, and this again becomes surrounded with i i membrane (the cell-wall) which at first closely envelopes kt, but subsequently in the course of its growth, becomes separated from the nucleus, thus leaving a cavity between it kind the cell-wall. This is termed the cavity of the cell, sand is filled with a substance differing essentially in tcharacter both from the nucleus and the cell-wall. In the scell thus produced, the nucleus is not in the central | joint, but is situated eccentrically at a point on the inner surface of the cell-wall. It is from these cells alone, by a jroccss of further development, that all organized products arise. That this mode of development from cells occurs in patho- logical epigeneses may be readily shown in numerous cases, lid)is process can be most obviously traced in the formation tf pus-corpuscles, when they are produced from a fluid t jlastema on a free surface, or in a cavity connected with flhe exterior of the body. In such a case, we first observe ' numerous isolated granules,* which become surrounded by a Mrery delicate transparent cell-membrane,f which subsequently fcorms so thick and opaque a wall, that the nucleus can no : onger be seen through it on the addition of acetic acid, which dissolves the cell-wall, or at any rate renders it transparent, the nuclei again become visible.!) If it is impossible to ■'race the whole course of development in one and the same cell, we can yet make out the successive changes of the whole ! mass of cells with sufficient certainty. These and similar ob- | nervations, such as tor instance may be made on the formation j }f epithelium, confirm the opinion that in all essential points "Schwann s theory' is applicable to morbid formations; but -hat in individual cases, many facts may be observed which * Plate in. fig. C, a, 1). f Plate in. fig. 11, A. t Plate in. fig. 6, a, u. |j Plate m. fig. 9, b. *