146 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. many exceptions which show that nature does not always strictly adhere to the same models, but induced, as it were, by new requirements, permits of many exceptions. The nucleus of the pus-corpuscle sometimes contains a molecule, which must be regarded as a nucleolus; in other cases this is absent. The nucleoli do not here, at any rate, play the part which has been assigned to them; they appear to serve merely as the most favourable points for the formation of the nucleus, in the same manner as an urinary calculus, for instance, is formed by deposition around a nucleus: they are, however, not essential to the formation of the nucleus. Nuclei are invariably formed in healthy pus: hence they may be regarded as essential to perfect pus-corpuscles; but they are sometimes single, sometimes double, treble, or even quadru- ple, and their individual parts present almost innumerable differences in relation to size, form and arrangement. The differences are perhaps the most marked in the formation of the cell-wall and contents. Sometimes the formation proceeds in entire accordance with the scheme laid down by Schwann: we observe a simple and apparently vesicular nucleus placed eccentrically in a transparent, elastic, and round cell-wall: with a well-defined external contour. The nucleus, contents, and cell-wall are all destined to undergo, at a subsequent peiiod, further simultaneous metamorphoses. In other cases, as we have already observed, there is only a nucleus, and an inde- finite, granular, amorphous precipitate around it, without a clear outer circumference, and, as its behaviour in relation to endosmosis shows, without a surrounding cell-wall. I ha\e sometimes found in an isolated, very large pus-corpuscle (one sixtieth to one eightieth of a line in diameter) three 01 four separate nuclei, each of which, on the addition of acetic acid, falls into two or three distinct portions. Aiound these se\era nuclei only a single cell-wall is formed. In pus-corpuscles the nucleus is, however, always formed previously to the cell- wall. We are not at present in a condition to state with ceitamty