GRANULATIONS. 179 subjacent membrane becomes converted into pus. Usually as this irritation decreases the formation of pus ceases, and in its place there is the production of epidermic or epithelial cells which follow the same process in their development as is observed in their normal formation. An identical law of for- mation is pursued when the epithelium or epidermis becomes thickened, or when epithelium is pathologically formed where in normal circumstances it does not exist, as for example, in encysted tumours; the cyst on its inner surface being very' generally invested with epithelium.* The chemical like the morphological relations of development in all these cases pre- cisely follow the normal type. C. RANT; LA T10X9 .f In the preceding sections the epigeneses of areolar tissue, of vessels, and of epithelial structures have been considered as so many isolated processes. Cases are, however, frequently observed where all these formations are combined, where they simultaneously occur at one and the same part of the organism from the same cytoblastema, and are usually accompanied with suppuration. Such complicated epigeneses are usually distinguished by the term granulations. They occur under extremely various circumstances—in suppurating wounds, on the surfaces of serous membranes, in abscesses, fistula; and so forth. They are produced by the simultaneous formation of areolar tissue, vessels, and pus, from a solid, or more com- monly fluid blastema. The physical and histological charac- ters of granulations vary in accordance with the preponderance * Plate v. fig. 6. Plate ix. fig. 2. f Compare Henle in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. lxxxvi. p. 5(>; Travers on Inflammation, London, 1844, p. 110, &c.; Giiterbock, dc pure et granulatioue ; and the principal works on Inflammation, as those of Hunter, John Thomson, Allen Thomson, Kaltenbrunner, &c. Liston has published a description (with instructive plates) of the formation of new vessel* in granulations. Medico-chirurg. Transactions, 1840, p. 83, &c., Plate i. N 2