439 PARASITIC ANIMALS. whose special abode, ordained to them by nature, is the human or animal body—true essential parasites; and into those, to whom nature has assigned another habitation, and which only incidentally, and in consequence of peculiar cir- cumstances, occur within the body, and are unable to survive there—incidental parasites. Animals of almost every class, even vcrtebrnta, as for instance, amphibia (toads, frogs, salamanders, blind worms), also in- sects, and their larvae, snails, &c., have been occasionally met with, forming incidental parasites. Many of the casts registered in the annals of science are, however, at least doubtful, and some reports of the kind, are evidently founded upon false statements, or even intentional deception. We shall not at present enter more deeply into the consideration of these incidental parasites. With resjiect to the different species observed in separate parts of the body, and the jmthological changes elicited by them, we must refer to the special jwrt. In this place we shall only consider the true parasites, especially those winch occur in the human subject, citing those which are found in animals, only so far as they serve to the elucidation of the cases observed in man. 'Hie questions regarding their mode of origin, and the pathological phenomena occasioned by their presence will be had regard to, so far as our present deficient observations allow, partly in our remarks on the individual species, and partly in our remarks on special organs, since on these points general laws cannot be laid down. Every unbiassed obser- ver must arrive at the conviction that the morbific power is very dif- ferent in the separate species, and will regard it as a far from com- pleted scientific labour to point out, exactly, the extent of this power in each individual case. According to the prevailing systems, pathology has caused the parasitic animals to jierform. amongst the causes of disease, sometimes a very subordinate, at other times, a very conspi- cuous part. Indeed, animal parasites have been regarded by some as the causes of almost every disease. See J. C. Nyander, Exanthemata viva in C. Linnaei amanitates academic*, vol. v. Holmia*, 1760, p. 92— 105; also in recent times F. V Kuspuil, Histone naturclle de la santc et de la maladie, &c.. Paris, 1843, t. i. p. 285—496, t. n. p. I—286, with numerous figures—a strange mixture of truth and fictiou, yet, for the critical reader, containing some interesting facts, and profitable suggestions for further investigations. The reader may also consult the