PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 2G0 3. Combinations of cysts with other forms of tumour. It not unfrequently happens that tumours which, in their histological structure, belong to the amorphous or orga- nized fibrous tumour, to enchondroma, &c., contain in their interior cavities of various kinds, which are furnished with more or less smooth walls, and enclose a serous, mucous, fatty, or gelatinous fluid. These are the combined cysts and cystoids: on account of their fleshy stroma, J. Mfiller* com- prehends them under the common name of Cystosarcoma. He distinguishes three separate forms of them : a. Cystosarcoma simplex, in which the cysts, enclosed in a fibrous sarcoma, have each their distinct membrane, the inner wall of which is simple, smooth, or at most beset with a few vascular nodules. This form may he described as the cystic formation combined with the simple cyst. b. Cystosarcoma proliferum, in which the cysts enclosed in the sarcomatous mass, contain younger cysts in their inte- rior, which are attached to their walls by pedicles;—cystic structure combined with compound cysts. c. Cystosarcoma phyllodes, in which the cysts, included in a sarcomatous substance, are ill-defined, form several cavi- ties and chambers without a distinct proper membrane, and are filled more or less completely with solid, foliaceous, cauli- flower growths from the floor and walls of the cavity. I his form corresponds with the cystic formations where solid granu- lations spring exuberantly from the walls of the cyst. The forms already described may serve to afford an idea of the complicated relations of the compound and combined cyst-formations. The subject is as yet very insufficiently worked out, and there still exists great obscurity concerning it, especially with respect to the relations and causes of their development. Although, perhaps, in individual cases the origin may be sufficiently explained, general laws of formation cannot, at present, be laid down. The most important * J. Muller fiber den feineren Bau der Geschwulste, p. 56, or Wests translation, p. 170.