285 TUBERCLE. varies extremely in different cases; in some it dot's not exceed a week or two, whilst it may extend to many months. The diagnosis of tubercle is sufficiently explained by the preceding observations. To determine the presence of tuber- cle with accuracy, the microscope is generally requisite, and with the aid of that instrument, it may be distinguished with certainty from most other pathological epigeneses ft is dif- ficult, indeed frequently, quite impossible to distinguish it from typhous and scrofulous matter, and from certain forms of unhealthy suppuration. In the softened condition, it is much more difficult to recognize than in the unsoftened state, since, as we have already mentioned, other elements are then mixed with it. Respecting the chemical composition of tubercle, nothing is at present definitely known. Such statements as those of Preuss,* in winch he asserts that tu!>orcle consists in part of casein, an? founded on investigations which do not at all correspond with the present state of our chemical knowledge, and any one expressing his belief at the present time, that tubercles consist of casein, would show that his ideas of zoo-chemistry were extremely lax and unsatisfactory. At present all that we can say is, that tubercular matter consists principally of a protein-compound, as has been shown by Lehmann,+ and has been rejjeatedly confirmed by myself. There am, however, be no doubt that during the progress of softening, the tubercles undergo chemical changes ; Lehmann has shown that during this process the phosphorus and sulphur in the protein- compounds diminish, and that ultimately they altogether disappear. Scherer 1 has submitted to ultimate analysis the tubercular matter from various organs. The very interesting results which he has obtained, appear to show that tubercle in different cases, presents a different com- jwsition, and is not always identical with protein. We must, however, be cautious in drawing general conclusions from such isolated analyses, valuable though they be, for as it is hardly possible to obtain tubercle perfectly free from enclosed tissue, or other foreign admixtures, elemen- * Tuberculorum pulmonis crudorum anal, chemica, Berol. 1835. + Physiologische Chemie, vol. i. p. 197. J Untersuchungen zur Pathologie, p. 212, &c„ or Simon's Animal Chemistry, vol. u. p. 478, &c.