17 INTRODUCTION. cation of the calculations, founded on that law, would be mis- placed. It would be a still more dubious matter to attempt to esta- blish, on statistical grounds, not merely the simultaneous occur- rence, or non-occurrence of certain morbid changes, but like- wise the mutual relations, and the connexion of cause and effect existing between them. Suppose it were attempted to be proved by statistical records from the dead-house, that hydrocephalus in children is the cause of tuberculosis ; or, vice versd, that hydrocephalus arises from tuberculosis. Our first object would be to obtain statistical information respecting the simultaneous occurrence of these two diseases, or of the invariable disappearance of the one before the appearance of the other; and the conclusions would be very doubtful unless drawn from a large number of cases. It would further have to be proved that other morbid changes frequently occurring with hydrocephalus, but independent altogether of tuberculosis, were not the actual cause; or, to penetrate still deeper, that other changes, invisible in the dead body, may not have pro- duced the hydrocephalus. For such reasons as these, the statistical information we at present possess, in relation to pathological ana- tomy, must be used with the greatest caution. I do not, how- ever, desire to underrate the importance of the application of the statistical method to our science; on the contrary, I hold it of essential importance that in all serious forms of disease, statistical information respecting the morbid changes found in the dead body should be carefully drawn up and laid publicly before the profession. But these examinations must be made with the greatest care; the nature of the changes must always be communicated in the most definite and special manner; and, above all, the observer must avoid drawing general con- clusions from too small a number of cases, or from cases badly observed and badly described. In our science, we must follow the examples set us by the astronomers, magnetists, and meteorologists, who continue for years to carry on the most careful general observations, and to make them public property, VOL. 1.