373 GALL-STONES. These analyses made by various chemists are nearly all to be found in L. Gindin's Chemistry, n. 2, p. 1431. I have somewhat modified them in order that they might admit of better comparison with each other, the biliary’ matter (choleic acid and its modifications) being determined according to the different views maintained by the different chemists. Whether the lithofellinic acid detected by Gobel, Wohler, &c., in certain intestinal concretions of unknown origin, ever occurs in human gall- stones, as some have conjectured, cannot as yet be determined with certainty; it is, however, improbable. Scherer has submitted to ulti- mate analysis, the black pigment which occurs in many gall-stones ; but in the absence of an analysis of healthy bile-pigment, we have no means of ascertaining its deviation from the normal standard. The formation of gall-stones follows the same laws as those of concretions generally. In order that a gall-stone may be produced, it is first neces- sary that a precipitate should be formed, and that this should not be discharged with the bile, but remain and accumulate into a larger mass; in this manner a nucleus is formed, which, under favourable conditions, becomes augmented by further depositions. In order that these depositions may take place, it is necessary that: 1. The bile should be in a state of concentration, which occurs when it has been retained for a long time in the biliary ducts or in the gall-bladder. By prolonged contact with a denser fluid;—the blood—water is removed from it by the laws of endosmosis, and those substances become deposited ■ from it which are the most difficult of solution—as the cho- Iksterin, the bile-pigment, the salts of the fatty acids, and also 1 the eholeate of soda: the last-named substance is, however, very rarely separated, for it is only very seldom that we find it in any quantity in biliary calculi Probably it undergoes decomposition even in the biliary’ passages, since by an acid it is converted into fellinic and cholinic acids, and dyslysin— substances which probably exist in considerable quantity in many gall-stones. However, further experiments are required on this subject. 2. In most cases in which gall-stones are formed, the bile is probably more abundant in certain constituents-—as for