PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 90 stitucnt and the corpuscles enclosed in its meshes. Blood effused into the intestinal canal (in hsematemesis and melsena) coagulates in a peculiar manner; the fibrin remains fluid while the albumen of the plasma becomes coagulated by the free acid of the gastric juice, and encloses the blood-corpuscles. Moreover, this acid converts the red colour of the blood into a blackish brown tint. The process may be imitated artifi- cially by adding hydrochloric or sulphuric acid to defibrinated blood. In other cases we find the extravasated blood remain fluid, especially when it is effused in small quantity. On removing this fluid blood from the body, it usually coagulates spontaneously after a short time; and on examining it under the microscope, the corpuscles are found to be normal or only slightly modified ; hence in its essential characters it resembles normal blood. Extravasations of blood may be divided into : Firstly, those of the capillary system, in which the effused blood either forms small points scarcely visible to the naked eye, or is uniformly distributed through the parenchyma of the affected part, which thus becomes either uniformly reddened, or is else merely covered with red specks. In this case the blood proceeds from the smaller vessels, and this condition, or an alternation of it with capillary hyperaemia, is often noticed. Secondly, effusions of a large volume of blood. The effused blood then forms large masses, which may be easily recognised and distinguished from the surrounding parts. In capillary extravasation, the blood is most commonly fluid, in the other form it is generally coagulated. The quantity of effused blood is extremely variable; it may be only a few drops or may amount to several pounds. Causes, formation, and ultimate fate of extravasated Uood.—Extravasated blood always proceeds from the vessels, and results from their laceration. The view, that at least some of these effusions of blood may occur without any injury of the vessels, by a mere transudation of blood through the attenuated vascular walls (diapedesis) is altogether untenable,