292 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. i See Plate vm. fig. 4, b. quently often entirely absent in perfectly developed specimens. Indeed, it appears that in some cases, cancer arises only from a fluid cytoblastema, so that during its whole course this substance docs not present itself. In rare cases it occuis as the preponderating constituent; and then the nature of the cancer can only be recognized in more highly developed por- tions of the tumour; or, indeed, the diagnosis may be alto- gether impossible. This firm amorphous substance is in itself not characteristic of cancer ; in fact it closely resembles and appears to be identical with the ordinary solid cytoblastema of all other epigeneses, namely coagulated fibrin. 2. Molecular granules which appear to consist partly of a modified protein-compound, and partly of fat, and which we have already had occasion to notice as constituents of morbid epigeneses, occur also in cancer,* and along with them we frequently meet with large fat-globules and fatty granules.f Elementary granules consisting of calcareous salts appear but rarely in cancer. These molecular granules are sometimes entirely absent; in other cases, namely in softened parts, they are very numerous, and sometimes unite into large masses, forming aggregate corpuscles. These structures are, however, not characteristic of cancer. 3. Cellular structures form a very important class of elements, which are never absent in perfectly developed forms of cancer. They sometimes predominate to such an extent, as to form nearly the whole tumour, as in cases of encephaloid, but are only of secondary importance in hard cancer (scirrhus). The cellular structures occurring in cancer are of two kinds: a. Such as during its whole process of development can never exceed the cellular form. These cells—transitory cells according to our scheme in p. 125—are the characteristic cancer-cells, b. Such as are capable of development into VW i.- VAA/V V </VVW v/ >- * See Plate vi. fig. 8, 11 ; Plate vm. fig. 1» 4, 6.