PARASITES. 424 objections which have been urged against this view, and the arguments which have been adduced in favour of a spontaneous production of para- sites, rest chiefly on the ground that in many cases the origin of these organisms, by means of propagation, is inexplicable; and is, therefore, held to be impossible. But it is overlooked that the assumption of their spontaneous origin is in reality merely a formal explanation, which leaves us completely in the dark respecting the true reasons and condi- tions of their production. Moreover, many of these reasons have lat- terly become invalidated by the progress of knowledge, since not merely the possibility, but also the reality of their propagation to other organisms, and the inducing conditions, have been demonstrated in various parasites; and although in this respect at present much appears mysterious, yet the numerous experiences of latter years must raise a hope in every unbiassed observer, that the further advancement of knowledge will clear up the obscurity which at present envelops this province, and will establish the origin of all parasites by propagation, to the exclusion of spontaneous origin. The prevalence in the belief of spontaneous generation was an important obstacle to the progress of knowledge, since it hindered accurate investigations regarding the for- mative relations of parasites; and with the general diffusion of the view that all parasites originate by propagation, observations concerning their actual transference from one individual to another, will, doubtless, also accumulate. We shall return to this subject in our remarks on the individual parasites. We shall now consider the relations of parasites to the organisms which they inhabit, and to disease. If we assume that parasites are invariably derived from parents of the same kind, and are never produced spontaneously, it follows that they are never a true product of a disease, and cannot, there- fore, originate directly from degenerated particles of the body, depraved secretions, &c. It is, however, undeniable that morbid changes of portions of the body frequently exer- cise a certain influence upon their origin. These changes may favour their development, and, indeed, alone render it possible, by inducing conditions essential to it; they can again prove injurious to it, since they may remove conditions necessary to its occurrence. Thus, for example, vegetable parasites (fungi) do not in general develop themselves upon mucous membranes, until, by morbid processes, a deposit of coagulated fibrin, which serves as a bed, has become piepaied