pathological relations of the blood. 69 * See the description of fig. 3 in pi. 11 tends to retain the fibrin in a state of fluidity. Although the coagulated blood in the heart and large vessels of different bodies presents different properties, it has been found im- lpossible to deduce any general laws on the subject. Coagu- lation within the vessels is never so perfect, nor the clot •so firm as when the coagulation takes place out of the !body. The condition of the blood, or at least of the fibrin, jprevious to death, obviously exerts a great influence on the condition of the subsequently formed coagulum. The heart i not unfrequently contains white or yellow coagula of fibrin, with few or no enclosed blood-corpuscles. These coagula sometimes extend from the heart into the large arteries; i more rarely into the large venous trunks. It is not very . easily seen, how so perfect a separation of the plasma from the blood-corpuscles can take place after death, that the fibrin for the most part shall coagulate alone, without including blood-corpuscles; and hence it is most probable that when the fibrin has a tendency to coagulate, these white coagula arc ready formed during life in the death-struggle. The con- tractions of the heart, and the pulsation of the arteries exert in these cases an influence on the blood, similar to that artifi- cially produced by stirring with a glass rod, and thus the fibrin is separated and forms white coagula. I am con- firmed in this opinion, from having repeatedly found tough white coagula in the heart, in cases where some days before death, syncope with disturbed cardiac action has supervened.* The blood in the heart and large vessels is either fluid or very imperfectly coagulated in cases of death from lightning, from various sorts of poison, in scurvy, in many cases of typhus, and in putrid fevers. Although this condition is obviously dependant, (like the analogous relations of the blood out of the body), either on a diminution of the fibrin, or on that constituent having lost its power of coagu-