SCIRRHUS. 327 of tissue is much checked; however, I do not regard this hypothesis as a conclusive answer to the question. On passing a knife through them, scirrhous tumours craunch in just the same manner as fibrous tumours. A section of one of these tumours sometimes appears of a bluish-white or milky colour, transparent, opalescent and shining—characters dependant on the fibrous j>ortion, and exhibited in like manner bv fibrous tumours; sometimes it presents a more opaque appearance, and is of a white or gray colour, with a shade of yellow—a character depending on the cells ; and occasionally it presents a reddish tint if many blood-vessels are present. In most cases the unaided eye will detect difference of structure at different points; some parts being fibrous or transparent; while others are opaque, yellow, or green ; when softening has commenced, a caseous appear- ance is sometimes presented. By scraping a tumour of this nature, we usually obtain a whitish creamy fluid. Specks of blood arc rarely observed, and coagula never unless softening has advanced, and the blood-vessels are injured. As a general rule, scirrhus is intimately blended with the surrounding parts, not being enclosed in a capsule or presenting a definite border In regard to the diagnosis, and pathologico-anatomical appearance of fully developed scirrhus, we have nothing further to add; but even the most experienced observer, with every aid to diagnosis at his command, will frequently be in doubt, whether or not he is examining true scirrhus, since this form of cancer presents so many transitions into other sorts of tumours. These are, as we have already had occasion to mention. First, the transition into encephaloid. It often appears to be a point of indifference whether a tumour should be referred to encephaloid or to scirrhus; the cancer-cells, and the fibrous structures being so equally balanced, that neither element predominates. Sometimes again, one portion of a cancerous tumour resembles encephaloid, whilst another more closelv resembles scirrhus. These are rases belonging strictly