PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 204 vidual tumours are combined in the most varied manner, and to a cer- tain degree appear vicarious in relation to one another, it is impossible to arrange them as species, and we can only chissify them according to their formations. The above leading division of tumours, into homologous or non- malignant, and heterologous or malignant, whilst it avoids the danger of misleading, appears to me to be conformable to nature, and practi- cally useful. Lobstein has preceded me in adopting it. Objections have recently been raised against it on the ground that heterologous epigeneses depend on the same laws (cellular formation, &c.) as the normal, and that in some of them, homologous formations likewise enter, as in scirrhus. This objection seems to refer only to epigeneses in the mass, and not to the individual elements. The more accurately we become acquainted with these, the more sure shall we be that in the second division of these tumours, elements actually occur which are foreign to the normal organism, and that these foreign elements are the true ground of their malignity. The fact must, however, be borne in mind that these heterologous elements cannot at every degree of their development be with certainty distinguished from the homologous, and consequently many cases arise in which after the most careful histological examination, it is impossible to discover whether a tumour is of the non-malignant or the malignant class. Finally it has not always been clear wherein consisted the non-malignant or the malignant character of a tumour. It has been generally agreed that the non-maligruty of a tumour consisted in the circumstance that it would not be reproduced after extirpation ; those which after extirpation were again pro- duced being held as malignant. This view I regard as incorrect; tumours which are manifestly non-malignant, as for instance encysted tumours, may again reappear though the same originating force which first produced their development, whilst tumours notoriously malignant may never return after their extirpation, or may even vanish of themselves provided that the disposition to their formation no longer exists, as has been undoubtedly shown in relation to pulmonary tubercle. The malignity which forms the grand principle of division between these two classes of tumours is connected with the very nature of the tumour itself, and depends upon its histological elements. Indeed the clear distinction between malignant tumours and unhealthy suppuration, &c., disappears; but this separation is only artificial and not based on nature. The above provisional remarks are sufficient to give the reader an idea of the principles I adopt in the classification of tumours.