454 PARASITES. just described, which are probably connected with different grades of development. The form which is probably the earliest has only three pair of feet and a very long, slender, posterior segment; then comes the above described form, as the most frequent; subsequently the posterior segment appears always to become shorter. The acarus folliculorum very frequently exists in the hair- glands of the human subject, on the nose, upper lip, and the glands of the hair of the beard; it is sometimes solitary, sometimes ten or more are found in a single gland. It seems to possess no great pathological importance, since the gland which it inhabits frequently shows not the slightest morbid alteration; probably, however, it may sometimes irritate the hair-gland, occasion an increase in the quantity of its secretion, and thus favour the generation of comedones. I do not entertain the slightest doubt that this animal arises, in the usual manner, by propagation and transmission, and not by equivocal generation. The acarus folliculorum was first observed and described by G. Simon.* I have occasionally found it in the perfectly normal glands of the hair of the chin in the dead body. See Wilson, in the London, Edin- burgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, June, 1844. IV. PARASITIC WORMS, INTESTINAL WORMS, HELMINTHA. (Entozoa, Enthelmintha, Splanchnebnintha). The intestinal worms which occur in man are represent - tives of only a few species of the large class of these animals, from which scarcely any living being is exempt; and a cor- rect knowledge of the human entozoa, and of their various relations, can only be obtained by likewise studying those which occur in animals. I must here also repeat my convic- tion that these animals arise solely by means of propagation and transmission from without, and that it appears to me the duty of science to demonstrate this mode of origin, even for the human entozoa, in every individual case. The pathological * Miiller’s Archiv. 1842, p. 218, &c., with numerous figures.