352 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. monia dissolves in hot water to a very considerable extent. We, therefore, boil a little of the pulverized calculus in water, and filter the saturated solution while still hot. On cooling, a portion of the dissolved urate of ammonia separates from the filtered solution as a granular precipitate. On treating it under the microscope with a little mineral acid, it gradually disappears, and is replaced by crystals of uric acid. As the other urates, which, however, seldom occur in calculi, exhibit the same reaction, we must carry our re- searches further, in order to be convinced of the presence of urate of ammonia. We must extract the pulverized calculus with cold water, previous to its treatment with boiling water, in order to make sure that it is freed from any ammoniacal constituents of the urine that might be present. The urate taken up by extraction with hot water, may then be shown in two ways to be urate of ammonia. If we burn it, it will « be found to be entirely volatile, while the urates with fixed bases leave an incombustible residue ; and if we treat it with a weak solution of potash, and apply a gentle warmth, it < developes ammonia, which may be detected by the smell, by | the white vapour produced on holding over it a glass rod, ; moistened in hydrochloric acid, or by its communicating a blue tint to red litmus paper placed above it. The other urates—the soda, magnesia, and lime salts- ; do not often form the sole constituent of urinary calculi, but sometimes occur in larger, or smaller quantity in calculi ot which the principal mass consists ot other substances. The means of detecting these salts are similar to those employed for the urate of ammonia. They must first be obtained in a state of purity by extraction with hot water, filtration, and evaporation. On the application of a strong heat, the uric acid is destroyed, and the composition of the residual fixed basis must be determined by the ordinary lules of inorganic chemistry. Causes and mode of formation of these concretions. e ■