PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 238 scanty bundles of fibres and vessels. The chief mass consists of gray globules, some of them much larger than blood-corpuscles. Crys- talline needles lie scattered in immense numbers throughout the whole tumour: they consist of a peculiar, non-fatty animal matter, and can be readily recognised by the microscope in every part of the tumour. They are insoluble in acids and alcalies ; the latter by dissolving the non-crystalline portion of the tumour, isolate the needles and render them more apparent. Upon boiling a portion of the tumour in water, the crystals are destroyed; at the temperature of the body, how- ever, they remain unchanged. They are insoluble in hot spirit, but dissolve in boiling ether. This tumour has been observed once in the brain, and once in the female breast; the crystals were similar in both cases : the uncrystallized mass, on the other hand, was different. The decoction of the tumour from the brain was not precipitated by tannin, spirit, mineral acids, acetic acid, ferro-cyanide of potassium, alum, sul- phate of iron, acetate of lead, or bichloride of mercury, and, therefore, most closely corresponded with ptyalin, or the mucus of English authors ; the decoction of the tumour from the breast, on the contrary, contained a very small quantity of casein, which was precipitated by a drop of acetic acid and by \ts other ordinary tests.” EIGHTH GROUP. TUMOURS ENCLOSED IN A PROPER CYST. Encysted Tumours. These tumours are peculiarly distinguished by being en- closed in a proper membranous sac which isolates them from the surrounding parts. In the numerous differences which the individual forms of encysted tumour present, this cha- racter, however, is not always distinctly marked, and there occur many intervening forms between this and other tumours. We discriminate, therefore, between the true, simple encysted tumours (tumores cystici) and the compound—combinations of this with other forms of tumour (cystoid!). a. The true, simple encysted tumours not only possess a perfectly closed membranous sac, but it is also essential to their character, that the contents of this sac are either not at all, or only very imperfectly organized, and show no organic con- nection with the sac itself. This forms the distinction between