CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. 400 occur, for instance, in the unusual size of the thymus gland, at an age when it is generally reduced to a minimum. In the foetus, the left lobe of the liver is proportionately larger, and the walls of the heart are proportionately thicker than at a subsequent age, and this condition may continue to exist as a pathological deviation from the normal type, if its further development be arrested. (For further informa- tion on this subject, see malformations, and the special part.) Other changes in the form and size arise from external influences of a mechanical nature. We may mention the changes in the form of the skull, which many tribes effect in their children by compressing or binding the head in a pecu- liar manner; also, the feet of the Chinese, which being arrested in their growth by mechanical means, become de- formed and contracted ; also, the changes in the thorax from tight lacing. By means of tightened bandages and stays, especially amongst women of the lower classes, the liver is so altered that it often exhibits a permanent ridge or furrow impressed upon the surface. The action of these influences is that the flow of the blood, and consequently organic epige- neses are impeded from pressure on the vessels, and the growth thus arrested, while the retrogressive activity of the metamorphoses (disintegration and resorption) continue unin- terrupted. By these processes even very hard parts of the body—as bones—are by degrees modified, while the form of the softer parts is quickly and directly changed by such influences. What has been here mechanically induced through external agents, is frequently effected in a natural way by pathological changes. Thus by the pressure produced by tumours, aneu- risms, concretions, &c., soft organs may be changed in form and size, and the harder parts, as bones, gradually destroyed. Morbidly formed fibrous tissue presses by its elasticity, 01 by the spasmodic contraction excited by the nerves, on soft organs —as the lungs, liver, kidneys, &c., and thus diminishes their