88 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. through the attenuated walls of the capillaries. The part affected contains an excess of blood-corpuscles, and hence appears reddened. This is the condition which is known in pathology, as congestion; it frequently occurs in the living body in external parts, as in the face, the eye, or the skin; it is, however, more rarely observed in the dead body, since it is seldom a cause of death. Here there is no stoppage of the blood-corpuscles, the whole process being dependant simply on dilatation of the capillaries. If the blood-corpuscles become impeded, the process cannot be referred to mere dila- tation. Henle* has made a very ingenious attempt to refer the stagnation of the corpuscles to mechanical and chemical causes. He supposes that in consequence of the exudation arising from the attenuation of the capillary walls, the plasma becomes modified, containing proportionally more albumen and fibrin, but a smaller amount of salts than in the normal condition. This chemical change in the plasma communi- cates to the corpuscles a tendency to adhere, and this adhe- rence mechanically induces stagnation. Plausible and ingenious as is this theory of the stagnation of the blood, it must only be regarded as a mere hypothesis, against which weighty arguments may be adduced ; and we must confess that our knowledge is still uncertain respecting the true reasons ot this - phenomenon. As that form of capillary hypersemia, in which there is no stagnation of the corpuscles is termed congestion, so the higher degree—where they stagnate, and the local circulation is arrested—is termed stasis. On examining these conditions in the dead body, we find no difference between them. It is like- wise perfectly indifferent, whether the process is accompanied with symptoms of nervous irritation (true inflammation) or with depression of the central nervous system, (hypostatic inflammation, passive hyperEemia). The phenomena of * Henle u. Pfeufer, Zeitschrift fur rat. Medicin, vol. n. No. i. p. 130, &c.