573 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. of Fig. 1—3 died after the wound occasioned by the operation had nearly healed. On dissection scirrhous deposits were found in both lungs, in the liver and in the spermatic cord of the right side where the testis had been extirpated. A deposition of scirrhous matter with a knotty surface was found upon the vertebral column, surrounding the aorta, about a hand in breadth, and from two to three inches in thickness, reaching from the promontory of the sacrum almost to the dia- pliragm. An accurate examination of these scirrhous portions gave the fol- lowing results. The scirrhous masses in the lung were tolerably defined, roundish, varying from the size of a hazelnut to that of a chesnut, tolerably compact, and firmer than the surrounding tissue of this lung ; a section presented a dark reddish brown colour with light and dark stripes, giving the cut surface a veined appearance. Under the microscope these parts appeared as an indistinct uniform mass, devoid of any trace of the true pulmonary tissue. When these portions were treated with ammonia the normal fibrous hundlee of the pulmonary tissue distinctly appeared, and it was thus made evident that the scirrhous mass was deposited in the normal tissue of the lung, and filled up all its interstices. The scirrhous portions of the lungs contained no air. 1 he mass appeared in most places perfectly amorphous and structureless (Fio. 9, B a), exhibiting, however, incipient cell- formation (Fig. 9, B): nuclei with and without nucleoli being distinctly visible. Around these were pale cell-walls, which were more or less clearly separate from the surrounding blastema and sometimes scarcely to be distinguished from it. In some places the cells appeared numerous, and collected in large groups (Fio. 9, A), while in others they were isolated. (Fio. 9, B). A thick cell-wall with a double outline was very distinctly visible in some of the larger cells (as in B). Elsewhere broad fibres appeared in the amorphous mass, which, on being treated with acetic acid, became paler and exhibited elongated nuclei (as in Fig. 7, B, but more faint and indistinct). Some of the scirrhous nodules exhibited a more developed scirrhous structure: some caudate cells with nuclei in the act of transition into scirrhous fibres are exhibited in Fig. 9, C. The scirrhus of the liver was situated immediately under the peritoneum on its upper convex side : it was round, of the size of a small apple, tolerably compact and yet fragile, exhibiting internally a reddish brown colour, interspersed with whitish and bluish portions.