MALFORMATIONS. 018 of the developed individual. (We should here probably place a case described by J. C. L. Haack, in his Diss. sistens. descr. anat. et del. foetus parasitici. Kiliae, 1826). 2. Hypognatus ; where a very defec- tive second head is situated nor the lower jaw of the developed indi- dual. 3. Augnathus; where a very rudimentary head, which is almost limited to a lower jaw, is seated on the lower jaw of the developed indi- vidual. 3. On a well developed, or more or less normal body, a second, smaller and more or less defective one may be situ- ated, which, after birth, does not increase in size. It is gene- rally attached to the thorax, or upper part of the abdomen (heterodidymus, Gurlt). Geoffroy St. Hilaire* places these cases in three subdivisions: 1. Heteropages-, where the undeveloped second individual possesses an evident head, and at least rudiments of lower extremities, and is, there- fore, almost complete. 2. Heteradelphus ; where the parasite consists of only a lower half of a body—its head and sometimes also its thorax being wanting. 3. Heterodymus; where the parasite consists of only an imperfect upper half of a body (head, neck, and thorax); the lower half being wanting. Additional cases are described by J. Wirtensohn, Duor. monstror. dupl. human, descript. Berol. 1825 ; and by J. Faese- beck, in Muller’s Archiv. 1842, p. 61. 4. In a more or less perfectly developed individual there may be concealed under the skin, in a tumour or in a cavity of the body—commonly in the abdomen—parts of a second individual, which, however, are not amalgamated with the corresponding parts of the first, but are more or less isolated. This condition has received the name of foetus in fcetu. It is most probably caused by the inclusion of one gem by another ; not, as Meckel believed, by generative-like multipli- cation. With this condition we must not confound extra-uterine pregnancy with ossification of the child (lithopadion) nor the bony particles formerly mentioned, which, with teeth and hair, sometimes occur in encysted tumours, and by some are maintained to be parts of a fatus. “ this nature are given in Meckel, vol. n. p. 69, &c.; Geoffroy - • vol. III. p. 291, &c., who names these malformations endocymicns, also * PI. xviii. and vol. hi. p, 211, &c.