DROPSIES. 39 regarded as one of dropsy. In many cases a portion of the protein- compounds is thrown down by the mere addition of water, but on adding a neutral salt, the precipitate dissolves, as is frequently ob- served in the albumen of the egg. From these observations, it follows that the protein-compounds occurring in dropsical fluids, present various chemical modifications—modifications which, in the present deficient state of our knowledge regarding the protein-compounds, it is impossible clearly to elucidate. Urea has been frequently noticed in dropsical fluid*, thus in three cases, Marchand found 4.2, 6.8 and 5 in 1000 parts of fluid.* In other cases, again, this substance is either entirely absent, or is present in so very small an amount as to render its quantitative determination impossible (Scherer’sf and my own observations). I be salts in dropsical fluids are in general the same as occur in the serum of the blood. Chloride of sodium is usually the predominating ingre- dient; the other salts—phosphate and carbonate (?) of soda, sulphate of potash, phosphates of lime and magnesia, and lactates—occur in smaller and very variable quantities!. Under the term dropsical fluids, we include some which, from their pathology, are distinguished by special names; but which in respect to their chemical composition, as likewise to their mode of origin, are identical with the fluids we have been considering. These are the fluids of the bullous exan- themata (erysipelas bullosum, pemphigus, pompholyx), the vesicles resulting from burns, or from the application ot eantharides, and those occurring in gangrene. The for- mation of bulla? differs in this respect alone from true dropsy, that the fluid is not enclosed within a shut sac, or effused in the tissue of an organ, but is confined beneath the cuticle, which is thus elevated, so as to constitute a blister. Some of these fluids form, as it were, the transition from serous to fibrinous dropsy. Moreover, dropsical fluids may he mixed with the secretions; for instance, with the urine, which, in such cases, is albuminous; with the sputa in oedema of the lungs, &c. * Valentin’s Report, vol. n. p. 198, and veil. hi. p. 212. t Op. cit. p. 116; or Simon's Animal Chemistry, vol. n. p. 491. t Compare v. Bibra, op. cit. p. 159, &c ; Scherer, op. cit. p. 121, 124 , or Simon, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 490. &c.