PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 97 and other intestinal fluids, by which its albumen becomes coagulated. When it is found in the stomach, or has been discharged by vomiting, it is liable to be mistaken for bile. The diagnosis is easily effected by the addition of nitric acid, which changes the colour of bile from a dark into a clear green, then into a blue, violet, purple, and, finally, a pale red; while the blackish-brown blood, in the absence of bile, does : not undergo these modifications. 4. SOLUTION OF H.K MATIN AND SATURATION OF THE TISSUES WITH IT. When on making a dissection we observe the various organs of a blood-red colour, we sometimes hastily conclude that there is either extravasation of blood, or hypenemia, whereas a more careful examination would show that the red colour was due to the saturation of the tissues with serum containing haematin in solution. Heemutin seldom becomes dissolved during life, but often after death. We sometimes observe it during life in gangrene, and in putrid and petechial fevers. In these cases the blood obviously undergoes a che- mical change, which causes the haematin to dissolve in the serum. The nature of these changes is not accurately known ; they probably depend on various causes, such as the occurrence of free lactic acid, or of carbonate of ammonia in the blood, and possibly on a great diminution of the salts. In gangrene there is not unfrequently observed a clear red, or else a turbid brownish fluid in vesicles under the epidermis, constituting gangrenous ichor. This is merely serum tinged with dis- solved luematin; the brown colour occasionally noticed is pro- bably dependant on a modification of the luematin, produced either by an acid or by ammonia, similar to that which occurs in mekena. In those cases in which the haematin becomes dissolved during life, the whole mass of tin; blood is probably not affected, but only a portion, which has either stagnated in or escaped from the vessels.* This change is, however, of * See the description of fig. 10 in pi. ix. II VOL. I.