321 ENCEPHALOID. it is distinguished by its greater softness, by its more rapid course, and by its small amount of fibrous tissue. There is, however, no strict line of demarcat ion between them ; and many very characteristic cases have been at first sight regarded as encephaloid, which after a more careful examination seemed doubtful, or to occupy a transition-form between the two. The accurate limitation of encephaloid, is rendered more dif- ficult by its combining with other forms of tumour, as with melanosis (cancer melanodes) or with telangiectasis.* This combination may probably occur in several ways; the mela- nosis and the vascular structure may be superadded to the encephaloid, or conversely the encephaloid may be the last formed, or finally the two epigeneses may be simultaneous. There is also a species of false encephaloid, a morbid j epigenesis which in its physical properties appears identical with true encephaloid, but in its histological and physiolo- ! gical relations is essentially different from it. 1 once observed I a tumour of this nature in a lung; it was of the size of a walnut, ot a reddish-white tint, about as soft as brain, and was declared to be encephaloid by ;dl the physicians who wen1 present. When examined under the microscope it was found to be merely a deposition of oil-globules (fat) in the normal tissue of the lung, and hence there remained no doubt of its non-malignant nature.f This example may serve to ; show the possibility of such mistakes; future carefully con- ducted histological investigations will probably lead to the discovery of other forms ot tumour which may be mistaken for encephaloid. As instances of the coarser anatomical and physical, as well as of the histological relations of encephaloid, I may refer to the description of Plate vi. fig, 7 11. An instance of the transition-form merging into fibrous cancer, is given in the description of the case of cancer of the knee-joint represented in Plate viu. fig. 6—7. The following case will * See K. Froriep in the Encyclop. Wdrterbuch der medic. Wissen- schaft, vol. xiii. Berlin, 1835, art. Fungus. t See Plate vi. fig. 10, a, b.