200 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. genesis of osseous tissue is of frequent occurrence, as in the regeneration of destroyed or fractured bones, in hypertrophy of normal bone, which is sometimes local, forming a protu- berance on the external surface (exostosis) and is sometimes extended over the whole bone, or over several bones (hyper- ostosis). It sometimes occurs in parts, where in the normal condition no bone existed; as in the dura mater, the sesa- moid bones, ossification of tendons, &c.; in osseous tumours (osteoid), and in the ossification of cartilages which in the normal condition do not ossify, as for example, the larynx. In all these cases the newly formed osseous tissue more or less resembles normal bone; it exhibits the osseous corpuscles with their intermediate substance, and bony lamellae,* whilst the arrangement of these elements otfers, as in normal bone, the greatest diversity. The morphology and chemistry of development are here as in normal bone, still in many points obscure. What our experience has as yet taught us is as follows. In an amor- phous cytoblastema which is either liquid or solid, and yielded by the nutrient fluid or by fibrinous dropsy, cartilage-cells are first formed, and between them the amorphous intercel- lular substance of cartilage ; in short true cartilage. Simultaneously with this process, the original protein-com- pounds of the cytoblastema are converted into chondrin, which then changes into bone. In the first place the carti- lage-corpuscles are increased in size or number, so that they preponderate over the volume of amorphous intercellular substance, and adopting a peculiar arrangement, collect together in groups. From these groups of cells, cavities are formed, which by connecting with each other, produce the future medullary canals, and the cells of the spongy tissue. In them are formed marrow, vessels, &c. The intercellular substance separating the cavities, simultaneously undergoes a change; it separates itself into layers—the future osseous * Plate ix. fig. 7—9.