430 PARASITES. vet, even then, their astonishing variety discouraged me from it.” This announcement from one who has devoted so much of his atten- tion to this subject, applies, I believe, equally to the parasitic forms of plants occurring in man and animals. There can he no doubt, that here, as well as in the other organized productions of nature, there are distinct species which do not, as Kiitzing imagines, pass into each other; but they present such manifold varieties, and the lower grades of development of different species so closely resemble each other, that a definitive separation of them cannot, for a long time, he contemplated. It is, therefore, very questionable whether the division, which some have attempted, and which we shall adopt, of human parasitic plants into distinct species, wall be confirmed by future investigators. With respect to the questions, whether definite species of fungi are invariably found only in definite forms of disease, or conversely, whether in the same forms of disease, different species of fungi can sometimes occur, and the same species of fungus in different forms of disease, I believe that their reply must be for the present deferred, and that only by the una- nimous co-operation of physicians and botanists, we can hope to arrive at a safe conclusion. The following are the forms which have been hitherto ob- served in the human subject. I. FUNGI IN HUMAN FLUIDS. 1. The Yeast plant. Torula cerevisice, Turpin; Saccharomyces; My co- derma cerevisia, Desmazieres ; Cryptococcus fermentum, Kiitzing. This plant not unfrequently occurs in vomited fluids and in fecal evacuations; hence it is principally found in the intestinal canal, into which, in the majority ot cases, it is introduced from without, with fermenting fluids, especially beer. It is also possible that it may be developed in this locality by morbid fermentation taking place in the stomach and intestines, particularly by lactic-acid fermentation. It exists also, in the saccharine urine of diabetes mellitus, but, in all the cases with which I am acquainted, (and I have observed a considerable number) not until after its evacuation from the bladder. These plants arc round or oval corpuscles (cells), varying in diameter from the 800th to the 400th of a line, and many