PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 312 tion of a hypothesis respecting the formation of cancer, which has recently been regarded by many, without sufficient examination, as based on indubitable evidence. In opposition to this view, there is notliing to hinder us from assuming that cancer-cells are originally formed in the body, like other cells which occur in morbid epigeneses, as, for instance, pus-corpuscles. But the conditions giving rise to one or other form of cell are still for the most part unknown; and I deem it unnecessary to submit to a similar examination the other opinions which have been promulgated regarding the causes of cancer, since they would lead us too far from our subject, and afford no valuable results. Attempts of this kind finally lead to the subject of miasm, contagion, &c.—points which belong rather to general pathology than to patholo- gical anatomy. The preceding observations respecting its propagation, lead to the belief that cancer proceeds chiefly from the vascular system, namely, from the veins—a view supported by certain anatomists, and, amongst others, by Cruveilhier. The cancerous matter observed in the veins is certainly very rarely formed there as a primary product, but is usually secondary, depending on a propagation of the cancerous matter in the blood. Indeed, in many cases no cancerous matter is observed in them, but merely pale coagula of fibrin, similar to those which occur in phlebitis : this has been shewn by Hannover.* The assertion, that cancer can only form in certain organs, as, for instance, in cellular tissue, is negatived by direct observations. For other views on the subject of cancer, and for the literature with which they are supported, we must refer to J. Muller’s original work, or to Dr. West’s transla- tion. I must here revert to the opinion maintained for many years by Hodgkin, and still again recently!' brought forward by him in opposition to the view that cancer is formed from the cells. It consists essentially in this—that all cancerous tumours both in man, and in the lower animals, arise from the compound cysts already described. The following considerations may serve as a clue to the correct esti- mation of this view, which appears to me to contain much truth, although not to admit of the general application that Hodgkin supposes. We have already seen that cysts may arise from morbid blastemata under very different relations, when the surrounding parts or the peri- pheral portion of the blastema become organized. I he same may happen in certain cases when the greater part of the blastema is con- verted into a pseudoplasma; the cancer may then be associated with a more or less complicated cyst-formation. Moreover, those forms * Op. cit. p. S6. i Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, 1S43, p. 242.