222 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. of making similar observations. This appears to illustrate the probable origin of fibrous tumours in man, at least of such as occur in the stomach, the intestinal canal, and more especially in the uterus, where there are frequent opportu- nities for the formation of coagula and of fibrinous exudations. In proportion to the smallness of the exudation, is the in- fluence of the surrounding normal fibrous tissue, and the faci- lity with which the exudation can be organized: consequently the most perfectly formed fibrous tumours are cases of hy per- trophy, where the exudation is gradual and never in laige quantities; and conversely, when the exudation is in large quantity, it is probable that the amorphous fibrous tumours arc formed. When the tumour has once arisen, it is easy to explain its further growth. In those tumours which are pro- vided with vessels, this growth takes place not simply at the surface, but through the entire mass. Moreover, in very large tumours we observe on making a thin section, fibres in the course of development—caudate cells. The further progress of fibrous tumours is very similar to that of fatty tumours. They are in themselves throughout their whole course non-malignant, but they may in various ways become injurious, as by pressure on nerves, vessels, &c • or by their size which often becomes very considerable, such tumours attaining a weight of twenty pounds or even more. They then distend the skin, cause its veins to swell, and give rise to inflammation, suppuration, and ulceration. Many fibrous tumours, especially those seated in the uterus, ossify ; that is concretions are formed in them—unorganized depositions of calcareous salts, which are often falsely regarded as newly formed osseous substances. Of these we shall speak in our observations on concretions. We shall presently notice the combinations of rous tumours with malignant epigeneses. Though it is impossib e to divide fibrous tumours into proper species, yet the follow- ing forms and transitions may be distinguished. e cc fully developed fibrous tumours approach nearly to areolar