542 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. crepitate, and on making a recent section, exhibited a dark violet tint. It appeared, on making a microscopic examination, that it contained no air, but much blood; when this was removed by wash- ing, the pulmonary tissue appeared to be everywhere filled with pus. The corpuscles of this pus (A and B) deviated in some respects from the ordinary type ; their form was more irregular than usu<U, they were not perfectly round, many of them being elongated, and some a little angular; their margin was for the most part very sharply defined, and their surface not so granular as usual. In size they varied from the 500th to the 150th of a line. On the addition of acetic acid they underwent the ordinary change; their capsules became transparent, and as they gradually disappeared, the nuclei came in view ; they did not, however, exhibit the ordinary cup-shaped form with any distinctness (C and D). Ammonia entirely dissolved both capsules and nuclei. A, B, and C are magnified 220, and D 410 diameters. Fig. 11. Pus from what is called a cold abscess on the right shoulder of a vigorous young man. Magnified 220 diameters. The pus which was discharged amounted to about two ounces; it consisted of a rather thin, pale yellow fluid, and delicate thready flocculi of a yellow tint; hence it differed essentially from good creamy pus. It had a strongly alkaline reaction. The microscope revealed the presence of pus-corpuscles, almost nil of which were transparent and delicate, with a distinct margin; and some slightly, others not at all granulated. In some the nucleus could be seen through the capsule (A). On the addition of acetic acid there was an abundant coagulation of an amorpho-fibrous cha- racter ; and on the addition of alum there was an abundant coagula- tion of a granulo-amorphous character (pyin r) The yellow filamentous flocculi which were swimming in the fluid consisted of accumulations of minute and imperfectly formed pus- corpuscles, which were connected in irregular groups by an indis- tinct granulo-fibrous medium of communication. On the addition of acetic acid, this combining tissue became somewhat paler, without, however, disappearing; and numerous fat-granules came in view. Ammonia produced little effect on this granular matter. Fig. 12—15. Granular cells (Gluge’s compound inflammatory glo- bules, exudation-globules), magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 12. Elucidates the development of granular cells. All the cells in this figure were obtained from the same inflamed lung. At first we perceive the granular cells as simple cells without granules,