PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 328 to neither encephaloid nor scirrhus, but embraced in one of tiie numerous forms of cancerous tumour, which do not find a place in our artificial arrangements, however much we may extend them. A second transition-form is that into gelatinous cancer, of which wre shall speak presently. The third series of transition-forms are those into non- malignant fibrous tumours. These are of the highest patho- logical importance, and are more likely to occur in proportion as the scirrhus is removed from encephaloid. In tumours previous to softening, it is often impossible to distinguish whether the few cells observable amongst the fibres are cancer- cells, or whether they are the developmental cells of other tissues, and this is a point on which microscopic examination can throw little light. Even after the establishment of soften- ing, the diagnosis is sometimes uncertain, since non-malig- nant fibrous tumours may also undergo that change. It is a question which must be answered by future observers, whether in such cases cancer-cells are superadded as secondary formations to a fibrous tumour, originally non-malignant. I regard this secondary formation as not improbable, for we frequently observe that tumours which have existed for years without giving rise to more than mechanicid annoy- ance, rapidly soften and become converted into cancer; I have, in several cases, observed this to occur in fibrous tumours of the uterus and mammary gland. Hence many forms of scirrhus should be regarded as combinations of encephaloid with fibrous tumour, and I must express my conviction, that many cases which from their pathology and morbid anatomy have been termed scirrhus, have been merely epigeneses of fibrous tissue. Although Andral first called attention to it, yet almost daily we observe simple hypertrophy of the mus- cular or cellular coat of the intestinal canal, mistaken for scirrhus,—an error I have myself repeatedly witnessed. A further difficulty in the diagnosis arises when a cance- rous tumour consists for the most part of an amorphous solid cytoblastema. There are no means of distinguishing this