558 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. nut, and of a reddish white colour. It was quite soft, could easily be reduced to a pulp, and resembled cerebral substance. From these physical characters, it was pronounced to be encephaloid of the lung. Under the microscope the tumour showed : 1. A very evident net- work of capillary vessels, which were filled with blood (the lower portion of the figure.) Magnified 90 diameters. 2. The tumour consisted for the most part of little oleaginous globules varying from the 200th to the 1500th of a line in diameter (the upper por- tion of the figure). Magnified 220 diameters. They appeared in great quantities, and were soluble in ether and alcohol, in which they collected in large drops; ammonia did not affect them. On the removal of these oleaginous drops by pressure and wash- ing, the normal substance of the lung remained without showing any trace of abnormal formation. The lung in the vicinity of the tumour was in a perfectly healthy condition. Fig. 11. Encephaloid from the inguinal glands of an aged woman. The uterus as well as the inguinal glands on the right side were attacked by encephaloid, which was similar in its microscopic and physical characters in both organs. It was of a yellowish white colour, fatty, and of the consistence of brain. Under the micro- scope its chief constituents appeared to be cells of irregular form varying from the 400th to the 150th of a line in diameter (a). They were mostly round or oval, comparatively few being caudate. There was also much fat in minute granules and globules (6) : the granules were heaped together in large masses in some places (c). A few granular cells (d) were also present. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 12—15. Typhous matter deposited in the various organs during the progress of typhus. Fig. 12. Typhous matter from the mesenteric glands of a girl aged fifteen years, who died of typhus. The patient was brought to the Munich hospital, after having been ill fourteen days, with a high pulse, and suffering from exces- sive heat. The lungs were less affected than usual, but the abdomi- nal organs were especially implicated, as shown by their tympanitic state, and profuse diarrhoea. Her strength failed suddenly, and death ensued on the eighth day after her admission into the hospital; and at the height of the disease. On dissection, the brain and spinal cord were found to be normal; the lungs were sound, but somewhat congested in their lower lobes;