581 EXPLANATION OF THE PL.VTK8, gangrenous spleen, with black granules, (pseudo-melanosis,) is repre- sented. A man died from tubercles in the lungs, with perforation of the pleura and effusion of the softened tubercular mass into the pleural cavity. He had exhibited mi symptoms of derangement of the spleen; it was, however, larger than common, of a slate colour on the outer surface, and partially covered with old false membranes. In some places irregubirly oval, yellowish white si>eck» about the size of a bean were visible, presenting the appearance of tubercles shining through the fibrous membrane. On cutting the spleen through the centre, it appeared normal, but rather soft. The external edge was of a dark bluish black colour; the coloration penetrating at some points only one or two lines in depth, and at others seven or eight lines; iu those places which appeared externally as yellowish white specks, the dark tint extended to the greatest depth. The spleen emitted a fetid gangrenous odour. Ihe red portion of the spleen, with the exception of being rather soft, was quite normal. It was very full of blood, and when this was removed by washing, normal spleen-corpuscles appeared (caudate cells, filaments with nuelei lying on them), which formed the parenchyma of the spleen without there being any intervening substance. When they were dissolved in ammonia, nothing remained but the vessels, and the fibrous bundles in the stroma of the spleen. 1 he black substance on tlie edge of the spleen was very soft, and admitted ot being easily reduced to a pulp. Where it occurred in thin layers, it consisted of an accumulation of intensely black granules, winch were irregularly round, and varied from the 400th to the SOOth, or even 1000th of a line in diameter; and were neither dissolved or iu any way altered by acetic acid, water, ammonia, or nitric acid. In some parts the black matter was so tluckly crowded together that no individual granules could be discerned. \\ here the black coloration penetrated deeply into the interior, larger or smaller portions of decomposed blood were found in the tissue of the spleen, forming coagulated masses of a yellowish, or blackish browu colour, such as are commonly met with in gangrene. Between them there were black (melanotic) granules in large quan- tities (Fig. 10). « a are portions of decomjiosed blood— b b are the melanotic granules intersjiersed between them.