383 CONCRETIONS IN THE PARENCHYMA. by myself, is described in the explanation of Plate x. fig. 2. It con- sisted chiefly of calcareous salts. In these two cases, although it was not strictly proved that the con- cretions actually had their seat in the cutaneous glands, and not in the adjacent parenchyma of the skin, yet the former is the more probable. With the concretions already considered, we must associate others in which the organs yielding the secretions from which rthe concrements are formed are themselves morbid epigeneses. !To this class belong the ossified encysted tumours mentioned in p. 255, where the epidermic or epithelial cells, which invest their walls or fill their interior, become incrusted by the depo- sition of calcareous stilts, and, adhering together, form a con- cretion ; and the cases in which cholesterin occurs in solid masses as a cholesteatoma. Moreover, the reported ossifica- tions of many entozoa—of hydatids, the trichina spiralis, &c., of which we shall speak presently—belong to this category. SECOND C L A S S. CONCRETIONS IN THK PARENCHYMA OF ORGANS* Concretions not only occur in the glands and their excre- tory passages, but frequently also in the parenchyma of organs. These concretions are generally formed in accordance with the same principles and in the same manner as those already considered, but they do not exhibit so great a diversity, since the mother-liquids from which they are formed almost always present the same, or very similar chemical properties. Their physical properties exhibit great variations. When they occur in small quantity, they form extremely fine precipitates, which are generally only visible through the microscope, and appear as incrustations of loroign bodies or of organized tissues ; col- lected in larger masses, they torm more or less isolated, and more or less solid portions—cretaceous masses, stones; or they become as it were, fused into the organized portions, and form the so-called ossifications. All those distinctions and terms are, however, very indefinite, since they are onlv