DROPSIES. 36 fragments of epithelium from the serous surface, accidentally mixed with the fluid, pus-corpuscles from secondary suppu- ration, blood-corpuscles accidentally present, or finally, but rarely, an actual deposition of inorganic matter. The fluid of hydrocele frequently contains a crystalline deposit of cholesterin. The many differences observed in the physical properties of drop- sical fluids are dependant, for the most part, on the presence of extra- neous matter. In a perfectly pure condition, the fluid of dropsy is either colourless, or of a yellow or yellowish green tint from the presence of bile-pigment. On the addition of nitric acid, it then yields the series of colours indicative of bile-pigment; that is to say, a little nitric acid renders it green; on the addition of more acid, it becomes blue, then violet-coloured, a hyacynthine tint, and finally of a pale yellowish red colour. A red colour is dependant on hsematin ; a milk- white turbidity, on the admixture of fat or epithelium scales, or of albumen, if the fluid is veiy aqueous.* The consistence varies with the chemical composition ; the more water is present, the thinner it is. A large quantity of albumen renders it viscid ; a very large quantity (above 12%) renders it thick, tenacious, and capable of being drawn out in threads, like albumen itself. Its alkaline reaction appears to be due, like that of the blood, to alkaline carbonates (?) or basic phosphates. An acid reaction is rare, but sometimes occurs in dropsy after miliary fever and acute rheumatism : the acid on which the reaction is dependant is probably lactic acid. I have on several occasions attempted to isolate it, but always without success, in consequence of the small quantity present. The chemical constituents of the dropsical fluid are identical with those of the serum of the blood.; water, organic substances, especially dissolved albumen, fat, and extractive matters, (sometimes, also, small quantities of urea, bile-pigment, and hiematin) and various salts, (chiefly alkaline and earthy carbo- nates, (?) and phosphates, and chlorides.) The amount of these constituents is somewhat variable ; sometimes the dropsical fluid is identical in its quantitative composition with the serum of the blood; but, most commonly, there is more water and * Scherer, Untersuch. p. 113; or Simon’s Animal Chemistry', Lon- don, 1846, vol. ii. p. 491.