EXPLANATION OF TOE PLATES. 580 This redness penetrated to the bone and was associated with serous infiltration of the tissues. The muscles were also changed, being soft, viscid, and easily torn. Muscular tissue from the middle of the forearm was examined under the microscope. It was of a grayish red colour, and very soft. The primitive fibres of the muscles retained their normal form, but they were very pale, transparent, gelatinous, and without any trace of their normal transverse strife (Fig. 8). The cellular tissue, however, still retained its normal relations, showing the usual curved fibrous bundles. Between the muscles and the cellular tissue there were numerous fat-globules. There was no trace of blood corpuscles ; they appeared to be wholly dissolved. The same relation was exhibited by parts from other muscles of the fore-arm. The primitive fibres were pale, gelatinous, and without any trace of being striated, but the cellular tissue was normal. The blood-corpuscles had everywhere disappeared, while the fluid which saturated the whole of the tissue was of an uniform red colour. On the right arm the subcutaneous tissue was also inflamed, espe- cially in the vicinity of the wound previously mentioned ; showing very considerable and numerous ecchymoses and incipient gangrene.. The muscles were somewhat less soft, and less easily torn than in the left arm. In the adipose cellular tissue, infiltrated with blood, blood-corpuscles were seen under the microscope partly dissolved, and partly still present, but all changed (spherical, dentated, and indistinct). The greater number of the fat-cells contained groups of crystals of mar- garin. The primitive muscular fibres appeared pale, and in parts striated, while in other portions this appearance was wanting. (Fig. 9). Fig. 8. Exhibits primitive fibres of muscle, softened by gangrene, whose striated appearance was quite lost. They are covered with numerous fat-globules (on the left arm). Fig. 9. Shows primitive fibres of muscle softened by gangrene, taken from the right arm. They are pale, the striated character still discernible in some parts, but wanting in others ; their destruction is therefore not so far advanced as those delineated in Fig. 8. Both figures are magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 10. Exhibits gangrene with extravasated and decomposed blood. Magnified 220 diameters. In t his figure a mass of decomposed blood from a partially