MALFORMATIONS. 488 8th. Diseases of the foetus, and abnormal states of its envelopes. A classification of malformations presents numerous difficulties, and, in whatever manner it is attempted, must necessarily be very imperfect. In an anatomico-pathological point of view, it should, in my opinion, only claim to be in some degree a methodical register, affording an idea of the forms not merely actually occurring, but of all that can possibly occur, and thus enabling us to class a newly discovered malfor- mation with known allied forms. This appears to me to be accomplished by the above classification. I regard the objection which maybe brought against it, that it is not perfectly logical, because the malformations of the genital organs form in it a class of their own, as unimportant; for there are strong reasons in favour of their collection into a special class. For other objects other classifications may be more fitting, as, for ex- ample, that based on the causes of malformations, or on the influence which malformations exercise upon life, health, and on the civil useful- ness of the individual affected—a basis of classification which might be of more sendee to the medical jurist, but is of no value to us m this place. Accounts of other classifications, and critiques on them, may be seen in Geoffroy St. Hilaire and Bischotf. Op. cit. FIRST CLASS. TXT whtph cfrtain farts are entirely absent, MALFORMATIONS, IN WHICH CERIAiiN or are too small—Monstra deficientia. first order. deficiencies, in the strict sense of the word. We must here notice those cases in which certain parts of the body are altogether absent. This order comprises a great number of forms, of which the following constitute the best marked groups : n 1. Completely shapeless malformations (amorphus, Gurlt, anideus* Geoffroy St. Hilaire.) The monster presents t c appearance of a more or less shapeless lump, with no indica- tion of definite organs; it consists merely of integument, cellular tissue, serous fluid, fat, rudimentary bone and vascu- lar ramifications, with an umbilical cord. It has been hithuto * From a and «Ifc£ form ; hence, synonymous with amorphous.