GELATINOUS TUMOURS. 237 completely amorphous and so perfectly transparent, that it is not easy to see it. In the cases which I have examined, it coagulated, on the addition of acetic acid, into a colourless, striated, amorphous mass: the same reaction was caused by sulphate of the protoxide of iron, infusion of galls and (to a less degree) by alum, alcohol, and bichloride of mercury. Nitric acid and nitrate of silver caused only a slight turbidity which was doubtless dependant on the presence of albumen. It was insoluble both in cold and boiling water. Its quantity was too small to admit of ultimate analysis; until, however, this is effected nothing certain can be determined concerning its chemical constitution. It may be inquired whether the gelatin possesses the same properties in ;dl tumours. In six cases, which I have now investigated, its character seemed perfectly identical, and it presented the above reactions. 1 consider this substance which in its chemical and physical characters is analogous to mucus and pyin (as far as its properties are known) to be non-malignant; when a tumour is composed of it, sis in the gelatinous cancer (colloid), it appears to me that this results rather from mechanical causes—distension of the tissues by the deposited mass, &c. than from a specific action, as in the strictly malignant tumours. Nothing can as yet be stated with certainty concerning the origin of this substance; it arises, however, in all probability like normal mucus, from changed protein-compounds of the blood. The elucidation of these relations can only be expected when the chemistry of the metamorphosis of tissues shall be better known than it is at present. Under the head of gelatinous tumour, J. Muller has described Collo- nema, a peculiar tumour which I myself have not yet seen and which I shall notice here,* since I do not perceive where else it can be included. According to him, it consists of " a remarkably soft gelatiniform tissue, which trembles upon touching. The organised elements form very * Archiv. 1836, Jahresber.