PARASITES. 436 and thus it might seem as if they had been engendered beneath the epidermis. The most accurate description of these fungi has been given by Gruby * * * § although they were previously noticed by Schonlein.f and E. H. Fuchs.} See also, the memoir of J. H. Bennett.§ 2. Fungi in the sheath of the hair in cases of menta- gra, have been observed by Gruby. They form a layer around the root of the hair, between it and the sheath, investing it as closely as a glove fits itself to the finger. The fungi resemble, generally, those of favus, but their spores arc not oval, as in that case, but present a roundish appear- ance, and the thallus-filaments proceeding from the spore- cells, have frequently small granules in their interior. In reference to the origin and pathological indication of these fungi, no doubt the same holds good, as has been stated in relation to tinea. || 3. Fungi in the interior of the hair roots have been ob- served in herpes tonsurans by Gruby and Hebra, and in plica polonica by Giinsburg. They are developed in the interior of the hair-root, from small round spores; these soften, ren- der the hair brittle, and finally cause it to break off, or to fall out.^[ Under this head, we must include the fungi which are ■ observed in certain cases upon the skin in gangraena senilis, and upon blistered surfaces a few days before death ;** also * Comptes rendus, July and August, 1841. f Muller’s Archiv. 1839, p. 82, with figures. } Die krankhaften Veriinderungen der Haut, Gottingen, 1840. § Trans, of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xv. Part ii. || See Gruby, Comptes rendus, 1842, t. xv. p. 512, where there are also laid down distinctions, which I, however, believe to be unessential, between this plant, and other parasitic fungi. <| See Gruby, Comptes rendus, 1844, t. xvm. p. 583; Giinsburg in Mfiller’s Archiv. 1845, p. 34, with figures ; see also the chapter in the special part, on the anatomy of the hair. ** Heusinger, Bericht von derKdnigl. zootomischen Anstalt in Wiirz- burg, 1826, p. 29.