83 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. Juki, but yet exhibits a tendency to the formation of small dots. The hypostatic appearances on the dead body are rifling. In marasmus (senilis vcl praeeox) the blood is black and ' luid, deficient in quantity, and forms no clot. It soon red- dens on exposure to the atmosphere, but, on account of its inmall quantity, forms no hypostases. In scurvy the properties of the blood closely resemble those in suppurative fermentation. It has, however, a deeper colour, and gives rise during life to the formation of petechias, out not to purulent depositions. Moreover, the blood in wcurvy readily induces liquefaction of the tissues (ulcerative destruction), without any trace of reaction or inflammation. The blood of persons addicted to intoxication belongs to the same category. It is very difficult, indeed impossible, from these statements, and those >f other observers, to draw any certain conclusions respecting the changes of the separate constituents of the blood, or the causes of such changes. In fact our whole knowledge respecting the physical and chemical clianges of the blood is in the highest degree unsatisfactory, uid the statements of different observers vary so widely, that it is impos- sible to deduce any general laws from them. It is probable that many may regard the preceding observations as unnecessary and aimless ; I had a double view in arranging them in this form. In the first place, I was desirous of showing how little certain information we possess on this subject, and how dangerous it is to base theories for whole classes >f diseases, and proposals for their treatment, merely on individual jbservations. Secondly, I trust that they will afford a convincing proof >f the number of different acting forces to be kept in mind, in consider- ing the various pathological changes of the blood. 2. CHANGES IN THE QUANTITY OF TITE BLOOD. The amount of blood in the human body may undergo changes, and may either be increased or diminished. An abnormal abundance constitutes plethora or hyperaemia; a diminution, anaemia. Hyperaemia or anaemia may either be general (in which rase the whole mass of blood in the body