240 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. the histological condition of the affected part, and originate according to the same laws as oedema generally. They are observed rather frequently on many parts of the body, espe- cially on such as consist of a lax areolar tissue, as the sperma- tic cord (forming hydrocele of the cord), in the choroid plexus of the brain, also beneath serous membranes, i. c. between the membrane and the cellular tissue which connects it with the subjacent parts, beneath the pleura pulmonalis, under the peritoneum, and on the surface of the fallopian tubes; also in the parenchyma of many organs, especially in that of the ovaries. A large proportion of the tumours known as ovarian dropsy belong to this group. These vesicles appear sometimes solitary, at other times in clusters; this seems to be dependant partly upon the anatomico-histological structure of the organ, and partly upon the extent of the disease. I have repeatedly examined hydatids of the cord; and they always exhibited the above mentioned character. That is, they consisted of lax areolar tissue distended into membranous vesicles containing, in irre- gular cellular spaces, a clear, transparent, aqueous fluid, which coagu- lates on boiling. When the fluid was evacuated by puncture, the areolar tissue collapsed and no trace of the previous cavities could be subsequently detected. The following case may serve as an example of a hydatid in which the fluid did not coagulate by heat. In 1837 while instituting an examination of the body of a deformed woman aged fifty- six years, who had been greatly afflicted with ventral hernia and ana- sarca, I found under the left kidney (which was healthy) between the peritoneum and lumbar muscles, a false hydatid of the size and shape of a human kidney. It was covered over by the peritoneum, and was attached to the lumbar muscles by lax areolar tissue : its sac consisted of a very delicate transparent membrane, which was formed merely of areolar tissue, possessed no internal epithelium, and was most inti- mately connected with the surrounding parts. It contained about two ounces of a homogenous, transparent straw-coloured fluid, in which no solid corpuscles could be detected by the microscope. This fluid was not affected by heat, but coagulated readily and abundantly on the addition of alcohol, nitric acid, and nitrate of silver; it was, no doubt, the same which formed the oedema in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and evi- dently was produced by the same cause. Another kind of these false hydatids closely corresponds