297 CANCER. there is a new cell-formation, while the thick cell-wall assumes a fibrous character. This peculiar metamorphosis of a cell is analogous to nothing hitherto observed; I have, however, so frequently made the observations leading to this view of the case, that I regard it as beyond a doubt. This structure is chiefly formed of the fibres soluble in acetic acid; those which are insoluble in that re-agent—the elastic fibres—occur much more rarelv in cancer, and never in large masses. They appear also regularly arranged in a reticulated form, and cross-barred, or else in irregular meshes. 5. Blood-vessels also form an element (although not an essential one) of cancerous tumours. In some forms they are altogether absent, in others they are present, but appear to belong to the normal tissue, within which the cancerous matter has been deposited; as for instance, in the soft forms of cancer, where the newly formed cancerous matter is not sufficiently firm to compress the vessels of the tissues infil- trated by it. Some forms of cancer, on the other hand, un- doubtedly contain new vessels which appear for the most part between the fibrous elements; rarely, if ever, between the cells. In open cancer (cancerous sores) granulations are formed which are remarkably vascular; of these, however, we shall speak presently. The cases of cancer which are fur- nished with very numerous new vessels, form a distinct variety to which the name Fungus hannatodes has been given ; but many cases which have been described by different authors as fungus haematodes, do not in reality belong to cancer. In cancer as in other forms of tumour, it often becomes a disputed point, whether or not there are blood-vessels present. It appears to me that the whole question of dispute is made clear by the preceding observations, and indeed, after all, it is a point of no great importance. Some, after injections, have found only arteries, and no veins; we may understand this, if we remember how much more easily the veins may be compressed and obliterated by the pressure of the cancerous matter, and likewise how much more easily they may l>ecome filled with it, than