79 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. The amount of albumen may be determined in the following manner. A weighed quantity of serum is neutralised with a little acetic acid, in order to decompose anv albuminate of soda that may be present, and then diluted with water and boiled till the albumen coagulates into flocculi. These are collected on a filter of known weight, washed with water, and dried on the water-bath. The accuracy of the determination may be increased by boiling the dried albumen in ether, which takes up any fat that may be present. E. The salts of the blood may be either increased or diminished.—Variations in the amount of the fixed salts (those, namely, left after incineration of the blood) arc not only of common occurrence, but of considerable pathological importance. The salts are increased in scurvy, and it is very probable that this change influences the condition of the fibrin, hindering its coagulability, and perhaps checking its formation; that it affects the blood-corpuscles by withdraw- ing their water, rendering them granular, and collecting them in heaps; and that it thus plays an essentiid part in the disease itself. On the other liand a diminution of the salts is of considerable importance; it causes a tumidity of the corpus- cles, favours their adherence to each other, and, according to Henle, tends to produce the retardation in the capillaries in inflammatory affections, of which we shall say more pre- sently. Moreover, the relative proportions of the different salts may change. If these observations entitle us to conjec- ture that we may expect important developments in this department of pathology, we are not yet in a condition to deduce general laws respecting these augmentations or dimi- nutions. The mean amount of fixed salts in 1000 parts of normal blood has l>een variously estimated by different observers, some assigning it at 8—9, others 12—13 parts. The amount is estimated by incinerating the blood in a platinum crucible ; an operation requiring considerable time, but facilitated by frequently moistening the ashes with distilled water; it must be continued till the residue forms a white or faintly coloured saline mass.