MALFORMATIONS. 500 From the rather copious literature of this subject, I may especially notice : Cruveilhier, Anat. pathol. liv. 33, PI. v and vi, andliv. 40, PI. vi; Otto, op. cit. p. 153 et seq.; idem, Monstr. hum. sex anat. et path, disquis. Francofurt, 1811; A. Kaw Boerhaave, Hist. anat. infantas, cujus pars corpor. infer, monstrosa. Petropol. 1754 ; Rossi, Diss. Jenens. 1800; Kohler, Diss. Jenens. 1831 ; Maier, Dissert. Tubingens, 1837 ; M.M. Levy, de sympodia. Diss. Havnise, 1833 ; and Huesker, de vitiis syngeneticis, adjecta monstri sireniformis descr. Gryphise, 1841. Geoft'roy St. Hilaire (PI. v, andvol. ii. p. 237), names these malforma- tions, Symeliens, and arranges them, according to the degree of the deformity, into three subdivisions : 1. Symeles, with the limbs amalga- mated, but otherwise almost perfect, terminating in a double foot, whose sole is directed anteriorly. 2. Uromeles, with the limbs amalga- mated, very imperfect, terminating in a simple foot which is almost always imperfect, and has the sole directed anteriorly. 3. Sirenomeles, when the two lower extremities are completely fused together, and are in the highest degree imperfect, terminating in a stump or pomt, without evident foot. 3. To these we may add certain other amalgamations, whose existence, however, does not affect viability. The principal and most frequent of these are: Coalescence of the fingers and toes (syndactylus, Gurlt). This form occurs in two degrees: in the lower degree, merely the soft parts—muscles, cellular tissue, and skin, or the latter alone—are united, and the bones are double: in the higher degree, the phalanges are also amalgamated. This malforma- tion is sometimes complete on both hands and leet at the same time, but more frequently it is confined to certain pairs of fingers or toes* It is to be viewed merely as an anatomical, not as a physiological coalescence, since the germinal matter of the hands and feet is simple, and only at a comparatively advanced period of development is divided into individual fingers and toes. _ i The congenital fusion of those viscera which normally occur in pairs, as the kidneys and ovaries, are, for the sake avoiding repetition, noticed in the special part. * Cases with illustrative plates ape given in Otto, op. cit. p. 312, et seq.