473 ECHINOCOCCUS HOMIMS. highest degree apathetic. Upon dissection I found the whole substance of the brain interspersed with cysticcrci. The existence of the q/slicercus viscerulis described by some as a human entozoon is extremely problematical. See Bremser, p. 244. 2. The echinococcus hominis, consists in the first place of an external vesicle, which, as in the case of the cysticercus,is formed by, and is firmly united to the part of the body in which the entozoon is situated. It owes its origin to coagulated fibrin, which, however, becomes gradually organised, and even inter- sected with vessels. It generally consists of fibrous tissue, which on its inner surface is coated with a more or less perfect epi- thelium. This membrane is sometimes thick, and has the cartilaginous condition not unfrequently shown by amorphous fibrous tissue generally (see p. 218). Within this membrane which does not pertain to the worm, there lies, perfectly loose and free from all organic connection with it, a second membrane which forms a completely shut sac, filled with fluid. This second membrane presents a jelly-like transpa- rency, but is sometimes milk-white; under the microscope it appears perfectly structureless, and may commonly be split into a very great (but indefinite) number of laminae; this appearance is very obvious on placing a section of it under the microscope, when it is seen to resemble the leaves of a book. With chemical reagents this membrane behaves like coagu- lated fibrin. In the interior of this evst, there exists a fluid which either encloses smaller vesicles of varying size, or on standing for some time, deposits a finely granular matter, which almost resembles pus, or more closely approximates in appearance to fine white sand. Under the microscope this granular matter resolves itself into a number of animalcules which present some resemblance to the diminished head of a cystieercus. Like this, they usually bear on the one ex- tremity a series of hooks, behind which there are several (usually four) suckers; the body usually contracts to an obtuse conical tail, which is sometimes separated from the fore part by a kind of constriction. This is the ordinary form of the ani-