PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 158 firmly maintaining the correctness of the above description, at least with reference to some of the forms. Their reasons are for the most part theoretical, and founded merely on analogy, and may be refuted by a similar mode of argument. Theoretically, it is not more improbable that granules should be formed from a fluid in the cavity of a cell, than that they should be formed from a fluid not enclosed within a cell. We observe, however, similar processes in most vegetable cells. Moreover, in encephaloid and scirrhus, cells at first perfectly homogeneous become afterwards filled with granules. Hence, for this mode of formation also, there is no lack of analogies. On the other hand I will not deny that occasionally the mode of formation may be reversed, namely, that isolated elementary granules may be first produced, which subsequently collect into groups, and finally become invested with a cell-membrane. Indeed, I believe that I have sometimes observed this process, that I have seen the accumulated granules gradually invested with a membrane, and granular cells or very similar forms produced. This I have witnessed in expectoration. There is also a third case of frequent occurrence. There arise in the solid or fluid cytoblastema, elementary granules, which either remain single or accumulate into irregular heaps without any cellular formation. They entirely resemble the molecular granules which have been already noticed as frequent constituents of normal pus. Cases also frequently occur where exudations, without any trace of cellular formation, break up directly into these elementary granules. Practically, it is often hard to distinguish whether this process or the formation of granular cells has existed. The difficulty arises when there has been no opportunity of observing the development in its earlier stages, but when the final results alone are subjected to microscopic examination; these final results being the same in both cases. 'V et as a sufficient number of cases have been observed, wherein on the one hand there is a mere distribution of the elementary granules without any trace of granular cells, and on the other, there are distinct granular cells without any isolated granules, we may consider ourselves well entitled to separate, theoretically, the two processes from each other. The diagnosis of granular cells is easy in those cases where they are perfectly formed and occur in large quantities. The granular bodies of the colostrum* have a close resemblance to them. But the constituent molecules here are of unequal size, and the entire corpuscles less regular than the true granular cells. In examining the fluid from an inflamed breast, the two may be confounded together, as 1 myself on one occa- * Plate hi. fig. 16.