124 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. type in accordance with which they were first formed, but differ very considerably in different structures. These changes may be divided into two groups depending on the properties of the product developed from the cells. It is the very same distinction as we meet with in the consideration of the elementary parts of the normal organism. In the first group we include those organs which, in their highest stage of development, retain their cellular formation, as for instance all epithelia, the blood-corpuscles, and the cellular constituents of the liver, kidney, and other glands. In the second group we include those parts in which the original cells undergo further modifications which destroy their cellular type. This is likewise the case with morbid products, and it may happen that either: firstly, the organized product is completed by the formation of cells ; or secondly, the cells altogether lose their characters as cells, and become changed into different tissues, with whose formation and perfection the process of develop- ment is concluded, and its object thoroughly attained. Let us now proceed to consider these possible relations somewhat more closely. 1. The morbid development may remain as a cellular formation, and the original cells having attained their highest degree of development, may undergo no further metamorphosis into other tissues. In the morbid products belonging to this class there are yet further differences to be noticed, namely, a. whether the cellular formation is persistent, and in its perfect form con- stitutes a fixed constituent of the organism; or, b. whether the cells are transitory, breaking up and being rejected or resorbed without being of any service to the organism, or contributing any permanent constituent to it. This distinction has reference not so much to the individual cells as to the tissues formed from them : moreover, in the persistent cellular for- mations the individual cells become gradually broken up in the process of metamorphosis, but new individuals are developed with the same rela- tions, so that the integrity of the tissue is maintained inviolate, while