582 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Fio. 11. The histological constituents of enchondroma. This figure represents a portion of enchondroma of the hand, with partial ossification. Magnified 220 diameters. This preparation is in the Pathological Museum of Clinical Sur- gery at Erlangen, where I examined it in the summer of 1841. I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Herz for the following notice of the patient, the operation he underwent, and the tumour on its first examination. George Spoerl, a peasant from Schleifhausen near Erlangen, aged thirty-four years, of a healthy family, and having himself enjoyed excel- lent health, came to the School of Clinical Surgery, at Erlangen, in the autumn of 1839, with a tumour on the last joint of the right thumb. Two years previously, several small pisiform excrescences had appeared upon it, which were not at first stationary, but became gradually larger, until they covered the whole volar surface of the phalanx. The skin covering them was at first normal, but it subsequently became red and discharged slightly; after which the patient suffered violent pain. He had used the thumb constantly when at work, and ascribed the aggravation of the disease to this circum- stance. On examination, it was found that the volar surface of the last phalanx of the thumb was covered with a tumour, of the size of a walnut, consisting of uneven separate tuberous divisions, varying from the size of a pin’s-head that of a pea or a hazel-nut, rounded off and well defined. The tumour covered by the reddened and dis- tended skin had a smooth porcelain-like appearance. It was immovable, and firmly seated upon the bone, while the upper nodules were cartilaginous to the touch, their base being firmer and more osseous. While the joint was still free, the upper phalanx was removed. The wound healed without any difficulty. An examina- tion after its extirpation shewed that the tumour consisted of sepa- rate divisions, which were cartilaginous above and on the sides; there being only isolated bony particles to be felt in the interstices. The base was osseous ; it was not, however, immediately attached to the phalanx, but separated from it by the periosteum. The tumour had penetrated in two places into the phalanx, which was consequently excavated at those parts. Firm membranous bands passed from the tumour to the phalanx, and their insertion could only be recognized after a careful preparation of the parts. The remaining parts were normal, but the whole phalanx thinner, excepting at the places of