24 PNEUMATOSES. portion of lung become distended, and contain a larger amount of air than in a state of health. If, however, in consequence of the pressure of the air, or the delicacy in the cell-walls, any laceration occurs, the air enters the parenchyma of the lung, and interlobular emphysema is the consequence. Air may likewise enter the cavities of the body in this mecha- nical way, cither from the respiratory organs or directly from the atmosphere. When vomicae in the lungs, communicating with the bronchi, perforate the cavity of the pleura, air is forced inwards and pneumothorax is the consequence. After wounds of the large superficial veins, especially in the vicinity of the heart, where the diastole of the light auiicle and the enlargement of the thorax during inspiration, exert a certain suction-force on the blood, the external air may enter the vein and thus be conveyed with the blood to the heart. Finally, it appears that many accumulations of gas take place mechanically in the course of the intestinal canal (espe- cially in the stomach) by the entrance of atmospheric air. Pneumatoses of the oesophagus and of the stomach are by no means rare, and most commonly occur in hysterical and hypochondriacal persons, especially when the stomach has been long empty, as two or three hours after meal-time. In some of these cases, there is an excess of acid developed in the stomach; in others, on the contrary, there is a deficiency. Their most frequent cause is a mental one* The stomach becomes swollen, and forms an elevated, elastic tumour be- neath the sternum, yielding a clear sound on percussion. Various nervous symptoms, palpitations, dyspnoea, angina, pain in the gastric region, &c. accompany the phenomenon, which usually disappears with eructations.f Many authors (P. Frank, Lobstein, &c.) are of opinion that in these cases the gas is secreted by the walls of the stomach. Budget has, * Sir Francis Smith, Dublin Med. Journal. Jan. 1841, p. 4o4. | P. Frank, op.cit. ยง 714. j Die Lehre vom Erbrechen, 1st Part.