472 PARASITES. is a product of the part in which it dwells. It owes its origin to fibrinous eflusion, ot which the fibrin coagulates, and is organized according to the mode formerly explained (p. 242). It appears that this capsule, as in the case of the trichina, may sometimes become filled with calcareous salts, and after the death of the worm become converted into a concretion. The pathological importance of this worm is entirely de- pendant on the tissue or organ it attacks. Whilst in many instances, as for example, in the brain, it may occasion serious accidents, or even death, the presence of a small number in the muscles or cellular tissue, often excites no symptoms of any sort. It is figured in Bremser, PI. iv, fig. 18 to 26. who has collected a number of the early cases in which it was observed in man, (p. 241). See also Tschudi, die Blasenwiirmer, Freiburg, 1837. An excellent micro- scopic representation is given by Gulliver, in his Observations on the structure of the entozoa, belonging to the genus Cysticerus. Medico- chirurg. transactions, 1841, p. 1 et seq. Ihe following cases ave been recently described : Fournier mentions an instance in which seven or eight cysticerci occurred in a boil upon a child aged six years. ^ has been observed in the eye by Summering, Mackenzie, t Hering+ Logan.|| It is extremely probable that the cysticerci are abortive and dropsical tcenia& which have entered the body from without; bu chancing to establish themselves in a spot unfavourable to their develop- ment, gradually degenerate without leaving issue; ova are never found in them ; the roundish bodies with the property of refracting light, which are perceived in their structures by the microscope are not ova, hut calcareous deposits, which dissolve with effervescence in acids. _ In the brain the cysticercus may produce dangerous symptoms. I examined a dog, which for some time had been completely blind, and in the * Joum. des connaiss. m6d. chirurg. Juin, 1841. f Gescheidt, in Ammon’s Zeitschr. f. Ophthalm. vol. in. p. 416. + Dublin Journal of Medical Science, Jan. 1841, p. 500. Other cases are recorded in Mediz. Vereinszeit. 1838; Froriep, N. Notiz. 1838, No. 170; Annales d’oeulistique. Mars, 1842; Oesterr. me • Wochenschr. 1843, No. 11 ; and Rayer, Archives de pathol. comparee. t. i. p. 125. || Todd’s Cyclopaedia, art. Entozoa, p. 119. § Dujardin, Histoirc des Helminthes, p. 633.