EPIGENESIS OF THE BLOOD AND VESSELS. 175 t Plate v. fig. 4. * Plate v. fig. 1—4. teraa; it is supported also by direct observation. In the midst of newly formed substance, (inflammatory exudation, &c.) accumulations of blood-corpuscles surrounded with more or less clearly indicated walls without any connection with the normal vessels are observed. It is true that we might be easily deceived on this point, since extravasated blood, which might be mistaken for a new formation, is mixed with many exudations; there remain, however, plenty of cases in which the attentive observer need be in no danger of being misled. According to my own observations* the process seems to be as follows: in an amorphous blastema (coagulated fibrin) red points are formed, which are commonly of a size sufficient to enable the observer to discern them with the naked eye. Under the microscope each point appears as a group of blood- corpuscles of various sizes, in form roundish, and without the central depression observable in perfect blood-corpuscles ; they have usually a clearly defined outline and a yellowish-red colour. Their diameter is generally something smaller than that of normal blood-corpuscles, being from the 600th to 450th of a line. I have never observed that newly formed blood- corpuscles in any pathological structure were (as is the case with the formation of blood in the embryo) greater than normal ones. They dissolve in water and acetic acid, with- out yielding any indication of nuclei: the groups of these blood-corpuscles have not at first a very distinct contour, but appear at the edges to merge into the surrounding exuda- tion ; their form is indefinite, roundish, elongated, or annu- lar. It is only after some time that these groups appear clearly distinct from the parenchyma; they then throw off rays or branches of a defined form ; still, however, destitute of true walls.f Probably the walls of the vessels are formed around them at a later period, when areolar tissue, muscular tissue, and epithelium, in accordance with the general laws of