121 CELLULAR FORMATION. essential modification. Under this form of non-nucleated . cellular formation, we must include the fibrinous flakes (.Faserstoffschollen) described by H. Nasse* if their general occurrence be confirmed. I have never yet succeeded in de- tecting them, although I have repeatedly sought for them both in blood and in exudations, and other observers have | been equally unsuccessful. J. Meyert explains them as being j merely epithelium rubbed from the walls ot the vessels. The non-nucleated corpuscles, somewhat resembling fibrinous flakes, which occur in encysted tumours, and in pus from glandular organs,! I certainly regard as epithelium. Hence the absence of the nucleus may be easily referred to resorp- tion, as certainly the older cells of the epidermis are non- nucleated. Colloid of the thymus presents another non- nucleated structure, which externally appears as if it were cellular. If we agree with Nasse in regarding these forma- tions as not composed of cells, but constructed according to distinct laws, nothing is gained by such a supposition. The cellular theory, if a general law of development is to be founded on it, must take cognizance of all these phenomena, and must endeavour to explain them in accordance with its own doctrines. Sometimes the absence of the nucleus in a cell is only apparent, being concealed by the cell-wall, and coming in view after the addition of acetic acid: in other cases the nucleus is formed and becomes resorbed, as takes place with the cells of epidermis and various epithelia. Besides the cases in which cells are devoid of any nucleus, there are others to be considered, in which a cell contains more than a single nucleus. This phenomenon admits of a double explanation; firstly, the composite nucleus might be first produced, and a simple cell formed around it; or secondly, another cytoblast may form within a cell containing a single * Muller’* Archiv. 1841, p. 437. t Froricp’s N. Notiren, 1843, No. 560. 1 Plate i. fig. 3, pi. m. fig. 9. c. d.