ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 239 encysted tumours and the enclosed fatty and fibrous tumours formerly described, in which the envelope, consisting of areolar tissue, throws out organized elongations, and pro- cesses not only into the substance of the surrounding parts, but even into that of the tumour itself; thus not so much separating the tumour from the surrounding parts, as form- ing a medium of connection between them. This form of encysted tumour presents many varieties both with respect to the state of the cyst, and the nature of its contents. It admits of being grouped into two tolerably well characterized subdivisions. The first embraces encysted tumours with aqueous or serous contents, which approximate more or less to the fluids of serous and fibrinous dropsy, and sometimes entirely corres- pond with them. I will call them serous cysts, lifeless hyda- tids. These also present different forms, most of which scarcely deserve the name of encysted tumours, and would more properly be regarded as modifications of a local true or false dropsy. Their principal forms are the following : 1. When, in a local circumscribed serous dropsy, the fluid is effused in a part consisting of lax areolar tissue, or under a thin membrane, as for instance a serous membrane, it forms a vesicle resembling the blisters so frequently observed upon the skin after burns or vesicants, in erysipelas bullosum, &e. In this case the cyst is not a new structure, but consists of normal tissue distended by the dropsical fluid; moreover, it does not form a symmetrical, perfectly closed sac; it fre- quently shows in its interior irregular cellular spaces commu- nicating with each other, and has no internal epithelium, like the true encysted tumours. The fluid is precisely the same as that of serous dropsy, or of its varieties. Its essential constituent is fluid albumen which coagulates upon boiling, or exhibits the modification of this protein- compound which is not precipitated by boiling, but is readily thrown down by acids and alcohol. These mis- named hydatids are, therefore, only local oedema modified by