174 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. G3.$ H, 18.05- N, 25.35 0, while fibrin contains 54.Gg C, G.9g H, 15.75 N, 22.15 O with 0.7g S and P. Hence in the conversion of the latter into the former, carbon and hydrogen must be given off and oxygen added, while the nitrogen remains unchanged; or nitrogen and oxygen added, and carbon and hydrogen removed. All attempts to determine these changes accurately by calculation must fail, and lead only to a useless sporting with formulae with the semblance, but not the reality of exactness. We know far too little of the chemical composition, and especially the atomic weight of these organic substances to obtain from such attempts any certain results. These are the elementary relations of the above-mentioned epigenesis; to enter more minutely into their varied modifications, would in the present place be super- fluous, since they will be frequently brought forward in the following pages. EPIGENESIS OF THE BLOOD AND VESSELS. Blood-vessels occur very frequently as pathological epige- neses in the restoration of lost parts, in granulations, in pseudo-memhranes, in various hypertrophies, and in tumours. But our knowledge of the process of this development is still defective, especially since the normal formation of the blood- vessels in the embryo is only imperfectly understood. It has been much disputed whether new vessels occur simply as a prolongation or further development of the old, or whether they may he formed independently and without connection with the normal vessels.* From a large number of observations, I believe myself justified in concluding that new vessels arise directly in the blastema, and only at a later period connect themselves with the previously existing normal vessels, indeed, that this is usually the case ; further, that not only the vessels themselves, but also their contents—the blood—can be produced anew in this manner. In support of this formative process the condition in the embryo may be adduced, where the blood, as well as the vessels, is formed from the common cytoblas- •^AAAAAAAAAAAAAA. * See Hasse’s Pathological Anatomy, English edition by Swaine, p. 192.