EXPLANATION ok TilK PLATES. 551 two days), than any of the tissues, even earlier than the areolar tissue. h ro. 1 On the left hand shows a recent section of the fungoid growth in its natural size, with distinct points and streaks of blood. 1 ig. 1. On the right hand, exhibits newly formed blood-corpuscles, partly separate, and partly united in groups, scattered in the parenchyma. Magnified 220 diameters, a. blood-corpuscles; b. fat-globules. Fm. 2. Separate, newly formed blood-corpuscles, magnified 410 diameters. Fig. 3. Annular accumulation of blood, in which the corpuscles can be distinctly seen merging into the parenchyma. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 4. Larger star-like or radiating patch of blood, magnified 67 diameters. The vascular walls can be already traced ; the masses of blood are still unorganized and confused; the separate blood- coqiuscles not being evident even under a strong power. At ** globules of tat are scattered in the parenchyma. Fig. 5. and 6. Exhibit a perfect morbidly formed serous membrane with epithelium, which had been repeatedly in a state of inflamma- tion. It likewise affords an illustration of the epigenesis of vessels. Magnified 160 diameters. A girl, aged twenty years, died after having frequently suffered from pleurisy. The left pleural cavity contained about three quarts of a clear limpid fluid. It was inclosed in three sacs, lying within one another. 1 he outer one was the normal pleura ; the inmost one formed a structureless, perfectly amorphous mass, without any con- nection with the middle one, of which it was an inflammatory pro- duct. 1 his middle sac was loosely united to the costal pleura and the diaphragm, (somewhat more firmly with the latter,) by means of areolar tissue and vessels, and was attached by adhesions to the peri- cardium ; forming a perfectly independent membrane, which was clearly distinct from the subjacent normal pleura. It varied from half a line to a line in thickness; externally it had a glistening apj>earance; internally it was at spots of a bright red colour. It showed under the microsco^ (Fig. 5). a very thick net-work of perfect, distended (inflamed) blood-vessels. A granular epithelium (Fio. 6) could be scraped off its inner surface. The tissue of this false membrane histologically resembled normal serous membrane. It consisted of bundles of the normal fibres of areolar tissue, which