PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 286 tary analyses do not in this case give such certain results, as in cases where the substance to be analysed can be exhibited in a state of chemical purity. In addition to the protein-compounds, there naturally also exist fat, extractive matters, a substance resembling pyin, and various salts, as constituents of tubercle. When the tubercles become converted into concretions, the calcareous salts predominate over the organic con- stituents ; thus in cretaceous tubercles of this nature, Thenard found only 3£ of organic matter, and 96 J- of salts. Lebert s* opinion that cretaceous tubercles consist chiefly of chloride of sodium, and sulphate of soda, and that the salts of lime are present only to a small amount is incorrect. The analysis of Boudet on which he founds his opinion, does not bear on the question, for a tubercle containing in 1000 parts only 0.697 of inorganic matter is not calcareous, and other analyses of tuber- cles actually calcareous, show that the salts of lime occur to a very large amount. Most calcareous tubercles, although only slightly soluble in water, dissolve almost entirely on the addition of an acid. 1 here is, moreover, a chemical impossibility in Lebert’s opinion: salts which dissolve as readily in all the fluids of the body as these soda-salts, cannot exist in the body in a solid form, and produce concretions which remain exposed to the action of those fluids for months and even years: they would dissolve and be carried away in a few hours, or at any rate in a day or two. The preceding view of the structure of tubercle is based on hundreds of original observations made during a series of years, and coincides in all its principal points with the statements of most unbiassed observers, as for instance, with the valuable Memoir of Lebert in Muller’s Archiv, which unquestionably contains the best histological account of tubercle yet published. We shall only notice a few of the numerous opinions that have been promulgated on this subject. Gerberf whose opinion on the formation of tubercle in general coiresponds with mine, draws a distinction between albuminous and fibrinous tubercle, regarding the former as unorganized, the latter as orgamzable. A dis- tinction of this nature is certainly possible theoretically, but can be of no practical value, since the capability that tubercles possesss for organiza- tion is very small, and no definite limit can be drawn between those that possess it to a greater or lesser degree. This bears on the long controverted point, whether tubercle is or is not orgamzable : it is unnecessary, however, to say any thing further on this Point- “ that unorganizable tubercle consists of albumen, and organized tuberc of fibrin is a hypothesis whose admissibility I might be inclined to ques- tion Gerber further distinguishes the organizable fibrinous tubercles, * Muller’s Archiv. 1844, p. 289. . „ t General Anatomy of Man and the Mammalia, English editio , p 305.