232 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. may be combined with the fibrous tumour, the vascular tumour, the cartilaginous tumour, the fatty tumour (?), the gelatinous tumour, the encysted tumour and the cystoid, and with all the malignant forms of tumour. The subject is ren- dered more intricate by the circumstance that there may occur not only one of these combinations but several, indeed almost all simultaneously in the same tumour. Causes and mode of origin of osseous tumours. From the above observations it can hardly be doubted that the forma- tion of bony substance in tumours follows the same laws which hold good in the development of bone generally, and which have been already discussed, although this structural process has, as yet, been directly observed in only a few cases. It may, moreover, be safely assumed that the cytoblas- tema of the new osseous structure is a fibrinous fluid derived from the blood. The increased exudation, occurring some- times rapidly and abundantly, sometimes more slowly but therefore continuing the longer, which gives rise to the pathological formation of bone may be occasionally ascribed to external causes—mechanical injuries as a blow, kick, fall, &c.; at other times it proceeds insidiously from constitu- tional or local internal causes, and is frequently only percep- tible by its consequences. In the metamorphosis ot the blas- tema into bony substance we find in many cases the law of analogous formation in operation, acting sometimes alone, at other times in opposition to a tendency to malignant forma- tions. If we consider that normal bone itself is a very complicated structure, and, besides the proper osseous sub- stance, contains medulla, vessels, periosteum, in short very different histological elements, it will be apparent that the law of analogous formation serves to explain many compound forms of osseous tumour. It should, however, be borne in mind, that all such laws admit of only a general application, and are frequently insufficient to the elucidation of a special case. The peculiar causes of the osseous formations which