PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 360 other urinary calculi, their formation resembling that of con- cretions occurring in the parenchyma of organs, which we shall consider presently; they arise either from vesical mucus, or more frequently from coagula of blood and fibrin which accumulate in the pelvis of the kidney or in the bladder, and subsequently experience further changes. It is only in rare cases that we find urinary calculi so simple as we have described them; they generally contain several constituents, not merely those we have named, but also a small quantity of carbonate of lime, carbonate of magnesia, and silica. These are often variously associated ; sometimes two only occur, sometimes more, sometimes all are found combined in a single stone. Thus there are calculi which consist of a mixture of uric acid and urates; others of uric acid and urates with earthy phosphates; and others, again, which are formed from a combination of oxalate of lime and earthy phosphates. Some calculi have been found to contain uric acid, oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, urate of am- monia, carbonate of lime, and ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, being thus composed of six different substances.* These different constituents are sometimes intimately united, but more frequently disposed in more or less regular layers, so that the same calculus may exhibit different chemical properties in the different strata, which have evidently arisen at various periods. The relations and order of deposition of these laminae differ considerably in different cases.f The progress of these varying laminae in the same stone may, in most cases, be explained with tolerable satisfaction by the aid of the observations we have already made on the mode of formation of the individual calculi, and throw's a new light upon the manner in which these concretions are produced. * Loir, Journ. tie Chimie mddic. Sept. 1834. t See Berzelius, op. cit. p. 501 ; Sandifort, Museum anatomicuin, vol. m.; Bence Jones in Medico-chirurg. Transactions, 1843, p. 100, &c.