DROPSIES. 41 vena porta and vena cava ascendens, arising from degenera- tion of the liver, or some other tumour, produce ascites and oedema of the lower part of the body. Instances of this nature are so numerous, and occur so frequently to every observant physician, that it is unnecessary to refer to special exam- ples. In all these cases, if there are no anastomoses to carry off the venous blood, the hydrostatic pressure of the blood in the affected veins increases, and their walls become distended and attenuated. An increased flow of arterial blood to a particular part produces a similar result. If the aorta of an animal is compressed or tied below the spot at which the renal arteries are given off, dropsical effusion takes place from the renal veins ; for the veins, as the most yielding part of the vascular system, become first distended by the increased quantity of blood."1 From these exj>eriments we are led to the belief that the blood, under the influence of strong pressure, causes and gives origin to the forma- tion of dropsical fluids, by permeating the attenuated vein-walls, so that the whole proceeding might at first sight be regarded as purely mechanical. This, however, is not the case, and the phenomena still present much that is obscure. In the first place, it is remarkable why the fibrin dissolved in the plasma does not enter into the dropsical fluid ; and secondly, why, as a general rule, dropsical fluids should contain as large an amount of salts, and more water, but less albumen than the serum of tire blood. This shows that the process is more complicated than at first sight it appears to be. A more accurate acquaintance with the relations of endosmosis than we at present possess is required to explain these points in a satisfactory manner. As a local action on individual veins gives rise to local dropsy, so general dropsy is produced by causes acting on the venous system collectively ; such as organic diseases of the heart and lungs, which hinder the return of the venous blood to the right side of the heart, and consequently give rise to an increased hydrostatic pressure throughout the whole venous system. We shall enter at length into this subject, when treating of the patho- logical anatomy of the lungs and heart. Dilatation of the veins, and subsequent dropsy may be * Compare the investigations of Meyer in Roser und Wunderlich's Archiv. fur Physiolog. Heilk. 1844, Part 1, p. 119; and those of G. Robinson in the Medico- Chirurg. Trans. 1843, p. 51—79.