458 PARASITES. one of these worms presented in the middle of its body a rupture (occasioned probably by the operating needle), through which the intestinal canal protruded; the other was uninjured, and was three-quarters of a line in length. It had a simple mouth, without distinct papillae, and a straight intestinal canal, which glistened through the transparent skin, and was observed to be surrounded by the convolutions of the oviducts, and terminating at an incurved anal extremity. In another case, one opaque crystalline lens of an old woman (cataracta lenticularis viridis, extracted by Jiing- ken), contained a living filaria five and a halt lines in length, in the act of casting its skin; whilst in the other lens of the same person no foreign animal body could be detected. Gescheidt* likewise discovered in an opaque lens extracted by Ammon, three filariae, of which the largest was about two lines long. In relation to their length, the animalculee were remarkably thin and delicate; the body was of almost equal thickness throughout, but tapering a little towards the head , the tail somewhat club-shaped, and furnished with a short, slender, curved point. The mouth was small, almost circulai, and without papillae; the intestinal canal was ot a yellow colour, and ran without curvature or dilatation as far as the tail, where it terminated in a round opening, which received at the same time the excretory duct of the ovaries. T.he ovaries appeared as extremely delicate spiral cylinders, whose convolutions accompanied the course ot the intestinal canal. Whether these filaria; occur only in the human eye, and form a distinct species, or whether, as seems to me more probable, they can also live elsewhere, must be decided by future researches. An explanation of their origin is at present impossible from want of experience ; yet, in elucida- tion of it, the circumstance that filaria; have also been found in the blood of living animals, appears to me to be important. 3. The filaria bronchialis, Rud. (hamularia lymphatica, Trcutler) has as yet been found only once (by Treutler) in * v. Ammon’s Zeitschr. f. Ophthalmologic, vol. ni. P* d3G.