364 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. occasioned by an unknown combination with organic sub- stances, and soluble salts of lime, which, under certain condi- tions, can be converted by chemical decomposition into insoluble carbonate of lime. If the quantity of these constituents be abnormally increased, and if at the same time conditions occur by which their solution in the saliva is hindered, a precipitate occurs. This precipitate is either car- ried off with the discharged saliva as quickly as it is formed, or it remains, accumulates, and unites so as to form larger masses—concretions. Salivary concretions are, however, of two kinds, forming salivary calculi, and the tartar of the teeth. Salivary calculi are formed when the precipitate occurs within the salivary glands, and there accumulates (in accord- ance with the general laws regulating the formation of con- cretions), frequently attaining such a size as to close up the excretory ducts, and prevent their being voided. Salivary calculi are thus continually increasing, by always receiving new preci- pitates. They occur either in the parenchyma of the salivary glands or in their excretory ducts. They are roundish or oblong concretions, varying from the size of an almond or olive, to that of a pigeon’s egg, and are of a whitish colour; they are some- times definitely laminated, consisting of concentric layers, some- times of indistinct laminae; they have a chalky, dead-white appearance, and are usually easily pulverized, but occasionally as hard as stone. They sometimes enclose a hard, thick nucleus of a greenish colour. Their principal constituents are always calcareous salts, viz., carbonate of lime united with animal matter (mucus, or modified protein.) If the precipitate does not occur in the salivary glands, but is first observed in the buccal cavity, it deposits itself over the whole surface of the mouth. Thus, on examining the fur on the tongue, we often find the epithelial cells encrusted with a granular deposition of calcareous salts. But as the epithe- lial cells of the cavity of the mouth arc being constantly abraded, the precipitates cannot of course accumulate to form