335 UNORGANIZED PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. requisite in order to retain a certain amount of the substance in solution. The solution is then saturated. If a portion of water is removed, a corresponding amount of the substance must separate in an undissolved form. Both of the above cases occur in the human body, and give rise to numerous separations of matters no longer soluble —precipitates. The former cause is frequently in operation, and acts under very different conditions, as we shall perceive when speaking of the different forms of precipitate. The second cause; is comparatively rarer, and depends for the most part on evaporation and endosmosis. By evaporation, a concentrated fluid occurring in a part of the body exposed to such an influence, may lose so much water that a part of the matter dissolved in it (or, indeed, the whole amount) may separate in a more or less solid form. This cause is very frequently in operation in the nasal cavity, more rarely in the mouth, the cutaneous glands, the vagina, behind the glans penis, and possibly also (although very rarely) in the lungs and bronchial glands. It is probably never effectual in parts more remote from an exposed evaporating surface. Endosmosis, as is well known, occurs when two fluids of unequal concentration are separated from each other by a thin animal membrane; an interchange of their constituents taking place; under these circumstances, and the thinner fluid becom- ing more concentrated. When a thin fluid of this sort Ls saturated with substances requiring a large amount of water for their solution—as, for instance, the urates—then if endosmosis comes in play, they no longer remain entirely dissolved, but a portion becomes separated. This view is, however, rather founded on general theoretical considerations than on special experiments, and requires further proof. Precipitates separated by either of the above causes may, as can be readily conceived, disappear, if conditions arise which render them again soluble. Precipitates are the commencement of all unorganized