129 CELLULAR FORMATION. •sometimes we observe the formation of fibrils without even the pre-existence of a decided cvtoblast. This and many similar i observations which we shall notice when speaking of the different tissues confirm the opinion that Schwann’s theory 11 requires considerable modifications before it can be applied to \ i morbid tissues, and further that all perfectly formed tissues do not originally possess a decided cellular formation; this hcellular structure in some cases existing only for a short time, has during the formation of the cvtoblast, and in other cases ; ;not at all. As, however, our knowledge respecting the deve- lopment of the different morbid formations is still very defi- cient, we must rest satisfied with the above statement, and refer individual observations to the departments under which they naturally fall. The processes we have hitherto considered have reference j} principally to the morphology of development. It has been i already stated that with this morphological change there is also a chemical change in the cytoblastema. We have seen that as in the cellular formation of the blastema there are chemical differences, so the nucleus differs in its chemical reactions from the surrounding cell-wall. This chemical change Is still i more important, when perfectly organized forms, as areolar tissue, muscular fibre or nervous matter have been produced from the original blastema, since all these substances, as a general rule, differ considerably in their chemical composition from their cytoblastema. Thus, for instance, from coagu- lated fibrin there may be formed areolar tissue consisting of gelatigenous tissue, or cartilage which on boiling yields chondrin, or osseous tissue which in addition to gelatin contains a large amount of calcareous salts. We are far from being in a position to lay down general chemical laws regu- lating these formations. We can certainly compare the chemical formula for the cytoblastema with that for the product formed from it, and calculate how many atoms of oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, or nitrogen must be deducted or added, in order to convert the one into the other, but such VOL. 1. K