142 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. which remain undissolved on treating pus-corpuscles with solutions of the caustic alkalies and borax. They are regarded by Lehmann and Messerschmidt as nucleoli, and in some cases probably this may be the true explanation, but they certainly also occur within the cell, hut at the same time externally to the nucleus. Lehmann and Messerschmidt regard this substance as a i protein-compound analogous to keratin, and in many cases ■ this is doubtless true. Sometimes, however, these molecules ; consist of fat; they are then soluble in ether, and it the pus- corpuscles are boiled in that menstruum, before the addition of the alkali, they do not make their appearance. Many kinds of “ pus bonum” contain nothing corpuscular besides pus-corpuscles; others, on the contrary, contain minute rounded molecules,* often in very considerable quan- tity. They are always very minute, for the most part less than the 1000th of a line in diameter, and swim either alone or in heaps in the serum and between the pus-corpuscles which are frequently studded with them. These molecules present great differences in their signification and chemical constitutions; sometimes they are protein-compounds analo- gous to the substance of the capsule, of the nucleus, or of the molecules insoluble in alkalies elementary granules and partially-developed or abortive pus-corpuscles. In othei cases > they consist of fat. Finally, there are sometimes infusoria ^ present, minute monades and vibriones, especially in pus from foul ulcers. As long as the animalcules arc alive, we then observe an active motion, and I have sometimes been ena- bled, by feeding them with carmine, to bring into view the minute spots representing their stomachs. Moreover, we sometimes find accidental admixtures in healthy pus, some of which may be easily distinguished by < the microscope, as epithelial cells or fragments of epidermis, ! crystals of cholesterin or of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, * Plate hi. %. 1» t>-