445 THE LOUSE. longly quadrilateral ; abdomen larger than the thorax, projecting behind in the form of an indented oval point, and having lateral serra- tions ; all the segments are edged with black upon the outer border. Length of body from 4 to 11 of a line. Figures : Burmeister, Genera, Ped. cap. fig. 1, males. Fig. 2, females. Denny, Anopl. Brit. p. 13, pi. 26, fig. 2. Alt, de phthir. fig. 2. 3. The clothes louse (pediculus vestimcnti) lives upon the parts of the skin which are free from hair, and in the clothes of unclean persons. It apj>curs by many observers to have been confounded with the com- mon or head-louse, from which, however, it is clearly distinct. Its entire body is jjaler, it has a much more slender form, and a more shaqrly defined neck; its thorax is narrower and shorter; its abdominal segment has an obtuse apex, which is not serrated, and its margins are not so deeply indented as in the foregoing species. Length of body from 1 to If lines. Figures: Burmeister, Genera, Ped. vestim. fig. 8. Denny, Anopl. Brit. p. 16, pi. 26, fig. 1. Alt, de phthir. fig. 3. 4. The louse occurring in phthiriasis (pediculus tabescen- tiurn), is found on persons, suffering from marasmus and other diseases, from whom, however, it appears not to be propa- gated to healthy persons ; at least this is not constantly the case. They multiply very rapidly, and may therefore occur in large quantity; nevertheless we must consign to the region of fable the statement of Amatus Lusitanus, who relates that two slaves were incessantly occupied in conveying to the sea in baskets, the lice which appeared upon the body of their master. On account of the rapid increase of these animals, many have been and still are of opinion, that they arise by equivocal generation. This view, however, is altogether unnecessary when we consider the astonishing rapidity and abundance with which lice increase by propagation. Indeed, Leeuwenhoek has calculated that two female head-lice, which multiply far less rapidly than this specie's, can present in two months a progeny of 18000 individuals. 'Hie pediculus tabescentium is of a pale yellow colour; the head is rounder, and the thorax is larger and broader than in the preceding spe- cies ; the abdomen is of the breadth of the thorax, but shorter, narrowing.