THE YEAST PLANT. *431 having smaller corpuscles in their interior. This is their most simple form. They grow by protrusion of gemmulcs which, after some time, attain to the size of the original corpuscle, and germinate sometimes on one, sometimes on several spots of the primitive fungus-cell. These shoots throwing off new gemmulcs, the yeast plant gradually forms rows of oblong cells, connected together like beads. A congeries of such cells consisting of from three to five, frequently even more, commonly forms one plant.* This peculiar arrangement of the cells is characteristic of this plant, and in doubtful cases, ensures its diagnosis by microscopic examination. They are not acted upon by acetic acid. As single cells detach themselves from the parent plant, they form newr individuals which again pass through the pro- cess of development already described. In this manner they may increase abundantly. In rare cases a mother-cell enlarges and there are generated within it, small granules (sporidia) which, after the rupture of the mother-cell, emerge and serve as germs for new plants. It apjiears to me that these fungi do not possess any pecu- liar pathological value ; at most they serve as an indication that fermenting substances containing yeast, have been con- veyed into the organism, or, that the animal fluids contain elements susceptible of fermentation. In this manner we may infer that a specimen of urine in which they occur contains sugar. Nevertheless, their presence in this fluid is far from a sate indication of a saccharine condition, for I have repeatedly observed lungi, more or less nearly resembling the yeast plant, in urine w hich contained no sugar; as, for instance, several times in the urine of an uncleanly prostitute, and likewise in a specimen of urine which contained fibrinous coagula corres- ponding to the urinary canals. In the latter case, besides simple cells, the fungi consisted of elongated, partially ratni- fjing filaments, so that their structure approximated to the * See Plate x. fig. 8.