91 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. although some even of our recent authors (Carswell amongst others) * still support it. The walls of the blood-vessels—even of the smallest capillaries—are so impervious, that it is impos- sible for such large particles as the blood-corpuscles to pass through them in an uninjured condition. Moreover, the smaller vessels may be so readily lacerated by numerous internal causes, without any outward injury, that there is no difficulty on the point, and the fact that those sanguineous effusions which occur in the normal state—as the menstrual discharge are dependant on an injured condition of the vessels, is con- firmatory of it. In many cases in which the blood is dis- charged from larger vessels, we may easily detect the seat of the injury, and consequently the source ot the haemorrhage; it we are not always so fortunate in hemorrhage from the capilla- ries, it is owing to the impe rfection of our diagnostic aids, not to the absence of a lacerated vessel. The causes giving rise to laceration ot the vessels, and consequent effusion of blood are very numerous; many of them are external, and mechanical or chemical in their nature: as wounds with cutting or stabbing instruments, bruises, blows and concussions ; occasionally the vessels are injured by caus- tic applications, as for instance, caustic potash. The manner in which these different influences work is too obvious to demand any explanation ; but, moreover, there are certain morbid processes within the body that frequently injure the vessels, and cause the extravasation of blood, as for instance, violent coughing or vomiting, mortifica- tion, suppuration, or softening of tumours, destroying the organic tissues, and hence injuring the continuity of the vessels in a manner presently to be described. Another very frequent internal cause of rupture of the vessels is a disturbed state of the circulation. When, in any part of the body or from any cause, the circulation is cither temporarily or perma- ’ Putholog. Anatomy, fa.se. 6. Hemorrhage.