171 EPIGENESIS OF AREOLAR TISSUE. distinct cellular origin. In the former case, there arc formed in the cytoblastema nucleated primary cells, which are lengthened at both their ends, and assume a fusiform shape; the extremities of these unite with one another, and there are thus formed long varicose fibres.* From these caudate cells arise the fibres of areolar tissue; a cell being either converted into a single fibref or else by assuming a grooved arrangement, and these grooves deepening, finally splitting into a bundle of fibres, j In other cast's the process is less clearly indicated, and deviates more from the cellular type. We often observe in the cyto- blastema very pale gelatinous nuclei arranged lengthways in regular order, sometimes mixed with elementary granules, but not surrounded with clearly defined cell walls.$ From the blastema thus imperfectly converted into cells, the fibres are directly produced. In other eases the cells are indeed clearly defined, but irre- gularly and for the most part laterally fused together.'! Some- times there are seen very pale, irregular and apparently non- nucleated cells: the nuclei are, however, not really absent, for after the application of acetie acid, they become clearly visible. In the nuclei we ean usuidly, but not always observe nucleoli. From these statements it follows that, in idea, areolar tissue in its pathological epigenesis follows the cellular type, but that in some cases peculiar influences seem to throw the type very much in the back ground, if not entirely to obliterate it. This explains the variation in the statements of different observers, as for instance, Schwann and Henle, respecting the normal development of areolar tissue.*[ Some- * Plate i. fig. 12 ; Plate iv. fig. 1, c, and 2, a; Plate vn. fig. 3, b, k, 4, a. t Plate vn. tig. 3, v, 4, d. I Plate iv. fig. 1, d, 2, b, c; Plate vn. fig. 4, c. ยง Plate iv. fig. 1, a ; Plate vii. fig. 3, c. || Plate iv. fig. 1, b. If Bischoff has collected the different opinions on this point in his Entwicklungsyisch. p. 452.