489 DEFICIENT MONSTERS. rarely observed, and then usually co-existing with a normal twin; hence, it is probable that through the presence of the twin, the other germ has been at a very early period so much injured that this anomalous formation, void of every external and internal organ, has alone been developed from it; of course, these monsters are not viable. See representations of these forms occurring in animals, in Gurlt, op. cit. PI. i.; fig. I.," PI. xvi. fig. 1 to 4. ; Geoffroy St. Hilaire, op. cit. PI. xm. fig. 1 and 2, vol. n. p. 528.—A case occurring in the human subject is described by Bland, in the Philosophical Transactions, 1781, vol. lxxi. p. 3G3, in a note. 2. Malformations, which consist of only a more or less rudimentary trunk, while no signs of head or extremities exist. Like those belonging to the preceding group, they form exter- nally a shapeless mass, which, however, in the interior, besides fat, cellular tissue, rudimentary bone (vertebrae) and vessels, contains more or less decided traces of viscera. Malformations of tills group are not viable. This form constitutes a division of the genus mylactphalus* of Geoffroy St. Hilaire.t la the human subject only one soli tan' case, observed by Voflisneri, apjiears to have been observed. Otto} has figured and briefly described a case of this nature occurring in a calf. The monster co- existed with a well-formed twin, to whose sccundines it was attached. Its origin therefore is, no doubt, to be explained in the same way as that of the first group. 3. Malformations, in which the inferior half of the body is wanting, and only some parts of the upper half—as, for instance, the head—are present—trunkless monsters (acormus, Gurlt). The malformations belonging to this group consist of little else than a more or less rudimentary' head, which, instead of neck and trunk, is furnished with a pouch-like appendage, containing rudimentary' viscera, and * fjtvXii, a mole in the womb, and ati<f>u\os. f Vol. ii. p. 488. t Op. cit. p. 3, PI. xxx.