404 CHANGES IN PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. III. CHANGES IN THE CONSISTENCE OF THE VARIOUS ORGANS. An importance lias been attached to alterations in the con- sistence of organs which, as in the cases of change in form and size, has, we think, been over-rated. The attempt to take a general view of certain conditions of the organs, which in regard to then* causes, consequences, and importance have little or nothing in common—to arrange them as cases of induration and softening—is, from its very nature, one likely to yield no useful results. The view that we shall take ot this subject in the following pages must he consequently limited to the consideration of certain changes of frequent occur- rence. By hardening or induration is implied an abnormal increase in the consistence of an organ; this may vary from a scarcely perceptible increase of consistence to a degree of stony haul- ness. It seldom happens that an entire organ is uniformly hardened throughout; we more commonly find the induiation limited to particular spots. The cause of induration is very different in different cases. The consistence of a portion of the body may he increased by a deficiency of blood (capillary anaemia), since the solid elements of the tissue are better able to retain their original degree of firmness, than when much blood is present, which, like any other fluid, tends to soften the animal tissue. This is frequently the case in the spleen, and appears sometimes to occur in the substance of the brain. However, the increase of consistence arising from (relative) anaemia is always slight; I do not know of a single instance in which a great effect has been produced. Fibrinous dropsy is a frequent cause of induration, the fibrin coagulating and forming a solid substance, penetrating between the histological elements of the tissue, and thus increasing its consistence. This induration is naturally ^ the more striking in proportion as the normal consistence of the part affected is less than that of coagulated fibiin . hence it is most marked in porous and spongy organs, as the lungs,