337 PRECIPITATES OF PROTEIN-COMPOUNDS. nular or crystalline state. In just the same manner as an amorphous cytoblastema becomes metamorphosed into a cell, which again undergoes a higher transformation and becomes converted into an integral constituent of tissue, so can an amorphous precipitate become converted into one of a granular character, and this again assume a crystalline form. This progressive metamorphosis does not, however, always occur. Many precipitates, as for instance, the protein-corn- pounds, are incapable of crystallization, never being able to advance beyond the finely-granular state. On the other hand, crystals may be formed directly from a fluid, without previously assuming the amorphous or granular state. Chemistry teaches us that precipitates assume the crystalline form with a facility proportional to the slowness of their formation, and, on the other hand, that in proportion to the rapidity with which they are formed, they assume the amorphous or granular state. This law holds good in the same manner in relation to analo- gous morbid formations. Hence, as a general rule, it matters little whether a preci- pitate be amorphous, finely-granular, or crystalline; and the occurrence of crystals in the human organism is usually not of that importance which many have attributed to it. With the exception of some few cases, as, for instance, the crystals in the inner ear (otolithes) it is only of importance in indicating the pre-existence of certain formative processes, or in enabling us to recognize, from the form of the crystal, the chemical composition of the substance composing it. We shall now consider the individual substances which occur as constituents of the precipitates in the human organism, their form, chemical relations, and mode of formation. 1. Protein-compounds. We have nothing to add to the observations already made (see page 64) regarding fibrin coagulating in the amorphous state. It cannot be doubted that the protein-compounds often separate in a granular form, VOL. i. z