76 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. is, as Andral and Gavarret believe, essentially connected with the disease, or whether it is merely the result of an imperfect system of analysis, must be decided by future investiga- tions. The quantitative determination of the blood-corpuscles requires a much more complicated process than that of the fibrin, and is much less accurate. It may be undertaken in different ways. Andral and Ga- varret adopt the following method : A portion of blood is allowed to coagulate, and the serum and clot are then separated as completely as possible. Both are weighed, dried on the water-bath and again weighed. By subtracting the latter from the former weight, we obtain the amount of water in the serum, and in the clot. The rest of the proceeding is merely numerical, being founded on the undemonstrated assumption that all the fluid contained in the clot was serum, and therefore con- tained as large an amount of solid constituents as actual serum. Hence we first calculate the amount of solid constituents of serum corres- ponding with the quantity of water separated from the clot, and subtract this and the fibrin (which is supposed to have been already determined) from the clot; the difference is the weight of the dried corpuscles. The following illustration may serve to elucidate the somewhat compli- cated calculations requisite in this process. An old man was bled in consequence of strangulated inguinal hernia, and a portion of the blood collected in a basin of known weight. The blood weighed 280 grains. In the course of twelve hours, the separation into clot and serum was perfect. A small quantity of serum was carefully taken up with a small pipette so as to include no corpuscles, and was placed in an evaporating basin of known weight. By deducting this weight from the given weight of the serum and the basin, the serum was found to weigh 9o grams. On drying it on the water-bath till it ceased to lose weight, the residue weighed 8 grains, consequently 87 grains of water had been expelled. The clot with the rest of the serum weighed 185 grains and after the most careful drying weighed 48 grains ; hence 137 grains of water were lost. This water is, according to the above assumption, regarded as serum, and i„ consequently associated with a corresponding amount of solid consti- tuent which must be deducted from the clot. It follows Irom the above data, that 87 (the quantity of water in the serum) : 8 (the quan- tity of solid residue in ditto) : : 137 (the quantity of water m the clot) . x _ 19 6 Subtracting thus from the dried clot, there remains, 48— 12 6 = 33 4 grains as the weight of the dried corpuscles, or reducing' to the scale 1000 parts (2S0 : 33.4 : : 1000 : x), the dried trlobules amount to 119.3. , ,, , . This method of estimating the quantity of the blood-corpuscles is