166 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. distinguished the proper pus-corpuscles from the exudation-corpus- cles, which latter are of a whiter colour, and lie upon each other in a tessellated manner; afterwards, however, according to them they assume a yellower tint, and are converted into pus-corpuscles (through the absorption of fat?). To me it appears unsuitable to designate pus- corpuscles in their early stages by a separate name; but that other structures—cells already clearly characterized as of a different sort—can be converted into pus-corpuscles, I do not believe. At an earlier period, when I had chiefly considered the formation of pus upon mucous mem- branes, and at a time when the importance of cellular formation in its earliest stages was scarcely recognized, I did, indeed, believe in the possibility of the conversion of immature epithelium-cells into pus- corpuscles. Nowr I regard the formation of pus, as a peculiar product of the exudation which occurs immediately on the appearance of the first formative molecules; and this leads me to believe that struc- tures intended for other objects cannot be converted into pus-corpuscles, and conversely, that pus-corpuscles can never be converted into the elements of a persistent tissue ; of the latter I am decidedly convinced. Millions of pus-corpuscles have been brought under the microscope before my eyes, but never have I perceived the least indication of a transition towards another structure. On the other hand, I have very often examined the earlier stages of the development of persistent tis- sues, in which cells do indeed appear, which an unpractised observer might confound with pus-corpuscles, but due examination shows an essential difference between them. After being subjected to acetic acid, they never show the nucleus with tv7o, three, or four granules charac- teristic of pus-corpuscles, but merely a simple nucleus. I do not believe that such a cell can, by a retrograde metamorphosis, be converted into a pus-colrpuscle. I am not acquainted with any case w'herein the nucleus of a cell has experienced in its development so important a transforma- tion as that which is here assumed. One out of many similar examples that I might adduce will serve to prove this. Two dogs received at the same time flesh-wounds. After the lapse of twenty-four hours these ■were perfectly similar in appearance. There wTas little discharge, for the dogs as is usual, frequently licked the wounds. 1 he fluid contained blood-corpuscles, and also very many round colourless corpuscles vary- ing in size from the 400th to the 300th of a line. 4hey were smaller than the ordinary pus-corpuscles in dogs, but when treated with acetic acid, they showed the same composite nuclear structure, (containing 2, 3, or 4 granules) as ordinary pus-corpuscles. Hence there can be no doubt that these were young pus-corpuscles. In addition to the flesh-wound, one of the dogs had received a small wound penetrating the abdominal cavity, into which a dilute solution of hydrosulphate of ammonia was injected. The animal seemed to sufler violent pain bom