EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE I. Contains illustrations of the different forms of cells occurring in the development of morbid epigeneses. Fig. 1. Is an ideal figure, illustrating the formation of a cell. In an amorphous substance (A A), the cytoblaslema, lie three ideal cells. (B, C, D). The cell B appears oval; we distinguish in it a clear ring with a very distinct external and internal contour (x x), the cell-wall; in the interior of the ring, an elliptical body (z) the nucleus or cytublast; and in it, two round dark corpuscles, the nucleoli. 1 he space between the cell-wall and nucleus, the cavity of the cell, is filled with a fluid which escapes observation. 1 he cell C is round ; here we observe an evidently distinct cell-wall, and an equally clear nucleus, with a single nucleolus in the centre ; the cavity is filled with dark granular matter. The cell D is likewise round, and exhibits a clear cell-wall, with a more evident internal and external contour. The nucleus does not he m the centre of the cavity, but on its circumference, on the inner surface of the wall, and contains distinct nucleoli. 'Hie contents of tins cell are granular in the vicinity of the nucleus, but fluid and invisible m the remainder of the cavity. Fio. 2. A Is a cell from encephaloid, occurring in the knee-joint. B. ( ells from pulmonary tubercles. Magnified 220 diameters. iesc cells are perfectly round, and we distinguish in them a tolerably thick transparent cell-wall, and dark granular contents. Here there can be no doubt as to the granular mass being actually in e interior of the cell, in the cell-cavity. At A there are also sena- * g^milcs on the outer circumference of the cell-wall; we see an undoubted pale nucleus with a nucleolus in the upper part of the cell-cavity; in the cells B, the nuclei are not evident. Fio. 3. A. Are cells from the substance of pulmonary tubercle. 220 diameters ^ *** eXpectoratiou m pneumonia. * Magnified These cells also appear granular, but we cannot decide with certainty whether the granular mass is in the interior of the cells, or whether it is situated on the exterior of the cell-wall Fio. 4. Very pale non-nucleated cells (?) of an indefinitely oval form SL£ “f “ enCy!,t'd mo