563 BXPI. A NATION OF THE PLATE8. Under the microscope there were seen traces of vessels containing blood ; on the whole, however, it was anaemic. At the first glance the histological structure of the tumour was not very obvious. On more careful examination, however, there were seen on making a thin section, many nuclei with nucleoli (C). and some very delicate, tolerably broad, extended fibres, on many of which nuclei were apparent. (B & D). There were no fibres of areolar tissue. On the addition of acetic acid, the broad fibres became pale and gradually disappeared, leaving only the nu- clei. It was ascertained, by further investigation, that these broad fibres, which were perfectly identical with those of organic muscle, and ran to a parallel direction, constituted the whole tumour (A). They were not, however, very distinctly marked; the whole structure was to the highest degree delicate, and at some spots there was an amorphous blastema not yet developed into fibres, which on the addition of acetic acid became paler and less distinct. In what direction the fibres were arranged—whether they were concentric, circular, and parallel to the surface of the tumour, or whether their course was uncontrolled by any fixed order could not, on account of their extreme delicacy, be ascertained. Fig. 3. & 4. Fibrous tumours, whose histological elements are identical with those of areolar tissue. Fig. 3. Histological elements of a fibrous tumour. Magnified 220 diameters. A man suffered from a polypus attached to the posterior portion of the nasal cavity, and projecting backward into the pharynx. It was removed by making a section through the soft palate. The por- tion removed was very firm, vascular, and homogeneous; when washed it had a white fibrous appearance. On microscopical exami- nation, its tissue was seen to consist of fibres of areolar tissue, for the most part in the process of development. They appeared more or less twisted or woven together; and many of them exhibited nuclei with nucleoli. All the stages of the development of areolar’ tissue, which we have depicted in Plate iv. Fig. 1. & 2., were exhibited in this structure. A, Are primaiy cells, with nuclei and nucleoli. B, are the same cells elongated and becoming caudate. C is an indistinct fibrous blastema on which there are nuclei. D, very elongated cells. E, the same elongated cells loosely arranged together, so as to form fasciculi of areolar tissue. F. cells which, by a sort of