217 FIBROUS TUMOURS. its physical properties the tissue of the cutis (Desmoid tumour). More frequently the fibres are closely compressed, separated with difficulty, and united into a solid mass. The tumour is then solid, firm, and very elastic, cannot be drawn asunder, and craunches under the knife; and the section pre- sents a map-like appearance. This form is called Sarcoma, or Fibroid. When the union and fusion of the fibres reaches a yet higher degree, the tumour becomes very firm, almost homogenous, and of a milk white colour ; it is more easily cut into thin layers than separated into fibres, and has in its physical properties the greatest similarity to cartilaginous tissue, without, however, resembling it in a histological point of view (Chondroid tumour). This form presents the transi- tion to the second class of fibrous tumours, where instead of fibres, a more amorphous mass is presented. Other differences in fibrous tumours are dependant on the manner in which the fibres are arranged. Sometimes they run irregularly in every direction, as in the normal cutis; this is usually the case in those fibrous tumours which are developed upon the external skin, or upon mucous membranes, (warts, condyloma, fibrous polypi, &c.) In other cases the fibres are arranged in a regular manner, in concentric or twisted circles, and sections of such tumours sometimes present very beautiful designs, visible to the naked eye; this is the case with the so termed fibroid of the uterus.* Not less various are the ways in w hich fibrous tumours are connected with their surrounding parts, and also the forms in which they occur. Many of them are most inti- mately connected with, and as it were, fused into the sur- rounding parts, and form the transition to the hypertrophy of such organs as in the normal condition consist of fibrous tissue. Thus in the stomach, the intestinal canal, and the * See Gluge’s Atlas der pathol. Anatomic, Part iv. Tab. 4, fip. U, 15: lu*d Hope's Principles and Illustrations of Morbid Anutomv fig. 215.