290 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. various, and exhibit in their anatomical and histological rela- tions, in their progress, and in their duration, very great differences; and hence we find that many members of this group have received distinct names. But in these tumours it is just as impossible as in the non-malignant, to have genera and species such as we have in descriptive zoology and botany. Such a fine distinction and separation of species, based on unimportant points, would from the very first lead to each individual tumour being regarded as a distinct species, and we should thus have millions of names. I shall, therefore, endeavour to group and consider these forms in accordance with their essential common points, and shall only describe the most prominent ones as peculiar varieties. As familiar illustrations of this class we may notice the terms, cancer and carcinoma, which in the following pages muht always be regarded as synonymous. Carcinomatous structures are distinguished from the pre- ceding class—the slightly organized epigeneses—by a higher degree of organization ; they not only show a more highly developed cellular structure, but frequently also fibres, vessels, and granulations enter into their composition. They are not, however, strictly limited from the former class, for although the tumour as a whole can be easily distinguished from one of the former class, it frequently contains particular portions which cannot be distinguished with certainty from tubercular deposition. Neither is there any strict limit between these . and certain forms of non-malignant tumour, namely fibrous Pathological Anatomy. Carcinoma, fasc. 2. 3 ; and Cruveilhier’s Ana- tomic pathologique. For the microscopical appearances we:may espe- cially refer to J. Muller iiber den feineren Bau der krankhaften * schwiilste, or West’s translation; A. Hannover, Svar Paa Sporgs- maalet, Hvad er Cancer? Kjobenhavn, 1843; Gluge» Atlas der patholog. Anatomie. Parts 1 and 4, and his Anatomisch-mikro^op. Untersuchungen, Parts 1 and 2; and Klencke’s Untersuclmngen und Erfahrungen, vol. ii.