PARASITES. 440 j- See Plate x. fig. 10. work of v. Olfcrs, which in some respects, however, is becoming a little antiquated, de vegetativis et animatis corporibus in corporibus animatis reperiundis, P. 1, Berol. 1816, c. tab.* r. PARASITIC INFUSORIA. In the inferior animals, infusoria very frequently occur as true parasites, both on the external surface of the body, and in their internal cavities. Thus in the intestinal canal of the frog, Ehrenberg distinguished no less than five different species of bursaria. The infusoria occurring in the human body appear, on the contrary, to be not so much true as incidental parasites. The condition most essential to their development appears to be a degree, however slight, of putrid decomposition, such as occurs normally in faeces, and in many animal fluids as a pathological phenomenon. Infusoria are consequently very frequently seen in faeces, and sometimes also in foul and impure ulcers. The infusoria which, under these circumstances, appear most frequently in the body are vibriones, especially a species of them which is met with in almost all putrescent fluids containing protein (vibrio prolifer ? Ehrenberg). Seen under strong magnifying powers these vibriones form sometimes simple, sometimes compound (from two to six) bead-shaped globules, ranged upon each other,f and exhibit a very active animal motion. By feeding them with carmine, I have some- times succeeded in bringing the gastric cavity into view. I have frequently, but not invariably found these vibriones in fieces, especially in liquid evacuations, also in the pus of foul, sluggish ulcers. Donne has found this or another * I regret exceedingly that I had not the opportunity of consulting the excellent article “ Parasiten,” by K. Th. v. Siebold in Wagner s Handwdrterbuch der Physiolog. vol. ii. p. 641, &c. ; which did not reach me till these sheets were printing; hence, instead of incorporating his results in the text, I must content myself with referring to Ins most important conclusions in the notes.