TRICHINA SPIRALIS. •459 the enlarged bronchial glands of a cachectic young man. They were about an inch long, roundish, blackish brown, some- times spotted white; at one extremity there were two project- ing hooks (the external genital organs of the male ?) Figured by Bremser, PI. iv. fig. 2. Moat probably these worms are allied to those which are not unfrequently found iu the bronchi and lungs of animals l>elonging to the genus mustela. 4. The trichina spiralis, Owen, is a microscopic worm which has hitherto been only found in the voluntary (striated) muscles, and then usually in very great numbers. In such cases the muscles appear dotted with minute white spots which, under the microscope, represent elliptic cysts, com- monly elongated at their extremities; the long diameter being always parallel to that of the primitive fasciculus. These cysts, whose long and short diameters are about the 50th, and the 100th of a line respectively, constitute the habitation of the worm. They are usually so transparent that, under the microscope, even without opening them, the animal may be recognised in the interior. It occupies about the third part of the cavity of the cyst, appears coiled up into a spiral of two or two and a half turns, is round and filamentous, presents a somewhat truncated appearance at both sides, and slightly tapers towards one end. When extended, its length varies from one half to one third of a line ; its diameter from the 60th to the 80th of a line. Internal organs cannot be perceived in it. In general only one worm is contained in one cyst, rarely two, and still more rarely three. The cysts frequently contain in addition to the worm, deposi- tions of calcareous salts, so as to form small granulations which grate under the knife. These often conceal the worm, which in this case frequently, but not always is dead; if, however, the calcareous salts are removed by acetic acid, the worm becomes apparent. With the exception of the heart, these animals occur in all striated muscles. They have been found in persons who have died of very different diseases; moreover, even in some