TUBERCLE. 289 his opinion, that in a certain condition of the blood, these depositions do not occur. I have entered thus fully into Engel's views, because I regard his attempt to explain the formation of tubercle as very important and praiseworthy. In the leading points I agree with Engel, and if there is much in his Essay that is not very' strictly defined, as for instance, the term “ in- flammation,” which without further explanation, he puts down as the cause of infiltrated tubercle, and if also his news regarding the pecu- liar condition of the blood are not based, as they ought to lie, on accu- rate chemical analysis, still he appears to have adopted the only true mode by' which we can hope to arrive at accurate conclusions regarding the nature of tuberculosis and similar processes. The formation of tuber- cle by a canta<jturn animatum—by semi-individual cells as Klencke* supposes—appears to me perfectly untenable, and I do not consider that we have sufficient evidence of the accuracy of his inoculation-experi- ments. Moreover, how can tubercles, not consisting of cells, propagate in this way ? 1 shall, in a subsequent page, return to the consideration of this point. Another opinion has also l>een put forward, namely, that tubercles consist of hydatids ; this is based on the observation that occasionally quasi-tubercular de|>o»its are found in encysted tumours (as we have already seen), "and in hydatids and the cysts of certain entozoa (as will he shown in a future j>age). 'lliese facts show, at all events, that irom the above-mentioned structures a quasi-tulxTcular mass can be produced, but they do not conversely show that tubercles must always arise from these structures. Respecting the causes of softening I entirely agree with Engel in thinking that they may be referred partly to influences residing within the tubercular mass, and partly to external influences as extreme mois- ture, suppuration of the surrounding tissues, ike. The investigation of the conditions in individual cases, which alone can be serviceable to practical medicine, must remain to be undertaken by our successors. SECOND CLASS. Ki'lGEN KSES OF A MORE HIGHLY ORGANIZED CHARACTER \ 1 he forms of tumour belonging to this class ?tre extremely * Untersuchuugen und Krfahrungen, vol. i. p. 121. t The literature of this class of tumours is very abundant . We may especially notice the chapters devoted to the subject in the treatises of J. F. Meckel, Andrul, and Lobstein, on Pathological Anatomy. Their appearances as presented to the naked eye, are to be seen in Carswell's VOL. I, U