CHANGES OF FORM AND SIZE. 399 vary with almost every individual ease. I will, therefore, leave a more minute consideration of the subject to the special part, and limit myself here to a few general remarks. To the department of pathological anatomy belong, as we have mentioned, only the higher degree of those changes which may be distinguished with certainty from mere physical modifications; but as no strict line of demarcation can be drawn between health and disease, it is useless to dispute concerning individual cases, as to whether certain changes do, or do not, belong to pathological anatomy. The causes of these changes, on which as a rule their cha- racter depends, are very different, and in a great measure unknown; yet, from what has already been observed regarding them, they may be divided into the following groups: Many deviations in form and size are congenital. Of these some arc inherited by children from their parents, and thus appear to be inherent in the peculiar properties of the genera- tive matter—of the germ—in an extended sense of the word. As many species of animals, so arc also many races of men distinguished both externally and internally by peculiarities in the form and size of certain organs of the body. Exam- ples of this fact are so numerous, and must be so familiar to all, that it would be useless here to adduce any. But in these cases, it often happens that it is not possible to decide the difference between pathological and physiological deviations. (This subject will be more fully treated, under the head of mal- formations.) Other differences of this nature depend upon abnormalities of development. In the foetus and the child many parts are relatively larger or smaller, and even of a different form from the corresponding organs in adult age. If, now, the subse- quent and natural development of these parts be arrested by morbid causes, that which was previously normal will appear to us as disproportionate to the rest. The special causes of this impeded development may be very different, and are for the most part still obscure. Examples of such deviations