68 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. what is termed the huffy coat (crusta phlogistica seu pleu- ritica). We may explain its formation in this way, that in this case the blood-corpuscles began to sink before the occurrence of coagulation, so that the upper surface of the clot, enclosing no blood corpuscles, appears colourless, and consists of mere fibrin. Several causes may tend to produce this deposition of the blood-corpuscles previous to coagula- tion ; thus, sometimes, they sink more rapidly than usual from their arranging themselves in columns resembling rolls of coin, and thus overcoming the resistance of the plasma, on the same principle that large bodies sink through a fluid more rapidly than small ones; sometimes the blood appears to coagulate more slowly than usual; and not unfre- quently both causes are in operation. We frequently observe an increased quantity of fibrin in blood with the huffy coat; hut the increase of that constituent is not the cause of the huff, and the opinion that the formation of a huffy coat is always a sign of inflammation, and that, consequently, further venesection is necessary, is utterly false, and has led to very disastrous practical consequences.* The variations occurring in the coagulation of the blood in the body after death cannot be easily explained, and the observations that have been recorded on this point are of little or no value, in consequence of the causes of their varia- tion not being at the same time indicated. Generally speaking, on examining the body after death, we find the blood in the capillaries fluid ; while in the heart and veins, it is coagulated, the arteries being frequently empty. The fluidity of the blood in the capillaries is not dependant on a deficiency of fibrin, for blood taken from the capillaries after death, frequently coagulates in the course of twenty-four hours, or even later. It is very possible, as has been sug- gested by Nasse,f that the exclusion of the atmospheric air * Compare Nasse, das Blut. p. 36 and p. 204, &c. [ Handworterbuch der Physiolog. vol. i. p. 113.