DROPSIES. 35 Dropsical fluids are not always pure ; they frequently con- tain extraneous substances, as, blood, pus, ichor, &c. We shall not in this place enter fully into the various points connected with these fluids. The various forms of dropsy occurring in different parts of the body, will be fully discussed in the chapters on the indivi- dual organs. Here we shall merely treat of their general relations, and the causes of their formation ; in this point of view, the chemical arrangement is the most suitable. The above chemical differences in dropsical fluids have only very recently been accurately determined. I. SKHOUS DROPSY. Dropsy in which the effused fluid corresponds with the serum of the blood is by far the most common, and consti- tutes true dropsy in the restricted sense of the word. Most eases of ascites, hydrothorax, hydrocele, anasarca, and oedema, belong to this category, as likewise do the fluids of pemphigus, blisters, &c. Propert ies and chemical composition of the fluids occur- ring in serous dropsy.—It is only the dropsical fluids effused in serous cavities, or enclosed in cysts, that can be collected in large quantity and in a state of purity, and be submitted to analysis; although the fluid of oedema does not admit of being collected in so large a quantity, or in the same degree of purity, it cannot be doubted that in its chemical and phy- sical properties it is perfectly similar. A pure dropsical fluid is generally nearly clear, limpid, or colourless ; or, it may be, of a yellowish green tint, more or less turbid, opalescent, and whey-like. Its reaction is most commonly alkaline, rarely neutral, and still more rarely acid. Sometimes it is as fluid as water, but is frequently thick, viscid and tenacious. Under the microscope it appears as a pure fluid; it fre- quently, however, contains a small amount of corpuscles which, on standing, form a more or less abundant sediment. This sediment may possess various properties, and be depen- dant on very different modes of origin. It may contain d 2