TYPHOUS DEPOSITS. 273 nates; most commonly the granules are in excess, and in this case the mass has, in refracted light, a grayish brown appear- ance. The cells and eytoblasts are sometimes so thinly scattered that they are with difficulty perceived; in other cases they are more frequent, but it is very seldom that they are the predominating element. When softening takes place, the amorphous matter disappears ; the granules, however, and the cells and eytoblasts appear suspended in a fluid, its in an emulsion. The softened mass frequently contains unsoftened particles of considerable size which, by the solution of the surrounding parts, become isolated, and are thus discharged as agglomerate masses. The softening of typhous matter usually proceeds rapidly, following the deposition in the course of a week or only a few days; it is but seldom that several weeks inter- vene. The typhous matter cannot be histologically dis- tinguished from the deposits which occur in scrofulosis and tuberculosis: distinctions may, indeed, be sometimes perceived between these different deposits but these are not greater than are observable between the varieties of typhous matter. Neither can it be distinguished with precision from many forms of inflammatory exudation in the early stages of development, nor from the product of many malignant sup- purations, from exudations in gangrenous parts, and similar processes, whilst its differences from normal pus, and from the more highly organized pseudopiasmata are very obvious. The question of the origin and signification of this typhous matter can be only partially answered by pathological anatomy. It apjxrars to be ascertained that this matter is secreted in a fluid state from the capillary vessels. Moreover, the cause of this separation is, doubtless, a local hypenemia of these vessels; as. indeed, in typhus may be readily proved by direct observation. The secreted matter is, therefore, a part of the blood which, shortly after its separation, coagulates. But we are acquainted with only one principle in the human body, which is capable of spontaneous coagulation, namely, fibrin. Of this, therefore, the typhous matter chiefly consists: it is, however, as in all similar cases pervaded by the other elements of the blood. The question here sag- gests itself: Is this fibrin normal or has it, whilst still in the blood, VOL. I. T