CANCER. 311 for the first few minutes after the operation, the dog exhibited no morbid symptoms, and when killed eight months afterwards, not the slightest change could be detected in any organ, although a single cell might, according to this new, have given rise to the development of cancer. This experiment (like others undertaken by Valentin, Dupuy- tren,* &c., with similar results) shows that cancer-cells lose their capacity for development very shortly after their removal from the body or after death, and tends to render it extremely improbable, that cancer should often be propagated in the above manner. Hut many other experiments are opposed to the production of cancer by contagion, as for instance, the cases in which it arises from mechanical influences, as a blow or a fall. On these grounds, the view that cancer is formed by the transference of cancer-cells, appears to the unprejudiced investi- gator, to be very improbable; at least this mode of formation can at most only occur in a very restricted class of cases. But on the other hand, this view seems better adapted to explain the further distribution of cancer in an individual already suffering from it. And yet on close examination doubts arise regarding even this limited application, tut may be seen by a reference to the explanation of fig. 9 in Plate vui. In this case cancer of the lungs succeeded the primary affection of the testicle. Here the recent cancer consisted of a solid cy toblastema, which was partly amorphous and partly becoming cellular, there being only a few spots in which perfect cancer-cells could be discovered. If I allow that here one or several cancer-cells l)ecame impacted in the same capillary ves- sels, and gave rise to exudation, it still remains problematical how a few cells could exert so strong an influence on a proportionally large mass of exudation as to convert it entirely into cancerous matter, whilst, in other cases, the plastic force of an organic cell is limited to its most immediate vicinity. And here arises a second doubt. Many cancers consist not merely of cells, but also contain fibres. How do these fibres arise ? We may, indeed, assume that in certain cases the cancer cells are converted into fibres; but, from numerous experi- ments, I am induced to believe that bucIi an assumption is altogether false, since it is the peculiar nature of cancer-cells not to enter into other forms, but to undergo disintegration. Langenbeck.t however, asserts that he has observed that after transmitting cancerous matter into the circulation of a dog, cancer consisting not merely of carcinomatous cells, but also of “ very strong, clear, juicy fibres” has formed in the lungs. But how can he explain their production as due alone to the influence of the cancer-cells ? These remarks afford a sufficient refuta- * Compare Hannover, Hvnd cr Cancer? p. 91 t Op. cit. p. 104.