152 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. use. The microscope renders all these chemical pus-tests superfluous ; it enables us not merely to distinguish pus from mucus, broken epithe- lium, blood, &c., but likewise to determine approximately the amount of these different substances, which chemical analysis has never suc- ceeded in doing. It is only in a few cases that no certain conclusions can be deduced from microscopic examination. We sometimes find in normal mucus, that is to say, in the product of the secretion of healthy mucous membranes, isolated corpuscles, similar to those of pus; they * are termed mucus-corpuscles and are probably epithelium-cells in a very , early stage of development. When we find these corpuscles in the secretion of a mucous membrane, it is difficult to distinguish them fioin a small number of pus-corpuscles ; but in all these doubtful cases a very accurate diagnosis is of no importance, for if amongst millions of epi- thelium-cells, we do find a few pus-corpuscles, so slight a process of suppuration is unimportant to the physician. By the help of the I microscope we can not only distinguish pus from the normal fluids of ; the body, but also good pus from that which presents an unhealthy appearance, from ichor, or from the detritus of encephaloid or tuber- cular masses, as will subsequently be shown. ABNORMAL PUS. We have hitherto described pus in its ordinary normal characters. The deviations from this type, are, however, so numerous and distinct, that a whole series of slight, hardly appreciable changes might be given, at one extreme scarcely differing from normal pus, at the other there being a fluid so different in its characters from pus, as no longer to deserve • its name. These deviations are dependant on various causes. a. On the admixture of foreign ingredients. Blood may be mixed with pus. On opening an abscess some blood often gets mixed with it, forming red streaks or flocculi in which undoubted blood-corpuscles can be recognized^ Or if the pus is formed in consequence of a contusion, or of extravasation, the mixture of blood with it is much more j intimate. Here the effused blood acts as the cytoblastema j for the formation of pus-corpuscles, and the blood-corpuscles < are more or less injured or dissolved; indeed, they o en I entirely disappear. In addition to the more 01 less perfect j