307 CANCER. softening of the cancer, and thus enter the circulation, which is by no means a rare occurrence, they become retained in the smaller capillaries, in consequence of their size, and thus becoming further developed at these points, give rise to secondary cancerous tumours. Langenbeck succeeded in inducing secondary cancerous tumours in the lungs of a dog, by injecting into its blood-vessels fresh cancer-cells from a tumour while still warm, which had been removed two hours and a half previously from the humerus of a man. A can- cerous tumour being once formed, its distribution in this manner, into different parts of the same individual, is by no means unlikely ; but it is undoubtedly not the only way in which it can lx* extended, and it admits of several very serious objections. After this notice of the development and extension of cancer, we are now prepared to consider its consequences to the organism. These vary in accordance with the stage of progression of the tumour. In the first place, previously to the commencement of softening, they are purely local, and frequently barely perceptible. The cancerous matter is inju- rious to the adjacent elementary textures simply by its pres- sure and by its checking their nutrition, and these symptoms are the more urgent in proportion to the firmness of the 'ttumour, and to the closeness with which it includes the ele- jiments of the parent-tissue ; these causes frequently leading to the atrophy, and occasionally to the disappearance of these elements. Sometimes we observe especial phenomena from the pressure exercised on a neighbouring organ, on a nerve, or on a canal; these are, however, simply mechanical effects, and not to be distinguished from those to which non-malignant tumours might give rise. On the supervention of softening, the consequences become more serious; we now' usually observe an (inflammatory ?) reaction of the surrounding parts, and the tumour commences to lx- painful. Still more injurious are tin; effects of the unhealthy suppuration which ensues; the surrounding parts x 2