SCROFULOUS DEPOSITS. 275 tions can be made; sometimes it is lardaceous, sometimes soft and crumbling like new curds. It is likewise sometimes colourless and semi-transparent, sometimes whitish, some- times of a yellow tint. Histologically, it is perfectly similar to typhous matter, and consists essentially of the same elements: it presents an amorphous stroma, molecular granules, and undefined cells and cytoblasts, varying in diameter from the 600th to the 300th of a line, occurring in very different pro- portions and mixed with fat-globules. The granules are partly protein-compounds, partly fat, and in part calcareous salts : the latter disappear with effervescence on the addition of nitric acid. After its softening, the matter consists of the same, indeter- minate granular * detritus’ as the typhoid deposit. Softening and ulceration do not, however, always ensue: in many cases the above mentioned calcareous deposition becomes predomi- nant, and the mass is converted into a concretion. Scrofulous matter cannot be with certainty distinguished histologically from typhoid or tubercular matter. There occurs every intermediate grade between it and ordinary suppuration. The statements formerly made respecting the mode of origin and ' the signification of typhous matter hold good equally here. Further observations concerning the conditions of the lymphatic glands infil- ; trated by scrofulous matter, follow in the sj»ecial part. The reader will find a histological and chemical investigation of these tumours by Valentin in his ' Repertorium,’ vol. ii. p. 282. TT7BERCLK.* Tubercles form the most frequent and therefore the most important of this class of deposits. They have especially * The literature of tubercle is remarkably copious ; in addition to the various works on pathological anatomy and pathology generally, we may mention; Laennec, de l’Auscultation mediate; Carswell’s Pathological Anat. Tubercle, fasc. 1, 1833; Schroder van der Kolk, Observationes anat.-patholog. fasc. 1,1826; Clark, on Consumption ; Sebastian, de T 2