506 MALFORMATIONS. fissure and eventration extending over the entire length of the abdo- men ; the lower extremities absent, or very little developed, so that the body appears as if truncated interiorly. B. The fissure extending also to the thorax. 5. Pleurosomus, the fissure somewhat lateral, with eventration extending chiefly upon the upper part of the abdomen, and upon the chest; the upper extremity of the fissured side being more or less atrophied. 6. Celosomus, complete fissure on one side, or in the mesial line, with atrophy or total absence of the sternum, and prolapse of the heart. Plates and descriptions of hernia umbilicalis congenita are given in Cruveilhier, Anat. pathol. livr. xxxi. pi. 5, and Otto, op. cit. p. 294. On ectopia of the heart, see Cerutti, llarior. monstr. descr. anat. Lips. 1827 ; C. Weese, de cordis ectopia. Diss. Berol. 1818 ; and H. J. Haan, de ectopia cordis. Diss. Bonn. 1825. On prolapsus vesica urinaria, see Sandifort, Mus. anat. vol. iv. pi. 67, fig. 2 ; J. Schneider, der angeborne Vorfall der umgekehrten Urinblase, with plates. Franc, a. M. 1832. (Reprinted from Siebold s Journ. f. Geburtshiilfe) with copious literature; and Garvens, Inversio vesicse urinarke. Dissert. Halens. 1841. d. Fissure of the urethra inferiorly (hypospadias), usually accompanied with fissure of the scrotum, together with the formation of a cloaca, in which the orifices of the urinary and sexual organs and of the rectum meet in a common receptacle, is discussed under the head of Hermaphroditism. All or the greater number of the above fissures sometimes occur to the same person.* 3. In this class we must include other fissures, which at first sight are scarcely, or not at all, perceptible, and are only to be recognised by a careful anatomical examination fissure of the lungs, spleen, liver, thymus gland, kidneys, or pancreas; also the abnormal patency of certain canals or orifices, which in the normal state are closed—as of the urachus, the ductus venosus Arantii, the duct, arteriosus Botalli, and the foramen ovale of the heart. These will engage our consideration in the special part. * Tiedemann, Anatomie der Kopflosen Missgeb. PI. iv