COMBINATIONS OF MORBID CHANGES. 418 date, may be found in Henle u. Pfeuffer, Zeitschrift fur rationelle Medi- cin. Vol. 2. Jahresbericht von Henle.—Wharton Jones’s Report on the Changes in the Blood in Inflammation. (British and Foreign Medical Review, No. 35)—and Spiess, Physiologie des Nervensystems. Braunsch- weig, 1844, p. 269, &c. Inflammation belongs as little to pathological anatomy as stasis and congestion; it is only the individual processes, or rather the changes effected by the latter in the body, that belong to this department of science. But as it is customary to speak of inflammation with reference to pathological anatomy, it appears necessary to say a few words as to the extent to which we may receive the idea of it. Inflammation is not a simple process, but rather the common result of a series of processes, standing in connexion one with the other. Such are the processes which we have already included under the department of capillar} hyper- semia and serous dropsy. These processes, however, show themselves different in almost every individual case. Sometimes the whole series is not passed through, and the process is arrested in its development, while in some individual cases those processes which we consider as associated with inflammation are changed in the most various wa)S. Hence inflammation is very variable in its manifestations, and it becomes almost impossible to fix its real definition, or to determine its limits. The same is the case regarding other complicated natural phenomena which occur externally to the human and animal organisms; and it would, therefore, be just as great a waste of time for meteorologists to contend whether or not we should consider every flash of lightning in a clear sky, as a storm, as for us to dispute upon the point whether we dared reckon certain processes in the human body as inflammation. Practiced medicine, in its present condition, endeavours to hold fast to a peculiar idea of in flammation for the sake of its bearing upon therapeutics ; trying, at the same time, to include it within definite limits. We will not contest the point in this case; but general pathology and pathological anatomy, which have not the same mere temporary interests, should not allow such a view to be forced upon them. Yet these sciences will be unable to answer satisfactorily the questions of practical medicine, until general ideas have been elucidated by another form of language—that is, till they have been reduced to their elementary phenomena. On similar principles some other questions must be answered upon which we have cursorily touched ; as, for instance, the opinion of Enge (pp. 289 and 313) and others, that tubercles, and the pseudoplasmata generally, are always products of inflammation. The consideration oi this view resolves itself into two parts, one of which must be answere by pathological anatomy, the other by pathology. In relation to patho- logical anatomy, the term inflammation signifies capillary hyperemia, with fibrinous dropsy and its results. Here we arc led to ask, whe-