170 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. tion of blood-plasma (the nutrient fluid) kept up by inflamma- tory irritation. The epigenesis of areolar tissue, and with it the increase of hypertrophy, continues so long as the secretion of the formative material continues augmented. It would appear, therefore, in its power to be unlimited, for such epigeneses as condylomata, warts, or the proud flesh of gra- nulations often attain a very considerable size. Again, areolar tissue is very frequently formed from a solid cytoblastema. In these cases the formative material is always the coagulated fibrin of fibrinous dropsy, as in false membranes on serous surfaces, as for instance in the peri- cardium, the pleura, or the peritoneum, or after inflam- matory induration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Hence this epigenesis is as a rule confined to the metamorphosis of the exuded and subsequently coagulated fibrin, and ceases when this is perfectly converted into areolar tissue. Morphology of its development. Normal areolar tissue consists, as is well known, of fine transparent fibres, varying from the 2000th to the 1000th of a line in diameter; and the same is the case when it is pathologically reproduced. But, as in pathological structures generally, the product is frequently less perfect than the normal type. The individual fibres are not always so clearly separated from one another, being more or less fused into an amorphous cytoblastema, the arrangement of the fibres in the mass, their division into fasciculi, &c., is less regular than in the normal areolar tissue. This is most especially the case when the formation is recent: very old morbid formations of areolar tissue, as adhesions, pseudo-ligaments, &c., usually consist of areolar tissue which in no respect differs histologically from the normal type. Also the nucleated fibres described by Henle, which are distinguished by their resisting the solvent action of acetic acid, are frequently found in larger or smaller quantities m newly formed pathological areolar tissue. The process of development is the same for moibid as for normal areolar tissue; the fibres proceed from a more or less