PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 92 nently impeded, the pressure of the blood in the vessels of the adjacent parts is increased, and their laceration often results. Hence all the forms of hypenemia, described in the former section, are frequently associated with extravasation of blood. It is observed in obstruction of the veins, in stoppage of the heart’s action, in stagnation in the capillaries, and, indeed, in almost every case of inflammation. Hence it is that extra- vasation of blood is so frequently combined w7ith hyperaemia, with the effusion of serous or fibrinous fluids, and with sup- puration. Moreover, pathological changes in the walls of the vessels themselves frequently give rise to laceration, and it has been especially noticed that the arteries arc more easily lacerated than usual under the ordinary pressure of the blood, when their walls have become softened by atheromatous deposits, or have become brittle by the deposition of earthy matter. Amongst the causes of extravasation, many writers place certain changes in the blood itself, especially those that occur in ordinary and land scurvy, and in the higher degrees of putrid fever and typhus. But we must clearly distinguish between the extravasation of actual blood containing cor- puscles, and the infiltration of dissolved hsematin which transudes through the uninjured walls of the vessels, and will be considered in the next section. This dissolved condition of the hiematin is entirely dependant on a decom- posed state of the blood. In typhus, petechial and putrid fever, &c., the extravasation of true blood is, however, very- frequent, but is always dependant on laceration of the vessels; and in producing this laceration a change in the composition of the blood can only act a very secondary part. It can at most only act through a series of means, by favouring congestion and stagnation of the blood. On these points, however, we know very little. The further course of extravasated blood resembles in till essential points that of a fibrinous fluid. Firstly, it may either be rcsorbed and thus disappear; or secondly, it may