213 FATTY TUMOURS. we are still more in the dark in relation to the mode in which their nutrition is conducted. It is further probable, that sometimes as Abernethv* has conjectured, an imper- fectly formed tumour of another kind, as for instance a fibrous tumour, through a change in the mode of its nutrition, may take up fat and thus become converted into a fatty or lardaeeous tumour. When a tumour has once formed, it increases in accordance with the law of analogous formation, which in this case is identical with the laws regulating normal nutrition. As the histological examination of tumours is only of very recent origin, it is difficult and often impos- sible to determine the nature of the tumours described by the earlier observers. From the absence of microscopic examination and description, it is impossible to identify the tumours described by the older writers.+ Of the tumours belonging, according to the old terminology to this group, there are : lipoma, some cases of lupia (many belonging to encysted tumours), some cases of steatoma (which, as has been already remarked, forms the transition to fibrous tumours), and a small portion of the cases of sar- coma (Abernethy’s adipose sarcoma; most, however, belonging to the group of fibrous tumours). MQllerJ distinguishes the following varieties of lipoma: 1. Lipoma simplex—the true fatty tumour. 2. Lipoma mixtum, with penetrating membranous layers—the combination with the fibrous tumour, forming steatoma; and 3. Lipoma arborescens— * Surgical observations, p. 9. t 'Hie following works constitute the most important literature of the subject: Aberuethy’s Surgical Observations, 1804, p. 26; Ph. Fr. v. Walther, liber die angebomen Fetthautgeschwfilste, Landshut, 1814, m. 2 Tab.; J. P. Weidmann, Annotatio de steatomatibus, Moguntiaci. 1817, acc. 5 Tab.; J. Fr. Meckel, Handb. der Pathol. Anatomie, vol. ii. Part. ii. 1818, p. 119, &c.; v. Klein, fiber Speckgeschwulste, v. Graefe und v. Walther’a Journal, vol. i. p. 109 ; Chelius, Handb. d. t'hirurgie unter Fettgeschwulat und Steatoma; J. Muller, fiber den feineren Bau und die Formen der krankhaften Geschwfilste, 1838, P-49; G. Gluge, Abhandlungen zur Physiologic u. Pathologic, 1839, p. 130, 1841, p. 185; D. Heyfelder de lq>omute et steatomate, 1842; numerous references to, and quotations from the older authors, are given in these works. 1 Op. cit. p. 50, or West’s translation, pp. 153—4.