448 PARASITES. tinct and separate sexual organs; they live upon, and some- times beneath the skin, in abscesses, &c., multiply very rapidly, and for the most part, possess a great tenacity of life, as may be seen by the following startling examples, which are related by Hering. A portion of skin from a recently killed mangy horse, was laid in a solution of alum and common salt, where it remained perfectly covered during eight or ten days; it was then stretched out and dessiccated in a hot cham- ber. A very large number of surviving acari then made their appearance. A strip of skin from another mangy horse, after having lain for several days in a cold place, wras macerated during four days in an aqueous solution of alum and common salt, and afterwards dried. There were found upon it, nearly four weeks after the death of the animal, some still surviving acari. 1. The human itch-mite (acarus scabiei, sarcoptes hominis, sarcoptes exulcerans) lives upon persons affected with the itch. It is white, very minute (from one tenth to one fourth of a line), in the form of a point; when magnified it presents an oval body, which upon its superior (dorsal) surface, presents rugous transverse strife, having between them, in the middle of the back, mamillary projections. It has no true head, but upon the anterior extremity of the body, proboscis-like man- dibular organs of roundish somewhat compressed form, which are furnished with four hairs or bristles. The point of junc- tion of the proboscis with the thorax is continued in a roundish channel which descends upon the under side of the thorax, almost to its centre. Similar projecting channels proceed from the points of insertion of the eight feet. Of the latter, the four anterior limbs are inserted into the thorax by the side of the proboscis, are jointed, and furnished with hairs and bristles, the last joint of each terminating in an adhering disk. The posterior legs without adhering disks, terminate in very long bristles. The abdomen obtusely rounded off posteriorly carries two additional pair of bristles, of which the inner