PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 190 in the coloured portion of skin, in which latter, however, in addition to pigment-granules, coloured nuclei are also pre- sent (Bruch, Krause*). Pathological epigeneses of granular pigment are, however, very frequent. They appear as colorations of the skin, in the form of sun-burn, freckles, &c.; in the internal organs they appear as melanosis in the lungs and bronchial glands, on the surfaces of the liver and of the spleen, on the inner and outer surfaces of the intestinal canal, and in tumours, also as frequently accompanying suppuration in the walls of foul abscesses. The morphological and chemical relations, as also the causes of these morbid formations of pigment are very various, and therefore a general consideration of them is diffi- cult. The following may be offered as a mere provisional sketch. In some cases the newly formed pigment is contained in true cells, analogous to the normal pigment-cells, which are surrounded with a distinct cell-wall, provided with a nucleus, and enclose very fine granular pigment-molecules of a brown or black colour. Such pigment-cells are found m melanotic tumours, in melanosis of the lungs and bronchial glands, and in the skin. They are more or less perfectly formed, but seldom or ever so regular as the pigment-cells of the choroid coat. They are usually of an indefinite roundish form.f I have never seen them united in a continuous layer, and so greatly compressed as to form polyhedra. In animals, (the horse and calf), where collections of pigment occur in the conjunctiva after inflammation, they ramify and sometimes assume a stellar form. Bruch appears to clas- sify the granular cells under this head; but they contain molecules, which consisting of fat, only appear dark m refracted light, and are rather, on the contrary, white when seen by reflected light; they therefore differ essentially from * Article, Haut in Wagner’s Handworterbuch der Physiologie. f PI. i. fig. 10; pi. xx. fig. 7. See also Bruch, op. cit. fig. 22, 23, -u