CANCER. 305 organs. This enlargement is undoubtedly dependant on the cellular structure of the cancer, and probably also on the fibres acting upon the nutrient fluid in the neigh- bouring parts, in accordance with the law of analogous for- mation. The increase of the cancerous cells is forwarded by the circumstance that many of them act the p;irt of parent- dills, and contain in their interior young cells, which in all probability are capable of a similar mode of increase. More- over, the numerous cytoblasts frequently observed in a cell, probably all become themselves developed into distinct cells. With these facts before us, there is clearly no limit to the increase of cancer-cells, neither is there any necessity for regarding them as distinct organisms similar to the lowest fungi and alga\ It is clear, however, that the fibres and the vessels (if any are present) cannot be increased by means of the cancer-cells; in all probability the increase' of the fibres—and in fibrous cancer such an increase undoubtedly occurs—is dependant upon the influence of the pre-existing fibres, just as is the case in the growth of pure fibrous tumours. The innate capacity for augmentation possessed by cancer, is very energetic, and forms an essential distinction between cancerous tumours and scrofulous depositions; for in the latter this capacity is either altogether absent, or only present to a very slight degree. Hence the growth of cancer is most rapid when an increased cytoblastema is yielded to it from nny source, as for instance, from inflammatory exudation, especially from fibrinous dropsy in the adjacent parts. It always increases on the supervention of softening and ichorous dis- charge, in consequence of the irritation to which these pro- cesses give rise in the surrounding parts. The exudation thus yielded by the neighbouring hypercemic parts is converted into cancerous matter, and hence cancer is not, as is frequently the case with tul)ercle, separated from the surrounding parts by granular cells or pus, nor is it retarded in its growth by a line of demarcation. The newly-formed cancerous matter goes through precisely the same course of development as