EPIGENESIS OF BLOOD AND VESSELS. 177 On the contrary it is not very probable that extrava sated masses of blood, can, in the like manner, as newly formed blood become surrounded with regular walls. This much, however, is certain, that extravasated blood cannot always give rise in this manner to the formation of new vessels ; it may, indeed, suffer many other modifications, as has been already mentioned, and will be often again noticed. On the other side it may be supposed that in accordance w ith the law of analogous forma- tion, there arise from the normal vessels, walls, which are at first altogether closed, but which afterwards communicate with them, and receive blood from them. This process would differ from the former only in this, that here the vessels are formed without their usual contents (blood). Future experience must decide whether any thing of this kind actually occurs. What art; the causes of the epigenesis of blood and vessels? It may be supposed that here also the law of analogous for- mation plays a part, since the influence of the normal blood- vessels calls forth this process of formation from the exuda- tion ; in fact we And that this epigenesis of vessels is not only of most common occurrence in highly vascular parts, as, for instance, upon the skin, but is also most frequent under those circumstances where the vessels are most replete with blood and where hypenemia exists, as for instance in gramdations. Whether the extravasation of blood facilitates the epigenesis of vessels must remain yet undecided. We must at all events acknowledge that the true causes of this epigenesis still remain in much obscurity. Sometimes the epigenesis of vessels only become apparent when the previously invisible capillaries become enlarged, receive more blood, and thereby become visible to the naked eye. 'll vis is the case in hypenemia of most parts of the body, at least of such as arc superficial, and can he observed during life, as for example the conjunctiva of the eye. The time requisite for the epigenesis of blood and of vessels appears to be very short in proportion to that required for the development of other epigeneses. I have myself seen blood arise in an exudation within forty-eight hours after its effusion. Home observed numerous vessels formed within the course oftwenty- vol. i. n