493 DEFICIENT MONSTERS. specie?, whose characteristics I shall notice, since they afford an excel- lent view of the most important forms which occur. A. Pseudencephuli, containing in place of the brain, a soft, reddish, vascular protuberance. They may be divided into : 1. Nosencephali,* in which the skull is open only in the frontal and parietal regions, and the posterior fontanelle is distinctly present. 2. Thlipsencephali,f when the skull is opened not merely in the frontal and parietal, but also in the occipital region, and a distinct posterior fontanelle does not exist. And 3. Pseudenccphali in the strict sense of the term ; in which there is not merely the fissure of the skull, but the medullary canal is also widely cleft, and the spinal cord is absent. B. Anencephali, in which the brain is totally absent, without, as in the case of pseudencephali, being replaced by a foreign substance; they are reduced into: 1. Derencephali.l in which not only the brain, but the spinal cord in the cervical region is also wanting; the skull and upper part of the spinal canal being widely cleft. And 2. Anencephali in the strict sense of the word; in which the brain and the whole of the spinal cord are wanting; the skull and the spinal canal being widely opened. Some of these forms, as already mentioned, constitute the transition to the fissures which will be presently considered. c. Portions of the face—as the nose, eyes, facial bones, and at the same time more or less of the cranium—may be absent (aprosopns, microprosopus). This class is reducible into many sub-orders, which are rare in man, but are frequent and comparatively abundant in animals. We must here place absence of the lower jaw, of the nose, of the eyes, of the mouth, &c., resulting from an extensive arrest of develop- ment. See Meckel, vol. i. p. 393, et seq.; Summering, Abb. und Beschreib. einiger Missgeburten, PI. 9; Otto, op. cit. No. 88, et seq. and Gurlt, op. cit. vol. n. p. 68, et seq. The deficiency of these organs individually, as absence of the eyes, of the eyelids, of the iris, of the ears, &c., whether occasioned by imperfect development or sub- sequent destruction, is noticed in the special department. These malformations also stand in the most intimate relation to some fissures and fusions, as for instance, with cyclopia. 6. Malformations in which the whole body appears more or less defective, some parts being absent and others too * »<koc, disease. ♦ t pressure, destruction. itpri, the neck. ♦