NATURE OF PARASITES. 421 uncertainty applies also to some rare parasites, as for instance, the naviculee which appear in human excrements, and the unr- ein a ventriculi. To parasitic formations is superadded a condition, by means of which it becomes difficult in many cases to deter- mine, not merely to which of the two natund kingdoms a structure belongs, but even whether it is to be considered as an independent parasite, or only a degenerated portion of the body. This, for instance, is the case with the highly curious pathological structures which J. Muller has observed in fishes, and has named psorospermia* It is only by future observa- tions, carefully conducted with an especial view to the origin of these structures, that the question can be decided whether they are to be regarded as cells degenerated through morbid influences, or as independent (parasitic) individuals. These formations have not, as yet, been observed in man, and are, therefore, in our case, objects of subordinate interest. But even in the human subject there are pathological structures respecting which it is questionable whether they are to be regarded as independent individuals, or as mere degenerations of particles of the body. Thus cancer-cells and other similar structures are bv many classed with parasites, as indepen- dent structures (semi-individual cells). It appears to me that the question, “ what are parasites?” is not yet rij>e for decision, but I venture to predict that a more advanced know- ledge will limit the acceptation of parasites to those organic structures whose germs have penetrnted into the organism from without; although, in order that they may develop themselves, there must prevail not merely a general, but often a special pathological disposition of the system. This view pre-supposes that parasites never arise by equivocal generation, but by propagation alone—a point which is no longer doubtful. Of cancer-cells, however, it is more than probable that the germs are not necessarily derived from without, and, accord- ingly, I cannot regard them as parasitic formations. I will remind those who affirm cancer-cells to be parasites, merely because nothing like them is found in the normal body, that they must consequently * Muller's Arcitiv. 1841. p. 477, &c. 1842. p. 193, &c.