EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 556 larged externally, whilst its cavity was diminished, rough, un- even, and tuberculated on its external and internal surfaces. Besides the bladder, the inguinal glands of the right side, and the prostate were affected by the encephaloid. The malignant matter in the bladder was soft, brain-like, easily convertible into a pulp on pressure, and at some points had even liquefied. It was whitish, and fatty to the touch. A microscopic examination gave the following result: The encephaloid consisted wholly of cells of different size and form. They were partly round, partly oval, partly caudate, but no one form predominated over the rest. The roundish cells varied from the 100th to the 60th of a line in diameter, the elongated cells from the 50th to the 60th in length, and from the 100th to the 300th in breadth. The nuclei of the round ones were on an average the ‘200th of a line in diameter, and those of the longer cells were nar- rower. Some cells appeared very large (even the 30th of a line) when they generally enclosed several minute cells with nuclei (a). Isolated cells, although in a proportionately small number contained dark granules (b). Acetic acid did not affect the nuclei, or the walls. Nitric acid caused the cells to adhere together, and to become entangled within an amorphous coagulum (albumen). Ammonia did not dis- solve the cells, but rendered them paler, while the nuclei disappeared. The dark granules remained unchanged. The encephaloid contained blood-vessels. The encephaloid of the inguinal glands was in every respect similar to that in the bladder, excepting in the former case it was evident that the encephaloid had been developed between fibies of areolar tissue. Magnified 220 diameters. The same figure serves to elucidate the appearances presented in a case of encephaloid of the stomach from an elderly woman who died from pneumonia. In the otherwise normal stomach, about two inches from the pylorus, there was in the smaller curvature, an elongated tumour three inches in length, and two in breadth. It formed a kind of roll consisting of several nodules, with an indentation in the middle ; the separate nodules varied from the size of a bean to that of a walnut. The whole tumour was covered over by the unaltered mucous membrane; it was of a moderately hard consistence (some- what like that of steatoma) and was not soft in any part. On cutting it, it was of a yellowish white colour, and exhibited no trace of blood- vessels. A microscopic examination shewed it to consist entirely of colourless nucleated cells of different forms, which were united togc