MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 261 literature is to be found in the works referred to in the text, by Hodgkin and J. Muller: descriptions and illustrations of some forms are given by Gluge in his Atlas d. Patholog. Anatomie, Part iv. under Cyst-forma- tions ; also by Andral in his Patholog. Anatomie. Hodgkin includes malignant tumours amongst the compound cyst-formations; a view which will be presently criticised. MALIGNANT HETEROLOGOUS TUMOURS. Pseudoplasmal a. The nature of non-malignant tumours consists essentially in this, that they are formed of the persistent elements of the body, and as such maintain their existence and participate in the general metamorphosis of the tissues. They may indeed be destroyed by softening and ulceration, but this is effected through the agency of causes which are not inherent in their nature, but are only accidental and exoteric. Malignant tumours, on the other hand, proceed of neces- sity to softening from esoteric causes; the softening being a necessary consequence of their development.* This circumstance sufficiently distinguishes the two classes of tumours. But other pathological formations also soften without being, on this account, malignant. Thus, for instance, softening takes place in all suppurations in which the pus is developed from a solid cytoblastema. In this case, however, the morbid epigenesis alone softens, the original tissues taking no part in it; if the pus is evacuated extern,'illy or becomes resorbed, they return to their original condition, and re-assume their previous functions; the affected part, with the exception of some trivial changes which occasionally remain, is restored in integrum. The case is far different with malignant tumours. In these the softening is not con- fined to the morbid epigenesis amongst the original histolo- * It certainly happens that tumours, which at their commencement we should regard as malignant, occasionally do not soften, hut this is depen- dant on accidental or external causes, much like those which induce softening in non-malignant tumours.