161 SUPPURATION. pus-corpuscles, and with them the tendency to external rejection is less strong: they are much more easily resorbed than pus-corpuscles. Hence genuine suppuration may be characterized as the liquefaction of an exudation with a tendency to external rejec- tion ; the formation of granular cells, as liquefaction with a tendency to resorption. This is, however, but an elemen- tary type of either process. Both may occur together, or either may be converted into the other. Thus, in many cases pus enclosed within the parenchyma of an organ may disap- pear without having been rejected externally; its corpuscles breaking up and gradually becoming resorbed. But these tire exceptions; in the majority of cases the enclosed pus finds for itself a way by which it reaches the external surface, though its course may be a slow one, as in deep-seated abscesses, psoas abscesses, &c. Conversely, the formation of granu- lar cells may cause an abscess, especially in very tender and delicate organs. A frequent example of this is afforded in inflammatory' softening of the brain. Hence it follows that the formation of granular cells is that form of suppurative process by which the organism is the most spared, and the same is the case with suppuration on free surfaces. When pus is formed in the parenchyma, especially when an abscess is produced, and the pus forcibly seeks to obtain an external outlet, there must be some, destruction or injury7 of the organized parts. This injury or destruction is in different cases of very varying intensity. Thus, there is the healthy abscess, where the loss ot substance is soon replaced, and the part shortly after the rejection of the pus returns to its pri- mitive condition; and there is the malignant phagedenic abscess or ulcer, where the loss of substance continually increases, and the ulcer gradually extends. In attempting to explain these processes we are led to inves- tigate the causes which give rise to the formation of pus, and the reasons why in some cases normal pus, in others granular cells, or abnormal pus are produced. VOL. i. M