460 PARASITES. who, whilst in perfect health and vigour, had been suddenly destroyed by mechanical injuries (fracture of the scull). Their pathological importance seem, therefore, to be not very great. The occurrence of this worm has been, even recently, regarded as affording an important support to the theory of sponta- neous generation; although I believe, that ultimately also in this case, a transference from without will be successfully proved. The trichina was first discovered in England, and described by Owen.* * * § It has been since observed by others, (Far re, 4 Henle.J Kobelt,|| Bischoff,§ Bowman, &c.) Farre states that he has observed in it an intestinal canal with evident walls. On account of its symmetrical form, I hold the investing capsule of the worm not to be a secondary c\st produced, as in the case of hydatids, by reaction of the organism which harlxmrs it, but believe that it pertains to the worm itself, and is the result of a kind of metamorphosis of the animals. This view is supported by the regular form characterising these cysts, which are elongated and terminate in pestle-like extremities. Most trichinae, before they can escape from their cysts, undergo the calcareous incrustation already noticed. What becomes of those which quit the cysts is unknown. The trichinae which Bowman has observed in the interior of the primitive muscular fasciculi should be probably here noticed; possibly the animal after- wards becomes larger, and attains to a more developed form of the ^ nematoidea. In favour of the origin of a tricliinae hy transference, it may be mentioned that they (probably the same species) have been observed also in animals. Diesing has found them in the horse ; Siebold in several of the mammalia and birds : I have found perfectly similar animals in the peritoneum of an owl, and a few days ago, through the kindness of my colleague, Professor Herbst, I observed trichinae, completely resembling those occurring in the human subject, in nearly all the muscles of a cat. The detection by several recent observers of filaria-like worms in the blood of different animals, is sug- gestive of their mode of origin. See Rayer, Archives dc med. compare, 1843, t. x. p. 40 et seq.; Vogt in Muller’s Arcliiv. 1842, p. 189; and Gruby and Delafond in Froriep’s N. Notizen, Febr. 1S43, p. 231. j * Transact, of Zoological Soc. vol. i. London, 1835, p. 315 et seq. t Medical Gazette, Dec. 1835. + Muller’s Archiv. 1836, Jahresber. p. 227. || Froriep’s N. Notizen, 1840, vol. xiii. p. 309. vol. xiv. p. 23o. § Medicinische Annalen, vol. vi. p. 232 and 485.