282 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. phous stroma liquefies ; the elementary granules then separate and the cells and cytoblasts become liberated, in part break up, and form a sort of emulsion either with a pre-existing or a newly secreted fluid. In this process of softening most of the tissues, between which the tubercular matter has been depo- sited, take a share; they also break up, the more delicate first, the firmer resisting the destructive action for a longer period, and the product of their disintegration mixes with the softened tubercle, presenting the appearance of a thick, quasi- purulent fluid, which therefore forms an organic detritus saturated with fluid (serum), and under the microscope ex- hibiting very indefinite characters. It appears as an aggre- gation of elementary granules with cytoblasts and cells in various states of preservation.* Sometimes crystals of cho- lesterin or of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, or certain organized structures originating from the textures surround- ing the tubercle are present. In the fluid of the softened tubercle we usually find a viscid (pyin-like) substance which coagulates on the addition of acetic acid. The softened mass usually exhibits a tendency to external rejection, in this point of view resembling the pus of an abscess. In some few cases it becomes gradually resorbed, disappears, and the cavity formed by the destruction of the tissues is filled by the formation of a cicatrix, or else a portion of the tubercular matter remains as a compact and sometimes even as a quasi-cartilaginous mass, or undergoes a species of fatty dege- neration. In other cases the development of the tubercular matter proceeds in a different manner. A copious deposition of calcareous granules occurs in the tubercular matter, and con- tinues to increase, while the other constituents are removed by resorption. In this manner tubercle becomes converted into a white pulverulent, or chalky mass, or else into a dense stony substance. This modification of tubercle is usually surrounded by