4 29 EPIPHYTES. fungi act in the diseases which accompany them, is a question which renders more extensive investigations still desirable. A classification of parasitic fungi might be carried out accord- ing to botanical principles. It would, however, be very difficult, since the greatest number show no distinct fructification, and the mycelia of most fungi in their early stages of development resemble each other in an extraordinary degree. Their elemen- tary forms are simple cells, which enlarge by the protrusion of new cells, or by prolongation into filamentous structures. Their fructification consists of spores which are either free and agglomerated into pulverulent masses, or appear enclosed in proper fruit-beds (sporangia). The numerous experiments which I have instituted, compel me to join in the opinion of Kiitzing, who, in his observations on the low forms of vegetation, occurring in fermenting fluids, says :* “ It is ex- tremely difficult to reply to the question: Can these structures lx? arranged into genera and species ? I once attempted this distinction at a time when I had examined and observed only a few of these forms, the silkworm, see Bassi, del mal del segno, calcinaecio, o moscardino. ‘2nd ed. Milano, 1837 ; Audouin, recherches anatomiques et physiologiques sur la maladie contagieuse qui attaque les vers it soie. Annales des sciences nutur. t. 8, p. 229 and p. 257. Nouvelles experiences sur la nature de la maladie, &c. A. Hannover fiber contagibse Confcrvcnbildung an Wassersala- mandern, in Muller's Archiv. 1839, page 338, and 1842, page 72; Stilling iiber contagibse Confervenbildung auf Frbschen ; in Muller's Archiv. 1841. page 279; Deslongchamp, sur des moississures d£- veloppbes peudant la vie a la surface interne des jioehcs aeriennes d un Canard Eider. Annales des sciences natur. 1841, t. 14, p. 371 ; Klenke, Neue physiolog. Abhandlungen. Leipz. 1843, pp. 1—93; J. Muller iiber pilzartige Parasiten in den Lungen und Lufthbhlen der Vogel, in his Archiv. 1842, p. 198; F. J. G. Meyer fiber Schimmelbil- dung im thierischen Kbrper (in the Membrana nictitans of falco nisus) in his Neue Unters. aus d. Gehiete d. Anat. u. Physiologic, Bonn, 1842, p. 34, ike. ; B. Langenbeck, Confervenbildung in dem Nasenaus- flusse cines rotzkranken Pferdes. Froriep's N. Notizen, 1841, v. xx. p. 58. Confcrvae do not, however, always occur in the mucus of glandered horses; Henle never found them, (Pathologische Untersuch- ungen. 1840, p. 69) ; neither was 1 more successful. * Erdmann s Journ. f. prakt. Chemie, vol. xi. p. 409,