470 PARASITES. * Sec Siebold, op. cit. p. Go‘2. ourselves with noticing their distinguishing characters. Like the taenia vulgaris, it is a Bat, usually distinctly articulated worm, which can attain to a length of from one foot to twenty, or even forty or more feet, and likewise at the cephalic extremity, is not more than a quarter or half a line broad; posteriorly it acquires a breadth of tour, six, or twelve lines. Its colour is whitish or light gray; its thickness from the sixth to half of a line. The individual joints of the worm are quadrangular, in general, broader than long; their length, however, increases in proportion as they become distant from the cephalic extremity. The well developed joints want the mammillary projection on the margin, but in the place of it have, each in its centre, a distinct depression— the genital opening—surrounded by an elevated ring. On the larger joints may sometimes be remarked, behind this opening, a second smaller one. The head of the worm, as in the case of taenia vulg. is very minute; but, the application of the microscope reveals well-marked differences. It has no suckers, but instead of them, two (not always evident) depressions, or furrows running longitudinally. The neck is very short, often entirely absent. The dis- crimination of this worm from the taenia vulg. is easy, and is to be accomplished—partly through the well-developed joints, which are thrown off not singly, as in the taenia vulg., but in connected rows, and which are characterized with certainty as of the family bothriocephalus, by the presence of the above mentioned cavity in the centre, and not on the border of the joint—and partly through the examination of the cephalic extremity, when that is possible. . The bothriocephalus likewise inhabits the small intestines of man, but only in certain countries—in Switzerland, in Middle and Southern France, Russia, Poland and Eastern Prussia, where the Vistula forms the boundary between its territory and that of the taenia vulgaris* When it occurs