555 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. woman, who died from Phthisis tuberculosa rents dextri et pul- monum. Fig. 3. Tubercles from the right kidney, which had been entirely destroyed by infiltration and partial softening of tubercular matter. They constituted a white lardaceous mass, which, when magnified 220 diameters, exhibited manv round corpuscles {a, nuclei), in an amorphous mass (cytohlastema). Besides these, there were separate larger cells, some of indefinite form (b), and others much elongated, resembling the fibrous cells of areolar tissue (c). Fig. 4. Tubercles from the lung of the same woman. Magnified 220 diameters. They exhibit a very great variety in the form of the cells, a. nuclei in an amorphous cytohlastema. b. large elongated cells, c. large round cells, partly with and partly without granules. These variously sliaped cells appeared simultaneously in all parts of the tubercle, but the nuclei (a) were by far the most numerous. Fig. 5. A. Tubercles from the lungs of a soldier. Magnified 220 diameters. The cellular structure was very distinct in them ; the cell-wall and nucleus with nucleoli were almost everywhere to be distinguished, and the separate cells showed less difference in form and size than usual. hiG. 5. B. 1 ubercles from under the peritoneum of a woman who died from dropsy. Magnified 220 diameters. They were depo- sited over the whole of the abdominal parietes, and in the mesen- tery beneath the peritoneal investment. They were about the size of a lentil, of indefinite form, tolerably firm, and of a larda- ceous consistence. I nder the microscope there were seen nuclei in an amorphous cytohlastema (a), and |>erfect cells (b), which in form and in their chemical relations entirely resembled the cells iff tubercle. 1* ig. 6. Dissolved tubercular matter from the kiduevs of the same woman from whom the crude tubercles in Fig. 3 were depicted. 1 he matter presented the appearance of a thick fluid, resembling scrofulous pus; it was not viscid, and did not form a jelly with ammonia like normal pus : under the microscope there were no pus- coqmseles to be seen, but an indistinct granular matter blended with isolated undissolved tubercular cells. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 7. Enccphaloid of the bladder of a man aged sixty-six years. The bladder was entirely converted into encephaloid, and was much thickened (its walls being an inch in diameter); it was cn-