THE ITCH-MITE. 451 whenever these animalcules occur upon the human body, they have been transmitted to it from without. The appearance of itch-pustules, ulcers, &e., appears produced partly by the mere presence of the acari and their mechanical effect, and partly by the violent scratching of the patient; that the acari secrete acrid juices, and thus exert a chemical irrita- tion upon the skin, is improbable. The more violent irritation, which itch-patients suffer by night and in the warmth, depends upon the natural habits of the acari; they are espe- cially nocturnal animals, and love warmth, and are rendered more lively by it. For this reason the disease is especially liable to be caught by sleeping with an infected person. The different forms of scabies depend, no doubt, on the unequal susceptibility and disposition of the cutaneous organs, or upon other external and internal circumstances. If, by the destruction (by means of ointments, &e.) of the greater part of the animals, the itch is for the present cured, the disease may after a few weeks, even without new contagion, again break out; for these acari are remarkably tenacious of life, and a few of them or of their ova may have escaped ex- termination. The itch-mite, like the chiggo, appears to take up its abode upon all (even the most healthy) indivi- duals, and to indicate by its presence no special disposition. Notwithstanding this, however, certain conditions, especially undcanliness, favour its transference and extension, whilst others, as extreme cleanliness, restrict them. In order to arrive at a correct apprehension of the relations of the human itch-mite, it is essential to have regard to the allied forms of acarus which occur on the inferior animals ; the more so, since, in the latter, cxjieriments with respect to contagion, can be made much more readily than in man. To the most important literature on this subject, I therefore subjoin that of the itch-mites of animals. Respect- ing human itch-mites, see Stannius das Insekt der Kriitze. Medic. Vereinszeitung, 1835, No. 29.—Mailer's Archiv. 1836. Jahresber. p. 228.—Raspail, Naturgeschichtc des Insektes der Kriitze, aus d. Franz, mit Anmerkg. von. G. K. 1835.—Raspail, Histoire natur. de la santd, &c. t. i. p. 441, &c.—Dugfes, Annales des sc. uat. 2e sdrie. 3. p. 245. —P. Gervais, Ann. des sc. natur. 2e scrie. 15. p. 9.—Nitzsch Art. G G 2