PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 358 of food containing oxalic acid, as sorrel, &c. a sediment of oxalate of lime appears in the urine, and a long adherence to a similar diet may give occasion to the formation of these calculi. But it is not in every case that their origin can be explained by the oxalic acid taken in the food; and we are hence led to the conjecture that it may be formed in the or- ganism from other substances. Indeed, Liebig and Wohler found in their investigations regarding the products of the decomposition of uric acid, that on treating it with peroxide of lead or with nitric acid, oxalic acid, together with other substances, was formed. And this fact renders it highly probable that oxalic acid may be formed in the organism from other substances; but what these are, and under what condi- tion it is formed, are questions which it is impossible at present to answer. At all events, oxalate of lime does not exist in the blood, since it could not pass undissolved into the urinary canals. Oxalic acid must either pass into the urine in a free state from the blood, or in some soluble combination, and there unite with the lime, forming an insoluble compound. 5. Calculi of earthy phosphates (phosphate of lime and ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate.) Calculi of phosphate of lime alone are very rare ; those consisting only of ammoniaco- magnesian phosphate less so, while the most frequent present a combination of both salts. These calculi are of a whitish colour, sometimes earthy, chalky, very light and porous; sometimes laminated, in which case they are usually firmer. Those which especially contain calcareous salts are not easily fusible by the blow-pipe; they become more readily fusible in proportion as the magnesian salts predominate, when they are termed fusible calculi. They are characterized by dissolving in acids without effervescence, and by being precipitated unchanged from an acid solution by means of ammonia. The following points may serve to decide whether a stone contain more lime or magnesia:—1. The degree of fusibility before the blow-pipe. 2. If the acid solution of such a stone