PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 268 disease, or its propagation to several organs may result from the first deposition not removing the whole of this matter from the blood. Through the continual production of this matter, and its deposition in various parts of the body, the disease becomes constitutional. Against such a view, which attempts to explain the disease solely on the princi- ples of humeral pathology, there may be urged weighty objections. In the first place such specific morbid principles have not as yet been demonstrated; indeed, the failure of every attempt to trace them, renders their existence very improbable, and if, nevertheless, in modem times, certain physicians speak of such matters, (stating for instance, that tubercles consist of casein), this only shows the deficiency of their knowledge of organic chemistry. Moreover, it cannot be conceived why such a principle circulating in the blood throughout the system, becomes deposited only in certain spots, and does not, with the nutritive fluid, exude every where from the capillary vessels ; and consequently, why pseudoplasmata do not arise simulta- neously in every part of the body. We are, then, compelled to assume that certain parts of the body possess a peculiar attractive power for these principles, something similar, we must suppose, to that by which the parenchyma of the kidneys especially separates urea: for this separation cannot be ascribed to peculiarities of the vascular system, since pseudoplasmata may arise in nearly every part of the body. This could not be an original, innate, attractive force, because for the reason last mentioned, all parts of the body would then possess it, and thus the local occurrence of pseudoplasmata would remain unexplained. It must be first acquired by a change in the constituents of the body, which may be either direct or mediately transferred from the nervous centres. With this admission, however, the morbific cause becomes, partly at least, transferred from the province of humoral pathology to that of nervous pathology, or solidism. A second view, which is closely allied to the first, seeks the cause of the pseudoplasma in a contagium animat urn: for instance, it ascribes to the specific cells of cancer the power, like that of the spores of cryptogamic plants, of propagating the disease by the expulsion of new cells or by the genesis of such cells in their interior. Two distinct modifications of this view may be exhibited. According to one, all pseudoplasmata in every case spring from such a germ : according to the other, this is but one of the modes of propagation, and is especially adapted to ex- plain the formation of new pseudoplasmata in an organism already infected. There are very weighty objections to both opinions, which I shall state at length in speaking of cancer, where this view can be supported with greater plausibility than for the other pseudoplasmata. It may in this place be provisionally remarked, that by the assumption of a contagium aniinatum, neither the origin of the pseudoplasmata, nor