INFLAMMATION. 417 blood-plasma, during its effusion on the surface of the mucous membrane, is converted into mucus. Hence 1 believe that all those cases in which, after capillary hvpenemia, no fibrinous effusion is observed, are rather apparent than actual excep- tions to the general rule. The second question: Whether every case of fibrinous dropsy must necessarily have been preceded bv capillary hvpenemia, or whether it may arise from any other cause ? is one regarding which experience is still more at fault. It is true that we frequently meet with cases of fibrinous dropsy and its consequences, without, at the same time and place, observing capillary hvpenemia; but in such cases the hyper- emia may possibly have disappeared, whilst its product—the fibrinous dropsy—remains. On this point we must, still rest contented with theoretical speculations which, from their very nature, can lay claim only to probability, not to certainty. As long as we suppose that the connexion between these two processes is the same as we have stated (p. 50), namely, that fibrinous dropsy a rise's from an extravasation of blood through the attenuated walls of the capillaries, then it will remain probable that every case is dependant on capillary hypereemia, till it has been demonstrated that it may arise from some other cause. The processes occurring in this group are designated in pathology by different names, in part individually, in part collectively. Those most in use are ranged under the heads of congestion, stasis, and inflammation : they are, however, of little value in pathological anatomy : but pathologi- cally considered capillary hy[>ertemia would be a more appropriate term than congestion, which may, doubtlessly, lead to an incorrect hypothesis. Pathological anatomy can only, in vefy rare cases, give any explanation concerning the presence of a stasis, and that solely where a microscopic examination of the circulation in living structures is possible. More- over, this does not apjiear to be the right place to enter upon a discus- sion of the causes of the stagnation of the blood, since no very satisfactory explanation of this process has been given; and since, in all probability, the views which for the moment seem most correct, will *>on yield to others, in their turn to give place to newer ones. Cri- tical surveys of the views entertained on this subject up to the latest VOL. 1. p p