5 INTRODUCTION. in true science is the best defence against this medical bigotry. He who takes a calm survey of the whole science is not likely to take up a one-sided system; he who feels the incom- pleteness of the science will be in little danger of glorying in the perfection of his knowledge, or of proclaiming the intalli- bility of his practice. The above observations apply equally to every part of medical science. The relation in which pathological anatomy stands to the sister science is still more striking. The human organism is wonderfully constructed, being infinitely more complicated and delicate than the most per- fect mechanism ever designed by the human intellect. It consists of an infinite number of parts, fluid as well as solid, connected with each other in a wondrous manner. The branches of medicine elucidating this structure are histology, anatomy, and animal chemistry. 1 he various parts ot the human organism are in a state ot continuous activity, and stand in various relations both to each other and to the external world. Hence are developed those mysterious vital phenomena which physiology has in vain attempted to unravel. But these \ it.d phenomena are by no means uniform in their character; they present the most striking contrasts in different individuals, and even in the same individual at different periods, and the relative proportions ot the various parts and systems ot the organism are, even in the normal condition, for ever fluc- tuating. The idea of normal life is, therefore, extremely indefinite, and it is only by a forced abstraction that the normal can lie separated from the abnormal. Hence also the idea of disease is very indefinite ; it cannot be separated by any well-defined boundary from the idea of normal life, and the two conditions are connected by a species of debateable border land. It is not a mere deviation from the normal condition which constitutes disease, for that condi- tion is of itself variable; but it must be productive of injury to the organism before it can be ranked as disease. The extent