287 TUBERCLE. according to the degree of their organization, into hyaline tubercle, cyto- blast tubercle, cell tubercle, cellulo-fibrous tubercle, and filamentous tubercle. These distinctions are not altogether unfounded, but they have reJation to the deposition rather as it occurs in the domestic ani- mals than in man. Addison* regards tubercles as a deposition and accumulation of abnormal epithelial cells, and the evil consequences of this deposition in the lungs and other internal organs are dependant according to him, on the epithelial cells not being removed (as occurs on normal free surfaces,) but remaining and exerting an injurious effect on the surrounding parts. These abnormal epithelial cells consist, according to Addison, of colourless blood-corpuscles which stagnate in the pulmonary capillaries, and afterwards become converted into these cells. Addison regards many tissues, for instance, epithelial cells and pus-corpuscles, as formed from the colourless blood-corpuscles. Here then there is an elementary view of the structure of morbid tissues dif- fering essentially from mine. As, however, it is shown in numerous parts of this work, that these structures are formed from an amorphous cytoblastema, a special refutation of Addison's views appears unneces- sary. A few other points l»elonging to this subject may be elucidated by a statement of the views which have been laid down by J. Engel, in his very interesting essay on tuberculosis.! Engel distinguishes l>ctween interstitial tubercle (miliary tubercle) and infiltrated tubercle. The for- mer is the result of a peculiar condition of the blood, closely approxi- mating to its state in typhus ; the latter is in all cases an inflam- matory product. The conversion of the inflammatory exudation into tubercular matter, and not into other structures, depends, according to Engel, on various conditions:—in the first place on the exudation itself, under which head we may consider : a. Too large a quantity of the coagulated fibrinous exudation, by which the complete infiltration of the whole mass with moisture is prevented, b. Deficiency of the fluid of organization generally, and, in this way, too great a dryness of the exudation, c. Foreign admixtures, namely blood-corpuscles, d. Pre- existing tubercular matter, acting in accordance with the law- of analo- gous formation already laid down. A second series of conditions depends on the part affected, and the whole organism. Under this head wx- may arrange : a. The activity of the metamorphosis of tissue—in proportion to the inertness of the metamorphosis, is the tendency to the formation of tubercle, b. And what is essentially the same thing, contiguity with vascular organs—the greater this is, so much the less is the tendency to tuberculization ; and c, The condition of the vital powers—in proportion * Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association vol. n. p. 287, &c. t Zeitachrift d. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien, Jahrg. ), p. 353.