EXPLANATION OK THE PLATES, 541 clumps of them (C). A solution of alum acted in a similar manner. The clotted, caseous matter in this pus, exhibited, in addition to pus-corpuscles, stellar or striped portions of amorphous appearance, which were rendered transparent by acetic acid, and could no longer be detected by the eye (exudation not yet organized). Fig. 8 and 9. Pus from abscesses in the cutaneous glands. Magnified 220 diameters. Fio. 8. Pus from a small abscess on the inner surface of the root of the nail of the second toe of a healthy man. The pus which was evacuated by a puncture amounted to only a few drops, and was very thick. When examined under the micro- scope, there were observed not only pus and blood-corpuscles, but also modified epithelial cells (A), which varied in diameter from the 75th to the 100th of a line, and were partly round (a b c), and jiartly oval (d). Some consisted of a large dark nucleus varying from the 110th to the 180th of a line, surrounded by a transparent capsule (a), while others exhibited a clear nucleus and nucleoli in a dark capsule (b—d). On the addition of acetic acid, the pus-corpuscles underwent the ordinary change, the larger corpuscles being rendered jailer and more transparent (B). Ihere was also an abundant coagulation of mucus (pyin ?). forming a delicate membrane. Fio. 9. Pus from a minute abscess in one of the cutaneous glands in the nose of a healthy man. Under the microscope the tluid was seen to contain a very large number of pus-corpuscles, most of which were jjerfectly round, and exhibited no nuclei (a). They were very unequal in size, varying from the 170th to the 300th of a line in diameter; the average diameter was the 250th ot a line. Many were united in a tesselated manner, forming a species of membrane ; hence they were somewhat angular (b. b). These appeared to be extremely delicate. Amongst them were a few non-nucleated epithelial cells (?) of wliich some were granular <), but the majority exhibited a smooth surface (d) ; these were united so as to form membranous patches. On the addition of acetic acid the pus-corpusclcs underwent the ordinary change (B), while the epithelial cells were unaffected. Moreover the acid coagu- lated a viscid mass, which enclosed the pus-corpuscles and epithelial cells. I* io. 10. Abnormal pus from the lung of a person who died from typhus. The lung was very dense and hepatized ; it sank in water, did not