354 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. that there should be a continuous excess of urates in the urine. The precipitates separated from the urine then deposit themselves by preference, around the nucleus; these precipi- tates may consist either of uric acid liberated by the presence of a free acid, or of urates, which separate themselves from the saturated urine, in consequence of the presence of a stone. Such are the formative relations of calculi containing uric acid, as far as morbid anatomy has yet taught us. The investigation of the causes inducing this diathesis, fall under the department of general pathology. Chemistry has been directly applied by Liebig and others to its eluci- dation. It, at least, points out the path which the investigator must follow, even if the special results already attained, are not to be regarded as decisive. In accordance with these principles, the occurrence of the uric-acid diathesis must be explained in the following manner.* It can hardly be doubted that the greater part of the protein-com- pounds contained in the nutriment and in the constituents of the body, are metamorphosed into urea and uric acid, and in tliis form are dis- charged by the urine, even if we are ignorant of the intermediate links between the protein on the one hand, and the urea and uric acid on the other. This metamorphosis can only be effected by the addition of oxygen, as may be shown by calculation ; and undoubtedly more oxygen is requisite to convert, theoretically, one atom of protein into urea, car- bonic acid, and water, than is necessary to form uric acid, with carbonic acid and water : for 1 equiv. protein. . . = Cw H3C N6 0H f 3 equiv. urea. . . = C6 H1S Nf, 06 is equivalent to < 42 ,, carbonic acid. . = C4i 24 ,, water. . . = 024 " C* H36 N6 o114 Hence in this metamorphosis there are consumed 100 equivalents of oxygen. But if, in place of urea, uric acid is formed, the case is different. 1 equiv. protein yields 3 equiv. uric acid. . • = C,5 H6 N6 09 33 ,, carbonic acid. • = u«« 30 „ water. . • • = ^30 H3fi Nb O105 * Sec H. Bence Jones on gravel, calculus, and gout, London, 1842; Valentin’s Lelirbuch der Physiologie, vol. i. p. 759, &c.