POST MORTEM CHANGES. 527 physical and chemical laws, which govern inorganic nature. This is an erroneous or at least illogical view, founded upon the fact that a false idea is commonly attached to the term ‘ vital force.’ This is not a simple power sui generis, it is rather the common result of all the different and innumerable forces operating within the human body: of these, again, the greatest number (all, with the exception of the psychical) act according to physico-chemical principles. Many of these forces certainly cease at the moment of death, some before, others shortly after—as, for instance, all operations which depend upon the mind, the united activity of the nervous system, with every voluntary or involuntary movement de- pendant on it, the circulation, &c. Others, on the contrary, continue in operation after death, and upon these, which certainly are greatly modified by the abstraction of the above mentioned forces, depends the occurrence of the cadaveric changes, and not upon any new agencies that may come into operation only after death. These phenomena are those of putrefaction and decomposition: even during life perfectly analogous processes are taking place at every instant and in every part of the system, but their products are being con- tinuously carried away from their original place by the circu- lation, and removed from the body by means of the secretions. But as the mechanism of the circulation and of the secretions ceases with life, these products of decomposition are then no longer removed; they accumulate, and perhaps experience che- mical modifications which could not occur during life; and pecu- liar results may be manifested, which on a superficial considera- tion of their mode of origin seem to be very different from the changes occurring during life. Such is, however, in reality, not the case, since, for example, in gangrene, changes some- times occur during life, perfectly analogous to the phenomena of putrefaction, as seen after death. The cadaveric changes no less than the metamorphoses during life, are the products of a very great number of agents, and it is, therefore, difficult, and, indeed, impossible to lay down general laws for their establishment. We may consider