154 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. appear in numberless forms; they occur in unhealthy suppuration, in abscesses, in gouty and scrofulous persons, &c. c. On the diminution of the corpuscles in relation to the serum. Formation of ichor. Pure ichor contains no corpuscles, but is a fluid of a reddish or brown-red colour and a more or less sickly odour. It is the serum of the blood coloured by the pigment of the dissolved corpuscles, but frequently con- tains, mixed with it, the detritus of various textures. A perfect formation of ichor entirely prevents suppuration, being a consequence of the decomposition of the blood, and the death of a portion of the body (gangrene). Both processes, however, frequently occur together and their products become mixed. These modifications of true pus form an uninterrupted series, ultimately extending to morbid fluids hardly deserving the name of pus. Of these we shall now speak. I select the following, by way of illustration, out of the large number of instances of abnormal pus and ichor which I have had the opportu- nity of examining. They may perhaps serve to show the mode of examining and describing such cases. For other cases see the explana- tion of Plate hi. The abdominal cavity of a woman who died from peritonitis with exudation, contained several pounds of a thin yellowish white fluid, in which were soft flocculi, varying from the size of a lentil to that of plum-stone. It had a faintly alkaline reaction, and after standing for some hours separated into a yellow sediment, and a super- natant colourless serum. The reactions of this serum were precisely those of the fluid of serous dropsy. The sediment contained minute granules, which in the irregularity of their form and size differed essen- tially from normal pus-corpuscles. They were of a somewhat indefinite roundish form with rough angular points, and in size they varied from the 400th to the 150th of a line. On treating them with acetic acid, there were no decided indications of nuclei: under the prolonged action of that reagent they almost totally disappeared, nothing being left but very minute dark granules, about the 1000th of a line in diameter These molecules were very unequally distributed amongst the corpuscles, some containing none, others three or four. An aqueous solution of borax, allowed to act for some time, produced no material change in the corpus- cles. The larger flocculi were very soft, of a yellowish white colour.