212 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. after extirpation.* They may be injurious to the organism in many ways and may even prove dangerous. By pressing upon nerves they sometimes cause frightful sufferings (Weid- mann, v. Klein). These injurious effects increase with their size. Those occurring on the external parts disfigure the appearance and distend the skin, causing dilatation of the superficial veins in consequence of their having to take on the duties of the deeper vessels, which are compressed by the tumour. They become incommodious from their weight. The distended skin and compressed adjacent parts inflame, suppu- rate, and ulcerate, and these actions proceeding with increasing virulence, the patient ultimately sinks from hectic fever and exhaustion. Many steatomatous tumours are combined wTith malignant growths and become seirrhus; at least so it is believed, though as histological proof is wanting, it is not impossible that sometimes their destruction by suppuration may have been confounded with the formation of carcinoma. The causes giving rise to fatty tumours are still very obscure. It may be that the first foundation of these tumours is in a local increased deposition of cytoblastema converted into fatty tissue. In this change the law of analogous forma- tion takes an active part, for these tumours principally arise in those regions which in the normal condition abound in fat. External causes frequently give rise to an increased secretion of blastema; a blow or thrust may cause it; but, as often, we can point to no external cause. This need not surprise us, when we consider how frequently, without any appreciable external cause or even symptom, extravasations of blood and collections of fibrinous fluid, coagulated fibrin, &c., present themselves in the interior of the body, which under favourable circumstances might doubtless be converted into fatty tumours. As in the normal formation of fat, there is much that is still obscure, so in the formation of fatty tumours, * See the description of Plate vii. fig. 1.