PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 356 occurrence, but resemble, in every respect, those consisting of uric acid. A stone consisting of this substance, which was examined by Wohler, was externally of a light brown colour, mixed here and there with white; on making a fracture it exhibited a faint brownish flesh-colour, and was found to consist of concentric layers; by friction it acquired a wax-like polish, and was of about the same hardness as uric-acid calculi. The characteristic chemical reaction of this substance consists in its solubility in nitric acid without effervescence, and on the solution leaving after evaporation a substance of a bright lemon colour, which is not soluble in water, but is changed to a deep reddish yellow by caustic potash. The characteristic purple which uric acid exhibits when acted on by nitric acid and am- monia, is in no way to be compared with the above-named substance.* The structural relations of these calculi are unknown, but are most probably the same as those of the uric-acid calculi. Thus the same reasons which have been given concerning the formation of the uric-acid diathesis, may also explain the origin of this substance, since uric oxide exhibits no difference in its chemical composition from uric acid, excepting that it con- tains an atom less of oxygen than the latter. It is, therefore, probably formed, instead of urea and uric acid, from a defi- ciency of oxygen in the metamorphosis of the tissues. 3. Calculi of cystin (cystic oxide) are also rare, although less so than those of uric oxide. They are yellowish, of a smooth surface, and exhibit a crystalline appearance on fracture. The diagnosis of these calculi, and likewise of sediments con- sisting of cystin, will be most readily determined by the com- bined application of chemistry and the microscope. Cystin is almost entirely insoluble in water, but dissolves easily in alkalies. If its solution in caustic ammonia be left to evapo- * See Wohler und Liebig’s Annalen der Pharmacie, vol. xxvi Part 3.