467 TAPE WORM. ro the trematoda also belong the eight portions of rno- nostoma {monostoma lentis), discovered by Nordmann in the opaque lens of a woman.* 3. The polystoma pinguicola, Rud. and Bremser ; hexathyridium pin- guic. TVeutl., has been found only once, and possesses no great value in relation to pathology. It was discovered in the human ovary by Ircutler. Tlie animal lay free in a cavity formed by fat, was al>out an inch in length, and from two to three lines in thickness. Its form was a longish oval, above slightly arched, beneath somewhat hollowed out, pointed behind ; the anterior portion was obtuse, and behind the head somewhat constricted; it presented upon its underside, six minute open- ings (suckers) arranged in a semilunar form. An additional larger sucker was observed on the abdomen at its point of junction with the tail. 'I he nature and mode of origin of this animal is involved in perfect darkness. See representations in Bremser, PI. iv, fig. 15 to 17. Treutler has observed another worm of this kind (hexathyridium vena- rum, polystoma vett.) ; it was found in a young man’s tibia] vein (which had been lacerated whilst bathing), and he conceives it had dwelt in the blood-vessels. 1 his explanation, however, is unquestionably incorrect, and the worm (perhaps a planaria) most likely, during the bath, entered the vein from without. Compare Bremser, p. 265. THIRD ORDER. tape worm, cestojdka. 1. The common tape worm, (taenia solium, t. vulgaris, t. cucut bit inn), is a riband shaped, very- long worm of milk white or yellowish colour. Its length may exceed twenty feet (and may reach even twenty ells); its breadth at the extremity of the head is small, scarcely a quarter or third of a line; but in passing backwards, gradually increases to three, four, or even six lines. The thickness ranges from a quarter of a line to a line. The worm is jointed; the individual joints are flat, more or less quadrangular, frequently of the form of a gourd seed with a blunted point, and commonly longer than they are broad. They are characterized by the circumstance, that all or at least the greatest number, present upon the margin a mam- * Mikrographische Heitr. Part 2, p, 9, H H 2