PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 162 Let us first consider the question—why docs pus arise from exuded plasma? Does this arise naturally from the chemical properties of the exuded plasma, or is it dependant on external influences ? The exudation possesses in itself a certain tendency to the formation of organized products; there arc produced in it, inde- pendently of external influences, more or less perfect pus- corpuscles. In the case of empyema mentioned in page 147, pus was formed in a large quantity of fluid, which was excluded from all communication with the external parts of the body by a thick layer of fibrin. A very accurately pei- formed experiment recently submitted by Dr. Helbert to our Physiological Institute, gave a singularly striking proof of this tendency.* Fresh plasma taken from beneath the cuticle raised by an ordinary blistering plaster, exhibited no corpus- cles of any kind. After standing in a glass for five or six hours, minute corpuscles were formed exactly analogous to those which appear in wounds when the formation of pus commences. Repeated experiments invariably gave the same results. Hence there was an incipient formation of pus even in plasma which was entirely separated from the body. On the other hand, it is a known fact that the formation of pus can be obstructed or promoted by the application of exter- nal means. The application of moist warmth promotes it; of cold, retards or even prevents it. Further, it is certain that large quantities of exudation are most easily converted into pus, while small quantities are most liable to be converted into persistent tissues. Again, in individuals of vigorous con- stitution, and possessing that peculiar disposition of the nervous system in which the inflammatory process is especially intense and rapid, normal pus is easily formed, while in weak cachectic persons with feeble vital energy, and where there is a tendency to gangrene, and in pel sons * Helbert, tie exanthematibus arte factis fragmenta. Clotting. 1S44, p. 16. See also the remarks in p. 84 of this volume.