pathological relations of the blood. 61 DEVIATIONS IN THE PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF THE BLOOD. Change in colour. — Arterial blood in a normal state is, as is well known, of a bright red, while venous blood is of a dark red colour, with a shade of blackish brown. Any attempt at an accurate estimation of these shades of colour, and of the associated pathological conditions, by mere description, must of necessity be vague and unsatisfactory. To obtain accurate results of this sort, we should draw up certain colour-tables, such as are used in the cyanometer for the purpose of estimating the blue tint of the sky. Hence, the statements hitherto made respecting the changes of colour noticed in the blood are very' unsatisfactory. The following are the most important of these changes. Varia- tions in the colour of arterial blood have been seldom noticed, and little is known regarding them, in consequence of the few opportunities that present themselves of examining that form of blood. In cases of cyanosis, where the venous and arterial currents become partially mixed, in consequence of a portion of the former not passing through the lungs, but going through the patent ductus Imtalli, foramen ovale, or a perforation of the wall separating the ventricles, it is commonly darker than in the normal condition. A similar condition is probably established in those pulmonary' diseases in which, although the passage of the blood through the lungs is not impeded, the free contact of the blood and atmospheric air is disturbed, as in oedemapulmonum. Here the cause is sufficiently obvious. It consists of a limitation of those shades of colour which the venous blood naturally acquires in its passage through the lungs. It is seldom clearer, but often of a darker colour than in the normal state. Venous blood is sometimes observed with a bright red tint in cases of scurvy ;* this is probably dependant on an increased amount of saline matter, which as is known, communicates * Lobetein, path. Anat. vol. n. p. 537.