GRANULAR PIGMENT. 193 These two analyses show but little similarity. It would appear from them, that the newly formed pigment has a variable composition, which is probably connected with its development. They prove that the opinion that the pigment deposited is pure carbon, is, at least in these cases, altogether incorrect. Further, they show that this pigment is not the same as the normal pigment of the eye, in which Scherer* found 58t carbon, and 13.7® nitrogen ; yet with all the respect that I entertain for Scherer’s accuracy, it appears to me that the analysis should lie repeated in consequence of the extreme difficulty of obtaining the pigment of the eye in a state of purity'. Another kind of morbid pigment evidently arises from decomposed blood, and from a change in its colouring matter. Extravasated blood has sometimes, for instance in gangrene, and when it has a tendency to become decomposed, a brownish red, or even blackish colour, forming either soft clots or a granular mass.f This change appears not only to affect extravasated blood, but also that which is still contained in the vessels; whilst some parts of vessels contain red blood, in other parts it becomes brownish or almost black. This change of the blood appears to be of a purely chemical nature, since it is observed in those cases where blood is extravasated into the stomach. It is then always changed in the above-mentioned way, for the acid of the gastric juice communicates to the colouring matter of the blood a brown or blackish tint, and at the same time coagulates the albumen of its serum in larger or smaller masses, so that ultimately the well-known “coffee-grounds” appearance is produced which occurs in all cases when blood hits been effused into the stomach during the presence of the gastric juice. In fact, the same takes place, and may at any time be produced out of the body, when defibrinated blood is mixed with sulphuric or * Liebig u. Wohler's Annalen d. Chem. u. Pliann. vol. xl. p. G3. t See pi. ix. fig. 10. VOL. 1. O