19 INTRODUCTION'. the most difficult tasks in the science of pathology, is to classify the different diseases, and to arrange them in accordance with a scientific system. The great cause of the difficulty consists, as we have already mentioned, in their being neither organisms nor pseudo-organisms, but merely deviations from the normal condition. In pathological anatomy, the difficulty is still greater ; for, from its very nature, it must investigate isolated facts ; and its general department, if we retain that which is positive, and do not adopt too many hypotheses, is at present in a very aphoristic condition. Hence, I regard a systematic arrange- ment in pathological anatomy—at least at the present time— as of small importance, and I shall only add a few words regarding the system I have adopted, not so much with the view of justifying it, as to assist the reader in the perusal of the following pages. The special department treats of the pathological changes in different parts of the body. The arrangement is entirely arbitrary, and I have adopted it simply with the view of avoiding repetition. The general part, which proceeds as it were from the special, embraces the changes of a more general nat ure, which may occur in different tissues and organs in the same, or in a very similar manner, noticing also their general relations, causes, and consequences, so far as they are at present known. 1 he following sketch of the order in which the different mor- bid changes follow each other, will serve as a summary of the contents. We commence with abnormal collections of fluids in the body—ot the gaseous (pneumatoses), of the aqueous (dropsies). The latter are divided in a manner that seems natural and practically important, although not hitherto adopted: namely, into serous, fibrinous, and false dropsies. Then comes a sketch ot the morbid changes of the blood as far as they are at present understood. This is succeeded by a chapter on pathological epigeneses,* which from their nature occupy * Neubildungen; literally, new formations. C 2