EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 57 6 The membrane composing the cyst within which the soft mass of the tumour was enclosed, appeared at first sight to be about as thick as the back of an ordinary knife, and to consist of but one layer; but upon closer examination it was found to admit of separation into two distinct laminae. The inner of these layers, which was the thicker of the two, was of a white pearly lustre, very pliable, and entirely composed of the large pale cells previously described, and of a few scattered crystals of cholesterin ; consequently it was merely a con- densed outer layer of the contents of the cyst, and did not form any part of the true cyst itself. The outer of the two layers, which was in reality the cyst, had a thickness not greater than that of letter- paper, and was soft and extensible. When examined microscopically it was observed to be composed of areolar tissue, the fibres of which were arranged in fasciculi crossing each other in every di- rection, and intimately woven together in the ordinary manner (Fig. 3), The internal surface of this membrane or cyst, was lined by a distinct epithelium composed of flat cells arranged together in a tesselated manner ; the nuclei of these cells were distinctly brought into view on the addition of acetic acid (Fig. 2). ^ Fig. 4. The contents of an encysted tumour about the size of a hen s egg, which was situated in front of the right ear of a female, and extirpated by Prof. Wilhelm. Magnified 220 diameters. The cyst by which the substance of the tumour was surrounded consisted of a smooth membrane, the thickness of which was the same as that of letter-paper. When examined beneath the micro- scope, it was found to be made up of bundles of fibres of areolar tissue, (as in Fig. 3) densely woven together, so as to produce a compact membrane. Several blood-vessels were also distinctly observed traversing this membrane. On its internal surface i was lined by a layer of epithelium similar to that represented in Fig. 2. ,. ,, This cyst contained in its interior a soft, grumous, very friable substance of a whitish colour. When examined beneath the micro- scope it was found to consist: 1. Of a large quantity of colourless oval cells (Fig. 4, a) unpro- vided with nuclei; these cells formed the chief ingredient of tie mT Of tabular crystals of cholesterin in tolerable quantity, (Fig. ’ 3.^ Of amorphous colourless granules of various sizes (Fig. 4, c).