78 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. succeed in obtaining the corpuscles entirely colourless ; a proof that the heematin is not entirely insoluble in a solution of sulphate of soda. An accurate trial of these different methods of analysis instituted simultaneously with the same blood, and a comparison of the results yielded by them would be highly important. For until we are better informed respecting the degree of accuracy that can be attained by each method, any application of their results to pathology must be open to various objections. c. The amount of water in the blood may be increased or diminished.—The amount of water in the blood is liable to considerable variations, even in healthy persons, and Lecanu has endeavoured from numerous experiments, to deduce general laws on the subject. He found it less in men, more abundant in women; less in vigorous persons in the bloom of life, larger in children and in aged and debilitated persons; less in the sanguineous, larger in the lymphatic temperament. In 1000 parts of blood the mean quantity is 790; it is, however, considerably augmented in anaemia, chlorosis and similar conditions, in which it has been observed at 870, if not lower; in cholera, on the other hand, the amount of water in the blood is diminished, in consequence of the copious liquid evacuations from the bowels. The estimation of the quantity of water is simple. A weighed quan- tity of blood must be reduced to a state of dryness on the water bath; the loss is equivalent to the amount of water. As the accuracy of the result depends on the completeness of the drying, it is advisable to use a smaller quantity of blood than is recommended by Andral and Gavarret. d. The amount of albumen in the serum of the blood ‘ vary. — It appears to be diminished in Bright’s disease, and probably in other cases in which there is a con- siderable secretion of serous fluid from the blood (serous and fibrinous dropsy). In 1000 parts of healthy serum, there are 70 80 of dry albumen; but in Brights disease the amount falls, according to Andral and Gavarret, as low as 61—57.