PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 75 occur, or may be only apparent in consequence of its coagu- lation and separation being prevented by an excess of salts, or bv the occurrence of carbonate of ammonia. The amount of fibrin is determined by collecting the fresh blood in a weighed vessel, and stirring it with a glass rod of known weight, till all the fibrin has coagulated, and either separated in floccules or attached itself in the form of membranous shreds to the rod. By weighing the whole, we know the weight of the blood. The blood is then strained through a cloth which retains the fibrin that has sepa- rated in flocculi. To this wc must add the portion adherent to the rod, and wash the whole (retaining it in the cloth) till it becomes colourless. It must then be dried on the water-bath, its fat removed by boiling in ether, and finally weighed. b. The quantity of blood-corpuscles may be increased or diminished.—Although we have not the means of determin- ing the amount of the blood-coqjusdes with the same accuracy as that of the fibrin, we have yet sufficient evidence to show that, like the other constituents of the blood, they admit of considerable variation. While ever)' 1000 parts of normal blood, contain on an average 127 of dried corpuscles, in cases of fever the number may rise to 136, 160, or even to 185, while on the other hand, in cachectic conditions, and es- pecially in chlorosis, it may fall to 100, 80 or even 38.* This diminution is associated with morbid processes which impede nutrition, but we do not at present possess any in- sight into those processes which cause this diminution, those cases being excepted in which it is obviously dependant on haemorrhage, copious blood-letting, or, in short, any other direct removal of them from the system. In a therapeutic point of view, it is an interesting circumstance that the inter- nal use of iron, not merely gradually removes the bad conse- quences of this condition of the organism, but also effects a gradual augmentation in the amount of the corpuscles. Whether the augmentation of the corpuscles in cases of fever * Andral and Gavarret.