EQUIVOCAL GENERATION. 423 It is out of the question in this place to submit the doctrine of spon- taneous generation to a comprehensive criticism ; and I am satisfied, therefore, to give for those of my readers who are not familiar with the subject, a brief abstract of the present state of the doctrine, and refer those who are desirous of further information to the interesting work of Hein.* The idea of spontaneous generation is a philosophical necessity. All organisms with which we are acquainted, that are now derived from parents of like species, must at one time have arisen in another manner without parents. Whatever name may be applied to this primitive origin, or whatever view may be taken of it, whether it be termed creation, or receive any other name, it is in reality spontaneous generation, in contrast with derivation from parents. This necessity of a spontaneous origin of the organisms at present existing is, moreover, daily proved by experience. Geology demonstrates that many, indeed the greater number of the organisms now on the earth’s surface, did not exist at an earlier period, since we find no vestiges of them. Ac- cordingly, it is undeniable that spontaneous generation occupies a prominent position in the history of the world, as a mode of origin of all organisms. The question, therefore, turns only upon this point : can existing organisms, which at a former period originated sponta- neously, and have subsequently propagated themselves in another manner, again arise spontaneously ? or, in other words, is there a repeated spontaneous origin of creatures of the same species ? Let us now consult exjierience for materials in order to reply to this question. We find that in all cases where opportunity has been afforded of tracing, by direct observation, the origin of an organism, it has taken place by propagation; whilst, on the con- trary, not a solitary7 unexceptionable observation of a sjamtaneous origin exists in the records of natural history'. Analogy is, therefore, completely in favour of the view that propagation is the only manner in which existing organisms arc engendered. The value of this evidence is further enhanced by the history of science. In earlier times it was admitted that even the vertebrate animals were produced by rej>eatcd sjKmtimeous generations; geese and ducks from barnacles, (Ix>pas) ; the batrachia and serpents from mud; and still, at later jxriods, insects, as the coprophagi, from dung; and fleas from putrid urine. No one, at the present day, doubts that all these animals are generated by propagation alone. Indeed, in modem times, chiefly through the labours of Ehrenberg, even the generation of infusoria has been limited to the propagative system. Analogy would, therefore, lead us to conclude that parasites are also produced in this manner alone The m J A. Hein, die Lelirc von der Urxcugung. Halle. 1844.