PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 314 proceed hand-in-hand, and that we should endeavour to give a suitable account of the seat, form, and signification of each substance recognized by the chemical analysis. Cancer, however, consists of solid portions infiltrated with fluids : these solid portions are an amorphous blastema (probably fibrin), elementary granules (whose chemical composition has been already considered), fibres, and cells. In chemical composition the fibres are probably identical with those that occur in fibrous tumours, and must be regarded as forming an intermediate link between the protein- compounds and gelatigenous tissues. The composition of the cancer-cells is still unknown; it doubtless varies with their development. The fluid constituents of cancer are, undoubtedly, extremely various, according as the tumour is crude, softened, or discharging. Hence, to complete our knowledge of the subject, a large number of analyses is requisite, and we proceed on a very false principle, in attempting to deduce general conclusions from isolated investigations. We shall return to this subject in our remarks on the different forms of cancer. For statistical information relative to cancer, we must refer to Herrick and Popp,* and Leroy d’Etiolles.f The diagnosis of cancer in a pathologico-anatomical point of view, is in many cases very easy, whilst in others it is extremely difficult, and, indeed, almost impossible. Even after its extirpation, or in the dead body, when we can examine it at our leisure, and with all our aids to diagnosis, we cannot always decide with certainty on its nature. In this case, as with the former tumours, our diagnosis must be based not so much on the coarser physical characters which in cancel are liable to extreme variations, as on the histological relations as viewed through the microscope. The diagnosis must be based: 1. On the peculiarity of the development of the tumour, namely, on its softening. But softening may also occur in other tumours, as in tubercular tumours, and in cases of unhealthy, malignant suppuration, accompanied by loss of tissue and induration of the surrounding parts. Here we must adopt the second of our means for diagnosing cancers : we must search for the cancer-cells which are characterized by * Ucber bosartige Fremdbildungen. Regensburg, 1841. | Gazette Med. de Paris. Mars, 1843.