164 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. partially destroyed ; it dies away, breaks up, and its remains are thrown off with the pus which is at the same time formed. Further, there are dynamic causes which influence the for- mation of malignant pus, and simultaneously act upon the constituents of the parenchyma: in unhealthy suppuration, and when there is a tendency to gangrene, the histologic elements of the tissues are much more easily destroyed than in their normal condition. Finally, unhealthy pus frequently exerts a chemical action on the surrounding parts, sometimes con- taining free acids, carbonate of ammonia, or other consti- tuents which chemically exert an injurious effect* In this way malignant suppuration becomes immediately connected with those abnormal epigeneses, which under the names of tubercle, encephaloid, cancer, &c., form alike the tenoi of the physician and of the patient. We shall in a future page return to the consideration of these formations. But the process of suppuration stands also in the most intimate connection with healthy epigeneses, with the process of regeneration, and the formation of granulations; of this also subsequently. With regard to the cause of the formation of granular cells, even less is known. I can here only repeat what I have already elsewhere observed respecting it.f It is observed principally in very composite organs—in the brain, the lungs, the liver, the spleen, the thyroid gland, &c., and it occurs in those cases where the result of the exudation is most favour- able, namely where resolution occurs. Sometimes, indeed, as in the brain, it leads to softening of the parenchyma. This formation appears to be carried on most favourably when the quantity of exudation is small, and its effusion is very gra- dual. In conclusion, we must offer a few remarks on the resorp- * According to Dumas, even hydrocyanic acid may be formed m the process of suppuration. Comptes rend. 1841, vol. xm. p. 144 f Wagner’s Handworterbuch d. Physiologie, vol. i. p. 34o,