5-io EXPLANATION OP THE PLATES. Acetic acid produced a paleness and transparency of the walls of all these cells without altering their nuclei. In the older layers adjacent to the pleura, the development of the fibrous cells of areolar tissue was still further advanced. The cells were much elongated, and sharp at the two extremities, but still retaining the nucleus (C.) Other cells (D) formed jiarallel fasciculi n ^ if ^rCS areo^ar tissue, in which the nuclei were apparent. On the addition of ammonia, both the fibres and the nuclei gradually disappeared. Fio. 2. Areolar tissue, in part fully developed, and in part immature, from a false membrane from the pleura of another man, a muscular agricultural labourer, aged thirty-three years, who was attacked with pleuritis of both sides, and after six weeks maltreatment at the hands of a quack, was brought in a moribund condition into the Munich Hospital. On dissection, the pleural cavity on each side was invested throughout with a layer of solid exudation, varying from one to two lines in thickness. Shreds and flocculi were attached at various spots to the inner surface ; they were of a yellow colour, and their formation was obviously of the most recent date. They were soft, resembling coagulated and washed fibrin, and formed irregular patches, of vary- ing thickness. Under the microscope they appeared perfectly amor- phous, hut at some sjmts exhibited a slightly fibrous structure. On the addition of acetic acid they softened, became transparent and gelatinous: they showed no trace of organization. 1 be older portion of exudation, lying directly in contact with the pulmonary- and costal pleura, formed a regular layer, of tolerably equal thickness, which, with careful dissection, admitted of separation into several strata. This portion was not so soft as that previously described, but was almost cartilaginous, and did not assume a mem- branous lorm. It exhibited indications of organization in proportion as the exudation approximated to the surface of the pleura, or in other words, in proportion to its age. I he organization consisted in the formation of cells and in their conversion into fibres (Fio. 2.) The younger cells were fusiform, with a distinct nucleus (a ) Other cells, in a more advanced stage of development, consisted of thiu parallel fibres, and formed a iasciculus of fibres of areolar tissue with uuclei (b.) In the layer of exudation in contact with the pleura, these cells undergoing conversion into fibres, were compressed on one another ('•.). and the newly formed areolar tissue could only Ik; dis-