276 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. attracted the attention of physicians, and for this reason merit an attentive consideration. Originally the name ‘ tubercle’ was a very general one; in accordance with its proper signification, it expressed all nodular tumours, and even at the commencement ot the pre- sent century, Baillie applied the term to fibrous tumours of the uterus. At the present day, however, its meaning is much more limited, and by tubercles we now under- stand those pathological epigeneses which are engendeied in consequence of a specific disease or morbid tendencj tuberculosis. In establishing this definition, however, sufficient care has not been taken to point out, firstly, that all tumours which are regarded as effects of tuberculosis, invariably show the same anatomical and histological constitution, and can be distinguished with certainty from all other pathological epigeneses; secondly, that, on the other hand, the appear- ance and course of tumours which, from their anatomical structure, must be regarded as tubercles, are always attended * origine, incremento et exitu phthiseos pulmon. obs. anat. Gromngae, 1837; Louis, Reclierches sur la plithisie, 2nd edition, Paris, 1843 , or Walsh’s translation, London, 1844 ; Boudet, reclierches sur la gu4rison naturelle ou spontan^e de la plithisie pulmonaire, Paris, K ; Zehetmaver, iiber die Lungentuberculose, Zeitschrift der Gesellschaft der Aerzte in Wien, Jahrg. 1, No. n. ; Engel, die Tuberculose, ditto, 1, 1844, No. v. Further references are given in the special department. A very per- fect view of the literature of the subject is given by Cerutti, Collectanea quiedam de phthisi pulmon. tuberculosa, Lipsiae, 1839, 4. For information on the histology of tubercle we may especiahy refer to: Gerber, Handbuch der allgemeine Anatomie, 1840, p. 187. &c. or Gulliver’s English edition, p. 305, &c. 1 Stage. Unter. suchungen. No. .... p. 182, Ike.; Klencke. Untersuclmngen und Erfahr- ungen, vol. ... p. 12. fe. I Lebert in Muller , Arclnv. 1844, p. 190, and in his Physiologie pathologique, 1845, vol. i. P- 3j * 1 •; Giinburg. die Pathologisclie Gewebelehre, 1845, vol. i. p- 1°°- &c. . Addison in the Transactions of the Provincial Medical am urgi Association, vol. n. 1843, p. 287, &c.