PNEUMATOSES. 30 J Otto, op. cit. p. 42. products are then developed, which collect in the paren- chyma of organs, and in the cellular tissue, constituting emphysema, and find their way into the cavities, or finally are discharged externally. These gases are usually accompa- nied by a volatile odorous matter, and consequently evolve a penetrating putrid odour.* Morbid fluids effused into the cavities of the body may likewise undergo decomposition and evolve gases. Thus, pneumothorax may arise from the decom- position of fluid effused into the cavity of the pleura, and air may collect in the cavity of the peritoneum after gangrenous peritonitis. Likewise excretions, as urine or faeces, may develop gas when they escape through wounds, lacerations, fistulas, &c., into the parts adjacent to their natural passages, and there undergo decomposition. Many of the accumulations of air arising from putrefaction, which are found in the body after death, arc formed after the cessation of vitality.! This putrefaction after death takes place, however, the more rapidly under similar external conditions (temperature of the surrounding medium, and the greater or less facility with which the dead body gives off its warmth to surrounding objects \ the period that has elapsed between death and the examination, &c.), in proportion as the constituents of the body—at least its fluids—were predisposed towards putrefaction during the final period of life. There may, con- sequently, be an abundant secretion of gas in the dead body, when, from external conditions, it would not have been expected, if during life there has been a tendency towards decomposition. Hence, in individual cases, it is not always easy to determine whether gas found in the body existed there during life, or has been developed after death. Many cases of pneumatosis in which authors have stated that no signs of putrefaction were presented by the body,} belong * For further particulars, see Gangrene. f See the chapter on the changes of the body after death.