PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 248 cannot be shown with the same certainty as those of the cells. There can he no doubt that a part of the fat is secreted by the sebaceous follicles which Kohlrausch has demonstrated in the cyst, hut such sebaceous glands cannot be discovered in all encysted tumours; and the production of the cholesterin, which sometimes occurs in great abundance, and often forms almost the entire contents of an encysted tumour, cannot at present be sufficiently explained. 3. Besides the substances which have been named, there are always various extractive matters, (water-extract, alcohol- extract, &c.) and salts, in the contents of encysted tumours. If the calcareous salts (phosphate and carbonate of lime) are deposited in considerable quantity, the cyst, as well as its contents, becomes entirely, or in part converted into a con- cretion, or, as it is usually expressed, the encysted tumour appears ossified. Such ossifications of encysted tumours rarely depend upon a new formation of true bony substance. The preceding observations are sufficient to afford a general view of the structure of encysted tumours and their contents. In addition to the cases in the description of the plates to which reference has been made, we may refer for examples of the individual forms to a case of meliceris described by Valentin,* * * § and to the description of cholesteatoma by Muller. Gluge’s descriptions of the tumours belonging to this group,f are neither accurate nor come up to the present state of our knowledge ; he regards the crystals of cholesterin as homy exfoliations, and describes them as rectangular crystalline leaves, which is not the case. For chemical analyses, (with the exception of the older and less accurate), see those of Berzelius,! Valentin, myself§ and F. Simon.|| The quantitative analyses naturally show' no great correspondence, since in every separate case the quantity of the individual elements may be * Repertorium, vol. in. p. 307. f Untersuchungen, Part i. &c., &c. + Lehrbuch der Chemie, translated by Wohler, 4th Edition, vol. ix. p. 726. § Anleitung z. Gebrauch d. Mikrosk. 1841, p. 460. 11 Beitriige z. physiolog. u. patholog. Chemie, 1843, p- 436,