MALFORMATION BY COALESCENCE. 497 reduce themselves into two subdivisions according as the upper part of the face with the eyes, or the lower part of it (the mouth), is the seat of the malformation. a. Coalescence of the eyes (cyclopia, monophthalmus). The eyes are very' nearly approximated or even amalgamated in the mesial line of the face. The nasal cavities and some of the bones of the superior halt of the face are more or less defi- cient. Moreover, a proboscis frequently exists above the eves. The mouth is large and irregular, or altogether absent. The varieties of this malformation are very numerous. Cyclopia may be regarded as an interruption in development; the special explanation of its origin, however, differs accord- ing to the different view which is taken of the normal deve- lopment of the eyes. If we assume with Huschke, that the two eyes originate from one primitive rudiment, which only at a later period becomes divided by the intrusion of the nose and face, the deficient development of the last named parts, is the cause of the non-separation of the eyes. If, on the contrary, we assume with Bischoff that the two eyes are ori- ginally distinct, then the development of cyclopia, appears to require an amalgamation of the germinal elements of the two eyes. \\ hichever of these views we advocate, cyclopia, in an anatomical point of view’, always appears as a coalescence of organs, which in the normal condition are apart from each other; and so far belongs to this place, although, at the same time, it is most intimately allied to the monstra defi- cientia. Cyelopic malformations in the human subject are not very rare; and in many animals, for instance in swine, they are frequent. Although usually born alive these monsters are not viable. Illustrations and descriptions are given in Cruveilhier, Anat. pathol. uvr. 33. PI. vi.; Otto. op. cit. p. 83 et seq.; Knape, Monstri hum maxirne notabil. descr. anat. Berol. 1823. See also J. F. Meckel, fiber we Verschmelzungsbildungen, in his Archiv. vol. i. 1826 p 238- Seiler, uljer Cyclopie, Dresden, 1833; Vrolik, over den Aard en ~oor- »prong der Cyclopie, Amsterd. 1834, (or the abstract in Midler’s VOL. I. K K