EPIGENESIS OF AREOLAR TISSUE. 173 lopment, the morphological change must be simultaneously accompanied by a chemical change of the blastema; this is first shown by the appearance of the nucleus, which differs chemically from the cell-membrane. This chemical change is not a sudden but a gradual one. This is seen in the fact that immature areolar tissue when boiled yields no gelatin; and the same is the case with that of the foetus (Schwann), and with that of granulations and condylomata (G. Simon and Giiterbock). On boiling this substance, both obtained a fluid which after filtration gave the same reaction as if pyin were present. In my own investigations of recently formed, or forming areolar tissue, I have frequently found a fluid which coagu- lated on the addition of acetic acid, and therefore in this point of view resembled pyin. Hence we may presume that in the chemical changes which ensue, some of the elements of fibrin lire thrown off and form pyin, whilst others are converted into colla. But the chemical properties of these substances are as yet too little known to admit of more than mere sup- position on these points. The above description is equally applicable to the morbid formation of fibrous tissue, of the fibres of tendon, and of other tissues, which histologically accord with areolar tissue. The time requisite for the formation of areolar tissue can- not be precisely determined. It is longer than that which is necessary for the formation of pus. Yet it is short in com- parison with that which appears to be required for the forma- tion of other organized structures. I believe from repeated observations that I am justified in concluding that from four to five days after the formation of the cytoblastema, fibres of areolar tissue may occur in it; the formation, however, of large masses of this tissue appears to require at least one, and frequently several weeks. Gelatin, whose ultimate chemical composition is doubtless identical with that of areolar tissue, contains according to Mulder, 50.4 g C.