548 explanation of the plates. entangled in a coagulum formed by acetic acid, and consisting of a perfectly amorphous structureless mass, resembling coagulated mucus (pyin ?). The bands and shreds of tissue which traversed the excavations in this softened part, exhibited beneath the microscope the remains of areolar tissue, which had resisted the process of softening and destruction. The soft tumour situated in the vaginal portion “of the uterus, seemed to be a fibrous tumour in the process of formation; for the fibrous portion consisted of organic muscular fibre and areolar tissue, and the albuminous fluid which filled up the meshes, exhibited, under the microscope, numerous roundish or oval cells, some single, others arranged in groups, containing nuclei and nucleoli, (see Fig. 3.) ; these were, in all probability, primary cells, which would eventually have become developed into organic muscular fibres. Several of the other tumours contained in the substance of the uterus, were carefully removed, cut into small pieces, and after being repeatedly washed, were subjected to several chemical tests Ihey gradually dissolved in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid, forming a colourless solution. In acetic acid they swelled up, became trans- parent and gelatinous-looking, hut a complete solution was not effected even after the lapse of some weeks. Several pieces from these tumours, after being repeatedly washed and dried with blotting-paper, were weighed, then thoroughly dried in a water-bath, at a tempe- rature of 212° F., and again weighed. Of 1000 parts of the fres substance, there remained, when thus thoroughly dried, only 2‘-0 ; consequently 780 parts consisted of water and other matters, volatile at a temperature of 212° F. . Fig. 4. Newly-formed organic muscular fibre from the hypertroplnei muscular coat of the intestine of a man who died from peritonitis. The muscular coat at the commencement of the caecum was a line in thickness. A. Is a thin section made by the double knife, as seen under the microscope. We observe parallel fibres with nuclei. B. Are individual fibrous cells in the course of development into muscular fibres. ., . C. Is a very thin section treated with acetic acid ; the fibres are very pale, and the nuclei are distinctly visible.