53 DROPSIES. tissue surrounding them, just as solidified mortar does the stones of a wall, and forming with them a compact, appa- rently homogeneous mass, in which the original elements ot the tissue can only be rendered visible by the action ot acetic acid or ammonia, which dissolve the coagulated fibrin. In the cavities, on the other hand, these coagula occur as flocculent, or filamentous masses, either attached to the walls of the cavity, or, occasionally, swimming unattached in the fluid ; or the fibrin may be deposited in layers on the walls of the cavity, forming membranous patches. 1 hese membranes occasionally form a perfectly closed sac within the cavity; indeed, there may be several such sacs of coagu- lated fibrin lying one within the other. This is the origin of encysted dropsy, and of many forms of hydatids. W hen all the fibrin dissolved in the fluid has assumed the coagulated condition, and has become perfectly isolated, then the re- maining fluid in every respect corresponds with that of serous dropsy, anil, consequently, the older observers regarded all these as eases of “ hydrops serosus.” The question, why the fibrin in many cases remains for a long time tluid, whilst in others it rapidly coagulates, and on what its coagulation in the latter cases is dependant, cannot at present be satisfactorily answered, any more than we can state with certainty, why the blood coagulates after its removal from the body. The most, satisfactory reason is doubtless a chemical one, although at the same time certain influences of the organism seem also to be in play. Just as difficult is the explanation how and why fibrin in its coagulation assumes such very different forms.* On allowing a fibrinous fluid to remain in a state of repose, the whole mass at first assumes the consistence of u tremulous jelly ; the fibriu then collects together and forms a species of clot, whereby a portion of the fluid contained in it is mechanically pressed out, and separates sis serum. If, on the other hand, the fibriuous fluid during its coagulation is stirred with a rod, or is shaken with solid bodies, as fragments of glass, &c. in a stoppered bottle, the fibrin then assumes a filamentous, or membranous form on the solid bodies. * A very instructive account of the various relations influencing the coagulation of fibrin, is given in Honk's Report. Zeitac.hr. fur rationolli Medic, vol. ii, p. 168, Ac.