PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 110 wo still cannot perceive how the various forms of the fibres and cells can proceed from it. By assuming a vital power, and referring all phenomena to it, we do not gain a single step; since while we substitute these, as the foundation of all phenomena, we are even confessing that the latter is depen- dant on the entity of the organism, and is inexplicable to us: an insight into the primary causes of all formations is, how- ever, the point that most concerns us at present. In order to obtain a starting point, let us proceed from hypotheses. There are two different causes which may be sup- posed to affect the transition of the blastema in development; firstly, the cause may be grounded on the nature of the cyto- blastema, and the formation may be developed with the same necessity which, under favourable conditions, compels the sepa- ration of certain crystals from their mother-liquid: or secondly, the transition in the development may be dependant on exter- nal conditions, independent of the cytoblastema, as for in- stance, on the influence of the surrounding parts of the body, , &c. In order to ascertain which of these two hypotheses is deserving of preference, it is requisite that every one should have perfectly clear and distinct ideas on the following points. We must distinguish between the capacity of the cytoblastema in the progress of development (potentia), and the actual transition (actus). That the capacity for development essen- tially pertains to the cytoblastema, no one will deny. If it depended merely on external influences, then would any sub- stance placed in similar relations undergo the same process of development—an assumption entirely at variance with expe- rience. In this respect the cytoblastema of a morbid product resembles an egg or a seed; it differs, however, in the cir- cumstance of its actual development (the transition of the potentia into the actus) being much more dependant in exter- nal conditions. Its development is not merely dependant on the same general conditions as those of the egg, which is ^ developed out of its mother’s body, (namely on the picsence of warmth, moisture, and oxygen;) in the majority of cases, |