231 OSSEOUS TUMOURS. membranes, especially the dura mater, in tendons, (the sesamoid bones) and occasionally in the eye (Valentin); and the osseous tumours which are connected with normal, or diseased bone, and known as exostoses. As they arise, like normal bone, from true cartilage, they sometimes, before their perfect ossifica- tion, consist in part of true cartilaginous substance, and are thus connected with the cartilaginous tumours. Moreover tumours which consist only in part of true osseous substance, appear from the observations hitherto made, almost always to arise from diseased bone, but, in addition to the newly formed morbid osseous matter, there are also pro- duced other histological elements—fibrous tissue, vessels, car- tilage, fluids enclosed in cysts, and even malignant elements, as encephaloid and tubercle. The newly deposited bone forms very irregular masses, generally of a porous structure, which project in the form of plates, or spicula amongst the other elements of the tumour, or form cellular spaces enclosing these elements. The newly formed osseous substance is either connected with the original bone, which, upon the removal of the soft part by maceration, appears covered with bony excrescences, as in true exostosis;* or it lies in loose patches in the soft parts, and is lost by maceration. It sometimes forms only a small part of the whole tumour, sometimes more than half. The latter cases are connected with the exostoses. The great variety of these compound bony tumours renders it extremely difficult to characterise and classify- the indivi- dual forms; since almost every case hitherto described dif- fers more or less from the others. We cannot, therefore, speak of distinct species or varieties of these tumours, but must follow, as well as possible, the method which we have hitherto adopted, and regard the individual forms as combinations of the bony tumour with other elements; thus it * A very characteristic preparation of this kind is delineated by Weidmann : Annotatio de steatomatibus, tab. v.