478 PARASITES. ceived voluntary motion in the ncephalocijsls of the human subject.* Yet in such observations deception is so easily possible, that I do not attach any great weight to them. Klenke has communicated nume- rous observations respecting hydatids, and states that he has veiy fre- quently propagated them to animals by inoculation.+ But most of his statements are impressed, in so high a degree, with the character of improbability and exaggeration, that I cannot resolve in this place to avail myself of his communications, which if true would possess a high interest PSEUDOPARASITES. The animals which have been described in the preceding pages are the only parasites which hitherto have been certainly recognised as inhabitants of man, although we may anticipate that more extended researches in foreign countries and diffe- rent climates will disclose many others. Moreover, many incidental parasites have been observed which in part have been already mentioned, and in part will be considered, with their effects and with the pathological alterations to which they give rise, in the special department of the work. If, however, we glance at the annals of science, we find exhibited a great number of cases, in which other para- sites than those described are stated to have been observed, and new instances of the kind daily appear, in which physi- cians affirm that they have observed parasites on man, but where, in fact, no parasite was present. These cases may be reduced to two classes: 1. Cases in which various animals are stated to have been evacuated from the human subject, by stool, urine, or vomit- ing. Here there can be no doubt respecting the animal nature ofthe object in question, but physicians err in supposing that these animals were parasites. They did not exist in the body, and only appeared incidentally in the excretions; thus worms, lame, acari, and even beetles, are sometimes * Annales des sciences natur. t. xv. p. 292. t Ueber die Contagiositiit der Eingeweidewurmer, &c., Jena, 1844. X See also Siebold’s critique on these views, op. cit. p. 651.