MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 267 mostly deeper seated, and, therefore, retaining the ichor for a longer period, and moreover increasing with greater energy. These consequences may be obviated by the removal of the pseudoplasma by operation previous to its softening, and upon this rests the advantage to be derived from the employ- ment of the knife in the malignant epigeneses. In order to be useful, such an operation must be radical, i. e. no part of the pseudoplasma should be left behind. But the general malignancy of the pseudoplasmata is not confined to this ; there commonly arise also on other spots of the body in the vicinity of the original pseudoplasma, or distant from it, simultaneously with the first or subsequently, other pseudoplasmata of the same kind. Upon what this depends we know not, and pathological anatomy has thrown no more light upon this point, than respecting the] causes which give rise to pseudoplasmata generally. That the pseudoplasmata are not produced by metamorphosis of the normal tissues, but that like all other pathological formations, they take their origin from an amorphous cytoblastema, is indubitable : obser- vations which establish this will be adduced in our observations on the individual pseudoplasmata. It is no less indisputable that this cyto- blftstema is furnished from the vascular system, especially from the capillaries. It is possible that the cytoblastemata of the pseudoplas- rnata from their earliest stages differ from those of the other patholo- gical epigeneses. I have had repeated opportunities of examining such cytoblastemata, but have never been able to detect any peculiarity in them. Our knowledge of the different modifications of the pro- tein-compounds is, however, still very imperfect, and we possess no means of recognising mere microscopic quantities. This question must, therefore, for the present remain unanswered. Our knowledge is not more definite regarding the causes which lead to the formation of the pseudoplasmata. The present state of this subject may be thus briefly summed up : firstly, it may be assumed that the formative cause consists in a depraved condition of the fluids, *. e. certain elements of the blood become changed, or there occur in it new and peculiar sub- stances W'hich after their deposition in the parenchyma of organs, necessarily become converted into pseudoplasmata. According to this view, therefore, there already exists in the blood, previous to the for- mation of any pseudoplasma, a cancerous or tubercular matter whose deposition upon a definite spot may determine the localization of the