416 COMBINATION OF MORBID CHANGES. ment into two provinces is justified, and the independence of the former—capillary hyperaemia—established. However, we should assign to the above-mentioned experience no more value than it really deserves; it merely shows that all cases of this hyperacmia are not followed by a considerable secretion of fibrinous fluid. The exudation may be very slight, and we are altogether without means of distinguishing a small quan- tity of a fibrinous fluid yielded by dropsy, from the ordinary nutrient fluid pervading the tissues; moreover, as was stated in relation to serous dropsy, the whole or greater part of the exuded fluid may be resorbed by the veins and lymphatics. Further, in many cases of exudation the fibrin appears to undergo a chemical change which hinders it from being detected by the ordinary means of recognition ; thus it fre- quently becomes converted into a species of mucus. An instance of this nature is afforded by menstruation, which admits of no other explanation. The blood which is effused externally, undoubtedly arises from the ruptured vessels of the ovaries, and probably, also, of the Fallopian tubes and the ute- rus. Although this blood, when it is effused from the vessels, must necessarily contain fibrin, yet generally on its discharge this constituent is absent, and the fluid does not coagulate. In its place there is mucus, and a larger amount than arises merely from the vagina; I have convinced myself of this fact by the observation of a case in which the menstrual blood proceeded directly from an inverted uterus* The fibrin is doubtless converted, during the discharge of the fluid, into mucus, through certain chemical influences of which we are still ignorant, but probably through the influence of the alka- lies. This fact elucidates an analogous relation of the mucous membrane. Whenever hypersemia exists in this tissue, there is thrown off a viscid fluid not containing fibiin, the only exception being in what is termed croupy inflammation. The probable explanation of this fact is, that the fibiin of the * See R. Wagner’s Lehrbuch d. speciell. Physiologie. 2nd Edit. p. 236.