466 PARASITES. The distoma hepaticum is larger, the young being four lines long, and one and a half line broad; while the full grown animal varies from eight to fourteen lines in length, and from one and three quarters to six lines in breadth ; its intestinal canal is ramified ; the eggs are brownish, the 17th of a line long, and half that breadth. The distoma lanceolatum is smaller ; from two to four lines in length, and scarcely one line broad; its intestinal canal is bifurcated; the eggs range from the 77 th to the 48 th of a line in length. These two species of distoma occur but rarely in the human subject. They have been found in the gall-bladder, in the biliary ducts, arid once even in the vena portae and its hepa- tic ramifications, (Duval).* In animals, especially in sheep, these entozoa are of much more frequent occurrence. Although the nature and mode of their transference have not yetbeen clearly shown, it can scarcely be doubted that these animals enter the system from without, and do not originate in it. For representations and descriptions, see Bremser, PI. iv, ^S- u and 12; Mehlis, Observ. anat. de distom. hepat. et lanceolat. Gutting. 1825 ; Gurlt, Lehrbuch der pathol. Anat. der Haussiiugeth. PI. vm, hg. 29 to 35. Respecting the metamorphoses which the distomata undergo, which are highly interesting in a zoological point of view, see Steen- strup.f iiber den Generationswechsel, Copenhagen, 1842, (or Busks translation, published by the Ray Society). . 1 2. The distoma oculi humani, Gescheidt, has been found only once (by Gescheidt) ; it was observed in a child aged five months, who had suffered from cataracta lenticularis cum partiaU capsules suffusione, and had died of atrophia meseraica. Four lancet-shaped distomata ranging from a quarter to half a line in length, and with dichotomously rami- fying intestinal canals (dist. lanceolatum ?) were present between the lens and the anterior portion of the capsule, j * Gazette, M6dic. de Paris, 1842, No. 49. f See Siebold, op. cit. p. 669. % Ammon’s Zeitschr. f. Oplithalmologie, vol. m. p. 434.