108 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. apparently supplied by albumen.* In the nutrition of the perfect organism, the general nutrient fluid,—the modi- fied blood-plasma permeating the walls of the vessels,— acts as the general cytoblastema for all new formations. Whether the fibrin is the only essential formative material in this fluid, or whether the albumen likewise takes part in deve- lopment, is a question which cannot be answered with the same degree of certainty as in the case of morbid products, since the normal fluid of nutrition can never be obtained free from extraneous constituents in sufficient quantity to be accurately analysed. . # If it appears certain that the protein-compounds are the only sub- stances capable of development in the human body, the question which of them can act as a cytoblastema ?—does not admit of a posi- tive answer, since we at present possess but a moderately accurate knowledge of a few of the numerous modifications of this substance. This answer must, however, only be regarded as provisional, and will probably require considerable modification when we know more of the nature of the protein-compounds. When we have once established the principle that the blastema for morbid products must always be amorphous, the old idea is obviously overturned, namely, that a normal tissue may be directly converted into a pathological formation. Direct evidences will be subsequently adduced, when treating of individual morbid products.f Having now considered the chemical composition of the cvtoblastemata of morbid products, another question presents * There may possibly be some connexion between this fact and the ’ observation of Mulder, that the albumen of the egg contains one atom less of sulphur than the albumen of the blood, and that consequently in its ultimate composition it is identical with fibrin. t As examples of the amorphous solid cytoblastema, we may refer to ; pi. x. fig. 14, and pi. n. figs. 2 and 4, with the accompanying explana- ■ tions. As a good illustration of the fluid cytoblastema, we may reler to the fluid of fibrinous dropsy.