EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE*. 559 the spleen was rather softened ; but the intestinal canal presented the most important lesions. The lower part of the small intestines was much thickened, all the glands, both those of Peyer and Brun- ner, being infiltrated with typhous matter. All the glands of the colon were also swollen and thickened : the mesenteric glands were much enlarged. A few of the mesenteric glands, about the size of a bean, were carefully examined. They contained a soft medullary substance, which yielded readily to pressure. Under the microscope it appeared as an amorphous, slightly granular mass of a brownish white colour, in which an immense number of small cells were deposited (A). These cells had an irregularly roundish form; they were mostly small, almost all under the 300th of a line in diameter; only a few measuring from the 150th to the 200th of a line. Some few of these cells exhibited a distinct nucleus. By treatment with acetic acid the amorphous mass was rendered transparent, and gra- dually dissolved, upon which many very minute cells (nuclei ?) with a sharp outline came in view (B), being unaffected by the acid. Ammonia and caustic potash dissolved the cells as well as the cytoblastema. The glands of the colon contained a similar mass. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 13. Typhous matter from Fever’s glands. The patient, a shoemaker’s boy, aged seventeen years, was brought into the hospital in a very dangerous condition. The abdo- minal organs were especially affected. He had violent diarrhea anti considerable meteorism. He died on the fifth day after his admis- sion, with the symptoms of perforation of the intestine. On opening the body, both lungs were found externally covered with a gelatinous exudation, (serum which had become infiltrated into the tissue of the pulmonary pleura.) The lungs themselves were tolerably healthy, but inferiorly they were in a state of congestion. The abdomen was much swollen anil contained a very large quantity of sero-purulent exudation. The convolutions of the intestines were covered and partially agglutinated by a gelatinous exudation and by layers of coagulated fibrin. The mesenteric glands were much enlarged. The small intestine con- tained numerous ulcers ; almost all the patches of Peyer’s glands being in an ulcerated condition, and at one sjiot having given rise to perforation. At the spots where there was ulceration, the mucous membrane with its investment of epithelium was wanting, and in its