BXPLAXATJON OF THE PLATES. 585 A minute examination showed a number of roundish tumours on the scrotum, varying from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut. rhere were upwards of a hundred and fifty of these protuberances scattered over its whole surface. They were situated immediately under the skin, which nevertheless appeared perfectly normal, and not in the slightest degree discoloured. They could be moved in any direction witli the skin. When these tumours were opened with a lancet, they discharged a pulpy, perfectly white mass, which when moistened with water, exhibited an alkaline reaction, and, on exposure to the air. became as hard as stone. This pulpy mass was found to consist, when microscopically examined (Fio. 2), of an indefinite finely granular mass, which appeared of a brownish colour by transmitted light, with colourless fragments of crystals, which were mostly rounded, but of an indistinct form, and never exhibiting any perfect shape. I his mass was not affected by water, alcohol, ether, or alkalies; but dissolved in acids with effervescence. An accurate chemical investigation gave, as the chief constituents, carbonate and phosphate of lime, with a trace of chloride of sodium, and a slight admixture of organic matter, (fat and extractive matters). One of the tumours, together with the enclosing cyst, was removed, and carefully examined, in order to discover the relation of the deposited calcareous salts to the surrounding tissue. The whole cyst was so impregnated with cutaneous crystals, that nothing definite could be ascertained concerning its structure. The external layer of the cyst, which was free from calcareous particles, consisted of undoubted bundles of fibres of areolar tissue, and contained much blood. A portion of the cyst was treated with dilute nitric acid, in order to remove the salts of lime, but nothing could be then seen under the microscope except fibrous bundles of areolar tissue and blood-vessels. It therefore remained uncertain whether the salts were deposited in the tissue of the skin, or in the cutaneous glands ; the latter is, however, most probably the case, since the calcareous fragment- abraded from the inner surface of the cyst gave evidence of non- nucleatcd epithelial cells. Fio. 3. Crystalline depositions of margarin. Magnified 220 dia-* meters. These depositions are frequently observed in the adipose tissue of the dead body, and probably owe their origin to purely chemical VOL. i. 0 0