387 CONCRETIONS IN THE PARENCHYMA. Bijdragen tot dc natuurkundige Wctenschapen, Deel 1. Amsterdam, 182G, p. 131. The reader would do well to consult J. Moore, Medico- chirurg. Transactions, vol. i. p. 112, &c., where the progressive forma- tion of these concretions is explained ; and Lobstein, Compte rendu sur les Travaux anatomiques, Strasburg, 1824. These concretions may lie easily recognized by their exhibiting the characteristic reaction of uric acid. Their formation depends on the circumstance of there being an excess of urates in the blood, but why the urate of soda should, as it were by preference, be deposited at par- ticular parts of the body, is by no means clear. There is also another mode by which concretions are pro- duced within the parenchyma of organs, differing theoretically from the preceding, but actually very often associated with it. The following observations will serve to explain it. It has been already shown (p. 101) that many pathological epigeneses arise from a mixed plasma, that is to say, from a fluid, which may at the same time serve as the formative material for organized and unorganized epigeneses. The source of this formative fluid is generally, probably always, a fibrinous dropsical effusion, whose fibrin coagulates. In this exudation, two formative processes are simultaneously going on—an organization of the fibrin, and the formation of con- cretions consisting generally of earthy salts. The product of this formation consists chemically of two distinct steps, one relating to the conversion of the fibrin and its modifications into areolar tissue, pus-corpuscles, granidar cells, and typhous, scrofulous, and tubercular matter; the other, to the consti- tuents of concretions, as the salts of lime and magnesia, the urates, fat, &c. The individual constituents of either group may assume a vicarious position ; moreover, the whole of the first group may assume the place of the second, and con- versely the second may replace the first, so that the one is subordinate in the same degree in which the other predomi- nates. This explains the extreme differences in chemical composition, which are observed in this class of concre- tions. c c 2