128 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. sometimes of the salts of lime, or of a modified protein- compound. These elementary granules are frequently arranged in somewhat regular groups, clinging together and forming by their union large granular bodies (aggregate corpuscles) which sometimes so closely resemble cells that scarcely any difference can be observed. Indeed, it appears that such groups of molecular granules may even be invested with an actual cell-wall, and thus form true cells. In all these cases of morbid epigenesis, we find no decided cellular formation, such as should occur according to Schwann s theory ; on the contrary, these cases approximate towards the mode of formation of unorganized depositions, forming a sort of transition between them and organized morbid epigeneses. The above mentioned elementary granules are of very frequent occur- rence, and we shall often have occasion to revert to them. They occur as very minute granules of an indefinite rounded form, and vary from the 800th of a line to a size too small to admit of measuring. Differing as we have shown in their chemical characters, they behave differently towards reagents. Those of most common occurrence seem to consist of coagu- lated protein-compounds and resist the action of most reagents. Neither acetic nor nitric acid, nor yet caustic ammonia or potash, nor ether cause them to disappear. Those consisting of fat dissolve in ether with the aid of heat. Those finally which consist of calcareous salts (phos- phate and carbonate of lime) disappear on the addition of nitric acid, in the latter instance with the development of air-bubbles. 1 here can be no doubt that these elementary granules are always deposited in a fluid condition, and subsequently assume the granular form either by coagulation or chemical precipitation. In those completely organized morbid products which in their perfect condition, no longer retain the cellular foim, it is only rarely that any decided cellular formation can be detected during the period of development, as according to Schwann’s theory must always be the case. Thus in the development of areolar tissue and of fibrous tissue, we certainly sometimes find cells which are prolonged into fibrils, but more frequently we meet with mere cytoblasts without decided cells (with a wall, cavity, and contents), and the blastema appears to be converted directly into fibrils: indeed,