224 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. fibrous tumours into those which yield gelatin, and those which do not yield it. Valentin endeavoured to prove that the elementary matter of fibrous tumours in the uterus is coagulated fibrin and not albumen, but the reactions on which he founded his opinions, cannot at present be regarded as decisive. Decisive ultimate analyses are still desiderata. It cannot be doubted but that in a chemical point of view, the laws regulating the develop- ment of these tumours, correspond with those influencing the develop- ment of the normal fibrous tissues. FOURTH GROUP. TUMOURS WHICH CHIEFLY CONSIST OF CARTILAGINOUS TISSUE. Cartilaginous Tumours. Tumours into the composition of which cartilaginous tissue enters, are of much less frequent occurrence than those hitherto described ; they are, indeed, rarer than we might he led to judge from physical characters alone; since, as already stated, many swellings apparently cartilaginous belong, in reality, to fibrous tumours. Most frequently true cartilaginous tumours appear as hypertrophies and abnormal growths of bones—as callus, exostosis, &c. They then con- sist of true cartilaginous tissue, but only in a state ot tran- sition, since they gradually pass into osseous substance, and thus into osseous tumours in the manner described in page 198. Isolated cartilaginous tumours occur more rarely, and it is only within a few years, and chiefly by means of J. Muller s* elaborate investigations, that they have been known with any degree of accuracy and designated by the term, cnchondro- mata. We must now proceed to the closer consideration ot these tumours. _ . Enchondroma appears under three distinct forms: in the hones, either 1, in the interior ; or 2, on the surface covered by the periosteum ; and 3, in soft parts, as for instance, glandular * Compare J. Muller fiber d. fein. Bau d. kranhh. Geschwulste, p. 31, &c.; or West’s translation, p. 96, &c. ; Dr. Jac. Heiz, de en- chondromate, Erlangm, 1843 ; G. Gluge, Atlas der pathol. Anatorme, Part 4.