PUS. 149 tily dispersed over the stroma; subsequently, however, they become more abundant, and ultimately occupy the whole stroma, being separated from each other by intervening serum; finally the solid portions of fibrin disappear, and the whole of that constituent is converted into fluid pus. In this manner pus is formed in all abscesses in which the softening is dependant on the coagulated fibrin changing into fluid pus: in this manner it is formed in solid exudations from the pleura or peritoneum, in gray hepatization of the lung, and in a hundred similar cases. It frequently hap- pens that this mode of formation is combined with the pre- ceding, so that some of the corpuscles are formed from the coagulated, others from the fluid portion of the fibrin. In this or some other way, pus may be formed from exuded blood, as the daily experience of surgeons teaches, and the experiments of Gendrin and others demonstrate. It does not always happen that pus produced in the Latter manner is perfectly formed when discharged from abscesses, &c.; it frequently contains flocculi of coagulated fibrin, which indicate no change, or merely an incipient conversion into pus. These have been termed “ ventriculi puris” (Eiter- pfropfe)* We sometimes observe them forming a viscid mass (pyin ?) in which are imbedded perfect and distinct pus- corpuscles. It is scarcely necessary to observe that most of the opinions that have been promulgated regarding the formation of pus are undesen’ mg of a serious refutation; as, for instance, the new maintained by Gendrin tliat pus-corpuscles are nothing more than modified blood-corpuscles. In fact they have required no refutation since the works of Wood, Giiter- bock, myself, Henle, Valentin, Gluge, &c., have opened a new path in the theory of the formation of pus. During the last few years Gen- drin s ideas on the subject have been revived by Braun, v. Bibra, and Barry, but unsupported on any new grounds. I consider it unnecessary to state, in this place, all the points which are adverse to this opinion, for one is sufficiently convincing: namely, that the above described mode * See Asclierson in Casper’s Wochenschr. 1837. No. -Ui.