PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 302 aided eye, and can only be detected by careful microscopic examination—as for instance, in fatty tissues.* When the interstices are not thoroughly filled, and the cancerous deposit is soft, the parent-tissue, at least in the first stage, is com- paratively little injured. If, on the other hand, the infiltra- tion is complete and the cancerous deposit very firm and solid, then the elements of the tissue become compressed, appearing to be blended with the deposit into a homogeneous mass, and gradually become atrophied and disappear. This disappearance of the elements of the tissues by atrophy and resorption, which is peculiar to the first stage of cancer, previous to softening, must be clearly distinguished from the destruction of the entangled tissue, which is dependant on the softening of cancer, and of which we shall speak pre- sently. It is beyond all doubt that by the gradual increase of a cancerous tumour, the parts in its vicinity must be dis- placed ; this applies, however, more to whole organs than to the elements of tissues, and is much rarer than is usually supposed. Thus, for instance, in cancer of the liver the hepatic cells do not become displaced, but get enclosed in the cancerous deposit, and thus gradually become atrophied. Finally, after its full development, the cancer proceeds to soften; the process being essentially identical with that occurring in tubercle, and which we have already described. It proceeds in cancer, even independently of cell-formations. It is only in those cases where other processes—as gangrene, tubercle, or typhous deposit—are combined with cancer, that the amorphous blastema around and in the cancerous tumour breaks up directly, without the previous formation of cells. These separate from one another, break up, and form a quasi- purulent fiuid, which sometimes contains decided (although partially injured) cancer-cells, and sometimes a mere detritus, consisting of molecular granules, crystals of cholesterin, &c., perfectly similar to softened tubercle. On what this disinte- * See the description of Plate vm. fig. G, 7.