85 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OP THE BLOOD. blood. In cases, however, when it is possible to institute venesection shortly before death, we might ascertain by the processes already gi\en, the proportions in which the corpuscles occur, and then alter death calcu- late the whole amount of blood with tolerable certainty. Laljorious to an extreme degree as these investigations are, they are essential for the per- fection of our knowledge of the blood. Until by such, or similar experi- ments, general plethora Ijecomes better understood than it now is, all that has been stated regarding it must be considered as merely hypothetical. There is a close parallelism between general anaemia and general plethora. It is certainly an undoubted fact, that by loss of blood the quantity of that fluid in the body is dimi- nished, and that, for instance, a man directly after a copious venesection contains less blood than in the normal state. 1 he loss is probably rapidly made up by the absorption ot fresh matter, especially of water, so that the amount of blood may become the same as before. It is true that the blood possesses a different composition than it previously did, con- taining fewer corpuscles, and more water and albumen, but this condition should not be termed ana'mia, but, as has been very properly suggested by Simon, spansemia * and the symptoms in the dead body, dependant on this condition, are those commonly associated with the occurrence of anremia. General paleness, deficiency of red clots in the vessels, and the escape of but little red blood, on making incisions into the different organs, are not always to be regarded as signs of anaemia, since they are equally likely to occur when spanajmia is present. Local hypersemia, as it occurs in the dead body, may have its seat in the veins or in the capillaries, sometimes occurring simultaneously in both sets of vessels. Venous hypenemia may be detected with the naked eye, or if only the smaller veins are affected, with a lens. The veins usually present a continuous ramifying appearance, are, more distended than usual, and contain a blue, violet or reddish * From enruvos, poor.