62 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. that tint to the blood. I have sometimes noticed venous blood of a bright red colour, with a shade of blue, much the tint that is developed on treating uric acid with nitric acid and ammonia: thus, in the dissection of an arthritic subject, the blood of the renal veins presented this tint. In other cases, the venous blood appears dark, of a brownish red or almost black colour, sometimes even resembling tar or ink. These variations in colour are often associated with other physical changes, as an abnormal increase or diminution of density, &c. They are, however, never so constant as to permit of our always finding the same tint in the same disease, nor can we recognise their causes with any degree of certainty. In fact, the causes of the tints proper to healthy arterial and venous blood are not altogether established. Hence, no great importance should be attached to any pecu- liar colour presented by the blood, and still less should any conclusions be drawn from them, at least, until we are in a better condition than we now are to recognize with cer- tainty the cause of such a change in each individual case. With respect to the causes of the difference in the colour of arterial and venous blood, see H. Nasse’s Article in Wagner’s Handwdrterbuch der Physiologic vol. i. p. 181, &c., where all that we at present know on the subject is clearly described and criticised. The colour of the blood is modified by the action of many different substances, and w e possess a great amount of information respecting these artificial changes ;* but even the very circumstance that so many causes pro- duce a similar colour, renders the determination of the cause in an individual case, a matter of much greater difficulty. The colour possessed by fresh blood remains after coagu- lation and the separation of the coagulated blood into the clot and expressed serum. The former retains the original colour, but, after a time, the surface usually assumes a brighter tint from the action of the oxygen of the atmos- * Compare Berzelius, Thierchemie, 4th Edit. p. 72, &c.; Simon s Animal Chemistry, vpl. i. p. 112; and especially Hunefeld, der Che- mismus in der thier. Organisation, p. 117.