538 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. The patient, a coachman aged forty years, addicted to drinking, entered the hospital at Munich, with all the symptoms of inflamma- tion of the right lung. Fever with hard full pulse, severe pain on breathing, oppression at the chest, and cough with sanguineous expec- toration. In the lower part of the right lung the respiratory sounds could not be heard, but crepitation was distinctly audible. On the seventh day of the disease the local symptoms yielded to an antiphlo- gistic treatment—venesection and the internal use of large doses of tartarized antimony. The sounds on percussion continued to be dull, but instead of the crepitation there was a loud mucous rattle, and the expectoration became more copious. This was succeeded by a general prostration of strength, the pulse was more frequent—small and weak; there was great distension in the region of the stomach, vomiting, and death. On dissection there was fatty degeneration of the liver in an ad- vanced stage. The lower part of the right lung (the middle and lower lobes) was thickened, of a grayish red colour, which gradually became of a bright red on exposure to the air, and exhibited a granular appearance, when cut: it did not crepitate, and sank in water. The fluid from the thickened part of the pulmonary tissue was not frothy : it exhibited no air under the microscope, but a good many unchanged blood-corpuscles, and numerous pale cells varying from the 200th to the 100th of a line, some of which contained nuclei with or without nucleoli, and others a granular mass in a larger or smaller quantity, (Fig. 5. A B). The cells appeared sometimes isolated as at A, sometimes united, in groups as at B. By the cells, fibrinous coagula of grape-like, or simply globular shape were seen, which in form and size corresponded with the air-cells of the lung. These coagula, when examined under the microscope, were seen to consist of an amorphous mass (C) which contained cells filled with granules, and likewise isolated granules. The fibrin was here in the act of being converted into granular cells. Larger portions of the thickened tissue of the lung appeared under the microscope (Fig. 5. D) as an indistinct granular mass with very many small granules, and roundish granular heaps from the 200th to the 100th of a line in diameter—granular cells. In some parts of the pulmonary tissue, the amorphous fibrinous exudation preponde- rated, while in others it w'as almost entirely converted into granu- lar cells.