176 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. development, surround and inclose the ramifying masses of blood. When the new vessels are perfectly formed, the walls become distinctly visible ;* indeed, when subjected to the action of acetic acid, they exhibit a regular nucleated arrange- ment which manifestly appertains to the walls of the vessels and corresponds with the cells in the different layers of the walls.']' The perfectly formed vessels, with their contents, enter earlier or later into communication with the original vessels in their neighbourhood, and then take a part in the general circulation. At the earlier periods of then existence the blood which they contain, although fluid, is motion- less. The vessels whose pathological epigenesis I have observed were all larger than capillary vessels : they were not formed from cells, as Schwann imagines to be the case with capillary vessels, neither were they formed in intercellular spaces; for the formation of blood always took place very early, before the formation of any other cells, and even before the forma- tion of areolar tissue. It is, however, not improbable that in the formation of capillary vessels the process is as Schwann} describes it, namely, that in the first place ramifying groups of cells are formed which contain blood, and which opening into one another, form a net-work of vessels, so that the original cell-walls which enclosed the blood become the walls of the subsequently formed capillaries. There are two ways of explaining the formation of vessels from the original vascular trunks. Either some of the original trunks are rup- tured, and blood is effused from them, which channelling its way through the cytoblastema becomes subsequently enclosed within walls. But this is an explanation against which much may be alleged ; for it is not easy to see why the blood effused in the cytoblastema should not be equally distributed, instead of confining itself in certain ramifying courses, and finally again discharging itself into other normal vessels. * Plate hi. fig. 5. f See Plate hi. fig. 7, 8, 9, of Henle’s Allgcm. Anat. | Mikrosk. Unters, Plate x. fig. 12.