464 PARASITES. f See Siebold, op. cit. p. 667. gangrene, or by entering into the stomach. In certain cases it appears to he capable of even perforating the intestine, by thrusting asunder with its head the fibres of the intestinal coats : it thus passes into the cavity of the abdomen, where it gives rise to inflammation, suppuration and abscess, feonn - times it even escapes externally through the abdominal walls.* These cases are, however, very rare. This subject will be continued in the special part.f That round worms are not generated spontaneously, but pass into the body fiom without, is scarcely questionable, although the manner in which this takes place cannot be, at present, demonstrated. See representations by Bremser, PI. i. fig. 13 to 17. Respecting its internal structure, vide Jules Cloquet, Anatomie des vers intestinaux ascaride lombricoide ct dchinorhynque gdant, Paris, 1824. 10. The ascaris data, Bellingham, is a species once found in the human subject, namely in Ireland, by Bellingham ; the extremity of the head is furnished with membranous, semi-transparent alee, similar to those occurring in the ascaris of the cat, {ascaris mystax) but so far diffe- rent that, in a. mystax, this appendix is broader in front than behind, while in a. data, on the contrary, it is broader behind than in front. Vide Dujardin, op. cit. p. 156. 11. The thread worm., (oxyuris vermicularis, Brems. ascaris verm. Rud. is a thin white worm even smaller than the trichocephalus. These worms are of separate sex, and the male and female have a very dissimilar appearance. The male which is far the rarer of the two, is much smaller, varying in length from a line to a line and half, spirally (•oiled at the tail, and often completely assuming the form of a ring. The head is not much thinner than the tail, and under the microscope, shows a transparent tubciosity appa- rently forming lateral alse. The female is not annulated, but extends in a straight line, or at most slightly undulates. Its cephalic extremity corresponds to that of the male, and bears a * See Oesterr. medic. Wochenschrift, 1843, p. 661.