PARASITES. 462 7. The spiroptcra hominis, Rud. is a small, delicate, spirally coiled worm of white colour, and with separate sexes. The two sexes differ in their form and size. The male measures eight, the female ten lines in length. The head ends obtusely and has one or two papillae, and an orbicular mouth. The body is round, tapering towards both extre- mities, especially towards the anterior. In the female the tail is thick with a short, blunted point; in the male, thin, with a tube—probably the sheath of the penis. An aliform appendix towards the tail is charac- teristic of this animal. The spiroptera hominis has hitherto been only found in one instance, by Barnett of London, and is stated to have been discharged with the urine by a woman. It possesses at all events no great importance. Figured by Bremser (PI. iv. fig. 6 to 10) who regards these worms as young strongyli. 8. The strongylus gigas, Rud. is a very large, round worm, varying from five inches to three feet in length, and from two to six lines in thickness, and, when recent, of a blood-red colour. The sexes are separate, and differ in form. The male is smaller than the female, and tapers somewhat towards both ends. The head is obtuse, the mouth orbicular, and surrounded by six minute papillae. The body is marked by circular stria?, and presents several shallow longitudinal furrows. At the posterior extremity, the male presents an infundibuliform pouch, from which a very slender penis protrudes. The female is larger and has a straightly extended and obtuse tail, on which may be seen the oblong anus. Its vulva is one or more inches distant from the extremity of the tail, according to the size of the indivi- dual. The ova are almost globular. The strongylus gigas inhabits the kidneys, and the cellular tissue surrounding them. It is highly dangerous, and by its presence may occasion a total destruction of this organ, oi even cause death. This species occurs also in several animals the horse, dog, wolf, marten, &c. See representations in Bremser, PI. 4, fig. 3 to 5; Gurlt, Lehrb. der patholog. Anat. der Haussiiugethiere, PI. 8. fig. 25 to 28, and Rayer, Maladies des reins. 9. The round worm, ascaris lumbricoides, Linne, is