7 INTRODUCTION. (in the widest sense of the term) form the domain of patho- logical anatomy. It is not, however, in all diseases that we can, at least in the present state of our knowledge, recognise such material changes. Hence there are diseases to which pathological anatomy seem to have no application. There are many transitory morbid changes in the vital phenomena, dependant on the nervous system, which appear and vanish without leaving a material change capable of detection by the most zealous investigator. Certain changes probably have occurred, but were unsuspected at the time, and hence, in a scientific point of view, yielded no result. In other cases, diseases seem to pro- duce appreciable changes, not on the solid organized parts, but on the fiuids, impressing upon them certain chemical changes cither of a qualitative or quantitative character: whether these are to be regarded as appertaining to pathological anatomy, must be a matter of opinion. As anatomy is usually consi- dered to embrace the theory of the constituent parts of the human body in relation to form and composition, so patholo- gical anatomy ought to include deviations in chemical composition: there seems, however, to have been a tendency lately to regard this class of changes as belonging to a separate science to which the term Pathological Chemistry has lieen given. In addition to observing the material changes accompanying various diseases, it is likewise the object of pathological anatomy to investigate the causes which give rise to them, their development and gradual formation, and their conse- quences ; but this can only be done as lar as is consistent with certainty. This condition, therefore, is especially impor- . tant in all that concerns pathological anatomy. Pathology, from its very nature, must often frame hypotheses, and must frequently be content with probabilities when certain truth is unattainable; for the physician cannot suspend his practice in cases where he docs not distinctly see his way.