288 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. to their weakness, the facility for tubercular deposition is increased. There is a third scries of exoteric conditions, amongst which we must mention pressure, and very likely cold. Engel likewise attempts to elucidate the further changes of tubercle and their consequences. As soon as the tubercular deposit has assumed the solid condition, it 1>egins to act on the tissues, and to destroy them. It afterwards softens, and this softening is, according to Engel, a land of putrefactive process depending on a chemical alteration in the exuded fibrin. Sometimes, however, this softening does not proceed from a primary decomposition of the tubercular matter itself, but is induced by exoteric influences, as for instance, by imbibition of the deposit with water from adjacent cedematous parts, or by inflammatory products deposited in the vicinity of the tubercle. The soitened tubercular mat- ter reacts on the blood, in which it (or at least the fluid portion taken up by resorption) may induce modifications. 1 he softened tubercular matter may also be converted into an ichorous fluid, if there is a suffi- cient quantity of it, (for minute depositions do not undergo this change), if there is a due amount of moisture, if it is far removed from highly vascular organs and there is consequently little metamorphosis of tissue, if the vital powers of the organism are depressed, if it is in contact with extraneous matter, as atmospheric air, fragments of food, bile, forces, urine, &c., and finally, if there is an undue excess of warmth. Other changes may accompany, or may occur in place of the above alteration; thus a portion may liquefy and be resorbed ; the conditions for this change are, that there shall not be too large a mass of exudation, that it shall be in a position to be freely infiltrated with fluid, and that the age of the patient shall be advanced. When the amount of water con- tained in tubercle is reduced by absorption to a minimum, the tuber- cular matter shrinks and becomes indurated. The conditions for this change are a densely compressed mass of exudation, and generally speaking, advanced age. In all essential points, this is the same as what is meant by the tubercles becoming obsolete. These changes relate to the still unsoftened tubercle. The changes occurring after softening are : a, cicatrization, the conditions of which fire that there must not e too great a destruction of tissue, that there should be a healthy condi- tion of the surrounding parts and no induration, and that the age o the patient be not very far advanced, b. Entire or partial resorption# which occurs the more readily in proportion as the deposit is sma , and the surrounding parenchyma healthy, c. The admixture o >e softened tubercle with pus, &c.; and d, the conversion of tubeicle into atheroma or calcareous concretions. All these terminations of tubercle are usually associated with the curative process. In order, howev , that a perfect cure may ensue, it is necessary, that the fresh formation of tubercular matter should cease, and on this point, m0e gnc.