PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 296 § See Plate viii. fig. 0 b. these fibrous structures are altogether absent; in other forms as for instance, scirrhus or fibrous cancer, they predominate. By the predominance of these fibrous structures, of which the former is by far the more common, cancerous tumours connect themselves with the formerly described fibrous tu- mours, and indeed it is sometimes impossible to distinguish whether a cancerous or a fibrous tumour had first existed. The arrangement of these fibres and their relations to the cells is also extremely variable. Sometimes the cells and fibres are so arranged, that on making a microscopic exami- nation, some parts are found to consist only of fibres, and others only of cells. Usually the fibres form the ground- work or stroma in whose interstices the cells are deposited Sometimes the fibres assume a radiating arrangement, pro- ceeding from the centre to the periphery of the tumour, as for instance, in cancer of the liver.* In other cases a tissue with roundish meshes is formed, in which the cellular masses are depositedf—an arrangement very similar to that of the elastic tissue in the healthy human lung. In certain forms of cancer we observe the fibres and cells in very peculiar rela- tions to each other; the fibres form roundish capsules, of which the interior is filled with cells!—a formation similar to that which occurs in certain ganglia, where also cells (gan- glionic corpuscles) are found enclosed in capsules composed of fibres. These fibrous capsules are sometimes isolated,|| and are sometimes connected by fibres issuing from them with similar tissue in their vicinity. The formation of these singular capsules appears to proceed in the following manner : in the first place, there is formed a cell with a thick cell-wall, exhibiting a double contour.§ In this, as in a parent cell, * See Carswell’s Pathological Anatomy, Carcinoma, fasc. 2, PI. iv. fig. 1. t See Plate vm. fig. 10. J See Plate vm. fig. 3 a, b. || See Plate vxn. fig. 3 b.