PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 338 and constitute the elementary granules which have been so frequently mentioned. But the special relations of the individual protein-compounds, their metamorphoses, and the different degrees of solubility of their modifications arc still im- perfectly known, and must be left for future investigators to work out. As a general rule, precipitates formed from protein may be recognized by the following characteristics: they are nevei crystalline, usually finely-granular, occasionally amorphous; when treated with an aqueous solution of iodine, they assume a yellow colour; they are insoluble in ether and mineral acids; acetic acid renders them transparent without entirely dissolving them ; by prolonged action they dissolve in caustic potash, when they can be isolated and obtained in large quantity, they dissolve by prolonged ebullition in concentrated hydrochloric acid, yielding a lilac-coloured fluid. When a finely-granular precipitate simultaneously presents all these reactions, it maj be declared with certainty to be a protein-compound. If only a few of these reactions are exhibited, the diagnosis becomes comparatively less certain. The causes of the formation of these precipitates are still very obscure. We do not know, whether in individual cases, they consist of fibrin, albumen, or globulin, if we except those instances in which the fibrin coagulates in an amoi- phous state; and we are equally ignorant regarding the causes giving rise to the precipitation. Albumen, as is well known, is precipitated by the mineral acids, by heat, by alcohol, and by metallic salts—as, for instance, corrosive sublimate: the precipitates caused by these influences are likewise amorpho- granular : but it is extremely seldom that albumen is precipi- tated within the organism from any of the above causes. Other modes of explanation more closely approximate to the truth. Thus a modification of albumen has been lately lecog- nized, which is precipitable by acetic acid, and another which is thrown down on the simple addition of water. It is pio