DROPSIES. 49 In analysis 3 b instituted by Dr. Merklein and myself, the salts in 1000 parts of fluid amounted to 8, of which 0.4 was phosphate of lime ; there was also much carbonic and a little sulphuric acid, chlorine, and a trace of phosphoric acid ; of bases there was much soda, and traces ol potash, magnesia and lime. In 3 a there was much chlorine, a little phosphoric acid, much carbonic and no sulphuric acid. The fluid of fibrinous dropsy may be effused on the sur- face of the body in vesicles and pustules, in the same manner as the fluid of serous dropsy: it always occurs in the pustules of variola and varicella, at least in the early stages; fre- quently in the blisters from the ordinary’ vesicants, and burns before they have proceeded to suppuration, and in many othei similar cases. It may also be mixed with the secretions, in which case they possess the property of spontaneous coagu- lation ; this has sometimes been observed in the urine.* 1 may mention, as a case of this sort, a secretion containing dissolved fibrin, from the udder of a goat: it is interesting as showing that the same process takes place in animsds. In the summer of 1842, I received from a veterinary surgeon a glass with the following note. “ It contains a fluid from the udder of a goat suffering from inflam- mation of that organ, it is originally of a pale green colour, and issues only from one teat, the others yielding normal milk.” Ihe fluid amounted to about an ounce, was of a greenish yellow colour, and rather turbid. There was floating on it a coagulum somewhat larger than a walnut, which did not make its appearance till after it had been despatched to me. It was larger than the orifice of the glass, so that there was some trouble in removing it. The fluid appeared homogeneous ; but when examined under the microscope was seen to contain innumerable normal pus-corpuscles about the 400th of a line in diameter, which gave rise to its turbidity. The clot was composed of coagulated fibrin, w’hich, when examined under the microscope, appeared to be amorphous ; it enclosed numerous pus-corpuscles, and a section exhibited a radiating appearance. Not a trace of milk-globules could be seen either in the fluid or in the coagulum. Causes, mode of origin, and further development of fibrinous dropsy.—If there are good reasons for believing * Compare H Nasse, Unters. z. Physiolog. und Pathol. 2nd p. 209. VOL. I. I’art, E