PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 172 times, indeed, the cellular formation is so obscure, that the most careful observer can discern no trace of nuclei or cells, and the fibres of areolar tissue would appear to spring imme- diately from an amorphous solid cytoblastema. It is neces- sary here to guard against confounding the indefinite fibrilke and lines which the coagulated fibrin, while yet undeveloped, sometimes exhibits,* with the fibres of areolar tissue. Whether the nucleated fibres which here and there occur in morbidly formed areolar tissue, and which by their great thickness, their usually winding, or even spiral course, their occasional dichotomic separation, and their insolubility in acetic acid, are distinguishedf from true areolar tissue and range themselves with elastic tissue—whether these, as Henle believes, arise from a prolongation and fusion of the nuclei, or whether they are to be regarded as another structure altogether distinct from areolar tissue, between whose elements they insert themselves—I will not venture to decide. A perusal of the descriptions of the plates will throw considerable light on the above remarks. I have made a large number of examina- tions (upwards of 50) respecting the pathological development of areolar tissue, partly on the human body, and partly on animals, after wounds, subcutaneous division of tendons, &c. They yielded the results which have been above described, and sometimes even more varied ones , I have never been able to establish a general law that would explain why the cellular formation that accompanies this development is sometimes clearly and sometimes only indistinctly apparent. Chemistry of the development. Perfectly formed areolar tissue consists chemically of a gelatigenous substance (colla), while the cytoblastema consists of fibrin, as may be clearly demonstrated in those cases where areolar tissue arises from an exudation of coagulated fibrin. Fibrin and colla differ, however, from each other not only in their chemical pioper- ties, but also in their elementary composition. In the deve- * Plate iii. fig. 5. f Compare Henle, Allgcm. Anat. Plate ii. fig. 6. 7, 8.