THE GUINEA WORM. 457 months previously, the countries in which this worm is endemic. The representation of the worm by Bremser is incorrect, and inferior to that given by Birkmeyer in his Treatise, de filaria medinensis comment, propriis observat. illustr. Onoldi, 1838. The older literature is very complete in Bremser, p. 194, &c., and some more modem papers are referred to in Dujardin, p. 44 ; I may also refer to Bruce and Paton, in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Joum. 1806, p. 145, &c.; to Duncan, in the Transactions of the Med. and Pliys. Soc. of Calcutta, vol. vn. p. 273 ; and to Forbes, in the Transactions of the Med. and Phy. Soc. of Bombay, vol. i. p. 216. Duncan and Forbes bring forward many reasons in favour of the transference of the worm : it appears to be communicated from the patient to the attendants, to dogs, and to horses. Forbes has kept the young alive in moist earth from fifteen to twenty days. In the countries where it is endemic, the mud of the jkxjIs contains numerous animals resembling the young of the worm. It is worthy of remark, that as yet only female lilarim have been found in the human laxly. Do females alone, while still young, after their impregnation enter the human Iwxly because they there find conditions favourable to their further development ? Or does the male also penetrate into the body, but, on account of its smaller size, and because it furnishes no young, give rise to no evil effects, and therefore escape observation ? The reply to this and to many other questions respecting the origin and indication of this worm, must be left to future researches. According to observations collected by Pallas,* it appears that even iu our latitudes thread-worms (the (jordius atjuaticus ? which is common in stagnant water and moist ground) can in certain cases infest the human subject. I may here mention the fabulous furia in/cma/is, which, in northern Sweden mid Lapland, is stated by Solanderf to fall down from trees upon men and animals, and generate a fatal disease. 2. The filaria oculi humani has on several occasions been observed by A. v. NordmannJ in the human eye. In one of his cases, Nordmann discovered in the Liquor Morgagni of a cataractic lens (extracted by Graefe), which he examined half an hour after extraction, two small, delicate filaria', coiled in the form of a ring. Under the microscope, * De infestis viventibus intra viventia, p. 11. t Nova ucta Upsal, Vol. i. p. 44. X Mikrograph. Bcitrage zur Naturgeseh. d. wirbell. Thiere, Berlin, 1832, Part 1, p. 7, Part 2, Preface p. ix.