EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 543 with decided nuclei and nucleoli (a. a.) These cells are for the most part round, but sometimes elongated or even angular. Their size varies from the 300th to the 100th of a line. We afterwards observe these same cells more or less covered with minute granules, varying in size from the 800th to the 1500th of a line. At first (in 5. b.), as long as the granules are only sparingly present, it is difficult to distinguish whether they are on the surface or in the interior of the cells. Finally, when the whole cell is filled with granules, the nucleus cannot be discovered (d), and it can no longer be doubted that the whole of the interior of the cell is filled with granules. These granules appear to consist of fat. I'lo. 13 Perfectly developed granular cells from inflamed lungs. A. from the lung of a man who died from pneumonia. The lung was in a condition of red hepatization. B. from the lung of a girl who died from pleuritic effusion. The left lung was very much compressed by the effused fluid, was of a brownish colour, contained no air, did not crepitate, and sank when placed in water. Under the microscope its tissue appeared unchanged, except that an immense number of granular cells were deposited in it. Fig. 14. Granular cells in the act of breaking up, and their remains. W hen the granular cells have attained their full development, the cell-wall disapjicars, and the granules contained in the interior are liberated, and form larger or smaller heaps. Tht‘ 8rra»ular cells in this figure were obtained from the lungs of an aged woman who died from pneumonia. The right lung was dense, red, hepatized, and contained no air. Under the microscope, tiie whole pulmonary tissue appeared fclled with these cells, in various stages of disintegration. Fig. 15. Granular cells from an inflamed and softened liver. Fig. 16. The corps yrunuleux or colostrum-granules of the milk, obtained from the duct of an extirpated scirrhous breast. Magnified 2*20 diameters. 1 hey are given in this Plate, since, from their similarity, they might be mistaken for granular cells.