PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 228 often exist and increase for ten or twenty years, attaining a considerable size without materially incommoding the patient. Gluge describes a tumour of this kind, which, on extirpation, weighed nine pounds and a half.* They may, however, when large, like the non-malignant tumours formerly described inflame and ulcerate, and become dangerous from the quantity of the discharge. The origin of enchondroma can often be referred to mecha- nical injuries, as contusions, bites, &c. which appear more capable of giving rise to this species of tumour in childhood than in adult life. Enchondroma is not, however, in all cases referrible to a local injury ; sometimes it occurs in several parts of the body at the same time, resulting from a general or constitutional cause. There can be no doubt that in en- chondroma of the bones, the law of analogous formation pei- forms a determinate part in the organization of the exudation ; but it should not be forgotten, that, in these cases, the carti- laginous substance of the enchondroma does not correspond altogether with true cartilage. At present we cannot even hazard a conjecture as to the originating cause of enchon- droma in glandular organs. From what has been stated, it will be seen that there exist two distinct forms of cartilaginous tumour: cartilaginous exostosis and enchondroma. They sometimes so closely resemble each other, that they can only be distinguished by a close anatomical investigation. Enchondroma sometimes presents, in its interior, cavities filled with fluid,f and thus passes into the category of cyst formations (Cystoid). In a diagnostic point of view, the transition from * Op. cit. explanation of tab. i. t Compare Gluge, op. eit. explanation of tab. i. It is possible= that two of the cases described by Frogley (Medico - clnr urg. ransac 1 > 1843, p. 133) as osteo-sarcoma of the femur belonged to this catego y, in consequence, however, of there having been no microscopic ex nation, it is impossible to decide with certainty.