PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 246 glands which resemble the sebaceous and spiral follicles of the integument, as they have been represented by Kohlrausch.* In these cases the epithelium is more perfect than in serous cysts; it resembles stratified pavement epithelium or thin epidermis, and consists of several layers of cells which, in complete analogy with the corresponding normal formations, show different stages of development. The contents of these tumours, as already stated, present many varieties which are explained with tolerable sufficiency by histological and chemical examination. We find in these encysted tumours : 1. Cells of different kinds, which usually lie loosely toge- ther : sometimes they are large, irregularly rounded or oval, mostly very much flattened, and, therefore, seen laterally, appear fibrous, either with or without a distinct nucleus, resembling the external layers of pavement epithelium and of epidermis ; sometimes they arc small, with a distinct nucleus and nucleoli, perfectly analogous to the cells of the deeper (more recent) layers of epidermis and pavement epithelium; and more rarely they are elongated, resembling cylinder epithelium.f There can exist no doubt concerning the origin of these cells; they are epithelium rubbed from the sac. In this case as in the pavement epithelium and the epidermis, the outer layers are continually being thrown off whilst their under layers are being formed; as the free epithelial cells cannot escape exter- nally, they accumulate in the sac; this they do the more readily as they rather strongly resist chemical influences, and being insoluble in the fluids of the body, cannot become resorbed. A gritty matter presenting a perfect resem- blance to the contents of these encysted tumours, some- times occurs as a morbid accumulation under the toe nails ; it forms a white, greasy, caseous mass, and like- wise consists of exfoliated, but retained epidermic scales. These cells are usually mixed with the other contents. * Muller’s Arcliiv. 1843, p. 365. f Piute ix. fig. 1, 2 and 4.