38 DROPSIES. following analyses, the amount of water increases, and of albumen diminishes, till in analysis 6, the latter has reached its minimum. The amount of salts, on the other hand, remains very nearly the same. The fat and extractive matters are extremely variable, and we cannot very well compare them in the two fluids. Analysis 7 shows that dropsical fluids may be more concentrated than the serum of the blood; and it wrould not be difficult to refer to other cases illustrative of the same point; for instance, several are given by Scherer;* they are, however, comparatively rare, and only occur when the effusion is of some standing, and a portion of the water has been gradually removed by absorption. In most of these cases, w'here the fluid is very thick and pultaceous, peculiar terms are applied, as, for instance, cysts, hygromata, &c. The causes of these varieties are, for the most part, enveloped in mystery ; we shall, however, notice them in our observations on the causes of dropsy generally. If, in its general characters, the dropsical fluid resembles pure or diluted serum, there still may exist in many cases chemical differences between them, which can only be detected by a careful analysis. The essential organic constituent of the serum, as likewise of dropsical fluids, is dissolved albumen, which, in the majority of cases, has all the proper- ties of pure albumen or of albuminate of soda: it either coagulates immediately on the application of heat, or in the latter case, after the albuminate of soda, has been decomposed by an acid. On submitting this albumen to ultimate analysis, it is found to be identical with the ordinary protein-compounds (Scherer).f Sometimes the fluid does not coagulate thoroughly on boiling, even after the previous addition of an acid, although a large quantity of albuminous matter is present: the albumen appears, therefore, to be modified ; it separates on evaporation in the form of a membrane, and in that respect, although not in its behaviour towards reagents, it resembles casein ; this was observed in some of the cases analysed by myself. Scherer found a substance of this nature, similar in many respects to mucus, in the fluid of ovarian dropsy, which likewise contained albumen and albuminate of soda. Elementary analysis proved that in its composition, it differed from protein (2Pr + NH3—04).+ Moreover, C’ollard de Martigny found, in the contents of a long standing cystic tumor between the uterus and rectum an albuminoid matter, differing however from actual albu- men :§ but it appears to be questionable whether the case should be * Chem. und mikr. Unters. p. 125, 130. f v. Bibra, op. cit. p. 217. + Scherer, op. cit. p. 129; or Simon’s Animal Chemistry, vol. ii. P’ § L- Gmelin, op. cit. vol. n. 2nd Part, p. 1393; or Simon’s Animal Chemistry, vol. n. p. 485.