DROPSIES. 54 From these acknowledged facts, and with the aid of experiments on the dead body, we may drawr many conclusions respecting the mode in which fibrin coagulates in the living body. A perfect coagulation of the fibrin (such for instance as to form a jelly), never or very rarely occurs within the body. The comparatively frequent cases where an apparently gelatinous exudation occurs, as for instance, on the surface of the pleura, do not fall under this head : they consist merely of serum, with which the fibres of the serous membrane are infiltrated. Experience teaches us that the coagulation of the fibrin takes place more slowly within than without the body, and hence it is probable that the organic parts exert a certain attractive power on the fibrin, such as the glass rod seems to do during the process of stirring. Further, the organs of the body are seldom in a state of absolute repose, but in a manner imitating the action of stirring, which we adopt in the artificial separation of the fibrin. Thus, in the cavities we find stratified depositions of coagu- lated fibrin. As coagulation within the body takes place very slowly, these layers are extremely thin ; a layer, a line in thickness, of coagulated fibrin may be divided into twenty or more separate and distinct strata. From the regularity and similar thickness of these layers, it cannot be doubted that they have been successively deposited by the fluid, so that the outer layer (that namely in apposition with the serous membrane) is the oldest. As a further argument in favour of this view, it may be added that the external layer is the first that becomes organized. If, moreover, we bear in mind that in many cases the separation ol the fibrinous fluid from the capillaries is very gradual, and further, that it does not occur equally at all points of a serous membrane, (as for instance, the pleura or peritoneum) we can easily understand why some parts of these membranes are covered with layers of coagulated fibrin, while others are not. In such cases, the fibrin coagulates at the points at which it exuded, depositing itself on the serous membrane, and forming slight elevations on it. The subsequent exudation seems to be chiefly deposited on these elevations, which, like foreign bodies, act as points of attraction, and in this way there are formed tufts, flocculi. &c This affords us an easy explanation of the formation of the cor villosum, and other singular forms of coagulated fibrinous exudations, Without any necessity for having recourse to electricity, &c., as has been done by Eisenmann, who fancies that in these forms he can detect electric figures.* As long as the fibrinous fluid is not coagulated, it may, like the serous fluid, be resorbed, and either entirely or in part disappear, or become more concentrated; and the resorption * Hiiser's Archiv. vol. i. Part in- P- 3/3‘