TUBERCLE. 281 dent explanation of the greater transparency, the grayish white eolour, and smooth section of the former; while their occurrence accounts for the opacity, yellow colour, and irregular, granular section of the second variety. These varieties of tubercuhir matter have been regarded as the same substance in different stages of development, and in many cases this view is undoubtedly well-founded; thus gray tuber- cle in the process of its development, as it approaches to softening, usually assumes a granular appearance, and may be converted into the yellow variety. But on the other hand we also meet with tubercles of the yellow variety in appa- rently the very earliest stages of development. Hence there can be no doubt that this variety can exist primarily, since, Irom the very commencement, granules are separated from this tubercular mass as from gray tubercle. Further changes of tubercular matter: softening. Of the above constituents of tubercular matter, the amorphous sub- stance is present from the commencement, its soon as the tubercle becomes firm: it is, without doubt, the product of the coagulation of fibrin ; moreover, the greater part of the granules are frequently present from the first. The imper- fect cells and the cytoblasts make their appearance gradually ; their development is the only trace of the process of organi- zation of which tubercle is capable. Other organized struc- tures such as we have learned to recognize as products of formative activity, and such as occur in the more highly organized pseudoplasmata, are here absent. In tubercle there are formed neither fibres nor vessels, and in fact, even the normal vessels of the part in which the deposition occurs, become compressed, emptied, and impervious ; none but a few ot the larger vessels with thick walls remaining uninjured. Hence, if, in examining tubercle, vessels capable of being injected are found in it, they must not be regarded as epige- neses, but merely as the remains of the. original vessels. The ordinary course of tubercular matter is to soften, and this occurs in the following manner. In the first place the amor-