1 22 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. nucleus. In fact, both these modes of formation actually occur. It has been already stated that the nucleus of pus-cor- puscles is not simple, but consists of several (2 —4) portions. We frequently observe that these composite nuclei are present before the cell is formed. Sometimes I have seen, in a pus-corpuscle, several such nuclei consisting of minute nucleoli; once I noticed as many as four, so that the whole of the pus- corpuscle was filled with granular matter, the individual portions of which were not clearly defined. The second mode of formation, that namely in which the nuclei are formed subsequently to the production of the cell, is of ordi- nary occurrence in vegetable cells and in cartilage. Here the newly formed cytoblasts act as central points for a new for- mation of cells, and then there arise cells within cells — parent cells and their offspring. Moreover, this process may be observed in morbid products, as in encephaloid, where we often find cells with many nuclei, and parent-cells with their offspring.* It has been already mentioned that Schwann’s opinion, that every cell possesses a decided cell-wall between which and the nucleus there is a cell-cavity filled with a matter differing from the cell-wall, is incorrect. Numerous cases, however, occur in which these points strictly accord with the laws of the cellular theory. A decided wall with a double contour, sometimes occurs in cancer-cells.f In all probability the cell-wall invariably consists of a protein-compound, and it is chemically distinguished from the nucleus by being rendered transparent by acetic acid, and frequently after prolonged action being altogether dissolved. A similar reaction occurs on the addition of solutions of borax, caustic ammonia, and (more powerfully) of caustic potash. Recent cells have usually a homogeneous cell-wall, which subsequently becomes opaque, and covered with a granular matter, usually insoluble in acetic acid and in alkalies, * Plate i. figs. 6 and 7. f Plate i. fig. 2; j>1. vm. fig. 0.