254 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. nails, but upon digestion for a considerable time in caustic potash, the tissue separated into small scales, perfectly resem- bling those which are obtained by similar treatment from callous skin, corns, &c. The data which have been furnished preclude further doubt of the origin and signification of these horns: they are exuberant local growths of the epidermis of the sac, and bear the same relation to the cellular contents of the common encysted tumours, as the callous excrescences of the epidermis upon the surface of the body to the furfuraceous separation of the cuticle in pityriasis. Further particulars and descriptions of such horns may be found in E. Home, Philosoph. transact. 1791; J. F. Meckel, Handbuch der pathol. Anatomie, n. 2. p. 276 ; A. Cooper in A. Cooper’s and Traver’s Surgical Essays, p. 2, 1820, p. 233 et seq. with illustrations. These horns are similar in every respect to those which occur upon the external surface of the body, several of which have been described and figured by Cruveilhier, livr. xxiv. Plate hi. Encysted tumours with hairs are also found in the inferior animals ; in these cases the hair always resembles the normal hair of the animal: in sheep, encysted tumours contain wool; and in birds, tumours which enclosed feathers are found. Occurrence and further progress of the simple encysted tumours belonging to the second division. Simple encysted tumours containing fat and epithelial cells, occur in almost every part of the body, most frequently in the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue, particularly upon the cranium and the eyelids, but also in the face, upon the shoulders and the back; more rarely they exist in the internal organs and of these most frequently in the ovaries. They appear sometimes solitary, sometimes simultaneously upon many parts of the body; there have been observed, not unfrequently, four, five, six, and even nine upon one person. A. Cooper saw sixteen upon the head. They vary from the size of a pea to that of the fist, or even of a cocoa nut; their diameter, however, seldom exceeds one or two inches. They occur at every age and in both sexes, and are sometimes congenital, although they usually arise later in life. In some cases they appear to be