27 PNEUMATOSES. nitrogenous substances yield carbonic acid, carburetted hydrogen, and hydrogen ; nitrogenous matters yield ammonia in addition to carbonic acid: if sulphur and phosphorus are present, sulphuretted and phosphoretted hydrogen, and hydrosulphate of ammonia are also developed.* Gas may be developed in this manner in the human body, partly from food in the act of decomposition in the intestinal canal, and partly from the decomposition of the constituents of the body itself. a. Development of gas from the decomposition of food in the intestinal canal.—Accumulations of gas in the intes- tinal canal, at least in its lower portion, and the discharge of wind by the anus, are of such common occurrence, that they can hardly l»e regarded as pathological indications. In- deed, they occur in perfectly healthy persons. That the gas arises from the decomposition of food is much more probable than that it is secreted by the mucous membrane of the intestines, as the older writers (P. Frank and Lobstein) believed. For: firstly, food moistened with water, and exposed to a temperature of 95°—104“ for a space of twenty-four or thirty-six hours actually becomes putrid. Secondly, human feces present all the signs of putri- fying matter; they have a putrid odour, and infusoria are developed in them. And, thirdly, the gases in the intestinal canal are identical with those which are formed out of the human organism during the putrefaction of animal or vege- table bodies; they consist of carbonic acid, hydrogen, carbu- retted hydrogen, sulphuretted hydrogen, hvdrosulphate of ammonia, and nitrogen.+ The nitrogen probably arises from the air that is swallowed, the corresponding oxygen being contained in the carbonic acid. In support of the view7 that * Compare Weinlich, Lehrbuch der theoret. Chemie, p. 344 ; Hiinc- feld, Chemie und Medicin. vol. i. p. 258 ; Liebig, die orgaiiische Chemie in ihrer Anw. auf Agrikidtur, 1st Edition, p. 200. t Compare Berzelius, Thierchemie, 4th Edition, p. 338.