428 PARASITES. position is going on, however locally circumscribed it may be. Hence it follows that they do not become developed at all spots on which the germs are deposited ; their growth indi- cates a certain morbid disposition. This view is opposed by the results of experiments made with the view of showing that parasitic plants can be transferred by inoculation to apparently healthy organisms, and there give rise to morbid pheno- mena : thus, for instance, Hassal* was able to transfer, by inoculation, parasitic fungi from diseased to healthy lettuces, in which they produced the same disease (softening of the stem). These cases, however, prove but little ; they merely show that in some instances the disposition to fungoid development need not be great; and they are, moreover, open to the objection that the plants which were inoculated, having, perhaps, the same habitat, and living under similar relations, already bore within them the morbid disposition. The pathological signification of parasitic plants, that is to say, their power of engendering disease, appears extremely various in different cases. Sometimes through their great bulk they may become mechanically injurious, as by obstruct- ing canals, &c.; of this, however, no instance has yet occurred in the human subject; they may accelerate incipient decom- position of the secretions, and thus prove chemically delete- rious ; in some cases they may destroy or modify histological elements, (for instance, hairs). Moreover, it is deserving of notice, that, by their tenacity of life, which in many cases, especially in some cutaneous diseases, (impetigo and favus) defies most chemical agents, they ensure to the concomitant affection a verv long duration. To animals they are some- times more injurious than to man ; in the smaller animals they may even, through their bulk, occasion death, by obstiuct- ing canals, &c.f At all events, the part which these parasitic * Froriep’s, N Notizen. Oct. 1843. p. 54, &c. f Instances of parasitic plants injurious, and even fatal to animals, in consequence of their mass, are already very numerous, and fresh cases will almost daily be revealed. Amongst the more important cases in which animals have been attacked by vegetable growths, wc may place those noticed in the following memoirs ;—Regarding the muscardmc o