278 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. the blood into the parenchyma, in the formation of tubercle. Whether or not this secreted fluid contains other elements than in the normal state, and whether there exists ready formed in the blood a specific tubercular matter which, on this occasion, becomes separated, can be answered with as little certainty for this, as for the typhous and scrofulous depositions. Hitherto all attempts to demonstrate such a specific principle in the blood have failed: this speaks certainly against its existence, although we cannot deny that with our present means, we are unable to demonstrate every modifica- tion of the protein-compounds, and this would be the point to be considered. This fluid condition of the tubercular matter cannot be directly observed. Some, indeed, assert that they have seen it, hut the difficulties of satisfying ourselves of the presence of a specific cytoblastema of this kind, differing from the normal nutritive fluid are so great, that the correctness of such observations may reasonably be called in question. Whenever tubercles are observed in what may be presumed to be their earliest stages, they appear solid, form a more or less dense mass, and fill up all the interstices of the elementary tissues in which they are deposited. The tissues are usually neither displaced nor altered by the tubercular matter; on the contrary, they in general retain their normal position; they are, however, as closely and perfectly invested by it, as the stones of a wall by the solidified mortar which has been applied between them. We can most readily convince our- selves of this condition by treating fine sections of tubercular deposit from the lung with acetic acid or caustic ammonia. By means of these reagents the opaque tubercular matter is rendered transparent, and under the microscope, the enclosed portions of lung (the intersecting fibres) are perceived to be arranged amongst the tubercular matter just as in the normal state. This experiment, however, does not always succeed, for sometimes the tubercular matter contains numerous molecular granules which are not rendered transparent by