106 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. only assumed the solid form on the coagulation ol the fibrin. It is possible, although it has not yet been observed, that other protein-compounds—albumen, casein, or globulin may act when coagulated as cytoblastemata. In the pro- duction of morbid formations from mother-liquids, the plasma seems never to occur in a solid state : if in the department of unorganized nature, as in chemistry or mine- ralogy, a crystalline formation can take place m a par- tially or entirely solid amorphous substance, as for instance, in iron, sugar, silica, &c., nothing similar has yet been observed in the human body. As fibrin in the coagulated form appears to be the princi- pal agent in solid cytoblastemata, so dissolved fibrin seems of similar importance in those that are fluid; indeed, its pie- sence seems to be a necessary condition for such formations as we arc considering. This point is, however, so important that it ought to be accurately determined. It is possible in many cases to isolate, and consequently, when they occur in sufficiently large quantity, to analyse the fluid cytoblastemata of morbid products, as in exudations into the serous cavities, or in the formation of vesicles beneath the epidermis, where they are composed of water, fluid albumen and fibrin, fat, e x- tractive matters, and different salts. That aqueous solutions of salts and extractive matters are of themselves insuffi- cient to act as blastemata for organized products is placed beyond all doubt: they can act the part of mother-liquids, they can, in many cases, even enter into different struc- tures, (as for instance, salts of lime into the bones, and chloride of sodium, according to Lehmann* into cartilaginous tissue), but organized formations can only be produced in them when a fibrinous fluid is also present, as for instance, when exudation occurs in the cavities of the uropoietic system, or of the digestive canal. The same is the case with the flits ; certain kinds admit of crystalline formations, (as cho- * Physiologische Chemie, vol. i. !>• 133.