95 PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OP THE BLOOD. dependant on the action of the effused blood on the surround- ing parts, (chiefly by the pressure and mechanical influences exerted by it) ; also on the quantity of the extravasation, and on the functions and importance of the organ in which it has taken place. Thus, considerable effusion of blood in the brain j j produces apoplexy, with its consequences; in the lungs and 1 bronchi it fills the air cells, and checks respiration ; in the I j pleura it compresses the lungs, and in that way impedes res- II piration ; in the urinary bladder, by coagulating in the urethra, it gives rise to a mechanical stoppage, and retention of urine with its consequences ensues. Finally, amongst the evils arising from extravasated blood, we may reckon softening, inflammation, suppuration, ulceration, and gangrenous destruc- tion of the affected part. The anatomical relations of the surrounding parts differ extremely in different cases. When hypencmia and stagna- tion are the causes of extravasation, the surrounding parts I appear hypersemic, even in the dead IkkIv ; in other cases where the effusion has been very copious, the whole body appears pale and bloodless. The extravasation of blood is a very frequent occurrence, and may take place in almost any organ containing blood- vessels ; in the lungs constituting hemoptysis, in the brain apoplexy, in the stomach and intestinal canal luematemesis and melaena; it is likewise not uncommon in the kidneys, urinary' bladder, and uterus. The particulars of these forms of haemorrhage are further noticed in the chapters on these dif- ferent organs. Diagnosis of extravasated blood.—Effused blood may be generally detected with the naked eye; if the quantity is very small, it may, however, be requisite to have recourse to the microscope. The only appearances with which it can possibly be confounded are hyperaemia of the capillaries and infiltration of hsematin. The distinction between extravasation of blood and hyperaemia of the capillaries is not always obvious, and the