300 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. to diagnose the presence of cancer; indeed, this is only pos- sible when other parts of the tumour are in a more advanced stage of development. Moreover, the molecular granules described as a second constituent of cancer, are formed (in part, at least) at a very early period, and probably in a fluid as well as in a solid cy- toblastema. Their formation is undoubtedly dependant on some (still unknown) chemical peculiarity of the cytoblastema, as on its containing a superabundance of fat, or some pecu- liar modification of one of the protein-compounds. When these conditions are not fulfilled, the molecular granules are altogether absent, or are only very sparingly present.* These primary molecular granules must not be confounded with those which make their appearance during the process of softening, and of which we shall discourse presently. The further development of cancer consists in the organi- zation of the cytoblastema, and in its conversion into the cells and fibres, which we have already described.! In this early stage, the formation of vessels is probably extremely rare. It is not easy to trace the development of the cells, for, in general, from the very first we observe them of very different forms, and apparently in various stages of development. Sometimes, in the examination of a cancerous tumour, we observed very large knotty masses, varying in diameter from the 30th to the 10th of a line, or even larger, containing irregular cells, and exhibiting a tolerably distinct outline. They probably have the same signification as the large cells already described, in whose interior young cells are formed, while the cell-wall becomes converted into fibrous tissue. The fibres soluble in acetic acid, arise partly from undoubted fibre- cells, and partly from the amorphous blastema without any definite cell-formation. No certain observations have yet * See Plate vm. fig. 9. f We have attempted to depict this early stage of development from a solid, amorphous cytoblastema, in Plate vm. fig. 9.