INTRODUCTION. 18 in the hope that the general laws which they fail to establish will be developed by their successors. The other method by which pathological anatomy can and will extend its limits, seeks to penetrate directly into the connec- tion of symptoms; far from excluding the statistical method, it is rather an essential completion of it, whilst its results, when sure, act as a test for those obtained by the numerical me- thod. A few examples will serve to illustrate my meaning. Common observation teaches us that venous hyperaemia is frequently accompanied by a collection of dropsical fluid in the surrounding parts. Our knowledge ot the functions of the blood- vessels renders it probable that the dropsical fluid, in these cases, proceeds from the veins, and that their hyperaemia is the cause of its collection. Carefully instituted experiments, which by ligature, or in some other way, have caused venous hyperaemia, and thus actually produced dropsical effusion, confirm this opinion ; and it becomes more sure in proportion to the number of experiments, and the different conditions under which they were performed, with the view of removing every possible source of error. The following may serve as another illustration : Experience shows us that certain changes in the substance of the kidneys are accompanied by the secretion of albuminous urine A close examination of the diseased kidney shows that blood- plasma has escaped from the vessels into the substance of that organ, and that the fibrin has coagulated there. Physiological theory leads us to assume that the fluid portion of the blood- plasma becomes mixed with the urine, and that the albumen is at least in part obtained from that source. In order to fulfil its office, and efficiently to serve general and special pathology and therapeutics, pathological anatomy must adopt and scrupulously carry out both these methods. If pathological anatomy lays claim to the rank o a science it must arrange the results which it has obtained, and exhibit them connected in one comprehensive scheme. us can, present, only be effected in a very imperfect manner. nc o