513 DOUBLE MONSTERS. two genera : 1. Iniodymvs* (diprosopus sejvnctus, Gurlt), which forms the higher grade. The two heads are united at the occiput, and consequently all the cranial bones as far as the os occipitis are doubled ; also the organs of sense and the cerebrum; 2. Opodymusf (dipros. distorts, Gurlt), in which the face only as far as the zygoma is doubled, the skull is simple; the cerebrum, however, being commonly doubled b. Duplication of the whole head (dicephalus, Barkovs' and Gurlt). The whole head is doubled, and the upper part of the vertebral column is double. On the contrary, the thorax and abdomen are, at least externally, single. For the literature, see Barkow, vol. u. p. 37, &c.; and Otto, p. 221, plate xxiv. figs. 2 and 3. Geoffroy St. Hilaire! distinguishes the follow - ing forms : 1. Atlodymus, in which the two heads are seated upon one neck, and the duplication descends as far as the atlas. 2. Derodt/mus,$ in which the duplication extends to the neck; the thorax, externally simple, presenting one sternum and a double vertebral column. c. The head, neck, and upper extremities may be doubled, while the chest and abdomen are single, or at least fused into one another, in the two bodies. Thoracico-abdominal du- plication, (didymus symphyothoracogastrius, Barkow— thoraco-gastrodidymus, Gurlt). Barkow, vol. n. p. 39, and vol. i. pi. hi. fig. 1. Geoffroy St. Hilaire; names this form \yphodymus.fj In this division wc must place the twin monster known under the name of Rita Cristina, who was bom on the 12th of March, 1829, at Possari (in Sardinia), and was brought alive to Paris, but died there in the November of the same year, after it had been subjected to some interesting physiological experiments. Other cases are given in Otto, p. 217, &c., and W. Gruber, Anatomic eines Monstrum bicorporium. Prng. 1844, with six plates. d. The duplication may extend to the thorax, while the abdomina coalesce, (didymus symphyogastrius, Barkow * ivlov, the nape of the neck, t £>t£, the face. 1 Vol. in. p. 191. j ciprj, the neck. fi xv. fig. 1, and vol. m. p. 161, &c. * From the coalescence of the ensiform cartilages