EXPLANATION OP THE PLATES. 571 cancer-cells were suspended, microchemical experiments yielded the following results. Nitric acid produced a very copious, almost amorphous, whitish coagulum, which enclosed the cells (albumen) ; the cells themselves were not changed. On the addition of ether, a copious coagulation of an amorphous dark matter (albumen ?) appeared ; the dark granules adhering to the cdls were mostly dissolved, (fat). Bichloride of mercury gave a very copious coagulum of an amor- phous colourless mass, which enclosed the cells, (albumen). Infus. Gall arum yielded also a very copious coagulum, partly amor- pho-granular, of a brown colour (albumen), and partly altogether amorphous and colourless (extractive matter). The cells were enclosed in this coagulum. Nitrate of silver gave a very copious coagulum; partly a black granular mass (chloride of silver), and partly dark-brown, perfectly amorphous masses, (albumen). Acetic acid coagulated a moderate quantity of amorphous matter, (pyin ?)• Alumina yielded a moderate coagulum, about the same quantity as that given by acetic acid, and less than that by the agents which coagulate albumen. The mass was perfectly amorphous and colourless, and enclosed the unchanged cells. The proper cancer-matter was of a grayish-red colour, and re- sembled adijjose tissue; it contained evident blood-vessels, which run- ning curvilinearly formed irregular meshes. The same cells apjieared in this tissue which have been described as occurring in the softened parts. (Fio. 6. A). A portion of the fluid coagulated, on the addition of acetic acid, into an amorphous colourless mass. When the cells had been removed by pressure and washing, the stroma of the tissue remained, as an amorpho-fibrous substance disclosing on close investigation band-like fibres running in (larallel directions, (Fic.. 7, A) and perfectly resembling those of organic muscle They were especially evident on the free edges. On treating the tissue with acetic acid these fibres became very pale, and nuclei, either oval with nucleoli, or elongated, acuminated, and oat-shaped (Fio. 7, B a) appeared in them. The whole amorpho-fibrous mass became transparent in ncctic acid, and showed (even in those places where the individual fibres could not be distinctly defined) manv elongated nuclei ranged in parallel rows, (Fio. 7, B b). We hence see that even these apparently amorphous portions arc formed from