515 DOUBLE MONSTERS. b. The duplication may be confined to the posterior part of the lower end of the trunk, the coccygeal region (dipygus, Barkow). It is, however, questionable if this form actually ; occurs; at present, no instance of it is known. c. The pelvis may be completely doubled, together with a por- tion of the abdomen, (dihypogastrius, Barkow). This group separates into different subdivisions, according as the duplica- tion extends, more or less, upon the upper part of the ibody. Cases are recorded by Barkow. vol. 2. p. 41, &c.; and Otto, p. 179, pi. xxiv. fig. 1. The forms into which this group has been subdivided, areas follows: 1. The head always single, and only the lower (hinder) part of the hotly, as far as the umbilicus, doubled, (monoophalus s. di- ypygus, Gurlt—thoradelphus, Geoffrey St. Hilaire) ; this has been hitherto ■ observed only in animals. See Gurlt, op. cit. vol. xi. p. 257, &c.; ' Gurlt and Hertwig, Magazin f. ges. Thierheilkde, vol. ix. p. 2 & 180; and Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. ixi. p. 146, &c. 2. The upper jaw double, ■ but amalgamated, and only the doubled lower part of the body, from the umbilicus downwards, separated, (octopus, Gurlt). This is again sepa- r rable into various sub-forms : a. There may be present two more or less | perfect faces (octopus Janus, Gurlt), a group which Geoffroy St. Hilaire i has again divided into two genera, Janiceps and lniops: both occur in f the human subject, b. There may be only one face, and opposite to it "two ears united at the base, as the rudiment of a second, (octopus quadri- writus, Gurlt—synotus, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. hi. p. 126) : this also s not unfrequent in the human subject, c. Only the posterior parts of die head, the occipital and sphenoid bones may be double, the rest simple, octopus biauritus, Gurlt—deradelphus, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. hi. J. 142) : in man this is very rare, but not very unfrequent in animals. d. The duplication may be almost complete, and the two xxdies connected at only a circumscribed spot on the head, didymus symphyocephalus, Barkow). For cases, see Barkow, vol. ix. p. 43 ; and Otto, p. 179. The forms tkmging to this group have been further reduced to several sub- divisions : 1. The two bodies may be attached at the occiput, didymus ymphyopistocepfudus, Barkow). 2. They may be connected at the ertex, (didymus symphyocoryphus, Barkow). These two forms are ornprised by Geoffroy St. Hilaire in the genus Cepfmlopaycs * * PI. xxx. fig. 1 & 2, and vol. ixi. p. 60, &c. L L 2