422 PARASITES. also consign to the same class the pus-corpuscles which exist in the same cases. Confining our observations to those formations whose parasitic nature cannot be called in question, we are met in limine by two points of more than general interest, which claim our attention, before entering into a detailed account of the individual parasites. They are—1, the origin of parasites; and, 2, their baneful influence on the human organism. Respecting the origin of parasites, there have existed from the most remote periods, when they were first remarked, till the present time, two opposite opinions. According to one view they are generated, in the same manner as most other animals and plants, by propagation from progenitors of like species ; according to the second view, they originate from equivocal generation. That many parasites can and actually do arise by descent from parents of a similar kind (by gem- mules, seeds, and ova,) is at the present day allowed even by the believers in equivocal generation. The controversy hinges only upon the question : can some parasites, in certain cases, also originate de novo, or are those at present occurring inva- riably and in every case derived from parents of like species ? A positive reply to this question, based upon convincing observations and researches, is as little possible now as at the time when Pallas wrote his interesting dissertation upon the subject,* although since that period numerous eminent inves- tigators have devoted their attention to the formative relations of parasites ; but, nevertheless, it appears to me that a majo- rity of important reasons favours the view that at the present time no parasites are spontaneously developed, but that all are, in some way or other, derived from parents of like species. * P. S. Pallas, tie infestis viventibus intra viventia. Lugdum Bata- j vorum. 1760.—“Traditis nunc omnium sententiis de viventium intra viventia origine, expositisque argumentis propugnantibus singulas contrariis, cujuslibet erit verosimillimam mente comprobaic, donee expe rimenta qua; in hac parte maximopere dcficiunt, certos nos icddunt