483 THEIR CAUSES. The causes of most malformations arc, undoubtedly, patho- logical influences, perfectly analogous to those which occasion morbid changes in the body after birth. Probably, like the latter, these also are very manifold ; and it appears to me a limited mode of viewing the question to endeavour, as is not unfrequently done in pathology in relation to different diseases, to trace all malformations to one, or to only a lew causes. Experience, as well as analogy, leads to the inference that the causes not merely of different, but even of the same kinds of malformation, may be very dissimilar. How- e\er, at present we unfortunately know very little respect- ing these causes. The following propositions represent the actual state of our knowledge on this subject: The human embryo is formed by the co-operation of the male and female generative matter the semen and the ovum. By means of a fruitful coition, an impulse to further development is com- municated to the ovum. A normal development, therefore, primarily assumes normal generative matter in both sexes. In order, however, that a normal foetus may be produced, it is further essential that the maternal organism should supply all the conditions necessary to the development of the embryo, and that the development should in no way be disturbed by external influences, or by diseases of the foetus. Accordingly, we may regard as causes of malformations : 1. Abnormalities of the generative matter of one or both parents. Numerous phenomena in man and animals lead to the conclusion that the condition of the father exercises an influ- ence upon the condition of the offspring, which in many cases at least, can be effected only through the intervention of the generative matter, and that this influence may be extended even to the production of malformations. Thus we frequently see that children exhibit the peculiarities of the parents. Mal- formations are transmitted from the parents to the children; and if, in the case of the mother, the two causes, which will be presently noticed, possibly co-operate, this, at least, does i i 2