477 HYDATIDS. exist under the same relations and in pathological importance, resemble them in every respect. With regard to their origin, there are two opposite views. According to the one,maintained by Laennec, Owen, Lallemand, and others, they are animals either specifically distinct from echinococci or identical with them—nurses (ammenthiere) which never attain to the development of echinococcus-animal- cules. According to the other, they are no animals at all, but morbid products of the human organism, which arc per- fectly analogous to the hydatids, formerly noticed, and arising in the same manner (see p. 242). Many structures considered as acephalocysts—as for instance, the vesicular hydatids of the peritoneum and other serous membranes, the cystic moles of the uterus, and the greater number of the encysted drop- sies—are to be ranged, no doubt, in the latter category ; and it the first mode of origin of the acephulocysts—their animal principle — should become positively established, (which future researches must decide, but which seems to me very improbable,) it will certainly prove that only a very small number of the so named acephalocysts, are of an ani- mal nature. riie literature respecting acephalocysts is exceedingly abundant. I shall here notice only the most important Memoirs : Diction, de m6d. art. Acephalocysts; H. Cloquet, Diet, des sciences med. t. xxii. p. 156; Phobus, Encycl. Worterbucb d. mediz. Wissensch. Berlin, 1834, v. x. p. 62; Tschudi, die Blasenwurmcr; Kuhn, llecherches sur les acepha- loeystes et sur la manierc dout ces productions parasites peuvent don- ncr lieu k des tubercles, Strasbourg, 1832, avec planches ; also in Annales des Sciences nutur. t. xxix. 1829, p. 275 ; Jaeger in Meckel’s Archiv. 1820, vol. vi. p. 495 et seq.; Michea, Archives generales de m&l. Mars. 1841, p. 341 ; Arau in ditto. Sept. 1841, p. 76. In a che- mical j>oint of view, the contents of most acephalocysts correspond with the fluid of serous dropsy, whilst the cyst-membrane possesses all the characters of coagulated fibrin. The transition of hydatids into depo- sits resembling tubercle and into concretions, long since attracted so much attention, that some inconsiderately have regarded all tubercles and concretions as proceeding from hydatids. See Iluysch, Dilucid. valv. vas. lymph. Ohs. 25, p. 25. ladlemand avers that he has per-