EXPLANATION OF THE TLATKS. 537 granules of fat: it contained no trace of cells. On the application of acetic acid, the amorphous mass became very pale, and so translu- cent as almost entirely to escape observation; but even then no traces of nuclei or of commencing organization were visible. The fatty parts were not changed by the acid. 'Ihe supposed pus in the interior contained no pus-corpuscles, but simply many globules and granules of fat in a colourless fluid. The same was the case with the coagulum in the right ven- tricle. Fio. 4. Exhibits fibrinous exudation in the act of development, from the arcus aorta of a man who had died from inflammatory hypertrophy of the heart with deficient action of the valves. 'The arcus aortcc was externally reddened and covered with coagulated exudation, which was of a yellowish white colour, soft, saturated with a yellowish white thickish fluid smooth and fatty to the touch, and formed irregular portions of tolerable thickness. Under the microscojx? the exudation appeared like an amorphous mass of an indefinite fibrous character (Fig. 4. A). It became paler and more transparent on the application of ammonia, as well as of acetic acid. This amorphous mass contained a large number of cells of round, or roundish shape, varying from the *2(X)th to the 100th of a line in diameter, and, for the most part, pale and without evident nuclei. There were, however, a tolerable number of little roundish granules, but it was impossible to determine with certainty, whether they were contained in the interior of the cells, or w hether they were situated on their exterior. These granules were not affected by water, com- mon spirit of wine, caustic ammonia, caustic potash, or acetic acid, but dissolved in ether, in which they united and formed large fatty globules : they consisted, therefore, of fat. The cells became paler and gradually disappeared on the addi- tion of ammonia, which also rendered the amorphous exudation paler, and, by prolonged application, softer, and more fibrous. In some parts of the exudation the cells preponderated, in others, on the contrary, the amorphous stroma No free fat appeared in the exudation. ’Ihe pus-like fluid expressed from the mass show’ed under the microscope many isolated cells 13, which were precisely similar to those contained in the exudation; behaving in the 6ame manner towards chemical agents, Fio. 5. Fibrinous exudation in the act of development, from an in- flamed lung.