INTRODUCTION. 16 occurrence of death before or after the thirtieth year—may be determined with tolerable certainty. In a well ordered coun- try, there are few cases in which the age at death is not recorded. The official registration of births and deaths places a large number of observations at our command ; and from these data the question may be answered, not only with very considerable accuracy, but we can even approximate to the greatest error that can possibly occur in the calcu- lation. In pathological anatomy the case is, however, different; for the number of observations is much smaller, while the objects to be observed arc frequently of a very indefinite nature. Suppose it were determined to prove, by statistical records, that scirrhus and tuberculosis exclude each other. In the first place, the meaning of the terms scirrhus and tuberculosis must be accurately determined; for although physicians are not likely to dispute whether or not a man is really dead, there are few points on which there is more difference of opinion than whether a tumour is to be regarded as of a scirrhous nature or not. But, even if this difficulty were overcome, and it were agreed that a number of observations on the pre- sence of scirrhus in undoubted cases were actually made, still the number must be comparatively small. Suppose thirty cases of scirrhus have occurred without the presence of tubercle in any of them; then the probability that the next (thirty-first) case of scirrhus will not be associated with tuber- culosis will be as thirty to one. But in addition to these cases of scirrhus in which there have been found to be no indication of tuberculosis, pro- bably 300,000 other cases have occurred, yielding no evi- dence for or against its co-existence. Now, if from these thirty observed cases, we were to conclude that sciirhus ahvays excludes tuberculosis, that is to say, that amongst the 300,000 cases there had not been a single one in which tubercles were present, such a conclusion would, according to the laws of probability, be very uncertain, and such an appli-