442 PARASITES. Beauperthuys and Adel de Roseville assert that in cancer, as well before as after softening, they have invariably found animalculse, and believe that to these must be attributed the origin, progress, and fatal termination of this disease,* * * §—a view which is undoubtedly erroneous, even allowing that infusoria do sometimes occur as incidental parasites in cancerous ulcers. Klencke states that he has observed in the human blood the appearance of animalcules resembling infusoria, and traces their connection with the occurrence of periodical attacks of vertigo.t In the blood of animals, infusoria have been often found; thus proteus- like infusoria (amoeba of Ehrenberg) have been seen by Valentin in the blood of salmo fario,\ and by Gluge in that of frogs.§ How these ani- mals gain access to the vascular system, is a point upon which at present we can only entertain conjectures, although I have no doubt that they penetrate from without, and are not engendered by equivocal generation. It is not every form of infusorium, which artificially (by inoculation) introduced into the circulation of an animal, develops itself further; this ensues only when the conditions are very favourable for their development, which is rarely the case; otherwise they are very soon lost. In this point of view, an experiment I instituted myself appears to be worthy of communication. From a full grown cat, about one ounce of blood was abstracted, and in the place of it, there were injected two ounces of a fluid containing very numerous infusoria. This fluid was water in which an ape had been macerated during a period of two months; it contained millions of infusoria which belonged to one and the same species ; they were oval, the 200th of a line in length, and the 300th in breadth (either a species of moms, or the young of cyclidium glaucoma?). Besides these infusoria no solid particles were contained in the fluid. After the lapse of twenty-three hours, about sixteen grains of blood were drawn from the cat. They contained no trace of these infusoria. Two days afterwards the animal was killed, and the blood carefully examined; it contained no trace of infusoria ; they had all (notwithstanding that millions had been injected) disap- peared without leaving the least vestige. It was interesting to observe that, in consequence of the injection (?) the blood of this animal presented a very decided increase of its fibrin. Whilst before the injection the blood contained in 1000 parts only 1.4 of this consti- tuent, two days afterwards the same quantity yielded 6.68 parts. * Froriep’s Neue Notizen, vol. v. p. 1T2. t Neue physiologische Abhandlungen, Leipzig, 1843, p. 163, &c. ; see also Siebold on this point, op. cit. p. 649. 1 Muller's Archiv. 1841, p. 435. § Comptcs rendus, 1842, 14, p. 1050.