EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 53G attacked with acute bronchitis in consequence of exposure to severe cold and wet. There was cough, sharp pain on inspiration, hoarse- ness, and expectoration, at first moderate, but afterwards very- copious, forming a thin yellowish fluid, which shewed under the microscope an immense number of pus-corpuscles ; on auscultation little respirator}' murmur was heard, but general mucous rales. Membraneo-gelatinous masses were mixed with the expectoration, which was copiously charged with pus, and thrown oti to the amount of five or six ounces in the twenty-four hours. A mass of this kind of the size of a hazel nut appeared entirely homogeneous, yellowish, and in places of a rusty tint: it resembled stiffening glue, but admitted of being drawn asunder, and divided into membranous layers. These layers formed perfect membranes and appeared entirely structureless and like coagulated fibrin shew- ing neither granules or fibres^(Fig. 2 A). The mass was opaque in the centre, and of a bluish yellow tint; but transparent and almost colourless at the edges. Acetic acid rendered it more transparent; nitric acid, and ammo- nia did not affect it; but caustic potash rendered it more transpa- rent, and softer, without entirely dissolving it. It did not dissolve when boiled with concentrated hydrochloric acid, the colour of the acid as well as that of the membrane remaining unchanged even after prolonged ebullition. In some places this amorphous mass contained roundish, very pale, colourless bodies (Fig. 2.13, cells ?) They varied from the 100th to the 60th of a line, and contained no nuclei—the first traces of cellular formation. Fig. 3. An unorganized coagulum of fibrin from the heart of a man aged fifty-six years—constituting false polypus of the heart. Both ventricles contained thick coagula of a white colour, which were closely combined with the columns carnecc, and could only be separated piecemeal with great difficulty, lhe observation of the progress of the disease rendered it probable that these coagula had been formed about ten days before death, while the patient remained for several hours in a state of syncope, without any evidence of a pulse. The coagulum in the left ventricle was very thick and firm, of a faint red colour; in the interior it was soft, being saturated with a yellowish white fluid, which was declared to be pus by the physi- cians in attendance. Under the microscope the coagulum appeared as a perfectly struc- tureless mass, which was covered by a large number of globules and