ENCEPHALGID. 319 same reason it is the most likely to form a discharging ulcer, and the most rapid in assuming that condition. Hence of all forms of cancer encephaloid runs the quickest course, is the most malignant, and causes death in by far the shortest time. It often destroys life in a few weeks, or at furthest in a few months after its first appearance, unless it has been removed by an operation at an early stage. Encephaloid appears to occur primarily or secondarily in nearly every organ and portion of the body, at every age, and i in both sexes. From the above observations it may be easily imagined I*that the coarser anatomical and physical relations of encepha- loid are extremely variable; and this view is supported by (experience. The colour of encephaloid tumours varies consi- derably; they are sometimes whitish, sometimes of a yellow 11 tint, sometimes almost gray, so that in the same case there ; are some parts that may very fairly be compared to the white, and others to the gray substance of the brain. In other cases, when the tumour is penetrated by numerous minute vessels, wc have a reddish, flesh-coloured, or pink tint. When blood extravasated from the injured vessels has become mixed with h the substance of the tumour, as usually happens at the com- mencement of softening, the whole mass, or certain portions of it appear of a dark red colour, or if the haematin of the extravasated blood has begun to change, the tumour may present a brownish-red or mahogany tint. These tumours likewise differ in their consistence ; before softening they are firm, varying lrom the consistence of solid lard to that of the brain; after opening they sometimes become more granular or fibrous, and sometimes as they soften, they cease to discharge, but on pressure are converted for the most part into a milky and apparently purulent fluid. In those cases, in which from the very first the consistence has been slight, if the tumour is deposited near the external surface, as under the skin, or in certain muscles, it frequently communicates a