8 INTRODUCTION. But it is otherwise with pathological anatomy, in which the immediate object in view is not the same as in practical medi- cine ; it must, therefore, restrict itself' to positive knowledge, and must be always conscious of the degree of certainty which its conclusions warrant. And then, let the systems of medicine change as they may, the doctrines of pathological anatomy will stand unaffected. Almost every disease is made up of various disturbances, which often, to the detriment of science, as well as of the patient, are referred to a single morbid origin, and receive one common name. Pathological anatomy must not adopt this course; its object must be, on the contrary, to separate each material change from all the rest; to isolate it, follow it in its minutest details, and trace its causes and effects. It is not till this is accomplished that the relation of these changes to others is to be considered. By these means, and by these alone, can pathological anatomy arrive at certain truth, and gradually attain a position to assist in the construction of the medical sciences on a broad and sure foundation. Pathological anatomy is, therefore, a useful section of pathology, contri- buting to practical medicine, as it were, the solid materials from which to construct a basement, without having the power to erect a perfect edifice. And here is the point in which it differs from pathology—a point respecting which there are two common errors. Some have overstretched the true limits of pathological anatomy, and have included within them disturbances in the functions of the nervous system, and other morbid symptoms altogether foreign to its jurisdiction, and have endeavoured to elevate it to pathology. Others, on the contrary, have attempted to reduce pathology to patholo- gical anatomy, and to explain all morbid phenomena by recognized material changes, debasing the science of medicine into one-sided pathological solidism. The importance of pathological anatomy to the different branches of pathology varies considerably. It has always been of the greatest importance to surgery, principally in