219 FIBROUS TUMOURS. vessels of the neighbouring parts. It appears, however, pro- bable that some, if not all of these tumours, have in some of their stages possessed vessels, but that subsequently in pro- portion as the connection of the tumour with its surrounding parts became slighter, they were gradually obliterated, and at last entirely disappeared. Usually, however, the vessels of fibrous tumours are few in number, and it is only in rare instances, or in cases where changes occur of which we shall speak presently, that such tumours are rich in vessels. But that pathological formations of fibrous tissue may be combined with vascular formation, we have already seen in our remarks on vascular tumours, (see p. 207). But these vascular tumours are essentially dis- tinguished in their entire character from proper fibrous tumours. We have likewise already spoken of the combination of fatty and fibrous tumours. This combination presents the most manifold varieties. Sometimes the two elements are so intimately connected, that only microscopic examination can distinguish them. In other cases, and indeed most com- monly the two elements are arranged in large groups, easily discernible with the naked eye, so that the same tumour examined at one part, will sometimes appear as a fatty tumour, examined at another, as a fibrous tumour, and at a third, as a tumour composed of the combined elements. The other principal histological variety of fibrous tumour is characterised by the fact that it contains no perfectly formed fibres, but rather presents the appearance of an amorphous mass, in which a more or less strongly expressed tendency to fibrillation is discernible. These tumours exhibit under the microscope a mass entirely amorphous, amorpho-granular, or amorpho-fibrous, in which oil-globules or fatty granules are sometimes found. By the application of acetic acid the mass becomes transparent, and more or less clearly exhibits nuclei, which resemble those of the fully developed fibrous tumours. Between this almost amorphous mass, and the perfect fibrous tumours, there is every intermediate stage. These amor-