PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF THE BLOOD. 93 act as a cytoblastema and become organized. A perfect i resorption is probably only possible while the blood remains I (fluid. This fluid undergoes various modifications in its pro- perties, corresponding doubtless with chemical changes with •which we are at present only imperfectly acquainted. When blood is extravasated in a part where its changes can be traced with the eye, as for instance, under the epidermis, it gradually undergoes progressive changes ot colour; it passes from a dark red into a blue, then into a brown, and lastly into a yellow colour, before it entirely disappears. The causes of these changes are unknown. Sometimes they do not occur; blood which was effused in the conjunctiva from straining during a severe cough, gradually disap- peared without any change of colour, the last traces exhi- biting the tint of normal blood. Scherer* has carefully examined the changes which blood, extravasated in conse- quence of a blow on the upper part of the thigh, underwent as long as it remained in the body. After a few days, it lost its power of coagulating, and contained no more fibrin. The blood-corpuscles were still observable, but were spherical and swollen; and the blood itself contained more water, and less solid constituents than in the normal state. Three days later, the corpuscles disappeared, the blood was much more liquid, and contained a few pus-corpuscles, and in the course of a few days it was entirely converted into pus. When coagula of blood become organized, as in certain apopletic cases, the changes are much more complicated. The clot is usually found after some time to consist of two distinct substances, an inner one, which is soft and forms a reddish brown mass (changed blood-corpuscles), and an outer one consisting of firmer layers, which are. white, or at any rate less red than the inner mass, and present a granular amorphous appearance under the microscope. This difference between the outer and inner portions may be referred to two * Unters. p. 194.