PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 216 and penetrate the tumour. These fibres insoluble in acetic acid, correspond with the nucleated fibres oi areolar tissue. On the other hand, after the application of acetic acid, there appear more or less numerous groups of oval, or sometimes pointed, oat-shaped nuclei, presenting occasionally a curved appearance, similar to those which appear in the normal foi- mation of fibrous tissue. In none but mature and perfectly formed tumours are these nuclei ever absent. We may also frequently remark between the perfect fibres, fusiform nucleated cells, apparently arrested in their development. They are found when a fresh section of the tumour has been pared off with a blunt knife, and is placed in water under the microscope.* In future for the sake of simplicity, we shall subdivide this class into tumours of areolar tissue, tumours of fibrous tissue, and tumours of simple musculai fibre. It is frequently, however, impossible to follow this arrangement, for fibrous tissue when morbidly reproduced, shows various degrees of inclination to one or to another of these vaiietics, so&that after the most careful examination, it is not always possible to determine whether the fibrous tissue of a tumour most approximates to areolar tissue, normal fibious tissue, or simple muscular tissue. But the division, if not pushed too far, will be found to be grounded on their true nature, and practically useful in relation to the genesis of the tumour. Notwithstanding the similarity of their elements, the tumours of this group present very material differences in the histological arrangement of their fibres, and together with this they present also great variations in their physical proper- ties It is only in rare cases that the fibres are loosely con- nected with each other, easily isolated into either single fibres, or connected fasciculi with an undulating appearance, as in normal areolar tissue. In these cases, the tumour is soft, flexible, more or less elastic and coriaceous, resembling in * See Plate vn. figs. 2, 3, and 4. and their explanation.