43 DROPSIES. very aqueous by repeated venesection. Moreover, it is pro- bable that the retention of the aqueous secretions, (as in cases of suppression of the cutaneous perspiration and urine,) mav give rise to an excess of water in the blood, and thus cause dropsy.* Our knowledge on these points is, however, still very imperfect. A large number of quantitative analyses of the blood in cases of dropsy may serve to fill up some of these deficiencies. It is not every temporary overloading of the blood with water that causes dropsy, otherwise the abundant use of water, if not at once carried off by the kidneys, would always produce it; hence other relations, at present uuknow n to us, are in action. Henle's explanation of the causes of dropsy have obtained for liim a deservedly high reputation. The laws which he has laid down appear to me only in so far to require limitation, that instead of referring the source of dropsical fluids to the vascular system generally, it should be limited, as we have already stated, to the venous system alone. Further progress of the dropsical fluid after its effusion. A dropsical fluid may lie either rcsorlwd or remain un- changed. As only the aqueous portion admits of resorption, the fluid may become thickened. It admits of no organi- zation, and cannot act as a cytoblastema for organic for- mations. Whether, and to what degree dropsical fluids become resorbed depends on various causes. The veins resorb the aqueous portion by endosmosis, with a facility proj>ortionate to the tenuity and dilution of the fluid. Hence it is clear that venous resorption cannot occur when dropsy is dependant on a mechanical impediment to the venous circula- tion. It takes place, however, when dropsy arises from a dynamic dilatation of the veins, as soon as there is a remission of the noxious agency. In addition to the veins, the lymphatics, also, exert a power of resorption ; and if for any reason, the functions of both classes of ves- sels are destroyed, there can obviously be no resorption. On the other hand, resorption by the lymphatics may proceed with such activity that the effused fluid is at once removed; and, therefore, cannot collect in any quantity. In this point of view, the old opinion, that dropsy' w-as dependant on increased cxludution and diminished resorption, has a certain degree of truth, llesorption is, however, dependant on local * Henle, op, cit. p. Ifi.