PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 202 phous fibrous tumours have a lardaccous appearance, and the transition-forms springing from them, are firm and similar to cartilaginous tissue, with a milk-white or yellow colour. They are never rich in vessels, and sometimes altogether devoid of them. They must be regarded as fibrous tumours, whose histological development is yet at a low stage, or whose substance is incapable of development carried to any high degree. They may, however, be known to belong to the class of fibrous tumours by the fact that, in one and the same tumour, there are found parts which are entirely amorphous, alternating with others which exhibit fibrous tissue. It is highly probable that a large number of fibrous tumours arise from an amorphous solid blastema, and that consequently most fibrous tumours at an early stage of their development, exhibit this amorphous character. The chemical relations of fibrous tumours present many differences. The perfect fibrous tumour yields gelatin analo- gous to that of areolar tissue (colla), while from those consist- ing of simple interlaced muscular fibre, no gelatin is yielded on boiling. Neither by boiling can we obtain gelatin from the fibrous tumours which are yet undergoing development, and are amorphous. Accurate ultimate analyses of these tumours are still wanting. Their occurrence. The various forms of fibrous tumour occur in all parts of the body which in the normal condition contain much fibrous tissue; on the external skin and the mucous membrane, as cases of hypertrophy, condylomata, warts, and polypi; in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; upon the periosteum and in the interior of the bones ; on the mus- cular coat of the intestinal canal, in the muscular tissue of the uterus, and in the ovary; in the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, where they often reach a very considerable size; and in the cavity of the skull, where they frequently arise from the dura mater. And here the fact is exemplified, that when fibrous tumours arise in parts where areolar tissue prevails, they consist principally of more or less fully dev©-