PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. BIO cancer-cell accidentally getting into the body, gives rise to the develop- ment of a tumour of this description. This view is principally sup- ported by experiments with inoculation, in which local cancer has been produced by transmitting recent cancer-cells into the organism, as in the experiment of B. Langenbeck to which we have already alluded. But on close consideration, it appears that very weighty doubts suggest themselves against our acceptation of the view, that all primary cancers arise in this manner, even if we allow that in every inoculation-experi- ment actual cancer is produced, and not merely a tumour of some other kind, such as we frequently meet with in the examination of the dead body after injuries. Although I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of Langenbeck’s experiment, yet in other cases, the necessary microsco- pic examinations are wanting. If, further, cancer-cells can serve to transmit cancer from one individual to another, when they have got into the interior of the organs (that is, within their parenchyma), the ques- tion then suggests itself—how can they, under ordinary conditions, get there ? Even if we assume that they can be distributed into the sur- rounding atmosphere from open cancer, in the same manner as the spores of alga; and fungi (which, however, is very improbable, since the cancer-cells, are for the most part, tolerably large, and exceed the 100th of a line in diameter), and are deposited on the outer or inner surfaces of the body, still they are not in the parenchyma of the organs, and they can only enter, if there arc wounds or lacerations, which as a general rule do not precede the formation of cancer. Moreover, in this system of propagation we must assume that the cancer-cells retain their vitality for a considerable period after their removal from the organism, and that they remain unaffected by external influences, such as a lowered temperature, dessiccation, &c. I will mention one experiment which appears to bear strongly on this point. From the body of a man who died from enceplialoid of the tes- ticle, which had extended itself along the vertebral column as far as the diaphragm, and formed a very large tumour, I took, about thirty hours after death, a portion which contained an immense number of uninjured cancer-cells, expressed from the soft mass some of these cells, mixed them with luke-warm water, and filtered the fluid through a piece of linen, in order to remove any large clots which might mechanically tend to close the capillaries. The fluid thus prepared, contained millions of perfectly integral cancer-cells, averaging the 100th of a line in diameter, together with numerous molecular granules, besides fluid albumen and fat; from its odour there was not the slightest indica- tion of putrefaction. This fluid was injected into the jugular vein of an adult healthy dog, so that I am convinced that at least thousands, Very probably millions of cancer-cells were thrown into the circulation of this animal. With Ihc exception of the respiration being disturbed