495 DEFICIENT MONSTERS. 1. Phocomeles,* in which hands and feet appear to exist independently of arms and legs, and to be inserted immediately into the trunk. 2. Ilemimelcs, m which the upper or lower extremities are very defec- tive—mere stumps—and the fingers and toes are entirely wanting or are very imperfect. 3. Eetromeles in the strict signification of the term; in which the extremities are nearly or altogether absent. The slighter degree of the malformation, where only one or more fingers or toes are wanting is named by Geoffrey St. Hilaire Ectrodartylie (vol. i. p. 676). It is sometimes hereditary and may be referred to a defective develop- ment ; since the germs for the hand and foot arc at first simple, and do not until a later date become divided into the individual fingers and toes. The cases in which certain internal organs or parts of them are absent—a class of malformations which are commonly first discovered by anatomical examination—will be found in the special part. SECOND ORDER. ABNORMAL DIMINUTIVENKSS OF PARTS DWARFISH STRUCTURE. Here we have all the organs of the body present, but some of them too small. This arises either from a primitive tendency of the germ or from a subsequent arrest of the development of parts which are in process of forming, or from atrophy of parts already perfected. The individuals affected with it are, in general, viable. 1. General dwarjishness (nanosomusf Gurlt.) If the entire body with all its parts is smaller than common, the indivi- dual constitutes a dwarf, whose component parts are more or less proportionate. This state, (as is well known) is not unfre- quent, and the individuals affected with it are always viable; it is often hereditary, or, at least, is extended to several children of the same parents. For cases sec Otto, patboiog. Anatomie, vol. i. p. 19, or South’s translation, p. 21, and Geoffrey St. Hilaire, vol. i. p. 140, et seq. * a seal; in consequence of the similarity of the extremities to those of that animal. f vivos, a dwarf.