PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 252 accompany the hairs, as Cruveilhier conjectured and Kohl- rausch has demonstrated. Many encysted tumours contain only hairs and fatty substances; others, however, present, in addition to these, portions of bone and teeth. These seldom lie free in the interior of the tumour ; but are most commonly between the layers of the cyst, or are enclosed in fibrous, semi-amorphous, knotty masses, so that these tumours are connected with the compound cystoids to be presently described. The bony portions consist of true osseous substance with osseous canals and bone-corpuscles (which are sometimes, however, more scanty than in normal bone) and are generally invested with a more or less perfect periosteum; with respect to size, form, and number, they present, however, the utmost diversity. Attempts have been frequently made to compare them with bones of the normal or foetal body, and to explain them in this manner, but all such endeavours must necessarily fail. The teeth perfectly resemble normal teeth, sometimes those of the first, sometimes of the second dentition, and like them possess a crown and root, and consist of osseous substance, dentine, and enamel. Some resemble the incisors, others the canine, and molar teeth. Occasionally, however, they differ in form from normal teeth, being bent, or crooked; and some- times two are blended together. These teeth are usually, but not invariably connected with the above mentioned pieces of bone, and arc sunk into cavities in them, as into true alveoli. Sometimes we are enabled to observe the preceding stages of development of these teeth; they appear enclosed in distinct tecth-sacs, show in their interior a tooth-germ, fragments of dentine, &c., and, in short, evince a progressive formation; whence it follows that the development of these teeth in this unusual site, proceeds in entirely the same manner as that of the normal teeth (Kohlrausch). The number of these teeth is various, sometimes only a few are observed (as from one to