1 67 SOLID EPIGENESES. the injection, and was very ill for a quarter of an hour ; he then began to amend, and in forty-eight hours, when he had apparently quite recovered, was killed. The intestine was covered in several places with coagulated fibrinous exudation, which being examined with the micro- scope appeared to be partly amorphous, and partly to contain cells which were either fusiform or tolerably large round primary cells (from the 200th to the 100th of a line) with a single nucleus which was not affected by acetic acid; they were, therefore, entirely different from the above described rudimentary pus-corpuscles. The wound in the intestine was nearly closed, and exhibited thinly scattered granulations which contained pus-corpuscles with nuclei capable of being broken up by acetic acid, and perfectly similar to those above described. Since, however, the cells occurring in exudations are distinct from their very first origin, and we can distinguish between those which become pus- corpuscles and those which develope themselves into persistent tissues, it appears quite unnecessary to regard exudation-corpuscles as j»eculiar structures; especially since there is no certain mark by which they can he distinguished from any other primary cells. If it were proposed to designate as exudation-corpuscles all those primary cellular forms which occur in exudations, and whose nature is not accurately deter- mined, the proceeding would be illusory, and more than that, superficial observers would run the risk of applying the name of exudation-corpus- cles to all cells occurring in exudations. On this last ground it appears to me that the name is particularly objectionable. Such an objection might not be sufficiently strong to cause the disuse of a name already established, but it is weighty enough to have its effect when new ones are to be adopted. SOLID PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. Although the variety of forms exhibited by fluid morbid products is very considerable, this is still more strikingly the case with the solid epigeneses; in order to facilitate the consi- deration of our subject we will divide it into two parts. The first of them embraces the elementary structures which occur in regeneration after the loss of tissue, and in hypertrophy. Tire second concerns the composite structures which are commonly designated by the name of tumours, and embraces partly the same elementary structures either singly or in com- bination, and partly also other distinct elements.