EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 578 This case should probably be classed amongst those of false mela- nosis, where the formation of black pigment depends on a purely chemical process. Fig. 6. Melanosis of the intestinal villi. A powerful man—a trumpeter—who only two days before his death, was discharging the duties of his office, died suddenly from perforation of the intestines, in consequence of typhous ulcers. The whole mucous membrane, both in and between the valvula coiiniventes was strewed with greenish black points, which could not be removed by washing. Beyond this, nothing abnormal was ob- served, the mucous membrane being rather pale than reddened. On instituting a microscopic examination, it appeared that this black colour existed in the villi, which, in their interior, near the extremity, nearly all contained a black granular pigment. These granules were insoluble in acetic acid, and in caustic potash (Fig. 6). The mucous membrane and the villi were altogether destitute of epi- thelium. This black spotted appearance extended throughout the whole course of the ileum, as far as the ileo-csecal valve; beyond this point there were no more black spots, but the mucous membrane at places had blackish-green patches, which gradually lost themselves in the pale, almost white colour of the surrounding surface. The microscope shewed that the cause of this coloration was a deposition of irregular black granules under the mucous membrane. The epi- thelium was here perfect. This, also, was probably a case of false melanosis. Fig. 7. Development of black pigment in cells ; from the lungs of a man who died from pleuritic empyema. The right pleura was filled with a fluid exudation, consisting of serum with pus-corpuscles, and its walls were invested with thick fibrinous deposits. The right lung was much compressed, was drawn upwards and backwards, and externally presented a slate- coloured appearance. The inferior lobe was solid, tough, and fleshy; a section presented a grayish black colour, merging into a violet tint. Under the microscope no air and yery little blood were perceptible ; on the removal of the latter, the pulmonary tissue appeared tolerably normal. Patches of black pigment, and fibrous bundles of pulmonary tissue were seen, the net-work at the borders being perfectly free. The only abnormal constituents were cells containing intensely black pigment (Fig. 7); they were strewed in considerable numbers through