379 INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. ran scarcely be doubted that from these cells, united by a viscid connecting medium, woody concretions may take their origin. But we are ignorant of the conditions necessary for the production of this rare form of concretion. Probably in this, as in most other concretions of this nature, the presence of a diverticulum or a coarctation of the intestine is necessary tto retain these masses, and thus to allow of the gradual ‘formation of a concretion. Laugier lias analysed a concretion of this nature taken from the rreetum of a man. It contained as a nucleus, a piece of bone, and was surrounded by interwoven vegetable fibres, from which water extracted 114g of animal matter, with a stereoraceous odour, together with some :muriate of ammonia, and chloride of calcium. In a man aged forty - oue years, who always lived regularly, but subsisted chiefly on vege- tables, oat and barley-meal, and pulse, there were formed a large number of intestinal concretions, which after causing much pain were discharged by the anus. They had a smooth surface, were brown, and was formed of concentric lamina*; in the centre there was a nucleus rresembling dried blood, which was surrounded by a thin layer of carbo- nate of lime. The analysis of these concretions yielded albumen, f:ecal matter, fat. soluble vegetable matters and salts, silica, phosphate of lime (20$) and fibrous matter (36 g) consisting of undigested remains of oat grains.* An intestinal concretion which had formed around a cherry-stone, consisted cliiefly of the colouring principle of rhubarb, together with phosphate of lime and ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate, f Intestinal concretions of this class naturally exhibit very different physical and chemical characters, according to the nature of their pre- dominating ingredient. The best method of ascertaining their nature is by a microscopic examination of the residue left after successive extrac- tions with water, acids and alkalies. 4. Other concretions consist for the most part of fatty matters, with which a little fibrin and salts of lime are usmilly combined. They must not be confounded with gall-stones consisting of cholesterin. We know less ol the mode of formation of this * London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, vol. i. p. 630. t Valentin s ltepcrtor. ls.37, p. 118.