MALFORMATIONS OF COALESCENCE. 499 face, namely of those which form the commencement of the alimentary canal. Some of the literature cited in reference to cyclopia is equally ap- plicable here ; we may also mention, Otto, op. cit. p. 112, et seq. and Geoffrey St. Hilaire, vol. n. p. 420 et seq. The latter arranges this group, which he names Otocephaliens, under the following subdivisions : a. With two distinctly separated eyes. 1. SphenocephaJus, the ears ap- proximating under the face and uniting; jaw and mouth evident. b. With only one eye or two united in one socket. 2. Otocephalus. the ears approaching each other under the face or uniting ; jaw and mouth obvious ; no proboscis. 8. Aedocephalus* the ears approximat- ing under the face or uniting; the jaw atrophied; no mouth ; a proboscis over the eye. 4. Opocephalus,f the ears approaching each other under the face or uniting; the jaw atrophied; no mouth; no proboscis. c. The eyes absent. 5. IViocrphalns,1 the cars uniting under the face or approximating; jaw atrophied ; no mouth ; no proboscis. The latter in its higher grade forms the transition to the acephali. 2. Coalescence of the inferior half of the body, namely of the lower extremities, (:monopodia, sympodia). The pelvis and the organs lying within it, are here incompletely developed; the lower extremities coalescing, and at the same time more or less atrophied. 1 here are different degrees of this condition. In the lowest the two inferior extremities coalesce into one common limb which supports two feet; in a higher, they are united to one limb and one foot; finally, in the highest, they form together only an undefined caudiform mass. This malformation depends upon a deficient develop- ment of the lower end of the trunk, whereby the germs of the inferior extremities approximate too closely, and thus become amalgamated. 1 ho subjects of this malformation are not viable. * the organs of generation; the proboscis having been re- garded by some of the early observers os a penis. + the eye; since the eye with its appendages here forms nearly the whole head. 3 * Since three principal parts of the head—the mouth, nose, and eye* are absent or deficient. K K 2