139 PUS. ivery deficient in solid constituents, they imbibe water by i ;ndosmosis, and become tumid. Conversely very concen- trated saline solutions, or dried hygroscopic substances, such f is chloride of sodium, sugar, or chloride of calcium, have I ust the opposite effect; they withdraw water from the pus- jttJorpuscles, and cause them to contract. The former of these jorocesses being termed endosmosis; the latter, which only differs in the opposite direction of the current, is for the Lake of distinction named exosmosis. The changes produced in the pus-corpuscles by endos- mosis are most obvious when they are placed in contact with distilled water: they then swell, become larger, and assume ■jx spherical shape; in most cases the distended cell-wall becomes more transparent, and the nucleus more obvious, the nuclei ^retaining for some time their cupped appearance. By pro- longed action, those cells with a perfect wall increase until they ultimately burst, on which the regular form of the exter- nal contour disappears, and the corpuscles assume an irregular nigged appearance. By further prolonged action the nucleus imbibes moisture, and its individual portions lose their j cupped form, and become spherical. Some corpuscles present exceptions to the reaction; they swell to a less degree, and the capsule is not distended to actmd bursting. This is the case with those that possess no regular cell-wall, hut consist merely of an irregular, badly defined precipitate around the nucleus. In this case, however, the nucleus becomes changed. To observe the phenomena of exosmosis, the pus-corpuscles ; must be placed in a concentrated solution of common salt, I or else dried salt must be added to the pus : the corpuscles I then assume a contracted appearance, and present a plicated ; and clear outline. Generally they become considerably | smaller; pus-corpuscles whose diameter was the 200th of j a line, afterwards do not measure more than from the 300th to the 400th of tin* same measure. Others are not so much affected, especially those which possess no regular cell-