PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 244 observed in it fat-globules and minute corpuscles (elementary granules) ; in some rare cases it contains small organised formations, which are suggestive of the living hydatids presently to be described, and may raise a doubt with respect to the diagnosis of this form. For the parti- culars of the following case, I am indebted to the kindness of my friend Dr. Kohlrausch of Hanover. “ In the clear aqueous fluid contained in cysts in the kidneys of a man, there swam an innumerable quantity of corpuscles which, although very different in size and appearance, were all connected by evident transitions. The smaller of these bodies were more or less regularly round, not smooth, but transparent. In their centre was observed a point which might be regarded either as a nucleus, or as an optical illusion. To this central point, which was of variable size, converged radial striae which gave to the whole corpuscle the appearance as if its capsule was plicated from the periphery to the centre. The diameter of these corpuscles varied from the 190th to the 280th of a line ; smaller ones of the 370th, and larger to the 140th of a line were less frequent. There were also observed corpuscles which, possessing a rough coarsely granular surface and little transparency, appeared, at first sight, to be very different from those just described. Their diameter varied from the 112th to the 80th of a line. On properly arranging the focus there was seen, however, within the rough surface a smooth rounded outline which, when the enveloping layer was not thick or was partially absent, showed a double border. In many of these inner cells there were also seen the central point, and the striated radiations. The external layer was granular. On causing the corpuscles to rotate, it was seen that they were round. In addition to the above, there wrere observed larger and more opaque bodies, varying from the 50th to the 24th of a line, with a round granulated figure. Upon being treated for twenty-four hours with concentrated acetic acid, the corpuscles underwent no change ; nor were they affected within ten minutes by dilute hydrochloric acid. Upon boiling with ether they like- wise remained unaltered, and no fat was extracted from them. 1 hey were insoluble in cold dilute nitric acid, but readily dissolved on the applica- tion of heat. This solution yielded on the addition of carbonate of potash a finely granular, amorphous precipitate. After evaporation of the nitric-acid solution, there remained a yellowish mass ; the purple-red reaction of uric acid could not be produced. In caustic potash the cor- puscles readily dissolved, in carbonate of potash less readily, but never- theless perfectly and without the development of gas.” In conclusion I will add a few words concerning another possible mode of origin of serous cysts. It may be readily imagined, for instance, that elementary cells, whose general histological mode of formation 'was formerly eomi dered, might become so distended through the absorption of fluid as to form serous cysts. I am unacquainted with any case which seemed to