CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS ENCHONDROMA. 229 enchondroma to fibrous tumour is highly interesting. This is accomplished, in enchondroma of the bones, by the gradual increase of the fibrous part, the cartilaginous portion diminishing in the same ratio. Indeed, many tumours which, judging from the external form, might be taken for enchondromata, in reality consist entirely of more or less developed fibrous tissue, and contain no carti- laginous substance. The external form and appearance of a tumour are, therefore, not sufficient evidence of its being an enchondroma, a microscopic investigation being essential to a certain diagnosis. Enchondroma, the most important of the forms of tumour belonging to this class, was only made known to us a few years ago by the va- luable investigations of J. Miller. These tumours were previously grouped with many others occurring in the bones, and designated by the various names of atheroma nodosum, spina ventosa, osteo~sarcoma, and osteosteatoma; it is not possible, therefore, from the name alone, to recognize the previously observed enchondromata. In the living subject before operation it is often difficult to distinguish cartilaginous exostosis from enchondroma. The diagnosis is easier on making a sec- tion of the tumour, when the internal structure—the soft cartilaginous portion with the fibrous layer—enables us to recognize the microscopical characters of enchondroma. True enchondromata do not ossify, although the ramifying corpuscles which they occasionally exhibit, are strongly suggestive of osseous particles.* The great resemblance which many fibrous tumours bear to enchondroma demands especial attention in a histological point of view, and requires great caution in the diagnosis, although the distinction lie tween true enchondromata and fibrous tumours is of little consequence to the practical surgeon, since both forms of tumour appear to exercise an entirely similar action on the human organism. I have examined some tumours (one on the pelvis, one on the toe, and two on the hand) regarded as enchondromata and which in their external characters they perfectly resembled, espe- cijdly the one figured by Herz (fig. 9); they showed no trace of cartilage-corpuscles, but consisted entirely of more or less developed fibrous tissue. These observations might lead us to judge that apparent enchondroma is almost as frequent as the true form, or at all events must induce us to exercise caution in the diagnosis, and forbid us, without minute investigation, to characterize a tumour of which the * Miillcr, Plate in, fig. 8.