PARASITES. 434 lium of the cutaneous glands, and can take root and multiply only when, by peculiar relations, a favourable soil has become prepared for them. These conditions are presented by fibri- nous effusion of the cutis, the fibrin of which coagulates whilst the albumen, together with the other elements, dries and forms tenacious masses (crusts). To these, when they have under- gone a peculiar chemical decomposition, which is not at pre- sent clearly understood, fungus-spores and gemmulcs seem to adhere, and there develop themselves. Uncleanliness appears greatly to favour this development. That under fixed relations the same definite forms of fungus are alone developed, although, no doubt, very different species of germs fall upon the skin, need occasion no surprise, if we consider that the evolution of fungi is generally confined to very decided relations of soil, and that most forms of fungus in their lower grades of development, when they exhi- bit only a mycelium, resemble each other in an extraordinary degree. Under favourable circumstances, by assisting in a direct transference of germs from one individual to another, the development of these fungi can, at all events, be facili- tated ; and thus far, some of these forms can be deemed con- tagious ; but the vis contagiosa is very slight, and appears to be associated with a completely defined disposition, so that in a perfectly healthy individual, the transferred germs of most fungi are probably incapable of developing themselves. We shall recur to this subject in our observations on the separate forms. In their elementary form the fungi of this class usually consist of simple cells which, like the yeast plant, evolve new cells by gemmation: these, again, commonly grow out into jointed filaments of varying length, and it is only in rare cases that these fungi appear to undergo perfect development, and to exhibit decided fructification. Their botanical determina- tion thus becomes very difficult. The pathological importance of these fungi is m most