SUPPURATION. 163 with very torpid chronic diseases, there is a tendency to the formation of unhealthy pus. There is no doubt that in these cases certain chemical, physical, and vital influences, depen- dant upon the nervous system, and unknown to us, com- bine together; and through this multiplicity of conditions we are prevented from obtaining an exact and definite acquaintance with the acting causes. If a certain impulse is once given in directing the formative process, then the ela- borated product tends to sustain it, for fully developed pus, in the same manner as neighbouring healthy structures, excites a local tendency to the formation of a substance simi- lar to itself. This explains the old observation that pus makes pus, and that when an abscess is too early opened, perfect suppuration is delayed or prevented. The distinction between healthy and malignant suppuration admits of the following explanation. In healthy suppuration the formation of pus proceeds very rapidly ; in three or four hours after its effusion the exudation may be converted into | pus ; although in many east's, the process requires three or four days for its completion. When the elementary textures of an organ are surrounded, and, as it were, enclosed by the coagulated exudation, so as to be excluded from the influence of the nerves, and to be deprived of the circulation of the blood, it is only by the conversion of the exudation into pus that their liberation is effected; and, if this is accomplished sufficiently early, no destruction of tissue results. Again, normal pus is a bland substance, devoid of all deleterious pro- perties, and its constituents are analogous to those of the blood-plasma. Hence normal suppuration is not destructive to tissue, which is only affected mechanically, as hv the collection ot pus in an abscess causing local compression, or by the surrounding parts ultimately giving way. It is otherwise with malignant suppuration, the course of which is usually chronic, lasting for weeks, and even months before the exudation liquefies. Through this prolonged exclu- sion of the nerves and capillaries, the normal tissue becomes m 2