EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 569 in the interstices of the fibrous bundles. In some places the fibres preponderated; in others, as in the softer parts, the fat-globules were most frequent; and again the nuclei in others. The fibres did not exhibit any decided order of arrangement. Fiq. 6. and 7. Softer cancer (encephaloid) of the knee-joint. Mag- nified 220 diameters. A young man suffered from considerable swelling of the left knee. The extremity, from the knee downwards, was much emaciated. There was also general emaciation of the whole body, and hectic fever. On the dorsum of the right foot there was a (scrofulous ?) ulcer. The diseased knee had increased to twice the normal size, and the tumour yielded on touch a deceptive sensation of fluctuation ; the skin was somewhat tense, but not in any degree discoloured. The leg was amputated by Professor Stromeyer, at the lower third of the fernur, and handed to me for examination immediately after the operation. On laying open the knee-joint, it was evident that the disease was seated principally in the synovial membrane and in the adjacent adipose tissue. The synovia was not increased. There was no trace remaining of the actual synovial membrane; excepting where it covered the cartilage of the joint, it was changed into a grayish red mass, which was very soft, having the consistence and appearance of ordinary adipose tissue. It differed however from the latter in being of a reddish-gray colour. The surrounding adipose tissue was changed in the same manner, in some spots to the thickness of lialf an inch and more ; while in other places, this difference did not extend beyond the depth of two or three lines. The altered synovial membrane and adipose tissue resembled each other so perfectly, that no limits could be discovered between them, as they merged directly into one another. In the degenerated mass there were many softened parts, about the size of a pea or bean, containing a dingy whitish-yellow, thickish, puriform fluid. They were scattered throughout the whole structure, without any definite arrangement, and it was only in a few places that the adipose tissue appeared to be normal in the immediate vicinity of the synovial membrane. It was evident that the quantity of adipose tissue was very great in the vicinity of the diseased joint, in proportion to the general emaciation of the rest of the body. The cartilage of the patella, as well as that of the articulation of the os femoris and tibia appeared perfectly normal. A section of cartilage from the outer surface of