PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 280 imperfectly developed, and a distinct nucleus can seldom be recognized. Their size usually varies between the 400th and the 300th of a line, their diameter rarely attaining to the 200th of a line.* With these more or less fully developed cell-formations in tubercular matter, we must not confound other structures, presently (p. 283) to be described, which are frequently found in the vicinity of tubercle. These three elements occur in individual cases in very different proportions. The amorphous stroma seldom pre- dominates ; the granules more frequently—sometimes, indeed, almost the entire mass of tubercle appearing to consist of them; of these, the protein-granules are generally pre- dominant ; the fatty granules are less frequently in excess; and there are cases in which the calcareous granules prevail. The cellular formations are sometimes entirely absent, so that it is often impossible to discover even traces of them in tubercular matter : in other cases almost the whole mass of the tubercle appears to consist of cells and cytoblasts. The degree of organization of the tuber- cle depends on the prevalence or deficiency of these cell- structures. The naked eye is itself sufficient to reveal differences in different cases of tubercle. As the extremes of these diffe- rences, we may notice two which have been characterized as distinct varieties of tubercle. In one variety the tubercular matter is of a gray or whitish colour, semi-transparent and homogeneous: this has been named gray infiltration. In the second variety the matter is yellowish, opaque, dense, lardaceous or mellow, like some sorts of cheese (yellow tuber- cular matter). Between the two varieties, however, there is presented every gradation. These two varieties present his- tological differences; in the former we have an amorphous mass and cellular structures; in the second, the granular elements prevail. The absence of these granules is a suffi * See Plate vi. fig. 1 ; fig. 3, a, b; fig. 4, a; fig. 5, a.