PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 113 rhe chemical changes which the blastema undergoes in its .development, the chemical part of nutrition is dependant. Let us now apply this to morbid products. Numerous .cases present themselves in which the epigenesis takes ■.place in a manner perfectly analogous to that which occurs in healthy nutrition. Thus, in the process of regenera- tion and in hypertrophy, where the influence of the cyto- Iblastema on the nature of the development is at its :minimum, the development itself appears to be entirely de- pendant on the normal histological elements between which the blastema is effused. Thus, in regeneration and hypertro- phy, the blastema between areolar tissue, becomes areolar it.tissue; in the vicinity of bone, it becomes cartilage and bone; between muscular fibres, it is converted into similar t tissue; at the extremities of divided nervous fibrils, it forms 11 nervous substance, &c. The circumstance that these and no other structures are formed, cannot in these instances ! be dependant on the blastema, which as far as chemical analysis goes, seem to be the same; and it is entirely the influence of the surrounding parts that modifies the character of the development. Here then, if we may be allow ed the expression, we are entering the department of solid patho- logy. But it may be further asked: it being granted that in the above cases, the nature of the development is essen- tially dependant on parts of the body already formed, what is the case with those pathological epigeneses in which the resulting morbid product is perfectly different from the sur- rounding parts, as in scirrhus, encephaloid, tubercle or pus? Is not the abnormal character of the product de- pendant on a peculiar pre-existing blastema, so that there is alwavs one kind of blastema for scirrhus, another tor encc- ¥ phaloid, and so on ? We are yet hardly in a condition to answer this question satisfactorily. It is quite possible that the elements of the peculiar structures of scirrhus and encephaloid may l>c vol. i. i