DROPSIES. 46 arachnoid, peritoneum, or pericardium), or may collect in the parenchyma of organs, either by infiltration, or by filling recent- ly formed cavities in them, as, for instance, in the substance of the brain. Hitherto, this occurrence has received the general name of dropsy; effusecWnto the peritoneum, it is known as ascites; into the pleura, as hydrothorax or empyema; into the parenchyma of organs, as oedema. This morbid process is, however, distinguishable by the circumstance, that the fluid does not, like that of serous dropsy, present any constancy in its behaviour towards different reagents, but under varying circumstances occurs in varying forms, as will be fully shown in its proper place. Properties and chemical composition of this fluid. 1 he fluid is essentially the same, whether obtained from the parenchyma of an organ, or from a serous cavity. In the latter case, however, it may be obtained in larger quantity, and purer, and consequently its different properties are more obvious. Examined immediately on its discharge, the fluid resembles in all points that of serous dropsy. It is either perfectly clear and colourless, or else more or less turbid, opalescent, and of a greenish yellow colour; and, examined microscopi- cally in its recent condition, exhibits either no solid particles, or only such as may be accidentally present, as occasionally minute amorphous coagula of fibrin, pus-corpuscles, &c. Some time after its discharge, the whole fluid generally coagu- lates in consequence of holding fibrin in solution, and foims a homogeneous, tremulous jelly, which, after standing for some time, separates into a partially consistent, colourless, or yellowish-red clot of coagulated fibrin, and a clear, yellow fluid analogous to the serum of the blood. On washing the clot with water, and pressing it between folds of fine linen, we obtain a small quantity of tolerably firm, stringy fibrin precisely similar to that which may be obtained from fresh blood by stirring and thoroughly washing.