342 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. tissue in which fluid fat is enclosed in fat-cells — as, for instance, in gangrene, in the softening of tumours, and in suppuration occurring in parts abounding in fatty tissue. d. Moreover fat is often separated in a granular state, as fat-granules, to which some have incorrectly applied the term stearin-granules, for stearin in appreciable quantity does not exist in the human body. The fat in this condition usually occurs in molecular granules of indefinite form and size, their diameter rarely exceeding the 1000th or 800th of a line.* These granules are insoluble in water, acids, and cold caustic potash, but dissolve in ether and hot alcohol. Of what fats they consist we are still just as ignorant as we are regarding the causes leading to their formation and separation. It is possible, and indeed probable, that the scrolin of the blood, which is uncrystallizable, and solid at ordinary temperatures, takes a share in their formation. In addition to the flits that we have named, it is probable that others are sometimes separated, as, for instance, the fats containing phosphorus, and the fatty acids of the nervous system (Fremy’s cerebric acid) ; nothing is, however, yet known with certainty on these points. 3. Uric acid and the urates. When uric acid occurs in deposits, we usually find it in the crystalline state. The primary form of its crystals is the rhombic prism, which fre- quently appears cut down to a tablet, whose principal surfaces are rhombs. The crystals are not unfrequently united in masses with the form of rosettes.f The crystals, which, when perfectly pure, are colourless, often present a reddish tint; they are insoluble in alcohol, ether, and acids; nearly so in water, and only dissolve slowly in caustic potash. Crystals * See Plate hi. fig 1 and 7 b ; Plate iv. fig. 1 a ; Plate vm. fig. 1. 4 and 6 ; Plate ix. fig. 1 and 4. f The most striking forms of uric-acid crystals are depicted in bimon s Animal Chemistry, Plate ii. fig. 23.