199 * See Henle’ji Allgem. Anat. p. 813, and Valentin, op. tit p. 723. CARTILAGE AND BONE. common, but still it is confined within narrow limits, ti lie cartilage is not regenerated, the loss of substance being sup- plied not by fresh cartilage, but by “areolar tissue. 1 his, arising from the perichondrium, in accordance with the law of analogous formation, depends in part upon the fact that true cartilage has no vessels, and that therefore after its destruction, the cytoblastema in its vicinity is chiefly supplied to the areolar tissue of the perichondrium, and follows its law of formation. This circumstance is, however, insufficient to explain the fact that in bone similar conditions occur, and yet it is commonly true osseous substance, and not areolar tissue which is formed as a consequence ot regeneration. Fibrous cartilage, on the other hand, which does contain vessels, is regenerated, but not so much by the new forma- tion of cartilage-corpuscles as by the reproduction ot fibrous tissue. The morbid production of true cartilaginous tissue is confined to cast's of morbid formation of bone, (which are commonly, if not always preceded by the formation of carti- lage), and to the formation of a peculiar kind of tumour consisting of cartilaginous substance, and named enchon- droma. To this we shall return when we come to speak of tumours. It has been already mentioned that many morbid formations of an apparently cartilaginous nature, consist in reality of fibrous tissue, more or less perfect areolar tissue, or simple muscular fibre. Normal osseous tissue consists of dif- ferent histological elements—of radiating bone-corpuscles, and of an intermediate amorphous substance; these in their union form tubes or lamina?, which are differently arranged in dif- ferent bones, and indeed in different parts of the same bone, and in this manner art' produced the osseous canals, the cortical substance, the spongy tissue, &c. in whose interstices other sub- stances foreign to the true osseous tissue an; deposited, as mar- row, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue.* The pathological epi-