jo7 explanation of the plates. ther, as if tessellated, without any areolar tissue, and formed the tumour. I'liose cells are depicted in the central portion of Fig. 7. 1 lie isolated cells were partly roundish or oval, and partly elongated, irregularly caudate; they varied in length from the 170th to the 60th of a line, and in breadth from the 100th to the 200th. while the diameter of the nuclei varied from the 200th to the 300th of the same standard. Neither ammonia nor acetic acid dissolved them. Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 8. Encephaloid of the uterus of an aged woman. 'Hie upper part of the uterus was in a normal condition, with the exception of a fibroid tumour of the size of a musket-ball, but the vaginal jrortion had become entirely encephaloid. Besides this a large encephaloid mass was found upon the psoas muscle of the left side. 'Hie encephaloid of the uterus was very soft and of a white colour ; it exhibited different kinds of cells under the microscope—caudate cells with nuclei and nucleoli (a a) ; roundish cells also with the same (c) ; mere nuclei with nucleoli (b b) ; very large cells having in their interior many nuclei (d d) ; numerous globules and granules of olein and margarm (e); and crystals of cholesterin (/). The encephaloid covering the psoas muscle was precisely similar. Magnified 220 diameters. I-us. 9. Encephaloid of the liver of a woman aged forty-eight years, in whom the bladder and the vaginal portion of the uterus had also become converted into an encephaloid mass. The liver W'as not enlarged, but tilled in all its parts with a large number of circum- scribed yellowish white tumours of sizes varying from that of a pea to that of a walnut, i hey w'ere of indefinite form, spherical, reni- form and knotty. They were accurately circumscribed, deposited in the normal parenchyma, and not prominent on the surface : they had a fibrous radiating structure, were tolerably firm, and exhi- bited no trace of softening. They contained vessels evident to the unaided eye. Under the microscope they appeared wholly composed of cells, which showed distinct nuclei with nucleoli. The cells were mostly roundish or oval, but some were caudate. Acetic acid rendered them pale and brought the nuclei plainly in view (a). Here and there mere nuclei were seen in an amorphous cyto- blastema, (b). Magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 10. A tumour supposed to be encephaloid, from the lung of an officer, who had often suffered from gonorrhcca. l’he lung contained a circumscribed tumour of the size of a wal-