299 CANCER. Causes, formation, development, distribution, further course, and consequences of cancer. Pathological anatomy has not yet succeeded in throwing any very great light on the causes giving rise to the formation of carcinomatous tumours. It is probable that here, as in the formation of other morbid epigeneses, a whole scries of causes are in simultaneous action, and mutually checking one another; these causes lying partly in the property of the eytoblastema, and partly in that of the organ or of the whole organism in which the cancer becomes developed. The eytoblastema of cancer, as of all other morbid epige- neses, arises doubtless from the blood, is originally fluid, and identical with the liquor sanguinis. Sometimes an increased quantity of blood-plasma is separated in consequence of a local capillary hyperemia,* arising from some mechanical cause—as compression, a blow, &c. In other cases, namely when the formation of the cancer is very gradual and imper- ceptible, no signs of local hypenemia can be detected, and it is possible that then the ordinary nutrient fluid (not increased in quantity, and either changed or unchanged) may by local influences be converted into cancer. In some cases the evto- blastenm appears to remain fluid, and in this fluid condition to undergo development; in other cases it coagulates before the commencement, of development, and the cancerous matter is formed, either wholly or in part, from a solid cytoblastema.f The circumstance of the coagulation shows that the eytoblastema consists, in a great measure, of fibrin. The solidification of the eytoblastema yields one of the histolo- gical elements of cancer, namely the solid amorphous sub- stance. But since there is nothing characteristic in this mass—for, indeed, it is perfectly identical with the coagulated exudation of fibrinous dropsy—it is impossible from it alone, * As iu the ease illustrative of Plate vm. fig. 9 ; and I have met with many similar cases, t Sec Plate vm. fig. 9.