EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 552 were interlaced and crossed in various directions. In many places this areolar tissue was still in the act of development; we could observe nucleated cells, which were being elongated at both extre- mities, and nuclei which rested upon the perfect fibrous bundles. On the external surface nearest the pleura, the tissue of the false membrane was firmer, and could not be drawn asunder into fibres. Under the microscope it exhibited fibres, which were not twisted like those of areolar tissue, but straight, stretched out, frequently divided, and even branched, and when seen en masse, of a darker brown colour, resembling the elastic fibre of the arterial membrane, more than that of areolar tissue. Fig. 5. Free surface of the false membrane, with a perfect net- work of vessels in a state of congestion. Fig. 6. Nucleated epithelium of the false membrane. Both figures magnified 160 diameters. Fig. 7. to 9. Illustrate the pathological epigenesis of osseous tissue. They exhibit the internal structure of a newly formed lamina of bone, which was found in the dura mater of an old apoplectic sol- dier. The bone was flat, about the size of a fourpenny-piece, and lay in the falx cerebri, between the layers of the dura mater, at a spot corresponding with the anterior third of the commissure. All the figures are magnified 220 diameters. Fig. 7. From the edge of the piece of bone : it seems to be the most recently formed, and still imperfectly ossified. In a still amorphous streaky blastema (a. a.), lie transparent fusiform corpuscles (* * *) —the future bone-corpuscles; they contain as yet no calcareous salts, and are therefore pale and transparent. Fig. 8. Section of the piece of bone, parallel to its long diameter. At A, we see the opening of an osseous canal, the walls of which consist of concentrically disposed annular lamellae; it has been somewhat obliquely cut. At B, the laminae run in a straight line parallel with each other, and with the surface of the bone. * * are bone-corpuscles, which run parallel with the direction of the laminae. ... & Fig 9. A section of the piece of bone at the pointed end, cut ott at right angles to the surface. Darker and lighter laminae alternate with one another, parallel to the surface of the bone. The bone-corpuscles are not visible. Fig. 10. and 11. Show the regeneration of primitive nerve-fibre y a morbid process. Both figures are copied from Stemruck.