PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 102 tion of the mother-liquid; substances thus assuming a solid form, from the absence of a sufficient quantity of water to retain them in solution. Such a concentration may occur when a thin fluid, almost saturated wTith substances difficult of solution, is placed in contact with an animal membrane, on the other side of which is a fluid deficient in water; under these circumstances, it follows from the laws of endosmosis that the original fluid will lose a portion of its water: or when a fluid parts with water by evaporation from a free sur- face, as for instance in the nasal cavities. There is also another very obvious cause for the production of deposits, depending on the circumstance of the solvent power of acids and alkalies. For instance, human urine in the normal state is acid. The free acid is here the condition by which the earthy phosphates are retained in solution. If for any reason the urine, either in the bladder or in the pelvis of the kidney, becomes alkaline (from the alkaline serum of the blood entering it, or from the decomposition of urea into carbonate of ammonia) the earthy phosphates can no longer be retained in solution, and become deposited in an insoluble state. Again, an excess of free acid in the urine decomposes the urates, and if the secretion is very deficient in water, the liberated uric acid which is not so soluble as its salts, no longer remains in a state of solution. Most of the fluids of the human body contain phosphate of magnesia a salt of considerable solubility: on coming in contact with ammonia, a very insoluble compound—ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate —is at once produced ; hence, when the body undergoes putre- faction, and ammonia is set free, almost all the tissues are bestrewed with crystals of this salt. It is true that the causes for the formation of unorganized depositions are not always so simple and clear as in the above cases, as will be seen on re- ferring to the section on the concretions, where the matter is more fully discussed. It is sufficient in the present place to have shown that all the pathological depositions of whose for- mation we- have any clear idea, are formed in sti ict accoi-