546 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. tiaguished from the normal areolar tissue of the pleura by its less marked fibrous character, and by the presence of many nuclei. 1 he nuclei were roundish, oval, caudate, or oat-shaped; some contained nucleoli, others were devoid of them. In no place could their elon- gation into fibres be observed. On the addition of acetic acid, these newly formed fibres of areolar tissue became pale, and gradually disappeared ; the nuclei remained unaffected. Fig. 3. Illustrates the epigenesis of organic (involuntary) muscular fibre. The structures depicted are primary cells from a fibrous tumour in the uterus. They represent, in all probability, the earliest stage of the development of-organic muscular fibre ; and it is only very rarely that we have an opportunity of observing them. The following is the history of the case. A female servant, aged forty-four years, was admitted into the Munich Hospital on account of severe abdominal pains. Her state- ment was, that for several years there had been a fluctuating tumour on the right side of her abdomen, but which had never hitherto caused her further pain or uneasiness than an occasional sense ot weight or bearing down, as if in labour, until just before admission, when there had suddenly occurred in it most intense pain, with ten- derness on pressure. In defiance of the most energetic treatment venesection and palliatives—this pain rapidly grew worse, and ie woman died on the third day after its first occurrence On dissection, the following appearances presented them el e . The right side of the great omentum was considerably thickened < inseparably united on the one hand with the walls of the abdomen, on L other with a firm tumour, which extended downw^m^e cavity of the pelvis, and was of about twice the size of a man s fist The surface of this tumour was somewhat tubercukted and o whitish colour. It was intimately connected with the “us the uterus. The upper part of this tumour had began to soften, and substance was here am, there hollowed out which were traversed by bands and shred, of t„sue, soft and fnable externally, but tolerably firm in their interior. These excavations were partly empty, par y l it grumous masses of Wood, or with a greasy, looking matter. The softening which was going on m this tumour lvid atfone part approached quite to the surface, burst and a portio of the^softened matter had escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum, inducing secondary peritonitis, from which had resulted the sudden severe pain, so speedily followed by death. , e The inner surface of the uterus was healthy, its mucous being unaltered; but within its cavrty was sftuated a round,.