CELLULAR FORMATION. 127 The above scheme enables us to take an easy review of the . different organized morbid formations, and further, as will lx- presently shown, it has its practical uses. It is founded on Schwann’s theory of development. It presupposes that all organized forms are composed of primary cells,—a suppo- sition which in relation to normal development has been op- ; posed on many sides, and in relation to morbid products cannot be very strictly carried out. In our observations on r morbid cells, we have shown that their development does not in every point coincide with Schwann’s theory; there are ! numerous exceptions in the transitory formations, namely, : in the tissues which in their perfect condition do not retain i the cellular form. In these cases we frequently cannot detect any cellular formation throughout the whole process of deve- i lopment, or at most a mere analogy—a faint tendency t to the formation of cells, but no such actual production. This occurs in scrophulous and typhous exudations, and in a great part of the cases of tubercle. Here we first have an amorphous or finely granular exudation (blastema) forming a tenacious and tolerably firm mass, which by degrees breaks up into a more or less fluid magma, exhibiting under the microscope indefinite granular molecules of various forms and sizes, sometimes resembling cytoblasts and cells, but never indicating a decided cellular formation. Further there are produced in many fluid cytoblastemata, partly together with regular cytoblasts and cells, and partly as isolated formations, minute indefinite granules (elementary or molecular granules) which sometimes appear to form consti- tuent elements of future cells, but as frequently to remain for a long time unchanged, and finally without undergoing any further metamorphosis to disappear or be discharged. They are not invariably, (indeed not even for the most part), fat- vesicles with a definite wall, as Ilenle* supposes, but solid | granules which apparently consist sometimes of fat, and * Allgemeine Anatomic, p. 163.