169 EPIGENESIS OF AREOLAR TISSUE. into the several kinds of epigeneses—into concretions, areolar tissue, fibrous tissue, pus, non-malignant or malignant tu- mours : or they would have been resorbed. * J It is unnecessary to multiply examples* of these imperfectly organized epigeneses, since they are of extremely frequent occurrence, and are found without exception in all vascular parts of the body, in which fibrinous dropsy occurs. When they present themselves as isolated tumours, they are very frequently regarded as tubercle ; indeed, one half of the cases of supposed tubercle belong to this class. To this subject I shall have frequent occasion to refer in the special part of this work. These imperfectly organized epigeneses are of very frequent occurrence in the most dissimilar organs. With regard to the unprofi- table question, whether they are always the product of inflammation, I must refer to the section which treats of the pathological anatomy of that morbid process. KriOEXKSIS OP AREOLAR TISSUE. The development of areolar tissue is one of the most common pathological epigeneses. It occurs in regeneration succeeding loss of tissue, in cicatrices, and in hypertrophy of those parts which in the normal condition consist principally of areolar tissue; but also in independent tumours, and in short under the most variable conditions. Since areolar tissue enters into almost all organs, and is a constituent of most parts of the body, the frequency' of its pathological develop- ment is the more easily understood, in accordance with the law of analogous formation, when it happens that in any part or from any cause an increased secretion of blastema takes place. The cytoblastema of this tissue is sometimes fluid; sometimes solid. It is formed from a fluid cytoblastema in the healing of wounds by suppuration, in granulations, in the gradual hypertrophy of parts consisting principally of areolar tissue, in warts, condylomata, &e. Here the formation is gradual, and is supported by a long continued increased sccre- * See the description* of fig. 2, 3 and 5, in Plate ii.