ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 245 derive its origin in this manner; indeed, all the elementary cells at present known, are far too small to permit of the supposition that even in their maximum degree of distention they could form cysts, which are always readily visible to the unaided eye. If, however, such a mode of origin is possible, it may be especially applied to the explanation of many of the so-named hydatids of the choroid plexus, since this part in the normal state already contains numerous large globular cells, which also perform a part in the concretions of this organ. This will be further discussed in the special part. The second division of the simple encysted tumours is distinguished from serous cysts by the circumstance that the contents do not consist of an aqueous fluid, but contain pecu- liar corpuscular particles which render them thick and pulpy. They sometimes resemble honey, sometimes boiled groats, and occasionally they have a gelatinous appearance. In accor- dance with these varieties in the contents, these tumours have received different names, and been termed hygroma, meliceris, atheroma, gummy tumour, &c. Such names are, however, in the highest degree, vague and unscientific. In this form the cyst is always perfectly closed, and firmly connected with the surrounding parts by adhesions of areolar tissue. It is organised, usually consisting of areolar tissue woven into a membrane, and containing vessels.* There usually may be distinguished upon its internal surface a decided epithelium consisting of cells,t which separates the contents from the membrane of the cyst. Thus far the mem- brane of these encysted tumours resembles that of true serous cysts; but frequently it is more highly organised, so that whilst in serous cysts the membrane occupies a position parallel with serous membrane, it may in these cases be compared to mucous membrane or the cutis. Sometimes, for instance, the internal surface of the cyst presents, upon certain spots, cauliflower excrescences—granulations which correspond more or less closely with the papillae of the skin or of mucous membrane; indeed, in some cases, it contains * See Plate ix. fig. 3. t Plate ix. fig. 2.