227 CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS—ENCHONDROMA. from the circumstance that new bone is constantly formed upon its surface during growth, but that its deposition is modified in arrangement by the presence of the tumour. A section of the tumour shows the elements formerly described — portions of soft cartilaginous substance inter- laced by bundles of fibres. Here and there appear also in its interior portions of bone—remains of the spongy substance of the original bone.* b. Peripheral enchondroma of the bones agrees with the former variety, insomuch as it also originates in the bone: it is formed, however, not in the interior, but on its surface, and has, therefore, no bony sheath, being covered only by the periosteum. Its form is less regularly round, and its surface is rendered rugged and uneven by the separate, rounded cartilaginous formations, which protrude as distinct nodules varying from the size of a pea to that of a cherry.f 1 he internal structure does not differ from that of the former variety, small portions of bone being, likewise, occasionally found between the fibres and the cartilage-cells. This form is principally observed in flat bones, namely, the ribs and the cranial and pelvic bones, seldom in the cylindrical bones. c. Knchondroma of soft parts is much rarer, and was observed by J. Muller only four times in thirty-six cases of the disease, once in the parotid gland, once in the mamma, and twice in the testicle, thus occurring only in glandular parts. This variety is distinguished by containing no bony matter, either as an external covering or in its interior, and by the fibrous tissue intervening between the cartilage-cells, being sometimes replaced by a more amorphous intercellular sub- stance, so that the mass closely resembles true cartilage. The fibrous substance of enchondroma contains but few vessels. These tumours arc non-malignant and unaccompa- nied by pain, and are so slow in their development that they * Gluge, op. cit. tab. n. fig. 2. t Gluge, op. cit. tab. i. fig. 1, 2.