ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 257 \ cells, and the cells in the contents of encysted tumours, and which, therefore, no doubt had become separated from the walls of the cyst. The encysted tumours w hich contain hairs, bone, and teeth, are also undoubtedly formed in a similar manner, and it is not necessary to assume, with Cruveilhier {op. cit.) and Bricheteau,* that these are the enclosed remains of a par- tially absorbed foetus. Nevertheless we are far from clearly understanding why, in these cases, then' are developed in the sac-membrane such complicated formations as hair-sacs with hairs, sebaceous glands, bony substance, and tooth-sacs with teeth. The above opinion of A. Cooper, that superficial encysted tumours are occluded and distended sebaceous glands, is founded chiefly upon the observation frequently made by him, that by the introduction of a probe, the excretory duct cau be again opened, and in this way the contents of the tumour may be evacuated without any special operation. Ph. von Walther.f with a view to weaken this theory even for the superficial encysted tumours, alleges that, notwithstanding frequent endeavours, he has never been able to perceive the sac-mouth, nor express any portion of the contents. The decision of this question is difficult, and in individual cases it is often impossible to say whether the encysted tumour has arisen in one or the other maimer. The opinion of Cruveilhier and Bricheteau that encysted tumours which enclose hairs, teeth, and bones are the enclosed remains of a partially absorbed foetus, is liable to such weighty objections, that it must be totally abandoned. Cruveilhier himself admits that the tumours containing hair, which so frequently occur upon the scalp and eye-lids, and vary from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, are not in every case to be regarded as the remains of a foetus, or as an enclosed embryo ; the more so, as such tumours, in many instances, obviously originate after birth. Moreover, the perfectly analogous encysted tumours containing feathers, which are observed in birds, cannot be explained in this manner, since the egg is developed externally to the body. Nor is any such admission required to account for bony structures in the interior of encysted tumours, since a pathological formation of new osseous matter not unfre- quently takes place in other localities. Again, there exists no reason * Diction, des Sciences mddic. t. xxvu. Kyste. t Griife u. v. Wulther, Joura. d. Chirurg. vol. iv. part zix. p. 384. VOL. I. S