PARASITES. 476 rious dissertation by Liidersen, de bydatidibus, Gottingae, 1808, 4. These latter treatises refer partly to this, partly to the following sec- tion.* After the interesting researches of Siebold (Burdach’s Physio- logic, 2, 183), we must suppose their growth to take place in the following manner; upon the interior of the primitive cyst minute points spring forth ; these gradually form echinococcus-animalcules which after- wards detach themselves from the parent cyst. Instead, however, of isolated echinococci, secondary cysts may be developed from the parent cyst, which then give origin to isolated echinococci; from these secondary cysts, tertiary cysts may perhaps be developed, and so on. We might, accordingly, regard the echinococcus-vesicles as nurses {ammenthiere), probably performing their office in the same way which Steenstrup has shown to occur in the case of the ilistomata. Our knowledge on this point is, moreover, still deficient, and further researches are very desi- rable. I conceive it to be possible that the vesicle lying within the parenchymatous cyst, is in many instances, the product not of the animal, but of the organism ; see the description of Plate v. fig. 5. 3. Acephalocysts— hydatids. Whilst the true echinococci which have been just described, are undoubtedly animals, there are other structures closely resembling them, whose animal nature is, at least, very questionable. These arc the acephalocysts of Laennec. They, like the echinococci, consist of an external cyst, arising from the parenchyma, usually exhibiting evidence of organization, and doubtless a product of the organism. Within this is a second cyst per- fectly similar to that of the echinococci, containing in its interior a clear fluid which, again, includes smallei vesicles. Sometimes these smaller vesicles are attached to the innei wall of the parent cyst. In certain cases the parenchymatous cyst contains, not merely one simple vesicle, but several of various sizes. These acephalocysts are thus essentially distinguished from the echinococci, by their containing neither echinococcus-animalcules, nor the rejected hooks which might lead us to infer the presence of dead and disintegrated echinococcus-animalcules. The acephalocysts may, like the echinococci, assume a tubercular appearance, or be converted into concretions; they likewise occupy the same localities, * See also Siebold, op. cit. 678.