263 MALIGNANT TUMOURS. and pseudoplasmata, there is another which lias relation to the extent of the malignancy. In ulcerations the malignancy is usually local, the destruction of the tissues, and the entire pathological process continuing, for the most part, topically circumscribed. In the pseudoplasmata, on the contrary, the epigenesis, and with it the destructive process is frequently propagated from the spot originally affected to other parts, and this propagation and extension attain such a degree that the death of the patient ensues. These different degrees of malignancy can be discriminated as local, and as general. Upon further consideration it will be perceived, however, that even this distinction is untenable. There are ulcerations which do not remain locally circumscribed, but spread exten- sively and attack different and often widely separated parts of the body, and finally, by an exalted influence upon the whole organism, induce death ; in these, therefore, we perceive not merely a local but a general malignancy. On the other side, there exist tumours absolutely corresponding in all other points with the malignant, but in which the destruction is merely local, and the loss of substance even becomes repaired without its exerting an influence upon the organism suffi- ciently exalted to occasion death. This is observed to be fre- quently the case with tubercles, and sometimes with scirrhus. For although some surgeons maintain that every scirrhus after its removal by operation again returns, other experienced practitioners, amongst them Travers,* maintain the contrary ; and it can be no longer doubted that pulmonary tubercles may heal without recurring. Hence in this point of view ulcerations and malignant tumours are not strictly separated. After this preliminary consideration of the relations in which the pseudoplasmata stand to the other pathological epigeneses, we shall proceed to examine more attentively those points which the different pseudoplasmata possess in common. * Medico-chirurg. Transactions, vol. xv. p. 219.