586 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. relations, as for instance, to a preponderance of margarin over olein in the human body, in consequence of which the former separates and crystallizes on the cooling of the body. These crystalline depo- sitions are most frequently met with in fatty gangrenous parts, where indeed they are seldom absent. The most frequent form of this structure is that in which the points of the crystals radiate round a central point in a star-like figure (Fig. 3. a.) ; seen sideways, this star appears like a sheaf (Fig. 3 *) ; sometimes two such sheaves appear united together (6) ; large needles occur but rarely, either isolated or decussating. These crystalline groups are formed within the fatty cells (Fig. 3. b. b), and are only liberated when the latter are destroyed. Fig. 4. Crystals of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. Magnified 90 diameters. They are formed in all parts of the human body in which free ammonia occurs. The crystals form several modifications of one type, but all are hemiedric. The type (Fig. 4. a.) is a three-sided prism, with the corresponding angles of one of the sides truncated. a * shows an ideal section of this form seen sideways. This type changes only on the further truncation of two, polarly opposite, cor- responding angles (4.6.), and then by further truncating one of the two remaining angles, (Fig. 4. c.) Fig. 5. Is a piece of soft gallstone from the human subject, given in order to illustrate its mechanical composition. Magnified 220 diameters. The colourless portions are crystals of cholesterin ; the coloured part consisting also of indistinct crystallized cholesterin, coloured by gall-pigment. . pIG> g s. Epiphyta—parasitic plants occurring in the human body. Fig. 6. and 7. are fungi which compose the crusts of the scrofulous scald-head, (Favus et Alphus, Fuchs). They consist partly of roundish granules (cells) ranged one upon the other, and partly of elongated, single, or ramifying threads; they are generally colourless, but sometimes faintly tinged with green. Fig. 6. is magnified 180 diameters, and Fig. 7. 400. Fig 8 Exhibits the yeast-plant, [Torula Cerevisue, Turpin), tacen * from a fluid ejected in large quantities by a man suffering from stricture of the pylorus, (hypertrophy of the muscular coat of ie stomach). Magnified 220 diameters. ... , It forms round colourless granules, or cells, which increase by