42 DROPSIES. dependant not merely on external causes acting mecha- nically on those vessels, but may arise from dynamic causes, such as nervous influence alone. In this way, dropsy occurs in paralysed limbs in very debilitated consti- tutions.* Under this head we may also place (what is termed) inflammatory dropsy, which is either a complication of dropsy with inflammatory exudation, or mere dropsy caused by an esoteric dilatation of the veins dependant on the nervous system, and accompanied by symptoms of irritation, (Fuchs’s hydrochysis). Dropsies of this sort are very frequent, but the phenomena accom- panying them arc generally complicated, and consequently their causes are not so immediately obvious as when the dropsy is dependant on mere mechanical conditions. To this class belong the blisters arising from bums or ordinary vesicants, erysipelas bullosum, anasarca after scarlatina and acute rheumatism, inflammatory hydrothorax, and acute hydrocephalus. These subjects, however, fall under the head of the pathology of the nerves, rather than of pathological anatomy. The difference between dropsy and inflammation will he found in our next section—on fibrinous dropsy. Serous dropsy, in my opinion, appertains to the venous system; and fibrinous dropsy to the capillary vessels. The forms of dropsy already considered, take their origin in an attenuation (and increased porosity) of the venous walls; another cause of dropsy is probably to be sought for in an attenuation of the blood. Even at a very early period, the causes of most dropsies were referred to a modi- fied condition of the blood, including those which we now know to arise from distention of the venous walls. Recent experiments have, at least, in isolated cases, confirmed this view; thus, Magendie found that dropsical effusions occurred after defibrination of the blood, and the same has been observed by Valentin, myself, and others, after the injection of a large quantity of water into the vessels. (In rabbits dropsy was easily induced ; in dogs with more difficulty). Moreover, dropsy occurs when the blood has been rendered * Compare Hcnle in Huleland’s Journal.