ECHINOCOCCUS HOMINIS. 475 The echinococci are found by far the most frequently in the parenchyma of the liver, but occasionally also in that of other organs, as the spleen, kidneys, brain, and lungs. Their pathological importance is principally a mechanical one ; since, like other tumours, they exercise an injurious pressure on the tissues which invest them, or give rise to suppuration, abscesses, or fistula, in the neighbouring parts. The means by which they gain access to the body is still altoge- ther problematical; yet I entertain no doubt, that they do not arise spontaneously, but that they owe their origin to an animal introduced from without, whose other states and grades of development are either still unknown, or are so widely different from the echinococcus, that their connection with it has hitherto escaped observation. Representations and literature. Good representations of the echinococ- cus are still wanting. I cannot but question whether those of Brcraser in PI. iv. fig. 27 to 32, represent this animal. But the representations of the echinococcus velcrinurum of the dromedary, given by the same uuthor in his leones Helminthum, Vienna, 1824, PI. xvin. fig. 3 to 13, afford a tolerably correct idea of the human parasite, except that in the echinococci depicted in fig. 6, the circle of hooks is not distinct, and the isolated hooks there represented do not accord with reality*. Tschudi, (die Blasenwiirme, Freiburg, 1837), has copied Bremser’s figures, and added a few very defective ones. Curling’s Plate in the Medico-chirurg. trans. 1840, p. 383, PI. ii, fig. 3, is nothing remark- able. Two years ago I had an opportunity of examining a highly* inte- resting case of echinococcus in the liver, and am indebted to the kind- ness of iny friend l)r. Kohlrausch, of Hanover, for the details and repre- sentation of another case occurring in the same organ. A case, like- wise in the liver, is also described by Ix'bert.* J. Muller has observed an instance in which echinococci, no doubt proceeding from the kid- neys, were discharged with the urine.f Gescheidt has found this animal in the eye, between the choroid and retina.} See also Gluge, Abhaud- lungcu zu Physiol, und Path. Jena, 1841, p. 196 ; Roozeboom, Dissert, dc hydatidibus, Schoonhovite, 1836, in which there is a tolerably copious bibliography, from which I will here only quote the very labo- * Muller’s Archiv. 1843, p. 217. t .Muller’s Archiv. 1836, Jahresbcr. p. 107. 1 v. Ammon’s Zcitsch. fur Opthalmologie, vol. in. p. 437.