503 MALFORMATIONS DEPENDING ON FISSURES. cephalus ; when the greater part of the brain is out of the cranial cavity, and lies behind the skull, most of whose upper wall is wanting. b. Fissures in the facial part of the head occur in diffe- rent degrees, such as fissures of the whole face, of the nose, ot the upper lip, and of the palate. On account of their more frequent occurrence, and their importance in relation to surgery, the two latter malformations possess an especial interest, since those affected with them are not only viable, but their condition admits of amelioration. In the lowest degree, the cleft or hare-lip, the upper lip is divided either singly in or beside the mesial line (constituting a single hare-lip), or on both sides of the raph£, so that between the two fissures there intervenes an atrophied and usually conical central portion (the double hare-lip). In the higher degrees, the alveolar portion of the upper jaw also takes part in the fissure. In cleft-palate or wolf s-jaw (rictus lupinus) there is a fissure of the hard or soft palate, or ot both together, either singly in, or on one side of the mesial line, or, as in double hare-lip, on both sides. Hare- lip is not unfrequently combined with cleft-palate. The origin of these malformations is referable to an arrest of structure. At an early fcetal period, the palate and superior maxillary bones are separated bv the os inter- maxillare. If the development remains stationary, at a condition corresponding to this stage of evolution, and the normal union is not established, there arises double cleft- palate or double hare-lip; if, again, union takes place on one side only, single cleft-palate or hare-lip results. The occurrence of the latter in the mesial line is, therefore, always onlv apparent. For caaes. consult Meckel, vol. i. p. 521 ; Geoffroy St. Hilaire, vol. t. p. 581 ; Otto, op. cit. p. 288, &c.; Caspar, de labio leporino. Got- ting. 1837 ; Leuckart, Untersuch. fiber das Zwischenkieferbein des Menschen in e. norm, und abnormen. Metamorphos. Stuttgart, 1840. c. Fissures of individual organs and parts of the head, as extensive separation of the lips, splitting of the cheeks.