118 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. f Plate iv. fig. -4. do not coincide with this theory, or at least render some modi- fication imperative. With respect to the early relations of the nucleus and the nucleolus, I cannot convince myself of the existence of * the nucleolus prior to the nucleus, or at least that the nu- | cleolus is, as it were, the means of forming the nucleus in the same way as the nucleus forms the cell. In some cases this may happen, hut certainly not in all. I must agree with Henle in opposition to Reichert, in believing that Schwann’s cellular theory represents only one of the various forms of development, of which the type in different cases may present very numerous differences. The nuclei of morbid formations present great differences both in form and size; they arc round or oval,* or occa- sionally elongated and pointed, as in the formation of areolar ; tissue, and simple muscular fibre.f Nucleoli are sometimes clearly visible, usually one or two in number, but occa- sionally three or four; sometimes, however, no trace of a nucleolus can be detected. In many cases the nucleus has a well-defined, regular outline; in others, this appearance is J absent, and it then occurs as an aggregation of minute, indefinite granules, or as a soft mass without any well-defined , limit. In this point of view, morbid products of the same , kind present great differences, as for instance, pus-corpuscles, j in which the nucleus consists of an aggregation of minute granules, sometimes quite unconnected with each other, and sometimes united by a connecting medium presenting per- fectly distinct chemical properties, so that in this case great differences occur in the form of the whole nucleus, as well as in the mode of deposition and properties of the individua molecules. The size of the nucleus is always very minute, vary- ing in diameter from the 600th to the 100th of a line, but seldom exceeding the 200th : the only exception is in the case of elongated fusiform nuclei, which may exceed the 100t,h ot * See Plate x.