303 CANCER. gration depends, is unknown; it appears to l>e dependant on the nature of the process itself*—as in the formation of pus from a solid cytoblastema—for although it can be hastened or retarded by external influences, it cannot be entirely arrested. As a general rule the softening proceeds very gradually, com- mencing at individual points of the tumour, often at several simultaneously. A section of the tumour at this stage, shows at one or several spots collections of purulent fluid, consisting of softened cancer-cells. I think it is not impro- bable that these points at which the softening commences, when they are very minute, and at the same time very few, gradually disappear by resorption, the slight loss of substance healing by cicatrization, and the injurious progress of the. can- cerous tumour, being thus prevented; this, however, only occurs in those forms of cancer which consist for the most part of fibres, and contain only a few cells. The ordinary course of a cancerous tumour is very different; the softening continuing to progress, and thus gradually extending to the whole cellular structure within the tumour. In this manner the minute and isolated specks of pus enlarge, and by uniting, form large masses, (such as occur in the formation of ab- scesses,) till finally the collected fluid forms for itself an external outlet, thus converting occult into open can- cer. But further, another change occurs in the softened cancerous matter ; it undergoes chemical modifications, becomes decomposed, acrid, fetid, and of an unhealthy apj)carance; in short, the softened cancerous matter becomes converted into an ichorous discharge, the chemical properties ot which are not accurately known, and probably vary in dif- ferent cases. These changes, like those of an analogous character occurring in tubercle, are dependant on a species of * Vegetable physiology furnishes us with an analogous proceeding in the normal softening of many fruits (as for instance, that of solanum nigrum) which depends on a separation and solution of the (merenchy- ma) cells forming their tissue.