INTESTINAL WORMS. 455 indication of the individual worms is so different, that its consideration must be reserved for the description of each. The most important works respecting entozoa generally, are : Ru- dolphi Entozoorum historia. Amstelod, 1S08 & 9.—J. G. Bremser leones helminthum. Viennae, 1824, fol. — Rudolphi Entozoorum Synopsis. Berolini, 1819. The latest comprehensive work is that of F. Dujardin, Histoire naturelle des helminthes. Paris, 1845, avec 12 pi. (Part of the Nouvelles suites a Buffon). For the human entozoa we can especially recommend: Bremser, fiber lebende Wfirmer im lel>enden Menschen. Wien, 1819 ; a work which presents accurate descriptions and correct representations, with abundant literature, and entirely supersedes all preceding works, as those of Brera. Joerdens, &c. For the anatomy of the entozoa, see Owen in Todd’s Cyclop, of anatomy and physiology, art. Entozoa; Schmalz. 19 tabul. anatom, entozoorum Qlustrantes, Dresdse. In the classification of the human entozoa, I follow’ the system esta- blished by Rudolphi, and let the false succeed the true, in the form of an appendix. FIRST ORDER. NKMATOtDEA. HOUND WORMS, THREAD WORMS. 1. The thread or guinea-n orm, Jilaria medinensis, filaria dracunculus. This worm consists of a long filament of whitish, or sometimes brownish colour, of the thickness of pack-thread. It is of equal thickness throughout, and it terminates posteriorly, as may be perceived on microsco- pical examination, in a curved point. The anterior termina- tion appears truncated, with several suckers. In length it varies from half a foot to twelve feet. As yet only females have been observed; they are viviparous, and contain in their interior such a prodigious quantity of young, that some maintain that the worm is not an animal at all, but a membranous sheath filled with small worms. These young filariae are, according to Duncan, the 57th of an inch in length. The filaria medinensis is found in the tropical regions of the Old World, in Arabia, on the Ganges, on the Caspian Sea,