186 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. cated tissues are only formed when its quantity is very small. Those cases in which it has been asserted that the formation of mus- cular fibres from large masses of exudation, after inflammation, and similar morbid processes, has been observed, are doubtless, founded on error. In fact, the microscopic examination (the only decisive test), had been altogether neglected, as in the cases observed by Leo-Wolf.* Since the tendons of the muscles are, histologically, closely connected with areolar tissue, so also is there an intimate analogy between these pathological epigeneses in cases of regeneration. b. Simple, non-striated muscular fibres.—These are found normally in the muscular coat of the stomach and intestinal canal, in the excretory ducts of glands, in the ureters, the bladder, the uterus, and the fallopian tubes. They arc often morbidly produced, causing thickening (hypertrophy) of the walls, either at circumscribed points, or over a considerable extent of surface; and as independent (fibroid) tumours. They likewise sometimes form a constituent of scirrhus. In the majority of cases this epigenesis is to be explained by the law of analogous formation, for a cytoblastema secreted in excess is, through the influence of the surrounding tissue, converted into a similar substance, as in cases of hyper- trophy. In this point of view it is interesting to observe that independent tumours of simple muscular fibres (fibroid) so far, at least, as my experience reaches, are only to be found where in the normal condition simple muscular fibres were previously existing; as in the substance of the uterus, which is their most common seat, and in the muscular coat of the stomach and intestinal canal. Morphology and chemistry of their development. The pathological and normal development of simple muscular fibres * Tractatus anatomico-pathologicus sistens duas observations rans- simas de formatione fibrarum muscularium in pericardio atque in p cura obviarum. Hcidelb. et Lips. 1832, and Wutzer’s Critique on it in Muller’s Arcliiv. 1834. p. 451.