TUMOURS. 203 the duties of the normal constituents of the body, take a part in the general metamorphosis of tissue, and are nourished and increased like other parts. These are homologous, non- malignant tumours. In the second division, we must place those whose elements in a histological point of view differ more or less from those of the normal body, and which (as in the process of suppura- tion) from their nature give way, soften, and destroy the organic parts which surround them or which they enclose— heterologous, malignant tumours. But even this division cannot in all cases be strictly adhered to, for if there are not peculiar intermediate structures, there are at any rate combinations of tumours, in part belong- ing to the one, and in part to the other division; as for instance, scirrhus, in which there is invariably a combination of homologous with heterologous elements.* Although there are many tumours which can be most distinctly sepa- rated from all others, as for instance, many encysted, adipose, and fibrous tumours, and some forms of encephaloid and colloid, yet in many, indeed, in the majority of cases this is not possible; hence such divisions os have been attempted by Plenck in accordance with the suggestion of Baglivi, into genera and species, necessarily fail, at least for the higher problems of science. Pathological anatomy must attempt to arrange them according to their histological elements, but since these in indi- * The most important literature on the general relations of tumours, and on their classification, is embraced in the following works: J. J. Plenck, novum systema tumorum, Vienna;, 1767 ; Dictionn. des sciences m6dic. vol. lvi. p. 107 ; J. Abemethy, an attempt to form a classification of tumours. Surgical observations, Ixmdon, 1804 ; Laen- nec in the Dictionn. des sciences mtklic. vol. n, p. 54 ; Meyen, Uuters. fiber die Natur parasitischcr Geschwiilste, Berlin, 1828 ; Job. Miiller fiber den feineren Bau und d. Formen der krankhaften Geschwulstc, Berlin, 1838, or Dr. West’s English translation, Lon- don, 1840; F. Til. Frerichs de polyporum structure, penitiore, Leene, 1843 ; and the various treatises on pathological anatomy by Voigtcl, Meckel, Andral, and Lobstein.