EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 562 their being so very indistinct in the present case is explained by the great loss of blood attendant on the necessarily prolonged operation, whereby these vessels would be almost completely drained of their contents. On examination under the microscope there were observed several drops of oil (c), which doubtless had been squeezed out of the fat-cells by the pressure of the glass placed over the object. These several elements of each of the tumours were disposed in the following order; the fibres (partly separate, partly arranged together in undulating fasciculi, as observed in ordinary areolar tissues), formed the ground-work of the substance of the tumours, whilst between these fibres the fat-cells were deposited. The arrangement of the fibrous fasciculi followed no regular order ; they were observed crossing each other in all possible directions. Where the substance of the tumours was most firm and deep, there the fibres especially pre- vailed ; where, on the other hand, the texture was soft and adipose, there the fat-cells were most abundant. In these latter parts, where the fat was most prevalent, the fat-cells were arranged in muc same order, as we observe to be the case with the cells of plants. At the parts where the tumours encroached upon the bone, the fat-ceUs were observed to be in contact with the osseous substance, which itself, however, was quite unaltered. The enclosing cyst or capsule was thin, fibrous, and made up of densely interwoven bundles of areolar tissue, crossing each other in all directions. It thus exactly resem- bled the structure of the membrane described as forming the cyst of a true encysted tumour. See Plate ix. Fig. 1 3. Fig. 2. Fibrous tumour. The fibres in this case resemble those of organic muscle, constituting the variety of tumour termed Fibroi Fibroid from the stomach of a man aged forty-four years, w died from renal disease. Magnified 220 diameters. On the lesser curvature of the stomach and towards the card , there was a morbid product of the site and form of an Edmond^ It lay under the mucous membrane, or more correctly speakmg. in the muscular coat; was of a whitish colour, and .nVorm and conmstem* resembled an extirpated tonsil. It was covered with a layer of ce War tissue, which separated it from the surrounding struct^ was however, no definite capsule or cyst. The interior of the tumour was, no^vever, uu r . ■ A recent section had » —- * - very dense and unyielding, and tore on attempting to stretch ,t.