PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. Ill it is likewise requisite that it should be connected with the :bod\ of a living individual: a blastema for morbid products, can, as a rule, only be developed when it is in connexion with, and reacting on a vital part of a living body. After death no cytoblastema is developed in the body: moreover, in parts of the living organism, in which vitality has been idestroyed by gangrene, there can be no further develop- rnent. Of course this is not the case with iudependant organisms. Fungi and .infusoria may be formed in the dead body. Moreover the coagulation of ! fibrinous fluids after death does not fall under this head, for the coagu- ! lation of fibrin is a process unconnected with development. We can at any rate include here the fibrinous flakes* (Faserstoffschollen), described by H. Nassc, although 1 could not convince myself of their existence after a series of observations conducted with the greatest care. On the other hand there appear to be isolated exceptions to the above rule, and cases apparently occur in which we must assume that pathological ele- ments, especially pus-eorpuscles, can be produced without the contact of organized tissues, indeed, even externally to the body. Thus IIcl- bertf has recently observed, that the fluid of a blister, produced by can- tliarides, which on its discliarge contained no corpuscular particles, after j standing five or six hours in a glass contained granidar cells (imperfect pus-corpuscles), and he has even follow’ed their progressive formation under the microscope. (Figs. 1, 5, 6, and 7 of the plate attached to his Dissertation.) I shall again refer to this subject in speaking of the for- mation of pus, when I shall give some other examples of independent cell-formations unconnected with organized parts. The develop- ment of a cytoblastema without either the influence of surrounding organized parts, or a previously exciting germ is, however, rare, and appears to be limited to very simple formations, such as pus-cor- puscles. Moreover, the greatest caution is necessary in carrying on such observations as those of Helbert. In the microscopic examination of a fluid containing a few scattered particles in suspension, it frequently happens that those particles escape detection, till the fluid has stood for some time, and they have gravitated to the bottom of the vessel. In such cases the observer might be readily deceived, and led to believe that these bodies were actually produced in the fluid in the vessel. * Muller’s Archiv. 1841, p. 437. 1 De Exanthematibus arte factis fmgmenta, Clottings*, 1844, p. 1G