PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. 258 why, through the agency of local influences, the pathological formation of tooth-sacs and teeth in them, should be less readily effected than that of hairs, glands, and bones. In the inferior animals, teeth are not unfrequently observed in abnormal situations when intrafoetation is out of the question; as for instance upon the temporal bone. Even admitting the possibility of the mode of origin assumed by Cruveilhier, its application to the cases in question, presents far greater difficulties than that of the other explanation. How does it happen, for instance, that every part of a foetus becomes completely resorbed with the exception of one solitary tooth, which remains perfectly unacted upon ? Cruveilhier himself has collected a number of cases where, in extra- uterine pregnancy a foetus was retained and became petrified by the deposition of calcareous salts,* but not one of the cases which he has described, presents the slightest resemblance to an encysted tumour containing bones and teeth. Moreover, how can it be accounted for that the teeth resemble not merely the milk-teeth, but frequently also those of the second dentition ? A foetus dead and undergoing absorp- tion for seven years is stated, in some unknown manner, to cast its milk-teeth and get a new set! Also the number of the teeth sometimes met with, militates against this view : in one case, which Cruveilhier certainly terms doubtful (but upon what grounds ?) there were found in a single tumour three hundred teeth, a mass which we must suppose to be furnished by the accumulated remains of at least ten foetuses! To the more simple encysted tumours which have been hitherto considered are allied B. More compound and less regular forms presenting tran- sitions between these and other kinds of tumours; to distinguish them from the simple, true encysted tumours (cysts), 1 shall, after J. Muller, call them cyst-like tumours (cystoids), pre- mising, however, that they no more form a strictly separated group than the other forms of tumour. They resolve them- selves into many sub-species or varieties which likewise cannot be strictly bounded, and result from combinations with other forms of tumour. As such varieties, we may distinguish: 1. Foreign bodies which have penetrated into the organi- sation from without, as bullets, &c. also parasites, and entozoa; and unorganised epigeneses formed in the organism, as calculi and concretions, which sometimes invest themselves with sacs * Anat. Patholog. livr. xvm. Plate vi.