323 ENCEPHALOID. cells—we are altogether ignorant; the other constituents are not so essential, and to a certain degree vicarious. As a general rule ence- phaloid contains much more fat than fibrous cancer. Cholesterin is often present, frequently occurring in softened encephaloid in the form of crystals. Whether the pliosphorized fats discovered in encephaloid by some chemists (Brande, Beaudrimont) are of uny especial impor- tance, must be determined by future investigation. J. Muller dis- ! tinguishes three varieties of encephaloid : 1. Encephaloid abounding in roundish cells, though intersected by a < delicate fibrous net work. 2. Encephaloid with an exceedingly soft cerebriform base, comjxjsed of pale elliptic corpuscles devoid of caudate appendages. 3. Encephaloid with caudate or fusiform corpuscles. The latter he regards as cells in the process of conversion into fibres; it seems to me, however, to be very doubtful, whether tumours consisting merely of fibre-cells should be regarded as encephaloid. Moreover, it is not always easy to determine whether the caudate cells must be regarded as - always progressing into fibres,* or whether they should be viewed as peculiar encrephaloid-cells incapable of further development. Glugef i regards the caudate bodies described by Muller as an artificial product : arising from the action of spirit. It is certainly true that encephaloid ; preserved in spirit is no longer fit for histological examination, and that albumen coagulated by alcohol may sometimes assume forms, which t under the microscope present a remote similarity to elongated cells ; i i however, none who are used to microscopic investigations could mistake such artificial products for actual, unaltered cells, and Muller’s experience in this department, as well as the figures of these cells, which he has depicted, utterly overthrow Gluge's supposition. Respecting the causes, mode of formation, and importance of encephaloid. we can merely apply the same observations as were previously made in relation to cancer generally. Some writers have endeavoured to establish an esj>e- cial connexion between encephaloid and nervous tissue, regarding the :former as merely an abnormal development of the latter structure. Such opinions have not even a shade of probability : they are based on an accidental similarity existing between the two, in colour, consistence, and certain chemical constituents. The microscope at once reveals the essential difference between these structures. * See Plate vin. fig. 9. t Atlas der pathologischen Anatomie, Part 1, p. 19.