40 DROPSIES. Some of these fluids have not yet been fully analysed. The fluid in blisters produced by burns, or the ordinary vesicants, (independently of minute flocculi, consisting of coagulated fibrin, pus-corpuscles, and epithelium-cells,) is clear, and sometimes of a yellowish-green colour, communicates a blue tint to reddened litmus paper, and in addition to its principal constituent albumen, contains a little fat, extractive matters, and the ordinary salts of the serum of the blood. In the fluid from a blister raised by cantharides, which on heating coagulated into a solid mass, Bostock found: water 928.6 ; albumen 60; extractive matters 1.4; salts 10.* The fluid of the vesicles that are found on the body, in cases of gangrene, is red (from dissolved haematin), but clear, resembling port wine diluted with water, and contains so large an amount of albumen, that on boiling it coagulates into a firm mass. The fluid of sudamina, containing no albumen, is not included in this category. Causes and mode of origin of serous dropsy.—The close coincidence between the chemical composition of the fluid of dropsy, and the serum of the blood, seems to suggest that the former takes its source from the latter. Pathologico-anato- mical observations and experiments on animals confirm this view; showing that any impediment to the venous circula- tion, in whatever part of the body it may occur, is accom- panied by an effusion of dropsical fluid from the veins affected into the adjacent parts. Here we are induced to believe that serous dropsy always proceeds from the venous system, and that it takes place as soon as there is a want of balance between the porosity of the venous walls and the specific gravity of the blood contained therein; that is to say, when the venous walls become more porous, or the blood lighter and more aqueous than in the normal condi- tion. In either case there is an increased transudation of scrum through the walls of the vessels.'! This is the manner in which local dropsy invariably occurs where individual veins are compressed, or, either for a time or permanently obstructed, as in cases of pressure from a tumour, or of com- plete obliteration. In this manner, the pressure of the impreg- nated uterus causes oedema of the feet; and pressure on the * Leop. Gmelin, op. cit. vol. ii. 2nd. Part, p. 1394. f Compare Henle in Hufeland’s Journal, May, 1840, p. 13.