339 PRECIPITATES OP FAT. bably of these and similar (still unknown) modifications of protein that these precipitates are formed. A wide and fruitful field for investigation is here open before us. It has l>een already mentioned tliat Lehmann referred certain granular precipitates insoluble in caustic potash, to the protein-compounds. I must here remark, that after repeated examinations, I still regard the existence of these protein-granules as very doubtful. In all the cases in which I have met with molecular granules insoluble in caustic potash, I have found, on continuing my examination, that they were perfectly soluble in ether, and therefore consisted of fat. Whether other organic substances occurring in the human organism, as ptyalin, pepsin, extractive matters, &c., form constituents of precipitates, must for the present remain unde- cided ; the probability is that (with the possible exception of pepsin) they do not, since, under ordinary circumstances, they are readily soluble in aqueous fluids. 2. The fats very often occur as constituents of precipitates. The forms in which they present themselves differ with their chemical composition ; thus some form very characteristic crystals, whilst others are amorpho-granular. The following are the. fats requiring especial consideration: «. Cholesterin, which frequently occurs in a crystalline State, and then forms very characteristic rhomboid tablets, with angles of 80° and 100°.* These crystals are insoluble in water, acids, and alkalies, but dissolve in ether and hot alcohol. We have no certain knowledge regarding the causes of the separation of cholesterin ; indeed, we do not even know how this substance, w'hich in the normal condition occurs in small quantity in the blood, and many other animal fluids, and in larger quantity in the brain and nerves, is retained in solution. It probably exists in some still unknown combi- * Sec Plate x. fig. 1. The numbers given in the text are the mean of twenty admeasurements made by me with the camera lucida. The individual admeasurements of the acute angle, varied from 78° to 83°, which affords sufficient evidence of the accuracy with which crystals may be measured in this way. z 2