CALCULI OF URIC ACID. 353 ordinary proximate cause leading to the formation of all cal- culi containing uric acid is a peculiar condition ot the urine— i its saturation with unites. The practised physician detects this property of the urine by observing, that on cooling it becomes turbid, and deposits ;a sediment consisting of urate of ammonia. But, besides this, there is u second condition requisite, namely, that a por- tion of this excess should be precipitated either as urate of ammonia or as free uric acid, in the urinary passages within the body. In by far the larger number of cases, the precipitate consists of uric acid, arising from the urate being decomposed by a free acid in the urine; the uric acid being much less soluble in urine than its salts, the greater portion becomes separated. Whether the urates can separate from the urine, as a pri- mary precipitate within the body, appears to me to be doubt- ful, since the ordinary cause giving rise to the formation of a sediment of urates—namely, the cooling of the urine— does not occur there. Such a precipitate may, however, be formed if urine, saturated with urates, remains for a long time within the bladder, and loses water in consequence of endosmotic action established with the blood. The above con- ditions do not, however, lead to the formation of a stone, but merely of a precipitate, which frequently consists of such minute granules that they can only be detected by the micro- scope, and do not form a sediment till the urine has stood for some time. From these precipitates there may be formed urinary gravel, if its constituents, in consequence of any of the above-mentioned causes, adhere within the body, and there form larger masses. For the production of a stone, it is requisite that there should first be a nucleus formed; this may consist of uric-acid gravel retained in the urinary passages in consequence of its size or position, or a clot of mucus, blood, or fibrin, or a foreign body. For the formation of a uric-acid calculus, it is requisite that the above-mentioned uric-acid diathesis should persist for some time, that is to say, VOL. i. a A