380 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. class of concretions than of any of the preceding. It must remain still undecided whether they derive their fat directly from the food, or whether they obtain it from the secretion of the intestinal canal and the glands connected with it. In all probability they may obtain it from both sources, but, I conceive, more frequently from the former than the latter. In order to give an idea of the chemical composition of these concre- tions, I will give two analyses, one made by Lassaigne and the other by ltobiquet. Lassaigne. Robiquet. Fatty matters. 74 60 Animal matter. 21 8 Phosphate of lime. 4 30 Chloride of sodium. 1 — 100 98 The concrements analysed by Lassaigne were discharged from the bowels of a phthisical girl. They were passed in great numbers, varied from the size of a pea to that of a musket-ball, were laterally com- pressed and smooth ; externally they were of a yellow colour, internally they were white and granular; and they could be easily pulverized, j The fat appeared for the most part to consist of the fatty acids (oleic and stearic (?) acids) ; the animal matter resembled fibrin, and was undoubtedly a protein-compound. In Robiquet’s case, the fat resem- bled spermaceti; no particulars are given of the animal matter. Caventou has likewise analysed fatty intestinal concretions, which were surrounded with a coriaceous membrane. Such concretions may be recognized by their being for the most part soluble in boiling alcohol, and by the fat not separating, as the solu- tion cools and evaporates, in the tablets which indicate cholesterin. They fuse when heated, and bum with a clear, but carbonaceous flame. Some concrements which have been regarded as intestinal calculi probably owe their origin to some other source. This is not merely the case with biliary and pancreatic calculi, but with certain others. Thus Brugnatelli analysed concretions which were stated to be passed from the rectum of a woman, and which were composed of urate of ammonia with a little phosphate of lime, and a tolerably volatilizable animal matter