326 PATHOLOGICAL EPIGENESES. but are more liable to resorption; hence the softening is less likely to extend to the adjacent tissues. Consequently scir- rhus is much slower in conducing to a fatal result than ence- phaloid, and must be regarded as far less dangerous. While the latter often causes death in a few months, scirrhus usually continues for years. When the softening of scirrhus has progressed to a certain degree, there occur in it cavities, such as have been previously described, partially filled with a red ichorous fluid, and having fibrous or semi-cartilaginous walls united by irregular bands and arches. The granulations of scirrhous tumours resemble in all essential points those of encephaloid; and in the later stages when open ulcers are once formed, the progress of scirrhus becomes more rapid, and more closely approximates to that of encephaloid. Scirrhus occurs as a secondary product in nearly every organ of the body, but its appearance as a primary affection is much rarer than that of encephaloid, and it seems for the most part to attack glandular organs. It appears most fre- quently during the latter half of life—from the fortieth year; and does not attack children. Finally it is more common in the female than in the male sex, in consequence of the female breast being the most common seat of the affection. As there are great differences in the histological arrange- ment of scirrhus, so likewise are there extreme variations in the coarser anatomical relations of this form of tumour. Scirrhus usually forms a roundish tumour with a more or less nodulated surface. Its consistence is generally very firm; the tumour in this respect resembling cartilage or even stone (cancer eburneus) ; this hardness depends on its fibrous struc- ture, and (as in the case of fibrous tumour) varies with the toughness, compactness, and amorphous character of the fibres. Its nodules, in cases where the tumour is superficial, are fre- quently observed, on the application of the hand, to be of a lower temperature than the surrounding parts. This is pro- bably dependant on the circumstance, that in consequence of the limited supply of blood to these parts, the metamorphosis