444 PARASITES. Representations of the common flea may be seen in Dugfcs Annal. des sc. natur. 16re s£rie, 27, 147, pi. 4, fig. 1 ; in Raspail, op. cit. t. 2, p. 48, &c.; in Joerden’s Entomologie und Helminthologie des menschl. Korpers, vol. i. p. 41, taf. 4. The fleas of domestic animals (pulex canis, felis, gallina?, &c.), which likewise occur occasionally as transitory inhabitants of the human skin, are different from the true human flea. See also Bouchdi, Nova acta natur. curios, vol. xvii. Part 1, p. 503, and Dug6s, op. cit. 2. The chiggo, (pulex penetrans) is a smaller, almost invi- sible, black flea, which inhabits South America. The female penetrates through the skin of man and the do- mestic animals into the cellular tissue of the toes, and there deposits its eggs which, if not removed in time, may produce very malignant ulcers, and even cause death. See Dugfes, Ann. des sc. nat. 2e sdrie, 6, p. 129, with figures; Perty in the Voyages and Travels of Spix and Martius : Delect. Insect. Brasil, p. 34 ; Pohl and Kollar, Bras. vorz. last. Insekten, Wien, 1832.* b. lice, pediculina. 1. The crab-louse, (pthirius inguinalis, Leach, pediculus pubis, Linne.) exists among the hairs around the genitals, and in the eyebrows of dirty persons. Pale or dirty yellow, reddish brown in the centre, short and broad, almost quadrangular, from one half to one line long; the legs different, the anterior pair being for progression (the tarsus with only one joint, which prevents the separation of the claw), the four posterior climbing feet, (the claws being retractile from the presence of two joints). The thorax is broad and not distinctly separated from the abdomen. Repre- sentations by Burmeister, genera insector, phthirius, f. 1 ; Denny, Mo- nographia anoplurorum Britannia;, p. 9, PI. xxvi. fig. 3 ; Alt, Dissertat. de phthiriasi, Bonnac, 1824, 4to. fig. 5. 2. The common louse (pediculus capitis) exists on the hairy parts of the head, and is especially frequent in children. The genus phthirius is distinguished from all other species of the genus pediculus, by all its limbs being climbing limbs. Whitish, thorax ob- * Siebold, op. cit. p. 656.