279 TUBERCLE. those reagents ; in this case the preparation, even after the above treatment,* remains opaque or at least turbid. On microscopical examination, tubercular matter is found to be composed of different elements, whose proportions are extremely various in separate cases, but which essentially correspond with the elements of the typhoid and scrofulous matters formerly described. There are:— Firstly, a transparent, amorphous, vitreous stroma, occur- ring in large masses, which perfectly resembles coagulated fibrin and micro-chemically reacts like it: that is to say, acetic acid and alkalies render it pale, and finally cause its disappearance ;* Secondly, minute granules (molecular granules) varying from the 800th of a line in diameter to inappreciable minuteness, chiefly of a roundish form, and occurring in large masses of a brownish colour. These granules do not always exhibit the same chemical reactions; they seem, therefore, to he diffe- rently constituted. Some of them appear modified protein- compounds, such as we have formerly had occasion to notice: they are insoluble in acids and alkalies, and in ether, and are little or not at all attacked by other reagents. Others consist of fat, and dissolve in boiling ether. Amongst them we frequently notice larger fat-globules presenting the same chemical character. Finally, a third kind of these granules are calca- reous salts (phosphate and carbonate of lime): they dissolve in acids with partial effervescence.f Thirdly, imperfectly developed cells and cytoblasts, with or without nucleoli: the former are partly soluble in acetic acid ; the latter are insoluble : both disappear on the :iddition of caustic ammonia or potash. The cells are generally very * I his substance docs not admit of expressive delineation; it is intended to be shown in Plate vi. tig. 1. a. b.; fig. 2, a.; fig. 3, a.; fig. 5, b. a. t These granules are most obvious in softened tubercles, being set free by the solution of the amorphous stroma enclosing them. See Plate vi. fig. 6,