MALFORMATIONS. 498 Archiv. 1836, Jahresber. p. 177, et seq.); and Geoffroy St. Hilaire, PI. vii. and vol. ii. p. 375, &c., and who names the whole group Cycloce- phaliens, and makes the following subdivisions, which, at the same time, serve as a view of the principal forms : a There may be two orbits which, however, are very closely approxi- mated. 1. Ethmocephalus * with two eyes distinctly apart, but very close ; the organ of smell atrophied, and occurnng only in a rudimen- Zy ’form. Jack appears externally as a proboscis * 2. Cebocephaluswith two very closely approximating, u je y separated eyes ; the organ of smell atrophied, no proboscis. B Or there may be one orbit. 3. Rhinocephalus. with two adjacen y . cr one double eye in the mesial line ; the organ of smell being atropine , and forming a proboscis. 4. Cyclocephalus, wit i two acjacen > or one double eye in the mesial line; the organ of^ smeldatroplaied, but forming no proboscis. 5. Stomocephalus, wit "0,UJ11 or one double eye in the mesial line ; the organ of smell f forming a proboscis; the jaw rudimentary, and the mouth very imper feet or entirely wanting. distinguish the In reference to the coalescence of the eyes, ve m y h following forms : 1. The eyes may be double, completely ammden»» each with its own eyelid, but closely approximating. 2. Two p Y developed eyeballs may be in contact, and included within one com upper’Tod lower eyelid. 3. The two eyebal s may be moremless amalgamated, but contain seyerfmtem ^ sou e t eyeball may be apparent externally. 5. Ihe eye > externally ; indeed sometimes it is absent altogether. b The coalescence may be chiefly limited to the inferior half of the face, (monotia, agnathm, otocephalus). • inferior, and more or less of the superior max,lb, w,th the bones in immediate connection with them may be wantmgy The mouth is then very small or altogether absent, the cam approach each other under the face or perhaps even un,^ This group is closely allied with that of cyclopia, and the two malformations are not unfrequently combined; consequently many cases belonging to this are. referre Is0”® t;on is There can be no doubt that the cause of-to to be sought in a deficient development of th * i)0p6c, the root of the nose, f Kfjfioc, an ape.