RESORPTION OF PUS. 165 tion of pus and on what are termed metastatic abscesses. An actual resorption of pus can only occur when its corpuscles become liquefied and fluid. This process is, indeed, very rarely observed, and an extremely long time is requisite for it, since the fluids of the body in which the pus-corpuscles must be dissolved usually exert no great solvent power upon them. The resorption of pus often appears to occur in a com- paratively short period, for the serum of a fluctuating abscess becomes suddenly resorbed, causing the fluctuation and all physical signs of the presence of an abscess to disappear, while the pus-corpuscles, however, remain long uninjured, and are only very gradually resorbed. Frequently also the term “ resorption of pus” is applied to the occurrence of pus in the circulating system. Pus, however, never occurs in the veins or lymphatics, in consequence of resorption through the uninjured vessels. It is either gene- rated in the veins themselves, or is admitted into them through openings caused by some injury. It is only the serum of pus which can be conveyed unchanged into the vessels by means of resorption; this subject we shall again notice in the special part, when we treat of the vascular system. I have in the preceding part descril>ed four morphological elementary types of the corpuscles presented in pus—true pus-corpuscles, abnor- mal pus-coqmscles of irregular form, and without any, or with an irre- gular nucleus, granular cells, and elementary granules. All these structures are essentially distinct from those which occur in exudations developing permanent structures, and which will be treated of in the next section. The structures described by Houle and Gluge as inflam- matory globules, 1 regard partly as broken up granular cells, and partly as aggregated elementary granules; and the name w hich they have adopted upj>eurs to me unsuitable, because all kinds of pus may be the product of inflammation just as much as these inflammatory globules, and further, because these sometimes occur under circumstances where no inflammation, at least in the common acceptation of the term, cun have taken place. Valentin,* and with him some others, have * Report, vol, m. p, 173.