14 INTRODUCTION. the body; to follow each individually through its minutest details; and to set forth, as clearly as possible, its causes, gradual develop- ment, and consequences. It is only by strictly pursuing this course of complete separation and isolation that useful results can be obtained, and confusion—that bane of all science—be avoided. A comparative examination of the various changes shows that there is much in common between many of them, and that the same, or similar processes frequently occur in very different parts of the body. Thus it becomes another department of our science to examine into the community of the various changes, and to regard them from one general point of view. Hence pathological anatomy is naturally separated into a special and a general part. Of these the latter, although of the latei origin in the development of the science, must yet, for the sake of a scientific arrangement, be first considered. In order to obtain general results in pathological anatomy, two different methods may be pursued, similar to those already mentioned, in relation to obtaining material for oui science; namely, the method of observation and the method of experiment. Observations instituted on the dead body, teach us what are the changes that most commonly occur together; and fiom the frequency or rarity of their simultaneous occurrence, enable us to draw conclusions respecting the relative con- nexion of these changes. Experiment seeks to investigate the actions induced by artificial causes; and, consequently, to discover the causes and consequences of certain pathological conditions in the most direct manner. If we wish to attach a scientific value to observations grounded on experiment respecting the simultaneous occur- rence of certain changes in the human body, and the relation in which they stand to each other, such observations must be made with the greatest care. Cases imperfectly recorded, respecting the frequency or rarity of simultaneous phenomena,