74 Part VI. THE BRAIN, the pia mater; and that, whatever purpofes are ferved by that membrane, and its veffels, on the furface of the brain, we muft fuppofe the fame performed by it within the ven- tricles. Perhaps, likewife, the neceffity of adminiltering a degree of warmth to the clofe medulla of the brain may be one of the ules of thefe cavities ; efpecially as the arteries, by their means, are diitributed in greater numbers. Perhaps, alfo, it was proper, that, in the inmoit part of the brain, fmall veffels only, without any large ones, fhould enter. We may likevvife fufpedt, that the ioftnefs of the fibres of the brain requires fhortnefs in order to iutiain their own weight. The ufes of moll of the protuberances are as yet unknown, and m'uit be learned from anatomical experiments made on animals the likeft to man. Experiments on parts fo fmall, and io deeply ieated as to be inacccffible in living animals, feem to afford little hopes of fuccefs. Are thefe parts the diftinft provinces which our different ideas inhabit ? Do the thalami ieem to be an inftance of this fuppofition ? In con- lidering this fubjecf, it will be neceffary to remember that inofi: of thefe protuberances lend out no nerves at all. The ftriae or internal du&s feem to afford fome kind of communication between the motions, and perhaps between the fenfes. Some of thefe dudls join the brain with the'ce- rebellum j others join the fpinal marrow with the nerves of the brain itfelf, as the acceffory nerve; and mod of them join the right and left parts together, as the anterior and the two pofterior commiffures of the corpus callofum, and the flriae between the proceffes of the cerebellum and teftes; to which add the medullary crofs-bars in the medulla oblongata and fpinaiis. This ftru&ure explains, in a very fatisfa&ory manner, the obfervation, that, when the right fide of the brain is injured, all the nerves which, on the contrary, be- long to the left fide, of the body, become difeafed or paraly- tic, and the reverfe. Moreover, by this contrivance, nature feems