Part VI.' 216 HEART. convex edge is fixed to the union of the vein and the right auricle, while its concave edge is turned upwards over the mouth of the vein. It is mod complete in the foetus ; but it is found likewife in perfons of advanced age, though it fome- times, from ufe, has a reticular appearance. It is f'aid to pre- vent the blood in the auricle from returning into the cava ; but it has a different ufe in the foetus. The notche’d edge of this auricle terminates obliquely in a kind of obtufe point, which is a fmall particular production of the great bag, and is turned toward the middle of the bafis of the heart. The whole inner furface of the right auricle is uneven, by reafon of a great number of prominent lines which run acrofs the tides of it, and communicate with each other by fmaller lines, which lie obliquely in the interfaces between the for* mer. The lines of the firft kind reprefent trunks ; and thofe of the other, fmall branches in an oppofite dire&ion to each other. In the interfaces between thefe lines, the tides of the auricle are very thin, and ahnott tranfparent, Teeming to be l formed merely by the external and internal coats of the auri- cle joined together, efpecially near the point. The left auricle is, in the human body, a kind of mufeu- lar bag or refervoir, of a confiderable thicknefs, and un- j equally fiquare, into which the four venae pulmonares open, arid which has a dittinft appendix belonging to it, like a third j fmall auricle. This bag is very even on both iurfaces, and is therefore called Jimis venofus ,• but, to diftinguilh it from the one on the right fide, it is called finus venofusfinifter. How- ever, the bag and appendix have but one common cavity j and the'efore they may flill be both comprehended under the common name of the left auricle. In men, the fmall portion may likewife be named the appendix of the left auricle ; but, in other animals, the cafe is different. This fmall portion or appendix of the left auricle is of a different ftruClure from that of the bag or large portion. Ex- teriorly,