OF THE BLOOD. Chap. II. .253 above the ligature, nor any of the veins to be feen there. The tame phenomenon happens when the veins are compref- fed by (welled or fcirrhous glands in the vjfceru ; and from poly pules the vei s are often greatly fwelled or enlarged into tun ours. Thete ligatures will lcrve to keep the blood in any limb round which they are tied, that it may not return to the heart, and be loll through a wound in another part. The experiments which have been made in living animals, to prove this courie of the blood, are hill more accurate. From them, even from our own, it appears, that by tying any vein, in a living animal, near the cava, or belonging to the pulmonary veins, that part always iwells which is molt remote from the heart, all below the ligature appearing dis- tended with the retained blood, whiie above and next the heart they are pale and flaccid. Laftly, if the arteries are tied at the tame time with the veins, thele lalt remain flaccid and empty; but, upon removing the ligature from the arte- ries, the veins are immediately tilled. In like manner, the infufion of poifons or medicinal liquors fliew, that, into whatever vein you inje£t chemical acid fpi- rits, the force of the poifon is driven along with the blood to the heart iticlf. That the brain is affected with the narcotic virtue of opium, and the intellines and ftomach with the virtue of purgatives and emetics injected into the veins, is a demonflration that the blood, with which thefe fubitances were mixed, had pafled through the ramifications of the veins to the heart, and from thence through the whole body. We have another proof in the transfufions of blood ; in which all the blood from the arteries of one animal is urged into the veins of another exhaufted of blood ; whereby the heart, arteries, and empty veins of the latter, becomes fo turgid, and well replenifhtd, that they produce a remarkable degree of vivacity in the animal, or even caufe it to labour under a plethora. That