EPIDYDIMIS. 41* Part VI. \ The feminal veflels are Terpentine, firm,, folid, and exceed- ingly fmall ; they have been tilled with quickfilver, &c. by feveral anatomifts, and fir ft by Dr Monro, Hunter, and Hal- ler. They are collected into above twenty bundles, divided by diftinft cells or partitions, -vyhich defcend from the trnica albuginea to conduct the arteries or veins. In each of thefe cells there is a feminiferous duel to convey the fecreted hu- mour from the tefticle. The du£ls form a net-work, adher- ing to the furface of the albuginea, and forming inofculations one with another. From this net-work, in the upper part of the teflicle, ten or twelve ducts afeend ; which being con- torted together into folds, form as many vafcular cones, that are joined together by an intermediate cellular fubflance ; and, lying incumbent one upon another, there form the Epidydimis,/which goes round the outer a'nd polterior mar- gin of the teflicle, to which it adheres by its thicker head, joined with a good deal of cellular fubflance : While in its lower, middle, and more flender pirt, it partly adheres, and is partly free ; fo as to intercept a fort of impervious bag be- tween itfelf and the tefticle. The vafcular cones, at the up- per part of the epidydimis, by degrees uniting, form at length one dudl, which compofes the greater part of the tef- ticle (fe Monro de Teftibm), and which grows larger as it defeends, being largefl at the bottom of the teflicle ; from whence again alcending along the poflerior face of the tef- ticle, in a contrary diredlion, it by degrees fpreads open its fpi- ral convolutions, and comes out much larger, under the name -of vas deferens. The epidydimis thus formed, may be reckoned a produc- tion of the.teflicle, or a kind of t eft is acceffonus ; and it re- ferubles in fome meafure an arch fupported by its centre or frame It is more contrafled at the middle than at the ex- tremities, by which it is clofely united to thofc of the tefticle. Between