4i AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. This adheiion of the dura mater to the ligamentary funnel Is gradually difcontinued below the firft vertebra ; and from thence the dura mater forms a feparate tube, which runs down the bony canal all the way to the os facrnm, the capa- city of it anfwering to that of the canal; but it does not ad- here clofely to the Tides, as it does to thofe of the cranium. It is furrounded by a {limy fubftance, which, near the lower end of the canal, refembles Tat. The fpinal marrow confifts of a cortical and medullary fubftance, as the cerebrum and cerebellum j but with this difference, that the afh-coloured fubftance lies within the other ; and, in a tranfverfe fedtion of this medulla, the inner fubftance appears to be of the form of a horfe fkoe, t;he con- vex fide being turned forward and the extremities backward. The body of the medulla fpinalis runs down to the bottom, of the firft vertebra of the loins, where it terminates in a point. The fize of it is proportionable to that of the bony canal, fo that it is larger in the vertebrae of the neck than thofe of the back. It is a little flatted on the-fore and back parts, fo that we may diftinguifh in it two fides, one anterior, the other pofterior, and two edges. It is likewife feemingly divided into two lateral halves or cords by a groove, which runs along the middle of its anterior and pofterior furfaces, being a continuation of thofe in the extremity of the medulla oblongata. The cords are applied clofely together, but may be eafily feparated before as well as behind, till we come to their middle or deepeft part, where they are joined together by a thin layer of cineritious fubftance palling from the one cord into the other. Each lateral portion fends off from both the fore and back fides, between the grooves and the edges, at different diftan- ces, flat fafciculi of nervous filaments turned toward the neareft edge. The anterior and pofterior fafciculi are fepa- rated from each other by the ligamentum denticulatum ; then II. F palling