Chap. II. RESPIRATION. 273 , m the other opening remains immoveable. The tendons are but little changed in the motion of the mulcles. The ftrudiure of the parts, and the difledtion of living ani- mals, demonftrate, that the flelhy portions of the diaphragm, which on all lides afcend from the firm parrs to the middle ' and more moveable, do, by their contraction, deprels the middle, and by that means draw down the lateral bags of the thorax, which contain the lungs •, and, by this means, the perpendicular diameter of the thorax is confiderably in- creafed. The flefhy parts are more deprefled j the tendon ■'lefs; both becaule it is fixed to the pericardium, and becaufe its own lubftance does not contract, fiven the oelophagus and vena cava are contracted, while the diaphragm exerts its adtion. So that the diaphragm almolt alone perform the office of relpiration in a Healthy man at relt. The dia- phragm is alio the chief inllrument of relpiration in the cale of fractured ribs or lternum, or where the ribs cannot be moved without exciting confiderabie pain. The force of the diaphragm alfo, in dilating the brealt, is greater, according to the calculations that have been made, than all the reft of the powers which contribute to relpiration. A great infpiration is fomewhat hindered ; becaule, during the greatelt exertio . of the diaphragm, the lowermoft ribs are brought inwards, and thus the thorax is ftraightened. Left this fhould always happen, the intercoftal mulcles interfere in ordinary inlpira- tions j in the very great ones, they ar.e inferior to the dia- phragm. The phrenic nerve, which is more eallly lrhtated than in moft other mulcles, forces the diaphragm to perform its office. The lungs themfelves are altogether paffive or o- bedient to the adtion of the air; and alfo to that of the ribs and diaphragm, to which they are prefled into cf.fe contadt on all lides ; and we fometimes fee them even prefled through a large wound of the thorax ; and fometimes, when the cavity Vox.. II. M m is