Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES- fee thefe tubercles in the natural flate, like fmall folliculi, or little bags, more or lefs flatted. Befides this vafcular web, or plexus of the feptum lucidum, the tides of the fornix, of the eminences, ventricles, canals, and infundibulum, are all covered by a very fine membrane, in which, by injections or inflammations, we difeover a great number of very fine veflels. This membrane is in a manner a continuation of the plexus, and that feems to be a detach- ment from the pia mater. By the fame means we likewife difeover an extremely thin membrane on the infides of the duplicature of the feptum, though, in fome fubje&s, thefe fides touch each other. Glatidula pit uit aria. The pituitary gland is a fmall fpongy body lodged in the Telia turcica, between the fphenoidal folds of the dura mater. It is a Angular kind of fubftance, and feems to be neither medullary nor glandular. On the out- fide it is partly greyifh and partly reddifh, but white within. It is tranfverfely oval or oblong ; and on the lower part, in fome fubjeijts, it is divided by a fmall notch into two lobes, like a kidney bean. It is covered by the pia mater as by a bag, the opening of which is the extremity of the infundibu- lum ; and it is furrounded by the fmall circular finufes which communicate with the finus cavernofi. Tubercula. The tubercles are four, in number, two ante- rior and two pofterior, adhering together as if they made but one body fituated behind the union of the thalami nervorum opticorum. They are tranfverfely oblong, the anterior "being a iittle more rounded, and broader or larger from before backward, than the pofterior. Their furface is white, and their inner fubftance greyifh. The names of nates and trftes, given by the antients to thefe tubercles, are not very proper, there being little refemblance between them and the things from which the names are taken. Some of the moderns, with perhaps ftill lefs propriety, have called them tubercula qttadrigemina,