THE BRAIN, Fart VI. 72 obfervable in the diffic&ions of living animals, even of the fmalleft infedts ? or to account for the great ftrength of mad and hyfterical people ? Is not this difficulty fomewhat lef- fened from the hydroflalical experiments of attraction in fmall tubes ; which, although it may explain the ftrength and motion, is neverthelefs inconfiftent with the celerity ? The nervous liquor, then, which is the inftrument of fenfe and motion, mud be exceedingly moveable, in order to carry the impreffions of fenfe, or the commands of the will, to the places of their deftination, without any remarkable delay ; nor can it receive its motions only from the heart. Moreover, it is very thin and invifible, and deftitute of all tafte and fmell ; yet reparable from the aliments. It is careful- ly to be diftinguillied from that vifible, vifcid liquor, exhaling from the veffiels in the intervals between the nervous cords. That this liquor moves through tubes rather than through a fpongy folid, we are perfuaded, from its celerity, and from the analogy of all the fluids of the body, fat only excepted, running through their proper veffiels. ' On the whole, therefore, it certainly appears, that, by the ▼effiels of the cortexj fome kind of fluid is inftilled into the tubes of the medulla; which fluid is continued through the extremely fmall tubes of the nerves to their extremities, and is the caufe both of fenfe and motion. But there will be a twofold motion in that humour; the one flow and conftant, from the heart ; the other not continual, but exceedingly fwift, which is excited either by fenfe, or any other caufe of motion arifing in the brain. The fame nerves moll evidently preflde over both fenfe and motion ; as we cannot admit a diftindtion between the two fyftems of motory and fenfitive nerves. If fenfe fomc- times remain after motion is deftroyed, this feems to be be- caufe much more flrength is required for the latter. Dying people hear and fee when they are incapable of motion. If