283 Chap. II. , RESPIRATION., ‘‘ If, in a few words,” fays Dr Wrifberg, “ I might offer my opinion about the air fiund in our bodies, the origin of which has been the balls of fo many difputes, I am perfuaded that the atmofpheric air is a very compound fluid, confuting of parts of a very different nature and quality, which parts, when mixed wuh any primogenial fluid as a vehicle, make the common air we inhale in infpiration. This primogenial fluid is, perhaps, that air which we obferve in animals, vege- tables, and likewifc in the earth itfelf, differing only accord- ing to the various lubltances with which it is united. If there is mixed, in a due proportion with this univcrial fluid, any elaltic, ethereal, eledtric principle, or any particle;- not yet fully underftood, perhaps there will refult laiubrious at- molpheric air. But it will become in'fedted and noxious in various degrees, from an admixture of purrefadfive lubftances, narcotic or inflammable luffucating elements. For that rea- fon it leems to me very proper, that our judgment about the falutary or noxious quality of the air lhouid be directed by thefi principles ; and we fhall be able to corredt unwhoic- fome air, provided we know what qualities that air ihould poffels which is moft properly fuited fo relpiration. * Is the blood cooled in the lungs? fs tips opinion confirm- ed by tive death of anipials in too great a degree of heat ? Are not the pulmonary veins lefs than the arteries ? Is this the reaion why laborious people prefer cold ? That the blood is cooled in the lungs is thus far true, as it warms the contiguous air, and therefore loirs lomerhi? g of its own heat. That this was not the principal dtfign of nature, is evident from the well known fad!, that the venous blood is not hot- ter than the arterial; and nobody ever oblerved the left ven- 'tricle of the heart cooler than the right. Belides, a perion may live in an air much hotter than the blood itfelf,vof which we have examples in baths and warm countries. In a foe,- \ tus l I I I