204 PLEURiE and MEDIASTINUM. Part VI. rfiiddle, and toward the lower part of the forefide, they are feparated by the pericardium and heart, as we fhall fee here- after. A little more backward, they are parted in a tubular form by the oefophagus, to which they ferve as a covering ; and in the moft pofterior part a triangular fpace is left, be- tween the vertebrae and the two pleurae from above down- ward, which is filled chiefly by the aorta. Before the heart, from the pericardium to the fternum, the two laminae adhere very clofely ; and there the mediaf- tinum is tranfparent, except for a fmall fpace near the upper part, where the thymus is fituated ; fo that in this place there is naturally no interftice or particular cavity. The apparent fcparation is owing entirely to the common method of railing the fternum, as was plainly demonftrated by Bartholinus, in his Treatife of the Diaphragm, publilhed at Paris in 1676. The mediaftinum does not commonly terminate along the middle of the infide of the fternum, as was commonly fuppofed. Window demonftrated, in the year 1715, to the Royal Academy of Sciences, that from above downward, it inclines toward the left fide $ and that if, before the thorax is opened, a fharp inftrument be run through the middle of the fternum, there will be almoft the breadth of a finger be- tween the inftrument and the mediaftinum, provided that the fternum remain in its natural fituation, and the cartilages of the ribs be cut at the diftance of an inch from it on each fide. From all this, we fee, not only that the thorax is divided into two cavities entirely feparated from each other by a middle feptum, without any communication ; but alfo that, by the obliquity of this partition, the right cavity is greater than the left; but there are exceptions to the above deferip- tions. Lieutaud fays he has met with feveral fubjedls in which the mediaftinum defeended along the middle of the fternum 5 and others, where it was inclined to the left fide. Sabatier