274 RESPIRATION. Part VI. is whole, we fee them through the tranfparent pleura, and parr of the diaphragm But, in larger infpirations, when a greater quantity of blood is driven into the lungs, and when there is any ob- ftacle or difficulty oppofed to the adfion of the lungs them- felves j in thole cafes, leveral other powers confpire to ele- va e the thorax. Which powers are inferted either into the thorax, clavicles, or fcapulae •, fuch as the fealeni mufcles, trapczii, cervicales delcendentes, fl-rrati fuperiores, and pedto- rales ; together with the (mall elevators. We have now deferibed the powers which are able to in. creafe the capacity of the thorax in all its three dimenfions. By thefe the cavity of the bread: is dilated, fo that it com- press the lungs l'efs than before : The lungs then drive to diffufe themfelves over that fpace, by the. expanfion of the' air contained in them, when the preffiire is removed. With- out that mufcular force, the lungs have no proper power of their own, by which they are capable of attradling air. Even when thty are full of air, if the afpera arteria be clofed, the animal vehemently attempts to infpire, by the efforts of its in- tercoftal mufcles and diaphragm. The air, which is preffed on all fidcs by the incumbent columns of the atmoiphere, enters the thorax with the greater force, in proportion as the lungs contain lefs air; and yet more powerfully if they contain no air; but with no f roe at ail, if the air admitted through a wound in the breaff j refles upon the external furface of the lungs. \ In this acli n, therefore, which is called infpiration, the bron- chia are every way increafed, both in length and diameter; becaufe all the diameters of the thorax are increafed ; and the inflated lungs always keep contiguous to the pleura, without leaving any in errnediate fpace. At the fame time, the pulmonary blood veflcls being contained in the lame cellular covering with the biomhia, are, with them, extended in length, and fpread out into larger angles; by which means . the