2}Q respiration. Part VT. woiud refift the entrance of a frefh quantity. That the lungs aiv/ays contain air is evident ; becaufc, however clofe you cotnprefs them, they will be fifll lighter than water ; and, e- ven in the foetus, after they have l^cen inflated but a few times, they always fwim 5 whereas they fink, in water if they have not .given admittance to the air. The equilibrium of the air’s prefiure being removed in any place, it conftantly defeends or flows that way where it is le2ft refilled. But air that is denfe and heavy will defeend more e.ifily than fuch as is light. A;r will not enter the lungs, if it is not lo denfe as to overcome the force of the air already in the lungs, the refiflance of the bronchia, and the prefiure of the lungs themfelves. Hence an animal lives bet- ter in a denfe than in a light air ; although light air is al- ways more tolerable, if it be at the fame time pure, than denfe air ; fuch as that of the high mountains of the Alps. That air may enter the lung«, the air which is already in the cellular fabric of the lungs mud be rarified ; But this elfcdt will follow, if the cavity of the thorax, in which the lungs are contained, and which they exactly fill, be dilated. Thus the air, which is always in the lungs, expands into a larger fpace; by which, being weakened in its fpring, it makes a lefs refiflance to the external air ; and confequently a portion of the external air defeends into the lungs, fufficient to re- flore the rarified air in the lungs to the fame denfity with that of the external air. In order to dilate the lungs, and thus to induce fuch a Rate as that the external air may rufh into the lungs, it is necef- fary for the thorax to be elevated. By this means, all the fe&ions of the thorax form right angles, and its capacity is increafed. This motion is performed by various mufcles, which either operate constantly, or only at certain times. The intercoftal mufcles, therefore, all of them add perpetually in elevating the ribs: But fome doubt has arifen about the adlion