I Chap. III. H E P A R. 361 If we blow through a pipe into the vena portae, vena cava, arteria hepatica, or trunk of the pori bilarii, but efpecially through the two veins, we obferve the liver to fwcll, and the corpufcles near the furface are raifed, and become more fen- fible. If we blow with much force, we burft thefe corpus- cles ; and the air getting between them ancf the external membrane, rail'es it from the fubftance of the liver in blifters. DuElus cholidochus. The dudus hepaticus, or trunk of the pori bilarii, having run a little way, joins another canal, called duel us cyflicus or veftcularis ; becaufe it comes from the veficu- ia fellis, as we (hall fee in the defeription of that organ. Thefe two united duds form a common trunk, named duflus cbolidochus ; becaufe it conveys the bile. This dud having reached the incurvation of the duodenum, infinuates itfelf \ through the coats of that inteftine, and opens into its cavity not by a round papilla, but by an oblong orifice rounded at the upper pdrt, and contracted at the lower like the lpout of an ewer, or like a common tooth-picker. The edges of this orifice are raifed, broad, and plaited, as we may fee by making this portion of the duodenum iwun in clearwater. At the entry of this orifice we fee anoiher fmall opening diftind from it, which is the orifice of the dudus pancreaticus -, of which hereafter. GlifTon was of opinion, that the extremity of the dudus cholidochus was furnifhed with a fphinder of mufcular fibres, which was ca- pable of fhutting the orifice, and of preventing the contents of the duodenum from entering it ; but no fuch dud has been found by others, and the obliquity of the pafTage an- fwers the fame purpofe. Ve/lcula fellis. The gall-bladder is a kind of fmall bag, fliaped like a pear, that is, narrow at one end, and wide at the other. The wide extremity is termed the fundus or bot- tom,, the narrow extremity the nerh, and the middle porfon the body. About one third of the body of the veficula lies Vol. II. Z z 1 in \ H /