THE EAR, 145 Part VI’. The fuperfluous part of this fluid is fuppofed to pafs off through two imall canals called the aqueduEis of Cotunnius, from the difcoverer, an ingenious phyiician at Naples. One of thefe du&s is fent off from the cochlea, at the under part of the fcala tympani, near the feneffra rotunda ; it terminates by a wide triangular opening within the cranium, under the meatus internus. The beginning of this du£t was known to Duverney, Caffebohm, and Morgagni; but they conlidcred it as a paffage for an artery and a vein. It is lined internally with the dura mater, which is connected with the pei iofteum of the cochlea. The other duff goes off’ under the termina- tion of the common canal in the veffibule. The orifice of this ivas firtt difcoveied by Caflebohm, and afterwards by Morgagni, who has defcribed it ; but is unacquainted with its ufe. From this place the dudt aicends, and terminates by a triangular opening between ihe layers of the dura mater, at the back part of the pars petrola, under the middle of its upper edge. It is all'o lined by a production of the dura ma- ter, which may be traced to the veffibule. For a full account of thefe duCts, fee an excellent Diflertation by Dr Meckel of Berlin. All the periofteum of the internal ear, efpecially that of the ofiicula and tympanum, is in children no more than a mucilage ; and in them likewife the membrana tympani is thick, opaque, and covered with a whitilh finny mater. Through the whole extent of the perioffeum of the inter- nal ear, efpecially on that of the oflicula, femicircular canals, and half-canals of the cochlea, we difeover a vafl: number of blood-veflels, not only Wy anatomical injeClions, but in inflam- mations, and even without the help of a microfcope. The arteries come partly from the internal and external carotids, and partly from the arteria bafilaris, which is a continuation of the vertebralis, the fmall capillary ramifications of which may be obferved to accompany the auditory nerve through