Chap. E AND ITS APPENDAGES. 65 Vol. II. I follow the fame time. This happens both during the life of the animal, and a little after its death, while all the parts remain moift. By a great irritation other niukles, befides thole to which it fends branches, are thrown itito convuifions, and af- terwards the whole body. Nor is it neceffary that the nerve fhould be whole; for even when it is cut, an irritation of it will excite fimilar motions in the mufcles. On the other hand, when a nerve is comprtfTed or tied, a pally follows ; that is, the mufcles which have their nerves from it lie un- moved, when they are commanded by the will to ad; but they recover their motion when the comprefiion is removed, provided the nerve has received no hurt. But the medulla of the brain being vellicated, or irritated deeply in its crura, dreadful convuifions enfue throughout the whole body ; and this effect is univerfally produced, what part of the brain foever be irritated; whether it be the brain itfelf, the cerebellum, or the corpus callofum. The fame confequences alfo follow, if the ipinal marrow be irritated. But if the encephalon itfelf be comprefled in any part what- ever, there follows thence a lofs of lenfe and motion in that part of the body whofe nerves come from the affeded or comprtficd quarter of the brain. This fad is proved by ex- periments made in difeales of the brain, where the origin of particular nerves have been comprelfcd ■, thus the voice, the power of deglutition, the motion of an arm or a leg are loft, if the origin of the nerves, on which 'thefe faculties and mo- tions depend, be compreffed This is itill more evident in irritations or compreflions of the fpinal marrow, which produce rdpedivdy convuifions or palfies of thole parts that receive nerves from or below the place injured. If any large portion of the brain be compr-fled by rn extravafation of blood, by a colledion of water, by a feirrhus, or by an im- paded bone, or by any mechanical caule w hatever, then, in proportion to the violence of the cotrq reflion, there will