6a Part VI. THE BRAIN, whether the finufes have not a pulfation excited from that! blood ? That they have no puliation, Dr Haller fays, is paft doubt ; becaufethe dura mater every where adheres firmly to the fkull, but much more firmly in thole parls which are the feats of the finufes. But Dr Monro oblcrves, that whilft the heart is performing its fyHole, the arteries here, as eife- where, may be dilating; and, in the meantime, a qu.’n'ity of blood, equal to that which is dilating them, is palling out of the head by the veins. See Obi. on the Nervous Syftein. Indeed the finufes receive liquors injected by the arteries ; but whether they tranfude through the fmall exhaling arte, rial vtflels, or whether they firft make a complete circle through the veins, as indeed is much more probable, we are not yet furnithed with experiments enough to determine. All the blood of the brain is finally conveyed into the jugular veins, which are very dilatable, and are for that realon guarded with valves to prevent a return of the venous blood from the right auricle, being at the lame time furrounded with much cellular lubltance. As to the blood which goes from the head to the vertebral veins, it is a very inconfide- rable quantity; but the jugulars anfwer in fuch a manner to the great upper vena cava, that they afford the beft and eafieft paffige ter the blood to return to the heart in a di- re£f courfe. The branches of thefe, t. e. jugular veins, are nearly the fame with the branches of the arteries, namely, one going to the brain, and another to the face. 1 be veins form innumerable anaftomofes with one another, that the blood may return with the greateft cafe from the head, the repletion of which is very dangerous. The brain is a Ho more eafily evacuated in the time of infpiration, for it then fubfides, as we fee when the fkull is opened, but fvvells i during the time of expiration. Hence, blowing the nofe, freezing, and coughing, are dangerous to thofe whofe brain is 1 welled by retained blood, IjV'hether