Chap. II. BLOOD and JUICES. 24* of the folids is joined with the higheft degree of nervous irri- tation or lenfibility. But we murt not ddcribe the tempera- ments too lyftematically; for they are found to be not only four or eight, but almoft infinitely varied. The red part of the blood leems chiefly of ufe to generate heat, fince its quantity is always in proportion to the heat of the blood. This being confined by the largenefs of the glo- bules, within the red or firft order of veflels, hinders them from collapfing ; and, in receiving the common motion of the heart by the greater denfity of its parts, it has a greater impetus, and fets in motion the lefi'er orders of humours. Nor is it improbable that the heart is more ftrongly irritated by the ponderous cruor of the blood. The globular figure of its parts, together with their denfity, makes it eafily per- vade the veflels; and the quantity of iron it contains, as well as of oil, perhaps increafes its power of generating heat. And hence it is, that the red part of the blood being too much di- minilhed by profuld bleedings, there follows a flagnation or lefiened motion of the humours in the l'maller veflels} whence fatnefs and dropfy. By the fame rule alfo a due proportion of cruor is necefl’ary within the habit, to generate new blood. For, by large hemorrhagies, we fee the blood lofes its red and denfe nature, and degenerates into a pale, ferous, or watery Bate. The coagulable fcrum is more efpecially defigned for the nutrition of the parts, as fliall be afterwards lhewn The thin- ner juices ferve various purpoles ; as the diflolution of the a- liments, the moiftening of the external furface of the body and furfaces of the external cavities, to prelerve the flexibility of the folids, and conduce to the motion of the nerves, the fight, &c. The faline particles feem ferviceable for diflulving the aliment, and ftimulating the veflels. The properties of the aerial part are not yet well known. The heat occafions Vol. II. H h the