Chap. IV. SECRETION of the SEMEN. 43* That the femen is produced from the lymph of the blood, and that the chyle is added to the lymph, will appear pro- bable from the iudden alacrity to venery that happens aftet; eating, and which is lefiened by farting. It is compounded of the liquor of the telficles and leminal vefTels, the former indeed being more evident in iome animals, and the coagu- lable milk of the prohate gland. That liquor, however, only fecundates, which is generated in the tehicles, as we lee in eunuchs, who, though they have the leminal veflels and prof- tate, are yet barren. The feininal fluid is retained in the veflcles as long as a , man neither exercifes venery, nor fports in imaginary dreams. It is always a ltimulus to the animal appetite of venery, as long as it is there prefent in any quantity. Befides this, there is a conlider..bie ltrong, volatile^ and odorous part of the fe- nn?n reablorbed into the blood, where it produces wonder- ful changes as foon as it begins to be formed ; luch as the protrufion of the beard, the covering of the pubes, a change of the voice and paffions, horns in cattle, &.c. ; for thefe changes in the aiimal are not the confequences of age, but of the feminal fluid, and are always abfent in eunuchs. The growth and flrength of caflrated animals are conftantly dimi- niflied ; and, in like manner, the fiercenefs of their temper, and the flrong Imell of their whole body, are remarkably weakened. And, from the example of fome animals, and even of mankind, it appears that the irritation of this fluid has occalioned death, by exciting convulflons. A retention of the femen may follow from a narrownefs of the excretory du(T, a fchirrholity of the proftate, and other caufes not fuf- 'ficiently known. 'The quantity of femen expelled at one time from the hu- I man veflcles is but fmalR more efpecially in a man who has not long abflained from venery ; and it is natural to think that the liquor can be but flowly produced from fo finall an * artery.