us Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. tudinal portion of a white convex body, which is named cor- pus callojum. It is a middle portion of the medullary fub- ftance, which, under the inferior finm of the falx, and all'o a little towards each fide, is parted from the mafs of the cere- bium, to which it is limply contiguous, from one end of that finus to the other; lo that, at tins place, the edge of the' m- fide of each hemiiphefe only lies on the corpus calmfum, much in the lame manner as the anterior and pofterioi lobes lie on the dura mater Both extremities of this medullary body terminate by a linall edge bent tranlveriely downward. The iurface of the corpus callofum is covered by the pia mater, which runs in between the lateral portions of this body and the lower edge of each hemifphere. Along the middle of its furface, from one end to the other, a kind of raphe is formed, by a particular intertexture of fibres crofting each other. This raphe is made more perceivable by two linall medullary cords, which accompany it on each fide, and ad- here clofeiy to the tranlverle fibres The fame liriated ap- pearance is to be obierved in the inner parts of this lublltlnce. Medullary ai\h, and centrum ovale. The corpus callofum becomes afterwards continuous on each fide with the medul- lary fubftance; which, through all the remaining parts of its extent, is entirely united with the cortical lubltance, and, to- gether with the corpus callofum, forms a medullary arch or vault of an oblong or oval figure. To perceive this, the whole cortical fubfiance, together with the medullary lami- nae mixed with it, n ull be cautioufly and dextreoully cut in the lame direction with the convexity of the cerebrum , after which we oblerve a medullary convexity, much fmaller than that which is common to the whole cerebrum, but of the fame form ; fo that it appears like a medullary nucleus of the cerelrum, tipeciady when We confider it together with the medullary fubftance of the interior part or Dalis of the cere- brum ; for the deeper we go, the medullary part becomes Vol. II. D the