HEAR T, Part VI. jiot To often found to want thofe callous round bodies in the middle. rl he fibres, too, of the valves, both tranftferfe and afcending, are here fomewhat more confpicuous. After the coritraCHoh of the heart follows its relaxation or * i p ; , w ■. diaftole, in which it becomes empty, lax, and loft, recovers its former length, the ventricles nCede from the ftptuen, and the bafis from the apex. But, while it is i tv .-this ftate, the blood in the auricles, having been, as it were, in a Rate of expectation, rufhes thr< ugh the openings of the valve's of the veins, dilates the oppoftte fides of the heart, and ircrcafes all its dimenfions. After the auricles have fretd themfelves of the blood they contained, they are in like manner relaxed, and their oppofite fides remove from each other. The blood then collected in the venae cavae and pulmonary veins fills/ the auricles by the contraction c£ the veins ; renders them long, broad, and thick, like the ventricles; and even dif- tends and fills the dentated proceffes of the crefied margin. Thefe motions of the right and left auricle, with the right and left ventricle, are not performed in that fucceffion itl which, for the fake of method, we have here defenbed them; for both the auricles are contracted, while both the ventri- cles are related : bo that the contraction of the auricles pre- cedes the contraction of the ventricles. This faCt is alcertain- ed by experiments on dying animals, and on animals with cold blood. Thofe who have in.idveitantly taught other wife j have not taken the advantage of making a lufficient number of experiments on living animals. That the auricle, near death, makes frequent palpitations before the ventricle of the heart performs one contraction, is certainly true. I he auri- cle, with its fintis, forms one cavity ; and both are filled and both emptied in the fame inllant. It may be afked, Why the heart is not wearied, or becomes painful, by fo rapid, long continued, uniaVerruj ted, and vio- lent a morion ? The heart contraCls, in a healthy perfon, about