AND ITS APPENDAGES. 179 Chap. I. tis, that it fplits or makes a collifion upon the ligaments of the glottis, fo as to put the larynx into a tremor, which tre- mor is returned, and continued or increafed by the clafticity of thefe parts. From the conjunct trembling of the liga- ments and cartilages of the larynx, a found is produced which we call the voice. It is different in different animals, and de- pends entirely on the form and ftruflure of the larynx and glottis. When a trembling is not excited, the exfpired air caules a whifper. The ftrength of the voice is proportional to the quantity of air blown out, together with the narrownefs of the glottis i and, therefore, a large pair of lungs eafily dilatable, an am- ple cartilaginous and elaftic larynx and windpipe, a free echo of the noftrils, and a powerful exfpiration, all conduce to this effect. But acute and grave tones of the voice, we obferve to arife from various caufes ; the former proceeds from a tenfion and narrownefs of the glottis, and the latter from n relaxation and expanlion of it. In the former, a greater number of aerial undulations are fplit in the fame time upon the ligaments of the glottis, whence the tremors excited in the fame time are more numerous *, but, when the glottis is dilated, the contrary of all this follows. And moreover, from the greater tenfion of the ligaments, the tremors become more numerous from the fame ftroke; therefore, to produce an acute and Ihrill voice, the whole larynx is drawn upwards and forwards, and fo much the more as the voice is requir- ed to be fiiarper, infomuch that the head itfelf is inclined backwards, by which the powers of the mufcles elevating the larynx are rendered more full and effectual. The truth of this is confirmed by applying the fingers to the larynx when it forms an acute found ; for then, to raife the voice an oc- tave, you will eafily perceive it to afeend near half an inch. It is alfo confirmed by comparative anatomy, which difeovers the narroweft glottis and the clofeft approximation of carti- lages