Chap. I. 53 AND ITS APPENDAGES. ting by a very fliort anaftomofis, and fending fmall twigs to that pair of nerves. They afterwards feparate, being each divided into two or three rami. The firft ramus of the anterior branch goes to the ante- rior lobe of the cerebrum. The fecond, which is fometimes double, is inverted on the corpus callofum, to which it gives ramifications, as alfo to the falx of the dura mater and middle lobe of the cerebrum. The third, which is fometimes a di- ftindt branch, fometimes only an additional ramus to the fe- cond, goes to the pofterior lobe of the cerebrum. This third ' ramus is often fo confiderable, as to deferve to be reckoned the middle branch of the three principal ones. The pofterior branch communicates firft of all with the vertebral artery of the fame fide, and is then divided into fe- veral rami on the fuperficial circumvolutions of the cere- brum, and between thefe circumvolutions all the way to their bottom. The anterior and middle branches, when there are three, diflribute the fame kind of ramifications to the cir- cumvolutions, and to their interfaces. All thefe different ramifications run on the duplicature of the pia mater, from which they receive a kind of additional coats j and the capillaries being diftributed upon it in a reti- cular manner, afterwards penetrate the cortical and medul- lary fubftance ; in which laft they terminate infenfibly. The vertebral arteries enter through the great occipital foramen, having firft pierced on each fide the elongations of ’ the dura mater at the fame place where the fub-occipital nerves, or thofe of the tenth pair, pierce it as they go out; the arteries in this place lying above the nerves. At their entry into the cranium, they each fend feveral rami- fications to the cauda of the medulla oblongata, and to the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia: Which ramifications are diftributed on the fides of the fourth ventricle; produce the plexus choroides j are fpread on the whole furface of the ce- rebellum ;