KIDNEYS and,URETERS. Part VI. 394 uneven, refembling a fious, furrounded by fcveral tubercles ; and, as ir is turned a little toward the forc'd Je, this tide is fomething narrower than the other. Blood vejjcls'of the kidneys. Tire dtfcending aorta and infe- rior vena cava lie between the kidneys, dole to the bodies of the vertebrae and to each other ; the artery being on the ie£t fide, and the vein on the right. The renal artery commonly comes from the fide of the aorta u-vcler'the fuperior mdente- ric artery: That of the left fide has its origin a little hightr and further back, than that of the right l*Je ; and both ha- ving run op’er almoft at right angles, enter the finus of the kidnej', and divide into many branches, which fubdivide into many others frill fmailer. The renal veins have lefs variety than the arter?es. It is feMom we find more than one on each. From each kidney fcveral branches come out, which fcon ur.itb to form a trunk, which ends in the vena cava. Thefe veffirls were by the arttients termed the emulgent arte- ries and veins, but they frequently go under the name of ar- teriae et venae renales. 1 The artery and vein are not of an equal length, and the difFerencedepends on tire lit nation of the aorta' and vena ca- va ; for the left renal artery is fhorter than the right, becaufe the aerta i:es neareft the left kidney *, anJ the left renal vein is longer than the right, becaufe the vena cava lies furtheft from the left kidney. Thefe veiTLds are likewife difpofed in fuch a manner, as that lire veins lie more anteriorly than the arteries j becaufe the aorta lies dole to the fpina dorfi ; whereas the vena cava, which perforates the diaphragm *at feme di fiance from the vertebrae, does net join them till after it has given off the renal veins. Nerves rf the kidneys. Each artery is furrounded by a ner- vous net-work, caned plexus renahs s ^thich furtitfl.es a r w a t number of filaments to the kidneys, that conie partly from the fciniiunar ganglions of the two great fympathetic nerves, and