220 Part VI. HEART. milunares, and rufhes with impetuofity through the arteries and their ramifications, as through To many elaftic tubes. The blood thus pufhed out by the contraction of the ventricles, and afterwards prefied by the elallic arteries, enters the capillary vefiels, and is from thence forced to re- turn by the veins to the auricles, which, like retirements, porches, or antichambers, receive and lodge the blood return- ed by the veins during the rime of a new contraction. This contraction of the heart is by anatomiffs termed fyjlsle. Dinjloie. The contraction or fyfiole of the ventricles ceafes immediately, by the relaxation ot their fldivy fibres; and, in that time, the auricles which contain the venal blood, being contracted, force the blood through the tricufpidal valves into the ventricles, the Tides of which are thereby dilated, and their cavities enlarged. This dilatation is termed aiajlole. Circulation. In this manner does the heart, by the alter- nate fyfiole and diaffole ot its ventricles and auricles, pufh the blood through tlie arteries to all the parts of the body, and receive it again by the veins. This is called the circulation of the bleocl, which is carried on in three different manners. The rirff and moil univerlal kind of circulation is that by which almoff all the arteries of the body are filled by the fyfiole of the heart, and the greatft part of the veins evacu- ated bv the diaftoie. 4 The fecond kind of circulation, oppofitc to the fir ft, is through the coronary vefiels of the heart, the arteries of which are filled with blood during the diaffole of the ventri- cle , and the veins emptied during the fyfiole. The third kind of circulation is that of the left ventricle of the heart; through the venal duffs of which a finall quantity of blood pafies, without going through the lungs, which is the courfe of all the remaining mafs of blood. Befides. thefe three different, kinds of circulation, there arc fome peculiarities in the courfe of the blood, which may be looked