fchap. II. MAM M M. 201 place. They are named duflus ladtiferi; and, in their courfe* are accompanied by a ligamentous elaftic fubftance, which terminates with them in the nipple. Both this fubftance, and. the du<fts it contains, are capable of confiderable extenfion and contraction ; but, in their natural ftate, they are mode- rately corrugated, fo as to prevent an involuntary flow of milk, unlefs the diftending force be very great, from the ac- cumulation of too great a quantity. Areola. The coloured circle or diflc, already mentioned, i$ formed by the Ikin; the inner furface of which fuftains a great number of fmall glandular moleculae, of that kind which Morgagni calls glandulae febaceae. They appear very plainly all over the areola, even on the outfide, where they form little flat heights or eminences, at different diftances, quite round the circle. Thefe tubercles are perforated by fmall holes, through which a kind of febaceous matter, more or lefs liquid, is poured out, to defend the areola and nipple. Sometimes one or more of the la&iferous duCts have been found to ter- minate upon the furface of the areola. Hence Morgagni was led to think that the glands there are of the lactiferous kind. Papilla. The tubercle which lies in the centre of the are- ola, is termed papilla, or the nipple. It is of different fizes in different ages and conftitutions, and in the different condi- tions of females in particular. In women with child, or who give fuck, it is large, and generally longer or higher than it is thick or broad j and, when it happens to be fliort, it caufes great uneafinefs to the child. Ihe texture of the nipple is fpongy, elaftic, and liable to divers changes of conflftence, being fometimes harder, fome- times more flaccid. It feems to confift chiefly of ligamentary fafciculi; the extremities of which form the balls and apex of the nipple. Thefe fafciculi appear to be gentiy folded, or curled, during their whole length ; and if, by drawing the Vol. II. C c fibres