LIEN. 375 Chap. III. tion, rightly managed, never efcapes out of the vefiels, nor were any hollow glandules ever oblerved. Every little arte- rial trunk, with the finaller twigs that proceed from it, are each of them furrounded, like the fn'.all vefiels of all the other vifeera, by a very fine celiular Jubilance, but rather Jbfter than is ulual in other parts. 1 he whole of the fpleen is outwardly furrounded by a Angle tend, r membrane, conti- nued from the peritonaeum, and joined to the flelhy part of the fpleen by a thick cellular texture. The J'plecn contains more bio d than the other vifeera ; for it has no mulcles, fat, air vcf£els, or excretory dutfls, ia- terpoied between its blood vefiels. We learn alio from ob- fervation, that the blood of this part Jcarcely ever congeals. It is of a dark brown colour, and by its thinnels, colour, and the great quantity of watr it contains, it may be compared to the blood of a foetus. It abounds with water and a vola- tile fait, but has little oil. The want of an excretory du£t to the fpleen, has occafion- ed the ufe of it to be doubtful and co- troverted. Its fabric feems to lead us to the following, although, perhaps, not all the u!cs of the fpleen A great quantity of blood is carried to the lpleen, and with a flow motion, from the ferpentinc courffi and der.fity of the artery : When the flomach is emp- ty, the blood comes into the lpleen in a grea'er quantity than at any other time : 1 he fpleen being then alfo Ids prefled, the blood feems to ftagnate in it ; and this ffagn.ition is the more probable, both on account of the large capacity of the branches, in companion uith the tru< ks of tt.e artery, and on account of the difficult circulation from the fpleen through the liver. Hence the frequent icirrhofities of the fpleen, and hence the immenle q antiry of blood with wh ch the lpleen is diftended. The blood in the fpleen, which vif- cus is warmed and fomented by the adjacent colon contain- it;a- putrid feces, is relolved, attenuated, and a flumes a pu. trelcent