Part VI* a 46 TH E' TEMPER AMENTS. fnatics, wines, and medicines, has fupervened. Vegetables, on the contrary, increafe the lentor of the fibres, weaken the ftrength, diminifh lenfibility and irritability; in a word, induce a phlegmatic diljofition; in which potatoes have a wonderful effed. it would be of great confequence to pay regard to this in the bringing up of children, viz. to invigo- rate the inertia of the mental and corporeal faculties by the life of animal food, but to temper the vehement paffions pe- culiar to choleric perfons, by ufing a vegetable diet. 2. The particular mode of education and examples. It need fcax'ce be infilled on that thefe pofiefs great influence, particularly in infancy. Hence it happens that whole nations are of one temperament. 3. Climate, weather, native country. Rarely in an unfcttled climate or country, in hot climates, or in moifi: countries, will you find in choleric perfons that alacrity of temper, agility of body, and quickneis of underflandmg, which is fo common in a ferene mid temperate climate, and high hilly countries. 4. The increafe of knowledge. I have often admired that change which a ftrenous induftry produces in lome of the mod dull men ; fo that, with the increafe of knowledge, they became of a more cheerful tem- perament. 5. Abundance and want of ncceflaries, both in life, and for the purpofe of forwarding improvement. For this reafon, it may happen that, according to the diverfity of the form of government, whether under mild or more fevere and tyrannical laws, the temperament of the fubjett may be cither lively or languid. 6. fhe lort of life itlelf, intercourfe with men, and public employment, may have a great lhare in changing temperaments ; fince rarely, after the 36th year of a man’s life, do you find the blood flill pure; and a choleric perfon fcarcely prelcrves his former alacrity after his 50th. It is difficult to fay into how many Ipecies temperaments fhould be divided, and what kind of chara&er lhould be afligned to each; according to i^ture, and not conje&ure. I doubt I H1\V /