AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 5? fame time effedhlally guard it againfl: external preffure. The dura inater lines the internal lurface of this bony fphere, and is fo tirmly attached to it by a vaft number of fmall vef- feis, as to be no where ealily feparable in a healthy perfon , this membrane being very thin and fmooth, adheres lels firm- ly to the bones, and more ftrongly to the futures. In young- er fubje&s, the adhefion of the dura mater to the fkull is fo great, that the feparation of it pulls of the fibres of the bones, to which it is connected. In adults, many of the vel- fels being effaced, it becomes more eafily feparable ; yet it is not without fome force that the dura mater can, even in old men, be feparated from the fkull. The bloody drops which appear on the furface of the dura mater, after removing the cranium, are occafioned by the rupture of the veffels going from the membrane into the fubftance of the brain. Hence appears the vanity of all that has been advanced concerning the motion of the dura mater. As to the motion which is remarked by the writers of obfervations upon wounds in this part, it feems to be in conference of the beating of the arteries, or of the brain fwelhng during expiration. That part, fays Dr Haller, which is properly the dura mater, viz. the inner portion, has neither nerves nor fenfation, nor irritability, while the outer part is fupplied with fmall nerves and blood veffels coming through all the holes of the fkull. Later phyfiologifts, however, obferve in general, that the dura mater has few nerves, and only little fenfibility in the found flate *, but furgical phenomena ihew that it is not to- tally deftitute of fenfibility. The internal part of the dura mater, leaving the external part adhering firmly to the bones of the fkull, runs inwards to form the proceffes, which ferve to prevent the parts from preffing one another in all fituatmns and poftures of the bo- dy. Thefe procefks liktwife hinder one part of the brain from bruifing the other by any fhock or concuffion. Hence Vol. II. H it