Chap. IV. SECRETION of the SEMEN. ■4+1 Vol. II. 3 K the blood diftends the bulb of the urethra, together with its ca- vernous body, and the glam iifrlf. 1 his diilention is gene- rally performed at the fame time, when the other cavernous bodies of the penis, with which this of the urethra has no communication, are likcwile rigidly dillended. Thele cavernous bodies of rhe penis, hiving their fpongy fabric diftended in coition by the bloqd retained by the veins, and ftill propelled by the arteries, become rigidly turgid, and fuftain the otherwile flaccid or but weakly filled urethra, in fuch a manner that it may be able to condudl the femen into the diftant womb. All this is demonllrated from the diflec- tion of brute animals in the ad! of venery, from an artificial eredlion, and from the injedlion of liquid matters into the vefiels of the penis. The caules ol this eredtion are love; the defire of pleafure ■, the h idtion of the glans; various irritations of the bladder^ tefiicles, feminal veflels, and ure- thra, from the urine, from abundance of good feed, from the venereal poifon, from canthartdes, whipping the parts, and, laftly, trom convulfion of the nerves. The proximate caufe of this difiention remains (fill to be explained. In order to dillend the penis, there mull be either a com- prefiure of the vein, bringing back the blood from the ca- vernous bodies of the penis or urethra ; or at leal! it is ne- ceflary that there fhould be a conilridlion of the lcfler veins that every where open within the cavernous bodies, to hinder them from abforbing and returning the blood from the ar- teries. The firll, however, may be eftedled by the levator, drawing up the profiate and bladder : but it is very probable, that, as we Ice in the nipples of the breafts, in the loofe pen- dulous gills of the turkey cock, and in the blufhing or red- ncfs of the face from pafllons ofthe mind, eredlion may be produced without the immediate interpofition of any pecu- liar mufcle. This fuppofition is confirmed by brute animals, which all couple without the ufe of any eredlor mufcle ; by