Chap. IL 237 BLOOD and JUICES. tile alkalies rather turn it brown, and coagulate it. Alcohol and diftilled oils, and likewile vinegar, coagulate it. It does Dot effervefce with any fait. Chcmiftry has, in various ways, {hewn us the nature of the blood. 1. When frefli drawn, before it has time to putri- fy, the blood, diftilled with a flow heat, yields a water to the quantity of live parts in fix of the whole mal's ; which water has little or no tafte or fmell, till towards the end of the ope- ration, when it is proportionally more charged with a foetid oil. 2. The refiduum, expoied to a ltronger fire, yields va- rious alkaline liquors, of which the firft, being acrid, toe- tid, and of a reddifh colour, is ufually called tne Jpinl i/f blood •, it confifts of a volatile fait, with fome little on, t.if- foived in water, to the amount of one twentieth pari of the original mafs of blood. This fame acrimonious fubftance is obiervable in the f«t, and likewile in putrid fielh ana blood. 3. A little before, and together with the od, a dry volatile fait ariles, and adheres in branchy flakes to the neck and tides of the glafs. i he quantity of this fait is very fmall, being lets than an eightieth part of the whole mafs. 4. ihe next liquor is oil; it is at firft yellow, afterwards black, and at laft it reitmbles pitch, being very acrid and inflammable; It makes about a fiftieth part of the whole mafs, £. There remains in the bottom of the retort a fpongy inflammable coal or cinder, which, being kindled, burns and leaves afhes behind. From thefc afhes, by lixiviation with water, is ob- tained a mixed fatty partly lea-lalt, and partly fixed alkali, to. j’ether with a fmall quantity of fixed earth. This fixed fait is fcarce the five hundredth part of the mafs, and of this on- ly one fourth part is alkaline : But being calcined with an in- tenfe fire, the whole fait affords fome portion of an acidfpi- Tit; which we fuppofe to be owing partly t0 the fea fait in the blood, fome of which is demonftrable even in the fpirit of blood ; and partly to the vegetable aliments, not yet di- gefted