AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 109 the painted field. And there an objedt is feen mod dif- tindlly, becaufe the rays arrive thither nearly perpendicular. But frequently this point of vifion does not fall on the fame place on both of the eyes. When the lens has been couched or difplaced, the vitreous body, although it has a weaker rcfradling power, ufually fuffices to bring the vifual rays to- gether to a focus. Is it altogether falfe that the object is painted on the reti- na ? Or is this picture made on the choroides ? Is this la(b Opinion confirmed by an experiment which proves that the place where the optic nerve enters is blind, and which is thus explained, that there is in that place no choroides but the bare retina, and that thence there is no vifion ? But this is repugnant to a very well known obfervation, namely, that the retina is a mod fenfible nervous medulla ; and that the choroides confifts only of a few fmall nerves, and almoft en- tirely of veiTels mod certainly blind. It is likewife contra- didlcd by the very great apparent differences obfervable in. the choroides of different animals, and by the perfedt lame- nefs of the retina in all, and alfo by the black fpots on the retina, which always produce partial blindnefs. This expe- riment fhews alfo the reifon why the optic nerve is not in- ferted into the axis of the eye, but into its fide. Thus, ex- cept only in one fingle cafe, namely, when the objedt is in the concourfe of the lines drawn through the centre of the optic nerves, the one eye fees, and affifls the other, which has the center of its optic nerve turned to the objedt. Since the neceffary offices of human life require a diflindt objedt to be painted upon the retina, not only by the rays which come from one certain diftance, but likewile by rays which come from very different parts more or lefs diftant; it has therefore been thought that a neceffary change, produced by its own caufes, is made on the eye. Other eminent ana- tomies have fuppofed the lens moveable by the powers before mentioned.