Part VI. 37S O M E N T U M. ment which fuftains the du&us cholidochus, and connects it to the vena portae ventralis. Below thefe adhefions, the other portions, that is, the an- terior, pofterior, two lateral and inferior portions, which lalt is the bottom of fhe facculus-epiploicus, have commonly no fixed connections, bur lie looie between the fore-iide of the cavity of the abdomen and the inteftines. The anterior and pofterior portions are generally called the laminae of the o- mentum ; but as that term is ordinarily employed to exprefs the duplicature of fome compound membrane, it would be more convenient to call them folia, alac, or fome Inch name. Struclure of the omentum. The membrane of. the omen- tum is, through its whole extent, made up of two extremely thin laminae joined by a cellular luhftance, the quantity of which is very confiderable along the blood veffels, which it every where accompanies in broad bands proportioned to the branches and ramifications of thefe veiTels. Thefe cel-, lular bands are more or lei's filled with fit, according to the corpulency of the fu bj eft; and for that reafon 1 have-called them bands or portions 'of fat. . • Little omentum. Befldes this large membranous bag, which I name the great omentum, there is another much finaller, which differ from the large one, not only in iize, but alio in figure, fituation, and connection ;7and this 1 name the little 11 omentum. This final! bag is fixed by its whdle circumference, partly to the Imall curvature of the ftomach, and partly to the ' concave fide of the liver before the iinus of the vena portae, fo as to iurround and contain the prominent portion of the lobulus. The little omentum is thinner and more tranfparet t than the other, and its cavity diminifhes gradually from the cir- cumference to rhe bottom, which in lome fubjecls terminates in feveral finall cavities or fofiulie more or lels pointed. Its flrufhire is much fhe fame tvith that of the great omen- tum* it being compofed of two laminae, with a mixture of