UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VT. to* feral parts of the pelvis, forming a kind of membranous fep- tum, between the anterior and pofterior halves of the cavity of the pelvis ; and it is afterwards continued in a looie man- ner with the peritonaeum, on the tides of the pelvis. Bi oad ligaments of the uterus. Thefe two broad duplicatures have .he name ot ligament a lata, and vefpertilionum alae. The upper edge of each is partly double, or folded, forming two fmall diftind duplicatures, which may be termed the pinions *f the broad ligaments. The anterior pinion is more railed than the pofterior, and they are both very looie. The laminae of all thefe duplicatures are conneded by a cellular lubrtance, in the fame manner as the other duplica- tures of the peritonaeum ; and they contain the Fallopian tubes, the ovaria, a part of the fpermatic veftels, and of thofe that go to the body of the uterus, the ropes called the round ligaments, the nerves, &.c. Ovaria. The ovaria are two whitifh, oval, flat, oblong bodies, fituated on the (ides of the fundus uteri, to which they are fixed by a kind of - fliort round ligament, and in- clofed, together with it, in the duplicature of the pofterior pinion of the ligamenta lata. They are compofed of a compad fpongy fubftance, and of feveral little balls, or tranfparent veficulae, cailed ova ,• the number of which, according to Dr Haller, is found to be fifteen and upwards, though Sabatier fays they are about ten or twtlve, fometimes more, fometimes Ids, and that the li- quor contained in them has all the qualities of lymph. The fpongy fubftance lurrounds each of thefe veficulae very clole- ly, and leems likewife to furnifh them with diftind fpongy coverings or calices. Thefe veficulae are carefully to <Je dil- tinguilhed from other preternatural ones, termed hydatides. The ligaments of the ovaria lie in the edges of the pofte- rior pinions of the ligamenta lata, much in the fame manner as the umbilical vein, in the anterior or umbilical ligaments of