I Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 155 fufpended through the veftibulum ? This feems probably the cafe. From what has been laid, -it appears that the elaftic waves or tremors of the air come through the outer ear and audi- tory pa{Tage, to the membrane of the tyn panum; wh h being injured, and not repaired, the hearing is in a great ftieamre ddtroyed. Ibis feeuis to be Itretchecl, for hear; g weak found-, by the mulcles ot tire malleus. From this membrane the found is conveycu through the fmail bones to the veftibulum 5 for, thele bones being ueltroyed, the hear- ing is again abohflicd. The bony fides ot the veftibulum, by thtir trcmulation, agitate the fmail quantity of aqueous fluid furrounding the nervous pulp. It leems to be (truck by the :neivous pulp iulpended m the veftibulum, and that ti emor ifeem to be continued through the continuous pulp of the ^cochlea and feinicircubr canals. Of more than this we are mot certain •, but, by undoubted experiments, tremors, and .even elaftic founds, communicate themfelves bv the internal lEuftachian tube, and through all the bones of the fkull, lb as :t0 impreis their force upon the auditory nerve. The diflindfion of founds proceeds from the celerity of tthe tremors excited in the hearing nerve, according as they Ifucceed each other more fwiftly or flowly. It is nor nectfla- I ry that the mind fliould number them ; it is fufficient that flie perceive thtir numbers to be different, and that this dif- .'f re-nce exctes a variation in <he thoughts and ideas thence arifii g. Does the harmony or agreeablenefs of founds arif'c from the number of parts founding together in unilon ? ■ and does the mind number the degrees or confonance, lo as : to pieale herleif in a majority of tnem ? Thefe are quef- tions denied by the molt expert muilcians, who un.ke it ap- ( pear that there is an agreeablenefs, and that very confider- ible, in iounds approaching the leaff to a confonance, ami *1 which are in a proportion very difficult to determine. Why dq