Part VI. lien. 3/6 trefcent ftate, as is evident from its colour and confidence. But the greater fluidity ot the blood may proceed not only horn tins d Solution, but becaule all its watery juices that enter by the artery return alio again by the vein ; for there are no lecretory duffs in the fpleen. Moreover, when the liomach is full of food or flitus, the fpleen is thereby comprefled into a narrower coinpals, again ft the ribs and luperincumbent diaphragm ; by which means the blood, that before was lcarce able to creep along through the fplenic veins, being now prefted out more plentifully, re- turns with a greater celerity towards the liver, where it mixes in the trunk of the porta with the fluggiih blood, replete with oily particles from the omentum and mefentery, which it dilutes, and renders lels apt to ftagnate or congeal: It con- duces alfo to promote a larger fecretion of bile, at a time when that fluid is mod wanted, viz. during digeftion. The fpleen, therefore, feems to prepare the blood for fupplying a fort of watery juice, (probably of a fubalkaline nature, and rendered fomewhar fharp by the remora of the blood) to the bile. Is the Ipleen of a cellular fabric ? Is the blood poured out into thole cells fo as to ftagnate ? or is the blood diluted with feme juice fecreted by peculiar glands ? We fee nothing of this demon Arable by anatomy ; nor does the liquor or wax injeffed ever extravafate into the cellular fubftance, unlefs urged with much'greater violence than nature ever ufes or intended. As to the old quell ion, Whether the fpleen pre- pares an acid to whet or lharpen the.ftomach ; that opinion has been long difearded, as repugiUnt to the nature of all the animal juices. If it be alked, Whether the fpleen be not an ufelefs mafs, a< it might feem to be from the little damage an animal fuftains after it has been cut out ? we anfwer. That a robuft animal, luffering but little injury from the lofs of a part, does not prove it to be ufelefs ; but there are ex- amples, alter fuch an experiment has been made, that the li- ver