RESPIRATION. Part VI. 278 of the abdomen lefs, while at the fame time they prefs the vifcera againft the diaphragm. Along with thele we may reckon the powers of the fterno-coftal and long intercoftal mufcles, which are called deprejjbres. By this joint force the fiiperior ribs defcend ; but the middle ones more, the upper- jnoft lefs, the loweft mod of all ; and their margins being brought inward, the cartilages afcend, and return into acute angles with the fternum, and the llernum itfelf returns back- wards with the ribs. By thefe means the thorax, contrary to its former ftate, is every where rendered narrower and fhorter, fo as to expel as much air out of the lungs as is fufficient to relieve the uneafinefs caufed by its retention. In more powerful refpirations, when the infpirations are made greater, the exfpirations are likewife increafed by the afliftance of fome other powers, as of the lacrolumbalis, lon- giflimus, and quadratus mufcles of the back and loins. Ibis force, by which the air is blown out of the lun s, is lufficient to carry a leaden bullet, weighing about a dram, to the dis- tance of 3^3 feet ; which force is equal to a third part of the preffure of the atmofphere. But, in a healthy pfrlon, the mufcles of the abdomen alone produce an ealy exfpira- tion, in which the lungs are not fo much emptied of air as they arc by a violent efflrtion. The effefts of exfpiration are, a compreffure of the blood- veffcls in the lungs, a redu&ion of the bronchia into more a- cute angles, a pfeffure of the reticular fmall veffels by the weight and contadi of the adjacent larger veffels, and an ex- pulfion of the corrupted air from the lungs; by which means part of the blood adhering in the capillary arteries, is urg- ed forward through the veins to the left fide of the heart, whi'e at the fame time that part of the blood is refilled which flows in by the artery from the right ventricle. Ex- fpiration, therefore, will flop the eafy paffage of the blood through the lungs; and when the whole thorax is compref-