223 HEART. Chap. II. and medulla fpinalis; likewife, from its motion when tom out of the breaft; chiefly in thofe animals whole lungs, being impermeable, make no refiftance to the heart's motion; for the motion of the heart is obferved to be very vigorous in the foetus, before the brain is well formed, and likewife in animals wanting the head. And all our experiments agree in this, that the quiefcent heart, in dead or dying animals, when irritated by heat, vapours, poifons, and elpecially impelled flatus, wa- tery liquors, wax, or blood, or on receiving an eledtric fpark, immediately contradfs itfelf, putting all its fibres into a rapid motion, by a force fometimes common to the whole heart,, and fometimes afftdling only a particular part of it. There refides in the heart a kind of defire to be ftitnula- ted, (o that, even when it is almoft dead, wrinkles radiating from a point appear in many places, and trembling motions are propagated through different parts of its furface. Again, the heart, when torn out and cold, on being pricked, infla- ted, or irritated, contrails itfelf; and its fibres, when diffec- ted, corrugate themfelves orbicularly, when there is neither nerve nor artery to bring it lupplies of any kind. This irri- tability is greater, and remains longer in the heart, than in any other part of the body ; for, by ftimulating the heart, its motion may be renewed at a time when that of no other mufcle can. The heart of the foetus is mod irritable, as well as larger in proportion, than in adults, and moft tena- cious of its motion, even in the cold. The motion of the heart appears to be innate, coming neither from the brain no? the foul; it remains even when the heart is removed from the body, and it can neither be increafed nor retarded by the will. It is, therefore, evident, that the ftimulus occafioned by the venous blood driven into the heart, caufes it to contradh This contradlion is convulfive, made with great celerity, and a xnanifeft corrugation of the fibres. The whole heart, in the