354 H E P A R. Part VI. lar or pyramidal apophyfis, fituated backward near the great fciffure which diftinguifhes the two lobes. This triangular eminence is termed (imply the fmall lobe of the liver, or lobulus Spigelii, though it was known to (everal anatomifts long before his time. One of its angles advances a confiderable way toward the middle of the lower fide of the great lobe, and is loft there. This angle we cal! the root of the lobulus. Toward the forefide there is another eminence, lefs prominent, but broader •, and to this eminence, and the former, the antients gave the general name of portae. The depreflions on the concave or lower iide of the liver, which deferve our attention, are four in number. The firft is the (ciflure that feparates the two lobes which runs acrofs the concave fide, from the eminences already mentioned, to the anterior edge, where it terminates by a notch of differ- ent depths in diff rent lubjetfts. This is termed the great fciffure of the liver ; and, in fome lubjects, part ot it is an entire tube. The feccnd depreffion is fituated tranlverlely between the two eminences of the great lobe, a:.d filled by the finus of the vena portae, fo called by the antients, becaufe it lies between the eminences of the fan;e name. The third depreffion is backward, between the great lobe and'lobulus Spigelii, a d the vena cava paffes through it. The fourth is a kind of (ulcus, between the lobulus and (mall lobe of the liver, which, in the foetus, fcrved to receive a venal canal loft in adults, in whom it appears only as a kind of ligament. This fnlcus is in f me meafure a continuation of the great fciffure, and joins the vena cava by an acute angle. Befides thefe four depreffion?, there is one on the fore part of the great lobe, in which the veficula fellis is lodged ; an!i it fometimes runs as far as the edge, where it forms a fmall notch. We may likewife reckon among thefe depreffions a fmall fuperficial cavity in the poftt nor and lateral part of the lower fide of the great-lobe, by which it refts on the right kidneyj