THE MOUTH, Part VI. 188 l Thcfe holes, which reprefent a fieve, or a piece of net- work, are continued to an irregular finus or cavity within the gland, filled commonly with a vifcid fluid, which comes from the bottom of the finus, and is from thence gradually dif- charged through thefe holes into the throat. The thyroid gland is a large reddifh mafs, which covers the anterior convex fide of the larynx. It feems at firft fight to be made up of two oblong glandular portions united by their inferior extremities, below the cricoid cartilage, in fuch a manner as to have lome refernblance to a crefcent, with the cornua turned upward. It is of a moderate thicknefs, and bent laterally like the thyroid cartilage, from which its name is taken. The twoi lateral portions lie on the mufculi thy- roidnei, and the middle or inferior portion on the crico thy- roidaei. The thyro-pharyngaei inferiores fend fibres over this gland; and they communicate on each fide, by fome fuch fibres, with the flerno-thyroidaei and hyo-thyroidaei. This gland feems to be of the fame kind with the other falival glands, but it is more folid. Some anatomifts thought they had difcovered the excretory du<A; but they miflook a blood-veffcl for it. Sabatier obferves, that the internal ftruc- ture of this gland is flaccid and reddifh, and formed of glan- dulous grains, lefs eafily diflinguilhed than in the other glands, and of veficles of different fizes, full of a yellowifh oily liquor, winch may ferve the purpofe of lubricating the parts in its neighbourhood. We fometimes meet with a kind of glandular rope which runs before the cartilago-thyroides, and difappears before the balls of the os hyoides- This glandular rope goes out from the common balls of the lateral portions of the thyroid gland ; and is lofl between the mufculi flerno-hyoidaei, behind the balls of the os hyoi- des, or between that balls and the epiglottis. The glandulae lyu.phaticae will come in more properly in another part of this work, with the defeription of the abfor- bent lyfiean.