2po Part VI. CESOPHAGU 3. back, in the fame direction which it had above: There it in- cli' -s a little from left to right, till it reaches the ninth rib, to 1;: ik • vrjy for the aorta •, aftervv rds it inclines from right ' > 'ind from behind forward, to get through the dia- ■nvgm .to the upper orifice of the flomach. Structure and coats It is made up of feveral coats, almoft in ibe fame manner as the flomach, of which it is the con- tinuation. The firft coat, while in the thorax, is formed only by the duplicature of the poflerior part of the mediaftinum, and is wanting above the thorax and in the neck, where the outer coat of the oelophagus is only a continuation of the cel- lular fubftance belonging to the neighbouring parts. The fecond coat is mufcular, being made up of feveral flrara of flelhy fibres. l he outei moff are moflly longitudi- nal, and their quantity is much greater than that on the reft of the alimentary can .l; but they a^c not all continued from one end of the oefophagus to the other. The following ftrata are obliquely tranfverfe, and the mnermofi; are turned a little obliquely the contrary way. 1 hey crofs each other irregu- larly in many places, but are neither fpiral nor annular. The third is termed the nervous coat, and is like that of the flomach and inteflines. It is differently folded or plait- ed, according to its length, being much wider than the muf- cular coat i and it is furrounded by a whitifh, foft, fine fila- mentary fubftance, like a kind of cotton, which, when lleep- cd in water, fwells and grows thicker. The fourth or innermoft coat relembles, in fome meafure, that of the inteflines; except that, inllead of the villi, it has fmall and very lliort papillae. It is folded lengthwife like the third coat ; fo that the oefiqhagus, when cut acrol's, repre- fents one tube within another. I hrough the pores of this coat a vifcid lymph is continually difcharged. The upper end of the oelophagus is fuppiied with arteries from the laryngeae inferiores 5 farther down it has branches from