SECRETION or the BILE. Part VI. 388 wnnkling of the dud, for ir may be very eafily prefled toge« ther or clofed ; the regurgitation may alfo be prevented by a fuccrffioR of frelb bile defcending perpendicularly from the liver. Air inflated into the intefline finds no paflage into the dud Jufl at the portae this duct receives from the gall-bladder another lrl canal of the fame k nd, which lies for a good way parallel with it, and is iulerted into it by a very acute angle : This, which is called the cyllic dud, from its or^in, is lomcttmes hrit mcrealed oy another imall dud from the li- ver before us mlertion. The gall-bladder, from which this duct; riles, IS a peculiar receptacle for the bile : Molt animals are furmfhed with it ; lome, 'however, want it, as molt of the fwilt ruhnmg, and many of the herbivorous animals, its fi- tuation, hgure, and texture, has been already defcribed. rl he generality of animals have, between their gall bladder and hvrr, or between the duds’eoming from both, fome pe- culiar openings in the gall-blander, into which fome^duds, origit at ng from the liver, or thehepaticbiliarydud.dll'- charge their contents. In man thefe duds have not been hi- therto dearly demonltrated ; and the gall bladder is ealiiy loolcneo from the liver, without a drop of bile diflilling'cither from it or from the liver. 1 here is alio a thin water in the bladder as often as the cyflic dud is obflruded. '1 he bile flows naturally both out of the bladder and liver, as lor g as there is no impediment in its way; lo that both dud> dwell when that p.iffige is obltruded, and the cyflic lies in a ftraight line with the cholidochus. There is no neceffity for all the bile to be diverted into the gall-blad- der before it fl ws into the duodenum. There is not a per- petual obftacle which hinders the afflux, and peculiarly re- fifts the hepatic bile, and admits the cyflic; the paflage into the dudus cholidochus is larger and flraighter, the dudus cyfticus much lefs than the hepatic, nor is that dud fo well formed