€4 the brain, Fart VI. affedlion of the body. It is the medullary part of the nerve which feels. If the nerve was endowed with any peculiar fenfe, that fenfe periffies when the nerve is compreffed or cut through; the fenfes of the whole body are loft by a cotn- preffion of the brain, and a preffure of the fpinal marrow deprives only thofe parts which are below it of fenfation. If a preffure be made on the brain where particular nerves arife, then only thofe fenfes depending on thefe nerves are loft. Thofe parts of the body that are furnilhed with nerves, are the only parts endued with fenfation, which is greater in proportion to the quantity of nerves fent to the parts, of which we have examples in the eye and the penis; thofe have lefs fenfibility which receive few nerves, as the vifeera ; and thofe which have feweft nerves, as the dura mater, ten- dons, ligaments, fecundines, bones, and cartilages, have little or no fenfation in the found ftate. It is therefore evident, that all fenfation arifes from the impreffion of an attive fubftance on fome nerve of the hu- man body ; and that the fame is then reprefented to the mind by means of that nerve’s* connection with the brain. It feems to be falfe, that the mind perceives immediately by means of the fenforia and branches of the nerves. For this opinion is refuted by the pains felt after amputation, by the ceffation of all pain when the nerve is compreffed, and by defeats or faults of the fenfes in confequence of difeafes of the brain. And that the effedt of the fenfes is preferved in the brain, is evident from the lofs of memory which follows an injury or compreffion of the brain ; and alfo from the de- lirium which happens in fome difeafes, and the ftupor and fleepinefs which happen in others. Another office of the nerves is to excite motions, even the moft violent, in the mufcles. When a nerve is irritated, eve- ry mufcle to which it goes is immediately convulfed ; or, if it fends branches to leveral niulcles, they are all convulfed at the 1