HEART. I Chap. II. 213 Befides thefe fiefhy pillars, the internal fibres form a great imanv eminences and depreflions, which not only render the ; inner furface of the ventricles uneven, but give it a great ex- tent within a fmall compafs. Some of thefe deprellions are the orifices of the venal du£ts found in the lubftance of the ventricles, which have been already mentioned. The cir- cumferences of the great openings at the bafis of the heart are tendinous, and may be looked upon as the common ten- don of all the flefhy fibres of which the ventricles are com. poled. Valvulae. The valves at the orifices of the ventricles are of two kinds :‘One kind allows the blood to enter the heart, and hinders it from going out the lame way; the other kind allows the blood to go our of the heart, but hinders it from returning. The valves of the firff kind terminate the auri- culae; and thole of the lecond lie in the openings of the great arteries. The fir!! are termed ftmilunar or Jigmoidal valves ; the others, triglochines, tricufpidal, or mitral. The tricufpidal valve of the right ventricle is of a circular form, and is fixed to the opening of the auricle, while the other end is attached to the internal lurfac'e of the ventricle. The circular membrane of the valve foon divides into many parts, three of which are more confiderable than the reft ; and thefe have got the name of trieufpid valves, though they are now generally confidered as forming one. That which is next the mouth of the pulmonary artery is the large!!, and fome anatomifis think that it prevents the blood from get- ting into the artery while the ventricle is filling. It has three triangular produdlions, very fmooth and polifhed on that fide which is turned toward the auricle; but on the fide next the cavity of the ventricle, they have feveral membra- nous and tendinous expanfions, and their edges are notched or indented. The valve of the auricular orifice of the left ventricle is of the fame fihape and ftru&ure, but it is only divided