AND ITS APPENDAGES. t2? Chap. I. the ling is adapted to the reception of fcents; and it is dilated in proportion to the quantity of inhaled air, and again contrac- ted, when the air is expelled in the lame abundance. The air, filled with the fubtle and invifible effluvia of bo- dies, confifting of their volatile, oily, and laline particles, is, by the powers of refpiration, urged through the nofe, and applied to the almoft naked, and confiantly foft, olfactory nerves, in which a kind of feeling is excited, which we call jmeltings and by this fenfe we diftinguifh feveral kinds of oils and falts, by different fcents or odures, which are difficultly reducible to claffes, and difficultly recalled to memory. The odours, however, already eftablifhed, are fufficient enough for our purpofes. This fenfe ferves to admonifh us of per- nicious putrefadticn ; of violent acrimony ; or of a mild and foapy quality in bodies. As fait, joined with an oil, is the objeft of tafte; and a volatile oil, added to falts, ferves to excite fmells, we may perceive the affinity of thefe two fenfes, which affinity feemed to be the more neceffary on account of thefe fenfes mutually and jointly affifting each other in per- forming their offices. Volatile particles are chiefly diftin* guifhed by fmell, and fixed ones by tafte ; perhaps becaufe the thick mucous cuticle, fpread over the tongue, intercepts the affion of the more fubtle faline effluvia from afting upon the tafte, which yet eafily afteft the lofter and lefs covered nerves of the internal nofe. We are ignorant of the reafon vvhyfome fmells pleafe, and others difpleafej perhaps cuftom may have much influence in this refpedt. The power of odours is ftrong and quick, becaufe minute particles of matter are immediately applied to naked nerves fituated very near the brain : HenOe the force of poifonous vapours, and hence alfo the quality certain odours poflefs, of recovering people from faintings, or after drowning : Hence alfo that violent fneezing which often arifes from acrid parti- cles, and a diarrhoea fron> the fmell of fome medicines; hence