DIGESTION. Ghap. III. 339 neceftary in man, whofe ftomach has but few'and weak muf- cles Previous mu ticution alfo afiilts digeition, and therefore prevents the food from flaying lo long upon the itomach as to become putrid , The meafure of our food is determined by hunger, which is d fFcrent in different' c;rcumftances. Animal and farina- ceous food nouriihes molt : Other at intents ought to fupply, by their quantity, what they want in :heir powers ;f nouriih- tiient In general, we are nourtined belt oy a iomewhat ipare diet, unIds we are lubjecled to much labour. Aliments ot various kinds are received into the ftomach, either whole or mahicated home of them are alkalefceut, as animal fubftances ; others rancefcent, as fat ; others acel- cetit, as vegetables; and others glutinous, as milk, hr . ad, and mod of the farinaceous feeds. The aliments ate digelied in a heat nearly eijuai to that necefTtry for hatching an egg, produced by the circumjacent liver, ipleen, and other vifter.t. During digeftion, the ftomach is perfectly doled, both at its Superior,'and interior orifices; and, although the mufcular fibres ct the Itomach contradl, yet no food is propelled imo t^he inteftines, until it has been thoroughly digelied ; even nu,k itlelf is often retained in the ftomach of ftrong animals feveral hours after a meal, without puffing itito the mteltinee. The ul iments, either naturally containing air in thtmlelves, - or mixed with air in maflication, are macerated in the juices of the It divide h. in conitquence of the heat, this included air is expanded, and .by an operation fomewhat firm! r to fef- mentation, breaks the cells in which it was included, and thus the contents of the liunach are reduced to a pulpy (late. The lohdity of animal fubftances is occafioned foieiy by their being impregnated with air, and the air being extricated or fet free in the ftomach, thefe fubftances are reduce hie to a friable or loluble ftate. This laflfacl is iliuilrated by Papin’s digefter. This air, let at liberty by the digeftion, often, un- " cleic