Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. t$i natcly to elevate and deprefs its plain furface into the forrA of arches or curves, fo as to produce the above mentioned fonorous waves. Thefe ofcillations or impnlfions of the air are required to luccecd each other with a certain velocity j and, in order to render them audible, they muft not be fewer than 30 in a fecond. Acute founds arc, in general, produced from bodies that arc hard, brittle, and violently (hook or ftruck ; but grave founds from bodies of a contrary nature. Thole founds, in general, are called acute, which arc produced from more nu- merous tremors in an equal time ; and thole obtufe or grave, which are produced from few tremors. As to any medium between acute and grave lounds, there is none but what is arbitrary. Cords, or other bodies, that yield the fame num- ber of vibrations in a given time, are laid to be in unifon ; if one cord vibrates twice while another vibrates once, it pro- duces an oElaVe ; if one vibrates thrice while the other vibrates twice, it produces a fifth; and other proportions between the number of vibrations produce different tones or notes. Shorter cords produce (harper tones; and the contrary j and the tenfions being the fame, the fharpnefs of the tones Will be inverfely proportional to their lengths. The lengths being the fame, the fharpnefs will be in the fubduplicate proportion of the flrctching force. Experiments to this pur- pole are very eafily made with a monochord, or a feries of cords ftrctched with weights. The found thus produced, whether acute or grave, ftrong or weak, is carried through the air with a velocity equal to about 1142 feet in a fecond, or above 13 miles in a minute 5 1 and that with an uniform velocity, without abating in the larger uiftances; but a contrary wind, caufing ihe vibrations to extend more llowly, retards the progreffion of found about one-twelfth of its velocity. Denfity and drynefs of the air the iwaudj, ae « rarcfa^Uou and modlure of the ate , If (Tea