THE MOUTff, Fart V& The papillae of the third kind, or villofae, are the fmalleft and moft numerous. Ihey fill the whole lurface of the up- per fide of the tongue, and even the interfaces between the other papillae. 1 hey would he more properly named papillae cotiicae than villofae, from the figure which they appear to Have when examined through a microfcope in clear water. Ihey are naturally loftifh,. but they become extremely flaccid nfter death, fo that by handling them they may be made fliort and thick, whereas they are naturally long and fmall. Ana- tomifta confider thefe as the extremities of the veflels and nerves of the tongue. The fiefiiy fibres of which the tongue is compofed, and which go no further than the tongue, may be termed mufcult linguae inlet iores. rl he fibres thele mufcles confilt of are of three general kinds ; longitudinal, tranlverle, and vertical; and each of thefe fituaticns admits of different degrees of obliquity. The longitudinal fibres point to the bafis and apex ot the tongue, and feem partly to be expanfions of the mulculi fiylo- gloffi, hyo glofli, genio gloffi, and lingualis. The vertical fibres fecm likcwile to be in part produced by thefe mulcles. Befides thefe mixed productions, there is a diftindt plane of longitudinal fibres, which run near the furface of the up- per fide of the tongue, and a difiinCt tranlverfe plane under them. All thefe fibres are partly interwoven, one portion of them terminating at the two edges of the tongue, and the other at the balls and point, without going to any other part; and they lie immediately above thofe that belong to the ge- nio-gloffi. To dilcover all thele different hires, and their different degrees of direction, we need only cut the tongue longitudinally, after it has been boiled, or long macerated in ilrong vinegar. The mulculi exteriores, are thole which by one extremity make a part of the body of the tongue, and are fixed by the other* in frnne part without the tongue. Of thefe we com- monly