Chap. III. 3s* SECRETION of the BIIiE. formed for receiving all the bile ; the cholidochus being much larger than the cyflic duff, cannot therefore be made only for the reception of its bile. 1 here are many animals in which the hepatic duff difeharges its contents into the in- teftine without any communica ion with the cvflic. In liv- < . ing animds. even when the cyllic duff is free, the bile ap- pears to defeend into the duodenum in a perpetual current. That the quantity is very coufiderable, appears from the magnitude of the fecretory organ, and the excretory duct, fo many times.larger than the fahval ones, and from difeales, in which four ounces of the cyflic hile have flowed through, an ulcer of the fide daily. The hepatic bile goes into the bladder, as often as there is any obllrutflion in the duodenal flu us, from flitu^ or any other caufe comprefling the end of the duttus cholidochus. Accordingly, we find it extremely full, Whenever the common biliary duff is obflrudted or com- prefled by fome feirrhous tumor, whence the gall bladder is fometimes enlarged beyond all belief; and if the cyflic duff be tied, it fwells between the ligature and hepatic duel ; and in living animals, the hepatic bile vifibly diftils into the wound- ed gall bladder. The retrograde angle, ordireflion of chisduft, is not repugnant to fuch a courfe of the bile ; for a very flight prefiare urges it from the liver into the gall-bladder, and even air may be eafily driven the fame way, rnpre efppcialiy if the duodenum be firfi inflated. There doe^l not feem to be any fort of bile feparated by the gall-bladder itfelf; for whenever the cyflic duct is obftructed by a final! Itone, or a ligature made upon it, we find nothing feparated into the gall-bladder more than the exhaling moifture, and a fmall quantity of infipid mucus fecreted from the follicles. In many animals, we meet with no appearance of any gall biad- der, when at the fame time there is a. plentiful flux of firong, well prepared, and falutary bile difeharged into the inteftines. Again, it does not feem probable, that the cyflic branch