103 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I, hies, while it is either elevated or deprefted. The elevation of the upper eye-lid is performed by a mufcle arifing iron* the involucrum of the optic nerye gradually ipreading, and extending by its expanfion to the tarfus. This elevator is confiderably afiiited in its aCtion by the frontalis, and by va- rious connections with the orbicularis when this laft is drawn up or dilated by the former. The upper eye-lid is depreiled by the orbicularis muide, which atfo ferves to elevate the lower eye-lid, and covers the eye in fuch a manner that no dull or light can enter it in deep. The lower eye-lid is deprefted by a double portion of (he fibres, inferted into the upper-lip. Finally, that the protuberant margins of the eye-lids might not injurioufly beat againil each other, the cilia are placed lb as to make a blind or lhade, which, by excluding the extraneous rays, might afford a more diftinCt repreientation of any objeCt. That the eye-lids rubbing again It each other might not grow together, they are fupplied with a row of febaceous glandules, that dilcharge a foft liniment, which mixes and walhes oft" with the tears. Tlie perpetual attrition of the eye-lids afeending and de- fending againft the globe of the eye, is prevented by the fears; which preierve alfo the tendernefs of the membranes and of the cornea, and ferve to wafh out any infeCts or other lliarp corgjifcles. Thefe form a faline pellucid liquor that may be evaporated, and never ccafes to be poured over the anterior furface of the eye ; but never runs over the cheeks, unlefs collefted, by a foreign caufe, in larger than ufual quan- tity. This liquor is exhaled" partly from the arteries of the conjunCUva, and partly proceeds from the lacrymal gland. The reparation of the tears is increafed by the more fre- quent contraction of the orbicular mufcle, either from irrita- tion, or fome forrowful pallion ; by which means the tears are urged over, aqd wafh the whole furface of the eye and Conjunctiva. After