US Chap. IT. THE TEMPERAMENTS. 4. There is in the air, undoubtedly, a certain deflrical principle, which being by refpiration communicated iD differ- ent ways with the body, imparts a natural tone to the fibres, occafions a quicker motion in the veffels, and inercafes and diminifhes by turns the alacrity of the mind. But, as this principle of atmol'pheric air does not prevail in equal quan- tity every hour of the day, all times of the year, and in every climate 5 fo fometimes we feel an univtrial laffitude, which fuddenly ceafes, the Ifrength of the body and mind being reftored with a ferene and elaftic air •, fo, in like manner, all men do not equally abforb this elcdxic matter, which thus forms a remarkable diverfity of temperament. 5. We ought, too, to combine with thefe the various nature of the blood from the proportion of its elements : And, in fad, as greater ftimuli in the blood excite the heart to brifker contradions 5 fo a more acrid and copious bile may effedually promote the periftaltic motion, and the abundance of mucus occafion 9 tendency to lentor and frequent catarrhs. “ There are then fufficient caufcs, which, from cur birth, may bring on, in the firft growth of the parts of the body, an irrevocable determination to this or that habit or tempe. rament. I therefore can fcarcely admit a complete tranfi. mutation of temperament, which, during the exercile of thefe natural lasw, could render a purely choleric perfon phlegma- tic : But, that fome change may take place in temperaments, that violent attacks may be mitigated, that lentor, torpor, and liflleffuefs, may be increafed, I readily agree ; and, from the remedies by which fuch a change may be produced, I form a fecond clafs of the caufes of temperaments. The chief are, 1. A different kind of meat and drink. An animal diet adds a great flimulus to our llrength, invigorates our fenfes, and fometimes induces ferocity ; as is evident from the Anthropophagi, carnivorous animals, wild beafts and their whelps, and hunters, particularly if the abufe of aro- raatics,