Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 8f been taken out. We obferve very fine vefiels in this hu- mour, which fhall be defcribed afterwards. The cryftalline humour. The cryftalline is a fmall len- ticular body, of a firm confidence, and tranfparent like cryfial. It is contained in a tranfparent membranous capfula, and lodged in the anterior foflula of the vitreous humour, as has been already faid. It is very improperly called an hu- mour, becaufe it may be handled and moulded into different fhapes by the fingers, and fometimes almoft diffolved by dif- ferent reiterated compreffions, efpecially when taken out of the capfula. The figure of the cryftalline is lenticular; but its pofte- rior fide is more convex than the anterior, the convexity of both fides being very rarely equal. Steno obferved, that the lens was compofed of concentric lamellae; and this has been confirmed by later authors : And Zinn has difcovered radia- ted ftreaks of a pearl colour, dividing the lens into little tri- angles.—See Zinn de Oculi, tab. vii. fig. vii. The colour and confidence of the cryftalline varies in dif- ferent ages, as was difcovered by M. Petit the phyfician. (See Memoirs for 1726). Till the age of 30 it is very tran- fparent, and almoft without any colour. It afterwards be- comes yellcwifti, and that yellowilhnefs gradually incrcafes. The confidence varies almoft in the fame manner, being of an uniform foftnefs till the age of 20, and afterwards grow- ing gradually more folid in the middle of the mafs ; but in this there are varieties, explained in the Memoirs for 1727. Haller takes notice of a watery liquor fituated betwixt the cryftalline lamellae, which in old age turns, of its own ac- cord, to a yellow colour ; and Steno and Morgagni deferibe a little water effufed betwixt the lens and its capfule. The cryftalline capfula or coat is formed by a duplicator^ of the tunica vitrea, or of a proper capfula to which the tu- nica vitrea is connected. The anterior portion of the cryftal- line