Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 107 the denfity of the kquor. The angle which the oblique ray makes with the perpendicular, is called the angle of incidence; and, after having been bent by entering the medium, the angle it then makes with the perpendicular is called the angle of refaction. We have hitherto conlldered the rays as pal- ling out of void l'pnce, or vacuum, into a refradting medium ; but moll of the rays we have occalion to confider pals out of one refradting medium into another. If the ray pafs from a leis into a more dcnle medium, it is refradted, as if it had pal- fed out of vacuum ; but, if it pafs out of a denfer into a rarer medium, it is bent from the perpendicular. The proportions of the angles of incidence to thofe of refradtion are oblerved to be conftant enough ; the line of the angle of refradtion from air into water is to the line of the angle of incidence as 3 to 4 ; and, in palling from air into glals, the line of the angle of incidence is to the line of that of refradtion as 1 7 to 11 ; and from water into glafs, as 5 1 to 44. Rays that are parallel to one another, falling on a fpheri- cal tranfparent body, if the angle of incidence be greater than 48I degrees, are refiedted, and do not enter the fphere; but, if that angle be lels than 48^, they enter the fphere, and are refradted, fo as all to meet in one point, called the focus. The rays of light, therefore, whether direct or inflected, fall upon the tunica cornea of the eye, fo as to form a very fharp cone between the lucid point and the membrane upon which they are fpread ; the balis of which cone will be the furface of the cornea, and the apex the radiant point; yet fo that all rays may, without any fenfible error, be reckoned paral- lel with each other. Among thele, there are fome rays re- flected back from the cornea, without ever penetrating the furface; namely, all fuch as fall upon that membrane in” a greater angle than that of forty degrees. Others, which en- ter the cornea at very large angles, but lefs than the former, and