AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 193 hyoideus, which, when it is prefent, refembles the former. All thefe mufcles draw the tongue back, but laterally they elevate it. The mylohyoidaeus elevates the tongue, and fixes it in making various motions, or in like manner deprefies the jaw. The gemohyoidaeus, being a companion of the genio- gloflus, pulls the tongue forward out of the mouth. The mufcles of the cheeks varioufly move and prefs the food in the mouth. Others move it from the cavity of the cheeks into the inner cavity of the mouth behind the teeth, as we fee in the buccinator when the mouth is fhut. Others open the mouth for receiving the food, fuch as the double- headed proper elevator of the upper lip, and the elevator anguli oris ; to which add the zygomatici, upper and lower; the buccinator, deprefior anguli oris, and depreflor labii in- ferioris. Others again clofe the lips, that the food received may not return out of the mouth; as the orbicularis of each lip, the proper deprefior of the upper lip, and the proper elevator of the lower lip, and that which ferves in common for the elevation of both. By thefe means the food, ground and mixed with the fali- va into a foft pulp, collected from all parts of the mouth by the tongue, into the arched fpace between the teeth, is after- ward, by the expanfion and fucceffive preflure of the tongue, conveyed backward behind the teeth; and, in this adtion, the tongue is expanded by the hyoglofii and genioglofii, and rendered a little concave by the ftylogloflus. And from thence it is next conveyed into the fauces. For the tongue being raiCed by the ftyloglofii, and broadly applied to the palate, firft by its apex, then alfo infenfibly by its pofterior extremity, prefies the food fucceffively towards the fauces, which at that time only afford an open paffage. After this, the thick root and back part of the tongue itfelf, by the forementioned mufcles, and by the ftylohoidaei and biventers carried backward, prefies down the epiglottis, which Vol. If. B b ftands