269 respiration; Chap. II. ufc of the lungs, appears from the unlverfal confent of na- ture, fince we fcarce find any animal without breathing; it appears alfo from the firu&ure of the lungs in the foetus, in. which, for want of air, they are ufelefs, receiving only a fmall portion of the blood, which the pulmonary artery condufts from the heart. We come next, therefore, to fpeak of re- fpiration, i. e. the operation by which the air is drawn into, and expelled from the lungs. The element of air appears from the principles of philo- fophy, to be an elaftic and fonorous fluid, with a fpring which cannot be deftroyed. But the atmofpherical air, which, we commonly receive into the lungs, is impure, filled with a great quantity of watery and other vapours, alfo with falts and the univerfal acid, with the feeds of plants and animals, and other foreign matters, but in very minute particles ; the fpeciric gravity of air 859 times lefs than water, a cubic foot of air weighing between 610 and 694 grains. This air, which furrounds the earth on all fides, being prefled by the incumbent columns of its own mafs, perpendicularly, lateral- ly, and in all directions, enters forcibly wherever it meets a lefs refiftance, as appears from experiments made with the air-pump. Its preflure upon the human body is not lefs than 3000 pounds weight. It is repelled chiefly by the pores of the membranes, which are yet permeable by water : It lrke- wife penetrates oil or mucus with difficulty. This 21 r is excluded from all parts < f the human body by the furrounding clofe Ikin, which, even when dry, is imper- vious to the air ; and, in the living body, the flein becomes ftill more impervious, on account of the. fat under it filling the pores. We lhall next inquire into the reafon why, and the manner in which the lungs receive air into their fub- ftance; and this invefligation becomes the more difficult when we reflect that the lungs of an adult are always full of air, which, on a flight view of the fubjeft, we might imagine would