Chap. IV. 4ir SECRETION of URINE. der alfo abforbs; and although the paflage of mineral Spaw waters, by urine, be extremely quick ; yet it does not thence follow that there mult be ways, different from that of the u- reters, to convey the water from the food to the bladder. For the bladder is, on all tides, fc-parated from the cavity of the abdomen by the peritonaeum ; nor is it probable that the vapours, which either go out from the bladder, or which are derived towards it from other parts, can here find open pores through the peritonaeum. Betides, membranes, when wet, have their pores filled, and confequently are lets adapted for imbibing either vapours or fluids. The bladder may be fo diftended with urine as to produce death ; yet, in thefe cafes, we never obferve that the urine has found any paflage through which it might efcape into the pelvis. Again, when the u- reters are obftrudted with ftones, fo that t'he bladder receives nothing from them, it is either quite empty, or contains a very acrimonious and thick urine, manifeitly indicating that the water can find no other way from the kidney into the bladder. And a careful attention to the manner in which mineral waters are dilcharged by urine, fufficiently demon- ftrates that there is no fuch rapidity therein as is commonly imagined ; but the ftimulus of the cold water received into the ftomaeh, like the external cold applied to the Ikin, cau- fes a concuflion of the bladder and urinary parts, by which they are follicited to repeated difcharges of the old urine ‘which was before in the body, and not immediately of that which was lalt drank. Again, the largenefs of the renal vef- fels demonftrates, that they cannot receive much lels than an eight part of the blood of the whole body at a time, and confequently above iooo ounces of blood are conveyed through the kidneys in an hour ; and it will appear but a moderate allowance for 20 or even 50 ounces of water to diftil from that quantity of blood in the fame time. Finally, it is cer- tain that both men and brute animals perilh if the ureters are