DIGESTION. Chap. III. 347 tinal tube. Anv part of the inteftine, irritated by flatus or any (harp or rough body, contracts itfelf, even after death, mod violently in that part where the ftimulus is applied, in order to free itfelf from the offending or diltending body, which it expels into the next open part of the lax inteftine \ where, being received, it is again propelled forward, by excit- ing a like ftimulus and contraction as before, flats contrac- ting motion of the inteftines is made in various parts of the gut, either fuccefllvely or at the fame time, wherever the flatus or aliment excites a ftimulus, without oblervmg any certain order. So well fitted, however, are the inteftines for this motion, that they even exceed the irritability of the heart. When they are not irritated, they remain at reft; and we may fuppofe this to be the caufe why the fat is depo- fited in the abdomen. The principal ftimulus is the air; next: to that is the aliment ; and laltly, the bile. This mo- tion is performed by a fort of alternate creeping and revolu- tion of the inteftines, which difleCtion eafily demonftrates in brute animals, and cafes of wounds in the abdomen and rup- tures have manifefted it in the human- fpecies. Among fo many inflexions, the weight of the aliment is but of little confequence, for it eafily afeends or defeends through the ir- ritated inteftine, which thus empties itfelf. This periftaltic motion of the inteftines is performed by the conftri&ion of their circular fibres, which empty the tube exadtly, without injuring it againft pins, needles, or any other fliarp bodies accidentally introduced into it, they being at the fame time pufhed forward. But the revolutions, or thole mo- tions in which the tube is alternately (hortened and lengthen- ed, and the Heightening of crooked parts one before another, which is fo remarkably conlpicuous in brute animals, are per- formed by the long fibres, which we lee conrraCt themfelve*- at the feat of the prefent, ftimulus, and dilate the following por- tion, in order to receive what follows. By the lame contraction, the