SECRETION of the BILE. Chap. III. 3^5 hepatic artery. Each veffcl has its proper cellular texture furrounding it, and ligaments, by which it is tied to its fellow vefTels ; and, laftly, the whole bundle has its cellular texture round it. The branches of the vena cava lie on the outfide of the reft, being lels accurately received into the lame bun- dle. The ultimate fmall branches of the vc a portarum, ca- va, and hepatic artery, together with the bil on duCts, are united together by means of the cellular lu fiance into com- pound clufters, fomewhat relembl ng mulberries, commonly called acini, of ah hexagonal lhape, furround d with a lax cellular texture. In "thele acini, likewife, there are mutual anaftomofes between the portal branches and hepatic artery, with the roots of the vena cava on one fide, and the hrft or- gans of the pori biliarii of the liver on the other tide; which 1-aft inofculations are demonllrated by anatomical injections ; for liquors~inje£ted by the vena portarum return again through the duCtus cholidochus. Many eminent anatomifts have taught, that the fore men- tioned acini are hollow, having arteries and veins Ipread upon their external lurface, and that they depolit the bite mto their cavity, after it has been leereted from the branches of the vena portarum. This opinion they fupporr by arguments taken from comparative-anatomy, thcle amn befng in brutes rounder and more defined than in man ; and from difeales', in which we find cells and round tubercles, filled with lymph, chalk, and various kinds of concreted m* ter l'o this they might have added the thick fluggilh t aru e of the bile irfelf, its fimilarity to mucus, and the analogy of the follicles of the gall-bladder. But greater accuracy in anatomy will not allow any follicles into which the Imall (ecretory v< fieh open ; tor luch follicles would intercept the courle of anatomical injections, and give us the appearance of knots, intermediate between the fecreto- ry vile Is and the biliary pores, which we have never yet been Von. II. 3 C able l