V i<5S THE MOUTH, Part VI. / late, or cheeks, we apply a Lpid body, we do not perceive the Penle of pain, but of talte ; and from fome bodies, as arum, pepper, &-C. the lenlation produced will be ftronger and more <Miii£t in thefe parts than any where elle. 1 hat fenfation which is fometimes excited in the ftotnach, oefophagu^, and fauces, by the regurgitation of the aliments, leems alfo to be- long to the tongue, to which the fapid vapours are fenit back, uncommonly acrid and penetrating j and even that fenfc which is fometimes occafiuned in the ftomach, oefophagus, and fauces, from a rifing of the aliments, feems alfo to be owing to the tongue, to which the talteable vapours are conveyed. The papillae of the tongue, which are larger and hotter than thofe of the Ikin, and perpttually moift, perform the office of touch more cxquifitely than the fmall and dry cuta- neous papillae. The papillae of the tongue being railed a little protuberant to perform the office ot talle, are affected in a particul. r manner by fairs diflolved in water, or faliva, ai d applied againft their tips or fummits; which being dif- tinguifhed by the mind, and referred to certain daffies, are , called tajles, either lour fweet, acerb, bitter, lalme, urinous, fpirituous, aromatic, or pui gent and acrid inlipid, putrid, and others refusing pirtly from pure (alts, and in part from an intermixture of the fubtile, animal, or vegetable oils, varioufly compounding and changing each other. Does the diverfity of fades nrile from the different figures which are natural to fahs ? Is the cubical figure of fea-falt the reafon of its having a different tafte from nitre that is prifmatical, or from other falts of a different form ? we an- fwer, that this does not ieem probable; for, even taftelefs crys- tals have their particular configurations; and the tafte arifing from very different falts, and differently qualified objeds of this (enfe, are too much alike each other, and at the fame time too inconftant or changeable, to allow fuch a theory ; for example, in nitre. The mechanical reafon, therefore.