S3 Part Vf. THE EYE, the juft idea of the fituation of the globe in the orbit, and at the fame time to remember the obliquity of the orbits, as already explained. The globe is naturally placed in fuch a man- ner, as that, during the inaftion or equilibrium of all the mufcles, the pupilla is turned direftly forward; the inner edge of the orbit is oppofite to the middle of the infide of the globe ; the outer edge of the orbit, becaufe of its obli- quity, is behind the middle of the outfide of the globe ; and laftly, the great circumference of the convexity of the globe, between the pupilla.and the optic nerve, runs direflly inwards and outwards, upwards and downwards. In this fituation, the adductor alone is in a ftraight direc- tion, the other three being oblique ; and the abcludtor is the longeft, the adduftor the fhorteft, and the levator and depref- for of the fame middle length between the two former. The abduflor is likewife bent round the outer convex fide of the globe j the levator and dep:eflor are alfo incurvated, but in a lefs degree ; whereas the adduftor is almoft ftraight. The fuperior oblique are fituated fo as to ferve as antagonifts to the former. (See Defcription of the Mufcles, vol. I.) TJfes of thefe mufcles. The levator moves the anterior por- tion of the globe upward, when we lift up the eyes; the de- preflor carries this portion downwards; the adductor towards the nofe, and the abductor towards the temples. "When two neighbouring recti aft at the fame time, they carry the anterior portion of the globe obliquely towards that fide which anfwers to the diftance between thefe two mufcles : And when all the four mufcles act fuccefiively, they turn the globe of the eye round, which is what is called rol- ling the eyes. It is to be obferved, that all thefe motions of the globe of the eye are made round its centre, fo that in moving the an- terior portion, all the other parts are likewife in motion. Thus, when the pupilla is turned toward the nofe or upward,