285 (Chap. II. RESPIRATION-. ] hence it is that their lungs, which receive only a fmall quan- tity of bloo^l, are immediately joined with the vena cava and aorta. But infedls, we know, draw the air in, and exhale it again, through pores in the fkin If it be afked, Why all ani- mals perifh in air that is not renewed ? we anfwer, Becaufe the air which has once entered the lungs, and been contami- nated by watery alkalefcent vapours, is rendered lefs elaftic, and confequently unfit for refpiration : Not becaufe it be- comes lighter ; for the mercury falls but little in air which has not been renewed, and which has killed an animal. Hence it is that the animal furvives longer in air that is denfer than the atmofphere in its ufual ftate; for in that cafe there is a greater proportion of the elaftic element, which takes up a longer time to corrupt. Even in other cafes, confined air is rendered deftruflive only by ftagnation, and filling it with va- pours. The reafon why animals fvvell in an exhaufted re- ceiver is, from the extrication of the unelaftic air lodged in the blood and other juices. Refpiration feems fomehow to agree with the pulfation of the heart, there being ordinarily three or four pulfes to one refpiration. And, if a greater quantity of blood is fent to the heart in a given time, the numbers both of the pulf$ and refpiration are increafed. This is the reafon of the pant- ing or (hort breathing, after exercife, or any confiderable mo- tion, which increafes the return of the blood to the heart. If the blood meets with a refiftaneje in the lungs, fo that jt cannot pafs freely from the right into the left ventricle of the heart ; then the reipiration is increafed, both in quicknefs and magnitude, in order to forward its courfe: And this is the caule of fighing, yawning, and panting ; of which the firft is a deep infpiration ; the fecond a flow and very great one ; and the third, a frequent knd imperfeft one. The number of refpirations, however, does not always hicreafe with the pulfe, y*