BLOOD and JUICES* Part Vf. 234 rife to the greateft pitch of fummer heat. We can live in ar- inuch greater heat than the heat of the warmed fummer, as is proved by perfqns employed in fugar-houffs, melting-fur- naces, by mowers, and the ufe of baths and ftoves in Finland and Ruflia; and alfo by the late experiments of Fordvce, Blagden, Hunter, and Dobfon. .The heat of the blood is fometimes fo diminifhed in an intenfe cold, that in a perfon froft bitten, but not dead, a thermometer applied to the mouth, arm-pits, groins, and even the vagina, would not rife above 76° of Fahrenheit. Is the matter of heat in the blood alone ? This is fufliciently probable from phenomena; for the heat of the body is diminifhed by hemorrhagy, or when the blood is intercepted by ligature and compreflion from reaching the joints, and is reftored when the blood returns. I muff obferve, however, that my experiments upon living animals, particularly upon fwine, did not difeover fo great a difference as might have been expelled, between the heat of the heart, arteries, veins, brain, ftomach, inteftines, tunica vaginalis, and even the interfaces of the cellular texture in the muffles. Again, a kind of volatile vapour or exhalation continually flies off from the warm blood, which has a fort of foetid fmell, intermediate between that of the fweat and urine. This vapour, after collection and condenfation in con- venient veffels, partakes of an aqueous nature, with fome- what of an alkaline quality. After this vapour has diffipated, the blood of a healthy perfon fpontaneoufly congeals into a ffiffile, trembling mafs, efpecially in a heat of about 150 degrees, and fooner in fe- verifh perfons than in fuch as are in health. It fometimes coagulates in the veins of a living perfon, and is found clot- ted in wounds of the arteries. But even within the veffels of a living perfon, and in one dying of a fever, the blood has Been feen, by the violence of that diflemper, changed into a concreted tremulous jelly throughout all the veins. The • principal