44» SECRETION of the SEMEN. Part VI. • ' artery. Its generation is accelerated by love, by the prefence of the beloved woman ; fo that it diltends its veffels with a ienle of pain. Nature herfelf, therefore, enjoins venery, both for preferving the human race, and the health of every individual. That it comes from the teflicle, is fhewn by 'difeafes ; in which the vas deferens being obftruifled, a iwell- ing of the teflicle has enfued. The veficles are never emptied, except by venereal attions and appetites. In order that the femen, which is only in a fmall quantity, fhould be projected with a coniiderable force, it is previoufly mixed with another fluid from the proftate. This gland pre- pares a thick, white, foft, cream-like liquor, in a large quan- tity, which is poured out at the fame time, and from the fame cau^s, with the femen itfelf, into a little channel at each fide of the openings of the feminal veficles, where, mixing with the feminal fluid, it imparts the white colour and vifciuity which the femen poflefles. It was neceflary for the canal of the urethra to be firm and capable of a dire£t figure, that it might be able to throw the femen with fome ftrength into the diftant womb ; and therefore a threefold cavernous body furrounds it. Into the cavernous body of the urethra, the blood is pour- ed out from the arteries, which come from deep branches lent off from the external haemorrhoidals; the truth of which is demonftrated by the injeflion of any kind of fluid, which, being urged through the arteries, eafily flows into thofe cellular fpaces furrounding the urethra. Thefe cells are not na- turallyturgid with blood, becaufe there are veins open, and nu- merous enough in proportion, to receive and return what is poured in by the arteries; but if the return is impeded by comprefling thofe veins, the blood is then retained within the cellular fpaces, while the arteries continue to carry it more fwiftly and ftrongly than the veins return it. Thus the ftagnant blood