I Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 141 which the cochlea turns ; and, laftly, the orifices and union of the two dutts. The bafis is turned dire&ly inward toward the internal foramen auditorium ; the apex outward ; and the axis of the modiolus is nearly horizontal; but, in all of them, allowance mult be made for the obliquity of the pars petrofa in which they lie. The bafis of the cochlea is gently hollowed; and, toward the middle, perforated by feveral fmall holes. The modiolus is a kind of fliort cone, with a very large bafis, which is the middle of the bafis of the cochlea. Through its whole length runs a double fpinal groove, which, through a microfcope, fhews a great number of pores. The cochlea makes about two turns and a half from the bafis to the apex; and the two half canals, being firmly united together through their whole courfe, form a half feptum, called lamina fpiralis ; which muft not be confounded, as it often is, with the com- plete feptum in the recent fubjedl. One edge of the lamina fpiralis is ftrongly joined to the modiolus, being thicker there than in any other place ; whereas the other edge is termina- ted all round by a very thin border, lying in the middle ca- vity of the cochlea. In the natural ftate, the other half of the feptum is membranous, and completes the partition be- tween the two canals. The two half canals turn jointly about the modiolus; one being fituated toward the bafis of the cochlea, the other toward the apex ; for which reafon we have always called one of them internal, the other external. The fpiral or volute of the cochlea begins at the lower part of the veftibule; runs from thence forward to the top, then backward down to the bottom, afterward upward and forward; and fo on from the bafis, which is turned inward, to the apex which is turned outward. From this defcription, it is eafy to know to which ear any cochlea belongs when we fee it prepared: It likewife teaches us, that, in the right cochlea, the dire&ion of the turnings is the fame as in gar-