AND ITS APPENDAGES. (Chap. I. 47 The fixth pair, named motores oculorum extern!, oculares or ophthalmic! externi, and oculo mufculares externi, are fmall nerves, but Hill not fo fmall as the fourth pair; and they have fome- times been found double. They arife from a fulcus between the back part of the tuber annulare and beginning of the me. dulla oblongata, and palling immediately under the tuber, they pierce the dura mater behind the occipital fymphylis of the fphenoidal bone. They run on each fide in the duplicature of the dura mater to the cavernous linus; and having entered that finus, each of them crofies the outlide of the internal carotid artery in their way to the foramen lacerum. In this courfe, they com- municate with the firft branch of the fifth pair, and by a fila-« ment’ or two, which arife from the great fympathetic nerve, and run up with the carotid artery. The feventh pair, named a'uditorii, are each divided into two portions; one, from its hardnefs, when compared with the other parts, is called portio dura, or nervus fympatheticus minor. This arifes from the fpace where the crus cerebellj joins the tuber annulare. The other part is larger and fofter than the former, and is called portio mollis, or the true audi- tory nerve. It arifes from the inner furface of the fourth ven- tricle, and is afterwards joined by an intermediate portion deferibed by Dr Wrifberg. The portio mollis is hollowed out to receive the portio dura, which accompanies it to the fora- men auditorium internum. The eighth pair arife from the poflerior extremities of the large branches or crura of the medulla oblongata, a little to the outer fide of the corpora olivaria, by numerous filaments, which are collected into two bundles, one called glaffopharyn- geum, the other par vagum, or nervus fympatheticus medius. This runs toward the foramen lacerum, where it pierces the dura mater, and goes out through the anterior part of that |tqle, having been firft' joined by a nervous portion that runs m