ii E P A R. Part VI. 358 be confidered as two large veins, the trunks of which are join- ed endwiie, and lend out branches and ramifications in opj o- fire dircdbons to each other; that one of thele veins is rami- fied in the liver, the other lying without the liver, and lending its branches and ramifications to the vifcera of the abdomen ; and, iaitly, that the fn If ot thele large veins may be termed vena portae he atica the other vena portae •ventralis. Vena portae hepatica The particular trunk oi the vena portae hepatica is htuated trmlverftly between the broad an- terior eminence of the great lobe.of the liver and the root of the lobulus^m a particular failure, and forms what is called theJtnus oJ the vena portae. From this linus five jrincipal branches go out, which are afterwards divided into millions of ramifications through the whole lubllance ot the liver. At this p ace the vena portae lays down the common of- fice ot a vein, and becomes a kind of artery as it enters and is again ramified'in the liver. 1 he extremities of ad thefe ramifications of the trunk of the vena portae hepatica end in tlte pulpy friable corpufcles of the liver. Pori bilarii et duElus hepaiicus. It is in thefe corpufcles that the bile is lecreieu, and it is immediately collected in the fame number of extremities of another kind of vefiels, which unite, by numerous ramifications, into one common trunk. 1 hefe ratnificai ons are termed port bilarii, and the trunk duFlus he- patn us; and the ramifications of thele two kind of vtfleis are mvelfed together by the capfula of the vena portae. Hepatic veins. The blood deprived of this bilious fluid is \ reconveved to the heart by a great number of ven.d ramifi- cations, which afterwards unite into two or three pri: cipal branches, befiides others that are lefi confiderable, that termi- nate in the vena cava, and are all called by the name of vena Joepaiica. The capillary extremities of the ramifications of the vena hepatica, join thole of the vena portae, and accompany them. through