Part VI. MA THE TEMPERAMENTS. Co eminent a degree: But, along with this condition of the t\erves, thefe people are exceffively liable to grief and anger, when the body or mind is but {lightly affected ; and on this account medicines ftiould be cautioufly given, an. lefs dofes preferibed to them. With a frnall brain, and {lender nerves, I have oblerved the fenfes more dull, and a phlegmatic or phleg- matico-melancholic torpor conjoined. Thefe people therefore require from external objects ftronger impreffions upon the organs of fenfe, and thefe impreffions longer applied, if they are meant to leave lading eff £t$: lienee their judgment is frequently weak on account of the deiedt of ideas ; and they feldom acquire any cxfrnfive knowledge. But nature has compenf.ited thefe difadvantages, by making them more able to undergo hardlhips, from change of climate, life, or labour; they demand more powerful medicines, and larger dofes. "What a great difference in man and the cetaceous animals I 1. The various degrees of irritability in the mulcular parts. Tor, wherever you find a very delicate irritability, affedfed by almoft every fiimulus, and retaining lading impreffions, and at the fame time atfing with a certain celerity; in that cafe you cannot doubt of a choleric difpofition. rience that remarkable ltrength in the mulcles ot lome perions, which adl with fo incredible quickneh, defpatch, and con- ftancy. On the contrary, if you examine a phlegmatic per- son, you obferve the contradfile power of the mulcles lan- guid, difficulty yielding to lVunuli, unlefs powerful; lince the mufcles of plegmatico melancholic men are long of being determined to motion, although lirongly excited, and £niih it with’an appearance of languor. 3. Even a certain fofmels is obfervable in all fibres and membranes, if you toucht he body of a piileginatic perfon ; or a leeming hard- nefs and drynefs in melancholic habits : Along with which particular ie the phlegmatics join lefs elafticiry, whillt, in the melancholic, there is a greater tone and contradfile power. 4*