33 5 Chap. III. DIGESTION. that a perfon may live for a long time without folid food, if he is fupplied with drink ; but, without drink, life lublifts but a few days. We are folicited, as was faid above, to take food, as well from the fenie of pain we call hunger, as from the pleafure received by the talle. The firft of thefe proceeds doubtlefs from the folds or plicae of the ftomach, whole lenfation is extremely acute, rubbing againft each other by the periftaltie motion, and from a prelTure of the diaphragm and abdomi- nal mufcles, by which the naked villi of the nerves on each, fide of the ftomach are made to grate againfl thofe of the other, producing, at the fame time, an intolerable lenle of "pain. Thus, we are effectually admonilhed of the ddngers snfuing from too long abltinence or falling, and excited to procure food or nnurilhment by labour and indultry. The gaftric liquor, becoming acid from fatting, may alfo perhaps -conduce to excite the lenle of hunger; but it will not pro- duce any effeCt if it is putrcfcent. Thirji is perceived by the tongue, fauces, oefophagus, and ftomach. For, whenever thefe very lenlible parts, which are conftantly and naturally moiltened by mucous and falival juices, grow dry from a deficiency of thefe or fimilar hu- mours, or are irritated by a redundancy of muriatic or alka- lelcent falts, a lenfe called thirft, which is much more into- lerable and dangerous than the former, arifes ; this difagree- able lenfation continues until the proportion of diluting water in the blood, being recruited, reltcres the necefiary moiftutc and free fecretion required in the parts before mentioned. From hence we learn why thirft attends labour, which ex- hales a. greater proportion of the watery perlpiration ; and why it is a fymptom of fevers, where there is an obfti uCtioa of the exhaling veffids belonging to the tongue and f mces.; and why limple water is lefs efficacious in abating >mrft than I • * acid liquors, that not only moiften and render fluid, but alfo* by