RESPIRATION* Part VI. 276 under water, fends out no bubbles of air through the water; but, in birds, it does, becaufe they have air in their thorax. It there fhould accidentally be ai y fpacc between the lungs and the thorax, it is always filled up by a watery or ferous vapour, or elfe by the fame vapour condenfed into a watery lymph. If the lungs adhere, they injure the refpiration but in a fmall degree, which ought entirely to ceafe, if it requi- red an intermediate air between the lungs and thorax. Fi- nally, the external air being admitted to any of the internal membranes of the human body, deftroys their texture, if they are not defended by a plentiful mucus ; of which we can find none upon the furface of the pleura. But relpiration, whether by the admixture of a fub-putrid vapour, or by fome other method, certainly vitiates the air, and renders it unfit either for inflating the lungs or fupport- ing flame ; and laftly, it deprive'* that element of its elafticity. We may iup; ole that this happens from putrrfaction, fince the air is rendered peftilential by a crowd, and fevers of the moil malignant kind are thus generated in a few hours. But, in whatever manner this is produced, we are certain that the air is vitiated in the lungs, lol'es its elaflichy, and thus can- not keep the lungs dillended, fo as to tranfmit an increafed quantity of blood through the dilated pulmonary arteries in- to the veins. Nor can the will dilate the breafi beyond cer- tain bounds, or affilf that paflage of the blood in an unlimit- ed manner- A flare of body, therefore, will take place, ia which the blood cannot pafs through the lungs. Thus is generated a new refinance to the blood continually coming from the heart : And in long retentions of the breath, as in making violent efforts, the venous blood, efpe- cially that coming from the head, flagnates -before the right ventricle of the heart, which is fhut, becaufe it cannot eva- cuate itlelf into the lungs, and thus fwells up the face with rednefs, fometimes burfts the veins of the brain, neck, inteP tines.