respiration, Part VI. 284 tus which docs not rcfpire, the right auricle and ventricle of the heart, and alfo the pulmonary artery, are much greater in proportion than in an adult, which feems neceflary to referve and retard the blood. . ' Is the rednefs of the blood produced by the air ? This feems alio to be contradicted by the well known faCt obferved in frogs, that the rednefs of their blood is in proportion to the quantity of food they ufe. Befides, we have before fhewn that the air does not come into immediate contaft with the blood in the lungs. We cannot, however, deny that, when the air comes into immediate cont>ct W'th the blood, its.red- nefs is increafed, and its colour becomes again pale when the air is excluded. It feems probable, from analogy, that, as light produces colour in vegetables, forr.e fubtle principle, imbibed by the blood from the air received into the lungs, may be the caufe of its red colour. , 1 ' • Does blood, by means of the lungs, abforb nitre from the / air ? or is the florid colour, obfervable in the lurface of a cake of blood, owing to the abforption of nitre from the air, while the bottom parts are of a dark and blackilh co-: lour ? If any thing be abforbed, is it a preservative againft the putrefaction of the animal ? Dr Haller (hews the abfur- dities of thefe fuppofirions, by chemical reafoning and expe- riment. What he advances would have been acknowledged as a complete refutation of the doCtrine, according to the re- ceived fyftenj of chemiflry at the time he wrote. But, laying all chemical reafoning afide, the opinion will be found to be altogether unfupportable, by attending to the following faCt, with which, indeed, Dr Haller doles his refutation. No ni- trous fait is difeovered in the blood. If it be afked, Why tortoifes, frogs, lizards, fnails, and fe- veral infedts, live long without air ? we anl'wer, That in them the lungs are given, not fo much for the preparation pf the blood, as for the ufe of fwimming: And from hence