Chap. IV UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 45* the number of glandular corpulcles, from which a whitifh ceru- minous matter may be exprefl'ed ; and -after a certain age it is likewde covered in the lame manner with the pub s. The inner fide of the alae is iomething like the red por- tion of the lips of the mouth ; and it is difimguifhed every- where from the external tide by a kind of line, in the f me manner as the red portion of the lips from the reit of the fkm, being likewife thinner and Smoother than the outward, fkin A great number of pores are oblervable in it, and al- fo numerous glandular corpulcles, which furnilh a liquor more or lei's febaceous ; and thcfe corpulcles are larger near the edges than in the other parts. Lacunae. Near the inner edge of the inner furfaces of the alae, on each fide of the orifice of the vagina, we find a finall hole more vifible than the reft. Theie two holes are termed lacunae, and they communicate by two 1 mall duffs - with the fame number of follicular bodies lying in the fub- flance of the alae, and which may be confidtred as frnait proftates, aniwering to the glandulae proffaticae inferiores in males. When comprefted, they difeharge a viicid liquor. Above the fuperior commifiure, a thin flat ligament runs down from each finall branch of the ofla pubis, which pene- trates the fat in the fubftance of each ala, and is loft therein infenlibly near the edge. Theie may be confidered as the, iigamenta fufpenfona of the alae. The inferior commiirure of the alae is very thin, or like a membranous ligament, and, together with the neighbouring parts of the inner fide, it form- a foffula termed navicularis, or fcaphoidcs The Ipace between ihe interior commifiure and anus, termed perinaeuw is about a large finger’s breadth in length. The other external parrs are fi-uate 1 in the finus, and hid by the alae. Oireftly under the fuperior commiirure lies the clitoris with irs cover, called praeputium. A little lower is the orifice of the urethra; and below that is the orifice of