Chap. II. H E A R T< 227 nary veins on the left .fiuQ, and likewife of the right cavities of the heart, from the entrance into the left ventricle being ,n M Vi»t' y. noijasiinoa arffyd bdolti The Itft, or polterior and upper yetiirjcle of the heart, which is always fir ft foriped. and in, a great number of ani- mals the only one, make, that part of the heart which we be- fore called its convex luperior tide. It is fomewhat narrow- er, a little longer, rounder, and generally of a lefs capacity, in Dr Haller's opinion, than the right ventricle; for its con- tents are about two ounces, while thole of the right amount to three. Its internal fabric is reticular, but more nicely wrought than in the right ventricle, and withip the mouth of the artery it is fmooth ; but its force is confiderably great- er, as the mufcular flefh that furrounds, it is much thicker, and almoft three times as ftrong. The fep.tum of the heart belongs moftly to the left, but fome part of it alfo to the right ventricle : The whole of it is reticulated, but folid, and incapable of luffering any injedted iicjuid to pals from one Ventricle to another. Again, this left ventricle being excited to motion by the ’impeded blood, from the lame irritable nature already men- tioned* contracts, and drives its contained blood with a vio- lent motion in the diredtion of its axis, the tip or cone of the heart being at the fame time drawn nearer to its htfis. And fince the apparatus of the mitral valves is h< re the fame as in the triculpids, the blood now expanding the ring from whence they arde, removes that valve which lay againft the mouth of the aortal, and opens a way for itlelf to the artery. This is proved by oculpr denionfiration in living animals, where the left ventricle fwells upon /hutting the palfagc into the aorta. The femitunar valves of the aorta differ little from thofe of the pulmonary artery : Only, as the opening is here greater, fo the valves are proportionally larger and ftronger, and are not