Chap. I. A9 AND ITS APPENDAGES. As the fpinal marrow which furniflies all thefe nerves, fel- dom goes lower than the firit or fecond vertebra of the loins, the fituation of the fafciculi of nervous filaments muft be dif- ferent from that of the holes through which they pafs; and feveral of thefe fafciculi, both anterior and pofierior, muft be longer than the reft. This we find from experience to be the cafe, in the following manner. The fafciculi of nervous filaments of the medulla fpinalis, which produce the cervical nerves, run more or lefs tranf- verfely toward each fide from their origin to their paflage through the intervertebral holes. The fafciculi which form the dorfal nerves run a little obliquely downward from their origin to the intervertebral holes; and thofe which form the lumbar nerves run down more and more longitudinally from the medulla to the holes by which they go out. The cervical fafciculi therefore are very fhort in the fpinal canal; the dorfal fafciculi are longer, and the fafciculi from the loins and os facrum very long. It muft likewife be ob- ferved, that the fafciculi of the four loweft pairs of the cer- vical nerves, and firft pair of the dorfal nerves, are broader and more compounded than the following, becaufe the bra- chial nerves are a continuation of thefe. The filaments be- longing to the lumbar nerves, and thofe of the os facrum, are likewife very broad, and made up of numerous filaments, as being the roots of the large nerve? which go to the lower extremities. The dorfal filaments are very fmall. The cervical and lumbar fafciculi are not only broader, and confift of more filaments than the dorfal, but alfo fitu- ated much clofer to each other, the lumbar fafciculi being ftill more fo than the cervical; whereas in the dorfal a con- fiderable interftice is left between the fafciculi. Thefe lumbar fafciculi, from their origin to the extremity of the os facrum, form, through the whole canal of the lum- bar vertebrae and of the os facrum, a large bundle of nervous Vol. II. G ropes, I