304 VENT&ICULUS. Part VI. when fuch an appearance is met with, it may be confidered as the effcdt of difeafe, and that nothing is more doubtful than the exigence of glands in this place. On the inner furface of the fmall extremity of the Ito- mach, at the place where it ends in the inteftinal canal, we oblcrve a broad, thin, circulir border, with a roundifh hole in the middle. This hole is the inferior orifice of the fto- mach, called by the Greeks pylorus, which fignifies a porter. This border is a fold or duplicature of the two inner coats of the flomach, the nervofa and villola ; and it is formed in part by a fafciculus of flelhy fibres fixed in the duplicature of the tunica nervofa, and diftinguifhed not only from the other flelhy fibres of the extremity of the flomach, but alfo from thofc of the inteftines, by a thin, whitifh circle, which appears even through the external or common coat, round the union of the flomach and inteftines. The figure of the pylorus is that of a ring tranfverfcly flat- ted ; the inner edge of which, or that next the centre, is turned obliquely toward the inteftines. This inner edge runs ,naturally more or leis into little plaits or gathers, like the mouth of a purfe almoft (hut ; all which particulars are very different from what figures and dried preparations would make us believe. It is therefore a kind of fphindler, which can contract the inferior orifice of the flomach, but feems not capable of fhutting it quite clofe. Arteries of the Jlomach. The principal arteries of the fto- tnach are the coronaria finiftra, which goes firft to the car- dia, and from this runs along the fmall curvature ; corona- l ria dextra, which runs from the arteria hepatica to the right, end of the fmall curvature, and joins the coronaria finiftra ; gaftro-epiploica dextra, which arifes from the arteria hepa- tica, and runs along the great curvature ; arteria gaftro-epi- ploica firiftra and vafa brevia, which ariie from the arteria fpleuica, and run along the left end of the great curvature. Thefe