Part VI. THE EYE, 104 After the tears have performed their office, part of them fly off into the air ; and the reft, that they might not of- fend by their quantity, are propelled by the orbicular mufcle, towards its origin near the nofe, to the lowed part of the palpe- bral margins, which, wanting the tarfus in this place, do not, on that account, exadly meet together. Here the caruncula lacrymalis interpofes, and prevents the meeting of the eye- lids, at the fame time furnifhing a liniment to thole parts which have no Meibomian duds. Before this part is ex- tended a fmall portion, like a little eye-lid ; which, defend- ing perpendicularly, joins the true eye-lids, and is larger in beafts than in men : But, at the beginning of this fpace, be- tween the eye-lids, appears the punclum lacrymale> which drinks up the tears from the ffnus in which they are col- lected, partly by tubular attradion, and partly by impulfe from the orbicular mufcle. If thefe points or openings arc cbftruded, the tears run over and excoriate the cheek. From both points proceeds a fmall dud j thefe join toge- ther, and are inf rted by two mouths near the uppermod; parts of the lacrymalfac> which defends a little backward in- to the nares, opening there by an oblique oblong aperture at the bottom of the meatus, covered by the lower os fpongio- fum. Through this paflage the fuperduous tears defend in- to the nofe, which they in part moiden. A mufcle is by fome writers afcribed to this fac j but it is not yet diffident- ly confirmed. Some late authors have compared the lacry- mal fac to the bladder of urine, which retains its contents for a confiderable time, till it is thrown out, the fphinder being relaxed. A fimilar fphinder has been aferibed to the nafal dud, which is fometimes Ihut and again relaxed, that the tears colleded in the fac may ran out through the nodrils. The globe of the eye, comprefied before, but longer than it is broad, is fated in the cavity of a bony orbit, larger than the eye itfeIf; the excefs is on all fides occupied by a very foft