Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 89 the infertion of the optic nerve is at the fame time turned toward the temple, or downward. The ule of the oblique mufcles is chiefly to counterbalance the action of the redi, and to fupport the globe in all the motions already mentioned. This is evident Irom their infer- tions, which are 111 a con rary direction to thole of the redi, their fixed points with relation to the motions of the globe being placed forward, and thole of the redi backward, at the bottom of the orbit. The foft fat which lies behind the globe is altogether inlufikient to fupport it: Neither is the optic nerve more fit for this purpole ; for 1 have fhewn that this nerve follows all the motions of the globe, \Hiich would be impofiiblfe, were not the fat very pliable, ahd without re- fiftance. And to this we muff add, that the optic nerve, at its inlertiqn in the globe, has a particular curvature, which al- lows it to be elongated, and coniequently prevents it from ffif- fering any violence in the different motions of the eyes. The obliquity of thele two muffles does not hinder them from doing the office of a fulcrum ; becaule this is not a ful- crum diifind from the part moved, or on which the globe of the eye Aides like the head of one bone in the articular cavity of another $ but, being fixed to the part, it eafily ac- commodates ltleif to all the degrees of motion thereof. Had theff mufcles lain in a ltraight diredion, they would have in- commoded the redi ; but their obliquity may be faid to be in fome mealure rectified by the inner furface of the orbit, and • the abdudor. The luner furface of the orbit ferves for a kind of colla- teral fulcrum, which hinders the globe from falling too far inward ; as the joint adion of the two obliqui prevents it, in part, from falling too far outward. The abdudor, by being bent on the globe, not only hinders it from being carried outward, but alfo prevents the indired motions of the obli- qui from thrufting it out of the orbit toward the temples. Vol. II. M The