Part VI. 342 DIGESTION. of pork or cheefe wa<- to be found in the fphere H<* next fwallowed the f.»mr fphere, which contained, in one partition, fome roafted turk y, and fom boilt fair herring in the o- ther The fphere was voided in forty lix hours; hut no part of the turkey t r herring appeared ; for both had been completely d flhlv d H.ivmg difcotered that animal Jub- ilances, th< ugh inclofed in tubes, were ealily diif lved by the gallric juice, the Dodlor tried whe1 her it would pr duce the fame effect upon vegetables. He therefore inclofed an equal quantity of raw parlnep and potatoe in a fphere. After con- tinuing forty eight hours in the alimentary canal, not a vef- i tige of either remained. Pieces of apple and turnip, both raw and boded, were diffolved in thirty-fix hours. “ It is a comfortable circumflance, that no animal, perhaps, except thofe worms which are hatched in the human intef- \ tii.es, can relilt thr d llolving power of the gaftric juice. Dr Stevens incloled live leeches, and earth worms, in different fplv res, and made the German fwallow them. When the fpheres were dikharged, the animals were hot only deprived of live, but completely diflblvtd by the operation of this pow- erful menllruuin. Hence, if any live reptile fhould chance to be (wallowed, we have no reafon to appreiiend any danger from fuch an accident. “ The German left Edinburgh before the Dodlor had an opportunity of making a farther progrtfs in his experiments. He therefore had recourf'e to dogs and ruminating animals. In the courfe of his trials upon the folvent power in the gallric fluid of dogs, he found that it was capable of dilTo'.ving hard bo res, a> d even balls of ivory; but that, in equal times, very little imprrfiion was made upon potatoes.-pirfnep, and other vegetable fuhftances. On the con rarv, in the ruminating animals, as the fheep, the ox, &c. he difeovered, that their t-aflric juice fpeedily diffolved vegetables, but made no impref- fion on beef, mutton, and other animal bodies. From thefe ' ’ laft’ I ►