Part VI. The eye, 112 On the contrary, to a good eye, objedts which are too near the cdrnea appear confided ; becaufe the rays coming from them are fpread over feveral parts of the retina, and are not collected in a point on it. The remedy for this fault in the fight is to correct it in its beginning, by looking at diftant, rather than near and minute objedts; by the ufe of concave glades, or by viewing things through a fmall hole, by which the light is weakened. When the diforder is confirmed, the remedy is a concave lens, which takes off a degree of the refradting power in the hu- mours, cornea, and cryftalline lens, in proportion as it is more concave ; by which means the focus of rays from re- mote objedts is removed farther behind the cornea, fo as to fall upon the retina. This glafs ought to be a portion of a fphere, whofe diameter is equal to the fquare of the difiance of diftindt vifion from the naked eye, multiplied by the dif- tance of diftindt vifion in the armed eye, and that produdt divided by the difference between them. Age itfelf advan- cing, gives fome relief to the fhort-fighted, for children are moftly near-fighted; but, as the eye grows older it becomes flatter, in proportion as the folids grow ftronger; and, con- tradting to a fhorter axis, the refradting powers of the lens and cornea are diminilhed. The other diforder of the fight, contrary to the former, troubles people who often look at very diftant objedts, and is more efpecially familiar and incurable in old people. In fuch, the cornea and cryftalline lens are flatter, and the humours of the eye have a lefs refradting power. Hence near objedts, i whofe rays fall very diverging upon the cornea, appear con- fufed ; becaufe the converging or refradting powers of the eye are not fuflkient to bring the rays together in a focus l upon the retina ; but the rays go on fcattered beyond the! retina, and threw the point of their pencil behind the eye,| from whence vifion is confufed. The point of diftindt vifion amoni