Chap. III. 373 LIEN. In man, the fubfhnce of the fpleen is almoft wholly vnfcu- lar, that is, compoled of the ramifications of all kinds of vel- lels. In oxen, the iubliance of the fpleen is chiefly reticular, and in fheep it is cellular. In oxen and (heep, there are no venal ramifications ; but only open finufes dilpofed like branches, except a fmall portion tf a venal trunk perforated on all (ides, at the extremity of the fpleen. Structure arid u/e of the f leen The fpleen is one of thofe vifeera wlvch fend their blood to the liver. The lituation of it varits with that of the flomach. When the llomach'is en pty, the Ipleen is railed perpendicularly, fo as to place its extremities right up and down ; but when the ftomach is full, the middle curve or arch of the Ipleen ariles upward and forward ; and at the fame time obliges it to change its luna- tion, fo as to lie almofl tranlverfcly with its lower end for- ward, and its upper end backward. Being of a very loft and luoie texture, it grows larger by clifieufion when the llomack is empty, and becomes ids again when it is preffed by the full flomach againft the ribs. Hence the fpleen is found large in thole who die of lingering d'.leafes ; but in thofe who die fudder.ly, and in full health, it is finall. The fpleen defeends with the diaphragm in inlpiration, and afeends again in exfpiration ; and it often varies in its fituation with the colon. Frequently there is a fecond or Ids fpleen placed uo- on the former. The blood vejftls of the fpleen are large, in proportion to its weight. The arterial trunk comes from the coeliac ; the up- per branch of which, proceeding in a ferpentine courfe above and behind the pancreas, to which it gives branches, as well as to the mefocclon, llcmacb, and omentum, is at length in- curvatcd in the dirtdtion of the fulcos cr notch of the Ipleen,’ which it perforates by feveral uiltiixf branches, fuftained by the right extremity of the omentum gaftrecolicum. The denfity of this artery is greater than that of the aorta. The ' iplenic