Chap. IIL GLANDULE REWALES. 403 body appears like a kind of criita, faded from the middle of the bottom of the cavity. l’*m glandular body or nucleus adheres more dofcly to the bottom or bafis of me cavity, than to the two (ides, cfj.»e- cully near the great extremity ; but yet it may be feparated both from the bafis and fiJes, being co mected to them by a gn-at ' umyer of finall lilamcnts. it adnercs lead to the ba- ht near the (mall extremity. The capful, r vein, winch comes ordinarily from the vena renal.s, is much larger than the arteries; and it communi- cates w;:l/ ‘lie iulide of the capfula much irt the fame manner as the vena Iplenica with the cells of the fjdcen, for it may oe inflated uy olowing into part of the capfular cavity, and the air likewitc p.flc» into the vena renalis, &.c. T. ne cavity contains an unclous vifeid liquor, of a yellowifli red colour, which, win, age, changes gradually into a yellow- ifh purple, a dark yellow, and a black yellow : fometn/ cs it it perfectly bisck ; but even then if it be fpread thin on a latge (uiiactj it appeal s yellow, ft is lemctiu.es found not only re .dttn, but mixed with real blood. '1 he tiles of theft renal glands have not yet been tiifeo- vrred \ and all that we know about the liquor contained in them is, that it has (dim hat the appearance of the bile- They are v ry large in the foetus, and diminifh in adults. '1 title i wo phenomena delcrvc our attention. 1 n- . lie lomettmes direct y on the fop of the kidneys, but feidom, ii ever, on the gibbous part. The gland on the right fi e ;■ p .rt:v connected to tne diaphragm, under ana v ry n ar t e - ■••••Ik *» of the great lobe of the Ivor to that u.ulcie. rltni on the lei: lide adheres to the diaphragm b low the fpleen ; and ooth theie coin -ebons are coti:i:,eu to the conti. guous portions of the n let or n.ulcle of the chap ragtn. I hey 2re involved, together with the kidneys, in the membrana a- dipofa, of which a very thni portion infmuates itfelf between the