BLOOD and JUICES. Part VI. By putrefaction alone, or the diffjlving power of the air, in a heat equal to 96 degrees, the whole mafs, but efpecially the ferum, diffolves or melts into a foetid liquor; firft the fe- rurn, and then the cruor more flowly, till at length the whole mafs, both of ferum and cruor, is turned inro a volatile and foetid exhalation, leaving very few foeces behind The blood being a little diffolved by the beginning putrefadtion, be- comes foetid ; with the foetor it affumes an alkaline nature, and effervefees with acids. 1 his property it afterwards lofes, the alkaline fait being defiroyed by the complete putrefac- tion. The putrid blood cannot by any art be infpiflated, and it is very difficult to refolve it, after it has been coagulared by fpirit of wine. By two fevere exercifes, heat, and malig- nant diforders, the cohefion of the blood is diflolvrd and it affumes an alkaline nature, almoft as if from putrefaction. The blood contains in its fubffarice a quantity of Jea falty which is difcernible to the tafte, and fou etimes viiible by the microfeope. That there is catth in the blood is demonftrated from nutrition, and from a chemical analyfis; and this earth is chiefly found in the mod fluid, and eipecially in the oily parts of the blood. By fome very late experiments, it ap- pears, that a confiderable quantity of ferruginous earth, eafi- ]y reducible into metal by the addition of phlogifton, is con- tained in the blood when calcined. Lallly, another part in the blood is air in an unelaftic flate, and that in a very con- flderable quantity, as is proved by the putrefaction and diftil- lation, or by removing the ambient air by the pump ; but we are not to fuppofe that the blood-globules are bubbles full of air, for they are fpecifically heavier than the ferum. By the admixture of neutral falts the colour of the blood becomes deeper and brighter, without the blood’s being ei- ther diffolved or thickened. It is fcarcely altered by a weak acid. By fermented liquors it is coagulated. Fixed alkaline falls have almoft the fame effects as the neutrals. The vola- tile