HEART. 220 Chap- It* about <;coo times in an hour, and never ceafes its alternate; coi traCtions and dilatations from the firlt beginning of its ex- ilh nee till death f W hy, then, does it not, like other muf- cles, become tired, in a very few hours, by fuch Vtoitnt mo- tions ? How is its 1 rength piehrved ? Diff rent anf'wers have been given to thele qurftions by different proff ffors, founded either on a cor;pr< ffure of the cardiac nerves between the large arteries, or on an alternate repletion of the coronary arteries and cavities of the heart. &.c. But to Dr Haller the fimplicity of nature in this n atnr is very coi ipicoous. When the auri- cle is relaxed, it is din.Ctly filled by the mnlcular force of the continuous great vein j and the heart contracts when it is ir- ritated by the blood driven into it from the auricle, and thus empties itfclf of the blood. Biing freed from the ftimuius, it immediately reds or relaxes uiclf. l he heart being now relaxed, the auricle is, in like mantur, irritated by its contain- ed blood, and, by contracting, fills the heart again •, while the inctffant a£bons of the heart and artciiCs continually urge new blood into the right linus and auricle That this is the true caule of the head's motions is pro\ed fiom aCtual expe- riment and obfervatton The lucctffivc rep etinns and con- tractions made in the great vein, auricle, ventricle, and arte- ry, are plainly and eafny Icen in a weak or expiring animal; but, more dpccially, ana more evidently, in th..fe animals which have but one vemricic in the heart, as the torto fe, frog, fn.ke, tallies ; and in the thick hatching in the egg, which, in fit ad of a heart, has only one crooked canal, Be- sides, it is confirmed from tht inertia of the heart, produced by tying the vdns ; and, from the return of its moron, when the ligatures arc unloofcd ; provided ihelc phenomena are fufficici.tly valid ; hut it is more uncq ivocaily corrobor ited by injeCtion. and by the experime t of inflating a fr g’s he .rt With a fh-all bulible of air, which wC lee alternately afs from ilife ventricle to the auricle and back again for many hours. The