H THE BRAIN. Part VI. 1 4 immediately to lofe its tenfion and ftrmnefs; and the fame thing will be obferved in the falx, if we cut the tentorium. The fmall occipital feptum is both very {hort and narrow. It runs down from the middle of the tranfverfe feptum to the edge of the great occipital hole, being fixed to the inter- nal fpine of the os occipitis. It is formed by a fold and du- plicature of the internal part of the dura mater, in the fame manner as the other two, and it diftinguifhes the lower part of the occipital cavity of the cranium into two lateral parts. In fome fubje&s this feptum is double, anfwering to the double ipine of the os occipitis. Sphenoidal folds. Befides thefe large folds, there are two fmall lateral ones on each fide of the cella turcica, each run- ning from the pofterior to the anterior clinoid apophylis on the fame fide. Thefe two folds, together with the anterior or pofterior parts of the cella turcica, form a fmall foflula, in which the pituitary gland is lodged. There are likewife two anterior folds at the edges of the fphenoidal or fuperior orbi- tary fiflures, which augment the depth of the middle foftulae of the bafts cranii. Thus we have feven folds of this mem- brane, three large and four fmall, which may be termed in- ternal produEiions or proceffes of the dura mater. Elongations. The elongations of the dura mater go beyond the general circumference, and pafs out of the cranium, through the openings deferibed in the treatife of the fkeleton, and may be named external produEiions of the dura mater. The moft confiderable of thefe elongations pafles through the great occipital foramen, and runs down the common ca- nal of the vertebrae, in form of a tube, lining the infide of that canal, and inclofing the medulla fpinalis. by the name of the dura mater of that medulla. The other elongations ac- company the nerves out of the cranium in form of vaginae, which are more numerous than the nervous trunks reckoned in pairs. For the olfa&ory nerves, there is the fame number . of