Part VI. ayz respiration. tebrae, and the right ribs from the left; and each diameter of the thorax, i. e the diftance between the right and left xibs, and the diftance between the flernum and the vertebrae, are increaled alruod to two line- : And therefore this enlarge- ment, in every imaginable ledtion of the thorax, will lufil- ciently dilate its cavity. This a<flion of the ribs is more par- ticularly complete in women, and in men who have no fhort- ftefs of breath. Thele effects are produced leaft of all by the £rft ribs, but more by the following ones. In very drong in- fpiration, the ribs defcend both behind and before; and, along with thefe, the dernum and the fpaces between the car- tilages are lefTened. But this dilatation alone is not fufficient for healthy breathing; nor is it fo confpicuous or evident in men ; although, in them, the intercoflal mufcles, bv retaining and elevating the ribs, very much alfid the infpiration while they afford a fixed point to the diaphragm, that the whole force of that mufcle may be fpent, not fo much in deprelfing the ribs, as in urging down the abdomen. I'he greater part, therefore, of the fpace which the thorax gains in infpiration, arifes from the action of the diaphragm ; the centre of which is more moveable and at liberty than the red ; except in the middle of its tendinous part near the flefhy margin, where the incumbent heart makes a refidance ; but the lateral parts and the flefhy portions belonging to them are the mod move- able. There are two holes in the diaphragm ; of which that on the right fide of its tendinous part is fomewhat fquare, and eircumfcribed by four drong tendinous portions; the lefr, which is elliptical, lies between the right and left flefhy por- tions, which arife from the middle of the bodies of the ver- tebrae of the loins : Under this opening they decuflate and crofs each other once or twice, but above they end in the tendon. This left opening is therefore drawn clofe together in the eontra&ion of the diaphragm, while it is probable that the