3*7 Chap. TIT. SECRETION of the BIIX thence by the force of the olood urging behind, as well as by the auxiliary 1< n e f file diaphragm prefling the liver againlf the red of the vifetra in the abJonv u when full; and again, the diaphragm contracted in exfpiration, will force the ode into the larger branches, and latliy into the two irunksof the thtElui bilitirws hepatic uswhich trunks meet together upon the vena portarum, in the tranfvcrle folia or the liver, neat the anonymous lobule. 1 The fabric of this duCt is like that of the inteftlnes, ex- cept that there do not appear to be any muicular fibres. From experiments it appears to be endosved with a moderate degree of irritability. That it is vaitly dilatable, and ex- tremely ieniibie, is lhewn from difeafes. The hepatic duff goes on upon the vena portarum, more to the right than the artery, towards the pancreas ; and then defeendmg obliquely, covered by fotne part of that gland, it goes to she lower part of the fecoi d fl xure of the duode- num, and is infer ted backward about four or five inches from the pylorus, through an oblicjue oblong finus n ade by the pancreatic du£t. into which it oj ens by a narrow orifice-. This firms runs a great way through the iecond cellular co2t of the duodenum obliquely downwtrd ; then it perforates the nervous coat, and goes on again obliquely between it arid the villous coat ; and, iaftly, it opens into a protuberant long -wrinkle ot the duodenum. There is almoit the kun’th of an O inch taken up between the fir It inlcrtion, and the egrils of this duct through the coats, of the duodenum j by a finus which turrbunds ar.d receives "he duftlis cholidochus, in iuch a manner, that when the coats of the inteftme are diftendeii by flatus, or cl. i-Iy contracted by a more violent periflaltic motion, the opening < f the ciuCt mull be corifequenrly com- prelfcd or (hut ; but when the 'ubdenum is relaxed and mo- derately empty, the bile then has a free exit. Any regurgi- tation from the duodenum is hindered by this obliquity ird wrinkling- CH