Part VI. 178 THE MOUTH, tilages are in this fituation, they may at the fame time be in- clined either forward by the thyro-arytenoidaei, or backward, by the crico-arytenoidaei pofteriores. By this means the glottis, when {hut, may be either relaxed or tenfe ; and, in this laft cafe, it is entirely fhut, as when we hold in our breath in {training: But of this more in another place. The general ufe of the epiglottis is to cover the glottis like a pent houfe, and thereby hinder any thing from falling into it when we eat or drink •, and for this purpofe it is depreffed in the manner that fhall be fhewn hereafter. It ferves like- wife to hinder the air which we infpire from rufhing directly upon the glottis; but, by fplitting it, as it were, obliges it to enter by the fides, or in an oblique courfe. The mufcles of the epiglottis do not 'appear to be abfolutely neceffary for that cartilage ; for m deglutition it may be fufficiently de- preffed by the bafis of the tongue, and it may raife itfelf by its own elafficity. The thyro-epiglottici and aryteno-epiglot- tici may ferve to fhut any lateral openings that might remain when the epiglottis is depreffed by the bafis of the tongue; and the hyo-epiglottici may pull it a little forward in ftrong refpirations, as in fighing, yawning, &c. Voice and Speech. The larynx is the principal organ of the voice ; for that being injured, the air paffes through the windpipe without yielding any found. All the- cartilages of the larynx are connected by various mufcles and ligaments, with a certain degree of firmnefs, to the adjacent parts; and yet fo that the whole is eafily move- able together, as are alfo its feveral parts upon each other. We {hall now confider what a&ion the air produces, when it is driven from the lungs in exfpiration through the trachea into the larynx, and through the glottis into the mouth. The confequences or effects of this are, voice, fpeech, and fingiDg. The voice, indeed, is only formed, when the air is expelled with fo great a velocity through the contra&ed glot- tis,