I Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES: %r Whether lymphatic veflels are to be feen in the brain, is queflioned by fome writers Dr Haller thought it probable that no lymphatic veflels are in the brain, becaufe no conglo- bate gla' ds are found there; and that the fuperfluous moifture is ablorbed by the red veins. But, according to mod of the prefent phyfiologilts, lymphatic veflels take up the fuper- fluous fluids of the brain, as well as of the other parts of the body, although they cannot be diftin&ly fhewn. f< Scarcely in any vifcus,” fays Dr Wrifberg, •** has the exiftence of lymphatic veflels been oftener aflerted, and again denied, than in the brain. Although, indeed, I am fully crrfain, that a group of lymphatic glands is nowhere found without lymphatic veflels, I could not, however, aflert that, where glands di not appear, lymphatic veflels are wanting. By analogy drawn from the whole body, and all the vifcera, I am led to think that the brain is not deflitute of its aque- ous veflels, and that they run in particular upon the furface, not in the middle of its fubflance, although I niyfelf have never feen any other than thofe going on the choroid plexus towards the tentorium, and on the inner furface of the dura mater, in the courle of the fuperior longitudinal finus. The induftrious and celebrated Sommering confirms the obferva- tions of King, Collins, and Pacchioni, wlio faw lymphatics upon the pia mater. I would afk, May they be joined with the glands of Pacchioni ? May thefe corpufcks fupply the place of lymphatic glands ?? It now remains for us to fpeak of the encephalon itfelf. Upon the furface of the brain lies the cortex, the fabric of which has been a long time controverted; but it is now fufliciently evident, from anatomical injections, that the greater part of it confifts of mere veflels, which are every way inferted from the fmall branches of the pia mater, de- tached like little roots into the cortical fubftarce Thefe yeflelSj in their natural ftate, convey a juice much thinner