34* Chap. III. DIGESTION. feveraf experiments upon a German, who gained a miferable livelvhood by fw ,Mowing {tones for the amufement of the people. He began this ftrange practice at the age of {even, and had at that time continued in it about twenty years. He fwallowrd fix or eight (tones at a time, fome o( them as large as a pigeon’s egg, and p.fled them in the natural way. Dr Stevens thought this poor man would be ah excellent i'ubject for alcertaining the folvent power of the gaftric juice in the human ftoniach. The Dodtor, accordingly, snade ufe of him for this purpole. He made the German fivallow a hollow filver (phere, divided into two cavities by a partition, and perforated with a great number of holes, capable of admit- ting an ordinary needle. Into one of theie cavities he put four fcruples and a half of raw beef, and into the other five fcruples of raw bleak. In twenty-one hours the (phere was voided, when the beef had loft a fcruple and a half, and the fifh two fcruples. A few days afterwards, this German fwal- lowed the fame fphere, which contained, in one cavity, four fcruples and four grains of raw, and, in the other, four fcru- ples and eight grains of boiled beef. The fphere was return- ed in forty-three hours: The raw flefh had loft one fcruple and two grains, and the boiled one fcruple and fixteen grains. Sufpettihg that, if thefe lubftances were divided, the folvent would have a freer accels to them, and more of them would be difiblved, Dr Stevens procured another fphere, with holes large enough to receive a crow’s quill. He inclofed (ome beef in it a little mafticated. In thirty-eight hours after it was ("wallowed, it was voided quite empty. Perceiving how rea- dily the chewed meat was diffolved, he tried whether it would diflolve equally foon without being chewed. With this view, he put a fcruple and eight grains of pork into one cavity, and fhe fame quantity of cheefe into the other. The fphere was retained in the German’s ftomach and intefiines forty-three hours; at the end of which time, not the fmalleft quantity of