391 Chap. III. SECRETION of the BILE. pally want it for the digeftionof the aliments now flowing in great quantity into the duodenum. This flow of the bile is quicker, in proportion through the cyltic dudt, as the le&ion of that duft is lefs than the left on of the gall- bladder. The gall bladder hardly touches the ftomach, bur the be- ginning of the defending duodenum. When the flotnach is extremely diflended, and the abdomen very full, it makes a confiderable preflure both upon the liver and duodenum; by which the gall-bladder is prefled, and its bile forced out. Thus the bile flows through a'free pafiage from the gall- bladder into the common du<5t and the duodenum : And-this it does more eafilv in perfons lying on their back ; in which pofture the gall-bladder is inverted, with its bottom upward. Hence it is that the gall-bladder becomes fo full-and turgid after fading. The expullive force of the bile is bur little more than that of the preflure received from the ftomach and diaphragm ; for, as to any mufcular force refiding in the fibres of the proper membrane, which may be thought to contrafl the gall-bladder, it mud be very weak and inconfl- derable. The hepatic bile is always bitter, but the cyftic is more fo ; always vilctd ; of a full yellow colour, with a tin&ure of green ; mifcible, by triture, either with water, oil, or vinous ipirits ; coagulable by mineral acids ; diflfoluble by alkalies, efpecially the volatile ; and extremely well adapted to diflblve oily, refinous, or gummy fubftances; quickly putrefying, and by putrefaction fpontaneoufly degenerating to a mufk like odour. Its chemical analytis, and experiments of mixture with various fubftances, demonllrate, that it contains a large por- tion of water, and a confiderable quantity of inflammable oil, which appears very evidently in gall (tones. The bile, there- fore, is a natural leap ; but of that fort which is made from a volatile faiine lixivium, mixed with oil and water. I his, therefore, being intermixed with the aliment, reduced to a pulp. I