*41 Chap. II. THE TEMPERAMENTS. may not be more fuccefsful than the celebrated Kaempfius and Gerrefhemius, as 1 exhibit the ouilines only The fangui- neous and phlegmatic temperaments leem, with various in- termedia, to comprehend all modifications. l. The fangui- neous, which is inconftant, and not well fpecified, is diftin- guilhed by a vivid colour of the face; the veflels are full; and hence, for the mod part, rhey take ill with external heat; they are predifpofed greatly to inflammatory difeafes; they have a great (hare of fenfibility and irritability, which all therefore indicate a defire of pleafure in this temperament, 'and the greatefl inquietude, both of body and mind, prevails; They are talkative; abide not long with any occupation; they are eafily feduced, and contract an intimacy with every body; but they foon forget their friends, fhewing a certain diffidence to all of them ; they feldom meddle with affairs of any confequence; and rarely acquire proficiency in the fci- ences, unlefs in an advanced age. 2. 1 he fanguineous cho- leric enjoys a better mixture of caufes; it has the fupports of health and cheerfulnefs along with the former, but has perfe- verance in common with the choleric. 3. The choleric; Here you will always obferve the body lean, though not ema- ciated and dry, as in the cafe with melancholic; the lkin is of a whitifh yellow, with red hairs; the balls of the eyes are of a moderate magnitude, the pupil being frequently dim; a penetrating lively countenance, fometimes joined with a de- gree of ferocity; a quick pulfe; actions of the muffles in walking, fpeaking, and other refpedb, very rapid ; copious and acrid bile ; hence an effectual periftaltic motion, more frequent ftools, a ready inclination to undertake any thing of confequence, formed as if to command, and particularly fond of animal food. 5. The hypochondriac : An unhappy tem- •perament, troublefome to itf'elf and others. Men of this fort, for the mod part, are fubjeft to difeafes in the liver, have a yellpwifli appearance, always difcontcnted, wonderfully tor- tured