Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 6j body, by injuries of the brain ; as a lofs of the voice, deaf- nefs, dumbnefs, and palfies of particular mufcles. The nerves are connected in their courfe by the cellular fubftance to the adjacent parts, but have hardly any elafticity ; whence they do not fly back after being cut, but only expel, by the con- traction of their integuments, the foft medulla which they include. Though they be ever fo much irritated, they are neither contracted, nor rendered fliorter during the muf- ciriar motion which they produce. A great many nerves, fays Haller, are fent into the mufcles ; many of them go to the fkin ; fewer to the vifeera, and very few to the lungs. Wrifberg, however, obferves, that more nerves raanifeftly enter the organs of fenfe tfian the mufcles ; and that the lungs are fupplied with more nerves than the fpleen, uterus, and other vifeera. Haller alfo afferts, that no nerves go to the dura and pia pater, arachnoides, tendons, capfules, and ligaments. That thefe parts have few nerves is certain ; but that nerves can be traced into fome of them, efpecially into ligaments, cannot now be denied.—See Monro and Walter's Tables. They make frequent inofculations with each other; or one trunk gives off many branches, and from the con- junction of thefe branches, the nervous ganglia are princi- pally formed ; i. e. hard nervous tumours, for the moft part repleniflied with blood-veffels, and included in a firm mem- brane. Thefe Dr Monro confiders as fources of nervous matter and energy; for they are full of nervous fibrillae, in- termixed with a yellowilh or reddifh brown fubftance, fome- thing fimilar to the cortical fubftance of the brain.—Sec Qb- fervations on the Nervous Syftera. Thus much we are taught by anatomy concerning the brain and nerves ; it now remains that we explain the plxyfi- ological ufes of thefe parts. Every nerve that is irritated by any caufe produces a fharp fenfe of pain. To feel or per- ceive is to have the mind changed or affeCled by a change or ,, . affeCtion 1