HEAR T. Chap. If. 219 # anterior, and thofe on the left fide pofterior ; and that fide of the heart which is thought to be the forefide is naturally the upper fide, and the backfide conlequently tjje lower fide. The lower fide is very flat, lying wholly on the diaphragm ; but the upper fide is a little convex through its whole length, in the direction of the feptum between the ventricles. And it may be proper here to remark, that, though commonly re- ceived terms of art may be (till retained, yet it is neceflary to prevent their communicating falfe ideas to thofe who have not had an opportunity of making obfervations themfelvcs, or of being infiruCted by others. Ufa in general. The heart, and the parts belonging to it, are the principal inftrurnents of the circulation of the blood. The two ventricles ought to be confidered as two fyringes, fo clofely joined together as to make but one body, and furnifh- ed with luckcrs placed in contrary directions to each other, lo that by drawing one of them a fluid is let in, and forced out again by the other. The heart is compofed of a fubftance capable of contraction and dilatation. When the fltfliy fibres of the ventricles are contracted, the two cavities are leficned in an equal and di« reCt manner, not by any contortion or twifting, as the fade refemblance of the fibres to a figure of 8 has made anatomifts imagine. For, if we conlider attentively in how many dif- ferent directions, and in how many places, thefe fibres crof's each other, as has been already obferved, we mutt lee clearly that the whole firuCture tends to make an even, direct, and uniform contraction, more according to the breadth or thick- nefs, than according to the length of the heart ; bccaufe the number of fibres fiiuated tranfverfely is much greater than the number of longitudinal fibres. The flelhy fibres thus contracted do the office of fuckers, by preffing upon the blood contained in the ventricles • which blood being thus forced toward the bafis of the heart, prefles the tricufpidal valves agair.fi: each other, opens the fc- milunares.