Chap. IV. SPERMATrc VESSELS. 419 Between its extremities it does not immediately touch the tefticle; but is only loofely connected to it by the duplica- ture of a very fine and almofl tranfpurent membrane, as by a kind of ligament. This membrane is the conr'nuation and dupl.cature of the tunica albuginea, or proper coat ot the tefticle; which having lupplicd the place ot a ligament to the epidydirnis, afterwards inverts it. The epidydirnis is flat, a little concave on the under fide or that next the tefticle, irregul rly convex on the upper tide or that turned from the tefticle : and thefe two lides are di- ftinguilheci by two angular edges j by the innermoft of which it is connected to the tefticle in the manner already'faid, but the outer edge and flat fide' are loofe and free. Befides the duffs commonly defcribed in the epidydirnis, late anatomifts have fometimes found a duel going off from the epidydirnis; but its termination was not well underftood. It was fuppofed to terminate in the lymphatic fyftetn ; in a few fubjedls Dr Monro has found ftich a duff arifing from one end of the epidydirnis and running into the other end. By this defeription of the extremities and edges of the epi- dydimis, Window demon'.irated, many years ago, a method to dilcover whether a tefticle, viewed extra fitum, belongs to the right or left fide. The fpermatic veffels. The fpermatic arteries go out mod commonly from the anterior part of the inferior aorta, near each other, and about an inch lower than the arteriae rena- les. Their origin oftentimes varies: for 1 have oblerved them to ariie from tl^e renal artery, and fometimes they go out higher, lower, or more laterally than is common, and each artery has been feen to arife from different places. Some- times there are two bn each fide, one arifing a little below the other; or at other times one comes from the aorta, the other from the renal artery on the fame fide; and here they , give off branches to the cremafter mufcle, &c. Tffey