GLANDULE REN ALES. Part VT. 402 Structure of the renal glands. The furface of thefe glands is uneven*, the fore-lide is the broadelt, and the lower lide or balls the narrowed. Along the middle of the anterior fide, a ridge runs from the edge of the inner extremity a lit. tie above the bails, to the point ot the other extremity, and divides this fide into two equal parts, like the middle rib oi the leaf of a tree, and on the lower lide, under the bafts, there is a kind of raphe or future. The arteries or thefe elands come from the arteriae rena- O les and diaphragmaticne, and likewife from the aorta, from the arteria caeliaca, &c. Thefe vciVels are termed the capftlar arteries ; and as they enter the glands, they Item to be invcli- ed by a vagina. l iny are not always derived from the fame fources, neither is their number the lame in all lubjects : and there is commonly a large vein which runs along the ridge. One principal vein returns the blood from each of thefe glands ; tlie right goes into the vena cava, the left pafles in- to the renal vein. The nerves on each lide are tiirmlhed by the neighbouring iemilunar ganglion, and by the renal pie. xus which depends on it. In the infide of thefe capfulae, there is a narrow triangular cavity, the furface of which is hill of Ihort, ltrong villi of a yellowilh colour ; but in children it is reddifli, and of a dark brown in aged people. The lides oi this cavity are connedl- cd by a greater number of filaments ; and they appear to be wholly glandular, that is, to be filled with very line frnall fol- liculous corpufcles. Along the top of the gland thele lides touch each other immediately. In opening this cavity,, we find a granulated or follicubr fubltance, which liiis it alir.oft entirely j and the blood-vciiels are dillributed on this fubftance, as well as on the lides of the cavity. If the faction be begun at the great extremity of the caplula, and be continued through the upper edge, and if tilt lateral portions be afterwards l'eparated, the glandular • body