Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES, 1S3 From thefe limits and adhefions of the pharynx we may nearly determine its figure. It may be compared to the wide part of a covered funnel, of which the oefophagiis is the narrow part or tube ; or it may be called the broad end of the oefiphagus, that and the pharynx taken together being compared to a trumpet. The pharynx may be dividecj into three parts ; one fuperior, which is the arch of the pharynx , one middle, which is the body or great cavity; and one infe- rior, which is the bottom, narrow portion, or fphinfter. We are likewife to obferve it in three openings *, that of the arch, toward the nares ; that of the body, toward the mouth and that of the bottom, toward the oefophagus. 1 The arch is the broadeft part of the pharynx; and ends on each fide in an angle or point, toward the jugular foffulae of the balls cranii. Afterwards the great cavity contratts a little toward the fides, all its other dimenfions continuing the fame •, and behind the larynx it is again enlarged on each fide, a very fmall fpace being left between it and the cricoid cartilage. The extremity of the lower portion is very nar- row, and joins the balls of the cartilage juft named. The pharynx conlifts partly of feveral diftimft flefliy por- tions, which are looked upon as fo many different mufcles fo difpofed as to form a large cavity ; and partly of a mem- brane which lines the inner furface of this whole cavity, and is a continuation of that of the nares and palate. This membrane is wholly glandular ; and it is thicker on the fuperior and middle portions of the pharynx than on the bottom or lower portion. Immediately above the firft ver- tebra it forms feveral longitudinal rugae very thick, deep, and fhort and we generally find therein a collection of mucus in dead bodies. In the great cavity there are no rugae, the membrane adhering, both there and in the upper part, very clofely to the mufcles. At the lower part, where it is thin- ned, it covers likewife the pofterior part of the larynx; and is