RESPIRATION. Chap. II. *8r the reft of the arteries, becaufe in them the blood is alter- nately relaxed and comprefied, more than in any other ^.irt of the bbdy. But even when the lungs are obflrutftrd, ulce- rated, and almoft dcftroved, a morbid heat feizcs upon the body; and in the lungs the cold air very nearly touches the blood. The denfity of the blood is fomewhat increafed in the lungs, by the copious difcharge Ot the watery vapour which is there feparatcd. by which the reft of the u als becomes fpecifically heavier But the lame effltft leems to follow here as in other arteries, namely, from the attrition and pref- fure which the blood here lufters in being alternately retar- ded, accelerated, and figured in its courle through the mq- dulating tubes of the leaf! veflels, which gives a roundnefs and denfny to the particles j hence it becomes denier, as hav- ing more of the weighty globules, and lels ot the lighter fluid. And, in this relpctft, the pulmonary vein being lmallcr than its correfponding ariery, is of no lmall ufe towards increafing the attraflion of cohefion between the parts ot the(globmes, fo as to comprefs and bring them clofer to each other. JNe- verchelels, cold animals, which have very fmall lungs, have denfe and coagulable blood j -as alfo a chicken beiore it is hatched; The blood alfo has a fhort paflage through the lungs : The paflage through the whole body is longer, and the artery weaker ; the fide of the heart, by which the blood is driven forward, is alfo weaker. It is queried by iome anatomifts, Whether the air itfelf is hot received by the blood in the lungs, fo as to excite necefi. fary vibrations therein ?\ Whether t,his does not appear from the refiftance of bodies to the heavy external air -, from the air found in the blood veflels, in the cellular fubftance, and in certain cavities of the human body ; from the cracking obferved by an extenfion of the joints ; from air manifeftly extravaf'ated from the trachea into the hearts of certain ani- Vol. II. N n , mals. /