Chap. II. RESPIRATION". 2 75 the circulation through them is rendered eafler. While this is performing, the veficular (ubltance, or flelh of the lungs themfelves, filled with air, increales thole (paces through which the capillary blood vclTels of the lungs advance ; where- by the veficular preflure upon e..ch other, and up'on thole vellels adjacent, is leflened. Thus, therefore, the blood will flow with greater eale and celerity into, and through, the larger and finaller veflcls of the lungs. Hence a dying animal is revived by inflating its lungs, and facilitating the pa 11 age of the blood to the left ventricle of the heart; and thus people, feemingly dead by being kept a long time under avater, are again recovered. The preflure of the air upon the blood in the lungs, in this aClion, is fo inconfiderable as not to dtferve our notice, being at leal! 300 times Ids than the force of the heart, and can never urge the air into the blood. Some anatomifts luppofe, that a quantity of air is contained between the lungs and the fides of the thorax ; and that this air is contracted during inlpiration, and being again expand- ed, prefles the lu» gs, and caufes' expiration. They fu, port thtir opinion by producing ii Hat ces of birds where this faCt undoubtedly obtains. But we lee every thing concurs, to confute theie opinions with rclpeCt to man and quadrupeds, &c- ; for, immediately under the ptleura, in living quadru- peds, as'well as in dead human bodies,ithe lungs are vilible, without any intermediate fpace between them ; but the pleura being perforated, the lungs are immediately, by the conti- guous air that enters, prtfled together towards the vertebrae. In birds, indeed, the lungs being pervious to the air, admit it into the cavity of the thorax through large holes in their lub- flance. But in theie animals there is a manifeft ipace between the lun^s and the pleura. Large wounds, admitting the air only into one cavity of the thorax, diminilh the refpiration ; but, fuch wounds as let the air into both cavities, quite fuf- focate or fupprefs the refpiration. The thorax being opened under