RESPIRATION. tCliap. IT* The fecondary ufes of refpiration are very numerous. It ; abforbs from the blood fome noxious particles which might perhaps fuffocate, if they were fuffered to remain. 1 hus, the breath of many people, fhut up in a dole place, impreg- nates the air with a fuffbearing quality. And the blood ab- iorbs trom the air a thin vapour, of which the ufe is perhaps not yet iuflic ently known. _ , “ Among the various ufes of refpirati n,'(fays Wr.fbcrg), all of which, indeed, are of conGderable tonleq ence, we may elleem as a principal one, the abforption of fome parts of the atmofphere more peculiarly adapted to the fup, ort of life. The lungs perhaps feparate, in confequence of their peculiar ftructure, this vivifying principle f om the other coriftituent elements of the atmofphere, and, thrptigh proper vcffels, con- vey it, thus feparated, into the circulating mafs. “ This fubftance has not as yet received any proper name *, nor do we fufficiemly know its nature and properties The denomination pabulum vitae, given to it by the celebrated Ray, feems to accord tolerably well with its nature ; for, when it was exhaufted from the air by ani i.als brrathing in clofe vef- iels. fuch animals inevitably died, unlefs a frefh quantity of atmof.iheric air was introduced into the vcffcl. The name of eleElric principle feems more firiy adapted to the Jubilance. By the oblervations of Gilbert, Guerick, Boyle, the Floren- tine academicians, Hawkfbee Du Fay, Mufchenbroeck, Wat- fon, Ludolph, Winckler, Nollet, Franklin, Hartman, Priefl- ley, and feveral others, both on the eledfricitv of bodies in ge- neral, as well as of the atmofphere in particular, ou,r know- ledge of it has been much increafed; and, by the experi- ments of Wilfon, Volla, Wilkens, GdlitZin, Lichtenberg, and others, it may lafely be afferted that the electric matter of • Subfequent phyfiologifts have at length afeertained the true nature of this fubttance ; and the French phllofophers have very appolitely called it vital air. It was known to the linghlh phi- lofopherj by the name depblogijhcated air.