Chap. II. HEART. the prcflure becomes biffin ient to clofe the tricufpid valves. When thele valves are (h t, the violent prcflure of the blood 3jainft them might conliderably n.jure them, or even ptdh then back mto the auricle; but to prevenr any accident of that kind, their mulcular columns, which contrail with the heart, keep their edges firmly united. The blood bejrg impelled from the tides toward the axis of the contraftmg heart, endeavours to elcape in that direc- tion, and, by rufhmg Ike a wedge between the valves, prefi. fes their looie edges again!! the tides of the pulmonary artery, fo as to run freely out of the heart 1 he truth of this ap- pears from the fabric of the parts, from injtftions, and from ligatures, which, by obftruibng the lungs, will not fuffer the cavities in the right title of the heart to be emptied. The blood now received into the pulmonary artery, circu- lates through the lungs. That the blood goes directly from the arteries into the pulmonary veins, appears evidently tr.-m their llrudture; from a ligature, which, confining the blood between the heart and lungs, caules an aneurilmatic dilata- tion of the artery; from polypufes, by which the mouth of the pulmonary artery being oblfruifed,'the right cavities of the heart become enlarged, and at length burl!, while the left remain empty ; from injections, tor water, ifinglats, and ynilk, are very eafily forced from the pulmonary artery into the vein, and from thence into the left cavity of the heart. And laftly, the direct anaftomofes, or final opening- of the arteries into the veins in the lungs, may be feen by micros- copes, in frogs, &c. The blood which has once entered the pulmonary artery cannot return to the heart ; becaufe its valve- are of inch di- menfion-, that when diltended, they perfectly lhu up the opening at the heart; and they are fo (trong that they refill: 4 much greater force than the contraction of the pulmon ry artery. Sometimes, however, from a greater contractile Voj.. II. F f force