i Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 195 the moveable velum of the palate. Thus the pharynx being contracted like a fphinCter, drives down the food, without permitting any part to return into the cavity of the nares. Hence, when the velum of the palate is vitiated, the aliments 1 regurgitate into the noftrils, and a deafnefs enfues. During this endeavour to deprefs the food by the pharynx, : the velum, drawn back and expanded, is pulled down towards ;the tongue by the aCtion of the palato-pharyngei, and by the < circumflex mufcles of the foft palate. Thefe mufcles, toge- ther with the gloflo-palatinus, prefs the velum againfl the protuberant root of the tongue, and intercept any return to the mouth and noftrils. After there is no further danger of . any part falling into the trachea, the epiglottis is raifed up :again, as well by its own elafticity, as by the elevation of : the tongue itfelf, by which it is drawn forward. Laftly, the deprefled uvula is raifed by the azygos, which arifes from the tendons of the circumflexi mi fc'.es and levator of the foft [palate. A little after this follows an attempt to urge the food .downward, which is exerted by the conftriClor mufcles of the [pharynx which draw the fore parts towards the back, and 1 by the mufcles, which are partly tranfverfe, and partly afcend iinto the poftcrior furface of the pharynx. Thefe mufcles, aCling fucceflively from above downward, according to their fltuation, drive the aliment into the oefophagus. At the fame time the deprefling mufcles of the larynx, coraco- hyoidaeus, fterno-hyoidaeus, and fterno-thyreoidaeus, draw ddown the larynx forward, and leflening the capacity of the pharynx, urge the food downward. But in this aCtion, as the aliment pafles by the pofterior rima of the glottis, the arytae- noidei contract the larynx perpendicularly. As various dry and rough bodies are frequently (wallowed, it was neceflary for the pharynx to be dilatable, and not very fenfible of pain -, to which end the great quantity of mucus, which