i94 THE MOUTH, Part Vf. v ^ands up behind the tongue, connected therewith by nume- rous membranes, and perhaps by fome mufcular fibres. At the fame time, the mufcles elevating the pharynx all a£l to- gether j fuch as the biventer, geniohyoideus, genioglofius, ftylohyoideus, ftylogloffus, ftylopharyngeus, and the other elevators, which now draw the larynx upward and forward, that the epiglottis, being brought nearer to the convex root of the tongue, may be better clofed or deprefled. Hence it is neceflary toward deglutition, for the jaws to be clofed, that by this means the biventer may have a firm fupport, and, together with the mufcles already defcribed, elevate the os hyoides. Thus the epiglottis, being inverted, (huts up and clofely covers the pafiage into the larynx, over which the aliments pafs, as over a bridge, into the fauces. The pharynx is dilated in its action by the powers ferving to its elevation fuch as theJlylopharyiigeus, the thyreopalatinus, &lc. and it clofely furrounds and follows the drink, on each fide of the epiglottis, above the larynx, that it may from thence fall into the oefophagus. That the aliment might not regurgitate into the noftrils at the time when it is prefied into the dilated pharynx, a move- able velum or palate is interpofed. The elevator of this velum, with its companion, forms an arch, which is moveable with the palate itfel'f, between the two plates of the thyreo- palatinus mufcle, fo as to be brought into a clofe contadl with the hides of the nares and with the tubes, that none of the aliment may enter into either of them. But this elevator does not feem to have any confiderable adtion in fwallowing. At this time regurgitation into the noftrils is prevented by a conftrieftion of the mufcles of the pharynx, together with a depreffure of the thyreo-palatinus, which then manifeftly draws the moveable velum downward, and towards the tongue add pharynx. Add to thefe, the circumfltxus palati mollis, which is able both to open the tube, and to prefs down the