SECRETION or ti-ie BILE. Part VI. 3S6 able to fee : for the wax flows immediately int« a cavity, in a continued thread from the vena portarum into the biliary duds, without any interruption or effhfion. Again, a follicu- lar or glandular fabric is not allowable in the liver, from the great length of the biliary duffs. For all follicles depofit their, contents into forrve fpace immediately adjacent; for they are unfit to convey their fecerned fluid to any length, as they deftroy a great part of the velocity impartedby the ur*e- lies. Laftly, the common preffure which we mud fuppofe to be on thcfe acini, would lb crufh them, that no affiftaricc could from thence be brought to promote the morion through the excretory duffs. Concretions and hydatids are formed ' in the cellular fttbftance; arid, laftly, the bile, when fir ft fe- c'reted, is fnfficieotly fluid. Haller is perfuaded that no bile is fepnrated from the he- patic artery ; becaufe the peculiar ftruffure of the vena por- taruin would be ufelefs if it fecreted nothing. Its office in fecretion appears plainly by the continuations of its branches with the biliary duels, in a manner more evident than that cf the artery ; but it appears by experiments, alfo, that the biliary fecretion continues to be carried on after the hepatic artery is tied ; add to this the largcneis of the biliary duffs, in proportion to fo fmall an artery, with the peculiar nature of the blood colleffed in the vena portarum, lo extremely well fitted for the formation of the bile. But in tiie blood cf the hepatic artery, lays Hiller, we can And nothing peculiarly tit for the fecretion of bile, or analogous to its nature. Since, therefore, the vena portarum conveys the blood ready charged with biliary matter, fit to be ferreted in the lead acini, and from thence there is an open free paffiige, without any intermediate follicles, from the ultimate branches of the vena portarum into the beginning roots of the biliary duffs, and that the humours driven into the'vena portarum may eafily choofe this paffiige, the bile will be expelled from thence