pulmonaris. This trunk, as it is naturally fituated in the tho- rax, runs firft of all diredtly upward for a lmall ipace j then divides laterally into two principal branches, one for each lung*, that which goes to the right lung being the longeft, for a reafon that fhall be given hereafter. Auriculae. The auricles are mufcular bags f tuated at the baGs of. the heart, and their capacities are in proportion to thofe of their refpedtive ventricles; one towards the right ventricle, the other towards the left, and joined together by an inner feptuni and external communicating fibres, much in the fame manner with the ventricles j one of them being na- med the right auricley the other the Icjt. They are very un- even on the infide, but fmoother on the outfide ; and termi- nate in a narrow, flat, indented edge, reprelenting a cock’s cornb, or in fome meafure the ear of a dog. This properly gets the name of auricle, the larger and fmooth part of the cavity being called Jtnus venofus; bur, as the two parts make one general cavity, the name of auricle is commonly applied to the whole. They open into the orifices of each ventricle • called auricular orifices; and they are tendinous at their open- ing, in the fame manner as the ventricles. The right auricle is larger than the left \ and it joins the right ventricle by a common tendinous opening, as has been already obferved. It has two other openings united into one, and formed by two large veins which meet and terminate there, alinoft in a dircdl lme, called vena cava Jupenor and inferior. Highmore has deicribed an eminence in form of a I • v* valve, placed be1 ween the mouths of the two venae cavac : This he fuppofed diredts the blood from the veins into rhe auricle. Afterwards Lower deferibed and delineated it ; and other anatomilts have called it tuberculum Loweriy till Mor- gagni denied its exifter.ee in the human fubjedt. At the mouth of the inferior cava we find a membrane in form of a creftent, defenbed by Euftachius, and name d from him. Its convex