Part VI. 56 - THE BRAIN, From the foregoing hiftory of the arteries belonging to the brain, it appears that a very great quantity of blood, de- rived from trunks that are near the heart, is, at every pulfa- tion, fent to this organ : Dr Haller fays a fixth part, Dr. Monro a tenth part of the whole circulating mafs. Hence it is probable, that the ftrongeft parts of the blood, and fuch as are mod retentive of motion, go to the head. Is not this evident from the effects of mercurials exerting themfelves al- raoft in the head only ? from the fudden force and a&ion of inebriating fpirits upon the head ? from the fhort ftupor which camphor excites ? from the heat, rednefs, and fweat, which happen oftener in the face than other parts of the body ? to which add, the more eafy eruption of volatile and contagious puftules in the face ? Dr. Wrifberg, however, obferves, that all thefe arguments are not of the fame force ; for mercury, applied in different ways to the body, produces its effedts not in the head alone; fince it occafions in fome patients a diaphorefis, in others a diarrhoea, and in others it adts as a diuretic. The well guarded paflage of the great and important veflels in their afeent to the head, defends them from any material injury. The frequent modulations of the one trunk, with the other going to the head, as well, as the frequent communication of their branches among . themfelves, leflen any danger that might enfue from obftruc- tion. Hence, when the carotids are tied, the animal neither dies nor feems to be very uneafy. The confiderable flexures of the vertebral and carotid artery ferve to moderate the im- pulfe of the blood coming to the brain, fince a great part of the velocity which the blood receives from the heart, is fpent by the various infledlions. To which we may add, that the arteries in their afeent, grow larger and wider. With refpedl to the brain, we obferve it providently fur- rounded on all fides, firft by a fphere of bones, confiding of many diftindt portions, which fuffer it to extend, and at the fame