DIGESTION. Chap. IIT. 343 laft experiments, it appears that the different tribes of ani- mals are not lefs diftinguilhed by their externa! figure, and by their manners, than by the quality and power of their gaftric juices. Dogs are unab e to digeft vegetable, and llieep and oxen cannot digeft animal (ubftances. As the gufi- trie juice of the human ftomach is capable of diffolving, near- ly with equal eafe, both animals and vegetables, this circum- ftance affords a ftrong, and altnoft an irrelifiible proof, that nature originally intended man to feed prom fcuoufly upon both “ Live animals, as long as the vital principle remains in them, are not affifted by the folvent powers of th ftomach. 4 Hence it is,’ Mr Hunter remarks, ‘ that we find animals ‘ of various kinds living in the ftomach, or even hatched « and bred there; but the moment that any of thefe lofe « the living principle, they become lubject to the digeftive 4 powers of the ftomach. If it were poflible, f >r example, 4 for a man’s hand to be introduced into the (tomach of a 4 living animal, and kept there for li-me confiderable time, % 4 it would be found that the diffolvenr powers of the fto- 4 mach could .have no effeift upon it : but, if the lame hand 4 were feparated from the body, and introduced into the 4 fame ftomach, we fhouid then find, that he ftomach would 4 immediately acl upon i . Indeed, if this were not the 4 cafe, we Ihould find that the ftomach iit'clf ought to have 4 been made of indigeltible materials; for, if the living 4 principle was not capable of preferving animal fubftanecs 4 from undergoing th it-procefs, the ftomach itieif would be 4 digefted. But we find, on the contrary, that the ftomach, 4 which at one inft.int, that is, while poff ffed of the living 4 principle, was capable of refilling the digeftive powers 4 which it contained, the next, moment v z. when deprived 4 of the living principle, is it I- f ••apabl of being digefted, 4 cither by the di6eltive powers ot other ftomacus, or by the ‘ remains * I