SECRETION of the BILE. 383 Chap. III. creep along the ramifications of the trachea in the lungs: while, in the mean time, both the artery and the vein are connected to the branches of the biliary duds by a thin cel- lular fubllance like a fpider’s web. Some branches go out of the liver, being divided to the ligaments, and inofculating with the furrounding veins. And the fum of the branches in the vena portarum is always greater than the trunk; whence the area of the fedions of all the branches together greatly exceed that of the trunk ; from whence follow a great fridion and refiftance, in the fame manner as in the arteries. The blood brought to the liver by the vena portarum and hepatic artery mud of courle be conveyed back again by fome other veins ; and therefore the extreme branches of the vena portarum and hepatic artery inofculate ultimately into other veins, which are btanches of the cava Thefe branches arife from the whole circumference of the liver, run together to- wards its poflerior gibbous part into branches and trunks, and at laft go off into ten or more large veffels. The greater number of thefe Idler trunks pafs out through the poflerior lobule of the liver, and go to the cava through the fulcus thar lies on the right fide of the lobule, often completed into a circle by a fort of bridge or produdion of the liver ; from whence they afcend together through the diaphragm towards the left fide. Two or three trunks, much larger than the former, are inferted into the cava, clofe to the diaphragm, whole veins they often take in by the way. The branches of the vena cava are, in the adult, generally fewer and lefs than thofe of the vena portarum ; which is an argument that the blood moves quicker, becaufe of the lefs fridion, and of the colledion of the blood into a lefs capacity, by which it is al- ways accelerated when there is a lufllcicnt comprefling force. As to any valves at the openings of thefe brandies into the cava, there are not e which deferve to be regarded. The trunk of the vena cava pafles through the foramen of the diaphragm,