Chap. r. $9 AND ITS APPENDAGES. the fecurity of this part from every kind of prefiure by a ftrong bony fence, tjie flower motion of the blood through the abdominal vil'cera and lower extremities, and the perpe- tual exercife of the brain and fenfes, all determine a copious flux of blood to thefe parts; fome other caufes alfo ferve to fill the head largely with blood. Hence it is that a rednefs of the face, a turgefcence, a l'parkling of the eyes, with a pain of the head, a pulfation or throbbing of the arteries, and a bleeding at the nofe, are produced by violent exerciies or motions of the body. Hence, therefore, it is evident, that if the veins were of a thin ftrudlure, and round fliape in the brain, they would unavoidably be in greater danger of rup- turing, (to which, even in their prefent ftate, they are of- ten liable), and confequently apoplexies would be much more frequent. To avoid this inconvenience, therefore, nature has given a different figure to the veins carrying the blood from the brain, by which they are more eafily and largely dilatable, becaufe they make an unequal refiftance: Their texture is likewife very firm, and more difficultly ruptured, efpe- cially in the larger finufes, which perform the office of trunks j but as to the finufes of the leffer fort, they are either round, half cylindrical, or of an irregular figure. Befides this, na-. ture has guarded the finufes by crofs beams, or fraena, inter- nally, made of ftrong membranes, and detached from the right to the left fide at the bottom of the finus^ which, in greater diftenfions, they draw towards a more acute angle, ftrengthening and guarding it from a rupture. She has like- wife furniflied thele veins with numerous inofculations, by which they communicate with one another, with the external veins of the head, and with thofe of the fpinal marrow; and by this contrivance, they are capable of evacuating themfelves more eafily whenever they are overcharged with blood. Some writers have doubted, Whether a part of the arte- rial blood is not poured into the finufes of the brain ; and whether