Chap. II. 217 HEART. teriorly, it refembles a fmall oblong bag, bent different ways, and indented quire round the edges- Interiorly, it is like the infide of the right auricle. The pv hole common cavity of the left auricie is lmaller in an adult fubjeft than that of the right; and the lldhy fibres of this left auricle crofs each other obliqaely, in lira offerentiy dilpofed. Artetiae et venae coronariae. Bolides t he great common vef- fels, the heart has veffeis peculiar to itfelf, called the coronary arteries and veins, becaule they in f'ome meafure crown the batis of the heart. The coronary arteries, which are two ill number, go out from the beginning of the aorta, and after- wards fpread themfelves round the balls of the heart, to the fubftance of which they fend numerous ramifications. Vieuffens believed that fome of the branches of the coro- nary artery opened into the cavities of the ventricles and au- ricles ; for, by throwing a fine injeftion into thefe arteries, he found it run out on all Tides of the right ventricle and au- ricle. Thebefius being nearly of the fame opinion, endea- voured to prove that there were veins which carried part of the blood from the coronary arteries immediately into the ca- vities of the heart; and thele have therefore got the n ame of veins of Thebefius, though he is not the fir ft difcoverer. Win- flow, Haller, and feveral others, defcribe fiich veins; but 4 Duverney, after injecting the heart of an elephant, doubts of their exifience. Senat, who has paid much attention to this fubjeft, denies it altogether; and Sabatier coincides with him in opinion. There are feldom more than two arteries ; of which one lies toward the right, the other toward the left of the an- terior third part of the circumference of the aorta. The right coronary artery runs in between the bafis and right auricle, all the way to the flat fide of the heart, and fo goes halfway round. The >eft artery has a like courfe between the bafis and left auricle ; and, before it runs on the bafis, it fends off a capital branch, which runs in between the two ventricles Yol- I[- E e Another