AND ITS APPENDAGES. nf .Chap. I. Thefe, and other commonly received opinions, are taught by mathematicians, who more readily perceive the neceffity of thefe changes. But yet there is no power in the human eye which can either move the cryftalline humour out of its place, or comprefs it: Befides, we do not perceive this facul- ty in ourfelves; for we move a book nearer to our eyes when it is too far off, fo as to appear confufed, which we would have, no occafion to do, if by changing the internal figure of the eye we could correct the fault of the diftance : And through a fmall hole, we perceive an objedt Angle, only in the point of diftindt vifion, but double in every other. Perhaps the contraction of the pupil may enable us to fee near objedts more diftinctly. This contraction, however, is not in all people fufficient for the purpofe. There are feveral people, efpecially fuch as lead a fedentary life, and fuch as are employed in examining minute objedts, whofe cornea is too convex and denfe, whofe crystalline lens is too gibbous and folid, and whofe eye is lengthened by the incumbent weight of the humours, and per- haps the humours themfelves are too denfe; and in the fame perfon the eye may probably have all thefe defedts joined to- I gether. People labouring under one or more of thefe in- conveniencies have an iris that is fenfible in a very fmall de- gree of light, which circumftance makes them twinkle with the eye-lids when they are in a firong light, and they are called myopes or fhort-fighted. In thefe, the point of diftindt: vifion is very near to the eye, commonly from one to feven inches from the cornea ; but they fee remoter objedts more obfcurely, without being able to diftinguifh their parts. The reafon of this is evident ; fince, from the forementioned taufes, there is a greater refradting power of the humours, by which the diftant, and confequently parallel, rays are obli- ged to meet in their focus before the retina, from whence fpreading again, they fall upon the retina in many points. On