HEART. Fart VL 2l8 Another principal branch goes off from the union of the two arteries on the flat fide of the heart j which running to the apex, there joins the other branch. The coronary veins are diftributed exteriorly, much in the lame manner. Ihe largeft opens into the pofterior inferior part of the right auricle, by an orifice which is furnilhed with a valve, firft deferibed by Euflachius. Befides the co- ronary veins, the heart has other anterior veins, which have been called by VieufTens venae innominatae. Some of them go into the right auricle, others end in the right ventricle ; and there are other veins fiill fmaller, which are found in the fubftance of the heart, and which terminate in the right fi- lms and auricle. The nerves of the hearty are from the par vagum and great fympathetics : Thefe form the cardiac plexus, which fends off branches to the pericardium, to the roots of the great vef- fels, and are fpent at laft on the different parts of the heart. Particular fituation of the heart. The heart lies almoft tranf- verfely on the diaphragm, the greateft part of it being in the left cavity of the thorax, and the apex being turned toward the bony extremity of the fixth true rib. The bafis is toward the right cavity ; and both auricles, efpecially the right, reft on the diaphragm *, but the fituation of the heart during life changes a little, according to the ftate of refpiration, and to the pofition of the body. The origin or bafis of the pulmonary artery is, in this na- tural fituation, the highefl: part of the heart on the forefide j and the trunk of this artery lies in a perpendicular plane, ■which may be conceived to pafs between the fternum and the fpina dorfi. Therefore fome part of the bafis of the heart is in the right cavity of the thorax ; and the reff, all the way to the apex, is in the left cavity; and it is for this reafon that the mediaftinum is turned toward that fide. According to this true and natural fituation of the heart, the parts commonly faid to be on the right fide are rather anterior..