DIGESTION. 34S Chap III. V°L. II. X X fed thing which refembles the triture made by the ftrong giz- zards of granivorous fowls, which fome anatomies have alcri- bed to the human ftomacb. The ftomach, however, has a conliderable degree of (trength, fince the contraction of its fibres is often more than a third part of their length ; for we frequently fee the ftomach reduced to lefs than a rhirjf part of its diameter. The ftomach is nlfo frequently obferved to be diminilhed to much lefs than its third part, even to the breadth of an inch, fo that it can expel the fmallelt fibftan- ces, and entirely evacuate itfelf. The compreffiug force of the ftomach mult be very final!, as it bruiles neither berries por worms The motions which the ftomach receives from the dia- phragm and abdominal mulcles is greater than its proper pe- riftaltic mot ion. It is principally by the lorce'of theic muicies that the drinks are urged on continually, 6ui the lohd foods only when they are diifolved, icit thole parts whicn are too grois fliuulti De expelled through the pylorus into cue duode- num ; for thefoiid aliments do not feem to leave the ftomach before they have changed their fibrous or other texture for iliat of a mucus; being, as it were, a cineritious, yellowifh, lb me. what fetid, mucilaginous, and liquid pulp. That which is firft prepared and become fluid goes out of the ftomach before the reft ; but, fiich things as are hard, or too large to pafs the pylorus, are retained in the ftomach for a longer time. The'ftomach being irritated by too great a quantity or acri- mony of the food, by ficknefs, by a rcpulfion of the bile, or other caufes,does, by an antiperiftaltic or reverted motion of its fibres, drive its contents upwards through the open and relaxed oefo.Tagus in the adt of vomiting. Any part of the whole m- teftinal canal, from the pharynx to the rectum, may be con- ftridted, either luddenly or {lowly, by an antiperilhdtic ;i otion. If it happens fuddrnly to the upper parts at the (tolnach, the c.iaphragm, and likewife the aodonainal mulcles, being convulr