*7? Chap. II. RESPIRATION. tines, kidneys, and laftly of the lungs and even right auricle; of the heart. This ftagnation of the blood occafions prodi- gious anxiety and uneafinefs to the fpirits ; it is alfo the caufe of death in comprelfed air, in drowned people, and fuch as are ftrangled, which is much more fuddcn than is commonly imagined. A living perfon, therefore, that he may remove thofe inconveniences which proceed from an obftru&ion of the paflage of the blood, flackens the powers of infpiration, and excites thole of expiration, which free the breait from an air too greatly rarified. Thefe powers are, firft, the eladicity of the ribs ; which being drawn upwards out of their natural fituation, as loon as the powers which elevated them ceafe to a£t, fpontaneouf- ly place themfelves, fo as to make more acute angles with the flernum and .vertebrae. To this end conduces likewife the elaftic force of the bronchia and veficles diftended with air, which ftrive to contract themfelves. Hence exfpiration is performed more eafily and quickly than infpiration j and hence it is the laft action of dying people. The abdominal mulcles all contribute to contract the tho- rax. The refli, which are fixed to the ofia pubis by one end, and to the lower ribs by the other, being contracted-; deprefs the arch or convexity, into which the abdominal vifcera are thrult by the diaphragm : At the fame time the abdominal vifcera are prefied by thofe mufcles upward and backward a- gainft the diaphragm, which alone is able to give way, and yield toward the thorax, which at that time is rendered fhorter. The obliqui, for the fame reafons, comprefs the lateral parts of the abdomen, and urge the liver and llomach backwards, and prefs them towards that place where there is , the leaft refifiance. Lafily, they draw down the ribs which were before elevated by the intercoftals. The tranfverfales, indeed, do not draw the ribs; but they pull the cartilages of the faife ribs a little inward, and render the whole capacity •f