286 RESPIRATION. Part VI/' pull'e, as we fee in thofe fevers where the lungs are not af- fedted. The mucus, which lines the fenfible membranes of the air- vefiels in the lungs, may become troublefome, both by its quantity and acrimony; it has been known to caufe even fuffbeation in a dropfy of the lungs. Its quantity, adhefion, or acrimony, therefore, excite a ebugh ; which operation, caufed by an irritation of the organs of refpiration, is per- formed by alternate large inlpirations, fucceeded by large and quick exf. irations, together with fudden lhocks of the at)do- minal mufcles ; and by thefe means the mucus, and fome- times calculous matters, are expelled from the lungs. Laughter differs from coughing in its caufe, which refides / (commonly in the mind, or at lealt coulifts in a certain titilla- tion of fome of the cutaneous nerves.; and a'lo in its adtion, which is one large inlpiration fucceeded by feveral imperfedt quick exf'piratious through the contracted glottis, the lungs being never totally evacuated of air. Hence laughter, in a moderate degree, conduces to health ; becaufe, inffead of one full inlpiration, many fhort inlpirations and exfpirarions hap- pen, and thus the concuffion is greater. Hence its danger of Ifagnating the blood; becaule the exfpiration is not full or entire, and the blood is admitted into the pulmonary artery without being iuffered to pafs through it. Weeping begins with a great inlpiration, after which follow fhort al- ternate inlpirations and exfpirations; and it is finilhed with, a deep exfpiration, that is immediately joined by a large in- fpiration : Hence it has nearly the lame good and bad ef- fedts ; and, when moderate, it conduces to relieve the anguilh arilingfrom grief. An hiccup is a very great, lonorous, and fudden inlpiration. Sneezing confids of one large or deep infpiration, which is followed immediately with a powerful and fudden exfpiration ; it evacuates with great violence any acrid or other fubftance irritating the noilrils.