ty often millions of miles in a minute. Every luminous bo- the dy has the peculiar property of fending forth rays of light in every pofflble direction, which falling on the furfaces of fur- lounding objects, are reflected thence to our eyes. Hence the colour and form of the object become known. Each ray, fo extremely fmall as to have fcarce any conceivable thicknef?, is feparable into feven permanent and immutable rays of a letter kind, namely red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. Thefe rays are of different degrees of refrangibility, in the order in which they are enumerated, the red rays be- ing raoft refrangible ; and, when they are varioufly compoun- ded, they conftitute the different apparent colours of bodies. The colours which fcem peculiar to certain bodies may be thus explained : The furfaces of bodies, on which a whole ray of light falls, have, by fome peculiar form or conffruCtion, the power of reflecting fome of the primitive rays, and abforbing the others. If, for example, the furface is fo denfe as to re- flect all the primitive rays, the body appears white ; if the furface reflects only the red rays, the body appears red, and fo of others with their combinations. Thofe bodies are o- pake which retain the rays within their fubftance, without permitting any to pafs through them j but thofe which fuller the rays of light to pafs through them, are called tranfparent or pellucid. Rays of light falling perpendicularly on the furface of a tranfparent body, pafs through the body without changing their direction ; but rays falling obliquely on the furface pafs through the body with a change of their direction nearer to the perpendicular ; and this change of direction is called re- fraction. All tranfparent fubftances are, in optics, called refracting mediums. In general, the denfer the medium, the more the rays are bent towards the perpendicular; excepting only inflammable liquors, which, by a peculiar property, draw the rays more to a perpendicular than in proportion to