THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 217 However, this is only an apparent exception to the law already- mentioned, for reflection shows that the nucleus, in seeking to occupy the centre of its sphere of action, ■only affords an example which confirms the law. Interactions take place between the nucleus and the protoplasm, not between it and the yolk-substance, for the latter •during all the processes of division behaves like an inert mass. Thus the unequal dis- tribution of the protoplasm must, in con- sequence of the above law, affect the position of the nucleus, forcing it to make its way to those places where the protoplasm is chiefly collected, that is to say, away from the centre of gravity. The nearer the latter approaches the vegetative pole, the nearer the cleavage nucleus approaches the animal pole. Actual examination shows the truth of this statement. In the Frog's egg (Fig. 115), the cleavage nucleus is somewhat above the equatorial plane of the sphere in the animal half, whilst in eggs, where the protoplasm is more sharply differentiated as a germinal disc from the yolk (Fig. 108), the cleavage nucleus has risen quite close to the animal pole, and has taken up a position inside the germinal disc itself (Reptiles, Birds, Fishes, etc.). Similarly in the egg of Fabrina (Fig. 109), the cleavage nucleus has been pushed towards that portion of the oval body which is rich in protoplasm. Further, the reaction between protoplasm and nucleus, affect- ing the position of the latter, becomes more marked from the moment when the poles develop. Thus the second general law may be stated here, that the two poles of the division figure come to lie in the direction of the greatest mass of protoplasm, somewhat in the same way as the poles of a magnet are in- fluenced as to their position by the iron filings in their neigh- bourhood. According to the second law, in a spherical egg, for instance, in which protoplasm and yolk are evenly distributed, the axis of the centrally laid nuclear spindle may coincide with the direction of any radius whatever; whereas, on the contrary, in an oval proto- plasmic body it can only coincide with the longest diameter. In a circular protoplasmic disc the spindle axis is parallel to the Fig. 109.—Kpg from Fab- ricia (after Haeckel) : A animal portion; V vegeta- tive portion.