THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 173 together, form by their coalescence extensive structures (Fig. 73), which, especially in Worms and Arthropods, serve as a protection to the whole surface of the body. This skin consists chiefly of chitin, a substance which is only soluble in boiling sulphuric acid. In its minute structure it very closely resembles cellulose mem- branes, especially in its stratification, which indicates that growth has taken place by the deposition of new lamelloe upon the inner surface of those already formed. Occasionally the old chitinous sheaths are ruptured and dis- carded after they have developed beneath them a younger, more delicate skin to take their place ; this process is termed sloughing. Calcium salts may be deposited, by means of intussusception, in the chitinous skin in order to strengthen it. Finally, intercellular substances are formed, when numerous cells secrete from their entire surfaces solid substances, which, however, do not remain isolated as in cell membranes, but which coalesce to form a coherent mass, it being impossible to recognise from which cells the various portions of it originated (Fig. 74). Thus, in tissues with intercellular substance, the individual cells cannot be separated from one another, as they can be in plant tissue. In the continuous ground- substance, which may consist of very differ- ent chemical substances (mucin, chondrin, glutin, ossein, elastin, tunicin, chitin, etc.), and which further may be either homo- geneous or fibrous, small spaces are present, which contain the protoplasmic bodies. Now, since the area of intercellular sub- stance in the neighbourhood of the cell space is controlled to a considerable extent by the protoplasmic bodies it contains, it , has been called by Virchow (I. 33) a cell territory. Such a cell territory, however, is of necessity not marked off from neighbour- ing ones. Amongst the cell products, which may be classed as external or internal according to their position, the muscle and nerve fibres must be mentioned. Being composed of protein substance, they come next after protoplasm in the consideration of the substances of which tissues are composed; they must be classed with the Fig. 74.—Cartilage (after Gegenbaur) : c superficial layer ; t intermediate layer passing into o, typical car- tilage.