186 THE CELL thicker, and are grouped around the spindle in the form of a com- plete ring, the arrangement being that described by Flemming as the mother-star. The loop-like shape of the segments is now most clearly defined. They are invariably so ar- ranged that the angle of the loop is directed towards the axis of the spindle, whilst its arms point towards the surface of the cell. All of the twenty-four loops lie pretty accu- rately in the same plane, which, since it bisects the spindle at right angles, is called the equatorial plane; it is identical with the plane of division which develops later. When seen ' from either of the poles the chromatin figure has " the shape of a star whose rays are formed of the arms of the V-shaped loops, and whose centre is traversed by the bundle of achromatin fibrils which compose the nuclear spindle." This point of view is the most convenient one for counting the nuclear segments, and for de- termining their number to be twenty-four. Another most important process occurs during the second stage. If the nuclear segment of a well-preserved preparation be ex- amined with a high power of the microscope, it will be seen that each mother segment is cleft longitudinally, and is thus split up into two parallel daughter segments, which lie close together. Now since no sign of this longitudinal division could be seen in the original nuclear network, it follows that it must have occurred after karyokinesis had commenced. Generally the longitudinal cleft may be first seen when the nuclear threads have arranged themselves in the form of a coil (Fig. 75 B), but it is always completed during the second stage (mother-star), when it is most clearly defined. This was first observed by Flemming (VI. 12, 13), in Salamandra; and his statements have been corroborated by v. Beneden (VI. 4a), Heuser (VI. 39), Guignard (VI. 23), Rabl (VI. 53), and many others, who made observations upon the same and other objects. This longitudinal splitting appears to occur invariably in indirect nuclear division, and is of the greatest importance for the comprehension of the process, as will be shown later on, when the subject is discussed theoretically. Fig. 79. — Diagrammatic repre- sentation of the segmentation of the nucleus (after Flemming). Stage in which the nuclear segments are airanged in the equator of the spindle.