192 THE CEfifi During the fourth stage the cell-body divides, and the daughter- nucleus becomes built up again. This, according to van Beneden, takes place in the following manner (Fig. 87) : the four chromatin A Fig. 87.—A A group of four daughter-segments seen from tho pole, the swellings at the ends, forming the loops, are especially well marked (after van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 19). B Reconstruction of the nucleus from the four daughter-segments, diagrammatic (from van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 20). C Resting condition of the nucleus, seen from the pole (from van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 21). loops (A) absorb fluid, which becomes nuclear sap, out of the protoplasm; they become saturated with it, as a sponge with water, and thus swell up into thick vesicular bodies (B). The nuclein divides up into granules, which are connected together by delicate threads, which are situated chiefly upon the surfaces of these vesicles. The inner surfaces of these latter come close together and fuse. Thus a vesicular nucleus, irregular in shape, and saturated with nuclear sap, is formed; it is separated from the protoplasm by a membrane, and contains a delicate framework, upon which the chromatin substance is distributed. The eggs of Ascaris afford us special advantages for the study of centrosomes and nuclear segments, but the small eggs of Echinoderms (Hertwig VI. 30a; Fol VI. 19a) are also of great use, particularly for observing radia- tion phenomena in the protoplasm of the living cell. More will be said about this later on. In the egg-cell of a living Echinodem, a few minutes after fertilisation (Fig. 88), the small globular cleavage-nucleus is seen to be situated in the centre of the yolk ; it looks like a clear vesicle, and is surrounded by rays of proto- plasm, like a sun with rays of light. This radiation is so dis- tinct in this object during life, ■fk Fig. 88.—Egg of a Sea-urchin just after fertilisation has been completed (from O. Hertwig, Embryology, Fig. 20). Egg nucleus and sperm nucleus are fused to form the cleavage nucleus (fit) which occupies the centre of a proto- plasmic radiation.