330 THE CULL cell-wall. This does not prevent it from eventually fulfilling other functions in the fully developed cell." (Haberlandt.) 3. The nucleus takes part both in the excretion and absorp- tion of material. This is shown by its position, and also by the fact that the nucleus increases its superficial area by extending numerous processes towards the place where excretion and absorp- tion are occurring'. II. Experiments proving the reciprocal action of the nucleus and protoplasm. The experimental researches of Gruber, Nussbaum, Hofer, Verworn, Balbiani, and Klebs have led to the same results. Their method was to divide by some means or other, a unicellular organism or a single cell into two portions, one nucleated and the other non-nucleated, and then to follow and compare their future behaviour. By means of plasmolysis in 16 per cent, sugar solution, Klebs was enabled (IV. 14; VIII. 7) to divide the cells of Spirogyra threads into one nucleated part and several non-nucleated portions. Although these latter sometimes live for six weeks before they disintegrate, the vital processes occurring in them differ con- siderably from those taking place in the nucleated ones, the latter continuing to grow and to surround themselves with a new cell-wall, which stains easily with congo red, and can thus be rendered visible. The former on the other hand remain globular in form, do not increase in size, and develop no cell-wall. That the latter process is considerably influenced by the presence of the nucleus, is clearly shown by the fact that, when the fragments obtained by means of plasmolysis, are connected by a thin bridge of protoplasm, the non-nucleated part is able to form cellulose. However, certain metabolic processes take place in protoplasm without the presence of the nucleus; for instance, the non- nucleated parts are still able to assimilate, to dissolve, and to form starch, provided that they contain a portion of the chlorophyll- band. If they are kept for a considerable time in the dark, they become free from starch, because they have used up the stock of stored-up granules; when they are brought back again into the light, the chlorophyll bands recharge themselves with newly- assimilated starch ; indeed, in this case the accumulation of starch is even greater than in the nucleated part, probably because its consumption, whilst all the other vital functions are in abeyance, is reduced to a minimum.