246 THE CELL. they have reached maturity, as has been observed by Flemming and Hermann in Salamandra maculaia, and by myself in Ascaris megalocephala. The framework of the nuclei disintegrates, and the nuclein collects together into a compact mass, which is re- markable for its strong affinity for the most various stains. The protoplasm diminishes in quantity, in proportion to that present in similar normal germ cells. Such a stunted cell with a cora- A Fig. 136.—A Sperm cejl with a degenerated nucleus from the testis of a Salamandra maculata (from Flemming, PI. 25, Fig. 51a). B Residuary body (corps r&Muel) from the testis of Ascaris megolocephaja. Nuclear degeneration. pletely disorganised nucleus is depicted in Fig. 136. A is a germinal oell from the testis of Salamandra; B, a germinal cell of Ascaris, such as is found both in the testis and ovary, and which is known by the name of corps residuel, or residuary body. Wasielewski, by injecting turpentine into the testes of mammals, has succeeded in inducing experimentally a similarly degenerated condition in the nuclei of germ cells. Concerning the physiological importance of the nuclear division processes, compare Chapter IX., section 3, especially that portion dealing with the equal distribution of the multiplying inherited mass amongst the cells proceeding from the fertilised egg. Literature VI. 1. Julius Arnold. Ueber die Theilungsvorgange an den Wanderzellen. Archiv filr mikroslcop. Anatomic Bd. XXX. Ferner mehrere Aufsatze in Virchow's Archiv. Bd. XCIII., XCVIII., GUI. 2a. Auerbach. Organologische Studien. Zweites Heft. Ueber Neubildung und Vermehrung der Zellkerne. 2b. Auerbach. Zur Kenntniss der thierischen Zellen. Sitzungsber. d. kgl. preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. 1890. 3. Balfour. A Treatise on Embryology. London. 1880. 4a. van Beneden. Eecherches sur la maturation de Vteuf, la fe.condation, et la division cellulaire. Archives de biologic. Vol. IV. 1883. [Trans, by Cunningham, Q.J.M.S., Jan., 1885.) 4ii. van Beneden u. Neyt. Nouvelles recherches sur la feeondation et la divi- sion mitosique chez I'ascaride viegalocephale. Leipzig. 1887.