THE VITAL PHENOMENA OK THE CELL 223 the focus ; that is to say, the corresponding cell divisions only occur after the periclines below the centre of curvature have become sufficiently far apart from one another for it to be neces- sary for new periclines to intercalate themselves between them; and the same is true of the anticlines. It is easy to see in the diagram (Fig. Ill), that the curvatures of the construction lines are especially sharp around the common focus of all the anticlines and periclines." "Hundreds of median longitudinal sections, through the growing- points of roots and shoots, have been made by various observers, before the fundamental principle was at all understood, and all of these correspond with the construction which I have given, and thus prove its accuracy." Finally, in order to understand certain variations from normal cell division, a fourth law must be mentioned, which has been formulated by Balfour (VI. 3) in the following words: " The rapidity with which a cell divides is proportional to the concentra- tion of the protoplasm it contains. Cells l'ich in protoplasm divide more quickly than those which are poor in protoplasm and rich in yolk." This law is explained by the fact that, in the process of division, it is the protoplasm alone which is active, the yolk substance stored up in it being passive, and, so to speak, carried along by the active protoplasm. The greater the amount of yolk present, the more work is there for the protoplasm in division; indeed, in many cases there may be more to do than the protoplasm can accotnplish. This occurs frequently in eggs, in which polar differentiation has occurred, the greater part of the protoplasm being concentrated at the animal pole. Then division is confined to this portion of the cell, the vegetative part being no longer broken up into cells. Thus an incomplete or partial division has resulted instead of a complete one. Both extremes are united in nature by intermediate forms. 2. Review of the Various Modes of Cell Division. The following classification, upon which I have based my detailed accounts, may be made of the various methods of cell division. I. Complete or Holoblasttc Segmentation. a. Fqual. b. Unequal. c. Cell-Buddino.