236 THE CELL shorter and thicker (Fig. 125 II., III.). The centrosomes separ- ate from one another, until finally they are situated at oppo- site sides of, and at some distance from, the vesicular nucleus. By this time, the rest of the nucleolus has disappeared; the nuclear membrane becomes dissolved, and the two bundles, each containing four nuclear segments, arrange themselves in the equator between the centrosomes; then each bundle splits up into two daughter-bundles containing two nuclear segments, which separate and move towards the poles (Figs. 125 IV., 126 7.). The sperm-mother-cell now becomes constricted into !> n. ni. Fig. 126.—Diagram showing the development of sperm-cells from a sperm-mother-cell of Ascaris megalocephala bivalens. I. Division of the sperm-mother-cell into two sperm- daughter-cells. II. The two sperm-daughter-cells {A, B) immediately prepare to divide a second time. III. The sperm-daughter-cell A divides into two grand-daughter-cells. B and C are grand-daughter-cells, which have been produced by the division of the daughter-cell B of Fig. II. two daughter-cells of equal size (Fig. 126 II). Whilst this process of constriction is taking place, the changes commence which lead up to the second division (Fig. 126 I.), the cen- trosome of each daughter-cell splits up into two parts which travel, each surrounded by its own radiation sphere, in opposite directions, which are parallel to the first division plane (Fig. 126 A, B). The nuclear segments produced by the first division immediately afford the material for the second division, without passing through the vesicular resting condition. They move until they are situated between the newly-developed poles of the second division figure (Fig. 126 II., B), and then divide into two groups, each of which contains two nuclear segments; these groups then separate, and move towards the poles, after which the second constriction commences (Fig. 126 III, A). Whilst after the first division each daughter-cell contains four of the eight nuclear segments, which have developed beforehand in the resting nucleus, each grand-daughter-cell contains only two. For, in consequence