THE CELL of nuclear division is the division of the mother-granule; all the other processes only serve to convey one of the daughter-granules, which have been derived by division from the same mother- granule, into the centre of each daughter-cell." If we replace the term " mother-granule " by the expression " idioblast," we have established a connection between the process of nuclear segmenta- tion and the theory of heredity. This conception of the nuclear substance as an hereditary mass is important, since it offers some explanation of the facts that the nuclear substance takes less part in the coarser processes of metabolism, than the protoplasm does, and that, for its better protection, it is enclosed in a vesicle provided with a special membrane. 3. The Prevention of the Summation of the Hereditary Mass. I consider the third point, viz. the prevention of the summation of the hereditary mass, during sexual reproduction, to be a most important point in the argument. In consequence of the nature of the process of nuclear division, each cell receives the same quantity of nuclear substance as the fertilised egg-cell, A. Now when two of its descendants unite, as sexual cells, the product of generation, B, ought to contain twice as much nuclear substance as the cell A originally did. Then when members of the third generation conjugate, the product C ought to contain twice as much nuclear substance as B, or four times as much as A, and thus with each new act of fertilisation the nuclear mass would increase by geometrical progression. Such a summation, however, must be prevented by nature in some way or other. This would also be true of the idioplasm, if the full quantity of it were transmitted to each cell, and if it were doubled each time by the act of fertilisation. By this means, its nature, per sp, would not be changed. For instead of twice, each individual elemental germ would be represented four, eight, or even more times. Thus, although the quantity would be increased, the quality would always remain the same. But it is self-evident that the mass cannot thus increase to an unlimited extent. Nageli, and especially "Weismann, have laid stress upon this difficulty, and have tried to solve it. Nageli remarks : " If during each act of reproduction by means of fertilisation, the volume of the idioplasm of whatever constitu- tion it may be, were to become doubled, after a few generations the idioplasmic bodies would have increased so much, that there