154 THE CELL may be utilised by the formative activity of the cell, in the same way as has been suggested above, that other substances are used for the formation of the cellulose membrane. In what way the protoplasm executes its above-mentioned function of adoption is quite beyond our comprehension at this present time, when the majority of the bio-chemical processes escape our observation. This function of the protoplasm, however, may consist in this, that certain particles of its substance may unite, through molecular addition, with particles of other sub- stances present in the nutrient solutions, and thus become trans- formed into an organic product. Thus soluble silicious compounds may unite with molecules of organic substance to form a silicious skeleton ; thus particles of cellulose may be formed through the influence of particles of protoplasmic substance from soluble carbo-hydrates, forming with them a compound (pi-obably per- manent, but possibly only temporary), and becoming organised to form a cell-membrane. This conception is quite in accordance with the fact that in many objects freshly-formed layers of cellulose are found to pass imperceptibly into the neighbouring protoplasm. 2. The Morphology of Metabolism. The formative activity of the Cell. The substances which are formed during the meta- bolism of the cell may be included under the head of morpho- logy, in so far as they can be optically distinguished from the protoplasm. They may be differentiated out in a formed or unformed condition, either in the interior of the protoplasm, or upon its surface ; according to their position they are distin- guished as internal or external plasmic products. However, as is so often the case in biological classifications, a sharp line of dis- tinction cannot be drawn between the two groups. a. Internal Plasmic Products. Substances dissolved in water may separate out as larger or smaller drops in the protoplasm, and thus cause cavities or vacuoles. These play a most important part, especially in the morphology of plants. As has already been described in detail on p. 31, a plant cell (Fig. 62) is able by secreting sap to increase its size in a short time more than a hundred-fold. It is by means of the simultaneous action of a large number of such cells that in spring-time certain organs of plants are able to grow to such a considerable size. The solid substance contained by a plant very rich in water may be as little as 5 per cent., or even only 2 per cent.