THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 239 way in which I explain the interesting observations of Klebahn (VI. 43) upon two species of low Algre, Closterium and Cosmarinm. A more detailed account is given in the chapter on the process of fertilisation, p. 279. IV. Influence of the Environment upon Cell-Division. The complex play of forces, exhibited to the spectator at each cell- division, can, just like the phenomena of protoplasmic movements, which have been already described, be influenced to a considerable extent by external agencies. Only here, for obvious reasons, the conditions are more complicated than with the protoplasmic move- ments, because bodies differing in structure, such as protoplasm, nuclear segments, spindle threads, centrosomes, etc., are concerned, and these can be altered in very various ways. As yet very little experimental work has been done upon the subject. If the ques- tion is raised as to how the processes of nuclear division are affected at any individual stage by thermal, mechanical, electrical or chemical stimuli, the answer is but unsatisfactory. The most complete experiments that have been made at present have been upon Echinoderm eggs, whose reactions during division to thermal and chemical stimuli have been carefully observed. It is generally accepted that the rate of cell-division is affected by the temperature, but what are the exact maximum and minimum temperatures, and what changes in the nuclear figure are produced by temperatures exceeding the maximum, have not yet been accurately determined. I (VI. 32, 33) have conducted a series of experiments upon the influence of temperature from 1째 to 4째 Celsius below zero. If dividing Echinoderm eggs are cooled down for about 15 to 20 minutes from 1째 to 4째 Celsius below zero, after a few minutes the whole achromatin portion of the nuclear figure becomes dis- integrated and destroyed, whilst the chromatin portion forming the nuclear segments experiences only small or unimportant changes. The most instructive figures are seen when the nuclear segments are arranged in the equator (Fig. 128 A), or when they have already migrated to the two poles, as can be seen from Fig. 128 B; the protoplasmic radiations and the spindle threads have abso- lutely disappeared, whilst the radiation spheres in the neighbour- hood of the centrosomes are marked by bright portions in the yolk. The nuclear segments alone are unaltered in appearance and position.