220 THE CELL taming portion, and, on account of its smaller specific gravity, floats upwards, and is spread out horizontally (Fig. 1154). The 4 - B Fro. 115.—Diagram of the division of the Frog's egg (0. Hertwig, Embryology, Fig. 31): A first division stage; B third division stage j the four portions of the second stajie of division are beginning to be divided by an equatorial furrow into eigbt portions; P pigmented surface of the egg at the animal pole; pr that part of the egg which is richer in protoplasm ; d that part of the egg which is richer in deutoplasm; ap nuclear spindle. nuclear spindle, however, lies horizontally, in a horizontal disc of protoplasm; hence the division plane must develop vertically. At first a small furrow appears at the animal pole, since this latter is especially influenced by the nuclear spindle which has approached it, and further because it contains more protoplasm, in which the movements occurring during division commence. The furrow slowly deepens, cutting downwards towards the vegetative pole. The two hemispheres produced by this first division consist of an upper portion, rich in protoplasm, and of a lower portion, poor in protoplasm. By this means, in the first place the position of the nucleus, and in the second place its axis, are absolutely de- termined before it commences to divide a second time. The nucleus is to be looked for, according to the above-mentioned law, in that quadrant which is richest in protoplasm. The axis of the spindle must here lie parallel to the longitudinal axis of the quadrant, that is to say, it must lie horizontally. Hence the second division plane, like the first, is perpendicular, cutting the latter at right angles. At the end of the second cleavage the amphibian egg consists of four quadrants which are separated from one another by verti- cal division planes, and which possess two unequal poles, the upper one being lighter and richer in protoplasm, and the lower one heavier and richer in yolk substance. In an egg where equal cleavage occurs, we saw that at the stage of the third division