352 THE CELI length on p. 235, under the title of division with reduction, is so distributed amongst the four grand-daughter cells, that each of them only contains half the nuclear mass of an ordinary cell, and hence only half the normal number of nuclear segments. The second course occurs during the process of fertilisation in Closterium. Here, according to the observations of Klebahn (VII. 27), the germinal nucleus, formed by the fusion of two nuclei, divides consecutively twice without entering into a state of rest, just as when pole-cells are formed. Of the four vesicular nuclei, two disintegrate, so that each half of the original mother-cell contains only one nucleus, which possesses only a fourth part of the germ-nucleus, instead of one half, as in normal division (see the description and figures on pp. 280, 281). If, according to our assumption, the nuclear mass is identical with the hereditary mass, we must conclude, arguing from the process of division with reduction, that the hereditary mass may be divided up to a certain point, without losing its power of reproducing the whole out of itself. The question then arises, as to how far this conception is admissible. Weismann and I both lay emphasis upon the necessity of a reduction of mass, but we have arrived at different conclusions as regards particulars. In his ancestral germ-plasm theory, Weismann starts with the supposition, that in the hereditary mass the paternal and maternal portions having kept themselves apart, form units, which he calls ancestral germ plasms. He assumes that these are very compli- cated in structure, being composed of extremely numerous biological units. At each new act of fertilisation still more numerous ancestral germ-plasms come together. Supposing that we revert to the beginning of the whole process of fertilisation, then in the tenth generation 1024 different ancestral plasms must have taken part in the formation of the hereditary mass. But since the total mass of the latter does not double itself with each act of fertilisation, Weismann makes the ancestral plasms divisible in the first stages of the process, and supposes that they are transmitted to the following generation, reduced each time by one half; " at last, however," he continues, " the limit of this constant diminution of the ancestral plasms must be reached, and this must occur when the mass of substance, which is necessary in order that all elemental germs of the individual may be contained therein, has reached its minimum."