185 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL portanfc portions of the nuclear figure—have developed in the polar area. However, on account of the difficulty in staining them, and their minute size and extreme delicacy, these appearances ore not easily made out at this stage; further, they may be more or less concealed by granules, which collect in the protoplasm in their neighbourhood. According to Flemming and Hermann, two centrosomes may be made out in successful preparations. These are situated very close together, aud have probably been formed by the division of an originally single centrosome. Between them the connecting fibrils, which later on develop into the spindle, can be seen. Second Stage of Division. The second stage may be said to date from the time when the nuclear membrane grows indistinct and dissolves. The nuclear sap then distributes itself evenly throughout the cell body, whilst the nuclear segments come to lie freely in the middle of the pro- toplasm (Fig. 78). The two centrosomes, which are now further apart from one an- other, are situated near them. The spindle increases proportionately in size and distinctness, and is seen to consist of a number of most delicate fibrils, stretching continuously from one cen- trosome to the other, as is clearly shown in Hermann's preparation represented in Fig. 78. The centrosomes of the nuclear figure commence at this stage to exercise an influence upon the surrounding proto- plasm. Around each centrosome as centre, innumerable proto- plasmic fibrils group themselves radially, stretching out principally towards that region where the nuclear segments are situated, and appearing to adhere to their surface. From now on, the spindle commences to increase rapidly in size until it has attained the dimensions seen in Fig. 79. Meanwhile the chromatin figure becomes markedly altered (Fig. 79). The nuclear segments have grown considerably shorter aud Fig. 78.—Nucleus of a Bperni-mother-cell of Salamandra maculata preparatory to division. The spindle is situated between the two centro- somes. (After Hermann (VI. 29), PI. 31, Fig. 7.)