THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 93 or pressure. Similarly, as Sachs has pointed out, plant cells also are furnished with their specific energies. Tendrils and roots bend themselves in a manner peculiar to themselves, whether stimulated by light, gravitation, pressure, or electricity. The effect of a stimulus bears the specific stamp, so to speak, of the special structure of the stimulated substance, or, in other words, irritability is a fundamental property of living protoplasm, but it manifests itself in specific actions according to the specific structure of the protoplasm under the influence of the external world. The same idea is expressed by Claude Bernard (IV. la) in the following words : " La sensibilite, consideree comme propriete du systeme nerveux, n'a rien d'essentiel ou de specifiquement distinct; c'est 1'irritabilite speciale au nerf, comme la propriete de contrac7 tion est rirritabilite speciale au muscle, comme la propriete de secretion est rirritabilite speciale a l'element glandulaire. Ainsi, ces proprietes sur lesquelles on fondait la distinction des plantes et animaux ne touchent pas a leur vie meme, mais seulement aux mecanismes par lesquels cette vie s'exerce. Au fond tous ces me- canismes sont soumis a une condition generale et commune, rirritabilite." In speaking generally of irritability, another peculiar pheno- menon deserves especial attention, namely the transmission or con- duction of stimuli. If a small portion of the surface of a protoplasmic body is stimulated, the effect produced is not limited to this point alone, but extends to far outlying ones. Hence the changes produced by the stimulus at the point of contact must be more or less quickly shared by the rest of the body. Stimuli, as a rule, are more quickly transmitted in animal than in vegetable bodies; in human nerves, for example, the rate is 34 metres per second ; it is always slower in plant protoplasm. We imagine that the substance which is capable of receiving stimuli forms a system of exceedingly elastic particles in a condi- tion of unstable equilibrium. In such a system it is sufficient for one of the particles to receive a slight shock, in order to set all the others in motion, since each transmits its movement to another. This theory explains the phenomenon, that exceedingly great effects are often produced by very slight stimuli, just as a small spark, by setting on fire a single grain of powder, may cause a powder magazine to explode. Finally, another peculiarity of organic matter is its capacity of returning more or less completely to its original condition, after a l