255 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL divisions, without sexual intercourse (vegetative reproduction). Or, to speak generally, between two acts of fertilisation a large number of events, which are the result of cell division, are intro- duced ; these, however, need not belong to a single highly developed physiological individual, but may be shared by numerous individuals. This may occur in one of two ways. In the one case the organism proceeding from the fertilised eo-o- is unable itself to form sexual cells ; it is only able to mul- tiply by means of buds, spores, or parthenogenetic ova. These, or their asexually produced descendants, then become sexually mature, and develop the capacity of producing ova and sperma- tozoa. Such a cycle of events is called a regular alternation of generations (Hydroid polyps, Trematodes, Cestodes, partheno- genesis of Aphides, Daphnids, etc. Higher Cryptogams). In the second case the organism derived from the fertilised egg multiplies both sexually, and asexually. The consequence of this is, that even in the same species of plant or animal the generation cycle must vary considerably. Between the comple- tion of the first and the commencement of the second act of fertilisation, either, on the one hand, only cell descendants arise which belong to the single individual from which the fertilised egg was derived, or one or more generations, the number in some cases being very large, intervene, until finally the eggs of an individual, produced by budding, become fertilised. In conse- quence, fertilisation here assumes the character of a facultative process, which is not absolutely necessary for the continuation of the species, at any rate, so long as it has not been proved that there are definite limits to vegetative multiplication. At present this cannot be demonstrated in numerous plants, which appear to be able to multiply indefinitely by means of runners, tubers, etc. When we consider such cases, we must admit that the vital processes may continue indefinitely simply by repeated division of the cells themselves, without the intervention of the act of fer- tilisation ; still, on the other hand, we are bound to conclude, on account of the wide distribution throughout the whole organic kingdom of the phenomenon of fertilisation, that this institution is of essential importance amongst the vital processes, and that it is fundamentally connected with the life of the cell. Fertilisa- tion is in fact a cellular problem. Our present subject is most closely connected with the study of the cell, especially as concerns its irritability and divisibility.