THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 109 An appearance similar to that produced when iron filings are attracted by a magnet is seen. " Under the circumstances, as •pIG 5g_ on completing the circuit of the constant current all the Paramoecia in a drop of water swim within the curve of the electric current towards the negative pole (A), until after a time they collect on the other side of the pole (£). (After Verworn IV. 40, Fig. 20.) Verworn remarks, " it may be observed that after all the ParamcBcia have wandered over to the negative pole, the largest collection is formed behind, that is to say—reckoning from the positive pole—on the other side of the negative pole, and that only a few remain on this side of the pole (Fig. 56 B). When the connection, is broken the Protista swim back again, in the manner described above, towards the positive pole, keeping at first, just as before, well within the curve of the electric current, until gradually the movement, and with it the division into groups, becomes ir- regular again." In the same manner, a number of other Ciliata (such as Stentor, Colpoda, Halteria, Coleps, TJrocentnm) and Flagellata (such as Traclielomonas, Peridinium) are galvanotropic. Amcebce react in a similar manner. At the first moment after the circuit of the constant current has been completed a cessa- tion of the streaming movements of the granules occurs; very soon, however, the hyaline pseudopodia are suddenly protruded from the end which is turned towards the cathode, and, whilst the remainder of the body substance flows in the same direction, and keeps continually stretching out new pseudopodia, the Amoeba creeps towards the cathode. When the current is reversed it is seen that the granular streaming movements are also immediately reversed, and the Amoeba commences to creep in the opposite direction. The movement towards the cathode may be called negative galvanofropism. As there exist both negative and positive heliotropism and thermotropism, so we occasionally find isolated