58 THE CELL I have for some time held the opinion, which, for reasons that I will state later (vide Chap. VI.), I still hold to be worthy of con- sideration, that the central corpuscles are generally constituent parts of the resting nucleus, since after division has taken place they enter its interior, and whilst it is preparing for division come out again into the protoplasm. Only in rare cases do the central corpuscle or corpuscles remain in the protoplasm itself, whilst the nucleus is resting, and then to a certain extent they represent a subordinate nucleus in addition to the principal one. This theory would explain the fact that, even with the more recent methods and most improved optical instruments, the central corpuscles as a rule cannot be demonstrated near the resting nucleus in the protoplasm of the cell. V. Upon the Molecular Structure of Organised Bodies. In order to explain the chemico-physical properties of organised bodies, Nageli (V. 17,18; II. 27, 281 has advanced a micellar theory, which, although undoubtedly to a great extent hypothetical, is very useful in rendering many complicated conditions more easy of comprehension, and above all more easily pictured to the imagination. A short abstract of this micellar theory, which de- serves attention, if only on account of the strictly logical manner \ in which it has been worked out, will not be out of place ' here. One of the most remarkable properties of an organised body is ~\\ its capacity of swelling up, that is to say, of absorbing into its interior a large, though not unlimited, quantity of water, with the substances dissolved in it. This may take place to such an extent that in an organised body only a small percentage of solid sub- stances may be present. The body increases in size in proportion to the amount of water absoi-bed, shrinking up again when the water is expelled. Hence the liquid is not stored up in a pre-existent cavity, which before was filled with air, as in a porous body, but becomes evenly distributed amongst the organised particles, which, as the body swells up, must become farther and farther pushed apart, being separated from one another by larger and larger envelopes of water. In spite of the absorption of so much <[ water, none of the organised substance becomes dissolved. In this respect the phenomenon differs from that which takes place with a crystal of salt or sugar, which on the one hand does not possess the power of swelling up, and on the other becomes dissolved