AS THE EMMBNTATi GERM OF AN ORGANISM 359 idioplasm becomes active daring development depends upon us shape, upon the stimulation it has previously received, and finally, upon the position in the individual organism in which the idio- plasm is placed." In place of this dynamic hypothesis, de Vries (IX. 30) assumes that the character of the cell is affected in a more material fashion. He is of opinion that, whilst the majority of the idioblasts or "pan- genas " (de Vries) remain inactive, others become active, and grow and multiply. Some of these then migrate from the nucleus into the protoplasm, in order to continue here their growth and multipli- cation in a manner corresponding to their functions. This out- wandering from the nucleus can, however, only take place in such a fashion as to allow of all the various kinds of idioblasts remain- ing represented in the nuclear substance. This hypothesis of de Vries appears at present to be a simpler explanation and to be more in accordance with the many pheno- mena that have been observed. Thus, for instance, as described above, there are separate starch-forming corpuscles, chroma- tophores, and chlorophyll grains, which function in a specific manner and multiply independently of the rest of the cell, and are transferred at each cell-division from one cell to another. De Vries calls this "transmission outside the cell-nuclei." According to his hypothesis, some of the transmitted idioblasts are those which have become active, have reproduced themselves in the protoplasm, and have united together to form larger units, whilst in addition there are similar idioblasts present in the nucleus (in the germinal substance). The same would be time of the centro- somes, if it were not that the balance of proof is already in favour of their belonging to the nucleus. By means of the hypothesis of "intracellular pangenesis/' the intrinsic difference, which was apparently revealed by the theory of heredity, between nuclear substance and protoplasm, is more or less modified, without the fundamental character of the theory being interfered with ; further, it has been shown how a cell can contain the whole of the attributes of the complex organism, in a latent condition, whilst at the same time it can discharge its own special functions. The transmission and development of characteristic potentialities are, as de Vries rightly remarks, very different. The transmission is the function of the nucleus, and the development, that of the protoplasm. In the nucleus all the various kinds of idioblasts of