AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM 343 reasoning, and which in consequence could neither be verified by observation nor developed further. In order to establish the hypothesis, that the nucleus is the transmitter of the hereditary elemental germs, four points have to be considered :— 1. The equivalence of the male and female hereditary masses. 2. The equal distribution of the multiplying hereditary mass upon the cells, which are derived from the fertilised ovum. 3. The prevention of the summation of the hereditary masses. 4. The isotropism of protoplasm. 1. The Equivalence of the Male and Female Hereditary Masses. It is evidently true, and hence must be accepted as an axiom, that the egg and sperm cells are two similar units, each of which, being provided with all the hereditary properties of its kind, transmits an equal quantity of hereditary material to the offspring. The offspring is in general a mixed product of both its parents ; it receives from both father and mother an equal number of idio- blasts, or active particles, which are the bearers of hereditary attributes. However, it is only in the lowest organisms that the sexual cells resemble each other in size and composition ; in the higher organisms, they present in both respects the greatest differences, so that in extreme cases an animal spermatozoon may be even smaller than the hundred-millionth part of an egg. It is, however, inconceivable, that the carriers of the elemental germs, which, a priori, must be assumed to be equal both as to number and attributes, can present such differences in their volume. On the contrary, the fact that two cells, which are quite different as regards mass, can possess equal hereditary potentialities, can be easily explained by the assumption, that they may contain at the same time substances of very different hereditary value, i.e. for idioblastic and non-idioblastic substances. We must, therefore, endeavour to find this idioplasm in the egg and spermatozoon, and to isolate it from the other substances. First of all, there is no doubt that the reserve materials—fat globules, yolk platelets, etc., must be included in the category of germ substances, which are useless as regards heredity. But even if we discard these, the egg and sperm cells still remain unequal, as regards the quantity of their other constituents. For the protoplasm which is present in a large egg-cell, even after all the contents of the yolk have been abstracted, is much