THE CELL 146 very varying chemical composition, and muscle and nerve fibres, which, in consequence of their peculiar organisation, are endowed in a special manner with contractility and the power of conduct- ing stimuli. In the last case the chemical activity of the cell assumes a character which Max Sehultze has designated as its formative activity. The protoplasm makes use of the raw ma- terial which is brought to it, and prepares from it often very wonderfully constructed substances, which answer special pur- poses. In this activity the cell appears, to a certain extent, like a builder, or, as Haeckel (V. 4b) has it, like a modeller or sculptor. This formative activity of the cell, or, as it is better expressed, the power of the protoplasmic body to create different structures, is of extreme importance; for it is solely due to this power that there is so great a diversity of elementary particles, in consequence of which the animal body is able to attain to so high a degree of perfection. The division of labour, which is so successful amongst \ cells, is based solely upon this foundation, and by its means the 4 capacity for work of the cell community is rendered much greater. Hence this subject of the assimilation of material must be examined from two points of view ; the first is a chemical one, in so far as it treats of the formation of innumerable substances by means of the protoplasm, whilst the second is more morphological, in so far as the various substances present in the protoplasm may be seen to differ from it, to occupy a definite position, to have a fixed form and structure, and to obey special laws of development. One of the most important tasks for the biological chemist of i the future is to render accessible to morphological investigation the various substances distributed throughout the cell body by —J means of differential staining mixtures. 1. Chemistry of Assimilation. The chemical processes of the cell, which are at present shrouded in mystery, can only be treated here in so far as they are connected with fundamental problems, such as the synthesis of carbo-hydrates, fats, and pro- teids out of more simple elementary substances. The chemical processes in the animal kingdom appear to differ considerably from those occurring in the vegetable kingdom. Only that protoplasm present in plant cells, which contains chloro- phyll, is able to make high molecular ternary compounds out of carbon dioxide and water ; the protoplasm which does not contain chlorophyll, and which is present in animals and certain colourless portions of plants, is only able to undertake further synthesis