240 THE CELL As long as the eggs are under the influence of the cold, the- nuclear figures remain in this condition; however, the rigidity gradually disappears when the eggs are placed in a drop of water upon an ob- ject glass, and gradually warmed up to the tempera- ture of the room. After 5 or 10 minutes the two polar- radiations develop again at the same places as before, at first being only faintly seen, but finally being as- distinct as ever; the spindle threads reappear between the two poles, and division proceeds in the usual man- ner. In such cases the cold has acted only as a check, the pi-ocess of division sim- ply going on from the point at which it was arrested by the cold. A greater effect is produced if the eggs are subjected for about 2 to 3 hours to a temperature of from 2° to 3° Celsius below zero. The whole nuclear figure is then fundamentally altered, and hence, when the cold rigor is over, it is obliged to reconstruct itself en- tirely, on which account a longer period of recujjeration is neces- sary. The nuclear segments either become fused together to form an irregularly-lobulated body, or they develop into a small vesi- cular nucleus, such as is formed during the reconstruction process- after division. Then changes begin anew, which result in the for- mation of polar radiations, and frequently of more or less abnormal nuclear division figures. In fact the division of the egg-body is- not only considerably delayed, but even pathologically altered. Similarly certain chemical substances exert a marked effect upon the process of division ('05 solution of sulphate of quinine and 5 per cent, chloral hydrate). If eggs which have developed spindles, and which exhibit the equatorial arrangement of the nu- clear segments, are subjected for about 5 to 10 minutes to the action of the above-mentioned substances, the pole radiations soon commence to disappear completely. However, after a short period of A n Fig. 12y. — A Nuclear figure of an egg of Strongylocentrotus, one hour and twenty minutes after fertilisation. B Nuclear figure of an egg of Strongylocentrotus; this was killed afterhav- ing been kept for two hours and fifteen minutes in a freezing mixture, with a temperature of — 2", in which it was placed one and a half hours after the occurrence of fertilisation.