74 THE CELL the specific gravity of which is slightly greater than that of water, and then, by means of a fine capillary tube, he caused a drop of 2 per cent, solution of soda to approach the globule of oil. This latter then exhibited changes in shape, which are similar to those observed with the microscope in certain Amcebie. The explanation of this is that the soda solution gradually spreads itself out over the surface of the oil, forming a soap. Quincke is of opinion that the protoplasmic movements are analogous to these. In the plasmolysis of plant cells, the proto- plasm frequently breaks up into two or more balls, which spread themselves out, and then either re-unite, or remain separated from one another by an even surface, just as two soap bubbles of equal size which are placed in contact may touch each other, without uniting. In consequence of these appearances he is of opinion that, considering the physical pro- perties of delicate solid or fluid lamellas, the protoplasm must be surrounded by a very delicate fluid membrane, just as in the soap bubble the air is enclosed in a thin skin layer of soap solution. " The substance of the membrane surrounding the protoplasm," as Quincke proceeds to state, " must be a fluid which forms drops in water. Since of all the substances known in nature oil is the only one which possesses this pro- perty, the membrane must consist of an oil, that is to say of a fluid fat. The thickness of this layer may be most minute, less than '0001 mm., and hence it is not perceptible even with the micro- scope." Through the action of the albumen upon this oil, a substance is produced upon the areas of contact, which is soluble in water, and spreads itself out just like the soap produced by the combination of soda and oil. Hence it is called albuminous soap. Thus Quincke considers the cause of the protoplasmic move- ments to be a periodic spreading out of albuminous soap upon the inner surface of the envelope of oil surrounding the protoplasm. This soap, in being continually re-formed on the area of contact as fast as it is dissolved and diffused throughout the surrounding fluid, remains constant iu quantity; thus, since the pj^esence of oxygen is necessary in this chemical process, the fact is explained, that, in its absence, the protoplasmic movements are arrested, and similarly their cessation at extreme tempei-atures may be ascribed to chemico-physical conditions. Biitschli, being stimulated by these investigations of Quincke,