ITS CHEMICO-PHTSICAL AND MORPIIOLOGICAG PROPERTIES 19 examined; ' in the latter, its most minute structure has "been rendered visible, by means of various staining reagents; thus we have already a considerable amount of literature on the subject of the structure of protoplasm. Starting with the assumption that protoplasm consists of a mixture of a small quantity of solid substances with a large quantity of fluid, to which circumstance it owes its peculiar viscid property as a whole, the question might be raised as to whether it be possible, by using the strongest lenses, to distinguish optically the solid particles from the fluid which contains them, and to recognise their arrangement into special structures. A priori, it does not seem to be necessary to distinguish them from one another, since the solid particles are so very small, and since they differ so little from the fluid in their refractive power. Thus, according to Nageli's micellar theory, which will be de- scribed in detail later on, they are supposed to be arranged as a framework, which, however, in consequence of the minute size of the hypothetical micellse, escapes our observation. In a word, it is possible that protoplasm may have a very complicated structure, although it appears to us to be a homogeneous body. Hence the expression homogeneous protoplasm does not necessarily imply that protoplasm does not possess a definite structure or organisation. Recent observations, for which powerful oil immersion lenses have been successfully used, point more and more to the conclusion that protoplasm possesses a structure which may be optically demonstrated ; however, individual microscopists differ so essen- tially in their views upon the nature of this structure, that it is impossible to come to any definite decision upon the subject. At the present time, at least four conflicting theories hold the field; these may be described as the framework theory, the foam or honeycomb theory, the filament theory, and the granula theory. The framework theory has been advocated by Frommann (II. 14), Heitzmann (II. 17), Klein (II. 21), Leydig (II. 26), Schmitz (II. 36), and by others. According to this theory, protoplasm consists of a very fine network of fibrillre or threads, in the inter- stices of which the fluid is held. Thus, roughly speaking, it is like a sponge, or, shortly expressed, its structure is spongiose. The microsomes, which arc seen in the endoplasm (granular plasma), are nothing but the points where the fibrillfe intersect. A glance over the literature on this subject shows the reader that very different appearances are sometimes described under tho