353 AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM After this period, which, by the way, would be reached in a few years in the case of low, quickly-multiplying organisms, formation of the hereditary mass would be obliged to take place with each fresh act of fertilisation, in consequence of the impossibility of diminishing the ancestral plasms any further, unless some other arrangement be made. Weismann considers, that this new arrange- ment consists in this, that, when the sexual products are mature, half of the ancestral plasms are ejected from the hereditary mass in the pole-cells, before fertilisation occurs. In place of the division of the individual ancestral plasms, therefore, the division of the total number of plasms takes place after they have become no longer divisible as units. Thus, according- to Weismann's assumption, the hereditary mass is an extremely complicated piece of mosaic, composed of innumer- able units, the ancestral plasms, which, by their very nature are indivisible and incapable of mixing with other units, and each of which in its turn is composed of numerous elemental germs, which are necessary for the production of a complete individual. Thus, every hereditary mass, in consequence of its composition, would have to produce countless individuals, if each ancestral plasm were to be active. The essential nature of the process of fertilisation lends itself to a combination and elimination of an- cestral plasms. Further, if the ancestral plasm theory were true, elemental germs of equal value would accumulate in the hereditary mass. In fact the generative individuals belonging to the same species are essentially similar in their properties, if we disregard small individual differences of coloration. All the ancestral plasms must, therefore, contain essentially the same elemental germs. These various germs are represented in the hereditary mass as many times as there are ancestral plasms, the majority being similar to one another, and only presenting differences of shade. But all these similar, or slightly different, elemental germs would stand in no direct relation to each other, since they must remain integral component parts of the ancestral plasms, for which we have assumed indivisibility. The question of heredity, instead of being simplified by Weis- mann's theory of ancestral plasms, is rendered more complicated by it, especially by the assumption that the paternal and maternal hereditary masses are incapable of mixing with one another. I cannot see that this theory of Weismann's is of any greal use, since it leads to so many difficulties, which appear to be A A