80 THE CELL Fig. 45. —Mature human spermatozoon from two points of view. It is composed of 7c head; m middle portion; and s tail. function to perform. Firstly, they have to keep the cell body afloat by moans of their activity, since its specific gravity is some- what greater than that of the sm'roundinsr medium. This is proved by the fact that dead swarmspores and spermatozoa sink to the bottom of the vessel. Secondly, they have to propel the body in a certain direc- tion by means of their movements. Nageli (III. 16) has made most careful observations upon the mechanism of the move- ments of the motile cells of plants. Accord- ing to this investigator, the oscillations of the flagella impart a two-fold movement of the body—a forward, and at the same time a rotatory movement. Hence the resultant motion resembles that of a ball shot out of a rifle. Such motions may be divided into three types:— " Many motile cells travel forwards in a straight or somewhat curved line, the anterior and posterior ends of their axes remaining exactly in the same direction ; these swim steadily forward, with- out deviating from a fixed path. With others it may be distinctly seen that they desciabe a straight, or somewhat beut spiral, in which one revolution round the axis always corresponds to one turn of the spiral (a given side of the cell always facing out- wards), whilst the axis of the cell is parallel to that of the spiral. Finally, there are other cells whose anterior ends describe spirals, whilst their posterior ends proceed in a straight line, or in a spiral of smaller diameter. The nature of the second and third of these movements can only be distinguished if they are very slow. If they are rather quicker, only a kind of wavering can be made out, which, especially in the third, is of a peculiar character." The direction in which the motile cells rotate about their longitudinal axis generally remains constant for each kind, species, or family; many rotate from south to west (JJluthrix), others from south to east (antherozoids of Ferns), others are somewhat uncertain in their rotations, turning now from south to east, and now from south to west (Gonium). If motile cells strike against any object, they cease for a time their forward movements, but continue to rotate about their longitudinal axes ; then, " as a rule, they commence to retreat, their posterior ends being in advance)