ITS CHEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 39 cells of the spinal cord, extremely large vesicular nuclei are seen. Similarly, enormously large nuclei occur in immature egg-cells, which themselves are of a great size. Sometimes the nuclei of immature eggs of Fishes, Amphibians, and Reptiles are perceptible to the naked eye as small spots; under these circumstances they can be easily extracted with needles and isolated. Yet there are exceptions to this rule; for even these same eggs wHch^when immature, have such immense nuclei, when they are mature and fertilised contain such minute nuclei, that they can only be demonstrated with the greatest difficulty. The lowest organisms, when of a con- siderable size, frequently possess one single large nucleus. It is sometimes enormously large in the central capsules of many Radiolarians. As regards the number present, as a general rule there is only one nucleus in each cell in plants and animals. To this rule, however, there are some exceptions ; there are frequently two nuclei in liver cells, whilst a hundred or more have been observed in the giant cells of bone marrow. Osteoclasts and the cells of many tumours, the cells of several Fungi, and of many of the lower plants, such as Cladophora (Fig. 19) and Siphoneae (Bo- try dium, Vaucheria, Caulerpa, etc.), are remarkable for this plurality of nuclei, as has been described by Schmitz. Similarly, a large number of the lowest organisms, such as Myxomycetes, many Mono- and Poly-thalamia, Radio- larians, and Infusoria (Opalina ranarum), possess many nuclei in each cell. Fre- quently in these cases the nuclei are so minute, and are distributed in such numbers throughout the protoplasm, that they have only been demonstrated quite recently by means of the most improved methods of staining (Myxomycetes). Fig. 19.— Cladophora glomvr- ata. A cell from a thread in a chromic acid carmine prepara- tion (after Strasburger, Front. Botany, Fi?. 75): 11 nucleus; ch chromatophore8 ; j) amyloid bodies (pyrenolds) ; « starch granules ( x 510).