THE CELL 300 we can definitely prove that the sperm-nucleus, or, as is more frequently the case, the sperm-nuclei, which have penetrated into one of the fragments of the ovum, become metamorphosed into small typical nuclear spindles with a radiation at each pole. The sperm-nucleus now splits up into daughter-nuclei, which for their part again multiply by indirect division, so that the fragment of the ovum breaks up into a number of small, embryonal cells. Boveri (VIII. 2) has pursued this observation further, and has discovered the important fact, that out of a rather large non- nucleated fragment of an ovum, which has been fertilised by a single spermatozoon, a normal, although proportionately small, larva can be developed. b. Apogamy. The phenomena, which de Bary (VII. 2) has included under the name of apogamy, have a close relationship to parthenogenesis, and may be conveniently treated now. Apogamy has been observed in certain Ferns ; it is well known that in the course of their development there is an alternation of generations. Minute plants, the prothallia, are derived from the vegetative reproductive cells, or spores ; the function of these prothallia is to develop male and female sexual organs, the latter of which produce egg-cells. These, Avhen fertilised, produce an asexual Fern-plant, which develops spores in a vegetative manner. In Pteris cretica and Asplenium jilix-femina cristatum and fal- catum, the law of alternation of generations, which is generally so constant in Ferns, is broken through. The prothallia of these three species either produce no sexual organs at all, or only such as are no longer functional, i.e. have become rudimentaiy; on the other hand, a new Fern arises from the prothallium by means of vegetative budding. Since these three species of Ferns have been affected by culti- vation, it is possible that the development of cells requiring fertilisation has been suppressed by excessive nourishment, whilst the vegetative mode of reproduction has been favoured. 2. Sexual Affinity. By sexual affinity we understand the re- ciprocal influences which are exercised by cells of related species requiring fertilisation upon each other. This takes place in such a manner, that, when the cells are brought within a definite dis- tance of one another, they exert a mutual attraction upon each other, and combine, fusing into one, like two chemical bodies, between which unsatisfied chemical affinities existed. If both