THE CELL 122 method, fine capillary tubes, filled with small quantities of some " irritating substance," are introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye or the lymph sac of a frog, they become filled in a short time with leucocytes, whilst tubes filled with distilled water exert no attractive power upon the leucocytes. When introduced into the subcutaneous connective tissue the tubes cause the out- wandering of the leucocytes from the neighbouring capillary vessels (diapedesis), and under certain conditions produce sup- puration. Amongst substances which will set up inflammation, many micro-organisms and their metabolic products are in the first l^ank. Thus, Leber found during his experiments that an extract of Staphylococcus pyogenes proved very effectual as an inflamma- tory agent. Hence the study of chemotropism is of the greatest importance in the investigation of the diseases produced by the presence of pathogenetic micro-organisms. Accurate knowledge of the former will no doubt explain many apparently contradictory phenomena, which are met with in the study of infectious diseases. It may be taken for granted at the outset, that if leucocytes can be stimulated by means of chemical substances produced by micro-organisms, such stimulation can only occur in accordance with laws similar to those which have been established generally with regard to cells. Positive and negative chemotropism—ex- citation, and the variations which may occur in it owing to the even distribution of the existing agent—the effects of stimulation —all these must be taken into account. Hence the behaviour of the leucocytes towards the stimulating substance assumes the form of a complicated process, which may vary very considerably according to the special conditions. For the metabolic products excreted by micro-organisms may, accord- ing to their nature and state of concentration, exert an attractive or repellent influence. In addition, the effect produced may vary according as to whether these products are restricted to the region where they are produced, and from which they attack the leuco- cytes, or whether they are in addition evenly distributed through- out the blood. For in the latter case the presence of the bacterial products in the blood will modify the way in which the leucocytes react towards those which are collected in considerable quantities near the diseased spot; and as was the case with the nntherozoids and malic acid (pp. 118-120), the result will depend upon the rela-