TEE CELI I OS tion is shown in the formation of the so-called cell plate. In order to study this phenomenon, it is better to watch the process of division as it occurs in pollen mother-cells, and in various other objects, rather than to study the embryo-sac of Fritillaria, which up till now has formed the basis of our description; for in the latter nuclear division is not immediately followed by cell division. The following description refers to pollen mother-cells of Fritillaria persica (Fig. 94). After the daughter-segments have Fig 94.—Three stages in the division of the pollen mother-cells of Fritillaria persica (after Strasburger, Fig. 114, Eng. Rdition) :/ separation of the daughter segments ; o for- mation of daughter coils and of the cell-plate; )i position of the nuclear segments in the daughter nuclei and in the developed partition wall. ( x 800.) separated into two groups, delicate connecting fibrils are seen to be stretched between them ; these, according to Strasburger (VI. 73), are derived from the central portions of the spindle fibrils (Fig. 94 /). After a time, in the middle of the connecting fibrils, small swellings, which look like glistening granules, are formed (Fig. 94 g). They are most regularly arranged, so that they are seen in optical section to lie close to one another in a row. Thus collectively they form a disc, composed of granules, and situated in the division plane between the two daughter-nuclei ; this disc has been called the cell plate by Strasburger. Flemming (VI. 13") considers, that these are represented in a rudimentary form in animal cells in the above-mentioned (p. 189) central granules, -which are found in a few objects. The cell plate is of the greatest importance in plants, in connection with the formation of the cellulose partition wall, which is the final stage in the whole process of division (Fig. 94 h). " The cell plate," as described by Strasburger, " ultimately extends over the whole diameter of the cell, its elements fusing together to form a partition wall, which divides the mother-cell into two daughter-cells." A thin layer of cellulose may soon be distinguished. Meanwhile the connecting