312 THE CELL My brother and I (VII. 20) attempted to cross different species of Echinoderms, and found that when the ova of Echinus micro- tnberculatus were mixed with the spermatozoa of Strongylocentrotus lividus, fertilisation took place in every case after a few minutes, the egg-membrane raising itself up from the yolk. After an hour and a half all the ova were regularly divided into two. On the , following day glistening germ vesicles had appeared ; on the third, gastrulos ; and on the fourth, the calcareous skeleton had deve- loped. Cross-fertilisation in the opposite direction yielded varying results. When the spermatozoa of Echinus micro-tuberculatus were mixed in a watch-glass with the ova of Sfrongylocentrotus, the greater number of the ova remained unchanged, the egg-mem- brane raising itself from the yolk in only a few cases. After two hours only a few isolated ova were divided into two. Amongst these the egg-membrane lay fairly close to the yolk in some, and in others was raised a little. The next day a few glistening germ vesicles were apparent in the watch-glass, but the majority of the ova were quite unchanged. Pfhiger (VII. 50) observed a similar relationship between Bana fusca and Bana esculenta. Ova of the former species, when sus- pended in a watery extract of the testis of Bana esculenta, always remained unfertilised. When, however, the ova of Bana esculenta were mixed with the spermatozoa from the testis of Bana fusca, the greater number of the former developed in a regular manner, only a few dividing abnormally; however, after the blastula- stage was reached, they all, without exception, died. In many respects the results of hybridisation, seen later in the development of the product of crossing, resemble those of self-fertilisation. For instance, when fertilisation does take place, the embryos in many cases die prematurely, or are of a weakly constitution. The embryos, which develop when certain Echinoderms are crossed, do not live beyond the gastrula-stage. In the same way, Pfliiger saw the ova of Bana fusca, which had been fertilised with the spermatozoa of Bana esculenta, die as germ vesicles. The re- productive organs of animal hybrids generally atrophy before the age of sexual maturity is reached, and hence the animals are sterile. A still larger number of examples is to be found in the vege- table world. It is true, that seeds may develop, as a result of hybridisation, but they are defective in their development, and sometimes even incapable of germination. If, however, germina-