ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 37 interesting vital phenomena of the protoplasm became more fully known. During the last thirty years, however, one discovery after another has been made about the nucleus, the result of which is that this neglected body has been shown to be of as much import- ance to the elementary organism as the protoplasmic substance. It is of interest that the history of the nucleus is analogous in some respects to that of the cell. The nucleus was also con- sidered at first to consist of a vesicle; indeed, it was even held to be a smaller cell inside the larger one. But just as it came to be recognised that the protoplasm is the vital substance of the cell, so by degrees it came to be seen that the form of the nucleus is of minor importance, and that its vitality depends far more upon the presence in it of certain substances, the arrangement of which may vary very considerably according as to whether the nucleus is in an active or a passive condition. Richard Hertwig (II. 18) was the first to enunciate this clearly in a short paper entitled, " Beitrage zu einer einheitlichen Auffassung der verschiedenen Kernformen," in the following words : " It is necessary to state at the commencement of my observations, as the most important point to be considered in classifying the various nuclear forms, that they all possess a certain uniformity in composition. Whether the nuclei of animals, plants, or Protista be under examination, it is invariably seen that they are composed of a larger or smaller quantity of a material which, like the earlier writers, I shall call nuclear substance (nuclein). We must commence with the properties of this substance in the same way as he who wishes to describe the important characteristics of the cell must begin with the cell substance, i.e. pi'otoplasm." Hence the nucleus is now defined, not, according to Schleiden and Schwann's idea, as a vesicle in the cell, but as a portion of a special substance which is distinct from the protoplasm, and to a certain extent separate from it, and which may vary considerably, as to form, both in the resting and in the activeh/ dividing condition. We will now consider the form, the size, and the number of nuclei in a cell, and then the substances contained in the nucleus, and their various modes of arrangement (the structure of the nucleus). a. The form, size and number of Nuclei. As a rule the nucleus in plant and animal-dells appears as a round or oval body (Figs. 1, 2, C, 16), situated in the middle of the cell. Since it is