THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 119 capillary tube is filled with '01 per cent, of malic ncid, and after its surface has been most scrupulously cleansed, is reversed and care- fully placed in a drop of water containing a large number of Fern antherozoids. With a magnifying power of 100 to 200 diameters, it can be seen that some antherozoids immediately begin to make their way towards the opening of the tnbe, from which the malic acid commences to diffuse itself throughout the water. They soon force their way right into the tube itself, until after five or ten minutes several hundreds of them have collected there. After a short time there are only a few left outside of the tube. If experiments are made with solutions of malic acid of varying strengths, a law similar to that of the effect produced by various degrees of heat upon protoplasmic streaming movements may be deduced. Beyond a certain minimum concentration {about '001 per cent.) which may be considered to constitute the stimulative starting point, every increase in concentration produces a corresponding in- creased effect, until a certain fixed point is reached, when the optimum or maximum result is produced; if the concentration is increased above this point the attraction of the malic acid for the anthero- zoids decreases, until finally the positive chemotropism is con- verted into negative chemotropism. Hence a very strong solution produces an exactly opposite effect to that produced by a weak one, the antherozoids being repelled instead of attracted. How small a quantity of malic acid is necessary to produce a result may be seen from the fact that in a capillary tube which contains a "001 per cent, solution only "0000000284 milligramme, or sTooVcToo of a milligramme, of malic acid is present. As has been already stated, if the chemical stimulus is to pro- duce movements in a certain direction, it must only be strongly applied at one point, or at any rate from one side. This is the case in the above experiment, for as the malic acid becomes dif- fused through the opening in the surrounding water, the anthero- zoids, passing through the opening and making their way up the tube, come into contact with solutions gradually increasing in strength. The diffusion causes an unequal distribution of the stimulus about the bodies of the antherozoids: "thus varvine with its varying degrees of concentration, the malic acid exerts a stimulus which causes a movement in a fixed direction." The antherozoids, as might be expected, are distributed evenly t linmghout a homogeneous solution, yet even under these coiuli-