349 AS THE ELEMENTAL GEHM OF AN ORGANISM derived from the ovum, contain equal quantities of the hereditary mass. Hence this must grow and multiply in the cell before division takes place. All idioblasts must divide and must be transmitted to the daughter-cells, in equal proportions both as regards quality and quantity. Nageli (IX. 20, p. 531) has enunciated the same view: "Idio- plasm, by continuously and proportionately increasing, splits itself up during cell-division—by means of which the organism grows into as many parts as there are individual cells." Therefore, "each cell of the organism is capable, as far as the idioplasm is concerned, of becoming the germ of a new individual. Whether this potentiality ever becomes a reality, depends upon the nature of the nutrient plasm (somatoplasm)." If we look upon the vital processes of the cells from this second point of view, there can be no doubt that the nuclear substance is the only one amongst all the constituents of the cell, which is able to fulfil all the conditions in every respect. The nucleus is strikingly uniform in all plant and animal elementary tissues. If we disregard a few exceptions, which require a separate explanation, the nuclei of all the elementary tissues of the same organism resemble each other closely, as regards shape and size, whilst the protoplasm differs in quantity to a marked degree. In an endothelium cell, or in a portion of muscle or tendon, the nucleus has almost the same characters and contains the same substances as an epidermal, liver, or cartilage cell, whilst, in the former case, the protoplasm is barely distin- guishable, and, in the latter, is present in large quantities. The striking and complicated phenomena of the process of nuclear division, are both more important and more comprehensi- ble, when regarded in the light of our theory. The arrangement of the substance into fibrillar, which consist of small microsomes, arranged alongside of each other, the formation of loops and spindles, the longitudinal halving of the fibrils, and the mode of their distribution amongst the daughter-nuclei, can only serve one purpose, namely, to halve the nuclear substance and to apportion it equally amongst the daughter-cells. Roux, from another stand-point, has already pertinently de- nominated " the nuclear division-figures as mechanisms, by means of which it is possible to divide the nucleus, not only accord- ing to its own volume, but according to the volume and nature of its special constituents. The essential part of the process