295 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OP THE CELL multiply partbenogenetically. When nutriment is withheld from the Phylloxera vastatrix, the winged sexual forms, as Keller (VII. 26) has shown experimentally, soon make their appearance, and fertilised eggs are laid. In many cases, especially amongst the lower organisms, the need for fertilisation is only relative. When the female gamete of the Alga Ectocarpus (VII. 51) comes to rest, for a few minutes it becomes receptive. " If the egg is not fertilised at this time, it draws in its flagella completely, be- comes spherical, and excretes a cellulose membrane. After from twenty-four to forty-eight hours parthenogenetic germination first begins to make its appearance." Even the male gametes are capable of spontaneous development, although in a less degree than the female. After they have swum round for several hours, they finally, as Bertholcl states, come to rest, " but only a portion of them develop slowly into very weak and tender embryonic plants, whilst the remainder become immediately, or after the course of one or two days, disintegrated." A very peculiar facultative relation is seen in Bees, whose eggs, whether fertilised or not, develop into adults. But the unfertilised eggs produce drones, and the fertilised, female Bees (working and queen-Bees). Sometimes, as is stated by Leuckart, herma- phrodites are derived from eggs which were fertilised too late for the development in the male direction to be entirely set aside. The possibility of accelerating, or, on the contrary, of delaying the need of fertilisation in sexual cells by interference from with- out, throws light upon the phenomena of parthenogenesis and apogamy, which we are now about to discuss in detail. a. Parthenogenesis. In most cases sexual cells, both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, perish quickly, unless they are fertilised at the right time. Although they consist of a substance which is eminently capable of development, yet if this one con- dition fails they cannot develop. Till a short time ago the majority of scientists were so con- vinced of the impossibility of the spontaneous development of the egg-cell, that they received the theory of parthenogenesis with incredulity, because they perceived in it an offence against a law of nature. And, indeed, it may be accepted as a law of nature for mammals, and for the majority of other organisms, that their male and female sexual cells are absolutely incapable of development by themselves. Any single species of mammal