ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 41 as a rule, towards the staining substance united to it, like a weakly alkaline body" (Fol). Further, nuclein exhibits characteristic chemical reactions, which must not be forgotten in preparing nuclear structures for preservation (Schwarz II. 3.7, Zacharias II. 43, 45). It swells up in distilled water, in very dilute alkaline solutions, and in 2 or more per cent, solution of common salt, of sulphate of magnesia, or of monopotassium phosphate and of lime-water. If solutions of from 10 per cent, to 20 per cent, of the above-named salts are used, the nuclein, whilst swelling gradually, becomes quite dis- solved. Similarly, it dissolves completely in a mixture of ferro- cyanideof potassium and acetic acid, or in concentrated hydrochloric acid, or if it is subjected to pancreatic digestion. It becomes pre- cipitated in a fairly unaltered form if treated with acetic acid from 1 to 50 per cent, in strength, when it can be very clearly distinguished from the protoplasm by its greater refractive power, and by a glistening appearance which is peculiar to it. A B D Fig. 20.—A resting nucleus of a spermato-genetic cell of Ascaris megalocephala bivalens. J? Nucleus of a sperm-"mother-cell from the commencement of the grovrth-zone of Ascaris megalocephala bivalens. G Resting nucleus of a sperm-mother-cell of the growth zone of Ascaris megalocephala bivalens. D Blndder-like nucleus of a sperm-mother-cell of Ascaris megalocepaala bivalens, from the commencement of the dividing zone, shortly before division. In the nuclear vesicle (Fig. 20), the nuclein sometimes appears as isolated granules (A), or as delicate network (B, G), or as threads (D). Miescher (II. 49) has attempted to obtain pure nuclein from pus corpuscles and from spermatozoa, in the heads of which it is present. An important ingredient in its composition is phosphoric acid, of which at least 3 per cent, is always present. Several facts seem to indicate that the nuclein of the nucleus "consists of a combination of an albuminous body with a complex organic com- pound containing phosphoric acid (Kossel II. 35). This latter has been called nucleic acid, and Miescher has calculated its formula to be C80H40N9P3O22. " If subjected for a long time to the action of weak acids or alkalies, or even if kept in a damp condition, nuclein becomes de-