THE CELL 66 In addition there will be a special chapter on the process of fertilisation. The cell may exhibit several kinds of movement, as is seen if an extensive comparative study is made. We will here distinguish between : (1) true protoplasmic movements ; (2) ciliary or flagellar movements ; (3) the movements of the pulsating vacuole ; (4) the passive movements and changes of shape exhibited by cells. In addition to these four, there are a few special phenomena of motion, of which it will be best to treat in later chapters, for example, the formation of the receptive protuberance which appears in the egg-cell in consequence of fertilisation ; the radiation figures which are seen in the neighbourhood of the spermatozoon after it has penetrated into the ovum, and those which occur during the process of cell division, when the cell body splits up into two or more parts. Protoplasmic Movements. Although it is probable that movements take place in all protoplasm, yet in most cases, with our present means of observation, they cannot be perceived on account of their great slowness ; hence in only a few objects in the plant and animal kingdoms can this phenomenon be studied and demonstrated. The movement manifests itself partly in changes in the external form of the cell, and partly in the arrange- ment of the structure enclosed in the protoplasm, the nucleus, the granules, and the vacuoles. These movements differ somewhat according as to whether they are manifested in naked protoplasm, or in that which is enclosed by a firm membrane. a. The Movements of naked Protoplasm. Small uni- cellular organisms, white blood coi'puscles, lymph corpuscles, connective tissue cells, etc., exhibit movements which,, in con- sequence of their similarity to those seen in the Amoeba, are termed amoeboid. If a lymph corpuscle of a Frog (Fig. 37) is observed under suit- able circumstances, it is seen to undergo continual changes of form. Small processes of protoplasm, the foot-like processes, or pseudopodia, are protruded from its surface ; at first as a rule they consist of hyaloplasm alone, but after a time granular protoplasm streams into them. By this means the pseudopodia are increased in size ; they become broader, and may in their turn extend new, more minute processes from their surface. Or the protoplasm may