214 THK CELL certain general relationships which exist between the nucleus and the protoplasm, and to which I have drawn attention in my paper upon the influence exerted by gravitation upon cell division (VI. 31). In the resting cell the nucleus may occupy various positions ; it may also change its place, as, for instance, in plant cells, where it may be carried along by the protoplasmic stream. However, under certain conditions, of which only those connected with cell division will be entered into here, whilst others will be mentioned later on in Chapter VIII., the nucleus occupies a definite constant position in relation to the protoplasmic body. Certain interactions take place between the protoplasm and the nucleus during division, similar to those which (to use a familiar illustration) exist between iron filings and a magnet suspended loosely over them. The magnetic influence polarises the iron filings, causing them to group themselves radially about the poles. On the other hand, the whole mass of the polarised particles of iron has a directing influence upon the position of the magnet. These metastatic reactions between protoplasm and nucleus re- ceive their evident expression in the appearance of the pole centres and the radiation figures, which have been already described. The result of the reaction is that the nucleus always endeavours to occupy the centre of the reaction sphere. No objects are more suitable for demonstrating this than animal ova, which may vary considerably as regards size, shape, and in- ternal organisation. In most small ova, in which protoplasm and yolk substance are more or less evenly distributed, the nucleus, before fertilisation (Fig. 106.4), does not occupy any definite position. On the other hand, when, after fertilisation, it commences to be active* and to divide (Fig. 106 B), it places itself exactly in the geometrical median point, that is to say, if the egg is spherical in the centre, or if it is oval (Fig. 110) in the point of intersection of the two longitudinal axes. The nucleus surrounded by a radiation sphere may be seen to travel through the protoplasm to this point. Variations from the normal are seen when the protoplasm and yolk granules, of which the latter, as a rule, have the greater specific gravity, are unevenly distributed in the egg cavity. Very frequently the eggs undergo a polar differentiation, which is partly produced directly by gravity, the various substances being sepa- rated out according to the weights, and partly b}r other processes