193 THE VITAL PITENOMENA OF THE CELL as the large number of small granules, which are situated in the yolk, are arranged in rows, passively following the arrange- ment of the protoplasm. After a short time this radiated appear- ance, which is the result of the processes which occur during fertilisation, begins to fade, and to become metamorphosed into two radiated systems, which are found at opposite points of the nucleus. These are small at first, but become momentarily larger and more distinct, until finally they extend all over the whole yolk-sphere, dividing it up into two radiated masses, each arranged around its own attractive centre (Fig. 89). A small homogeneous spot can be distinguished in the middle of each radiation from the very beginning; this spot adheres closely to the nuclear surface, and is free from granules. It contains the centrosome, which, how- ever, cannot be distinguished at all in the living object. As the radiations become more dis- tinct and more spread out, the collec- tions of homogeneous non-granular Fig. 89.—Egg of a Sea-urchin preparing to divide; taken from the living object (from 0. Hert- wig. Embryology, Fig. 27). The nucleus is invisible, the dumb- btll figure having taken its place. protoplasm in the neighbourhood of the centrosomes become larger, whilst at the same time they gradually re- treat farther and farther apart, carry- ing the poles with them. At this period the nucleus loses its vesicular properties, and assumes the spindle structure which has been described in other objects, but which, on account of its minuteness, cannot be distinguished here during life. In conse- quence, the very characteristic dumb-bell appearance, depicted in Fig. 89, develops in the granular yolk. The two collections of homogeneous protoplasm, enclosing the poles of the division figure, form the heads of the dumb-bell; the non-granular connecting portion indicates the place where, during the preceding stages, the now invisible nucleus was situated. This has been replaced by the spindle, the ends of which extend right up to the centro- somes. The granular yolk mass is arranged in two radial systems around this homogeneous dumb-bell figure. These sys- tems have been named amphiaster, or double star, by Fol. The egg, which at the outset was perfectly round, now com- mences to extend itself longitudinally in the direction of the axis 0