27'2 THE CELL migratory and stationary nuclei of the primary division spindle coalescing, whilst the corresponding structures in the microgamete are, as it were, paralysed, and, instead of fusing and developing further, degenerate and. become dissolved, like the fragments of the chief nucleus and the subsidiary spindles. In this manner the microgamete loses its independence and individuality, and becomes gradually absorbed into the macro- gamete, increasing the size of the latter. Thus, in consequence of the stationary mode of life of Vorticella, a peculiar sexual dimorphism has developed, resulting in the ab- sorption of the smaller of the conjugating individuals, after it has functioned to a certain extent as a male element in fertilising the macrogamete. However, the resemblance to ova and spermatozoa is not complete, although both in Vorticella and Paramteclum fertilisation commences with the interchange of nuclear material, and only results later on in the formation of a single effective individual. 4. The various forms of sexual cells ; equivalence of participating substances during the act of fertilisation; conception of male and female sexual cells. Having shown in various instances, that the course of the process of fertilisation, and especially the behaviour of the nucleus during the process, is essentially uniform in animals, plants, and Protozoa, we will now proceed to state more clearly a difference which can be perceived in the cells participating in the act of fertilisation in most organisms, and to point out the im- portance of this difference. It consists in the unequal size and form of male and female germinal cells. The larger, stationary,^ and hence receptive cell, is called the female; the male cell, on the contrary, is much smaller, often extremely minute ; it is either motile, approaching the egg-cell actively by amoeboid movements or by means of flagella, or so small that it is conveyed passively through the air or water to the egg-cell. What is the importance of this difference ? Is it an essential product of the process of fertilisation, or is it brought about by causes of a subsidiary and secondary nature, due to incidental and secondary causes ? It is of the greatest importance, in order to decide this question, to determine in what substance and in what portion of the two sexual cells this variation manifests itself. Each cell consists of protoplasm and nuclear substance. Of these the amount of protoplasm present in the sexual cells may vary considerably, as may be immediately recognised by their ap-