THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 69 directions." Further, the rate of movement may vary in different places, or it may gradually alter ; it may be so great that under a powerful lens the granules appear to travel so fast that the eye can scarcely follow them; on the other hand, it maybe so small that the granules scai'cely appear to change their place. The second kind of movement consists of a change of form in the individual threads and in the network as a whole. As in the Ammbti, processes are protruded and withdrawn from various places, a mass of homogeneous protoplasm being first protruded, into which the granular protoplasm flows later on. Occasionally, when the streaming movements are very powerful, it appears as though the granular endoplasm is pressed forcibly into the newly formed processes. By this means the plasmodium can, like the Amceba, crawl slowly along over a surface in a given direction; new processes are continually being protruded from the one edge, towards which the endoplasm chiefly streams, whilst others are withdrawn from the opposite one. Oromia oviformis (Fig. 40) is a classical object amongst the Reticularia, for the study of protoplasmic movements (see p. 29). If the little organism has not been disturbed in any way, a large number of long fine threads may be distinguished stretching out from the protoplasm, which has made its way out of the capsule, and spreading themselves out radially in every direction into the water; here and there lateral branches are given off, and oc- casionally all the threads are united together into a network by such branches. Even the most delicate of these threads exhibit movements. As Max Schultze (I. 29) aptly describes it, " a glid- ing, a flowing of the granules which are imbedded in the thread substance," maybe seen with a high power; they move along the thread, more or less quickly, either towards its periphery or in the other direction; frequently streams flowing in both direc- tions may be seen at the same time even in the finest threads. x C/-U When grannies are moving in opposite directions, they either sjmply pass by each other, or else move round one another for a time, until after a short pause they either both go on in their original directions, or one takes the other along with it. All the granules in a thread do not move along at the same rate ; hence sometimes one may overtake another, either passing it or being stopped by it." Many evidently pass along the outermost surface of the thread, beyond which they can be plainly seen to pro- ject. ' Frequently other larger masses of substance, such as spindle- I -J l r> i