270 THE CELL stationary cannot be foretold from their structure, for it depends solely and entirely upon their position and their consequent r61e during the process of fertilisation. Thus the portions which are situated nearest to the zone of thickening become the migratory nuclei (III, lm, hm) ; the two conjugating bodies exchange these migratory nuclei; these pass each other across the proto- plasmic bridge, which has been formed for this purpose. During this exchange, the male migratory nuclei possess the structure of spindles (IV, 5m, lm). After the exchange has been com- pleted, each male nucleus coalesces with a stationary or female nucleus, which is also in the form of a spindle (IV, lw, 5w), so that now each animal possesses only one spindle—the division spindle (vt) — if we disregard the segments of the chief nucleus, and the paranucleus, which are gradually undergoing disinte- gration. The similarity to the process of fertilisation, as it occurs in Phanerogamia and animals, is striking. In Paramascia, the stationary and migratory nuclei unite to form a division spindle, just as in plants and animals the egg- and sperm-nuclei unite to form the germinal nucleus. The division spindle serves to replace the old nuclear apparatus, which is becoming dissolved. It in- creases considerably in size (Fig. 148 V, t). The chromatin ele- ments inside it arrange themselves into a plate; they then divide and move apart towards opposite ends of the spindle, almost up to the poles, thus forming the daughter-plates (V, right t't"). The two halves remain united for a considerable time by a connecting strand. They then develop in a roundabout fashion into chief nucleus and paranucleus; in Paramaecium aurelia (Pig. 148 VI) for example, the daughter-spindles (i', t"), which have been formed out of the primary division spindles, re-divide, and so pro- duce four spindles (VI), two of which develop into paranuclei (nk', nk'), whilst the other two coalesce to form the chief nucleus (pt). Thus, in Infusoria, " fertilisation brings about a complete re-organisation of the nuclear apparatus, and at the same time of the Infusorian " (Richard Hertwig). Sooner or later, after the exchange of migratory nuclei, the two individuals separate from one another (Fig. 148 VI, VII). A longer period is necessary for the reabsorption of the useless portions of the nucleus, and for their replacement by new for- mations. The individuals, which have thus become rejuvenated, have regained the capacity of multiplying enormously by means