26 THE CELL e. Uniformity of Protoplasm. Diversity of the Cell. A great uniformity of appearance is manifested by protoplasm in all organisms. With our present means of investigation we are unable to discover any fundamental difference between the proto- plasm present in animal cells and that in plant cells, or unicellular organisms. This uniformity is of necessity only apparent, being due to the inadequacy of our methods of investigation. For since the vital processes occur in each organism in a manner peculiar to itself, and since the protoplasm, if the nucleus be excepted, is the chief site of the individual vital processes, these differences must be due to differences in the fundamental substance, that is to say, in the protoplasm. We must therefore accept, as a theory, that the protoplasm of different organisms varies in its material, composition and structure. Apparently, however, these important differences are due to variations in molecular arrangement. In spite of the uniform appearance of the protoplasm, the in- dividual cell, of which after all the protoplasm forms only a more or less important part, when taken as a whole, may vary very much in appearance ; this is due partly to variations in external form, but chiefly to the fact, that sometimes one, and sometimes another substance is stored up in the protoplasm, in such a manner as to be distinguishable from it. Sometimes this occurs to so great a degree that the whole cell appears to be composed almost entirely of substances which under other circumstances are not present in pi'otoplasm at all. If we imagine that these substances have been eliminated, a number of larger and smaller gaps would be naturally produced in the cell, between which the protoplasmic groundwork of the cell would be seen as partition walls and frame- works, which are sometimes extremely delicate. This arrangement of the protoplasm, as has been already mentioned (p. 19), must not be confused with the network structure, which, according to the opinion of many investigators, is inherent to protoplasm itself, and which was more fully described in the chapter on the structure of protoplasm. The names deutoplasm (van Beneden) and paraplasm (Kupffer, II. 24) have been proposed for these adventitious substances. Since, however, the idea of an albuminous substance is always con- nected with the word plasm—and these substances may consist of fat, carbohydrates, sap, and of many other bodies—the use of the above terms does not seem desirable, and it is better either to class them generally as intraplasmic products and adventitious cell contents