THE CELL 216 a larger amount of protoplasm than in the other half, where they are larger and more closely packed together. In other cases a small portion of protoplasm, more or less free from yolk, has separated itself from the yolk-containing portion of the egg, and, as in birds and reptiles (Fig. 108 k, .?ch), has assumed the form of a disc. The two poles in an egg are distinguished from one another by the names animal and vegetative ; at the former most of the proto- plasm collects, and at the latter most of the yolk substance; hence the former has a smaller specific gravity than the latter. In consequence, eggs in which polar differentiation has occurred must always endeavour to attain a certain position of equilibrium. Thus, whilst in small cells, in which the substance is equally divided, the centime of gi'avity coincides with the centre of the sphere, the result being that the eggs can readily take up different positions, in eggs, on the other hand, in which polar differentia- tion has taken place, the centi'e of gravity has become eccentric, having approached the vegetative pole to a greater or less degree. Hence the egg so arranges itself in space that the animal pole is directed upwards, and the vegetative downwards. A line joining the two poles, the egg-axis, must, if the egg is allowed to move freely, assume a perpendicular position. Frogs' eggs and Hens' eggs furnish us with useful examples of this. In the Frog's egg (Fig. 115) the unequal portions can be clearly distinguished externally, since the animal part is pigmented and of a deep black colour, whereas the vegetative is whitish yellow in appearance. If such an egg is placed in water after fertilisation has occurred, in a few seconds it takes up a position of equilibrium, the dark side being always turned upwards, and the specifically heavier light side downwards. Similarly, in whatever way a Hen's egg (Fig; 108) may be turned about, the germinal disc (k, sch) will be seen to occupy the highest point in the yolk sphere, for the latter rotates in its albuminous sheath with every movement, keeping its vegetative pole always directed downwards. Polar differentiation occurs both in oval and spherical eggs. The egg of the worm Fabricia (Fig. 109) may serve as an example. Here, at the one end more protoplasm is seen, at the other more yolk substance. In eggs with polar differentiation it is useless to look for the cleavage nucleus in the place where it is seen in eggs poor in yolk.