THE VITAL PROPERTIES OP THE CELL 71 jeet, but which may sometimes be demonstrated by means of reagents. Hence, since this layer moves in a certain direction over the siliceous shell, or cellulose membrane, the small organisms can "move in a gliding or creeping fashion over a solid surface" (Engelmann). 6. The movements of Protoplasm inside the Cell Mem- brane. This kind of movement is chiefly seen in the vegetable kingdom, and as a rule is best observed in the cells of herbaceous plants rather than in those of shrubs and trees. According to de Vries (III. 25), these movements are never totally absent in any plant-cell, but frequently they are so slow as to escape direct observation. They are best seen in vascular tissues, and in those where materials have been stored up, and further at such times when considerable quantities of plastic substances are being transported in order to supply the material necessary for the continuation of growth, for local accumulations, and for special needs (de Vries). Hence this movement of the protoplasm ap- pears to be directly of importance during the conveyance of materials from one part of the plant to another. More rarely it may be seen in the lower organisms, and in the animal king- dom, as in Noctiluca in the vesicular cells in the centre of the tentacles of Ccelenterata, etc. Two kinds of movements may be distinguished in plants, Hotation and Circulation. These movements of rotation were first observed in 1774 by Bonaventura Corti (I. 8); after that they were lost sight of for a time, but were re-discovered by Treviranus. The most suitable objects for studying them are afforded us by the Characea?; root- hairs of the Hydrocharis morsus ranee, and of Trianea bogotensis, leaves of Vallisneria spiralis, etc., are also very convenient for observations. In the large cells of the Characeoe, the protoplasm, as has already been described on p. 33, is spread out as a thick cohesive layer upon the inner surface of the cellulose membrane, surrounding the large quantity of cell-sap like a closed sac. In this lining two distinct layers of protoplasm can always be dis- tinguished : an outer one, touching the cellulose membrane, and an inner one, in contact with the cell-sap. The former is always motionless; in Hydrocharis it is very thin, in Characerc it is somewhat thicker, and it also contains a greater number of chlorophyll grains, which remain motionless. This immotile layer gradually passes over into the inner motile one, which in r