THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 207 divide, but die, as a result of the changes induced by age, or, as Maupas has expressed it, of senile degeneration. In order to maintain the species, it seems to be absolutely necessary that after definite periods two individuals should unite together in a sexual act. In cultures such acts occur simultaneously through- out the colony, so that a conjugation epidemic may be said to occur occasionally. During an epidemic, which lasts for several days, the observer sees hardly any isolated Infusoria in the culture glass, for tbey are nearly all joined together in pairs. Maupas states that con- jugation occurs in Leucophrys patula in the 300th generation, in Omjchodromus in the 140th, and in Stylonichia in the 120th genera- tion. By a diminution of the amount of nourishment, the onset of an epidemic may be hastened; by an increase it may be postponed, or even permanently prevented, in which case the individuals perish from senile degeneration. If, after these preliminary remarks, we examine more closely the process of fertilisation, we find that, during a period of several days, the following peculiar and interesting changes take place in the couples of Infusoria. We will take as the basis of our description the Paramsecium caudatum, for, since it possesses but one nucleus and one single paranucleus, it presents simpler condi- tions than those seen in most other species (Fig. 148). When the inclination for conjugation arises, " two paramascia come close together; at first only their anterior ends touch, but later on their whole ventral surfaces are in contact, their mouth openings being opposite to one another" (Fig. 148 I, o). An ir- regular thickening develops over a small area in the neighbourhood of these latter, if conjugation lasts for any considerable period. Meanwhile the nuclear apparatus, including both the chief nucleus and the paranucleus, has undergone fundamental changes. The chief nucleus becomes somewhat enlarged, its surface being at first covered with protuberances and depressions (Fig. 148 II- IV, k); these protuberances extend themselves into longer pro- cesses, which later on become separated off, and then gradually split up into still smaller pieces (V, VI, k). Thus the whole chief nucleus becomes broken up into several small segments, which distribute themselves all over the body of the Infusorian (VII), and finally become dissolved and absorbed. In a word, the main nucleus, having played its part, becomes completely disintegrated, during and after conjugation.