AUTHOR S PREFACE Vlll fact, I have added fco the principal title of the whole work, " The Cell and the Tissues," the secondary title " Outlines of General Anatomy and Physiology." Farther, I am able to say, as I said of my Text-book of Embryology : Man and Mammals, that it has been produced in close connection with my academical labours. The contents of the first part, in which I have endeavoured to sketch a comprehensive picture of the structure and life of the cells, were the subject of two lectures which I delivered at the University of Berlin four years ago, under the titles of " The Cell and its Life," and " The Theory of Generation and Heredity." Besides wishing to communicate to a larger circle of readers the views which I had often expressed verbally, I had the further desire of giving a comprehensive review of results obtained by private research, some of which were recorded in various Journals, whilst others appeared in the six papers on " The Morphology and Physiology of the Cell," which I wrote in conjunction with my brother. Finally, a third reason which induced me to write this book was, that it should supplement my Text-book of Embryology: Man and Mammals. In it I have endeavoured to state the laws which underlie animal formation, according to which cells, formed from the fertilised egg-cell by repeated division, split up, as a result of unequal growth, the complicated layers and outgrowths into germinal folds, and finally into individual organs. In addition to the distribution of cell-masses and to the arrangement of cells, that is to say, in addition to the morpho- logical differentiation, a second series of processes, which may be grouped together under the term histological differentiation, takes place during development. By means of histological differentia- tion, the morphologically separated cell material is capable of performing the different functions into which the vital processes of the developed collective organism may be divided. In my Text-book of Embryology, it was impossible to deal ex- haustively with the second or more physiological side of the pro- cess of development. The Anatomy and Physiology of the Cell, forms a necessary complement to it, as I mentioned above. This will be especially noticed by the student in the first part of the book, which deals with the cell alone. For not only is there, in the seventh chapter, a detailed description of the anatomy and physiology of reproduction, which is ultimately a cell pheno- menon, but at the end of the book, in the ninth chapter, there