96 THE CELL ture of 0°, the protoplasm is found to exhibit an inclination to break up into separate drops. Even where the network still per- sists, it is composed of extremely tine threads, which are studded here and there with large globules and drops ; several other glo- bules float about freely in the cell fluid, in which, without moving much from place to place, they revolve about their own axes with active, jerking movements. After a few minutes, the free globules are seen to unite themselves to the delicate threads, or to amalga- mate themselves with some of the globules hanging on to the threads, until the appearance of the streaming protoplasmic net- work is quite restored." In plants, as a rule, their power of resistance to cold is inversely in proportion to the amount of water they contain ; seeds which have dried in the air, and winter-buds, the cells of which consist almost entirely of pure protoplasm, can withstand intense cold, whilst young leaves, with their sap-containing cells, are killed even by frosty nights. However, the power of resistance to cold varies according to the specific organisation of different plants, or rather of their cells, as is proved by daily experience (Sachs IV. 32b). Micro-organisms are able to resist exceedingly low tempera- tures. Frisch has discovered that the spores, and indeed the vegetative cells of the Anthrax bacillus do not lose their capacity of development by being cooled down in a liquid to a temperature of —110° C, from which they were extracted after it had been thawed. Before reaching the above-mentioned extreme temperatures, at which death by heat or cold is produced, phenomena known as heat rigor or heat tetanus, and cold rigor, occur; when the protoplasm is in either of these conditions, all the attributes which show it to be alive, especially those of movement, are arrested so long as the temperature in question is maintained ; but when this is either raised or lowered, as the case may be, after a period of rest, they again manifest themselves. Cold rigor generally occurs at a temperature of about 05 C, whilst heat rigor sets in at'a temperature only a few degrees lower than that at which immediate death results; in both cases the protoplasmic movements become gradually slower and slower, until at last they quite oease. Amoebie, Reticularia, and white blood corpuscles draw in their pseudopodia and become converted into globular masses. Most plant cells assume the appearance described above by Kuhne. If the temperature is either slowly raised or