THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE GELL 123 tive proportions of the stimulating substance which is present in each region. The numerous possibilities may be grouped under two heads. First group.—The metabolic products are evenly distributed or approximately so throughout the blood and the diseased tissues. Since under these conditions there can be no special point of stimulation, it stands to reason that the leucocytes cannot wander away from the diseased spot. Second group.—The collections of products are unequal in con- centration, and further, the difference in their concentration is sufficient to give rise to an effective stimulation. Two alter- natives may occur. Either the higher degree of concenfration is present at the seat of the disease, or in the blood-vessels. In the first case only will the leucocytes collect around the affected tissue. The consideration of these relative conditions appears to me to explain many interesting phenomena, which have been observed by certain French investigators, Roger, Charrin, Bouchard (IV. lb), etc., during their various experiments with the catabolic products of the Bacillus pyocyaneu.s, of the Anthrax bacillus, etc.; and by Koch in his observations upon the action of Tuberculin. I have endeavoured to explain such phenomena in a short popular paper: " Ueber die physiologische Grundlage der Tuberculin wirkung, eine Theorie der Wirkungsweise bacillarer Stoffwechsel- producte" (IV. 13), to which I refer the reader for information with regard to physiological experiments and the explanation of the special phenomena of disease. Literature IV. 1a. Claude Bernard. Legons sur les phe'nomenes de la vie commune aux animaux et avx vegetaux. 1b. Bouchard. Thecrie de Viufection. Verhandl. des X. intern, vied. Con- gresses zu Berlin. Bd. I. 1891. 2. Buchner. Die chemische Reizbarkeit der Leukocyten und deren Beziehung zur Entzilndung und Eiterung. Berliner klitiische Wocheschn. 1890. 3. Brucke. Untersucliungen fiber den, Farbenwechsel des afrikan. Chamteleom. Denkschrift d.math. nalcuriv., Glaxse der Akad. d. Wissensch. Bd. IV. 1851. T. Lauder Brunton. Action of Drugs on Protoplasm. Pharmacology Therapeutics and Materia Medica. London. 4. BuNtiE. Vitalismus und Mechanismus. 5a. de IJary. Vorlesungen iibcr Bacterien. 1885.