* THE CELL I narrow limits of the science of botany, for it is owing to this that . the cell-theory was first applied to animal tissues. For it is just in animal cells that the nuclei stand out most distinctly from amongst all the other cell-contents, thus showing most evidently the similarity between the histological elements of plants and animals. Thus this little treatise of Schleiden's, in 1838, marks' an important historical turning-point, and since this time the most important work, in the building up of the cell-theory, has been done upon animal tissues. Attempts to represent the animal body as consisting of a large number of extremely minute elements had been made before Schleiden's time, as is shown by the hypotheses of Oken (I. 21), Heusinger, Raspail, and many other writers. However, it was impossible to develop these theories further, since they were based upon so many incorrect observations and false deductions, that the good in them was outweighed by their errors. It was not until after some improvements had been made in optical instruments, during the years from 1830-1840, that work justifying the application of the cell-theoi'y to animal tissues was accomplished. Purkinje (I. 22) and Valentin, Joh. Miiller (I. 20) and Henle (I. 11), compared certain animal tissues with plant tissues, and recognized that the tissue of the chorda dorsal is, of cartilage, of epithelium and of glands, is composed of cells, and in so far is similar in its construction to that of plants. Schwann (I. 31), however, was the flrst to attempt to frame a really comprehensive cell-theory, which should refer to all kinds of animal tissues. This was suggested to him by Schleiden's " Phytogenesis," and was carried out by him in an ingenious manner. During the year 1838 Schwann, in the course of a conversation with Schleiden, was informed of the new theory of cell-formation, and of the importance which was attached to the nucleus in plant- cells. It immediately struck him, as he himself relates, that there are a great many points of resemblance between animal and vegetable cells. He therefore, with most praiseworthy energy, set on foot a comprehensive series of experiments, the results of which he published in 1839, under the title, Mikroscojpische untersuchunqen iiber die TJebereinstimmung in der Strnctur una dem Wachsthum der Thiere und Pflanzen. This book of Schwann's is of the greatest importance, and may be considered to mark an epoch, for by its means the knowledge of the microscopical