THE CELL 7S place to place much move rapidly than can be effected by means of pseudopodia. Flagella and cilia are delicate hair-like processes, which extend in greater or less numbers from the surface of the cell. They are composed of a homogeneous, non-granular sub- stance, and in this respect resemble short, thin pseudopodia, when these consist of hyaloplasm alone. However, they differ from pseudopodia in two respects : firstly, they move in a diffei'ent and more energetic fashion, and secondly, they are not transitoiy, but permanent organs, being neither protruded nor withdrawn. Fundamentally, however, the movements of flagella and pseudo- podia are identical in kind, as is shown by the observations made by de Bai*y (I. 2) on swarmspores of Myxomycetes, and by Haeckel, Engelmann, R. Hertwig (III. 12b), and others on flhizopoda. Many of the lower organisms reproduce themselves by means of small spores, which resemble Amcebce in their appearance and in their mode of movement (Fig. 43). After a time such spores usually protrude two thread-like pseudopodia (Fig. 43 a), which exhibit slow oscillatory movements, and develop into flagella, whilst the remainder of the body withdraws all its other pseudopodia, and so becomes spherical in shape. As the movements become stronger, the spore travels more and more rapidly, by means of its Fis. 43.-M£crogn>mia socialis. An amce- twQ flaffeUa through the Water bold cell (a) which has been produced by o ' ° division, and has wandered from the (Fig. 43 6); thus a SWarm- colony; and which, having withdrawn all Sp0re » has developed Out of the its pseudopodia, with the exception of two, which have developed into flagella, be- little amoeboid cell. comes transformed into a swarmspore (b). Jfc mav be safely deduced from (FromH.rhBiB.Pl.6, Me.) disc0verie8 tliafc flageUa are developed from delicate protoplasmic processes, ivhich become especially contractile, and in consequence differ somewhat in their properties from the remaining protoplasm. Hence they may be considered as constituting a special plasmic product or cell-organ, composed of contractile substance. Flagella and cilia always arise directly from the body of the cell. If the cell is enveloped by a membrane, they protrude through pores in it. At their bases they are always somewhat thickened, frequently starting from the surface of the protoplasm