271 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL of division, until again the necessity for a new " conjugation epidemic " arises. The conjugation period at the same time causes a somewhat lengthy cessation of multiplication in the life of the Infnsorian, as Maupas, for instance, has plainly shown in the case of Onychro- dromus grandis, where, if the temperature is kept at from 17° to IS0, an interval of six and a half days occurs between the com- mencement of conjugation and the first subsequent division. During this period, if conjugation is not taking place, a single individual, when provided with sufficient nourishment, divides thirteen times ; that is to say, it produces from 7,000 to 8,000 descendants. In most Infusoria, as in the cases described here, both con- jugating individuals behave in the same way, each functioning towards the other as male and female, that is to say, both impart- ing and receiving. Fixed forms of Infusoria, however, such as Vorticellce, etc., behave in an interesting and somewhat different fashion. The Epistylis umhellaria (Fig. 149) may serve as an example. When a conjuga- tion period is approaching, several individuals of the colony of Vorticellae divide rapidly and repeatedly, thus producing a generation of individuals (r) very inferior in size to the mother organ- ism. Other individuals of the colony remain undivided and of normal size. The former are called microga- metes, and the latter macro- gametes ; they differ from one another sexually. Each microgamete detaches itself from its stalk, swims round in the water, and after a short time attaches itself to a macro- gamete in order to conjugate with it (Fig. 149 k). Changes occur in the nuclear apparatus similar to those described in detail above in the Paramecium, and migratory nuclei are exchanged here also. However, the macrogamete alone continues to develop, the Fig. 149.—Epistylis umbeRaria (after Graeff; from R. Hertwig, Fig. 112) : portion of a colony in the act of conjugation ; r microzoids pro- duced by division ; fc microgametes in conjuga- tion with macrogametes.