291 TUB VITAL PliOPEimiCS OF THE CELL observed in the organic kingdom during the process of fertilisa- tion, we must now turn our attention to a still wider and more difficult subject—the examination of the properties which the cells must possess in order to unite themselves in the reproduc- tive act, and thus to constitute a starting point for a new cycle of development. In the first instance it is evident, that not all the cells of a multicellular organism are capable of fertilising or of becoming fertilised, and that even the sexual cells are only suitable for reproductive purposes for, in many cases, quite a limited time. Hence definite characteristics must be developed in the cells ; these we will provisionally group under the common name of " need for reproduction." This need for reproduction alone is in itself far from sufficient to ensure the occurrence of fertilisation. This is proved by the fact that, if mature eggs and spermatozoa from different organ- isms are brought together, they do not pair. Hence a second factor is necessary : the cells which are to unite sexually must suit one another in their organisation, and in consequence must have the inclination to combine with one another. This we will designate as sexual affinity. Thus the physiology of the process of fertilisation may be separated into two parts :— 1. Investigation of the need for reproduction. 2. Examination of the sexual affinity of the cells. In a third section various hypotheses, which have been started by various investigators, concerning the nature and aim of fertili- sation, will be investigated. 1. The " Need for Reproduction " of Cells. By the expression " need for reproduction," we understand a condition of the cell, when it has lost the capacity of carrying on the vital processes by itself, although it regains the power to a still greater degree after it has fused with a second cell in the act of fertilisation. At present we entirely lack a deeper insight into the nature of this condition ; for it is one of the inherent properties of living matter, and as such is outside of the domain of our perceptive powers, since these properties can only be recognised by their results. Similarly the physiological side of the subject is completely unknown, since it as yet has not been subjected to systematic investigation. Hence we can only here mention certain observations, which must be extended and widened in future by means of physiological investi-