89 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL changes of shape which an individual organ experiences as a consequence of muscular action or of distension through a col- lection of fluid or nutriment. Thread-like epithelial cells have to become cylindrical, and cylindrical ones to become flat, when the surface increases in size through the distension of an organ, whilst, on the other hand, the reverse takes place when the whole organ, including its surface, decreases in size. How powerful and sudden may be the changes of form which the protoplasm of a cell, in consequence of passive movement, may experience without damage to its delicate structure, can be best seen in Ccelenterata, in which extended portions of the body, like palpocils, may sud- denly shorten by about a tenth or more of their length, in con- sequence of sudden energetic muscular contraction (III. 12 a). The form which an epi- thelial cell assumes varies very considerably, according as to whether it has been taken from a portion of a body which is moderately or strongly con- tracted, as may be seen by comparing Fig. 51 A, B. The former was taken from the ten- tacle of an Actinia, which was only moderately contracted, since by means of chemical reagents it had been rendered non- sensitive before it was killed ; the second was derived from the ten- tacle of another individual which had contracted strongly in death. Fig. 51.—Muscular epithelial cell from the endodermal surface of tbe tentacle of an Actinia (Sagartia parasitica) (afier O. and B. Hertwig, PI. VI., Fig. 11 ; from Hatschek, Fig. 108): A extended condition of tentacle; B strongly contracted condition of same. Literature III. 1. be Bart. Die Mycetozoen. Zeitschrift f. wissenschaftl. Zooloyic. Bd. 10. 1860. 2. G. Berthold. Studien iiber rrotojplasmamechanik. Leipzig. 1880. 3. BCtschli. Frotozoen. first Volume of Brvnn's " Classen uvd Ordnungen d's Thierreichs." 1889. 4. Alex. Ecker. Zur Lehre vom Ban v. Leben der contractilen Substanz der niedersten Thiere. Zeitschrift f. wiss.entchaftl. Zoologie. Bd. I. 18-19. •5. Enoklmann. Protoplasm, and Ciliary Movement, trans, by Bourne from Hermann's " Handbnch der Physiologic." Bd. I. Quur. Jour. Mic. Soc. 1880.