82 THE CELL If tins uudiilrftrng membrane be examined with a very high power of the microscope, waves are seen to travel continually over its surface, passing from the front to the back. "These," as Hensen explains, " are caused by each successive transverse portion passing one after the other from one „.sp extreme position (Fig. 47) to the other. For instance, if at the initial period a portion of the edge, which is seen from above, occupies position I to J1 (Fig. 47), it is seen at the end of the first quarter of the period to have assumed position II to II1 for, which amounts to the same thing, position II1 to II2. At the end of the second quarter the portion II1 to II2 is in the position III to III1 or, which is the same, III1 to III2. At the end of the third quarter III1 to III2 has passed into the position IF to IV1, whilst at the end of the whole period it has again taken up position I to J1. The movements followr after each other with a certain degree of force and speed; it remains now to be seen how a for- ward motion results from them. Any one point on the surface of the undulating border (Pig. 47) moves, as is indicated by the arrow, from 8 to y with the force x = ay. This force can be resolved into its two components a/3 and /3y. The force a/3 is exerted in the direc- tion of the border, compressing it, and ap- parently producing no further effect. Force Hp^^-^ft Pi mav be again split up into y8 and ye. ye exerts a direct backward pressure on the water, and hence, in consequence of the re- sistance of the water, propels the body in a forward direction. Force yS would cause the body to rotate on its own axis ; but opposed to it is the opposite force, which is developed at all the places where the arrows point in an opposite direction (as for instance over D). Further the same force ye is present in Fig. D as in Fig. C, only the shaded por- tions of Fig. A develop the forces which are opposed to ye. It is seen, however, that the size of the surfaces in question, and hence Fig. 40. — Spermato- zoon of Salamandra maculata: lc head ; m middle portion ; ef tuil; »l> anterior end ; u un- dulating membrane.