THE CELL 224 II. Partial ok Meroblastic Segmentation. III. So-called Free Cell-Formation. IV. Division with Reduction. The most instructive examples of the various methods of cell division are afforded, for the most part, by animal egg-cells; for here the divisions follow so quickly one upon another, that the normal conditions may be clearly observed. Ia. Equal Segmentation. In equal division the egg, if, as is generally the case, it is spherical, is first split up into two hemispheres. According to the law explained above, in the division which follows, the nuclear spindle must place itself parallel to the base of the hemisphere, so that the latter is divided into two quadrants. Farther, the spindle axis must coincide with the longitudinal axis of each quadrant, so that in each case a division into two octants is produced. In con- sequence, during the second and third stages of the cleavage process, the relative positions occupied by the second and third division planes towards one another, and towards the first division plane, are strictly according to law ; that is to say, the second cleavage plane cuts the first at right angles, and halves it, whilst the third is perpendicular to the two first, and passes through the centre of the axis in which they intersect. If now the ends of this axis are considered as the poles of the egg, the two first division planes may be regarded as meridional, and the third as equatorial. In many cases, after the second cleavage, the four portions may be seen to separate somewhat from one another, the result of which is that the furrows produced by the second division no longer intersect in one point, but meet the first formed meridional furrow at a little distance from the pole (Fig. 113). Thus a transverse line, the cleavage line, which varies in length, is produced. I have found this especially well marked (VI. 30b) in the eggs of Sagitta (Fig. 113). A short time after the termination Fig. H3.-a four segmented of the second division of the egg of egg of Sagiita seen from the Saqitta, the four cells so arrange them- animal pole, (x 100; Hertwig, * . , . pi. v., Fig. 6.) selves (Fig. 113) that only t\\ o ot them