135 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELT, rated from the living body. Hence, in examining a tissue outside of the body, blood serum, aqueous humour, amniotic fluid, iodised serum, or artificially prepared mixtures resembling these fluids, only function, to a certain extent, as indifferent, supplementary fluids. As a matter of course, they cannot at all supply the natural condi- tions for the cell. In endeavoux-ing to understand the relationship which exists be- tween the cell and the fluid which bathes it, care must be taken at the outset to avoid the idea that the former is simply saturated by the latter. Such a conception is wholly fallacious; on the con- trary, each cell is an independent unity which selects certain sub- stances from the mixture of fluids surrounding it, and absorbs a varying quantity of them, whilst others it quite rejects. In all these respects different cells behave very differently : in a word, the cells, to a certain extent, make a selection from the substances offered themv Such selective powers, often very different in character, may be easily demonstrated by the following:— Amongst the lowest unicellular organisms there are some which possess silicious skeletons, whilst others construct theirs out of carbonate of lime. Hence they exhibit quite opposite powers of selection towards these two substances, both of which occur in small quantities in solution in water, and by this means very im- portant effects have been produced in the formation of chalk, and of the geological strata, consisting of silicious shells. Similarly, different plants, which thrive side by side under similar conditions and in the same water, take up from it very different salts, and these in very varying quantities. The relative proportions which occur may be easily computed by drying and burning the plants, and then reckoning out the proportion which the ash bears to the whole of the dried substance, and further the proportion the separate constituents of the ash bear to the pure ash. The ashes of several kinds of Fucus which were collected on the west coast of Scotland were examined, and the results obtained were tabulated by Pfeffer (V. 23) in his Plant Physiology.