18 THE CELL living protoplasm. Reinke (II. 32) states that the JEthalium septicum gives off ammonia after it has been dried. Moreover, the most different metabolic products are always to be demonstx-ated in protoplasm; these are produced either by progressive or retrogressive metamorphosis. There is a great similarity shown between the substances occurring in plant and in animal cells. For example, the following substances are found in both,—pepsin, diastase, myosin, sarcin, glycogen, sugar, inosit, dextrin, cholesterin and lecithin, fat, lactic acid, formic acid, acetic acid, butyric acid, etc. As an example of the quantitative composition of a cell includ- ing its nucleus, Kossel (II. 35) quotes in his text-book, the analysis of pus-coi-puscles which was made by Hoppe-Seyler. According to this statement, 100 parts by weight of organic substance contain : Various albuminous substances 13-762 Nuclein 31-257 Insoluble substances . 20-566 Lecithin and fat 14-383 Cholesterin 7-400 Cerebrin 5-199 Extractives . 4-433 Phosphorus, sodium, iron, magnesium, calcium, phosphoric acid and chlorine were found in the ash. As regards the physical properties of protoplasm, streaming protoplasmic threads are sometimes noticed in which double re- fraction is seen, the movements being for the most part in a direction such that their optical axes coincide (Engelmann). d. The more minute Structure of Protoplasm. Proto- plasm was defined above as a combination of substances, the most minute particles of which we must picture to ourselves as united together to form a complex structure. Investigators have en- deavoured to discover more about this marvellous structure, partly by speculation, and partly by microscopical observation. As to the first, Nageli has made some important suggestions, a more detailed account of which is given later in the section entitled " The Molecular Structure of Organised Bodies." As to the second, numerous investigator's, amongst whom From- mann, Flemming, Biitschli and Altmann are conspicuous, have recently been working at the subject. Living protoplasm, as well as that which has been killed by special reagents, has been