110 THE CELL instances of positive galvanotropism. It has been observed by Verworn in Opalina ranarum, and in a few Bacteria and Flagellata such as Cryptomonas and Chilomonas. When the circuit is com- pleted the above-named species travel towards the anode instead of towards the cathode, and collect there. If Ciliata and Flagel- lata are present side by side in one drop, they are seen under the influence of the constant current to hasten in opposite directions, so that finally two distinct groups are to be seen, the Flagellata being at the anode, and the Ciliata at the cathode. If the current is now reversed they advance like two hostile armies upon one another, until they assemble again at the opposite poles. Each time the current was made it produced in a few seconds a dis- tinct sorting out of the crowd of Infusoria, which were'otherwise in inextricable confusion. IV. Mechanical Stimuli. Pressure, violent shaking, crushing, all these act as stimuli to protoplasm. Weak mechanical stimula- tions only produce an effect upon the point of contact; strong stimuli affect a larger area and produce a more rapid and more powerful effect than weak ones. If a cell of a Tradescantia or Chara or the Plasmodium of an zEthalium be violently shaken, or pressed upon at one place, the granular movement is temporarily arrested, whilst swellings and knots may even appear on the protoplasmic threads, such as are produced by the electrical current. Hence it frequently occurs, that in preparing the slide for observation all the protoplasmic movements may be brought to a standstill, simply by putting on the coverglass. They gradually return after a period of rest. Amcebm and white blood corpuscles withdraw their pseudopodia and assume a globular form when they are violently shaken. Reticularia, which have extended their long processes, often with- draw them with so much energy that the ends which were attached to the slide are torn off (Verworn). A localised stimulus can be produced at a given point with a fine needle. If the stimulus is weak the effect is confined to this point, a varicosity being formed and a shortening of the pseudopodium being pro- duced. Strong and repeated stimuli cause neighbouring pseudopodia, which were not directly touched, to contract (Fig. .57 B). If an Infusorian or other small animal comes in contact with an outstretched pseudopodium, it is firmly grasped by it, and becomes surrounded by the protoplasm. As the pseudopodium