3 THE HISTORY OF THE CELL-THEORY The study of the lowest plants has also proved of the greatest importance in establishing the cell-theory. Small algse were observed, which during their whole lifetime remain either single cells, or consist of simple rows of cells, easily to be separated from one another. Finally, the study of the metabolism of plants led investigators to believe that, in the economy of the plant, it is the cell which absorbs the nutrient substances, elaborates them, and gives them up in an altered form (Turpin, Raspail). Thus, at the beginning of our century, the cell was recognised by many investigators as the morphological and physiological elementary unit of the plant. This view is especially clearly expressed in the following sentences, quoted from the Text-book of Botany (I. 16), published by Mejen in 1830 : " Plant-cells appear either singly, so that each one forms a single individual, as in the case of some alga? and fungi, or they are united together in greater or smaller masses, to constitute a more highly-organized plant. Even in this case each cell forms an independent, isolated whole; it nourishes itself, it builds itself up, and elaborates the raw nutrient materials, which it takes up, into very different sub- stances and structures." In consequence, Meyen describes the single cells as " little plants inside larger ones." These views, however, only obtained general acceptance after the year 1838, when M. Schleiden (I. 28), who is so frequently cited as the founder of the cell-theory, published in Miiller's Archives his famous paper " Beitrage zur Phytogenesis." In this paper Schleiden endeavoured to explain the mystery of cell-formation. He thought he had found the key to the difficulty, in the discovery of the English botanist, R. Brown (I. 5), who, in the year 1833, whilst making investigations upon orchids, discovered nuclei. Schleiden made further discoveries in this direction; he showed that nuclei are present in many plants, and as they are invariably found in young cells, the idea occurred to him, that the nucleus must have a near connection with the mysterious beginning of the cell, and in consequence must be of great importance in its life- history. The way in which Schleiden made use of this idea, which was based upon erroneous observations, to build up a theory of phyto- genesis, must now be regarded as a mistake (I. 27) ; on the other hand, it must not be forgotten that his perception of the general importance of the nucleus was correct up to a certain point, and that this one idea has in itself exerted an influence far beyond the