the CELL 302 Falkenberg concludes from his observations, that the attraction between the ova and spermatozoids of Gutleria makes itself felt at a relatively great distance, that this attractive force must have its seat in the cells themselves, and further that the attraction is only exerted between sexual cells of the same species. De Bary (VII. 2 b), investigating the sexual reproduction of Perunosporete, observed that, in the interlacing hyphae, the oogonia at first lie alongside of each other. Somewhat later, the anther- idia develop, but this invai-iably occurs in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the egg-cell only ; they are frequently derived from hyphaa, which have no connection with the one from which the oogonium is formed. De Bary concludes from this, that the oogonium must exert an influence over a limited area, and that this influence induces the hypha? to form an antheridium. A peculiarly striking instance of this influence exerted at a distance is seen in the circumstance, that the branch on which the an- theridium is developed is diverted from its natural direction of growth; for, in order to approach the oogonium, it bends over with its end towards it, and then lies close to it. De Bary estimates that the distance at which the oogonium is able to exert this attraction is almost as great as its own diameter, and remarks further, that " the above-described divergence of the lateral branches can be ascribed to no other cause than the special attributes of the oogonium." Not less interesting, and worthy of notice, are the statements which Engelmann (VII. 9) has made about the conjugation of Vorticella microstoma. In this case small male zoospores are formed by budding (p. 228) ; these, just like spermatozoa, fertilise the large female individuals (p. 271). Engelmann succeeded four times in tracing the bud after its separation from the mother-cell, until it had united with another individual. Engelmann describes his observations as follows : " At first the bud, always rotating on its longitudinal axis, wandered with fairly constant rapidity (cir. -6-"l mm. per sec), and, as a rule, in a fairly straight line through the drop. This lasted for from five to ten minutes, or even longer, without anything especial happening; then the scene was suddenly changed. Coming by chance into the neighbourhood of an attached Vorticella, the bud changed its direction, occasionally even with a jerk, and dancing, like a butter- fly which plays round a flower, approached the fixed form ; it then, as if it were feeling it, glided round about it, meanwhile always