THE CELL 56 than the most minute micro-organism. As to its composition, it appears to consist of the same substance as the so-called neck or middle portion of the seminal thread, to -which, further, during the process of fertilisation, genetic functions have been ascribed {vide Chap. VII., 1). When the ordinary methods for staining the nucleus are employed it does not absorb any of the dye; if, however, special reagents, especially acid aniline dyes, such as acid fuchsine, safranin, and orange, are used, it becomes vividly coloured. This is the only way to distinguish the central cor- puscle from the other granules in the cell (microsomes) unless it is enclosed by a special radiation sphere or envelope. If we dis- regard the processes of cell division and of fertilisation, which are treated of in later sections, the central corpuscles have been, up till now, most frequently observed in lymph cells (Flemming II. 11, 12 b, and Heidenhain II. 16), in the pigment cells of the Pike (Solger II. 38), and in the flattened epithelial, endothelial, and connective tissue cells of Salamander larvce (Flemming II. 12 V). As a rule there is only one central corpuscle present in each lymph cell (Fig. 34); this can be seen without having been stained, since the protoplasm in its im- mediate neighbourhood assumes a distinctly ray-like appearance forming the radiation, or attraction sphere, which later on will occupy so much of our attention. The cen- tral corpuscle is sometimes situated in an indentation of the nucleus, or, if the latter has broken down into several pieces, a con- dition which is frequently seen in lymph cells, it lies between them and some portion or other of the protoplasmic body. In pigment cells (Fig. 35), Solger (II. 38) was able to make out the radiation sphere as a bright spot between the pigment gran- ules, and in consequence he concluded that the central corpuscle was present. In the epithelium of the lung, and in tin: endothelium and connective tissue cells of the peritoneum of Salamander larvce (Fig. 36 A, B), Flemming found, almost without exception, that instead of a single central Fig. 34. — Leucocyte from the peritoneum of a Salamander larva,. For tlie sake of clearness in the figure, the central cor- puscle, surrouniled by its radiation sphere, has been distinguished by a bright riiiir, which is nut really present in nature. (After Flemming, Kig. 6.)