84 THE CELL former may be distinguished from cilia by their greater thickness and length, and by the fact that they are somewhat wide at the base, whilst they taper off to a tine point (Fig. 48). Further, like other special contractile tissues (muscular fibres), they exhibit a fibrillar differentiation, so that they may be split up into many delicate fibrils (Biitschli). These cirri occur with especial frequency in hypotrichous Infusoria, being situated chiefly around the mouth. The undulating membranes also terminate at the mouth cavity. They are locomotive organs which have been developed superficially; they may frequently be seen to be dis- tinctly marked with delicate stria? extending from the base to the free edge, and hence they, like the cirri, must possess a fibrillar structure. Infusoria have various methods of locomotion. As a rule the body, when it moves freely through the water, revolves about its longitudinal axis. It has the power of changing the direction in which it travels; the rate at which the cilia move may suddenly be altered, being either slowed or quickened ; the body may even keep still for a short time, without any apparent external cause. Hence various kinds of movements take place, suggesting the 71 idea of jrolition. In addition, it is remarkable that the cilia, often thousands in number, of one and the same individual, always act together in a strictly co-ordinate fashion. "They do not only always oscillate at the same rate, and with the same amplitude of beat (rhythm), but they always strike the water in the same direc- tion, and in the same order" (Verworn). This co-ordination is carried out to such an extent, that two individuals which have been produced by the division of a parent cell always exhibit uniform and synchronous movements as long as they are united by a bridge of protoplasm. Hence it follows, that although the cilia possess the power of spontaneous contraction, yet their work- ing together is regulated by stimuli from the protoplasmic body itself. The ectoplasm seems to play an especially important part in the transference of these stimuli, as is shown by an experiment made by Verworn (IV. 40). He made a slight incision with a lancet in SSpirostomum ambiguum (Fig- 49) and in Stentor cceruleus in the ectoplasm supporting the rows of cilia. "I rider these circumstances it could be plainly seen that the cihary waves did not cross the area of the incision, but were confined to the one side, and could not be seen on the other." Occasionally