fTS CHEMICO-PHTSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 17 proteids are the most complex of all known organic substances, but up till now very little has been determined as to their chemical structure. This complex structure depends, in the first place, upon the very remarkable chemical properties of carbon (Haeckel II. 15). In pi^oteids carbon occurs combined with four other elements, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, in proportions which, it has been endeavoured to express by the following formula : C72 H106N18SO-2 (composition of a molecule of egq-albumeii). Amongst the various kinds of proteid bodies (albumins, globu- lins, fibrins, plastins, nucleins, etc.) plastin alone seems to be pecu- liar to protoplasm (Reinke II. 32; Schwarz II. 37 ; Zacharias II. 44) ; plastin is insoluble in water, in 10 per cent, salt solution, and in 10 per cent, solution of sulphate of magnesia ; it is pre- cipitated by weak acetic acid, whilst concentrated acetic acid causes it to swell up; it is precipitated in concentrated salt solution ; it resists both pepsin and trypsin digestion. It is hardly, or not at all, stained by basic aniline dyes, but is stained by acid ones (eosin and acid fuchsine). In addition, globulins and albumins are present in smaller quantities; these are also found in solution in the cell-sap of plants. Protoplasm is very rich in water, which, as Sachs (II. 33) states, is built up into the structure of its molecule, in the same sense as, for example, the water of crystallisation is a necessary constituent of many crystals, which lose their characteristic form if the water of crystallisation is withdrawn. Reinke (II. 32) found 71-6 per cent, of water and 28-4 per cent, of solid substances in fresh sporangia of the Mthalium septicum (66 per cent, of this water could be squeezed out). Further, a number of various salts are present in protoplasm; these remain as ash when the protoplasm is burnt; in the case of the JEthalium septicum the ash contains the following elements : chlorine, sulphur, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium, and iron. Living protoplasm is distinctly alkaline in reaction ; rod litmus paper is turned blue by it, as is also a red colouring matter, which is obtained from a species of cabbage, and which has been used by Schwarz. This is also the case with plants, although the cell-sap, as a rule, has an acid reaction. According to the investigations of Scawarz (II. 37) on plants, this alkaline reaction is due to the presence of an alkali, which is united with the proteid bodies in S c