305 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL similar to that performed by the mucoid and gelatinous envelopes of many ova which retain the antherozoids. On the other hand, they in no wise explain conjugation itself, ■i.e. the processes peculiar to fertilisation. This may be proved m a very simple manner. According to the reseai-ches of Pfeffer, malic acid is secreted in the archegonia of the most different Ferns. Nevertheless, only the antherozoids of the same species will fuse with the oosphere, those of a different species being as a rule un- able to fertilise them. Thus we see, that there are relations exist- ing between the sexual products which cannot be explained by the action of irritating chemical secretions. The same is true of the conjugation of gametes, of the formation of the receptive promin- ence in animal ova, and of the mutual attraction of egg- and sperm-nuclei. Nageli (IX. 20) suggests that electrical forces may be the cause of sexual attraction, and this seems to me to be an explanation of far-reaching importance. But, until this conjecture has been definitely proved, it is better to attribute the sexual phenomena in general to the reciprocal action of two somewhat differently organised protoplasmic bodies, and to call this reciprocal action sexual affinity. We must be content with such a general ex- pression, since we cannot accurately analyse the forces which come into activity. Presumably it is not a question here of a simple phenomenon, but of a very complicated one. This may be rendered still clearer by an investigation of the second point, namely, what is the nature of the cells requiring fertilisation, and between which there is sexual affinity ? b. More minute discussion of sexual affinity, and its different gradations. The possibility of the occurrence of fertilisation, and the results produced by it, are to a great extent determined by the degree of relationship which exists between the sexual cells. But since a near relationship implies a greater or less similarity in their organisation, these differences in their organisation must be the determining factor. The degree of relationship between the two cells may vary con- siderably. It is nearest when both the cells to be fertilised are descended directly from the same mother cell; it is more distant where many cell-generations have developed asexually from the mother-cell, the final products at last producing sexual cells. Here, too, cases of nearer or more distant relationship are possible. If we take as an example one of the higher flowering plants, we