THE CELL 140 Thus the salt or sugar solution must make its way through the cellulose membrane, after which it continues to abstract more water from the protoplasm, which shrinks more and more accord- ing to the concentration of the solution, so as to occupy a smaller and smaller space. The sap which it encloses becomes corre- spondingly more concentrated. In spite of these changes, which are grouped together under the same plasmolysis, the protoplasm may remain alive for weeks, and exhibit its nsual streaming movements ; it may even surround itself with a new peripheral layer, although it remains in its contracted condition. Two conclusions may be deduced from the process of plas- molysis : (1) that the cellulose membrane is pervious to the salt solutions which were used ; (2) " that the amount of dissolved salt which diosmoses through the peripheral layer is not worth mentioning, for if a considerable quantity penetrated into the protoplasm, or into the cell sap, an increase in the quantity of the substances setting up osmosis would be produced within the proto- plasmic membrane, and thus an increase in the volume of the protoplasmic body would result " (Pfeffer). If the cells which have become flaccid through plasmolysis are carefully removed and placed in pure water, the reverse process occurs. The sugar solution which was enclosed within the cellu- lose membrane becomes diffused into the water. In consequence, the peripheral protoplasm layer becomes distended, because its cell sap is now richer in osmotolytic substances than its environ- ment, and so water is caused to flow in the opposite direction. This distension gradually increases, as the water becomes ab- sorbed, until the peripheral layer of protoplasm comes into close contact with the cellulose membrane, and until finally the cell has dilated to its original size. Other experiments have shown that the sap contained in the plant cell is under a considerable pressure, often of several atmos- 4 pheres. This produces the natural turgescence of certain por- tions of plants. The cause is,—that powerfully osmotolytic sub- stances are present in the cell sap, such as saltpetre, vegetable acids, and their potassium salts, which have a strong affinity for water (Pfeffer V. 23 ; de Vries V. 36). Therefore under these conditions the protoplasmic coating con- taining the cell sap may be compared to a very elastic thin-walled ^ bladder, which is filled with a concentrated salt solution. If such a bladder is put into pure water, the solution attracts the water,