THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 97 lowered, as the case may be, the vital appearances gradually become normal. It is true that if the condition of rigor produced by cold, is maintained for a considerable time, death may ensue, although cold is better withstood, and for a longer time, than heat. When the protoplasm dies it becomes coagulated and turbid, whilst com- mencing to swell up and to decompose. At the temperatures lying between these extremes, the vital processes are performed in a manner which varies in intensity with the degree of temperature. This is especially true of the movements which take place at dif- ferent speeds, increasing in rate up to a certain point, as the tem- perature rises, until they reach a certain fixed maximum speed. This occurs at the so-called optimum temperature, which is always several degrees below that at which heat rigor is produced. As the temperature passes this limit, the protoplasmic movements are seen to slacken, until at last rigor sets in. White blood corpuscles have been much used in studying the effects produced by heat; for this purpose Max Schultze's warm stage, or Sachs' warm cells, are most suitable. In a fresh drop of blood the corpuscles are seen to be motionless and globular in form. If the drop is warmed—the necessary precautions being of course observed—the corpuscles gradually commence to extend pseudopodia, and to move about. As the temperature approaches the optimum for the time being, these changes of shape become more rapid. In Myxomycetes, Rhizopoda, and plant cells, the effect produced by an access of heat is exhibited by an increase of rapidity of the streaming movements of the granules. Thus, according to the measurements of Max Schultze (I. 29), the granules in the hair-cells of Urtica and Tradesrantia travel at ordinary temperatures at a rate of '004--005 mm. per second, whilst if the temperature is raised to 35° C, their speed is in- creased to '009 mm. per second. In Vallisneria the rate of circulation may be increased to '015 mm., and in a species of Chara even to '04 mm. per second. The difference between the slow and accelerated movements may be so great that whilst with the former the length of a foot is traversed in fifty hours, with the latter the same distance may be covered in half an hour. Nageli (III. 16) has expressed the acceleration produced by an accession of heat in the granular streaming movements in the cells of Nitella by the following figures : in order to traverse a distance of -1 mm. the granules require 60 seconds at 1° C.; 24 seconds at 5° C; 8 seconds at 10° C; 5 seconds at 1.5° C.; 3-6 seconds at H