314 TJU4 CKU, This, howevei*, does not invariably occur. la cross-fertilisations, which were made between Strongylocentrotus lividus and Sphser- echinus granulosis, it was found, that out of the hundreds of ova, which were experimented upon at various times, a varying num- ber of eggs was produced, which had been fertilised by the strange spermatozoa, whilst the large majority of ova were unaffected. Thus we see, that the ova of the same animal differ from one another, just as swarm-spores of the same species may react differ- ently to light, some seeking the positive edge of the drop, others the negative, and others, again, oscillating between the two (vide p. 101). As swarm-spores exhibit different light reactions, the ova of the same animal present different sex reactions, and what is still more extraordinary, these sex reactions can be largely influenced and altered by external circumstances. The experiment is a very simple one. The mature ova of Echinoderms, after their evacuation from the ovaries, can be pre- served in sea water in an unfertilised condition for 24-48 hours- without losing their capacity for development. But, during this time, changes take place in them, which manifest themselves in their behaviour towards foreign spermatozoa. Two different methods were adopted in the experiments, one of which may be described as the method of successive after-fer- tilisations. It consisted in this, that the experimenters crossed the same egg-mass several times with foreign spermatozoa. In doing this the following important result was obtained: all the- ova, which were crossed immediately after their evacuation from the distended and full ovary, with extremely few exceptions, refused the foreign spermatozoa ; but after 10, 20, or 30 hours, that is to say, after the second, third, or fourth ci'ossing, an increasingly lai'ge proportion of the ova behaved differently, becoming cross-fertilised, and subsequently developing normally.. The same result was always produced, whether the ova of Strongylocentrotus lividus were covered with the spermatozoa of SpTisevecMnus granulans, or of Echinus micro-tuberadatus, or whether the ova of Sphxrechinus granulans were crossed with the spermatozoa of Strongylocentrotus lividus. The success or failure of hybridisation cannot in these cases be- attributed to a difference in the spermatozoa, since they were each time taken afresh from a distended and full testis, and may, therefore, be considered to be a relatively constant factor in the experiments. In this case, without doubt, it was the egg-cell