52 TUB CELL In Cyclas cornea and in the Naiadeos a principal nucleolus, in addition to a few smaller secondary nucleoli, is present in the germinal vesicle. " The former consists of two differently consti- tuted portions ; these may be seen in Fig. 30 as a smaller, strongly stained more refractive part, and a larger, paler, less chromatic one, which swells up more in acids. In Anodon these two portions are closely coherent; in TJnio they very frequently only just touch each other, or, indeed, may lie apart. The smaller secondary nucleoli, which lie in the meshes of the framework, show the same power of refracting light, of swelling up, and of becoming stained, as the larger portion of the principal nucleolus. If water is added, this larger portion disappears, as well as the small nucleoli, amongst the strands of the framework ; the small, strongly chromatic portion of the prin- cipal nucleolus alone remains ; this becomes more sharply de- fined, shrinking up somewhat, and developing a clearly marked outline. The addition of strong acetic acid (5 per cent, or more) causes the larger paler portion of the principal nucleolus to swell up rapidly and to dis- appear, whilst the smaller shin- ing portion, though also swell- ing up somewhat, remains visi- ble." "When nuclear staining reagents are used, both portions of the nucleolus, and also the secondary nucleoli, become coloured to a considerable ex- tent; the most strongly refrac- tive part of the former, however, is especially intensely stained." " Such a differentiation of the principal nucleolus into two parts occurs in the egg-cells of many animals. In Dm'ssena polymorpha the strongly refractive chromatic portion covers the paler one like a hollow cap." Fig. 30.—(After Flemming, Fig. E', p. 104,) a Nucleus of an egg from the ovary of TJnio; it has just emerged from the cell into the ovarian fluid. Nucleolus with two pro- tuberances. A small portion of the nuclear framework is visible; a a similar nucleus after 5 per cent, acetic acid has been added. The framework strands stand out more clearly; the larger paler portion of the principal nucleolus, as well as the minor nucleoli, have similarly become swollen up and faded ; the smaller portion of the principal nucleolus is also swollen up, but to a loss degree, b Nucleolus of an egg of Tichoyonia pnlymotpha ; the principal glistening portion rests like a cap upon t he larger one. /3 Diagrammatic representation of an optical section of above.