103 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL reverse is the case when the temperature is lowered. In the first case they also become more photophylic (light-seeking), and in the latter more photophobic (light-avoiding). " In addition, zoospores alter as regards their phototonus during the course of their development, for they appear to be able to withstand greater intensity when they are young than when they are old." As is shown by the experiments of Cohn, Strasburger, and others, not all the rays of the spectrum are able to exert an influence upon the direction of the movements of the spores, it being only those which are strongly refracted (blue, indigo and violet) that produce stimulation. If a vessel containing a deep-coloured solution of ammoniated copper oxide, which only transmits blue or violet rays, be placed between the source of light and the preparation, the spores are seen to react just as if they came in contact with ordinary white light; on the other hand, they do not react at all to light which has passed through bichromate of potassium solution, through the yellow vapour of a sodium flame, or through ruby-red glass. Another very important and complex manifestation of the effects due to light is seen in the movements of the chlorophyll corpuscles in plant cells. The light acts as a stimulus to proto- plasm, which contains chlorophyll, causing the latter to collect by means of slow movements in suitable places within the cellulose membrane. The most suitable object for the study of these phenomena is the Alga, Mesocarpus, npon which Stahl (IV. 34) has made some most convincing observations. In the cylindrical cells, which are united together to form long threads, a narrow band of chlorophyll is extended longitudinally along the middle of the vacuole, which is thus divided into two equal parts; the ends of this band pass over into the protoplasmic lining of the wall. Now this chlorophyll band changes its position according to the direction of the impinging light. If it is exposed directly from above or below to weak daylight, it turns its surface towards the observer. If, however, on the contrary, it is arranged so that only such rays as are parallel to the stage of the micro- scope are allowed to reach the preparation from one side, the green plates are seen to turn about through an angle of 90°, so that they take up an exactly vertical position, assuming now an appearance of dark green longitudinal stripes, stretching them-