81 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL and to rotate themselves in an opposite direction." This backward movement never lasts for long, and is always slower than the forward one; however, the cell soon returns to its normal mode of progression, which usually takes place in a somewhat oblique dh'ection. In consequence of his investigations, Nageli is of opinion that if zoospores and spermatozoa be quite regular in form, if their substance be evenly distributed throughout their mass, and further, if the medium be quite homogeneous, they must travel in a perfectly straight line, and hence that all deviations from this straight line, both as regards rotation round the axis and forward progression, must be ascribed either to the circumstance that they are not symmetrical in form, and that their centres of gravity are not in the centres of their bodies; or to the fact that the friutional opposition which they encounter is not equal in every direction. By means of flagella a far greater speed is attainable than by means of pseudopodia. According to Nageli, zoospores usually proceed at the rate of one foot per hour ; the quickest, however, take only a quarter of an hour to traverse the same space; whilst a man, at ordinary speed, traverses a distance of rather more than half his length in a second, a swarmspore in the same time |_ covers a distance of nearly three times its own diameter. How- ever, although the rate at which they move appears, when they are seen under the microscope, to be very great, we must take into account the fact that the distance is also magnified, and that in consequence they appear to move much more rapidly than they do in reality. As a matter of fact, their movements are exceed- ingly slow. " Without magnification, even if the organisms could be plainly seen, no movement could be perceived on account of its slowness." Spermatozoa (Fig. 45) may be distinguished from the zoospores of plants by their possessing one single thread-like flagellum, situated at the posterior end of the body. The spermatozoon, being propelled by it, advances by means of snake-like move- ments, resembling those of many fishes. In some cases the .structure is more complicated, a delicate contractile or undulating membrane, which may be compared to the edge of a fish's fin, being present. This is especially well developed on the posterior end of the large spermatozoa of the Salamander and the Triton (Fig. 46). G