THE CELL 72 Chara contains no chlorophyll corpuscles,, but only nuclei and granules. The protoplasm of the inner layer, which, compared to that of the outer layer, appears to be richer in water, exhibits rotatory streaming movements, which take place in the following manner. The current passes up along the longitudinal wall of an elongated cell, then, turning round past a transverse wall, flows down the opposite longitudinal side, until, curving round again at the second transvei-se wall, it reaches the starting point, when the cycle recommences. Between the upward and downward streams there is a more or less broad neutral strip where the protoplasm is at rest, and where as a rule it is reduced to a very thin layer. In Nitella there are no chlorophyll corpuscles along this neutral strip in the outer layer. A connecting link between the rotatory movement and true circulation is afforded us by the. so-called "fountain-like rotation" (Klebs III. 14). This, which as a rule but rarely occurs, is found in young endosperm cells of Geratoplnjllum, in young wood vessels of the leaf-stem of TLicinus, etc., etc. Here the protoplasm, in addition to spreading itself out in a thick layer over the inner surface of the cellulose wall, stretches itself in the form of a thick central strand along the longitudinal sap-cavity of the cell. Under these circumstances a single stream flows along this central strand, spreading itself out in all directions like a fountain upon the transverse wall, npon which it impinges; then streaming down the sides of the cell, it collects again at the opposite trans- verse wall, where it re-enters the main axial stream. The motion which is described as circulation is observed in those plant and animal cells in which the protoplasm spreads itself ont, both as a thin layer beneath the membrane, and also in the form of more or less delicate threads, which traverse the sap-cavity and are united together to form a net-like structure. The objects which have been most examined are the staminal hairs of the various kinds of Tradescantia, and young hairs of the stinging nettle, and of pumpkin shoots. The phenomenon of circulation resembles that observed in the protoplasmic nets of Myxomycetes, and of the delicate pseudo- podia of the Rhizopoda. Circulation consists of two kinds_of movements. In the first place attention must be drawn to the .streaming movements of the granules. In the thinnest threads they move more or less quickly over the surface of the walls in one direction, whilst in broader bands several separate streams may