351 AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM would not be room for them in a spermatozoid. It is, therefore, unavoidable, that in bisexual reproduction, the union of the parental idioplasmic bodies must take place without causing a corresponding and permanent increase of their substance." Njigeli has attempted to overcome this difficulty by assuming, that idioplasm consists of strands, which are fused together in such a peculiar way, that the transverse section of the product of fusion remains the same as that of the simple thread, whilst the length of the whole is increased (IX. 20, p. 224). Weismann (IX. 32-34) has investigated this subject most care- fully, and has attempted to demonstrate, that a summation of the hereditary mass is prevented by means of a process of reduction, it being halved before each act of fertilisation. He considers that theoretically it is so absolutely necessary for reduction to take place in each generation, "that the processes by which it is brought about must be discoverable, even if they are not to be deduced from the facts already mentioned." Weismann has been led to these conclusions by considering the nature of idioplasm; however, his views do not agree with the ones I have mentioned above. He groups them under the common, name of "ancestral plasma theory," to the essential points of which I will refer later. The enquiry into the processes of fertilisation and of nuclear division proves logically, on the one hand, that the two hereditary masses must fuse, and must subsequently be re-distributed amongst the cells, and on the other that a summation of the nuclear sub- stance of the hereditary mass must be avoided. The unanimity of opinion as regards the assumption, that the nuclear substance is the hereditary mass sought for, may certainly be taken as evidence in its favour, especially if, during the fusion of the nuclei, pro- cesses can be demonstrated, which correspond in every respect to the necessary conditions. A priori, there are only two possible means of preventing the sum of the equal quantities from being greater than either of the added parts. Either the quantities, which are to be added together, must be halved beforehand, or their sum must be halved subsequently. Both methods appear to have been adopted during the process of fertilisation. The one course occurs in phanerogamous plants and in animals. When the male and female sexual products are mature, the nuclear mass of both the egg and sperm mother cell, as was described at