THE CELL 1(38 bundles of white fibres which cross one another at right angles in alternate lamina?. Not infrequently cellulose membranes show delicate sculptur- ing^, especially upon the inner surface. Thus thickenings may originate in the interior ; these may run into each other to form a spiral, or may be arranged in large numbers transversely to the long axis of the cell, or finally, may be united together in an irregular fashion to form a network. On the other hand, the thickenings may be absent at various places, where neighbouring cells touch, and thus pits or perforations are produced (Fig. 72 A), by means of which neighbouring cells can interchange nutrient substances with greater ease. Moreover, as regards its composition, the cell-wall can alter its character in various ways soon after its original formation; this may be produced by the deposition of various substances upon it, or by its transformation into Avood or cork. Lime salts or siliceous substances are not infrequently deposited in the cellulose, thus producing greater solidity and hardness of the walls. When portions of such plants are burnt, the cellulose is destroyed and a more or less perfect skeleton of lime or silica remains in the place of the framework of the cell. Lime is deposited in Corallinece, in Characece, and in Cucurbitacece; and silica in Diatomacecp, Equisitacece, Grasses, etc. Similarly the cell-wall obtains very great strength through the formation of wood. Here the cellulose becomes mingled with another substance, woody substance (lignin and vanillin), this may be dissolved away by means of potassic hydrate, or with a mixture of nitric acid and chlorate of potash, after which a frame- work, which gives the reaction, of cellulose remains. In the formation of cork the cellulose becomes united in larger or smaller quantities with corky substance or suberin. In this case, also, the physical properties of the cell-wall are altered, it being no longer permeable to water. Thus coi'k cells are formed on the surface of many parts of plants in order to prevent evaporation. Whilst it is evident, that in the deposition of lime and silica, the particles of these substances must be conveyed by the protoplasm to the place where they are required, and where they are de- posited between the particles of cellulose, whereupon molecular combinations are again called into play, two explanations may be given concerning the formation of wood and cork. Either the wood and cork substances are constructed in a soluble form, by