213 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL the internal vesicle begins to shrink up and loses its nuclei, which pass into the protoplasm outside. Finally it is quite dis- solved. Brandt has observed that this nuclear multiplication varies according to whether isospores or anisospores are formed. From the whole process E. Hertwig and Brandt draw the following conclusion, which is certainly correct: that the nuclei which function in the formation of zoospores, and which occur in the central capsule, at first but sparsely, but which gradually increase in number, are derived from the substance of the internal vesicle (nuclear corpuscles). " This explanation," remarks B. Hertwig, " leads me to adopt a theory of nuclear multiplication which differs fundamentally from the generally accepted one, and which is not supported by any observations which up till now have been made in animal or vegetable histology. For if we try to explain this process histologically, we must conclude not only that nuclei can multiply by division or budding, but that they may be produced by the nuclear substance of a nucleus multiplying itself by division, the portions thus produced making their way into the protoplasm to which they belong, and there developing into independent nuclei. Hence such a cell containing many nucleoli may be regarded as potentially multinuclear, just as a multinucleated cell may be regarded as potentially multicellular ; and thus the gradual transition between individual cells, and the groups of cells which are derived from them by division, is by these intermediate stages rendered easier than it would otherwise be." The extraordinary phenomena of nuclear multiplication, observed by Fol (VI. 20), Sabatier, Davidoff (VI. 87), and others, in rather young immature eggs of Ascidians, and which have been shown to be connected with the develop- ment of follicle cells, may be mentioned here. Compare also the similar processes observed by Schiifer (VI. 65a) in young mammals. III. Various Methods of Cell Multiplication. 1. General Laws. In addition to the process mentioned in the last section under the names of nuclear segmentation, direct nuclear division, and endogenous nuclear formation, cell multiplication may assume very various appearances according to the way in which the protoplasmic body behaves during division. Before classifying the various kinds of cell multiplication, it is necessary to mention