TIIK CKU, 114 temporarily paralysed in this manner united with ova when they were brought to them, almost as quickly as fresh spermatozoa. When they were kept for half an hour in the chloral solution, a more marked paralysis was produced, which persisted for a long time after the noxious agent had been removed. It was not until some few minutes had elapsed that certain individual isolated spermatozoa commenced to exhibit snake-like movements, which gradually became more active. Even when they were brought into the neighbourhood of ova, it was observed, that after ten minutes none of these were fertilised, although several spermatozoa had attached themselves to their surfaces, and had bored their way in. But even in this case fructification and the subsequent normal division of the eggs took place finally. Similarly, egg-cells become affected, as regards their irritability, by a "2 to '5 per cent, solution of chloral hydrate or of some similar drug ; this may be recognised by the abnormal manner in which, after the seminal fluid has been added, the process of fertilisation takes place. For whilst under ordinary circumstances only one single spermatozoon penetrates into the ovum, with the result that a firm yolk membrane is immediately formed, which prevents the entrance of other spermatozoa, in Moralised eggs multiple fertilisa- tion takes place. It has been proved that, according to the inten- sity of the action of the chloral, that is to say, the stronger the solution, and the longer it is allowed to act, the greater is the number of spermatozoa which make their way into the ovum before the formation of the yolk and membrane. Evidently the effect of this chemical reagent is to lower the power of reaction of the egg plasma, so that the stimulus which is produced by the entrance of one spermatozoon is now' no longer sufficient, but the ovum must be stimulated by the entrance of two, three, or even more spermatozoa, before it is sufficiently excited to form a mem- brane. Finally, another example will show that the chemical processes of the cell may also be hindered by anaesthetics. As is well known, the yeast fungi (Saccharomyces cerevisiee) produce alcoholic fer- mentation in a solution of sugar, and during this process bubbles of carbon dioxide rise through the fluid. When Claude Bernard (IV. 1) added chloroform or ether to the solution of sugar, before adding the yeast, no fermentation took place, although in other respects the circumstances were favourable. But when the yeast, after Having been filtered out from the chloroform