THE VITAL PIUJNOMENA OF THE Clil.L 189 visible on the surface of the cell-body, corresponding to a plane, which passes perpendicularly through the centre of the nuclear axis, uniting the two centrosomes; this has already been referred to as the plane of division. " The furrow commences on one side, and gradually extends itself round the equator; how- ever, it remains somewhat deeper on the side where it commenced than on the opposite one " (Flemming). This ring-like constric- tion gradually cuts more and more deeply into the cell body, until finally it divides it completely into two nearly equal parts, each of which contains a daughter nucleus, undergoing the process of reconstruction. As soon as division is complete, the polar radia- tions commence to fade away. The above-mentioned connecting fibrils between the daughter nuclei may be distinguished, in many objects, until division is completed. They are then severed in their centres by the cutting through of the cell-body. Sometimes a number of spherical swellings, which become intensely stained, may be seen at this time to develop at the centres of the spindle fibrils ; these Flem- ming (VI. 13") has named separation bodies, and he considers that they probably represent tbe equatorial plates of plants, which are much better developed. b. Division of the egg-cells of Ascaris megalocephala and Toxopneustes liuidus. The nuclei of the eggs of Ascaris are re- markable for the size and distinctness of their centrosomes, and for the small number of their nuclear segments, of which in one species only four, and in another only two, are present. Another very important phenomenon, the multi- plication of the centrosomes by division, may be especially clearly seen in this object. It is best to commence our in- vestigations at that point when the egg has just developed the furrow, and when the four nuclear loops on either side of the plane of division have transformed themselves into a vesicular nucleus of irregular outline (Fig. 82). The side of the nucleus, which is directed towards the pole, has several ragged processes, the nuclein being spread out upon its loose network. The centrosome may still be distinguished in the neighbourhood of Fig. 82.— Egg of A scan's megalocephala undergoing the process of double division. Nuclei are resting; the cen- trosomes as yet undivided. (After Boveri, PI. IV., Fig. 71.)