THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 311 Although the only difference between Anagallis arvensis and A. ccerulea is in the colour of their blossoms, they cannot be induced to fertilise each other. No hybrids have been obtained from apple and pear-trees, or from Primula officinalis and P. elatior; whilst, on the other hand, hybrids have been successfully obtained between species which belong to different orders, such as Lychnis and Sihne, Rhododendron and Azalea, etc. Sachs says : " The absence of correspondence between sexual affinity and systematic relationship is shown in a more striking manner, in that occasionally vai'ieties of the same species are either quite unable to fertilise each other, or can only do so to a partial extent; thus Silene inflata var. alpina cannot conjugate with var. angustifolia, nor var. latifolia with var. litoralis, and so on." In both the animal and the vegetable kingdoms we find certain orders the species of which can be easily crossed, whilst there are others whose species offer the most obstinate resistance to all at- tempts. In the vegetable kingdom, Liliaceae, Rosacea?, Salicaceas; and in the animal kingdom, Trout, Carp, Finches, etc., readily produce hybrids. Many dogs, too, which differ considerably in bodily structure, such as the dachshund aud the pointer, the retriever and the St. Bernard, produce mongrels. Further we see how unaccountable are the factors which are dealt with in hybridisation when we consider the following phenomenon: very frequently the ova of species A may be fer- tilised with the spermatozoa of species B; whilst, on the other hand, the ova of B cannot be fertilised with the spermatozoa of A. Thus sexual affinity between the sexual cells of two species is present in the one case and absent in the other. It seems to me that the determining factor should be sought for in the organisation of the ovum, as may be concluded from the experiments cited below. A few examples of one-sided crossing may be quoted. The ova of Fucus vesiculosus may be fertilised with the antherozoids of Fucus serratus, but the reverse cannot occur. Mirabilis Jalapa produces seed when fertilised with the pollen of Mirabilis longi- flora, whilst the latter remains unfruitful, if the attempt be made to fertilise it with pollen from the former. Similar cases often occur in the animal kingdom, and amongst these the most interesting are met with in those species in which fertilisation can be induced artificially by mixing the sexual pro- ducts.