204 THE CELL Our knowledge of the centrosomes was as early as 1834 much advanced by the study of the processes of fertilisation. I expressed the opinion (VI. 85) that during fertilisation a cen- trosome was introduced into the egg with the spermatozoon, and that to all appearance it was really the so-called middle portion, or neck, which functions as the attraction centre in the protoplasmic radiation pi-eceding the sperm nucleus. I compared this to " the small quantity of substance present at the end of the nuclear spindle (the polar substance and the centrosome), which, although only stained with difficulty, can yet be distinguished from the protoplasm," and hence I came to the conclusion that if the com- parison is correct, the radiations of the protoplasm, which occur during fertilisation and cell-division, have a common cause in the presence of one and the same substance. Richard Hertwig (VI. 84) repeatedly pointed out that the polar substance, the middle portion of the spermatozoon, and the sub- stance of the true nucleoli are similar in composition. Boveri (VI. 7) was of opinion that the spermatozoon carried a pole corpuscle or centrosome with it into the egg. The question was definitely decided by Fol'(VII. 14) and Guignard (VI. 23b), whose important discoveries will be described later on. According to them the nucleus of the egg, as well as that of the spermatozoon, has a centrosome of its own. Whilst the nuclei coalesce, each centrosome splits up into two parts; half of the one then unites with one half of the other, and thus the two new centrosomes, which are situated at the ends of the division spindle, are formed. In spite of this discovery, one problem still remains unsolved. Are the centrosomes to be regarded as permanent cell organs of the protoplasm, and if so, are they contained in it during rest, only coming into correlation with the nucleus during division; or are they to be regarded as special elementary portions of the nucleus, such as the nuclear segments, spindle threads, nucleoli, etc. ? In the latter case they must be enclosed during rest in the nucleus itself, and only come into relation with the protoplasm during division. The material for observation, which we have at present, does not suffice for the solution of this question. It is extremely difficult to follow the movements of the centrosomic substance during and after nuclear division as closely as we can observe those of the nuclear substance, for the centrosomes are so excessively small ; and further, it is not always possible to be sure of rendering them