310 THE CEIil, These arrangements are: (1) the distribution of the sexual organs over two different individuals, so that one produces only female sexual cells, and the other only male; (2) the reciprocal fertilisation of hermaphrodite individuals; (3) the different times, at -which the maturation of the ova and spermatozoa occurs, as in Pyrosoma, many molluscs, etc.; and (4) the peculiarities in the organisation of hermaphrodite flowers of phanerogams (both dicho- gamy and heterostylism), and the part played by insects, which, in carrying the pollen from one flower to the other, induce cross- fertilisation, as has been observed and described by Koelreuterr Sprengel, Darwin (VII. 8), Hildebrandt (VII. 24), H. Midler (VII. 49), and others. These arrangements for the prevention of self-fertilisation are so many-sided and striking, especially in flowering plants, that Sprengel was able, in his book, to speak of "the discovered secret of nature, the fertilisation of flowers by insects," and to say : " Nature does not seem to have wished that a single hermaphrodite plant should be fertilised with its own pollen." /3. Bastard Formation, or Hybridisation. The opposite of self-fertilisation and in-breeding is hybridisation. By this is meant the union of several products of individuals, which are so- different in their organisation, that they are classified into different varieties, species, or genera. As a rule, the principle, that the sexual products of individuals, which are very different from one another, do not unite with one another, is correct. Everybody considers it impossible for the ovum of a mammal to be fertilised by the spei'matozoon of a fish, or for that of a cherry-tree by the pollen of a conifer. But as the individuals become more closely related, whether they belong to different families or species, or even only to different varieties of the same species, the more difficult does it become to prophesy a priori as to the result of cross-fertilisation. This can only be discovered by means of experiment, which has shown that the various species in the animal and vegetable kingdoms do not always behave in a similar manner towards hybridisation, in that individuals which resemble one another in their form, down to the minutest details, often cannot be crossed, whilst beticeen others which are much more dissimilar bastard fertilisation is possible. Briefly, sexual affinity does not always march pan" pa**'" witb the external similarity which can be perceived between the individuals in question.