358 the ciar. means of the process of nuclear division, so that different parts of the cells acquire the different properties, which are subsequently developed in them. According to this view, the essential nature of development would consist in gradually separating all the elemental germs, taken collectively, which the idioplasm or the fertilised egg contains, into constituent parts, and of distributing them differently, both as regards time and place. Only those cells, which function in the reproduction of the organism, are supposed to be exceptions to this rule, and to receive again the whole collec- tion of the elemental germs during the processes of development. Hence a twofold mode of distributing the idioplasm is assumed to occur, one by the growth and halving of similar germs, and one by the resolution into different component parts of dissimilar ones. It is difficult to imagine how such a process can actually take place in any concrete case. Further, this assumption does not agree with the above-mentioned facts of reproduction and regener- ation ; for instance, in plants and in the lower animals, almost any collection of cells is able to reproduce the whole; and again, cells may alter their functions, as seen in the phenomena of regeneration. Therefore, the views which I have frequently upheld (IX. 10-13), and which agree with those held by Nageli and de Vries, etc., seem to be more probably true, that as a rule each cell of an organism receives all the different kinds of elemental germs from the egg-cell, and that its especial nature is solely determined by its conditions, only certain individual elemental germs or idioblasts becoming active, whilst the others remain latent. But in what manner can individual idioblasts become active, and thus determine the nature of the cell ? Two hypotheses have been suggested in answer to this question, a dynamic one by Nageli (IX. 20), and a material one by de Vries (IX. 30). In order to explain the specific activity of idioplasm, Nageli assumes that " occasionally a definite colony of micella?, or a combination of such colonies, become active," that is, " are thrown into definite conditions of tension or motion," and he considers that "this local irritation, by means of dynamic influence, and the transmission of peculiar conditions of oscillation acting at a microscopical distance, governs the chemical and plastic processes." " It produces fluid trophoplasm in enormous quantities, and by its help effects the formation of non-albuminous constructive material, of gelatinous, elastic, chitinous, cellulose-like substances, etc., and it gives to this material the desired plastic form. Which micella group of the