THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 1G1 sides of the disc, a starch granule is situated. When this is small, it is completely covered with a thin coating of the suhstance of the amyloplast; when it is somewhat larger, only the side turned to the amyloplast is so coated. Further, a concentric stratification may occur; under these conditions the hilum, which is surrounded by the concentric layers, is situated near the surface, which is turned away from the amyloplast. Hence the layers on this sur- face are very thin, becoming gradually thicker and thicker as they approach the starch-forming corpuscle, which is only natural, since they grow out of it, and are formed by it. Frequently a rod-shaped crystal of albumen may be seen embedded in the substance of the amyloplast, on the surface which is turned away from the starch granule. Now since starch, as has been already mentioned, can only be produced synthetically in the green portions of plants, these white amyloplasts cannot be regarded as its true places of origin. It is much more likely to be true that they have obtained the starch, in a soluble form, probably as sugar (Sachs), from those places where assimilation occurs, so that their only function is to re- convert this soluble substance into a solid, organised body. The chlorophyll granules (Fig. 68) must be closely connected with the starch-forming corpuscles, since the latter may be converted directly into them—this occurs when chloro- phyll under the influence of sunlight develops in them. In such a case the amyloplasts turn green, increase in size, and part with their starch granules, which become dissolved. In addition, chloi'ophyll granules are formed from the colourless trophoplasts, which are developed at the growing points in the form of undifferentiated corpuscles ; finally they multiply by division in the following manner (Fig. 68) : to start with, their substance increases in size, and they elongate themselves; they next become biscuit-shaped, and finally divide iuto two equal portions. The chlorophyll granules consist of two substances: a ground substance, which reacts like albumen, and a green colouring matter (chlorophyll), which saturates the stroma. This may be extracted by means of alcohol, when it is seen to be distinctly fluorescent, ap- pearing green with transmitted, and bluish red with reflected, light. M Fig. 68.— Chlorophyll granules from tbe leaf olFunaria hygromctriciii both in a resting con- dition and undergoing division, (x 510: after Strasburger, Pract.Bot., Fig. 17.)