THE CELL AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM d.iO another more closely than do the egg- and sperm-cells of the same animal. However, these similarities and differences in form appear to be of less importance when we go more deeply into the subject. For, as men, rodents, ruminants, and invertebrate animals present to us more or less important external differences, the sexual cells originating from them must differ in a corresponding manner as regards their fundamental attributes, in so far as they represent the embryonic stage of the subsequent complete organism. JThe only thing is that, at present, the essential differences lie beyond our perception. On the other hand the egg- and sperm-cells of the same organism, although they differ so much in external appearance, must resemble one onother in their essential properties, since they must contain potentially all the characteristics of the fully-developed animal. Nageli pertinently remarks (IX. 26) : " The egg cells must contain all the essential characteristics of the mature organism, and hence they must differ as much from one another, when they are in this early stage, as when they are more fully developed. The Hen's egg must possess the characteristics of its species as completely as the Hen, and hence must differ as much from the Frog's egg as the Hen does from the Frog." What is true of the egg is equally true of individual cells and collections of cells, which, being detached from the mother or- ganism, either as spores or buds, are able to reproduce the parent. They, too, must possess all the essential properties of the whole, in an embryonic condition, although they are imperceptible to us. What idea can we form to ourselves of these invisible properties of the cells, which predetermine the complex organism? What is the connection between the developed and undeveloped stage ? These problems are amongst the most difficult which the theory of life presents. Scientists and philosophers have occupied them- selves with these questions for centuries, and have formulated their conclusions in hypotheses, which have frequently influenced enquiry. We will mention shortly those theories which are most important historically, since they are both of general interest, and will serve as a suitable introduction to the consideration of the views, which are suggested by modern research. I. History of the older Theories of Development. Two important scientific theories which are directly opposed to one