AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OK AN ORGANISM 3.57 celhr, which are move similar to one another than those of the nu- cleus. For, firstly, fragments of a cell, which contain the nucleus, are capable of normal development (vide experiments, p. 330). Secondly, the first division plane can be induced, by means of ex- ternal influences, to divide the contents of the egg in the most various directions, without oausing any deviation from the normal, in the product of development. Thirdly, considerable changes of position of the egg substance may be induced, by means of gravity, in Frog's ova whioh have been forced into an abnormal position, without causing any difference in their subsequent development. Fourthly, we are able to infer, that the micellae are loosely con- nected together from the streaming movements of protoplasm, in which, of necessity, the groups of micella? are obliged to push past one another in the most different directions, and apparently with- out any method. On the other hand the complicated phenomena of the whole process of nuclear segmentation indicate a more stable arrangement of the nuclear substance. Nageli has assumed that there is a similar difference between his hypothetical trophoplasm and idioplasm. He states (pp. 27, 41) : " If the arrangement of the micella? determines the specific properties of the idioplasm, the latter must be composed of a fairly solid substance, in order that the micella? may not be displaced in consequence of active forces in the living organism, and in order to secure to the new micella?, which become deposited during multi- plication, a definite arrangement. On the other hand, ordinary plasma consists of a mixture of two kinds, fluid and solid, the two modifications easily merging into one another, whilst the micella?, or groups of micella? of the insoluble form, are more easily able to push past one another, as must be assumed to be the case when the streaming movements occur." Nageli, therefore, makes the assumption, which however cannot be proved off-hand, that the idioplasm is spread out like a connected net throughout the whole organism. IV. Development of the Elemental Germs. Having assumed that there is a special germ substance or idioplasm in the cell, we must next enquire how the individual idioblasts become active, and thus determine the specific properties or the character of the cell as a result of their development. It has been suggested, that during the process of development of the ovum, the idioplasm is qualitatively divided unequally by