16 THE CELL circumstances (as, for instance, hoemoglobin, whether present as a constituent of the blood corpuscles, or dissolved in water, or in the form of crystals). Protoplasm, on the other hand, cannot be placed under different conditions without ceasing to be protoplasm, for its essential properties, in which its life manifests itself, depend upon a fixed organisation.x For as the principal attributes of a marble statue consist in the form which the sculptor's hand has given to the marble, and as a statue ceases to be a statue if broken up into small pieces of marble (Nageli II. 28), so a body of protoplasm is no longer protoplasm after the organisation, which constitutes its life, has been destroyed; we only examine the considerably altered ruins of the protoplasm when we treat the dead cells with chemical re- agents. It is possible that after a time our knowledge of chemistry may have advanced sufficiently to en- able us to produce albuminous bodies artificially by synthesis. On the other hand, the attempt to make a protoplasmic body would be like Wagner's en- deavour to crystallise out a homunculus in a flask. For, as far as we know at present, proto- plasmic bodies are only reproduced from existing protoplasm, and in ^.X-AmceU Proteus (after Leidy; n? other way; hence the present from Rich. Hertwig): n nucleus; cu con- organisation of protoplasm is the tractile vacuole; n food vacuoles; en remH 0f an exceedingly long pro- endoplasm ; ek ectoplasm. , cess of development. It is very difficult to determine the chemical nature of the sub- stances which are peculiar to living protoplasm. For setting aside the fact that the bodies are so unstable that the least inter- ference with them essentially alters their constitution, the difficulty in analysing them is considerably increased by the presence in each cell of various waste products of metabolism, which it is not easy to separate from the rest of the cell contents. Amongst these complex substances the proteids, as the true sus- tained of the vital processes, are of especial importance ; these