THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 115 solution, and rinsed with clean water, was placed in pure sugar .solution, he found that fermentation soon occurred; hence the yeast had recovered its power of converting sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, this power having, by the action of the chloroform and ether, been temporarily suspended. In a similar manner the functions which the chlorophyll per- forms in plants, and the dependent process of giving off oxygen in the sunlight, may be arrested by means of chloroform (Claude Bernai-d). b. Second Group of Experiments. Chemical Stimuli which come into contact with the cell-body at one spot only. Very interesting, and varying phenomena are produced when chemical substances, instead of coming into contact with the body all round, only impinge upon it, at a definite fixed point. y Such stimuli may produce changes in form, and movements in a definite direction, which phenomena have been classed under the name of Ohemotwpism (Ohemotaxis). Chemotropic movements may be directed towards the stimulating source, or, on the contrary, aivay from it. In the first case the chemi- leal substance is said to attract, and in the second to repel, the protoplasmic body. This depends partly upon the chemical nature of the substance, partly upon the individual properties of the special kind of plasma, and, finally, upon the degree of conden- sation of the chemical substance. A substance, which when dilute may attract, may repel when the solution is strong. Here^ as with strong and weak light, special differences are present. Just as helioti-opism may be positive or negative, so may chemotro- pism bo positive or negative. We will first examine the action of gases, and next that of solutions ; at the same time we w-iH become accpuainted with a very ingenious method of investigation, for which we must especially thank the botanist Pfeffer (LV. 26). 1. Gases. Oxygen has great attractive powers for freely moving cells, as has been shown by the experiments of Stahl, Engelmann, and Vervvorn. Stalil has made experiments upon the plasmodia of JEthaliinu seplicum (IV. 85). He half filled a glass cylinder with thoroughly boiled water, which, in order to exclude the air, he covered with a very thin layer of oil. l ie then took a strip of filter paper, over which a, plasmodium had extended itself, and placed it along the side of the cylinder in such a manner that one half of it was 11