150 THE CELL tmction to their passive condition, when they either remain accumulated in the cell as fixed reserve materials—starch, oil, fat, albumen crystals—or are taken up as nourishment by animals. It is only when they are in the active condition that the plastic materials in both plant and animal bodies can accomplish their migrations, by means of which they reach the places where they are either to be temporarily stored up or immediately used. For instance, the starch, which is accumulated in seeds or in portions of plants which are underground, such as tubers, was not assimilated at these spots. It originated in the assimilating green cells, f rom which it was transported, often through lon^ distances, by means of intermediate cells to the tubers or seeds. Now, since starch grains cannot pass through the cell-membrane, this migration can only occur when the substances are in a soluble form (sugar) ; when they reach the place where they are to be stored Dp, they are re-converted into the insoluble form (starch). If now the germ develops, either in the tuber or in the seed, the passive reserve materials assume the active form and make their way to the place where they are needed, namely, to the cells of the developing germ. Similarly the carbo-hydrates, fats and pro- teids which enter the body in the form of food, must be rendered soluble, so that they may be able to reach the place where they will be used, and the fats which are stored up in fatty tissues must be altered before they can be used in any part of the body. In plant and animal cells this important transformation of carbo-hydrates, fats and proteids from a passive into an active condition is efficiently accomplished by means of very peculiar chemical substances called ferments. These are allied to the albumens, and indeed are derived from them ; they are present in very minute quantities in the cell, but nevertheless produce powerful chemical effects, and induce chemical processes without being essentially altered themselves. This process of fermenta- tion is very characteristic of the chemistry of the cell. There are special ferments for carbo-hydrates, others for proteids, and others for fats. Whenever starch is rendered soluble in plants, the process is effected by means of a ferment, diastase, which can easily be ob- tained from germinating seeds. Its efficacy is so great, that one part by weight of diastase is sufficient to convert in a short time 2,000 parts of starch into sugar. Another ferment, invertin,