188 THE CELT, more closely together, so that it becomes very difficult to count them and to trace their further development ; in fact, it can only be accomplished in exceptional cases. Fourth Stage of Division. During this stage each group of daughter-segments becomes gradually re-transformed into a vesicular resting nucleus (Fig. 81). The threads draw still more closely to- gether, become more bent and thicker- their surfaces grow rough and jagged, and small processes become developed exter- nally upon them, whilst a delicate nuclear membrane develops around the whole group. The radiated appearance around the centrosomes gradually grows less and less distinct, until it soon quite disappears. Finally, also, the centrosomes and the spindle fibrils can no longer be distin- guished. It has not yet been decided what they develop into. In fact, their origin and their disappearance are equally shrouded in mystery. Near to the place where the centrosome was situated a depression may be seen in the newly forming daughter nucleus. Eabl considers it to be the above- described polar area of the nucleus which is seen preparatory to division, and is of opinion that the centro- some has ensconced itself within it, being enclosed in the proto- plasm of the cell-body. The nucleus gradually swells up more and more through the absorption of nuclear sap, and becomes globular in form, whilst the framework of the resting nucleus, with its irregularly distributed nuclein granules of various sizes, is reconstructed. Further, one or more nucleoli have made their appearance in the framework during the process of reconstruction, but as yet no one has succeeded in discovering their origin. When, at the commencement of the fourth stage, the two daughter-stars are separated as far as possible from one another, and have taken the preliminary steps towards becoming trans- formed into the resting daughter nuclei, the cell-body itself begins to divide. The radiations at the centrosomes have now at- tained their greatest size. At this period a small furrow becomes Fig. 81.— Diagrammatic representation of nuclear segmentation (after Flem- ming). The resting nucleus has commenced to build it- self up out of the daughter- segments. (From Hat- schek.)