THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 171 according to a law of its own. Many plant cells grow only at one point: either at the apex or near the base, or they develop lateral outgi-owths and branches. Others undergo during growth complicated changes of direction, as in the internodes of the Characece. Finally, Nageli states, as a point in favour of the theory of growth by intussusception, that many membranes increase con- siderably both superficially and in thickness after they have become separated from the protoplasmic body, in consequence of the formation of special membranes around the daughter-cells; " Oloeocapsa and Glaeocystis appear first as simple cells with a thick gelatinous cell-wall. The cell divides into two, whereupon each develops for itself a similar enclosing cell-wall, and in this manner the enveloping process proceeds." The outermost gelatinous cell- wall must in consequence become larger and larger. According to Nageli's computation, their volume during successive develop- mental stages may increase from 830 cubic micromillimetres to 2,442, to 5,615, and finally to 10,209 cubic micromillimetres. In another species the gelatinous cell-wall was seen to increase from 10 to 60 micromillimetres, that is to say, it became six times as thick. " In Apiocystis the pear-shaped colonies, which consist of cells embedded in a very soft gelatinous matrix, are surrounded by a thicker membrane. In this case, moreover, the membrane increases with age, not only in circumference but also in thick- ness ; for whilst in smaller colonies it is barely 3 micromilli- metres thick, in larger ones it is 45 micromillimetres thick ; in the former it is 27,000 square micromillimetres in area, and in the latter 1,500,000 square micromillimetres. Thus the thickness of the sheath increases at a ratio of 1 to 15, the superficial area of 1 to 56, and the cubic contents of 1 to 833. That apposition should take place upon the inner surface of this sheath is out of the question, for its smooth internal surface never comes into con- tact with the small spherical cells, or only does so in a few isolated spots." In all these cases I am obliged to agree with Nageli, who con- siders that we have to make too many improbable assumptions, if we attempt to explain the superficial growth of the cell membrane solely by the deposition of new layers, whereas the above-men- Uoned uphenomena (variations in form and direction, uneven growth of various parts, torsions) may be explained in the simplest and easiest fashion by intussusception. Everything depends upon this,