THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 259 meet in the centre of the egg, to become surrounded by an aureole of non-granular protoplasm, outside of which there is a radiation sphere, common to them both (sun-like figure and aureole of Fol). During the course of the next twenty minutes the egg-nucleus and the sperm-nucleus fuse together to form a single germinal or cleavage nucleus (Fig. 141 I-IV) ; at first they lie close to one another, flattening their contingent surfaces (Fig. 141 IT), until finally the lines of demarcation disappear, so that they unite to form a common nuclear vesicle. In this the substance derived from the spermatozoon may be distinguished for a considerable time as a distinct granular mass of nuclein, which eagerly absorbs staining solutions. The fusion of the centrosomes fFig. 141 I) follows closely on the union of the nuclei. They lie, sui'rouuded by the homo- geneous protoplasmic area, on opposite sides of the cleavage nucleus (Fig. 141 II) ; they then spread themselves out tangen- tial ly upon its surface, assuming the shape of a dumb-bell, and finally divide into halves, which move off in opposite directions (Fig. 141 III), and travel over one quarter of the circumference of the cleavage nucleus. By means of these circular movements (Fol's quadrille), half of each male centrosome approaches a cor- responding half of a female centrosome; the plane in which they meet finally intersects at right angles the one in which they were first represented as lying (Fig. 141 IV). Here they fuse together to form the centrosomes of the first division figure. This con- cludes the process of fertilisation, since all further changes are connected with the division of the nucleus. b. Eggs of Ascaris megalocephala. Fux-ther knowledge of the process of fertilisation may be gained from the study of the eggs of Ascaris megalocephala. Here the spermatozoon penetrates into the egg before the development of the pole-cells (cf. Fig. 127, and the text on p. 237), arriving finally at the centre (Fig. 142 I) ; meanwhile the germinal vesicle, after changing itself, in the manner already described, into the pole spindle, mounts up to the surface of the yolk, and gives rise to several pole cells. Two vesicular nuclei develop, one derived from the nuclear substance of the spermatozoon, which has entered, and the other from one half of the second polar spindle (Fig. 142 I). Egg-nucleus and sperm-nucleus (Fig. 142 II) then approach each other ; in this case, however, the male nucleus is in the centre, whilst the female