134 the ciar, them from the fluid by which they are surrounded, whilst terres- trial plants take them up with their roots from the soil, which is saturated with moisture. The cells of the higher animals nourish themselves by absorbing substances held in solution in fluid media, which must first, by means of complicated processes, be introduced by them into their bodies. These fluid media are the chyme of the intestinal canal, blood, chyle, and lymph. They play the same part in the economy of the animal cell as the water and moisture of the earth do in that of the lower organisms and of plants. In opposition to the antiquated physiological view that the prin- cipal metabolic processes take place in the fluids of the body, too much stress cannot be laid upon the following proposition,—that the cells are the site of the absorption, excretion, and transforma- tion of material; the fluids only function in conveying the nutrient material in a fluid condition to the cells, and in carrying away the waste products. Between the cell and its surrounding medium, there exist the most complicated physical and chemical conditions of interchange. Their investigation is a most difficult undertaking, and can only be entered into here to a very limited extent. Each cell adapts itself most closely in its organisation to the surrounding medium, any considerable variation in the concentra- tion or composition of which causes its death. However, in many cases, great alterations may be permanently endured, provided that the consecutive stages are allowed to merge slowly and gradu- ally into one another, so that the cell has time to adapt itself to its new conditions. As has been already mentioned in the chapter on chemical stimuli (p. Ill), fresh-water Amoabse are able to accustom them- selves to living in salt water, whilst marine animals can adapt themselves to the presence of a greater or less percentage of salt in the water surrounding them. Apparently they adapt them- selves by adjusting the fluid they contain to the surrounding medium. It is on this account that when the changes are made suddenly, death immediately ensues, the protoplasm either swelling up, or shrinking and coagulating. Since in Vertebrates the cells which are bathed in the tissue- fluids exist under such extremely complex conditions, it is difficult to keep small portions of tissue alive, even for a short time, when once they have been separated from the rest of the body ; for even the tissue-fluids become quickly altered as soon as they are sepa-