ITS CHEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 47 of their chemical properties have been distinguished above as linin and nuclein, arrange themselves in the form of a more or less fine framework structure. Figs. 23-26 show us examples of the various modifications which may occur. Fig. 23 represents the nucleus of a cilio-flagellate organism. It consists, like the chief nucleus of the Infusoria, of a small-meshed framework of imclein. Biitschli (II. 5) considered that it is in the form of a small delicate honeycomb ; in his opinion the nucleus is composed of extended faviform chambers, with three or more sides, separated from one another by very delicate partition walls of nuclein, and enclosing the nuclear sap, which is only slightly affected by staining reagents. Similai-ly their upper surfaces are separated from the protoplasm by means of a delicate layer of nuclein, there being no distinct true nuclear membrane. The points Fia. 23. — Nucleus of Ceratium trifios, in which the faviform structure is very plainly shown (after Biitschli, PI. 26, Fig. 14): A ventral view ; B lateral view. Both illustrations represent optical sections only. r Fig. 24. — Nucleus of a connective tissue cell from the peritoneum of a Salamander larva, with central cor- puscles lying near it. (After Flemming, Fig. 4.) where the partition walls meet are thickened like columns. The appearance varies accor-cling to the point of view from which the nucleus is seen, in consequence of the extended form of the faviform chambers, which lie parallel to one another; a glance at Fig. 23 A, B, explains this. One or two nucleoli are to be seen in the cavity. Fig. 24 represents the nuclear framework of a connective tissue cell of a Salamander larva. It consists of a fairly close network com- posed of extremely delicate threads. A few denser swellings occur here and there, usually where several threads cross ; these swellings retain the stain with especial tenacity. They consist of collections of nuclein, and may look very like-true nucleoli, which