] II E CULL 160 as constantly as the nucleus, and possess great functional independ- ence. They are of great importance in the nutrition of plants, for the whole process of assimilation and the formation of starch takes place in them (Meyer V. 9-11). Trophoplasts are small bodies, which are generally either globular or oval in shape ; they are composed of a substance very similar to and yet distinct from protoplasm. They are easily de- stroyed, whilst the preparation is being made, by either water or reagents, and are most successfully fixed by means of tincture of iodine, or concentrated picric acid. They acquire a steely blue coloration in nigrosin, and thus stand out clearly from the proto- plasmic body. They often occur in great numbers in the cell, and may actively change their form. According to the investigations of Schmitz (V. 29), Schimper (V. 27, 28), and Meyer (V. 9-11), trophoplasts are not direct new formations in the protoplasm, but on the contrary reproduce themselves, like nuclei, from time to time by division. According to this conception, all the tropho- plasts in the generations of cells which spring from the original vegetable egg cell are derived from those trophoplasts which were originally present. Various kinds of trophoplasts may occur, fulfilling various functions ; these are distinguished as starch-forming corpuscles, as chlorophyll corpuscles, and as pigment-granules (amylo- or leuco- plasts, chloroplasts, chi'omoplasts). Most starch-forming corpuscles (amyloplasts) (Fig. 67) occur in the non-assimilating cells of young plant organs, and in all underground portions, as also in stems and petioles. In the pseudo-tubers of Fhajus grandi- folius, which are especially suitable for investigation, they form, when viewed on the flat, ellipsoidal finely granular discs, whilst when viewed from the side they look like small rodlets; these when treated with picro-nigrosin stain a Fig.67.—PHojus graniifolius, amylo- . , . . j .„_j plants from the tnber(after Strasburger, steely blue colour, and SO stand Botanitches Prakticum, Fig. 30): A, c, OQ^ dearly from the surrounding 1), mid .Enre seen from the side, B from ~ ,. a t above, £ is coloured green. (x640.) protoplasm. Ull One Ot tiie flat