118 THE CELL and hence it moves towards the source of water; when the re- productive period commences, it shuns moisture, because, at the time when spores are being formed, it diminishes its water supply. Many chemical substances attract, whilst others repel plasmodia. If a net of JEthalium, which has spread itself out upon a moist substratum, is brought into contact with a ball of filter paper, which is saturated with an infusion of tan, individual strands of plasma immediately commence to creep towards the nutrient medium. After a few hours all the spaces in the paper ball are filled up with the slime fungus. In order to study negative chemotropism, a crystal of common salt or of saltpetre, or a drop of glycerine, may be brought to the edge of the piece of damp filter paper upon which the slime fun- gus has spread itself out. It can then be seen how, as the con- centrated solution of salt or of glycerine gradually creeps along the filter paper, the protoplasm shrinks away from the source of stimulation in ever-widening circles. Hence the naked plasmodia, which are so easily destroyed, possess the marvellous property, on the one hand, of avoiding harmful substances, and, on the other, of searching all through the medium in which they are, for substances which are of value to them for purposes of nutrition, and of absorbing them. "For instance, if one of the numerous branches of a plasmodium, by chance comes across a place which is rich in nutriment, an influx I of plasma immediately occurs to this favourable spot." Pfeffer has very accurately examined the chemotropism of small, freely motile cells, such as spermatozoa, Bacteria, Flagellata, and Ciliata, in some pioneering investigations that he has made, and by this means has discovered a very simple and ingenious method of investigation. He takes some fine glass capillary tubes from 4 to 12 mm. long; one end of each tube is closed, whilst at the other there is an opening varying in inside diameter from '03 to '15 mm., ac- cording to the size of the organism to be examined. He fills these tubes for about a half or a third of their length with the stimulating substance, there being a space filled with air at the closed end. In order to explain their use, we may quote the following ex- periment. Pfeffer has discovered that malic acid has a strong affinity for the antherozoids of Ferns, and that probably it is on this account that it is secreted normally by the archegonia. A ' 1