THE CELL 296 would unquestionably die out, if its male and female individuals j did not unite in the act of generation. ■ Nevertheless, it cannot be l stated as a general law of nature, that ova are always incapable ^ I of development unless they are fertilised. Both in the vegetable and the animal kingdoms, numerous in- stances occur of cells being formed in special sexual organs, which were, as far as we can judge by their design, originally destined to develop by means of fertilisation as eggs; but which have sub- sequently lost their need for fertilisation, and in consequence behave exactly like vegetative reproductive cells, that is to say, like spores. Only female specimens of Chara crinita, one of the higher Algas, are to be found in Northern Europe. In spite of this, ova, which develop without fertilisation into normal fruits, are formed in the oogonia. Still more instructive are the cases of parthenogenesis which occur in the animal kingdom. They have been observed chiefly in small animals belonging to the Arthropoda, in Rotatoria, Aphides, Daphnidee, Lepidoptera, etc. At one time females produce in their ovaries only ova which develop without fertilisation, and at another the same individuals form those which require fertilisa- tion. Ova, with such different physiological attributes, generally differ in appearance. The parthenogenetic ones are exceptionally small and poor in yolk, and in consequence develop in a shorter time and in greater numbers; whilst, on the other hand, those which require fertilisation are much larger and contain much more yolk, and consequently require a longer time for their de- velopment. Since the former are only produced in summer and the latter at the commencement of the cold season, they have been distinguished as summer and winter eggs. The latter are also called retarded eggs (JDauereier), because they have to pass through a somewhat lengthy period of rest after fertilisation, whilst the summer eggs (Subitaneier) immediately enter upon the process of development. The development of the parthenogenetic summer eggs, and of the winter eggs, which require fertilisation, may be affected by external conditions. In Aphides, abundant nourishment favours the formation of summer eggs, whilst a diminished supply of nourishment causes the production of ova requiring fertilisation. Daphnidee are also evidently affected by the environment, although the individual factors can be less easily established experimentally.