104 THE CHI,I, selves through the otherwise transparent cell. The band is able to assume every possible intermediate position in its endeavour to place its surface at right angles to the impinging light. On a "warm summer's day this change of position is effected in a very few minutes, being brought about by the active movements which the protoplasm makes inside the cell membrane. The effect produced varies in this case also, as with the zoo- spores, according to the intensity of the light. Whilst diffuse daylight has the effect described above, direct sunlight brings about a quite opposite result, for in this case the chlorophyll bands turn one of their edges to the sun. Hence we can educe the following: "Light exerts an influence upon the position of the chlorophyll bands of Mesocarpus. If the light is fairly weak, the bands turn themselves at right angles to the path of the rays; if, however, it is intense, they place themselves in the same direction as the rays." Stahl calls the first arrangement surface position, and the second, profile position. If illuminated intensely for a considerable period, the whole band contracts to form a dark green vermiform body; it is, however, under favourable conditions capable of resuming its original form. The purpose of all these various movements of the protoplasm under the influence of light is, on the one hand, to bring the chlorophyll bands into a favourable position for the exercise of their functions ; and, on the other, to protect them from the in- jurious action of a too powerful illumination. Further, the plant-cells which contain chlorophyll granules, and which are connected to form tissues, are also subjected to the influence of light, as is so plainly seen in Mesocarpus. Only in this case the phenomena are somewhat more complex (Fig. 52). Sachs was the first to notice that the colour of leaves is lighter when they are exposed to direct sunlight, than when they are in shadow, or when the light is less intense. In consequence of this discovery, Sachs was able to produce light pictures upon leaves, by partially covering them with strips of paper, and exposing them to intense light (IV. 32a); after a certain time the strips of paper were removed, and it was then seen that the portions which they covered appeared as dark-green stripes upon a light-green background. This phenomenon may be explained by the law which was laid down in the case of Mesocarpus; this has been proved by the