AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM 339 nuclear masses, and of their distribution amongst the daughter- cells, has given us a greater insight into the complicated pro- cesses of egg and sperm maturation, and the reduction of the nuclear substance thus produced. II. More recent Theories of Reproduction and De- velopment. The new theories of generation have been worked out chiefly by Darwin (IX. 6), Spencer (IX. 26), Nageli (IX. 20), Strasburger (IX. 27, 28), Weismaun (IX. 31-34), de Vries (IX. 30), and myself (IX. 10-13). The sharp antagonism which ex- isted between the theories of Preformation and Epigenesis has been diminished in these theories, in that in certain respects they resemble both; so that they could be designated from one point of view, as the continuation of preformatory, and from another, as a further extension of epigenetical views. The new theories, al- though they hardly deserve more than the name of hypotheses, differ from the old, in that they are based upon a large collection of well-substantiated facts, which are to a certain extent funda- mental. It would take too long to mention the different views of the above-mentioned scientists, who, though they agree in many essential points, differ considerably as to details. I will, therefore, limit myself to a short description of what seems to me to be the essential part of the modern theories of generation and develop- ment. All the numerous attributes of the developed organism are present in an embryonic condition in the sexual products since they are passed on from the parent to the offspring. They may be considered to constitute an hereditary mass (idioplasm, Nageli). Each act of generation or development, therefore, does not result in a new formation, or epigenesis, but produces a transformation or metamorphosis of an elemental germ, or of a substance which was provided with potential forces, converting it into a developed organism; this, again, in its turn produces elemental germs, similar to those from which it was derived. If the matured organism be considered to be a macrocosm, the hereditary mass on the other hand repi'esents a microcosm, com- posed of numerous regularly arranged particles of material of different kinds, which, each being provided with its own peculiar forces, are the bearers of the hereditary properties. Just as the plant or animal can be divided into milliards of elementary pans,