CHAPTER IV. THE VITAL PEOPEKTIES OF THE CELL (continued). Phenomena of Stimulation. The most remarkable pro- perty of protoplasm is its power of reacting to stimuli:—its Irritability.1 * By this is understood, as Sachs (IV. 32a) expresses it, " the power possessed by living organisms alone of reacting to the most various external stimuli in one way or another." It is chiefly through this irritability that living objects can be distin- guished from non-living ones, and in consequence the earlier natural philosophers considered that it was the expression of a special vital force which was only to be seen in organised nature. Modern science has discarded the theory of vitalism (vitalismus); instead of explaining irritability by means of a special vital force, it is considered to be a very complicated chemico-physical phenomenon, differing only in degree from other chemico-physical phenomena of inanimate nature. That is to say, the external stimuli come into contact with a substance very complex in structure, an organism, which is an exceedingly complicated material system, and in consequence they give rise to a series of very complex phenomena. However, care must be taken in accepting this mechanical conception not to fall into the very common mistake of trying to explain vital processes as being due directly to mechanical causes, in consequence of their analogy to many phenomena seen in 1 Claude Bernard (IV. la), in Lis lectures on vital phenomena, arrives at the same conclusion, his opinion being based on a number of considerations : " Arrives au terme de nos etudes, nous voyons qu'elles nous imposent une conclusion tres-g6uerale, fruit de l'experience, c'est, a savoir, qu'entre les deux Cedes qui font des phenonemes vitaux quelque chose d'nbsolunient distinct des phenonemes physieo-chimiques ou quelque chose de tout a fait identique a eux il y a place pour une troisierne doctrine, celle du vitalisuie physique, qui tient compte de ce qu'il y a de special dans les manifestations de la vie et de ce qu'il y ade conforme a Faction des forces gtjnuiales : l'element ultime du pheuomene est pbysique ; l'arraugeinent est vital! " 0 ill I* 0 1%)