THE CELIi 112 cells may undergo greater or less changes in their structure and vital properties. When such changes are apparent' to us, we speak of the effects of chemical stimulation. These 'phenomena, which are so exceedingly numerous, may vary considerably, according as to whether the whole, or only part, of the cell-body is affected by the stimulus. a. First group of experiments. Chemical stimuli which affect the whole of the body. In order to throw light upon this first group of phenomena, the behaviour of protoplasm towards certain gases, which are grouped under the common name of anaesthetics, must be investigated. The protoplasmic movements of a plant cell soon become arrested, if, instead of being put into water, it is placed in a drop of olive oil, by which means the air is excluded (IV. 15). After the oil has been removed, the movements are seen to gradually recommence. The streaming movements may in a similar manner be slackened and finally completely stopped, if the air is replaced by carbon di- oxide or hydrogen. For these experiments special slides with gas chambers have been constructed through which a current of carbon dioxide or hydrogen may be conducted. If the plant cell is kept from 45 minutes to an hour in a current of carbon dioxide, the movements are as a rule completely stopped ; when hydrogen is used, a longer time must be allowed (HI. 5). This protoplasmic paralysis may, if it has not been allowed to last too long, be removed by the addition of oxygen. " Apparently living protoplasm unites chemically with the oxygen of its environment. The definite oxygenated compound thus produced, of which under ordinary conditions a considerable amount must be assumed to exist in every protoplasmic body, is continually broken down during the movements, whilst carbon dioxide is probably given off" (Engelmann III. 5). Hence the removal of oxygen has a paralysing effect upon the irritability, and indeed upon all the vital activities of the protoplasm. Such anaesthetics, as chloroform, morphia, chloral-hydrate, etc . have a marked influence upon the vital activities of the cell. These substances do not affect the nervous system alone, as is frequently believed, but all the protoplasm of the body. The difference is only a matter of degree ; the irritability of the nerve-cells is more quickly lowered and finally destroyed than that of the protoplasm of other cells. Further, when narcotics