THE CELL have to be stored up or contained in one germ. This principle would necessarily follow from the fact, that sexual animals develop in unbroken sequence from one another. Therefore, the natural outcome of the Preformation theory, is the pill-box theory, or, as Blumenbach (IX. 2) expresses it, the theory of the " im- prisoned germs." The eagerness of its supporters actually carried them so far, that they reckoned out how many human germs were boxed up in the ovary of mother Eve, and put down the number as, at the very least, 200,000 millions (Elemente der Physiologie, by Haller). On the other hand, the theory of Epigenesis in its older form, when worked out more fully, also presents difficulties. For the question suggests itself how nature, with the forces that we know of at her command, can produce in a few days or weeks, out of unorganised matter, an animal organism resembling its progeni- toi's. On this point no theory, which regards the organism as a completely new creation, can supply us with an acceptable and satisfactory solution. Blumenbach (XL 2), therefore, took refuge in the conception of a peculiar " nisus formativus," or formative instinct, which was supposed to cause the unformed or unorganised male and female fluids to assume a " formation," i.e. a definite form, and later on to replace any parts that had been lost. But if we accept the exist- ence of an especial formative instinct, we have obtained nothing more than an empty expression, in the place of an unknown thing. The cell theory, which has been gradually worked out during the latter half of this century, has furnished us with new funda- mental facts, upon which to base more accurate theories of genera- tion and heredity. These facts are, first, that ova and spermatozoa are simple cells, which free themselves from the parent organism for the purposes of reproduction, and that the developed organisms are only organised combinations of a very large number of such cells, which are able to function in various ways, and which are produced by the repeated division of the fertilised egg-cell. A second, and still more advanced principle, is, that the cell in ir- self is an extremely complex body, that is to say, that it is an elementary organism. Thirdly, we have gained a fuller know- ledge of the process of fertilisation, of nuclear structure and nuclear division (longitudinal division and arrangement of the nuclear segments), whilst the discovery of the fusion of the egg and sperm nuclei, of the equivalence of the male and female