147 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL with this original material, and thus to produce quaternary com- pounds. It is as yet impossible to say what chemical processes occur in the green protoplasm, when, under the influence of the sun's vital energy, carbon dioxide and water are taken up, and oxygen is given off. The first product of assimilation, which can _be definitely made out, is starch, or perhaps, as a preliminary stage, sugar. It is almost inconceivable that either of these could be formed by a direct synthesis of carbon and water; apparently a number of intermediate substances are formed during the course of a complicated process. " Indeed, it is not impossible," as Sachs (IV". 32a) remarks, " that certain closely-connected constituents of the green plasma themselves participate in the process ; that, for example, the molecules of the green protoplasm become split up, and that certain atoms are given up and others substituted for them. The theory has a certain degree of probability from the observation that in many, though not all cases, the mass of chlorophyll substance gradually decreases, and finally quite dis- appears, whilst the starch granules which it contains become larger and larger." The carbo-hydi-ates (starch) which, by means of the chloro- phyll function, have accumulated in the body of the plant, form the material which is converted in the protoplasm into the vegetable oils. The ternary non-nitrogenous, organic compounds supply further the basis for the synthesis of quaternary albumin- ous substances, and thus assist in the completion and increase of the protoplasm. However, for these processes, nitrates and sul- phates are necessary, and these are obtained by the plants from the earth by means of their roots. That proteid substances can be formed by the living cell out of such material has been experimentally proved by Pasteur. He cultivated low Schizomycetes, such as Mycoderma aceti, Yeast, etc., in artificially prepared nutrient solutions. Thus he showed that Mycoderma aceti can multiply actively in the dark, if only a few cells are placed in a nutrient solution, composed of a salt of ammonia, phosphoric acid, potash, magnesia, water, and alcohol or acetic acid of suitable strength. Hence the fungi cells, if they have multiplied to a considerable extent, must have formed proteid materials by means of the decomposition of these substances, in addition to cellulose and fats. Thus plants, which by means of their chlorophyll produce carbo-