CHAPTER VI. THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL. I. Reproduction of the Cell by Division.—One attri- bute of the cell, which is of the greatest importance, since the maintenance of life depends upon it, is its power of producing new forms similar to itself, and by this means maintaining its species. It is becoming daily more and more clearly evident, as the result of innumerable observations, that new elementary organisms can only arise through the division of the mother-cell into two or more daughter-cells (Omnis cellula e cellula). This fundamental law, which is of paramount importance in the study of biology, has only been established after much laborious work along the most diverse lines, and after many blunders. 1. History of Cell Formation. Schleiden and Schwann (I. 28, 31), in developing their theories, asked themselves the natural question, " How do cells originate ? " Their answer, based upon observations both faulty and insufficient, was incorrect. They held that the cells, which they were fond of comparing to crystals, formed themselves, like crystals, in a mother-liquor. Schleiden named the fluid inside the plant cell Cytoblastern. He considered it to be a germinal substance, a kind of mother-liquor. In this the young cells were supposed to originate a solid granule, the nucleolus of the nucleus developing first, around which a layer of substance was precipitated; this, they considered, became tv&ns- f ormed into the nuclear membrane, whilst fluid penetrated between it and the granule. The nucleus thus formed constituted the cen- tral point in the formation of the cell, in consequence of which it was termed the Cijtoblast. The process of cell development was then supposed to be similar to the one described above when the nucleus was formed round the nucleolus. The cytoblast surrounded itself with a membrane which was composed of substances precipitated from the cell-sap. This membrane was at first closely in contact with the nucleus, but later on was pushed away by the in-pressiu°- fluid.