ITS CHEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES mass, it has been thought advisable to distinguish two kinds of protoplasm, the ectoplasm or hyaloplasm, and the endoplasm or granularplasm (Fig. 2, ek, en). Many investigators, such as Pfeffer, de Vries, etc., are inclined to consider that this peripheral layer is a specially differentiated organ of the cell and is endowed with special functions. The following experiment which I have made seems to bear out this view. Some ripe epgs of Bana temporaria, which had entered the oviduct and were surrounded with a gelatinous coating, were care- fully pierced with the exceedingly fine point of a glass needle. The puncture thus made was not visible externally after the operation, nor was any yolk seen to exude through the holes. However, some time after fertilisation of the eggs had taken place, a fair quantity of yolk began to make its way out of all the punctured eggs, and to form a more or less large ridge (extraovat, Roux) between the membrane of the egg and the yolk. This welling ont of the yolk substance was induced by the act of fertilisation, for the entrance of the spermatozoon stimulates the surface layer to con- tract energetically, as may be easily demonstrated under suitable conditions. Hence the puncture must have caused a wound in the peripheral layer, which had not time to heal before fertilisation took place, and through which the yolk was only pressed out after the contraction caused by the fertilisation had taken place. Now since between the piercing of the eggs and their fertilisation a fairly long interval, which however I did not accurately measure, had elapsed, this experiment seems to show that the peripheral layer possesses a structure differing somewhat from that of the rest of the cell contents, and also that it has properties peculiar to itself. c. Chemical Composition of Protoplasm. Our know- ledge of the chemical nature of protoplasm is most unsatisfactory. It has sometimes been described as an albuminous body, or as " living albumen." Such expressions may give rise to utterly incorrect conceptions of the nature of protoplasm. On this account I will recapitulate what I said in section a : Protoplasm is not a chemical, but a morphological conception; it is not a single chemical substance, however complex in composition, but is com- posed of a large number of different chemical substances, which we have to picture to ourselves as most minute particles united together to form a wonderfully complex structure. Chemical substances exhibit similar properties under different