ITS CHEMIC0-PHYS1CAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PKOPEKTIES 61 The water of adhesion consists of molecules of water, which are held closely to the surface of the micella by molecular attraction. '•The concentric layers of water, which compose the spherical envelope surrounding the micella, vary considerably as to their density and their immobility ; they are naturally most dense and firmly attached when they are in direct contact with the surface of the micella" (Pfeffer). The capillary water finally is outside the sphere of attraction of the individual micella? and fills up the gaps in the micellar net- work. " These three kinds of water show considerable variation as to the degree of motility shown by their molecules. The mole- cules of capillary water are as free in their movements, as those of free water; in the water of adhesion the progressive move- ments of the molecules are moi'e or less diminished, whilst the molecules of the water of constitution are fixed and non-motile'." Hence only the waters of capillarity and of adhesion can pass through a membrane by osmosis. Just as water particles may be firmly held upon the surface of the micella? by molecular attraction, other substances (calcium and silicon salts, colouring matter, nitrogenous compounds, etc.), having been taken up in solution into the organised body, may be deposited upon them. The growth of organised matter by intussusception is explained by Nageli, by the supposition that particles of material in solution make their way into the organised body, such as, for example, molecules of sugar into a cellulose membrane, where they may either become deposited upon the micellae which are already present, thus adding to their size, or to a certain extent they may crystallise out to form new micella? situated between the ones already present. As an example of this, the phenomenon of sugar molecules becoming converted into cellulose molecules may be quoted. This micellar hypothesis of NiLgeli is frequently referred to in later chapters, as it often is of great use in forming a mental picture of the complex arrangement of matter in the elementary organism. Literature II. 1. Altmann. Dig Elementarorganismen u. Hire Bezicliungen zu den Zellen. Leipzig. 1890. 2. Jul. Arnold. Ueber feinerc Stnictur der Zellen ntiter normalen trod pathologischen Dedingungen. Virciwws Archiv. Bd. 77, 1879, p. 181.