THE CBLI The conception or idea connected with the word " cell," used scientifically, has been considerably altered during the last fifty years. The history of the various changes in this conception, or the history of the eell-theory, is of great interest, and nothing could be more suitable than to give a short account of this history in order to introduce the beginner to the series of conceptions connected with the word " cell" ; this, indeed, may prove useful in other directions. For whilst, on the one hand, we see how the conception of the cell, which is at present accepted, has developed gradually out of older and less complete conceptions, we realise, on the other hand, that we cannot regard it as final or perfect; but, on the contrary, we have every ground to hope that better and more delicate methods of investigation, due partly to improved optical instruments, may greatly add to our present knowledge, and may perhaps enrich it with a quite new series of conceptions. The History of the Cell-Theory. The theory, that organ- isms are composed of cells, was first suggested by the study of plant-structure. At the end of the seventeenth century the Italian, Marcellus Malpighi (I. 15), and the Englishman, Grew (I. 9), gained the first insight into the more delicate structure of plants; by means of low magnifying powers they discovered, in the first place, small room-like spaces, provided with firm walls, and filled with fluid, the cells ; and in the second, various kinds of long tubes, which, in most parts of plants, are embedded in the ground tissue, and which, from their appearance, are now called spiral ducts or vessels. Much greater importance, however, was attached to these facts after the investigations, which were carried on in a more philo- sophical spirit by Bahn towards the end of the eighteenth century, were published. Caspar Friedrich Wolff (I. 34, 13), Oken (I. 21), and others, raised the question of the development of plants, and endeavoured to show that the ducts and vessels originated in cells. Above all, Treviranus (I. 32) rendered important service by proving in his treatise, entitled Vom inwendigen Bazi der Oewdchse, published in 1808, that vessels develop from cells; he discovered that young cells arrange themselves in rows, and become transformed, by the breaking down of their partition walls, into elongated tubes; this discovery was confirmed and established as a scientific fact by the subsequent researches of Mohl in 1830.