31 ITS CHEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOG(CAL PROPERTIES cellulose walls. The small cell spaces are completely filled up with the cell-substance, which, with the exception of the nucleus and chlorophyll, consists solely of finely granular protoplasm. Flemming recommends cartilage cells from young Salamander larvte as affording the best and most reliable material for the study of the structure of living proto- plasm (Fig. 11). The cell-substance, which during life, as in the young plant-cells, completely fills the spaces in the cartilaginous ground-substance, is traversed by wavy threads of fairly high refractive power; these are less than 1 fi in diameter, and are generally most numerous, and at the same time most wavy, in the neighbourhood of the nucleus; sometimes the periphery of the cell is nearly, if not entirely, free from threads, but sometimes they are present in great num- bers here also. 2. Cells which contain several different substances in their protoplasm. In plants, and in unicellular organisms, the pro- toplasm frequently contains drops of fluid, in which salt, sugar, and albuminates are dissolved (circulating substances). The further we go (Fig. 12 ^1) from the growing-point of a plant, where the minute elementary particles of pure protoplasm as described above are grouped, the larger do the individual cells (c) appear, until they are frequently seen to be more than a hundred times as large as they were originally, whilst, in addition, their cellulose wall has become considerably thicker. However, this growth depends only to a very small extent upon any marked increase of the proto- plasmic substance. The cavity of such a large plant cell is never seen to be completely filled with granular protoplasmic substance. The increase in the size of the cell is due much more to the way in which the small amount of protoplasmic substance, which was originally present at the growing point, takes up fluid, which in the form of cell-sap separates out into small spaces in the interior, called vacuoles. By this means a frothy appearance is produced (Fig. ]2 B, s). More or less thick protoplasmic strands stretch out from the mass of protoplasm in which the nucleus is embedded. These strands serve to separate the individual sap vacuoles from one Fis. 11.—Living cartilage cell of a Salamander larva, much magnified, with distinctly marked threads. (After Flemming: from Hatschek, Fig. 2.)