THE CELL 130 in -which active streaming protoplasmic movements are taking place, are immersed in a drop of pure olive oil, the movements, in conseqiience of the exclusion of the oxygen, soon commence to slacken, and finally quite cease. The same occurs when plant- cells are introduced into an atmosphere consisting exclusively of carbon dioxide or of hydrogen, or of a mixture of the two. At first the functions of the protoplasm are only arrested, and if the olive oil, cai-bon dioxide, or hydrogen, be soon removed, the irrita- bility and movements return gradually after a period of rest. If however the cells are deprived of oxygen for a considerable time, their functions become paralysed, until finally death, accompanied by the turbidity, coagulation, and decomposition of the protoplasm, ensues. In a similar manner each animal cell respires. If a hen's egg, ■which has been incubated, and which, being in an early stage of development, consists simply of small cells, is placed in an atmos- phere of carbon dioxide, or if its porous shell is so saturated with oil that no interchange of gases can take place between the embryo and the outer air, the egg dies in a few hours. The oxygen which is absorbed by man through the lungs serves to satisfy the need of oxygen evinced by all the cells contained in the various tissues of our bodies. This last process is designated in animal physiology internal or tissue respiration, in contradis- tinction to the taking in of oxygen or lung respiration. In the whole organic kingdom, respiration is united with the excre- tion of carbon dioxide and ivith the production of heat. The follow- ing is a simple chemical law: " A certain amount of heat is evolved during respiration, just as it is produced in every other case when carbon and hydrogen are oxidised into carbon dioxide and water" (Sachs IV. 32a). Plant cells expire carbon dioxide and evolve heat, just like animal cells. The formation of heat is most easily demonstrated in portions of plants which are growing rapidly; such as in germinating seeds. It can be especially well detected in the flowers of Aroidete. These become heated to as much as 15° C. above the temperature of their surroundings. The living cell itself is able, by means of its respiration, to regulate the amount of oxygen which it consumes. This depends simply upon the degree of its functional activity, to which the decomposition of organic substance is proportionate. An unfer- tilised egg-cell and a resting plant seed breathe in very minute