145 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OK THE CELL species of micro-organisms appears to vary considerably in different animals, and to depend largely upon the most varying conditions ; for instance, chemical stimuli play an especially important part, as has been already mentioned on p. 121 (negative and positive chemotropism; Hertwig IV. 13). Apparently it is npon this that the greater or less immunity of organisms from many infectious diseases depends. This discovery opens a wide vista in the field of the comprehension and treatment of infectious diseases. IT. The Assimilative and Forma- tive Activity of the Cell. The gases, the fluids, and the solid substances, which are introduced into the protoplasm as food, and through respiration, compose the very varying raw materials which are elaborated in the chemical workshop of the cell, and which are converted into an exceedingly large number of substances. Amongst these the most important for both plants and animals are: carbo-hydrates, fats, pro- teids, and their numerous compounds. Similarly the ways in which they are utilised in the vital pro- cesses of the cell vary very considerably. They serve partly to replace the substances, which, during the vital process, become decomposed in the cell, such as the substance which is oxidised during respiration, and which thus furnishes the vital energy necessary for the activity of the cell. They are also utilised for that growth and increase of the protoplasm which is absolutely indispensable for the function of reproduction. Further, some of the substances formed in the chemical laboratory are stored up for future use in the cell-body in some form or other, thus consti- tuting reserve material. Finally they may be set aside to fulfil some function inside or outside the cell. Thus arise the different materials which, especially in the animal kingdom, are very numerous, and upon which the dif- ferentiation of tissues depends : glandular secretions, which are passed to the exterior, membranes, and intercellular substances of Fig. 61.—A leucocyte of a Frog, enclosing a Bac- terium, which is undergo- ing digestion. The Bac- terium is stained with vesuvine. The two figures represent two stages of one and the same cell. (After Metchnikoff, Fig. 54.)