341 AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM functions, all of which are only perceptible to us collectively, are resolved into their true elements in the idioplasm." Such elements, according to de Vries, are the particles which are able to form chlorophyll, tho colouring matter of flowers, tannic acid or essential oils, and we may add muscular tissue, nerve tissue, etc. Similar ideas are expressed in a somewhat different form, and regarded from other poiuts of view, by Sachs (IX. 25) in his essay " Stoff und Form der Pflanzenorgane." Here he says, " we are forced to assume the presence of as many specific formative materials as there are definite forms of organs to he distinguished in a plant." We must therefore imagine that "very small quantities of certain substances are able so to influence those masses of materials, with which they are mixed, that they induce them to set into different organic forms." Although at present we cannot with any degree of certainty define the specific nature of a single idioblast, we are able to draw fairly definite conclusions regarding some of their common pi-operties. It is, of course, first necessary to consider, that the hypothetical idioblasts must possess the power of multiplying by means of division, like the higher elementary units, the cells. For the egg imparts to each of the two cells into which it divides, and these again to the daughter-cells, which are derived from them, certain particles, which are the bearers of specific properties. Hence a multiplication of these particles must take place during the differ- ent processes of development; they must further be able to go on dividing, and in consequence must possess also the power of growth, without which continuous divisibility is inconceivable. Darwin, Nageli, and de Vries, therefore, logically assume that their gem- multe, particles of idioplasm, and pangense, are both able to grow and to divide.0 This assumption enables us to draw another conclusion about the nature of the idioblasts, viz. that by their very nature they can- not be identical with the atoms and molecules of the chemist and physicist; for the former are indivisible, and the latter, although divisible, split up into portions, which no longer possess the properties of the whole. A definite molecule of albumen cannot grow without changing its nature, for when it takes up new groups of atoms, it enters into new combinations, by which means its properties are altered. Neither can it break itself up into two