CHE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL :iul sexual cells are able to move, they precipitate themselves upon each other; if however one cell, as ovum, has become fixed, the reciprocal attraction is evinced by the movements of the sperma- tozoon. But sexual affinity continues to operate even after the two cells have fused, being seen in the attraction which the egg and sperm-nuclei, with their centrosomes, exercise upon each other, the result of which is, that they come into contact and coalesce as described above. Thus two points remain to be proved in this section : firstly, that reciprocal influences between cells requiring fertilisation really do exist; these we will designate by the name of sexual affinity; and secondly, that this affinity is only evinced between cells of a definite kind ; and this suggests the question as to what are the special attributes which these cells requiring fertilisation must possess. a. Sexual Affinity in General. That sexual cells at a certain distance from one another exert upon one another a definite influence may be concluded from numerous observations, made by reliable observers. I will confine myself to a few especi- ally instructive examples, which have been described by Falken- berg, de Bary, Engelmann, Juranyi and Fol. Falkenberg (VII. 10) investigated the pi-ocess of fertilisation in a low species of Alga, Cutleria. To the receptive ova of Cutleria achpersa which have come to rest, he added actively motile spermatozoids of the nearly allied species Cutleria midtifida ; these two species can only be distinguished from one another by small external differences. " In this case the spermatozoids, as seen under the microscope, wandered aimlessly about, and finally died, without having fertilised the. ova of the allied species of Alga. It is true, that individual spermatozoids, which by chance, came into contact with the quiescent ova, remained attached to them for a few moments, but they soon detached themselves again. However, a very different result was obtained as soon as a single fertilisable ovum of the same species was introduced into the vessel containing the spermatozoids. After a few moments, all the spermatozoids from all sides had gathered around this ovum, even when the latter was several centimetres distant from the place at which they were chiefly collected." In doing this they even overcame the attractive force exerted by the rays of light falling upon them, and moved in a direction opposed to the one which they would otherwise have chosen.