ITS CIIEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 51 they are very numerous, they show considerable differences in their size. Very frequently a few small vacuoles filled with fluid are to be seen. The examination of living egg-cells shows that these vacuoles are not artificially produced. Additional vacuoles may be formed after the death of the egg, whilst those already present may increase in size, as has been pointed out by Flemming (II. 10, p. 151). These germinal spots differ in their chemical properties from true nucleoli, which consist of paranuclein and do not become stained with the usual nuclear staining reagents. On the other hand, it has not yet been discovered whether their substance is quite iden- tical with the nuclein of the framework. Up to the present this point has not yet been satisfactorily worked out, in spite of the numerous experiments which have been made upon the nucleus. One thing alone can be accepted as certain—that the more or less rounded bodies present in various plant and animal nuclei, which in scientific literature are classed together2_for_th_e most part incorrectly, under the name of nucleoli, show material differences amongst themselves. This has been proved beyond a doubt by the investigations made by Flemming (II. 10), Carnoy (II. 8), myself (II. 19a), Zacharias (II. 45), and others. Either such very different bodies should not be called by the same name, or if, merely on account of their similarity in form, the common name of nucleolus or nuclear body is retained for all round nuclear contents, at any rate in each case an accurate description of the chemical nature of the nucleolus in question should be given. Above all, as has been already remarked, in all examinations of the nucleus, more attention should be paid to the chemical properties of its individual constituents than to their form and arrangement, which are always of comparatively little importance. For the function of a framework in the nucleus composed of limn threads (lifters considerably from that of one consisting of nuclein, or of a combination of the two substances, and similarly the function of the nucleolus varies according to the material of which it is composed. I will conclude this discussion of nucleoli with the remark that germinal spots exist which are most evidently built up of two <1liferent substances. This circumstance was first observed by Leydig in a lamcllibranchiate Mollusc, and his statement has since been verified by Flemming (II. 10) from observations on the same animal, and by myself (II. 19; from those on other objects. I here quote the description as it is given by Flemming.