THE VITAL P110PERT1ES OF THE CELL 14-3 may also be found distributed throughout the whole endoderm of Actinia larva? after suitable feeding. But white blood corpuscles, lymph cells and the migratory cells of the mesoblast, in both Vertebi-ates and Invertebrates, afford us the best material for observation, in consequence of their power of absorbing and digesting solid bodies. This important fact was first observed by Haeclcel (V. 4a), who injected a mollusc (Tethys) with indigo, and found after a short time that indigo granules were present inside the blood corpuscles. Metchnikoff (V. 12) has further investigated the phenomenon most thoroughly. He found that if powdered carmine were injected under the skin of another species of mollusc (the transparent Phyllirhoe), the smaller granules were eaten up by some of the migratory cells, while the larger ones attracted a number of other migratory cells around them, which surrounded them, like an envelope, and fused themselves together to form a plasmodium or multinucleated giant cell. That the same thing occurs in Vertebrates may be easily proved by injecting some carmine into the dorsal lymph sac of a Frog, and, after a short time has elapsed, removing some drops of lymph, and examining them with the microscope. Further, the eating process can be directly followed under the microscope if powdered carmine or a little milk be added to some fresh drops of lymph or of blood which have been carefully drawn off, certain precautions having been observed. If the blood has been taken from man or some other mammal, the preparation must be carefully heated on Max Schultze's warm stage until it has attained a temperature of 30-35° Celsius (V. 43). The white blood corpuscles now commence to show amoeboid movements; they seize with their pseudopodia the carmine granules, or milk globules with which they come in contact, and draw them into their bodies. On this account Metchnikoff designates them as phagocytes, and the whole process as 'phagocytosis. This capacity of the amoeboid elements of the animal to take up solid substances is of great physiological importance ; for herein the organism possesses a means of ridding itself of foreign and noxious organic particles which are present in its tissues. There are three different conditions of the body, partly normal and partly pathological, when the phagocytes exercise this function. Firstly, during the process of development in many Inverte- brates and also in Vertebrates, certain larval organs lose their