297 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL This may be concluded from the fact, that, in certain species, the generation-cycle assumes a different appearance, according to the conditions of life under which the animals are living. The inhabitants of small shallow pools, which readily dry up, produce only one, or at most a few generations of females, which multiply asexually; after this ova requiring fertilisation are produced, so that in the course of a year several generation-cycles {consisting of unimpregnated females and sexual animals) suc- ceed each other. The inhabitants of lakes and seas, on the other hand, produce a long series of unimpregnated females before de- positing ova, which require fertilisation; this occurs towards the end of the warm season. A generation-cycle, therefore, in this case occupies a whole year (polycyclical and monocyclical species of Weismann). Weismann (VII. 39), who investigated the whole subject most thoroughly, remarks : " That asexual and bi-sexual generations alternate with one another in various ways in Daphnidfe, and that the mode of their alternation stands in a remarkable relation to their environment. According to whether the causes of de- struction (cold, desiccation, etc.) visit a colony several times during the year, or once, or not at all, we find Daplmoids which exhibit several cycles within a year, others which have only one cycle, and finally there are species which do not exhibit any generation-cycle at all; hence we can distinguish between poly- cyclical, monocyclical and acyclical forms." In many species, which are exposed to frequently changing con- ditions, we notice, that some of the ova, which are formed in the ovary, develop into summer eggs, whilst others have a tendency to become winter eggs. According to Weismann, " a war, as it were, goes on to a certain extent in the body of a female between the tendencies to form these two kinds of eggs." In Daphnia pulex, the germ of a winter egg may often be re- cognised amongst several summer eggs in the ovaiy; this grows for a few days, even beginning to accumulate the finely granular, characteristic yolk; but then it is arrested in its development, becomes gradually dissolved, and finally completely disappears. If winter eggs have been developed, but owing to the absence of the 'males, have not become fertilised, they disintegrate after a time, and summer eggs are again formed. How can it be explained, then, that, amongst eggs which have been developed one after another in the same ovary, some