THE CELL as a small chamber, or cellula, in the true sense of the word. They considered the membrane to be the most important and essential part of the vesicle, for they thought that in consequence of its chemico-physical properties it ^regulated the metabolism of the cell. According to Schwann, the cell is an organic crystal, which is formed by a kind of crystallisation process from an organic mother- stibstance (cytoblastema). The series of conceptions, which we now associate with the word " cell," are, thanks to the great progress made during the last fifty years, essentially different from the above. Schleiden and Schwann's cell-theory has undergone a radical reform, having been superseded by the Protoplasmic theory, which is especially associated with the name of Max Schultze. The History of the Protoplasmic theory is also of supreme interest. Even Schleiden observed in the plant cell, in addition to the cell sap, a delicate transparent substance containing small granules; this substance he called plant slime. In the year 1846 Mohl (I. 18) called it Protoplasm, a name which has since become so significant, and which before had been used by Purkinje (I. 24) for the substance of which the youngest animal embryos are formed. Further, he presented a new picture of the living appearances of plant protoplasm ; he discovered that it completely filled up the interior of young plant cells, and that in larger and older cells it absorbed fluid, which collected into droplets or vacuoles. Finally, Mohl established the fact that protoplasm, as had been already stated by Schleiden about the plant slime, shows strikingly peculiar movements ; these were first discovered in the year 1772 by Bonaventura Corti, and later in 1807 by C. L. Treviranns, and were described as " the circulatory movements of the cell-sap." By degrees further discoveries were made, which added to the importance attached to these protoplasmic contents of the cell. In the lowest algae, as was observed by Cohn (I. 7) and others, the protoplasm draws itself away from the cell membrane at the time of reproduction, and forms a naked oval body, the stcarm- spore, which lies freely in the cell cavity; this swarm-spore soon breaks down the membrane at one spot, after which it creeps out through the opening, and swims about in the water by means of its cilia, like an independent organism ; but it has no cell mem- brane. Similar facts were discovered through the study of the animal jt. LuJZLvJt,;-/, m«ai\ ' f t»i j e vV,. ,' —JvCj^t- y*-t<«_-l-<nf\>*••<-)