184 THE CELfj constituents absorb staining solutions, compared to that observed in former stages. The more distinctly and sharply defined the threads grow, the more strongly stained do they become, and the more energetically do they retain the colouring matter, whereas the network of the resting nucleus exhibits these properties to a much less degree. This may be especially well demonstrated if Graham's method of staining be employed, for whilst the resting nuclei are completely decolourised, those that are preparing to divide, or are actually undergoing the process, are so strongly stained that they cannot fail to attract the attention of the observer. Daring the first stage of coil formation the nucleoli are still present; however, they gradually diminish in size, until after a short time no trace of them can be seen. Up till now it has not been determined with certainty what is formed from them. Whilst the coil is developing, careful observation reveals a small spot on the surface of the nucleus. This becomes more and more distinctly defined as the process progresses : it has been designated by Rabl the polar area (Fig. 77). The opposite surface of the nucleus is the anli-polar area. The nuclein threads become gradually more and more distinct, and ar- range themselves so as to point towards these two areas. Starting from the anti-polar region they collect in the neigh- bourhood of the polar area. " Here they bend round upon themselves in a loop-like fashion, and then return, by means of several small, iri'egular indented loops, to the neighbourhood of their starting point." Later on the threads be- come shorter and correspondingly thicker; they are less twisted, and cling less closely together, so that the whole skein looks much looser. In the meantime their arrangement in loops gradually grows more and more distinct. In favourable cases it has been ascertained that there are twenty-four such loops or nuclonr segments ; this number is constant for the tissue cells and sperm- mother-cells of Salamandra and Triton. Meanwhile the two centrosomes and the spindle—most im- Fig. 77.—Diagrammatic representa- tion of a nucleus with a polar area, in which the two centrosomes and the spindle are developing. (After Flem- ming, PI. 39, Fig. 37.)