THE CKLfj 88 defined from one another, and further as flagella pass over imper- ceptibly at their base into the protoplasm of the cell. Therefore I agree with Schwalbe (111.21) and with Engelmann, that the vacuoles possess contractile walls although they are not clearly defined from the rest of the protoplasm. In addition, it is well known that delicate membranes are often imperceptible with the microscope although they are undoubtedly present. In many plant cells it is impossible to see the. so-called primordial utricle as long as it adheres closely to the cellulose membrane ; its exist- ence, however, cannot be doubted, as its presence can be proved by plasmolysing it. In this opinion, however, I find myself in opposition to Biitschli (III. 3). He considers that the contractile vesicle is simply a drop of water in the plasma. "Each vacuole after evacuation ceases to exist as such. The one that takes its place is a new formation, a newly created drop, which in its turn only exists until it has discharged itself." In his opinion they are due to the flowing to- gether of several formative vacuoles, which separate out as small drops in the plasma, where they increase in size until, by break- ing down the partition walls, they coalesce. However, the exist- ence of the conducting and afferent canals, described by Biitschli himself, the fact that the number of vacuoles present remains constant, and the circumstance that during the diastole the vacuole is seen to occupy the same position as during the systole, and moreover, that the frequency of contraction bears a fixed relation to changes of temperature, all appear to me to support the former view, and to be opposed to Biitschli's theory. The fact that at the end of the systole the vacuole, having evacuated its contents, is for a moment invisible, does not seem to weigh much against the theory of its constancy, especially if one considers that even large lymph spaces and capillary blood vessels in vertebrates elude per- ception in an uninfected condition. IV. Changes in the Celi during passive movement. In order to complete the subject of the movements of protoplasm, it is necessary to consider finally the changes of form which, to a certain extent, the cell may experience in consequence of passive movements. Under these circumstances, the cell is in the same condition as a muscle which, being excited by an external stimulus, becomes extended and then contracted again. In this manner the cells of an animal body may become con- siderably altered in form, in adapting themselves to all the