ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 1/ or, according to their significance, as reserve material and secretions, or' indeed to specify them, as yolk grannies, fat globules, starch granules, pigment granules, etc. The difference between the protoplasm and these substances, which may be classed together as cell contents, is the same as that between the materials of which the organs of our body are com- posed and those substances which.in the first place are taken up as food by our bodies, and which later on are circulated in a liquid form as a nutrient fluid through all the organs ; the for- mer, which are less dependent upon the condition of nourishment of the body for the time being, and hence are less subject to variations, are called in physiological language tissue substances, the latter circulating substances. The same distinction may be applied to the substances which compose the cell. Protoplasm is the tissue material, whilst the adventitious bodies are circulating substances. f. Various examples of the structure of the cell body. In connection with the chemico-physical and morphological pro- perties of the cell, a few especially pertinent examples may be of use in order to explain the general statements. For this pur- pose we will compare .various lower unicellular organisms, both plant and animal, choosing first, cases in which the body consists almost entirely of protoplasm, and secondly, those in which the cells also contain considerable quantities of various adventitious substances, and hence are very much altered in appearance. Unicellular organisms, which live in water or on damp earth, such as Amoebae, Mycetozoa, and Reticularia, form very useful subjects for examination in studying the cell; in addition, lymph corpuscles, the white blood corpuscles of vertebrates, and young plant cells are most suitable objects for investigation. 1. Cells consisting almost entirely of Protoplasm. An Amoeba (Fig. 7) is a small mass of protoplasm, from the surface of which, as a rule, a few short irregular processes (pseudopodia) or foot-like organs are extended. The body is quite naked, that is to say, it is not separated from the surrounding medium by any special thin coating or membrane ; the only differentiation being that the superficial layer of the protoplasm {ectoplasm), ek, is free from granules, and hence is transparent, like glass; this ectoplasm is most marked in the pseudopodia; below the ectoplasm lies the darker and more liquid endoplasm (en), in which the vesicular nucleus (w) is embedded.