THE CELL 356 nucleus and the specifically lighter portion of the egg have been forced to change their position, the first division plane takes anew a vertical direction. This plane cuts the horizontal egg-axis at various angles. For instance, Pfliiger often saw that it separated the egg into a black and a white hemisphere. Under such cir- cumstances, therefore, the hemispheres evidently do not contain the same particles of material, as when they are under normal conditions. Nevertheless, a normal embryo is developed out of the egg. Even after the formation of the notochord and spinal cord, one half of the body can be seen to be darker than the other. Thus, according to the position of the original cleavage plane, the individual organs must be composed of different parts of the egg contents. The experiments made by Richard Hertwig and myself (VI. 38), by Boveri (IX. 4)r by Driesch (IX. 7), and by Chabry (IX. 5), all furnish additional proof of the isotropy of the egg. Richard Hertwig and I found, that the ova of Bchinoderms can be divided by violent shaking into small portions ; these become spherical in form, and may be fertilised by spermatozoa. Boveri indeed has succeeded in raising a few dwarf larval forms from such small fertilised portions. Driesch, by shaking normally developed and dividing Bchinoderm ova, was able to separate from one another the two first cleavage segments; these he then isolated, and was thus able to establish the fact that a normally shaped though somewhat small blastula, followed by a gastrola, and even in some cases by a pluteus, developed from, each half. Chabry has obtained a corresponding result. He destroyed, by pricking it, one of the two, or, when it had divided into four, one of the four cells of the ovum of an Ascidian. In many cases he succeeded in raising from such mutilated ova, absolutely normal larvEe, which only occasionally, were without subordinate organs, such as otoliths or attachment papilla?. From all these experi- ments the fundamental proposition is proved, that the cell-nucleus, which may be enclosed in any part of the yolk, is able to produce a complete organism. This isotropy of the egg negatives the hypothesis that there is a germinal region from which organs are developed. Moreover, at the same time, it supplies an additional proof that the idioplasm is not to be found in the protoplasm, but in the nucleus ; and further, it allows us to draw some conclu- sions as to the construction of protoplasm and nuclear substance. Protoplasm must consist of loosely-connected particles of mi-