283 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OK THE CELL very account are interesting, are seen in various species of Zygnemacece; they are worth noticing, for they teach us the way in which sexual differences may at first develop. For instance, in Monjeotia, as in the Besmidiacese, the two proto- plasmic bodies enter the conjugation canal and there fuse together to form a zygote, which becomes globular, expresses fluid, and surrounds itself with a membrane. In this case both cells behave exactly alike ; neither can be termed male or female. In other species, such as Spirogyra (Fig. 153), one cell remains passively in its membrane, and is sought out by the other, which in consequence may be called the male. It wanders into the conjugation canal, and, passing through it, reaches the female cell, as though attracted by it; they then fuse to form a zygote (Fig. 153 A, a). When the zygote is treated with reagents and staining solutions, it can be further established, that soon after the union of the cells their nuclei approach each other, and unite to form the germinal nucleus. Since in a thread all the cells act either as males or females, one of the two conjugating threads generally has all its cells empty, whilst the other contains a zygote in each cavity (Fig. 153 B). The zygote surrounds itself with a separate cell-wall, after which it generally rests until the next spring, when it commences to germinate, and finally, by means of trans- verse divisions, develops into a long Spirogyra thread. The above-mentioned distinction between male and female Spirogyra threads by no means invariably occurs. For instance, it may happen that a thread bends back on itself, so that one end comes into the neighbourhood of the other. Under such condi- tions, cells situated at the opposite ends of the same thread con- jugate together, so that those which under other circumstances would have functioned as male cells now play the part of female cells. In the above-mentioned families of Noctilucse and Conjugate and in others, such as Biatomacese, Gregarinee, etc., the large pro- toplasmic bodies are enclosed in membranes; these pair, after having passed through periods of vegetative multiplication by simple division. A second series of primitive modes of sexual reproduction is afforded us by lower plant organisms, such as some of the Algae. For purposes of reproduction they develop special cells, the swarm-spores, which are distinguished from the vegetative cells by their small size, by the absence of a cell membrane, and by the presence of two flagella or numerous cilia,