205 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELIi visible under all circumstances by means of certain definite stain- inn- solutions. During division they are chiefly recognised by means of their radiation figures, but these are not seen during rest. Several data seem to point to the conclusion that the centro- somes originate in the nucleus; firstly, with a few exceptions, nothing corresponding to a centrosome can be found in the proto- plasm during rest; secondly, at the commencement of division, the centrosome is seen to be in immediate contact with the surface of the nuclear membrane (Fig. 98), and only later on to move further away from the nucleus into the protoplasm; thirdly, subsequent to this appearance of the centrosome, the nuclear membrane frequently collapses, just as if nuclear sap had exuded through a small aperture ; and fourthly, in many objects . the appearance of the centrosome is simul- pie. 98. —Nucleus of a taneous with the disintegration of the nu- sperm-mother-ceiiof hearts megalocephala bivahns. The cleoli. uuclein substance is ar- I have frequently occupied myself with ranged in threads which „ ,. . . p .', are separated from one this question of the origin of the centro- another in tWQ groups somes, and have expended in vain a great Appearance of the centro- deal of energy upon it. Latterly, during ^J^SS^T, my experiments upon the construction of the eggs and spermatozoa of Nematodes, I have again gone into the subject, but have been unable to arrive at any definite con- clusions. However, although at the present time the majority of investigators consider that they belong to the protoplasm, yet a certain amount of importance must be attached to the opposite view, namely, that they have a nuclear origin. Finally, another point, which is as yet unexplained, is the fate of the nucleoli, which disappear at the commencement of nuclear division,and reappear in the daughter nuclei. What interchanges of substances can have occurred in this process ? There are exceptional difficulties in the way of the solution of this question, since in many cases the nucleoli are composed of two chemically different substances (vide p. 51). It appears probable to me that if we disregard the above- mentioned connection with the centrosomes, the nucleoli, duriii"- the preparation for division, become split up into small portions, and become distributed upon the nuclear segments. In sperm-mother-cells of Ascaris, which have been hardened