243 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL apart, is connected by means of two spindles to the remaining portion of the figure, which forms a triaster. Of these two spindles one is only faintly and imperfectly developed, and is farther remarkable for the small number of its nuclear segments. Apparently it would never have made its appearance if radiation x had been at a somewhat greater distance from radiation y. Nuclear figures with three, four or more poles (triaster, tetraster, polyaster, multipolar mitoses), have been frequently observed by pathological anatomists in tissues altered by disease (Arnold, Hansemann, Schottlander, Cornil, Denys, etc., VI. 1, 10, 11, 25, 67) ; they occur with especial frequency in malignant tumours, such as carcinoma, and resemble to a remarkable extent those produced artificially in egg-cells, such as are represented in Figs. 129 to 131. Apparently the cause for the abnormal appear- ances may be traced to chemical stimuli. Thus Schottlander (VI. 67) was able to excite pathological nuclear division in the endothelium of Descemet's membrane by cauterising the trans- parent cornea of the Frog's eye with chloride of zinc solution of a certain strength, and thus inducing inflammation. It is remarkable how much the number of nuclear segments may vary in individual spindles. For instance, Schottlander found as many as twelve segments in some spindles, and in others only six or even thi^ee; the same was observed in Bchinoderm eggs. Further, multipolar nuclear figures may apparently be due to other causes, about which at present extremely little is known to us. For instance, a very common cause is the presence of several nuclei in one cell. Such a condition can be easily produced artificially by injuring egg-cells in some suitable way, and by subsequently fertilising them (Fol VI. 19 b ; Hertwig VI. 30 a, 32, 33, 38). Under these circumstances instead of one single spermatozoon entering in the usual manner, two, three, or more make their way into the yolk. The consequence of this kind of over-fertilisation (polyspermia) is the formation of several sperm nuclei, corresponding in number to the spermatozoa which entered. Some of these approach the egg nucleus, and since each of them has brought a centrosome with it into the egg, a corresponding number of pole radiations develop around the egg nucleus. And thus, according to the number of spermatozoa, the egg nucleus becomes transformed into a nuclear division figure with three, four, or more radiations. Further, those sperm nuclei which are not in contact with the