ITS CHEMICO-rHYSICAt, AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES and that further, it is impossible in a short phrase to give an adequate definition of its meaning; and finally, that frequently it is difficult to determine what part of the cell really consists of protoplasm, and what does not; yet, in spite of all this, the. necessity of the conception remains^ Similar objections could be ' raised against a number of other words which we use for certain . definite compounds present in organic bodies. For instance, to designate a certain portion of the nucleus we use the term nuclein or chromatin, which is considered fairly adequate by many people. And yet the microscopist is bound to admit that it is impossible to state exactly which part of a resting nucleus consists of linin, and which of nuclein, or to determine in any special case whether too much or too little has been stained. Now the term protoplasm is quite as necessary in speaking about the constituent parts of a cell. Only it must be stipulated that the word protoplasm must not be understood to designate a substance of definite chemical composition. The ivord protoplasm is a morphological term (the same is true in a greater or less degree of the word nuclein, and of many others) ; it is an expression for a complex substance, which exhibits a >< variety of physical, chemical, and biological properties. Such ex- , pressions are absolutely necessary in the present state of our | f knowledge. Anyone who is acquainted with the history of the cell knows what a number of observations and how much logical thought were necessary before this conception was arrived at, and further is quite aware that with the creation of this expression the whole theory of cells and tissues gained in depth and significance. ftRv Much wordy warfare was necessary before it was established that the cell contents, and not the cell membrane, constitute the essential portion of the cell, and further that amongst these cell contents a peculiar substance is invariably present, which takes part in the vital processes in quite a different way from the cell sap, the starch granules, and the fat globules. Thus we see that the use of the word protoplasm is not only justifiable from an historical point of view, but also from a scientific one, and we will now proceed to endeavour to explain what is meant by the term. b. General Characteristics of Protoplasm. The proto- plasm of unicellular organisms, and of plant and animal cells (Figs. 1 and 2), appears as a viscid substance, which is almost always colourless, which will not mix with water, and which, in con-