£6 THE CELL Paramecium aurelia and Paramecium caudatum (Fig. 50), there is a system of conducting canals, which have been known for a long time, and have been worked at more than any others; from each of the two dorsal vacuoles about eight to ten fairly straight tubes radiate; their course may be traced almost all over the whole body. However, the two systems remain independent throughout their whole extent." They are thickest in the neigh- bourhood of the vacuoles, becoming gradually finer distally. The Paramecium affords us an excellent subject for a closer study of the working of this peculiar apparatus. When both the contractile vacuoles have attained their greatest size, their whole contents are suddenly and energetically ejected to the exterior through their efferent canals and pores, so that for a time the vacuole cavities quite disappear. This condition, as with the heart, is termed the systole, whilst the period during which the vacuoles become again filled with fluid, and hence distended and visible, is called the diastole. They become filled in the following manner: Even before the systole has commenced, the above-described conducting canals have collected fluid from the endoplasm of the body of the infuso- rian; this fluid probably is charged with carbonic acid and other decomposition products. According to Schwalbe (III. 21) the process occurs in consequence of " the condition of pressure of the fluid in the animal's body, this pressure being due to the ever-in- creasing amount of water which is continually being taken in by the mouth." The conducting canals can be easily seen, at this time being full of water. They become swollen in the neighbour- hood of the contractile vacuole, which is now fully distended, so that they look like a circle of rosette-shaped vacuoles surrounding it ; these have been called formative vacuoles by Biitschli. In consequence of their being in this condition, the contractile vacuole cannot, during its systole, discharge its contents back through them, but only forwards to the exterior. As soon as the diastole again occurs, the distended formative vacuoles empty themselves into the contractile vacuole, which in consequence becomes visible again; it then gradually distends itself until it reaches its maxi- mum size. Hence at the commencement of the diastole the emp- tied formative vacuoles disappear for a time; however, they con- tinue to collect fluid from the parenchyma of the body until the commencement of the next systole. When several vacuoles are present they generally empty them-