182 THE CELL which are produced by the re-arrangement of the nuclein, and which constitute the chromatin portion of the figure. All the individual constituent portions of the division-figure as a whole vary according to fixed laws, by grouping their elements in vai'ious ways during the course of the process of division. For the sake of convenience it is well to distinguish four different phases, which succeed each other in regular sequence. During the first stage the resting nucleus undergoes changes preparatory to divisiou, resulting in the formation of the nuclear segments and the nuclear centrosomes, whilst at the same time the spindle commences to develop. During the second stage the nuclear segments, after the nuclear membrane has become dis- solved, arrange themselves into a regular figure, midway between the two poles, at the equator of the spindle. During the third the daughter-segments, into which during one of the former stages the mother-segments have divided by longitudinal fission, separate into two groups, which travel in opposite directions from the equator until they reach the neighbourhood of the centrosomes. During the fourth stage reconstruction takes place, vesicular resting daughter nuclei being formed out of the two groups of daughter-segments, whilst the cell body divides into two daughter- cells. In the next few sections a more minute description will be given of the process of cell division as it occurs in some individual cases, and finally a special section will be devoted to the discussion in detail of certain disputed points. The most convenient, and at the same time the commonest, sub- jects for examination in the animal kingdom are the tissue cells of young larvae of Salamandra maculata, of Triton, the spermatozoa of mature animals, the segmentation spheres of small transparent eggs, especially of Nematodes (Ascaris megalocephala), and of Echinoderms (Toxopneustes lividns). Amongst plants the proto- plasm of the endosperm of the embryo sac, especially of Fritil- laria imperialis, and the developing pollen cells of Liliacex, are especially to be recommended. a. Cell division, as it occurs in the Salamandra maculata, as an example of the division of the sperm- mother-cell. First Stage. Preparation of the Nucleus for Division. In the Salamandra maculata certain preliminary changes occur in the resting nucleus some time before division actually com-