THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 151 which acts upon carbo-hydrates, is present in some fission fungi and moulds ; it splits cane sugar up into dextrose and levulose. The salivary ferment in the animal, ptyalin, which converts starch into dextrin and maltose, corresponds to the diastase in the plant. Similarly the non-diffusible glycogen, which in conse- quence of its properties has been called animal starch, must, if it is to be utilised further, be converted by means of a sugar-form- ing ferment, wherever it occurs, into sugar (liver, muscles). Albuminous bodies are peptonised before they can be absorbed. In the animal body this takes place chiefly by means of a ferment, pepsine, which is secreted by the cells of the gastric glands. A small quantity of pepsine is able either in the stomach or in a test-tube to dissolve a considerable amount of coagulated albu- men in the presence of free hydrochloric acid, thus converting it into such a form that it is able to diffuse through membranes. Peptonising ferments have been also demonstrated in plant cells. For example, one has been extracted in the form of a digestive juice from those organs of carnivorous plants which are adapted for the capture of insects, such as the glandular hairs of the leaves of the Drosera; in this manner the small dead animals are partially dissolved and absorbed by the plant cells. A fer- ment resembling pepsine has also been demonstrated in germi- nating plants, where it serves to peptonise the proteid bodies which are stored up as reserve material in the seed. The pepto- nising ferment from the milky juice of the Garica papaya and of other species of Carica is well known on account of its energetic action. Finally, a similar ferment has been discovered in the body of the Myxomycetes by Krukenberg. In the animal body fats are split up into glycerine and fatty acids. This result is effected mainly by the pancreatic juice. Claude Bernard endeavoured to trace this back to a fat decom- posing ferment secreted by the pancreas. Further, it is supposed that during the germination of fat-containing plant seeds the oils are split up into glycerine and fatty acids by means of ferments (Schiitzenberger). Thus even from these few data it may be seen that, although at present so little is known about the subject, there appears to exist a far-reaching uniformity throughout the whole organic kingdom as regards the elaboration of material in the cell. One of the points which is least understood concerning the I metabolism of the cell is the part played by the protoplasm.