THE VITAL PROPERTIES OK THE CELL 315 alone that altered its behaviour towards the foreign sperma- tozoa. Hence, if changes take place, or can be induced artificially to take place, in the egg-cell, by means of which hybridisation is rendered practicable, we must conclude, from a theoretical point of view, that it is also possible to induce so complete a hybridisa- tion between the sexual products of two species, which have a certain degree of sexual affinity for one another, that scarcely any ova should remain unfertilised. Thus, according to the conditions under which the sexual products are brought together, a maximum or a minimum of hybridisation may be obtained. In order to establish these relations, it is best, in making the experiments, to divide the egg-material of a female into several portions, which are fertilised at different times. The smallest per- centage of hybrids is always obtained when the foreign spermatozoa are added to the ova immediately after these latter have been evacuated from the ovaries. The later fertilisation takes place, whether after 5, 10, 20 or 30 hours, the greater is the percentage of the hybridised ova, until the maximum of hybridisation is reached. This is called the stage at which the addition of foreign spermatozoa produces normally the greatest possible number of eggs. This period is of short duration, since imperceptible changes in the ova are uninterruptedly taking place. After that, the percentage of the ova which, in consequence of the bastard fertilisation, develop normally, begins to decrease ; and this is due to the fact, that a steadily increasing number of ova are caused to segment in an abnormal fashion and to become malformed, in consequence of several spermatozoa having penetrated into each of them. The results obtained by fertilising eggs at different times may be represented by a curved line, the summit of which corresponds to the maximum of hybridisation. The results obtained by cross- ing the ova of Spluerechinus granulans with the spermatozoa of Strongylocentrotus serve as an illustration. When fertilisation takes place a quarter of an hour after the eggs have been evacu- ated from the ovary (minimum hybridisation), only a very few individual ova are developed. After two and a quarter hours 10 per cent, can be fertilised, after six and a quarter hours about 60 per cent., whilst after ten and a quarter hours almost all the ova, with the exception of about 5 per cent., are affected; in the latter case they generally develop normally (maximum hybridisa-