THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 179 Gegenbaur; Haeckel V. 4b; van Beneden, etc.), the nucleus was supposed to take an active part in the process of cell-division, and, at the commencement of it, to become elongated and con- stricted at a point, corresponding with the plane of division which is seen later, and to divide into halves, which separate from one another and move apart. The cell body itself was supposed to become constricted, and to divide into two parts, in each of which one of the two daughter-nuclei formed the attraction centre. Bach of these theories, so diametrically opposed, contains a grain of truth, although neither describes the real process, which remained hidden from the earlier histologists, chiefly on account of the methods of investigation used by them. It is only during the last two decades, that our knowledge of the life of the cell has been materially advanced by the discoveries made by Schneider (VI. 66), Fol (VI. 18, 19), Auerbach (VI. 2a), Butschli (VI. 81), Strasburger (VI. 71, 73), 0. and R. Hertwig (VI. 30-38), Flem- ming (VL 13-17), van Beneden (VI. 4a, 4b), Rabl (VI. 53), and Boveri (VI. 6, 7). These discoveries have revealed to us the extremely interesting formations and metamorphoses, which are seen in the nucleus during cell-division. These investigations, to which I shall have occasion to refer frequently in this section, have all pointed to the same conclusion, that the nucleus is a permanent and most important organ of the cell, and that it evidently plays a distinct role in the cell life during division. Just as the cell is never spontaneously generated, but is produced directly by the division of another cell, so the nucleus is never freshly created, but is derived from the constituent particles of another nucleus. The formula, "omnis cellula e cellula," might be extended by adding " omnis nucleus e uucleo " (Flemniing VI. 12). After this historical introduction, we will consider more in detail, first, the changes which take place in the nucleus during division, and next, the various methods of cell multiplication. II. Nuclear Division.—The nucleus plays an important and most interesting part in each process of cell-division. Three methods of nuclear reproduction have been observed : indirect, or nuclear segmentation, direct (Flemming), or nuclear fission, and endogenous nuclear formation. 1. Nuclear Segmentation. Mitosis (Flemming). Karyokinesis (Schleicher). The phenomena which occur during this process are very complicated; nevertheless they conform to certain laws which are wonderfully constant in both plants and animals.