THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 121 varying from two to five minutes, a distinct plug of bacteria is seen to°have collected at the mouth of a capillary tube, which has been placed in a drop of water containing these micro-organisms. On account of the different ways in which various cell bodies react towards different chemical stimuli, the method, which Pfeffer has perfected and used with various reagents, may be employed, not only to attract one individual organism sensitive to one special reagent, but also to separate different species which are mixed together, as has also been done by means of galvanotropism or heliotropism. Glass tubes provided with suitable attractive material, and inserted in fluids, may be used as traps for Bacteria {■ or Infusoria. Further, it follows from the above-mentioned experiments, that organisms which are specially sensitive towards a given chemical substance may be used as reagents to indicate the presence of this stimulating substance. Thus, according to Engelmanii (IV. 7), certain Schizomycetes form an excellent test for oxygen, of i which such a minute portion as one trillionth of a milligramme is sufficient to attract them. Not every substance which attracts an organism is useful to it as food, or is even innocuous to it; many, such as sodium salicylate, saltpetre, strychnine, or moiphia, even cause the immediate death (. V ': of the organisms which they have enticed. However, as a rule the substances which are hurtful to protoplasm generally repel it; this is the case with most acid and alkaline solutions. Even 2 per cent, solutions of citric acid and sodium carbonate exert a distinctly repellent influence. Hence, within the above-mentioned limitations, the general rule may be stated that organisms are, through positive chemotropism, enabled to seek suitable nutriment, whilst in consequence of negative chemotropism they avoid hurtful substances. These phenomena of chemotropism are of the greatest import- ance in understanding many processes in the bodies of man and of other vertebrates. Here also there are cells which react to chemical stimuli by changes of shape, and movements in special directions. These cells are the white blood corpuscles and lymph cells (leucocytes or wandering cells). The chemical irritability of leucocytes has been established as a fact by the experiments of Leber (IV. 17a, 6) ; Massart and Bordet (IV. 20, 21); Steinhaus (IV. 36) ; Gabritschevsky (IV. 10); and Buchner (TV. 2). If, in accordance with Pfeffer's