200 THE CELL proved subsequently to be right in the main, whilst at the same time it has formed a good foundation for many further discoveries, and has suggested a number of problems, which have not yet been definitely solved. These problems may be expressed in a single sentence : it was necessary, and to a certain extent is stdl necessary, to follow more closely in every detail the movements which, during nuclear division, and during the formation of the characteristic figures, take place in the individual micro-chemical particles of substance, which can be distinguished in the nucleus and in the division figures ; that is to say, to trace the rearrange- ments which occur in the nuclein granules, the linin framework, the spindle fibrils, the centrosomes, and the nucleoli, etc. The discovery of suitable objects for examination, such as the nuclei of tissue cells of Salamander larvas (Flemming), and the eggs of Ascaris megalocephala (van Beneden), as well as the use of the newer oil immersion and apochromatic lenses, and the improve- ment in the manipulation of reagents and staining solutions, have rendered progress in this direction possible. The greatest advance has at present been made in the investiga- tion of the figures produced by the changes of place of the nuclein, thanks in the main to the excellent experiments of Flemming (VI. 12-17), and the supplementary investigations of van Beneden (VI. 4),Rabl (VI. 53), Boveri (VI. 6), Strasburger (VI. 71-73), and Guignard (VI. 23). Flemming, who has made his observations chiefly upon tissue cells of Salamander larvte, distinguishes clearly between the achromatin and chromatin portions of the nuclear figure, that is to say, the nnstainable spindle fibrils and plasmic radiations, and the stainable nuclear loops, or segments, which rest upon their sur- faces. He was the first to make the important discovery that these latter split longitudinally. The explanation of these in- teresting phenomena was afforded by the discoveries of Henser, Guignard, van Beneden, and Rabl, who all observed independently, on different objects, that the halves of the divided segments (chromosomes) separate, and move towards the nuclear poles, forming the foundation for the daughter-nuclei. The changes of position of those substances, which are connected with the development of the spindle and the centrosomes, and with the disappearance of the nucleoli, have been much less ac- curately investigated. As concerns the spindle, very various opinions are held, both as