THE CELL 326 The tender root-hairs of plants exhibit a characteristic struc- ture at their growing points. Hence the nucleus, as long as growth continues (Fig. 162 A), is situated at the free end, whilst when the hairs are old and fully developed, it is higher up. When a root-hair is developing out of an epidermal cell, a protu- berance is always formed upon that part of the external wall, which is situated over the cell-nucleus (Fig. 162 7i). In many plants (Brassica oleracea) the root-hair cell may form branches, into one of which the single nucleus enters. This one becomes at once the richest in protoplasm and also the longest, whilst the other branches leave off growing. The hairs that grow above ground, differ from the root-hairs, in that they exhibit a basipetal, or intercalary growth, as Haber- landt has established by measurements. In consequence of this, the nucleus is not situated at the apex, but near to the place, where the secondary, basal growing-point is situated, and where longitudinal growth persists longest. Stellate hairs (Fig. 163) are peculiar, unicellular structures, which split up at their peripheral end into several radially diver- gent branches. Under these circumstances the nucleus, as long as the formative processes continue, is situated in the middle of the radiation, but after growth is finished it returns to its former position near to the base. Confirmatory evidence of this participation of the nucleus in the formative processes is furnished us by the examination of Fungi and Algae. In the multi-nucleated hyphaj of Saprolegnia lateral branches develop ; these are always found immediately over a nucleus, which is situated close to the cell- wall. In Vaucheria and other multi- nucleated Alga3, as in the higher plants, special growing points are present, at which growth chiefly oc- curs ; at each of these, immediately underneath the cellulose membrane, there is an accumulation of small nuclei, after which comes a layer of chromatophores ; in the reruain- Fig. 163—Young stellate hair of Au- p0rti0ns of the Cell the positions trielia dclloidea (after Haberlandt,Pl. II., j rig 28) of these bodies are reversed.