162 THE CELL Several small starch granules are generally enclosed in the chlorophyll corpuscles, being formed in them through assimilation. They are most easily seen, if, when the chlorophyll has been ex- tracted by means of alcohol, tincture of iodine is added to the preparation. As has been proved by Stahl's investigations, the chlorophyll granules, quite apart from the changes of position brought about by the streaming movements of the protoplasm (vide p. 104), are able to change their shape under the stimulating influence of the sun's rays, to a surprising extent. Whilst in diffused daylight they assume the shape of polygonal discs with their broad sides directed towards the source of light, in direct sunlight they contract up into little round balls or ellipsoidal bodies. By this means they effect a change which is necessary for the performance of the chloro- phyll function, by "offering to direct sunlight a small surface, and to diffused daylight a larger one, for the absorption of the rays of light. In this, they offer us an insight into the high degree of the differentiation that they have attained which we could never have arrived at simply by the study of their chemical activity " (de Vries V. 46). As regards their mode of multiplication by division, their active motility, their functions in the processes of assimilation, etc., they appear, like nuclei, to be very highly specialised plasmic products. Finally another variety of ti-ophoplasts, the colour-granules, must be mentioned: the red and orange red coloration of many flowers is caused by their presence. They consist of a proto- plasmic substratum which may assume very various forms, oc- curring sometimes in the shape of a spindle and sometimes of a sickle, a triangle or a trapezium. In this substratum crystals of colouring matter are deposited. In this case also colourless tro- phoplasts may, in suitable objects, be seen to develop gradually into colour granules. Further Weiss has observed spontaneous movements and changes of form in these granules also. We will conclude this review of the various kinds of tropho- plasts by describing in more detail the structure of the starch grains, which have acquired considerable theoretical importance in consequence of Nageli's (V. 17, 20) researches, and the con- clusions which have been deduced from them. The starch grains (Fig. 69) in a plant cell may vary consider- ably as to size. Sometimes they are so small that even with the strongest powers of the microscope they only appear as minute