THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL M< Flemrning (VI. 13, 1891) and Hermann, by means of double staining with safranin-hrcmatoxylin, safranin-mauvine, safranin- gentian, etc , have obtained a similar alteration of staining re- actions in animal cells, varying according to the condition of the nucleoli. "It appears to me important," says Flemming on this occasion, "that in those stages when nucleoli are still present, or have only just disappeared, or have just reappeared, the chromatin fio-ure inclines towards a blue coloration, whereas in those cases where the nucleoli are quite disintegrated the figures are distinctly safranophil, just like the nucleoli." 2. Direct Nuclear Division. (Direct nuclear multiplication, fragmentation, amitosis, amitotic division.) As a contrast to the complicated processes connected with seg- mentation, nuclear division may take place apparently in a very simple manner. This is called fragmentation, or direct nuclear division, and is seen in a few kinds of cells. Under these cir- cumstances spindle threads, nuclear segments, and protoplasmic radiations are not seen. The division of the nucleus appears rather to proceed in a manner resembling that described by the earlier histologists. It can be most easily observed in the lymph corpuscles, both when alive, and when fixed by means of reagents. There are various ways in which good preparations may be made: a drop of lymph may be drawn up from the dorsal lymph sac of a Frog into a fine capillary tube, and then placed upon a slide and covered with a cover-glass, the edges of which should be smeared with paraffin, in order to protect the preparation from evaporation. Or a small glass chamber may be prepared accord- ing to Zieglei''s method, by fastening together by their four corners, or by two of their sides, two extra thin cover-glasses, so that there is a capillary space between them. The glass chamber is then placed for one or more days in the dorsal lymph sac of a Frog, during which time a large number of lymph cells make their way between the two cover-glasses, where they undergo changes. The third method, recommended by Arnold, is to place a thin pervious disc of elder pith in the lymph sac. After a few hours numbers of leucocytes have attached themselves to its surface, and are thus available for observation. Later on, thin layers of fibrin, pro- duced by coagulation, are deposited upon the disc of elder pith ; these may be removed, and, with the cell elements which are attached to them, may be easily examined. Ranvier (VI. 54) observed all the phenomena of division take