49 ITS CHEMLCO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES Moreover, the nuclein is not always spread out upon a frame- work. For example, the large vesicular nuclei of Ghironomus larvw (Fig. 27) enclose, as Balbiani (II. 2) has discovered, a single thick nuclear thread ; this is variously twisted, and in stained prepara- tion is seen to be composed of regular alternately stained and unstained layers. This has also been observed by Strasburger in some plants. The two ends of the thread terminate in nucleoli. Further, in other cases the greater part of the nuclein is collected into a large round body, which looks like a nucleolus, but which is really \~ery different from the above-described true nucleoli, which contain paranuclein (p. 42). In order to avoid confusion it is best to call such bodies nuclein corpuscles. As an example of this class the nucleus of Spirogyra may be mentioned; the nuclei of many of the lower organisms are very similar to it in structure. It consists ad w. 0o Fig. 26. Fig. 27. Fig. 26.—Nucleus, about to divide, of a cell from Aycaris mogalocophala bivalens, with the eight nuclear segments arranged in two bundles, and with two pole corpuscles. (Hertwig II. 19 b, Tab. II., Fig. 18.) Fig. 27.—Structure of the nucleus of a cell from the salivary gland of Ohiroiwmus. (After Balbiani, Zoolog. Anzeiger, 1881, Fig. 2.) of a vesicle which is separated from the protoplasm by a delicate membrane, and which contains a fine nuclear framework. Since this is incapable of retaining the dyes of staining solutions, it is evident that it consists chiefly of linin, upon which only a few nuclein granules are deposited. One large nuclein body is present in the framework; occasionally, however, it is divided into two smaller ones. That this body really consists of nuclein is proved partly by its behaviour towards staining solutions, but chiefly by the fact that during nuclear division its substance breaks up into granules, thus forming the nuclear segments. Similar nuclein bodies, which in literature generally go under the name of nucleoli, play a very important part in the structure of the germinal vesicles of animal egg-cells. These germinal vesicles E