276 THE CULL ally in the replacement of the male elements, which have been expelled from the egg, by an equal number of similar elements, which are introduced by the spermatozoon. More careful investigation shows that these theories are not tenable. For the empirical foundation, upon which they were based, is destroyed by the fact which was proved on p. 237, namely that the polar cells are morphologically nothing but egg-cells, which have become rudimentary. This follows from a comparison of the development of egg and sperm-cells in Nematodes. Hence the nuclear segments, expelled from the egg in the polar cells, cannot be the discharged male constituents of the germinal vesicle, as is stated in the restitution theory. Apart from this, we are unable, with the methods of investiga- tion at our command, to discover the least difference between the nuclear substances of the male and female cells. Nuclein and centrosomic substance are identical, both as regards quantity and composition. There is no specific male or female fertilising material. The nuclear substances, which come into contact with one another during the process of fertilisation, differ only in this, that they are derived from two different individuals. Now, if, in consequence of this, it can no longer be allowed that the egg and spex^m-nuclei are sexually opposed in the way under- stood by the supporters of the restitution theory, what meaning must be attached to the terms male and female sexual cells or male and female nuclei ? These terms do not really touch the essential part of fertilisa- tion, and do not express an opposition based upon fundamental processes of reproduction; they refer rather to secondary differ- ences of minor importance which have developed between the conjugating individuals, between the sexual cells and their nuclei, and which must be classed as secondary characteristics. Hence we will state at once that the formation of two separate sexes is not the cause of sexual generation, as might be concluded from a superficial investigation, but that the reverse is really true. All sexual differences, if we trace them back to their soui'ces, have arisen because the union of two individuals of one species, which originally were similar, aud hence sexless, is advantageous to the maintenance of the vital processes.; without exception, these differences only serve one purpose, namely to facilitate the com- bination of two cells. On this account solely have the cells de- veloped the differences which are termed male and female.