ITS CHEMIOO-PHYStOAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 53 I have observed (IT. 19) that the germinal spot is composed of two substances in Helix, Tellina, and Asteracanthicm, as well as m Anodon. AsteracantHon (Fig. 31) is of special interest, as the separation into two substances (pn,»n) only becomes distinctly visible when the germinal vesicle commences to break up and to form the polar spindle out of its contents. Finally, in the description of the structure of the resting nucleus, attention must be drawn to one other important point. According to the age or stage of development of a cell, the resting nucleus may present very considerable variations in all its separate parts: as to the appearance of its framework, and as to the number, size, and peculiarities of its nuc leoli. Thus, as Flemming (II. 10) remarks, " In young eggs from the ovaries of Lamellibranchs, this twofold composition of the large nucleolus is not to be seen ; it only develops in the mature egg." Above all, the germinal vesicles of the eggs undergo during their de- velopment important metamor- phoses, which at present have been but little investigated, whilst their significance is still less understood. The same is true of the nuclei of sperm mother cells. I have en- "%^'-^__^^^'':-r?v deavoured to follow accurately -^s&^^ffi3*' these changes of form in such Fig. 31.—Section from an egg of Atteryu i , • -i j» ii « glacinlis showing the degeneration of the cells obtained from the testis or . . . , ,_,. , . . ... unio uuioiuvu germinal vesicle. This begins to shrink up, Ascaris megalocephala (II. 19 6), whilst a mass of radiated protoplasm (»•) which are very suitable for the force8 its wa-7 int0 the interior- ***** J down the membrane. The germinal spot purpose. (fc/) is still visible, but is divided into two As is shown in Fig. 32, form A substances, nuclein (tin) ami parannoleln j ii i p j ivn). (0. Hertwig, Embryology, Fig. 12.) gradually becomes transformed into form B, and this during the process of development of the spermatozoon into form G ; the youngest sperm mother cells (B) have naked nuclei containing dense nuclear frameworks, and superficially-placed nucleoli; this form develops in older cells (G) into a vesicular nucleus with a distinctly marked membrane. In the vesicle a few linin threads are extended through the nuclear sup, the nuclein heaped up into one or two irregular masses, amongst which the more or less globular nucleolus is situated. In cells which are not yet mature, the nuclein is collected chiefly at one spot of the nuclear membrane in the form of a thick layer, whilst granules of varying size lie upon the surface of the linin r;j" ] k/ f 1111 ) J