THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 269 Daring the retrogressive metamorphosis of the chief nucleus, the small paranucleus undergoes most important changes, which always recur in the same manner, and which may be compared to the phenomena of maturation and fertilisation seen in animal eggs. It enlarges itself by taking up fluid from the protoplasm, its con- tents assume a filiform appearance, until finally it transforms itself into a little spindle (Fig. 148 I, nk). This spindle divides into two parts, which soon develop into two new spindles; these in their turn become constricted' and divide into two, so that finally four spindles, which have developed out of the paranucleus, are present in the neighbourhood of the main nucleus, which is undergoing transformation (Fig. 148 II, 1-4, 5-8). During the further course of development, three of these four paranuclear spindles disintegrate (III, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8). They become transformed into globules, which finally cannot be dis- tinguished from the segments of the chief nucleus, whose fate they share. They strikingly recall the formation of the pole cells during the maturing of animal eggs, and in consequence have been compared to them by many investigators. The fourth or chief spindle alone persists (II, 1 and 5) ; it takes part in the process of fertilisation, and serves as the foundation for the new formation of the whole nuclear apparatus in the body of the Infusorian. Which of these four spindles, derived from the original paranucleus, eventually becomes the chief spindle, depends, according to Maupas, solely and entirely upon its position. They are all four precisely alike as regards structure. The one which happens to be nearest to the above-mentioned zone of ir- regular thickening becomes the chief spindle (II, 1 and 5). Here it places itself at right angles to the surface of the body, extends itself longitudinally, and again divides into two (III, lw, lm'j 5m;, 5m). Each of the halves contains apparently only about half as many spindle fibrils, and half as many chromatic elements as one of the earlier spindles. According to the observations made by Richard Hert wig, during the division of the chief spindle'the number of spindle fibrils has been reduced to one half, a process similar to that occurring in the nuclei of animal and plant sexual cells. Hence these very characteristic nuclei play the same part as those of ova and spermatozoa, and may be distinguished as male and female, or as migratory and stationary nuclei. Further, which of the two nuclei is to be migratory and which