286 THE CELL in other respects are absolutely similar, may be called female, since it remains at rest, and must be sought for by the other for the purposes of conjugation. Thus a relationship, similar to that seen in Phmosporete and Cutleriaceee, is produced. In some species of Pheeosporeee, the male and female swarm- spores cannot be distinguished from one another when they are evacuated from the mother-cell; they are of the same size, and are each provided with a pigment spot and two flagella; they do not pair whilst they are swimming about. However, a difference between the gametes soon becomes apparent. Some come to rest earlier than others ; each of these attaches itself by the point of one of its flagella to some solid object, to which it draws up its protoplasmic body by shortening and contracting the connecting flagellum ; it then retracts its second flagellum. These resting swarm-cells may be termed female ; their capacity for becoming fertilised is only retained for a few minutes; they appear to exert, as Berthold expresses it, " a powerful attraction " upon the male gametes, which are swimming about in the water, so that in a few seconds one egg may be surrounded by hundreds of swarm-spores, one of which fuses with it (VII. 51). Sexual differentiation is still more marked in Cutleriaceee. Here the sexual swarm-cells become different in size before they are separated from the parent, the female one developing singly, and the male in groups of eight. In this genus the difference in size of the sexual cells is fairly striking. Both kinds of gametes swim about in the water for a time ; fertilisation, however, can only occur after the female swarm-spore has come to rest, has drawn in its flagella, and has become spherical. Upon the egg, which is now capable of becoming fertilised, a hyaline spot appears, which was produced by the drawing in of the anterior beak-like end. This is the so-called reception spot. It is the only point at which one of the small male swarm-spores, which soon come to rest around the female cell, can fertilise it. When fertilisation is complete, the zygote surrounds itself with a cellulose cell-wall. In Fucaceee, Gharaceee, and other Algse the difference is still more marked than in Cutleriaceee. Here the female cells, which attain a considerable size, do not even pass through the swarm- spore stage. They are either expelled to the exterior in a mature condition as globular immotile egg cells (Fucaceie, Fig. 156 G), or they are fertilised at the place where they originated, that is,