THE CELL 344 assume tliat the idioblasts are arranged in a constant regular maimer. This portion of the theory is the most difficult to under- stand. In the above, certain logical principles for the formation of a physiological molecular theory of generation and heredity have been deduced, in accordance with Nageli's views. We must leave the proof of the correctness of these assumptions to future ob- servers and experimenters, who will thereby establish the relation between the theory, and the facts which are perceptible to our senses. The physiological idea of the creation of the organic world from elementary units, and of the essential agreement in the structure of plants and animals, have been of real service in building up the cell and protoplasm theories; in a similar manner we must hope to obtain a corresponding position for the theory of heredity. Several attempts have already been made in this direction, connected with the observations made upon the fertili- sation in animals, plants, and Infusoi-ia. IIL The Nucleus as the transmitter of Hereditary Elemental Germs. The hypothesis that the nuclei are the transmitters of the hereditary properties, was suggested to both Strasburger and myself by the study of the process of fertilisation and of the theoretical considerations connected with it; thus we have assigned to the nuclear substance a function, which is different from that of protoplasm. A short time before, Nageli had been compelled, solely on logical grounds, to assume, that two different kinds of protoplasm were present in the sexual cells, the one sort which occurs in exactly equal proportions in the egg and sperm cell, conveying the hereditary properties, and the other, which is stored up in great quantities in the ovum, functioning chiefly as a nutritive medium. He calls the first idioplasm, and the second somatoplasm, and assumes that the former is more solid in consistency, the micella) being regularly arranged, whilst the latter contains more water, and hence its micella? are less closely united. He imagines that the idioplasm is extended like a fine network throughout the whole cell body. If it be admitted, that the assumption of a separate idioplasm is logically justifiable, it cannot be denied that the nuclear substance probably constitutes the hereditary mass. Further, by means of this theory, a practical interpi-etation lias been given to Nageli's deduction, which was based simply upon