ITS CHEMIC0-PHYS1CAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 43 whilst paranuclein bodies remain almost unaffected ; on the other hand, the latter become better stained in ammoniacal staining solu- tions, such as ammonia, carmine, etc. Many substances, such as eosin, acid f uchsine, etc., have a greater affinity for paranuclein. Hence it is possible, by using two staining solutions at the same time, to stain the nuclein bodies a different colour from the para- nuclein ones, thus bringing about a so-called contrast staining (fuchsine and solid green, hematoxylin and eosin, Biondi's stain); however, since the nature of staining processes is as yet very im- perfectly understood by us, it is not possible at present to lay down general rules concerning the staining properties of these two nu- clear substances. I consider that nuclein and paranuclein are the essential constituents of the nucleus, and that its physiological action depends in the first instance upon their presence. They seem to me to be correlated in some way or other. Flemming (II. 10) has suggested, that the nucleoli may consist of nuclein in a special condition of develop- ment and density, thus representing a preliminary chemical phase of it. The material that we have at present for examination is not sufficient to enable us to decide these questions. The three other substances which may be distinguished in the nucleus, linin, nuclear sap, and amphipyrenin, appear to me to be of much less importance ; it is possible also that they are not always present. The name linin has been applied by Schwarz (II. 37) to the material of which the threads, which frequently form a network or framework in the nuclear cavity, consist; these threads are not affected by the ordinary staining reagents used for the nucleus, and can by this means, as well as by their different chemical re- actions, be easily distinguished from the nuclein, which is deposited upon them in the form of small particles and granules (Fig. 20 A, C). In many respects it resembles the plastin of proto- plasm, and indeed Zacharias has called it by that name. Nucr,EAi{ sap may be present in larger or smaller quantities; it fills up the interstices left in the structures composed of nuclein, linin, and paranuclein. It may be compared to the cell-sap which is contained in the vacuoles of the protoplasm, and no doubt functions in a similar manner, by nourishing the nuclear substances, just as the cell-sap nourishes the protoplasm. By the action of several reagents, such as absolute alcohol, chromic acid, etc., finely granu- lar precipitates are caused to make their appearance in the nuclear