METABOLIC CHANGES 327 Phenomena, which are still more remarkable, and which indi- cate the part played by the nuclei in the formation of the cell- wall, are to be observed during the healing of wounds in Yuncheria. Numerous small nuclei appear in the protoplasm, which collects round about the wound, thus approaching the upper surface, whilst the grains of chlorophyll are forced back in exactly the opposite direction. By this means the nuclei and chlorophyll grains exchange places. This observation immedi- ately refutes the objection, which might otherwise easily be raised, namely, that the nucleus or nuclei are present in those places to which the protoplasm flows in greater quantities, be- cause they are carried along by the protoplasmic stream. For, if this were the case, we should expect to find the chlorophyll grains also in the same places, since these are much smaller than the nuclei, and may even be induced to change their positions by variations in illumination, which have no effect upon the nuclei. "Thus we see," as Haberlandt remarks, "that the nuclei and chlorophyll grains exhibit quite independent changes of position, which, if we assume that they are passive, cannot in any way be influenced by the movements of the granular plasma as a whole. These phenomena—that the streaming protoplasm to a certain extent selects the bodies/jwhich it carries along with it, in the one case taking the larger cell-nucleus, and leaving the smaller chro- matophores and neglecting the cell nuclei, which are as small or even much smaller—can only be explained by supposing, that their role is to effect definite accumulations, which depend upon the functions of the nuclei and the chromatophores." Korschelt (VIII. 8) has demonstrated, that relations, similar to those described by Haberlandt, as existing between the position and the functiou of the nuclei in plant cells, are also present in animal cells. Ova increase considerably in size, by absorbing large quantities of reserve materials. In these, the germinal vesicle is frequently found in that place, where the absorption of material must of necessity take place. Thus, for instance, in one species of Goelen- terates, the ova are derived from the endoderm and are nourished by the gastrovascular system by means of endodermal cells. In conformity with the above-stated law the germinal vesicles of young ova are situated superficially near to the surface of that wall, which is turned towards the gastric cavity (Fig. 1(54). In many Actinice (Hertwig, VIII. 5b) the ova, for a considerable