210 THE CELL into several portions (Fig. 102 G). As the disintegration pro- gresses, it may be broken up into a larger number of smaller Fig. 102.-^1 Side view of a perforated nucleus from the lymphatic peripheral layer of the liver of Triton alpestris. The nucleus is flattened in the direction of the perforation (after Goppert, PI. XX, Fig. 4). B Perforated nucleus with distinct radial arrangement of the nuclein framework (after Goppert, PI. XX., Fig. 4). C Ring-shaped nucleus ot a iymph cell divided into several portions by constrictions (after Goppert, PI. XX.,Fig. 10). nuclei, which are sometimes connected for a long time by delicate connecting bridges. Similar " perforated nuclei" have been ob- served in other objects by Flemming (VI. 16) ; for instance, in the epithelium of the Frog's urinary bladder. However, in this case, division of the cell body does not appear to occur. Direct nuclear division occurs also occasionally in the vegetable kingdom. Certain objects, like the long internodal cells of the Characese, or older cells of more highly organised plants, are most suitable for observing it; thus Strasburger (II. 41) observed in the older internodes of Tradescantia more or less irregular nuclei which are divided into portions of varying size and shape. " If the indentation is one-sided, the cell nuclei appear kidney-shaped ; but if they are indented all round, they look biscuit-shaped, or irregularly lobulated. In many cases the fragments have quite separated from one another, either still remaining in contact, or lying at a greater or less distance from one another. These nuclear fragments may number as many as eight to ten in one cell." In Characeaa the nuclei may temporarily assume the appearance of a string of pearls in consequence of several con- strictions having occurred. This appearance passes away when the fragmentation is completed. However, even if constrictions of the nucleus are observed, it cannot be immediately taken for granted that direct division is commencing, unless this method of multiplication has been already observed in all its stages in the object in question. Thus in ova and in sperm-mother-cells, mulberry-shaped or irregularly A B