331 METABOLIC CHANGI'lS Non-nucleated portions of Funaria hygrometrica behave some- what differently, in that they are able to dissolve starch, but cannot develop it, even if they remain alive for six weeks. When a Vaucheria thread is divided into various sized masses of protoplasm, some of which contain nuclei, we find that the vital activity of these, as well as the separation of a new cellulose membrane, depends upon the presence in each, of at least one cell-nucleus. (Haberlandt, VIII. 4.) Results, which are no less important than those obtained with plants, are observed when Amcebw, Reticidaria and Ciliata are cut up. Nussbaum (VIII. 9), Gruber (VIII. 3;, Hofer (VIII. 6), and Verworn (VIII. 10) all agree that only nucleated parts are able to replace organs which they had lost, and thus to reconstruct them- selves into normal individuals, that grow and multiply. Non- nucleated portions, even when they are larger than the nucleated ones, are unable either to replace the lost organs or to grow, but for some time, often for more than fourteen days, appear to lead a kind of pseudo-existence; eventually, however, they disintegrate. Thus the formative activity of protoplasm appears to be primarily influenced by the nucleus. This is less certainly established in the case of the other functions of the cell, viz. power of move- ment, irritability and processes of digestion. As regards these the opinions of different observers vary. Hofer observed that a non-nucleated portion of an Amoeba, after the first stage of irritability occasioned by the operation had passed off, exhibited for from fifteen to twenty minutes, move- ments which were nearly normal. He ascribes this to an after- effect of the nucleus, which, he considers, exerts a regulating influence upon the movements of the protoplasm. For whilst, further, the nucleated part extends pseudopodia like a normal individual, and propels itself forwards, the non-nucleated part contracts up into a round body, and only occasionally, after pauses of many hours' duration, makes abnormal, jerky movements ; it does not attach itself to the bottom of the glass, as crawling AmcehcB do, and in consequence vibrates upon the slightest move- ment of the water. Verworn discovered that the protoplasm in Bifflugia was still more independent of the nucleus. Even small non-nucleated por- tions extended long finger-like pseudopodia in a manner character- istic of an uninjured Rhizopod, and continued their movements even for five hours. Further, they were unimpaired as regards