238 THE CELL which was produced by budding, receive from the two bundles of four segments two daughter-bundles each containing two seg- ments. Here also the second division follows the first so closely, that the resting stage is omitted. Out of the material of that half of the spindle which remained behind in the egg-daughter-cell, a second complete spindle develops directly, containing only four segments, arranged in pairs. A second budding produces both the second polar-cell (Fig. 127 IV.), and the grand-daughter egg- cell, or the mature egg, each division product containing only two nuclear segments. If we disregard the fact that the division products, when the egg is ripe, are very unequal in size (budding), the processes which take place resemble so exactly those already described as occurring during sperm formation, that through them some light is thrown upon the raison d'etre of the polar-cells. Whilst on the one hand four spermatozoa (Fig. 126 III., A, B, C) develop out of a sperm-mother-cell (Fig. 126 /.), on the other only one egg capable of being fertilised (Fig. 127 V.) and three abortive eggs arise out of an egg-mother-cell. These latter still remain in a rudimentary form, although they play a part in the physiologically important division with reduction. It has been noticed in many other objects besides Nematodes, that the mature sexual products only possess half as many nuclear segments as the tissue cells of the organism in question; this was observed by Boveri (VI. 6) in the mature egg-cells of the most various classes of the animal kingdom, by Flemming (VI. 13 II.), Platner (VI. 52), Henking (VI. 27), Ishikawa (VI. 40), Hacker (VI. 24), vom Rath (VI. 55), in mature spermatozoa of Salamandra, Oryllotalpa, Pyrrhocoris, Cyclops, etc., and by Guignard (VI. 23 b), in the nuclei of the polar-cells, which are formed during fertilisa- tion, and in the nucleus of the mature egg-cell of Phanerogamic!. Maupas (VII. 30) and Richard Hertwig (VII. 21) observed that a reduction of nuclear substance occurs also in Infusoria before fertilisation; however, further details on this subject are given later, on p. 269 (Chapter VII.). In all the above-mentioned cases, the reduction of nuclear sub- stance occurs before the egg-cell is fertilised by the spermatozoon. It appears, however, that the reduction of nuclear substance may occur after fertilisation has taken place, as a priori appears quite possible, as a result of the first division. At any rate that is the