244 Til K CKIA, egg nucleus, but which remain isolated in the yolk, very freqnently give rise to peculiar, multipolar nuclear figures. They next become transformed into small sperm spindles. Neighbouring spindles then frequently approach each other, so that two pole radiations, and consequently the centrosomes which they contain, are fused together to form one. In this manner the most various collections of spindles may be produced according to the amount of coalescence which occurs, especially when over-fertilisation has taken place to a high degree. Further the multi-radiated figure, proceeding from the over-fertilised egg nucleus, may become yet still more complicated in structure by the formation of male nuclear spindles. The interesting discoveries of Denys on the giant cells of bone marrow, and of Kostanecki (VI. 46) on those in the embryonic livers of mammals, may be explained in a similar manner. Several centrosomes, proportionate in number to the nuclei, are present in the cell. Hence when the whole cell contents commence to divide, several centrosomio radiations have to develop, and amongst these the nuclear segments, which under certain circumstances may number several hundreds, arrange themselves in peculiarly branched nuclear plates, such as have been depicted by Kostanecki in Fig. 132. When subsequently the mother-segments split up into daughter-segments, these move off in groups towards the Fig. 132. Fig. 133. Fig. 132.—Multicentrosomic nuclear division figure, with several groups of mother- segments, from a giant cell from the liver of a mammalian embiyo. (After Kostanecki.) Fig. 133.—Multicentrofomic nuclear division figure of a giant cell from the liver of a mammalian embryo; the daugbter-segn ents form several groups, which have travelled towards the numerous centrosomes. (After Kostanecki.) poles of the complicated nuclear division figure, where they form a large number of small spheres (Fig. 133). Later on, a nucleus develops out of each sphere; finally the giant cell splits up into as many portions as there were nuclei—that is to say, spheres consisting of daughter-segments—present in the cell. The observations of Henneguy (VI. 28) on Trout eggs belong to