CEREBRAL SOFTENING. 99 posterior commissure. Cells of anterior coriiua somewhat atrophied and loaded with pigment-granules. Similar appearances were found in those regions of the spinal cord which correspond to the other para- lysed and atrophied muscles. Clarke observes with regard to the atrophy of muscles that he entertains no doubt that it depends upon atrophy of the ganglia of their nerves. The transparent grey degene- ration (sclerosis) of all these regions of the cord which supplied these nerves, and the great amount of corpora amylacea and pigment-granules in the nerve-cells, confirm this idea, both in this case and in others which Lockhart Clarke has examined. In one of these latter it is interesting to note that the symptoms commenced soon after a swnstroke, and Thudichum's patient was taken ill soon after a violent fall and blow on the back of the head. Clarke thinks that shock to the brain may have been the cause of the mischief in both cases, and suggests that careful inquiry should always be made for a possible cause of this kind. Finally, it is very interesting to note that sensation was reported to be everywhere perfect throughout Thudichum's case, notwithstanding that in the middle of the lumbar enlargement the superficial halves of the posterior columns were softened to pulp, and that here a large pro- portion of the posterior roots were quite lost. These facts support the conclusion that the posterior columns cannot be the only channels for sensitive impressions, an opinion at which Clarke arrived in 1853, two years before Brown-Sequard's announcement of it. Cerebral Softening. Upon this subject three noteworthy treatises have been produced in France by MM. Preyost and Cotard, Dr. Adrien Proust, and Dr. Laborde. MM. Prevost and Cotard* have studied afresh, both from a clinical and experimental point of view, the pathology of the disease. Their experiments consisted of ingenious modifications of the proceedings adopted by various German observers, and by Yulpian and Charcot in France, for producing artificial embolism. They injected into the arte- rial circulation of dogs water holding in suspension inert bodies cal- culated to be arrested in the smaller arteries. Previous experiments had proved that such injections, passed into the carotid, in the direction of the brain, produced remarkable effects. But former experimenters had employed inert substances of such small size that their diffusion was very wide and general, and extended into the finest vessels of the brain. The spores of lycopodium answer to this description. Now, when such bodies are injected in considerable numbers into the carotid, the result is an abrupt and severe interference with the cerebral func- tions, and rapid death preceded by coma and convulsions. Prevost and Cotard bethought them of injecting larger bodies, which would be arrested before reaching the smaller arterial ramifications, and, accord- ingly, they employed tobacco seeds. In their first series of experiments * '£tudes physiologiques ct pathologiques sur le Ramollisscment Cerebral,' par J. L. Prevost et J. Cotard, Internes lies Hopitaux, Paris, Ad. Delahaye, 1866.