348 REPORT ON SURGERY. method of Mott, no difficulty was experienced in placing a ligature on the innominate artery a quarter of an inch helow its bifurcation, and another on the carotid, an inch above its origin. On tying the former all pulsation stopped in tbe tumour. The temperature of the arm and hand was immediately increased, and in about 48 hours after the operation a perceptible undulatory motion was discovered in the arteries of the wrist. But little diminution was yet apparent in the size of the aneurism, and, except some slight febrile action, soon sub- siding, no other constitutional disturbance was observed. The patient was now able to lie down for the first time in two months, and all went on favorably until the 29th. He complained, however, for the first few days of a burning pain in his arm, different (he said) from the numbness experienced before the operation. The ligature had come away from the carotid artery the day before. " On the 29th of May, 14 days from the time of operating, a severe hemorrhage occurred, causing syncope rapidly, and ceasing of its own accord. At least 16 ounces of blood must have been lost in the space of 3 or 4 minutes. To prevent its recurrence the wound was filled with lint, and a small weight placed upon it to effect compression. Slight hemorrhage, however, to the extent of 2 ounces at a time took place on the 2 following days, and was stopped by the nurse pressing the lint more firmly into the wound. " Finding that something more was necessary to check the bleeding, the idea suggested itself to me of filling the wound with small shot, as a more effectual means of compressing the artery. This expedient, although not exempt as I could see from dangerous consequences, at the same time offered some advantages, the principal among which was, that the pressure of the shot on the artery might possibly aid in effect- ing its occlusion. In removing the lint for this purpose hemorrhage recurred, and I found that the shot fully answered my expectations in checking it—so much so, that wishing to remove the ligature from the innominate, believing it now to be a useless source of irritation, I felt safe in pulling it away even against some resistance. " A slight oozing, sufficient to stain the lint placed over the surface, followed for the two subsequent days, when it ceased, and all went on well for a fortnight more. The patient felt some difficulty in swallow- ing and an occasional desire to cough, about which, however, he made little complaint. The aneurism diminished rapidly in size, and pulsa- tion became quite distinct at the wrist. "The shot sinking gradually in the wound, I began to entertain some fears of its getting out of reach, and, on the 17th of June, I picked about half of it out with forceps, but in 5 hours, hemorrhage returning, it was immediately replaced. Slight bleeding, however, still recurred at intervals of two and fifteen days and was checked without difficulty. " On the night of July 5th, being sent for with the announcement that the patient was dying, I discovered, on getting to his bedside, that he had had a terrific hemorrhage, exceeding in quantity the first, on the 29th of May; he had fainted, was pulseless and gasping in a frightful manner. The bleeding having ceased, I placed a compress of