AMYLOID DEGENERATION Oi' THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 177 at the level of the enlarged follicles, and perpendicularly to their surface, they are seen to be surrounded by a large number of altered capillaries. These give oft* very fine transparent branches, which penetrate into the interior of the follicles. These small vessels, even in the interior of the follicles, have undergone amyloid degeneration. The follicle itself is filled with a number of small amyloid granules, and sometimes with a greater or less considerable amount of amyloid concretions. These alterations are in every respect comparable with that which the spleen undergoes in amyloid degeneration. In this first degree a small number only of the vessels of the submucous tissue are diseased, and in the mucous membrane and its glands catarrhal changes only are found. The disease is, in persons dying at this stage, generally most marked at the end of the small and in the large intestine. Generally, however, on examining the remaining part of the digestive canal, points may be found where the vessels of the mucous membrane have undergone de- generation ; and there is usually enlargement, with a similar degene- ration, of the mesenteric glands. The second stage is characterised by the transformation of the diseased follicles, and the extension of the degeneration sometimes through the whole thickness of the alimentary canal. A short time after the swelling of the follicles the central depression gradually enlarges, and becomes surrounded with a yellowish circle. In a short time the follicle is replaced by small, more or less elevated circles, in which some thickened vessels end, and having in the centre a somewhat pulpy yellowish substance. In a more advanced stage this yellow matter disappears, the mucous membrane and the follicles no longer exist, and amyloid ulceration is established. These changes take place both in Peyer's patches and in the closed follicles; hence, there are generally developed two characteristic anatomical changes, which may be called amyloid reticulated patches, and amyloid erosions, or ulcers. The re- ticulated patches are due to the degeneration of Peyer's patches. Whitish prominent lines, circumscribing depressed spaces so as to give the appearance of a more or less fine lacework or honeycomb, represent exactly the distribution of the vessels which anastomose and ramify around the follicles in Peyer's patches. The meshes are smaller in pro- portion to the implication of the fine vessels in the degeneration. At the periphery are the vascular trunks which supply the patches, equally thickened. In the meshes the destruction of the follicles leaves either ulcers or considerable thinning of the mucous membrane. There is no inflammation in or around the patches ; the intestinal mucous membrane is pale, anEemic, and covered with more or less mucus. On treating the patches with water containing iodine, the whitish lines immediately assume a brownish-red colour, which is changed to a bluish violet oil the addition of a little sulphuric acid. The ulcerations and erosions of the watery follicles are the result of the same changes as are met with in Peyer's patches. They have the appearance of small depressions, or losses of substance, with neatly rounded borders. Sometimes it seems as if a round piece of the mucous membrane had been punched out. The slightly raised edge is furrowed with whitish vessels, of which the principal divisions are visibly thickened. The base is smooth, or a little 12