381 ANATOMY OK THE OVUM. escape. When we speak of the ripening of an ovum we make an entirely hypothetical assumption. What is observed at every menstrua- tion is the ripening of the follicle, and this consists in the increase of the already begun growth and fatty metamorphosis of the wall of the follicle. Professor Dohrn contributes a memoir on the microscopical anatomy of the mature investments of the human ovum (' Monatsschr. f. Gre- burtsk.,' 1865.) His plan was to make sections of ovisacs, after har- dening, and to compare a number of these by juxtaposition. A section near the edge of the placenta traverses from within outwards the amnion, the gelatinous layer, the chorion, the decidua reflexa, and decidua vera. The amnion has two layers—towards the foetus a cel- lular layer, outwardly a layer of young cellular tissue. The cellular layer consists of a single layer of polygonal cells, which adhere closely together. By addition of acetic acid large oval nuclei become appa- rent. On the placental termination of the investment of the umbilical cord, and on the amniotic investment of the placenta, we meet with spots where the cellular layer is swollen, and forms prominences often recognisable by the naked eye. These were first found in man by H. Miiller. These are analogous to the carunculse, long known on the amnion of many animals. They assume at times a plainly papillary form ; in other cases they only form half-shot-like prominences, or only irregular elevations. In the second layer are found connective-tissue forms in various stages of development. This layer passes without a sharp boundary into the Wharton's tissue. The gelatinous layer.— This, which represents the remains of the albuminous fluid which in earber time had collected in large quantity between the chorion and amnion, shows in man no organization. Its consistence, hke its thick- ness, varies much. Chemically, it consists largely of mucin. In sec- tion it looks like a light seam dividing amnion from chorion. Dohrn adopts Bischoff's views concerning this layer. The chorion has towards the foetal side a connective-tissue layer, which is distinguished from that of the amnion by its greater thickness, and by its plainer intersec- tion into intercellular substance. The outer layer is formed of round cells, with a central nucleus. Several layers (from four to ten) of these cells are superimposed. The decidua is never wanting in large, longish cells, with large round nuclei, troubled with fatty droplets and molecular granules. This is the chief formation. They are commonly found in the decidua vera and reflexa. They are not easily isolated. Between these cell-forms there is free fat, and also some free-lying nuclei. A connective stroma is not common. The fatty process is stronger and more dif- fused in the reflexa than in the vera. The further we go from the edge of the placenta the more fatty spots are found. Dohrn has verified the observations of Hegar and Eigenbrodt upon apoplexies of the decidua; fresh and old extravasations are frequently seen. The placenta pre- serves on its fcetal aspect a layer of maternal tissue. The maternal is hardly distinguished from the fcetal element by colour; the maternal lamella shines out white against the fcetal red chorion-villi. This lamella varies much in thickness in different placentas. The layer nearest the foetus exhibits a very sinuous, rarified tissue, the spaces between which