252 REPORT ON SURGERY. will also Lave indicated the necessity for interference, and they are the symptoms of pyemia of a marked character." After describing these symptoms, Prof. Fayrer goes on to the treat- ment of the disease. He insists on good hygienic conditions as pre- ventive measures:—" The earlier the disease is recognised, the more likely is any treatment to be successful. When the pulse quickens and rigors occur—when the discharge begins to assume an ichorous and un- healthy character—when on examination the bone proves to be denuded of periosteum, and the medullary cavity filled with dead bone and pus —I am satisfied that the sooner amputation at or above the next joint is had recourse to, the better is the chance of saving the patient's life. The danger is of waiting too long—long enough for the blood-poison or the capillary embolism to have brought about changes in the viscera which are the precursors, if not the cause, of death The proper time for amputation (or removal of the affected bone) in osteo- myelitis is not difficult to determine, for it should be as soon as possible after ascertaining that the bone is so affected; and, as I have said, the diagnosis is to be made by the constitutional and local symptoms, and by passing a probe into the medulla of the bone. Should it impinge on healthy bleeding medulla near the surface, you may, if the constitu- tional symptoms are not urgent, wait and see if nature will limit the suppuration, and throw off a ring of diseased bone The con- stitutional signs, the state of the pulse, respiration, and temperature, would be important indications of the patient's condition, and they cannot be too carefully studied. A pulse exceeding 120, persistent temperature above 1040, bronchial rales, hurried respiration, and tenderness over the hypochondria, are symptoms that should cause the greatest anxiety on their first appearance, and very speedily decide the fate of the patient or of his limb." The paper concludes with notes of 4 cases, in one of which osteo- myelitis attacked the ulna after the removal of a portion of that bone, with a tumour which grew from it. Amputation of the arm was per- formed, but the humerus was attacked with the same disease ; the patient was too weak to bear reamputation, and died of pyaemia. The post- mortem appearances are carefully described. In the second case osteo- myelitis attacked the femur after primary amputation of the thigh. Amputation at the hip-joint was performed on the 12th day, and the patient, a lad of 16 years of age, recovered. The two others are fatal cases of the disease after injury, to illustrate the course of the affection and its post-mortem appearances. On this subject reference may be made to two cases of amputation at the hip, in osteo-myelitis following on excision of the end of the femur, by the present compiler, in the 1st vol. of 1 St. George's Hospital Eeports,' pp. 151, 152. In the 'New York Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1865, p. 161, Dr. Packard, of Philadelphia, relates a case somewhat similar to Dr. Payrer's, in which the thigh had been amputated for the sequela? of guushot injury of the leg, Aug. 22, 1864. Secondary haemorrhage occurred, aud the femoral artery was tied in Scarpa's triangle Oct. 17. The end of the femur protruded through the soft parts, and 4 inches of it was resected