170 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXK. represents the "dicrotism" (of a fever pulse, for instance). If the valves close sharply, then the notch will be deep; if there be imper- fection, sufficient to produce any considerable regurgitation, the notch will be slight. The character of the " diastolic collapse" (or the fall from the height of the pressure-wave to the bottom of the aortic notch) depends absolutely on the amount of resistance to the heart offered in the arterial and the capillaries. With extreme permeability of capil- laries {e.g. in fever, anamiia) the radial artery empties itself considerably before the aortic valve closes; and to this abbreviation of the systolic expansion of the radial Sanderson gives the name of " capillary collapse." There is very low arterial tension here; such pulses cannot be properly taken unless the spring of the sphygmograph be very weak. The oppo- site condition of great capillary resistance is seen in those cases of chronic kidney disease which lead to hypertrophy of the left ventricle without valvular lesion; here the radial systole is prolonged, and the apex of the curve is much larger and squarer. Thus, then, there are three principal peculiarities in the pulse-curves which are of great service in classifying their characters in disease :— (a) Peculiarities of the mode in which the arteries expand, consequent on altered relations between the force of the heart and the arterial resistance ; (6) peculiarities in diastolic collapse—that is, in the mode in which the pulse is influenced by the closure of the aortic valves ; (c) peculiarities in the mode in which the arteries empty themselves towards the periphery. [The present is evidently a critical time in the progress of sphygmo- graphy ; and as the new discoveries which are being made present some features which may be perplexing to those who are new to the study, I think fit to supplement the foregoing resume by some remarks on the general results which are obtained so far. The first thing to which I shall direct attention is the important developments in the mode of application of Marey's sphygmograph which have been made. Not a little advantage has been gained in accuracy and ease of adjustment by Mr. Berkeley Hill's admirable pad above mentioned. But the supremely important observation which has been made independently by several observers is that, by a more accurate proportionment of the pressure of the tactile spring to the power of the pulse, very much larger and more developed curves can in many cases be obtained than those which M. Marey himself has portrayed. It is in this way that Wolff has arrived at the conclusions above given as to the characters of the normal and pathological pulse. These results were obtained by strengthening the spring in a manner which has been already described. Before seeing Wolff's book, however, I had myself arrived at the conclusion that, under certain circumstances, alterations of the weight of the writing-lever might greatly increase the size of the curves obtained—a heavy lever suit- ing a strong pulse, and a light lever a weak one. Recently Dr. Beigel and Dr. Burdon-Sanderson have each of them demonstrated the occasional ad- vantage of suspending weights in such a position upon the writing-lever as to exercise more or less pressure ; and Dr. Burdon-Sanderson and my- self have constantly been in the habit of weakening the spring (to a de- gree which cannot be done by merely manipulating the screws) by placing