BLOOD-STAINS. 463 mouia be added to the solution, the band in the red (supposing this variety to be present) will disappear, and those in the green will become strengthened. A minute fragment of citric acid may next be placed within the tube, the liquid being stirred up by means of a platinum wire. This will weaken the dark bands in the green, or even make them disappear altogether, if the citric acid is in excess. In that case a little more ammonia must be added, and afterwards a very small particle of a crystal of protosulphate of iron. The cell is then to be immediately covered with a piece of thin glass, and secured with gold-size, so as to exclude the air. Turning the cell over and over for a few minutes is sufficient to enable the protosulphate 'of iron to dissolve and deoxidize the cruorine, changing it into the purple variety, which then gives the characteristic spectrum, with a single band on the green. The specimen may be preserved in this condition for many months. If the blood be very old the cruorine will have become altered into hajmatin, so that it will not dissolve in water. It must then be treated with a drop of water acidulated with citric acid. This leads to the conversion of the cruorine into hsematin, even if it have not already un- dergone this alteration. The spectrum then exhibits a band in the red, and another in the green; and if daylight is used for the examination, there is also one in the blue. On adding a little ammonia, so as to make the liquid distinctly alkaline, and then a small crystal of the protosulphate of iron, the hsematin will be reduced, and will give a spectrum with two bands in the green. Dr. Letheby states that there are no real fallacies in the application of these tests, for although many red solutions may produce on clothing stains like those of blood, and may even give spectra of which the appearance is at first sight like that of one or other of the blood- spectra, yet there are no such liquids which present all the characters of blood when treated with different reagents. Few, if any, will stand the test of ammonia, which only brightens the absorption-bands of blood, while it alters "the appearance of other colours; and if there be doubt, sulphite of potass will remove it, for this bleaches every colour which is likely to be mistaken for that of blood. Among the reds which cut off the blue end of the spectrum, and exhibit black bands in the green, more or less like those of blood, are cochineal, lac-dye, alkanet, madder-red, and munjeet, dissolved in each case in a solution of alum ; but on examining the spectra of these liquids side by side with those of blood, it will at once be seen that the bands are not the same, either in position or character. The chief precautions necessary to be ob- served are the following:—r. The solution should not be too strong, nor, on the other hand, too weak. 2. The reagents (especially the citric acid and the protosulphate of iron) should be added in very minute quantity. 3. The object should be a little out of focus, or the spectrum will contain lines not due to the colouring matter. 4. The width of the slit should be adjusted during the examination, so as to give the best effect. Dr. Letheby states that, in his opinion, the results are most satisfactory when an artificial light is used, such as that of a paraffin lamp or of gas. Dr. Bird Herapath has been the first to employ the micro-spectroscope