299 INJURIES OF THE CRANIUM. the ragged edges of the fracture, are scratching the membranes, and giving rise to an amount of mischief which will very probably terminate in intra-cranial suppuration. No acute symptoms may, perhaps, arise in a given case, but it may degenerate into chronic cerebral irritation. In those cases where the symptoms of the formation of pus are well marked, with paralysis of the side opposite to that struck, the diagnosis would be very probable. " When compression of the brain is caused by a depression of the internal table alone, the patient may become insensible on the receipt of the blow, and remain so. There would be paralysis, more or less, of the side opposite to that struck, but generally the symptoms of com- pression are not well marked. There might, or might not, be a scalp wound, but there would be no injury whatsoever to the external table; if there was a fissure the case would be one of complete fracture of both tables, with depression of the inner one only. Now, if the patient was insensible from the first, it is evident that the above symptoms might result from an intra-cerebral extravasation of blood on the side on which the blow was received, and hence a diagnosis would be impos- sible. But it must be recollected that the compression produced by depressed bone is rarely so complete as that caused by an extravasation of blood, and that when the internal table only is depressed the symp- toms of compression will not be nearly so strongly marked as when both tables are driven into the brain. Hence, the less definite the symptoms of compression, the greater the reason to believe that, they are caused by the internal table only. " There are two cases in which the diagnosis may be made with almost certainty. First, when a person recovers immediately after the blow, but finds there is paralysis of some part of the body opposite to the side struck, and examination fails to detect any injury to the bone; secondly, when, after the blow, no evil consequences arise at first, but in the course of time the patient begins to complain of fixed pain in the part struck, and all the symptoms of chronic cerebral irritation show themselves, although the surgeon cannot find any injury to the external table." The treatment is thus summarised: " I have already stated that the effects produced by a fracture of the internal table are most likely to be similar to those caused by the punctured fracture, but we cannot thereupon follow the treatment adopted in the latter case, inasmuch as fracture of the internal table can never be seen on its immediate occurrence, but only suspected at a later period by the advent of certain symptoms. Hence, the urgency, or persistency, of the symptoms can alone justify the use of the tre- phine in suspected instances of fracture of the internal table; conse- quently a surgeon would be warranted in trephining, on the spot struck, if all the symptoms of intra-cranial suppuration were well marked, and there was paralysis of the side opposite to the injury; so also if the violence had been applied in the course of the middle menin- geal artery, and the symptoms of compression were urgent and per- sistent, together with paralysis of the opposite side; and, likewise, if the patient had been insensible from the first, with obstinate symptoms