355 EYE-PltOTECTOltS FOR MECHANICS. rate sum of $s. 6d. The only peculiarity about them is, that the glass front, instead of being of common glass, which is easily broken, is made of the best plate, i-i6th of an inch in thickness; the glass face is larger than in those commonly used by the men, so that the field of vision is scarcely interfered with, and the surrounding wire gauze is of the best material. They accurately cover the eye, and are maintained in situ by an elestic band around the head. They are efficient protectors, and would, if habitually worn by men who expose their eyes to constant danger, diminish to a very appreciable extent the number of eyes which are lost every year through the want of using this simple pre- caution." Dr. Classen* relates two cases of metamorpliopsy, which show that this aberration of vision depends on differences in the level of the retina, provided there are no irregularities in the refracting media. Such changes of position are, of course, not unfrequently caused by exudation in or under the retina. Diagnostically it may be of import- ance to note that the curved appearance of straight lines is in such cases one of the earliest symptoms ; it disappears after a time, but only owing to the affected portion of the retina gradually losing its percep- tive power. The apparent curvature corresponds to the direction in which the retina is raised; for example, the upper and left quadrant of the retina is affected when a straight line seems bent to the right and downwards. It would hence appear that the arrangement of the objects contained in the visual field, if we neglect the estimation" of depth, depends on the structure of the eye and the superficial expan- sion of the retina, the muscles being in no way concerned. Thus, dis- placements of the retinal elements change the relative position of objects in the manner described; but aberrations in the muscular sense of the ocular muscles displace the whole field of vision, but never its separate constituents with reference to one another; thus, the retina, a part closely allied to the brain, would be the seat of a transformation of physical into psychical processes. The optic nerve would no longer be assigned the office of transmitting retinal images in their proper order to the brain to a so-called central retina, where at length the trans- formation into psychical processes would occur; its business would simply be to connect the retinal irritation with other psychical pro- cesses and sensations.f * 'Arch, fur Ophth.,' x, 2, p. 155. t We may here quote the following articles:—J. J. C. van Woerden, the externally visihle blood-vessels of the eye, both in their healthy and morbid state ; a dissertation published at Utrecht in 1864. T. Leber, anatomical researches on the blood-vessels of the human eye (' Denkschr der kaiserl. Akad. der Wissensch.: Math. Naturw. Classe,' xxiv, 2, p. 297; and 'Arch, fur Ophth.,' xi, 1, p. 1). A. Iwanoff, contributions to the pathological anatomy of the eye ('Arch, fur Ophth.,' xi, 1, p. 135). E. Klebs and Dr. Schiess-Gemuseus, on the pathological anatomy of the eye ('Arch, fiir Ophth.,' xi, 1, P- 235 5 'Arch, fur path. Anat.,' xxxiii, p. 489). M. A. Adams, congenital absence of the eyes (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1865, i, 512). J. Jacobson, wound of the eye by a foreign body penetrating to near the optic nerve ('Archiv fiir Ophth.,' xi, 1, p. 129). R. Berlin, extraction of a foreign body from the sclera near the posterior pole ('Klin. Monatsbl. fiir Augenh.,' 1866, p. 81). G. Lawson, on haemorrhage within the eye from injury ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1865, ii, 582, 604). Rondeau, on reflex ocular affections and on sympathetic ophthalmia, Paris, 1866. J. J. Maats, on sympathetic affections of the eve