REPORT ON SURGERY. 276 location of the head of the femur some months previously, when I proposed the operation to which allusion has been made; but it was not at first acceded to. Extension was, therefore, employed for many months, but without any real advantage being gained; and conse- quently it was determined to resort to operation. " With the assistance of my friend and colleague Mr. Holmes I divided all the muscles which are inserted into and about the tro- chanters, especially the glutei and the rotators. The head of the femur was then drawn down to the acetabulum, and it was found that it remained in that position, and that there was no disposition to displacement. The limb was bandaged to a straight thigh-splint, and sufficient extension was employed to keep the head of the femur in contact with the acetabulum. This was easily effected, there being no disposition to retraction. In two months after the operation con- solidation had advanced about the head of the bone so thoroughly, that there was no disposition for the head of the bone to escape, but it remained perfectly in situ while passive motion was employed. The natural motion of the hip-joint was imitated daily for a month, and the child was then allowed to walk with an instrument, which was so contrived as to. prevent the escape of the head of the bone from the acetabulum, but which allowed the movements of the limb to be free. This instrument was worn during the day for six months. After this time it was not worn constantly, and at the end of twelve months it was discontinued. At that time the child walked strongly and without limping; and, indeed, there was scarcely any peculiarity of gait. She required no other assistance than a thickened sole to her boot, to the extent of about one eighth of an inch, to enable her to walk well. " This case has induced me to propose a similar operation in other cases of a like kind. " In children under two years of age it will probably net be necessary to have recourse to this operation. Through extension alone the head of the femur may be restored to and retained in the acetabulum; but after this age there is great difficulty in preventing the escape of the bone from the cavity; and consequently, if it cannot be other- wise accomplished, subcutaneous section may be had recourse to. I expected to find that considerable muscular weakness would result from the section of the tendons and muscles about the neck of the femur, but this was not so ; and I was much gratified to see the child walk easily and firmly before the instrument which was worn for support was finally discarded. " If, then, the head of the femur can be drawn down to the aceta- bulum, but cannot be there retained, it is justifiable to divide the muscular and tendinous structures which have been above indicated, and to fix the head of the femur upon the acetabulum ; and this operation may be performed at any age prior to the formation of a new joint on the dorsum ilii." In the ' British Medical Journal,' Sept. 8, 1866, Dr. Dick thus describes a new method which he has invented for extracting loose