RAILWAY INJURY. EXCISION OF THE WRIST. 285 where this is not the case they cannot be reduced by operation. 3. That those cases in which there is the most of perceptible displacement during life are not by any means the most serious. Mr. Hutchinson proceeds to support these views by a careful review of the symptoms connected with these injuries, and lays especial stress on the lesions of the sympathetic (" vaso-motor") nerve, and the symptoms thus occasioned. " Disease of the Brain and Spinal Cord consequent on a Eailway Col- lision."—In the ' Path. Soc.Trans.,'xvii,20,Mr. Lockhart Clarke describes the pathological appearances in the nervous centres in the first case where this condition has hitherto been ascertained after old railway injury. The gentleman who was the subject of the injury (3^ years before his death) had been an intelligent active man; after the accident he began to suffer vague and not very acute pains down the back and in the head, and gradually failed both in mind and body. Before his death he could hardly walk, and had lost control over the bladder. The only morbid change in the white columns of the cord (which was diminished in its whole antero-posterior diameter) was in the posterior. These were darker, denser, and more opaque than the antero-lateral. Microscopic examination showed compound granular corpuscles, isolated granules, and an exuberance of wavy fibrous tissue, replacing the nerve- fibres, which in some parts had wholly disappeared. There were also a great number of corpora amylacea. The extremities of the posterior horns contained an abundance of isolated granules, and the transverse commissure was degenerated in parts. The morbid appearances bore a resemblance to what is found in ataxy, and on inquiry Mr. Clarke ascer- tained that the patient's gait was somewhat like that which is found in that affection, but without the jerking or twitching observed in such patients. Lister, "On Excision of theWrist for Caries" ('Lancet,'1865, i, pp. 308, .335) 362).—Mr. Lister commences this valuable communication by observing, that the first idea of resuscitating the operation of excision of the wrist was given him by a case in which from an injury the ends of the radius and ulna were forcibly thrust through the skin in front of of the hand, so that all the flexor and extensor tendons were more or less injured or displaced ; yet the patient recovered the motion of the hand perfectly (after the protruding ends of the bones had been sawn off), under careful and early passive motion. This case proved that the tendons might be freely dealt with in an operation, provided the after-treatment of the case was properly conducted. The great cause of disappointment in previous excisions of the wrist seemed to Mr. Lister to have been the recurrence of the disease, and this he thought would be obviated by the removal of all the bony structures composing the compound articulation, viz. the ends of the radius and ulna, the carpal bones, and the bases of the five metacarpal bones. It is in the cartilage [or pos- sibly Mr. Lister may mean in the portion of bone covered by the cartilage, and therefore forming part of the articulation] that the disease generally recurs. By taking all this away, the best security against recurrence will be obtained.