MUSCULAR TISSUE. STRICTURE. 19 and reptilian retina have been published by Mr. J. W. Hulke, in a separate pamphlet, and he defines the following layers in the retina of these animals: 1. Layer of rods and cones—the bacillary layer or Jacob's membrane. 2. Layer of outer granules. 3. Inter-granule layer. 4. Layer of inner granules, equivalent to Bowman's nummular layer. 5. Granular layer, equivalent to Bowman's grey vesicular matter. 6. Ganglionic layer, equivalent to Miiller's nerve-cell layer and to Bowman's caudal nucleated vesicles. 7. Optic-nerve layer. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th la}rers collectively form H. Miiller's granule layers. All these layers, except the 1st, are traversed radially by a system of delicate connective-tissue-fibres, the relations of which have been most carefully worked out by Schultze. Mr. Hulke has also (; Proceed, of the Royal Society,' vol. 15, p. 189) published the results of his observations on the fovea centralis of the human retina. MUSCLE. The structure of striped muscular tissue has been investigated by Dr. Macnamara ('Med. Times and Gazette,' 1866, p. ,526) with high powers (i-joth), and he has found the muscles of the chameleon well adapted for the purpose. After describing the arrangement of the fibres in fas- ciculi in the usual mode, he observes that every fibre is made up of a bundle of ultimate fibres, each of which is enclosed in a transparent sheath or sarcolemma, and runs continuously from one end of the fibre to the other, so that the length of the ultimate fibre depends upon the length of the muscle.* With regard to the arrangement of the contents of the sarcolemma, he compares it to a ladder of contractile tissue, the steps of the ladder being, however, spiral bands, whereas its side pieces are flat bands, running continuously from one end of the muscle to the other. The horizontal bars connect these perpendicular ones, but, as above stated, are curled upon themselves, like a spiral spring. Between the horizontal bands are open spaces, as is shown by their never becoming stained with carmine. The apparent object of this disposition of the contractile element in muscular fibre is to allow of the contraction of muscle in length without any great augmentation of bulk, the spaces between the horizontal bars allowing of this, and at the same time the spiral arrangement of the cross bands permitting their elongation and contraction upon themselves with- out any stretching or pulling of the delicate substance of which they are composed. He regards the perpendicular and horizontal striation seen in ordinary muscle under moderate powers as produced, the former by the line of union of two primitive fibres or from the creasing of the sarco- lemma, the latter either by the shadows cast upon the open spaces or by the approximation of two horizontal bars. Dr. Nicol ('Schmidt's Jahrbiicher,' Bd. 132, 1866, p. 148) has, under * This has, however, been shown by Rollet and many others (see below) not to hold in all instances, the fibres frequently terminating in long muscles by fusiform cxtremU ties in the body of the muscle itself.—H. P.