159 ULCEEATIVE ENDOCAltDITlS. things was well-nigh certain to produce a bruit. But, in fact, search had been made for the bruit in the wrong place. It was Dr. Gairdner who first explained intelligibly that it was vain to expect the occurrence of a bruit in the second sound of the heart in mitral contraction j for, in fact, the auricle does not contract at this period, but after it, and imme- diately before the production of the first sound. In the case discussed by Wilks Dr. Gull had during life recognised the murmur as plainly presystolic, and had repeatedly declared the existence of mitral con- traction during the patient's life. Dr. H. G. Sutton* also publishes two cases which confirm Dr. Gairdner's opinion, and mentions that he has seen as many as five cases in which the presystolic murmur was heard during life ; in all of them the mitral orifice was found greatly contracted. He speaks also of a class of cases in which there is a very short presystolic, followed by a long systolic, bruit; this is much the commonest form of mitral affec- tion after acute rheumatism, and does not involve great diminution of the size of the mitral orifice. Ulcerative Endocarditis. Dr. Johann Schnitzlerf remarks that the disease which bears this name, though familiar enough to us as regards its pathological anatomy, from the clinical point of view is as yet hardly more than a name; yet it really presents a very complete unity. Schnitzler gives the following picture of the disease. It occurs usually in middle life, most frequently as a sequel of articular or puerperal rheumatism, and probably some- times of chronic valvular disease. Schnitzler is inclined to regard the primary affection as a constitutional disorder. Pathological anatomy.— As far as yet appears, endocarditis of this kind passes rapidly into destructive softening; the valves are perforated, broken up, in parts quite destroyed; the detritus is carried away, and produces capillary embolism. Occasionally, aneurism of the valves is produced, which may cause rupture and patency; this is but rarely repaired. There is a loud bruit, the place and time of which indicates the affected valve. Pro- gnosis.—Cases of recovery have not hitherto been met with. Diagnosis. —At first this is often quite impossible, and at a later stage it is possible to confound the disease with typhus, puerperal fever, and even pyaemia and intermittent fever; careful examination of the heart is of the first importance, and even this may be fruitless, especially if the patient be not seen till a late stage, the more so as the symptoms of ulcerative endocarditis develop with uncommon rapidity. The character, inten- sity, and duration of the bruits are to be especially regarded. Besides this, ulcerative endocarditis is to be suspected if in a patient who has hitherto been either healthy, or only affected with rheumatism or other slight ailments, a sudden access of fever, palpitation, and dyspnoea occurs; the diagnosis will be rendered certain if symptoms of embolism have preceded. Moreover, the endocarditis extends to the tendi- nous structures, and sometimes reaches the muscular stratum. The * ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' March 24, 1866. t 'Wien. Med. Presse,' 15, 16, 18, 21, 1865; 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1865.