ASCITES. 181 the friction-sounds of the liver and spleen, but also those connected with the stomach and intestines. The uterus, the bladder, and fixed tumours, appear unaffected by them. M. Seidel says that he has never met with a spontaneous non- rhythmic friction-sound. The peristaltic movements, which alone can produce such a sound, are generally impaired by peritonitis ; and when opium is given in largo doses, are almost completely abolished. The characters of peritoneal friction-sound are very variable; it presents all the varieties met with in the pleura and pericardium. Its detection is often rendered difficult by the gurgling of the intestinal gases, and hence auscultation must be of longer duration than in other situations. Other difficulties arise from the propagation of the respira- tory impulse, and from pain preventing sufficient pressure from being made with the stethoscope. Ascites. M. Desclaux* relates a case of ascites treated with success by iodine injection.—A woman, aefc. 50, after repeated attacks of articular rheu- matism, had oedema of the extremities, and afterwards ascites, for which paracentesis was performed on January 9, 1864. As there was trace of organic disease, Desclaux, believing the ascites to be dependent on rheumatic affection of the peritoneum, injected, on January 30, a mixture containing about half au ounce of tincture of iodine and 15 grains of iodide of potassium, in ounces of warm distilled water, allowing it to remain in the abdomen during two or three minutes. Severe pain, which soon abated, was felt in the left iliac fossa at the time of injection. There was no vomiting, no nausea; the urine was more abundant after the injection. Severe pain in the hypochondria set in on March 2, and was treated by embrocations of squills and digitalis, with cataplasms; and sulphate of quinine, infusion of cinchona, and purgatives, were given internally. As the pain, which was believed to have a rheumatic source, disappeared from the hypochondria, there was a renewal of the symptoms of rheumatism in the right knee, elbow, and shoulder. On April 9 the condition of the patient was in all respects satisfactorv. F. DISEASES OF THE SECBETOKY SYSTEM. Liver Diseases. Dr. Grainger Stewartf writes on acute yellow atrophy of the liver, commenting on two cases. Both the patients were pregnant females. In the first, a woman ast. 35, the signs of yellow atrophy of the liver were well marked; in the second the kidneys were principally affected. The tubules of those organs were distended, partly with epithelial cells, some brownish and containing much granular matter, others containing fatty molecules and globules, and others represented by groups of oil-globules enclosed in * ' Union Med.,' 122, 1865. t ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1865 ; ibid., Jan. i8f 6.