RBPOBT ON MEDICAL JUllISl'IlUUE.NtE. f 'Ann. d'llyg.,' 2eine suric, xxiii, p. 340. n.i in a medico-legal inquiry.* The case was that of liobert Coe, who was tried for the murder of John Davies, at Aberdare. The stains were found on the handle of a hatchet, beneath the iron ring. Blood- globules were obtained from these stains, and a solution examined by the micro-spectroscope yielded the two dark absorption-bands. Hanging. M. Tardieu relates t a case in which a woman was found dead, having been hanged either during life or after death, and in which there was great difficulty in determining the question between suicide and murder. The woman, aged 48, was found lying dead in an outhouse at half-past 8 a.m. Those who were first on the spot, being called by the cries of her husband, saw the body seated, as it' it had fallen against a pile of wood beneath a beam to which a rope was attached. This rope was found broken when the body was discovered ; but it was clear that it had been used in the following manner:—It was doubled, and it had its free ends tied round the beam in a knot formed by a single bow (so that pulling on these ends would at once have unfastened the rope); the loop thus produced (which would have hung downwards) had been made into a noose by means of a knot. The rope gave way at the spot where the loop pulled upon the vertical part of the rope. Hence, when the body was discovered the rope was found fastened to the beam by a single bow (as above described), and terminated below in two free ends, which corresponded to one another, the two portions being kept together by a knot a little above this point. The position of the body was compatible with the supposition that it lay where it had fallen when the rope gave way. The corpse wras only partially clothed. It is said that, even when first discovered, it was cold and stiff. It is, at any rate, certain that Dr. Abadie (the first medical man to arrive) found the face and trunk cold, and tho body markedly rigid. There were evident signs of constriction round the neck ; these consisted in a circular mark, single or (according to some) made up of two marks placed close together, less defined on the left side of the neck, and bending upwards slightly on this side. Immediately below this spot, where the constriction was less distinct than elsewhere, were eight small ecchymoses, looking like bruises, arranged regularly in two horizontal rows of four each, those in the upper row being oval, those in the lower row nearly circular in form. The lobule of the left ear also presented an ecchymosis. The constric- tion on the neck was of a brownish colour, and the skin, as well as the cellular tissue beneath, was commencing to dry up into a parchment- like substance. There was no doubt that the mark round the woman's neck was caused by the rope found on the beam. The beam itself was indented by the rope, showing that the weight suspended by it must have been considerable. It was, indeed, objected that the line of constriction on the woman's neck ought to have been wider at some one spot than else- where, corresponding to the position of the knot in the rope ; but M. * ' Pliarm. Journ.,' vii, p. 530.