REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 48 Borne slight doubt on the fact of the patients having died while still in collapse ?). But, further, it is to be remarked that of the 2 cases in which both lungs showed geuuine collapse 1 had the right chambers almost empty and the other had loth sides of the heart full. It is, however, to be somewhat regretted that the exact weights of the lungs have not been recorded, a point which Johnson naturally considers very important. A series of clinical facts, which bears directly on pathology, is dealt with by Mr. J. M'Carthy and Mr. Dove,* as resulting from observations at the London Hospital, with regard to the temperature in cholera. It was proved that there is no foundation for the notion that death results from great cooling of the body, for even in a case of extreme collapse, with rapid death, the thermometer at the time marked q6°-8 Fahr. in the axilla. The extreme ranges here seen in the disease were oi0,2 and io50,6. In the stage of "reaction" the tem- perature was often below normal throughout, and was sometimes even lower than it had been in collapse. In a few cases comparative obser- vation was made on the temperature of the rectum or vagina, and it was remarked that there was during collapse a considerably higher temperature in these parts (in 1 case a difference of 5°'4 Fahr.) during collapse, and that as the case progressed the internal temperature fell, while the external rose, till they were again equalised. Mr. F. Mac- kenzie! has some independent observations on the same subject; he comes to the following general conclusions:—1. The temperature in the axilla, rectum, or vagina, will show to some extent the severity of the attack. 2. The temperature cannot be estimated by the baud at all correctly, especially in reaction; a good deal of care and time is necessary to get reliable observations. 3. The temperature in the axilla will rise 20 Fahr. after a severe attack of cramps; this may be caused by muscular exertion and consequent acceleration of respiration at the same time. 4. The frequency of respiration and the temperature in rectum or vagina seem to have some relation to each other; the more hurried the respiration the higher the temperature will be. 5. Cases in which the respirations are more than 40 in the minute and the temperature above 1 oi° Fahr. rarely recover. 6. The temperature of the body in roseola cholerica is raised in proportion to the severity of the eruption. In connection with these observations at the London Hospital we must cite the experience of M. Charcot.^ This observer made his researches at the Salpetriere, upon the temperature of the rectum, axilla, and palms of the hands, simultaneously. The patients were 10 in number; 7 of these were aged from 69 to 84, and the other three respectively 30, 59, and 47. Charcot remarks, after detailing his cases, that, taking 990 Fahr. as the normal temperature, it will be observed that the temperature of the rectum was raised in every case except one (No. 7) ; the temperature observed in which was a minimum sometimes, but rarely, met with in old persons in health. Some of the highest temperatures (e. g. observations 3, 4, and 6) were met with at the same time that algidity and cyanosis were most * 'Load. Hosp. Reports,' loc. cit. f Ibid. % ' Gaz. Med.,' xi, 1866.