03 CEREBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. following propositions, which I give in the order in which they were successively established:—i. That it has been no ordinary English fever. 2. That it has not been the relapsing fever, which in certain epi- demics has been observed to present varieties simulating tropical yellow fever. 3. That it is bondjide the West Indian yellow fever itself. The records of a case, which differed in no essential respect from most other fatal cases, and which is chosen for quotation here because one day's note contains all essential points, will exhibit something of the evidence on which these propositions are based. "Bachel Williams, aged 35, married, living on the island at the top of Cobre Eow. Ailing in no definite way for a week before 27th September, when she was seized with diarrhoea and vomiting, button 2Sth was well enough to go to church in the evening. On the morning of 29th had rigor and intense frontal headache, and when seen by Mr. Andrew Davies at 10£ a.m. had violent pain in loins and along spine, eyes suffused and face flushed, great general heat of the skin; no jaundice; pulse 132. Ordered calomel and James's powder every four hours, with cold to head. Seen again at 10 p.m., when a slight im- provement was noted.—September 30th, 10 a.m. Less pain in head and back; pulse 118 ; temperature much less ; no vomiting or epigas- tric pain; two stools; plenty of natural-looking urine.—October 1st. Vomited four times in night between 3 and 5 a.m. ; everything vomited was black; light brown stool last night. Seen by Mr. Davies and myself at 2 p.m. Pace pale, lips bluish; peculiar frown; no wan- dering or coma. Says ■ she feels better.' Skin cool; sweating, feet cold; temperature in axilla 98"4°; trace of yellowness in conjunctiva?; no oedema of feet; pulse 94, very small and soft; tongue dryish black ; frequent efforts to vomit; vomita copious black, a black powder sus- pended in a somewhat glairy looking liquid; no tympanitis; epigas- trium very tender; two stools to-day; one seen is semi-solid, mixed black and grey, mottled. No urine passed to-day, unless a teaspoonful of pale fluid with the stool be urine. The black vomit was strongly acid, and when microscopically examined was found to consist (a) of blood-corpuscles, (a) unchanged, red and white, (5) small and shrunken; (c) disintegrated, (d) massed into large yellow irregular lumps, in which separate shrunken corpuscles were sometimes recog- nisable ; (b) of epithelium, (a) squamous, (b) columnar, (c) spheroidal, (d) free nuclei. The vomit when filtered yields a liquid almost colour- less, and having none of the reactions of bile. On the same day, October 1st, at 5 p.m., delirium began, and when seen by Mr. Davies at 6 p.m. she was insensible, with trismus and general rigidity of the muscles. Skin cold, but not blue; frequent vomiting of some black fluid; pulseless at wrist; no urine. Died, at 6.50 in same state. When her body was seen next day, was very yellow, with streaks of blue in the face, and the hands and finger-nails blue. I pressed hard for an autopsy, but her husband would not permit it. " This woman and her husband lived by themselves in a tidy house on the island at the entrance to Richardson's copper-ore yard, which adjoins the Cobre Company's yard. In a straight line, the house would be about 130 yards from the place where the Hecla unloaded, and