REPORT ON MATERIA MRDICAj ETC. J so itself. It is said that the acrid principle is dissipated by drying the bulb. But if the dried scales are softened with water and rubbed over the surface of the skin, they give rise to just the same effects as when the recent juice is brought into contact with the same part. The crystals are found by Schroff to be composed of oxalate of lime, and not of the citrate or tartrate, as had been asserted. The active principle of this drug has not yet been isolated. The name of scillitin has been applied to matters of various kinds. Schroff experimented with a substance prepared by Merck, of Darmstadt, under this name, but it was merely a very bitter brownish extract. Experi- ments on rabbits showed that its action was mainly on the nervous Bystem. The animals became very feeble, and dragged their hind legs after them. Trembling afterwards came on, and intense fits of shivering, in which the hind legs were spasmodically drawn forwards. The pupils were dilated. The breathing became slower, and death oc- curred by paralysis of the heart. In animals poisoned by scillitin the stomach and intestines were but slightly injected. The effects of the ordinary extract of squill, prepared from the outer (but not the outermost) scales, were less purely nervous than those of the scillitin, and showed that this part of the bulb contains an acrid matter. The strength of this extract was found to be 12 times as great as that of the bulb itself. Schroff's experiments confirm the general opinion that squill acts especially on the urinary and on the respiratory organs. The kidneys were found engorged, and the urine was increased in quantity, or even contained blood. The more abundant the acrid principle in the extract, the more were the lungs found to be affected. He thinks that the medicines of which the action approaches nearest to that of squill are colchicum and helleborus. He says that it does not exhibit that specific action on the heart which belongs to digitalis. Concerning this point, however, I may refer to some expe- riments of which I have spoken in the Report on Medical Juris- prudence when treating of the application of physiological tests for poisons. Prof. Bernatzik* has continued his investigationf of the therapeutic value of the different constituents of cubebs by administering these various principles in cases of gonorrhoea. The results which he has obtained differ very widely from those which he had anticipated. From the fact that the ingestion of the volatile oil of cubebs leads to the presence of a large quantity of resinous matter in the urine, he had inferred that the oil is the principal active ingredient of the drug, as it is, undoubtedly, the substance to which the peculiar taste is due. However, a medical man affected with a recent gonorrhoea took two drachms of the oil daily for some days, and continued the treatment for 3 weeks without any good result. The conclusion that the oil possesses no therapeutical value in gonorrhoea was confirmed by experiments, in which the resinous substances obtained by oxidation of the oil were * ' Prag. Vjhrrschrft.,' lxxxv, p. 81. t See the ' Year-Book' for 1S64, p. 434-