CANCER. INJECTION WITH ACETIC ACID. 227 on the microscopic slide, and might be expected to do this when the cells were in situ. 4. That it has been applied with advantage to open cancer and to cancerous ulcerations. The experiment was made ; and it was found that acetic acid, though in healthy tissues it causes severe smarting and burning, unless very strong, gives little pain when thrown into malignant structure ; on the other hand, it acts energetically on cancer, but has comparatively little effect on normal structures. Dr. Broadbent speaks thus with respect to the details of the injection: —" I am not prepared to lay down precise rules for the employment of the acid; but my experience inclines me to the use of a large quantity of dilute acid, rather than a smaller proportion in more concentrated form. The strongest acid I have used has been composed of equal parts of water and of the strong acetic acid of the Pharmacopceia; the weakest, 1 part to 4 or 5. li The injection should be gradual, especially when the tumour is dense, as pain may be inflicted, either by escape of acid by the side of the needle or by the tension caused by the fluid forced in. The indication I shall take for my guidance will be pain. "When this attends any operation, I should reduce the strength of the acid and the force of the injection until it is no longer severe, and only when this has proved in- operative go on to more energetic measures. Dr. Richardson's ether spray apparatus will be most useful in preventing pain." Dr. Broadbent's pamphlet contains detailed notes of 4 cases under his own care. "We cannot reproduce these cases in much detail, but will state their general effect. The first was that of a lady aged 60, who had had a cancerous tumour of the breast twice removed with the knife, the tumour having recurred near the cicatrix. The tumour was injected 5 times in 6 weeks with about 20 or 30 minims of a mixture of acetic acid to 2 or 3 parts of water, with the effect of causing shrivelling of the tumour at the inner part and a cavity between the tumour and the skin to which it had been adherent; but as the tumour continued to spread upwards towards the shoulder, it was now injected every day. This caused sloughing. Dr. Broadbent says—" The energetic measures taken seem to have had the present result of removing entirely the remains of the disease. Time will show whether it will again reappear. On Aug. 12 every part of the wound was granulating; on Sept. 4 it was nearly healed." The second case was one of cancer in the glands of the axilla, after the removal of a cancerous breast. They were pressing on the vein, so as to cause swelling and loss of motion of the arm, and the glands in the neck were also enlarged. The effects of the treatment were to cause contraction of the diseased glands and diminution of the swelling, with, perhaps, some increase in the power of using the arm. The third case was that of a woman with obstruction of the rectum from a cancerous tumour. This was repeatedly injected with ^ss—5j of the mixture of acetic acid with 2 parts of water, and lint soaked in acid was applied to the surface of the tumour.. Under this treatment the tumour seemed to diminish. Dr. Broadbent reports—" The passage