RBPOBT UN MlUWit'KRY, ETC. 1866) memoirs on difluse ascites, intermittent fever, inflammation of the Ohrdruft" ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,'xlvi, 1866).—He relates several cases ending fatally, with the post-mortem examinations. The symptoms were sudden onset of the illness, violent painful shrieking, twisting and writhing of the body, discharge of blood or bloody mucus from the bowel, with preceding violent straining ; vomiting, often very profuse, of chiefly clotted milk and mucus, very seldom of fcecal matter; in most cases small, hard, abdominal swelling near the navel; expression of deep depression ; hollow, sunken eyes. The duration of the unfavorable cases was from 4—5 days ; in recovery, from :J—4 days. The most constant symptom was vomiting ; as constant was the blood evacuation. Treatment of prolapsus recti in children by subcutaneous injection of sulphate of strychnia. Dr. Foucher ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' xliv, 1865). —To cure prolapsus recti Dr. Toucher has used a solution of 20 centigr. of sulphate of quinine in 20 grammes of water. Ten drops of this solution are injected in the direction of the sphincter ani. C. Binz, of Bonn, contributes a case of, and observations upon, per- forating ulcer of the stomach in new-born children (' Berlin. Klin. Wcbnschr.,' 1865). On the origin and significance of intestinal gases in new-born children. By Prof. Breslau ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' July, 1866). Dr. C. Binz describes ('Virch. Arch.,' 1866) cases of fatal jaundice in new-born children, caused by obliteration of the gall-ducts. Dr. Mettenheimer (1866) relates cases in which it seemed that aphtha? were caused by the use of caoutchouc artificial nipples. Dr. Guersant ('Journ. des Connaiss. Med.,' 1865) describes the forms of vulvitis in young girls ; these are—the simple, the diphtheritic, the ulcerous, the gangrenous, the syphilitic. Diseases of the Chest. Attention is directed to an elaborate memoir on the pneumonia of children by Dr: H. Sahmen (' Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1865). Dr. Guinier, of Montpellier (' Gaz. Hebdom. de Med.,' 1866) discusses the practice of paracentesis of the chest in very young children, and relates a case. On certain diseases of infancy and •childhood. By Dr. Pasquali, of Rome (Genoa, 1865).—The work of Dr. Pasquali is an elaborate memoir on tuberculosis in children. Some cases of spasmodic cough attending tuberculosis of the bronchial glands are narrated by Verliac (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1865). Dr. K. Ferber ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1866) discusses the pathology of diseases of the heart in infancy, especially cyanosis. He shows that these abnormities are sometimes preceded by inflammatory action. Dr. A. Brunniche adds to a previous memoir on the subject (' Bibliotek f. Laeger,' 1864) an interesting history of a case of cyanosis in a child (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlv, 1865). Attention is directed to a series of memoirs by Dr. S. Pappenheim, of Berlin, on the diseases of children in China. These memoirs describe skin diseases and zymotic diseases prevalent in that country ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlv, 1865). Dr. Jos. Bierbanm publishes ('Journ. f. Kinderk.,' xlv, 1865, xlvn,