REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 64 nearer still to the spot where her ore was deposited. The patient's husband (whose case is given in the supplement) was on board the Iiecla once between the ioth and 17th of September. She herself had not been on the vessel, but ' had passed her in going to town, as hundreds of other people did.' None of the crew, nor any of their goods, had been to the house, nor has she met with any of them. Mrs. Williams went on the 23rd September (4 days before her first vomiting, and 6 before her definite headache) to see the dead body of her neigh- bour, Mrs. Brown, whose case is also recorded in the supplement. She was not then alarmed about the fever, but afterwards got very fearful of it. "The patient was seen during life by several medical men, who stated that the fatal cases which they had themselves recently attended exhibited nearly identical characters. It is also well to mention, as having influenced public opinion at Swansea quite as much as the assurances of the doctors, that a Cuban gentleman, Don Pedro Ferrer Landa, saw the body of Mrs. "Williams after death, as well as another case which afterwards recovered, and that he recognised the precise appearances which to a practised non-medical eye are most striking in the progress of yellow fever, and after death from it. He had pre- viously been as incredulous as the doctors themselves at first were as to the possibility of yellow fever extending itself in English latitudes. " The sudden accession, with intense headache and spinal pain ; the high fever, giving place soon to collapse ; the black vomit and yellow skin ; the suppression of urine; the retention of the faculties—these are symptoms which, with death on the third day of illness, appear to establish beyond question the diagnosis of yellow fever. " With regard to the constancy and character of the vomiting, a reference to the annexed cases will show that the symptom was present in all the 15 fatal cases. The vomited matters were unequivocally black in eight of them. Two of these eight vomited some florid blood in addition. In 4 of the fatal cases the vomita were of dark matters, compared variously to coffee grounds, chocolate, and beef-tea grounds, and in one of these vomita blood was also found by the microscope. In another fatal case the vomita consisted of bile and mucus only, and in two others the evidence differs as to whether the sickness was of black matter or not. In the seven cases of recovery vomiting was observed in 6. In none was it black, but in 1 case it resembled beef- tea, in 2 it consisted of bile and ingesta, in 2 of ingesta only, and in 1 the characters were not noted. " To the evidence of symptoms that the outbreak of fever was yellow fever it is to regretted that the corroboration of post-mortem exami- nations could not be added. There was in the minds of the survivors an objection that proved insuperable to permit such an examination to be made. " As to the connection of the disease with the Hecla, the evidence appears conclusive—(o) From the fact that there had been for months no other vessel in the harbour that had had any yellow fever on board. (b) From a consideration of dates. A vessel which has acknowledgedly lost part of its crew from yellow fever, and which lands a man on her