43 MALARIAL FEVERS. surfaces soon became dry, feverish, and constricted, with a heavy con- gested sensation and dull pain. These symptoms lasted about 2 hours after leaving the bog. The same symptoms were experienced by Dr. Salisbury, as well as others, in visiting localities in which the palmelloid cells were found, and in some of which ague was prevalent; and in every case where ague prevailed, without a single exception, the "ague- plants" were found growing in the vicinity of the disease, and in no iustance were they found where the disease did not occur. Having related several instances which in his opinion further prove the connection between these cryptogamic bodies and intermittent fever, Salisbury relates that the urine of several hundred persons suffering from remittent and intermittent fever, on being examined, in some cases before treatment had commenced, in others after treatment had continued some days with or without interrupting the paroxysms, was found to contain the " ague-plant." The ague-plants, says Salis- bury, occur in the urine in the form of little cottony flocks, so small as to be scarcely noticeable by the naked eye, and too few to render the fluid turbid. They are more abundant when the disease is severe and has continued some time. They are very light in colour, highly trans- parent, and appear to be developed in the bladder, renal pelves, and ureters. The results of the examinations of the urine Salisbury con- siders to establish the fact that the ague-plants are constantly being developed in the organism of the intermittent-fever patient, and that the urinary organs (with the perspiratory system) are the principal channels of elimination. Salisbury has also found, in intermittent fever, torula cells in the urine, indicating the presence of glycogenic matter, and also cholesterine, which he considers to be mainly formed in the spleen. To obtain further evidence of the relation between the cryptogamic development and intermittent fever, Salisbury filled some boxes with surface earth and cakes of soil from a malarious drying prairie bog; and having carried them to a hilly district, five miles from any malarious locality, and where ague was unknown, placed them on the sill of the open second-story window of a room in which two young men slept. In six days both the inmates of the room began to feel ill, and both—one on the twelfth day, and the other on the fourteenth—had well-marked tertian ague. A similar experiment was attended with a like result. Speaking of quinine as a remedy in ague, Salisbury denies that it is a specific. Quinine, he says, simply imparts tonicity to the system, and controls cryptogamic development, till nature, aided by remedial means for exciting the excretions, is able to eliminate the poison. To check the growth of ague-plants on soils, he recommends the free application of caustic lime. The following papers are also important: Ancelon, inhalations of pulverised quinine in intermittent (' Gaz. des Hop.,' xliv, 1866) Sales-G.ron, same subject ('Bull, de Therap.,' rev, 28, 1866). Thomas, pathology of intermittent (' Arch. d. Heilk.,' vii, 3 and 4, pp. 225, 289). Cantel, treatment of inter- mittent by antispasmodics instead of quinine in nervous women (' Bull, de Therap.,' Sept. 30, 1866). Wiener, parallel between intermittent and cholera ('Wien. Med.