REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 88 of matter is most active, iu the inner layer of the cortical subBtance; and if by irritation it is fused it must undergo a morbid excitation, both the bounds of vegetative and of functional life will be broken dowu, and then follows destruction of mental strength. This violent action is inharmonious, turbulent, and confused, presenting the charac- teristics of destruction aud annihilation. Both the centripetal and the centrifugal energy of the cerebrum is weakened, receptivity and recol- lection, and also expression of ideas and wishes. This shows that not only dynamic or functional, but also organic, disease exists. These views are confirmed by observation of the etiology of the disease. Men in the prime of life are chiefly attacked, whose activity of brain-life and brain-circulation is in excess ; who take a strong flesh diet, much meat and drink; who fully taste life's troubles and joys, excitements and delights ; whose brain is much irritated, somatically and physically, and whose power of resisting is weakened by hereditary taint or illness. The average age at which it occurs (41^ years) is that which just pre- cedes the attainment of the fullest brain-development, a time at which there appears to be always a great nutritive excitement going on. In some remarks with which he prefaces his translation of the above paper of Meschede, which appears in the ' Journal of Mental Science' for October, 1866, Dr. G. Fielding Blandford takes occasion to complain of the present state of the nomenclature of general paralysis, and espe- cially to the introduction of what he considers the very objectionable term " general paresis," which is without any definite meaning whatever. He thinks that the appellation adopted by Calmeil, " peri-encephalitis chronica diffusa," is the most scientific which has ever been proposed, and that the paper of Meschede bears strong testimony to its cor- rectness. Blandford thinks that the line of demarcation between ordinary insanity and general paralysis is very fine, and that the whole history and progress of the latter point rather to a difference in degree than in kind. That general paralysis is intractable—malignant—is the one fact we are certain of. That the parts attacked in general palsy and ordinary mania are the same, he thinks, for the following reasons: — 1. General paralysis constantly exists, and is evidenced, beyond any doubt, by the mental symptoms alone. 2. The defect connected with the articulate speech seems to be in the nerve-centres which supply volitional power, for the patient, by a strong eflbrt in which he forces all his nervous energy in the direction, can correct it. This would account for the absence of unilateral symptoms, which are often absent throughout. Stammering is probably an example in which the highest originating centres of nerve-force are similarly defec- tive. 3. Moreover, the causes of general paralysis are so often the same as those which produce ordinary insanity. At first sight it might appear that the former was much more frequently produced by sensual excesses, &c, but in truth it is very frequently attributable to mental causes. Blandford believes that the inflammation theory, which led men formerly to administer mercury in this disease, was more correct than the treatment which it suggested to their minds. In order to clearly indicate what he means by " inflammation," he quotes Mr. Simon's comparison of the process of simple iuflam-