LOOSE CARTILAGES.—SUUGERY OP THE FOOT. 277 cartilages from the knee-joint:—"The operation can be much more easily performed by making a subcutaneous incision with an instru- ment which I have invented, and which is something like a pair of scissors, each blade having sharp edges, and which, when closed, has the form of a lance, but, when introduced and opened, can act as a forceps. The operation with these forceps-scissors, as I may call them, is performed on the same principle as the subcutaneous in- cision with the tenotome. An assistant fixes the foreign body. The surgeon then thrusts in his subcutaneous scissors (closely shut), at a distance of about three inches from the foreign body (generally the neighbourhood of the border of the tibia is the most suitable spot, but the choice of the point of puncture must depend on the position and seat of the foreign body). When the point of the scissors comes into contact with the foreign body they are opened, and the foreign body is then seized with them, and cautiously extracted as follows:—When the surgeon perceives that he has grasped the foreign body, he should with his left forefinger press on that part of the foreign body and instrument which is next to the inner joint-wound, in order to prevent the air from entering; and the finger should follow the substance all along its course until it is extracted through the open- ing previously made. When the foreign body has arrived near the skin- puncture, it should be released from the scissors, which should now be shut and withdrawn ; the foreign body should then, by gentle manoeu- vres, be pressed out through the external puncture. The reason of this latter part of the procedure is that, if the foreign body were retained in the scissors until they were finally withdrawn, the external opening would thereby be rendered much larger than it should be for a sub- cutaneous puncture. By the above method it is not necessary to leave the foreign body in the puncture (or rather in the tract of the puncture) near the skin; and, indeed, I think it is much better to extract it at once, and thereby remove a source of local irritation. A small compress and piece of sticking-plaster, and the knee well bandaged and kept quiet with a well-padded splint, in the semiflexed position, propped up on a cushion, is the only after-treatment necessary." The lectures of Mr. Hancock, as Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at the Royal College of Surgeons, in June, 1866, are published in extenso in the 'Lancet,' i & ii, 1866. The following are the chief points on which Mr. Hancock dwells:—Lecture I refers to the anatomy of the foot. Mr. Hancock prefers the arrangement of the tarsal bones, pro- pounded by Bishop, into an external and internal series, the os calcis being common to both rows. In the arrangement of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament Mr. Hancock describes a prolongation sent up on the inner side of the foot, to complete the socket of the astragalo-scaphoid joint in that direction—an arrangement, according to him, of consider- able importance. He also dwells on the use of tho sesamoid bones of the great toe in preserving the position of the head of the first meta- tarsal bone, the attachment of these bones to the tendons of a muscle enabling them to be accommodated to the varying positions in which shocks are received by this joint. Next Mr. Hancock combats the