175 DISEASES 08' THE AUMENTAKY CANAL, ETC. Gaz.,' Jan. 27, 1866). Waters, aneurism of the thoracic aorta greatly benefited by rest (•Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 16, 1866). Wyss, on carcinoma of the heart ('Wien. Med. Presse,' 5, 1866), &c. &c. E. DISEASES OE THE ALIAIENTAEY CANAL, PEEITONEUM, ETC. Dr. Mosler* describes the state of the parotid saliva in various diseases. According to Mosler, the saliva of the parotid gland does not contain sugar in diabetic, patients. At the commencement of the diabetes it is alkaline or neutral, but is acid in acute diabetes and in cases which have reached an advanced stage. The acid reaction is not due to lactic acid, as has been supposed; it seems to be the cause of the affections of the gums, &c, which are frequently present in diabetic patients, and which do not occur while the urine is still neutral or alkaline. In two cases of catarrhal icterus, and in a case of pleuro-pneumonia with hepatic derangement, the colouring materials and acids of the bile were present in the urine, but not in the parotid saliva. In mercurial stomatitis the mercury is poured into the mouth with the parotid saliva, and irritates the mucous membrane, salivation being only a secondary result of the irritation of the sensory nerves. In fevers, especially typhoid, the parotid saliva is scanty in quantity, and generally has no acid reaction. To this acidity Mosler attributes the inflammation of the parotid gland met with in the course of typhoid fever. He recommends catheterism of Stenson's duct as a means of arresting the swelling of the parotid and preventing inflammation. M. Champouillontwrites on hypertrophy of the tonsils, and its influence on the development and health of children. When the tonsils, says Cham- pouillon, have attained a large size they push before them and render im- movable the velum palati and uvula ; they more or less completely close the orifice of the nasal fossae, and sometimes approach the one to the other so closely as to render the guttural opening a mere perpendicular fissure. These changes alter the voice and render deglutition difficult, and during sleep breathing is attended with rales or stertor. The mouth is generally dry and the breath fetid. The mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube becomes swollen, and produces more or less deafness. The impedi- ment to respiration diminishes the amount of air inspired, so that the vesicular murmur is only heard distinctly at the apices of the lungs. The insufficient respiration renders the oxidation of the blood imperfect, favours anemia, diminishes animal heat, and affects the elaboration of nutritive matter. In time hypertrophy of the tonsils produces a peculiar deformity of the chest, which was first described by Dupuytren in 1828. As the only efficient remedy, Champouillon recommends early removal of the enlarged tonsils, one or both; and he relates some cases in illustration of the efficiency of this treatment. Dr. B. "W. Foster}: says that the most rational and most successful treatment in severe cases of gastric ulcer is to give the most complete * ' Berl. Klin. Woch.;' 'Gaz. Hebd.,' Sept. 14, 1866. t 'Gaz. Med.,' 16, 1866. X 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 3, 1865.