380 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Mr. Baker Brown illustrates the use of the actual cautery (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii and viii) in ovariotomy. Rokitansky relates ('Oesterr. Ztschr. f. pract. Heilk.,' 1865) cases of twisting and strangulation of ovarian tumours. He says it is not a very uncommon event. It may happen gradually or suddenly. If it occur suddenly, death may be rapid, but spontaneous reposition may take place duriug life. Unexpected fixing of a tumour hitherto movable, with symptoms of inflammation of the tumour and of peritonitis indicate to rsion and strangulation. Incarceration of the intestine may be brought about by torsion of an ovarian tumour. In consequence of torsion and strangulation, involution or shrivelling of a tumour occurs, explaining mauy cases in which ovarian tumours have disappeared. E. Eichwald contributes an important memoir on colloid degeneration of the ovary (' Wurzb. Med. Ztch.,' 1865). He describes a number of cases observed in the clinique of Prof, Krassowski, of St. Petersburg. He divides the protein substances contained in the colloid fluids into two distinct groups, represented by mucin and albumen. Two fibrous tumours of the round ligament of the uterus, by Mr. Spencer Wells ('Pathol. Trans.,' xvii, 1866). These tumours were of the sizes of an orange aud of a cocoa-nut; they occupied the right groin, and were removed by operation. The growth was an excess of the fibrous tissue of the round ligament. Case of cyst of the Fallopian tubes, by Dr. Meadows (' Obstet. Trans.,' viii). A large abdominal cyst, simulating ovarian or uterine tumour; operation ; death. Exhibited by Dr. Wynn "Williams (ibid.). A dermoid cyst developed in the Fallopian tube was shown by Dr. Ritchie (ibid). II. PREGNANCY. Physiology and Pathology of the Ovum . " On the formation and significance of the corpus luteum."—Dr. Spie- gelberg ('Mon. f. G-eburts.,' 1865) says the beginning of the corpus luteuui is seen before the rupture of the follicle. Even in children the innermost layer of the wall of the ovisac shows a looser nature than the outer, and may be continuously separated from it, and is distinguished by a yellow colour. This layer consists of cells of connective tissue caught in a rich new formation, which is traversed by many large capil- laries. At puberty this more developed inner layer is thicker in those follicles which are near the surface, the cells are more compressed, the capillaries form narrow coils close upon the adjoining epithelium, fatty metamorphosis is more advanced. Whilst, through advancing swelling of the follicle, the peripheral part of this layer is softened by fatty me- tamorphosis, it at last bursts, and the ovum escapes. (The subsequent changes are as described by others.) He makes the following remarks on ovulation. This is commonly attributed to ripening of an ovum. This, Spiegelberg says, is not so. On examining the follicles on the surface of an ovary he cannot tell which ovum ia next destined to