EXTRACTION 01-' CATARACT. 365 In this operation tho patient must be completely under the influence of chloroform, and show no sign of reaction when the conjunctiva is seized by forceps. The scleral incision is made downwards, the knife being introduced a little below the horizontal meridian of the globe, about from the outer edge of the cornea, and passed through the an- terior chamber just in front of the iris, so as to emerge at the corre- sponding point on the inner side. The incision through the sclera is then completed, a small bridge of conjunctiva being left. The iris is freely excised downwards and outwards, after which the conjunctival bridge is divided. An attempt is then made to extract the lens by gentle pressure on the upper part of the cornea. Should this fail, Dr. Pagenstecher opens the hyaloid membrane' where it projects into the wound (generally with the edge of the lens), by means of a little silver hook to such an extent that he can introduce the spoon without diffi- culty. The latter* is passed so as to include the whole lens in its con- cavity. All this invariably takes place without the least loss of vitreous, provided the patient is perfectly narcotised. The after-treatment is just the same as after other modes of operating. Pagenstecher has successfully performed his operation 63 times; in 13 further cases the capsule was accidentally opened, and some portions of it remained in the eye. Restricting ourselves to the 63 successful cases, we note that primary iritis did not occur in a single example; primary inflammation of the vitreous was observed 4 times, a yellowish opacity forming in the superficial layers of the vitreous near the wound, unaccompanied by any symptoms of iritis or cyclitis. In two cases this process extended to the rest of the vitreous, and the eyes were lost. As to vision, 11 cases must be excluded owing to complications, such as old irido-choroiditis and glaucoma, f There remain 52 cases ; of these, 19 were tested after Snellen's method,—6 times S = I, i. e. the patient could read No. 20 at 20' by means of a proper convex glass, a result never previously attained, so far as Dr. Pagenstecher knows; twice S = 4, once S = 4, twice f, once |, twice \ once once \, once \, twice TV. All the cases were tested by Jager's type :— No. 1 was read 20 times. >> 2 » 9 » >> 5 11 12 ,, n P 11 2 „ 11 '6 „ 3 „ That the vision was satisfactory iu those who could not read was proved hy counting fingers. 11 20' ii 4 » 5° Only 2 eyes did not recover vision. These were both cases of sup- * Made by Gock in Heidelberg and Luer in Paris. Pagenstecher generally uses one 9 mm. long, 6 mm. broad, and 1 mm. deep at the centre of tbe concavity. t The results were, however, satisfactory; twice fingers could be counted to 4', once to 10—12', by a patient who did not know how to read; and all the rest could make out No. 12—15 Jager.