CE80P1IAG0T0M1'.—AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE. . 223 the patient sunk into a setni-comatoso state. Finally, on Dec. 7, tracheotomy was performed. The patient had heen without an instru- ment in the oesophagus for three days. At the tracheotomy it was noticed that pus was coughed up from the lower part of the trachea, which was believed to come from an abscess situated posteriorly, having been burst by the tracheal tube. Milk taken by the mouth flowed out of the tracheal tube when the latter had an upper opening towards the larynx, but not when a tube was put in without such opening. This was held to depend on paralysis of the muscles of the glottis. Dys- pnoea increased, with symptoms of commencing pneumonia; he became more and more comatose, and died on Dec. 9. The day before his death a renewed attempt to pass a tube into the stomach succeeded without any difficulty. He had been nourished with milk since the operation, and some of this could be traced in the expectoration ; but at the post- mortem examination none was found in the lungs or main bronchi. The only visceral disease was pneumonia in the lower lobe of the right lung. The dissection of the neck did not prove exactly what was ex- pected. The thyroid body did not show the enlargement perceived during life. The cervical glands were enlarged, the cellular tissue around the oesophagus infiltrated, and the oesophagus closely united to the spine. The trachea was narrowed, and showed a diphtheritic patch just below the tracheotomy wound. The larynx was also con- stricted, apparently by inflammatory thickness of its posterior wall, but there was no abscess or communication with the oesophagus. The walls of the oesophagus, for more than an inch in its whole circum- ference, just below its commencement, were gangrenous; and below this gangrenous part the oesophagus was divided by a pendulous septum into two canals. This septum was covered with epithelium on its pos- terior surface (that turned towards the oesophagus) and not on its ante- rior (that turned to the trachea). The canal in front—that lying next the trachea—ended in a blind extremity above. The lower end of the septum hung freely into the oesophagus. The blind extremity of the anterior pouch was below the gangrenous part of the oesophagus. At the upper end of this gangrenous part was the depression which remained from the wound of the operation. These anatomical appearances are difficult of explanation. The gan- grenous ulceration of the oesophagus might, as Dr. Schmidt observes, be produced by the pressure of the ivory plugs, though he is hardly prepared to admit that this pressure was sufficiently prolonged to produce such an effect; but [the condition of the oesophagus is hard to be explained. At first sight it looks like the description of a false passage ; but this is impossible, since a false passage could not produce a pouch terminating at its upper part in a blind extremity, and this situated an inch below the wound of the operation. Nor is it like any known congenital malformation. On the whole, the dissection rather obscures than elucidates the pathology of the case. Amputation at the knee-joint. (From the " Circular No. 6," issued from the Surgeon-General's Office at Washington, 1865, p. 47).—This operation has found numerous advocates during the war, and has been