OVARIAN DISEASES. 370 Mr. Keith relates ('Lancet,' July, 1865) a case iu which the ovarian cyst was found gangrenous. He, however, removed it. The patient made a quick recovery. The cyst was multilocular, and weighed Mr. Spencer Wells relates a case ('Wien. Med. Presse,' 1865) of a woman in whom pregnancy was complicated with ovarian tumour. Ova- riotomy was performed, then the Cesarean section, it being found that a second tumour presenting itself was the uterus, and it haying been punctured. The patient recovered. Silk sutures were applied to the peritoneal margins of the uterine wound. Dr. Murchison showed to the Pathological Society ('Trans.,' 1866) a specimen of ovarian cyst wdiich had emptied through the intestines. Diarrhoea came on, and pus passed by the bowels. Coincidently with this, percussion over the tumour gave a clear sound. The urine was albuminous. Both kidneys were fatty. The spleen was waxy and very large. Dr. "Williamson relates ('Lancet,' i, 1866) a remarkable case of ovarian disease. It was at first complicated with pregnancy. Great distress ensued, and labour was induced prematurely. Subsequently an attempt to extirpate the tumour was made. This was unsuccessful. After protracted suppuration and irritative fever, the patient eventually made a good recovery. A multilocular cyst of the ovary in a girl, set. 11, came under the care of Dr. Garrod at King's College Hospital. She died after tapping. The walls of the cyst were very thick. There were many cysts ; one contained a mass of hair and fat, with fragments of bone. The uterus and left ovary were natural. Dr. Stilling, in a memoir on ovariotomy (' Ztschr. f. pract. Heilkunde,' &c, 1865) describes the steps of the operation, and insists upon what he calb the extra-peritoneal method of dealing with the pedicle. The tumour must be drawn out of the abdomen, then divided, leaving a plate- shaped piece the size of a fist. The cut surface must be attached to the edges of the closed abdominal wound. Thus, the bleeding and suppuration take place outside the peritoneum. Three cases treated on this plan recovered. Dr. Stilling ('Deutsches Klinik,' 1865) con- tinues the report of cases of ovariotomy performed on his plan of extra-peritoneal tying and healing the pedicle. In commenting upon one fatal case he strenuously contends that ovarian cysts should never be tapped, as the adhesions thus caused make ovariotomy more difficult. In another case great difficulty occurred in getting at the pedicle, owing to the complication of a second tumour. It was : at length secured by a Hutchinson's clamp. The patient died on • the twelfth day of trismus and tetanus. Of three cases in this report, one recovered. Mr. Spencer "Wells discusses (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1866) the different i modes of dealing with the pedicle in ovariotomy. Mr. Clay, of Birmingham, makes good his claim (ibid.) to be the first to apply a combination of pressure by means of an "adhesion- clam" with cautery in the management of the pedicle.