REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 176 rest possible to the affected viscus, by stopping the supply of all nutri- ment by the mouth and supporting the patient for eight or nine days, or even longer, if necessary, by nutritive enemata. Perfect rest in the recumbent posture must be observed, the lips and tongue being moistened from time to time with a little water. The enemata should be small, from two to six ounces, and formed of milk, unscalded beef- tea, raw eggs in milk, given twice a day, with ten to twenty minims of laudanum. Precisely similar treatment was recommended by Dr. Puller in his lectures given before the Royal College of Physicians.- M. Hayem* gives a note on amyloid degeneration of the intestinal canal. Hayem founds his remarks on the post-mortem examination of the bodies of children who died in the Hopital des Enfans Malades. Among forty scrofulous subjects, all having chronic suppuration of the bones, with or without tuberculosis, he found the amyloid degeneration in five. Other organs also were diseased in a similar way, and the lesion of these was anterior in time to the appearance of disorder of the digestive organs and diarrhoea. Hence the digestive canal becomes affected only at a very advanced stage of the disease. The lesion is always most intense in the lower part of the small and in the large intestine; the stomach,oesophagus, tongue, and tonsils,are rarely affected. The disease presents two stages—one characterised by degeneration of the vessels of the mucous membrane and enlargement of the sub- mucous follicles, and the other by breaking up of the follicles and destruction of the mucous membrane at their level. In the first stage the intestine is filled with more or less fluid, greenish, sometimes slightly serous matter. The mucous membrane is pale, and is covered by a rather thick layer of mucus, whicli can be readily removed by washing; this is simply a catarrhal lesion. The small arteries and the capillaries are thickened, especially in the vicinity of Peyer's patches and the solitary glands. These are tumefied, and form projections varying in size from a millet-seed to a grain of hemp-seed. At the same time the depression in the mucous membrane becomes exaggerated, and forms a more or less defined cup. The projecting bodies have a whitish, sometimes semi-transparent, aspect; they are of firm consistence, and do not collapse on being pricked. The lesion is distinguished by the thickening of the vessels around the follicles and by the production in them of a dark red colour on pouring iodine water over the diseased part of the intestine. At the same time a number of small vascular ramifications, not hitherto visible, start into view; so that the intestine, instead of being pale, appears in a state of more or less intense hyperemia. The iodine solution also brings into view, more or less extensively, red and ramified lines along vessels which are not in relation with the agminated or solitary follicles; and in slighter cases these form the only indication of the lesion, the follicles being unaffected. Microscopic examination shows that, as in other tissues, the amyloid deposit takes place in the cellular fibres of the small arteries and on the internal surface of the capillaries. On making an incision * ' Coraptes rendus de la Soc. de Biol.;' 1 Gaz. Med.,' 6, 1866.