ABNORMAL GESTATION1. 397 former child by Caesarian section ; the child died at eight months, and was ultimately discharged by a suppurating opening between the navel and symphysis. The woman recovered. Dr. Sadler records (' Med. Times and Gaz,,' 1865) a case under the following title :—Tubal gestation; true corpus luteum in the ovary of the opposite side ; death by rupture of the sac. Reference is also made to a collection of cases published in various journals during 1864 (see 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1865). Two cases are related by Dr. Baeza (' Siglo Medico,' 1865). After symptoms of pregnancy irritative fever set in. A fistulous opening made its appearance in a tumour under the navel. The skull of a foetus presented at the opening. This was drawn out by the patient; but a cloaca remained, out of which were discharged excrements, urine, and blood. This went on for a long time, the woman returning to work. At length, great exhaustion ensuing, she went to the hospital. An incision was made, and the foetus, reduced to a skeleton, was extracted. Into the cyst fistulous openings existed, communicating with the small intestines. Recovery took place, and the urine and faeces resumed their natural passage. The next case also resembles extra-uterine foeta- tion, or, possibly, it is an instance of missed labour. A woman, aged 42, had several children normally. Again pregnant and near term, she felt symptoms of labour, which passed away. A month later pains again set in, with great distress in breathing. An offensive dis- charge took place from the vagina, and the size of the abdomen dimi- nished. Three months later the discharge ceased, but some foetal bones escaped from the vagina. A hard swelling remained in the abdomen. Much irritative fever. Some offensive pus came from the os uteri. Gas- trotomy was performed seventeen months from presumed date of concep- tion. Air was contained in the cyst. The foetus was exposed and extracted. Injections of water were thrown into the cyst to cleanse it; none of this made its way through the os uteri. The cyst was irregular, having several pouches, one of which communicated with the uterine cavity. The patient recovered. Sir James Simpson relates ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1865) a case of missed labour. The patient passed the expected time of labour without pains setting in. Three months after, the placenta was discharged in a putrid state. The sound introduced into the uterus struck some bones. Vomiting and collapse and death ensued. On dissection a foetus in breech-position, gone into fatty metamorphosis, was found. The uterus was adherent in front to the abdominal walls, behind to the intestines. There was an opening the size of a half-crown between the transverse colon and the uterine cavity. The uterine walls were as thin as parchment. III. LABOUR. The late Dr. Ch. G. Eitchie contributed ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1865) a memoir on the mechanism of labour in cranium-presentations. Por the sake of description he divides the mechanism of the first cranial position into six steps. 1. Elcxion:—2. First movement of descent.