ACTIVE PRINCIPLES. 475 Oberlin termed colehiceiu. Now, according to Hiibler, this does not exist as such in the seeds, but is merely a product of the decomposition of the colchicin. Colchicin itself ia described by Hiibler as having the following characters:—It is of a sulphur-yellow colour, readily soluble in water and alcohol, quite insoluble in ether. It has a very bitter taste, and an aromatic odour resembliug that of hay. It has a neutral reaction. It is unaffected by chloride of platinum, neutral chloride of iron, neutral or basic acetate of lead, or sulphate of copper. Acids and alkalies colour its solution yellow. Chloride of gold gives with it a yellow, chloride of mercury a flocculent white, precipitate. Tannic acid yields, even with very dilute solutions, a white cheesy precipitate. If two or three drops of sulphuric acid be added to a few granules of colchicin in a watch-glass, and if the granules be broken up quickly with a glass rod, the fluid round the colchicin will acquire a dark green colour. This will pass into a fyellow tint as the colchicin comes into contact with more of the sulphuric acid and dissolves in it. Now, if a drop of nitric acid be added to the yellow liquid, a dark blue zone will appear where the two meet; and when they are stirred together the blue colour will be converted into a violet, and will then become brown, and ultimately yellow. On the addition of ammonia a red (zwiebel- roth) liquid will be obtained, which is turned yellow by acids, but becomes again red when fresh alkali is added to it. Colchicin remains unchanged when heated, until a somewhat high temperature is reached. Its composition, according to Hiibler, is C^H^NO^. Some experi- ments on animals, made by Dr. Seidel, showed that this principle is poisonous. Two moderately large dogs, to each of whom • 7 7 grain of colchicin was given, died with the usual symptoms. Herbivorous animals appear to be less affected by it; at least a grain and a half of colchicin produced no effect whatever on a rabbit. According to Yee and Leven,* the physostigmin of Jobst and Hessef i3 a mixture of various bodies, among which is a crystallizable alkaloid, present in considerable quantity. Yee and Leven propose to term this eserine. It crystallizes in very small rhombic plates, coloured by polarized light. It has a very feebly bitter taste, which develops itself somewhat slowly. It is soluble in ether, alcohol, and chloroform, but very slightly soluble in water, to] which, however, it gives a marked alkaline reaction. A single drop of a solution containing a thousandth part of eserine, applied to the human eye, causes extreme and long-con- tinued contraction of the pupil. Some experiments on guinea-pigs with it showed that the pupils were unaltered, or even dilated rather tban contracted, when this principle had been injected beneath the skin. The same thing, however, occurred when the extract of Calabar bean was injected in a similar way. Dr. W. PreyerJ has succeeded in detecting a crystallizable alkaloid in the woorara poison. He gives to this principle the name of curarin. It is peculiar in being (except araribin, obtained by Kieth from the Arariba rubra) the only crystallizable vegetable alkaloid containing no * 'Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 51, p. 782, 1864. t See the ' Year-Book' for 1864, p. 447. I ' Comp. Rend.,' lx, p. 1327 ; ' Schmidt,' 128, p. 171.