S UBl'ElUOSTJSAL KKSECTION. 259 This case is not quite so illustrative of our subject, since it is clear that the necrosed bone, if not entirely separated as a sequestrum, at any rate was so to a very great extent, and that the operation had been pre- ceded by considerable reproduction of bone. The value of the case is greatly diminished by the absence of dates and precise measurements. Dr. Neudorfer, an Austrian surgeon, who served in the same war, has also communicated some notes of his practice to the sixth volume of ' Langenbeck's Archives' (p. 496), in which he mentions that he has had twelve cases of resection from the shafts of long bones, which have recovered; and that in none of these did reproduction fail to ensue, nor in any of them was a false joint left. He says, however, that in none of his cases, in spite of the most careful preservation of the periosteum, did the regenerated bone reach either the length or the circumference of the original, but seemed, as it were, to resemble a younger stage of it; and so there was in some [all ?] cases more or less shortening of the limb. Precise notes as to time of operation are wanting. The author says in general terms that he always put off the operation as long as he coidd. As this surgeon is the one who has, perhaps, had most experience in this matter, it may be interesting to have his opinion on the indications for it, and his directions for performing it. On the first head Dr. Neudorfer says, " In the first place, the most important indication was profuse suppuration, threatening life, as well ad acute local pain, resisting opiates and other means, but in which resection often succeeded in getting rid of this, by enabling us to find large, angular, dead fragments sticking into the deep parts. Finally, I may add, great deformity, threatening loss of function, and not to be got rid of without operation, as from large osteophytic productions around the fracture, and obstinate bleeding from the bottom of the wound. " In performing the operation a long incision is to be made directly on to the bone, through the periosteum as well as the soft parts. The periosteum is then to be carefully pushed back from the bone with a raspatory (an instrument resembling that used for detaching the soft parts from the bone in the operation for cleft of the hard palate), and the bone is to be divided with a keyhole saw." In all these cases the resection was a secondary operation, and was undertaken as a conservative measure, to avoid the necessity of secon- dary amputation. "We have not met with any case of primary resection of the splintered bone, nor can such a proceeding be usually justi- fiable. It appears from these cases that there are some instances of recent injury in which secondary amputation may be obviated, and a useful limb preserved, by the subperiosteal resection of a portion of the shaft of the injured bone. These cases occur chiefly in military practice, where the injury to the bone greatly exceeds in extent that to the soft parts, and where the operation gives opportunity for extracting splinters and fragments, or perhaps foreign bodies, which would otherwise remain as permanent sources of irritation. In civil life the opportunity of putting this operation in practice for injury must be rare. •Subperiosteal resection of joints is favorably spoken of by the German