DYS.UENOltRHUCA. 371 cognises that dysmenorrhea- may be clue to constriction of the os uteri, and practises incision by Simpson's hysterotome, by aid of a three-bl'aded speculum. He says pregnancy has in some cases soon followed. Dr. Emmet (' New York Med. Journ.,' 1865) describes the treatment of dysmenorrhea depending upon flexion of the uterus. This flexion takes place gradually, owing to the leverage created upon the body of the uterus. An angle or elbow is thus formed in the cervix, which causes obstruction, and this is increased by the congestion attending menstruation. Dr. Emmet says it is not enough to divide the os ex- ternum, either laterally or through the posterior wall of the cervix. These incisions will not reach the point of angulation. Further in- cisions are required in the antero-posterior direction, botli in the anterior and posterior wall at the seat of angulation. He makes the first incision through the vaginal portion of the cervix with scissors. The deeper incisions are made with a peculiar knife. The cervix is afterwards carefully plugged with lint soaked in glycerine. Great pains are taken with the subsequent dressing, to prevent the intra- cervical incisions from closing up. There is some risk of haemorrhage by wounding the large vessels that surround the uterine neck. It is partly to obviate this that careful plugging is used. Dr. Emmet speaks well of the success in curing both dysmenorrhcea and sterility which has attended this operation. The memoir is one deserving special attention. Mr. Spencer Wells ('Lancet,' May, 1865) objects to the operation of Dr. Marion Sims that it is not necessary to use the speculum in its performance ; that it is not desirable or safe to incise the thicker middle layer of muscular fibres at the level of the os internum. Dr. Kidd ('Dubl. Med. Press,' June, 1865) recognises cases where the painful menstruation is due to contraction of the os uteri. The operation he adopts is to divide the os with Savage's scissors, which cut on the outer edge, the blades protecting each other when closed. He uses a duck-bill speculum. He introduces a bit of rolled lead into the divided cervix to maintain the opening made. Dr. Greenhalgh related a case (' Obst. Trans.,' 1866) in which fatal peritonitis followed an operation for the relief of dysmenorrhcea by incision of the os internum uteri. Dr. Henry Bennet (' Obst. Trans.,' viii) deprecates the tendency to resort to surgical treatment for the relief of dysmenorrhcea. He advo- cates the use of tents to dilate. Dr. Tilt (' Obstet. Trans.,' viii), in a memoir "On the extreme sur- gical tendencies of uterine pathologists, and on the division of the cervix uteri," takes views similar to those of Dr. Bennet. Professor Martin, in a paper " On stenosis of the os uteri," says ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' 1865) contractions of the os uteri affect either the os externum alone, or extend along the cervical canal, by swellings of the arbor vita; as far as the os internum. They are mostly of inflam- matory nature, and in the majority of cases he thinks they have their origin in gonorrhoea. Dysmenorrhcea commonly attends. He divides the contraction by an instrument of his own.