251 OSTE-OMYET.TTIS. joiut; for instance, ho thinks that, " excopt in cases of endemic tendency to osteo-myelitis, section of the humerus or femur in their lower third is as good/if not a hetter operation, than disarticulation." Nor docs he discuss the question raised in Mr. Longniore's paper referred to above: —" I have no intention of discussing the question of the general appli- cation of the term osteo-myelitis, in the wide sense in which it is given to the chronic form of disease by the French surgeons, and which involves a whole series of pathological changes in bone, in which the necessity of immediate amputation is, at all events, not concerned. But it is to the acute and diffusive, a sort of erysipelatous form, an analogue of diffuse suppuration in the areolar tissue, that I refer—a disease, so far as I have seen it, so extensive, as regards the bone it affects, that it causes its entire destruction, and speedily, if not removed, gives rise to that septic condition of the blood which results fatally in a large number of cases It is not the mere local mischief that one dreads. It is the constitutional disease to which it gives rise, and the consequent morbid condition of, the blood, which is, I believe, if once thoroughly established, and not promptly dealt with, certain to entail fatal results. The symptoms in the acute form generally make their appear- ance early—within a week or ten days—it may be earlier—after the operation, wound, or injury. The stump, wound, or contusion may have been doing well. It may, perhaps, have sloughed a little, and the sloughs have cleared away, healthy granulations having appeared. The flaps may have united, almost by first intention, at all but a point or two, whence discharge continues. The pain is not necessarily acute, and the tenderness on pressure of the stump is but slightly increased. The discharge becomes more profuse; but it is not healthy, well- elaborated pus. A probe being introduced, the bone is found dry and denuded, and if exposed the medulla will probably be found protruding like a fungus, while the periosteum is stripped from the end of the bone. With all this there may have been only a quickened pulse—a febrile condition at some time of the day, the temperature at others being at, or even below, the natural standard; rigors, as yet so slight as hardly to have attracted attention, may have occurred. Such ai'e the early stage and symptoms, local and constitutional. These [rapidly progress and develop themselves in the most marked manner; and it is here that the critical period has arrived when it is necessary to make a thorough examination, and decide the question whether it be osteo-myehtis or not. Exploration should be made with the finger, the stump, if necessary, being sufficiently reopened to admit of your doing so; and the condition of the bone should be most carefully examined and ascer- tained. In incipient cases the medulla will be found protruding like a fungus, and the bone surrounding it exposed to a greater or less extent. At a later period the end of the medulla is found already dead, black- ened, and encruBted; but within it is a putrid mass of bone-debris and pus—a probe passing down the entire length of the shaft. In the former stage you can wait and watch progress; the mischief may be limited, and a ring of bone be thrown off; but iu the latter case imme- diate interference is necessary, and nothing less than amputation, either at or above the next joint, will suffice. The constitutional symptoms