HEPORT ON SURGERY. 344 well, and the wound had healed three weeks after the operation. " The carpal, metacarpal, and digital muscles were left powerfully subservient to the will for grasping, holding, and pulling, though there was some paresis of the ' extensor carpi digitorum.' " [By this name, which Dr. Cutter repeats twice, we understand him to mean the extensor com- munis digitorum.] The arm was, of course, quite flaccid; but the shortening was only an inch and a half. No distinct statement of the absence of any bone in it is made; but it is said to be " extremely flexile and ungovernable." An apparatus is described by which the arm was steadied, india-rubber springs being applied to the apparatus to act on the forearm. The man's condition is thus described on the second anniversary of his wound: —" He was here a few days ago, took an arm-chair, and swung it around at an elevation of 450, almost at a right angle with the body. He is improving in the use of his arm." We infer from the description of the case that, had it been the right arm, the hand would have been perfectly available for writing, or in a female for sewing, &c. " On the use of Plaster of Paris Splints in Military Surgery, as Dressings to be applied on the Field itself, before transport to Hos- pital." (See Neudorfer, in ' Langenbeck's Archiv,' vi, p. 508 et seq.)— The clothes are to be preserved on the limb, with such openings as will expose the wound or wounds, and 2 layers of plaster of Paris spread ready on stuff (not on bandages), and strengthened with " veneering wood," will serve to keep the parts from all risk of disturbance. This plan the author thinks would save many patients from subsequent operation. In the 'American Journal of the Med. Sciences,' July, 1865, p. 61, Dr. Atlee communicates a paper, by Dr. Pfeiffer, on " Hospital Gan- grene treated by the local application of Buttermilk." Only one case is reported, in which a gunshot wound of the lower extremity, and a bedsore which had formed during the treatment, were both sloughing and spreading under other treatment, until they were dressed by syring- ing with buttermilk, and then steeping in lint impregnated with the same. The patient ultimately recovered. Dr. Atlee refers to a paper, by Dr. Jackson, in the April number of the same periodical, " On the use of Sugar and Lactic Acid in the Animal Economy," and says that, not being able to obtain any sour milk, as recommended by Dr. Jackson, to apply to the gangrenous wound, buttermilk was sub- stituted. Since its employment in this case it has been universally used as a local application at Dr. Atlee's hospital in all cases of slough- ing wounds, and with the most satisfactory results. It has also been used as a dressing for stumps immediately after amputation, and, aa Dr. Atlee believes, with the effect of keeping parts free from odour that would, under other applications, have been offensive and sloughing. "Hospital Gangrene" ('Am. Journ. Med.,' &c, April, 1866, p. 351). —Dr. Kempster, referring to the reports in earlier numbers of this journal, expresses his dissent from the doctrine that the constitutional