10 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. Gimbert ("Sur la Structure des Arteries," 'Journal de l'Anatoinie,' No. 5, p. 536, and No. 6, p. 616, pi. 36—40) calls in question the state- ments generally made, that with the diminution of their calibre the mus- cular tunic of the arteries increases in thickness in proportion to the elastic, and that the elastic coats present isolated elastic fibres instead of flat plates. In the aortic arches and in the arteries of the upper ex- tremity the transition from the inner tunic to the middle is effected by a layer of fine elastic fibres, which run for the most part transversely, but partially also longitudinally, and include a few fibre-cells and an amor- phous substance. This amorphous substance, which, for no obvious reason, he calls elastic substance, plays an important part in the descrip- tion of the texture of the aorta and other trunks. It fills up the spaces left in the fenestrated tissue, and invests the individual muscular fibres, and in the arcus volaris it separates the elastic fibres or lamellae from the muscular fibre-cells. In the arteries of the lower extremity the tunica interna maintains the same thickness as far as the toes ; the gradual diminution of the import- ance of the middle tunic is visible everywhere except at the angles of division of the vessels, where it quickly and considerably increases in thickness. In the arteries of the upper extremity the thickness of the middle tunic remains quite unaltered as far as the hand; it sometimes increases, however, in the arteria volaris. The arteries of the neck and face are characterised by rapid thinning of the middle and inner coats. The art. maxill. ext. has the thickest muscular coat, then the temporal, then follow the lingualis, maxillaris interna and occipitalis. In the arteries of the brain the relative development of the muscular fibre attains its highest grade. The elastic fibres are few in number in the external tunic, and arc rarely found in the middle coat. In the abdominal and pelvic arteries the t. adventitia is of extra- ordinary thickness. As regards the thickness of the muscular tissue, the following arteries constitute a diminishing series:—Hypogastric, colic, splenic, renal, common pudendal, middle colic, obturator, inferior gluteal, and mesenteric. The abundance of elastic fibres in the external tunic is proportioned to the quantity of muscular fibres in the inner tunics.^ The arteria pulmonalis at its origin contains, in its middle coat, only elastic fibres. At a little distance from the heart fenestrated lamella) like those of the aorta take their place. The umbilical arteries have the most abundant muscular bundles at the abdominal ring, where they are arranged both circularly and longitudinally ; they diminish outwards from this point in both directions, whilst the clastic fibres of the external and middle tunics diminish from the origin of the umbilical arteries to the navel, and beyond this point those of the external tunic lose themselves in the "Wharton fissure, whilst the elastic fibres of the middle tunic completely disappear in the neighbourhood of the placenta. As regards the vasa vasoruin, Gimbert reports that they partly originate from the same artery, and that they form two nets in the tunica adven- titia, one external, with wide meshes of an irregular oval or quadrangulnV