126 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. irritation of the sensitive and other incident nerves. VI. Physical aud mechanical modes of treatment. VII. Complex modes of treatment, combining tho process of irritation of incident nerves and a modifica- tion of the blood. VIII. Change of the composition of the blood, and elimination of morbid and other poisons. IX. Special use of anaes- thetics. X. Treatment by remedies acting directly on the nervous system, or on the unstriped muscular fibres. XI. Treatment by tonics and other remedies. Under the head of (I) suppression of causes he enumerates—(i) Local application of narcotics, in cases where a wound of the skin or a branch of a nerve may be the cause. (2) Local appli- cation of ice in similar instances ; this plan he thinks especially power- ful in the prophylaxis of tetanus after a dangerously exciting wound. (3) Actual cautery to a wound of which the secretions should be altered, or for the destruction of a part which contains venom. (4) Narcotic applications to the trunk of the nerve leading from the wounded part, after laying the nerve bare, (3) Section of nerve. This operation, to be of value, must be done early; the nerve must not only be cut through, but a piece of its peripheric end removed; if on examination this shows any signs of inflammation, the section must be repeated as much nearer the spine or cranium as the circumstances permit. (6) With regard to operations on the genital organs with a view of curing functional diseases caused by masturbation, Brown-Sequard gives a very qualified and guarded admission that they may be sometimes of use, but decidedly expresses his opinion that in the majority of cases they are of no good. He thinks that it should only be attempted in those cases (of epilepsy, &c.) in which a distinct aura starts from the clitoris, or the latter is enlarged and morbidly sensitive. But he thinks the only cure for masturbation in men or women is by forming ulcers on those parts of the genital organs which must be touched in the act. (7) Trephining the cranium, applicable only to cases in which there is a local irritation of the dura mater; and even in such cases very often mere local counter-irritation would have sufficed to produce a cure. (8) Ligature of the carotid is most irrational treatment of functional brain disorders. Doubtless its apparent success in the hands of Preston aud others was owing to their having wounded the cervical sympathetic. (9) Operations for the removal of causes of functional nervous disorders—e. a. removal of decayed teeth, of tumours, of carious or necrosed bone, which might keep up irritation. (10) Treatment against alterations of the blood, and against visceral disorders. Any diseased organ, if it has any considerable influence over the character of the blood generally, or, indeed, through its mere connection with the nervous system, may cause an aggravated functional disease. It must be cured first of all. (II) Means to diminish reflex excitability of nervous centres, such as persists in epilepsy, hysteria, tetanus, hy- drophobia, delirium tremens, chorea, paralysis agitans, and severe forms of reflex insanity. (1) The drugs to be employed are as follows:— Atropine, valerian, and the bromide of potassium, in epilepsy ; chloride of barium in tetanus and paralysis agitans; codeine, morphine, and valerian, in hysteria, &c. ISone of these remedies equals chloroform in immediate effect, but this is transitory; counter-irritation is also verv