REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 476 nitrogen. Unlike araribin, it is not volatile. It is a very bitter sub- stance, and is very hygroscopic. Both the alkaloid itself and its salts crystallize in colourless four-sided prisms. It is dissolved by water and alcohol in all proportions; but it is only sparingly soluble in chloro- form, and it is insoluble in ether, if free from water. With strong sul- phuric acid pure curarin gives a splendid blue colour, which is very per- sistent ; with sulphuric acid and bichromate of potass it yields the same reaction as strychnia, except that the violet colour lasts for a longer time. Concentrated nitric acid gives with it a purple-red tint. Bernard has found that curarin produces the same physiological effects as the woorara poison, but is 20 times as active. A rabbit was killed by a milligramme injected beneath the skin. Woorara from which this principle has been extracted is inert. Mr. Groves* has endeavoured to determine whether aconite contains, besides aconitina, any volatile acrid substance, such as has been sup- posed to exist in it by M. Geiger and others. He concludes that neither the green plant nor the bruised fresh root contains any such principle. The analogy of other plants belonging to the same order is not, he urges, really in favour of its existence. It is true that anemone and ranunculus furnish volatile acrid bodies; but these are the chief active principles of the plants in question. Dr. Daniellf has detected the presence of theine in the Kola nuts of tropical West Africa, the Guru nut of Soudan (the seeds of the Kola acuminata). This discovery, which is confirmed by the careful analysis of Dr. Attfield, is of interest, because it adds another to the list of sub- stances which are used in different parts of the world, by uncivilised as well as by civilised peoples,and which contain the same principle, although they have no botanical affinities. It would seem that the fresh kola nut is generally employed, and that it is chewed, the juice being swallowed, and the solid part ejected from the mouth. Dr. Attfield found 2-i3 per cent, of theine in the dried nuts. HusemaunJ, of Gottingen, has made some investigations with refer- ence to the chemical composition and physiological action of the seeds of the Wriglitia antidysenterica, a small forest tree, which is tolerably abundant throughout Western India. These seeds have lately been described by Fliickinger under the name of Semina Indageer; they appear to be identical with those in which Stenhouse found an alkaloid termed by him Wrightine. Dr. Haines§ has proposed the name of Conessine, derived from the Hindustani name of the bark, for an alka- loid which appears to be identical with that discovered by Stenhouse, but which is derived from the bark of this tree. In India the seeds are supposed to have an anthelmintic action, and (like the bark of the plant) have been employed in the treatment of dysentery, diarrhoea, flatulence, disorders of digestion, and haemorrhoids. Husemann found * ' Pharra. Jour.,' 1866, viii, p. 118. t Ibid., vi, p. 450. % ' Hannov. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,' ii, 6; ' Graevell's Notizen,' N. F., ix, p. 673. § ' Phann. Jour.,' vi, p. 432.