AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAll. 1301 the fact that the membrana tympani may sometimes be reproduced after its partial destruction. He says, " the two lateral and the inferior segment may have completely disappeared, and the tympanum be exposed to view; .... but if the superior segment of the membrane, formed (as is well known) by a triangular band of the skin of the auditory canal, is intact, or nearly so, and the handle of the malleus, in spite of these extended ravages, is still in position, the membrane may be reproduced." The reproduced membrane has not the brilliancy, the polish, or the perfect form of the original membrana tympani; its external face is not concave, but plane; it is no longer transparent; the handle of the malleus is in its usual position, but swollen and rough. The hearing is weakened. 31. Triquet adds some details of one or two cases in his practice in which this reproduction has been observed. Gruber, " On the Treatment of Catarrh of the Middle Ear," in 'Deutsche EZlinik,' 1865, p. 357, first remarks on the innocuity of in- jections into the tympanum, an operation which he says he has practised at least 20,000 times (though not on 20,000 patients) without the least difficulty or evil consequences. But when the inflammation is merely a part of general inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose and pharynx, he recommends a course of treatment somewhat like that of Dr.Thudichum (seep. 235 of this Eeport), by injecting a good quantity of fluid into one side of the nose with a syringe exactly fitting the nostril. The patient, he says, will instinctively close the pharynx by means of the soft palate, and the fluid will run out of the other nostril, which it should only be allowed to do gradually. That it also penetrates into the Eustachian tube and tympanum is proved both by the patient's sensations and by the fact that when perforation exists in the mem- brana tympani the fluid will run out. If (as will sometimes happen) the patient, especially a child, makes violent efforts to swallow while the injection is going on, it will sometimes rush out of the perforated membrana tympani with sufficient force to carry along with it masses of adherent extravasation. In children the Eustachian tube is more hori- zontal, and the fluid finds its way into the ear much easier than in adults. The cases in which he recommends this treatment are as follows : 1. All cases of acute or chronic catarrh of the tympanum which are complicated with catarrh of the naso-pharyngeal mucous membrane. 2. All diseases of the middle ear (suitable for treatment by injection) which occur in the course of ulcerative processes in the naso-pharyngeal region. 3. All those catarrhal and ulcerative processes which have their special seat near the pharyngeal opening of the Eustachian tube, and produce its closure by thickening of the membrane. 4. In all cases where injection of the tympanum is desirable, but a catheter cannot be passed. In the 'New York Medical Journal,' March, 1866, p. 424, Dr. B. St. John Boosa relates four cases of bony growths in the meatus audi- torius externus. In all these cases the growths had much encroached on the canal, so as to impair the sense of hearing to a great extent. In one the patient died from suppuration in the tympanum, extending to