388 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. placenta was very large. In the second case the patient was subjected to a distressing carriage journey six weeks before expected labour; great pain followed. The membranes were ruptured, and a foetus with abnormally formed head was expelled. In the third case the patient had suffered from distressing vomiting. Labour was excited by passing a catheter between membranes and uterus; a very large child was born asphyxiated. It had spina bifida. Scanzoni ('Wien. med. Wchnschr.,' 1866) examines tbe causes of the greater frequency of head jwsitions in the human foetus. These are the result of the complication of all the factors—namely, gravity, the form of the uterus, the form of the foetus, the quantity of liquor amnii, the contraction of the uterus during pregnancy and labour, the active movements of the foetus. Until the development of the placenta the embryo can lie anyhow in the ovum, but the head hangs down from the greater weight beyond the insertion of the cord. Through the rapid growth of the cord this becomes of no moment upon the position, but the centre of gravity of the embryo is still in the head, and this part therefore still is lowest. About the middle of gestation the centre of gravity, by the rapid growth of the trunk, lies in the thorax, and, the longitudinal diameter of the uterus developing itself at this time more than the transverse diameter, so the foetus may be too long in the head-position for the transverse diameter; on the other hand, the uterine cavity being more roomy in all directions, a cross position may easily happen. As the uterus grows the quantity of liquor amnii is more in proportion to the volume of the foetus; thus, the head-position is preserved if the uterine walls do not possess any unusual flaccidity. But if up to this time the position have been cross, the future position will depend upon the resistance of the uterine walls, upon the resistance of the excited movements of the foetus, and upon the advent of contractions of the uterus. Since in cross positions the head always lies lower than the breech, it is obvious that the head in a vertical direction of the foetal axis will come downwards. From all which it results that, although during pregnancy the causes in operation may produce the most various positions, yet Nature mostly succeeds in placing the head over the pelvis. In spite of this, changes of positions are often found in the latter periods of gestation; and the more so, the more copious is the liquor amnii, the more spacious the uterus, the more yielding the uterine walls, the more energetic the movements of the foetus, and the more frequent and intense the partial contractions of the uterus that arise in the last weeks of gestation. At this time the removal of the head from the pelvic brim is mostly hindered by the lesser quantity of liquor amnii in proportion to the size of the foetus, by the arrest of the hyperplasia of the uterine walls, and hence, by the simultaneous growth of the foetus, a distension of the walls is produced, accompanied by lesser yieldingness of the uterus and a tighter grasping of the foetus. All these factors together hold the foetus with the head downwards in a vertical position. Dr. Yalenta (' Mon. f. Gebertsk.,' 1866) has made some interesting and accurate observations upon the changes of position which the foetus undergoes in pregnancy and labour. His observations are based upon