163 APPLICATION OP THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. Difference in sex does not constitute an exemption from the rules given above, tho sometimes smaller dimensions of the curve of the female being neglected. As regards tho occurrence of the normal curve of the radial pulse, the law holds good that it exists unconditionally in health, and that it may exist in disease. 2. The curve of the pathological radial pulse.—Different diseases cannot be recognised by pulses peculiar to them, but the pathological changes which the normal curve of the radial artery undergoes take place simultaneously with the changes occurring in fever, and are indicated by the rise or fall of temperature. The transformation of the normal pulse-curve is effected according to the following law:—The great incisure becomes enlarged at the expense of the adjacent secon- dary waves. The centre of all pathological pulses is the dicrotic form, distinguished by its great incisure extending downwards to the base of the curve, by its smaller first secondary wave, and by its increased frequency, which causes the great ascent to appear more shifted towards the end of the curve. This type is preceded in fever by the hypodicrotic pulse, the great incisure of which does not reach yet to the base of the curve, while the great ascent is only a little retarded. In the hyperdicrotic pulse the lowest point of the great incisure is rounded off and lies below the base of the curve, the first secondary wave is reduced in its size to a minimum. The great ascent, being assailed itself, appears by the again increased frequency even more at the end of the curve. Finally, in the highest paroxysm of fever the great incisure and great ascent annihilate each other, and with the disappearance of the dicrotic form the monocrotic pulse is established. The changes of temperature influence the pulse-curve in acute disease in a different manner than in chronic disease. a. The radial pulse-curve in acute febrile disease of middle age.— In a febrile accession and on a rise of temperature from the maximum of the normal heat of the body to about 103'5° Fahr. the pulse assumes the hypodicrotic type, followed by the dicrotic form about between lo3'5°—105° Fahr. At this stage of the fever the first secondary wave has lost much of its amplitude and energy, while the great ascent, having gained in strength, makes the dicrotism easily perceptible to the finger. Besides in typhus, it has been observed in cases of pneumonia, acute exanthems and rheumatism, pericarditis, &c. The origin of ex- ceptions to the rule may be traced to a disturbed innervation of the system of circulation, or, in other words, to the presence of symptoms dependent upon irritation of the central and vegetative system of nerves, or to more or less perfect paralysis. As cases of this kind are men- tioned fracture of a lumbar vertebra, the period immediately following violent shivering in intermittent fever and pyaemia, asphyxia by drown- ing, narcosis by chloroform, chronic cholica pictonum combined with fever. The pulse of such patients, as also of paralysed people, whether their intellect be impaired or not, preserves its tricrotic character for a much longer period during illness, but at the sametime the common type of the different pulses is more or less modified; variations in this sense are shown by the apparently normal and apparently hypodicrotic pulse-curve. If the fever has made progress so far as to be accompanied by a