51 OliOLERA. t ' Gaz. Med.,' 47, 1865. excited loathing iu some cases, and could not be persisted with. And it is said that the free administration of saline lemonade, without drugs (besides that 14 out of 20 patients so treated recovered), was of the greatest comfort to the patients. Very high praise is given to the warm bath (98° to 1040 Fahr.). " Often recovery appeared to be the direct consequence of the bath, the improvement being permanent j but in many more, removal from the bath became the signal for the return, more or less rapidly, of former symptoms. The testimony of all who had a fair opportunity of judging is unanimous as to the relief afforded by the warm baths, the most convincing being that of the patients, who, in some cases, craved incessantly for them, and remained in, at their own request, for nearly an hour at a time." Only a few desperate cases failed to derive any benefit. As regards the reaction-stage, it is important to note that Dr. An- drew Clark employed, with great success, a powder composed of Hyd. c. L'reta gr. ij, Pulv. Ipecac, gr. ss, and Pulv. Doveri gr. iiss, night and morning, with magical effect, in cases where the tongue had become dry and hard. Saline lemonade and chlorate of potash drinks were freely given. If the patient tended towards cure, mustard plasters or blisters to the nape were very efficacious, the improvement being generally at- tended by a renewal of the urinary secretion. Where severe headache was noted from the first, irrigation was used with some success. Mr. J. G. French* lays down the three following as the causes which tend to avert the fatal result in cholera :—1. Diminution of the heart's action. 2. Diminution of the aeration of the blood. 3. Excretion of the poison by the alimentary canal. He declares that the fact of the blood only circulating so feebly arrests the action of the poison of cholera, just as we prevent the deadly effects of snakes' bites by ligature, &c. Then as regards aeration of the blood, it must be remembered it is not the case of common syncope or asphyxia, but of a condition of the blood in which it refuses to become aerated though exposed to air. The purging and vomiting is not merely a real relief to the con- gestion of the important intestinal organs, but also a means of carrying off the poison, which is plainly seen by the power of the evacuations, when swallowed, to reproduce cholera in other persons. The only treatment which is any use is to give the patient iced water, or Seltzer water, which assuages the thirst, and to pay strict attention to his sen- sations as to temperature. Tou must not submit him to disagreeable heat, for this materially adds to his sufferings and danger. Dr. Jacquezf regards the premonitory diarrhoea of cholera as an essential part of the disease. To treat it, he knows no better remedies than emetics, aperients, opiates, and low diet. But even when these have produced a cure, the disorder may reappear in a day or two, and be followed by fully developed cholera. This relapse is rarely to be attributed to errors in diet or want of care. The diarrhoea does not preserve the patient from fresh attacks; it indicates a predisposition which it does not exhaust. If a person who has recovered from the diarrhoea expose himself to the emanations proceediug from other * 1 Med. Times and Gaz.,' July 16, 1866.