REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 one house on the island five persons of one family (Mahoney) were attacked in succession with more or less positive yellow fever, and that Mrs. Williams had had the opportunity of personal contagion from the corpse of a neighbour j (&) that in another house, at a distance from the island, where a man (Colwell) died of the fever, another man (Jones) was also attacked ; (c) that two cases (Hickey) originated in the imme- diate proximity of the house where the originally imported case (Saun- ders) died ; (d) that one of the medical men, Dr. Griffiths, had an attack simulating yellow fever after attendance on a case. But to each these considerations there is a drawback that greatly destroys their apparent value, for («) each of the Mahoneys and Mrs. Williams were exposed by residence near the ship to the same direct infection from her; (b) Jones, as well as his fellow-lodger, had worked on the island at such an interval before as would just make the period of incubation observed in other cases ; (c) the Hickeys lived within a short distance from the ship, though away from the island, or if they did get the disease from Saun- ders, being the only people who received the disease from another, the fact that Saunders came direct from the Hecla, and might have brought some of her atmosphere with him, separates this case from all others of apparent personal contagion; and lastly (d), Dr. Griffiths' case is weak, inasmuch as his symptoms were in some essential features un- like those of slight cases of yellow fever, and also inasmuch as there was with him no exposure till two days before his attack, a period below the incubation time of the disease as observed in Swansea. " On the other side the evidence tending to negative personal con- tagion is about as strong as such evidence can by its nature ever be. Persons exposed to the fever-producing influences about the docks lay sick of yellow fever in various parts of the town—Norman at Clifton Eow, Bowen at Pynone Street, Margaret Williams at Gower Place, Jesse at Greenfield Street, Thomas at Sketty, Lilley at Clifton Hill, Colwell and Jones (for it is fair to quote them on this side the question) at Lower Rodney Street, Wilkins at Bethesda Terrace, Mrs. Wilson at Mansell Street, and Nathaniel Williams at Powell Street. Moreover, Slocum died at Llanelly, and Stapleton was sick at Prampton-on-Severn, and no extension of the fever occurred at either of those places. Thus, that there were twelve centres from whence the disease, if it had been com- municable from person to person, had the opportunity of spreading, and many of these localities were perfectly adapted for the spread of con- tagious diseases ; yet, in no single instance out of all these did any per- son (whose business did not lead them to the infected neighbourhood of the docks) get yellow fever or any disease at all simulating it. The con- clusion, then, appears indisputable that, if the fever was communicable at all by personal contagion, it was so only in an extremely feeble de- gree. If it had behaved like any of the more contagious fevers, such as smallpox, measles, typhus, or relaxing fever, it is quite certain that no such account as this could be given. The contrary belief, that infection was received by each person severally, direct from the Hecla, is fur- ther rendered very strong by the fact that after the removal of the Hecla (and allowing for the incubation period in persons already infected) no fresh attack whatever occurred on the island or else-