REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 36 diarrhoea, without having any effect on the disease. This result was not materially modified hy the addition of opium. A general view of the symptoms and of the pathological phenomena noted in the Russian epidemic may he gathered from the papers of Dr. Fittermann* and Dr. C. Kiittuer.t The fever commenced abruptly, after prodromata lasting hardly twenty-four hours, with a temperature from 1040 to 1070 Fahr. j the exact degree was of less use for prognosis than the manner of its distribution; a high but evenly distributed tem- perature indicated little danger, whilst an uneven distribution, as in the bilious form, constantly foretold a serious illness. Morning remissions were constant, but only to the extent of to 1A0 Fahr.; greater variations than these indicated danger, except at the period of defer- vescence. The pulse ranged from 100 to 160 in the febrile state, and 42—72 in remission. The pulse was small and weak from the first, ab- normally quick, and very easily aggravated ; intermittence, however, was not seen except where there was great general weakness, and dicrotism hardly ever. Owing to the low heart-force, stasis of blood took place in various organs, and the pulse itself was almost as extinct as in cho- lera, yet this seemed to have no appreciable relation to prognosis. From two to three, or from four to five exacerbations and remissions of the disease occurred. The crisis was ushered in, usually, by prolonged sweating, sometimes preceded by rigors and increase of fever, and occasionally with profuse micturition, purging, vomiting, and haemor- rhage ; epistaxis was common in the decline of the fever, and in the enfeebled state of the patient was dangerous. The remissions were as complete as those of ague. Collapse and severe muscular pains wrere constant symptoms. The former was evidently caused by a depression of the nervous system, and a primary blood-poisoning peculiar to the disease. The pains in the muscles were found to coincide with early congestion and later tissue changes ; in the latter the fibres showed the striae indistinctly, and were filled with molecular, finely granular bodies ; the addition of acetic acid destroyed these and left the fibres with hardly any longi- tudinal or transverse markings. Respiration varied from 20 to 32 in fever, and from 16 to 22 in remission ; but great and rapid variations were observed in bad cases, and in one instance just before death tlm respiration reached 53. Ordinarily there were no physical signs of bronchitis, but there was dyspnoea in the commencement of the attack, which must have depended on depression of the vitality of blood and nervous system. The only prognostic information to be gained from hurried breathing is when it is united with orthopncea or precordial anguish, especially if this happens coincidently with a fibrile exacerbation or with a too violent remission. In such cases large doses of quinine are needed; but the recovery will hardly be complete in 6 weeks. Vomiting was rarely seen in the simple form ; but was often severe, long- continued, bilious and hamiorrhagic, in the bilious form of the fever. This symptom corresponded with the appearance, in cases which were dissected, of a swollen condition and strikingly green-grey colour of the gastric mucous membrane. In the bilious form of the complaint * 'Petersb. Med. Zeitsch.,' i, 1863. t 'Deutsche Klin.,' 1865.