321 PELVIC HYDATIDS.—INTEltNAL UUETIIR0T05IY. tion was undertaken on the following day. During the night the patient's condition became worse, vomiting having set in with some severity, but it seemed probable that this depended on the quantity of purgatives which ho had taken. Two punctures were made from the rectum, in order to reach the bladder, supposing it to have been dis- placed backwards. Some clear fluid and fine membrane was drawn off by the punctures. Mr. Bryant now determined to cut down on the tumour from the perinamin. He first laid open the urethra from the middle line, guided by a catheter, then punctured the tense tumour which could be felt by the finger deep in the pelvis ; this having been recognised as hydatid, a free incision was made into it with a bistoury, and as much as 3 quarts of hydatids removed with the finger, spoon, and forceps. The cavity occupied by the cyst was then well washed out. Finally, an attempt having been made in vain to reach the bladder with a catheter, it was punctured from the perineal wound, where it was distinctly to be felt, and a quart of dark coloured urine was drawn off. The immediate relief to the patient was great, but he died on the 9th day after the operation, the constipation having never been relieved. After death the kidneys were found to be granular. There was no peritonitis or any other disease, but the colon was much distended with indurated faecal matter. The bladder was found in the left iliac fossa, completely raised out of the pelvis by a large cyst developed between it and the rectum. This was considerably contracted, but still contained a few hydatids. M. Perrin has communicated to the Soc. de Chir. a paper published in the ' G-az. des Hop.,' June 3, 1865, giving the final account of 13 cases of internal urethrotomy, the notes of which he had first published two years before. The object of the paper is to show the durable results of the operation in most cases. M. Perrin is not in the habit of using sub- sequent dilatation after the operation. Of the 13 cases (all of which were done in military practice), 4 had passed out of sight. Of the remaining 9, 1, who had had numerous urinary fistula?, of old date, and complicated with considerable plastic infiltration, had a relapse immediately; a second had a relapse at the end of a year ; but the other 7 had preserved all the benefits of the incision up to the time of the report (on an average 3 years) or else up to the time of their death. In two subsequent communications, June 6, 10, M. Perrin explains and justifies his method of operating, and compares its results with that of other proceedings. He never uses any sort of consecutive treatment. In the same paper for June 13 M. Perrin deduces from his experience the following conclusions:—r. That internal urethrotomy is more prompt in execution, as certain, more convenient for the patient and the surgeon, than progressive dilatation. 2. That with the recent im- provements it is not more dangerous than dilatation. 3. That its results, both immediate and remote, are at least as satisfactory as those of any other method, and therefore that it ought to be preferred as a 1 general treatment for such strictures as interfere with the complete evacuation of the urine. Por other cases the ordinary methods will serve. M. Perrin argues strongly in favour of the antero-posterior 21