REPORT ON SURGERY. 200 negative qualities, as regards irritation of nerve, and which has a boiling-point of 75° or 80°, can be obtained from the hydro-carbon series, the deepest anaesthesia may be produced, and even a limb may be amputated by this method. It mayLalso turn out that certain anaes- thetics may be added to the etherial solution with advantage, such as small quantities of chloroform, or some of the narcotic alkaloids, if they could be made soluble in ether. A solution of morphia and atropia combined, if they could be diffused through ether, which at present seems impossible, could thus be brought into action so as to cause deep insensibility. In operating on the extremities it would be good practice to stop the current of warm blood by making pressure above on the main artery. " Eeaction from the anaesthesia is in no degree painful, and haemor- rhage is almost entirely controlled during the anaesthesia." In the 'Med. Times and G-az.,' 1865, i, p. 514, Mr. Campbell de Morgan describes a new form of fixed bandage for fractures, abridged from some papers by Dr. Hamon, in the ' G-az. Med. de Paris,' 1865.—The bandage or splint which Mr. De Morgan here describes resembles in some respects the plaster-of-Paris splint, i. e. it is formed of a bandage, or of strips of bandage, or of any linen or cotton material, applied evenly to the limb, and thickened with a fluid material, which coagulates spontaneously. Only, instead of plaster, a solution made of melted French glue, mixed with a fifth part of its bulk of alcohol (methylated or other spirit), is used. Two or three thicknesses having been applied, and left for not less than 12 nor more than 24 hours to stiffen, it is cut in halves, and each half furnished with eyelet-holes on either side, and then laced on. The advantage it possesses is its elasticity, combined with firmness— qualities which it retains undiminished for any length of time. It can be adapted to the varying conditions of a limb, as to swelling, &c. It is, moreover, very light, and yet strong enough for any purpose to which a splint can be applicable. Endoscopy.—Desormeaux, ■ Sur l'Endoscope,' Paris, 1865.—M. Des- ormeaux commences his pamphlet with a short reference to the attempts of previous surgeons to explore the urethra. M. Segalas, Mr. Avery, and a surgeon named Hacken, of Riga, are named; but it does not appear, from M. Desormeaux's account, that any practical result followed from their labours. He next gives a detailed description of the instru- ment which he employs. This description is of great practical utility for any one who is in possession of the instrument, but our space will hardly allow of our quoting it at any great length. The essential prin- ciple of the invention may be stated as follows :—A lamp placed in the vertical position has its light reflected by means of a mirror fixed at an angle of 450 down a tube, which can be turned to any angle in the ver- tical plane, but is generally used nearly horizontal. The mirror is pierced in the centre, and furnished at one end with an eyepiece. To the oppo- site end of the larger tube containing the mirror is fixed the small tube which passes down the urethra, or other cavity which is to be explored.