KEP011T ON MEDICAL JUlUSPilUDENCE. 466 rigidity might have set in, and cadaveric lividity of the depending parts have made its appearance, as stated by M. Abadie. M. Tardieu gave a positive opinion that the death of the woman was caused by hanging alone, and that it was suicidal. Dr. Heinrich* relates a case of death by hanging, in which there are some features of interest. A woman started off from her home, saying that she was going to a place a mile and a half distant, to buy flour. She took with her a sack and a rope. On the evening of the same day she was found hanged to a tree, in a small wood a few feet from the road. One end of the rope was fastened round a horizontal branch, which was six feet six inches from the ground, but which could be reached without difficulty. The other end of the rope formed a noose round the woman's neck. Her feet were not in contact with the ground. Her mouth was filled with a mass of dead leaves. On her right shoulder was fastened a piece of paper, on which the following words were written with a lead pencil: —" We three have committed this murder. We found on her one thaler, fifteen silbergroschen. She merely prayed for her two children." There were no indications of injury on her body, the clothes were undisturbed, and there was nothing to show that she had offered any resistance. No signs of any struggle were to be found. It was there- fore considered that the case was one of suicide ; and this view was confirmed by tho fact that the language of the paper pinned on her shoulder was such as could have no object except to excite sympathy and compassion for the woman's fate. It was, therefore, very unlikely that it had been written by her murderers. It was subsequently ascer- tained that the haudwriting was like that of the woman, and that a charge of fraud had probably been her motive for killing herself. 'Pregnancy. The following case is related by Dr. Fischer.f A woman, aet. 29, who had already had two illegitimate children, was obliged to leave her situation because she was again pregnant. She went to the poor- house, where her condition was notorious. On the 17th of April she walked into the country, and when she returned it was observed that she no longer presented the obvious signs of pregnancy. She sub- sequently confessed that she had given birth to a living male child, which she threw into the river Eger. Suspicions having arisen that she had made away with her infant, she was examined, and it was ascer- tained that she had been recently confined. She was therefore arrested. While in prison she was seized with labour-pains, and a mole was expelled on the 23rd of June. She denied altogether that she had had connection during the interval after her confinement, and there was evidence to show that her statements were correct. Moreover, the mole was too large to have been formed within the nine weeks which had elapsed. It was therefore concluded that it was the result of the degeneration of an ovum impregnated at the same time as that which * ' Vjhrsschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F., Band v, p. 70. t Ibid., p. 21.