REPORT ON SURGERY. 316 the two forms of ulceration. We give Mr. Paget's description of the syphilitic ulcers, and of their diagnostic marks:—" On the mucous membrane of all parts of the colon there are ulcers of regular, round or oval shape, from one sixth to about two thirds of an inch in diameter, with clean, sharp-cut, scarcely thickened edges, surrounded by healthy or only too vascular mucous membrane. Their bases are for the most part level, flat, or with low granulations resting on submucous tissue, nowhere penetrating to the muscular coat, with no marked subjacent thickening or hardening. On some of them are ramifying blood-vessels; on some few there is, at the centre of the base, a small island of mucous membrane, giving to the ulcer an evident likeness to the annular syphilitic ulcers of the skin." In a few places they had coalesced, so that the round shape was less distinct; in the colon they were con- tinuous with those in the rectum, which Mr. Paget conjectures to have had originally the same circular shape, though now destroyed by the scarring, &c. There were none in the caecum; in the ileum only one, and that doubtful. The diagnostic marks are thus stated :—" These ulcers are limited to the large intestine, and decrease in size and number from the rectum upwards—conditions which I think are never observed in tuberculous disease. There is not a trace of tubercle, i. e. of circumscribed crude or softening tuberculous deposit, in the sub-mu- cous or any other tissue of the intestine, none in a Peyer's patch, or at the base or edge of any ulcer, or in the subperitoneal tissue below an ulcer. The shape and other characters of the ulcers are quite unlike those of intestinal tuberculosis ; they are regular, with sharp, even, well-defined edges, with level bases; they are not excavating, they do not extend through the submucous tissue; their edges are nowhere eroded or under- mined, sinuous, thickened, or brawny or infiltrated; the subjacent and intervening structures appear healthy, except at the rectum. These ulcers are not grouped, and where by extension or coalescence they have lost their first shapes they have acquired one altogether irrregular, and have in no instances even tended towards that girdle-like shape, en- circling the canal of the intestine, which is so characteristic in the large coalesced tuberculous ulcers. Thus, by negative as well as posi- tive characters, these ulcers are clearly distinguished from the tuber- culous, and, as I have said, there is no other form of intestinal ulcer to which they bear even a remote resemblance." "On the Causes of Death after Hernia Operations."—In the ' London Hospital Eeports,' ii, Mr. Hutchinson relates the details of some fatal cases of operation for strangulated hernia, in order to show that peritonitis is the common cause of death after the operation; that it sometimes occurs even after successful taxis, and proves fatal; while, on the other hand, he argues that it very rarely (if ever) occurs before either the operation is performed or taxis effected. Hence he con- cludes that there are two main causes for the inflammation—(i) the direct effect of the wound of the peritoneum (and Mr. Hutchinson is not inclined to rate the mere danger of the operation so low as some authors do) ; and (2), which he regards as the graver danger, the reduc- tion into the peritoneal cavity of gut previously inflamed, and there-