EXCISIONS IN MILITARY PRACTICE. 339 Primary Secondary operations. operations. Died 5° "5 Recovered 160 183 Results undetermined 42 2S 252 323 Aggregate 575 The per-centage of mortality is 23*3 in primary cases, 38*59 in secon- dary cases, or a mean ratio of 3 2"48. The ratio in amputations at the shoulder-joint is 39/24, a per-centage of 676 in favour of excision. Of 36 cases of gunshot fracture of the head of the humerus, selected as favorable cases for the expectant, plan, and treated without excision or amputation, 16 died, or 44"4 per cent., a ratio in favour of excision of 11 "96 per cent. But it is superfluous to offer further proofs in behalf of this admirable operation Generally the operation has been done in cases in which the head of the bone was alone implicated, and consisted simply in a decapitation of the humerus. Partial excisions have been seldom practised. The method commonly preferred was that by a single vertical incision, though some operators raised a V-shaped flap, and all endeavoured to include the wound made by the ball in the incision. It is frequently mentioned that the long tendon of the biceps was preserved. In 29 cases 'portions of the clavicle or of the coracoid and acromion process and neck of the scapula were excised, as well as the head of the humerus. Only 4 of these cases terminated fatally, and the average result in the recovered cases was as satisfactory as the ordinary result in decapitation of the humerus. " When the shaft of the humerus has been extensively shattered our surgeons have not been deterred by the prohibition of Gruthrie, but have frequently removed the head with even five or six inches of the dia- physis Excellent results are obtained after excision of the head with very considerable portions of the shaft." (A case and pho- tographic drawings are appended, where the head and upper third of the shaft were removed, together with a fragment of shell measuring 4 inches long by 1 broad.) "Excisions of the ankle-joint.—Of 22 recorded cases*8 were excisions of the tibio-tarsal articulation, and the remainder were nearly all abla- tions of portions of the tarsal bones. Of 18 terminated cases 12 recovered and 6 died. . . . " It appears that the judicious use of the gouge and bone forceps is admissible in gunshot-wounds of the ankle-joint; but that the formal excisions are rarely successful." " Excisions of the knee-joint.—During the late war complete excision of the knee-joint has been performed 11 times. An abstract of each case is here furnished." [This abstract shows that out of 10 authentic cases only 1 recovered, and in that case the following is all that is said as to the usefulness of the limb :—" He was not then able to walk (*. e. nine months after the operation), but subsequently did so, with the aid of a cane." In the eleventh case the report says, " The sue-