CEREBItO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. 59 kind. The first or local theory of the disease is supported chiefly hy Niemeyer.* Niemeyer, who observed the disease in Baden, remarks the absence of prodromic symptoms, the disease commencing with phenomena which undoubtedly point to the meningeal affection, and the trifling degree of the febrile in comparison with the nervous phenomena. The post- mortem appearances are constantly those of extensive inflammation of brain and spinal cord, differing in nothing from that observed in the well-known sporadic form of the disease; while there is no specific change resembling, "for instance, the intestinal follicular disease of tvphoid; neither are there changes of other organs, such as the lym- phatic glands, the spleen, &c. The exanthematous eruptions observed are no proofs of a fever of the typhus type, for herpes is common enough in pneumonia, &c. Niemeyer does not confirm the statement of French observers as to the uselessness of bloodletting and antiphlogistics ; on the contrary, though the very bad cases will die, do what you will, there are some of the more moderate ones in which this treatment seems to be really efficacious. It would seem as if the French epidemics were of a different type from that of Baden. Niemeyer remarks that seeon- darv inflammation of the lungs, of the joints, and of the pleura, are rare ; and of course they are observed in inflammatory and exudative processes where there is no febrile blood infection. The only fact in favour of infection is the occurrence of the first cases and the greatest spread of the disease at Bastadt, to which some recruits from Eastern Prussia had come; and this, again, is neutralised by the circumstance that simultaneously the disease appeared in many parts of Germany. Niemeyer speaks of the infrequency, on the whole, of general con- vulsions, and remarks that a meningitis which does not involve large effusion, the compression of capillaries, and the consequent diminution of blood supply to the hemispheres, cannot be expected to prodiice this effect. It is in the hydrocephalic form of meningitis, with large effusion, and in the case of tumours, &c, compressing the encephalic organs, that convulsions are to be chiefly met with. He explains the neuralgic pain in the limbs by a local deposit of exudation in the roots of the nerves. He explains the nutritive changes in the eye by a similar local extension of the inflammation to the neurilemma of the trigeminus. He points out that the purulent conjunctivitis, followed by ulceration of the cornea and hypopyon, and the other changes—ptosis diplopia (synechia posterior) and iritis—are exactly equivalent to the effects which have been experimentally obtained by section of the Gasserian ganglion. An important difference exists between the observations of Niemeyer (and, indeed, of several of the German observers) and those of Sander- son, with regard to the temperature. Whereas the latter found a constant and considerable elevation of temperature, even in the early stages, Niemeyer notes that on the first and second days, in his expe- rience, it was often but slightly raised; it was only a little whilo before death that it rose as high as 104° or more. * " Die Epidem. Cerebro-gpin. Mening. nach Beobacht. in Grossherzogtlium Baden," Berlin, i86g; 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' i, 18661