JlEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the leeching, &c, did real and even striking good, though in many others it had no effect. Niemcyer, as already stated, believes that antiphlogistic treatment did much for those cases which were not past all hope of benefit. [The German epidemics offer so wide a field for studying cerebro- spinal meningitis, that it is the less necessary to treat of its develop- ment in America, for which we have no space left. It has been known in the latter country as " spotted fever," and the same differences of opinion as to its real nature have occurred there as in Germany and elsewhere. The papers of Dr. A. Stille* and Dr. Liddellf give refer- ence to nearly all the other American writings on the subject. For further information as to the earlier German epidemics, see Hirsch, 'Berlin. Klin. Woch.,' 19, 1864.] Yellow Fever. An important contribution to the history and etiology of yellow fever was supplied by the experience of a small epidemic of that disease which was brought to Swansea in the early part of September, 1865. Dr. George BuchananJ reports on it as follows : The ship Hecla, a wooden sailing-vessel, laden with copper ore, arrived in port on September 8th and was placed in dock, having had several deaths from yellow fever during her passage from Cuba, and having on board 3 men sick of that disease, 2 of them recovering, the 3rd very ill. Two passengers and the crew were landed immediately, and distributed themselves over the town ; the man who was severely ill was taken to a small and dirty cottage in a court in the town, where he got rapidly worse and died the next day. The nature of the disease, which had been concealed by the master of the ship, was now discovered by the authorities of the town. The rest of the story will be best told in the words of Dr. Buchanan's able report; the extracts which we give cannot be abridged without spoiling them. w Let it be recalled that in the present summer, and at the time of the outbreak, there had been extremely little fever of any sort in Swansea. "What did exist was ordinary typhoid, and there were no cases of this on the island. There was not, and there had not been for many years, an instance of relapsing fever. " The table shows that between September 15th, when the first case occurred, to October 13th, when the last case became convalescent, there were 22 cases in which the diagnosis of yellow fever could pretty certainly be made, and 7 other cases in which the circumstances of ex- posure or the character of the attack led to a more or less strong suspicion that the illness was of the same nature. "Of the cases diagnosed yellow fever 13 died, besides the man brought by the Hecla, and 7 recovered. Of the doubtful cases 1 died, and 6 recovered. " Of the nature of the disease I am able to assert, with the assent, I believe, of the whole of the medical profession in Swansea, the three * 'American Journal of Med. Sciences,' January, 1865. f Ibid. t • Eighth Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council,' 1865, p. 44*-