478 HJSfOUT ON MATJ21UA .M I-.DIla , KTC. therefore, neither the fatty oil, the resin, the volatile acid, nor the crystalline body of Bastick, can be supposed to be the principle to which the peculiar effects of these plants are due. He has made many physiological experiments, not only with helleborin, helleborein, and helleborctin, but also with the oil obtained from the H. viridis, and with the product derived from the distillation of the H.foetidus with water. The effects observed in different animals varied greatly, so that no peneral account of them can be given. In its action on the heart of the frog helleborein resembled digitaline, but it was more powerful than the latter substance, a smaller dose being sufficient to produce the characteristic effects. On the other hand, helleborin was found not to affect the heart's action or the respiration, but to cause death by paralysis of the nervous centres. Its poisonous action was much less intense than that of helleborein, and was more slowly manifested. Frogs were found to recover from doses of 6 of a grain. According to Marine, the oil of the Htdleborus viridis is inert if de- prived entirely of helleborein and helleborin. Nearly an ounce of this oil was given to a dog without any ill-effects being produced. Helle- boretin, also, has no poisonous action; in this it resembles digitaliretin, a substance obtained in a similar way from digitaline. Prof. Schroff * discusses various points of interest with reference to the squill. It is well known that two varieties of this drug are found in commerce, the one white, the other of a reddish colour. In England the white kind, obtained from Malta, is considered to be the best. In France the red variety is generally used, being imported into that country from Spain. In Austria the red variety is employed in the recent state, obtained from Apulia; but the dried scales and the powder are made from the white. It has generally been considered doubtful whether these varieties of squill both come from the Urginea scilla of Steinheil, or are derived from different plants. Schroff" is of opinion that they belong to the same plant. He found the white variety growing on the Acropolis at Corinth, 800 feet above the sea-level. The bulb differed slightly in form from that of the red kind, being more flattened and not*so pear-shaped, but there was no doubt that it belonged to the Urginea scilla. Schroff thinks that the differences in colour depend on variations in the conditions under which the plant grows, the white form occurring especially in elevated situations, at a distance from the sea, and when the plant is exposed to sunshine and the bulb is not deeply imbedded in the soil. It had been supposed that the white variety might be derived from the innermost scales of the ordinary red bulb, these losing their colour during the process of drying. He shows, however, that this opinion is without foundation. On the contrary, a kind of dried squill, which is sold in Vienna as derived from the red variety, and is of a dirty white colour, belongs really to the white variety. It contains none of the cells filled with red pigment which are found in the true red squill. It has been stated that the bulb of the Pancratium maritimum is sometimes mixed with that of the squill # ' Wien. Med. Wchnbl.,' xx, p. 389, 1864.