MUSCULAlt TISSUE. 21 The expression " absolute muscle force" was applied by Weber to indi- cate tbe weigbt required to extend a portion of muscle to its original lengtb, when uucontracted and unexcited, that has been made to contract to its greatest possible extent; or we may say that the " absolute muscle force" is represented by the weight which, when appended to a muscle when it is stimulated to the utmost degree, is so heavy as exactly to maintain it at its original length, and to prevent it from contracting. Weber estimated the weight required for a portion of muscle of the diameter of i square centimetre to be about 2 lb.; Knorz (' Zeitsch. f. Eat. Med.,' 1865) and Henke, however, have shown that the absolute, muscle force is not only much higher than the estimate given by Weber, but that it differs con- siderably in the muscles of the arm and leg, being much greater in the former. Prom calculations deduced from experiments made on several persons, they find that the absolute muscle force per square centimetre amounts to nearly 13 lb. for the muscles of the leg, and to about 17 lb. for those of the arm. Eanke (' Tetanus regarded from a Physiological point of View,' Leipsig, 1S65) has examined and compared the relative conducting power of dead and living muscle for electricity, and has found that the death of muscular fibre, or even its extreme exhaustion by tetanus, is accompanied by a re- markable increase of its conducting power. Thus, in the dead muscles of frogs the resistance to the passage of a galvanic current is only about one half of that offered by their living muscles, and in mammals only about two thirds. The increased conductivity of the muscle is, in all probability, occasioned by the presence of good conducting products of disintegration, amongst which the acids are the most important. In like manner, boiling the muscle, by increasing the proportion of secondary products which conduct electricity well, and by decreasing the amount of true and healthy muscular fibre which conducts electricity badly, diminishes the resistance offered by muscle by at least one fourth of its original amount. It is remarkable, however, that the resistance to the passage of electrical currents in other tissues, such as the nerves, tendons, and cartilages, is not materially different in the dead from the living. The living muscle of the frog conducts electricity about 3,000,090 times worse than mercury and about 115,000,000 times worse than copper. As regards the chemical changes effected in muscle by tetanus, llanke finds that, if the circulation be maintained, the per-centage of water increases about 2 per cent., at the expense of the solids. He has also noticed that the muscles of frogs contain a small amount ('058 per cent.) of a sugar capable of undergoing fermentation, and that after tetanus this increased to about half as much again ('093 per cent.). In rigor mortis the amount of fat increases, whilst the albumen diminishes. Eanke's experiments further seem to show that there is a direct loss of the substance of the muscle in the act ol contraction, since as much as io-6 per cent, of the watery extractives of the muscles of a frog disappeared after tetanus. The presence of blood is not requisite for the act of contraction ; the muscular tis3ue^»er se contains all the conditions requisite for contraction, yet muscle containing blood can do more work than anajmic muscle. It i3 clear, therefore, that the muscle can apply materials contained in the blood to the purpose of mechanical work.