35 RELAPSING FEVER. death was from abscess of the spleen. (Bernstein says that the spleen was frequently enlarged; the liver rarely.) Bernstein ascribes the outbreaks of the disease to the imperfect sanitary conditions prevailing among the labourers who had repaired in great numbers to Odessa to be employed in the public works, the hygienic conditions being more unfavorable in the winter than in the summer. He does not deny that the disease is contagious, but he did not meet with an undoubted case of communication by contagion. Dr. Baldon* describes this fever in South America as presenting, in his opinion, a close analogy with that prevailing at St. Petersburg. In 1S54 there broke out in Peru an epidemic which proceeded along the chain of the Andes, never at a lower elevation than i^oo metres, until in 1859 it had reached Bolivia and the neighbouring parts of Chili. The attack came on suddenly, without premonitory symptoms; it was characterised by violent rigors, severe frontal and occipital head- ache, coldness of the limbs, trunk, and interior of the mouth. This stage lasted from three to five hours, and was followed by increased headache, dry hot skin, and general sensation of heat. There is little or no thirst; pulse is increased in frequency (10 or 12 above the normal rate). There are severe pains in the epigastrium, in the lumbar and sacral regions, along the sciatic nerves, and in the calves, feet, and arms. The tongue is generally moist, not discoloiired, and sometimes remains in this state during the whole course of the disease. These symptoms continue, with increased severity of pain in the muscles, during ten or fifteen days; but during the night the symptoms are increased in severity, so that the patient is deprived of sleep. The appetite is entirely lost; the intellect is not disturbed; the bowels are consti- pated or act naturally; the urine is scanty and high coloured. The prognosis is generally favorable; the symptoms disappear gradually, the nocturnal pains remaining longest. In fatal cases, which scarcely ever occur except during relapses, petechias are sometimes seen. At the end of a week, a fortnight, or one or more months, after the end of the di sease, a relapse generally occurred, the disease having the same cha- racters as before, but, from the enfeebled state of the patients, being more bable to end fatally. In a village of 1200 inhabitants, where Baldon had an opportunity of closely observing the disease, very few escaped; and he calculates that, on an average, each person had three attacks. The deaths were 250, equally divided between the two sexes ; viz., children under 16 years, 92; adults, no; persons above 60,48. In the treatment bloodletting was found injurious; opium and its analogues were useless or hurtful; saline draughts were agreeable, but without therapeutic action; sudorifics were ineffectual; purgatives dangerous and useless. Baldon tried sulphate of quinine in the cases of two patients, in doses of four or five grains'four times daily, the last dose being taken at 7 or 8 p.m. This had the effect of ameliorating the symptoms during the night; and were convalescent in three days. Encouraged by this result, he gave the medicine in other cases with equally good effect. But his supply of sulphuric acid being exhausted, he was obliged to give the quinine in pills, when he found it provoked * "Acad, de Med.;" ' Gaz. Med.,' six, 1865.