REPORT ON SURGERY. 292 has been followed, and advises that in such amputations the ends of the nerves should be truncated. At the same debate two cases were brought forward in which Nelaton had operated on nerves—one was for neu- roma of the median nerve, in which the tumour was removed, and the nerve, in doing so, was divided, but the ends united with 2 silver sutures. At the date of the report the functions of the nerve seemed to be restored, and the pain had ceased. In the other case a lady had been attacked with zona in the course of the sciatic nerve, accom- panied by intolerable pain. No milder measures having proved of any avail, Nelaton took away an inch from the substance of the sciatic nerve, with the effect of producing paralysis of motion and sensation, but no relief to the pain. Eichet and Voillemier supported Gherardi's opinion, that in this "essential" form of neuralgia section of the nerve is useless. Some account of the discussion which followed at the society may be found either in 1 Schmidt's Jahrb.' or in the ' Gaz. des Hop.' We proceed to the subject of suture of nerves. On this subject Langier has written, in the ' Gaz. de Paris,' 1864, p. 409, an article with reference to a case, which we need not quote here at length, since it has been abstracted in the ' Tear-Book' for 1864, p. 259. M. Langier concludes, from his own and Nelaton's case, that suture of nerves may be followed by restoration of their function ; and in this conclusion he was supported by M. Velpeau, who referred to Flourens' experiments on this head. In the 'Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1865, p. 170, MM. Eulenburg and Laudois publish the results of numerous experiments on the lower ani- mals, made to ascertain whether divided nerves will unite if brought together by suture, as M. Langier believes, and has published a case to prove. The experiments of these gentlemen, 20 in number, were made on dogs and rabbits, partly on the sciatic, partly on the pneumogastric nerve. They all gave a negative result. The nerve never recovered its functions; clear traces of inflammatory degeneration are always found; gangrene followed in one case, death from secondary abscesses in others; consequently they deprecate the practice recommended by M. Langier, although they admit that their negative evidence would not outweigh the positive success of future clinical researches. M. Boeckel (' Gaz. des Hop.,' January 7, 1865, p. 10) gives the details of two cases in which he excised a portion of the gustatory and of the mental nerve, on account of neuralgia of the side of the cheek and tongue. He submitted the patients to the action of chloroform, forced the jaws open, drew the tongue by a hook to the opposite side, so as to put the floor of the mouth on the stretch; then he made an incision along the middle of the floor of the mouth on the affected side, only through the mucous membrane, and, after dividing a little alveolar tissue, came down on the gustatory nerve. The nerve having been raised on a blunt hook, was followed backwards beyond the internal pterygoid, and there divided, a portion two thirds of an inch in length being removed. In one of the patients the teeth were gone, and the operation was found very easy; in the other it was a little more difficult from the greater depth of the parts, but offered no serious difficulty. With regard to the mental nerve, M. Boeckel effected its