COMPOUND FRACTURES. EXCISION OP SCAPULA. 219 diseases after operations in which the lotion has heen used, while just before they were very prevalent. ... In many cases the wounds have healed in 24 hours, without the least fulness or swelling, and have left a line of cicatrix, which after a short tinio could hardly be seen or felt." Mr. Lister has circulated the following ' Notice of a New Method of treating Compound Fractures.'—" The disastrous effects of com- pound fractures, as compared with the freedom from all danger in simple fractures, evidently depends essentially upon the fact that in the former the blood effused around the fragments, being in communication with the external air through a wound, undergoes decomposition, and, be- coming an acrid irritant, produces more or less extensive death of tissue and suppuration, whereas in the latter the blood, retaining its natural bland character, is converted into tissue or got rid of by absorption. With regard to the mode in which the atmosphere produces decom- position of the blood, we now know, thanks to the beautiful researches of Pasteur, that the active agents are not the gaseous elements of the air, but minute living organisms suspended in it, which, by developing in a decomposable substance, determine a change in its chemical arrangement analogous to the fermentation of sugar under the influence of the yeast-plant. Hence it occurred to me that if in a compound fracture, before decomposition of the blood has set in, a material were applied to the wound which, though it might allow the gases of the atmosphere to penetrate it, would destroy its living germs, all evil con- sequences might be averted. For this purpose I selected carbolic acid, having heard of its remarkable efficacy in disinfecting sewage, and about a year and a half ago, a case of compound fracture of the leg presenting itself, with a wound too large to afibrd hope of union by first intention, I appned to it hnt dipped in the acid, and found my anticipations fully realised ; the case progressing exactly like a simple fracture, as regards absence of suppuration and of constitutional disturbance, and rapidity of osseous union of the fragments. I have since subjected to the same treatment 5 other cases, some of them as bad as any surgeon would think of saving, and the result has been better than I at first ventured to hope. The carbolic acid forms with the effused blood a dense crust which, if touched daily with the acid to ensure freedom from decom- position, may remain for weeks without a drop of pus forming beneath it, thus affording abundant time for absorption and organization of the effused blood." The following selections refer to questions of operative surgery: In the ' New York Medical Journal,' May, 1866, p. 142, will be found a resume of all the cases of excision of the scapula which the reporter could find published. The paper is founded on a case by Dr. Hammer, of St. Louis, which that gentleman published in the ' St. Louis Medical Eeporter,' March, 1866. The report may be summed up as follows : 1. Five cases are alluded to in which the scapula was torn from the body along with the arm, and the patients recovered. I