REPORT ON SURGERY. 3U8 its influence, it was found necessary to suspend the narcotic, in conse- quence of embarrassed breathing and intermitting pulse. A little chlo- roform was cautiously administered during the rest of the operation. Pressure was finally suspended after 4 hours' duration. He had then become very faint, with hardly any pulse. The effect of this was greatly to diminish the pulsation and impulse of the tumour. At the date of the report it is said, " The tumour seems to be consolidating, and is less in all its measurements by more than one half than when noted on the day of his admission. Pulsation, which was plainly visible through the walls of the abdomen, can only be felt by making deep pressure with the finger in the iliac fossa." The volume of the limb had become nearly natural, the varicose condition of the veins had nearly subsided, and the man could walk easily and without fatigue. He was in good health and condition, and no longer sensible of the beating in the groin. "Ligature of the LeftCommon Iliac Artery, being the second operation in Ireland, and the first successful case of it." [In a case of arterio- venous aneurism.] By William Hargrave, M.B., &c. Dublin, 1865.— This case of Dr. Hargrave's may be referred to in connection with Dr. Mapother's case, as illustrating the feasibility of the treatment by pro- longed compression under chloroform, even in internal aneurism, although that treatment was not successful in the present instance. We quote the following short summary from Dr. Hargrave's pamphlet:—" The following table expresses very accurately the times and manner of compression up to a short time prior to the operation:— Dr. Carte's apparatus [upon the common iliac artery] from Dec. 26 to Jan. 9, 1865. Conical leaden 71b. weight [on the aneurismal tumour], from Jan. 19 to Feb. 11. Carte's apparatus reapplied for 24 hours and 40 minutes without intermission, Feb. 13.* This apparatus with the 71b. leaden weight to Feb. 26. From this period instrumental and digital pressure to March 10. From this date L'Estrange's clamp applied [to the abdominal aorta], combined with digital compression to the 18th of April. " The medical treatment comprises the Liq, Pernit. Ferri, substituted for the Sol. Ferri. Perchloridi; it changed for Hydroid. of Potash, which was discontinued, and the Acet. Plumbi with Opium ordered. The limited diet prescribed on his admission was augmented consider- ably one month after it, and continued so up to the operation; in fact, full diet, alternating with wine and porter, according to circum- stances." Dr. Hargrave also says—"The double combined compression—that on the cardiac side of the tumour, and on the distal side of it on the femoral artery—was of no benefit to the aneurism, but, in my judgment, was injurious to the patient, as it increased the oedema of the inferior extremity." Digital pressure was used with success, as far as stopping the circulation through the tumour; but though the flow of blood was * It is apparently to this date that the following sentence of Dr. Hargrave's report refers :—" Chloroform was subsequently administered, for hours being fully u»der its in- fluence, equally unprofitable in any way affecting the tumour."