443 VOTSONOUS GASES AND VAPOURS. stance, attended with some peculiar symptoms. A girl, 13} years old, ate a piece of tart into which a Spanish fly had been put. In half an hour she was attacked by giddiness, pain between the shoulders,and a burning sen- sation in the throat. She then suffered from vomiting of blood, and reten- tion of urine, and afterwards from severe strangury. She also complaiued of a strong and disagreeable smell in the nostrils. It may be remarked that this peculiar odour, although it is not mentioned by Taylor, has been described by Beck as a frequent symptom of poisoning by can- tharides. The occasional vomiting of blood lasted for 3 days. On the 17th day a very severe and long-continued epileptic attack took place ; and 8 hours after this a second one, attended with hysterical symptoms ; and these recurred during the next two days several time?, at gradually increasing intervals. These attacks, with ischuria, continued for a con- siderable time, and 2 months after the swallowing of the poison she was admitted into St. George's Hospital, suffering principally from congestion of the kidneys. It is worthy of notice that the menses, which had previously appeared three times, did not return for 7 months. The notes which follow have reference to the poisonous action of various gases and vapours : Brenner records* a case which is undoubtedly of great interest, if the symptoms are correctly ascribed to the inhalation of phosphuretted hydrogen. The patient, a chemist, aged 28, had for i\ years been occupied exclusively in preparing the hypophosphites. The room in which he worked was ill-ventilated, and he was exposed to the action of vapours containing phosphuretted hydrogen and phosphorous acid. After three months specks appeared in his field of vision, and grew rapidly larger, so that a month later he became unable to read. At the same time diarrhoea set in. These symptoms lasted for 9 months, when they were removed by medical treatment. His arms next became weak and uncertain in their movements, this being particularly trouble- some when he was writing. His walk also became uncertain, and he suffered from shooting pains in the limbs and iu the abdomen. The teeth began to crumble away, although he had no pain in them. He did not suffer from headache, giddiness, or tenderness of the spinal column. After a time he lost the power over the muscles of articula- tion, so that it was only by a powerful effort of the will that he could utter the words he wished. His swallowing also became slightly im- paired. No history of excesses of any kind could be obtained. The appearance of the patient was quite that of a person affected with ataxie locomotrice. He was utterly unable to walk with his eyes shut, and fell directly he tried to do so. Under the influence of electricity the power of speech and the strength of the arms improved, but the weakness of the legs remained unaltered. M. Fonssagrivesf gives an account of an occurrence which seems hitherto to have escaped notice—the generation of a poisonous gas within the boiler of a steam-engine which had been disused for some » < Petersburg, med. Ztschrft.,' viii, p. 245 ; ' Schmidt,' 127, p. 163. f 'Ann. d'llyg.,' 2cmc seric, xxiii, p. 241.