58 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. pains continue more or less. There are occasional recrudescences, often so slight as readily to escape notice, sometimes so severe as to assume the character of relapseB. Sometimes these relapses look like the reproduction of the symptoms of invasion. In general a case with relapses is one destined to be tedious, but not fatal, but the non-fatality is not absolute. Adults are not so liable as children to recrudescence of the original symptoms, but there are often marked variations in the consbitutional state and intensity of pain. The temperature was noticed by Sanderson as constantly elevated at all stages of the disease, seldom falling below 100° Fahr. The highest point was just at, or immediately after, the close of the symptoms of invasion, viz., 1020 to 1040, or higher, in children. Subsidence of pains and general improvement were always coincident with lower temperature, and vice versa. Correspondingly with high temperatures the pulse assumed the characters of less arterial tension; but there was no discernible relation between its frequency and the stages of the disease, though the pulse-rate fluctuated from time to time. The fre- quency, also, of respiration seemed to have no intelligible rule, but the occurrence of embarrassment was always indicative of a proportional gravity of the case. Death always seemed to take place by apncea, the respiration suddenly becoming irregular and slower after having gradu- ally got faster up to a certain point. The increased sensibility of the surface which is nearly always observed is, in Sanderson's opinion, a mere interlude to active pains, or a stage towards recovery from the state in which acute pains are present. Among the most interesting changes which are observed in the disease are the nutritional changes which occasionally occur in the eye. Sanderson mentions several cases as coming under his own notice or that of other physicians in "West Prussia during the epidemics of 1864-5, and enumerates synechia posterior, opacity of the vitreous humour, and severe iritis, as results which were observed. Deafness occurred in 10 cases seen by Sanderson; and he has no doubt, from the inspection of existing pathological specimens of similar cases, that the cause of it is an inflammatory change in the internal ear. The post-mortem appearances recorded by Sanderson were those of inflammation of membranes of brain and spinal cord, viz., great con- gestion of cerebral sinuses and diploe; plastic exudation of varying extent in hemispheres, basis cranii, or cerebellum, or in all these situations; congestion of vessels of cord, and purulent exudation beneath arachnoid; serous or sero-purulent fluid in lateral ventricles of the brain, &c. The pathology and etiology of epidemic ccrebro-spinal meningitis have been greatly debated, and still remain obscure. The two principal views as to the nature of the disease are, on the one hand, the local theory, that, namely, which supposes it to be a simple cerebro-spinal in- flammation, and the coincidence of a number of cases to depend simply upon climaterie or endemic conditions; and the other, which regards it as a, constitutional malady, with certain local symptoms of an unusual