RESTRAINT NEUROSES. 121 when just recovered, in which apparently no injury was sustained, except that the patieut experienced a great fright, The muscular movements, which began at once on the second fall, bore a general resemblance to those of chorea, but the case really differed entirely from this affection. The movements were shaking, oscillating to and fro, by the alternate action of antagonistic muscles; they repeated themselves rhythmically when once begun (which only happened when the patient was excited or attempted to perform some muscular action), and were usually symmetrical. There were no choreic grimaces, and the age and appearance (the man was 35 years old, and a fairly robust labourer) were different from those observed in chorea. Sanders concludes—1. That the case was one of functional disease of the spinal cord, allied to chorea (spinal chorea ?). It is not paralysis nor ataxia. 2. The disorder belongs to the class " tremores," and is of the kind sometimes called "paralysis agitans" (non-senile), but from the absence of muscular palsy it cannot be so named correctly; it may be called dystaxia, or scelotyrbe agitans, or, perhaps better, pseudo-paralysis agitans. 3. In the form and to the extent presented in this case it is a rare affection, as existing independently of old age, mercurial poisoning, great debility, or organic disease of the cerebro-spinal axis. 4. It probably depends on a weak and excitable condition of the motor centres in the spinal cord, due to anaemia of its grey substance. 5. The predisposing cause of the disease was the accident the patient met with by the first fall. The exciting cause was the fright occasioned by the second fall. It is not likely that the ague or the rheumatism, which had been cured so many years, had any share in its causation. The so-called " Restraint Neuroses." Drs. Eulenburg and Landois discuss this subject in a series of papers.* They consider that the researches of physiologists have proved the existence of four systems of inhibitory nerves:—1. The cardiac ("Weber and Budge). 2. The respiratory (Rosenthal). 3. The intestinal (peristaltic, or Pfliiger's). 4. Those which restrain the reflex movements. There are four kinds of neuroses corresponding to these. 1. The neuroses which affect the cardiac inhibitory nerves are con- cerned with the vagus of one or both sides. The irritation may be excited at many different points, but is most commonly not direct, but reflex, in its action. Direct irritation most frequently takes place in the peripheral branches of the vagus, in the heart itself. "When it is of central origin other symptoms of such violence are produced that the signs of vagus irritation are apt to be masked ; and the same thing occurs in the action of the so-called cardiac poisons and in complex brain disorders. A certain class of cases of angina pectoris are neuroses of the vagus. The best example of a reflex heart-neurosis is given by the famous Klopf-versuch, or crushing-blow experiment of G-oltz. Here the irri- * ' Wim. Med. Wochnscli.,' 37—41, 18C5.