386 REFOKT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Mr. Ley ('Med. Times andGaz.,' 1866) relates a case of hydatiginous chorion, which in its course nearly simulated that of natural pregnancy and labour. It occurred in a young woman, as the result, probably, of first conception. The secretion of milk came on copiously the third day after expulsion of the mass. Dr. Braxton Hicks has re-examined the subject (' Guy's Eeports,' 1865). The formation depends, he says, upon a continuation of the growth of the villi after the normal type, and is not due to any super- added impulse, as is implied in the term "proliferous cyst." The first difference apparent coincident with the enlargement of a portion of the villus, is the filling of it throughout by either complete cells or by some in an incomplete state. These entirely fill up the interior, rendering the appearance of the dilated part opaque. Some of these cells have branching connective-tissue-nuclei (germinal matter—Beale) distributed in a linear manner or irregularly, in variable states of formation, con- nected together frequently, especially at a later period, in a stellate manner. It is the growth of these elements that distends the villus at the commencement of the change. After a time a clear fluid infiltrates between the cells, while about the same time many of them undergo dissolution; also the germinal matter more completely matures itself into connective tissue, commonly of the stellate variety. Cases of hydatiginous degeneration of the placenta are reported by Dr. Valerius (' Journ. de Med. de Brux.,' 1865). Dr. Hahn describes a case of hydatid mole, in which there was a large cystic formation in the umbilical cord ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1865). He dis- cusses at length the nature of this sac, and concludes that the embryo died in consequence of the degeneration of the chorion villi and the increasing pressure of excess of liquor amnii. The irregularities observed in the placenta in 2471 labours are noted by Dr. Valenta (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1866). In 67 cases the placenta was near the os internum; haemorrhage occurred in 17 of these. In 4 cases the placenta was distinctly previous. In 25 cases the adhesion was too strong, in 27 too loose. In these there was more or less bleeding. Placentae succenturiatce were observed 23 times ; in one case there was duplex placenta, i. e. the subsidiary placenta approached in size the main placenta; in several cases there were two or more succenturiate masses ; 12 cases of remarkable size occurred.; anomalies of texture were observed in 697 cases ; so-called fibrin-masses were found in 267, usually on the foetal surface ; only in 23 did the masses extend through to the maternal surface. The so-called fibrin-ring, generally combined with fibrin-masses, w-as seen 182 times. Cysts, generally with serous contents, were founds under the amnion, from which they were easily separated, in varying number, on the foetal aspect of 56 placenta?; these mostly showed, at the same time, fibrinous degeneration. Calcareous deposits were found in 136 placenta?, always on the uterine surface, excepting in two or three cases, and in these the calcareous masses so pervaded the placenta that it was hardly possible to find a place where the knife could pass. Recent a2)oplexies were found in 13; fatty dr- generation in 16, the others being mostly syphilitic ; oedema in 21; if!? flammation, as revealed indistinct purulent collections and friability, 6