REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 382 intercommunicate by irregular openings. This structure is also seen in tho foetal lamina?. In the few instances in which Dohrn has found stumps of vessels in the maternal placenta the surrounding tissue showed pathological conditions. For a small space over the centre of the cotyledons it is possible to separate the tissue of the maternal pla- centa from the villi, and thus to open the cavity of a blood-space in whose wall tho villi lie exposed to the day, but in other places the con- nection of the two structures is so intimate that separation cannot be effected without laceration. Here are found vessel-less filaments which run from the maternal placenta to the points of the villi; these are de- scribed by G-oodsir and Ecker. Beyond these filamentous connections there is no further organic relations between the maternal and festal placentas. Dohrn says ,it is beyond doubt that in mature placentas the villi dip free, and without investment in the sinuses of the ma- ternal placenta. If a preparation ia taken from a somewhat deeper layer from the cotyledon, no tissue of the maternal placenta is found ; there is nothing but villi ramifications; but septa of the maternal pla- centa project deeply between the cotyledons. Hence by far the greatest part of the foetal placental tissue serves for the circulation of the blood, and not for interchange with the maternal placenta. The nearer the approach to the term of labour, the more the conditions of nutrition of the deciduse vera, reflexa, and serotina, differ. The vera has now only a few vessels; in the reflexa, even in the middle of preg- nancy, no vessels can be found; on the other hand, the serotina is a rarified tissue, perforated with large blood-spaces. This difference accounts for a material difference in the retrograde metamorphosis of the three decidual elements. In the maternal placenta of a mature afterbirth are seen cells which by their size, well-developed nucleus, and the slight extent of nucleoli and fat-droplets, are distinguished from the other decidual cells. Most of them have one nucleus; but many have two, three, even to sixteen, nuclei. They are of remarkable size, from 0-03—O04 millimetres. They are sometimes drawn out or provided with interlacing prolongations ; sometimes they have numerous enlargements, each of which has a nucleus. These tissue-elements are commonly found in a structureless substance. When such structures are found in great abundance the assumption that the tissue bearing them is in course of retrograde metamorphosis is not justified; but much rather is it to be inferred that this tissue is subjected to an active interchange of material and to active growth, which is contrary to the old idea, according to which the falling of the maternal placenta depends upon a fatty degeneration of its tissue. It is much more reasonable to conclude that it is the increase of the blood-spaces, attended by ad- vancing growth of tissue with the active cell-propagation, that brings about the detachment of the placenta. The question whether many nucleated cells extend beyond the edge of the placenta has been con- sidered by Kolliker. Dohrn has found them an inch from the edge in the decidua vera. Further than this they are not found. This depends, a^ain, upon the different vascularity of the decidua vera and serotina. The elements of the vera and reflexa much more distinctly pass into fatty metamorphosis.