ItEPOIlT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 60 The constitutional theory of the disease is most prominently repre- sented, in Germany, by Wunderlich,* who observed the disease in 1864- 5 i*1 Leipzig. He arranges the phenomena into two groups—the local and the constitutional; and he says that, according to the intensity and rapidity of the disease, there arc three grades:—(i) In the most severe and rapidly fatal cases both local and constitutional symptoms are highly developed ; (2) in less severe cases the nervous symptoms are the most prominent, and give the only measure of the disease; and (3) in the comparatively trifling the cerebro-spinal symptoms are also the more prominent, but they are more scattered, and might easily have a different significance were it not for the epidemic occurrence of the cases, and if the unusual exhaustion, palpitation, vomiting, and charac- teristic signs of general disturbance, were not present. These latter cases Wunderlich asserts are especially distinguished by enlargement of the spleen, tendency to haemorrhages, exanthemata, and especially by the contrast between the pulse-rate and the temperature. The fever lasts but a short time, but it reaches considerable heights, while the pulse is at or below the normal frequency, and only becomes quicker when the temperature has become normal. In these last cases there are some unusual symptoms. Not only is the curious state of temperature very interesting, but more especially the enlargement of the spleen—a fact of which there can be no doubt, since it is mentioned by so accurate an observer as Wunderlich. But it appears to have been almost absolutely unknown in the experience of others ; and, indeed, Dr. Beckhf expressly makes its non-occurrence one of the important points of distinction from relapsing fever, of which disease it is a very characteristic symptom. The doctrine of Niemeyer has been carried to a still greater extent by DotzauerJ and Lindwurm,§ who regard cerebro-spinal meningitis as an altogether local disease. The opinion of Dotzauer is particularly important, inasmuch as he had a large field of observation (222 cases), and has given an extremely able report of his experience. On the other hand, the constitutional theory has been carried to a high degree by other authors. Grauvogl and Buchner, at Nuremberg and Munich respectively, have sought to identify the disease with relapsing fever; and in this country Dr. Murchison|| supported very ably the view that the German epidemic was only a variety of typhus. He pointed out that the principal symptoms, such as violent pain in the back of the neck, retraction of the head, delirium or stupor from an early period, &c, and the characteristic post-mortem signs of true cerebro-spinal meningitis, have not infrequently occurred in cases of undoubted typhus, particularly in certain epidemics. He observes that the cir- cumstances under which typhus prevails—winter time and a condition of overcrowding amongst indigent persons—are those also of cerebro- * ' Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 417; 1865, p. 268. H. Meissner in ' Schmidt's Jarhb.,' 1866. f ' Meningitis Cerebro-spinalis epidemica und Typbus oder Febris recurrens,' Niirn- berg, 1865. X ' Baver-iirzt.-intell. Bl.,' 12, 1865. Meissner, in 'Schmidt,' 1, 1866. § Ibid'., 21, 1865. Ibid. II 'Lancet,' April 22, 1865.