52 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. f 'Gat. Med.,' 46, 1865. patients, he will receive new doses of the poison, and the disease will break out afresh. In the treatment of confirmed cholera Jacquez objects to frictions, as being generally ill carried out, and therefore more injurious than useful. Warm drinks, and everything warm, are repugnant to the patients, whom he has known to recover after taking draughts of cold water contrary to the advice of their medical attendants. This has led Jacquez to recommend cold water. Some have advised the use of ice; but, according to Jacquez, it is more useful in the stage of reaction. Jacquez calls attention to the fact that when, in the algide stage, vomiting is not present, the case is a very severe one ;* if it cannot be provoked, the attack is fatal. The voice may be lost, the urine sup- pressed, the surface may be of icy coldness, there may be thorough cyanosis, and the pulse may be imperceptible; but if there be frequent vomiting, we must not despair. Vomiting, says Jacquez, when repeated five or six times, is seen to be followed by an increase in the frequency and strength of the pulse and a rise in the temperature. This he attri- butes to the circumstance that a large number of muscles are thrown into action. Why not, then, avail ourselves of the vomiting in cholera as a means of restoring circulation and heat, instead of employ- ing impossible means? Everything which tends to repress vomiting should be discarded from the treatment, especially ice and opiates. Emetics may be given; but, from the repugnance of the patients, their use cannot always be continued. But pure cold water may be given in abundance. The patients call for it and drink it eagerly; it fills the stomach, and produces vomiting, immediately after which it is again demanded. Jacquez has seen patients swallow and eject 120 quarts of water in six hours, and in a large number of these cases there was scarcely any reaction. M. J. Gruerinf republishes an essay which he wrote in 1853. He says, correctly, that the problems to be solved are, to arrest the de- velopment of cholera, and to cure it when possible. He holds that, while diarrhoea is the most constant and important premonitory symp- tom of cholera, there are other prodromata which merit attention. These are, the gastric disturbance, indicated by the excessive secretion of gas and borborygmi; cramps; tendency to rigors, alternating with cold sweat; vertigo; general prostration, and malaise. Accompanied by these, the premonitory diarrhoea is a manifestation of the choleraic influence; it is the commencement of cholera—cholera itself. Guerin' proceeds to discuss the treatment of the premonitory stage, under the heads of empirical, symptomatic, and rational treatment. Properly speaking, he says, there is no treatment worthy of being called empirical. The true empirical remedy for cholera is not found ; if it were it would be specific. But in the symptomatic treatment a host of agents have been used to meet the symptoms already referred t0 opiates, astringents, emollients, stimulants, antiseptics, caloriia- cients, styptics, &c. * The same remark was made at the London Hospital. Vide 'London Hosp. Rep.,' t866, loc. cit.