REPORT ON SURGERY. 298 the external table can be fractured without any injury whatsoever to the internal table—thus proving that the alleged shortness and brittle- ness can have nothing to do with the causation of this fracture. I give the following details of an experiment, which any one can, with a little practice, perforin. A skull-cap, stripped of all its soft parts, with a wet cloth inside it, is to be laid with its convexity in the palm of the left hand, which is to be protected with several layers of a moist cloth, to obviate an inconvenient amount of pain. If the inside of the skull be now struck by a hammer, with a slight degree of force, fracture of the external table will be produced, without any fracturing or Assuring of the inner. I have performed this experiment several times, and exhibited some of the specimens at the Pathological Society. I would here refer to a specimen, which is quite unique, of a certain fracture of the skull, which has never been described by any surgical writer. In G-uy's Hospital Museum, No. 108270, there is a calvarium of a man who committed suicide by shooting himself. The bullet entered the skull in the right temporal region, traversed the brain and its membranes, struck the inside of the left part of the frontal bone, and remained im- prisoned in the cranial cavity. At the spot on the inner surface of the left frontal bone, where the bullet struck, there was a black mark, but no fissure nor fracture, but at the corresponding point outside there was a starred, fissured fracture of the external table only. Here, then, was produced, accidentally, a similar kind of fracture to that which I had caused experimentally. " Thus, therefore, whether the inside or outside of the skull be struck, fracture of the distal table only, without any injury to the proximal table, can be produced in either case. " I will show the causation of the above facts. " If a stick be bent across the knee, until it commences to break, it will be found that the fracture begins, not at the spot where the knee is applied, but at a spot exactly opposite on the other side, and the fracture commences there in obedience to a well-known physical law that, when pressure is applied to a body till it breaks, the fracture commences in the line of extension, not that of compression. Now, when a stick is bent, the atoms along the proximal curve at which the pressure is applied are brought nearer together or compressed, and the atoms along the distal curve are separated or extended ; therefore, if the pressure be continued till the stick breaks, it follows that the rent or fracture must commence at that spot in the distal curve where the greatest extension is going on, which point will be found exactly oppo- site to where the pressure is applied." On the question of diagnosis, Mr. Teevan writes as follows: " I will enumerate those symptoms which are sometimes diagnostic of the occurrence of fracture of the internal table only, but it is very rarely, indeed, that its existence can be absolutely determined. " If a person, after receiving a blow of the description I have already mentioned, should, in the course of some days, or weeks, begin to com- plain of a fixed pain at the spot struck, and be finally attacked with encephalitis, we may conclude, if on examination no injury can be detected to the bone struck, that some spicula? of the inner table, or