REPORT ON SUBOEEY. 19S Kichardson, 'Med.Times and Gaz.,' i, pp. 115,169, 249, 277,1866).—Tbc following is Dr. Richardson's account of the method which he introduced for producing local aniusthesia by means of the vapour of ether. it is, perhaps, hardly necessary to add that the method has since become very general in minor operations, and that some even of the major operations have been performed under its use, as Cajsarean section and ovariotomy. " When the toy for diffusing eau-de-cologne in fine vapour over the skin in the form of spray—which some time ago found its way into our drawing-rooms—first came before me, it struck me at once that it might possibly be applied to the production of local anaesthesia; and 1 set to work to try its applicability in this respect. I was soon afterwards assisted largely in my labours by taking advantage of Siegle's apparatus, with the hand-ball spray-producer invented by my valued friend Dr. Andrew Clarke. "With this apparatus I set myself to determine the degree of cold that could be produced by the vaporization of all the known volatile liquids, and I determined the fact that the intensity of the cold pro- duced held a definite relationship to the boiling-point of the fluid used ; the rule being that the lower the boiling-point the greater was the amount of cold exhibited. In these inquiries I employed a very delicate thermometer, directing the spray upon the bulb from half an inch to an inch and a half from the point of the jet. By these means I learnt that with rectified sulphuric ether I could bring down the thermometer within 10° Fahr. of zero, and that by directing the jet on the skin I could produce a certain definite and marked degree of local insensibility, but not sufficient for surgical purposes." Dr. Richardson then proceeds to relate how he attempted to pro- duce a higher degree of cold by combining ice and salt with the ether in Siegle's apparatus, and how this failed, in consequence of ice collect- ing in the tube, derived from the water of the atmosphere. " By this time I had been led, very reluctantly, to the fact that the use of ice and salt for reducing the ether was a failure when the plan came to be tried in practice, nor could I see any ready way of pre- venting the difficulties that were brought before me. Added to these difficulties there was another, which has always attended my friend Dr. Arnott's plan, viz., that of getting the ice and salt readily for operation. To succeed, therefore, it was requisite to dispense with ice and salt altogether. " In considering how this object could be achieved, it occurred to me that if a larger body of ether than is supplied by Siegle's appa- ratus could be brought through the same jet, by mechanical force, in the same interval of time, and with the same volume of air, a pro- portionate increase of cold must necessarily be produced. The theory was one of pure physics, admitting even of arithmetical de- monstration, and running parallel with the lessons which had been taught me with respect to the cold produced by liquids having different degrees of boiling-point. The theory was put to the test at once, and proved correct to the letter. By driving over the ether under atmo- spheric pressure, instead of trusting simply to capillary action—or to suction, as in Siegle's apparatus—the spray evolved brought the ther-