REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 ture is made, and after the withdrawal of the trocar is allowed at once to slip back, so that the internal orifice is covered and defended from the entrance of air. The tap on the trocar-tube guards against the entrance of air while the evacuation of the fluid is going on. M. Gruinier,|of Montpellier,* has submitted to the Academie de Medi- cine some much more interesting observations on paracentesis thoracis in children. The cases he has collected are 31 in number ; the patients were of all ages up to 14; as many as 16, however, were in their yth, 8th, or gth year. His most important facts are as follows :—1. In a case, which appears unique, Guinier rapidly cured a large sero-purulent pleural effusion in a suckling child, 12 months old. 2. The .31 cases were derived from so many different authors that the truth must be discovered from a comparison of their results. 3. The operation has been done four times as often on boys as on girls. 4. It has been done six times as frequently on the left side as on the right. 5. There have been six times as many successes as failures. 6. The mortality is not in the ratio of the age. 7. The operation itself has never seemed to do any harm. 8. In every known case much immediate relief was obtained; recovery has been the rule, death the exception. 9. In the few fatal cases the operation has never appeared to accelerate, but rather to retard, death. 10. Comparing the numerous reported fatal cases of pleuritic effusion with the results of these 31 operated cases, one must conclude that paracentesis would have saved many of them. 11. In children the operation ought to be performed at an early stage, on account of the great tendency to purulent transformation of the fluid. 12. All the signs, both of pleuritic effusion and even of its purulent nature, are more distinct in the child than in the adult. 13. There is always distortion of the spine, &c, after cure by operation, but it soon spontaneously cures itself, and the quicker so the younger the child is. 14. The best method of operation is to make a single punc- ture with a trocar in a subcutaneous manner; this may be repeated if required. 15. Entrance of air may complicate matters, but does not endanger life. 16. Injections into the pleura had better be avoided if possible; but in the case oifcetor, of course, they must be used. 17. The result of the inquiry is very favorable to paracentesis thoracis in children. The question as to the advisability of paracentesis in pleural effu- sions generally is treated by Dr. Fraser.f This physician is strongly of opinion that the operation should be more generally employed than at present. In the first place, he discredits altogether the supposed evil effects of the mere admission of air to the pleural cavity. He states that the subcutaneous method is unnecessary, and that a direct puncture may be made at a convenient place through the skin and muscles right into the pleural cavity. He believes that pleural serous effusions are not often absorbed, not so frequently as pericardial serous effusions. In the few cases where mercurials have been supposed to bring about absorption he thinks the action of the drug is merely that of restraining further effusion. Medicines are proverbially unreliable, and thoracentesis, therefore, becomes the chief, if not the only, means for removing a serous * ' Bull, de l'Acad. de Med.,' xxx, p. 645; ' Bull, de Therap.,' lxviii, p. 483, 1865. t 'London Hosp. Reports,' 1865.