REPORT ON MEDICAL JUIUSPHUDKNCE. us more rapidly than when no ergotin had been given. This drug is therefore suggested by Klebs as an antidote in cases of poisoning by carbonic oxide. Klebs attaches the more importance to this matter because he at- tributes to the distension of the arteries a great part of the symptoms observed as a result of the inhalation of this gas. Thus, lie ascribes the insensibility, not to the deprivation of oxygen (which was regarded as its cause by Pokrowsky), but to the distension of the cerebral vessels, leading to compression of the brain itself. Prof. Hoppe-Seyler* has proposed to make use of the spectroscope as an aid in the detection of poisoning by this gas. Blood containing carbonic oxide gives, when examined with the solar spectrum, almost exactly the same absorption-bands as oxygenated blood; but sulphide of ammonium does not alter the bands when carbonic oxide is present, whereas when oxygen, and not carbonic oxide, is contained in the blood, the two bands are replaced by a single one midway between the lines D and E, within a few minutes after the addition of the sulphide of ammonium. In animals poisoned by carbonic oxide the presence of the gas can be recognised satisfactorily in this way. When exposed to the air, blood containing carbonic oxide gradually loses the gas. Hence, in medico-legal cases the examination of the blood by the spectroscope should be done as early as possible. However, if the temperature be not very high, several days may pass before the quantity of carbonic oxide in the blood perceptibly decreases. The notes which follow refer to the chemical processes employed in testing for the presence of different poisons. M. Eoussinf publishes some observations on the use of magnesium in toxicological researches. This metal, not being a poison, and being itself a constituent of the animal body, does not, when employed by the chemist, involve the introduction of anything which can give rise to erroneous interpretations into a liquid suspected already to contain a mineral poison. Thus, M. Eoussin recommends the use of magnesium instead of zinc in applying Marsh's test for arsenic or antimony. There is, indeed, a possibility of error in adopting this plan. If any silicon is contained in the magnesium (as was generally the case when the metal first became an article of commerce), siliciuretted hydrogen will be formed. Now, this gas decomposes at a dull red heat (like the gaseous compounds of arsenic and antimony with hydrogen), and forms a deposit of a dark brown colour. This deposit, however, is easily distin- guished from one of arsenic or antimony. Either of these last disappears immediately when touched with a drop of nitric acid or of aqua regia. The arsenical ring is also instantly dissolved on the addition of a dilute solution of a hypochlorite. These liquids are without action on deposits of silicon. Moreover, a preliminary examination of the hydrogen given off by the magnesium and the acid should always be made before the addition of the liquid suspected to contain poison ; and the presence of silicon would then, of course, be detected. The magnesium prepared * ' Med. Centr. Bl.,' iv, 4; ' Grsevell's Notizen, N. F., viii, p. 625. t ' Jour, de Chim. et de Phar.,' 1866, 4erae ser., iii, p. 413.