REP011T OX MTDWIFKRYj KTC. 11(1 great difference in the reaction in different individuals Tlie rise was seldom remarkable, only once over 400 C. It was ushered in by a slight feeling of cold. The " milk-fever" is chiefly distinguished from the " wound-fever" by setting in later. 3C/60 C. was the highest temperature observed. The pulse was seldom over 100. Schroder then endeavours to distinguish between epidemic and non- epidemic puerperal inflammation. He takes 47 cases of fever and peritonitis in which there was circumscribed pain on pressure. These mostly fell ill with slight shivering. The temperature rose from 38- 5° C. to 41 -5° C. In the greater number of cases it was 40-5° C. to 410 C. The highest temperature was generally reached on the first, second, and third days. Epidemic cases are divided, according to Virchow's scheme, into—(1) inflammatory, (2) thrombotic, (3) ichorrhaemic and septicemic. In 4 cases of the first kind the highest temperature was 41 "5° C, with a pulse of 1440 and 38 respirations in the minute. In 3 cases of general diffuse peritonitis a remarkable sinking of temperature towards the fatal termination was observed. In 2 cases of the third kind, in which puerperal sores—a character- istic indication of epidemicity—existed, the temperature was 40'Q0 C.; pulse 120; respiration 22. The observations of morbid conditions are defective (' Monatsschr. f. G-eburtsk.,' Feb. 1866). The temperature during puerperal processes is investigated by Leh- niann ('Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Greneesk.,' 1865). He has made many ob- servations on healthy and sick childbed women, but has not found the results so useful in diagnosis as have other observers. He placed the thermometer in the vagina. The temperature here was gene- rally 20 C. higher than in the axilla. The temperature of preguant women averaged 37*4° C, whilst in healthy women it is 370 C. In chronic diseases of the genitals it was 370—37*6° C. During labour in healthy women the temperature often rises remarkably, i. e. to 400 C, but falls immediately afterwards; it re.mains, however, always higher during childbed than in pregnancy. It was found in the fourth week to be still 3 7'4° C. In the interval there are many fluctuations. Immediately after labour it is 3 7'6° — 8° C. ; on the second and third days it attains its greatest height, 39—410 C, and then sinks. Pluriparse are colder than priinipare. The temperature is higher in the evening than in the morning. Childbed women react easily under any disturbing cause, as diet, emotions, chills, checked milk-secretion, and thus tbe physiological condition passes quickly into the pathological. Milk-fever commonly raises temperature to 400 C. In puerperal fever Lehmann says the inner surface of the uterus is, as a rule, the starting-point for further pathological changes. In puerperal fever the temperature rises much higher than in other diseases; 40—420 0. gives an unfavorable prognosis. Generally, in puerperal fever, temperature, pulse, and respiration, stand in like pro- portion. There are the most marked fluctuations in the pyemic form. Contribution to the knowledge of the relation of temperature in