327 SYPHILISATION. 4 months' residence in England was not, perhaps, attributable to him. Ho expected that 65 patients would have been placed at his disposal, under the sanction of Government, from the time of his arrival; but, as it happened, he had an opportunity of treating such cases only as were supplied to him from private sources. It would be manifestly unjust to judge Dr. Boeck's system by the results thus furnished We have, on the other hand, extensive and most accurately kept tables in Prof. Boeck's great work, which furnish abundant proof that the symp- toms of constitutional syphdis will disappear under the continued irri- tation kept up by repeated inoculations." Mr. Lee then proceeds to show that the advantages claimed for the method, viz., that it prevents the internal organs and the bones from becoming affected, and that relapses are rare after it, are not yet proved, though he allows it to be probable that the derivative effect of the irritation of the skin may obviate the tendency to implication of internal organs—an effect which he also attributes to the method of treatment by calomel fumigation. "With respect to the time occupied in treatment, he compares Prof. Boeck's statistics of syphilisation, which give an average of rather more than 19 weeks as the time occupied in treatment, with those of the calomel vapour bath, as used by himself at the Lock Hospital, which give for 213 cases an average of exactly 6 weeks. Mr. Lee also dwells upon other advantages of this method of administering mercury. He concludes in the following terms:—" Jenner warned the profession in his day against the belief that every successful inoculation with matter taken from a vaccine vesicle was necessarily the real vaccine disease; and he especially notices that after a vesicle had suppurated it was very liable, upon reinoculation, to produce an affection which was not fol- lowed by the legitimate results of the vaccine disease upon the patient's constitution. To apply the warning which Jenner gave to our present subject may not be out of place. It no more follows that the success- ful inoculation of matter from the surface of an indurated sore produces real syphilis, than it follows that the production of a pustule by inocu- lation from what was once a vaccine vesicle necessarily communicates genuine vaccine disease. We conclude,— " 1st. That no evidence has hitherto been adduced satisfactory to the profession that the infecting form of syphilis can be inoculated upon a patient who is at the time the subject of constitutional syphilis. " 2nd. That both from a soft sore, and also occasionally from the sur- face of an indurated sore, matter may be taken which may be made to produce a number of local specific ulcerations having the characters of the soft chancre. "3rd. That during the continued irritation of such ulcerations the manifestations of secondary syphilis will disappear. " 4th. That the time required for the treatment of syphilis in this way is so long, and the inconveniences attending it are so great, that it is not in any degree likely to be adopted in private practice in England." It appears from the most recent and very elaborate work of Lance- reaux ('Traite Historique et Pratique de la Syphilis,' Paris, 1866, p. 749), that the judgment formed of syphilisation m Paris is much the