LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE, CAROTID, AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 347 May, 1864, affected with aneurism of the right subclavian artery. He had been employed in the capacity of steward on the United States steam-transport ' Suffolk,' and dates the commencement of his ailment from a collision of this ship with the steamer 1 Continental' at Sabine Pass, in the month of February last. In his efforts to save himself, he tried to board the latter ship, and, holding by the anchor, he sustained, for a time, his own weigbt and that of another man who clung to him in a similar attempt. To this over-exertion he attributed the origin of his disease. He felt pain in the shoulder from that time, and in about a month he noticed a small throbbing tumour making its appear- ance above the clavicle. " This tumour, gradually enlarging, had reached the size of a small orange at the time of his admission into the hospital, was circumscribed and round in shape, filling up the posterior inferior triangle of the neck; strong pulsatory movement was visible even at some distance, and on applying the ear to its surface a loud bellows sound was heard accom- panying the arterial beat. No difference was detected in the pulsation of the two radial arteries at the wrist, and there was nothing abnormal in the sounds of the heart. " He complained a good deal of severe pain and numbness in the fore- arm and hand; for the past 2 months he had been unable to he down or stand erect, but was compelled to lean forwards continually for relief, and to sleep sitting in a chair with his head resting on the side of the bed or on another chair placed opposite. " The case was seen by a large number of medical gentlemen, none of whom entertained any doubt as to the nature of the tumour, or the necessity of an operation for the patient's relief. Some diversity of opinion did, however, exist as to the best method of proceeding to adopt. _ "Dr. D. L. Eogers, of New York, who was present, strongly urged the ligature of the innominate and carotid arteries at the same time, as being an improvement on former operations. The tying of the latter artery would intercept a retrograde current through it, which he supposed had occurred in former cases, preventing occlusion on the distal side of the ligature, and thereby causing fatal secondary htemor- rhage. This proposal seeming a good one, was determined upon, for although ligature of the innominate in every previous case has been followed by a fatal result, it must be admitted that this operation has been attended with a greater degree of success (if we measure by the days patients survived it) than any other, offering an equal prospect of effecting a cure. And to my mind the Hunterian method promised at least relief from present pain, while any attempt to arrest the circula- tion through the aneurism by ligature on the distal side might not have accomplished even so much. The aneurism continued to increase from the date of admission; and, 6 days after, on the 15th of May, assisted by Dr. Eogers, Drs. Holliday and Boyer of this city, Surgeons Bacon and Orten, of the United States Army, and the resident students of the hospital, I performed the operation suggested by the first-named gentleman. " A longitudinal and transverse incision having been made after tho