REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 84 the fever has already nearly or quite disappeared and the patient has seemed to be convalescent. He has observed 7 cases—2 occurring after measles, 2 after pneumonia, 2 after typhoid, and 1 after erysipelas. The condition of the brain appears to be one of anaemia, caused chiefly by a transitory change in the capillary circulation, and hence in the nutrition and action of the brain-cells, and produced, perhaps, by a sudden sinking in the heart-power. The prognosis does not seem alarming; all Weber's cases quickly recovered with opiates, wine, nourishment, and rest. Still, it has been recorded by some observers that the mental disorder has become chronic, though Weber has never seen such an occurrence. On the subject of the relations of chorea to insanity, the paper of M. Thore* is important. He relates two cases in which distinct symp- toms of insanity supervened on a chronic attack. The first of these is of great interest, because the chorea itself occurred as a complication of acute articular rheumatism. The patient was a young lady, who experienced an attack of general acute rheumatism, with pleurisy and endocarditis. Coincidentally with the subsidence of the pains she began (twenty-four days from the commencement of the illness) to be affected with choreic movements, chiefly of the left arm and of the face. Two days later, alarming hallucinations of sight, hearing, and feeling, oc- curred ; for two or three days these were very distressing. The mental symptoms and the chorea diminished simultaneously, but the patient remained abstracted and timid for some days. The chorea disappeared about nineteen days after its first occurrence, and only a little weakness remained ; a week later the patient was quite well. The other case of Thore was that of a needlewoman, who, ever since an attack of typhus, which she experienced when eleven years old, had been melancholy and depressed. Menstruation had come on at the age of sixteen in a regular manner, although she was chlorotic; but a year afterwards she caught cold at her period, and the menstrual flow was suppressed. Three weeks later choreic movements attacked the lower extremities, and subsequently the upper; they were especially strong on the left side. The chorea and the general agitation increased during the next six weeks, when, at the height of the disorder, visual and auditory hal- lucinations of a gloomy kind appeared, especially in the evening. There was difficulty of speech, incoherence of ideas, and melancholy, with a tendency to suicide and constant thoughts about it. In the course of another six weeks the chorea, the agitation, the thoughts of suicide, and also the hallucinations, began to leave the patient. Simul- taneously with the restoration of the menses the cure was complete. It has long been established, by the facts recorded by Marce, Trous- seau, Brierre de Boismont, Warin, Bricheteau, and also by the his- tories of the chorea epidemics of the Middle Ages, that various kinds of intellectual and emotional insanity may occur in cases of chorea. The mental disturbances may vary from slight affections of the emo- tions or the will to hallucination, mania, melancholia, and even imbe- cility. The two cases recorded by Thore"are each interesting as con- necting the chorea and the mental affections with an acute disease. In the first case acute rheumatism, which is known to have so frequent * 'Ann. Med. Psych.,' 1865; ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1865.