sruiiKUY ok iiii; foot. 279 great synovial membrane of the foot is imaginary. He recommends, therefore, that we should avoid destruction of joints whenever we can do so, and for that purpose operate as near the disease as possible, through the tarsal bones. Mr. Hancock recommends, however, tbat in excisions the diseased parts should be removed by clean cuts of the saw, not bruised off with a gouge or chisel. He then proceeds to remark on the circumstances under which new bone is deposited, and instances the new production of bone which occurs when tendons are displaced or ruptured, of which he gives several interesting examples, especially in the rupture of the tendons of the adductor longus muscle, which takes place sometimes in accidents on horseback, and where he has found by examination on the living subject apparently a bony process reproduced to attach the tendon to the pubes again. Mr. Hancock then goes on to observe on the evil effects of confinement in wounds of joints, remarking that tetanus seldom follows on injuries in which the joint is very freely laid open; and he conjectures, that in many cases, even when suppuration has not set in, but when the suffering from pressure and gradual destruction of joint-tissue so undermine the patient's constitution that it may become necessary to sacrifice the joint, such an issue might, perhaps, be avoided by free incision, dividing the ligaments and tendons around the affected joint. Lecture III is devoted to Syme's amputation, of which the professor has collected 219 instances from English and foreign sources, exclusive of those performed by Syme himself. The gross mortality was 17, or rather more than 7^ per cent., as against 37 per cent, in the leg; 181 operations were per- formed for disease, with 11 deaths, and 32 for accidents, with 6 deaths. Mr. Hancock argues that if the precautions laid down by Mr. Syme are observed, the various objections to which this operation has been ex- posed are not tenable. In Lecture IV Pirogoff's operation is dis- cussed, the various modifications in its performance adopted by different surgeons are described, and 58 cases are referred to in which the operation has been performed in this country. Suppuration in the course of the sheaths of the tendons, and in the neighbourhood of the stump, is especially noticed in 11, while sloughing of the flap occurred only in 1 case, and in that is attributed to disease of the blood-vessels. The objections made to this operation by Mr. Syme are discussed, but Mr. Hancock does not allow the validity of any of them. Abscess along the sheaths of the tendons appears to be, in Mr. Hancock's opinion, the most troublesome event which commonly follows the operation. He gives a comparative statement of the results of the two operations in all the cases which he has collected, from which he concludes that the mortality has been less after Syme's amputa- tion ; but sloughing of the flap has been more common, and that, on the whole, " Syme's operation appears to me to be unquestionably the best for disease, and Pirogoff's for the accidents of civil life, since by it we preserve an increased length of limb." In Lecture V Mr. Hancock describes the operation of subastragaloid amputation, which he says is hardly known in England, having, as far as he can find out, been performed only by Mr. Simon, Dr. John Traill, Mr. Garner, of Stoke-upon-Trent, and himself. The operation, he says, is in reality a