317 OPERATIONS l-OIl HERNIA. fore in a condition to spead the inflammation, in a patient predisposed to the unhealthy diffused form of inflammation, to the rest of the serous cavity. Hence he concludes—(i) that time is of extreme value, and therefore that, in a case of strangulated hernia, the surgeon should never rest till he has got the gut reduced, without an operation, if pos- sible ; if not, by operation. (2) That in every case of long strangulation the sac should be opened in order to inspect the bowel. (3) That if the bowel is found in a damaged condition, i. e. inflamed and mottled in colour, although not absolutely gangrenous, it is better to divide the stricture freely and leave the gut in the sac. (4) That preventive treat- ment should be adopted for peritonitis, by anticipation, if inflamed bowel have been returned. Mr. Hutchinson appears to trust for this purpose chiefly to the action of mercury. Zeis relates, in 1 Langenbeck's Archives' for 1865, pp. 136 and 199, some rare occurrences in operations for hernia. In the first place, he remarks that occasionally the hernia may be devoid of a sac, in conse- quence of the rupture of the latter. He gives a series of references to authors who have treated of the causes of absence of the hernial sac; and he remarks on the occasional difficulty, even to experienced sur- geons, of distinguishing between the surface of the gut and the hernial sac. He then gives full details of two cases in which he had the mis- fortune to open the gut; in one instance after a very careful exami- nation made with a view to settle this very point, in the other without any suspicion. Post-mortem examination in both instances led to the conclusion that the hernial sac had been ruptured at some former period, and terminated near the hernial opening. This had probably occurred as a consequence of attempts at reduction, and the subse- quent exposure of the serous surface of the gut to the contact of the membranes in the neighbourhood, unprotected by the hernial fluid and the smooth surface of the peritoneum, had altered its appearance. He discusses at length the causes which may lead to such a mistake of the gut for the sac, but does not appear to be able to point out any infallible means of making the distinction in some rare cases. He then relates a case in which in a femoral hernia a double sac appeared to be present. The sac having been opened, and a little hernial fluid evacuated, a round swelling came into view, with a mem- branous envelope, but no distinct appearance of bowel. The surgeons present were doubtful whether this was the outer surface of the gut or no, and it was a matter of great doubt what course to take, when an accidental rent made in the membranous envelope showed the bowel below it. The operation ended fatally, but an autopsy could not be procured. He explains the double sac by the existence of plastic exudation at some former period in the peritoneal sac, which had become organized, though he allows the possibility of a hernia of the peritoneum into a previously existing sac, and refers to authors in sup- port of both views. Dr. Eose, of Kidderminster, in relating a case of strangulated femoral hernia in which, after taxis had failed under chloroform, the intestine returned of its own accord some hours afterwards, when an operation appeared inevitable, makes the following observations :