];);} ELECTRICITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES. Las been done by directing the constant current upon tbo inferior cervical ganglion. In paraplegia, and especially in the affection known as " creeping paralysis," which begins with the lower extremities, and reaches the upper and even the cerebral nerves, the constant current has been very useful. In a case which was going on rapidly, the labile current (from 25 elements), applied upon the nucha and the two inferior ganglia of the sympathetic for about 12 minutes, produced surprising effects. In fact, he was entirely restored to perfect sensory and motor power at two applications, and had no relapse whatever. In ataxic paraplegia the constant current is no less useful than in the more usual form. In hysterical paraplegia the poles applied over the lumbar region and the solar plexus have produced the happiest effects. In contraction and rigidity of the muscles in hemiplegia the use of the constant current at an early stage seems to arrest the complaint. The current must be directed, not on the muscles, but on the great sympathetic and cerebral vessels of the opposite side. Traumatic paraplegia affords another instance of what the catalytic power of the constant current can effect; for in a case of severe injury to the spine its application seemed (1) to help to restore the vertebral column to its normal position by relaxing certain spasmodic muscles and strengthening certain others which were improperly relaxed; (2) to relieve the nerve-trunks from pressure on them ; and (3) to cause dila- tation of the sanguine and lymphatic vessels, and thus bring about the re-establishment of circulation and absorption. The result was far more satisfactory than could possibly have been expected. On the subject of the continuous voltaic current may be noted the de- tails given by Dr. Hammond* of three cases of infantile paralysis, in each of which the current developed from a voltaic pile of 100 pieces effected a cure after powerful induction currents, as well as other local treatment, had entirely failed to produce any good effect. In each case there was much shrinking, if not positive atrophy, of the muscles. The materials of the voltaic pile were square pieces of copper gauze and perforated zinc, soldered together in pairs, each pair separated from the next by a piece of woollen cloth. The pile is excited by strong vinegar. The poles terminate in wet sponges. The effect is so powerful that a few seconds' contact of the poles with the skin will cause vesication. It would be highly dangerous to apply this apparatus to the face or any part of the district supplied by the 5th nerve, for the effect may be to communicate such a shock to the retina as to cause great disturbance, or even abolition of sight. Dr. Eulenburgt discusses the treatment of the vulgarly called " rheumatic" palsy of the portio dura. He inclines to believe that this affection often depends upon pressure, from the patient's lying on one side of the face in sleeping (!). He bears witness to the fact which has been noticed by various writers, that there are many cases of facial palsy in which the induced current has not the least power to make the * ' New York Journal of Med.,' December, 1865. t * Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' t, p. 70, i860.