318 REPORT ON SURGERY. " This reminds me of Mr. Jordan's extra-peritoneal and pretaxoid operation for strangulated hernia, which is well worthy of the attention of the profession. He says, ' In cases of strangulated hernia it is quite unnecessary even to expose the sac. All that is necessary in practice is to relieve the tension of Gimbernat's ligament in femoral hernia, of the conjoined tendon or fibrous aperture in inguinal hernia, and of the linea alba in umbilical and the more common forms of ventral hernia.' " ('Lancet/ 1865, i, p. 507.) "Strangulated Congenital Inguinal Hernia in the Female."—The patient was a child 3 years old. Immediately after her birth it was dis- covered that she had inguinal hernia on the right side, and by the advice of the attending physician her parents procured a truss, which was applied, and appeared to answer the required purpose. On January 3 Dr. J. H. Armsby was called upon to visit the child. On examination the hernia was found presenting directly over the pubic extremity of Poupart's ligament. Attempts had been made to reduce it, but with- out success, and anodynes and warm fomentations had been ordered. It was now 72 hours since the first symptoms of strangulation had appeared, and the child was greatly debilitated by the pain and constant vomiting, was perspiring profusely, her expression was pale and cadaverous, and her pulse was 160. The operation was immediately performed in the way ordinarily practised for strangulated hernia in the adult. The parts were greatly swollen and congested, and about 3 inches of the ileum, not far from the caput colt, were found protruding, completely strangulated and gangrenous. The portion of intestine involved adhered firmly to the sac aud surrounding soft parts, and was soft and partially disorganized. Dr. Armsby left the gangrenous portion of intestine as he found it, and applied a linseed-meal poultice. Before the next morning it separated, and faecal matter escaped freely at the opening. The patient improved rapidly under the use of anodynes and tonics ; the wound gradually contracted until the twelfth day after the operation, when she had a natural evacuation from the bowels, and no more fecal discharge from the opening. The wound healed kindly, and one month after the operation cicatrization was perfect, and the patient restored to her usual health. ('New York Med. Record,' April 16.) " A simple method of Radically Curing Reducible Hernia." By Julian J. Chisholm, M.D., Professor of Surgery in the Medical College of S. Carolina, U.S. from the ' Lancet,' ii, 1866, p. 231.—The object of this operation is to sew the columns of the inguinal ring together, sub- cutaneously, by silver wire, leaving the wire permanently in the tissues. The only instrument necessary is a stiff needle 5 inches in length, very slightly curved at the point where the eye is, and mounted in a handle. The bowels are to be cleared out, the hair shaved off, the hernia reduced, and then the left index finger is to be placed over the centre of the fundus of the scrotum, palmar surface upwards, with the needle lying upon it, the eye corresponding with the pulp of the finger, which thus can guide it in any required direction. The finger with the needle, now capped with scrotal tissue, is then passed up the inguinal canal