MENTAL DISEASES. 83 lungs, ill the form of groups of small, hard, grey, semi-transparent granules, tolerably firm, and composed of an agglomeration of very small spherical nuclei, bound together by granular or fibrous material. These granules exactly resembled those found in man, and also, as was proved by direct comparison, those obtained by M. Villemin in his ex- periments. In one of these rabbits the lower lobe of the lung was strongly and extensively congested, and the parts in the neighbourhood of the granules contained large epithelial cells undergoing endogenous multiplication, and leucocytes. There was also, on the right side of the neck (the side on which the inoculation was made, a chain of enlarged and yellowish softened lymphatic glands. Their tissue was pulpy and opaque, and they contained the ordinary nuclei and small cells, but generally larger than in the normal state, infiltrated with granules of albuminoid and fatty matter. See also Yogel, " On the Transferability of Tubercle to Animals," 'Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' ii, 3, p. 364. Gibout, Instances of apparent communication of tuberculosis between human beings, ' Journ. de Med. de Brux.,' 1866, p. 448. Trichiniasis. On this subject we had intended to introduce an analysis of the splendid report of Dr. Thudichum " On the Parasitic Diseases of Animals used for Food" (' Seventh Eeport of the Med. Officer to the Privy Council'). It is, however, impossible to do any justice to this great work of research by a short abstract, and we can therefore only mention it. B. DISEASES OF THE NEBYOTJS STSTEM. Mental Diseases. Dr. Adam Addison* publishes the results of some new researches on the chemical composition of the urine of the insane. The conclusions at which he arrives are as follows:—1. The quantities of the urine, of the chloride of sodium, urea, phosphoric and sulphuric acids, excreted during the course of a maniacal paroxysm occurring in acute mania, epilepsy, general paralysis, dementia, or melancholia, are less than the amounts secreted, in an equal time, in health. 2. In chronic melan- cholia the quantities of the same substances are reduced below the mean, and sometimes below the minimum, of health. 3. In idiocy, dementia (paralytic and common), the same substances range above and below the normal mean of health; in some cases the amount of phosphoric acid is greater than the mean according to weight, but in the majority of cases it ranges between the minimum and the mean found in healthy adult men. Dr. E. Boydf gives an estimate of the size of the head and weight of the brain as observed in 696 cases of insanity. This paper, though not absolutely long, is so condensed that it is impossible to represent its data by an abstract, and, as we cannot insert it entire, we can only call attention to it. Dr. H. "Weber% calls attention to a violent maniacal delirium which occasionally breaks out in the decline of acute pyrexial diseases, when • 'Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,' April, 1865. t Ibid., Jan., t86fi» % Ibid., April, 18651