218 REPORT ON SURGERY. effects on the healing of the wound, he has come to use it in all opera- tions. A solution of chloride of zinc, from 30 to 40 gr. to an ounce of distilled water, is to he taken up with a piece of sponge, and worked into every part of the wound. " The first effect is always an excitement of the small vessels, and a general oozing of hlood from surfaces which had been previously dry. The hlood becomes pink and creamy by contact with the chloride. On further application of the solution the whole surface is softened, and assumes the same pink colour. The blood will continue to ooze out as long as the solution is applied, and for a short time after. Every part should be well saturated with the chloride—the edges of the skin, the adipose tissue, the spaces between the muscles, the medullary cavity, or cancellated structure of bone. The surgeon need not hesitate to apply it even to thin and delicate structures. I have been surprised, in many instances, at the very momentary character of the pain caused by the application of the lotion, and at its entire absence, even, in some cases, although no chloroform was used. Under any circumstances the pain is very transient, and I believe one may put down half an hour as its general period of dura- tion." Mr. De Morgan says, however, that when applied to parts previously inflamed, or phagedamic, the pain is often severe and lasting. " The objection [that it prevents union by first intention] is not valid. A wound will heal entirely in 24 hours when the solution has been freely used. It may do so in less time, possibly, but I have often seen a wound entirely healed in that time. And, as a rule, I have found that wounds have healed more rapidly since I have used the application. After the experience I have had of its effects I should have no hesitation in using it in a plastic operation." As a personal proof of the slight amount of irritation which the solu- tion causes, Mr. De Morgan relates that he accidentally received a jet of it in his eye one day without experiencing any bad results, and that the same accident occurred to his dresser, and proved equally harmless. He relates that Mr. Moore injected a hydrocele with 3 oz. of water containing a drachm of the chloride, leaving half the fluid in the sac, and that he himself, in a case of Caesarean section, sponged the inner surface and cut edges of the uterus and the peritoneum with the fluid. The patient died 41 hours after the operation, "but she had no pain, and the only spot where any marked inflammation was found after death was about one of the round ligaments, which had not been exposed to the action of the lotion." The advantages claimed for this method are thus expressed :—" That decomposition does usually occur [that is, in operation-wounds] is evidenced by the peculiar sickly animal smell which is perceived when- ever a wound which has been covered for a few hours is opened. When, on the contrary, a wound has been fairly impregnated with the chloride lotion, there is invariably an absence of any animal smell whatever for 1 or 3 days; and unless some diseased tissue remain in the wound, there will probably be none throughout the whole period of healing. "Were this the only advantage, it would be a great one ; I believe that in our hospital it has saved many a patient from erysipelas and pyaemia ; certainly, we have been for the last 10 months entirely free from these