101 CEREBRAL SOFTENING. of blood supply and the character of the softening ; the starting-point of these disturbances of circulation often consisted in obliteration of un artery by thrombosis or embolia; sometimes in mere atheromatous degeneration of the arteries; sometimos, perhaps, in a more or less wide-spread capillary embolism. In only 2 cases did we fail to detect any cause of difficulty of circulation; but an embolism may have es- caped our notice, as the search for such an affection is very tedious. None of our observations have permitted us to make sure that the softening was due to atheroma of capillaries, and we have seen that this degeneration might be secondary; we can say nothing precise as to this matter. To the necrobiotic process, which is the essence of ramollissement, must be added certain irritative phenomena. We have seen, in some case, inflammation produced around the obstructions which we have caused in dogs; we have attempted to compare with these phenomena the new membranous matter on the dura mater at the site of old softenings. In the section on symptoms we have insisted on the signs of cerebral ischemia ; we have attributed to this cause the giddiness and the apoplectiform attacks followed by rapid death without lesion of the centres, which the majority of authors have attributed to cerebral congestion. We have tried to establish a relation between the greater or less intensity of the attack and the greater or less gene- ralisation of the cerebral ischaemia; finally, we have showed that throm- bosis may, like embolia, give rise to a sudden catastrophe. As to paralysis, contraction of muscles, and other symptoms of softening, we have little to add to the descriptions of authors. The analysis of our observations has shown that paralysis is usually sudden in occurrence, and rarely follows a slow course, so that it is impossible to found on it a diagnostic sign of any value. Finally, the examination of rectal tem- perature in some of our observations, and in the statements which M. Charcot has communicated to us, enable us to say that the heat of the body is not raised in softening of the brain, as in inflammations; so that if inflammation plays any part it is only a very secondary one, and the essential process is quite of a different kind. It would be interesting to make the same thermometric researches in inflammatory cases." Dr. Adrien Proust* reviews the whole subject, in order, in the first place, to determine the limits of the class of cases to which the term ramollissement may be properly applied. He traces, with great fulness, the gradual shifting of medical opinions by which the inflammatory, exudative, and hemorrhagic varieties of softening have come to be recognised more and more as forming only a portion, and that not the largest, of the total number of cases of ramollissement. Proust considers that the word ramollissement ought to be employed in the definite sense of molecular death of the nervous tissue. In this sense it is a disease which has its own symptomatology and its special patho- logical change ; and the many different pathological states which have been connected with it in medical phraseology ought to be treated only in a secondary manner. The molecular tissue—death, however, which is * ' Des differentes formes de Ramollissement du Cerveau,' These de Concours, par Adrien Proust, Docteur en Medccine, &c. &c, Paris, P. Asselin, 1866, 8vn, pp. 132.