REPORT ON MATER 1A MEDICA, ETC 474 been stated that all the chloroform employed in the hospitals at Edin- burgh is now made from methylated spirit. Ether which was derived from this source (and which contains probably nearly ro per cent, of methyl-ether) can be detected by its having a much lower boiling- point ; but, so far as Mr. Tuck knows, in no other way. In sweet spirits of nitre and in sal volatile the presence of methylic alcohol is very easily proved, either by the oxidation-test or by the iodo-hydrar- gyride of potassium. The following notes refer to some of the principal papers con- cerning the manufacture and the preservation of medicinal prepara- tions. Mr. Balmanno Squire* has found that the dark yellow oil obtained from the seeds of staphysagria is as active as the powdered seeds them- selves in destroying pediculi. The oil amounts to as much as half of the weight of the seeds. It is extracted by ether. A very good pre- paration of this drug may be made by digesting the crushed seeds in hot lard, but the ointment thus obtained has the disadvantage of being of a brown colour. Mr. George Johnsonf has examined the deposit which forms in bottles containing the Vinum Ipecacuanha;. This deposit has generally been supposed to consist of inert substances, such as ulmin or mucila- ginous matters; but Mr. Johnson finds that it is made up of two dif- ferent substances, in varying proportions. One of these is bitartrate of potass derived from the wine, and presents large crystals; the other forms a yellowish, transparent, granular mass, which is shown to be ipecacuanbate of emetina. The nature of the wine used in making the preparation affects merely the proportion of bitartrate of potass in the deposit. Mr. TJmneyJ has investigated the cause of the gradual change to which the syrup of the phosphate of iron is liable, acquiring a reddish colour by age. He finds that it is chiefly due to exposure to the air; it occurs much earlier when the syrup is kept in bottles only partially filled. It is somewhat influenced by light, coming on more quickly when the preparation is placed in a green than when it is contained in a blue bottle. The following notes are taken from some of the principal papers which have reference to the determination of the active principles of particular medicinal substances. Hubler has obtained§ from the seeds of the Colchicum autumnale a principle to which he gives the name of colchicin. It will be remem- bered that, in 1857, Oberlin failed to extract the alkaline crystallizable principle described by Geiger and Hesse by the method which they recommended, and that he obtained an uncrystallizable resinous body, which had no alkaline reaction. When treated with hydrochloric or sul- phuric acid, this substance yielded a neutral crystallizable principle, which * ' Pharm. Jour.,' vi, p. 405. f Tbid-. vii> P- l19- t I,)id-> viii' P* I29- § ' Jen. Ztschrft. f. Med. u. Naturw.,' i, 3, p. 247; ' Schmidt,' 125, p. 292.