REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 403 out after an easy labour, the child subsequently gave evidence of syphilis, and the mother was chloro-anaemic. Her urine was not examined. She got well. In the 'Beport of the Milan Lying-in Hospital' are 7 cases of puer- peral convulsions. These 7 cases occurred in 554 women. All were treated by free bleedings. All the cases had been for some time in hospital. Six were primipara?. Six living children were born. Albuminuria was noticed in 4 cases only. Of these one only was anasarcous, the woman bearing twins. Dr. Lazzati notices that a position on the right or left side, with the legs and thighs bent, was almost constantly assumed between the fits. Dr. Greuser relates ('Mon. f. G-eburtsk.,' 1865) a case of oedema in a primipara aged 20; much albumen in urine; no eclampsia. The albumen gradually disappeared as the milk came after labour. Dr. Barnes (in "Lectures on Puerperal Fever," 'Lancet,' 1865) dis- cusses albuminuria and convulsions. He says these are most frequently conditions of pregnancy, and depend rarely upon labour, but may cause labour and produce secondary excretory puerperal fever. He gives au analysis of the blood drawn from a patient while suffering from puer- peral albuminuric eclampsia, made by Dr. Bernays. The blood contained urea and uric acid. He regards albuminuria as being evidence of the kidneys being overpowered by the double strain of having to serve as emunctories for two organisms, and thinks it probable that sometimes albuminuria and uraemia are of sudden origin, and that the convulsions follow almost immediately upon the failure of the kidneys. Dr. Greuser relates ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1866) a case of eclampsia followed by complete amaurosis lasting several days. The patient was a primipara aged 21. The fit broke out after labour. There was albuminuria. Dr. Braxton Hicks contributes a memoir (' Obstet. Trans.,' viii) on eclampsia. He argues that if it were shown that, although no albumen existed in the urine before the convulsion, nor indeed any evidence whatever of ill-health up to the very moment of attack, yet that shortly after the first fit, not only albumen was to be found, but also the evidences of acute desquamative nephritis were present within twelve hours, then the author considered that we must admit either (1st) that these convulsions produced the nephritis, or (2nd) that some abnormal ingredient in the blood produced simultaneously irritation of the cerebro-spinal system and of the kidney, or (3rd) that the highly congested venous system produced by the spasm of the glottis was able to cause the nephritis. He brought forward four cases which showed the development of the acute kidney disease after the first convulsion, being about half of those where he had an opportunity of examining the state of the urine early. IV. CHILDBED. In a lecture ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1866) Dr. Bence Jonea illustrates the production of chemical disease by previous mechanical