INJURIES TO NERVES. ]28 first demonstrated a restraint centre for this purpose in the corpora quadrigemina of the frog. To the neuroses ot this inhibitory system may probably be ascribed many spasmodic diseases, e.g. epilepsy, chorea, tetanus, paralysis agitans. According to Malkiewicz, the spasms in poisoning with strychnia, opium, and alcohol, are due to paralysis of this inhibitory centre. Prof, von Piotrowski* opposes the theory of Landois and Eulenburg, more especially as regards its application to the neurosis of the heart. He is an opponent, both of the theory of separate Hemmungs-nerven, and even more decidedly of the exhaustion (Brschopfung) theory, which has been proposed as an explanation of the well-known so-called phenomena of inhibition. In regard to the question of the cardiac restraint phenomena, he rests, in the first place, upon the demonstration by Zenker of a double system of muscular fibres in the heart; the more important of these is internal, and performs the movements of contraction in the transverse diameter; the other or inferior system, to which, for the most part, the musculi papillares belong, lies external to and surround the former, and its office is to contract the heart in its long diameter. According to Piotrowsky, the former system (Haupt-muskulatur) is innervated by the sympathetic, the latter by the vagus. He recalls the observation of Flint, that in tetanic spasm of the heart the external fibres are found wrinkled in transverse folds. He has produced this phenomenon by direct irritation of the vagus, and he observed that the heart was arrested, not in diastole, but in presystole. He has no doubt that the external fibres, or Neben-muskulatur, are the cause of that presystole, the existence of which Spring first noticed in 1861. Piotrowski also maintains that a similar theory explains, while the theory of Landois and Eulenburg fails to elucidate, the phenomena of lead colic. He believes that there are two motor systems for the intes- tines—the circular fibres, innervated by the vagus; and the longitu- dinal fibres, innervated by the splanchnic. He believes that splanchnic irritation in lead colic produces tetanus of the longitudinal fibres, and that this renders peristalsis impossible. Results of injuries to Nerves. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinsonf relates seven cases of surgical or other injuries to nerves, with their observed results. In the comments which he makes upon them the following are the most noteworthy points. In reference to wounds of the ulnar nerve, he remarks that the atrophy of the abductor indicis muscle, which causes the remarkable hollow between the forefinger and thumb which is recognised as diagnostic of division of the ulnar, is evidently not reflex, but direct, since the muscles in ques- tion are supplied by the deep palmar branch from the ulnar trunk itself. He answers conclusively the hypothesis that the alterations of nutrition and temperature of the parts supplied by the ulnar nerve, when that is divided, depend upon changes in the blood-vessels, long remarking * * Wicn. Med. Woclinsch.,' 49. ; ' Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' ii, 2, p. 172, 1866. f ' Lond. Ilosp. Hep.,' iii, 1866.