275 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OP HIP. some weakness of the muscles of the back. The position of the head of each femur was natural. M. Pravaz regards this case as the first in which reduction of a con- genital dislocation has been indubitably effected. He argues that, al- though iu later life the parts may appear not to admit of solid coapta- tion, this is not the case in early life, as dissections seem to prove. M. Pravaz proceeds to explain his system, which consists of three parts:—t. Preliminary extension; 2, reduction and coaptation of the articular surfaces; 3, restoration of the movements. The preliminary extensions M. Pravaz regards as indispensable, in order to correct the tendency of the muscles to draw the head of the femur up if restored to its proper position. The extension is to be kept up gently for several hours, and it will be found that after this time the muscles have far less power to elevate the head of the femur. The restoration of the move- ments of the joint by passive motion, and afterwards by voluntary motion in the horizontal position, M. Pravaz regards as necessary in order to deepen the articulation. M. Pravaz defends his late father (whose plan this is which he follows) from the charge of supposing that the acetabulum is to be deepened by the presence of the head of the femur. His idea was, that adhesions formed around the. cavity, in con- sequence of irritation around its edge from these movements, and thus a sort of false joint was formed in the natural situation. That reduction can be easily effected, in ordinary cases, after the muscles have been properly extended, M. Pravaz says he can assert from repeated ex- perience. The sensation of reduction is usually perceptible both to patient and surgeon. In the 'St. George's Hospital Eeports,' i, p. 217, Mr. Brodhurst makes the following observations on the treatment of congenital dis- location of the femur:—"At birth the acetabulum and the head of the femur retain their normal characters; and when it is recognised, the dislocation at this time will be reduced by gently extending and flexing the hmb. But after some months changes occur: absorption of the cartilaginous surfaces takes place; and ultimately the head of the bone loses its cartilage, and becomes irregular in form. These changes go on very slowly, however, so that the integrity of the car- tilaginous surfaces is retained almost complete, in some instances until the end of the second year. "The cartdaginous lip of the cotyloid cavity becomes absorbed quickly, and important changes take place in it more rapidly than in the head of the bone. Consequently the head of the femur may be drawn down into the acetabulum; but it is difficult to fix it there. The means of retention are diminished; and the muscles which are inserted into the trochanter, being contracted, tend to displace again immediately the head of the bone. These considerations induced me to propose the subcutaneous section of the muscles which are inserted into the trochanter, and subsequently to draw down the head of the femur and fix it in the acetabulum. This operation is easily accom- plished, and its success is complete. " On the 21st of March, 1865,1 performed this operation. I had been consulted by Mr. Herbert Barnes respecting a case of congenital dis-