REPORT ON SURGERY. 340 cess claimed is so extraordinary as to suggest some doubts of its authenticity."] " Seven partial excisions of tlie knee-joint for gunshot injury have been reported." [In 5 of these cases, where the knee-joint was known to have been opened, the patient died.] " In 2 cases the head of the fibula was excised and portions of the head of the tibia. Both recovered. In these cases it does not clearly appear that the articulation was opened." Excisions of the head of the femur.—The report first states that there were on record, previous to this war, 12 cases of this excision for gunshot injury, with only 1 success. A tabular statement is then given of 32 of these excisions which had been reported to the Surgeon- General's office; and this table also serves to illustrate the form in which these records are kept. Of the 32 cases only 4 recovered; in 1 the result is not stated. The limb seems to have been useful in all the cases of recovery except in one, where it is said, " the limb was disposed to abscesses on any unusual exertion." The report expresses no opinion on the value of this operation, merely pointing out " the uniform fatality of gunshot fractures of the head and neck of the femur when abandoned to the resources of nature, and the excessive mortality of amputation at the hip-joint for gunshot injury." " JSxcisions in the continuity of the long hones of the extremities.—The great surgeons who have done most towards substituting excision for amputation in gunshot injuries of the joints have almost unanimously condemned excisions of the continuity of the long bones in the treat- ment of gunshot fractures. The surgical histories of the Crimean war, of the Schleswig-Holstein campaigns, and of the Indian mutiny, record a few successes in resections of the shafts of the humerus, the tibia, and the bones of the forearm; but this class of operations could scarcely be considered as admitted among the approved and established pro- cedures of surgery. The late war has furnished ample materials for arriving at definite conclusions on this subject, and for determining how far these measures can claim to be included in that true conser- vatism which has for its first object the saving of life, and refuses to jeopardise lives in order to save limbs. "These materials are yet to be thoroughly analysed. So far as examined, this evidence is, on the whole, unfavorable to excisions in the continuity. " A synopsis of the results at present attained is presented in the fol- lowing table: