GENERAL PARALYSIS. 87 the cortical layer, which appears darker and wetter on section than it should, and these appearances are certainly not due to post-mortem blood-gravitation or imbibition. The microscope shows, in the most intensely red portions, a highly developed capillary network, filled to excess with blood-corpuscles, with here and there points of extrava- sation and elongated blood-vessels. Now, between the stage of hyperemia and parenchymatous swelling of the inner layer of the cortical substance, and that of fatty pigmentous degeneration, lies the destructive process, which, accordingly, Meschede recognises as a parenchymatous inflammation. He observes that we get three symptoms—hyperemia, swelling, and increased temperature; and if we do not get pain, that is because the organ attacked is not one which perceives pain. (The absence of pain is, however, an argument against the affection being a meningitis.) The passive character of the final stage must not make us think that the whole process is a passive one. The degeneration and brain atrophy are a result of the disease, not a cause. The subjects of it are usually robust; there ia an excess of nutrition, and an over-stimulation. The exaltation of the self-feeling cannot be the result of depression of the nutritive process. "With regard to the degenerative change, Meschede remarks that it is not uniform over the whole of the inner layer of the cerebral cortex, but prevails in certain definite localities. It is tolerably constant in the convolutions of the temporal lobes, and in the convexity along the longitudinal fissure, and in the anterior lobes ; much less on the basilar surface, and least of all on the posterior lobes. Meschede thinks that the other cranial and cerebral changes are too variable and inconstant to constitute, in themselves, an essential pathological lesion. He mentions, among a great many other occasional changes, sclerosis of the white substance, but attaches no such importance to it as would seem to be warranted by the degree of frequency with which it was observed by Eegnard. Of the various non-essential brain-changea which may complicate general paralysis Meschede says that they play their part, though a minor one, in the psycho-paralytic drama. If the nerve-cells of the inner cortical layer pass into a chronic condi- tion of irritation and altered nutrition—if the organic vital motion of the same is altered and accelerated, running on to dissolution and disorganisation—if the inflammatory state which was once outside the nerve-cells has extended to them—then first do we trace distinct general paralysis. It is a mistake to suppose that nerve-cells are of so much more exalted nature than other cells that they cannot be in any state between perfect integrity and total annihilation of their function. They never cease to depend on the continuous vegetative force of the organism; they have their development, their history, their different ages—their adolescence, decrepitude, and premature old age. They depend on the integrity of the arterial blood supply. If we accept Virchow's general principle of the independence of the individual cell- life, we must assume a greater possibility of disturbance of their vital movements, a greater capacity for disease. And we must assign cer- tainly not the lowest place to the cells of the central nervous system which presides over muscular nutrition and receives excitation on all sides. The vegetative life of the brain is most concentrated, the interchange