REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. p. 10.) :)C> 1. ance to the point is felt to be overcome, showing that the counter- puncture is effected, the knife must be at once turned forwards, so that its back is directed almost to the centre of the ideal sphere of the cornea, whether the conjunctiva is transfixed or not, and the scleral border is divided by boldiy pushing the knife onwards and again draw- ing it backwards. This portion of the operation is concluded by the formation of a conjunctival flap a line and a half or two lines in length. A section thus made is almost perpendicular to the cornea, a circum- stance much facilitating the passage of the lens, and the line of incision is nearly straight, so that the wound does not gape. The iris should be excised to the very end of the wound, and the capsule should be most freely opened by a V-shaped laceration. Any lens, even the hardest, may then be removed without the introduction of an instrument into the eye, but von Graefe's experience shows it to be advisable to assist the evacuation by the hook in about i case in 8. In a certain number of cases the lens will escape without difficulty when the operator presses on the posterior lip of the wound, especially when the back of the spoon is made to glide along the sclera; should this not occur, von Graefe uses a peculiar blunt hook, or occasionally, though rarely, a spoon. A compressing bandage is applied and replaced at in- tervals. The results in about 300 operations were—that in 90 per cent, the success was complete, S being from \ to £; the convalescence was in 82 per cent, perfectly normal, in 8 per cent, accompanied by temporary accidents, irritations of the wound, the iris, or capsular cells, small pro- lapses of the iris near the ends of the incision, and slight opacities of the vitreous which retrograded at a later period; that in 10 per cent, the vision was imperfect. This amount must, however, be divided into failures and partial successes, the majority of the cases belonging to the latter category, and most of them giving reason to hope for complete success from further operations ; thus, till the result of such secondary operations is decided, we may estimate the final result at 94 percent, of complete successes (S being greater than £), a result much superior to that obtained by von Graefe from flap extraction. Dr. Pagenstecher* considers that, so far as the operation is concerned, the dangers of extraction depend principally on primary corneal sup- puration or iritis, the former being due to the position of the incision, the latter to the irritation arising from the retracting capsule, from swollen cortical remnants, or from changes in the intracapsular cells. He thinks the former danger may be entirely avoided by the location of the incision in the sclera (much as in Jacobson's mode), and the latter by removing both the capsule and the lens. The opinion that primary iritis after the operation is almost invariably produced in the way just mentioned, has recently gained many adherents; and if such be ad- mitted, it is clear that the only certain mode of preventing it must be the removal of the unopened capsule. * " On Extraction of Cataract by the Scleral Incision without opening the Capsule." A paper read at Frankfurt a. M., April 3, 1866. Pamphlet of 37 pp. (See also ' Ophth. Review,' iii, 68, and ' Klin. Beobacht. aus der Augenheilanstalt zu Wiesbaden,' 38. Heft,