KEPORT ON niYSTOLOGY, ETC. 18 (nicotin, woorara, opium, sulphocyanide of potassium, digitalis, caffein, carbonic acid, &c.) on the movements of the intestines. Interesting results upon the nerves engaged in the acts of deglutition have been obtained by M. Vulpian ('Rev. des Cours. Scient.,' t. 3, p. 754), who, in his experiments, divided the carotids, and then rapidly removed the skull-cap and greater part of the cerebral hemispheres in dogs. Each cerebral nerve was then irritated in succession. Excitation of the first six nerves was not followed by any result, but upon pinching the portio dura distinct movements were observed in various muscles of the pharynx and oesophagus, clearly due to the filament of communication between this nerve and the auricular of the pneumogastric. Excitation of the glosso-pharyngeal produced movements throughout the whole length of the oesophagus, but they were reflex; for on section of the nerve irritation of the centric extremity still occasioned them, but none followed irritation of the peripheric extremity. On pinching the fibres of the pneumogastric close to their origin distinct movements occurred; these were both direct and reflex, for on section of one pneumogastric the movements still occurred whether the centric or peripheric extremity was irritated, in the former case acting in a reflex manner through the op- posite pneumogastric, in the latter directly on the muscles through its own fibres. As regards the spinal accessory, it does not appear to act on the muscles accomplishing deglutition, though it was very difficult to arrive at conclusive results by this mode of experimenting. It acts directly on the muscles of the larynx required for the production of voice, and by its lower fibres on the muscles of the shoulder. Irritation of the hypoglossal occasioned no movements of the oeso- phagus or pharynx. When another animal, as the cat, was selected, and another mode of experimenting was adopted to determine the function of the spinal accessory, the fibres of this nerve being torn out by the roots, the oeso- phagus and stomach exposed, and artificial respiration maintained, the galvanization of the pneumogastric on the same side had no influence on the oesophagus, nor were the movements of the heart stopped, whilst both these effects immediately followed irritation of the uninjured pneu- mogastric. It thus appeared that in the cat the entire motor power of the pneumogastric is due to the internal or anastomotic branch of the spinal accessory. When similar experiments were made upon the rabbit it could clearly be shown that a certain portion of the motor power of the pneumogastric was derived from the spinal accessory, but that the movements of the oesophageal muscles were far from being exclusively submitted to the operation of this branch. It is obvious, then, that the spinal accessory nerve has different relations in different animals, and no general conclusions can be drawn from experiments performed on one species alone. An interesting case has been placed on record by M. A. F. Spring, of Luttich ('Presse Medicale,' 1864, No. 34), tending to corroborate the opinions of those who think that the sensations of temperature, pain, and pressure, are conveyed through separate channels. Some very excellent observations on the structure of the amphibian