53 CHOLERA. The arrest of diarrhoea is, says Guerin, almost always accomplished by opiates, astringents, and emollients. But experience shows that— i. A large number of the patients in whom the diarrhoea has been sup- pressed remain ill; they have all the other premonitory symptoms, mtntM the diarrhoea. 2. In a certain number,'in spite of the suppression of diarrhoea, the disease passes on to confirmed cholera; and this though the diarrhoea have been arrested three or four times. 3. A large° number of those who recover are slow in regaining their sleep, appetite, strength, and other attributes of health. 4. A larger number, it is true, recover completely and rapidly. But in this case account must be taken of the auxiliary treatment—the application of warmth, regulation of the diet, and rest in bed. These Guerin believes to be more powerful agents in the treatment than the opiates. Of diffusible stimulants, charcoal, creasote, bismuth, and other remedies applied to special symptoms, he has the same opinion as of opiates. Speaking of the rational treatment, he reiterates his statement that diarrhoea is not the only premonitory symptom of cholera. It is nei- ther the cause nor the starting-point of cholerine, but simply an im- portant fact, the principal and pathognomonic symptom of the period; and it may be absent, as in cases where patients die of cholera as if struck down, and where the intensity of the action of the cholera poison manifests itself in a manner inconsistent with the idea of a local intestinal disease. The other symptoms—the borborygmi, vertigo, malaise, &c.—all have the same signification as the diarrhoea; but Gruerin founds his remaining observations on the presence of diarrhoea, which he considers in its physiological and pathological aspects. Physiologically considered, diarrhoea is the means by which the cholera poison is eliminated. In its early stage it exists as a painless evacuation of watery fluid, interfering neither with sleep, appetite, nor work. Whether the eHminative functions of the intestines is provoked in virtue of a selective action on the part of the poison diffused through the system, or is simply the result of a local action of the poison on the digestive canal, he does not attempt to determine. The complications, concomitants, and results of diarrhoea next demand its consideration as a pathological phenomenon. It must be regarded as a lesion as regards structure as well as function; the contact with the intestine of the toxic element cannot but have an effect on the intestine, and to it alone can be referred the coHe, the excessive secretion, the gradual changes in the excreted liquid, and the alterations undergone by the follicles and epithelium. Seeing, then, that diarrhoea is a work of elimination, and that it may also produce functional and structural disorders in the intestine, two principal indications of treatment are pointed out—to favour the elimi- nation, and to protect the ehminating organ. If the state of our know- ledge permitted, the primary consideration would be to neutralise the cholera poison; but as we cannot do this, we must take advantage of the eliminatory process, and assist nature. The objects of treatment, Guerin says, may be classed as follows:— 1. To protect the eliminatory process in its spontaneous action. 2. To