363 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. " 3. The third class comprises such a very limited result as allowed of the patients having fair perception of light, of colours, of large objects, of fingers held a foot off, and of seeing their way about in an accustomed place—only some slight improvement, in fact, ( of their previous condition of complete cataract. These are in all 9 per cent., or of the hospital cases 11*4 per cent., and of private cases 577 per cent. "4. The fourth class are lost eyes 5 either bare perception of light, or none. These are (all included) 8-4 per cent., or of hospital caseB io" 1 per cent., of private patients 577 per cent." Prof, von Graefe performed this operation on 118 eyes ; * of these, 7 were completely lost from panophthalmitis or irido-cyclitis ; 4 were nearly lost; and in the remaining 107 eyes the necessity for secondary operations, iridectomy or division of capsular remains, was apparent in 28 or 30 cases, if the patients were to regain the faculty of reading a small type with fluency. Among the whole number of 118 there were 19 cases in which anomalies occurred in the course of the operation,— prolapse of the vitreous (11 times), unusually difficult removal of cortical masses, or the necessity of leaving them behind. Of these 19 cases 4 are among the 7 which were lost, and 2. among the 4 " nearly lost" eyes; excluding these cases, we find that, even after normally performed operations, there were about 4 cent, of failures.f Prof. v. Graefe's operation.%—The lids are separated by a speculum, and the eyeball is drawn down by forceps placed immediately below the cornea. Chloroform is rarely used. The point of a small knife, of which the edge is directed upwards, is inserted at a point A § near the upper part of the cornea, so as to enter the anterior chamber as peripherally as possible. The point should not be directed at first towards the spot for counter-puncture ; not till the knife has advanced fully three and a half lines within the visible portion of the anterior chamber, should the handle be lowered, and the point directed to B. As soon as the resist- * 'Ophth. Rev.,' iii, 11. t It is well to compare these results with those of flap-extraction. Von Graefe (1. c, p. 12) states that, "among 1600 extractions performed in the course of 11 years, 7 per cent, were failures. Under this terra I comprehend not only eyes which were lost, hut th ose also which had not retained qualitative vision, or did not offer any chance for a successful after-operation. Imperfect results, implying incapacity of reading common print, I ohtained in 13 per cent. Of these, 3 per cent, presented incurable complications, whilst 10 per cent, afforded hope for their heing raised by after-operation to the rank of satisfactory results. In 80 per cent, of the cases I obtained perfect results by one opera- tion. More favorable than this grand total of the results of my practice is that since the introduction of the compress bandage. During this latter period I find that, of the 900 eyes operated on, there were 5 per cent, failures, 11 per cent, incomplete, and 84 per cent, perfect results. In the private rooms my operations were generally more suc- cessful than in the hospital, a fact which may partly be accounted for by the better air, partly by the better constitutions in the former instance. Thus, among the private patients of these last 6 years (250 eyes), I had 91 per cent, perfect, 6 per cent, imper- fect results, and 3 per cent, failures. Correspondingly, the proportions in the hospital cases are more unfavorable than the above-stated average." X 'Ophth. Rev.,' iii, 7 ; 'Arch, fiir Ophth.,' xii, 1. § The point A should be fully \"' from the margin of the cornea, and as much below the tangent at its vertex; with such a puncture, and a symmetrical counter-puncture in B, the external wound attains a length of 4^ or 5 lines.