POISONOUS GASES AND VAPOURS. 445 the iron. AVith the objeet of testing this hypothesis, one of the boilers of the ship Le Dusquesne was placed as nearly as possible under the same t-ouditions as those which had existed in that of the Bisson. At the end of a month, however, the air in its interior contained no ammonia gas; it put out a candle introduced into it, but a cat placed within the boiler for 8 minutes suffered no obvious ill effects, although it uttered plaintive cries. (The boiler had, however, been opened for some time when the cat was introduced.) The air in the boiler of Le Dusquesne was found on analysis to present an excess of carbonic acid, and a diminution in the quantity of oxygen. It is, however, obvious that the conditions which existed in this case could not have been pre- cisely those which obtained in that of the Bisson. M. Fonssagrives, while agreeing in the view that ammonia was the substance which produced the caustic action observed in the case of the stoker of the Bisson, thinks that the sudden insensibility must have been due to some other body, probably one of those subtle poisons which are supposed to be engendered by the decompositiou of organic matters, and which have not as yet been isolated by chemists. Carbonic Oxide.—Several observers have recently devoted much atten- tion to the study of the effects of the inhalation of this gas. It had been shown by Hoppe* and Bernardf that in contact with carbonic oxide blood acquires a bright red colour, with a shade of violet, and that it retains this colour for a long time. According to Bernard, the oxygen and some of the carbonic acid are expelled from blood by car- bonic oxide, and blood saturated with this gas absorbs only a fifth part of the oxygen which would be taken up by the same quantity of normal blood. The power of coagulating remains unaffected. The blood- corpuscles retain their colour and their form outside the body for weeks; and when treated with oxygen or carbonic acid, or placed be- neath the air-pump, blood containing carbonic oxide retains its bright hue; it does not become darker at once, even when decomposition sets in. It was maintained by Hoppe that these effects are due to the action of carbonic oxide gas on the hsemato-globulin. After death by inhalation of carbonic oxide the blood forms with an equal quantity of solution of soda a thick mass of a bright red colour. But ordinary defibrinated blood forms a sticky black mass, which in thin layers is seen to be of a greenish brown colour. PokrowskyJ has studied the action of carbonic oxide on animals, making them inhale air containing the gas in various proportions. When dogs or cats were placed in air containing 3 or 4 per cent, of carbonic oxide, they became restless after taking a few inspirations ; in two or three minutes they began to utter cries of distress, lay down or fell down, and breathed very slowly and deeply. Tetanic spasms of the limbs, trismus, and quivering movements of the skin, were observed; the urine and fajces were discharged involuntarily; the pupils became dilated, the eyes protruded, and death followed in from three to five minutes. In rabbita the tetanic spasms were still more severe. It * * Vircliow's Archiv,' xi, p. 288. t 'Le5ons sur les effets des substances toxiqucs ct mcdicamentcuscs,' p. 157. X ' Virchow's Archiv,' xxx, p. 525.