16 ItEPOIlT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. which the wire is so long and so fine as to be capable of giving sufficient resistance to bridle a discharge into the quieter pace of ordinary currents. Since the time that the brothers Weber made the observation, that on the application of an interrupted current of electricity to the pneumogastric nerves in the neck the movements of the heart suddenly stopped, and the organ remains in a state of diastole or relaxation, two views have been gradually developed, and attempts have been made in every way to corroborate them by their respective adherents, the one seeking to explain the phenomena in a manner consonant with the relations already generally known to subsist between nerve and muscle, the other regarding them as a new order of facts, and endeavouring to establish the existence of a "regulatory" or "inhibitory" system of nerves, whose function is not to originate or convey impulses effecting the contraction of muscle, but, on the contrary, the development and conduction of impulses restraining, controlling, or altogether stopping muscular contraction. Several works and essays have been recently published on both sides of the question, though upon the whole the balance of testimony seems to be in favour of the view of the existence of an inhibitory or regulatory system. Besides the heart, several other organs appear to be influenced in a similar manner; thus, the splanchnic nerves are believed to contain fibres exerting an inhibitory influence over the movements of the intestine, either by being directly distributed to the muscular fibres or, as Bidder believes, by passing in the first instance to the centre of the co-ordinated intestinal movements, viz., to the sympathetic ganglia of the muscular and intestinal walls ; and it is not improbable that a similar influence can be propagated to the muscles forming the walls of vessels and to the iris. Herzen ('Moleschott's Untersuchungen,' Bd. 9, 1865, p. 423; and pamphlet, Florence, 1864) and Schifl", who have been determined op- ponents of the theory of inhibitory nerves and influences, have urged that any violent mechanical or chemical irritation of the central parts of the nervous system, as the corpora quadrigemina, the thalami, the spinal cord, or even of the peripheric extremities of the nerves, is followed by a great weakening of the reflex activity throughout the body, and that con- sequently there is no necessity for the hypothesis of the existence of reflex centra in the brain, such violent injuries being quite capable of acting on the heart through the reflex centres of the sympathetic system contained in its substance. On the other hand, they maintain that very feeble electrical or mechanical irritation of the vagus in the neck causes an increase in the frequency and force of the heart's action, whilst more violent irritation stops the heart simply by exhausting the irritability of the pneumogastric nerve. SchifTs view is often called, in reference to this subject, " the exhaustion theory." Schiff considers that it is to the over-stimulation of the fibres of the accessorius that the stoppage of the heart's action is really due when the vagus is irritated. And Heidenhain has adduced this fact in support of SchilFs view, that if the accessory be torn out by its roots, which can easily be accomplished in rabbits, the excitation of the vagus is no longer followed by its wonted inhibitory effect, whilst its evulsion is followed by increased frequency of the heart's action. Amongst various methods that have been suggested for the solution of