242 REFORT ON SURGERY. spheroidal cell. Now the pedicle of the polypus was easily felt, but it was very difficult to sever it. This was done at first with the point of one blade of the scissors, which had been used in the former part of the operation, then with a regular rasp. The bones were then felt rough and devoid of their periosteum. There was little bleeding. Three days after the operation the electric cautery was applied to some inequalities felt near the pedicle of the minor polypus, under the fear that this might be a new growth. The patient recovered completely. M. Ghierin believes that voluminous tumours may be removed in this way without any section of the soft palate, and without much in- convenience to the patient. He says that in such cases, the pharynx being accustomed to the presence of a large foreign body, the intro- duction of the finger is easier, and gives less annoyance than would be imagined from the analogy of healthy persons. For a case of naso-pharyngeal polypus, removed by excision of the upper jawbone after several attempts to remove it by partial operations on this bone, the operations being followed by the appearance of a trau- matic aneurism in the pharynx, which was cured by the injection of the perchloride of iron, see M. Michaux, in the ' Bulletin de l'Academie Royale de Medecine de Belgique,' quoted in the 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1865, p. 650. See also, under the same references, a paper by the same author, on the " Development of Multilocular Cysts at the Base of the Skull." The following extracts refer to the surgery of the larynx 1 Scalds of the Glottis: Treatment ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 16, 1866).—At a recent meeting of the Surgical Society of Ireland Mr. Croly read a paper on " Scalds of the Glottis, and their Treatment by Mercury." His object was to show the advantages of a mercurial treatment. He gave a table of 14 cases of scalds of the glottis, in which tracheotomy was performed (in England), and of which 11 died. He also gave a table of 6 other cases (in Ireland) treated with mercury without operation, all of which recovered. In conclusion, he offered the following aphorisms, the result of his inquiries:—1. The water is not swallowed, but the steam produces codema of the glottis. 2. The affection is divided into three stages (Dr. Bevan). .3. The symptoms are not urgent at first, and are apt to mislead those not experienced in such cases. 4. Active mercurial treatment (not antiphlogistic) is im- portant from the moment when the child is first seen, by applying strong mercurial ointment to the axilla;, chest, and inside of the thighs, and administering calomel in grain or two-grain doses every half hour or hour. 5. The apartment must be kept warm (a thermometer being used for guidance) to prevent chest complications. 6. Depletion by leeches or antimony must (if adopted) bo used early, and with caution. 7. The collapse should be treated by stimulants if the child can swallow ; if not, stimulating and nutritive injections should be adminis- tered, the extremities being kept warm. 8. The lungs are almost invariably congested at some period of the illness, bronchitis or pneu- monia being a common cause of death. 9. He suggests dry cupping over the back of the lungs, followed by turpentine fomentations, to