THEltAPEUTICS. 481 injected into the urethra in cases of gonorrhoea. These resinous sub- stances resemble those found in the urine after ingestion of the oil. They proved inert, failing altogether to produce any amelioration in the disease. The cubebin, and the soft resin left after the removal of the cubebin, were next administered to patients with gonorrhoea. Each of these substances was found to be entirely deficient of curative power. On the other hand, the cubebic acid turned out to have a decided therapeutical value in recent cases of gonorrhoea. The crystallized acid was made into pills, each containing a grain and a half. The patients began by taking from K to 20 of these pills daily, the number being increased every day. Of 5 patients to whom cubebic acid was administered, 3 were cured completely within 6 days; and in the re- maining 2 the discharge was very much lessened, so that a few injec- tions sufficed to remove it. In a case of chronic gonorrhoea, however, the administration of the cubebic acid failed entirely. Moreover, cu- bebic acid was in one case employed in combination with magnesia, and in another as cubebate of soda. These preparations did not give very satisfactory results. Mixtures of cubebic acid and of the volatile oil were given to other patients, and produced a diminution of the disease ; this is ascribed by Bernatzik entirely to the cubebic acid. From these experiments Bernatzik concludes that the following prepa- rations of cubebs would be preferable to all others:—1. " Cubebce oho cethereo privates in pulvere subtili."—Simple distillation, although it does not completely remove the volatile oil, at least takes it away to a sufficient extent to enable the residue to be administered in adequate doses without inconvenience. He proposes to give from 2 to 4 drachms of this preparation in the form of an electuary, several times a day. The quantity taken during the 24 hours ought to be from 750 to 1000 grains, for the cubebic acid would only form about 4 per cent, of it. 2. " Extractum Gubebarum resinosum."—This would be ob- tained by digesting the preparation last named, for a considerable time, with 90 per cent, alcohol. Cubebic acid would constitute more than a fourth part of the extract thus obtained, so that the daily dose would be about 120—160 grains. 3. "Acidum resinosum Oubebarum."—The cubebic acid itself. The best way to administer it is in the form of pills, made up with soap and Pulv. Althese, the resin being first melted in a hot mortar, and some alcohol being added to it while in the liquid state. Dr. Naumann publishes* some experiments made with the object of ascertaining whether the good effects of cod-liver oil in tuberculosis and lupus can be attributed in any way to its physical properties. In the first place, he has found that cod-liver oil passes through animal membranes with much greater facility than any other animal or vege- table oil which he tried. The different oils were placed in tubes closed by a piece of membrane, through which they were either forced by the pressure of a column of mercury or drawn by exhausting the space * ' Archiv d. Hcilkunde,' 1865, p. 536. 31