REPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY 0. HILTON FAGG-E, M.D. The following notes have been taken from papers relating to the influence of certain occupations on the health of workmen. Dr. Jordan,* of Suhl, publishes the results of his observations on the health of the workmen employed at that place in working with steel. The chief part of the paper refers to the pulmonary diseases which affect those who are engaged in making needles. Of these diseases he distinguishes two forms. One of them is merely an asthmatic con- dition, which often lasts for some years without impairing the strength of the patient; this affection is met with only in those who begin the occupation at a more advanced age, and who are not predisposed to pulmonary disease. These men often live to the age of fifty. The other form is the rapidly fatal malady, from which the younger work- men suffer, and which is so well known in this country. An important observation of Jordan is, that the men employed in this manufacture, and already affected with well-marked symptoms of the disease, beget children who are free from any predisposition to it. It is stated that Suhl is a place well adapted for the determination of this point, and that it has been verified by repeated inquiries. Pecholier and Saintpierref have made careful inquiries as to the health of the workmen employed in the Herault and the Aude in the manufacture of verdigris. Their conclusions are the following:—i. That in a certain dose, verdigris must be regarded as a poison, since it always produces vomiting; but that this dose cannot be precisely laid down. 2. That the slow absorption of small quantities of verdigris daily is advantageous to the health, and favours the fattening of certain kinds of animals; for rabbits and poultry are fattened on the refuse left in the manufacture of verdigris, containing, of course, a large quan- tity of copper. 3. That the workwomen employed in the establish- ments where verdigris is made absorb it, but, nevertheless, remain in excellent health. Cases of so-called copper colic are never met with in * 'Vjhrsschrft. f. ger. Med.,' 1863, xxiii, p. 136; 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' 2(hne scrie, xxiii, p. 264. t 1 Med. Centr. Dlatt,' ii, 18 ; 'Grsevcll's Notizen,' N. F. viii, p. 745. -