409 CHILDBED. action. The removal of a child from the uterus, the rupture of the vessels connecting uterus and placenta; occasional rupture of uterus or perinaeum, causing haemorrhage, cut off the supply of oxygenated blood to the nerves and muscles, so that these cease to act, and death ensues. So, without severe injury or haemorrhage, the sudden disturbance of the chemical and mechanical actions going on in the body disposes to inflammation on the excitement by cold, &c. Contractile corpuscles of the colostrum.—In a paper read before the Vienna Academy of Sciences (1 Lancet,'Sept. 8, 1866) Herr Strieker records some interesting observations upon colostrum. He states that the fresh milk which is secreted during the two or three days sub- sequent to parturition exhibits two varieties of phenomena in its corpuscles. The observations were conducted under the microscope. The corpuscles at first change form, and then allow fatty globules to escape; from which the author concludes that the envelope of the cells must be made of some very plastic substance, since they show no indication of rupture. Besides these bodies, others of the size of red blood-globules, and having peculiar contractile movements, have also been observed ; these are perfectly transparent, and are most probably chyle- or lymph-globules. The colostrum must be kept at a temperature of 40° Centigrade in order to display these phenomena fully. Remarks on the diet suitable after childbirth, of an historical and critical character, constitute an interesting resume of this subject by Henry Lowndes ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1865). Professor Dohrn has subjected to fresh experiments the determination of the vital capacity of the lungs during and after labour ( * Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1866). The spirometric observations of Kiicken- meister, Fabius, and "Wintrich, show that this capacity is not greater after labour than during pregnancy. Dohrn's experiments, on cases carefully selected to exclude sickly persons, led to the opposite con- clusion. Of 100 women, there was an increase in 60 per cent, after labour, the mean increase being 338 cubic centimetres ; there was no difference in 14; and a diminution in 26, the mean being 221 cubic centim. There was a difference in pluriparae and primiparae. In primi- parae there was an increase in 53 per cent. And the mean increase was 205 cubic centimetres; there was a diminution in 25 per cent., no change in 22 per cent. In primiparae the capacity was greater in 64 per cent., and the mean increase was 458 cubic centimetres, and a diminution in 9 per cent. only. Observations on the temperature in childbed. By Dr. Schroder.— Schroder has made careful examinations in the temperature of women in childbed. They extend to pathological as well as to normal con- ditions. In 2 cases he thought a marked increase of temperature was due to severe after-pains. Thus, in 1 case it was to 38-5° C, in the other to 39'4° C. More frequently the temperature rose when injuries had been sus- tained during labour, constituting what V. Griinewaldt called " wound- fever." In 32 cases of this kind 7 had perineal lacerations, 25 had slighter rents of the mucous membrane of the vagina. But there is a