362 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUIIGERY. Prof, von G-raefe has introduced a modified linear extraction applicable to all forms of cataract; Prof. Pagenstecher and Dr.Wecker have called attention again to extraction of both lens and capsule at the same time ; and numerous oculists have published contributions of greater or less importance on this subject. There are two points which specially distinguish the Moorfields operation from former processes—a larger incision, and improved form of the scoop. In Mr. Critchett's operation* chloroform is usually administered, the lids are fully separated by a wire speculum, and the eye is firmly fixed by forceps ; the incision is made with a lance-shaped knife, and enlarged when necessary with the scissors; it is slightly curved, its centre being in the upper part of the cornea about half a line from the sclera, and its extreme limits trenching slightly upon the junction of the sclerotic with the cornea in cases of hard senile cataract, though its extent may be more limited when the nucleus only is hard. A small piece of iris is then removed, the capsule is opened, and the lens is removed by the scoop. Mr. Bowman's plant hardlv differs except in the incision ; he introduces the lancet-shaped knife at the extreme margin of the anterior chamber, and pushes it on with its flat parallel to the iris until its point reaches the opposite rim, thus making a curvilinear wound in the corneo-sclerotic junction. A review of more than 130 unselected cases gave Mr. Bowman the following results: " 1. The first class are those in which the power of reading a small type (viz., up to No. 6 of Jiiger) has been obtained. Several of these have been able to see No. 1, and many Nos. 3 and 4, but all have been able to read No. 6. The average number reaching this degree of success has been 68 per cent.; or taking only cases treated in pri- vate, they have been 75 per cent., or three fourths of the whole. Of these last, 55"8 per cent, have not required any secondary operation, 19'2 have attained the result only after a needle operation on the pupil. " 2. The second class comprises cases in which the power of seeing a type ranging between 6 and 14 of Jager has been gained, which might be termed very useful sight for all ordinary purposes. The number of these cases has been in all 14*5 per cent. Of this class the cases treated in private, if separately enumerated, rise only to 13'4 per cent., a greater number having probably been raised by secondary operation out of the second into the first class in private than in hospital practice. ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1866, p. 149; • Ophth. Rev.,' ii, 208). See also G. Lawson, on the treatment of prolapse of the iris ('Ophth. Hosp. Rep.,' iv, 227). T. P. Teale, on the relative value of atropine and of mercury in the treatment of acute iritis (ib., v, 156). J. Bell, on certain forms of dilated pupil ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' x, 917). A. Eulenburg, case of spastic mydriasis (' Ophth. Rev.,' ii, 210). F. Fieber, on the electrical treatment of toxic paralytic mydriasis (ib., p. 411). R. Schirmer, tumour, and M. Fano, cancer, of the iris (ib., p. 213 ; 'Ann. d'Ocul.,' liv, p. 240). II. Snellen, on the division of recent anterior synechia (' Ned. Arch. v. Genees. en Natuurk.,' ii, 214). Dr. Kriiger, new in- strument for use in iridodesis ('Ophth. Rev.,' ii, 280). Hcymann, on injection of a solution of common salt in haemorrhage after iridectomy (ib., p. 51). * 'Ophth. IIosp. Rep.,' iv, 315. t lb., p. 33*