REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 84 attending typhoid fever. The principal lesion was, therefore, very- marked hypertrophy, with some softening of the spleen, which was of a black patchy colour. The blood was found on chemical analysis to be deficient in red corpuscles and fibrin. In the treatment quinine was ineffectual, either in small or in large doses j and stimulants were of no avail in the stage of prostration. The disease was attributed to the immigration into St. Petersburg of a large number of labourers, who inhabited unhealthy dwellings, and used as food bread containing a large proportion of ergot. Doubowitski ('A Report made to the English Ambassador at St. Petersburg by the Russian Government')* gives details on several points regarding the epidemic. The disease was described as being relapsing fever. It occurred for the first time at St. Petersburg in 1864-65, but had previously, in 1840, prevailed in a severe form at Moscow, and in 1858 at Novo-Archangelsk, in American Eussia. At the date of the report the relapsing fever was prevalent in various dis- tricts of the governments of St. Petersburg and Novgorod, especially in the line of railway. Petechial typhus, however, was more frequentl)r met with in the last-named government, and in those of Penza, Tauris, and Kharkow; while in several other governments there was a moderate amount of typhoid. The relapsing fever was declared to be contagious ; several medical men and attendants on the sick had been attacked, and several died. It was propagated chiefly in the dwellings of the poor, by the vitiated air, by contact, and by the clothes of the patients. Bernsteinf describes relapsing fever as having run a similar course in Odessa to that observed at St. Petersburg. It appeared in the autumn of 1863, increased during the early winter months, and then gradually diminished, until it completely disappeared at the beginning of summer. In the autumn of 1864 it again broke out, and followed a similar course, disappearing in May, 1865. In Odessa, as in St. Peters- burgh, typhus prevailed at the same time with the relapsing fever; the former being the more severe, but the latter furnishing the greater number of cases. The general characters of the disease were those of the ordinary relapsing fever, and in most cases there was but one relapse. But in several cases, Bernstein says, there were two, or even three, relapses. These recurring attacks commenced more suddenly than the first, without prodromata, being ushered in with a single rigor. The first attack was always the longest, but the relapses were attended with a greater amount of prostration. This duration gradually dimi- nished, until the third or fourth might have no longer duration than a paroxysm of intermittent fever, consisting of rigor followed by heat and sweating, and terminating withiu twenty-four hours. The intervals of freedom from fever increased as the duration of the paroxysms decreased. The mortality, as shown by Bernstein, was small. Of 60 cases observed in 1863-64 none were fatal, and of 77 cases in 1864-65 there were 3 deaths. One death occurred during the third relapse ; another patient died of subacute pleurisy some days after the second attack ; the third * " Reply of the Russian Government to the English Ambassador," ' Gaz. Med.,' xvi, 1865. t ' Gaz. Med.,' xxviii, 1865.