78 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. either of them. Ia the glandular syphilitic acne the inflammation attacks the epithelium, the proper wall of the sebaceous gland, and the neighbouring connective tissue. It differs from impetigo or eczema impetiginodes in the circumstance that in the latter affection the inflammation is limited to the epithelium of the gland, and yellowish, friable, shining crusts are formed on the surface of the skin. These crusts contain a large amount of nucleated epithelium, like that which normally exists in the sebaceous glands, granular epithelial cells, pus- cells, and fatty matter. These elements are found in small quantity in syphilitic glandular acne; but the disease affects the gland and the surrounding dermis more deeply. It may be said that impetigo is cha- racterised by a catarrhal inflammation, and syphilitic acne by a pa- renchymatous inflammation. Impetigo, Tanturri says, is not com- municable by inoculation; but many experiments have shown that syphilis may be communicated to healthy subjects by the inoculation of the purulent contents of syphilitic acne. In glandular syphilitic acne there may be recognised a stage of eruption or suppuration, one of retrogression or atrophy, and one of desquamation. Glandular syphilitic acne is generally one of the first constitutional manifestations of syphi- lis. Its development is slow and gradual; in some cases, however, it may be rapid—as it were acute, and is then accompanied with more or less fever. At the same time with the acute acne we see erythema, moist papules, and other signs of recent constitutional infection. The chronic form is pretty frequently accompanied by ecthyma, gummata, chronic glandular swellings, periostitis, &c. Acute acne is one of the most obstinate symptoms of constitutional syphilis; the chronic is still more obstinate, especially if the skin has been affected by previous diseases. Glandular acne, according to Zeissl, is never met with in newly born syphilitic children ; but Diday has described it without ques- tioning its occurrence at this early age. The diagnostic characters of syphilitic acne are thus described by Tanturri: — a. Acute syphilitic acne. In the eruptive period the disease is seated on the trunk and the upper and lower limbs j the pustules are acuminated, with a hard base ; the suppuration is central and superficial, and the pus has a tendency to dry up. In the suppu- rative stage syphilitic acne presents pustules having a large hard base, with a central depression, covered by a small adherent crust. In its third stage syphilitic acne is characterised by small hemispherical pro- jections, desquamating at the circumference and having concrete pus in the centre. In the fourth stage syphilitic acne presents small hemispherical projections, with an irregular surface; superficial cicatrices, with little pigment, and an abundance of fine scales. b. Chronic syphilitic acne is localised on the face, neck, trunk, and upper and lower limbs. It is characterised by small pustules, with a slightly projecting base, which are developed slowly, and suppurate ouly at the centre. Follicular acne presents the characters of a catarrhal inflammation limited to that part of the follicles which traverses the epidermis; that is, the portion lying above the opening of the sebaceous glands. The inflammation of that part of the follicle which is seated in the