REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 468 characters of these various bodies, and the chemical methods by which one may be obtained from another of them. Prof. Stokes recommends that in forensic inquiries the method of spectrum-analysis should be so applied as to yield the absorption-bands of " red or reduced hsematin" in an alkaline solution. In sharpness, distinctive character, and sensi- bility, these bands rival those of scarlet cruorine itself. The bands of " brown ha-matin" dissolved in a mixture of ether and acetic acid are hardly less characteristic, but for their production a larger quantity of the substance is required. The value of these facts, however, so far as their application in medico- legal practice is concerned, depends in a very great measure on the adaptation of the apparatus for spectrum-analysis to the microscope. This was first done by Mr. Sorby.* The arrangement originally pro- posed by him has since been very greatly improved by introducing the prism into the eye-piece of the microscope. In the apparatus as now constructed two spectra can be seen at the same time, one of the ob- jects being placed on the stage of the microscope, the other on the stage of the spectroscope. The exact position of absorption-bands in the spectrum of an unknown substance can thus be accurately determined by comparing them with those of some known liquid. The brown colour acquired by blood when dried by exposure to the air has been shown by Mr. Sorby to depend on the presence of acid matter in the atmosphere, turning the scarlet cruorine into a brown variet}r. This change is associated with an alteration in the spectrum ; the bands in the green become less and less deep, and a band in the red is gradually formed. The time required for this to occur varies with the locality; in the centre of Sheffield it took only a few hours, while in the country, far from any houses, it was only after a week had elapsed that an appreciable change was observed. In his own house Mr. Sorby found that the rapidity of the alteration in the cruorine was greatly affected by the combustion of gas. A resume of the whole subject of spectrum-analysis, and particularly of its medico-legal applications, is given by Dr. Letheby.f The follow- ing is the method of examining blood-stains advised by this writer:— A portion of the stain should, if possible, be detached from the fabric or tissue on which it rests, and dissolved in a single drop of water in a watch-glass. The liquid should then be transferred to a small cell made of barometer-tubing, which may be one eighth of an inch in bore and half an inch long. The tube should be covered with a piece of thin microscopic glass, and should be left in a horizontal position for a quarter of an hour, until the suspended insoluble matter has subsided. It is then to be placed on the stage of the microscope, and examined with a half-inch or quarter-inch objective, care being taken that the top of the liquid is brought into focus. "When this is done the prism of the spectroscope is to be put on, and the slit is to be narrowed until the bands become distinct. The exact appearance of the spectrum will vary according to the extent to which the cruorine has undergone the change into the brown variety described by Mr. Sorby. Now, if a little am- * ' Quar. Journ. of Science,' April, 1865, p. 211. f 'London Hosp. Rep.,' iii, 1866, p. 6.