OBPO&T U.N I'UULIC HEALTH. 484 these manufactories. 4. That among all the workwomen at a parti- cular time there was but one who suffered from chlorosis. (From this fact Pecholier and Saintpicrre infer that verdigris has an action similar to that well known to he possessed by iron, gold, and manganese, and that its manufacture may do good to girls who are chlorotic.) 5. That verdigris acts locally as an irritant. Its powder, therefore, often gives rise in the workwomen to slight forms of ophthalmia or to coughs, and those who are predisposed to such complaints should avoid this occu- pation. 6. That, on the whole, the manufacture of verdigris is not injurious to the public health. Mr. "Whalley* relates a case in which it appeared that the symptoms arose from the use of "magenta dust" in printing. The patient was a boy, set. 1.3 ; his lips, nose, and eyelids, were swollen; his skin was hot and his urine scanty; he complained of his throat feeling dry, of a dry cough and intolerance of light, and also of great prostration, nausea, and sickness. The tongue was coated with a brown fur, the bowels were confined, and there was loss of appetite. These symptoms came on the day after the boy had been using magenta dust, which was found to contain more than sufficient arsenic to account for his ill- ness. His mother stated that once before he had suffered from a similar attack after dusting with magenta for two days. Scheideinannt has made some observations as to the cause of the serious symptoms which sometimes present themselves in the men employed in the construction of mines for military purposes. During the year 1862, at the siege of G-raudenz, he had opportunities of inves- tigating this question, to which attention had previously been directed by Josephson and by Kawitz.J The effects on the men employed in these mines are due to the dele- terious gases generated during the explosions by gun-cotton or gun- powder. It is true that, when the galleries are long, the air in them becomes impure even before the mine is fired ; but it is easy to main- tain sufficient ventilation to prevent any injury to the men. The gases produced by the explosion of a mine are, however, much more difficult to get rid of. They saturate the soil for a considerable distance round the point at wdiich'the mine was sprung, and impregnate especially the pieces of turf and other substances with which the gallery had been filled up in order to resist the force of the explosion. In fact, it is only after the gallery has been ventilated for some hours that the work can be recommenced. Even then, and particularly while the materials which fill the extremity of the gallery are being removed, or when the mine is being carried through ground saturated with gases by the ex- plosion, the men are liable to be attacked by the affection to which Josephson drew attention, and which he termed the " Minenkrank- heit." ' This observer ascribed the symptoms produced under these conditions mainly to the sulphuretted hydrogen generated by the explosion of the powder. Scheidemann disputes the correctness of this opinion. He * ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1866, ii, p. 222. f ' Vjhrsschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F., v, 1866, p. 177. J See the Sydenham Society's 'Year-Book' for 1863, p. 460.