REPORT ON MIDWlPERTj ETC. 406 effusion on intestinal peritoneum. The rent extended from the anterior wall of the vagina through the neck of the uterus. The placenta was attached at the fundus. The pelvis seemed well formed. The factors concerned in the rupture were the thinness and resistance of the inferior segment of the uterus, large size of the child, irregularity of* contractions, and the violent willful bearing down. See cases by'Dr. A. Simpson ('Glasg. Med. Journal,' 1866); Dr. Whinery ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Science,' 1866) ; F. Cox, two cases (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1866) ; Dr. Sucro; Dr. E. Kormann ('Schmidt,' 1866) ; Dr. S. Dyer ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1865); Dr. Schwann (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1866); Dr. Martin (ibid.) ; Dr. Germann (ibid.) ; Dr. Poppel (ibid.) ; Dr. Ad. Senfft (' Wurzb. Med. Ztscbr.,' 1865) ; Dr. O. v. Franque (' AVien. Med. Presse,' 1865); Dr. Datton ('Lancet,' 1866); Dr. Binant ('L'Union Med.,' 1866), a case in which the uterus was torn (malapraxis). Dr. McClintock ('Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' 1866) draws a parallel between lacerations of the uterus and lacerations of the vagina. See also Dr. Sanger ('Nederl. Tijds. v. Geneesk.,' 1865), Dr. v. Griinewaldt ('Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1865). An important memoir, by Dr. Radford, is found in the 1 Obstet. Trans.,' viii. The author related minutely the history of nineteen cases which had fallen under his notice. Of this number in eleven the ages registered were from 21 to 40 years, and it was found that the accident occurred more frequently between the ages of 39 and40. The number of labours which each woman had undergone varied from the first to the eleventh; and it was shown that laceration of the uterus happened most frequently in women pregnant for the eighth time, and that in primiparse the accident took place quite as often as it did in any of the other cases which were registered. The duration of the labour, from its commencement to the occurrence of laceration (though in some cases not exceeding three or four hours) was generally from ten to thirty hours. Of the various causes or conditions mentioned as pro- ducing laceration, slight contraction at the brim of the pelvis appeared to have been the most frequent. The author considered that when the form of the pelvis was only slightly contracted, the os and cervix uteri partially descended during labour into or a little through the aperture of the pelvis, so that, as the head of the infant was forced down, the uterine tissues became fixed between this body and the pelvic bones. The fixity of this structure actually formed a 'point a'appui from which the uterine fibres during contraction forcibly pulled; and the great probability was, that sooner or later the tissue either directly tore or, being first contused and softened, yielded. As regarded the situation of the laceration, the cervix uteri was the part most frequently aflected, and sometimes with it the body of the organ was also implicated. In eleven cases the laceration was longitudinal, in three transverse, in three oblique, and in one circular. Of the nineteen cases, three re- coveries took place. Badford observed that when we contemplated the frequent fatality of laceration of the womb, we were led to inquire whether there were no symptoms which showed themselves as universal precursors of this dreadful catastrophe; and if there were, were we possessed of the means of prevention ? In all the cases he now brought