237 STAPI1YL0RAPHY. separately, uniting these threads together in the way described by Mr. Syme in his 1 Principles of Surgery,' p. 526," and then drawing a piece of silver wire through by means of the united thread; this is then " twisted or adjusted, so as efficiently to keep the margins of the wound together." The stitches in the soft palate were not interfered with till the 9th or 10th day after the operations. The stitches in the hard palate were removed much sooner. Mr. Annandale says that, " if the stitches in the soft palate are not causing much irritation, they should be allowed to remain even longer than 10 days—a fortnight at least. For although the wound may be united before this, the union is not strong, and may be ruptured by excessive movements of the parts. There does not appear to be the same risk in regard to the wound over the hard palate." JSTo food which required much mastication was per- mitted till the end of three weeks after the operation. The patients were confined to bed, and forbidden to talk for the first week. In a postscript Mr. Annandale refers to a third case, operated on since the paper was written, in which he extended his lateral incision even further by carrying it round the last molar tooth close to the dental margin of the gum. " By this means tension may be more completely taken off the margin of the wound in the soft palate without any division of the muscles." Dr. Beck has also given two cases in ' Langenbeck's Archiv,' 1865, p. 736, in which he undertook to close total fissures at a single sitting. The first case was an ordinary one of fissure of the entire palate, in a girl 19 years of age. The whole cleft was brought together at once, the operation lasting an hour, and the patient recovered completely. The second case, however, is deserving of a more special notice, as being the most extensive operation in this respect at present on record. The patient was a man set. 29, suffering from a horrible deformity of the face, which is thus described :—" Instead of a well-formed nose, there was hanging over the opening of the nostrils a short flap of skin, which was flaccid, except at its edges ; there was no bridge and no alae of the nose. The upper lip was completely cleft in the centre, and was represented merely by a red edge, which blended on either side with the cheek, leaving in the middle a broad and deep cleft, bounded on either side by two projecting masses of bone, each bearing a large canine tooth, below which the large prominent tongue projected out. On opening the mouth it was seen that the cavities of the nose, mouth, and pharynx, were uninterruptedly continuous. By the entire absence of the upper hp, as well as of both intermaxillary bones, the palatine pro- cesses of the upper jaw and palate-bones, and the septum nasi, by the imperfect development of the vomer (to which the middle of the nasal flap above'mentioned adhered by means of a short ligament), by fissure of the whole soft palate, and by a simultaneous totally perpendicular position of the alveolar processes of the upper jaw, with deficient deve- lopment of the teeth, a great cavity was formed, in which were seen the base of the skull above, the wall of the pharynx behind (covered with pus and traces of old ulceration), deep downwards the epiglottis, and on the two sides the Eustachian tubes and the small moieties of the soft palate, which almost disappeared when its muscles acted."