OillT/DDED l-'EVER. 411 childbed. By Dr. Oscar "Wolf.—Oscar AVolf has continued the obser- vations on the temperature of the body in childbed made by Drs. Wuuderlich, Winckel, v. Griinewaldt, Hecker, Grierse, v. Barensprung, and Traube. The observations were made in Marburg and Kiel, and embrace 366 cases. They are restricted to normal childbed. He found the average of 45 observations gave 3 7*39° C. as] the tempera- ture immediately after birth, 3 7 -43° C.as the temperature in the morning, and 37'37° C. as that of the evening of the first day following labour. "With regard to the influence of milk-secretion—the so-called milk- fever—upon temperature, he found a marked difference between primi- para? and multipara. Examined on the third day, milk setting in, the first gave an average of 37'9° O, the second 37"37° C. ('Monatsschr. f. .Geburtsk.,' April, 1866). Puerperal Fever. In an elaborate memoir (' G-az. Med. de Paris,' 1865), Dr. Hervieux arrives at the conclusions that infection and contagion are the efficient and propagating causes of puerperal fever, and that domiciliary lying- in ought to be practised as much as possible. He lays down strict rules for the construction and administration of lying-in hospitals. The thesis of Dr. Simon (Paris, 1866) contains a minute analysis of the modern researches on the state of the pregnant and puerperal woman as predisposing to diseases. It then describes puerperal fever. He insists that this is a general disease, as proved by the general symptoms which are identical with those of all general diseases ; the marked predominance of general over local phenomena; the special course assumed by epidemics, as in determining peritonitis, phlebitis, pleurisy; the occurrence of cases in which dissection either reveals no cause or no sufficient cause of death, although suppurative lesions are commonly found. " He distinguishes local pelvic phlegmasia from the epidemic puerperal fever. The thesis contains an index of writings on the subject, which is, however, very scanty as regards other than Prench authors. "What is the influence of traumatism in puerperal affections ? is discussed in a thesis by E. Verrier (Paris, 1866). Dr. Barnes, in an incomplete series of lectures on puerperal fever (' Lancet,' 1865-6), illustrates the etiology and pathology. He divides the causes into—1. External, or those which, taking their rise in con- ditions foreign to the patient herself, have to be brought to her whilst she is in a state of susceptibility to their influence. Cases thus arising he calls heterogenetic puerperal fever. 2. Internal, which take their rise in conditions proper to the patient herself. These cases are mito- genetic. He adduces statistics to show that home midwifery is infinitely more successful than hospital midwifery, and advocates the substitution of home succour for lying-in women, contending that puerperal fever is mainly a disease of hospital manufacture. He describes the consti- , tution of the pregnant woman as disposing to puerperal fever, and then the conditions induced by labour. He contends that—(1) pregnancy in- duces a degraded condition of blood, throws an excessive burden upon