61 CEREBROSPINAL MENINGITIS. spinal meningitis ; and he denies, seriatim, the validity of the 4 heads of diagnosis which were laid down by Liddell* from American expe- rience, viz.—(1) the rapid course of meningitis (for typhus also may kill in a few hours) ; (2) the convulsions often seen in epidemic meningitis (typhus may also be attended with such); (3) early occurrence of coma in epidemic meningitis (this may also happen in some cases of typhus) ; and (4) the early occurrence of the eruption in epidemic meningitis (for Murchison has seen the eruption of typhus developed on the third or fourth day). However, there is one fact which emerges from the extensive histories of the German epidemic with great uniformity, viz., the non-existence of anything like well-marked contagiousness in epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. This is particularly noted by Sanderson, and the_ same story is told by all the principal German observers; and this fact (which seems established) appears to negative the supposition that this disease is either a typhus or a relapsing fever with accidental complica- tions on the side of the nervous system. As regards the causation, Sanderson's researches are very inter- esting ; and the results he arrives at are identical with those reached, so far, by the best German authorities. He rejects the idea that either overcrowding, want of ventilation, badness of food, or other sanitary defects, have any very direct or important share in producing the disease. On the whole, he thinks that severe cold is at least the most powerfully predisposing cause, and that to this is probably to be added some influence of malaria. Both these momenta evidently played a part in the epidemic in the neighbourhood of Dantzic. His view would, perhaps, be best expressed by saying that cerebro-spinal meningitis occupies a very similar position in the list of diseases which are un- doubtedly epidemic to that of diphtheria. In fact, the mode of origin and spread of the disease must be regarded as peculiarly obscure. The prognosis of the disease is, by all evidence, very bad. Niemeyer gives the following as the statistics of the Baden epidemic:—Of 126 cases 38 died, or 30 per cent. The mortality of the two sexes was about equal. Of children from 4 to 5 years old there were no less than 54; 18 of them died, or 33-3 per cent. Of children from 6 to 14 years old 40 were attacked and 9 died, or 22*5 per cent. Of persons from 15 to 23 years old 27 were attacked and 10 died, or 37 per cent. The 5 remaining cases were above 23 years old; 1 of these died. In the West Prussian epidemic, as already shown from the evidence of Sanderson and the figures quoted by Meissner, the proportion of deaths was much higher, probably not much less, on the whole, than 50 per cent.; and this corresponds with the general severity and extent of the epidemic, which was greater in this part of Germany than in any other. Treatment was, in Germany, almost entirely directed to local anti- phlogosis (cold applications and leeches to the nucha? and behind the ears), and the use of calomel in large doses, with occasionally the ad- ministration of quinine where there were periodic occurrences of the muscular pains. It Beems to be Sanderson's opinion that in some cases * *Amer. Journ.,' Jan. 1865.