REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDTCTNE. 74 near the cardia and over the small curvature. At the level of these patches, principally at the summit of the folds of the memhrane, are sometimes seen hfemorrhagic clots, or elongated erosions, with a large amount of the colouring matter of the blood at their bases. At a later period this membrane, scattered with black or pigmentary spots pro- duced by altered blood-corpuscles, becomes firm and indurated, as well as the subjacent connective tissue. Softening is rare, but M. Lan- cereaux has seen an example. Injection and hemorrhagic points con- stitute the change most generally observed in the mucous membrane of the larynx and bronchi. The vessels which are in the beginning charged with the products of absorption—the portal vein and pul- monary artery—are affected by the deposit between their coats, or even on their anterior, of membranous productions, which may narrow or even obliterate them. Most of the cases of adhesive inflammation of the portal vein have been observed in drunkards. The serous or fibro- serous membranes—the peritoneum,?pleura, and dura mater—have been found to present the lesions characterised by the presence of a new formation, consisting of fibres of connective tissue and fragile vessels. The changes belonging to the second category are characterised by the presence of protein or fatty granulations in the midst of the proper organic elements. In these conditions these elements swell up, and are often at last destroyed; this is what occurs to the hepatic cells, to the renal epithelium, to the cells of the cerebrum and cerebellum, and even the capillaries of the encephalon. The liver is the organ most frequently affected. It increases in size, and tends to assume a cubic form, which distinguishes it from the fatty liver met with in pulmonary consumption, and where the organ, although sometimes excessively en- larged, preserves its original shape. The kidneys also become enlarged and cubical in form. The cells of the tubules are filled with fatty granules, and give the cortical substance a uniform yellow tint; besides which, in some cases, there is a reddish dotting, due to injection of the Malpighian glomeruli. The organ retains a smooth surface, and never becomes atrophied or granular. The pancreas, the salivary glands, the glands of the stomach, the epithelium of the bron- chial tubules, and even of the seminal canals, do not escape this special degeneration. The heart becomes loaded with fat at the base, and is flaccid, soft, and of a bronzed-yellow colour. The muscular tissue gra- dually loses its stria?, and becomes granular; and the heart undergoes dilatation and hypertrophy. The bones and cartilages also undergo fatty degeneration. An important circumstance in regard to the diagnosis of these lesions is their simultaneous occurrence, and their habitual coexistence with deposits of fat in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, mesentery, and epiploon. Each of these anatomical lesions is attended by a corresponding group of functional disorders, the aggregate of which render alcoholism one of the most distinct pathological unities, one in which, consequently, a special treatment may be tried. The two kinds of change above described do not occur with equal frequency. "While fatty degeneration may be said to be constant in the