134 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. muscles contract, while a very feeble constant current produces at opening and closing of the circuit most powerful contractions. These cases rapidly improve under this treatment, and at a certain date the constant current loses its force, and then the induction current will act upon the muscles. Eulenburg is at a loss to explain the difference in the action of the two kinds of current. Assuredly it is not (as Meyer thinks) a reflex influence by which the constant current provokes contraction; if this were the case the breaks of the induced current ought to act much more powerfully, which is the reverse of what happens. JSTor can the alterative reviving action of the constant current account for the original difference as to muscular irritability, though it might explain in some degree the progress towards recovery of voluntary power and induction-irritability. As yet it can only be said that the motor nerves have specific susceptibilities to the stimulus of galvanism, Faradisation, and the will; and that under certain circumstances one or other of these may be removed, while one or both of the others remain intact. The prognosis of facial palsy is none the worse when there is nothing but galvanic irritability left; and assuredly this is no sign of intracranial mischief, as Meyer supposes. The subcutaneous injection of strychnia in facial palsy is rejected by Meyer, as superfluous in some cases and but doubtfully useful in the rest. Professor Ziemssen,* of Erlangen, publishes a large number of researches on the difference in the excitability of paralysed nerves and muscles with Faradisation and with the constant current. The follow- ing are his conclusions: " From the foregoing clinical and physiological observations on the anatomical and functional affections of paralysed nerves, especially in their relation to the two kinds of electric current, I believe that we may recognise provisionally the following grades of nerve-lesions i—First and slightest grade.—Motility limited or lost; excitability with inter- rupted and constant current normal; inconsiderable disturbances of nutrition in the nerves, rapid return of motility, and favorable influence of Faradisation. (Since, however, these phenomena are also seen in severe lesions in the first week, i. e. before the degeneration of the nerves is complete, no conclusion from them can safely be drawn till the second or third week.) Second grade.—Motility lost; irri- tability with Faradisation and constant current diminished; slight disturbance of nutrition; rapid return of motility and of normal electro- muscular contractility under the use of Faradisation. Third grade.— Motility lost; susceptibility both of nerves and muscles to the con- stant current retained. More severe disturbances of nutrition in the nerves; generally, if not always, a gradual departure of galvanic irri- tability, whilst (in the most favorable cases) the susceptibility to Faradisation sooner or later returns. Powerful influence of the con- stant current, negative result of the induced. Fourth grade.—The excitability of the nerves by the will and by both kinds of current is lost; on the other hand, the irritability of the muscles is retained. * 'Berlin Klin. AVochenscli.,' 43, 44, 45, 46, 1866.