APPLICATION OP THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. 1G9 is always marked by a sudden upward jerk of the lever, usually indicated by a nearly vertical line ; the close by a second, but more inconsiderable, jerk, which is always preceded by a sudden depression. During the first part of the systolic period the artery is distended with blood, but towards the end the distension suddenly ceases. The con- traction of the ventricle having ceased, the blood flows back for a moment towards the heart, but is immediately arrested by the closure of the aortic valves. This is at once followed by a second rise of aortic pressure, and the lever is tilted up, as already described. After this rise the lever falls steadily, making an oblique line of descent to the point where a new systole commences. Of the less constant characters of the carotid tracing some are directly dependent on the mode in which the ventricle contracts, others on peculiarities in the closure of the aortic valves. Under certain conditions the blood in the ventricle is thrown into rapid vibration during the act of contraction; this effect, being communicated to the carotid, causes a series of notches to appear in the ascending limb of the pulse-curve; when these are very marked, the artery communicates a sensible thrill to the finger. As to the line of descent, there may be every variety of depth of the notch before the rise following the closure of the aortic valves; sometimes it is very much marked, sometimes it appears as a mere change of direction rather than a notch. These differences depend on the degree of rapidity of closure of the aortic valves, complete and rapid closure causing the deep notch, and vice versa. It is apparent from these considerations that pulsation in the great vessels is produced by simul- taneous increase of tension and acceleration of movement. In the more distant arteries the two effects are no longer coincident. Both are transmitted, but their propagation is influenced in an appropriate manner by the physical conditions with which they meet, and thus the pulse, in its transmission from the heart to the periphery, becomes split into its two elements of expansion and acceleration. The first of these (and the only one hitherto recognised) is gradual in its progress, and is represented by the whole "systolic" part of the graphic pulse-curve. The second is quasi-instantaneous in propagation ; it is due to a sudden impulse, or percussion, communicated to the blood in the aorta at the moment when contraction of the ventricle commences, and is, in fact, an oscillatory movement of the blood itself in the axis of the vessels, inverse in intensity to the arterial resistance; all this may be readily imitated in elastic tubes containing liquid to which a shock is com- municated. It is represented in the carotid trace by the smaller undulations, which occur previously to the larger one which follows the closure of the aortic valves. But it is rapidly extinguished where the arterial tension is high, so that in the radial pulse these percussion- waves are often already indistinguishable; hence the smooth character of the apex of a high-tension radial pulse, as taken in the ordinary manner by Marey's instrument; while, on the other hand, with low tension in the aorta, percussion effects are propagated so as to be visible in the radial trace, which there is a small copy of that of the greater elB. As to the closure of the aortic valves, this produces the notch before that final elevation of the lever which, in its exaggerated form,