14 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. up between the flat epithelial cells, and terminated abruptly, either pro- jecting from the anterior elastic lamina or lying in a little groove on its surface, whilst in other instances the nerve-fibres appeared to become continuous with the epithelial cells themselves, though this was not quite so satisfactorily determined. W. Krause (' Zeits. f. Hat. Med.,' vol. 28, 1866, p. 86), in examining the mode of termination of the nerves in the sexual organs, remarks that the existence of clavate terminations (Endkolben) to the nerves in the clitoris and penis of man and certain mammals has long been recognised. But he has recently found peculiar terminal corpuscles, which, on account of their indubitable function, may be called genital-nerve-corpuscles. The greater part of the sensitive nerve-fibres of the clitoris, after becoming pale terminal fibres, end in these bodies. They lie in the tissue of the mucous membrane close beneath the papilla). The form of the corpuscles is various—spherical, elliptical, or lenticular, but they all present a mul- berry-like appearance on the surface. Usually one or two, rarely three or four, double-contoured nerve-fibres enter each corpuscle. They consist of a very firm sheath of connective tissue (in which are many nuclei) and a soft, firmly granular contained material, and they are consequently in these respects allied to the terminal knobs of nerves and to the tactile papillae. In the penis (of man) precisely similar structures appear. The observations of Pfliiger (pamphlet on ' The Terminations of the Secretory Nerves of the Salivary Glands,' 1866) on the mode of termination of the nerves distributed to the salivary glands are of great interest, since if corroborated by other observers they furnish evidence that the act of secretion is occasioned by the direct influence of the nerves upon the gland-cells themselves, and not (as most physiologists would probably explain the operation of the nervous system) by modifying the flow of blood through the vessels of the secreting organ. Pfliiger, besides giving much interesting information in regard to the structure of the gland, believes he has distinctly traced a connection by means of fine moniliform fibres between the nerves and the nuclei of the secreting cells, the latter giving off a process which penetrates the cell-wall, and is continuous with the subdivisions of the axis cylinder. His observations are essentially confirmatory of those of Reich (see ' Henle und Meissner's Bericht' for 1865), and are in a measure supported by the experiments of V. Wittich (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1866, Bd. 37, p. 93) on the effects of irritating the branches of the sympathetic nerve distributed to the parotid gland, for this observer has shown that the relations of this nerve to the parotid are not the same as in the case of the sub- maxillary gland, and that, so far from being considered as an inhibitor of its secretory functions, it is to be regarded as a direct agent in exalting its activity, and this, not by acting on the blood-vessels and modifying the supply of blood distributed to the gland, but by immediate action on the gland-cells themselves, since the power is exerted when the flow of blood is stopped. E. Ohl (' Canestrini's Archivio per la Zoologia,' &c, vol. 3, p. 113, 18(^4) has made numerous experiments on the regeneration of nerve-fibres after their division. He finds the peripheric portions of a cut nerve in a frog long retain their normal, physical, and histological characters, as well as