REPORT ON I'KACTICAL MEDICINE. I 11 be pro tanto a single nucleus. This combined nucleus will have a set of fibres from each corpus striatum, and will usually be called into ac- tion by both; but it will be capable of being excited by either singly, more or less completely according as the commissural connection between the two halves is more or less perfect." The existence of these trans- verse commissural fibres is not hypothetical; it has been observed and described, and is supposed necessary to harmonious action ; but as yet it has not been suggested that their use is to convey an impulse from one nucleus to another. If the hypothesis of Broadbent be correct, it ought to be found that the paralysis in any given set of muscles is exactly proportionate to their individuality of action and their inde- pendence of thejmuscles of the other half of the body. And, secondly, that when any set of muscles having a certain degree of independence partially escapes paralysis through association with muscles of the opposite side, associated movements only are possible on the affected side, and not independent unilateral action of these muscles. Broadbent proceeds to prove by reference to clinical facts that these things do absolutely occur. The extreme instance of independent uni- lateral motility is affected by the arm and the leg, and these are just the parts which are always paralysed. An extreme instance of depen- dence, on the contrary, is afforded by the muscles of the eye; the two nuclei for these muscles are really practically fused into one, and these muscles are never paralysed, by mere disease of the central ganglia. The muscles of the neck, back, and chest, are equally exempted in hemi- plegia, and the only one of these sets of muscles whose exemption is difficult to explain on Broadbent's theory are those of the neck, in respect of the rotatory movements of the head. It is true that in these movements no two corresponding muscles of opposite sides are engaged. Yet these are associated with muscles belonging to opposite sides of the body; e.g. in turning the head towards the right shoulder the left sterno-mastoid anteriorly, and the right inferior oblique atlo-axoid poste- riorly, are brought into action. And it is very probable that the nuclei of the sterno-mastoid and atlo-axoid and of the inferior oblique are con- nected, the former receiving a branch from the spinal accessory. In this case there would still be an indirect channel open for the influence of the healthy corpus striatum. It is, unfortunately, impossible for us to analyse Broadbent's examples by which he supports his hypo- thesis seriatim. The whole paper will, doubtless, receive very serious attention from physiologists and pathologists. A paper by Uspensky* introduces novel and important considerations in regard to brain-function, which would, if sustained, have an influ- ence on the differential diagnosis of the various paralyses of cerebral origin. The author quotes 4 cases in which hemiplegia was accompanied by alterations of temperature in the palsied parts. In the first case there was palsy of motion and less complete palsy of sensation in the right half of the body, and a curious reflex excitability—smart percussion of the skin, either of the skin of the right or of the left side (anywhere ex- cept on the head or in the flank) produced convulsive action of the muscles * ' Vircliow's Arch.,' 1866, 2, p. 301.