REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 468 the intestinal canal. 2. The intestinal canal of newly born infants never, therefore, floats in water, either as a whole or in small portions ; it at once sinks to the bottom of the fluid. 3. The presence of gas in the alimentary canal begins with the respiration; it occurs in the Btomach first, passing downwards from this organ ; it is independent of the ingestion of food. 4. The swallowing of air from without is probably the first thing which leads to the accumulation of gas in the stomach and intestines. 5. Gas may be present in these cavities as soon as the first inspiratory movements have been made. 6. As respi- ration becomes more complete and has been longer established, the different coils of intestine become more and more distended. This may be determined by percussion of the abdomen, both in living children and in those prematurely dead. Insanity. The following case related by Eupprecht* is of interest, as bearing on the question as to the criminal responsibility of epileptics. B—, a?t. 42, was accused of theft. He had bought of W— a quantity of wood for seven and a half thalers. This wood formed only a part of the stock possessed by ~W—, and B— carried off all this, and not merely that which had been sold to him. He did not attempt to conceal what he had done, and asserted that he had bought the whole quantity of wood from W—. This, however, was proved to be incorrect by the evidence of two witnesses, who confirmed the statements of W—, that only part of the wood was sold to B—. Moreover, the price paid corresponded to this view of the matter. For fifteen years B— had suffered from epilepsy. The attacks were frequently repeated, and were followed by sleep of two or three days' duration. For the last year, however, no regular fits had occurred ; but he had been affected with a kind of petit ma?, which came on gene- rally several times a day, in the forenoon. He would remain motion- less for some minutes, or fall to the ground. It was proved that after these attacks he lost for a time the memory of the most common cir- cumstances, his age, the date of the year, the names of his children, &c. Even after he had apparently recovered, his memory still remained deficient for some hours, for he subsequently remembered very im- perfectly whatever had been said to him at these times. For some years past his mental powers had been failing, and his memory becoming weak. It had, however, been noticed that he was inclined to avarice and love of money. There was also an hereditary tendency to insanity. B—'s father had been a man of defective intellect, of melancholy disposition, pursued by suicidal impulses. His mother was insane, and had been confined for some months in an asylum. The conclusion drawn by Rupprecht from these facts was, that B—'s intelligence had probably been impaired at the time when the bargain was struck; that he did not subsequently remember the terms of the * ' Vjhrsschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. P., B. v, p. 1.