314 REPORT ON SURGERY. he was ready to submit to anything which would mitigate his distress. Amussat's operation was performed with great ease, on account of the patient's emaciation and the distension of the gut. The report was written about a month after the operation. At this date the patient was in good health, with increased appetite, and had had some small evacuations from the natural outlet, holding out some hope of the ultimate restoration of the calibre of the gut. In the December number of the same journal, however, p. 192, the sequel of the case is related. The symptoms gradually recurred, and he fell back into much the same state as before the operation, with gradually increasing abdominal distension, obstinate constipation, loss of appetite, emaciation, and paroxysms of intense pain. After death the obstruction was seen to be due to tuberculous deposit,' both on the peritoneum and in the substance of the intestine, which had produced the narrowing of the rectum, and had similarly encroached on a portion, 7 feet in length, of the small intestine, which was so narrowed that its calibre admitted only of the passage of a full-sized bougie. In the 'Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlix, p. 65, Mr. Holmes relates a case of colotomy performed in the left loin for the relief of the sufferings pro- duced by an intestino-vesical fistula, with success. The patient had been suffering for about 4 years from some obstruction of the bowels, and latterly had passed faeces per urethram and water by the anus. At the time of the operation all the faeces passed into the bladder, ob- structing and nearly preventing micturition, causing intolerable distress, and threatening speedy death. The operation was perfectly successful in relieving him from these symptoms, the faeces passing afterwards entirely through the artificial anus, except on rare occasions, when a little faecal matter seemed accidentally to get past the opening. This was, however, too small in quantity to distress him. The urine still continued to pass through the rectum, showing that the communi- cation was not closed. He remained in tolerable health up to the date of the report, 15 months after the operation.* The object of this paper is to show by reference to other cases that such communications are occasionally formed between the bladder and intestinal tract, independent of previous stricture of the gut, and still more of malignant disease. That in those cases in which the faeces come from the large intestine great suffering is produced, and the formation of calculus in the bladder becomes exceedingly probable ; and that in such of these cases as are not dependent on malignant disease colotomy, by diverting the faeces from the fistulous channel, may enable the latter to close, and thus relieve the patient's sufferings, and restore him to a condition of health and comparative comfort. The author also dwells upon the question of the expediency and advantage of per- forming colotomy in certain non-malignant affections of the intestine; and with respect to the question of the diagnosis of the seat of lesion in intestino-vesical fistula, he tries to establish indications for its dis- * This patient is since dead, and the post-mortem appearances will be communicated to the Royal Med. and Chir. Society. It is sufficient to say here that they confirmed the views expressed in the paper.