HYDATIDS Or THE LIVER. IS 5 views ou the prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment of the disease. He believes that hydatid tumours of the liver occur more frequently than might be concluded from the autopsies of patients dying in hospitals. An hydatid tumour, he says, as a rule, gives rise to no symptoms, and causes little inconvenience, until it has attained such a size as to press on adjoining organs, or until it excites inflammation of the peritoneum ; hence, small hydatid tumours are seldom diagnosed during life. Many of these tumours, without doubt, undergo spontaneous cure; the entrance of bile, or inflammatory action, or calcification of the outer cyst, de- stroying the echinococci and producing shrivelling of the cyst and con- version of its contents into a pultaceous material. This result is for the most part confined to small hydatid tumours. When the tumour has become large, this spontaneous cure is rare; the tumour continues to increase in size, probably slowly, and, unless it cause death by inter- fering with some important organs, it bursts in one of the following situa- tions:—i. Into the cavity of the chest, more frequently than in any other direction. The contents may be discharged into the pleura, or, more rarely, into the pericardium, producing, almost always, death. The discharge may take place, after the formation of adhesions, into the right lung, and thence through the bronchial tubes; but, even here, pulmonary inflammation is generally set up, or the patient dies worn out by profuse discharge. Pleurisy may also be produced from an hydatid in the liver, without perforation, or from the development of hydatids on the thoracic surface of the diaphragm. 2. Into the peritoneum, producing sudden and almost always fatal peritonitis. The rupture is often caused by external violence, as a blow, fall, or strain. 3. Through the abdominal parietes or lower intercostal spaces. This is not a common mode of termination, but cases have been recorded in some of which the patients have recovered. Death may occur from exhaustion or from haemorrhage from the interior of the sac. 4. Into the stomach or intestine. This, a rare mode of termination, ia the most favorable, although death sometimes results from peri- tonitis. 5. Into the bile-ducts. The occurrence of this mode of ter- mination is so rare that it has been doubted, but Murchison quotes several instances. The contents of the tumour may escape through the bile-duct, and recovery may take place, but the contrary result is the more common. In either case jaundice will probably be induced. The tumour may be converted into an abscess by the entrance of bile into the cavity. 6. In exceptional cases an hydatid tumour of the liver has burst into the inferior vena cava, and its contents, passing through the right side of the heart, have become impacted in the pul- monary artery and caused instant death. Independently of rupture, hydatid tumours may cause death by pressure on important organs, as the vena cava, bladder and meatus, or rectum; or on the thorax, inter- fering with respiration. Death may also occur from suppuration ex- ternal to the cyst, and pyaemia; or from the formation of secondary hydatid tumours, and the consequent exhaustion. Prom these considerations on the modes of termination of hydatid tumours of the liver, Murchison concludes that the risks are many and the chances of recovery few. It is, therefore, important to consider