94 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. The etiology of this and similar cases with which it may be compared is obscure. Most of them belong to the period of childhood and ado- lescence. Among adults there are fewer and fewer examples of the disease; the oldest recorded subject of it was 60. It most frequently runs a course of from two to five years ; on the other hand, it has been known to terminate in a few months, or to last as long as ten years. There are always symptoms of disordered intellect—either declared idiocy and chronic mania, or a greater or less degree of imbecility; and the intelligence tends to decrease pari passu with the progress of the malady. In the above case (the intellectual state being relatively high for such a case) motiveless caprice seemed to be the expression of the psychical lesion. The first signs of altered nervous activity concern chiefly the motor sphere, viz. slight twitchings of the face, weakness and tremblings, altered sound of voice, &c. The motor lesions usually extend upwards from the lower extremities, and, at the same time as they assume intensity, affect at once the upper extremities, the sphinc- ters, the muscles of respiration and swallowing, and finally the muscles of the trunk and face. Only in rare cases does the paralysis begin uni- laterally (then almost always in one leg); still more rarely does it re- main limited to one side. Convulsions and cramps, especially observed in children, are by no means constant; if they occur, it is usually towards the close of the disease. Sensibility does not seem affected in the same way as motility. Also the affections of it which sometimes accompany the disease (as giddiness, severe headache, neuralgia) are not found in all cases ; often they occur at the outset, but disappear before the end. Almost never, except in cases of paraplegia, is sensibility altogether destroyed. Only, the muscular sensibility seems very early to be spe- cially impaired. As to the higher senses, deafness, amblyopia, and even amaurosis, have been observed, but rarely. Hemiplegia and paraplegia are frequent in the course of the disease, but they are usually slight in grade or commence only a little before death. The febrile period in the above case is unique in the history of brain and cord sclerosis; no such circumstance has been ever recorded. The prognosis is absolutely bad. The white substance alone is usually affected, to the exclusion of the brain-cortex. Progressive Locomotor Ataxy. Mr. Lockhart Clarke* makes important contributions to the history and pathology of this disease. In regard to diagnosis, he remarks that in its advanced stages, when two or three of the ordinary symptoms are accompanied by unsteadiness of gait, it is easy enough, in general, to determine the nature of the disease; but at an earlier period, before the loss of muscular co-ordination has made its appearance or become suffi- ciently marked, and when only one or two, perhaps, of the other symp- toms are present, it is exceedingly difficult, or almost impossible. He suggests some means by which the true value may be affixed to certain early symptoms, which belong not only to ataxy, but to quite different diseases. Strabismus, e. g—if heralding ataxy—is generally accom- * ' St. George's Hosp. Rep.,' 1866; ' Lancet,' June 10, 1865.