209 ENDOSCOPY. prostatic affections; but M. Desorineaux professes to be able to dis- tinguish the engorgement due to granulations from the scrofulous en- gorgement with ulceration—the latter kind of ulceration penetrates through the mucous membrane to a variable distance, presenting a deep and rugged surface, like strumous ulcers in other parts. Sometimes (though by no means always) ulceration in this part causes sperma- torrhea, aud this affection is curable by the removal of its cause. The author divides spermatorrhosa into two forms—one due to ulceration, accompanied by deep-seated pain in the perinamm, and sometimes with slight admixture of blood; the other atonic, in which the loss of semen occurs without any symptom whatever, often in sleep, or on the slightest excitement. Allusion is made to some cases of ulceration in the prostatic region, and to the symptoms depending on it. Again, the prostatic urethra may be affected with cancer, though this is usually only an insignificant part of a malignant affection of the bladder. To explore the prostatic urethra, the bladder must be full, and the urethra must be kept open. This is effected by a tube bent at an angle, with a short branch beyond the angle, and a glazed window in the bend. The bladder must be full of a liquid which is quite clear—so that the first step is to evacuate the urine, if mixed with mucus, blood, or pus, and to wash out the bladder with water till it no longer returns tinged. Then the endoscope may be mounted on the tube just de- scribed. In the natural condition of the bladder, about half its surface can be brought into sight, viz., from the border of the prostate over the trigone and base of the bladder up to its summit. At present M. Desormeaux's attempts to bring the anterior part of the organ into view have not succeeded. Portunately, the portion which can be seen is that which almost always is the one affected. The mucous surface of the healthy bladder appears generally smooth, without vessels large enough to be seen, and of a somewhat paler tint than that of the urethra, yellowish-white, with a pink tinge. Pine superficial vessels are sometimes seen. The transverse ridge which sometimes unites the orifices of the ureters can be distinguished when it exists, but not those orifices themselves. By withdrawing the tube until the mirror is beginning to enter the uretha, the border of the prostate comes into view, as a crescentic margin, concave upwards. The colour is more red than that of the bladder, and as its edge inter- rupts the rays of light the vesical surface is thrown more into the shade, and looks darker than before. By sweeping the instrument round, the circumference of the orifice of the bladder can be followed; but the traction of the instrument causes it to appear elliptical, instead of round. The morbid conditions of the bladder which are visible to the endo- scope are next described. In the first place, anaemia and congestion of the mucous membrane can be recognised, the latter sometimes accom- panied by ecchymosis. Cases are referred to where symptoms which, at first sight, appeared grave, were traced to simple congestion of the vessels near the neck of the bladder, probably from the arthritic diathcfis. Sometimes in cases of hematuria the vessels can be made out to be varicose. U