RKPOTtT ON PIUCTTCAT, MEDICINE. 181 Lutten, in the 1 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques,'* says that the radical treatment of biliary calculus should be undertaken only in the intervals between the attacks of hepatic colic; otherwise the symptoms which require special management will only become aggravated. He first describes the treatment of biliary calculi, and then that of the symptoms which they produce. 1. To act on the calculi, solvents have been employed, a. Alkaline solvents are much to be preferred to all others; they have produced certain and permanent cures. Sometimes, under their influence, the calculi are broken up or really dissolved, and disappear without leaving any traces; but most usually they are expelled entire, in abundant bilious evacuations. This crisis, preceded often by violent hepatic colic produced by the treatment itself, is not always without danger. The alkaline treatment comprises various medicines, such as the fixed alkalies, soap-lye, salts of soda, carbonate of ammonia, vegetable salts of alkalies, &c.; but the most usual are the waters of Vichy, Vals, Carlsbad, Ems, &c. These waters are used in drinks and as baths; and they must be employed perseveringly, at different periods, during several years in succession, b. Durande's remedy consists in the ad- ministration of half a drachm to a drachm every day of a mixture con- taining fifteen grammes of sulphuric ether and ten grammes of oil of turpentine. Where it has succeeded, the calculus has been expelled without being dissolved; so that this remedy belongs rather to the class of expulsives than of solvents. Chloroform has been much vaunted by some; but its efficacy is very doubtful, and it only calms the pain. c. Purgatives, frictions, douches, shampooing, and electricity, have also been employed to favour the expulsion of calculi. Purgatives are preferable, especially sulphate of soda and castor oil. In diet the patient should use fresh laxative herbs, grapes, fruits, and whey. All fat should be excluded from the food ; and the diet should be plain and properly proportioned, consisting of roast or boiled meat, vegetables, farina, lemonade, &c. Exercise is salutary, but its object is less to complete the combustion of fat than to favour the escape of the bile into the intestine. 2. In the treatment of the symptoms of biliary colic we should spe- cially seek to assuage the pain. Opium may be given without fear, even in doses of two and one third or three grains ; but subcutaneous injection of hydrochlorate of morphia is preferable. Belladonna, praised by Bretonneau and Lalotte, is not so good as opium, and should only be used when this fails. The same remark is applicable to cherry-laurel water and to tincture of castoreum. Chloroform, admi- nistered in inhalation until anaesthesia is produced, is a valuable remedy when paroxysms are most violent; it not only calms pain, but may lead to the cessation of the spasmodic contraction of the biliary passages, and thus favour the expulsion of the calculus. Dr. Murchisonf gives a valuable resume of our knowledge of hydatid tumours of the liver, relates twenty cases which he has had an oppor- tunity of examining either during life or after death, and gives his own * Also ' Gaz. Med. de Paris/ 15, 1866. f ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1865.