« A8U RKPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. day, generally soou after the onset of the symptoms, but became more indistinct from the second to the third day. An anal tumour, arising from the projection of the point of the intus- suscepted portion, was observed by Thomas in i case 3 hours after the commencement of the affection, in another 2 minutes after a stool, in the other 2 cases the canal of the rectum was free. Pressure on the anal tumour was found by Thomas to nearly always produce pain, which is contrary to llilliet's observation. The course of the disease was rapid. Death occurred in the four cases from the third to the fifth day, although one patient had faecal evacuations and in another the invagination was perfectly reduced. The Peritoneal Friction-sound. Scidel* arrives at the following results from the observation of a large number of cases :—Peritoneal friction-sounds may be produced in the situation of any of the organs contained in the abdominal cavity, or of any morbid growth which may be developed there. These sounds have not always the same semeiological meaning. In most cases they indi- cate thickening of the peritoneum, or morbid deposit on its free surface ; much more rarely are they due to acute inflammation. In one of the cases related by Seidel a friction-sound was perceived in the hepatic region, a short time before the bursting of some cancerous masses into the peritoneum. In another case, one of endocarditis, a friction-sound was heard at the level of the spleen, in the arteries of which an embolus was arrested. The appearance of a friction-sound at this point may be of value in forming a differential diagnosis between certain cases of en- docarditis and typhoid fever. In the latter disease it is extremely rare. M. Seidel has never observed it. Among exceptional facts, Seidel cites cases of acute enteritis accom- panied by peritoneal friction-sound. In one very remarkable case, while the patient held his breath, a friction-sound was heard to be produced at the level of the stomach during each ventricular systole. The heart was hypertrophied, and its impulse was transmitted to the left lobe of the liver, producing a movement which, though slight, was communicated to the stomach. Seidel's observations point out an important fact, that peritoneal friction-sound is regulated by the rhythm of the respiratory movements more frequently than is supposed. This may give rise to errors in diagnosis. Friction-sounds in the region of the liver and spleen, pro- duced without strong external pressure, and when the respiratory movements are not much interfered with, appear almost always to be rhythmical with these. When the sound is intense, and its seat is at a short distance from the ear, it is heard distinctly beyond the point at which it is produced; when there is also pain in the part this pain is increased by the respiratory movements ; and when friction-sound is observed in these conditions the mind is naturally led to consider the pleura affected, rather than the peritoneum. Peritoneal friction-souud is a valuable sigu in the history of syphilitic hepatitis and perihepatitis. The respiratory movements affect, not only * ' Deutsch. Klin.,' 51, 1865.