149 PNEUMONIA. * ' Lancet/ Feb. 25, 1865. crepitation in pneumonia. Ho believes that Stokes was right in the opinion that an intense puerility of respiration in the affected parts precedes the occurrence of crepitation by some hours ; and he relates two cases observed by himself which bear out this idea. Waters does not assert that the occurrence of localised puerile breathing at the commencement of respiration is universal, but he draws attention to the fact that the condition of the mucous membrane at this early period of the disease must be such as would be very likely to produce the sound in question. And, on the other hand, he has not heard what M. Grisolle declares to be the earliest sign of pneumonia, namely, a weakness of the breath-murmur. Dr. J. Hughes Bennett* brings forward some remarkable statistics to show that pneumonia may be very successfully treated by an entirely "restorative" regimen. He says—i. The first great fact which the preceding figures serve to establish is, that a simple primary pneumonia, whether single or double, if treated by the restorative plan, is not a fatal disorder. Surely 103 cases, of which 26 were double, are sufficient ro establish the proposition, especially when it is considered that they were diffused over 16 years, and occurred in all seasons. Amongst these, also, the whole of one lung was involved in no less than 15 cases, and the symptoms of many of them were exceedingly severe. Neither will any theory as to strength of constitution or change of type in dis- ease explain the result, as several of the cases were those of healthy, vigorous young labourers, whilst others were those of weak and broken- down sempstresses. In any and every case the disease appears to go through its natural progress, so long as the body is not too much ex- hausted and the physician as early as possible supports it with mitrients and restoratives. The whole of Bennett's uncomplicated cases reco- vered. He does not place as much importance as most authors do on the extent of lung which is inflamed, and he believes that pneumonia of the apices is not, under a restorative treatment, more fatal than in- flammation of any other portion of the lung. As local palliatives of pain, dyspnoea, &c, Bennett recommends warm fomentations and poul- tices, and allows that, in cases of great engorgement of the heart, small bleedings may be of service ; but they are rarely needed, and are often useless or worse. But it should be remembered that in cases of double pneumonia there is often great dyspnoea about the sixth or seventh day, which will generally yield to warm poultices externally, and moderate doses of wine. Bennett's treatment consists of the use of strong beef-tea and other nutritive drinks, and from 4 to 8 ounces of port wine if the pulse become weak, and solid nutriment as soon as the stomach will bear it; the elimination of the exudation being further assisted by the use of salines (acetate of ammonia and small doses of tartar-emetic) and diuretics, though these are not necessary if the strength be maintained. All lowering measures, of every description, are to be avoided. Bennett is also averse to very large quantities of stimu- lants, which, he thinks, interfere with rather than aid the effects of the nutrient treatment.