CIIOLEltA. 49 marked, and whore death soon occurred. In observation No. 2, a very high temperature (105°'3 Fahr.) was noted 5 hours before death j and an hour after death it had fallen to 1040. No inflammatory complication capable of accounting for the rise of temperaturo could be discovered on post-mortem examination. Observations r, 8, 9, were of patients in the sta^e of reaction. Here the maximum temperature was ioo°-j$ Fahr. (ina case of recovery), and the minimum gg°-y Fahr. In cases 2, 6, 8, a difference varying from a degree to nearly two degrees was noticed between the temperature of the rectum and that of the axilla. Hence the temperature of the rectum should be taken in preference to that of the axilla, as it more correctly represents the temperature of the in- ternal parts. Several authors have already remarked that, in cholera, thermometer examination by the rectum shows an elevated temperature, while that of the axilla is below the normal standard. Zimmermann, for instance, found the temperature of the rectum in the algide stage to be to2°-5 Fahr., while that of the mouth was 920 Fahr., and of the axilla only go°'3. Dr. Handfield Jones* thinks (with Dr. Q-ull) that it is a mistake to suppose that zymotic diseases are cured by elimination; rather it would appear that the constitution becomes inured to the presence of the poison. In scarlatina (e. g) the patient becomes convalescent while still charged with the poison, for he is still strongly endowed with the power of infection. Dr. Jones thinks there is very strong evidence to connect cholera with the malarious diseases, and quotes Trousseau, Bird, Annesley, Hutchinson, Dr. Charles Bell, Dr. Cormack, Dr. Billing, and Dr. Prout, as witnesses to this similarity, especially as regards the phenomena of collapse. He remarks that in 1854 there appeared to be a local atmosphere in an infected district (Paddington), which had a powerfully depressing effect on the nervous system even of healthy persons. Dr. Bealef places much stress on the shedding of intestinal epithe- lium which takes place in cholera, and which he believes to be a vital change. Columnar epithelial cells are found profusely in the dejec- tions and in the contents of the intestines after death ; they are not all of one size, some being larger and some smaller. The tunics of the intestines give signs of a degenerative change which has probably been long going on. Thus, there are no small young epithelial cells seen occupying space between the points of attachment of the columnar cells, and no masses of germinal matter near the apices of the villi ; there is also much fatty matter in the detached epithelium-cells. The Bacteria which have been found in the dejections signify nothing; they are frequently found in the fluids of a healthy human body. Dr. Gibb has seen them in milk fresh taken from a woman's breast. The denudation of the villi seems to Beale likely to prove an essential element of cholera. Dr. ParkesJ combats Dr. Beale's views. He says that epithelium is only found in small quantities in the stools, though it is present in * 'Brit. Med. Jouni.,' July 14, 1866. t ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Aug. 25, Sept. 22, Oct. 6, 1866. X 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' Aug. 25, 1866. 4