l'OST-PUEKPERAL CONDITIONS. 119 chloroform, but was disposed to attribute it to tbe nervous shock which was manifested before the chloroform was giveu. The second case was more clear. The woman was in her seventh labour. The child was expelled alive. The mother died in ao minutes afterwards, a slight convulsion having shortly preceded. A small clot, quite recent, was found in the left thalamus opticus, and another, larger and of a dissect- ing character, in the left cms cerebri. The abdominal and pectoral organs were quite healthy. Dr. Hervieux (' G-az. d. Hop.,' 1865) relates 2 cases of sudden death in puerperse. One was due to heart disease, the other to miningeal apoplexy. A case of emlolia of the pulmonary artery in a puerperal woman, By Dr. E. Eitter.—In this case the patient was pluriparous, est. 26. The first day of childbed went off quite regularly; then the lochia became offensive, and slight pain was felt on pressure. Temperature 38-o° C. These symptoms disappeared. Eight days afterwards she suddenly fell back in deep syncope; consciousness did not altogether leave her. "When seen the face was pale; she seemed dying ; respira- tion not much accelerated; pulse very small and frequent; she com- plained of oppression in the chest. Next day these symptoms per- sisted; the temperature was 36-8° C.; respirations were catching in character, 36; cyanotic lips and tongue; subsequently pulse and re- spirations increased in frequency ; temperature fell. She died on the third day. Autopsy.—In the right horn of the uterus was an abscess; inside uterus no disease. In ovarial veins small yellow fibrin-clots, apparently formed before death. In the right chief branch of the pul- monary artery was a pale red, delicate thrombus, plugging the vessel (' Mon. f. G-eb.,' Feb., 1866). Thrombosis. Dr. Casati relates a case of thrombosis occurring in a pregnant woman in the Milan hospital. She was anasarcous and had albumi- nuria ; she was bled. A live child was born prematurely. The abdo- men became painful with meteorism. She was again bled. On the fifth day she became agitated, the lips and hands cold and blue, a sense of suffocation, sub-delirium, loss of speech, orthopnoea, and rapidly death. In the pulmonary vessels, as far as the branches of the third and fourth degree, were fibrinous coagula. In the abdominal cavity were six quarts of puriform serum. Fibrinous clots were found also in the vessels of the neck, in the upper part of the aorta, and in the bronchial arteries and veins, but none in the vessels below the heart. The papilke of the optic nerve and a portion of the surrounding retina were spotted with white granules of inflammatory matter ; the retina was turbid and thickened. In one eye there were hemorrhagic spots in addition. Mr. E. H. Eoe relates ('Lancet,' i, 1865) a case of embolism. A single woman, set. 40, had a tedious labour terminated by forceps; peri- neum slightly torn; slight abdominal pain next day, and she did not rally. On the twenty-eighth day, after seeming better, after getting up to the night-chair, she became suddenly agitated, throwing her arms