REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 130 Electricity in Nervous Diseases. Professor Kemak,* in some lectures delivered at Paris, discusses the subject of the physiological and medical effects of the constant current. He believes the constant current to be greatly superior to all other forms of electricity for medical purposes, and that in most cases where it has a happy effect the induction current is rather hurtful than useful. The constant current has a more intense and beneficial action than other currents, chiefly because it can be so easily introduced into the body in large quantity and without pain or shock. The principle of M. Eemak's manner of applying it consists in using a comparatively small uumber of elements in the battery, these being, however, of large size. Not more than 32 cells, at the outside (Daniell's cells modified by Siemens and Halske, of Berlin), but weighing 8 pounds each, are em- ployed. In the application of the current to the body, Eemak gene- rally uses metallic electrodes covered with muslin or wool moistened with water, and connected with the conducting rods by a bundle of silver wires with gutta percha or caoutchouc envelopes. These tampons should be as broad as the nature of the surface to which they are to be applied will permit. The general effects of the prolonged application of the current are increased heat of the body, subsequent sweating, and very often pro- longed sleep, followed by complete repose of the whole body. Of local effects, those on the nerves of special sense are interesting. Most of these are, of course, well known ; but the curious assertion is made by Eemak, with regard to the nerves of taste, that the " galvanic taste" may be evoked in some patients by placing the electrode even on quite the lower part of the spine. Another fact which he states is that deaf persons are so sensitive to the constant current that the least application of the electrodes will produce sounds which may give a vain hope of recovery. The retina is more sensitive to the negative pole, and the gustatory nerve to the positive. The auditory nerve is more sensitive at the opening of the circuit than the closing (like a nerve of common sensation). As regards the action upon sensory and motor nerves, the down-running current acts more energetically on the nerves of sensation, and an up current on those of motion—the first at the point of exit, the latter at the point of entrance. But if you apply only one pole over the nerve, and the other on some different part of the body, both poles act alike on the sensory nerves and both alike on the motor ; the direction of the current is downward in the former case and upward in the other. Eemak corrects the mistaken idea which he believes to exist in France that the constant current is the same thing as the continuous. The voltaic pile and the chains which are modifications of it can only be, even approximately, constant, when there is a good deal of resistance offered. But as the resistance of the skin is overcome by the current softening the skin, the current, though continuous, will not be constant in strength, but will become gradually weaker, and at last disappear. * 'New York Med. Journal,' June, July, August, 1866.