REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 444 time. On the 31st October, 1864, the steamer Bisson anchored at Honfleur; the fires were put out, but a layer of 21 inches of water saturated with saline matters was left in the bottom of the boiler. The different openings into the boiler were closed. Its interior remained at a high temperature in consequence of its containing a pipe leading from a small furnace which was subsequently kept almost constantly heated. After the ship had been a month at Honfleur two men en- tered the boiler for the purpose of cleaning it out. They both at once became insensible, and a third man who came to their assistance like- wise lost his consciousness, and lay half inside, half outside the boiler. By this time a certain quantity of pure air had been introduced into the chamber, so that the three men were removed without any further accident occurring, and they all ultimately recovered. The first man who entered was the most severely affected. He was about 7 or 8 minutes within the boiler. He was unconscious and para- lysed, his limbs falling by his side when raised. His face was red, and his lips bluish. His pupils were insensible to light, and no effects were produced by irritating the mucous membranes of the nose and throat. His respiration was at first completely suspended, according to the statements of those who were present at the time, and after- wards it was very infrequent (5 or 6 in the minute). The pulse was very feeble, and scarcely to be felt. The temperature was lowered. Some importance is also attached to certain changes observed on the mucous membranes. The inner surfaces of the lips and the gums had a whitish appearance, being covered by a very thin pellicle, resembling that produced by a slight application of nitrate of silver. The eyes were half open; but on raising the eyelids the lower half of each cornea was found to present a sort of whitish coating, so that the cor- responding part of the iris was not visible. The conjunctiva was in- jected and very red, especially at its lower part. Afterwards, when consciousness began to return, the patient kept his eyelids closed, as if the light pained him, and subsequently a conjunctivitis came on. As respiration became again established convulsive symptoms were observed; the upper limbs became rigidly contracted; there was tetanic rigidity of the muscles of the back of the neck ; the head was drawn powerfully backwards; the jaws were closed, and the teeth were forcibly ground together. After a quarter of an hour these symptoms subsided, and they were followed by jactitation of the limbs. Among the other effects noticed were aphonia (lasting 2 hours), aver- sion to take drink, and vomiting. The loss of consciousness continued for 22 hours. When recovery took place it was attended with febrile symptoms, so that the patient was bled. He also suffered from rather abundant diarrhoea, and from a stomatitis resembling very closely that produced by mercury. He was nearly well on the 5th day. In the other two men the symptoms were similar, but much less extreme; the second man was not insensible for more than an hour. M. Bourel-Eonciere, who investigated these cases at the time, con- cluded, from the fact that the mucous membranes presented the re- markable changes above described, that ammonia gas had been present in the air of the boiler, having been formed during the oxidation of