147 PNEUMONIA. The cough and sleeplessness of phthisis wore relieved by the use of narceiue in the case of a child of 10 years, under M. Bouchut's care.* Various other opiate preparations had been vainly tried. About i centi- gramme (that is, -155 grain) of narceine was given, at first by day- time, but afterwards at night, as this was found to be more effica- cious. It is noteworthy that no vomiting was produced ; this symptom was almost constantly present in the adult females to whom M. Behier has administered it. It will be interesting to observe whether future trials of the remedy on children establish their immunity from this disagreeable consequence. Lung Diseases from inhalation of Foreign Hatters. On this subject the most important papers are those of Prof. IT. A. Zenker (' Deutsch. Arch. f. Klin. Med.,' ii,p. 116, 1866), Dr. M. Eosen- thal ('"Wien. Ztsch.,'xxii, i, p. 97,1866), Dr. Seltmann (' Deutsch. Arch, f. Klin. Med.,' ii, p. 300,1866), Prof. Virchow (' Yirchow's Arch.,' xxxv, p. 178, 1866), Leuthold ('Berlin. Klin. Woch.,' iii, 1866). [All the above are to be found, in abstract, in ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 132, pp. 160— 176.] Warburton Begbie (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1866). Com- pare also Koschlakoff on the origin of pigment in the lungs ('Yirchow's Arch.,' xxxv, p. 186, 1866). Pneumonia. Dr. Schwarzf writes on the dangerous symptoms of croupal pneu- monia and their treatment. 1. The pyrexia is not to be treated with bloodletting, which is probably directly injurious in several ways. Digitalis does not, probably, in reality cause the diminution of tempera- ture which has been attributed to it. "When this happens it is probably a part of the natural phenomena of the disease ; and, on the other hand, the increase of blood-pressure which this drug causes is favorable to exudative processes. Tartar-emetic ought never to be used as an anti- febrile agent. The application of cold is by far the best antifebrile remedy ; it not only lessens the danger but also the pain of pneumonia; but in pregnant women and old persons sponging with water of a tem- perature of 1 j° to 200 Peaum. is a milder and better form of appli- cation. Where cold fails, large doses of quinine will diminish the tem- perature and the rapidity of the pulse; it is given in combination with camphor. 2. The symptoms of primary (local) and secondary (colla- teral) exudation are hard to distinguish in practice, though in theory they are markedly distinct, for they depend on different causes; and while the primary exudations are direct sources of danger, the col- lateral ones are a source of relief, and only become dangerous when in excess. The former demand direct remedies, the latter only require watching. The local exudations, by interfering with the circulation and the oxygenation of the blood, produce dyspnoea, cough, and bloody expectoration; they are best combated by full bleeding (although, * 'Bull, de Tht'rapeut.,' i, p. 87, 1865. t ' Bayer, arzt. Intell. Bl.,' 1865 ; ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 126, p. 172, 1865.