CIRCULATION. g blood, all means by which this paralysis is removed delay or diminish the radiation of heat. < , c. All circumstances which occasion the paralysis ol the vessels operate in the same way on the radiation of heat as the section of the spinal cord. 6. The cramps produced by certain poisons immediately elevate the internal temperature of the body. 7. In animals poisoned with alcohol, however, the temperature imme- diately begins to fall. _ 8. Section of the sympathetic exercises the same influence on the dis- tribution of the general heat of the body as section of the spinal cord. 9. Section of the vagus has no remarkable direct influence upon the animal heat. 10. Section of the medulla oblongata in the skull at the point where it unites with the pons produces violent febrile symptoms. 11. Similar febrile appearances occur after injection of putrefying animal fluids. 12. Physiological experiments and clinical observations establish the existence of moderatory centres (inhibitory) in the brain. CrRCULATIOIT. By a very beautiful series of dissections Dr. James Bell Pettigrew ('Trans. Eoy. Soc. of Edinburgh,' and 'Phil. Transact.,' 1864, part 3, p. 445) has elucidated the structure of the valves of the veins and the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the vertebrate heart. He observes that the structure of the valves in reptiles is partly tendinous and partly muscular, becoming wholly muscular in birds and wholly tendinous in mammals. Prom his observations on the heart he draws the physiological deduction that the closure of the auriculo-ventricular valves in mam- mals is effected partly by mechanical and partly by vital means; the segments in part floating upwards in the blood towards the end of the diastole and the beginning of the systole, till their margins and apices are so accurately appfied that no regurgitation can take place, whilst during and towards the end of the systole the valves are by the contraction of the musculi papillares dragged down by the chorda? tendinese into the ventri- cular cavities to form two dependent cones, this downward movement of the segments permitting the blood in the auricles to descend into the ventricles, so as to relieve the congestion of the former. The perfect clo- sure of the auriculo-ventricular valves he attributes to a kind of twisting and spiral movement of the segments of the valves, wedging them closely and firmly into one another. Dr. Pettigrew has dissected out no fewer than seven layers of muscular fibres in the ventricles, the arrangement of the fibres of which, though individually simple, are collectively very intri- cate, and cannot here be fully exposed. By the use of nitrate of silver injections Eberth ('Wurzburger Naturwiss. Zeits.,' 1865, Bd. 6, p. 27) and Chrzonsczczewsky ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1866, vol. 35, p. 171) have shown that the finest blood-capillaries are lined throughout by a layer of flat and fusiform epithelial cells, containing well- marked nuclei, and lying on the inner side of the generally admitted structureless membrane. In the smallest arteries and veins the cells gra- dually become polygonal in outline.