LABOUR. 403 rapidly enlarged, vomiting and prostration set in, and death followed on the sixth day. Peritonitis was found. Dr. Spiegelberg relates two cases of fibroids complicating pregnancy (; Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' 1866). The first was a case of interstitial fibroid in the right side of the lower segment of the uterus. Prema- ture labour occurred. The child, in a macerated condition, presented by the breech. During expulsion the tumour was flattened down, and resumed its rotundity afterwards. No haemorrhage or puerperal disorder ensued. The second case was one of large interstitial fibroid of the fundus. Premature labour; breech; flooding. Peritonitis came on from suppuration around the tumour and in it, with en- dometritis. Death took place from ulcerative endocarditis of the aortic valves. Endocarditis set in on the fifteenth day, marked by Btrong rigor. Sixteenth day, again rigor, and oedema of the face and feet; a systolic bruit, with very strong second sound; diarrhoea; con- junctivitis of the right eye, with small haemorrhages; keratitis and exudation in the interior chamber; next day, similar events in the left eye, the urine became albuminous, and the patient died on the thirtieth day. Dissection showed pus in the sterno-clavicular joint; eight ounces of clear fluid in the pericardium; small ecchymoses on the heart's surface; the aortic valves thickened, swollen, and rough, the substances easily crumbling down; in a large arterial branch of the lower lobe of the right lung was a greenish fragile embolus, which extended into the neighbouring branches. Dr. Hugenberger describes the cases of puerperal effusions of blood info the cellular tissue observed in St. Petersburg ('St. Petersb. Med. Ztsch.,' 1865).—1. Perineal haematoma before labour; consecutive abscess opened by the knife; perforation of the rectum ; recovery, a. Labial hematoma apparently arising during labour; twins; normal contraction of the second; suppuration of the burst blood-gathering; pyaemia and death. 3. Labial haematoma before labour; suppuration of the burst gathering during childbed; fatal metro-peritonitis and pyaemia. 4. Labial haematoma during labour; bursting; recovery. 5. Labial haematoma during labour; incision; recovery. 6. Ditto. 7. Ditto. 8. Perivaginal haematoma after labour; spontaneous burst- ing; recovery. 9. Ditto. 10. Peri-uterine haematoma during labour; narrow pelvis; violent labour-pains; fatal haemorrhage. 11. Peri- uterine haematoma after labour, with cross birth and turning; bursting of the sac, and death by bleeding into the abdominal cavity. Dystocia by the Pelvis. On the management of cranial presentations in contraction of the pelvis from rickets. By Prof. E. Martin. ('Berl. Klin. "Wchnschr.,' 1866). The causes and mode of formation of the oblique or unilaterally contracted pelvis are elaboratelv investigated in a prize essay by Dr. A. Otto ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1866). Dr. A. Valenta (' Mou. f. Geburtsk.,' 1865), adverting to the essay of