REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 412 the excretory apparatus, impedes the freedom of the circulation, causes hypertrophy of the heart. 2. Labour adds to the condition left by pregnancy—shock, extensive local injury, an enormous waste of nerve and muscle the consequence of physical exertion, greater dege- neration of blood from this conversion of nerve and muscle and also from the proceeds of the involution of the uterine tissues. 3. Hence there is a greatly exalted stress upon the excretory organs and a general deterioration of the solids and fluids, inducing feeble physiological action, and, therefore, tendency to fall into pathological action, that is, to generate puerperal fever. He then sketches various forms of auto- genetic puerperal fever, taking excretory puerperal fever, uramiic ex- cretory puerperal fever, cholsemic excretory puerperal fever, traumatic or inflammatory puerperal! fever, thrombotic puerperal fever. He then examines the means by which puerperal fever is propagated, as the con- tagion of scarlatina, typhoid, the cadaveric poison, and the influence of inoculation or other mode of transmitting the puerperal poison. The principal sources maybe grouped as follows:—1. An animal poison generated from crowding lying-in women together. 2. Bad sanitary conditions, as miasm of sewage, the air of an over-crowded dwelling, damp and cold, the use of impure water, unwholesome food, malaria from the surgical wards of an hospital. 3. Exposure, mediate or im- mediate, to any contagious disease, as typhoid, typhus, scarlatina, small- pox, erysipelas. 4. Direct inoculation of cadaveric matter (Semmel- weis) or of other animal poison, by means of poisons coming into con- tact with the lying-in woman. Dr. Mair gives ('Aerztl. Intell. Blatt Baierns,' 1865) an illustration of the contagiousness of puerperal fever. A nurse attached to a patient affected eai'ried the disease, by means of the putrid lochial discharge, to six recent puerperae, who all died. On the causes of epidemic puerperal fever in maternities ('Aerztl. Intell. Blatt Baierns.,' 1865). —Dr. Kaufmann contends for a miasm which does not, under all conditions, but only under certain predis- posing ones, cause puerperal fever. He denies septic infection. The only remedy is appropriate ventilation and cleanliness. In debate upon this, Veit, of Bonn, Winkel, of Rostock, Pernice, of Greifswald, Martin, of Berlin, maintained the doctrine of infection ; Maubiewitz, of Miilhaussen, insisted upon lesions of the genitals following operations. Dr. Snow Beck, in a paper on the causes of puerperal fever (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii), sums up in the following conclusions :—1. The phenomena of puerperal fever may be produced by the introduction of poisonous fluid into the general system. 2. The uterine sinuses, remaining per- vious to the flow of fluids, would afford a means by which the poison- ous fluid would enter the system. 3. The pervious condition of the sinuses remained in consequence of the absence of that firm and per- sistent contraction of the uterus after childbirth which appears neces- sary to effectually close these canals, and prevent all circulation of fluid in them. 4. The secretion from the interior of the uterus was probably sufficient, when mixed with the blood, to induce the effects observed. And it would further follow that, 5, the various phenomena observed in puerperal fever may arise from this cause, modified by many incidental