REPORT ON SURGERY. 240 his patients without food for about four days after the operation, nour- ishing them by the rectum. Most of the speakers in the discussion adopted the view announced by Herr Passavant in the last extract, that the defect in articulation depends chiefly on the want of contact between the soft palate and the back of the pharynx. M. Trelat says that Gerdy had made the same observation before. Excision of the Tongue.—Numerous cases of excision of the tongue have been recorded under the care of Syme, Paget, Nunneley, and other surgeons. The following is extracted from a clinical lecture on the removal of the tongue with the ecraseur, by Mr. Paget, in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Feb. 10, 1866:—"The motive to operate here, as in other cases, is either to prolong life or, without shortening, to comfort what remains. For the first there is, I believe, some advantage—not a great prolongation of life, yet enough to justify an operation which is attended with very little suffering or risk; but the chief motive is in the hope of comfort, and the comfort that may be gained is in many cases so great as to justify a greater risk of life than is incurred in any of the ordinary operations for the removal of cancer of the tongue. The risk is really very small. I have not had a fatal case or witnessed one ; and the comfort given is that the patient is delivered for the time from all the misery of one of the most distressing and disabling conditions of disease, and till the cancerous growth is renewed may enjoy complete health and do all his work. Doubtless the disease will return after the operation; but it is as unreasonable to refuse a painless operation, and one free from risk of life, because the disease will return at some time soon after it, as it would be to refuse a course of medicine because it gives only temporary relief. "When a man has only, suppose, two or three years to live, it is no small advantage if at least half the time can be spent in comfort rather than in misery, and in profitable work rather than in painful idleness. Looking back on the many cases of cancer of the tongue that I have had to do with, I should be disposed to say that there is no organ on which operations for cancer are more justly per- formed, or are more to be urged, even in extreme cases. For the method of operation the choice lies between the knife and the ecraseur. Caustic is not to be thought of, unless in a case of the very smallest extent; and the cases in which the ligature should be used must be ex- tremely rare. I have never employed it, for the only advantage which it offers—that of avoiding haemorrhage—is just as well, and much less offensively, obtained by the ecraseur. The risks and trouble of haemor- rhage are, however, much overrated; and I believe the knife may be preferred to the dcraseur in all but the largest operations, such as those for the removal of the whole tongue." In the 'Lancet' for Jan. 27, 1866, is the report of the then present condition of a patient in whom Prof. Syme had removed the whole tongue on Dec. 29, 1864. The wound made in the operation through the jawbone and lip had soundly united without any deformity. The opening between the mouth and pharynx was diminished and irregular in shape, but he could swallow as well as ever, provided the food was finely divided. He could also masticate solid substances, though diffi-