GENERAL PARALYSIS. S9 nnition with that of hypertrophy on the one hand and that of ma- lignant growths on the other. Cancer has the most intimate mor- phological affinity with inflammation, and probably what is distinc- tive of the former lies less in its textural phenomena than in the hitherto unknown causes which give them their fatally continuous progress. Blaudford would seem to regard general paralysis as an inflammation of the fatally continuous kind; while the hyperbaric and hyperactive condition of the brain in acute mania may subside, perhaps recur, subside again, and so on. General paralysis may be called the malignant disease of the grey matter of the hemispheres. The subject of general paralysis and its pathology is also taken up by Dr. Wilks in a very important paper on nervous diseases,* which will be repeatedly referred to in these pages. After remarking that a variety of morbid processes, caused by very different influences, all tend to the final production of an atrophy essentially the same as that which occurs in the later stages of general paralysis (as, e.g. chronic lead and mercury poisoning, chronic alcoholism, and even simple old age), "Wilks says that, althcugh the post-mortem appearances may be closely alike, it is very possible that the early conditions of the organ may not be the same, and that the accompanying symptoms may, in these different affections, present peculiarities of their own. He illustrates this by the well-known tendency to a common final result— atrophy—in a great variety of kidney diseases. In the case of general paralysis there is reason to think the cineritious brain-substance suffers a peculiar inflammatory change. Wilks is inclined to make a broad distinction between this disease and other forms of insanity, which, he remarks, are generally dynamic and functional, dependent upon an inherent failing, and manifested by peculiarities of manner, habits, and feelings. He cross-questions the alienist physicians on the point whether they are prepared to identify general paralysis by its ensemble of symptoms, or by a certain number of them, independently of post-mortem proof of a change in the grey matter. The mental exaltation usually met with, though highly peculiar, is not absolutely constant. Can the state of the pupils, or the progressive paralytic symptoms, be depended on for differential diagnosis from alcoholism, for example ? Scarcely so ; and the points of distinctive history, which often would render diagnosis easy, are sometimes wanting or indecisive, especially as the latter disease often leads to the former. In studying the chronic affections of the brain, we should try to discover which symptoms are universal, and which are peculiar to particular forms of disease; these complaints can, as a rule, be distinguished by the circum- stances attendant upon them. "Wilks describes the morbid changes of the cortical brain-matter, on the whole, in similar terms to those adopted by other observers. It is necessary to observe, however, that he seems distinctly to point to the outer layers of the cortical substance as chiefly affected, and he enforces this by speaking of the adhesions of the membranes, which he says are frequently met with, as corroborative evidence. * "Observations on the Pathology of some of the Diseases of the Nervous Svstem," * Guy's Hosp. Reports,' 1866.