REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * ' Jahrb. Kinderkrankh.;' ■ Wien. Med. Wochnsch.,' Dec. 6, 1865. 182 an indistinct and friable network. The stroma was somewhat enlarged, and contained numerous fatty granules. The kidneys, to the naked eye, were small, flabby, and congested; the cortical portion was dimi- nished in size, and contained yellowish-white deposit. The liver was of natural size, soft, flabby, but not friable, and was found to contain cells having the characters of those met with in acute yellow atrophy. In commenting on his first case, Stewart gives his reasons for believing that acute yellow atrophy of the liver is not of hepatic, but of blood origin. The following considerations, he says, appear to him to point to this conclusion :—i. The blood was dark and fluid, and the muscles were dry, as they are in typhus fever and other blood diseases. 2. The spleen was soft and pulpy, as it is in many febrile blood diseases. 3. The fact that the kidneys and liver were affected by a peculiar and identical morbid process indicates that they were influenced by a com- mon cause, that cause situated in the blood, and a form of fever poison. 4. The appearance, amount, and effects of the exudation, being different from what we see in simple inflammation, either of the liver or kidneys, indicates that some peculiar matter was present in the system, altering the ordinary processes. 5. The facts that the disease occurs so often during pregnancy, and that it seems to be induced by depressing mental emotions, indicate that it is of a constitutional origin. Stewart thinks, therefore, that we cannot help concluding that the affection is a blood disease, and that it leads to atrophy of the liver by diffuse exudation into the hepatic cells, which is followed by a rapid fatty degeneration. The second case, in which the kidneys were most affected, confirms Stewart in this view. Notwithstanding the small amount of disease in the liver, the patient had haematemesis ; and Stewart suggests that this may be rather the result of a blood poison than of hepatic disease. The other circumstances in the case, which in his opinion favour the idea that the disease is of blood origin, were, the marked hypostatic con- gestion and rapid decomposition of the body, the darkness of the blood and its imperfect coagulation, the occurrence of identical morbid con- ditions in the liver and kidneys, and the peculiar nature of the process and the circumstances under which it occurred. Drs. Steiner and Neureutter* write on fatty liver in children.—Of 222 children affected with adipose infiltration, or with fatty degenera- tion of the liver, Steiner and Neureutter found that in 131 the age was from 1 to 4 years. The pathological condition in the course of which fatty liver appears most frequently is tuberculosis ; and the fact that in children this generally affects the lymphatic glands, and not the lungs, negatives the supposition that the excessive deposit of fatty matter in the liver in connection with tuberculosis is due to deficient oxidation. Steiner and Neureutter consider rather—agreeing to some extent with Frerichs—that the origin of fatty liver is to be sought rather in the change in the constitution of the blood induced by the tuberculous disease, and that the liver may be fatty from the commencement of the tuberculous process. Next in order to tuberculosis in connection with fatty liver is enteritis, which is not, however, to be regarded always as