REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 72 adults; but Bouchut has met with some instances, one of which he mentions as having occurred in a child 11 years old, who was removed from the hospital in the last stage of heart-disease following rheuma- tism. Even in very advanced heart-disease anasarca connected with valvular lesions is rare; a few traces only are found in the ankles and face, and in the rest of the body. In the treatment Bouchut does not employ local or general blood- letting unless visceral complications demand it. He has tried quinine, but prefers veratrine in gradually increasing doses. Under its use the pulse falls, and the joint affection disappears in from three to five days, rarely lasting longer. When visceral compbcations exist, leeches and various revulsives must be used. In chronic rheumatism in children he employs tincture of colchicum, veratrine, sulphurous waters, vapour baths, or iodide of potassium. The last-mentioned medicine he uses in doses of from four to fifteen grains daily. Acetonemia. Acetonemia is defined by Cantani* as a diseased condition arising from the spontaneous development of acetone in the system. Acetone, which is developed by the fermentation of organic matters, especially grape sugar, is readily formed in persons labouring under gastric catarrh ; there is, in fact, an abundant secretion of mucus, which under- goes change and gives rise to this product. The acetone is furnished by the organs whose veins open into the ascending cava, especially those of the liver, stomach, and intestines. Acetonasmia is developed chiefly in the following conditions :—i. Irregularities of diet and alco- holic excesses. 2. Obstinate constipation, leading to the decompo- sition of fasces in the intestine. 3. Certain febrile diseases, especially smallpox, scarlet fever, and typhoid fever. 4. Diabetes and organic diseases of the stomach, such as cancer of the pylorus or cardia, or dif- fuse cancer of the walls of the organ. 5. Inanition. Post-mortem examination shows no particular change; but the blood, muscles, and viscera, exhale a strong odour of acetone. Acetone resembles ether and chloroform in its action. Existing in small quantity in the venous blood, it produces no severe symptoms, although it may be recognised in the breath by its special odour. On the other hand, its presence in arterial blood produces marked disease. One of the first symptoms is a certain degree of excitement; and when the acetone has reached the nervous centres depression sets in, and increases until death supervenes. Muscular contractility, electro-muscular sensibility, and cutaneous sen- sibility, are suspended, in consequence, Cantani believes, of the poisonous action of the acetone on the central and peripheric portions of the ner- vous system. Blisters and sinapisms, applied to the skin, produce their effect very slowly. Respiration is weakened ; there is almost complete aphonia; the pupils are contracted and fixed; there is retention of urine, and nearly all the secretions are arrested; the abdomen is tym- panitic ; and the cutaneous perspiration is increased, and, with the breath, exhales a very penetrating odour. The actions of the heart and * ' II Morgagni' Gaz. Med.,' vi, 1866.