REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 172 recurrent angina pectoris (in a man of advanced age) of a rare type. Angina pectoris (Stenokardie) is, as he remarks, in its essence a neuro- sis ; but it is unusual to find the nervous malady so completely uncom- plicated ■with symptoms of organic, cardiac, or vascular disease as in the instance now recorded. The patient suffered for eight years with severe paroxysms, which were evidently connected merely with the condition of the nervous system, and which were more severe always during the state of depression induced by high summer heat. The eighth summer of the illness happened to be extremely hot, and the attacks began to take on a frequence and a severity which seemed to threaten a rapidly fatal issue. The patient had taken almost every conceivable medicine during the course of the illness, with only the most trifling and temporary benefit. In despair Philipp determined to try the effects of arsenic, and prescribed Fowler's solution diluted with an equal bulk of water ; of this liquid five drops were given three times a day, after meals. The result exceeded all expectation. The medicine was soon tolerated well, and a great and immediate improvement took place. Not merely was the severity of the paroxysms so much miti- gated that the patient almost ceased to complain of them, but the appetite, which had been very bad, greatly increased. After a month's use of the medicine Philipp made an attempt to discontinue it, and the rapid relapse of the patient towards his former condition proved that it was only to the arsenic he owed his comparative immunity. During a year and a half the treatment was continued, the patient always being comparatively well, except on the several occasions when the attempt to leave off the arsenic was renewed. At the end of this time, how- ever, there was a sudden change, the attacks coming on with such frequence and severity that the patient could get no sleep, and again lost his appetite. Then the original attacks suddenly ceased, and symptoms of an acute brain affection showed themselves. There were general excitement aud feverishness, pressure in the head, loquacious- ness, and then somnolence, which lasted a few days, after which hemi- plegia of the left side, with dragging of the mouth and impediment of speech; finally, loss of consciousness and incontinence of urine. The patient thenceforth remained comatose, with stertorous breathing, and died 25 clays after the commencement of brain symptoms. The remarkable effects of arsenic in this case, even though they at last failed (it should be mentioned that the dose was obliged to be gradually increased to about double the amount at first taken), are considered by Philipp to be very important; and he calls the attention of practitioners to the use of this drug in angina pectoris, especially of the uncomplicated nervous type. Thrombosis and Pycemia. Mr. W. S. Savory* discusses the relation of these affections to each other in a long and able paper, of which we can only here give the con- clusions :—" Thrombosis may exist without any evidence of phlebitis, and very often occurs without being followed by pyaemia. Phlebitis * 'St. Barthol. Hosp. Rep.,' ii, 18C6.