HE PORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. 22 In regard to muscular contractility, Mr. N. F. Baxter ('Beale's Archives,' vol. 4, p. 20,3) has furnished a suggestive paper, tending to show that the act of contraction is due to the molecular attraction of the particles which constitute the muscle, and that during life and in the ordinary condition of elongation or relaxation these particles are in a polarized state and self-repellent, requiring for the exertion of any force a depolarizing agency, which is usually exerted through and hy the nervous system; and that when depolarization of the particles has occurred, as in the act of muscular contraction, the polarized state can he easily and readily restored by the act of nutrition. The dominant opinions regarding the nature of the chemical changes which take place in muscular fibre during the period of contraction, and the kind of alimentation required to repair the loss, have been shaken by late researches, and appear to require considerable modification. The view that was formerly generally entertained, and which at first sight seems unassailable, was that in the act of contraction muscles de- troy or use up a portion of their substance; hence during violent exertion there is a constant demand for food over and above that which is occa- sioned by the changes that are natural to all living and organized tissues exposed to the action of warmth, moisture, and oxygen. But it is well established that the essential constituent of muscle is a substance belongrinsr to the albuminous group; the oleaginous and farinaceous (glycogen) and mineral substances forming comparatively a very small proportion of the entire mass. It was perfectly natural, therefore, to suppose that muscular exertion would be attended by the appearance of the products of the dis- integration of albuminous substances, such as urea, uric acid, &c, in the excretions, and that an increased supply of albuminous compounds would be required as food to supply the waste. (See Dr. Lyon Playfair's lec- ture ' On the Food of Man in relation to his useful Work,' pamphlet, Edin., 1865, where this view is powerfully sustained.) The results of chemical investigation seemed to favour these views, and it was very con- fidently stated that the quantity of urea discharged in the urine was con- siderably increased after exertion. But the observations and experiments of Dr. Edward Smith and others have shown that, first, there is no marked increase in the amount of urea and uric acid contained in the urine, and that there does not appear to be any accumulation of these substances in the muscles, even after very violent and prolonged exertion ; and further (see Messrs. 0. B. Lawes and J. II. Gilbert, 'Lond., Edin., and Dub. Phil. Mag.,' vol. 32, 1866, p. 62), that whenever very violent exertion is undertaken there is a constantly increased demand for ?zoH-nitrogenous food. Moreover, an unexpected result -was obtained, viz., that all muscular exertion is attended with an increased excretion of carbonic acid b}' the lungs, whilst one of the chief products of disintegration contained in the muscle, viz., lactic acid, certainly belongs to the saccharine type. A modification of the old view came, therefore, to be held, namely, that the albuminous substance in muscle, though constituting the contractile agent, is yet, so to speak, only the field on which the chemical changes, consisting in the oxygenation of fatty and saccharine materials, take place. Hence a supply of these materials in the food, especially during vigorous exertion, becomes absolutely requisite.