TUMOURS OV THE LARYNX. 24-5 that the mobility of the vocal cords was much impaired, and the side operated oil occupied by cicatricial tissue. Sho remained in good health for about a year and a half, aud then began to exhibit symptoms of cancerous cachexia, but the organ affected could hardly be deter- mined. She died 22 months after the operation. After death deposit was found in both supra-renal bodies, and in one kidney and ureter, which to the naked eye resembled scirrhus, whilst its microscopic cha- racters were rather those of recurrent fibroid, presenting in this a great contrast to the original disease, which showed strongly marked the cell- elements of cancer. The larynx and trachea were healthy, except for the scar of the operation. Dr. Sands appends two tables of reference to all the cases, 50 in number, of operations for tumours of the larynx which he could find on record. The first table comprises 11 cases in which the tumour was removed by external incision with the following results: Of the 11 cases it is known that 9 recovered, 1 died, and 1 wa3 expected to prove fatal. Of the 9 that recovered, in 5 respiration through the larynx was re-established; in 4 the patients were obliged to wear the tube. In 1 the voice was normal, both before and after operation; in 2 the voice improved; in 6 the voice remained still hoarse. Four were known to have died at a later period of typhoid fever (6 months), of extension of disease into trachea (15 months), of gangrene of lung (2 years), and, Dr. Sands' own case, of cancer of supra-renal glands and kidneys (22 months). In 5 of the 11 cases the diagnosis was made with the laryn- goscope. The results of this series of cases, as far as they go, are very favorable to operation by external incision. Of 39 cases treated by operation through the mouth, which are given and referred to in the second table, 1 died, 38 recovered. In 35 respiration was normal after the operation. In 3 tracheotomy was performed, and the patients continued to wear the tube. In 12 cases the voice was restored, in 11 improved, in 2 unimproved, and in 13 the state of the voice is not mentioned. In all except 4 cases the diagnosis was made by means of the laryngoscope, and in all except 5 that instrument was used to guide the steps of the operation. These data are very favorable to operations in such cases. It must be remembered that in most of the cases composing the first table the disease was so extensive that it could not be removed without a good deal of injury to the vocal cords, which accounts for the voice being seldom regained. In choosing one or the other operation regard must be had to the following points:—1. The situation and extent of the disease.—If pedun- culated, it can be removed from the mouth ; otherwise not. In a doubtful case the operation from the mouth may be tried, and in the event of failure the larynx may be opened from without, as was done in one of the cases referred to. 2. The nature of the disease.—A firm fibrou3 tumour will require removal, while mere warty excrescences possess little vitality, and may be easily destroyed, either by caustics or instruments through the mouth, and often disappear of themselves, of which an instance is cited from the '"Wiener "Wochenschrift,' 1863, p.