LARYNGOSCOPE.—CONTUSIONS OF BONE. 247 the rima glottidis was contracted and tlio play of the arytenoid muscles hindered. She recovored under constitutional treatment and blisters. In the second case, one of phthisis laryngea, tho patient, a man about ^o, was nearly suffocated by a necrosed and loose piece of an ossified aryte- noid cartilage, which was successfully extracted. A third case was a mucous cyst near the base of the epiglottis (somewhat like Mr. Durham's, iu ' Med. Chir. Trans.,' xlvii, p. 7, but smaller), which was cured by laying it open and then touching it with nitrate of silver on a curved wire. The fourth case was that of an ulcer between the cornua of the arytenoid cartilage, apparently not syphilitic, giving rise to aphonia. This was cured by touching it with nitrate of silver and administering iodide of potassium in bark, with inhalation of a strong solution of sul- phate of zinc pulverized. At page 284 of the same volume a case is related in which a child ret. 3-5 was suddenly taken with symptoms of suffocation, which were thought to be caused by his being choked with a piece of cake which he was eating. Dr. Smyly was sent for when the child was dying. A soft spongy mass could be felt in the pharynx, and the finger then distinctly entered the larynx. The child had by this time " ceased to breathe for some minutes ;" there was no pulse, the eyes were glazed, and the face livid. A catheter, open at both ends, was passed into the larynx and down the trachea, and artificial respiration kept up through it; but it was not till after 20 minutes that the first signs of life were observed. After the child had quite rallied tracheotomy was performed. This was followed by alarming sinking, but he recovered from this condition, and breathed calmly for some hours; then convulsions set in, and he died 36 hours after admission. On post-mortem examination the cause of obstruction was found to be a mass of round worms, 6 in number, filling the upper part of the pharynx, and one of them lying in the glottis. There was no oedema. Dr. Smyly remarks on the ease with which the operation of " tubing " the larynx can be accomplished, and on the success which has attended it in M. Bouchut's practice, for which he refers to the ' Journal of Pract. Med. and Surg.,' 1st year, art. 5551 (English edition). He says that for this purpose he now always places one of Hutton's catheters in his case of instruments for tracheotomy. See also in the ' Deutsche Klinik,' July 21, 1866, p. 262, the account by Dr. Merkel of Leipsic, of a case in which the patient recovered her voice almost immediately after the puncture of a cystic tumour attached to the vocal cord. The following extracts refer to affections of the locomotive organs : In the ' American Journal of the Medical Sciences,' July, 1865, p. 17, Dr. Liddell, Inspector, Medical and Hospital Department of the Army of the Potomac, contributes an article on " Contusion and Contused "Wounds of Bone, with an account of 13 Cases."—Dr. Liddell remarks on the silence of systematic writers, both in general and military surgery, on the subject of these injuries, but quotes from Stromeyer an account of the effect of contusions by bullets in producing necrosis. Dr. Liddell proceeds to enumerate and describe in detail the effects of con-