208 REPORT ON SURGERY. shaped end is passed into the opening. Its edge is turned towards the diseased tissue, e.g. upwards, if the orifice is at the lower part of the stricture. If there is no indication for incising one part of the urethra iu preference to another, M. Desormeaux always directs his incision upwards. The knife is gently pressed onwards till the resistance ceases. In withdrawing it its edge should be pressed against the remains of the stricture. Then a medium-sized catheter is to be passed, and M. Desormeaux is in the habit of tying it into the bladder for 4 or 3 days, though he does not much insist on the necessity for this, and always withdraws it if painful or inconvenient to the patient. He has prac- tised the operation in this way more than 20 times, and has had no bad symptoms after it except occasionally rigors in those patients who were subject to rigors after catheterism. These he has always found con- trolled by the administration of quinine. This operation can be effected by means of the endoscope without any previous treatment of the stric- ture. Its necessity can be determined also by endoscopic examination, and by its means M. Desormeaux believes that the necessity for punc- ture of the bladder or perineal section will be, if not entirely obviated, at least rendered exceedingly rare. The details of several cases of endoscopic urethrotomy are given, which, though extremely interesting and instructive, we must omit for want of space. P. 142.—The next topic is the examination and treatment of fistula in perinaeo. M. Desormeaux describes how the orifice of a fistula may be brought into view by the endoscope. He says the orifice is often difficult to see, as its borders are in contact, and it is situated in the middle of a patch of ulceration; but it may be recognised by its red or wine-lees colour, or frequently a sound can be passed into it from the perineal orifice. He gives a figure of the appearance of such a fistula, masked by a large vegetation in the urethra (pi. i, fig. 2). In cases where the ordinary means fail to cure the affection a cure may often be effected by touching the urethral orifice of the fistula with nitrate of silver in substance, afterwards neutralized by a solution of common salt. An instrument for carrying the caustic is figured (p. 145), and the notes of a case are given in which a cure was effected by the method recommended. Lect. v, p. 149.—The last lecture treats of the endoscopic examination of the prostate and bladder. In the prostatic urethra the granular and the herpetic affections offer the same characters as in other parts of the urethra, only that the granulations more easily become fuugous, and are consequently more difficult of diagnosis. In this part of the urethra the granular affection does not terminate in stricture (which, indeed, is never found in the prostatic urethra), but iu chronic engorgement of the gland. The reality of this connection of the chronic engorgement of the gland as effect, with the granular affection as cause, is shown by the disappearance of the former on the cure of the latter, which is as easily effected in this part of the urethra as in any other, and in the same way. Still, the engorgment, if of long standing, may persist after the cure of the granulations ; and there are many other causes besides these granulations on which it may depend—as the herpetic or arthritic diathesis, scrofula, &c. Hence, great difficulty in the diagnosis of these