151 PARACENTESIS THORACIS. inhalation of atomised fluids, which is very simple and readily employed. The liquid is driven from a line glass pipe on to a projection in a bell- shaped tube by the descent of a pistou. The piston is drawn up without any exertion by a wheel and rack at its upper part, and is forced down by a circular spring which surrounds the cylinder. The apparatus is filled with liquid by a funnel in its top, and all the spray except that which is inhaled passes back into the apparatus. The advantages of the instrument are—i. Its simplicity, requiring only a few turns of a handle to set it in operation, i. The extremely fine state of subdivision which it effects. 3. The uniform pressure exerted. 4. The fact that the waste liquid returns into the apparatus. 5. The ease with which it can be taken to pieces and cleaned. "With this instrument Mackenzie applied various atomised fluids with the greatest benefit in bronchitis, asthma, and haemoptysis. In bronchitis, especially, a very large number of cures wrere effected. Phthisis does not seem to be benefited, so far as regards the tubercular disease, but intercurrent bronchitis was removed and haemoptysis was promptly checked in two cases of consumption. Dr. Beigel* comes to the following conclusions as to the substances which are therapeutically useful when inhaled in the pulverised form :— 1. In an inhalatory treatment of the respiratory organs nitrate of silver holds the first place; its dose is from 3 to 5 or 10 grains in an ounce of distilled water. It is especially serviceable in inflammatory conditions of the pharynx and larynx. 2. Much milder in its effects is nitrate of aluminium, which was first used for inhalation by Beigel; its dose is 3 grains in an ounce of distilled water. It is useful both in inflam- matory and also in nervous affections of the larynx and the trachea. Other very useful drugs are—3. Tannin; 3 to 8 or 10 grains in an ounce of water. 4. Alum; 4 to 13 grains in the same. 5. Solution of Bequichloride of iron; 1 minim to 5 or 10 minims in ditto. 6. Corrosive sublimate ; 4 grains to 1 or 2 ounces. 7. Acetate of lead; to 8 grains ditto. 8. Sulphate of zinc ; \ grain to 5 grains ditto. 9. Common salt; 5 to 20 grains to an ounce; very useful in a variety of chest diseases. 10. Narcotics, e.g. tincture of opium; 1 to 10 minims in an ounce. 11. The salts of iodine, bromine, chlorine, &c. &c. 12. Lastly, pure vapour of very hot water is extremely serviceable in many cases, both of inflammation and paralysis of parts of the larynx. Paracentesis Thoracis. M. J. G-uerint provoked a long and not very interesting discussion at the Academie de Medicine by his eulogy of the subcutaneous method of operation in general, and of his own instrument for that purpose in particular. He employs—1. A flat, curved trocar, with a tap, the point of which is acute enough to penetrate easily through skin and muscles. 2. A piston-syringe capable of accurately exhausting. 3. An adjust- ment at the end of the syringe, consisting of a double tap (like that of an ordinary stomach-pump), for drawing liquid off and discharging it. The skin is then pinched into a fold, at the base of which the punc- * 'Lancet,' July 29, 1865. f ' Bull, de I'Acad.,' 1865.