PROLAPSUS URETHR/E.—SYPHILTSATION. 328 frequent, and some scalding is folfc during the flow. When the lahia are separated the vulva is generally seen to be of higher colour than is normal. At the urinary meatus there is a small rose-coloured mucous tumour ; it appears to proceed from the interior of the canal, and has in its centre au opening, into which a catheter can be intro- duced, on doing which its nature is at once recognised. The tumour may remain stationary a long time ; but sometimes it enlarges slowly, and discharges a sanguineous exudation, afterwards a purulent serosity. It increases in size, and sloughs superficially ; the neighbouring parts become inflamed, and vulvitis is produced. The exudation may increase without causing much pain; but the child has heat and smarting in passing urine. M. Guersant has not seen any of these tumours, which had been left to their own course for a very long time; but he believes that, at length, they would sphacelate in whole or in part, and give rise to a sero-purulent discharge. The tumour may be confounded with urethral polypus ; but, on attentive examination, it will be found that the polypus presents itself in the form of a more or less pedunculated tumour, the pedicle of which reaches within the canal, while the pro- lapsus has the form of a very small swelling surrounding the meatus urinarius—resembling, on a small scale, prolapsus of the rectum. The only method of giving prompt relief is excision. It is not necessary to use an anaesthetic, unless the child be timid and difficult to manage. The patient is placed at the edge of a bed; the thighs are held apart, and the labia are separated so that the surgeon can plainly see the tumour, and draw it down gently by means of a loop of thread. It is then cut off* by means of curved scissors. There is little haemorrhage, and it is easily arrested by the application of cold water; if not, an aqueous solution of perchloride of iron may be applied for a few moments. Cold-water dressing, and a few applications of solid nitrate of silver, are sufficient to produce cicatrization. The patients have for a few days some pain in passing urine; but this subsides. In one case the haemorrhage could not be arrested by perchloride of iron; but M. G-uersant succeeded by applying ice for 24 hours over the hypogastrium and to the vnlva. (' Bull. Gener. de Therap.,' October 15, 1866.) Affections of the male genital organs must now be noticed, those of the female being included in the Eeport on Midwifery. Hyphilisation.—This subject has attracted a good deal of notice in England recently, in consequence of the experiments carried on upon the female patients of the Lock Hospital by Prof. Boeck, of Christiania, in conjunction with Messrs. Lane and Gascoyen, sur- geons to the hospital. An account of these cases, and of the treat- ment aa far as it had then gone, will be found in the 'Lancet' for Jan. 13, 1866, p. 37, together with the report of a discussion which took place at the Medical Society of London. Mr. H. Lee has com- mented in the following terms on the method, in a lecture reported in the ' Lancet,' April 7, 1866. "We should mention, however, that Prof. Boeck protests against Mr. Lee's conclusions as premature, and impugns some of his statements and reasoning, in a letter to be found in the same vol. (p. 718) of the ' Lancet.'