8 REPORT ON rilYSIOLOOY, ETC. air-vesicles themselves. The epithelium consists of tesselatcd cells, arranged in a single layer. This is in complete accordance with Prof. Chrzonscz- czewsky's formerly expressed views, and is the more satisfactory as in Hirschmann's experiments the use of nitrate of silver solution was avoided. 2. The smooth muscular tissue, likewise, does not cease in the finest branches of the hronchia, hut enters into the structure of the terminal organs of the respiratory apparatus, although the thickness of the bundles may be reduced to two or three fibres. ~YV. "Weyrich (' Observations on the Proportions between the Insensible Perspiration of the Lungs and Skin/ Dorpat, 1865, 8vo), from expe- riments made on himself, finds that the temperature of the expired air is decidedly lower than that of the axilla, the temperature of the latter, upon a mean of 200 observations, being 99'44, whilst that of the expired air was only 97*41. The temperature of the axilla rose with tolerable regularity from 6 a.m. to noon, then fell slightly till 2 p.m., and again rose to its greatest height at 7 p.m., after which it gradually fell till it had reached the same level as at 6 a.m. The temperature of the expired air followed similar variations. It attained its maximum, however, earlier in the morning, and diminished more slowly towards midnight, standing at that hour much higher than at 6 a.m. Alterations in external tempe- rature were followed much more quickly and distinctly by variations iu the temperature of the expired air than in that of the axilla. The former also rose more quickly after food. Retention of the air within the lungs for to—15 seconds caused the temperature to rise half a degree Fahr. As regards the amount of insensible perspiration by the skin and lungs, AVey- rich estimates it to be for a man weighing 125 lbs. about 14,500 grains = 2 lb. avoird. per diem., and the water discharged by the skin to that of the lungs to be as 2 : 3. The importance of a knowledge of certain facts in reference to the eleva- tion of the temperature of the body in certain diseases led Tscheschichin (" On Animal Heat," ' Reichert's Archiv,' 1866, pp. 151—179) to under- take a series of experiments, with a view of determining the effect of in- juries to different parts of the nervous system, as the brain, spinal cord, sympathetic nerve, and pneumogastric; and upon the effects of certain poisons—nicotin, curara, alcohol, and putrefying blood-serum, on the animal temperature. The experiments were performed on rabbits. He draws the following conclusions : 1. The spinal cord, containing, as it does, the centres of the circulation and respiration, operates directly upon the organic chemistry, and conse- quently upon the animal heat. 2. Section of the spinal cord is followed by retardation of the circula- tion and a congestion of the venous system, in consequence of which the radiation of heat rises and the general temperature sinks. 3. By investing the body with badly conducting materials we can retard or prevent in such a case the falling of the internal temperature; and inversely, the cooler the medium in which the body is placed after section of the spinal cord the quicker is the fall. 4. Since the causes which lead to the increased radiation of the super- ficial heat consist in the paralysis of the vessels, and in their repletion with