REPORT ON SURGERY. 250 xlviii, p. 43).—Mr. Longmorc, in this communication, treats of osteo- myelitis rather in its chronic than in its acute form. On this subject lie quoted with approbation Baron Larrey's conclusions on the existence and on the treatment of osteo-myelitis following gunshot wounds, amputa- tions, or other injury. Baron Larrcy, though admitting the frequent oc- currence of osteo-myelitis in these cases, does not regard it as a neces- sarily incurable disease, nor does he regard disarticulation as universally necessary. Mr. Longmore carries this doctrine somewhat further. He cites cases in which the stump of an amputation of the arm has been disarticulated at the shoulder-joint (by himself as well as by other sur- geons), and one in which the patient died exhausted, without any ope- ration; and he compares these cases with others apparently similar, in which the stump has been restored to perfect usefulness, and the patient to good health, by the removal of all the portions of dead bone from the interior of the shaft. He points out that, in the total inflam- mation of the bone, to which the term in question is usually applied, though in the interior the inflammation will go on to the destruction of the part of the shaft involved, yet the inflammation of the perios- teum will exist only to such a degree as to cause it to exert a pro- tective influence, by the formation of new bone around the diseased tissues, just as in ordinary cases of necrosis; also, that the morbid con- dition of the endosteum does not usually extend from the shafts of bones into the apophyses; and that, though the articular extremities may have undergone the process of inflammatory softening and rare- faction, sometimes designated by the name of ostco-porosis, there is no reason to doubt that this will subside on the removal of the dead bone. Hence he urges the propriety of making every effort to save such stumps, and to substitute an ordinary operation for necrosis for the disarticulation recommended by M. Jules Boux and other French military surgeons. During the period of sequestration the patient's powers may be severely taxed to resist the exhausting influence of the disease; but if this is survived, Mr. Longmore appears to believe that in almost every case the stump may be saved by the removal of sequestra. Prof. Fayrer, in the 'Indian Annals of Medical Science,' Oct. 1865, speaks of acute osteo-myelitis as a frequent cause of death after ampu- tation or other injuries, or surgical operations involving section of bone. His observations are founded on 32 cases of amputation:—"They were 1 of the hip, 3 of the thigh, 10 of the leg, 4 of the ankle (Syme's), 5 at the shoulder-joint, 5 of the arm, and 4 of the forearm. Of these, 32 in all, 3 were secondary amputations [by which term we understand Prof. Fayrer to mean reamputations, i. e. removal of the stump of a previous amputation, though that is not the ordinary sense of the word] ; and of the number, 14 lived, 15 died; of the deaths, 9 resulted from pyremia the consequence of osteo-myelitis, 3 from pyamiia not depending on bone-disease. There were six deaths from other causes, such as tetanus, gangrene, and exhaustion." Prof. Fayrer then refers to the well-known paper of M. Jules Boux, and to the success which attended his amputa- tions through joints. He is not, however, disposed to admit that these exarticulatious are in themselves superior to amputation above the