REPORT ON SURGERY. 312 balls -were used, causing 16 wounds of the intestine, or 4 to each ball. In 14 experiments conical balls were used, causing 74 wounds, or 5-29 for each ball. On the whole, there were 5 wounds on an average for each ball. In 2 of the experiments the intestines were uninjured. The mesentery was wounded 14 times, and there was faecal extrava- sation in 10 cases. The inference which Dr. Hoyne deduces is, that the advice of M. Legouest is very dangerous, to introduce the finger and move it about freely in the wound until the wounded intestine is found, when the external opening is to be enlarged, and the wounded intestine drawn out and sewn up. The fact that the intestine is always wounded at more than one point, and often at many points, renders "it certain that this would cause extravasation. Dr. Peaslee relates, in the 'New York Med. Journ.,' July, 1865, p. 258, a remarkable case of intussusception. The patient was a young lady, set. 17, who, after numerous attacks of colic, vomiting, and haemor- rhage from the bowels, passed a mass of small intestine 5 feet long, with the mesentery 2 inches wide attached ; and next day another foot of the same intestine. This was in the month of May. She gradually sauk with exhausting diarrhoea, and other symptoms not necessary to describe, and died in September. The mass passed from the bowel was proved by naked eye and microscopical examination to be small in- testine ; but the fact that the girl was still alive, and also that the intestine came away right side out, and not inverted, inclined Dr. Peaslee to suspect it to be the intestine of some lower animal surrep- titiously obtained and passed up the rectum. The fact of its having been passed by her per anum seemed to be established. On post- mortem examination the small intestine was found to measure only 16 feet. The duodenum and the upper five feet of the jejunum were very much hypertrophied, and at the lowest point much dilated. At the middle point of this hypertrophied portion (3 feet below the stomach) was a polypus as large as a pigeon's egg, and next below the dilatation was a stricture half an inch in length and only large enough to admit a small goose-quill. The remaining 10 feet of small intestine presented nothing abnormal, except a slight degree of atrophy. The large intestine, 5 feet 10 inches long, was extremely atrophied. The me- sentery was smooth and apparently intact ;* it was, however, hyperaernic, and its glands hypertrophied. Dr. Peaslee believes (and in this he is supported by a committee of the New York Obstetrical Society, who examined the specimen, and report on it in the same volume, p. 371) that this was a genuine case of intussusception—that the attacks of vomiting were originally excited by the presence of the polypus, and that during these attacks the intus- susception took place from below upwards—that the haemorrhage de- pended on the strangulation and sloughing of the portions expelled— * This is an error apparently in the report of the gentleman who made the post-mortem examination. A subsequent examination showed that at the seat of stricture " the me- sentery was crowded in a thick fold into the intussusception, because the little piece of mesentery that was attached was more clumsy and massive than usual."—Ibid., p. 380.