REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4:2-1 before the completion of labour, tho clangors of this condition will be again removed. The opinions of Hecker and others, now generally accepted, are thus expressed by Schwartz :—"When the gas-exchange is disturbed by the expulsive pains, which impede the placental circulation, the inspiratory muscles of the foetus are incited to premature action. In ordinary head-labour the respiratory openings of the fcotus are directed upwards within the vagina until the occiput turns under the pubic arch, and are immersed in the fluids of the amnion and genital passages, so that if attempt at respiration be made an aspiration of liquor amnii or mucus takes place. This will be made manifest after birth by the rattling and frothing during breathing. But this symptom is absent in fully live- born children. On the other hand, there is always seen in children dying during labour, or in those born dying, apparently dead, and capable of resuscitation, or in those born with slender loss of vital energy, a filling of the air-passages with prematurely sucked-in fluids. In completely normal birth the respiratory openings and air-passages are found free from foreign contents, for whilst the child is driven from the vagina the action of the facial respiratory muscles begins; the contraction of the diaphragm of the neck and chest-muscles follows immediately upon the elevation of the nostrils and the gaping of the mouth; the inspired air enters suddenly in such quantity into the lungs as to render possible a loud cry; the voice- and breath-sound are quite clear, and unattended by rattling. The above is generally admitted by Schultze ; but he demurs to the proposition that every labour-pain which impedes the gas-exchange also acts as an excitor of respiration. He says in the event of mechanical obstruction to the placental circulation, the more suddenly the diminu- tion of oxygen takes place in the foetal blood, by so much the stronger is the stimulus to respiration; the stronger and the more frequent the respiration, by so much the more extensive is the lessening of the pla- cental circulation and the impoverishment of the blood in oxygen. This is the circle which, once begun, is so commonly fatal. But with the loss of oxygen there is diminution of the excitability under the influ- ence of which the inspirations cease. The vagus nerve, exhausted by the continuance of the excitation, ceases to be susceptible to the stimulus of deficient oxygen, and the heart's action regains strength and fre- quency. Now if the gas-exchange be quite cut off or much reduced by death or loss of blood of the mother, by continuous pressure on the cord, or by other causes, the excitability of the foetal nervous system naturally sinks more and more; with tbe cessation of the excitability of the vagus the heart will beat quicker; but if the sympathetic is also paralysed, the heart will cease altogether. If, on the other hand, the conditions for the resumption of gas-exchange remain, there exists in the narcosis induced by the venosity of the blood exactly the cause for this resumption. Since the inspirations are no longer present, the lung-circulation becomes again smaller, the placental circulation regains strength the more that with the fall of the excitability of the vagus, so when the stimulus outlasts the time of excitability, with the advancing exhaustion of the vagus, there is a rise in the frequency and energy of the heart-contraction, by the aid of which the transmission of oxygen to the child's brain becomes again so copious that the narcosis either