118 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. have a lower temperature by £° to 20 Cent, than the other. Motility is not injured, only the finer movements are impaired in consequence of the defective sensibility. If subjective symptoms increase, especially if neuralgic pains occur, the fingers and hands take a chalk-white pallor ; this is especially the case at the time of waking, also under the influence of cold, especially cold water. Exacerbations occur also at night (especially of itching), also when fine manual work has been performed, but still more when the hands have been perfectly inactive. On the other hand, the symptoms diminish on stimulation of the skin, with fatiguing work, and especially by working only in warm water. With these variations the condition may last for years. All the patients were women, and they ascribed their malady to the influence of cold, especially cold water. Dr. Nothnagel believes that the essence of the morbid state is spasm of the arteries of the skin. The spasm does not extend to the radial artery, for the calibre of this is never altered during the exacerbations, nor are there any of the con- gestive phenomena which obstruction of such large vessels must pro- duce, nor any damage to motor functions. The prognosis is good if suitable treatment be adopted. Heat, friction, Faradisation, and, above all, the constant current (15—20 Daniell's cells, modified by Siemens- Halske), the positive pole being placed on the brachial plexus, the negative on the nape of the neck, for from three to five minutes without interruption. This is to be done three or four times a week. From six to twenty seances will suffice for a cure. Convulsive and Spasmodic Affections. On the subject of partial and temporary catalepsy M. Lasegue* makes some interesting statements. He commences with an outline of the physiological conditions of voluntary motion, and then analyses the cataleptic phenomena. The classical catalepsy, characterised by loss of consciousness without disturbance of respiration or circulation, total insensibility to impressions, cessation of all voluntary motions, and tendency to indefinite retention by the limbs of artificial attitudes in which they may be placed, is only observed iu persons of an intensely hysteric temperament. Lasegue observed it as often as ten times in one year among the numerous hysterical females who applied to him for medical advice. It is limited, however, to a single class of hysteric patients, those, namely, who are half torpid, with little power of reac- tion, and with more inclination to tears than to excitement. If one lays one's hands on their eyes, and closes the lids, they feel a peculiar drowsiness, and presently pass into the deepest sleep, from which hardly any stimulus will rouse them. According to idiosyncrasy these symp- toms arc more or less intensely developed. During this state a wax- like flexibility of the limbs exists. The muscles are in a constant state of tension, of various degrees, but (in the same person) always in rela- tion to the extent of the passively extended muscle. The cataleptic rigidity is general or partial, complete or incomplete, more or Jess fugitive. In general, it is proportional to the depth of the lethargy. * 'Arch. Gen.,' p. 386, Oct. 1865.