257 SUBPERIOSTEAL RESECTION. resection, is in one sense subperiosteal, for the periosteum and the periosteal slieath are left behind almost entire. So also when a loose fragment of bone is extracted from a comminuted fracture, as is done so °often in compound fractures of the skull, the operation might be designated as " subperiosteal extraction," without any violation _ of grammatical accuracy. Some cases may be found so reported, in which by the use of a novel term an air of novelty has been given to a very familiar proceeding. It is not, however, in this sense that the word should be employed. It should be restricted to those cases in which the bone, previous to the operation, retains its natural position and its natural connections (at least to a great extent), and in which the peri- osteal sheath has not yet been formed. In such cases, after the removal of the whole thickness of the diseased or injured bone for a certain portion of its length, the parts left behind are held together only by the periosteum and the adjacent soft parts. The cases in which this operation is possible appear to be the fol- lowing :* 1. Recent injury—compound comminuted fracture. 2. Old injury—ununited fracture. 3. Resections of joints. 4. Caries, necrosis, or other disease, of the whole thickness of the bone. 5. Subperiosteal abscess, or diffuse periostitis. 6. In plastic surgery, as in Mr. Jordan's proposed operation for un- united fracture. Langenbeck's method of rhinoplasty, with trans- plantation of the periosteum, though not in strict terms a resection, is so analogous to this that it may be mentioned at the same time. In cases of recent injury it is not often that the whole thickness of the shaft of the injured bone from beneath its periosteal envelope is either feasible or desirable. The following case is an example of this class. " A case of Sub-periosteal Resection from the Shaft of the Tibia and Fibula," by Langenbeck (' Berliner Klin. Wochenschrift,' Jan. 23,1865, p. 31).—The patient was a soldier, who had been wounded by a musket- ball on April 18, 1864. The bullet passed in, at the middle of the leg, from a very short distance (the result of accidental discharge of the musket of one of his own comrades), and splintered the bones exten- sively. The parts were put in position, and ice was sedulously used, with general antiphlogistic regimen; but fever and cedema of the limb increased, in spite of incisions and the extraction of sequestra, until the swelling reached the middle of the thigh. The circumstances seemed very unfavorable for amputation of the thigh, so that Herr Langenbeck proceeded to extirpate the injured bones thirteen days after the injury (May 1), by making a longitudinal incision on the injured tibia, which was split longitudinally, freeing it carefully from periosteum, sawing it through above and below, and taking away about four inches of the whole thickness of the bone ; the fingers then penetrated into a large cavity containing foul pus, lacerated soft parts, and splintered * The cases in nhirh subperiosteal resection of a bone is undertaken in order to obtain access to the parts beneath it are not reckoned here. Langenbeck's operation on the upper jaw is somewhat of this nature, but can hardly be accurately designated resection, since the divided bone is restored to its former position. 17