REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEOICIXK. 140 C. DISEASES OF THE RESPtHATOEY SYSTEM. Spasmodic Asthma. Dr. Von Bamberger is a strong opponent of the view which regards the asthmatic paroxysm as caused by spasm of the bronchial muscles, and believes that by far the most frequent and powerful agent in its production is spasm of the inspiratory muscles, especially the diaphragm. The following commentary, which he makes in a case which he has recorded, will explain his position with regard to this question : * "I doubt not that among the causes of nervous asthma spasm of the diaphragm is the most frequent and the most influential, although it is not the only one. I especially believe this because, in reflecting on the cases of various patients, an important difference is obvious to me in the constituent elements and the whole habitus of the attacks. In one the spasm was more inspiratory, in another more expiratory; in one the activity of the inspiratory force was the greater, in another that of the expiratory. The complicated nature of these respiratory acts allows us to imagine many possibilities, of which the most part, how- ever, have yet to be proved to exist. It appears to me, for instance, that in many cases the paroxysm is produced by a more chronic spasm of all, or of most, of the inspiratory muscles, as e.g. in hysteric asthma. (I do not refer to hysteric spasm of the glottis.) At least there always was, in cases of that kind which I have seen, a stormy, tumultuous respiration, in which all the auxiliary muscles of inspiration were called into play, while there was a perfectly unobstructed passage through the larynx. Expiration was easily performed, although (in natural proportion to the inspiration) it was stronger and more effective. But I will not assert that there are no other forms of asthma in hysteric subjects, nor that this same occurs in none but hysteric persons. "A second possible cause consists in paralysis of the diaphragm. It is well known that Duchenne observed this occurrence in the human subject (especially in progressive muscular atrophy, and also in lead poisoning, hysteria, and inflammations of the abdominal organs), and also has been experimentally demonstrated (by section of the phrenics) by Lower, Senac, A. Cooper, and (more recently) by many others, as Valentin, Budge, Gerhardt, &c. &c. (See, especially, Gerhardt, «Der Stand des Diaphragina,' Tubingen, i860.) In many of these observations distinct asthmatic symptoms occurred; in some, on the contrary, these phenomena were not very marked. This was Budge's experience ; he remarked, however, an increased action of the intercostal muscles. Besides, Gerhardt has justly remarked that the diaphragm receives nervous branches, not only from the phrenics, but also from the incos- tals (7th to the 12th) ; and we must in any case agree with his conclu- sion that sudden palsy of the diaphragm must involve a very dangerous impediment to breathing. But that such forms, from their longer duration, ought to be separated from those dependent on spasm, which is naturally, as a rule, ephemeral, is a priori highly probable. The synip- * 'Wiirzburg. Med. Zcitsch.,' vi, 1, 2, 1865.