CEREBRAL SOFTENING. 103 fatal attack is produced; in such cases the tissues are not congested, but aua?uiic. But where the capillary embolism is more local, and causes a circumscribed softening, the same lesions are observed as a result from arterial obliteration—rose-coloured injection, with capillary apoplexy in places. If the obstruction to circulation be venous, there is hyperemia, true haemorrhages, serous exhalation—in short, all the ordinary effects of venous stagnation. If tbo obstacle bo an arterial narrowing from atheroma, the current of blood which reaches the cerebral capillaries is diminished—sometimes even arrested by the great constriction of the vessel. Tet here, too, the same rose-red injection, dotted with capillary apoplexy, is produced as in obstruction by embolism. Proust further beHeves that even the ramollissements which are produced by atheromatous disease of the capillaries are similarly distinguished by hyperemia. Proust describes ramoUissement with red coloration as consisting of various degrees of capillary apoplexy, there being sometimes a great number of such apoplectic points in a spot of softening. A distinct red colour is more frequently seen in the grey substance, owing to its supe- rior vascularity. The yellow patches which are frequently seen on the surface of the convolutions are traces of red softening. Proust does not believe that there is any essential difference between the nature of red and of white softening, so called. He regards hyperemia as a natural consequence of any sufficient obstacle to circulation. And the fact that it does not occur in white softening he ascribes either to the circumstance that collateral circulation cannot be set up, or else to the cachectic condition which distinguishes most of the patients who suffer from the latter form. When softening is caused by venous obstruction it is generally super- ficial, and is often accompanied by subarachnoid haemorrhage,' spread as a layer over the hemisphere. It is not uncommon to observe lesions symmetrically placed in the two hemispheres when there is obliteration of the superior longitudinal sinus. More rarely these ramollissements are central; they are then due either to thrombosis of the cerebral veins, or the sinuses, or to phlebitis from one cause or another. Proust does not believe that granular matter, the contents of cysts or of abscesses in the heart which have spontaneously ruptured, can produce an embolism of the capillaries. He speaks of one class of capillary embobsms, the existence of which is undoubted, and in which the obstructing matter exercises a morbid influence over and above its mechanical effect, e. g. the embolisms which are formed from the mat- ter of a gangrenous lung. Such an embolism produces local gangrene. "Weber, however, rejects the idea that there is any more than a me- chanical effect in these cases. ^ Proust discussea the real nature of the " exudation-corpuscles" of Gluge, which are scattered among fat-granules and other products of the softening process. Eejecting the idea of Eobin, that these bodies are white corpuscles undergoing a granular fatty degeneration, ho adopts the opinion that they are nothing, in fact, but accidental group- ings of fatty granules, precisely similar to those loosely scattered f