UNILATERAL 11HU'L.S. Ill I or a neurosis ? It' an exantbeiu, why, then, is it not symmetrica]—not attended by constitutional disturbance—not liable to spread by con- tagion ? If a neurosis, why should it not relapse—why should it have stages—and how can it protect an individual against a second attack ? My own suspicion is that it belongs to neither of these classes, but that it constitutes a new group by itself; and further, I feel convinced that whoever may succeed in unravelling the mystery which at present surrounds it must, at the same time, make a discovery in physiology." Hutchinson makes the following observations as the result of his expe- rience:—i. H. zoster of the trunk may occur at almost any age, and (early infancy excepted) is equally frequent at all periods of life. H. frontalis appears to belong chiefly to advanced life, so far as the few cases col- lected by Hutchinson (14 m number) can decide the question. 2. The two sexes are equally liable to the complaint. 3. It is not possible to denote any special condition of general health which predisposes to the disease. 4. H. zoster is not contagious. 5. As a general rule, it does not occur twice in the same individual. Hutchinson has only once seen such an occurrence; the recorded instances are few, and in all of them there has been an interval of many years. 6. In true h. zoster the eruption is, with the rarest exceptions, never symmetrical. Hutchinson has only seen one case ; in this it appeared on the right chest and on the left forehead. But there is a syphilitic form which really is sym- metrical, which is seldom limited to the chest, and which is much longer in disappearing than true shingles. 7. H. zoster occurs with equal frequency on the two sides. 8. It generally observes closely the re- cognised anatomical distribution of some nerve ; this nerve is usually a cutaneous one, but not alioays. The occasional exception is not merely rendered probable by the frequent occurrence of deep-seated pain, extensive swelling, muscular stitches, &c, but by the positive evidence afforded by a most interesting case in Hutchinson's practice. In this case the patient, a man set. 63, first had slight conjunctivitis, then some pain in the scalp, then herpes of the painful part, which subsequently extended to the side of the nose and the upper part of the whisker. The conjunctiva became swelled; there was iritis, with effusion of lymph, and patches of corneal opacity. It is very interesting to note that the sensibility of the painful scalp (as tested by a pin-prick) was sensibly diminished. 9. Unilateral herpes can probably be produced, in some subjects, by the medicinal use of arsenic, to. The disease runs a definite course. Hutchinson emphatically endorses the statement of Bateman, that " the shingles commonly follow the regular course of fever, eruption, maturation, and decline, within a limited period, like the eruptive fevers or exanthemata of nosologists." When the eruption ends in ulcers, however, healing may be indefinitely delayed if these are deep. There is never any fresh production of vesicles, however, during tins stage. The questions which Hutchinson suggests as still requiring investi- gation are the following:—1. Why are the dorsal nerves, especially the third or fourth, so much more frequently affected than any others ? 2. Why does the eruption so frequently follow certain branches of the