SUBPERIOSTEAL BISECTION. •Z67 by solidifiable matter injected under their periosteal sheaths" ('G-azette Bebdomadaire,' Jan. 27, 1865).—"The consolidation of fractures where the fragments are separated from each other is brought about in the same way as when the fragments are in contact, viz., by the production of periosteal cells, which extend from one of the fragments to the other, forming those voluminous and misshapen calli so often seen. The regeneration of articular ends presents a series of identical phe- nomena of the most curious kind. The osseous material, after having reproduced the shaft more or less completely, penetrates the joint- cavity iu consequence of meeting no resistance, and moulds itself in that cavity, so that it may reproduce exactly the form and volume of the excised bone. "When the periosteum is not preserved in resections the regeneration is effected, but with less regularity, by the fibro- muscular sheath, which limits the parts removed. The same ob- servations apply to morbid ossifications of the periosteum, when the bone beneath it is not removed, and to those which take place in the interior of bones which have been scooped out. In these cases the new layers of bone are moulded on the bones in contact with them; and thus in cases of necrosis the ligaments, tendons, vessels, nerves, and muscular impressions, are graven on the bone which is regenerated. From this it is intelligible why a tight bandage should hinder the formation of callus—a fact which has been contested. " I have repeated for a long time the same observations on the subject of sequestra. Par from extracting them before they are isolated and movable, as has been proposed in these days, it is essential (unless from some special contra-indication) to leave them, as was anciently prescribed, till the new bone has acquired strength enough to support the limb, and to preserve its form and length, and resist muscular contraction. " If a bone be removed, leaving the periosteum, and liquid plaster be injected into this membrane, after its edges have been brought in contact with a suture, the form and dimension of the resected bone are very exactly reproduced. The imprint of the tendons, the pro- jection of the apophyses, the tuberosities, even the articular extremities, are represented with remarkable precision, and the degree of resem- blance between the excised bone and its plaster cast depends on the integrity and consistence of the periosteal sheath, and the overlapping of the edges where sewn. Thus, in a few minutes results are obtained nearly identical with those of regeneration of bone on animals. " In the forearm and the leg, the resection of one bone not interfering with the length of the limb, and the periosteum being thick and hard, the casts are better than in the arm or thigh, and the tibia has ap- peared to me to present the most favorable conditions for moulds of this kind. Is it not interesting to remember that the few successes of subperiosteal resections on man, undertalcen from errors of diagnosis, or very rash curative attempts, have been furnished by this bone ; and is not there in this double success a sort of proof of the mechanical infl uences whose importance I wish to show ? "It may be concluded from these facts that the success of osseous regenerations depends on two principal causes:—1. The integrity of