REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 488 opposed to this supposition, for the quantity taken must have heen small, and it is not likely that any of it would have remained in the intestines for 19 days. Dr. Taylor is of opinion that the symptoms observed in the other cases were, in all probability, due to the presence of chloride or sub- chloride of copper in the gravy. The gravy was observed to be of a darker colour than usual, but it is remarkable that no peculiar taste was noticed. The cases above related bear a strong resemblance to some instances of poisoning by food cooked in copper vessels recorded by Orfila. In these last, as in those reported by Dr. Taylor, the symptoms were delayed much longer than is generally the case in irritant poisoning. In some cases the effects did not show themselves until the day follow- ing the meal which was supposed to be their cause. Mercury.—Dr. Moos* publishes a case of poisoning by the cyanide of this metal. The patient recovered. The case is of interest, because only two instances of poisoning by this substance are known to have occurred previously. Dr. Michel Peterf records a case of poisoning by one of the little cones sold under the name of "Pharaoh's Serpents," which, as is well known, are made of the sulpho-cyanide of mercury. A young man, aged 19, swallowed one of these cones, supposing it to be a bon-bon. The taste at once showed him that he had made a mistake, but he tried in vain to induce vomiting. He at once felt pain and sensations of heat in the oesophagus; and he also suffered from difficulty of swallowing, nausea, and a burning pain in the region of the stomach. An emetic was administered, which gave rise to vomiting, and this afforded some relief. The symptoms, however, soon returned; the patient became pale and very weak; his skin was cold; he shivered repeatedly, and complained of a disagreeable metallic taste in his mouth. The pain in the stomach increased whenever anything was swallowed. When Peter first saw him, at the end of 4 hours, he deemed it best to administer lime-water, with the object of decomposing any sulpho-cyanide that might remain, and converting it into an insoluble oxide of mercury. This treatment quickly relieved the nausea, and hot fomentations to the abdomen diminished the pain. The next day the patient felt perfectly well; but it is noted that about noon he passed a taenia a yard long. Dr. Edwards publishes^ two cases of poisoning by mercuric methide. The first case is that of a German, set. 30, one of the assistants in the laboratory at St. Bartholomew's. The history of this patient is as follows :—He had had epilepsy as a child, and had also had fits since. For nearly three months he had been engaged in the preparation of mercuric methide. During this time he had complained of impairment of sight, but no abnormal condition could be detected by the ophthal- moscope. A month ago he had been seized with a fit, and since then he had not quite recovered his speech. Two days before his admission he * 'Virchow's Arcliiv,' xxxi, p. 117 ; ' Schmidt,' 125, p. 174. t 'Union Med.,' no, p. 525, 1865 ; 'Schmidt,' 128, p. 294. % ' St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Rep.,' 1865, i, p. 141.