NERVOUS SYSTEM. 13 fibrils—which do not exceed i-50,000th or i-ioo,oooth of an inch in diameter—as proceeding from the breaking up of the axis cylinder of the double-contoured nerves, which may take place both at the centric ex- tremity and at the periphery ; hut in no instance does the nerve become continuous with any part of the contractile tissue of muscle, nor is it connected with the nucleus of the muscular fibre, nor with that of any other tissue. Moreover, he considers that the idea of a tubular mem- brane or sheath being an essential and separate anatomical constituent of every individual dark-bordered fibre must he given up. The mode in which the nerves distributed to unstriped muscular fibre terminate has been examined by Dr. Klebs ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1865, Bd. 32, p. 168), who describes the dark-contoured nerve-fibres as dipping in amongst the fibres, and after dividing dichotomously ending in a row of extremely fine dots (possibly a moniliform fibre), which are closely applied to the outer surface of each muscular fibre. Lehmann ('Zeit. f. Wiss. Zool.,' Bd. 14, p. 346, 1864) has described and figured the nervous plexus which he has found in the tunica adven- titia of the larger vessels. It is composed of minute ganglia, in which are numerous nuclei, lying in a granular substance. The ganglia give off caudate prolongations, which are continuous with extremely fine pale nerve-fibres that frequently anastomose with one another. At the point where these unite, slight triangular dilatations occur, sometimes contain- ing a nucleus. In the examinations made by Tomsa ('Wien. Med. "Wochens.,' 1865, Bd. 15, p. 53) respecting the mode in which the nerves of the hand terminate, two forms of axis cylinder were observed—one large and cylindrical, passing to the corpuscula tactus, still surrounded by a thin layer of the white substance of Schwann; the other small and forming polygonal or flattened bands, destitute of the medullary substance, and connected with gangliform terminal organs. The corpuscula tactus, to which one, two, three, or more nerves run, are composed apparently of cells which are placed more or less obliquely to one another, presenting an imbricated arrangement, and directly connected with the terminal rods of the axis cylinder. The other mode of termination, which re- sembles a gangliform enlargement of the nerve, is formed by a knotting up and expansion of the axis cylinder in which nuclei are distributed. Richard Greei 's ('Schultze's Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,' 1865, pp. 101 and 437) observations on the termination of nerves in the lower animals, Tardigrada (Infusoria) and Eolida (Mollusca), show that the nervous ganglia in these animals give off fine pale nerves that expand into granular masses that are closely applied to the outer surface of the mus- cular fibres, partially embracing them and extending for a considerable distance along them. In each of these granular protoplasmic masses a nucleus is visible. There does not appear to be any proper sarcolemma to the fibres, but their outer portion is somewhat condensed. Such nerves would, therefore, seem to agree in their mode of termination with those above described by Klebs. H. Hoyer ('Reichert und Dubois Rcymond's Archiv,' 1866, pp. 180—193) has traced the ultimate branches of the nerve-fibres of the cornea as far as the free surface. In some instances the axis cylinder ran