494 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. line, as compared with its slight and sluggish penetration inland. The central districts of Europe escaped altogether during 1865, except that there was an isolated outbreak in Saxony. 3. The progress of the disease was much more rapid than in former epidemics. In 1829 cholera took fifteen months, from the time of its entrance into Europe, to reach Great Britain; two years, less one month, to arrive on the North American coast. In 1848 its diffusion occupied nearly the same periods of time. In the recent epidemic the disease had, in less than five months, spread from Alexandria to the coasts of the Euxine, and even to the western hemisphere. 4. The swift pro- pagation of the epidemic does not appear to have been dependent on any peculiar virulence of the disease. Gibraltar is the only place in which the mortality is known to have been greater than in any previous epidemic. The two outbreaks in this country during 1865 are made the subject of special papers in the ' Eighth Eeport,' &c. That which occurred at Southampton is most ably treated of by Prof. Parkes. The exact way in which the disease was introduced into the port could not be ascertained. Two of the Peninsular and Oriental Company's ships, which arrived in Southampton on the 10th and 22nd of July respec- tively, had had fatal cases of cholera on board during the voyage home, and the property of some of the victims was ascertained to have passed into the possession of persons living in the town. The first case of undoubted cholera at Southampton was observed on the 22nd of September. After this cases continued to occur for about six weeks in the town and its neighbourhood, the total number being 60, of which 35 terminated fatally. A strong point in favour of the view that the disease was introduced from the Mediterranean by ships coming thence is undoubtedly furnished by the fact that Southampton was the only port at which ships arrived having had cholera deaths on board shortly before reaching England. In fact, it had actually been predicted that the disease would enter the country by Southampton, and not, as before, by towns on the east coast. The fulfilment of these prophecies will, no doubt, as Prof. Parkes says, seem to many persons sufficient evidence that the outbreak at Southampton arose in this way. The source of the cases at Theydon-Bois, near Epping, again, could not be clearly traced. The commencement of the disease in this locality corresponded with the return of a gentleman and his wife to Theydon-Bois from Weymouth, where they had been staying. The gentleman was, in fact, the first person to be attacked, having been ill before he left Weymouth. He completely recovered, but his wife was seized with early symptoms while on the journey homewards, and ultimately died. Eive days after her illness commenced one of her daughters became ill and rapidly died, and afterwards other cases occurred in the same small circle, the total number amounting to eight. Mr. Simon insists on the fact that the drinking-water of the house came from a well into which there was habitual soakage from the water-closet. We are, perhaps, as yet hardly in a position to say what conclusions