REPORT ON SURGERY. 300 of compression and paralysis of the side opposite. It happens sometimes that a patient is never rendered insensible by the blow, but finds he has paralysis of some part of the side of the body opposite to that struck. Now, if in the course of some weeks tbe paralysis does not dis- appear, the use of the trephine, to the part struck, would be indicated." In the ' St. G-eorge's Hospital Reports,' i, 25, Mr. Prescott Hewett describes the remarkable deviations of the base of the skull some- times found in chronic hydrocephalus. He calls attention especially to the diagnostic signs furnished by the deviation of the orbitar plates, which when driven downwards, in a case of hydrocephalus, so as to displace the eyes, furnish a clear proof that the dropsy is in the ventri- cular cavity, and not merely in the sac of the arachnoid, although the converse assertion cannot be sustained, for ventricular dropsy may occur without this symptom. Mr. Hewett then proceeds to comment upon some singular cases of deviation of the base of the skull in the middle fossa?, whereby a pouch containing fluid was found in the cheek. The origin of such pouches Mr. Hewett shows to be in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, upon which the dropsy has principally pressed ; and he cites a case from Gr. Vrolik, in which this portion of the ventricle was cut off from the common cavity and dilated, forming an expansion in the corresponding part of the skull. The paper con- cludes by a remark, that this pouch-like expansion in the cheek might ossify, as occurs in the expanded vault of dropsical skulls, and then a bony capsule might be formed, the existence of which it would other- wise be difficult to explain. The following refer to affections of the ear: Dr. Bishop, ' On a New Method of applying Remedial Agents to the Cavity of the Tympanum.' London, 1866.—In this pamphlet Dr. Bishop describes an apparatus which he has had constructed for the purpose of injecting pulverized liquids into the cavity of the tympanum —a method by which he has succeeded in relieving deafness in several cases, when depending on a morbid condition of the mucous membrane of the fauces spreading into the tympanic cavity. Nitrate of silver, liquor potassse, and tincture of iodine, are the solutions which Dr. Bishop recommends in appropriate cases. The apparatus consists of a small graduated glass syringe, similar to that used for subcutaneous injection. The solution is gently forced guttatim into a cylinder, and at the point where it leaves the nozzle of the syringe it is caught by a current of air sent by a pump worked with a proper degree of force by the hand. This drives the fluid forward in a pulve- rized state. This small apparatus is then attached to an ordinary Eustachian catheter, previously introduced, and suspended by a suitable apparatus. To ensure complete pulverization, the end of the catheter is covered by fine gauze wire. Dr. Bishop believes that insufflation or injection of fluids into the tympanum is quite safe in the hands of experienced persons, and is necessary in the treatment of many of the affections of the middle ear. In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' Sept. 7, 1865, M. Triquet calls attention to