DISEASES OF THE PLACENTA. 385 contends takes place by endosmosis through the utero-placental decidua. • In the discussion on Dr. Madge's paper Dr. Braxton Hicks expressed himself as having arrived at similar conclusions. Dr. R. TJvedale West (ibid.) related several cases of " battledore placenta," in -which the funis was inserted in the membranes, and divided into its vessels at a considerable distance from the edge of that organ; and described how great doubt and awkward embarrassment may arise to the accoucheur when, as happened to the author, this anomaly occurs with one of the funes of a twin placenta, through its accidental tearing away from its very lacerable attachment. Mr. J. C. Richardson (ibid.) describes a double placenta; that is, two masses of placental substance connected by one cord and belonging to one embryo. Diseases of the placenta are illustrated in the following: Dr. Mattei (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1865) describes placentitis as a reality. It exists in the acute condition from congestion, with commencing ra- mollissement, to the formation of pus, which is exceedingly rare. The same degrees of hepatization which exist in inflamed lung are found in the placenta. "When the inflammation is partial and the child survives, the inflamed tissues usually remain impermeable to blood, and after a while fat is deposited in their contracted interstices, constituting the fibrous tissue of the English. Placentitis is very apt to occur in suc- cessive pregnancies. Dr. Brunton exhibited (' Obstet. Trans.,' viii) a specimen of placenta having a distinct cyst, containing pus on the maternal surface. The child was alive and strong. He also exhibited another placenta con- taining a solid tumour, round, the size of a small egg, in the parynchy- matous substance. It appeared to be of fibrous character. Air. John Marshall (ibid.) exhibited a specimen of diseased placenta, which was described by Dr. Graily Hewitt. It appeared to be an ex- ample of effusion of fibrin. Dr. John A. Byrne ('Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' 1865) relates two cases of diseased placenta. In one there was an undoubted Byphilitic taint. The foetus perished three weeks before birth at term, and the placenta was extensively fatty. In the other case there was this point of interest, namely, that a syphilitic taint was connected with hydatidiform degeneration of the chorion. When about four months gone she complained of sickness, anasarca, and great size of the abdo- men, then hemorrhage, and the expulsion of the vesicular mole. (The fact, however, that this degeneration of the chorion is not usually con- nected with syphilis is so important, that it is proper to look upon Dr. Byrne's case as exceptional.) Two cases of hydatidiform degeneration of the chorion, associated with albuminuria, are recorded by Dr. Woodman (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii). A third case of the same, by Dr. Barnes (ibid.). A case, illustrated by a drawing, of hydatidiform degeneration of the ovum is also described by Dr. Russell (ibid.). 25