PREGNANCY. 39] remarkable variations in the form of the pelvis influences the mechanism of labour, especially -whether the approach to the antero-posterior oval inlet briugs the sagittal suture more into relation with the conjugate diameter. The coloured women in Brazil had labours neither easier nor more severe than European women. The plausible theory of Vrolik, that Javanese women bear easily children begotten by Javanese fathers, but not so those begotten by white men, is contradicted by the experience of Lehmann in Amsterdam. The Relations of Pregnancy. Dr. Mattei discusses ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1865), the influence of preg- nancy upon the intellectual faculties of the woman, and especially upon the responsibility of the pregnant. Mr. A. B. Squire submits ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1866) that lactation is an exciting and sustaining cause of psoriasis, and that the period occupied by pregnancy and its sequel, the puerperal state, is unfavor- able to the manifestation of the disease. Dr. Priou relates (' Bull, de la Soc. de Med. d'Angers') a case of a woman, aged 72, who menstruated and aborted of a two-months foetus three months before her death. A case of menstruation during pregnancy is recorded by Dr. Graily Hewitt (! Obst. Trans.,' viii). Dr. V. Saboia, of Eio de Janeiro, has published a memoir (1865) on abortion, considered from an obstetrical point of view. Prof. C. Hecker ('Mon. f. Greburtsk.,' 1866) discusses the reactions between disease and the reproductive processes. Most chronic diseases, he says, are much aggravated by pregnancy, and often even hurried on to death. He refers to a previous treatise on the subject (' Hecker u. Buhl. Klinik d. Geburtsk. Leipzig,' i86i),and adds another illustration. The patient had swelling of the thyroid, impeding respiration. In her fifth pregnancy this rapidly increased; oedema of the legs and abdomen with albuminuria, appeared. Near the end of pregnancy she suddenly complained of dizziness of sight, and a sudden attack of dyspnoea destroyed life. Seven minutes after her death the Caesarian section waB made. The child's heart beat slightly, but it could not be restored. The uterus contracted to a ball after removal of placenta. Eecent parenchy- matous inflammation of the kidneys was found. The tolerance of violence is illustrated by an amputation of the arm A. Xapper (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii) without interruption to pregnancy. A. Harris describes a membrane expelled from the uterus a few days before delivery at term ('Obstet. Trans.,' vii). Dr. Rasch describes a remarkable case in which oedema of the lower half of the body occurred after a fall in the seventh month of pregnancy ; premature labour; recovery (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii). The influence of zymotic diseases upon pregnancy is illustrated by a case of abortion from variola in mother and child, related by Monicr (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1865). The child had died some days before birth; it exhibited many variolous spots.