UErOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 D. DISEASES OP THE ORGANS OF CIUCTTLATION. Cardiac Hypertrophy, Sfc. Professor Traube* makes some interesting remarks on the successive phenomena of those diseases which produce hypertrophy of the left ventricle. When these cases run a typical course they pass through three stages ; when compensatory hypertrophy of the left ventricle does not begin till late there are four stages:—i. The stage before hy- pertrophy commences. 2. The stage in which compensation (by means of hypertrophy) is established ; this is longer than the former period. 3. The stage of failing energy of the left ventricle, and consequent con- gestion in the system of the pulmonary artery, which again causes hy- pertrophy of the right ventricle. 4. The stage in which, from failing energy of the right ventricle, there is blood-stain in the systemic veins. The third of these periods may last long, though it is always much shorter than the second. If it lasts long the hypertrophy of the right ventricle prevents the occurrence of secondary disturbance, except that there is bronchial catarrh and dyspnoea; but the third stage is gene- rally only a short interval between the second and the fourth. Dr. Hyde Salterf relates a case of extraordinary interest, in which there was enormous hypertrophy of the heart, without any discoverable disease from which it could be supposed to have originated. The fact that during life no bruit had been heard, coupled with the occur- rence of a most violent and persistent epistaxis, induced Salter to expect that smooth mitral narrowing existed, and was the cause of a backward venous congestion. The cardiac symptoms all started from an attack of rheumatism, yet no valvular nor pericardial disease could be found after death, nor was there any discoverable mischief in either the lungs, the liver, or the kidneys. The causation of the hy- pertrophy is an insoluble problem. The patient was a man aged 35. Direct Mitral Murmur. Dr. GairdnerJ'brings forward a case as the text for some clinical remarks on the disease which it exemplified, and its auscultatory symp- toms, viz. contraction of the mitral orifice and production of a pre- systolic or, as he names it, "auricular systolic" bruit. He considers that this bruit is pathognomic of mitral contraction if we except a few cases of tricuspid obstruction and some of disease of the pericardium, in which a somewhat similar murmur may be present. Dr. "Wilks,§ commenting on a case of the same disease, remarks that there could be no doubt in this instance that the blood was driven through a very narrow mitral orifice with considerable force, and it seemed wonderful that people should have doubted that such a state of * ' Berl. Klin. Wochenscb..,' i, 37. t ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' July 28, 1866. t 'Med.Times and Gaa.,' March 18, 1865. § Ibid., Feb. 25, 1865.