455 F1IYS10L0UKAL TESTS i'OU POISONS. taline; the third, a solution of the substance extracted from the intes- tines of Mine. Z—. In the first frog there was a diminution of the heart's beats by only <; or 6 beats. In the second they fell from 52 to 4 in 13 minutes. In the third they fell from 58 to 36 in 8 minutes, and to 4 in 28 minutes. MM. Tardieu and Eoussin, however, state that " it is not without interest to compare the effects of this substance . . . , tcith veratrine as well as with digitaline." The discovery of morphia (even in quantity " sufficient to kill") was accounted for by the fact that 60 centigrammes of acetate of mor- phia (9 grains!) had been given to Madame Z— medicinally in two doses, at twelve hours' interval. She had previously been taking opium, but only in doses of 5 to 15 centigrammes (f of a grain to 2 grains). The sudden exhibition of this enormous quantity of morphia is stated to have merely relieved her pain. It is not considered either by MM. Tardieu and Eoussin or by M. Devergie to have had anything to do with her death. M. Devergie, however, criticises very severely the conclusions of MM. Tardieu and Eoussin with reference to the case. It is much to be regretted that the original report of these experts has not been published. The other medico-legal case in which physiological evidence was em- ployed was the trial of Dr. Pritchard for murder.* In this instance the suspected fluid was contained in a bottle, labelled " Battley's Seda- tive Solution," found in the pocket of Mrs. Taylor, who was the mother- in-law of Dr. Pritchard, and was supposed to have been poisoned by him. Antimony in a soluble form was detected in this fluid, in the proportion of one and a half grain of tartarized antimony to the fluid ounce. Its extract, when applied to the tongue, gave rise to a peculiar benumbing and tingling sensation, increasing in intensity for a short time, and persisting for several hours. In this it differed altogether from the extract of pure Battley's Solution, and resembled perfectly an extract of Fleming's Aconite, and consequently the presence of this poison was suspected. By Stas' process, and other chemical means, more distinct indications of aconite were obtained; but it was soon determined to rely on physiological evidence rather than to waste the remaining material in chemical tests, which would necessarily be incon- clusive. The animals used in these experiments were rabbits. The substances employed were four in number—1, genuine Battley's Solution ; 2, tinc- ture of aconite (Fleming); 3, mixtures of tincture of aconite with genuine Battley in various proportions; 4, " Pritchard's Battley" (sup- posed to contain the poison). From these various liquids extracts were made, by evaporation at a gentle heat or in vacuo. The extracts were then suspended in pure water, and were administered to the animals, generally by injecting them beneath the skin. In some cases they were introduced into the stomach or dropped into the eye, but it was found that these methods were much less convenient than that of sub- cutaneous injection, and yielded much more variable results. » 'On the Detection of Aconite by its Physiological Action/ by Prof. Penny and Dr. Adams; Glasgow, 1865. (Pamphlet.)