436 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. distended. In the afternoon, when reaction came on, the region of the stomach was tender, and pressure was followed by nausea and inclina- tion to vomit. The child was very restless, and suffered from severe thirst; the urine and faeces were passed involuntarily. About 7 o'clock in the evening the collapse returned. Afterwards slight improvement in the symptoms again took place; but this was not maintained, and death occurred at 3 a.m., 17 hours after the ingestion of the poison. A chemical examination of the contents of the stomach and intestines was made, but no arsenic was detected, either in them or in the spleen, liver, bile, or kidneys. In the gastric glands were found changes which coincided perfectly with those described above, as having been observed by Vircbow in cases of poisoning by phosphorus (gastritis glandularis, gastro- adenitis). The kidneys also presented morbid appearances. The tubes in the cortical substance were opaque and finely granular, and their epithelial cells could not be isolated. No fibrinous casts were discoverable in the interior of the tubes. A similar morbid condition existed in the liver. The cells in the periphery of the lobules contained fatty granules, which were present only in small numbers in the cells lying nearer the intra- lobular veins. The muscular fibres of the heart, especially of the left ventricle, were likewise granular. They were soft, so that it was un- usually difficult to isolate them. The degree of the granular change varied at different spots, so that every stage of it could be recognised. It was most intense in a patch of hyperemia and ecchymosis, whicli existed in the septum. At this point the fibres immediately beneath the endocardium were found to be completely broken down, and it appeared as if rupture of them had taken place, for blood-corpuscles were observed mixed with the granular matter. In the diaphragm, again, similar morbid changes were observed, the muscular fibres being found in every stage of degeneration, from the slightest turbidity to complete breaking down of their structure. The fibres which were most altered were decidedly enlarged, being nearly twice their natural diameter. Very slight changes were also found in some of the fibres of the pectoralis major, and of the adductors of the thighs. Prof. Maschka* records a case of poisoning by arsenic, in which recovery took place, although 5 grains of arsenious acid were found in the matters vomited. In the 'Lancet,' 1866, ii, p. 336, will be found a short account of the " Ponteland Poisoning Cases"—a series of cases of poisoning by arsenic, remarkable from the predominance of nervous symptoms. At Donkin's Farm, Ponteland, lived three brothers of the name of Bushby, their nephew, a housekeeper, and a female servant. In the course of a few weeks, beginning about the end of December, 1865, all these persons (? with one exception) were attacked with similar symptoms, the prin- cipal of which were the following:—Vomiting ; a peculiar intensely white fur on the tongue; congestion of the conjunctivae; tingling and numbness of the feet and hands ; and paralysis, especially of the lower * ' Vjtirssclirft. f. gcr. Med.,' N. F., ii, 1865, p. 51.