REPORT ON SURGERY. 25-1- diagnosis of.tlio inflammation. In every specimen examined the perios- teum was healthy, and in only one case was there any inflammation of the shell of the bone. The extent of inflammation in the me- dullary tissue bore no proportion to the degree of injury in the soft parts around it. The inflammation was uniformly present in the cancellated structure at the head of the bone, and the degree of its severity was proportionate to its extent thence along the axis. In every specimen the affected tissue was of a very firm consistency, so that if a section of it were removed it would retain the shape of the medullary cavity. The colour varied from a deep crimson to a dusky chocolate red, passing off into the healthy tissues by delicate shades of red and orange. In some specimens the pale or slightly coloured medulla appeared between patches of intense red, and occasionally spots of inflammation would extend downward along the wall of the cavity, thus giving the section an irregular and variegated appear- ance. Dr. Allen puts the following questions:—May not this form of me- dullitis frequently occur in cases of wounds that eventually recover ? Or, would it be going too far to affirm that moderate medullitis at the head of a long bone always follows a gunshot wound in the soft parts of the vicinity ? In contrast to these cases Dr. Allen relates 15 belonging to the second class, viz., those in which the affected bone had been primarily injured by a missile. These are again subdivided into cases in which amputation had been performed—those in which the limb was treated conservatively after gunshot fracture, and those of simple graze wounds of the bones. In 4 of the 8 cases in which amputation was performed the inflammation had passed on to suppuration, also in 1 of the 4 cases treated conservatively, and in 4 of the 5 cases of graze wound of the bone. The periosteum was only occasionally found detached. Dr. Allen remarks, as a curious circumstance that, while in all cases that he has examined in which the humerus or femur was affected, the inflammation proceeded downwards from the head of the bone, in the only case of osteo-myelitis of the tibia which he had examined the progress of the disease was from below. He also remarks on the grave consequences which may ensue even in the simplest form of gunshot wound when a bone has been grazed, and on the probability that many deaths after battle, recorded as due to "pyaemia," "diarrhoea," "exhaustion," &c, may really be cases of osteo-myelitis. In none of the cases recorded by Dr. Allen had any complication of the interior of the bone been even suspected by the attending surgeons. The cases presented great variety in their symptoms—some having prominent symptoms of pyaemia, others not; but in none were there any symptoms pointing to the medulla. In case the suppuration were suspected during life Dr. Allen rather inclines to recommend trephining. The exact relation between osteo-myelitis and pyamiia Dr. Allen regards as uncertain. In only 7 out of his 23 cases were secondary deposits found, although there were symptoms of pyaemia in others.