REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 122 tatiou proceeds from the sensory nerves of the abdomen; and to this class belong cases of sudden death from catheterism or from concussion ot the abdomen, as also cases of angina pectoris produced by irritation of abdominal viscera, and the cardiac depression produced in many cases of wound of the intestine, severe gastritis, nervous gastralgia, intestinal obstruction or intussusception, colic from renal or biliary calculi, and peritonitis; also the slow pulse in lead colic. In all these the first step in the etiological series is paralysis of the abdominal vessels. Other causes of reflex depression of the heart are found in abnormal irritation of the genitals, as in hysteria and onanism. 2. The respiratory restraint neuroses are not so well explained as the cardiac group ; nevertheless, the experiments of Rosenthal are positive enough ; they show that slight irritation of the superior laryn- geal nerve slackens respiration, that stronger irritation arrests it, and that very strong irritation causes contraction of the expiratory muscles, with the production of cough, which in extreme cases is spasmodic. Thus, the superior laryngeal nerve is the restraint nerve of respiration ; its restraining centre is not (like the cardiac) at the periphery, but in the medulla oblongata, and the irritation passes centripetally to this. Many restraint neuroses are caused by the irritation of this nerve, e.g. hysterical cough, whooping-cough, and the cough which is provoked by foreign bodies in the air-passages. 3. The restraint neuroses of the alimentary canal are due to irrita- tion of the splanchnic nerves, analogous to that produced experimentally by Pfliiger and others. The inhibitory centre to which the irritation is conveyed is probably the plexus between the muscular layers of the in- testinal wall, which supplies the intestinal motor nerves. The neu- roses of the splanchnic nerves in this manner cause diminution or arrest of peristaltic action; and it is difficult in complicated cases to distin- guish between this kind of effect and direct motor palsy of the intes- tines ; there may also be a union of the two. The pain in lead colic is probably due to splanchnic irritation—at least in part. The constipa- tion is also due, in the opinion of Eulenburg and Landois, to this source, and not to spasm, as some suppose, of the intestinal muscles, since in that case it could only occur periodically, instead of assuming that ob- stinate persistency which it actually shows. The relief afforded by antispasmodics also points to the same conclusion; so does the fact, already referred to, that similar effects are produced upon other restraint nerves, as the vagus. The spasms of the bowel, so far as they are real and not merely apparent, are probably only secondary, and con- fined to the large intestine, on which the splanchnic nerves have no inhibitory influence ; or they may be caused secondarily by the irrita- tion of mechanical distension. The psychical influences which affect intestinal movements {e.g. hysteric flatulence) also probably act through the splanchnic nerves; but the course of their action beyond the thoracic sympathetic, and towards the cerebrospinal centre, is not known with certainty. 4. The restraint "neuroses of reflex action are exemplified by the operation of the will in controlling reflex movements. This has long been understood from the phenomena of decapitations; but Petchenno