REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * ' Viruhow's Archiv,' xxxii, p. 450. 44b' was noticed that in these animals distension of the vessels of the ears was the first symptom. Before death, in all these experiments, the respiration became very infrequent and deep ; the pulse was infrequent, but not feeble; there was paralysis and general anaesthesia. After- wards the respiration and the pulse ceased; but after this occurred life could be restored by using artificial respiration. When the air only contained 0-5 per cent, of carbonic oxide death did not take place till after two or three hours; the spasms were then slight, or even altogether absent; the respiration and the heart's action, however, were infrequent even in these cases. (It is necessary to observe that the carbonic acid exhaled during the experiment was removed by solu- tion of potass.) In these experiments, when the animals were opened as soon as com- plete paralysis had manifested itself, and while the heart was still beat- ing, the venous system was found to be gorged with blood; the right heart was distended, the left empty and contracted. The pulmonary artery was much dilated; haemorrhage into the lungs was found to have occurred at certain points, and in young animals the lungs were ede- matous. All the vascular organs had a violet hue, and the blood was altered in colour. Another symptom observed by Pokrowsky was a lowering of the temperature. AVithin half a minute after the commencement of the experiment the temperature fell one or two tenths of a degree Centi- grade. After the gas had been in action for some time the temperature was found to have fallen 1 or 1*5° Cent., or even at length 2° or 30 Cent. The arterial pressure was also greatly diminished by the inhalation of carbonic oxide. It had been supposed by Bernard that when recovery takes place after poisoning by carbonic oxide, the gas is exhaled by the lungs un- changed. It is shown, however, by Pokrowsky that this is an error. He endeavours to prove tbat the carbonic oxide is converted into car- bonic acid before being exhaled. Klebs* has published some interesting observations with reference to this subject. Three patients died within a short interval in the Charite at Berlin. The symptoms observed were unconsciousness, severe dyspnoea, lividity, and (in two of the cases) great rigidity of the muscles, and quivering movements. The blood was in general found to be of a very dark colour. It was only in the smaller vessels, and particularly in the pia mater, that it presented a cherry-red hue. The rest of the blood and the muscles were decidedly reddened by exposure to the air. All the vessels, even the capillaries, were remarkably full of blood. This was especially the case in the brain, lungs, liver, kidneys, &c. The branches of the meningeal arteries presented a peculiar tortuosity, which Klebs has never seen in young subjects under any other conditions, and which he is inclined to attribute to the action of the gas. The muscles were found to have undergone remarkable changes in these and other cases of poisoning by carbonic oxide; and it is stated by Klebs that experiments on animals confirmed the opinion that these