5 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM—ABSOKPTIOX. the wide meshes of which surround and are in direct continuity with the central lacteal. These special absorbent organs are much fewer in number than the proper epithelial cells between which they are interspersed. Olea- ginous corpuscles can easily be seen in them, especially in the hedgehog; but he has never found fat-molecules enter the true epithelial cells, except under abnormal circumstances, as when an excessive amount of fat has been forced into the animal's stomach, The lymphatics of the intestine have received careful attention from Auerbaeh (• Yirchow's Archiv,' Bd. 33, p. 340, 1865), who states that the delicate vessels usually regarded as lying immediately beneath the peri- toneum are in reality situated between the longitudinal and circular layers of muscular fibres, and constitute only the largest collecting trunks of a very much closer network of lymphatics that everywhere penetrates and interlaces -with the fibres of the circular muscular tissue, and is in direct connection with the chyle-passages. Tie therefore admits the presence of two layers of lymphatics in the intestines, one being the ordi- nary submucous layer of lacteals, and the other being an interlaminar layer occupying the space between the two layers of muscular fibres, and also lying constantly to the inner side of the nervous plexus (plexus myentericus) which is found at this point. He has observed the presence of chyle in both sets of vessels. As regards the structure of the finest capillaries, he considers that they possess proper walls, composed of a per- fectly clear, transparent, and homogeneous membrane, on the inner surface of which are nuclei that, when injections of nitrate of silver, as recommended by Eecklinghausen, are employed, may readily be perceived to be the nuclei of a very regularly arranged layer of tesselated epithelial cells. In the very finest lymphatic capillaries of the intestines he appears to think that these cells, firmly adhering to one another by their edges, may alone con- stitute the limiting membrane. Dahnhardt ('Virchow's Archiv,' 1866, Bd. 37, p. 55) has had an opportunity of examining lymph which flowed in large quantities for many months from the thigh of a patient suffering from hypertrophy and other disease of the subcutaneous connective tissue of the leg, and which, con- sequently, cannot be regarded as perfectly normal. The lymph presented a whitish opalescent appearance, had an alkaline reaction, and a specific gravity of 1*007. 0Q standing, a fibrinous coagulum separated, and the fluid quickly became putrescent. It contained about 15 parts of solid substances in 1000, and of these from 4 to 7 parts consisted of fibrine, albumen, fat, and organic extractive matters, and the remainder consisted of mineral salts, of which chloride of sodium was by far the most abundant. In this case, as pointed out by Prof. Hensen, the proportion of organic to the inorganic constituents is remarkably low as compared with other analyses. The most interesting observations that have been made on the phy- siology of absorption are those by Dr. Bence Jones and M. Dupre ('Proceedings of the Ptoyal Soc.,' vol. 15, p. 220, and vol. 15, p. 73), on the rapidity with which the 3alts of lithia and quinine are taken up, and the rate of their passage through the various tissues of the body. The presence of extremely minute traces of either of these substances can be readily ascertained, and the results of their careful inquiries show that in guinea-pigs a few grains of chloride of lithia given on an empty