ItEl'OItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. distance (25 elements). Allow the current to obtain its maximum of constancy, and after two or three minutes the muscles will obey the mandate of the will perfectly. But it will then be necessary to apply the current directly to the muscle, when its previously flattened fibres will swell up, and movements will be effected with greater ease. No doubt, the swelling of the fibres is a vaso-motor effect. Sometimes a spasmodic contraction of some opposing muscle will prevent the palsied muscle responding freely to the stimulus of the current; in that case the positive electrode (battery of 20 or 30 elements) should be allowed to act for some minutes upon the contracted muscle, which will then relax. In certain cases of facial hemiplegia, and other paralytic and spas- modic affections which depend on " some trouble in the circulation of the base of the brain," Eemak finds that when the palsied muscles will not contract with the direct application of the constant current, they will do so after a period of preliminary applications of a descending current of 15 elements to the chain of the sympathetic in the neck. The treatment of progressive muscular atrophy leads Eemak to some surprising experiments. In this case it is quite useless to commence with direct application of the current to the muscle or its motor nerve. Por example, in atrophy of the interosseous muscles of the hand the negative electrode is placed opposite the lower border of the sixth dorsal vertebra, and the positive in the mastoid fossa, beneath the auricle. The result is, not merely that the wasted muscles contract freely, but that their fibres swell up again, and a rapid improvement takes place. This kind of muscular contraction, which requires two points of excitement, is called by Eemak " diplegic." He divides the spine into three zones (as the result of repeated tentative experiments) ; the first includes the region between the occiput and the 5th cervical vertebra, the second reaching from the 5th cervical to the 6th dorsal vertebra, and the third extending into the lumbar region and as far downwards as the lower extremities. In order to excite diplegic con- tractions, it is necessary to place one electrode within one of these zones and the other in a different zone. It is not necessary that both elec- trodes should be placed on the same side as the muscles which are to be affected ; on the contrary, a cross current is often efficacious. The most singular fact is that the effect produced, so far from being more vigorous in proportion to the nearness of the poles to each other, is abso- lutely nil when the electrodes are placed close together in the same spinal zone. The only explanation which Eemak can offer is that in these cases there is a simultaneous excitation of two sympathetic ganglia, one remote from the other, and that probably this excitation happens by means of communicating branches which enter into the posterior column of the grey matter of the cord, and anastomose with the ganglionic cells of the anterior cords, either of the same side or of the opposite side, intermediately by the commissure. In the instance cited by Eemak, where the positive electrode was placed in the mastoid fossa, no doubt that pole excited the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. In progressive muscular atrophy affecting the lower limbs the prognosis is, unfortunately, bad; but even here good