229 ANTECEDENTS OF CANCER. is in the blood. For, he says, " wore cancer in the blood before its deposition in the tissues, it should be far less subject than it is to the local influences of the part in which it breaks out. The extirpation of the first tumour should in no way affect the progress of the disease in other parts. And further, acute diseases affecting the blood should also have an appreciable effect upon it." Similarly he shows that there is no real connection (although some superficial resemblance) between cancer on the one hand and syphilis and phthisis on the other, nor any proof at present of an unhealthy condition of viscera as a prelimi- nary condition of cancer. Then occurs the general question, whether cancer is originally a constitutional disease or no. The arguments in favour of this conclusion are first examined. They are derived from— 1. Its final universal diffusion throughout the body. But it is shown that this universal diffusion is a late phenomenon in the disease, and that it can generally be proved, and is always most probable, that the whole series of tumours have depended upon a single original tumour. 2. Its occasional outburst in many primary tumours simultaneously. But Mr. Moore questions this fact, which rests, he says, on traditional authority, and is not met with under the more exact observation of the present day. 3. Its capacity to grow in various textures. But this is as easily explicable from the travelling of the elements of the first tumour as from constitutional vice. 4. Its local recurrence after the removal of the first tumour. But this, it is argued, proves no more than that the disease was not at first completely removed. " Minute fragments, or prolific elements of the disease, are sometimes left in the wound, and others may exist, which are beyond detection, in the glands or in an internal organ." Reference is made under this head to a famdy of which 6 female members had cancer each in the left breast. Tet two of the sisters passed 11 and 12 years respectively after the removal of the breast without recurrence of the disease, and upon its return and a repetition of the operation each remained healthy for 7 years more, and no further recurrence is yet known to have taken place. 5. Its appearance in internal organs, notwithstanding the removal of the primary tumour. But there is no proof that the germs were not disseminated from the primary disease, or from minute portions of it left behind. 6. Its hereditary nature. This fact, again, Mr. Moore ques- tions. He does not deny to parental influence some effect in the pro- duction of cancer; but he adduces facts to prove that hereditary transmission is rarely noticed compared to the total number of cases, a direct transmission of the disease from parent to child being traceable only about thrice in a hundred cases. The bearing of the facts of both similar and dissimilar cancers occurring in parents and offspring is discussed; and as an argument against the hereditary theory, it is noticed that cancer is least common at the period of life when parental influence is most active—i. e. in infancy. So also in infants born while the mother is suffering from cancer, the disease is not transmitted, nor in families born from a cancerous mother is it the younger children who are peculiarly liable. On the whole, Mr. Moore concludes that there is no proof of a more peculiar hereditary nature in cancer than in other affections, such as malformations, &c, which are obviously not consti-