JAUNDTCE OF BLOOD ORIGIN". 183 a cause. It may be preceded by the fatty disease, or, in many cases, tbe two diseases are very probably due to a common cause. The exanthe- mata may also be followed by fatty liver, and the connection between these is only to be found in the changes of the blood. Fatty liver is also observed in connection with diseases of the bones in children, such as tuberculous caries and rickets; also in cases of bronchitis, pneu- monia, pleuro-pneumonia, and heart disease. Of the causes indirectly affecting the liver, diet holds a principal place, inasmuch as the children have either a diet very rich in fat, or (especially among the poor) one deficient in fat, but rich in hydrocarbons ; and the mischievous influence of this diet is increased by want of exercise and pure air. The authors observe that adipose infiltration appears to be more frequent in children than true fatty degeneration, inasmuch as it was met with in 188 cases out of the 222 examined. They conclude that, in by far the greater number of cases, fatty liver is not to be regarded as a result of malnutrition of the hepatic cells, but as the result of causes acting from without. E. Virchow* writes on the occurrence of icterus of blood origin, espe- cially catarrhal icterus. He explains the views which more recent observations have led him to take regarding the origin of icterus, of which he recognises two kinds—1. Icterus of blood origin (hsemato- genic). 2. Icterus of hepatic origin (hepatogenic). The first kind is characterised by the presence of bile in the urine, while a jaundiced colour is absent both from the skin and from the liver. It arises from the disintegration of a large number of blood-corpuscles ; and the choluria may be produced artificially, while it has not hitherto been found possible to induce an icteric colouring of the soft parts by arti- ficial means. In hepatogenic icterus the liver-cells are always coloured. Tire-how enters closely into the consideration of the relations of catarrhal icterus, of which the signs are not all equally demonstrable on the dead body. The turgidity of the mucous membrane produced during life by congestion of the vessels disappears, and with it a very important sign of obstruction of the ductus choledochus, where it runs between the coats of the duodenum. This Virchow designates the in- testinal portion of the duct. The alterations which may be observed are of three kinds:—1. A certain amount of oedema of the tissues, which frequently occurs without hyperemia or haemorrhage. 2.' The existence of a colourless plug, frequently consisting of mucus, but more frequently only of masses of epithelium. This may be easily expelled by pressure on the gall-duct, not on the gall-bladder; and its perfect freedom from colour shows that the passage of the bile has been arrested. 3. Sudden widening and biliary colouring of the whole of the remaining part of the ductus choledochus, with narrowing and almost total absence of colour of the mucous membrane of the intes- tinal portion. Catarrhal icterus, then, according to Virchow, always originates in the intestinal portion of the ductus choledochus, and to it belong icterus neanotorutn and the icterus of pyremia, pneumonia, typhus, and phosphorus poisoning. * ' Virchow's Arch.,' xxxii, lift. 1 1865 ; ' Canstatt's Jahrcslier.,' ii, i860.