HYDROCELE. 383 From birth to 3 months From the 4th month to the end of the 1st year From the 2nd to the 5th year ,i 6th || 10th „ nth „ 15th „ „ 16th „ 25th „ 26th „ 46th „ Total No. V < ' M _ 1 1 L 1 ' ■ U Hydrocele. Scroto* inguinal. Inguinal. S s — 4 3 — I 4 2 3 2 1 3 2 X I 1 2 2 21 i7 2 2 Twelve were on the right and 9 on the left side. Tour cases refer to 2 individuals, 1 an infant of 7 months, the other a hoy of 4 years. In Doth the hydrocele appeared as consecutive on an attack of entero-colitis (symptomatic). He then gives the symptoms which distinguish this complete communicating or " congenital" form of hydrocele from other swellings, particularly the diffused hydrocele of the spermatic cord, which is the only one that presents any difficulty in diagnosis; and then proceeds to describe its 3 forms :—1. The complete hydrocele of the testicle and peritoneum, the only one described in the classical authors under the name of congenital hydrocele. Here he gives some interesting and rare cases of this form of hydrocele, viz. one in a child of 4 years of age, in whom the congenital form of hydrocele came on in its idiopathic mode from inflammation, as it seemed, of the portion of the tube contained in the spermatic canal, and disappeared under anti- phlogistic treatment; a second, in which a congenital hydrocele was found buried in the substance of a large varicocele; a third, in which the parts (in a child 8 months old) showed very plainly the congenital inversion of the testicle ; a fourth, in a young man in which the tumour presented two lobes, one at the bottom corresponding to the testicle, and the other three times as large along the cord; a fifth, in which the tumour extended into the scrotum, but the testicle was arrested in the inguinal canal; a sixth, in which a common congenital hydrocele, ap- pearing in a boy of 14 after enteritis, gave place, after exertion, to a hernia, the patient having refused to wear a truss. This being reduced with difficulty, a truss was applied. After wearing this for about five years the communication with the peritoneum was found to be ob- literated, but there was a non-communicating testi-funicular hydrocele, which was cured by capillary puncture and application of tincture of iodine. 2. The next variety is that which he calls " communicating funicular scroto-inguinal hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis," in which the testicu- lar cavity of the tunica vaginalis is closed, and the tumour occupies the upper portion of the scrotum and the inguinal canal, is of an oblong form, and is separated by a sulcus from the testicle. If the communi- cating (funicular) portion of the tube is very narrow, there may be hardly any tumour in this part, and the scrotal portion be all that is at first seen. Malgaigne was, aa he says, the first to describe this form in