ItEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDTCTNE. 7G satisfactorily made out. In the majority of instances an indurated chancre was discovered to have been the primary mischief, but in a third of the cases no sufficiently accurate testimony on this point could be obtained. The length of time from the primary disease to the appearance of paralytic symptoms varied from 5 or 10 months to 18 years, but in most cases it was from 3 to 10 years. As a rule, the occurrence of paralysis was preceded by various other constitutional symptoms of syphilis, especially affections of the skin, mucous mem- branes, glands, and bones; and then either persisted at the time of occurrence of the paralysis, or were redeveloped during the hemiplegic attack, or had been already cured by the use of mercury or iodine. Among the 52 cases there were only 9 which had had no treatment pre- vious to the hemiplegia, all the rest had taken courses of mercurials or preparations of iodine, most of them repeatedly; 29 of the patients were cured of the paralysis, 6 were improved, 5 remained uncured, and 12 died, either directly from the brain-disease, or from bed-sores, or from other intercurrent diseases. The pathological appearances in the brain were—in 6 instances softening in the cerebrum (sometimes with and sometimes without gummy tumours), in 1 case softening in the cerebellum, in 3 cases abscess of the brain, in 2 atrophy of the white substance. The author believes that the cases in which syphilitic disease proves fatal (although it cannot be doubted that such occur) are very rare. Softening of the brain, the most frequent pathological condition, may be caused in various ways. In the first place, gummy deposits, when they exist, may excite inflammatory action in surround- ing tissues ; it would be wrong, however, to suppose that this result always follows. Local softenings of the brain are found in cases where no gummy tumours are present. It has been urged that the deposits may have disappeared, but Jaksch can see no proof of this, especially as an undiscovered embolus of a cerebral artery, competent to produce softening, may have been easily overlooked. A third cause of softening is suggested, viz. that gummy deposits in the pia mater pressing upon the brain-cortex may produce atrophy and induration, a fact which is borne out by observation. Abscess of the brain may also be brought about by various causes. Caries or necrosis of the cranial bones may produce suppurative inflammation of the membranes and of the brain itself. More frequently, syphilitic abscess of the brain is a conse- quence of inflammation of tissues surrounding a gummy deposit, or a thrombosis, or it may result directly from purulent transformation of a syphilitic deposit. Atrophy of the larger portions of the brain may be chiefly referred to ramollissement and obliteration of the vessels. The diagnosis of syphilitic hemiplegia is usually not difficult. The specific symptoms which precede usually also accompany and follow it, so that both the invasion and the development of the paralysis present pecu- liarities of great value for diagnostic purposes. The prognosis of syphilitic hemiplegia is usually more favorable than that of other varieties; for the disease can be recognised betimes, and judiciously treated. Moreover, cases have been observed in which a cure has been obtained (by mercury or iodine) even after paralytic symptoms of two years' standing. But it is easy, from considerations of morbid anatomy,