REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. * ' Seventh Report,' &c., Appendix, p. 126. 480 bonic oxide, and experiments on rabbits lead to the conclusion that its employment will probably delay very considerably the ill-effects of breathing the air of mines after explosions. Scheidemann gives draw- ings of a " respirator" which he recommends to be worn under these circumstances. The mouth-piece is of such a form that it can be held between the teeth. It has two apertures, of which one leads to the external air, while the other commuuicates with a tube passing into a vessel fixed round the body by a strap, and filled with small sponges soaked in the solution of chloride of copper. The tongue is used°to close the former of these apertures during inspiration, the latter during expiration, and thus no valves are required. Within the last two years a very important inquiry has been carried out, by the direction of the Privy Council, in reference to the housing of agricultural labourers and of the poor in towns. This inquiry is necessarily imperfect, being (in Mr. Simon's words) "only an exa- mination of samples;" but there is no doubt that the results arrived at are generally trustworthy. Dr. Hunter's report* confirms to the fullest extent the opinion which generally prevails as to the insuffi- ciency and miserable character of the house-accommodation for agricul- tural labourers, and as to the action of the present Poor Law in in- ducing the owners of land to do away, as far as possible, with the cot- tages on their estates. It is said that within the last twenty or thirty years this evil has been in very rapid increase, and that it is now more difficult for the agricultural labourer to find suitable house-room than has for centuries been the case. Dr. Hunter has compiled from the last census-returns evidence that in 821 separate parishes or town- ships of England the destruction of houses has been going on within the last decennial period, notwithstanding increased local demands for them. He suggests that the biiilding of " model cottages" of extravagant cost and unnecessary size is in some respects to be deprecated rather than recommended. The expense of such cot- tages is so great that sufficient numbers of them are not likely to be built, and they are often so good that they are very apt to fall into the hands of persons in a better position than the labourers for whom they are constructed. One of the most powerful causes of insuffi- cient cottage-accommodation is, in fact, the system of "close" and " open" villages, which prevails through the midland and eastern parts of England. There are in all counties show villages, where the cottages have been reduced to but a few, and where none but persons who are needed as shepherds, gardeners, or gamekeepers, are allowed to live. Thus, nearly all the tenants are regular servants, and receive the good treatment usual to their class. The agricultural labourers are not the tenants of the owner of the land, but come from an " open village," perhaps three miles off, where a numerous small proprietary re- ceived them when their cottages were destroyed in the close villages around. It is usually affirmed that these open villages are a great