DEVELOPMKNT. 27 the formation of fat. That animals do not become fat when fed upon very highly nitrogeuous food, Voit considers sufficiently explained by the" greater number of blood-corpuscles the result of such diet, and the "ready increased activity of oxidation of nitrogenous substances uuder such conditions; whilst, on the other hand, the accumulation of fat, when fat and carbo-hydrates are supplemented to a liberal nitrogenous diet, he considered to be connected with the much less active oxidation of the nitrogenous substance and fatty matter that then takes place, rather than attributable to the direct production of fat from the carbo- hvdrates. ' Mr. J. B. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert (' Lond., Edin., and Dub. Journ.,' Dec. 1866, p. 439), from whom the above remarks have been extracted, have again returned to their subject, and made careful experiments on pigs, and have arrived at the following conclusions :—1. That certainly a large proportion of the fat of the herbivora fattened for human food must be derived from other substances than fatty matter in the food. 2. That when fattening animals are fed upon their most appropriate food, much of their stored up fat must be produced from the carbo- hydrates it supplies. 3. That nitrogenous substances may also serve as a source of fat, more especially when it is in excess and the supply of available non-nitrogenous constituents is relatively small. "Waldeyer's observations on the development of bone show that the contents of the primary medullary spaces formed in the cartilage con- sist of the granular debris of the cartilaginous matrix, and of a number of young cells proceeding from the cartilage-cells. The young cells may be divided into two groups—one aiding in the formation of the osseous tissue, the other developing into medullary tissue. Those which produce osseous tissue are termed "osteoblasts,'" and consist of masses of granular protoplasm, apparently destitute of an investing membrane, but containing a nucleus, which arrange themselves side by side, almost like an epithelial layer, on the inner surface of the primary areola? of bone-substance. The first trace of a bony deposit appears as a slightly yellowish but homogeneous edging to the cartilaginous trabecular; lower down the osteoblasts may be seen half buried in bony deposit, and here and there communicating with others not enclosed, by long processes. The osteoblasts present an elongated or tailed appear- ance, and, their peripheric portion blends with the osseous substance without there being any well-marked line of demarcation between them. After the first set, which proceed directly from the cartilage-cells, have been used up, fresh osteoblasts are developed from the cells of the young medullary tissue. The young medullary tissue has a different structure from the subsequent yellow and red marrow of the bones. It belongs to the group of embryonal connective-tissue substances, and is composed of fusiform or stellate cells, connected together by their prolongations, the protoplasm of which, especially near the blood-vessels, early becomes delicately fibrillated and soaked with an albuminous fluid. It gradually develops in three directions—1, towards ordinary adipose tissue; 2, towards red medullary substance ; and 3, towards osseous tissue, the last being accomplished by the production and laminated deposit of epithelial-like osteoblasts. "Waldeycr believes that some of the osteo-