ABDOMINAL AND INNOMINATE ANEURISM. 309 entirely suspended in the aneurism for 50 consecutive hours, and the pressure was afterwards persevered in for 5 continuous days, no satis- factory result ensued. At the operation the peritoneum was found in no degree adherent, the previous pressure having left it quite unaffected. The artery was tied on April 29. Pulsation recurred in the aneurism from the 9th to the 13 th day after the operation, when it ceased, but recurred on the 22nd day, and occasionally afterwards. The ligature separated on the 29th day, proving, as Dr. Hargrove says, " the success of the operation on the artery." Gangrene, however, declared itself on the 31st day, and the patient, after lingering till the 73rd day, died of abscess around the nates and occasional arterial haemorrhage ; so that, in ordinary lan- guage, the operation would not be spoken of as successful. On exami- nation after death the aneurism was found to affect the external iliac artery, and to communicate with the external iliac vein. There was no formation of laminated coagulum. Dr. Hargrave concludes with expressing his preference for the hemp ligature over all other substances—catgut, lead, metallic, silk, and others—"for the firm way in which it remains on the artery, the complete absence of irritation, and no alteration in its strength and soundness." "With respect to the treatment of aneurism of the innominate artery, an important case has been put on record, and related to the Eoyal Med. and Chir. Society, by Mr. C. Heath, which occurred at the "West- minster Hospital, in Nov. 1865, under his care, and in which he tied simultaneously the right subclavian in the 3rd part of its course, and the right common carotid simultaneously. The case is recorded in the 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 5, 1867, and will probably be published more in extenso in the 50th vol. of the ' Med.-Chir. Trans.' The opera- tion was successful, so far as arresting the growth of the tumour, which before was threatening to burst into the trachea, and was making some progress towards the nerves of the brachial plexus, and the patient was presented to the society a little more than a year after the operation, in fair general health, and with only slight pulsation in the tumour. This is believed to be the first case in which the two arteries have been tied simultaneously and the patient has survived ; but a table of the cases of double ligature will, it is expected, be found appended to Mr. Heath's paper. The success of this formidable operation in the case in question, in prolonging, if not in saving, the patient's life was certainly very marked. In connection with the treatment of innominate aneurism, we may mention that we have received from New Orleans the account of the very remarkable case in which the innominate and the vertebral arteries were both tied in that city with success in a case of aneurism of the first part of the subclavian or of the end of the innominate artery. As the case was referred to in the ' Tear-Book' for 1864, we do not include it in the body of this report; but its unique interest renders it an object of so great surgical interest, that we present the original authentic account of it entire to our readers in an appendix, which will be found at the end of this report.