226 REPORT ON SURGERY. nine months, and the cicatrix had formed a sulcus lying symmetrically between the buttocks. Dr. Senftleben ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1865, No. 18, p. 174) describes a case of congenital coccygeal tumour, which he removed successfully at the age of twelve days. The subject was a male infant, and had several healthy sisters. The tumour was about the size and shape of an apple, situated between the anus and coccyx, immovable, separated from the fold of the nates by a depression, giving on palpation the feeling of a lipoma with several harder portions, and showing on its apex a hand, about half the normal size. From the rectum a stalk could be felt running towards the sacrum. The tumour was surrounded by a circular incision, and the stalk running down to the sacrum was dissected to its attachment on the front of that bone. In doing this the peritoneal cavity was opened, and a piece of small intestine pro- jected. This was returned, the stalk tied with a double ligature, and the tumour cut off. All went well, and the child was seen in excellent health at the age of nine months. On section the tumour was found to be composed of fat and portions of cartilage. The skeleton of the hand was cartilaginous. Dr. Senftleben remarks on the risk of opening the peritoneum which there always is in these cases when the tumour is inserted on the front of the coccyx. He refers to a tumour of a similar nature con- taining cysts, under Professor Langenbeck's care, which he had the opportunity of dissecting, the child having died of erysipelas after puncture of one of the cysts. Here also the attachment was to the front of the sacrum. Sometimes, however, as he says, processes pass from these tumours (especially in the lumbar region) through the spinal foramina, and then operations are apt to be followed by spinal meningitis. To prove this he refers to two histories of cases in the 1 Pathological Transactions,' but the reference is made only from memory, and does not appear to be accurate. The fact, however, is probable, and worth remembering. The following extracts refer to topics of general surgery and sur- gical pathology. Cancer.—A new method of treatment. By "W. H. Broadbent, M.D. Churchill, 1866.—Dr. Broadbent communicated to the meeting of the British Medical Association at Chester, in August last, a new method which he has lately adopted for the treatment of cancerous tumours, together with the results hitherto obtained. Dr. Broadbent had been led, by the ease with which the hypodermic method of medication is now applied, to experiment on hopeless cases of recurrent cancer by the hypodermic injection of fluid into their substance, and selected acetic acid for the following reasons : 1. That it does not coagulate albumen, and would therefore be dis- seminated through the tissues. 2. That if it entered the circulation it could do no harm, either by acting as a poison or by inducing embolism. 3. That it rapidly dissolves the walls and modifies the nuclei of cells