REPORT ON SURGERY. 28S since the appearance of the tables of Fock and of Sayre, and adds a few cases from the Klinik at Berlin. Of these 56 cases, 28 occurred in Germany, 21 in England, 1 in America, 1 in Prance, and 5 in Russia. As far as the results are known, 24 ended fatally, viz. 7 of the 21 English cases, XK of the 28 German, 1 of the 5 Russian, and the single Erench case. Of the remaining 32, 3 are noted as not cured, and with little prospect of a favorable issue, while in 7 other cases the result was imperfect at the date of publication, but the prospects of success were better.* Thus, there remain 22 successful cases ; still, the success is only described in express terms as perfect in 12 cases, the utility of the limb being in these plainly specified. In 3 of the fatal cases, however, the death was quite unconnected with the operation, while in one of these (under the care of the present compiler) dissection showed that the success had been complete, and a new joint had been formed. The causes of death were as follows :—Exhausting suppuration in 13 cases, complicated in 4 cases with progressing caries of the pelvis, and in 3 with tubercles in the lungs ; pyaemia in 6 cases ; erysipelas in 1 ; hip disease on the opposite side with phthisis in 1 ; pneumonia in 1; tubercular meningitis in 1; unspecified causes in 2. This table combined with that of Sayre gives 164 cases, of which 3 6'6 per cent, ended in death ; 56*1 were cured; 3 per cent, remained unhealed, and in the remaining cases (7 in number) the result was uncertain, but success appeared probable in most. The author draws attention to the fact that the mortality was much less among the English than the German cases. He inclines to attribute this partly to the better air and maintenance of the English hospitals, and partly to the more free resection of the diseased parts which he believes to be practised in this country. Total resections, he says, (i. e. resections which include the acetabulum as well as the caput i'emoris) are less fatal than the mere decapitation of the femur. With respect to the immediate dangers of the operation, he calls attention to the fact that these have been under-estimated, and that even by writers who have themselves recorded only unsuccessful cases. Of 46 fatal cases in which the date of death is given, in 27 the death occurred during the first month, and in 15 of these within 8 days after the operation ; 4 of pyaemia, 1 of erysipelas, and the others chiefly of exhaustion. This shows that the operation is no trifling one. The period of cure is also usually a very long one, and fistulous openings may remain for months or years. In this respect also it seems as if the cases operated on in this country have the superiority (in one under the care of the present compiler the wound was closed in 40 days), and this appears to the author to be mainly the case with total resection. The formation of a false joint, however, and consequent utility of the limb, proceeds more rapidly than the healing of the wound, so that passive motion or even attempts at walking can be commenced while the wound is yet open. The ultimate usefulness of the limb is, he believes, considerable in those patients who survive. Out of 134 operations a useful limb has been obtained in at least 36, besides those * One of these cases was under the care of the present compiler, and the subsequent result has been favorable.