MILITARY SURGERY. 343 The number of injuries from gunshot wounds in the Southern armies during the years 1861-2 were—field, 29,569 cases, 1623 deaths and 493 discharges; hospitals, 47,724 cases, 2618 deaths and 742 discharges; killed in battle 8087. " On the application of Sutures to Bone in recent Gunshot Frac- tures, with Cases, &c." By Benjamin Howard, M.D., late Assistant- Surgeon, Regular Forces, United. States Army (£ Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlviii, p. 245).—In this communication Dr. Howard calls attention to the feasibility, in some rare cases, of uniting the fragments of a gunshot fracture by wire sutures introduced through holes drilled above and below. The operation is something like that occasionally used for ununited fracture. It consists in cutting down on the seat of injury, removing the loose spicule, cutting a clean section of each fragment with a saw, then drilling two holes above and below the section, and introducing a twisted wire suture through each. Dr. Howard makes use of annealed iron wire, leaving it short in the wound; and he attempts to limit the incisions and to spare the perios- teum as much as possible. The advantages which the method is thought to possess consist—" 1st, negatively, in the absence of everything which may act as a foreign body and dangerous source of irritation; 2nd, positively, in securing complete coaptation and perfect rest." On the importance of the latter consideration, in the rough movements often necessary after gunshot injuries in war, Dr. Howard especially dwells. He gives sufficient general directions for his operation, and notes 2 cases, in 1 of which it was completely successful, promising further details, and an account of his whole experience, in future papers. Dr. Howard allows that the number of cases to which his method is applicable must be very limited, either in civil or military practice. Besides gunshot wounds Dr. Howard mentions cases of compound fracture, of Pirogoff's amputa- tion, and of fracture of the jaw, as appropriate for the use of retentive sutures. In the 'American Journal of the Medical Sciences,' Jan. 1866, p. 139, will be found the report of a case in which the entire humerus and the heads of the ulna and radius were removed by Dr. Cutter, of Newark, New Jersey, on account of disease of the bones following a gunshot wound. The wound had penetrated the left shoulder-joint, fracturing the head and neck of the humerus, which portions of bone were excised three days after the injury. This was on Nov. 30, 1863. Ten days after the operation an abscess formed, and was opened near the elbow- joint, and other openings afterwards formed, revealing extensive necro- sis of the shaft of the humerus and bones of the elbow-joint. On July 21, 1864, Dr. Cutler operated for the removal of the entire humerus and the heads of the radius and ulna. He continued the in- cision made in the first operation down the " ulna line of the arm to the forearm" (sic in orif/.), and removed the bone with very little injury to the surrounding parts. No ligatures were required. The tubercle of the radius woa left with the insertion of the bicepsi The case did