HEPOTtT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. 2G membrane around considerable portions of their outline, though this is not very evident in fresh specimens. These primary muscle-cells elongate, their nuclei frequently mul- tiply, and the contents divide into a clear peripheral and a darker, granular, central portion; the former undergoes both transverse and longitudinal striation, and the latter contains the nucleus, whilst the whole is bounded by a membrane which he regards as the sarcolemma. Prom this account it would appear that each fibre is to be viewed, not as Kblliker considered it to bo, a single many nucleated cell, but as a structure representing a series of many potential cells, which have, however, never separated, their division after the multiplication of their nuclei being prevented by the fibrillation longitudinally (as shown by striation) of a portion of their contents, while the sarcolemma would thus represent the united membranes of many cells which have been engaged in the formation of the fibre. In an interesting paper on the development of fat M. F. Czajewicz ('Keichert und Dubois Eeymond's Archiv,' 1866, Heft .3, p. 289) observes that in good specimens the several cells are almost always separated from one another by fine lamella? of connective tissue. They consist of a doubly contoured membrane, finely granular oily contents, a nucleus, and nucleoli. The cells take origin in the cells of connective tissue, and it may be clearly seen how the small, delicate, flattened, finely granular connective-tissue-corpuscles increase in size, assume a spherical form, and gradually become filled with a mist of small fat-drops, which ultimately blend into one great round drop. When an animal is starved the oily substance is withdrawn from the cells, which become filled with serum, still preserving the round form. If now abundant food be given, the cells again become filled, first with a fatty mist, and then with drops which coalesce. If inflammation be set up in adipose tissue by the injection of iodine solution, the endogenous formation of cells can be distinctly seen. It was formerly held by Liebig, Milne-Edwards, Dumas, and others, from experiments made on herbivora, pigs, geese, ducks, and bees, that the fat of the body was derived in great part from the carbo-hydrates of their food, but that it might also be produced from the nitrogenous com- pounds. In 1864 Dr. Hayden, of Dublin, at the Bath meeting of tlie British Association, argued from physiological considerations that fat was not producible in the body from sugar and allied substances, but that both were oxidized, ministering to animal heat. In 1865 Voit maintained, from the results of experiments with dogs fed with flesh, that their fat must have been produced from the nitrogenous consti- tuents of the food, and that these were probably the chief, if not the onl}r, source of the fat even of herbivora. He relied chicfly on the formation of adipocere from nitrogenous substance; but par- ticularly that in experiments made by Pettenkofer and himself, in which large quantities of flesh was given to a dog, the whole of the nitrogen reappeared in the urea and fieces, whilst only a portion of the carbon was recovered in the urine, ficces, and the products of respiration and perspiration, from which it was con- cluded that some had remained in the body and had contributed to