LABOUR. 399 cervix uteri. Hence tbe conical elongation is most marked in primi- parse; hence also one reason why the forceps is so much more frequently- called for in first labours. 5. That in turning in contracted pelvis, from projecting promontory,'the transverse flattening of the head is much exaggerated ; that in extreme cases, the moulding capacity of the cranial hones being exhausted, space is gained by indentation or even by fracture of the bone in contact with the sacrum ; that the lateral or transverse compression is compensated by slight mento-occipital elon- gation, ». e. this diameter increases a quarter or half an inch, and also by fronto-occipital elongation. Dr. Inglis, discussing ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' July, 1865) the means of facilitating the first stage of labour, divides labours into " wet'' and " dry." In the first there is free mucous secretion, and the cervix dilates easily. These advantages are due to detachment of the membranes from the lower segment of the uterus. Hence he recom- mends the artificial separation of the membranes in cases of " dry" labour, and in all cases of induction of labour. It can often be done with the finger. If an instrument is required, Dr. Hamilton's bolt is best. Dr. Hardie, discussing (f Edinb. Med. Journ.,'Dec. r 866) the manage- ment of the second stage of labour, supports the modern doctrine that art may usefully intervene in a certain number of cases to shorten the second stage of natural labour. He greatly extends the use of the forceps. In 100 cases he applied this instrument in 28, under the indi- cation to abbreviate anxiety and pain. Dr. Thorburn ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1866) advocates, the more extended use of the forceps for the purpose of shortening labour. Ergot.—Dr. Dyce Brown ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1865), seeking to avoid the inconvenience resulting from the too violent action of ergot when given in the ordinary doses, has tried and recommends small doses—five grains. A single dose, he says, will often excite moderate but sufficient pains. Dr. "Winckel, of Rostock ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1865), has made careful observations upon the influence of chloroform upon labour. He con- cludes—1. That chloroform-narcosis retards labour by prolonging the intervals between the pains. 2. The acme of the pains is also short- ened. 3. The effects soon pass off; haemorrhages are only observed in abnormal labours, and not in labours with normal pains. 4. In crampy pains chloroform only allays the suffering without regulating the contraction. 5. Chloroform-narcosis does not exert perceptible influ- ence upon the temperature, either in normal or abnormal labour. Dystocia by the Foetus. ^ Dr. Wolff relates a case ('Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,' 1866) of dystocia from enlarged kidneys in the foetus. Dr. Curtze ('Ztschr. f. Med. Chir. u. Geburtsk.,' 1866) relates a caae in which labour seemed arreBted by cadaveric rigidity of the fcetus. Dr. Braxton Hicks (' Obs. Trans.,' vii) describes 2 cases of labour with face-presentation in the mento-posterior position, and discusses