ItEPOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 121. that collateral circulation is very soon re-established, wlierea9 the nutri- tion and temperature changes are found long afterwards. Next to the loss of sensation, the chief result of nerve section is a diminution of temperature. The condition of things in this respect could not be noted in Hutchinson's cases, and he thiuks seldom can be noted, so as to exclude fallacies, at early periods after the section. Respecting the state of things some weeks afterwards, he finds no exception to the rule that there is a remarkable loss of heat in the part which has lost sensation. The amount of comparative loss will vary with the external conditions, the heat of paralysed parts being so much at the mercy of external influences. In all Hutchinson's cases the anaesthetic fingers became very blue and. cold in cold weather; in several instances he observed this himself. In the warmest temperature they could never be raised to that of the adjacent unparalysed parts. Nor does even the existence of inflammation raise the heat to the normal standard, though it much increases it. In one case the paralysed part was 10 degrees colder than its fellow of the opposite side; inflammation came on, and the temperature rose, but never reached higher than 2 degrees below that of the other hand. In another case both the paralysed and the healthy hand were put in hot water; the difference remained con- stant, though each hand became 10 degrees hotter. In one case only was a small diminution of temperature, noticed in the paralysed part. Usually the difference was from 6 to 10 degrees. In discussing the causation of this diminution of temperature, Hutchinson remarks that it is unsatisfactory to ascribe it to disease of the palsied parts, for it is just as marked where one finger is contrasted with the rest of the same hand as when the whole hand is affected. To ascribe it to dilata- tion of the small arteries, and consequent slowness of the circulation, is scarcely more satisfactory, since paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, and consequent dilatation of the vessels, produces increase of temperature. Yet it is certain that the capillary circulation is in some way greatly disturbed. If you chill the part it becomes, not merely pale, but livid ; if you warm it it becomes, not of a bright pink flesh tint, but of a peculiar dull brick-red colour. The most plausible conjecture is, not that the nerve-control over the vessels is at fault, but that the vis a. fronte is itself much diminished. This would be partly by the atrophy of those parts of the skin which endow it as an organ of sensibility. The papilla? of the skin waste after the sensory nerve has been long cut. Then the nerves themselves will no longer maintain their nutrition, or need so much blood. Probably, however, there is more than this, and the endowments of every cell, in a part no longer connected with the great nerve-centres, undergo change. Under this hypothesis we may suppose that with the diminished energy of nutrition and growth of tissues the vis a fronte would be lowered to an extent which would account for the lowered temperature, the slowness of capillary circula- tion, and the occasional changes of structure. This hypothesis must be left to the judgment of physiologists. Hutchinson admits that the lesions of nutrition which often follow in paralysed parts are frequently the result of accidental influences operating in the defenceless condition of the paralysed organ (e. g. inflammation of the eye in palsy of the 5th,