REPORT ON SURGERY. 220 2. Eight cases are referred to in which the scapula was removed after amputation at the shoulder-joint. In all these cases where the event is given it was favorable. 3. Ten cases conclude the paper in which the scapula was re- moved without the arm. They belong to the following sur- geons:—Dr. Gross, Langenbeck, Hcyf elder, Syme, Jones of Jersey, Dr. Hammer, Syme, Fergusson, Pollock, Dr. Hamilton. The third and fourth cases died. The last was unfinished at tho date of the report, as was also the ninth, in which, however, re- covery afterwards took place.* The operation, however, being performed frequently for malignant disease, was in many cases followed by relapse. This was the result in the 2nd, 6th, and 9th cases.* The 1st case died from an accidental cause a short time after the operation. The 8th and 10th were too recent to allow of any report on this head. Complete and per- manent recovery appears to have taken place in Mr. Jones's case, where the operation was performed on account of necrosis, the patient being in good health 6 years afterwards. In Mr. Syme's 2nd case, also, the patient was well 15 months after the operation. In Sir W. Fergusson's and Mr. Pollock's cases the acromion process of the scapula was divided and left be- hind. This forms with the clavicle a cup for the head of the humerus, and lessens the resulting deformity. Excision of the Spleen ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xvii, 294).—Mr. Spencer Wells exhibited to the Pathological Society of London, on Nov. 21, 1865, the spleen which he had removed the previous day, from a woman set. 34, who had been suffering from a swelling in the abdomen for about half a year, and from some debility for about twice that time. She had had 3 children, and had been very weak after each confine- ment, but had never had any serious disease. The nature of the tumour was easily diagnosed as an enlarged spleen. The patient was placed on bromide of potassium and quinine, but the spleen continued to increase in size rapidly, the patient's condition became worse daily, and Dr. Jenner, who was called in, held out no hope of relief from medical treatment. It may be noticed that, though she was pale and anaemic, there was no considerable excess of white corpuscles in the blood. The operation to remove the spleen was performed as follows: —An incision was made along the outer border of the left rectus abdo- minis muscle, extending 5 inches above and 2 below the umbilicus, In opening the peritoneum a rather large artery was cut across in a piece of omentum, which was loosely adherent between the spleen and the abdominal wall. This was tied. The hand was passed below the spleen, and by turning the lower end out of the incision the whole was readily delivered. Mr. "Wells was beginning to twist the spleen round, in order to bring the vessels into a sort of cord, preparatory to applying the ligature, when the splenic vein gave way, and blood ran freely from the spleen, but none entered the abdomen. The pedicle was secured * These particulars with respect to Mr. Pollock's case are given from the personal knowledge of the present compiler, who assisted at it.