293 EXCISION OF SPINAL ACCESSORY NEltVE. excision at the same sitting by detaching the soft parts around the mental foramen, and then removing the bone behind this foramen—in the elder patient with a gouge, in the younger with a small trephine— and thus exposing the inferior dental in its canal; a portion (about one third inch in length) was then removed from the canal. In both cases the neuralgia was cured, at any rate for some months. In the first case (the elder patient, a woman, aged 69) it seems to have recurred, though possibly only slightly, and in some other branches of the trifacial; in the second case the report only extends over 4 months. " Excision of a part of the Spinal Accessory Nerve for Spasmodic "Wry- neck." By Campbell de Morgan, E.B.S., &c. («Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' July, 1866).—Mr. de Morgan relates a case of the above opera- tion, the first, as far as is known, in which it has ever been performed ; so that both the treatment and the operation itself are quite novel. The patient was a healthy labourer, 32 years of age, who had laboured for a few weeks under attacks of a spasmodic nature, in which the head was drawn to the right side. This was referred to an injury received two months before the accession of the symptoms. The spasms were very violent, and accompanied with much pain. The sterno-mastoid and trapezius were the muscles most violently affected, but they did not seem to be the only ones. In fact, Mr. de Morgan believed that " the spasmodic contractions were due to the antagonistic action of several muscles—the splenius and the inferior oblique and the greater poste- rior rectus—dragging the face round, in opposition to the action of the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid." Attempts to restore the head to its natural position, or any handling of the right side of the neck, increased the spasms. The latter were almost constant, both during waking and sleeping. They were conjecturally referred to reflex actions from some deep-seated irritation, perhaps witbin the spinal canal, " the spinal accessory, the abducens oculi, and some of the branches of the first and second cervical nerves, being principally involved in their pro- duction." After various methods of treatment had been tried in vain (including the^section of the sterno-mastoid muscle), Mr. de Morgan determined to attempt to abolish the action of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles by excision of a portion of the nerve which supplies them, hoping that when their action had ceased " that of the antago- nistic muscles, even if persistent, might be controlled or tolerated." The operation was performed in Feb. 1862 (more than a year after the onset of the disease) in the following way:—"An incision, 2 inches long, was made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the centre of the incision corresponding to about the centre of its edge. The fascia being slit up to the same extent, the trapezial branch of the nerve was sought for as it emerges from the sterno- mastoid to croas the posterior triangle of the neck. (It would be found generally a little above the centre of the incision.) When found the nerve was traced through the fibres of the muscle—the fibres being cut through, much as is done in an ordinary anatomical dissection—until the common trunk above the division into the trapezial and sterno- mastoid branches was reached, and here a piece about a quarter of an