SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF RECTUM. 315 covery in tho nature of the faoces discharged from the bladder, and in the appearance of urine per anum. When tho communication is with the small intestine the faeces have not, as it Beems, sufficient solidity to produce much dysuria; when the opening is situated at any considerable distance from the anus it does not seem probable that the urinous discharge will be perceptible. From these two considerations, joined to the fact that the rectum appeared healthy, the seat of the fistula in the present case was diagnosed to be in the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In connection with this case reference may also be made to the de- scription of a case of vesico-intestinal fistula by Mr. J. Morgan ('Med.- Chir. Trans.,' xlviii, p. 39). In the £ Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' i, 1865, p. 279, are notes of a clinical lecture by Mr. Paget on syphilitic disease of the rectum and colon. The patient was a woman, a?t. 28, who, after labouring under various syphilitic symptoms for about seven years, and especially ulcers and cutaneous growths around the anus, with obstinate stricture of the rectum, finally died in St. Bartholomew's Hospital of phthisis. Mr. Paget directed attention mainly to the characters of the syphilitic affection which was found in the intestines, and of the external appear- ances of which a living specimen was then in the hospital. Of the growths external to the anus, Mr. Paget said, " They are growths of skin grouped around the anus; in texture pinkish, soft, fleshy, glistening, moist, thinly secreting; in shape irregular, flattened as if by mutual pressure or pressure between the nates, sharp-edged, or conical. If they must be compared with something, they may be with cocks- combs, which, indeed, they are very like." Without absolutely asserting that these growths are always syphilitic, Mr. Paget said that they are very common in syphilis, and. so rare without it that as yet he had not seen a case. With regard to the ulceration in the rectum, it is thus described:—"Its whole mucous membrane is destroyed, except one small patch, which is thickened and opaque. The exposed sub- mucous surface has a lowly-tuberculated, undulating, uneven ap- pearance, and is thickened by infiltration. In the early stages the tissue is soft, as if from recent inflammatory effusion or oedema ; but as the infiltration organizes it hardens, becoming callous, with fusion of the mucous and submucous coats, and then contracts, and thus brings about the stricture. The affection commonly extends from the anus, as if by continuity with the excrescence, to about five inches up the rectum ; but it is rarely so marked in the first inch of the rectum as it is higher up." Of this condition, as of-the anal growths, Mr. Paget does not assert that it is absolutely characteristic of syphilis. It is re- peatedly seen in syphilitic women, but possibly other forms of long- continued ulceration of the rectum may be indinguishable from it. But in the case spoken of there were ulcers in the colon, which Mr. Paget regards as altogether peculiar to syphilis, and which in the pre- sent instance must be carefully distinguished from the tubercular ulcer of the intestines, in consequence of tho patient having died of tubercular phthisis; not that there is any marked resemblance between