430 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Fridoau (' G-az. d. Hdp.,' Paris, 1866) speaks highly of the value of copaiva and cubeba in the treatment of diphtheria. His experience relates to an epidemic in Mayence, which destroyed 200 persons in a short time. It is reported that Trousseau has tried the remedies with good success. On the question of croup and diphtheria, see Dr. Luzsinky (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlvi, 1866).—In this memoir Luzsinsky compares suc- cessively the symptoms of croup and diphtheria, and concludes that a distinction between them cannot be established; that the diseases are either the expression of the same morbid process, or, at the most, modi- fications of the same morbid process. On an epidemic of cerebrospinal meningitis (Genickkrampf). By Dr. Litten ('Journ. f. Kinderkrankh.,' 1865).—Dr. Litten describes an epidemic of cerebro-spinal meningitis which raged in Neustettin. The smallest of the children attacked were seized suddenly with vomiting. Then followed the tetanic retraction of the muscles of the neck, and sometimes the patients lost consciousness. Frequently the vomiting was not repeated, but the sopor was continuous; and if the patients got up for a moment it was only to express by gestures their suffering from spasm in the neck. The pupils remained contracted ; the tempe- rature somewhat increased, trismus, grinding of the teeth, quick pulse, soft abdomen, bowels alternately relaxed and costive. Death came in from twelve to twenty-fours in convulsions, or by paralysis. If the senses returned, although the opisthotonos remained, a free reaction was estabtished, which lasted a long time before arriving at recovery. Some cases were preceded by fugacious exanthemata on the arms, legs, and chest; others by tonsillary swelling, vague articular pains, and not rarely towards the end there was anasarca or oedema, with albuminuria. In all there was observed a peculiar dark tinge on the skin of the upper and inner part of the thighs, with a characteristic want of elasticity and a pulverulent desquamation. Scarlatina prevailed during this epidemic, and there appeared to be pathological relation between the two diseases. Fugitive scarlatiniform eruptions occasionally appeared during the course of the cerebro-spinal affections. The sequela? were those of scarlatina—arthralgia, hydro- cephalus, cedema, albuminuria. Dr. A. Steffen relates his experience in the use of inhalation in con- vulsive cough ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlvi, 1866). He refers to the reports of Lochner, Commenga, Blacke, Bergeron, Barthez, Roger, Manigault, on the inhalation of the fumes arising from the lime used in purifying coal-gas as a remedy in hooping-cough. He relates cases in which he resorted to inhalations of water-vapour, of a solution of common salt, either alone or with tincture of opium, and of tannin with laudanum. He gives the preference to the latter, but speaks of the vapour of turpentine. See also J. Roberton ('Med. Tim. and G-az.,' Jan. 1865). Abdominal typhus in children, and especially alalia. Dr. Friedrich ('Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xliv, 1865). Dr. Bouchut gives an interesting memoir on ague in infants (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xlv, 1865). A nurse-child was brought to the " Enfants Malades" from the district of Sologne. Referring to a previous case