REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 482 above the membrane with an air-pump. Of the different kinds of cod- liver oil, the brown was the one which penetrated membranes with the greatest rapidity and under the least pressure. Each of these fluids, however, greatly surpassed all other kinds of oil in its powers of pene- tration, the varieties which came nearest to them being the neat's foot oil and the 01. Ceti. The vegetable oils generally were consider- ably slower in penetrating membranes than the animal oils. These differences were, in part, explained by referring them to the thinness of the animal oils, and the greater proportion of olein contained in them. This, however, did not account for the special action of cod-liver oil. In order to determine whether the biliary matter contained in this oil had anything to do with the power possessed by it of traversing animal membranes, Naumann removed the biliary matter from different specimens of cod-liver oil. The result was that the peculiar properly of the oil was destroyed. However, on adding fresh ox-gall to the specimens of oil from which the biliary matter had thus been extracted, he found that they regained to a considerable extent their penetrating power. Again, when ox-gall was added to poppy oil the effect was to increase very greatly its power of traversing animal membranes. The mean results of these experiments were that the brown cod-liver oil went through 7'86 times more easily than poppy oil; and that cod-liver oil deprived of its biliary matter traversed membranes with 8-26 times more difficulty than the unaltered oil; while poppy-oil to which ox-gall had been added passed through 475 times more readily than poppy-oil by itself. A further series of experiments showed that cod-liver oil rises higher in capillary tubes than any other oil, and this whether the tube be dry or moistened with water or bile. It also passes more readily through filtering paper. Again, cod-liver oil, and the oils from the liver of fish generally, were found to be much more readily oxidizable than other kinds of oils, and Naumann thinks that they probably owe this property to elements which are nearly related to those contained in bile. Further, he shows that the combustibility of the fatty bodies contained in an animal is generally inversely as the respiratory activity of the animal, and that the fat from the liver of an animal is more readily oxidizable than the fat taken from other parts of its body. Lastly, mixtures of bile and of different oils were placed within loops of intestine of the cat, and it was found that cod-liver oil was more readily absorbed than any other oil. These differences were not, however, very striking.