RE POUT ON PRACTICAL MEMCIXE. 104 around. In describing the state of the capillary vessels he carefully distinguishes between true atheroma, which is a pre-existing condi- tion of one form of softening, and a fatty change which is the product of the softening process. In the first case the fatty matter is deposited in the substance of the capillary walls; in the other it is aggregated in granules on the external aspect of the vessels, or may even, in certain extreme cases, displace the capillary membrane; it is clearly derived from the molecular destruction of the nervous matter, and is not due to any previous vascular change; its microscopic appear- ance is very characteristic. The next change, in cases of ramollissement, which do not at once tend to a fatal issue, is one which resembles cica- trisation ; it is, in fact, a proliferation of connective tissue. Yellow patches on the brain-surface contract adhesions with the pia mater; patches of softening in the central parts are partly filled up with cel- lular septa; healthy tissue around softened spots becomes more or less indurated. Then the colouring matter of blood which has exuded from the capillaries converts itself into the crystalline forms known as haema- toidine. But this kind of reparative process may not occur so soon. In the forms described by various authors under the name of " chronic ramollissement," frequently large portions of brain-substance may be converted into a perfectly diffluent pulp, in which, under the micro- scope, the nerve-tubes are seen to be more broken up than they are in the earlier stages. But if the cicatrising process is to take place, there will be traces of new cellular tissue and embryo-plastic nuclei, indi- cating the approach of this repair of tissue. The effects of cicatrisation are—(a) Upon the surface of the brain, the production of the plaques jdimes of M. Durand-Fardel; (b) in the deeper parts, the conversion of softenings into irregular cavities lined with whitish or greyish cellular tissue, with numerous bands of such tissue crossing it at different places, and with a contained fluid, generally of a white colour, with sus- pended bodies like dust. Sometimes the walls have a yellow tint, like that of the " plaques." There is the closest relationship between central cavities and plaques jaunes. Proust thinks there is no doubt that, although ramollissement, in its essential nature, differs markedly from a chronic encephalitis, yet, nevertheless, a secondary inflammation is occasionally set up around a softened patch of brain ; and he compares this occurrence to the inflam- mation and suppuration which are frequently produced round a visceral infarctus, and which have been especially illustrated by the experiments of Virchow and others in artificial embolism. He also thinks it may possibly occur in the softened matter itself, but he thinks that as yet we have no valid evidence of this. With regard to the seat of ramollissement, he observes that, as between the two hemispheres, general opinion gives a greater liability to embolic softening of the left hemisphere, though he has doubt as to this himself. He cites the opinions of Durand-Fardel and others as to the greater frequency of superficial than of central softening. The centrum ovale, he thinks, is very often affected continuously in super- ficial softening. Of the ganglia, the corpus striatum is more frequently affected than the optic thalamus. Where a brain presents several dis-