350 REPORT ON SURGERY. lation into the subclavian artery, is yet more clearly shown by the occlusion of the common carotid, which has taken place after ligature of the innominate. I was ignorant of this fact at the time of operat- ing on the present case, but it is readily understood by supposing that the current in the larger carotid was completely checked by that from the more active vertebral, for these currents oppose each other in the subclavian when carrying on the retrograde circulation. If this is the explanation, it is interesting in showing how occlusion may sometimes be brought about. " The fact that the duration of life has been greater after ligature of the innominate than after that of the subclavian near its origin, can also be accounted for by the greater distance from the seat of ligature in the former operation of the anastomosing collateral branch. " From all these considerations I resolved to tie the right vertebral artery, before, if possible, another haemorrhage should take place, at the same time entertaining great fears of the result, owing to the patient's reduced condition. " On July 8th, 54 days after the first operation, with the assistance of my friend, Dr. P. C. Bower, of the Hotel Dieu, and the students of the hospital, I placed a ligature on the vertebral artery in the following manner: " The head of the patient being thrown back and slightly turned to the left, an incision, two inches in length, was made along the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing at the point where the external jugular vein crosses this muscle and terminating a little above the clavicle, the edge of the muscle being exposed and drawn to the inner side, the prominent anterior tubercle of the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra was readily felt and taken for a guide. Immediately below this, and in a vertical line with it, lies the artery. A layer of fascia was now divided, some loose cellular tissue with lymphatics and the ascending cervical artery were pulled to the inner side, and a separation was made between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles close below their insertion into the tubercle, when the artery and vein became visible, the later was drawn to the outer side (this is important) and the needle passed around the former from without inwards.* " No constitutional disturbance whatever was observed after this operation, which was much facilitated by the empty state of the vessels. On the following morning all the shot was removed from the first wound (having remained 38 days) and was found to weigh i\ oz. It had gone deeply into the neck and had probably ceased to press on the artery. " A marked decrease in the circulation of the arm was now ap- parent, the slight pulsation at the wrist disappearing; coldness and cedema supervened and the brachial artery became occluded, feeling * " The vertebral artery sometimes passe3 in front of the anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical vertebra, entering the foramen in the fifth transverse process. In this case it is easily found. In a subject in whom the right subclavian was given off beyond the left, returning behind the trachea, the vertebral branch entered the foramen of the seventh vertebra. These variations are worth remembering."