PREGNANCY. 393 month. Autopsy showed a laceration of the enlarged spleen, with effusion of blood into the peritoneal cavity. In another case the woman, after making some unusual exertion, a week or two after delivery, com- plained of abdominal pain and sinking, and died, Rupture of the spleen and effusion of blood were fouud. The late Dr. Cunningham delivered a patient by forceps. The patient died within an hour or two. Rup- ture of the spleen was discovered. Rupture of the uterus in an early stage of pregnancy (Dr. Dickinson, 'Pathol. Trans.,' xvii, 1866).—In this case a young unmarried lady died suddenly after flooding. Post-mortem examination showed a preg- nancy of three months ; some blood in the peritoneal cavity; there was a large irregular rent, occupying about half the anterior aspect, reaching to the fundus. The os was wide enough to admit a finger; the vagina was somewhat dilated. No trace of an ovum could be found. A corpus luteum was found. The uterine structure was too much decomposed to permit of ascertaining whether it had undergone any morbid change. Suspicion existed that this was not a case of spontaneous rupture, but one of laceration by some criminal manoeuvre, made with a view to procure abortion. Retroversion of the pregnant uterus '('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' 1866).— Dr. Lorimer relates a case which ended fatally. The patient was about three months gone. Abortion was induced by the uterine sound, followed by ergot. Attempts before and after abortion to reduce the uterus failed. On autopsy the uterus was found completely retro- verted, and a fibrous tumour the size of a small orange was lodged in the posterior wall. A case is related by Dr. Briero ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1866). A woman, set. 36, was pregnant three months for sixth time, when she suffered a severe concussion from falling backwards. Pains and dysuria followed. The case being mistaken for prolapsus, a pessary was applied. The more severe symptoms—vomiting, prostration, retention of urine—came on. The uterus was returned by means of two fingers pressing upon the fundus uteri through the rectum. The woman recovered without aborting. Dr. Playfair reports a case of retroversion at the fourth month; unsuccessful attempts at reduction were made. The uterus was finally replaced by fluid pressure by a caoutchouc bag filled with water, kept about twenty-four hours in the vagina (' Lancet,' 1866). Abnormal Pregnancy. B. S. Schultze insists ('Jenaisch Zeitung,' 1865) upon the distinction between superfecundation, i. e. the successive fecundation of several ova emanating from the same ovulation period, and superftetation, i. e. the fecundation of a second ovum, the result of a later ovulation period, which quitted the ovary during an already existing pregnancy. Superfecundation he believes quite probable. The supposed obstacle of the mucous plug in the cervix he denies. He says he has found Spermatozoa in the catarrhal secretions of women six days after the last coitus, and contends that either by such spermatozoa, or by others