266 REPORT ON SURGERY. in which Dr. Moon removed $| inches of tibia, on November 7, 1865, under similar circumstances, resulted in a like cure (' British Medical Journal,' Sept. 22, 1866). The following extracts exhibit some of the objections which have been urged against these operations : A case is reported in the ' Cougres Med. de France a Lyon,' 1865, p. 273, in which the lower portion of the tibia (an extent of 10 centi- metres = 3^ inches, as well as can be judged from the account) was extracted, leaving the ankle-joint freely open, and the astragalus exposed. The operator was M. Aubert, of Macon. The patient, a young man of 21, recovered. The periosteum, which was thick and in- flamed, was easily detached, the bone divided by a chain-saw, and the leg kept in a gutter splint. There was some shortening on his recovery, but the exact lengths are not given. There was some slight motion in the foot. The man could walk long distances, and dance for hours together. This case is followed by a paper of M. Marmy, of Lyons (p. 276), of which a resume only is given. It will be sufficient to say here that M. Marmy, while admitting the physiological importance of the periosteum to the growth of bone, denies that any advantage has as yet accrued to surgery from subperiosteal resections, and gives a decided preference to the method by " evidement " which M. Siklillot has recommended. Another paper in the same sense follows (on p. 300) by M. Desgranges, also of Lyons. M. Desgranges denies altogether the advantage of preserving a strip of periosteum to cover the stump of a bone in amputation, or of stripping off the periosteum from a loose fragment in compound fracture, supporting his opinion by cases in which such proceedings have failed. Pie denies that in the formation of a new nose, or the closure of the hard palate by the so-called " osteo-plastic " method, any evidence has been given that bone is really reproduced. M. Desgranges then criticises the cases of M. Oilier, in which the superior maxillary bone was taken away subperiosteally, and repro- duction was said to have occurred, and the operations of M. Larghi, Borelli, and Creus-y-Manzo, on the bones of the limbs. He concludes that there is no proof that the maxilla was reproduced; and with respect to the operations on the limbs, he concludes that the patients were affected with necrosis, that the new bone was taken away with that which was dead, and that the operation was fatal twice out of six times. M. Oilier replies to these attacks on his favorite doctrine (p. 326) in a paper which undertakes to deal with all parts of the question, both physiological and surgical. He says that he has practised subperiosteal resection 30 times. The results are only indicated in general terms; but M. Oilier says that in the unsuccessful cases erysipelas has been the chief cause of failure, and that in better circumstances of hospital atmosphere he could have practised the method more freely. M. Oilier, however, does not enter into the details of his cases, reserving them for a special work which he promises on the subject. It can scarcely be said, however, that M. Oilier replies in all particulars to the criticisms of his opponents. M. Sedillot, " On the Influence of Mechanical Causes on the Form and Development of the Bones, and on the Moulding of these organs