205 ENDOSCOPY. borne by the healthy parts of the membrane; the porte-caustiquo cannot be directed to the exact point required. But caustic can be easily applied in solution by ineaus of the endoscope to the granulations, and in this condition it penetrates into all the recesses of the surface, with- out produciug sloughing. M. Desormeaux uses from i—3 parts of water to 1 part of nitrate of silver. The urethra at the part affected is first to be dried by the application of a piece of dry cotton, and then a piece of cotton steeped in the solution is pressed on it for a short time. The effect is to turn the part white and render the granulations more visible. It causes a little pain and some scalding in micturition. The cauterization should be repeated at first every 3 or 4 days, then once a week. If the granulations are fungous, the stronger solutions are necessary. Rigors and threatening of orchitis are rare complications, and easily managed. Slightly astringent injections and baths are useful adjuvants. No internal treatment is generally necessary. The patient should have a tonic hut non-stimulant regimen, and sexual intercourse must be absolutely forbidden. This treatment M. Desormeaux says will cure every case, if persevered in ; but it often requires a long time. It is a little difficult to know when the treatment may be suspended, for the discharge will, of course, continue while instruments aud cauterizations are being constantly used. The appearance of the ulce- rated part must be the guide. When the mucous membrane, though still red, has become smooth, and when the caustic only produces a pale colour and not a dull white layer, the cauterizations may be suspended. The injections must be continued a little longer, and then the discharge wdl cease by simple hygienic treatment. In the herpetic affection the general treatment is of the first import- ance (alkaline and arsenical baths, alteratives, alkaline mineral waters, Fowler's solution, &c). Cauterization generally aggravates the mis- chief. The patches may be touched with the huile de cade and astringent injections may be used; or, better, an injection made with 1 part of the huile de cade to 5 or 10 parts of oil of sweet almonds, or alkaline in- jections, or injections of the sulphurous mineral waters. In some lymphatic constitutions there is a hypersecretion from the urethra, without any lesion. This state can be recognised by the endoscope, and requires tonic treatment, sea-bathing, &c. The author now passes to the consideration of stricture, commencing with a general sketch of the progress of its formation. Between the original condition of inflammatory obstruction in acute gonorrhoea and the final state of fibroid cicatricial organic stricture there is an inter- mediate stage of indefinite duration, which can only be studied by endoscopic examination. The first stage is characterised merely by swelling, and redness of the mucous membrane. It passes away with the acute stage of the gonorrhoea, and requires no other treatment than what is directed to the latter. Sometimes gonorrhoea may develop stricture without having passed through the stage of granular urethritis. J n this case either the inflammation acquires considerable intensity on certain points, marked externally by nodosities, which are tender to the touch, and the tissues become too profoundly altered to regain their natural consistence; or, "the urethra, having become inextensible,