CONGENITAL HYPERTROPHY OF LIMBS. 233 " Phlebitis may occasionally exist without thrombosis, and often, oc- curs without being followed by pyaemia. " Pysemia often exists without any evidence of thrombosis or phle- bitis ; still oftener, it occurs without any evidence whatever that it has been preceded by either of these or any other affection of the veins. " It has, therefore, not been satisfactorily shown that either phlebitis or thrombosis stands, in any especial or peculiar manner, in relation to pyajmia, as cause and effect." For the reasoning on which these pro- positions rest, we must refer to the original. Mr. Savory adds, " It is a question whether, in those cases in which the veins are plugged or inflamed, thrombosis and phlebitis are not the local, and pyaemia the general, effect of the same cause." " Contributions to the Knowledge of Congenital Hypertrophy of the Extremities." By, Prof. W. Busch ('Lang. Arch.,' vii, 1865-6, p. 174).—These are deformities consequent on excessive formation of a segment or the whole of a limb, which seem to depend on enlargement of all its parts, leaving the limb just as useful as before. [In one case described by Chassaignac, ' Graz. des Hop.,' 1838, p. 215, the hyper- trophic limb was the stronger.] Such partial hypertrophies as affect single fingers, toes, or larger segments of the hand or foot, may be divided into two main groups—the former, in which the bones are of gigantic size, and all the other parts of the limb in pro- portion; the second, in which the skeleton is also gigantic, but there is besides an especial tumour-like development of the soft parts, es- pecially of the adipose tissue, so that the limb is deformed as well as gigantic. In the first group (simple macrodactylies) there are cases where the phalanges articulate in the normal way, and others in which they are variously misplaced. The common observation, that the hypertrophy of the bones is greatest towards the joints, renders it probable that such abnormal positions are due to alterations in the epiphyses and articular surfaces. This kind of macrodactyly is far more common in the fingers than the toes. Cases are cited from foreign and English sources illustrating this hypertrophy without disproportion. The second class, hypertrophy with excessive over-development of soft parts, is also illustrated by published cases, and, finally, by two of his own. In one of these the foot was so heavy and inconvenient that it was amputated by Pirogoff's method, and a long and very complete de- scription of the anatomy of the foot is given. In this case the hyper- trophy affected chiefly the second and third toes, though the first was also, but less, hypertrophied. The fourth and fifth were normal. The tarsal bones were also somewhat larger than natural. There were large masses of hypertrophied fat in various places, and even up the leg. The bones of the leg were also hypertrophied, and this had not been noticed before the amputation, so that after recovery he had to wear a high-soled boot on the sound leg. The veins of the amputated foot were especially hypertrophied. The second case was an hypertrophy of two toes, with extreme development of subcutaneous fat. In both