REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 39G Cases of extra-uterine gestation are recorded by Dr. Junge (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,'' 1865), by Dr. Boehr (ibid.), by Professor Martin (ibid.) In Martin's case the nearly full-grown foetus, which had been retained about three years, was partly expelled aud partly extracted through the abdominal walls. The woman recovered. By Philippart ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1865), by Pellischek ('Oesterreich. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilkunde,' 1865). In this case extra-uterine gesta- tion was complicated with uterine gestation. Having delivered the uterine fetus, in removing the placenta Pellischek felt another living child in the left hypochondrium. It was determined not to interfere. A year later the mother was quite well, and the tumour had much diminished. Dr. J. B. Marinus has furnished to the Brussels Society of Med. Sc. (' Journ. de Med., &c, Bruxelles,' 1866) a systematic memoir on extra- uterine gestation, which sums up the current knowledge of the subject. The following case is recorded ('Med. Times & Gaz.,' i, 1865) as occurring in the practice of Dr. Friedrich, of Heidelberg. A woman, aged 19, had a tumour in the line of Poupart's ligament. This increased in size, and was diagnosed to be an extra-uterine gestation. To obviate rupture Friedrich injected into the tumour through the vagina -j1,, grain of morphia on four occasions. The tumour shrank, the catamenia returned, and the patient recovered. Cases of extra-uterine gestation are reported by Dr. Playfair (' Obstet. Trans.,' vii,) by Dr. Braxton Hicks (ibid.), by E. B. Truman (ibid.). In the discussion upon the latter case (ibid.) Dr. Barnes called attention to a point in the physiology and diagnosis of early tubal gestation. Previously to the rupture of the cyst—that is, previously to the shock and collapse which mark the epoch of the rupture—it was usual to observe a discharge of blood per vaginam. The haemorrhage, he believed, was commonly produced in this way :—The ovum growing, at about two or three months, the period when chorion is rapidly forming placenta, the rate of growth of the villi greatly exceeds that of the sac. The Fallopian tube is unfitted to harbour the ovum; it cannot keep pace with the shooting out of villi. These become disturbed ; haemorrhage results. Thus, under combined distension from growing ovum and haemorrhage, rupture takes place. It was by a perfectly analogous process that haemorrhage took place in placenta praevia. Here is an error loci, as in tubal pregnancy—the ovurn grows in the wrong place. The cervical zone is not well adapted to grow with the growth of the ovum. Hence a time arrives, about the fifth or sixth month generally, when the shooting villi get detached from the uterine wall, and haemor- rhage results. The cases of tubal gestation and placenta praevia were strictly analogous in this respect. Both were examples of ectopic gesta- tion—the ovum growing in a structure not fitted to grow in proportion with it. Mr. Boper remarked that in two cases he had seen ruptures of the cyst took place at a menstrual epoch. Other cases are reported by Eckhardt (' Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,' i, r86"5). There was decomposition of the foetus, discharge of a part through the bowel, and death by exhaustion. By Hillmaun (' Berlin. Klinische Wchnschr.,' 1864). The subject had been delivered of a