-1.17 l'OST-PUEKl'EUAL CONDITIONS. Professor Martin relates 2 cases of constriction of the intestine by exudation-bands occurring from peritonitis in childbed. Both ended fatally. Constipation and vomitiug, then fecal vomiting. In one case a bilocular uterus was found ('Mon. f. G-eb.,' 1865). Dr. Fussell relates ('St. George's Hospital Keports,' 1866) 3 cases illustrating the association of paralysis with childbirth. Case 1.—An example of paralysis from a direct mechanical cause. A lady had, as the head was entering the pelvis, the most violent cramps, followed by complete loss of sensation and motion in the legs, lasting for 3 or 4 months. Presentation natural; no albumen in the urine; no cerebral disturbance. Case 2.—A lady gave birth to twins at the full time, stillborn. Slight loss of power in the hands followed ; gradually all power of movement in both upper and lower extremities was lost. No loss of sensation; no albumen in the urine; no cerebral disturbance. In about three months she perfectly recovered. Case 3.—A girl, aet. 15, had been in labour about 4 hours. Haemor- rhage followed the placenta. In ten days phlegmasia dolens seized the right leg, and then, in some days, suddenly hemiplegia of the right side appeared. This only disappeared after 14 months. Dr. Putegnat communicates (' Journ. deMed., &c, Bruxelles,' 1865) an essay on puerperal iliac abscess. He divides the cases into those which terminate by resolution and those which find an external issue of the suppuration. He relates four cases of his own. On purulent effusions into the joints, &c.,in puerperal women. Dr. Beatty (Dublin, 1866). Dr. Snow Beck read a paper (' Obstet. Trans.,' viii) on enlargements of the uterus which follow abortions, premature or natural confinements ; with cases. The author remarked that these enlargements had been long recognised by pathological anatomists, and quoted some microscopical observations by himself, and communicated to the Medical Society of London in 1851, which showed that the pathological condition essentially consisted in an enlargement of the muscular tissue of the uterus, without the presence of any inflammatory or heterologous deposits. The causes were considered to depend chiefly upon—(1) a want of complete and persistent contraction of the uterus, which permitted an increased circulation of blood in the gravid organ, and interfered with the changes which took place after parturition; and (2) on the partially developed state of the uterine tissue in abortion, which appeared to be unfavorable to the development of those changes necessary to its complete reduction in size. The enlargement of itself gave rise to few and comparatively slight symptoms, unless it existed to such an extent as to be felt as a tumour in the hypogastrium; but it rendered the patient liable to profuse haemorrhages, coming on suddenly and without appreci- able cause. These enlargements might exist for many months, or even for some years, without any symptoms of importance; but from the recurrence of the catamenia, or other causes, congestion of the enlarged organ was gradually induced; or congestive inflammation, which may be either of the whole or of any portion of the uterus, might take place, the usual symptoms of uterine affection being then present. Amongst 27