REPORT ON SURGERY. 268 the periosteum. 2. The regularity and immobility of the surfaces, sheaths, or moulds, in which the osseous matter is formed. " Thus is explained the rapidity or slowness of the generation of bone, by the diverse degrees of alteration or destruction of the periosteum (by wound, inflammation, ulceration, suppuration, gangrene), and the immobility and regularity of the surfaces where the osseous cellules are deposited and agglomerated, serve to explain the superiority of the method by scooping (evideinent) over that of subperiosteal resection, because in the former the mould is regular, immovable, and invariable, and the periosteum intact, while in the latter this membrane is always more or less altered, sometimes destroyed, and the mould incomplete, mobile, and irregular." Osteoplasty by displacing the periosteum.—In the ' Gaz. des Hop.,' Feb. 18, 1865, will be found the report of a discussion at the Soc. de Chir. de Paris on a communication by M. Sedillot, in which he entirely denies the reality of the reproduction of bones in the human subject by the displacement of strips of periosteum ; although he allows that this may take place in animals. In particular, he denies altogether that there is any proof of reproduction of bone after Langenbeck's opera- tions for fissure of the hard palate, and appeals to the experience of other surgeons (Heyfeldcr, Ehrmann, Billroth, and himself) who have operated in the same way, but have failed to convince them- selves of the reality of such osseous reproduction. " A Case of Transplantation of the Periosteum of the Frontal Bone in lihinoplasty " is related by Mr. Stokes in the ' Dublin Quart. Journ.' for May, 1865.—The patient recovered favorably, and the new nose appears from the drawing to be both shapely and prominent. Still no details are given by which we can judge whether any benefit really resulted from the transplantation of the periosteum, since there is no record of any investigation having been made of the transplanted flap in order to ascertain whether bone was or was not deposited in it. The following refer to affections of joints, and operations upon those parts: In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 20, 1866, a paper is published, which was read by Mr. Nunneley at the recent meeting of the British Medical Association at Chester, " On the Keduction of Dislocations (more espe- cially of the Hip and Shoulder), by Manipulation." After some preliminary observations, Mr. Nunneley proceeds to give notes of 25 cases, in most of which this treatment was successful. The remainder of the paper we give in his own words: "Of these 25 cases, 21 were dislocations of the hip and 4 of the shoulder. " Of the 21 dislocations of the hip, 14 were upon the dorsum of the ilium, 5 into the ischiatic notch, and 2 into the thyroid foramen, or near to it. One was converted into a dislocation on the os pubis. « Of the four dislocations of the shoulder, 3 were under the pectoral muscle and 1 into the axilla. "The ages were as varied as possible. One man was of the unusual age of 72 years, and 1 a child of the, perhaps, still more unusual age of