ENDOSCOPY. 211 As a supplement to M. Desormeaux's general work on the endoscope, we may notice a pamphlet by him, entitled ' De l'Urethrotomie: Diacottra prononce a la Societe de Chirurgie, Juin 5, 1865.'* M. Desorrneaux begins by observing that urethrotomy, when successful, does not usually preclude the necessity for maintaining the calibre of the urethra during the rest of life by dilatation ; but in some rare cases this completely successful result is actually obtained. In this opera- tion he now uses the endoscopic method (in the manner above described) almost exclusively, and he proceeds to give some details of the cases of which he has notes, 18 in number. He has had several more cases, but he had entrusted the notes of these to a gentleman whose sudden death caused the loss of the papers. The notes, however, which he presents in this pamphlet contain the only fatal case which has oc- curred, nor was there amongst those which are lost a single instance of serious complication. Amongst these 18 cases we remark one (No. 4) in which M. Desormeaux was obliged afterwards to have recourse to Syme's operation (external urethrotomy on a grooved staff); but as this case occurred some years ago, it is possible that enlarged experience would at present enable M. Desormeaux to have performed his operation with more success. In two others of the cases the operation had to be repeated (Nos. 1, 6), and in another (No. 7) the stricture was known to have recurred. In one case (No. 8) the patient had two strictures, both of which were treated successively by M. Desormeaux's method, and with success. In the fatal case (No. 15) the stricture was found by post-mortem examination to have been properly divided, and there was no lesion of neighbouring parts. The patient was only 17 years of age, suffering from a severe traumatic stricture. One of the abscesses in this case, however, was situated in the upper part of the thigh, and M. Desormeaux very candidly points out that there might have been some direct communication, not proved after death, between this abscess and the operation-wound. "With equal candour he adds to the case of recurrence which stands in his notes two others, one of which was observed by M. Voillemier, and the other had come to his own knowledge since the compilation of the work before us. He notes that all these relapses were in traumatic cases, but he allows that there may have been more such relapses in other cases. The same thing will occur after all methods of treatment. « Urethral fever' was noted in 4 cases, but was easily controllable in all of them. Having thus communicated the results of his large experience, M. Desormeaux goes on to speak of the value of urethrotomy in general. _ After the abstract which we have given above of M. Desormeaux's views, it will not be necessary for us to restate them. He points out that it is in cases where the stricture is cicatricial or fibroid that it is liable to constant and rapid recontraction after dilatation, and that the latter process is very difficult and lengthy. In such cases, he says, if one is forced to employ one bougie for several days before passing the next number—if the resistance of the tissues gives the sensation of * Extracted from the 'Gazette des HOpitaux,' July 15, 1865.