REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 358 manner and extend the vertical cut, which is made simultaneously with the tenotomy, upwards and downwards—the more so if a very consider- able effect is desired. The wound in the conjunctiva is then closed with a suture. The same mode of operating is pursued in dividing the external rectus; and the separation of the conjunctiva is to be con- tinued as far as that portion of the external angle which is drawn sharply back when the eye is turned outwards." The advantages claimed are that it gives the operator greater scope, that there is no sinking of the caruncle, that the conjunctiva reassumes its ori- ginal position, and that not more than two operations are ever re- quired. M. Landsberg has described 12 cases of muscular asthenopia, in which the constant current gave wonderful results.* M. Javalf has pointed out the great value of the stereoscope in the treatment of squint. J Orbit and Exopldliahmis.—According to von Graefe,§ a symptom of pathognomonic importance in the earlier periods and slighter degrees of exophthalmic goitre is furnished by the defective co-ordination between the movements of the eyelid and the elevation or depression of the eyes. "When a healthy person looks upwards or downwards the upper lid moves in a corresponding direction, whilst in those affected with the disease the lid moves only very slightly, or not at all; this is especially noticeable when the patient looks down. This symptom is not due to the exophthalmus, but apparently to some alteration in the innervation of the muscles of the lid. Cases are not very rare where the only symptoms of this affection in women are rapid action of the heart without hypertrophy or valvular disease, and defective mobility of the lid. Mr. Nunneley, commenting on some cases of vascular protrusion of the eyeball,|| states that in his opinion " in the great majority of such cases of protrusion of the eyeball there is no disease whatever in the orbit; the state of it is most commonly intra-cranial. The protrusion of the eyeball is passive, and the other distressing symptoms are secon- dary, depending upon obstruction to the return of the blood through the ophthalmic vein, just as happens in those cases of popliteal and axillary aneurisms where the limb swells below the tumour, because this presses upon the accompanying vein. That this pressure, in the great majority of acute spontaneous cases, is caused by an aneurism of the carotid as it emerges into the cranium, or of the ophthalmic artery * ' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' xi, 1, p. 69. f 'Ophth. Rev.,' ii, 182, 190. } See also L. Kugel, case of insufficiency of both the external and internal recti ('Arch, fiir Ophth.,' xii, 1, p. 66). Alf. Graefc, on binocular vision in strabismus (ib., xi, 2, p. 1). J. V. Solomon, the radical cure of extreme divergent strabismus (Lond. 1864). T. Windsor, case of operation for paralytic strabismus ('Ophth. Rev,,1 ii, 162), and cases of strabismus, reported by Dr. Little (ib., iii, 148). Dr. Steffan, on the esti- mation of the amount of deviation of a squinting eye (ib., ii, p. 331), and on the opera- tion for hyperopic convergent strabismus (ib., p. 335). E. Javal, new mode of choosing a prism for a case of strabismus (ib., iii, 85), and on suppression of one retinal image (ib., p. 88; 'Ann. d'Ocul.,' liv, p. 5). § ' Ophth. Rev./ ii, 277. I|: Med.-Chir. Trans.,' xlviii, p. 15.