90 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (This view is directly opposed to that of Meschede, quoted above. This observer dwells strongly on the predominance of changes in the inner layer of the cortex, and the observations of Baillarger and Regnard on changes in the white substance so far confirm his opinion.) And he dwells on a circumstance which scarcely seems to be generally recognised, viz. that general paralysis may be caused in a non-predis- posed person by a simple injury, and ou the much greater frequency with which it is developed in members of families free from tendencies to insanity than other kinds of mental disease are. Mr. Lockhart Clarke discusses the morbid anatomy of the same disease.* He notices the importance of Robin's discovery (about 10 years since), that even in healthy brains a great number of the capil- laries are found to be surrounded with sheaths, similar in all essential particulars to those which have been considered morbid products in general paralysis and other brain affections, a fact which Clarke fully confirms from his own observation. The changes in general paralysis are, however, striking and real. Even the naked eye will often discern streaks and lines radiating through the grey and white sub- stances towards the surface. On vertical section of the convolutions a number of oval slits are noticed j these are the mouths of vessels sur- rounded by their sheaths. But the sheaths are often much less delicate than in health ; they are thicker, more conspicuous, and often darker; and sometimes they appear as fusiform dilatations, especially when the vessels are contorted. In general paralysis, also, the grains and granules of haeniatine are generally far more abundant than in health, being scattered in some places and grouped in others. In the nerve-cells of the convolutions Clarke has often discovered certain structural changes not yet described • they consist in the presence of an immense number of pigment- granules, which sometimes completely fill the cell. In other instances the cell has no sharp outline, and resembles an irregular heap of particles about to fall asunder. From the considerable space which we have necessarily given to the above subjects, we are unable to find room for any further analyses of papers on mental diseases, but the following are noteworthy publications on this subject: Albut, on a form of insanity connected with hydrocephalus ('Allg. Ztsch. f. Psych.,' xxii, 2, p. 10). A. Addison, mental affections in epilepsy (' Journ. Mint. Science,' April, 1866). Bastian, Charlton, specific gravity of different parts of the brain (' Journ. Ment. Science,' Jan. 1866). E. Bouchut, on sense and sensation (' Union Med.,' 40, 44,1865). Bacon, M., and Wilks, pathology of a case of general paralysis (' Journ. Ment. Science,' April and July, 1865). T. Belgrave, bromide of potassium, &c, in mental diseases (' Journ. Ment. Science,' Oct. 1865). Besser, relation of rheumatism to mental diseases ('Allg. Ztsh.f. Psych.,' xxii, 3,1865). Brierre de Boismont, influence of family life in the treat- ment of insanity (' Gaz. des Hop.,' ioi, 1865). Berthier, secretions of the skin in rela- tion to insanity (' Presse Med.,' xxii, 1865). Bottcher, cannabis indica in mental diseases ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' xvi, 1866). J. M. Chalrand, coffee in the treatment of cretinism (* Union Med.,' xxxvi, 1865). L. Danner, view of the epidemics of delirium in different historic epochs (Tours, 1865). Griesinger, etiology and pathology of mental diseases ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1866, p. 388). Griesinger, prognosis in mental diseases Q Journ. Mental Science,' Oct. 1865). Herczeghy, epidemic goitre, with reflections on cretinism (Bologna, * ' Lancet,' Sept. r, 18C6.