t'ETID BEONOHOftEHOfiA.. 143 of cases of asthma slowly but steadily diminishes through every suc- ceeding decade of life. Salter thinks that tho great liability of the first decade of life is accounted for, because this is pre-eminently the period of zymotic and other diseases of childhood; these exhaust and irritate the system. In adolescence there is the minimum liability, because the system has recovered the depression inflicted on it by the diseases of infancy, and has not yet encountered the hardships of serious life. But from the completion of manhood to its prime the cares and struggles of life exhaust and irritate the system and render it liable. On the other hand, it is rare that first attacks of asthma occur in the later years of life ; this is because the asthmatic tendency, if present at all, is almost sure to show itself at an earlier period of life. The general conclusion is, that the popular opinion, that asthma is a disease of old age, is not only not correct, but the very reverse of the truth. Fetid Bronchorrhoea. Dr. Laycock* calls attention to three kinds of lung diseases which are distinguished by foetor of the breath, but in which there is no gangrene, i. The first kind is judged to be a lung affection because there is no discoverable cause for the foul smell in the state either of nose, mouth, or throat, but there is no recognisable lung change. Dr. Laycock has seen this several times. 2. The second variety is called by the author "fetid bronchitis," and consists of a bronchorrhcea, or a broncho-pneumonia, with or without dilatation of bronchi. In this case the foetor is produced by the products of excretion and exudation. Laycock insists that bronchial dilatation is not universally present, as Briquet, Dittricb, and others, have supposed. In some cases the cause of the symptoms is a broncho-pneumonia, limited to one lobe of the lung, usually in the left lung, and not infrequently attended by the signs of a circumscribed pleuritis. Symptoms of lung collapse occur at a later period, in many cases, as a result of repeated acute exacerbations; signs of the formation of a cavern then also present themselves. Haemoptysis frequently accompanies the appearance of breath-fcetor. 3. The third variety of fetid lung disease depends upon the presence either of a vomica or of an abscess. Laennec spoke of such cases, where there is a collection of fetid secretion within a solidified portion of the lung, as " partial gangrene," but the general symptoms are quite distinct from those of true gangrene of the lung. It is impossible to suppose, for instance, that so much foetor can be supposed to be produced by the small amount of gangrene which could alone be present, judging from physical signs. The particularly chronic course of the disease also forbids the supposition. Laycock distinguishes three kinds of smell, the presence of either of which would make us term the breath "fetid." 1. A fecal smell. 2. A smell resembling that of ozaena. 3. The true gangrenous foetor. Laycock does not consider that the decomposition which occasions the fcetor of bronchorrhcea is of the nature of putrescence. He ia * 'Edinb. Med. Journ.,' May, 1865.