ACTIVE PRINCIPLES. 477 that their chief action is on the muscular system, and is itself the result of an interference with the cerebral functions. This drug must, there- fore, be regarded as a narcotic, so far as the higher animals are con- cerned. Hence the use of the seeds is not to be recommended in those diseases in which they have been employed in India. Messrs. J. and H. Smith* give directions for the preparation of thebolactic acid, a new body, discovered by them in opium. The process depends on the ready solubility of the thebolactate of lime. The acid itself is isomeric with lactic acid; and it is doubted by Dr. Anderson whether these acids are not identical. The yield of thebo- lactate of lime from Turkey opium has generally been about 2 per cent. Husemann and Marmef have investigated the chemical constitution of the Hellebwus niger and the H. viridis. They have recognised in these plants two active principles, both glucosides, and both free from nitro- gen. Of these, one, to which they give the name of helleborein, is con- tained in much larger quantity in the II. niger than in the H. viridis, although even in the II. viridis it is present in larger amount than the other principle. This last, which they term helleborin, is identical with the body described by Bastick under that name. It is much more abun- dant in the H. viridis than in the H. niger, being, indeed, present only in traces in the latter drug. Husemann and Marme prepared it by a process nearly identical with that recommended by Bastick. Helleborein crystallizes from very concentrated alcoholic solutions in masses formed of transparent minute needles. "When exposed to the air, these quickly become opaque and white, and form a yellowish- white, very hygroscopic powder. This has a sweetish taste ; it is very soluble in water, but less so in strong alcohol, although in ordinary spirit it dissolves readily; it is insoluble in ether. When boiled with dilute acids it is readily decomposed into grape-sugar and a substance termed helleboretin, which forms flocculi of a violet colour. Helleborin forms brilliant white needles, arranged in concentric groups. Its alcoholic solution has a very acrid taste. When placed on the lips it gives rise to a buiTiing sensation, which lasts for hours. It is insoluble in water, and very little soluble in ether. The smallest traces of it may be recognised by the splendid red colour which it gives with sulphuric acid. When boiled with dilute acids this body splits up into glucose and Tielleboresin. The very considerable differences between Bastick's description of helleborin and that given by Huse- mann and Marme are attributed by them to his having obtained the principle in very small quantity only, and in a very impure state. This is readily explained by the fact that he employed the H. niger in his investigations, for this species contains only a trace of helleborin. In another communicationX Marmd remarks that physiological ex- periments have shown that the roots of the different species of Helle- borus must contain an active principle soluble in water; and that, * ' Pharm. Jour.,' vii, p. 50. t 'Ann. d. Chim. u. Pbar.,' xxxv, p. 55. % ' Ilenle unci ft Ztschrft.,' xxvi, 1,2;' Grasvcll's Notizcn,' N. F., ix, p. 664.