135 ELECTRICITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES. Complete degeneration of the nerves quite into the muscles. The chances of amendment depend on the possibility of regeneration of the nerves. The constant current is indicated, with, perhaps, the alternate use of Faradisation. Fifth grade.—Both nerve and muscle are deprived of susceptibility to the stimulus both of the will and of each kind of electric current. Great nutritive mischief both in nerves and muscles. Prognosis probably very unfavorable ; but as yet there is not sufficient material for the decision of this question. " It must, of course, be understood that this division into grades is only provisional, for every one knows that there are a number of paradoxical phenomena which cannot be explained in this way. For instance, the case remains inexplicable of the different relation of the excitability by the will and by the electric current in the third grade of nutritive degeneration, especially the return of the normal voluntary power, while there is a complete lack of muscle and nerve susceptibility to the electric current; also the incomplete return of excitability by both currents in the course of the paralysis ; and, finally, the want of agreement between the observations hitherto made on this point. It is possible that dissimilarities or differences in species in the alterations of the anatomical, physical, and chemical conditions of the nerves occur, which hitherto have escaped our recognition; it is also pos- sible that, as Eulenburg assumes, in the motor nerve there reside separate energies for different stimuli. The distinct myopathic paralyses are not as yet adequately studied in their relations to the two kinds of current. Nor has any striking effect of either current upon these affections as yet been recognised, although latterly it has been regarded in many quarters as a fact that the constant current is better adapted than the induced current to their treatment. "We must make our decision on this question dependent on further researches. The importance of the facts in the pathology and therapeutics of nervous paralysis is, however, so great, that 'it is highly desirable that a similar investigation of the myopathic paralyses shall be made. In general, the result may be expected, that as with palsied nerves so with palsied muscles, that kind of current to which the muscular fibres respond to by contraction is the best remedy for that particular case." Dr. Althaus* relates an instance of successful treatment of general hysterical paralysis by the continuous current. His principle is to derive the current from a large number of Bunsen's or Daniell's cells, feebly charged. He does not think (with Bemak) that the current acts directly upon the spinal cord; he believes that it affects the skin- nerves directly, and the cord only in a reflex manner. In this case a current (from 40 to 50 elements) was sent in an inverse direction from the nape to the sacrum, twice a week. The case, which was a severe one, with extensive affection both of motility and sensation, extinction of voice, &c. &c, was in 6 weeks practically well, and shortly after- wards the menses, which had been suppressed, reappeared. Althaus remarks that, not only in functional, but in many severe organic lesions of the cord, thia treatment does good. He mentions an instance of * 'Lancet,' Feb. 18, 1865.