lUiPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. 2 the chief point of interest which attaches to the observations made during the past two years is their bearing on the much-vexed question of the presence or absence of an investing membrane to the red corpuscles. Ofsiannikoff ('Bulletin de l'Acad. Imperiale,' t. 8, p. 561) admits its presence on the ground of his having observed distinctly the formation of crj'stals within the cell-membrane in man, as well as in other animals, whilst the opposite opinion is maintained by Rollett (' Moleschott's Unter- suchungen,' Bd. 9, 1865, p. 474) and by Schultze ('Max Schultze's Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,' Bd. 1, 1865) ; the former chiefly because of the remarkable effects produced by the passage of electrical currents through the defibrinated blood of the frog, the corpuscles assuming a variety of forms, allowing the escape of their nuclei, and ultimately coalescing to form viscid masses of considerable size; and the latter on accouut of the changes which he has noticed in the corpuscles of blood examined microscopically on the above-mentioned stage, at the normal temperature of the body (ioo° Fahr.). Under these circumstances the white corpuscles of the blood exhibited the most lively and vigorous move- ments, not only of form, but of location, processes being thrown out in all directions, giving rise to the most bizarre forms, and, as in the case of the amoebiform cells, being frequently followed up by the entire corpuscle, whilst in many instances a still more striking resemblance to these cells was afforded by the absorption into their interior of various colouring matters and minute granules, as those of carmine, indigo, and milk. As regards the red corpuscles, although Schultze was never able to perceive any change of place, such alterations in their form were observed as were, in his opinion, incompatible with the presence of a proper cell-wall. E. Neumann (' Reichert's Archiv f. Anat. ii. Physiologie,' 1865, Jan. 1866) gives an undecided opinion on this point, observing that, whilst the effects of the passage of electrical currents through defibrinated blood incline him to agree with Rollett, and to deny the presence of a cell-wall, other experiments that he has undertaken, showing the action of phosphoric acid on the corpuscles, lead him to admit its existence, since under the influence of this agent the corpuscles gradually swell up and finally burst. The curious movements of the blood-corpuscles that have just been referred to appear to be identical with those observed by Frey (' Das Microscop,' 1865, p. 142) in pus-cells obtained by exciting inflammation in the eye of the frog, by Ecker and Schliiter in the corpuscles of the saliva, by Lavalette St. George (' Schultze's Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,' Bd. 1, Ht. 1, p. 68) in the cells contained in the tubuli seminiferi of many animals, by Grohe ('Virchow's Archiv,' Bd. 32, Ht. 4, p. 445) in the cells of a fibro-cartilaginous enchondroma, by Kiihne in the ceils of connective tissue and of the cornea, and by Cohnheim (' Virchow's Archiv,' Bd. 33, Ht. 2, p. 314) in the large blood-corpuscle-hokling cells of the spleen-pulp. The question whether these movements are purely physical or are of a vital, that is to say, of a muscular nature, is difficult to determine. Beichert ('Reichert's Archiv,' 1865, Ht. 6, p. 749) seems to regard the movements of the sarcode of the lower animals, to which class all the cell movements above mentioned may be referred, to some modification of ordinary muscular tissue. Hofmeister (' Verhand. das Heidlb. Nat. Hist.