ItEPORT ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. 37-J. a V shape, strips of mucous uiembrauc from the anterior wall of the vagina as far as the edge of the os uteri. The parts being restored by- sutures, the anterior wall is contracted, and its power of supporting the uterus is regained. Dr. Thomas A. Emmet, New York (' New York Med. Journ.,' April, 1865), describes with necessary minuteness an operation designed for the same end as Dr. Marion Sims, and so modified as to obviate some imperfections which experience had brought to light in it. Mr. Robert Ellis ('Lancet,' 1865) describes an operation for the radical cure of prolapsus uteri, lie insists that a square surface should be pared from the vaginal mucous membrane behind, making it as broad as possible near the cervix uteri. By bringing the edges together, a broad firm column, the whole length of the posterior wall of the vagina, is thus obtained to support the uterus. He uses a flat silver ribbon instead of round wire for sutures, and fixes them by a twist after passing the fissure of a double " quill," made by soldering two pieces of silver together at the ends. Dr. Da Costa, in an elaborate memoir on vesico-var/inal fistula, ad- dressed to the Academy of Medicine of Brussels ('Journ. de Brux.,' 1865), proposes the following plan of treatment:—He makes use of the sphincter ani to retain the urine, by making an opening in the pos- terior vaginal wall into the rectum above the sphincter. This is to be large enough to permit the free passage of urine, menses, and other uterine discharges. When this opening has cicatrized, he proceeds to close the vesico-vaginal fistula by the interrupted suture. [Reference is also made to cases and papers by Thomas Bryant (' Guy's Reports,' 1865), Dr. Heppner (' Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 186 5), and A. P. Banon ('Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' 1865). Dr. O. v. Grunewaldt ('Petersb. Med. Ztschr.,' 1865) describes at great length chronic uterine catarrh. He insists much upon the many consensual symptoms attending. These are generally more complained of by the patients than the local symptoms. All, he says, are called forth by reflex irritation. Headache is commonly due to this rather than to the anemia, consequent upon constitutional impairment. The same applies to backache, also to the cardiac and gastric symptoms. Dr. E. Wagner relates a case of peritonitis ('Arch. f. Heilk.,' 1866) caused by purulent catarrh and perforation of the right Fallopian tube. Certain uterine affections in their relation to phthisis pulmonalis are treated of by R. Battye, M.D. ('Obst. Trans.,' viii). The author's attention to this subject had extended over fourteen years, during which time he had collected numerous examples of various forms of uterine leucorrhcea coexisting with affections of the lungs. He brought eleven cases before the society, minutely describing the symptoms and termi- nation of each. As soon as the leucorrhcea was cured or relieved the chest symptoms also either entirely disappeared or lessened in extent and force. He strongly urged early special attention during the treatment of phthisis to uterine discharges when present, as such caused a constant drain on the constitution. As to treatment, he seldom used local reme- dies, but trusted to acids, vegetable bitters, and cod-liver oil. The