271 DISLOCATION.—TREATMENT BY MANIPULATION. adjuvant muscles will be perceived to rapidly contract. Thus the bone is partly pushed by the surgeon and partly pulled by the muscles attached near to its neck into its place. A snap is commonly, but not invariably, heard ; and the reduction is accomplished. This, I believe, can only be rapidly and brilliantly accomplished under the muscular conditions which 1 have indicated. " I need hardly detain the members by any very minute description of the precise manner of proceeding in each form of dislocation, as this must necessarily be varied to some extent with each form of dislocation, and must be guided by the surgeon's own knowledge of the anatomy of the joint; the object being, I would merely say, to use the limb as a lever to bring its displaced head into as near a position to its socket as is possible, at the same time calling into action those muscles which will immediately act upon it in pulling it through the ruptured capsular ligament at the socket, and at the same time relaxing those which may have a contrary effect. " As a rule, I think the patient should be laid on his back upon a mattress placed upon the bed, the floor, or a large table, so as to be firmly supported. When the muscles are thought to be sufficiently relaxed, and the patient is quite quiescent, the surgeon, supposing the dislocation to be on the dorsum ilii, or into the ischiatic notch, should mount upon the mattress, and, standing above him (if it be a dis- location of the shoulder, standing beside the patient on the affected side will be the proper position), quietly seize, with both hands, the leg of the dislocated limb ; gently flex it upon the body; adduct it; then quickly rotate the head of the bone, which brings the muscles into play; and, almost at the same instant, suddenly and forcibly abduct the limb and bring it down into an extended position, when, if the movements be successful, the reduction is effected. If the head of the bone be in the ischiatic notch, while the movements will be of essentially the same character, the flexion will be required to be somewhat less than when it is high upon the dorsum; while the abduc- tion, as the limb is rotated, must be more forcible, or the head of the femur will not be lifted out of the notch over the high edge of the acetabulum ; and care, as has already been said, must be taken, or, instead of passing into the cavity, it will be thrown into the thyroid foramen. Should the dislocation, whether primary or secondary, be on this foramen, the movement must be one of fidl adduction, instead of abduction, so as to bring the head of the bone near to the socket. " Though this plan of reducing dislocations has been spoken of as one more especially adapted for cases in which the head of the bone is in the ischiatic notch, I believe it will be found that, in this position, reduction by manipulation will be more difficult, and more frequently fail, than in any other form of dislocation to which the hip is liable." In the 'British Medical Journal,' Nov. 3, 1866, Mr. Birkett gives the following summary of cases of dislocation under his care, reduced by manipulation : " 1. 1848, February. Dislocation into foramen ovale ; a female, a?t. 22. " 2. 1849, December. Dislocation on to dorsum ilii; a female, set. 45 to 50—the twenty-second reduction.