423 THE NEW-BOltN CHILD. and jalap; blisters. The calomel is given only as a purgative; as an alterative, iodide of potassium is better, to which the addition of a few drops of tincture of digitalis, to promote diuresis, is useful. On the treatment of spina bifida, by Dr. Giraldes.—Iodine injections were used (' Journ. f. Kinderkr.,' xliv, 1866). On the differential diagnosis of chronic hydrocephalus and of rickets by means of the ophthalmoscope. By Dr. Bouchut (' Union Medicale,' 1865).—In chronic hydrocephalus, he says, the blood-circulation and nutrition of the fundus of the eye suffer alteration, winch are easily explained by compression of the brain through the accumulation of fluid in the skull. These changes can be easily seen by the ophthal- moscope. In proportion as the fluid collects and the pressure increases we see—1, greater vascularity of the pupil and choroid, with dilatation of the veins, winch preserve their normal colour; 2, an increase in the number of the vessels of the choroid ; 3, a partial or complete serous infiltration of the pupils; 4, atrophy of the choroid and its vessels ; and 5, a more or less marked, at times complete, atrophy of the optic nerve. In rickets of the skull none of these appearances are seen. Dr. L. Joseph and Dr. M. B. Preund give (' Klinische Beitrage z. Kynakologie,' Breslau, 1865) very careful anatomical descriptions of the skulls of three cases of hydrocephalus interims congenitus. The authors conclude that the exudation in the cavities of the brain is the primary process, which, taking place, causes resorpton of bone by the unusual pressure exerted. See a case of meningocele in the occipital region, which was injected with iodine without ill-consequences. T. Holmes (' St. George's Hosp. Rep.,' 1866). Mr. Thomas Smith (£ Bartholomew's Report,' i) describes minutely congenital cystic tumours. He says they may be distinguished from spina bifida when occurring in the course of the spinal column by—1, the healthy condition of the skin over the cystic tumours, as distin- guished from the discoloured and often attenuated integuments over the sac of a spina bifida; 2, by the absence of any signs of deficient in- nervation in the trunk and lower extremities. It is probable, he says, that this disease is more frequent in the female sex, and more than pro- bable that first-born children are exceptionally liable to it. Mr. Turner (ibid.) describes a cutaneous proliferous cyst containing hair found within the cranium of a young child. Reference is made to a memoir on epignathus by C. Hecker (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1865). On the influence of labour on the fcetus, especially in relation to the origin of asphyxia and apnoea in new-born children. By B. S. Schultze ('Vir chow's Archiv,' 1866).—Dr. Schultze, whose previous researches on the asphyxia of new-born children are favorably known, contri- butes a memoir in which he endeavours to prove—1st, that inter- ruption of the placental interchange of gas may produce deep asphyxia, and even asphyctic death, without inducing respiratory movements; and 2ndly, that under certain, perhaps frequent conditions, even after the symptoms of asphyxia from impeded placental gas-exchange have set in, and directly through the consequences of the intra-uterino asphyxia