287 EXCISIONS OV WRIST AND HIV. the same length), saw oft" the surface of the radius parallel to its carpal articulation, and clip away its semilunar facet with bone-forceps. This having been done, the ends of the metacarpal bones are thrust out at the radial and ulnar iucisions, as may be most convenient, and clipped off with forceps, care being taken to remove also the lateral facets by which they articulate with each other. The operation is completed by dissecting out the trapezium bone, which had hitherto been left behind (with care, so as to avoid the flexor carpi radialis and the artery), and removing the articular surfaces of the thumb and of the pisiform bone and the unciform process, if diseased. The extensors of the carpus are the only t wo tendons divided, for the flexor carpi radialis is connected with the second metacarpal bone below the point at which it is divided, and so escapes. The radial incision is to be united throughout, the central part of the ulnar incision being kept open for the escape of matter. The operation is a very long and laborious one. It depends mainly for its perfect success on the after-treatment. The principal objects to be kept in view are, to maintain the flexibility of the fingers by frequently moving them, and at the same time to procure firmness of the wrist by keeping it securely fixed during the process of consolidation. Passive motion is to be commenced on the second day, whether the inflamma- tion has subsided or no; and from this time it is to be continued daily till it ceases to be required. In executing these movements each finger is both flexed and extended to the full degree which is possible in health, care being taken that the metacarpal bone concerned is held quite steady, to avoid disturbing the wrist. The splint which Mr. Lister recommends consists of a straight piece of wood, having below it, under- neath the part where the ball of the thumb rests, a transverse bar of cork, to give a hold for the bandages and to support the thumb; at- tached to the upper surface of the splint is a wedge-shaped piece of thick cork, forming a pad to support the palm of the hand, and to the ulnar border of the splint are fixed two supports of gutta percha, to obviate the tendency of the hand to slip inwards. The thumb rests in its natural position, below the level of the fingers, on the transverse bar of cork, and it must be kept extended by a substantial pad of cotton in the angle between it and the forefinger. Passive motion is to be commenced on the wrist as early as possible, and the part of the splint which supports the fingers is to be cut away as soon as the latter become sufficiently consolidated; but the wrist is to be supported for a very long period by some form of splint or laced bandage, in fact, until the patient feels that the hand is as firm without such bandage as with it. Mr. Lister's paper contains detailed notes of ten cases in which more or less perfect success has been obtained by this operation, besides some others not yet completed, and two in which the pa- tients died, though, as it seems, from causes unconnected with the operation. Eulenberg, " Contributions to the Statistics and the Estimation of the Operation of Excision of the Hip," ('Langenbeck's Archiv,' vii, p. 701.)—The author sums up the results of 56 published cases of resec- tion of the hip, on account of carious disease, which have been published