THERAPEUTICS Oh" NERVOUS DISEASES. Dr. Bottcher* has used Indian hemp in the most various forms of mental disease ; sometimes with transitory effects only, sometimes with improvement, and sometimes producing a complete cure. He says it is especially useful in the proaromata of insanity, where there is pre- cordial uneasiness and loss of sleep; it is more effective than opium, and is useful where opium is contra-indicated. In fully developed cases Indian hemp is the more effective in proportion as there is severe excitement, heightened hy hallucinations of sight and hearing. Bottcher uses the (officinal Prussian) extract and the tincture ; of the first, ^ to ^ grain twice daily ; of the latter, 15 drops twice a day. He records 4 cases of melancholia with periods of excitement (3 of them accompanied hy hallucinations), in which striking effects were produced. In 1 case recovery occurred in 2 months ; in a second in 3 months; in a third after long use of the extract of hemp ; in the other, which was a relapse, the date of recovery is not specified. Dr. Lyonsf records a case in which he treated delirium tremens by the administration of a bolus containing 30 grains of Cayenne pepper. This caused some slight burning in the mouth and throat for a time, but no serious inconvenience, and in less than an hour the patient fell into a sound sleep, from which he awoke some 3 or 4 hours later in a state of convalescence. This case only confirms the results which have been obtained on an extensive scale by Lyons in the "West Indies, and also Drs. Kinnear and Lawson in the Melville Hospital. In the latter institution not less than from 70 to 80 cases have been successfully treated with this remedy in single or repeated doses, ranging from 20 to 80 grains. Lyons believes that its modus operandi must be a direct influence on the gastric expansions of the vagi, and through them upon the cerebro-spinal centres. The phenomena of the disease point to the simultaneous existence of stimu- lation and paralysis, perhaps, of opposite portions of the nervous system. For general employment the capsicum has many advantages over digitalis, particularly in those recurrent and senile cases which are so often attended with fatty heart. Other papers on special drugs for nervous diseases axe the fol- lowing : Benedikt, therapeutic researches with curara ('Wien. Med.Wochnbl.,' 7,1865; 30,1866). Besnier, bromide of potassium in epilepsy, &c. (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 35,37,1865). Barrett, S., large doses of digitalis in delirium tremens ('Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1865). Kulenburg, action of quin. sulph. on nervous system ('Virchow's Arch.,' iv, 1865). Greenhalgh and Nunn, iodoform in neuralgia, &c. (' Lancet,' i, p. 208, 1865). Hillier, bromide of potassium in epilepsy (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 6, 1865). Murray, use of chloroform in epilepsy ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' April and May, 1865). Peuleve, bromide of potassium in epilepsy ('Union Med.,' 40,1865). Thomas, action of digitalis ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1865). Bossarie, muscular contraction cured by subcutaneous in- jection of atropine (' Bull, de Therapie,' i, 1865, p. 380). * ' Bcrl. Klin. Wochensch.,' iii, 16, p. 166, i860; ' Schmidt's Jalnb.,' 1866. t ' Med. Press and Circular,' April 18, i860. 0