1863). THE INFANT.—CROUP. ■1:1 'J giousness of croup depends upon epidemic circumstances. Croup Ts not hereditary, and does not depend upon parasites. In the sporadic form croup begins in the pharynx, and it is only later that it spreads to the air-passages. Fits of suffocation, not due to foreign bodies fallen into the larynx, or to false croup, are the sure signs of false membranes in the larynx and pharynx. Croup, as croup, ends in deatli in a few days j but recovery is not tardy if the disease does not pass into general diphtheritis. Relapse is peculiar to pseudo-croup, rare in true croup. The croup which succeeds to the acute exanthemata in special hospitals and large towns, easily passes into true diphtheritis, becoming contagious, and creating an epidemic. Damp favours the development of croup. So long as false membranes are not formed in the larynx even the most severe kinds of diphtheritis may be cured; but when once the aerial stenosis has appeared broncho-pulmonary complications and the other peculiar morbid features of this fatal infection are quickly manifested. Bleeding and blisters are always dangerous. Emetics are useful. Calomel, cauterisation, laryngeal catheterization, and tracheotomy are the resources. On croup. By Dr. Abelin ('Journ f. Kinderkrankh,' 1865).—Dr. Abelin describes an epidemic of croup in Stockholm. He prescribes bleeding; extols cold; does not advise mercurials; says sulphate of potash, antimony, chlorate of potash are very uncertain. He prefers local treatment, especially the inhalation of water-vapour with a little vinegar; sometimes bromine or iodine are useful. He thinks well of emetics. He insists upon the supply of fresh air. The following memoirs on diphtheria may be consulted:—By Dr. Grreenhow; Dr. Greve, describing an epidemic in Namdalun, in Nor- way, 1860-1 ; by Dr. Hallin, describing an epidemic in Fahlun, in Sweden, in 1861-2 ; by Dr. O. Neyber, describing an epidemic at "Wisby, Sweden (' Journ. f. Kinderk.,' xlv, 1865). On the epidemic puerile angina which reigned in Fonzaso in 1864 by Dr. Facen (' G-azz. Med. Italiana').—The epidemic diphtheritic angina described by Dr. Facen was preceded by measles, the travelling virus of which is easily absorbed by the lymphatic glands of the throat. In some cases it was associated with scarlatina. In some cases the angina put on the true diphtheritic character, with a tendency, if not contagious, in some degree epidemic (sic), without being preceded by any acute exanthemata. The author particularly directs attention to the external swellings of the glandular system seen in the subauricular regions. There is a long and interesting discussion on diphtheritic paralyses in the 1 Journal fur Kinderkrankheiten,' 1865, in which Drs. See, Main- gault, Trousseau, Gubler, and Roger, took part. Dr. Thoresin relates his experience of the epidemic of diphtheritis in Norway from 1861 to 1864 in a very interesting memoir (' Norsk Ma- gazin,' 1865, and ' Journ. fur. Kinderkr.,' 1865). Dr. Eug. Moynier illustrates the use of tracheotomy in the last period of croup by several cases (' Union Med.,' Jan. 1866). Tracheotomy in croup is elaborately discussed in its historical and other relations by Dr. Barbosa, of Lisbon (Acad, of Sciences, Lisbon