EXCISION OF SPLEEN. CESOF11AGOTOMY. 221 by a clamp temporarily while the ligatures were being applied, and on taking off the elanip it was found that the pancreas had been bruised by it. All the ligatures, except those on the vessels in the abdominal wall, were cut off close, and returned into the belly. The wound in the abdomen was closed with 8 silk sutures. The patient died on the 7th day. It is not necessary to quote the de- tailed notes of the case. It will be sufficient to say that, beyond the great shock of the operation, the prominent symptoms were rigors re- peated frequently during the last 4 days of her life. On post-mortem examination the wound was found perfectly united, but the cutaneous edges were separated without difficulty. The peritoneal edges adhered much more firmly. Two ligatures on superficial vessels came away with a slight pull. There was a drop or two of pus in the track of one of them. The ligatures on the splenic vessels were found with diffi- culty, being hidden by the pancreas. There were no signs of general peritonitis, scarcely any serum and not a trace of blood being found in the abdomen. Redness and effusion of lymph were entirely limited to the seat of operation. Both pleurae and the pericardium contained a large amount of bloody serum ; the lungs were healthy, as were all the other viscera. The heart was flabby, and the blood in the body un- coagulated and decomposed. Erom this account it appears doubtful whether death was due to shock or to blood poisoning. Mr. "Wells says that, with the exception of two operations performed on the Continent (and both also fatal), this is the first instance in which the spleen has ever been excised in the human subject. In the ' Guy's Hospital Reports,' 1866, p. 446, Mr. Bryant relates a case in which he performed this operation at Guy's Hospital, on June 20, 1866. The patient only survived about 3 hours. He was a young man set. 20, who had suffered for about half a year from gradual en- largement of the spleen in leucocythaemia. The tumour filled nearly (but not quite) the whole of the left side of the abdomen. The details of the case need not be given. It is sufficient to say that Dr. Wilks, under whose care he was, believed that death was imminent, and that no medical treatment would give relief. The operation seems to hare been easy, the tumour being readily extracted through an incision 5 inches in length, passing vertically from the cartilage of the 8th rib to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The pedicle was secured by a whipcord ligature, which was cut short off and returned into the abdo- men. The cause of death in this case was haemorrhage into the abdomi- nal cavity, proceeding, as it seemed, not from the pedicle, but from some smaller vessel lacerated in an adhesion which had to be separated to remove the tumour. Mr. Bryant expresses himself as quite satisfied of the justifiability of the operation in general, and would be prepared to repeat it in an appropriate case. The fatal result, in this instance, shows to his mind the importance of securing all vessels in accidental adhesions which the operator may have to deal with. (Esophagotomy for pressure on the oesophagus, supposed to be from disease of the thyroid. Successful. Death afterwards, in consequence of tracheotomy, rendered necessary by commencing oedema glottidis.