265 SUBPERIOSTEAL MSSECTION. i3 not surprising that we also should entertaiu similar views, until com- pelled to relinquish them by force of circumstances." " Subperiosteal Resection" ('New York Medical Journal,' April, 1865, p. 4S).—Dr. Conant removed a portion of the tibia from a boy 7 years of age, 3 hours after a railway accident. The portion of bone removed, 3-£ inches in length, was lying loose in the wound. The fibula was also fractured and strongly bowed outwards, one fragment being thrust through the skin. The part removed involved about one third of the length of the bone; but the boy made a good recovery, and new bone was regenerated by the periosteum, so that only ian inch of shortening remained. The treatment consisted in steadying the limb with sand- bags at first, then a fracture-box, with moderate extension afterwards by means of the weight and pulley. Reference may be made to the 'Lancet,' March 31, 1866, for a case in which the present compiler removed the whole diaphysis of the tibia at the commencement of an attack of acute periosteal abscess ; also to two cases of injury of the hand and forearm, by Dr. Larghi of Vercelli ('Omodei Ann. Univ. di Med.,' 1866, vol. 196, p. 541). "Excision of Scinches of Tibia; recovery."—Dr. W. P. Moon, of Phi- ladelphia, relates the case of J. S—, set. 39, who was admitted to hospital on July 22, 1864, for gunshot wound of the right leg, received at the battle of Petersburgh. A minie-ball entered the upper third of the outside of the right leg, passing downward obliquely through the spine of the tibia, at middle third, carrying away a small portion of the bone, and emerging at the inner side of the leg. The injury to the bone, though apparently slight, proved to be one of those contusions which destroy the vitality of the tissues to a considerable extent, and eventuate in a large amount of necrosis. Sloughing of the soft parts, first in the track of the wound, and then of the bones, supervened. The slough of the bone also extended, until two thirds of the tibia became involved in its entire circumference. Abscesses formed constantly, which required to be opened. Active inflammation subsiding, it was decided, on Oct. 24, 1864, to remove the sequestrum, which proved to be 8^ inches in length, from the epiphysis of the ankle-joint. The periosteum being in a measure loose and quite easily detached, the posterior portion of it was left in the entire extent of the shaft. An incision along the spine of the tibia, exposing 9 or 10 inches of the bone, was made, when it was readily re- moved by means of bone forceps. Dry dressings were used after the operation. The haemorrhage, being trifling, was easily controlled. Nourishing diet with tonic treatment was continued, as before the operation. The soft parts, which had had an unnatural congested appearance, from this time took on healthy action, and the case pro- gressed rapidly and favorably, new bone forming the whole length of the periosteum which was left in the wound. On December 8 healthy granulations throughout were filling up from the bottom with new bone. The patient was able to be about the ward on crutches. On Jan. 19, 1865, being very anxious to go home, he was discharged. On May 10, 1865, he wrote, " I am at work at my trade, coach-building, and have complete use of my injured leg, running up and down stairs as well as any of the workmen. The wound has entirely healed, and new bone formed throughout. I still wear my artificial support." Another case,