REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. ■6-Z found in the spleen, brain, and other organa, yet that the largest pro- portion is formed in the kidneys themselves. From experiments which he has himself undertaken he has framed the following conclusions: 1. That in the renal parenchyma under normal -conditions only a snail quantity of urea is present. 2. That heat develops in the kidneys, and in their watery extract, not urea, but extractive substances, which form insoluble combinations with nitrate of silver. 3. The watery extract of the kidneys, at the temperature of the body, converts a portion of the kreatin into urea. 4. The renal parenchyma possesses this power in a high degree. Schunck ('Proceed, of the Eoyal Soc.,' vol. 15, No. 80, p. 1) con- cludes from his observations that human urine contains, at least, two peculiar and distinct colouring matters, one of which is soluble in alcohol and ether, while the other is soluble in alcohol, but not in ether. The former has a composition represented by Cm H51 N052, the latter by H2- N028. Dr. Moore (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1866, vol. 2, p. 525) has published a case in which he satisfactorily determined the presence of casein in the urine. The secretion had previously been albuminous ; it presented an alkaline reaction, possessed a sp. gr. of 1015, no longer coagulated on the addition of nitric acid after the application of heat, but coagulated on addition of acetic acid, and on evaporation covered itself rapidly from time to time with a caseous pellicle. It contained little urea, but deposited numerous blood-corpuscles, some mucus and oil-globules, and a few spermatozoa. This case is an interesting one in a physio- logical point of view, since, as Dr. Moore observes, it was evident, from the large number of blood-corpuscles contained in the deposit, that much blood was present in the urine, while no albumen, but much casein, was found in the latter ; and it would, therefore, appear as if the albumen of the blood itself had, in the short space of 24 hours, under- gone an extensive caseinous modification, unless, indeed, we admit that some substance had been secreted, or some decomposition had taken place in the fluid, by which the ordinary reactions of albumen were masked or made to simulate those of casein. MM. Estor and C. St. Pierre (Eobin's 'Journal d'Anatomie,' 1865, p. 190) are of opinion that the functional activity of the spleen alter- nates with that of the stomach. There has beeu some controversy during the past year between M. Phillippeaux and M. Peyrani in regard to the possibility of the regene- ration of the spleen after its ablation, and the question may be con- sidered as still in abeyance ; but there can be no doubt that the spleen may be removed from the body, as in M. Phillippeaux's experiments, and may yet recover or preserve, if immediately replaced, its normal characters ; and even when it has not been replaced it is possible that the reappearance of the organ noted by the same observer may be due to the growth and development of the little splenculi bo frequently seen in its vicinity.