150 REPORT ON MKDICAL J UIUSPKUDKNCK. cstryehuia. The first tetanic fit came on in half an hour, and proved fatal. None of the alkaloid was detected in 15 ounces of hlood taken immediately after death from the large vein of the anterior wall of the stomach, nor was any found in 10 ounces of blood removed from the right heart, nor in 12 ounces of urine removed from the bladder. Another horse was killed by giving it it grains of the nitrate of strychnia. It died in the second tetanic fit, at the end of 25 minute.-. An ounce of blood from the thoracic duct, a pound and a half of blood from the right heart, and the liquid obtained by digesting the liver in cold water, were severally examined, but yielded no trace of the poison. Cloetta does not profess to determine the cause of the disappearance of the strychnia, but promises some further observations on the subject. Some of his experiments were made for the purpose of ascertaining how long strychnia can resist decomposition. Solutions, each contain- ing a grain of nitrate of strychnia, were placed in 3 human stomachs, and the organs were then buried. The alkaloid was discovered in each case, although the stomachs w-ere not exhumed for 3, 6, and nj months respectively. Braun* has proposed, as a test for the presence of hydrocyanic acid, the reaction with picric acid first observed by Hlasivetz. When a strong hot solution of cyanide of potassium is added to a solution of picric acid (also concentrated and hot), the fluid acquires a deep blood- red colour. This is the result of the formation of a salt of potass, con- taining a new acid, which Hlasivetz termed isopurpuric acid. This re- action does not succeed with free hydrocyanic acid, so that it is neces- sary first to neutralize with potass the liquid to be tested. The picric acid should be dissolved in 250 parts of water. If the solution con- taining cyanide of potassium be very dilute, the quantity of picric acid added should be only just enough to give the liquid a citron-yellow colour. It should then be boiled. The colour does not appear at first, but only after some time, when the liquid has cooled, and particularly after it has been exposed to the air for some hours. This test is said to be more debcate than that which depends on the formation of Prussian blue, and to be equal to Liebig's process, consisting in the production of the sulpho-cyanide of iron. During the last two years physiological tests (on which wras based so large a part of the evidence in the La Pommerais trial, recorded in the 'Tear-Book' for 1864) have been employed in two important medico-legal cases, and the medical literature of this period contains several papers upon the subject. Dr. Hilton Pagge and Dr. Stevensonf have published a long series of experiments, made with the object of determining whether the applica- tion of physiological tests for digitaline leads to satisfactory results. They endeavoured to make their experiments under conditions^ as nearly as possible those which would be met with in actual practice. * 1 Prott. Njhrsacurft.,' xci, p. 94. t 'Gun's Hosp. Hep.,' 1866, p. 37.