ItEPOltT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. n believe that the nerve-fibres penetrato the sarcolemma and become directly continuous with the muscular substance. It is not likely that both views are correct; yet the different magnifying powers, and the various modes of preparation employed, and the difference which may exist in different animals and in the various parts examined, introduce sources of error that greatly complicate the question, and render it ono upon which it is difficult to form a definite opinion. In Cohnheim's (' Virchow's Archiv,' vol. 34, 186^, p. 194) investigations solutions of nitrate of silver were employed to stain the muscular sub- stance. The muscles of the frog, snake, and lizard were examined, and by careful dissection the nerves could be traced, still retaining their double contour, to near the sarcolemma, where he states that they divide in a forked manner, and then, appearing to penetrate the sarcolemma, lose their double contour, become extremely attenuated, and terminate either, as in the frog, in delicate white lines, of irregular and varying width, running for the most part longitudinally to the muscular fibre, and com- municating with one another by transverse lines ; or, as in the snake and lizard, in a very irregularly formed and deeply indented plate—the terminal plate. He is convinced the appearances he has seen can only be rightly construed on the view that the termination of the nerve lies under the sar- colemma, and on the surface of the proper muscle or contractile substance. Kiihne, whose observations may almost be said to have begun the contro- versy, has recently (' Virchow's Archiv,' vol. 34,1865, p. 412) endeavoured to determine the question by another mode of preparing the muscular fibres, viz., by reducing them to a horny consistence by exposure to cold. He also describes and figures the terminal nerve-plate as lying immediately beneath the sarcolemma, which he believes to be continuous with the nerve-sheath. He describes the processes of the terminal plate in nearly the same terms as those used above by Cohnheim, and can see no limiting membrane between the nerve-tissue and the contractile muscular substance. To some who suggest that the terminal plate is only produced by the effusion of the medullary substance of Schwann from the extremity of the nerve- fibre, he replies that neither the terminal plate nor the contractile sub- stance have the power of reducing perosmic acid (Os04), whilst Liebreich has shown that such reduction is easily effected by protagon, which quickly assumes a bluish-black colour under the influence of weak solu- tions of this acid. Frey (' Das Microscop,' p. 207, 1865) and v. Hessling (' Gewebelehre,' 1865, p. 138) agree with the above-mentioned observers in the position they assign to the terminal nerve-plate, placing it internal to the sarcolemma. The statements of Dr. Lionel Beale (' Proceedings of Royal Society,' vol. 14, 1865, p. 231), who has bestowed much pains and care upon the solu- tion of this question, and who has employed higher microscopic powers than were at the disposal of the German inquirers, are to the effect that nerves invariably form circuits, and that there are, in truth, no ends at all. He describes the ultimate distribution of the most delicate fibres of the frog's bladder—a tissue eminently favorable for examination of this kind, as having a plexiform arrangement, the finest branches invariably lying on the outside of the sarcolemma of the muscular fibre, and forming in this position wide-meshed networks. He appears to regard the finest