G REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. stomach may diffuse itself into all the vascular textures, and even into the cartilage of the hip-joint and aqueous humour of the eye, in the short space of 15 minutes. In young guinea-pigs it appeared in the lens in ahout 30 minutes. In} old guinea-pigs it had permeated every part of the lens in ahout 4 hours. It appears to pass away from the system altogether in about 3 or 4 days. In man 5 or 10 gr. doses of carbonate of lithia may appear in the urine in from 5 to 10 minutes, if given upon an empty stomach, or in 20 minutes on a full stomach ; and it may con- tinue to bo eliminated for 6, 7, or 8 days. In %\ hours traces may be detectable in the lens, and in 7 days it may have altogether disappeared. The experiments with cpainine led to still more interesting results, as they showed that a peculiar fluorescent substance, which they have termed animal quinoidin, and which closely resembles quinine in all its properties, is very generally distributed through the different textures of the body, and is especially abundant in the lens, where its presence may readily be shown during life by the electric light. On careful examination of the amount of increase of fluorescence occurring after the administration of quinine, they arrived at the conclusion that in guinea-pigs quinine has certainly permeated in 15 minutes all the vascular and most probably all the non-vascular tissues, whilst in 48 hours it has nearly all passed out again from the system. From similar experiments on cataracts in man it appears that in 2^ hours traces of quinine may be found in the lens. It begins to appear in the urine in from 10 to 20 minutes after ingestion; in from 2 to 3 hours it has reached its maximum ; in from 3 or 4 to 8 hours, at longest, it begins to decrease; in 24 hours it has very much decreased, in 48 hours its presence is still detectable, but in 72 hours not a trace of it can be found. It must be understood that these experiments do not in any way indi- cate the actual rate at which the old materials of the tissues are exchanged for new, but rather constitute a measure of the permeability of the tissues for the substances in question, and show that the serous or lymphatic fluids with which all parts are naturally moistened, and from which they draw their nutrition, are perpetually undergoing renewal. Experiments similar to those of Dr. Bence Jones and M. Dupre" have been performed by G. Colin (' On Absorption effected by the Lymphatics, &c.,' Paris, 1863 ; ' Canstatt's Bericht,' 1865, p. 104), and by Eulenberg ('Hermann's Medicin Centralblatt,' 1865, p. 529). Colin inserted a canula into the thoracic duct of a dog, and found that when iodide of potassium was injected into the stomach it appeared in the chyle in from 18 to 20 minutes, and altogether disappeared in from 6 to 15 hours ; when injected into the small intestine it appeared in 6 minutes ; after subcutaneous injection in the lip of the horse it appeared in 7 minutes, and remained for 4 hours in the glands of the neck. The salt appears more quickly after subcutaneous injection in the lymphatics than in the veins. , Eulenberg found that iodide of potassium injected subcutaneously into the neck appeared in parotidean saliva in from 1 to 1^ minutes, when into the lower limb in from i\ to 5 minutes, and when into the stomach in from 20 to 4<5 minutes. Evidence of its presence could be obtained after 24, 3<5? and even after 48 hours.