REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 160 valvular disease leads to dilatation and hypertrophy; the former is especially frequent. Consequences of the embolisms are visible in other organs. The blood was in one case strongly acid, and con- tained much fat, leucin, and tyrosin; in another the blood-corpuscles were irregular in shape. Ulcerative endocarditis most frequently attacks the mitral, and next to this the aortic, valves; it has only once, hitherto, been seen in the tricuspid. Symptoms.—In the first place there is palpitation, irregular action of the heart, and a sense of oppression; the conspicuous feature is often merely adynamic fever, and subsequently a typhoid condition. In other cases the illness begins with a shivering fit, followed by a remission, which is, however, incom- plete ; the shivering at first recurs periodically; jaundice usually soon comes on, and in some cases there is recognisable shrinking of the liver. Albuminuria is not rare. The course is generally rapid, the patient generally soon falls into collapse, and finally (in two or three weeks) dies somnolent. The physical signs are—strong, heaving, diffused, heart-impulse, exaggerated heart-sounds. Treatment is merely directed to symptoms; cold cataplasms, digitalis (but not if there be great prostration), narcotics, counter-irritation, and, if there be shivering, whether periodic or not, quinine. If there be low fever, by bark, mineral and vegetable acids, and finally musk ; if there be pain in the spleen or liver, local bloodletting and cold cataplasms. M. Heraud relates a case* in which the symptoms ran essentially the course depicted by Schuitzler; there were, however, no signs of embo- lism, nor was any embolus found after death, which occurred in fourteen days from the rigor which was the first symptom. The ulceration was in the aortic valve and the neighbouring tissues. There was sero-puru- lent effusion in the pericardium. A marked symptom was shivering, which occurred once at least each day. MM. Duguet and Hayemf record a case in which there were a papular rash and petechia? on the skin, with delirium, and a marked typhoid character of the general symptoms ; secondary abscess in the ankle, and an ecthymatous pustule on the end of each toe; pericardial friction- sound very loud, and obscuring the heart-sounds. Post-mortem exa- mination showed extensive ulcerations in the left ventricle and on the inner surface of the pericardium, and numerous secondary abscesses in the kidneys, the lungs, and the brain. The reporters of this case are inclined to think, from the occurrence here of typhoid symptoms at the commencement, that other observers have attributed too many of the phenomena in this disease to embolism and metastatic deposits. The Graphic Method of examining the Organs of Circulation. The first important result of recent labours in this field which has to be recorded is the complete establishment of the accurate and reliable working of M. Marey's ingenious sphygmograph. The defence of this instrument which was put forward by Wolfi'J in 1864 has been amply * ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 69, 70, 1865. t ' Gaz. Med.,' 41, 1865. % 'Arch, der Heilkuudc,' 1864.