REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * 'Lancet,' Nov. 10 and Dec. 22, 1866. 16S the traces given by the sphygmograph are such as Marey has described as appropriate to these conditions. In treating of the cardiography traces obtained in this case Foster points out that at the commencement of that portion of the tracing which corresponds to the period of filling of the ventricle there is one sudden ascent of the lever which differs markedly from the form of this part of the trace obtained from a normal heart. He considers this indicates the arrival of a considerable quantity of blood in the ventricle, not only from the auricle, but by regurgi- tation, from the aorta. He also observes that the hypertrophy of the ventricle is indicated by the altitude of the line which marks the ventri- cular contraction, and the almost horizontal direction of the vibrations immediately succeeding the first partial fall of the lever, showing the increased duration of the systole. The line of descent after systole had a vertical character in the case commented on ; this showed a sudden diminution in the intra-ventricular pressure, which proved that the ventricle had been efficiently emptied of blood. In another case, which Foster relates, there was mitral regurgitation, hypertrophy, and senile degeneration of the thoracic aorta. As regards the sphygmographic indications, it is important to note that the want of elasticity produced in the thoracic aorta by the degenerative disease did not make itself visible by the appearance, in the radial pulse, of the square-headed trace which is indicative of arterial rigidity. Foster inclines to believe that, where only the great arteries of the chest are affected with senile degeneration, the graphic form of the pulse will give no indication of the normal condition. [My experience is different; I have Beveral times diagnosed such disease from the character of the radial pulse.—F. E. A.] Dr. Burdon-Sanderson and Dr. Anstie commence a series of papers on the indications of the sphygmograph ; the papers falling within our period are two by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson—on the theory of the pulse, and on the varieties of the pulse in disease*. Dr. Sanderson commences by remarking on the absolute necessity of a close and constant reference to the physiological phenomena of the circulation by those who would draw reliable inferences from sphygmographic traces. He remarks that the exposition of the "wave theory" by E. H. "Weber, which affirmed that the pulse " non est materia progrediens, sed forma materiei progrediens," was the first step to an understanding of the mechanism of pulsation. With the application of graphic instruments, however, the subject assumes a new aspect, and requires fresh investi- gation. For this purpose there is nothing so useful as a comparative examination of the traces given by the pulse at different distances from the heart; and he proposes to compare the radial trace with that obtained from the carotid artery, since in man, of course, the aorta cannot be explored. The exploration of the carotid reveals, first of all, the fact that the pulse-curve is divided into two parts. One of these coin- cides with the period during which the heart is in communication with the aorta, the other with the period during which the sigmoid valves remain closed. The commencement of the first part (systolic period)