REPORT ON SURGERY. his these 'Des Tumeurs du Cordon spermatique,' 1848. He admitted their theoretic possibility, and cited a case, but had never seen one. The author describes 3 cases which he had seen, and says that he has 3 times met with the state of parts allowing of this form of hydrocele in dissecting the bodies of young infants. In one of the cases seen during life, an infant 11 months old, he had the opportunity of examin- ing the parts after death; the aperture between the funicular portion of the tube and the peritoneal cavity was very small, hardly admitting a probe. In none of the three had hernia preceded the hydrocele, so that they could not have been cases of accumulation of serum in an old hernial sac. This form of hydrocele is usually small, and of little in- convenience to the patient. The author believes it to be occasionally mistaken for hernia. 3. The third variety of communicating hydrocele is called ' funicular inguinal of the tunica vaginalis.' In this case the only part of the tunica vaginalis which is not occluded, as it ought to be, is that lying between the two rings. In his dissections of children he has twice found this portion unobliterated and communicating with the peritoneal cavity by a small aperture, but empty in both cases. "When the parts are in this state, as the person grows, the cavity becomes of a certain size, and may give rise to a fluid tumour, globular, not very large, reducible but gradually, and then reappearing gradually and not after coughing, sometimes not entirely for some days. Of this form he gives two examples during life, in one of which he had the opportunity of dissecting the parts. In treating communicating hydroceles, the distinction between the "idiopathic" and^the "sympathetic" or "symptomatic" mustbekeptin mind. If the hydrocele be sympathetic, and the fluid be formed in the peritoneal cavity, the application of a truss is always advisable, as tending to close the opening, prevent the gravitation of fluid, and thus cure the hydrocele, while the proper general treatment is used to remedy the condition of the peritoneum. If, on the contrary, the hydrocele has originated idiopathically, i. e. from congestion or inflammation about the cord, the application of a truss would be improper for the 3 follow- ing reasons :—1. It would probably set up too much pain in the inflamed parts to be tolerated. 2. If tolerated, it would oppose the passage of the fluid into the belly, and increase instead of diminishing the hydrocele. 3. Because, if the pressure of the truss were at any time removed, and the fluid which is accumulated in the tunica vaginalis pressed towards the belly, the orifice of communication would be reopened, and the effect of the truss thus destroyed. The pressure of the truss on the spermatic veins may also increase the tendency to effusion. He advises, therefore, to attempt to cure the hydrocele before applying a truss. He notices that even after the cure of such a hydro- cele, hernia of the]common form not infrequently occurs in consequence of the previous distension of the parts. II. As to the non-communicating hydrocele. He gives the follow- ing statistical table to show the relative frequency of its 6 forms: