REPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 404 Prof. Litzuian on the obliquely contracted pelvis, relates two cases which came under his own observation. Dr. Marinus ( ' Presse. Med.,' 1865) relates a case oi narrowing of the pelvis through exostoses. Craniotomy was performed successfully. Dr. Gr. Hartmann ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1865) relates a new case of spon- dylolisthesis. Labour was brought on prematurely with success for mother and child. (For history of this pelvic distortion see N. S. S. 'Tear-Book,' 1864.) Six cases of osteomalacia are related in the ' Report of the Milan Lying-in-Hospital.' The usual symptoms of pains and impossibility of standing erect were present. The only circumstance Dr. Casati calls attention to is that all the patients came from the flat district of Milan, where misery prevails. Nearly all wrere weavers in cotton, and were badly fed with a scanty allowance of maize bread. Not one came from the highest parts of the city or from the Lago Maggiore. The Forceps. Dr. Putegnat has communicated to the Society of Med. Sciences of Brussels (' Journ. de Med., &c, Brux.,' 1866) a memoir on the limits of the tractile force exerted by the forceps in relation to the mother and the child. He refers to the researches of Baudelocque and of Delore (' Gaz. Hebdom.,' 1865). Delore, in experiments on the dead body, carried traction to a force equivalent to 200, 250, and 270 kilogrammes, without injuring the pelvis. In numerons labours, Putegnat says, he has been aided in traction by 1, 2, and, in one case, by 5 assistants, all taking a point of resistance. In no case was the pelvis started or fractured. He concludes, with Delore, that—1. Movements of laterality, judiciously applied, permit the extraction of the foetus most easily, and with the least danger to mother and child. 2. The solidity of the pelvic symphyses is generally much greater than the resistance required in traction exerted according to the rules of art. 3. The pelvis is endowed with an enormous power of resistance, and pregnancy does not^diminish this power. If, therefore, the symphyses are ruptured, this must be attributed to congenital or morbid weakness. As to the degree of force which the child can bear, Putegnat starts with the proposition that the pressure exerted upon the head is in proportion to that of the traction upon the handles of the instrument. Delore says when he exerted a tractic force of 130 kilogrammes the head was not cracked, but when the force was 140 kilogrammes it was always broken. Puteg- nat confirms this. Essays upon this subject and upon the appareil a tractions continues de Chassagny have been published by Berne (Lyons, 1865) by Jacquemet (Montpellier, 1866) and on the use of force in labour by Bailly (thesis, Paris, 1866). This last embodies some of the views of Joulin, who contests with Chassagny the merit of priority and of excellence in the application of graduated force to the forceps by machinery. The Milan school follows the precepts of Lovati in the use of the forceps ; that is, the blades should always be applied to the sides of the head, for the reason that in so applying them the bi-parietal diameter of the head is reduced, as it is naturally reduced in normal labours.