ALCOHOLISM. 73 the arterial pulsations are lessened; but towards tho close of life the pulsations and the temperature increase in consequence of paralysis of the vaso-niotor nerves. The duration of the disease varies from a few hours to several days. It is sometimes fatal, but generally ends in recovery. The treatment consists in preventing fermentation, pro- moting the secretions, and antagonising the causes which have been enumerated. Acetone, when formed in the organism, must be elimi- nated by stimulants or purgatives. Eegard must be had to the various symptoms as they occur, and the bladder must be emptied. Alcoholism. In a paper read before the Academy of Medicine on July 4, 1865, M. Lancereaux* describes the structural lesions arising from the pro- longed abuse of alcoholic Hquors as being divisible into two classes. In the first the connective tissue is affected; in the second, there is a modification—granulo-fatty degeneration—of the proper tissue of organs. The changes in the connective tissue are chiefly met with in the liver, brain, kidneys, and serous membranes, but may be found in most other organs. There is at first a manifest injection, and numerous nuclei grouped in lozenge-shaped spaces appear along the course of the small vessels, especially in their external coats. At a later period cells and fibres are developed, and constitute a network, which contracts, so as to impress on each parenchymatous organ a physiognomy almost always identical and altogether special. The condition of the liver described as cirrhosis, the characters of which have been well described by English writers, presents a model example of this change. This organ is at first increased in size; soon, however, the new tissue con- tracts and presses on the acini, so that the liver diminishes in volume, and presents on its surface or on section, not only a certain amount of induration, but also a finely granular appearance, which is quite pathognomonic. M. Lancereaux has met with this condition in thirty- five cases; its characters have been always the same, differing only in degree according to the stage reached. A very analogous change may occur in the brain; this gradually diminishes in volume, and loses colour; and the convolutions, especially those on the upper surface, become atrophied. The cerebellum and medulla frequently undergo similar changes. The arachnoid and pia mater are generally at the same time infiltrated with serum, thickened, opaque, scattered with whitish patches or points, and often coloured by ha?matin. The kidneys in some case3, like the liver, present a grained or uniformly granular surface, an increased consistency, and notable atrophy. Magnus Huss has described a lesion of the lungs under the name of chronic pneu- monia ; but M. Lancereaux has not been able to meet with an instance of it. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, being most directly influenced, is very often affected, but in certain parts only— the stomach and the caecum. The mucous membrane of the stomach presents a very rich vascularity, disposed in scattered patches, mostly * ' Bull, de 1'Academic de Mud.,' xxxi.