MUSCULAR TISSUE. 23 A theoretical exposition of the facts nearly in accordance with these views has been promulgated by tho Munich school, the chief points of which have been well summed up by M. See in the following terms (see his lectures in the ' Revue des Cours Scientifiques,' 1866, Nos. 35, 38, 40, £c.) :—Muscular exertion uses up neither the proper substance of which muscular tissue is composed nor the albuminous substances consumed as food; it produces only such molecular changes in myosin and rnusculin that they become transformed into retrogressive compounds like creatine, creatinine, sarkin, and uric acid. But the decomposition is arrested at these primary derivations, and does not progress to the formation of urea, which is the last result of the disintegration of the albuminous constituents, and which consequently, under these circumstances, neither accumulates in the muscle nor is eliminated in excessive quantity by the kidneys. Besides these azotized substances, however, sugar and lactic acid are either obtained from the food or are produced at the expense of the musculin; these undergo further decomposition, favoured by the presence of the albuminous compounds ; hence follows the production of the excess of carbonic acid, now known to take place as the result of muscular exertion. Hence, therefore, it would appear that both the albuminous and hydro- carbonaceous materials entering into the composition of muscle are used up in the production of contractile force. Fatigue, as Ranke has shown, is in reality due to the accumulation of the products of disinte- gration, and notably of the lactic acid in the muscle. As soon as this is removed by the blood- and lymph-currents the muscle is again fit for exertion, and the further conclusion is obvious, that, as both the nitro- genous and the non-nitrogenous constituents of i^he muscle are employed in the acts of contraction, it is necessary for both of these groups to enter into the ordinary diet of healthy adults, who are desirous of maintaining their power iu full energy and activity. Tick and Wislicenus, however (' Lond., Ed., and Dub. Phil. Mag.,' vol. 31. p. 485), performed an experiment which they believe goes far to prove that in sustained muscular exertion it is the hydro-carbonaceous or non- nitrogenous substances which, by their combustion, supply the requisite energy, and that the consumption of the nitrogenous or albuminoid com- pound is not materially augmented. They climbed the Faulhorn, rested a night at the summit, and then de- scended. For 31 hours previously they took no nitrogenous food, and only a moderate quantity of non-nitrogenous food. The amount of urea eliminated, both during and for a certain period after the ascent, was carefully estimated, and they attempt to show that the amount of albu- men consumed represented by this urea was in no wise sufficient, when burnt, to furnish the amount of energy requisite for the severe and persistent exertion required. Though the data in their possession were inadequate for the solution of this question, the argument was very in- geniously sustained. The subject was soon after taken up by Prof. Ed. Frankland (' Proceed, of the Royal Institution,' 1866, p. 661), who showed that, as they also were well aware, the point in which the experiment of MM. Fick and Wislicenus had failed was that they were unacquainted with the quantity of heat generated when muscle is burnt to the products in which its constituent elements leave the human body through the lungs