POISONING. 4-59 was returned. Tho way in which the pie had been poisoned was there- fore left undecided. Dr. W. Ogle afterwards suggested that tho presence of atropia in the rabbit-pie might have arisen from the fact that the rabbit had fed on the leaves of the deadly nightshade. He quoted the experiments of Kunge of Berlin, who fed a rabbit for eight days exclusively on the leaves of belladonna, hyoscyamus, aud datura; at the end of tbis time the rabbit remained quite well, its pupils being not in the least dilated. In reply to Dr. Ogle, Dr. McG-ill endeavoured to show that the flesh of rabbits who had eaten belladonna leaves without injury to themselves would not be noxious to man. He remarked that, although goats feed on hemlock, their flesh has not been found to be poisonous. Dr. Ogle, however, rejoined that conia, being volatile, would be driven off during the process of cooking; in illustration of this, he quoted a case recorded in the ' Lancet' of 1843, in which a number of persons were poisoned by eating hemlock in a salad, although the cook had a few days before used a number of leaves from the same plant in making Boup, without any ill consequences. The question as to the mutual antagonism of opium and belladonna, in their physiological action, continues to be the subject of discussion in the medical journals. Most of the papers, however, which I have met with consist either of reports of individual cases, never very con- clusive, or of experiments on animals. I therefore prefer to quote from a very interesting essay by Dr. Weir Mitchell, Dr. Keen, and Dr. Morehouse,* containing an account of some experiments made by them upon the human subject. By subcutaneous injection they administered to soldiers affected with neuralgia solutions of morphia and of atropia, sometimes together, sometimes in succession, without telling the pa- tients what effects they expected to be produced. In this way they investigated the action of the alkaloids in question on the various func- tions of the body. The following are their conclusions with reference to the mutual antagonism of morphia and atropia. Aa to the influence of these poisons on the circulation, they state that morphia (in a dose of \ to \ of a grain of the sulphate) affects the pulse slightly or not at all; atropia, on the other hand (in a dose of ^3- to -fa of a grain), usually lowers it a few beats within ten minutes, and then raises it 20 to 50 beats within an hour. The pulse afterwards falls about the tenth hour below the normal number, and regains its healthy rate within twenty-four hours. The frequency of the respiration, however, is not al- tered either by morphia or by atropia. Morphia has no power to prevent atropia from thus influencing the pulse, so that, as regards the circula- tion, they do not counteract one another. On the other hand, the action of these alkaloids on the pupils is antagonistic. When the pupils had been dilated by atropia they began to contract within half an hour after the injection of morphia. The influence of this alkaloid, however, passed oft' before that of the atropia, so that in from five to ten hours the pupils again became dilated. As a general rule, about \ of a grain of mor- phia was found to neutralize for a time fa of a grain of atropia; but * 'Am. Journ.,' N. S,, 50, p. 67, July, 18651