479 ACTIVE PRINCIPLES. in commerce. Schroff has not fouud this to be the case. The presence of the Pancratium may be detected by the form of the scales, for the bulb of this plant is much smaller than that of the squill. Moreover, the former is, according to Landerer, incapable of producing the irrita- tion of the skin which is caused by the latter. There has been much difference of opinion whether the outer or the inner scales of the bulb of the Urginea scilla should be preferred for medicinal purposes. Schroff has made on rabbits a series of experi- ments which lead to the conclusion that the activity of the scales in- creases from the centre outwards, those close to the axis being entirely devoid of acridity, and, in fact, quite inert. It had been supposed that the outermost dry scales are valueless. But Schroff shows that, although they yield but a small quantity of extract, this is more powerful than that derived from any other part of the bulb. All these differences, however, are less marked in the white variety of the drug. "With reference to the relative value of the two kinds, he finds that the red is greatly more active. It yields a considerably larger quantity of extract, both with alcohol and with water. In all cases a greater amount of alcoholic than of aqueous extract is obtained from the squill. Schroff advises that the outer two thirds of the scales should be used in making extracts of squill, those belonging to the inner third of the bulb being rejected. It has generally been maintained that this drug contains a volatile acrid principle. The statement that handling the bulbs gives rise to lachrymation and sneezing is denied by Schroff, as it had already been by Oudemans. There is, however, an oily matter in the bulb, which is seen in the form of drops on microscopical examination. It is probably this which is the seat of the odour possessed by the drug, and it is not unlikely that it is an allyl-compound, containing sulphur. Schroff, therefore, does not deny that squill contains an acrid volatile principle, but merely says that this does not give rise to sneezing or lachrymation. The acridity of the drug was very markedly displayed by the extract made from the outermost scales of all. When some of this extract was placed in contact with the mucous membrane of the mouth it produced a most disagreeable burning sensation, lasting for hours, and accompanied by salivation. In the animals poisoned by this extract, too, the signs of irritation were very marked. The stomach was not merely injected, but presented extravasations of blood, and erosions extending to the submucous tissue. The acrid principle contained in the drug has generally been supposed to be the cause of the irritation of the skin to which the fresh bulb gives rise, and which is attended with an eruption of erythema, and even of vesicles. _ Schroff, however, shows that these effects are not due to any such principle, but are produced mechanically by the raphides which are so abundant in this plant, and which have very fine points. For, if the juice be filtered, it no longer causes any irritation, al- though no constituent is removed except the crystals. On the other hand, if the fresh juice be washed with water until it is perfectly tasteless, it will deposit a number of these crystals, and by them the same irritation of the skin may be produced as by the fresh juice