DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 283 accompanied by lesions inside the canal, ecchymosis between the pos- terior ligament and the bone, laceration of the dura or even the pia mater, ecchymosis in the medulla, laceration of the latter, and even of the nerves. "We must pass over the author's description of the symp- toms, and even of the appearances found on dissection, after death from other causes, where union has heen completely effected (interesting and novel as the latter is), in order to come to the question of treat- ment. Here Prof. Porta says the first indication, as in other disloca- tions, is to reduce it. He rejects the proposal of making an incision on to the displaced parts with a view of disengaging them, believing that the only admissible means of reduction is extension and counter-exten- sion by" the gradual traction of assistants, while the surgeon endeavours to effect manual replacement. He believes, however, that reduction is useless in semiluxation, where there is no interference with the func- tions of the spine, and prejudicial in the extreme forms of luxation, where it might hasten the fatal event. After reduction the parts should be supported by a bandage. Later on, the various symptoms referable to inflammation, to retention of urine, to paralysis, and to emaciation, must be combated by appropriate means. " Unilateral Dislocation between the Pifth and Sixth Cervical Ver- tebra? ; reduction thirty-six hours after the accident." By Dr. Parsiot (!Gaz. Hebd.,' Nov. 24, 1865).—A woman, aet.^o, had fallen off a load of hay. Thirty-six hours afterwards the author was sent for to her, and found her in the following condition:—The face was inclined to the right, and the chin rested a little external to the sterno-clavicular joint. The cervical region was concave on the right, the heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle being relaxed; on the left it was convex, and the lateral muscles were tense. The spinous processes could be felt without any projection. The head and neck were immovable, and any attempt at motion gave great pain. The patient could not raise the head at all. The face was congested, and the jugular veins turgid; there was slight exophthalmia, and respiration was becoming difficult. The right arm was palsied as to movement, and sensibility was obtuse ; there were pins and needles, and cold sensations at the ends of the fingers. The left arm moved freely, but pins and needles were felt also there. All the symptoms were aggravated by any attempt to raise the head. The position of the head had been the same since the accident, but the subjective symptoms had come on gradually, and were increasing. There was no loss of innervation in the lower part of the body. The diagnosis was a unilateral dislocation of the fifth from the sixth vertebra, on the right side. The patient was placed sitting on the floor; the shoulders and legs fixed; the operator seized the lower jaw with both hands, the thumbs abutting on the mastoid processes, and raised the head gra- dually, then turned it briskly inwards. A crack was heard, and the patient experienced great relief immediately, and tried to turn her head round. But the paralysis had not disappeared. The patient was placed in bed, with her head extended by means of a weight of two kilogrammes suspended from a band round the jaw, and leeches and cold lotions were applied. Next day the paralysis of the arm had dis-