CHILDBED FEVER. 415 Dr. Spiegelberg relates ('Mon. f. Geburtsk.,' Dec. 1866) a case of puerperal 'peritouitis following perforation of a suppurated lymph- cavern of the fundus uteri, ending in death. The woman was delivered, after an ordinary labour, of a child that died two days afterwards. On the eighth day vomiting and pain set in, fever and peritonitis; death on the twelfth day. Effusion in the peritoneal cavity, also in the pleura?. Directly near the origin of the right tube, on the posterior surface of the uterus, was a raised discoloured spot, having a small opening leading into two cavities. These communicated with the cavity of the tube, which contained an abscess. Eeport on the post-mortem examinations made in the Lying-in Institution of the Grand Duchess Helena Paulowna (St. Petersburg), 1862-3. By Dr. Erichsen.—The pathological conditions found in the dissections carried out during two years in the St. Petersburg Lying-in Hospital are classed under three following heads:—1st. Puerperal inflammation. 2. Puerperal thrombosis. 3. Puerperal ichorrhasmia. Of puerperal inflammation three kinds are distinguished—peritonitis, phlegmon, and metritis. Dr. Erichsen describes a group of nineteen cases of universal peritonitis. He rejects the view of Martin, Buhl, and others, that endometritis and salpingitis is the starting-point of all puerperal affections, and that in every case these inflammations pre- cede and cause the peritonitis. He found only eleven cases in which peritonitis was complicated with endometritis, and in eight cases of peritonitis there was no trace of endometritis. He found only nine cases of purulent salpingitis, whilst in ten cases the total mucous mem- brane was either normal or simply affected with catarrhal swelling. Of the nine cases of purulent salpingitis six were double, in three the right tube only was involved. He thinks it a question whether the salpingitis may not frequently be the consequence of the peritonitis. To the foregoing cases the author adds eight cases of secondary peri- tonitis following upon other childbed affections. In these he sees evi- dence of a contagious character; that is, a tendency to rapid, con- tinuous extension, and a disposition to involve other systems in the morbid circle—this is puerperal phlegmon. The feature of this is inflammation of the subserous cellular tissue of the uterus and appendages (Virchow's parametritis), then inflammation of the pelvic cellular tissue, and lastly of the subcutaneous tissue of the thigh and abdominal wall. The source of these diseases is mostly a diph- theritic process of the inner surface of the uterus, but the author saw genuine pelvic phlegmon and parametritis arise. Again, vein thrombosis of the pelvis and of the crural veins is frequently the cause of phlegmon. Generally the first form of disease spreads over the whole subserous tissue of the uterus and broad ligaments, which then seem to be pulpy, as if swollen from cedematous infiltration ; at a later period there is formed in the same place a continuous layer of pus, whereupon a regressive metamorphosis, fatty degeneration, ensues. Hot seldom he found small abscess-like formations, like strings of pearls, which proved to be lymphatic vessels filled with thrombi, and leading to inflamed swollen lymphatic glands. Puerperal melrilia.—Of this condition ho found only a few cases in