387 THE PLACENTA. times. Of anomalies of the cord, prolapsus occurred in 23 cases; torsion in 4; twistings 593, i. e. in 467 cases once, in 59 twice, in 11 three times, in 4 twice ; true knots 19 times ; spontaneous breaking during labour twice; dropsy of the cord 4 times; the root of the cord was eccentric 1950 times, central 342 times, marginal 158, velamentous 21. As to the liquor amnii, hydramnios occurred in 104 labours ; an extremely small quantity in 9. Hydrorrhcea, i. e. a watery or gelatinous collection between chorion and amnion, in 80. Whenever the liquor amuii was discoloured these collections had the same colour. Discoloured liquor amnii occurred in 211 cases. The membranes were too tough in 375 labours, requiring artificial rupture when near the outlet; too delicate, rupturing prematurely, in 580. Frequently there were blood ex- travasations between chorion and amnion, or on the outer chorion surface. H. Leinser (Giessen, 1865) relates observations and experiments illustrating the physiological separation of the placenta. He describes the period of labour when the detachment takes place, the symptoms of detachment, its mechanism. The detachment is effected in primiparse and secundipara? with the expulsion of the child, and the presence of the edge of the placenta in the os uteri is a sure sign of complete de- tachment. Discharge of blood taking place before the above-mentioned symptoms is a certain indication of partial detachment. He has observed the mechanism of detachment in bitches. The mature placenta is more quickly and more completely separated by progressive uterine contrac- tions than by simple reduction of the surface of the uterus. It is probable that subsequent infiltration of the placenta left behind in the uterus excites secondary contractions which cast the placenta. Dr. Gusserow ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 1866) illustrates, by evidence of other observers and of his own, the seat of the placenta. He com- mences by excluding reliance upon the uterine souffle as evidence of the position of the placenta, denying that the two have any relation. He adopts Carmichael's mode of determining the seat of attachment by ob- serving the distance of the rent in the membranes from the edge of the placenta after expulsion. He concludes, from 188 cases drawn from Hohl, Carmichael, Doherty, Hegar, Martin, "Winckel and Gusserow, that the placenta was attached to the anterior wall of the uterus in 7 7 cases, to the hinder in 93, to the right in 12, to the left in 8. See also Dr. Jounin ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1865) on the insertion of the placenta in the lower segment of the uterus. The different forms of hydrorrhea gravidarum are described by Graf ('Jenaische Ztschr. f. Med.,' 1865).. He relates two cases, and says the premature bursting of the ovum-sac occurs more frequently than German observers think. Further, hydrorrhea is not to be regarded as a definite form of disease, but only as a phenomenon which is common to many different anatomical conditions, such as premature detachment of the placenta, catarrh of the uterine glands, and premature detachment of the membranes, mostly brought about by an accident. Sir James Simpson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' 1865) relates three cases of dropsy of the ovum. In the first there was a twin pregnancy. The distension was so great that the membranes had to be ruptured; the