454 MSPORT OX MEDICAL JOBISPEUDBNCB. son, are as follows :—i. There is no doubt that Mme. de Pauw died of poisoning by one of those substances which act specifically upon the heart. Of this he is convinced, not so much by tlie circumstances of the case, as by the experiments on frogs. These do, indeed, present some deficiencies for which the experts are responsible, but their results are, in his opinion, so striking that they have the same value as the demonstration of a corpus delicti in an ordinary case of poisoning. 2. It is probable that Mme. de Pauw was poisoned by digituline. The pro- bability, however, rests merely on the facts of the case, as determined by the medico-legal investigation. It does not in any way depend upon the results of the physiological experiments ; for neither did the experts attempt to determine any peculiarities in the action of digitalis, distinguishing it from that of the other cardiac poisons, nor, indeed, is science as yet acquainted with any such peculiarities. M. Devergie has published* a paper on the subject of the use of physiological experiments in medico-legal inquiries. ' He is now inclined to admit their application, within certain limits. The recognition of their value by M. Devergie is of the more importance, since he, like Orfila, had previously expressed a very strong opinion on the opposite side of the question. M. Devergie seems to have been led to reconsider the matter in con- sequence of the fact that he was consulted, on the part of the accused, in a medico-legal inquiry in which physiological experiments had been employed by MM. Tardieu and lloussin. A French qfficier de sante was accused of the murder of his wife by poison. The woman's body was exhumed more than 3 months after her interment. As might be expected, the examination of the organs did not show conclusively whether there was or was not disease sufficient to cause death. The results of the chemical analysis were the following: —There was obtained from the intestinal canal a quantity estimated as being about 25 centigrammes (3 "86 grains) of acetate of morphia. There was also obtained a quantity said to be about 35 or 40 centigrammes (5^4 to 6' 17 grains) of a "greenish yellow substance, lustrous, scaly, having a very feeble odour and an intensely bitter taste, neutral to test-paper, soluble in water and in alcohol, less so in ether, attracting the moisture of the air, burning after the manner of nitrogenous substances, giving off no animal odour, and leaving no residue beyond an imponderable quantity of calcareous salts." This " new substance" (or rather, as M. Devergie urges, " impure body of unknown origin") was made the subject of physiological tests by MM. Tardieu and Roussiu. It was injected beneath the skin of two dogs. One of them died in 25 hours; the other became ill, but ultimately recovered. The symptoms were said to resemble those due to digitaline, and also those observed in Mme. Z— during life. Some of the same substance was injected be- neath the skin of two frogs. They died in 9 minutes. Afterwards 3 frogs were taken, and the heart of each was exposed. The first frog was employed as a standard; the second received a solution of digi- * ' Annalcs d'Hygiene,' 2c-me st'r., xxvi, p. 16S.