253 OSTKO-MYELITIS. with the chain-saw. The stump, however, hecame enormously swollen and painful, with numerous abscesses, and necrosis of the femur as high as the trochanter. The thigh was amputated at the hip-joint Jan. 19, 1865. The patient was so depressed that he was not removed from the operating-table " for two or three days," lest the attempt at removal might prove fatal. Secondary hemorrhage occurred, and the external iliac artery was tied on Jan. 27. The ligature came away on the 21st day, and 2 days afterwards the lower end of the artery poured forth blood furiously, and was only controlled with great difficulty by direct pressure, which was kept up for about 2 weeks. After this recovery was uninterrupted. Dr. Packard refers to a case published by Dr. Van Buren in his ' Contribution to Practical Surgery,' and 3 others referred to by that author; also to Dr. Payrer's case. Besides these, performed, as it seems, on account of osteo-myelitis, Dr. Packard refers to 8 cases of successful amputation at the hip by American surgeons for miscellaneous causes, which are all the successful cases that he could find in that country, unless 2 operations, said to be done in the Southern army, are to be reckoned, which, however, Dr. Packard does not credit. He divides the cases in which the opei'ation is ad- missible into (1) those in which the same thigh has been previously amputated ; (2) those of chronic disease. " It would scarcely be fair to place cases of hip-joint disease in this class, although the first suc- cessful case in this city (Philadelphia) was of this character. It so often happens that the acetabulum is seriously involved, that in many cases no operation could be of any benefit." (3) Those in which an attempt has been made to save the limb after injury, and this operation becomes the only hope of the patient. (4) Those in which the des- perate character of an injury recently inflicted renders death inevitable unless this slender chance is afforded. Dr. Packard seems to consider the first class of operations as the most successful and the most ur- gently indicated in appropriate cases. [In reference to the remark in paragraph (2), 2 cases of successful amputation at the hip in morbus coxa? may be referred to, 1 by Mr. H. Lee, in 'St..George's Hospital Eeports,' i, p. £47, and the other by Mr. Curling, in the ' London Hospital Eeports,' iii, p. 214.] "Ptemarks on the Pathological Anatomy of Osteo-myelitis, with cases." By H. Allen, M.D., Assist.-Surgeon, U. S. A. ('American Journal of the Medical Sciences,' Jan. 1865, p. 30).—Dr. Allen divides cases of osteo-myelitis after injury (of which the late civil war has fur- nished him with numerous examples) into—1. Those cases in which the affected bone has not been touched, but becomes secondarily in- volved by diseased action in the soft parts; and 2, those in which the affected bone has been primarily injured by a missile. The first section is further divided into cases originating from simple flesh wounds in the vicinity of the affected bone, and those subsequent to injuries received some distance from the seat of the osteo-myelitis. The number of cases recorded in this section is 8. All were fatal, but in each there was a sufficient cause of death in other injuries, so that it was difficult to say what share the osteo-myelitis had had in producing death. In no case was any symptom observed which led to the