REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * ' Virchow's Archiv,' 1865 ; ' Journ. Mental Science/ Oct. 1866. SG an appearance is found in general paralysis. Out of i 2 examinations of general paralytics he found it well marked 8 times, indistinct and incomplete 3 times; once it was altogether absent. In 5 of the 8 cases in which the lesion was well marked the disease had only lasted nine months; this tends to show that the peculiar change is one which occurs in the early stage. In 2 other of the well-marked cases, beneath the superficial induration, there was softening of the deeper layers of the white substance. The intimate nature of the indurative change is discovered by the microscope to consist in proliferation of the elements of the connective tissue, with amyloid bodies, a congested and athero- matous state of the capillaries; in fact, the affection possesses the ele- mentary characters of sclerosis. It was interesting to remark that in every one of these instances of changes in the anterior lobes the speech was affected; the details given by Regnard are in some cases not precise enough, however, to make it certain how far this defect was a loss of the faculty of expression or merely a muscular paralysis or ataxy. Dr. Franz Meschede* contributes an important paper in support of the view which connects general paralysis witli a definite organic lesion. After describing the well-known mental phenomena of the disease, he remarks that attacks of paralysis, with general convulsions, come on at certain epochs, which correspond with the climax of outbursts of ideal and emotional excitement or fever, in the more chronic cases, at least with the end of a period of unusual agitation. The convulsive attacks mark out the steps by which the paralytic pro- cess goes on to complete annihilation. Their actual cause is not made out. They are the coeffects of the paralytic process ; and they indicate that even in the more chronic cases an active process of organic destruc- tion is continuously going on. The essential nature of the mental exaltation is regarded by Meschede, not as a weakening of intellect, but an inordinate expansion of the self-feeling; he compares it to the pleasing mental sensations induced by wine; he regards it as a charac- teristic result of turgescence of the cortical substance, or mind-organ, and points to the ample capillary network which is supplied to the inner layer of the cortex as a facile instrument of this kind of tur- gescence. In general paralysis he supposes that this functional affection is accompanied by great acceleration of changes of tissue, and he thus accounts for the great expansion of the self-feeling and the emotional impulses, and also for the final disruption of mental life, regarding the whole process as one of rapid exhaustion of the vitality of certain nerve-cells of the cortex. Meschede remarks on the confusion which has prevailed among authors with regard to the seat of the pathological process. His own microscopical researches, carried on since 1857, have led him to the conviction that degeneration of the nerve-cells of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, more especially of the cortical layer, constitutes the peculiar pathologico-anatomical change in paralytic insanity. The alteration of the cells is found in different degrees, from mere parenchymatous swelling down to their reduction to molecular detritus. In acute cases the degeneration-changes are not strongly defined, but there is general turgescence and succulence of