REPORT ON SURGERY. 210 In acute cystitis no advantage could be derived from endoscopic examination which would compensate for the pain and danger attend- ing it; but in chronic cystitis the condition of the mucous membrane can be detected, and it will be seen to be dark red, vascular, rough, irregular, ragged, and smeared in parts with pus, according to circum- stances. A case is given in which, besides the dark red of the con- gested mucous membrane, round red projections were seen (and are figured pi. ii, fig. 3) near the prostatic orifice, which were probably enlarged prostatic follicles. In engorgement of the prostate the pro- jection of its border is more considerable ; its edge, instead of being concave, becomes flat, or even convex, and instead of yielding gradually as the tube moves over it it opens and shuts like a cover. Sometimes, when abscesses have existed in the prostate, the cicatrization they have produced causes irregularity of its surface. In tumours of the bladder, properly so called, M. Desormeaux had not had an opportunity of endoscopic examination, but two cases of cancerous degeneration of the bladder and prostate had been under his care, and he figures the malignant granulations found in the prostate and base of the bladder. M. Desormeaux believes that very valuable information can be obtained from the endoscope in cases of tumour of the bladder, as also in the diagnosis between tumour and columnar bladder. Calculi can easily be seen in the bladder, and an idea can be obtained of their volume by counting the number of times which the field of the instrument is changed in passing over their surface. The surface almost always contains some salient points by which this comparison may be checked. In this way M. Desormeaux has made estimates of the size of stones, and these estimates have been found correct after extrac- tion. The number also of stones present in a single bladder can be ascer- tained by the endoscope, as M. Desormeaux has assured himself by expe- riments on the dead subject, and of which he gives an example (the only one he had had the opportunity of trying) on the living. M. Desormeaux also notices that occasionally in a columnar bladder, where the ruga? are encrusted with salts, it is hardly possible to distinguish it from Btone, and gives an instance which occurred to himself. In such cases endoscopy, he thinks, would clear up the doubt. In encysted calculus, also, the position and arrangement of the stone and the mucous mem- brane can be distinctly made out, of which M. Desormeaux gives two instances, where he was able to diagnose the encysted condition of the stone, and in one of which his diagnosis was confirmed by autopsy, the patient having died suddenly. Note.—In offering to the reader this brief abstract of M. Desor- meaux's most interesting volume, we have been obliged to omit a num- ber of very important details, with respect to the method of conducting the examination and other points, on which in practice success in using the method will much depend. These, however, can only be effectually studied in the book itself. Our object here is only to call the attention of our readers to the alleged advantngea of this new mode of investigation.