225 AMPUTATION OF SUPERNUMERARY LIMB. In the ' Annali Universali di Medicina' foi* 1866, vol. cxcv, p. 423, is an extract from a pamphlet published at Florence in 1865, by Dr. Cor- radi, and having reference to an operation successfully performed for the removal of a parasitic formation in the perinaeum. The mother was a primipara, 22 years of age, well formed, and of good constitution ; the presentation natural. The infant, a female, was in other respects per- fectly natural, and the umbilical cord was inserted in the usual way. But the child had three lower extremities. The accidental limb was situated between the two natural thighs, and looked at first like a long, thick, tortuous tail, but it terminated in a natural foot, with five toes, some of them provided with nails. The direction of the superfluous foot was the reverse of the natural—it was in a condition of forced extension, as in talipes equinus—the dorsum turned to the left and somewhat forwards, the sole in the opposite direction. The conforma- tion of the foot resembled that of a left foot. In the erect position the thin edge of the foot, which was at its lowest part, came within six centimetres of the ground, and the leg was as well developed and as large as the others. There were two large warts on its outer side. The upper portion of the accidental limb was covered by a species of sleeve of skin, to the presence of which Dr. Corradi calls especial attention. At tbe base of this " sleeve," just in front of it, and a little to the left, was the anal aperture. The edge of this sleeve was formed by two strata of skin, the outer of which passed below the inner and terminated in fringes. This outer layer was evidently a continuation of the skin of the sacral, perineal, and inner gluteal regions. In a word, it was the skin of the region behind the anus turned outwards by the passage of the accidental formation. The superfluous limb was movable in all directions, and had no close connection either with the sacrum or with any point of the bony pelvis ; it passed out, as it were, from the pelvic cavity between the rectum, which lay in front of it, the sacrum behind, and the ischia on either side. Examination from the rectum showed.that it passed about two centimetres (two thirds of an inch circ.) above the anus, and there terminated in a bony prominence, beyond which no projection could be felt inside the pelvis. Except nutrition, the accidental limb did not seem to enjoy any function. It was as warm as other parts, but had no power of motion, voluntary or reflex, nor any sensibility. The limb was removed at the age of one month. The portion of the skin of " the sleeve" which corresponded to the anal aperture was used to form a flap, by means of a curved incision, having its centre at the anus, and a radius of about an inch. This flap was dissected without finding any vessel to tie. The rectum was thus exposed and pressed out of the way with the index finger, while an assistant dragged the limb inwards and outwards, and by little touches of the knife a very compact and resisting cellulo-adipose tissue was divided until the limb was separated from the rectum for two centimetres. In doing this two large arteries going to the limb were cut and tied. Then the other aspect of the limb was similarly dissected out, with the ligature of a single vessel, and the flesh adjusted by the twisted suture. Everything went on well. The child at the last report was thriving and well at the age of 15