REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 188 Dr. Dick inson's first case most fully reported was that of a patient in St. George's Hospital. In the autumn of 1859 he was one morning seized with shivering, nausea, and pain in the loins, and when he passed urine he found it was black and apparently bloody. From that time he had often been under observation at St. George's Hospital. He bad no constant ailment, but his health was broken by short attacks of hematuria, which owned no other cause than exposure to cold. He usually went to his work apparently well. In cold weather he was liable to be attacked with shivering, retching, dull pain in the loins, and a feeling of lassitude. The testicles were retracted, and he had pain pass- ing down the thighs. The urine was black and turbid, highly albuminous, of great specific gravity, and contained an excess of urea; tbe microscope showed numbers of dark granular casts, and a dark molecular deposit; no blood-globules had ever been found. The urine retained these characters for two or three urinations. Next day he was well, ex- cepting that he was somewhat reduced by the attack. In continuous cold weather these attacks came on for several successive days, but they never lasted through the night. He had never had an attack in the sum- mer ; though once, in comparatively warm weather, it was brought on by washing windows with cold water. Movement had no tendency to produce it; he was always better when taking exercise, as it kept him warm. The man had an anaemic and cachectic appearance. No organic disease could be discovered. While in the hospital many plans of treatment had been tried, but none had appeared to prevent the re- currence of the complaint. Three similar cases were briefly reported, two of which had occurred in the practice of Dr. George Johnson aud one in that of Dr. F. Cock. Dr. Dickinson maintained that the dis- order was essentially due to an alteration in the blood, a similar state of urine having been found during typhus, and also in man and animals after the inhalation of arseniuretted hydrogen. The points which the disorder had in common with ague were adverted to, but the absence of any periodical tendency and the inefficiency of quinine, as shown in the case related, as a remedy, were cited as essential differences. Quinine, he believed, to be useless, except by palliating the effects of the loss of blood; while the administration of mercurials, both on general principles and on the experience afforded by the above case, was believed to be detrimental. Perinephritic Abscess. This affection, says M. Trousseau,* is comparatively rare, and when it exists frequently escapes early observation. The progress of the abscess is insidious and slow. There may be no local signs of the disease except pain, and the pain may be masked by the general symptomB which accompany it. The diagnosis of perinephritic abscess is, therefore, sometimes very difficult. In considering the causes of the abscess, it is necessary to take account of the anatomical relations of the part where it occurs. The kidneys are surrouuded by much adi- pose cellular tissue. Their fatty capsules are in relation behind with * 'L'Union Med.,' 1865.