201 SUBPKRIOSTEATi RESECTION. and a halt* above the olecranon, and carried to about the same distance below it, was made along the ulnar side of the olecranon. I then turned the edge of the knife from me, and directed the point of the instrument deeply to the bottom of the olecranon fossa, dividing all the soft parts down to tho bone, following the line of the original incision. When the soft parts were dissected off as far as the edges of the bone, I commenced raising the periosteal envelope by the two elevators which are here delineated (see the original). The elevation was com- paratively easy where it was situated over the diseased portion of the bone, for in this situation it was thickened and loose; over the sound bone it was a matter of much greater difficulty. Having succeeded in getting off two broad strips of the membrane, one over each side of the line of the original incision, I completed the operation in the usual manner." The case did very well, and a drawing is given to show the extent of motion obtained 3-i- months after the operation. Mr. Stokes lays great stress on these four points in excision of the elbow:—i. The adoption of the long vertical incision of Park. 2. The preservation of the periosteum. 3. Treatment of the wound by the continual bath. 4. Gradual flexion and extension of the forearm during the convalescence. Subperiosteal resection may also be resorted to in caries or necrosis of long bones. The case above quoted from Liicke, of resection from the Bhaft of the tibia, was undertaken on account of necrosis. The following case appears to have been an instance of subperiosteal resection for caries : Subperiosteal resection of the upper half of the humerus, followed by reproduction of the part removed. (By M. Oilier, presented to the Academic des Sciences by M. Yelpeau.) ' Gazette Medicate de Paris,' May 6, 1865, p. 276.—The operation was performed by M. Oilier at Lyons, Sept. 16, 1864. The patient was a girl 15 years of age, and had had old disease of various bones, besides pain about the shoulder for 8 years, and there were numerous sinuses. The symptoms before the operation are not accurately stated. An operation was undertaken in order to remove the head of the humerus, and a small part, perhaps, of the bone in the neighbourhood, but the disease was found more exten- sive than had been expected. The head of the humerus was altered in shape, and covered with diseased cartilage. The shaft was irregularly ulcerated, and scattered over with osteophy tic productions. The muscles were separated from the bone by the suppuration. The periosteum was thickened and normally adherent to the bone. It was carefully detached, so as to leave a periosteal tube, continuous in its length, but interrupted in its circumference. No muscles or tendons were divided, a point which M. ODier considers as important. A longitudinal inci- sion was made between the fibres of the deltoid, and the tendons were detached from the tuberosities by means of a 'sonde-rugine' (apparently some form of rasp). The bone was living and vascular. Its length was about 4 inches, just half the length of the entire bone. At the date of the report, April 17, 1865, the bone had been re- produced, with a shortening of only half an inch. The shaft could be clearly followed for more than 2 inches of the part removed, as a hard