NERVOUS TISSUE. 17 this intricate question is one which consists in ascertaining whether the pneumogastrio nerves are affected in the same way as other nerves by certain poisons, as, for instance, by woorara; for it is argued that if, when an animal has been poisoned with this substance, the vagus loses its power of causing the heart to stop when electrically excited, it may reasonably be placed in the category of ordinary motor nerves ; whilst if it be not acted upon, an additional argument is obtained for conceiving that we have here a totally distinct class of nerves and nerve-centres. Un- fortunately, the results of experiments, whether owing to different animals having been employed, or to varieties (and it is known that there are several) of the woorara poison having been used, the results are extraordinarily discrepant; and it will be sufficient to state that Bernard (' Lecons sur les Effets de Substances toxique,' 1857, pp. 348, 352, 373), Kolliker ('Yirchow's Archiv,'Bd. 10, 11, &c.; and ' Med. Cent. Zeit.,' 1S58, No. 58), Heidenhain ('Studien des Physiolog. Instituts zu Breslau,' 1865, p. 109), Funke ('Lehrbuch der Physiologie,' 1863^.959), and Goltz (' Yirchow's Archiv,' Bd. 26, p. 24), all maintain that after poi- soning with woorara the pneumogastrics have entirely lost their inhibi- tory influence over the heart; whilst Bidder ('Reichert's Archiv,' 1865, P- 33/)j V. Bezold ('Centralzeit.,' 1858, p. 49), Vulpian ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1858, No. 27), Meissner ('Zeits. f. Eat. Med.,' Bd. 6, p. 506), Giannuzzi (' Centralblatt. f. Med. Wiss.,' 1864, No. 21), and Nasse, den}r in the most explicit terms that any influence is exerted either on the pneumogastric or on the splanchnic nerves, or that any loss of inhibitory power is observable. Nasse (Otto Nasse, ' Essays on the Physiology of the Movements of the Intestine,' pamphlet, pp. 70, 1866) finds that electrical excitation of the sympathetic cord in its different regions provokes no movements of the intestines, except where the inferior mesenteric plexus is given off, when movements of the rectum and descending colon are excited. Nasse entertains no doubt respecting the inhibitory influence of the splanchnic nerves on the movements of the small intestine. When these nerves were excited by electricity, after the death of the animal by decapitation, in some experiments in which he injected oxygenated blood into the aorta, he found that, unless the movements became very lively indeed, excitation of the splanchnics either completely stopped or exercised a material sub- duing influence upon them. Hence he considers that the functional activity of the splanchnics is not dependent upon the circulation of the blood nor on their direct action upon the vessels. The duration of the activity of the splanchnics after death is very short, not, perhaps, ex- ceeding ten minutes in rabbits. After this period the movements of the intestine seem to be rather increased in energy when the splanchnics are electrically excited, which he attributes to the existence of proper motor fibres mingled with the inhibitory ones, the activity of which, though concealed during life by the latter, is more persistent after death. Besides the motor and inhibitory he admits also a third kind of fibre in the sym- pathetic, namely, the purely sensory or centripetally coursing fibres, with which he considers it to be highly endowed. Nasse also gives an extended account of the action of various poisons 2