REPORT ON SURGERY. 230 tutional. 7. Its relation to tubercle. It is shown that no real affinity or connection has ever been proved. As arguments for the local origin of cancer, Mr. Moore observes—i. Its invariable origin as a single tumour. 2. The] manifest dependence of the later tumours upon that first. 3. The remarkable manner in which it is inherited as a local, and not as a constitutional, peculiarity— a disease of the corresponding organ of plural members of one family, while at the same time any inheritance of the disease is uncommon, and that by infants extremely rare. 4. Its preference of the healthiest persons. On this latter point Mr. Moore enlarges somewhat. He remarks, in the first place, that the cachexia attributed to cancer, though it may exist in later stages, is not characteristic of the early period of the disease. In fact, it usually attacks persons who have been all their lives in robust health ; and if death happens from any accidental cause in the early period of cancer, all the organs of the body are generally found healthy, and at a later period of the disease the secondary deposits are found scattered in organs otherwise quite healthy. Cancer patients also are very commonly born of parents who have been very healthy- arid lived to extreme old age. Also it is often observed that cancer occurs in the earliest children of large families, who are personally the most vigorous ; a table is given to show this (p. 35). Again, Mr. Moore shows by reference to the Registrar-General's returns, that there is a steady increase (about 200 per annum) in the deaths from cancer in London, coincident with the increase of wealth and the well-being of the population. Facts are also adduced bearing on the distribution of the disease in different parts of the kingdom and in different towns. All this leads Mr. Moore to " the general conclusion that cancer has no dependence on any malady anterior to the appearance of the first tumour, but that it originates in persons otherwise healthy and strong." " The existence of an antecedent general malady is, as far as I can perceive, pure conjecture, being entirely destitute of proof, or even of reasonable support." Mr. Moore concludes his treatise with a conjecture as to the origin of cancer, referring it to an excess of formative power in the constitu- tion over the demands of the organ, which is usually at the time in the wane of its functions. Thus, a sort of vicious embryo, or bud, is produced, and this, " with superior vitality, supersedes the waning or extinct forces of its site, which it destroys in place of renewing." From the whole inquiry the following important practical deduction is made—" There is one conclusion from the facts brought forward in this paper, which, though collateral only, and not contemplated at the institution of the inquiry, is yet of too great importance to pass un- noticed. I allude to the valuable arguments furnished by them for early operations in cancer, and an argument which corresponds with their comparative success. While yet the first tumour has undergone little diffusion there is hope of a complete extirpation of the disease, a hope which quickly fades away as the tumour grows." Billroth, "On Traumatic Fever and Traumatic Affections" (' Langcn- beck's Arch.,' vi, pp. 372—495)-—Tina is a continuation of a previous