304. REPORT ON SURGERY. hen s egg, dipping under the sterno-mastoid muscle, no longer diffused, but much firmer and with impulse and sounds diminished. In 28 days the swelling was reduced to the size of a hazel-nut, and in 15 days more all trace of the aneurism was gone. He remained on the diet above specified from March 9 to April 1, when it was increased to 12 oz. bread, ipint milk, and 1 pint water! On the 6th he was allowed to get up. On the 21st the cure was com- plete, and he was released from all restraint as to diet and exercise. " There was considerable loss of weight, but the emaciation was confined almost entirely to the muscles. Before taking to bed the muscles were hard and salient, but at the end of 3 weeks, when the diet was first increased, the limbs were round and soft like a woman's." This is explained by the high temperature maintained in the room, according to French Canadian custom. The patient was heard of 4 months after- wards in good health. Dr. Owen Eees published in the ' Lancet,' 1863, i, p. 280, an account of a case in which a popliteal aneurism became consolidated, and was perfectly cured, while the patient was under the constitutional influence of the acetate of lead. Dr. Owen Eees states it as his object in publishing the case, " that the fact I have observed may assume its proper value, and be regarded either as a mere accident or as an effect of the treatment employed." The patient, a man set. 27, was admitted into Guy's Hospital under Mr. Poland's care, and transferred to Dr. Owen Eees expressly to try this treatment. The aneurism was then of the size of a duck's egg, its contents perfectly fluid, and the walls so thin that rupture was apprehended. There was a distinct bruit, and the opening of the artery into the sac was thought to be of large diameter. "Arrangements were made to commence compression at once, and a failure ensued. Deligation of the artery to be performed." On being transferred to Dr. O. Eees's care, Oct. 29, he was ordered 3 grs. of acetate of lead and 1 gr. of opium powder 3 times a day, to have full diet and a chop for breakfast. On Nov. jj the quantity of' the acetate of lead was increased to 5 grs. He remained under this treat- ment till Dec. 2, when he was obliged to discontinue the lead on account of the colic which it produced. During the latter part of this period the tumour had been getting larger and harder, apparently from the deposition of fibrine, and on Dec. 12 it is noted that the pulsation had ceased, and the articular arteries were soon after seen to pulsate. He left the hospital on Dec. 31, but presented himself again on Jan. 17, and the reality of the cure was certified by all the surgeons of the hospital. The inconveniences produced by the lead were trifling; the man would not submit to rest in bed, but walked about the ward, and had on one occasion danced to amuse his comrades. His system appeared still charged with the lead when he was last seen, as the blue line was still round his gums. Dr. O. Eees is of opinion that in such cases, if the aneurism should begin to consolidate, no more lead need be given, as the patient's system is charged with the drug and coagulation will then go on of itself.