FOOD AND FEEDING.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21901569FOOD AND FEEDING. BY SIR HENEY THOMPSON, F.R.C.S, &c. REPRINTED FROM TUB "NINETEENTH CENTURY,'' WITH CONSIDERABLE ADDITIONS AND AN APPENDIX. LONDON: FREDERICK WARNE AND CO., BEDFORD STREET, STllAND.LONDON: BIVADBXiny, AQNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFEIAKS.PEEFACE The following pages contain the substance of two Articles which originally appeared in the Nineteenth Century Review, under the title of " Food and Feeding," in the summer of last year. In compHance with a very wide demand for then- republication in a separate and handy form, the Author has revised them, and has also made several considerable additions, which now appear here for the first time. June 1, 1880.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE Importance of tlie proper selection and preparation of food —Improper feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life.—Necessary constituents in food for nourishing the human body—Comparison between animal food and vegetable food—Individual peculiarities . . 1 CHAPTER II. Materials at man's command for food—Grain—Legumes— Tubers—Green vegetables—Fruits—Salt—Animal food- Flesh—Milk—Eggs—Fish—Eeptilcs—Man omnivorous ; his food largely determined by circumstances—Food of the tropics—North Africa—Arabia—Italy—Spain—France- German Empire and Russia—The Arctic zone . . , 14 CHAPTER III. Food of the English peasant—Food of Englishmen generally too solid or stimulating-Value of fish as an article of diet —Of the leguminous plants, haricots and lentils—Whole meal of wheat: its employment for bread—Rice, maize, and potato 25 CHAPTER IV. Food of the middle-class Englishman—Baking and roasting— Braising, methods of—Stewing—5cbw/cj la mofJe—Oppo-viii Contents, site Priuciples in French and English cookery—Superi- ority of former in some particulars—Frying, and its action on materials of Food—The omelette CHAPTER V. Treparation of food continued—Soups—Poi-ajf./ew—The ^iocY- -pot—Bouill071 —C'onsoimne—Mode of producing endless variety—The foundations of all Soups—Fish Soup—Vege- table Soups—Use of the Gridiron—Garnishes—Cookery of Vegetables a I'Anglaise and « la Franfcdse—Fish—Cold. Meats—Salads CHAPTER VI. The combination of dishes to form a meal —Three specific systems of arranging the daily meals—Characteristics of each meal—Dinner the chief—The soup—Scheme of the succeeding dishes—Mors d'ceuvrcs. .... CHAPTER VII, Dinners of invitation—Two kinds—Small and select—Large— The old pretentious style—Scheme of a rational dmner- party—The half-hour after dinner- Turtle and fish dinners —Curry—Sketch for a small dinner .... 8 CHAPTER VIII. The question of wine with dinner—Should be pure but not pre- tentious—Relation of various kinds with different dishes- Cigarettes after dinner-Tobacco and coffee—Common water—Aerated waters—Foreign mineral waters—Sweet di-iiiks at dinner objectionable 93 CHAPTER IX. In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food neces.sary—Also of the season at which it is in perfec- tion—The scheme or elementary outline of a dinner— Menus should be written in French lO;Contents. ix CHAPTEE X. PAGE Tlie public dinner—Its undue length—Toasts too nunieroiTS— Suggestions for shortening the proceediugs—Good cookery independent of pedantic and complicated receipts—Schools of cookery—Better food, iu better condition, and in more abundant supply, a pressing want for London — Con- ch;sion 123 APPENDIX. THE POT-AU-JEU. Pot-cm-fcu: Jules Gouffi-'s instructions for making it—Direc- tions given by Brillat-Savarin—The receipt of Alexandre Dumas 133FOOD AND FEEDING. CHAPTER I. Importance of the proper selection and preparation of food—Im- proper feeding common among all classes, and at all periods of life.—Necessary constituents in food for nourishing the human body.—Comparison between animal food and vegetable food—Individual pecid.iarities. I THINK I shall not be far wrong if I say that there are few subjects more important to the well-being of man than the selection and preparation of his food. Our forefathers in theii" wisdom have provided, by ample and generously endowed organisations, for the dissemination of moral precepts in relation to human conduct, and for the constant supply of sustenance to meet the cravings of religious emotions common to all sorts and conditions of men. In these provisions no student of human nature can fail to recognise the spirit of wisdom and a lofty purpose. But it is not a sign of ancestral wisdom that so little thought has been bestowed on the teaching of what we should eat and drink ; that the relations, not only between food and a healthy population, but between food and virtue, B2 Food and Feeding. between tlie process of digestion and the state of mind ■wliicli results from it, have occupied a subordinate place in the practical arrangements of life. No doubt there has long been some practical acknowledgment, on the part of a few educated persons, of the simple fact, that a man's temper, and consequently most of his actions, depend on such an alternative as whether he habitually digests his food well or ill; whether the meals which he cats are properly converted into healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of building up both muscle and brain; or whether unhealthy products constantly pollute the course of nutritive supply. But the trutli of that fact has never been generally admitted to an extent at all comparable Avith its exceeding importance. It pro- duces no practical result on the habits of men in the least degree commensurate with the pregnant import contained therein. For it is certain that an adequate' recognition of the value of proper food to the individual in maintaining a high standard of health, in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of unhealthy Hfe being small gain either to the individual or to the community), and thus largely promoting cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the habits of a large part of the community. The general outlines of a man's mental character and physical tendencies are doubtless largely deter- mined by the impress of race and family. That is to say, the scheme of the building, its chai'acteristics andBritish Infants badly Fed. 3 dimensions, are inherited; but to a very large extent the materials and filling in of the framework depend, in regard of their quahty, upon his food and training. By the latter term may be understood all that relates to mental and moral and even to physical education, in part already assumed to be fairly provided for, and therefore not further to be considered here. No matter, then, how consummate the scheme of the architect, nor how vast the design, more or less of failure to rear the edifice results when the materials are ill chosen or for the most part unworthy to be used. Other sources of failure there may be which it is no part of my business to note; but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal in rank, but, by priority of action, sets in motion other agencies, injurious or protective, as the case may be. A very slight sketch of the course of development observed in the most ordinary types of human life will suffice to illustrate this truth. To commence then, I fear it must be admitted that the majority of British infants are reared on imperfect milk by weak or ill-fed mothers. And thus it follows that the signs of disease, of feeble vitality, or of fretful disposition, may be observed at a very early age, and are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or In the cravings of want manifested by the "peevish" and sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no want of abundant nutriment, over-feeding or compli- cated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, produce for another infant troubles which are no less B 2Food and Feeding. 4 grave than tliose of tlie former. In the next stage of life, among the poor the child takes his place at the parents' tahle, where lack of means, as well as of knowledge, deprives him of food more suitahle than the rough fare of the adult, and moreover obtains for him, perchance his little share of beer or gin. On the whole, perhaps he is not much worse off than the child of the well-to-do, who becomes a pet, and is already familiarised with complex and too solid forms of food and stimulating drinks which custom and self- indulgence have placed on the daily table. And soon afterwards commence in consequence—and entirely in consequence, a fact it is impossible too much to emphasize—the "sick headaches" and "bilious attacks," which pursue their victim through half a lifetime, to be exchanged for gout or worse at or before the grand climacteric. And so common are these evils that they are regarded by people in general as a necessary appanage of " poor humanity." No notion can be more erroneous, since it is absolutely true that the complaints referred to are self-engendered, form no necessary part of our physical nature, and for theii- existence are dependent almost entirely on our habits in relation to food and drink. I except, of course, those cases in which hereditary tendencies are so strong as to produce these evils, despite of some care on the part of the unfortunate victim of an an- cestor's self-indulgence. Equally, however, on the part of that little-to-be-revcred progenitor was ill- chosen food, or more probably excess in quantity,Food in Boyhood and Youth. 5 the cause of disease, and not tlio physical nature of man. The next stage of boyhood transfers the child just spoken of to a public school, where too often insuffi- cient or inappropriate diet, at the most critical period of growth, has to be supplemented from other sources. It is almost unnecessary to say that chief among them are those unsuitable purveyors, the pastrycook and the vendor of portable provisions, for much of which latter that sldn-stufFed compound of luiknown origin, an un- certified sausage, may be accepted as the type. After this period arise the temptations to drink, among the youth of all classes, whether at beerhouse, tavern, or club. For it has been taught in the bosom of the family, by the father's example and by the mother's precept, that wine, beer, and spirits are useful, nay, necessary to health, and that they augment the strength. And the lessons thus incul- cated and too "well learned have proved to be the steps which lead to wider experience in the pursuit of health and strength by larger use of the same means. Under such circumstances it often happens, as the youth grows up, that a flagging appetite or a failing digestion habitually demands a dram before or between meals, and that these latter are regarded rather as occasions to indulge in variety of liquor than as repasts for nourishing the body. It is not surprising, with such training, that the true object of both eating and drinking is entirely lost sight of. The gratification of acquired tastes usurps the function of that zest which6 Food and Feeding. healthy appetite produces; and the intention that food should be adapted to the physical needs of the body and the healthy action of the mind is forgotten altogether. So it often conies to pass that at middle age, when man finds himself in the fall current of life's occupations, struggling for pre-eminence with his fellows, indigestion has become persistent in some of its numerous forms, shortens his " staying power," or spoils his judgment or temper. And, besides all this, how apparent it is that few causes are more potent than an incompetent stomach to engender habits of selfishness and egotism. A constant care to pro^^[de little personal wants of various kinds, thus rendered necessary, developes the growth of these sentiments, and they influence the man's whole character in con- sequence. On the other hand, the poor man, adyanc- ing in years, shows signs of damage to his constitu- tion from continuous toil with inadequate food, the supply of which is often diminished by his expenditure for beer, which, although not seldom noxious, he regards as the elixir of life, never to be missed when fair occasion for obtaining it is offered. Many of this class are prematurely crij)pled by articular disease, &c., and become permanent inmates of the parish workhouse or infirmary. It must be ob^dous to everj^body how much more of detail might be added to fill in the outlines of this little sketch. It is meagre in the extreme : neverthe- less it amply sufl&ces for my purpose; other illustra- tions may occur hereafter.Modes of considering the Subject. 7 But it is necessary to say at this point, and I desire to say it emphatically, that the subject of food need not, eren with the views just enunciated, he treated in an ascetic spirit. It is to he considered in relation to a principle, in which we may certainly believe, that aliments most adapted to develope the individual, sound in body and mind, shaU not only be most ac- ceptable, hut that they may be selected and prepared so as to afford scope for the exercise of a refined taste, and produce a fair degree of an innocent pleasure naturally associated with the function of the palate, and derived from a study of the table. For it is certain that nine-tenths of the gourmandise which is practised, at all events in English society—where for the most part it is a matter of faith without know- ledge—is no more a source of gratification to the eater's gustatory sense than it is of digestible susten- ance to his body. Our subject now shapes itself. Food must first be regarded in relation to its value as material to be used for building up and sustaining that composite structure, the human body, under the varied condi- tions in which it may be placed. Secondly, the selection of food, and the best modes of preparing it, resulting in the production of " the dish," a subject of great extent and importance, must be dealt with very briefly. Lastly, the exercise of taste in relation to the serving of food and drink, or the art of combining dishes to form "a meal," must also be considered in relation to various purposes.8 Food and Feedijtg. I shall not regard this as the place iu which to offer any scientific definition of the term food. I shall include within its range all the solid materials popularly so regarded and therefore eaten. And drink being as necessary as solids for the purpose of digestion, and to supply that large proportion of fluid which the body contains in every mesh and cell thereof, I shall regard as "drink" all the liquids which it is customary to swallow with our meals, although probably very few, if any, of them can be regarded as food in any strict sense of the term. Food is essential to the body in order to fulfil two distinct purposes, or to supply two distinct wants in- separable from animal life. As certainly as a steam- engine requires fuel, by the combustion or oxidation of which force is called into action for various purposes— as the engine itself requires the mending and replacing of parts wasted in the process of working—so certainly docs the animal body require fael to evoke its force, and material to replace those portions which arc neces- sarily wasted by labour, whether the latter be what is called physical or mental, that is, of limbs or of brain. The material which is competent to supply both requirements is a complete or perfect food. Examples of complete food exist in milk and the egg, sufiiciug as these do for all the wants of the young animal during the period of early growth. Neverthe- less a single animal product like either of the two named, although complex in itself, is not more perfect than an artificial combination of various simpler sub-Constihcents necessary in Human Food. 9 stances, provided the mixture (dish or meal) contains all the elements required in due proportion for the purposes of the body. It would be out of place to occupy much space with those elementary details of the chemical consti- tution of the body Avhich may be found in any small manual of human physiology ; * but for the right understanding of our subject, a brief sketch must be presented. Let it suffice to say that carbon, hydro- gen, and oxygen, the three all-pervading elements of the vegetable world, enter largely into the composi- tion of the animal body; and that the two former combined especially constitute a fuel, the oxidation of which produces animal heat, and developes the force in its varied forms, physical and mental, which the body is capable of exerting. Besides these, nitrogen, obtainable from certain vegetable products, not from aU, but forming definite combinations with the three elements just named, is essential to the repair and reproduction of the body itself, being one of its most important constituents. Lastly must be named several other elements which, in small proportions, are also essential constituents of the body ; such as sulphur, phosphorus, salts of lime, magnesia, potash, &c., with traces of iron and other metals. All these must be present in the food supplied, otherwise animal exist- * Such as Phijsiolorjy, Science Primer, by M. Foster, M.A., M.D. (Macmillan) ; Lessons in Elcmcntarij Physiolocjij, by Professor Huxley (Macmillan). For a full consideration of the subject Dr. Pavy's very comijlete Treatise on Food and Dietetics (Churchill, London, l%7o).lo Food and Feeding. ence cannot be supported; and all are found in tlie vegetable kingdom, and may be obtained directly therefrom by man in feeding on vegetables alone.* But the process of obtaining and combining these simple elements into the more complex forms which constitute the bases of animal tissues—definite com- pounds of nitrogen with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen —is also accomplished by the lower animals, which are exclusively vegetable feeders. These animals we can consume as food, and thus procure, if we please, ready prepared for our purpose, the materials of flesh, sinew, and bone, for immediate use. We obtain also from the animal milk and the egg, already said to be "perfect " foods ; and they are so because they con- tain the nitrogenous compounds referred to, fatty matter abundantly, and the various saline or mineral matters requisite. But compounds simpler in form than the preceding, of a non-nitrogenous kind, that is, of carbon, hydi'ogen, and oxygen only, are neces- sary as food for the production of animal heat and force. These consist, first, of the fat of animals of various kinds, and of butter ; and from the vegetable kingdom, of the fatty matter which exists in grain and legumes, and largely in the olive and in many seeds: secondly, of the starchy matters, all derived * The vegetable kingdom comprelicnds the cereals, legumes, roots, starches, sugar, herbs, and fruits. Persons who style themselves vegetarians, often consume milk, eggs, butter, and lard, which are choice foods from the animal kingdom. There are other persons, of course, who arc strictly vcgetaljle eaters, and such alone have anj' right to the title of vegetarians.The Food of the Vegetarian. 11 from vegetables, such as a large part of wheaten and other flour, rice, arrowroot, and potatoes ; together with sugar, gum, and other minor vegetable products of a similar kind. The fats form the more important gi-oup of the t\YO, both in relation to the production of heat and force; and without a constant supply of fat as food the body Avould cease to exist. The vege- table eater, pure and simple, can therefore extract from his food all the principles necessary for the growth and support of the body as well as for the production of heat and force, provided that he selects vegetables which contaia all the essential elements named. But he must for this purpose consume the best cereals, wheat or oats; or the legumes, beans, peas, or lentils ; or he must SAvallow and digest a large weight of vegetable matter of less nutritive value, and therefore containing at least one element in large excess, in order to obtain all the elements he needs. Thus the Irishman requires for his support ten to eleven pounds of potatoes dail}-, which contain chiefly starch—of which therefore he consumes a superfluous quantity—very little nitrogen, and scarcely any fat; hence he obtains, when he can, some butter- milk or bacon or a herring to supply the deficiency. The Highlander, living mainly on oatmeal, requires a much smaller weight, since this grain contains not'only starch, but much nitrogen and a fair amount of fat, although not quite sufiicicnt for his purpose, which is usually supplied by adding milk or a little bacon to his diet. On the other hand, the man who lives chiefly or12 Food and Feeding. largely on flesLi and eggs as well as bread, obtains pre- cisely the same principles, but served in a concen- trated form, and a weight of about two or three pounds of such food is a full equivalent to the Irishman's ten or eleven pounds of potatoes and extras. The meat- eater's digestion is taxed with a far less quantity of solid, but that very concentration in regard of quality entails on some stomachs an expenditure of force in digestion equal to that required by the vegetable eater to assimilate his much larger portions. And it must be admitted, as a fact beyond question, that some persons are stronger and more healthy who live chiefly or altogether on vegetables, while there are many others for whom a proportion of animal food appears to be desirable, if not necessary. In studying this matter, individual habit must be taken into account. An animal feeder may by slow degrees become a vegetarian, without loss of weight or strength, not Avithout feeling some inconvenience in the process; but a sudden change in diet in this direction is for a time almost equivalent to starvation. The digestive organs require a considerable period to accommodate themselves to the performance of work different from that to which they have been long accustomed, and in some constitutions might fail altogether in the attempt. Besides, in matters of diet essentiall}^, many persons have indiAadual peculiarities ; and while cer- tain fixed principles exist, such as those already laid down as absolutely cardinal, in the detail of theii- application to each man's wants, an infinity ofIndividual Peculiarities as to Diet, i % stomach-eccentvicities is to be reckoned on. The old proverb expresses the fact strongly but truly : "Wliat is one man's meat is another man's poison." Yet notMng is more common—and one rarely leaves a social dinner table witbout observing it—than to bear some good-natured person recommending to liis neigh- bour, with a confidence rarely found except in alliance with profound ignorance of the matter in hand, some special form of food, or drink, or system of diet, solely because the adviser happens to have found it useful to himself!CHAPTER II. Materials at man's command for food—Grain—Legumes—Tubers —Green vegetables—Fruits—Salt—Animal food—Flesh—Milk —Eggs—Fisli—Eeptiles—Man omnivorous ; liis food largely determined by circumstances—Food of the tropics-North Africa—Arabia—Italy—Spain—France—German Empire and Enssia—The Arctic zone. It will be interesting now to take a general but brief survey of the vast range of materials wliich civilised man lias at liis command for tbe pui-pose of food : these few preliminary remarks on the chemical constituents of food having been intended to aid in appreciating the value of different kinds. Commencing with the vegetable kingdom, from which our early progenitors, probably during long ages, diw all their sustenance, the cereals, or culti- vated grasses, come first, as containing all the ele- ments necessary to life, and being therefore the most largely consumed. Wheat and its congeners, which rank highest in quality, had been distinguished, in the form of bread, as "the staff of life," long before the physiological demonstration of the fact had been attained. Wheat, oats, rye and barley, maize and rice, are the chief members of this group ; wheat contain- ing most of the nitrogenous or flesh-forming material,Grains—Legumes—Tubers and Roots. 15 besides abundance of starch, a moderate amount of fat, together with sufficient saline and mineral elements. Rice, on the other hand, contains very little nitrogen, fat, and mineral constituents, but starch in great abundance ; while maize, with a fair supply of nitro- genous and starchy matter, contains the most fat or heat-producing material of the whole group. As derived from wheat must be named those valuable aliments, macaroni, vermicelli and all the Italian pastes. Derived from barley is malt - saccharine, parent of the large family of fermented liquors known as beer. And from various other grains are obtained, by fermentation and distillation, several forms of ardent spirit. Vinegar, best when produced from the grape, is also largely made from grain. The legumes, such as beans, lentils, and peas, form an aHment of great value, containing more nitrogen even than the cereals, but with fat in very small pro- portion, while starchy matter and the mineral elements abound in both groups. The tuber finds its type in the potato which, like rice, contains much starch, little nitrogen, and almost no fat; in the yam also. The roots may be illustrated by the beet, carrot, parsnip, and turnip, all containing little nitrogen, but much sugar, and water in large proportion. Derived from roots and stems of foreign growth, wo have arrowroot, tapioca, and sago, all starches and destitute of nitrogen. Fatty matter is abundantiy found in the olive, which supplies a large part of the world with an important article of food.t6 Food and Feeding. The almond and other seeds are also fruitful soui'ccs of oil. Under the term " green vegetables," a few leading plants may be enumerated as types of the vast natural supplies which everywhere exist:—The entire cabbage tribe in great variety ; lettuces, endive, and cresses ; spinach, seakale, asparagus, celery, onions, artichokes, and tomato, all valuable not so much for nutritive property, which is not considerable, as for admixture mth other food chiefly on account of salts which they contain, and for their appetising aroma and varied flavours. Thus condiments are useful, as the sweet and aromatic spices, the peppers, mustard, and the various potherbs, so essential to an agreeable cuisine. Sea weeds, as laver, and the whole tribe of mushrooms should be named, as ranking much higher in nutritive value than green vegetables. Pumpkins, gourds or marrows, and cucumbers, chest- nuts, and other nuts largely support life in some countries. The bread fruit is of high value ; so also are the cocoanut and the banana in tropical climates. Lastly must be named all those delicious but not very nutritive j)roducts of most varied kind and source, grouped under the name of fruits. These are characterised chiefly by the presence of sugar, acid, vegetable jelly, and some saline matter, often com- bined with scent and flavour of exquisite qualit3% Derived from grapes as its chief source, stands wine in its innumerable varieties, so closely associated by all civilised nations with the use of aliments, althoughVarieties of Food. 17 not uuiversally admitted to rank in technical language as a food. ^Next may be named sugar in its various forms, a non-nitrogenous product of great value, and, in a less degree, lioney. No less important are the tea plant, the coffee berry, and the seeds of the cacao tree. There is a single element belonging to the mineral kingdom which is taken in its natural state as an addition to food, namely, common salt; and it is so universally recognised as necessary, that it cannot be omitted here. The foregoing list possesses no claim to be exhaustive, only to be fairly typical and sug- gestive ; many omissions, which some may think im- portant, doubtless exist. In like manner, a rapid survey may be taken of the animal kingdom. First, the flesh of domestic quadrupeds : the ox and sheep, both adult and young; the pig ; the horse and ass, chiefly in France. Millv, butter, and cheese in endless variety are derived chiefly fi'om this group. More or less wild are the red deer, the fallow deer, and the roe-deer. As game, the hare and rabbit; abroad, the bison, wild boar, bear, chamois, and kan- garoo, are esteemed for food among civilised nations ; but many other animals are eaten by half-civilised and savage peoples. All these are rich in nitrogen, fatty matters, and saline materials. Among birds, we have domestic poultry in great variety of size and quality, with eggs in great abund- ance furnished chiefly by this class. All the Avild fowl and aquatic birds ; the pigcoa tribe and the 018 Food and Feeding. small birds. Winged game in all its well-known variety. Of fish it is unnecessary to enumerate the enormous supply and the various species which exist everywhere, and especially on our own shores, from the sturgeon to whitebait, besides those in fresh-water rivers and lakes. All of them furnish nitrogenous matter largely, but, and particularly the white fish, possess fat in very small proportion, and little of saline materials. The salmon, mackerel, and herring tribes have more fat, the last named in considerable quantity, forming a useful food well calculated to supplement cereal ali- ments, and largely adopted for the purpose both in the south and north of Europe. The so-called reptiles furnish turtle, tortoise, and edible frog. Among articulated animals are the lob- sters, crabs, and shrimps. Among molluscs, the oyster and all the shellfish, which, as well as the preceding animals, in chemical composition closely resemble that of fish properly so called. I shall not enter on a discussion of the question : Is man designed to be a vegetable feeder, or a flesh- eating or an omnivorous animal ? Nor shall liis teeth or other organs be examined in reference thereto. Any evidence to be found by anatomical investigation can only be safely regarded as showing Avhat man is and has been. That he has been and is omnivorous to the extent of his means, there can exist no doubt. Whether he has been generally prudent or happy in his choice of food and drink is highly improbable,Common Errors in Diet. 19 seeing that until very recently lie has possessed no • certain knowledge touching the relations Avhich matters used as food hold with respect to the structure and wants of his body, and that such recent knowledge has been confined to a very few individuals. Whatever sound practice he may have attained, and it is not in- considerable, in his choice and treatment of food, is the result of many centuries of empirical observation, the process of which has been attended with much disastrous failure and some damage to the experi- menters. Wo doubt much unsound constitution and proclivity to certain diseases result from the persistent use through many generations of improper food and drink. Speaking in general terms, man seems, at the pre- sent time, prone to choose foods which are unneces- sarily concentrated and too rich in nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, and to consume more in quan- tity than is necessary for the healthy performance of the animal functions. He is apt to leave out of sight the great difference, in relation to both quantity and quality of food, which different habits of life demand, e.g. between the habits of those who are chiefly seden- tary and brain-workers, and of those who are active and exercise muscle more than brain. He makes very small account of the different requirements by tho child, the mature-adult, and the declining or aged person. And he seems to be still less aware of the frequent existence of notable individual peculiarities in relation to the toleranco of certain aliments and c 2Food and Feeding. 20 drinks. As a rule, man has little knowledge of, or interest in, tbe processes by whicli food is prepared for the table, or the conditions necessary to the healthy digestion of it by himself Until a tolerably high standard of civilisation is reached, he cares more for quantity than c[uality, desires little variety, and re- gards as impertinent an innovation in the shape of a new aliment, expecting the same food at the same hour daily, his enjoyment of which apparently greatly depends on his ability to swallow the portion with extreme rapidity, that he may apply himself to some other and more important occupation without delay. Eating is treated in fact by multitudes much as they are disposed to treat rehgious duty—which eating assuredly is, if my opening remarks are true—that is, as a duty which is generally irksome, but unfortu- nately necessary to be performed. As to any exercise of taste in the serving or in the combining of different foods at a meal, the subject is completely out of reach of the great majority of people, and is as little com- prehended by them as the structure and harmonies of a symphony are by the first whisthng boy one chances to meet in the street. The intelligent reader who has suf&cient interest in this subject to have followed me thus far may fancy this a sketch from savage life. On the contrary, I can assure' him that ignorance and in- difference to the nature and object of food mark the condition of a large majority of the so-called educated people of this country. Men even boast of their ignor- ance of so trivial a subject, regard it as unworthy theLittle Niti'ogenous matter needed in Tropics. 21 exercise of their powers, and—small compliment to their \nves and sisters—fit only for the occupation of women. Admitting man, then, to be physically so constituted as to be able to derive all that is necessary to the healthy performance of all his functions from the animal or from the vegetable kingdom, either singly or combined, he can scarcely be regarded otherwise than as qualified to be an omnivorous animal. Add to this fact his possession of an intelligence which enables him to obtain food of all kinds and climes, to investigate its qualities, and to render it more fit for digestion by heat—powers which no other animal possesses—and there appears no a priori reason for limiting his diet to products of either kingdom exclu- sively. It becomes then a matter of no little interest to ascertain what materials, under the empirical condi- tions named, have furnished the stajjle food of the common people of various climates and races—what, in short, supports the life and labour of the chief part of the world's population. In the tropics and adjacent portions of the temperate zones, high temperature being incompatible with the physical activity familiar to northern races, a very little nitrogenous material suffices, since the waste of muscle is small. Only a moderate quantity of fat is taken, the demand for heat-production being incon- siderable. The chiefly starchy products supply nearly all the nutriment required, and such are found in rice,22 Food and Feeding. millet, &c. Rice by itself is the principal food of the wide zone thus indicated, including a large part of China, the East Indies, part of Africa and America, and also the West Indies. Small additions, where obtainable, are made of other seeds, of oil, butter, (S:c.; and as temperature decreases by distance from the equator, some fish, fowl, or other light form of animal food, are added. In the north of Africa, Arabia, and some neigh- bouring parts, the date, which contains sugar in abundance, is largely eaten, as well as maize and other cereals. Crossing to Europe, the southern ItaHan is found subsisting on macaroni, legumes, rice, fruits, and salads, with oil, cheese, fish, and small birds, but very little meat. More northward, besides fish and a little meat, maize is the chief aliment, rye and other cereals taking a second place. The chestnut also is largely eaten by the poorer population, both it and maize containing more fatty matter than wheat, oats, and legumes. In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize, and rice, with some wheat and legumes, among them the garbanzo or "chick pea," and one of the jH-in- cipal vegetable components of the national olJa, which contains also a considerable proportion of animal food in variety, as bacon, sausage, fowl, &c. Fruit is fine and abundant; especially so are grapes, figs, and melons. There is little or no butter, the universal substitute for which is olive oil, produced in greatOrdinary Food of French and Germans. 23 quantity. Fowls and the pig furnisli the chief animal food, and garlic is the favourite condiment. Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a more considerable place in the dietary. In France the garden vegetables and legumes form an important staple of diet for all classes ; but the very numerous small land proprietors subsist largely on the direct products of the soil, adding little more than milk, poultry, and eggs, the produce of their small farms. The national -pot-au-fcu is an admirable mixed dish, in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go far in mingling its odour and savour with those of the fragrant vegetables which are so largely added to the stock. The beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is often eaten hot after the soup, but sometimes cold, with plenty of green salad and oil, doubtless the most palatable mode of serving, while it furnishes a source of fat, if not otherwise provided for by butter, cheese, &c.* Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, legumes, greens, roots, and fruits supply an im- portant proportion of the food consumed by the common population. Wheaten bread chiefly, and some made from rye, also beans and peas, are used abundantly. Potatoes and green vegetables of all kinds are served in numerous ways, but largely in soup, a favourite dish. Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly esteemed in the form of sausage, and appear * For full details as to the nature and preparation of tlie pot-au- feu, see page 58, and the Appendix,24 Food and Feeding. also in small portions or joints, but freely garnished witli vegetables, on the tables of those who can afford animal diet. Going northward, where the climate is no longer adapted for the production of wheat, as in parts of Eussia, rye and oats form the staple food from the vegetable kingdom, associated Avith an in- creased quantity of meat and fatty materials. Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the Arctic zone are compelled to consume large quantities of oily matter, in order to generate heat abundantly; and also that animal food is necessarily the staple of their dietary. Vegetables, which moreover are not producible in so severe a climate, would there be wholly inadequate to support life.CHAPTER III. Food of the Englisli peasant — Food of Englishmen generally too solid or stimulating—Value offish as an article of diet—Of the leguminous plants, haricots and lentils—AVholc meal of wheat: its employment for bread—Pace, maize and potato. We will now consider the food wliicli the English peasant and artisan provide. The former lives, for the most part, on wheaten bread and cheese, with occasionally a little bacon, some potatoes, and per- haps garden greens; it is only occasionally indeed that he can obtain flesh. To this dietary the artisan adds meat, mostly beef or mutton, and some butter. A piece of fresh and therefore not tender beef is baked, or cooked in a frying-pan, in the latter case becoming a hard, indigestible, and wasted morsel; by the former process a somewhat better dish is pro- duced, the meat being usually surrounded by potatoes or by a layer of some batter, since both contain starchy products and absorb the fat which leaves the meat. The food of the peasant might, however, be cheaper and better; while the provision of the artisan is simply extravagant and bad. At this period of our national history, when food is scarce, and the supply of meat insufficient to meet the demand which our national habits of feeding perpetuate, it26 Food and Feeding. is an object of the first importance to consider wlie- tlier other aliments can be obtained at a clieaper rate, and at the same time equal in quality to those of the existing dietary. Many belieye that this object may be accomplished "without difiBcult)', and that the cliief obstacle to improvement in the food- supply, not only of the classes referred to, but in that of the English table generally, is the common preju- dice which exists against any aliment not yet widely known or tried. The one idea which the working classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, and which they invariably realise when wages are high, is the inordinate use of butcher's meat. To make this the chief element of at least three meals daily, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for them no less a sign of taste than a declaration of belief in the perfection of such food for the purposes of nutrition. We have already seen that not only can all that is necessary to the human body be supplied by the vegetable kingdom solely, but that, as a matter of fact, the world's population is to a large extent sup- ported by vegetable products. Such form, at all events, the most wholesome and agreeable diet for the inhabitants of the tropics. Between about forty and nearly sixty degrees of latitude Ave find large populations of fine races trained to be the best labourers in the world on little more than cereals and legumes with milk (cheese and butter), as food; that little consisting of irregular and scanty suppliesEiioiishuicn consume too much Animal Food, 2 7 of fish, flesh, and fatty matter. Ib colder regions vegetable products are hardly to be obtained, and flesh and fat are indispensable. Thus man is clearly omnivorous ; while men may be advantageously vege- tarian in one climate, mixed eaters in another, and exclusively flesli-eaters in a third. I have not hesitated to say that Englishmen gene- rally have adopted a diet adapted for a somewhat more northerly latitude than that which they occupy; that the cost of their food is therefore greater than it need be, and that their numerous forms of indigestion and much resulting chronic disease are further necessary consequences of the same error. They consume too much animal food, particularly the flesh of cattle. For all who are occupied with severe and continuous mechanical labour, a mixed diet, of which cereals and legumes form a large portion, and meat, fish, eggs, and milk form a moderate, but constant proportion, is more nutritious and wholesome than almost entirely animal food. For those whose labour is chiefly mental, and whose muscular exercise is inconsiderable, still less of concentrated nitrogenous food is desirable. A liberal supply of cereals and legumes, with fish, and flesh in its lighter forms, will better sustain such activity, than large portions of butchers meat twice or thrice a day. Then there is a large class of per- sons who indulge, not necessarily in quantity, but in a kind of food generally reputed "simple and AA^hole- somc," which nevertheless for them creates a con- dition of corpulence, not merely inconvenient, butFood and Feeding. 28 prejudicial to health, and to their prosjDects of longevity. Such tendencies existing, and especially if the individual does not, or cannot take much exercise, the choice of food, free from fatty con- stituent, or from fat-producing elements, is a matter of no small importance. Then, again, it is absolutely certain, contrary to the popular belief as this is, that while a good supply of food is essential during the period of growth and active middle life, a diminished sujDply is desirable in relation to health and prolonga- tion of life during declining years, when physical exertion is small, and the digestive faculty sometimes becomes less powerful also. I shall not regard it as within my province here to dilate on this topic, but shall assert that the " supporting" of aged persons, as it is termed, with increased quantities of food and stimulant, is an error of cardinal importance, and, without doubt, tends to shorten, or to embitter life. These things being so, a consideration of no small concern arises in relation to the economical manage- ment of the national resources. For it is a fair com- putation that every acre of land devoted to the production of meat is capable of becoming the source of three or four times the amount of produce of equivalent value as food, if devoted to the production of grain. In other words, a given area of land cropped with cereals and legumes, will support a population more than three times as numerous as that which can be sustained on the same land devoted to the growth of cattle. Moreover, the corn-land will produce,Vahte of British Imports of Cereals. 29 almost \yitliout extra cost, a considerable quantity of animal food, in the form of pigs and poultry, from tlie offal or coarser parts of vegetable produce which is unsuitable for human consumption. Thus this country pui'chases every year a large and increasing quantity of corn and flour from foreign countries, while more of our own land is yearly devoted to grazing ptirposes. The value of corn and floiu- imported by Great Britain in 1877 was no less than 63,536,322/., while in 1875 it was only just over 53,000,000/. The increased import during the last thirty-two years is well exhibited in the following exti-act:—" In 1846 the imports of corn and flour amounted to seventeen pounds weight per head of population ; in 1855 they had risen to seventy pounds per head; and in 1865 to ninety-three pounds weight per head of population. Finally, in 1877 the imports of corn and flour amounted to 170 pounds Aveight per head of population of the United Eingdom.* Lastly, those who are interested in the national supply of food must lament that, while Great Britain possesses perhaps the best opportunities in the world for securing a large and cheap supply of fish, she fails to attain it, and procures so little only, that it is to the great majority of the inhabitants an expensive * Statesman's Year Bool, 1879, p. 258. And wliat niiglit be iLe extra cost of obtaining this supply in time of war ?—a contingency we ought seriously to reckon on. We should then, perhaps, draw niucli more largely than we do at present on the enormous resource which exist on all our shores, referred to in the succeeding paragraph.Food and Feeding. 30 luxury. Fish is a food of great value; Bevertheless it ^ ought in this country to be one of the cheapest aliments, since production and growth cost absolutely nothing, only the expenses of catching, and of a short transport being incurred. This is a question which must sooner or later be solved by the public them- selves, unless some persons in the trade, more enter- prising than those who at present pursue it, will abandon existing conventional rules and habits, and venture on the assuredly safe and profitable enterprise of supplying fish good and fresh, at prices far lower than those which it is agreed shall rule at present. A very large proportion of our town population would profit by exchanging some of their meat—I by no means say all—as an article of daily diet for fish. Where occupation is chiefly of an intellectual kind, and demands little physical exertion, fish is often much more suitable than butcher's meat. Without active exercise in the open air, the digestive system is apt to become overloaded and oppressed by a meal consisting chiefly of meat; and even if the primary digestion of it is, in these circumstances, easily ac- complished, many constitutions sufl^er from an over supply of nutritive matters, which cannot be disposed of easily and safely without considerable muscular activity, and out of door Hfe, and which therefore give rise to morbid deposits of some kind. An idea is popularly current that fish furnishes certain forms of nutriment adapted especially to sustain the brain, a theory utterly without foundation j but the practicalThe Fare of the Agriculhiral Labotirer. 31 value of fisli as a staple article of diet for those who lead a sedentary life, including consequently many whose pursuits are chiefly literary, is undoubted, and arises from the causes just pointed out. Having enunciated some general principles, which it is important should first be established, I shall offer briefly an illustration or two of the manner in which they may be applied. This brings us to the second division of the subject, viz., the practical treat- ment of certain aliments, in order to render them suitable for food. Dealing first with that of the agricultural labourer, our object is to economise his small pittance ; to give him, if possible, a rather more nutritive, wholesome, and agreeable dish—he can have but one—than his means have hitherto fur- nished. But here there is little scope for change; already said to live chiefly on bread and cheese, with occasionally bacon, two indications only for improve- ment can be followed, viz., augmentation of nitro- genous matter to meet the wear and tear of the body in daily hard labour, and of fatty matter to furnish heat and force. A fair proportion of meat, one of the best means of fulfiUing them, is not within his reach. First, his daily bread ought to contain all the con- stituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour from which most of the mineral elements have been removed. But beans and peas are richer in nitrogen than wheat, and equal it in starch, mineral matters, and fat, the last being in very small quantity, while maize has three times their proportion of fat. HenceFood and Feeding. all of these would be useful additions to his dietary, being cheaper than wheat in the market, although, the retail demand being at present small, they may not be so in the small shops. As an illustration of the value of legumes combined with fat, it may be remembered how well the Erbswurst supported the work of the German armies during the Avinter of 1870-71, an instructive lesson for us in England at the present moment. It consists of a simple peasoup mixed with a certain proportion of bacon or lard, and dried so as to be portable, constituting in very small compass a perfect food, especially suitable for supporting muscular expenditure and ex- posure to cold. Better than any flesh, certainly any which could be transported with ease, the cost was not more than half that of ordinary meat. It was better also, because the form of the food is one in which the nutriment is readily accessible and easily digested; it was rehshed cold, or could be converted in a few minutes into good soup with boiHng water. But for our labourer probably the best of the legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the dried mattu-e bean of the plant whose pods we eat in the early green state as "French beans."* For this purpose they * What ',vo call "Frencli beans" may be the product of serei-al kindred varieties of the kidney bean, dw^arf or climbing, varying according to locality and soil, and distributed over a very large part of Europe. When allowed to nearly, but not quite, ripen, the beau is green, like a green pea, and forms an admirable dish, known in France us flageolets. When the ordinary French beans (immatm-e green pods) arc mixed in about equal proportions with the flicjeokts, the dish,Hozv to cook Haricots. may be treated tLus: Soak, say, a quart of tlio dried haricots in cold water for about twelve hours, after which place them in a saucepan, with two quarts of cold water and a little salt, on the fire; when boiling remove to the corner and simmer slowly until the beans are tender; the time required being about tv,'0 to three hours.* This quantity will fill a large dish, and may be eaten with salt and pepper. It will be greatly improved at small cost by the addition of a bit of butter, or of melted butter with parsley, or if an onion or two have been sliced and stewed with the haricots. A better dish still may be made by putting all or part, after boiling, into a shallow frying-pan, and lightly frying for a few minutes with a little lard and some sliced onions. With a few slices of bacon added, a comparatively luxurious and highly nutritive meal may be made. But there is still in the sauce- pan, after boiling, a residue of value, which the French peasant's wife, who turns everything to account, utilises in a manner quite incomprehensible to the Englishwoman. The water in which dried haricots have stewed, and also that in which green French beans have been boiled, contains a proportion of nutritive matter. The Frenchwoman always pre- serves this liquor carefully, cuts and fries some onions, adds to it these and some thick slices of bread, a little salt and pepper with a potherb or two from the corner which is a very palatable one, is known as haricots verts panacMs (variegated), and might be served at our tables with advantage. * If the water is hard, a little soda may be added with advantage, nFood and Feedinz^ 34 of the garden, and thus serves hot an agreeable and useful croUe cm pot. It ought to be added that the haricots so largely used by the working classes throughout Europe are not precisely either " red " or " white," but some cheaper local varieties, known as haricots clii pa>/s. These, I am assured on good authority, could be supplied here at about twopence a pound, their quality as food being not inferior to other kinds. But haricots—let them be the fine white Soissons— are good enough to be welcome at any table. A roast leg or shoulder of mutton should be garnished by a pint boiled as just directed, lying in the gravy of the dish; and some persons think that, with a good supply of the meat gravy, and a little salt and pepper, " the haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton." Then with a smooth puree of mild onions, which have been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served freely as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots become the gigot d la bretonne well known to all lovers of wholesome and savoury cooker3^ Next, white haricots stewed until soft, made into a rather thick pur^e, deli- cately flavoured by adding a small portion of white pur^e of onions (not browned by frying as in the pre- ceding sauce), produce an agreeable garnish for the centre of a dish of small cutlets, or an entree of fowl, &c. Again, the same haricot puree blended with a veal stock, well flavoured with fresh vegetables, fur. nishes an admirable and nutritious white soup. The red haricots in like manner with a beef stock make a35 Haricots & Lentils. superlative brown soup, wliicli, with the addition of por- tions of game, especially of hare, forms, for those who do not despise economy in cuisine where the result attained is excellent, a soup which in texture and in flavour would by many persons not be distinguishable from a common ^;t<re'e of game itself. Stewed haricots also furnish, when cold, an admirable salad, improved by adding slices of tomato, &c., the oil supplying the one element in which the bean is deficient; and a perfectly nutritious food is produced for those who can digest it—and they are numerous—in this form. The same principle, it may be observed, has, although em- pirically, produced the well-known dishes of beans and bacon, ham and green peas, boiled pork and pease-pudding, all of them old and popular but scien- tific combinations. Thus also the French, serving X)dits pais as a separate dish, add butter freely and a dash of sugar, the former making the compound phy- siologically complete, the latter agreeably heightening the natural sweetness of the vegetable, especially when the peas are a little old, insipid, or have lost their accustomed flavour. Let me recall, at the close of these few hints about the haricot, the fact that there is no product of the vegetable kingdom so nutritious; holding its own in this respect, as it well can, even against the beef and mutton of the animal kingdom. The haricot ranks just above lentils, which have been so much praised of late, and rightly, the haricot being also to most palates more agreeable. By most stomachs, too, haricots are D 2Food and Feeding. 36 more easily digested than meat is; and, consuming ■weight for weight, the eater feels lighter and less oppressed, as a rule, after the leguminous dish; Avhile the comparative cost is very greatly in favour of the latter. I do not of course overlook in the dish of simple haricots the absence of savoury odours proper to well-cooked meat; but nothing is easier than to combine one part of meat with two parts of haricots, adding vegetables and garden herbs, so as to produce a stew which shall be more nutritious, wholesome, and palatable than a stew of all meat with vegetables, and no haricots. Moreover, the cost of the latter will be more than double that of the former. I have just adverted to the bread of the labom-er, and recommended that it should be made from entire wheat meal; but it should not be so coarsely ground as that commonly sold in London as " whole meal." The coarseness of "whole meal" is a condition de- signed to exert a specific effect on the digestion for those who need it, and, useful as it is in its place, is not desirable for the average population referred to. It is worth observing, in relation to this coarse meal, that it will not produce light agreeable bread when made in the form of ordinary loaves : a solid mass of this meal being a very bad conductor of heat, will have a hard flinty crust if baked sufficiently to cook the interior; or it will have a soft dough-like interior, if the baking is checked when the crust is properly done. Consequently the form of a flat cake, re- sembling that of the ordinary tea-cake, is preferable,A Receipt for excellent Bread. 37 since it admits of the right amount of heat operating equally throughout the mass. The following receipt will be found successful, probably after a trial or two, in producing excellent, light, friable, and most palatable bread :— To two pounds of coarsely ground or crushed whole wheat-meal add half a pound of fine flour and a sufficient quantity of baldng powder and salt; when these are well mixed, rub in about two ounces of butter, and make into dough with half milk and water, or with all milk if preferred. Make rapidly into flat cakes like " tea-cakes," and bake without delay in a quick oven, leaving them afterwards to finish thoroughly at a lower temperature.* ' The butter and milk supply fatty matter in which the wheat is somewhat deficient; all the saline and mineral matters of the husk are retained; and thus a more nutritive form of bread cannot be made. Moreover, it retains the natural flavour of the wheat, in place of the insipidity which is characteristic of fine flour, although it is indisputable that bread produced from the latter, especially at Paris and Vienna, is un- * The following is a simple and excellent formula for "baking- powder ; " one wliicb has been long iised for this and other purposes. It may be obtained at any chemist's, and in any quantity, based on the following proportions : Tartaric acid, 2 ozs. Bicarbonate of soda, 3 ozs. Common arrowroot, 3 ozs. Mix well; place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep perfectly dry.38 Food and Feeding. rivalled for delicacy, texture, and colour. Whole meal may be bought; but mills are now cheaj)ly made for home use, and wheat may be ground to any degree of coarseness desired. •Further examples are unnecessary here, although it would be an easy task to fill a volume with matter of this kind, illustrating the ample means which exist for diminishing somewhat the present wasteful use of "butchers' meats'' with positive advantage to the consumer. Many facts in support of this position will appear as we proceed. But another important object in furnishing the foregoing details is to point out how combinations of the nitrogenous, starchy, fatty, and mineral elements may be made, in well-proportioned mixtures, so as to produce what I have termed a " perfect" dish—perfect, that is, so far as the chief in- dication is concerned, viz., one which supplies every de- mand of the body, without containing any one element in undue proportion. For it is obvious that one or two of these elements may exist in injurious excess, especially for delicate stomachs, the varied peculiarities of which, as before insisted on, must sometimes render necessary a modification of all rules. Thus it is easy to make the fatty constituent too large, and thereby derange digestion, a result frequently experienced by persons of sedentary habits, to whom a little pastry, a morsel of foie gras, or a rich cream is a source of great discomfort, or of a "bilious attack;" while the labourer, who requires much fatty fuel for his M'Ork, would have no difficulty in consuming a large quantity39 Combinations of Rice. of such compounds with advantage. Nitrogenous matter also is commonly supplied beyond the eater's wants ; and if more is consumed than can be used for the purposes which such ahment subserves, it must be ehminated in some way from the system. This process of elimination, it suffices to say here, is undoubtedly a prolific cause of disease, such as gout, rheumatism, and their allies, as well as other affections of a serious character, which would in all probability exist to a very small extent, were it not the habit of those who, being able to obtain the strong or butchers' meats, eat them daily year after year, in larger quantity than the constitution can assimilate. Quitting the subject of wheat and the leguminous seeds, it will be interesting to review briefly the combinations of rice, which furnishes so large a portion of the world with a vegetable staple of diet. Ee- membering that it contains chiefly starch, with nitro- gen in small proportion, and almost no fat or mineral elements, and just sufficing perhaps to meet the wants of an inactive population in a tropical climate, the first addition necessary for people beyond this limit will be fat, and, after that, more nitrogen. Hence an illus- tration of one of the first efforts to make a dish of rice "complete" is afforded by the addition of butter and a little Parmesan cheese, in the simple rizoito, from which, as a starting point, improvement, both for nutritive purposes and for the demands of the palate, may be carried to any extent. Fresh additions are made in the shape of marrow, ofFood and Feedinor. 40 morsels of liver, &c., of meat broth with onion and spice, which constitute the mixture, when well pre- pared, nutritious and highly agreeable. The analogue of this mainly Italian dish is the pUau or pilaff of the orientals, consisting as it chiefly does of rice lightly boiled in the broth of a fowl: a basis susceptible of various slight modifications and additions. The curry of rabbit or of poultry and the kedgeree of fish are further varieties which it is unnecessary to describe. Follow the same combination to Spain, where we find a popular national dish, not greatly differing from the foregoing, in the polio con arroz, which consists of abundance of rice, steeped in a Httle broth and containing morsels of fowl, bacon, and sausage, wdth aj^petising spices, and sufficing for an excellent meal. Another farinaceous product of world-wide use is the maize or Indian corn. "With a fair amount of nitrogen, starch, and mineral elements, it contains also a good proportion of fat, and is made into bread, cakes, and puddings of various kinds. It is complete, but susceptible of improvement by the addition of nitrogen. Hence in the United States, where it is largely used, it is often eaten with beans, under the name of " succotash." In Italy it is ground into the beautiful yellow flour which is conspicuous in the streets of almost every town; when made into a firm paste by boiling in water, and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese, a nitrogenous aliment, it becomes what is known as polenta, and is largely consumed with some relish in the shape of fried fish, sardines, sausage.41 Macaroni. Potatoes. little birds, or morsels of foAvl or goose, by wliicli of course fresli nitrogen is added. Macaroni has been already alluded to in connection with wheat, from which it is made; although rich in nitrogenous and starchy materials, it is deficient in fat. Hence it is boiled and eaten with butter and parmesan (d VItalienne) and with tomatoes, which furnish saline matters, with meat gravy, or with milk. Nearer home the potato forms a vegetable basis in composition closely resembling rice, and requiring therefore additions of nitrogenous and fatty elements. The Irishman's inseparable ally, the pig, is the natural, and to him necessary, complement of the tuber, making the latter a complete and palatable dish. The every- day combination of mashed potato and sausage is an application of the same principle. In the absence of pork, the potato eater substitutes a cheap oily fish, the herring. The combination of fatty material with the potato is still further illustrated in our baked potato and butter, in fried potatoes in their endless variety of form, in potato mashed with milk or cream, also served in the ordinary way with maifre cVhotel butter ; finally arriving at the most perfect and finished combination in the pommes cle tcrre sautees cm heurre of a first-class French restaurant, where it becomes almost a plat de luxe. Even the simple bread and butter or bread and cheese of our own country equally owe their form and popularity to physiological necessity ; the deficient fat of the bread being supplemented by the fatty elements of each addition, the cheese supplying also its proper-42 Food and Feeding. tion of nitrogenous matter, whicli exists so largely in its peculiar principle, caseine. So again, all the suet puddings, "short cake," plum cakes, pie-crust, or pastry, whether baked or boiled, consist simply of farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by the addition of fatty matter. In the same way almost every national dish might be analysed up to the 'pot-au-feu of our neighbours, the right management of which combines the nutri- tious quality of flesh with the abundant aroma and flavour of fresh vegetables which enter so largely into this economical and excellent mess. It will be apparent that, up to this point, our esti- mate of the value of these combinations has been limited, or almost so, by their physiological complete- ness as foods, and by their economical value in rela- tion to the resources of that great majority of all populations, which is poor. But when the inexorable necessity for duly considering economy has been com- plied with, the next aim is to render food as easily digestible as possible, and agreeable to the senses of taste, smell, and sight. The hard labourer with simple diet, pro^dded his aliment is complete and fairly well cooked, will sufler little from indigestion. He cannot be guilty, for want of means, of eating too much, fertile soiu'ce of de- ranged stomach with those who have the means; physical labour being also in many circumstances the best preventive of dyspepsia. " Live on sixpence a day and earn it," attributed to Abernethy as the sumThe Perfect Dish. 43 of his dietary for a gluttonous eater, is a maxim of value, endorsed by millions. But for the numerous sedentary workers in shops, ofEces, in business and professions of all kinds, the dish must not only be " complete ; " it must be so prepared as to be easily digestible by stomachs of moderate power, and it should also be as appetising and agreeable as circum- stances admit.CHAPTER IV. Food of the middle-class Euglishmau—Bakiug and roasting— Braising, methods of—Stewing—Bcovf cl la mode—Opposite Principles in French and English cookery—Superiority of former in some particulars—Frying, and its action on materials of Food—-The omelette. On questioning tlie average middle-class English- man as to the nature of liis food, the all but universal answer is, " My living is plain, always roast and boiled "—words which but too clearly indicate the dreary monotony, not to say unwholesomeness, of his daily food; while they furthermore express his satis- faction, such as it is, that he is no luxurious feeder, and that, in his opinion, he has no right to an indiges- tion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which we all know the very shape and changeless odours, follow each other with unvarying precision, six roast to one boiled, and have done so ever since he began to keep house some five-and-twenty years ago ! I am not sanguine enough to suppose that this unbroken order which rules the dietary of the great majority of British families of moderate and even of ample means, will be disturbed by any suggestions of mine. Nevertheless, in some younger households, where habits followed for want of thought or knowledge have not yet hardenedRoasting v. Baking. 45 into law, there may be a disposition to adopt a healthier diet and a more grateful variety of aliment. For variety is not to be obtained in the search for new animal food. Often as the lament is heard that some new meat is not discovered, that the butcher's display of joints offers so small a range for choice, it is not from this source that wholesome and pleasing additions to the table will be obtained. But our most respectable paterfamilias, addicted to " plain living," might be surprised to learn that tlie vaunted " roasting " has no longer in his household the same significance it had five-and-twenty years ago ; and that probably, during the latter half of that term, he has eaten no roast meat, whatever he may aver to the contrary. Baking, at best in a half-venti- lated oven, has long usurped the function of th.e spit in most houses, thanks to the ingenuity of economical range-makers. And the joint, which formerly turned in a current of fresh air before a well-made fire, is now talf stifled in a close atmosphere of its own vapours, very much to the destruction of the characteristic flavour of a roast. No doubt modern range-makers have to some extent improved the oven by ventilating it, but a true roast, constantly basted at the proper time, is only to be produced before the open fire. Still this, in relation to our present object, is a smaller defect than that which is involved by the neglect in this country of braising as a mode of cooking animal food ; a process by which more than mere "stewing" is of course intended.46 Food and Feeding. o In braising, the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juices {braise or mire- poix) in a closely covered vessel, from wbicb as little evaporation as possible is permitted, and is exposed for a considerable time to a surrounding beat just short of boiling. By this treatment tough fibrous flesh, whether of poultry or of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as can alone be procured during the summer season in towns, is made tender, and is furthermore impregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs. Thus, also, meats which are drj^, or of little flavour, as veal, become satu- rated with juices and combined with sapid substances, which render the food succulent and delicious to the palate. Small portions sufficing for a single meal, however small the family, can be so dealt with ; and a rechauffie, or cold meat for to-morrow, is not a thing of necessity, but only of choice when preferred. To judge by the braised products which rarely ap- pear on English tables, and by such descriptions of it as exist in our cookery books, the process itself is scarcely understood. Certainly it is not one uniform method, to which the term is applied, and consequently the cook's conception of it is apt to be somewhat loose and indefinite. The first principle essential to a braise, is that the meat so to be treated, must be very slowly cooked in a closely covered vessel, with a small quantity of liquid. The second principle is, that the meat sha be im-47 Braising. preguated in this process with, the flavours of vege- tables, herbs, &c., and of some spices, and it may be also with wine. This is to be done by placing in the braise-pot slices of ham or bacon, some cut carrots, turnips, onions, herbs, cloves, and some French wine ; but this, I would submit, is rather stewing than brais- ing. The proper way of conducting the latter mode is to make beforehand a strong decoction by boiling together all these materials, adding stock, and wino serving in part to flavour if desired, and in part to preserve the liquor, and reducing the whole, making in fact what is called a mire-poix. A small quantity of this is then to serve as the fluid in which the portion of meat or bird, &c., is to be braised. The third principle is not generally considered ab- solutely essential to the process; although it is un- doubtedly the last refinement necessary to produce a first-rate braise. It is that of partially browning or half-roasting the portion also ; and this may be ac- complished in two ways. The legitimate or original way of doing this, is, to have well fitted to the braise- pot a sunk copper or iron cover, in which some hot coals or charcoal are placed, in order to transmit downwards a scorching heat to the top of the portion which is uncovered by the liquid in the pot below. In this case it is usual to cover the portion, especi- ally if a fowl, with a piece of white paper, which serves to shield a delicate morsel from a too fierce heat. The other and inferior way is to very lightly roast the fowl, or what not, before putting it intoFood and Feeding. 48 tlie braise, and so dispense with tlie coals on the cover after. It may be seen then, that an ordinary Lraise does not require a great deal of attention, if the cook knows the corner of the fire or hot plate, where the slow and very gentle simmering will maintain itself regularly for two or three hours. Common braising or stewing, that is, conducted without the coals on the lid, is well illustrated in the production of a well known French dish, Imif a la mode, which is always good, when served in a simple inexpensive manner for the people, and may be ren- dered most excellent, with more care and refinement, so as to be suitable at a table of the highest rank. I shall subjoin Grouffe's receipt; he regards the process as an important and typical one, and gives it at length. See Appendix, page 141. I have an observation to make relative to the treatment of flesh in cookery (butcher's meat, poultry, and game), which finds its place appropriately here. It may be easily recognised that two opposite prin- ciples dominate that treatment, within certain limits; and that one of these characterises the best English cookery, while the other has been, and stiU is to a large extent, the ruHng principle of French cookery. Both are rational—each perhaps the best in its place ; and only illogical products and examples of defective taste can arise in practical cookery by confounding the two ideas, an error however which is far from uncommon. In spite of the admiration which it isPrhiciple of English Cookery. 49 impossible to withhold for the talent of the French cook, it is nevertheless in France that the confusion I speak of is chiefly to be met with. And it is only in our own country, I venture to affirm, that the former of the two principles is carried out to perfection. That principle is that our own meat and game shall be presented at table in the highest state of perfection attainable, so far as breeding, feeding, and keeping can accomplish it: each animal characterised by its own proper flavour, which is on no account to be masked or disguised by others which are adventitious. Delicate additions tending to heighten the natural flavour, or agreeably subordinated to it, shall alone be admitted. It is a principle which can be success- fully followed only where these meats exist in high perfection : where meat is inferior or insipid an oppo- site treatment is the best. It has been essentially the aim of the intelligent English consumer to cultivate the best meat and game in the world, and to enjoy it for its own sake, unalloyed by any of those sauces which are so valuable for improving materials which are wanting in quality or flavour. The opposite principle is that which has been developed in association Avith the production of meats and poultry which are naturally somewhat insipid. Since it has been the custom not to rear in France fine mature beef or mutton, as we understand those meats here, but rather to consume almost exclusively an immature product, veal, as well as poultry, which although the best of its kind is naturally wanting in E50 sapid character ; tlicse liavo become, and rightly so, the vehicles of various delicious adventitious flavours, for which purpose they are valued rather than for their inherent qualities. This character of veal is illustrated in a passage occurring in the first number of the famous Alinanach des Gourmanda, which ap- peared in Paris at the commencement of the present century:—" Veal lends itself to so many metamor- phoses that we may fairly term it ' the chameleon of cookery.'" * Precisely the same view is held by Brillat-Savarin, but in relation to poultry, when he says, "Poultry is for cookery what canvas is to the painter." f In such conditions, therefore, it is natural that French cuisine should be essentially distinguished for its sauces, by which it adorns and transforms material in itself somewhat uninteresting or uninviting. The Englishman loves the flavour of three or four year old mutton (unhappily almost a tradition now), mature beef, \vild game winged and ground; and he cares not how little of " sauce" is supplied—^he demands only "gravy"—so that they are in fine condition and simply cooked, for the most part care- fully roasted. To lard mutton or venison, is for him, to desecrate them; to lard or farce a grouse or partridge is dishonour equally to the game and to the guest. An English partridge is injured, I venture to * Almanack des Gourmands. Paris, 1803, p. 17. + Phjsiologic da GoiU. Paris, 1843, p. 30.French Cookery. ArI of Frying. 51 submit, even by barding, although the reverse is true of quail. The French chef treats the white meat veal and domestic poultry with so many ingeniously contrived sauces, as to render those two meats as good as six. So successful is the achievement, that he is too often tempted to extend his art to dark-fleshed game, and seeking to adorn it with new flavours, destroys the original savour and aroma, in which consists the value of the dish. During the last few years, how^ever, a change has been slowly taking place in the practice of the best French cooks in this respect; better and more mature meat is to be found in Paris than formerly. I have recently seen served there, as the latest idea of perfection, a fine wild duck, lightly roasted, served without an atom of sauce; only with abundance of hot rich red gravy, expressed on the table before us by machine, from all that remained of the bird when the breast had been fully sliced on the hot plates of the two guests who partook of it. This is precisely our own view of what is the best, but admirably realised. Let us continue to cultivate the finest meats, present them simply, and we shall have no cause to be ashamed of that course at an English table. In making the best of 'second-rate and insipid morsels we have much to learn. The art of frying is little understood, and the omelette is almost entirely neglected by our country- men. The products of our frying-pan are often E 2Food and Feedhig. 52 greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of boiling in oil, that is, at a heat of nearly 500° Fahr., that of boiling water being 212°. This high temperature produces results, which are equiva- lent indeed to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is immersed in the boiling fat. Frying, as generally conducted, is rather a combination of broil- ing, toasting or scorchiag; and the use of the^ deep pan of boiling oil or dripping, which is essential to the right performance of the process, and especially preventing greasiness, is a rare exception and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. The principle on which success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the hot oil, a thin film of every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavours, &c., are at once locked up within; and no quality can escape. The bath of oil should therefore be in quantity sufi&cient, and also be hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few minutes requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often sHghtly lowered with advantage. The fish emerges when done, with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity when hot, if left a minute or two before the fire; it may thus be served absolutely free from grease. The film of egg often applied to the surface of an object to be fried, is instantly coagulated and forms an imperme- able case; while the fine bread crumbs adhering to itOhve Oil. Uses of Dripping. 53 take a fine yellow colour from being slightly charred by the high temperature they are exposed to. Excellent and perfectly fresh olive oil, which need not be so perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest kinds reserved for the salad-bowl, is sold at a mode- rate price by the gallon for this purpose at the best Italian warehouses. Nothing, perhaps, is better than well-clarified beef dripping, such as is produced, often abundantly,' in every English kitchen ; but the time- honoured traditions of our perquisite system enable any English cook to sell this for herself at small price to a little trader round the corner, while she buys, at her employer's cost, a quantity of pork lard for frying material, at double the price obtained for the dripping. Lard is moreover the worst men- struum for the purpose, the most difiicult to work in, so as to free the matters fried in it from grease; and we might be glad to buy back our own drip- ping from the aforesaid little trader, at a profit to him of cent, per cent., if only the purchase could be diplomatically negotiated. But so sweet is acquisition by way of perquisite, that none of the present race of cooks appear disposed to part with this particular one for any consideration which can be offered. They are doubtless true to their order, and regard in the light of sacrilege any interference with their principles and traditions. There is one dish which may be mentioned here appropriately, of which English cooks have not much practical knowledge; very few can make a tolerableFood and Feeding. 54 omelette; and thus one of the most deHcious and nutritious products of culinary art, with the further merit that it can be more rapidly prepared than any other dish, must really at present be regarded as an exotic. Competent instruction at first and a little practice are required, in order to attain a mastery in producing an omelette; but these given, there is no difficulty in turning out a first-rate specimen. The ability to do this may be so useful in the varied cir- cumstances of travel, &c., that no young man destined for foreign service, or even who lives in chambers, should fail to attain the easily acquired art.CEAPTER V. Preparation of food continued—Soups—Pot.-a%i-Jeu—T\m Stock-pot —Bouillon—Consomme—Mode of producing endless variety— . The foundations of all Soups—Fish Soup—Vegetable Soups— Use of tlie Gridiron — Garnishes — Cookery of Vegetables a I'Anglaise and a la Fran^aisc—Fish—Cold Meats—Salads. I THINK it may be said tliat soups, wlietlier clear (that is, prepared from tlie juices of meat and vege- tables only), or tliick (tliat is, 2^urees of animal or vegetable matters), are far too liglitly esteemed by most classes in England, wbile tbey are almost un- known to tbe working man. For the latter tliey might furnish an important cheap and savoury dish; by the former they are too often regarded as the mere prelude to a meal, to be swallowed hastily, or dis- regarded altogether as most unworthy of attention. The great variety of vegetable purees, which can be easily made and blended with light animal broths, admits of daily change in the matter of soup to a remarkable extent, and affords scope for taste in the selection and combination of flavours. The use of fresh vegetables in abundance — such as carrots, turnips, artichokes, celery, cabbage, sorrel, leeks, and onions—renders such soups wholesome and appetising. The supply of garden produce ought in this country toFood and Feeding. 56 be singularly plentiful; and, owing to the unrivalled means of transport, all common vegetables ought to be obtained fresh in every part of London. The contrary, however, is unhappily the fact. It is a matter of extreme regret that vegetables, dried and compressed after a modern method, should be so much used as they are for soup, by hotel-keepers and other caterers for the public. Unquestionably useful as these dried products are on board ship and to travellers camping out, to employ them at home, ■when fresh can be had, is the result of sheer indolence or of gross ignorance. All the finest qualities of scent and flavour, with some of the fresh juices, are lost in the drying process; and the infusions of preserved vegetables no more resemble a freshly made odorife- rous soup, than a cup of that thick brown, odourless, insipid mixture, consisting of some bottled " essence " dissolved in hot water, and now supplied as cofl'ee at most railway stations and hotels in this country, resembles the recently made infusion of the freshly roasted berry. It says little for the taste of our iountrymen that such imperfect imitations are so generally tolerated without complaint. How diff'erent is the result of intelligent cookery, as we find it exemplified in the simple national soup of France. Here the appetising odours of fresh meat and vegetables are discerned with pleasure, the moment a poi-au-feu enters the room. Relative to this dish so much has of late appeared in public prints, faiHng to explain what is understood in FranceThe Pot-au-Feii. Stock-pot. 57 by it, that I tkink an accurate description of what it really is may prove acceptable here. The pot-aa-feu is a composite dish which produces, first a simple, but not strong, beef broth {bouillon), well flavoured by fresh vegetables ; secondly, a some- what over-cooked and exhausted piece of beef {houilli) which is served after the soup ; and, lastly, the vege- tables themselves. This is a different thing from the common " stock- pot " of the French peasant, so frequently termed a pot-(M-feu, and confounded with it. The primary ob- ject of a " stock-pot" is to make a decoction or basis for soup — of animal food, if possible, — and every morsel of flesh, poultry, trimmings from joints, bones well bruised, &c., which are available for the purpose, are reserved for it. To the pot of the peasant, who wastes nothing whatever, all things are welcome ; and every atom of nutritive material—solid or liquid— goes into it, to which are always added herbs and vegetables, together with the liquor in which any of the latter may chance to have been boiled. But some- times it is a pot maicjre, no meat of any kind having been procurable, and very good vegetable soups, moreover, are educible therefrom, of which more hereafter. Then again, besides, or instead of the slices of bread which are usually put into the broth when served, the good wife now and then cleans a fresh cabbage, boils it in water, as much as possible of which she removes by pressure in a cloth, then puts the cabbage for a few minutes into her pot, andFood and Feeding. 58 finally serves it as a welcome addition to the dish. But in none of these forms can the true 'pot-au-feu be recognised ; and no Frenchman who has the least acquaintance Avith the national cookery will allow it to rank as one. The pot-au-fcu has for its object, as already stated, not only the making of a well flavoured hcef broth, but the cooking of a portion of the beef to be eaten separately after, either cold or hot, according to taste, together with the vegetables necessarily associated with it. Formerly, this ho^iilli always appeared at an ordinary French table immediately after the houiUon ; but, strictly speaking, it is not worth eating, certainly by those who can afford better food, and it has a good deal disappeared during the last few years. So the pot-au-feu has come to signify at ordinary tables only a soup, and it may appear at the best tables in that capacity; still, strictly as a beef broth, but of the most perfect land, well seasoned and flavoured by herbs and vegetables. To return to the family stock-pot. This has, on the Continent, especially in families of the middle class, another use beside that of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct the process in the sim- mering pot. Any nutritive matter, hoAVCver small, which might have been lost in the water used in ordinary boiling, is saved for the soup, while the fowl boiled in stock is certainly preferred when it comes to table, to one which has been boiled in water. AndThe Grand Boidllon. The Consomme. 59 so with many other articles ; for example, a small and well cleaned ham may be cooked — and this is an affair of several hours—in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage equally to the soup and the ham, provided, of course, that the ham has already been soaked some twenty-four hours or so beforehand to remove super- fluous salt; nor should any salt be put into the stock- pot when required for this operation. But besides the homllon of the pot-au-feu there is the grand houiUon also, a distinct and elementary product of French cookery; this is a decoction, stronger than the preceding, of beef and veal, with any supplementary bone and sinew from the butcher, in order to add gelatine; and this is combined also with vegetables. Lastly, there is the consomme, which is a decoction of beef, veal, and fowl, the two latter partially roasted for the purpose of heightening flavour; and it is made, not with Avater, but with houiUon—Gouffe orders the (jrand houillon just de- scribed—and with a few more vegetables. This is therefore the highest form of soup from beef, veal, poultry and vegetables which can be produced. Now, as the mode of making ]jot-au-fm is an im- portant initial step in the art of soup-making, I shall place in an appendix at the end of this volume, a somewhat abridged translation of the very complete instructions given by Gouffe. The right management is with him a matter of the highest importance; and, simple as the dish is, he devotes no less than nine pages to the task of illustrating the elementaryFood and Feeding. 6o principles of cookeiy whicli are involved in the process. By way of further illustrating the subject, I shall place there also some extracts relating to it, which are extremely interesting, from Brillat-Savarm's Fhysiologie du Gout, and also from Dumas' Grand Dictionmire de Cuisine. It is not at all surprising that many persons should be somewhat bewildered by the almost endless variety of appellation under which the single article of soup is presented at table. It has been estimated that the titles which denote these numerous varieties, number altogether not less perhaps than five hundred. And proceeding on the principle on which these are pro- duced, there appears to be no reason why even the present list should not be doubled in length. In reality the number of species is very limited; but the slightest addition to a soup having been held sufficient to confer upon it a distinctive name, the idea of com- plexity and number has been unnecessarily fostered. Regarded analytically, there are but five leading species from which all varieties are produced by slight additions and combinations of flavour. 1. A clear decoction (weak, or "broth"; strong, or consomme) of meat: of beef, veal, sometimes mutton; and of pork in the form of ham or bacon. 2. A clear decoction of fowl. 3. A clear decoction of game.Five Leading Species of Sojip. 6i 4. A decoction of fish proper, and with, shell fish (oysters, mussels, &c.) 5. A decoction of vegetables only, comprising also herbs, roots, grains, and farinaceous substances. Any of these may be used as made at first hand; then most may be presented with some slight addi- tion, such as with Italian pastes, fresh made pastes {nouUIes and quenelles); cut fresh vegetables, in rounds, in squares, in long strips, fresh, or lightly fried before adding them, with crusts of bread, with an egg, &c.; each single addition denoted by a dis- tinctive appellation, which will suggest itself in each example named above, to any one who has the least acquaintance with cookery. The consomme of meat, or of veal, beef, and fowl mixed, or of game, may also be thickened by addition of a flesh, fowl, and game puree respectively; white soups, commencing with a consomm^ of veal and poultry, thickened with a pure'e of the white meat of fowl; and brown purges following, from consomme of beef and veal, and of game. The same consomm^, or the weaker broth, furnish bases for vegetable purees in like manner, either white or coloured. Many of these, like the others, have their distinctive names ; e.g., purde of carrot as Crecy, of green peas as S. Germain, of red haricots as Conde, and of artichokes, curiously enough, and by virtue of a bad pun, called Palestine. Thus the variations and additions which may be62 Food and Feeding. made by means of a little skill in combination, are literally endless. A short list of exceptional soups, each with a distinct individual character, may still be referred to as not belonging to the above-mentioned classes. Such as turtle; perhaps mock turtle or calf's head; ox-tail, muUigataAvny; giblet and " cock-a-leelde," are almost stews ; the latter doubtless designed originally to present the patriarch of the poultry yard in an eatable form. Bouillahaise is almost a fish stew, although ranked conventionally among the soups. Then there is an important distinction, recognised chiefly on the Continent, and related to the demands of religious observance, between soups which have meat for their basis {potage gras), and those which have fish, or exclusively vegetable bases [potage maigve); into the latter. class also, eggs are admitted. All these take rank of course among the five classes first named; but they are referred to separately here in order to draw attention to a fact not generally recognised in this country, that excellent soups may be made without employing meat. Vegetable soups, clear and thick, are extremely palatable ; the former being agreeable and Avholesome, especially in the warm season when fresh vegetable growth is abundant, and full of juice and fragrance; and the latter or thick soup, may be very nutritious also, as already shown, since they contain a consider- able quantity of barley, peas, beans, haricots, Indian corn, rice, &c. See receipt in the Appendix.Fish Sottps. The Bouillabaise. 63 Nutritious and palatable soups may also be made from fish, the cheaper sorts being available for stock, while the better sorts are applicable as garnish. "^Vllen Ave possess an adequate, and therefore cheap supply—an event which, with the enormous resources of this country, can only be a question of time—■ valuable soups and stews of fish and of shell-fish, Avill be available for the poorer classes, whose tastes only reqioire educating in order to appreciate them, doubt- less also a work of some little time. I need only to refer to oyster soups, to the much esteemed hhqxies^ a term usually denoting highly flavoured imHes of crayfish, and to that delicious dish, houiUcihaisc, eaten in perfection at Marseilles, as among the choicest products of culinary art in this particular direction, and need not quote the well-known rhymes of Thackeray, which do not exaggerate its good qualities, to show that such aliments arc appreciated, at all events by cultivated palates. In the Appendix will be furnished a receipt or two for fish soup. I may conclude this brief sketch of soups by ob- serving that the ability to make a good, fragrant, and clear comsoinine—and nothing is easier, granted a moderate intelligence and the power of executing simple details with care—aJffords the key to almost all. The preparation of vegetables and the making of purees, are merely mechanical processes, easily attained. The judgment necessary to add and com- bine spices, essences, and other sources of flavour, is the one element wliich when possessed, in addition to64 Food and Feeding: the character of an attentive, dexterous, and pains- taking workman, essential to success in every profes- sion,[constitutes a finished cook, and denotes his or her rank. And thus it is that the department of sauces especially gives opportunity to develop and illustrate these qualities ; and here it is that the artist's skill is very clearly manifested. The value of the gridiron is, perhaps, nowhere better understood than in England, especially in relation to chops, steak, and kidney; the blade bone, or even a small shoulder of mutton—all of which may be sent to table in the highest perfection from a clear fire, managed by careful and competent hands. Still it is not quite so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the preparation of many a small dish of fish, fowl, and meat, or "bone," to say nothing of a grilled mushroom, either alone, or as an accompaniment to any of them. And it may be worth while, perhaps, remarking that the sauce par excellence for broils is mushroom ketchup; and the garnish cool lettuce, watercress, or endive. And this consideration suggests a word or two on the important addition which may be made to most small dishes of animal food under the title of " garnish." Whether it be a small filet, braised or roasted, or a portion thereof broiled; a fricandeau, or the choice end of a neck of mutton made compact by shortening the bones; or a small loin, or a dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or a choice portion of broiled rumpsteak; a tender ox tongue, a couple of sweet-65 Garnishes. breads, poultry, pigeon, or what not—the garnish should be a matter of consideration. Whether the dish be carved on the famil)^ table, as it rarely fails to be when its head is interested in the cuisine, or whether it is handed in the presence of guests, the quality and the appearance of the dish greatly depend on the garnish. According to the meat may be added, with a view both to taste and appearance, some of the following—iyuree& of sorrel, spinach, and other greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain, in shapes, or in croquettes ; cut carrots, peas, beans, endive, sprouts, and other green vegetables; stewed onions, small or Spanish; cucumbers, tomatoes, macaroni in all forms; sometimes a few sultanas boiled, mushrooms, olives, truffles. In the same way chestnuts are admii-able, whole, boiled or roasted, and as a imree freely served, especially in winter, when vegetables are scarce; serving also as farce for fowls and tm-keys. While such vegetables as green peas, Freiach and young broad beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, seakale, cauli- flower, spinach, artichokes, vegetable marrows, &c., are worth procuring in their best and freshest con- dition, to prepare with especial care as separate dishes.* * A hint about boiling aisparagus is worthy of mention, since the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. Asparagus of the stouter soi-t, always when of the " giant " variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing ends upward, in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water—the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form the tenderest part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is rendered F66 Food and Feeding. And licrc, again, tlie distinctive piinciples, already referred to, of French, and Englisli cuisine, are illus- trated in relation to tlie cooking of vegetables; and again, let me add, not to tlie disadvantage of our own system. I find it the more necessary to call atten- tion to this subject, as much has of late been said, ■o hich may lead many to believe that Frencb usage is invariably right, and English usage invariably wrong. "Very far from the truth, I humbly submit, is such an allegation as this, even in regard of our treatment of vegetables. No doubt we are too often guilty of carelessness and inattention to the condition in which, vegetables are presented, in the practice of our tables, but our principle is in the main correct, and only wants to be pursued witb intelligence. Wben vegetables are really good, well grown, and fresh, no good judge desires that their natural, qualities of flavour, odour, and consistence, or even colour, sbould be destroyed by the addition of other materials, and of foreign flavours. Let us take two, in illusti'ation of these remarks, the pea, and the tomato. Garden -peas,petiis pois, when young, quickly grown, soft and succuleut by the longer boiling wbicli tbis plan permits. Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus lying horizontally, in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk, and overcooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period of thirty or forty minutes, on the plan recommended, will render fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil in- sufficiently appreciated here, and our owti asparagus i^referred, is, that the former is rurely sufficiently cooked at English tables.Methods of dressing Peas and Beans. 67 and fresh, iiave a delicious cliaracteristic flavour of their own, are rather sweet, and almost crisp when eaten; and maintain these attributes unimjmired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such should be eaten a VAnglaisc, the use of the term itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French chef, that the simple cooking advocated here, and practised in this country, is often right. All that is produced under this name is a dish of peas, cooked as described, with a pat of fresh butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital little pepper-mill, which is natural to a French table, and almost unknown here. A morsel of the butter is stirred into the hot peas, a little black pepper, fuU of fragrance, freshly ground over them, and a pinch of salt, according to taste, and the whole stirred. The same process is equally applicable to French beans, and also to that excellent mixture of French beans and flarjeolets, so well known as panaches, so rarely served in this country. All these vegetables, when in excellent condition, are doubtless served at their best, a I'Anglaise, not only in relation to the palate, but also in view of the average digestion. But who does not know that the common mode, both in town and province throughout France, is to 'serve not only French beans, but other vegetables, floating m rich, yellow, melted butter, rendering them for most English stomachs, at aU events, hazardous, and to some repulsive. To return to om petifs pois as the type. When green peas are a little hard, old, and tough, or a little 3? 2Food and Feeding. 68 coarse in flavour, and Avitliout sweetness, then it is that the French cook treats them with advantage. For such peas as these, when no others are to be had —and it must be confessed that inferior peas are far too commonly met with—by all means let them be served d la Frangaise. This means stewing them gently, with a good proportion of butter, some sKced onion, a little salt, stii-ring in a little flour, and a small quantity of sugar. Some, exceptionally, add a little cream, and yolk of egg. Another excellent French method, d, la Paijsanne, is to add first butter as before, salt and onion ; and then stew slowly in a fair quantity of stock, with lettuces, finely sliced, some sugar, and a shred or two of parsley, if desired. Almost any peas may be rendered tender and appetising, if thus treated. Again, haricots verts sautes au heurre, is a favourite mode of cooldng them; but no superfluous butter should appear when they are served ; the quantity allowed in which to toss them for a few minutes on a brisk fire, after boiling, should amount to no more, ac- cording to the rule, than a tenth part by weight of that of the vegetables themselves when dry.* The natural inference from all this is, that certain * Some persons wlio have not studied practical cookery may not quite understand the French term sauter, or the con-espondiug Eng- lish term, "toss." It means, to fry lightly or isartiallyin butter using a shallow pan, and, moving the material to be fried, or, rather, " tossed," so as to avoid the production of a temperature high enough to brown the surface—a condition which is intended to be produced by frying proper, that is, by immersing the material in heated oil.The Tomato. Fish undervahied. 69 French methods are desirable, and their success is re- markable, when—as we have ah-eady seen in relation to meats—the materials are inferior ; but the English method is the simplest and best, when the materials are—as they always should be—the best of their kind. And now, brieflj'', for the tomato; in almost any condition, simple cookery alone is admissible for it. Doubtless if ripe and fresh, it is best of all when eaten raw; but if served hot, only plain boiling, baking, or broiling, will cook this delicious half-fruit, half-vegetable, so as least to alter or diminish its natural flavour. To stuff it with onion, parsley, and shalot, is mischievous meddling carried to its highest pitch! Yet this is almost the only form in which tomato appears at foreign tables. Certainly, Talley- rand's maxim, " Trop de zele," applies no less forcibly sometimes to professional cooks, than as a caution to diplomatists. It is doubtful whether fish is esteemed so highly as an aliment, as its nutritious qualities entitle it to be; while it offers gi-eat opportunity for agreeable variety in treatment. As a general observation, it may be said that in preparing it for table sufficient trouble is not taken to remove some portion of the bones; this can be advantageously done by a clever cook, without disfiguring or injuring the fish. Sauces should be appropriately served : for example, the fat sauces, as hollandaise, and other forms of melted butter, are an appropriate complement of hot boiled fish, while70 Food and Feeding. mayomcme is similarly related to cold. These and their variations, -whicli are numerous, may also ac- company both broiled and fried fish; but both are often more wholesome and agreeable when served with only a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a few grains of the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon is not to be had—and it rarely can be here. But the juice of the mushroom is preferred, and no doubt justly, by some. Endless variations and additions may be made according to taste on these principles. But there is another no less important principle, viz., that the fish itself often furnishes a sauce from its own juices, more appropriate than some of the com- plicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared by the cook. Thus " melted butter "—which is regarded as essentially an English sauce—when intended to accompany fish, should not be, as it almost invariably is, a carelessly made compound of butter, flour, and water; but in place of the last-named ingredient there sliould be a concentrated liquor made from the trim- mings of the fish itself, with the addition of a few drops of lemon juice, and strengthened if necessary from other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. Thus an every-day sauce of wholesome and agreeable quality is easily made: it finds its highest expression in tha;t admirable dish, the sole with mnce ait vin- hlancoi the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, in the &oIe d la normaiide* Some fish furnish their * A leading review, in a friendly notice of the above when it first appeared, spoke of a " mistake " made by mc iu "imagining a sok cnBest method of dressing a Red Ahillet. 71 own sauce in a still simpler manner, of which an illustration no less striking is at hand in the easiest, but perhaps hest mode of cooking a red mullet, viz., baking it, and securing the gravy of delicious flavour, which issues abundantly from^ the fish, chiefly from the Hver, as its only sauce. It is certainly to be lamented that so little use is matelote normande to be a simpler dish than it really is." I certainly intended the sentence in which it is named, and which is reprinted above without change, to signify my liigh respect for this iinished dish, and if I have not made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to show that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially of shellfish, as a sauce, finds its highest ex^iression in the sole a la, normande. Turning to my copy of Jules Gouffe's classical work, p. 621-2 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, I see that he remarks specially thereupon, " la recette que j'iudique n'a poiu- base comme on a pu constater, que I'cssence de poisson," precisely warranting what I had stated. It is understood, of course, that these juices are com- bined with a good vcloute to make the sauce, and that it may be garnished further to any extent, according to the luxury demanded by the guest, or for the entertainment. I have eaten sole a la normande several times in Paris, but nowhere so good as in the South of France ; probably in part because the fish and garnish were fresher there. Paris suffers greatly in the matter of fish by distance from the sea- board. London has a far fresher supply. No Frenchman knows what salmon is until he tastes, sometimes with much astonishment, a Severn or Christchurch fish, taken from the water in the morning, ciimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our lead- ing fishmongers can supply during all the spring and summer in time for dinner. It is one of the few things which we are able to offer our neighbours without fear of rivalry. Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist in tlie mind of any one, that crimping thus done inflicts no pain whatever on the fish ; were it otherwise, I would not sanction it for any consideration whatever.Food and Feeding. 72 made iu our country of the Italian pastes, macaroni in all its forms; and that rice, largely used as it is, is not so well cooked, and therefore not so liighly ap- preciated among the upper and middle classes as it deserves to be. The mention of macaroni conveys to nineteen out of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to their cooks, the idea of an indigestible mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, well peppered aud over baked, which is sometimes served at the end of dinner as a " hoxd^' or savoury entremet. In this form it ought rarely if ever to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment of very high nutritious power, being formed chiefly of the gluten, the most valuable' part of the wheat from which the starch has been removed. Weight for weight, it may be regarded as not less valuable for flesh-making purposes, in the animal economy, than beef and mutton. Most people can digest it more easily and rapidly than meat: it offers, therefore, an admirable substitute for meat, particularly for lunch or mid-day meals, among those whose employments demand continuous attention during the whole of a long afternoon. To dine, or eat a heavy meal in the middle of the day is, for busy men, a great mistake: one nevertheless which is extremely common, and productive of great discomfort, to say the least. Macaroni might, with advantage to the public, be prepared at our city restaurants, as a staple dish, in two or three forms, since it sustains the power without taxing too much the digestion, or rendering73 Macaroni ct ritalienne. the individual heavy, sleepy, and incompetent after- wards. One of the best forms for serving it is that knomi as macaroni d ritalienne, a simple and ex- cellent mode of preparing which is as follows :— Place in a quart stewpan a pint and a half of boiling water; throw in four ounces of macaroni; season with salt and pepper, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain completely from the water in a colander, wipe out the stewpan, and put back into it the macaroni, with a quarter of a pint of good stock; let it simmer gently until all the liquid is absorbed by the macaroni, a process requiring about twenty minutes. Grate and mix together an ounce of Parmesan and an ounce of Gruyere or good English cheese. Half of this quantity is to be put into the stewpan, stirring the cheese into the maca- roni over the fire. "When this quantity is dissolved, add the rest of the cheese, together with rather more than half an ounce of butter, and stir until all is melted. Season, and serve in a hot deep dish. The macaroni ought to " spin" well, that is to say, deli- cate fibres should extend from one portion to another when moved. It may be eaten with or without tomato sauce, which makes an excellent addition. If, instead of stock, milk is used, an agreeable change may be made. Abroad, this constitutes macaroni an mairjrc, the foregoing receipt being aib (jras. I may add that, for many English stomachs the quantity of cheese named above is too large. I have given the proportions ordered by Goufi'e, but74 Food and Feeding. should as a rule, prefer only half the Gruyere and half the butter. Macaroni au Jus is prepared hi the same way, but the stock should be better, and rather more of it in proportion to the macaroni should be added, so that all the gravy is not absorbed, but some left adhering in the form of a thick glaze, after slowly reducing over the fire. It should be seasoned Avith a little catsup or sauce to taste, and served with a sprinkle of grated Parmesan on it, with or with- out tomato sauce, or with stewed tomatoes, as pre- ferred. Of rice, the modes of cooking are endless, and yet few dishes are adopted here besides the well-known pudding with milk and sugar, with or without eggs; the moulds of boiled rice, variously treated, to be eaten with fruit; and rice, rarely well prepared, for service with a curry. There is also no doubt the boiled fowl and rice, usually regarded as a convales- cent's dish, and not rendered sufficiently interesting or attractive to merit the attention of others. As ex- amples of nutritious, and at the same time very palatable savoury dishes, I will offer two examples; viz., the risotto d la Milanaise, and the jpilau of the East: varieties of the latter are common among all the populations dwelling adjacent to the Mediter- ranean, from Spain to the Levant. A dish of boiled rice being in some sort the culinary analogue in the vegetable kingdom, of veal and poultry in the animal, furnishing an insipid but wholesome basis, is well fittedRisotto ct la Milanaise. 75 to bo tlie veliiclo for producing innumerable flavours and odours, and even colours, at the table; and is tlius capable of furnishing various dishes, according to the treatment, and to the materials for addition, obtainable in difibrent districts. To make risotto d la Milanaise for two persons.— Put two ounces of fresh butter, Avith an onion chopped very fine, into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then add half a pound of well washed East India rice, with a very little powdered saffi'on, stirring it constantly for about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the stewpan; after this two minutes' cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradually; let it simmer gently, stirring very frequently, till the rice is just soft; before it is quite finished, add a little grated nutmeg and some grated Parmesan cheese; after this, boil for one minute; then remove it from the fire and set it on a hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or beef-tea can be varied according as the risotto is preferred thick or otherwise. For a Turkish jjilau, well wash six ounces of East India rice, and boil in a pint of water for eight or ten minutes at the most; throw into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Then place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding hy degrees about half-a-pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen minutes or so it should be properly done, turning out with the76 Food and Feeding. grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true jiilaii, but additions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl, or of other animal matter; of a little curry powder ; of chutney ; of fried onions, mushrooms, &c., &c. Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary and well-known service of cold meats, fresh and preserved, poultry and game, open or under paste, in some form, to be found in profusion on table or sideboard, and in which this country is unrivalled, a hint or two relating to some lighter cold entrees may be suggested. It is scarcely possible to treat these apart from the salad which, admirable by itself, also forms the natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple aspic jelly, Httle more than the consomme of yesterday flavoured with a little lemon-peel and tarragon vinegar, furnishes another form of garnish, or a basis for pre- senting choice morsels in tempting forms, such as poultry livers, ox-palates, quenelles, fillets of game, chicken, wild fowl, fish, prawns, plover's eggs, &c., associated with a well-made salad. On this system an enterprising cook can furnish many changes of light but excellent nutritious dishes. On salad so much has been written, that one might suppose, as of many other cuHnary productions, that to make a good one was the result of some difficult and complicated process, instead of being simple and easy to a degree. The materials must be secured fresh, are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be well cleansed and washed without handling, andSalad-making. 11 all water removed as far as possible. It should be made by the hostess, or by some member of the family, immediately before the meal, and be kept cool until wanted. Very few servants can be trusted to execute the simple details involved in cross-cutting the lettuce, endive, or what not, but two or three times in a roomy salad-bowl; in placing one salt- spoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times consecu- tively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly mixed, and at the same time distributed over the salad. This is next to be tossed well, but lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives over the whole. Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one small table- spoonful of mild French or Italian wine-vinegar is to be sprinlded over all, followed by another tossing of the salad.* The uncooked tomato, itself the prince of salads, may be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, or added to the former, equally for taste and appearance. Cold boiled asparagus served with a mayonnaise forms a dish, of its land not to be surpassed. At present ranking, when the quality is fine, as an expensive luxury, there is no reason why, with the improved methods of cultivating this delicious and wholesome vegetable, it should not be produced iu great abundance, and for less than half its present * A salad for five or six i^ersons is supposed.Food and Feeding. 78 price.* As to tlie manifold green stuffs which, changing with the season, may he presented as salad, their name is legion; and their choice must he left to the eater's judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of which vary greatly. But there is another form of salad which is always available, and welcome, too, in any season of the year, viz., the salad of cold boiled table vegetables. An excellent basis may be made of cooked French beans, dressed as directed in the previous paragraph; for this purpose those preserved in tins may be used: greatly inferior as these are when served hot to the fresh haricots verts, they are very acceptable as salad in winter and early spring. The preserved green haricots {flageolets), similarly treated and added in equal proportion, with a garnish of sliced carrot, beetroot, or tomato, may be arranged not only as a most savoury and wholesome, but even as an elegant dish. Cold boiled potatoes,-!* carrots, turnips, broad beans, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may aU be employed thus; combined and garnished accord- ing to the maker's taste, which there is abundant opportunity for displaying. The dish may be made more substantial by the addition of small filets of sole or trout, and its flavour may be heightened, if desired, * On asparagus, and also on salad culture, sec 21ie Parks and Gardens of Paris, by W. Robinson, F.L.S., p. 468 et seq. 2nd ed. Macmillan, 1878. t The best variety of potato for the purpose is that kuoNYu as Vitelotte.79 Vegetable Salad. by morsels of liaddock, sardine, &c. Well known and appreciated as the Snlade de legume's* always is at a Paris restaurant, most persons here would prefer the vegetables simply sliced, so as to preserve some of their natural form and texture, rather than cut into innumerable small cubes, as usually pre- sented. In all cases, such salads should be kept very cool, and be dressed immediately before serving in warm weather. * For receipt, see Appendix.CHAPTER VI. The combination of dishes to form a meal-Three specific systems of arranging the daily meals-Characteristics of each meal- Dinner the chief-The soup-Scheme of the succeeding dishes —Hots d'mivrcs. The combination of dishes to form a meal now demands our consideration. The occupations of man in a civilised state, no less than the natui-al sugges- tions of his appetite, require stated and regular times for feeding. But the number of these set apart m the twenty-four hom-s differs considerably among different peoples and classes. Taldng a general view of the subject, it may be said that there are three prmcipal systems to which all varieties of habit may be reduced. From an Enghsh point of view, these may be regarded as— 1. The Continental system of two meals a day. 2. The system of provincial life (Great Britain), or four meals. 3. The system of town life (ditto), or three meals. 1. In the Continental system, the sHght refresh- ment served in the early morning, in the form of coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a morsel of bread, does not amount to a meal. It is only a dish, andArrangenienis of Daily Meals. 8i tliat a liglit one, aud not a combination of dislies, which is then taken. At or about noon a substantial meal, the dejeuner, is served; and at six or seven o'clock, an ample dinner. Such is the two-meal system, and it appears to answer weU throughout the West and South of Europe. 2. What I have termed the provincial system con- sists of a substantial breakfast at eight or nine, a dinner at one or two, a light tea about five, and a supper at nine or ten. It is this which is popular throughout our own provincial districts, and also among middle-class society of our northern districts throughout both town and country. The habits also of the great German nation correspond more to this than to the first-named system. 3. The prevailing system of London, and of the numerous English famiUes throughout the country whose habits are formed from partial residence in town, or by more or less intimate acquaintance with town life, is that of three meals daily. In general terms the breakfast takes place between eight and ten; the lunch from one to two ; the dinner from half-past six to eight. In all cases each meal has its own specific character. Thus, here, breakfast is the most irregular in its ser- vice, and least of all demands general and intimate coherence of the party assembled. Individual interests concerned in the letter-bag, in the morning news, in plans for the day, in cares of coming business, &c., are respected. Provision for acknowledged dietetic pecu-82 Food and Feeding. liarities on the part of individuals is not forgotten, and everyone comes or goes as he pleases. At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. Thus some members of the family are absent without remark; intimate friends may appear without special invitation; while those less intimate can be asked with small ceremony. Occupations of pleasui-e or of business still press for pursuit during the afternoon, and the meal for such may not be too substantial. It should suffice amply to support activity; it should never be so considerable as to impair it. Here may be just named an invention of comparatively recent date, afternoon tea; which, however, cannot be reckoned as a meal. In reality a pleasant excuse to mark the hour for friendly gossip Avith a hostess "at home," it may be the occasion of undesirable habits, if enough solid food is eaten to impair digestion and " spoil" the coming dinner. But «/;rojJO.s of tea, why don't we forsAvear the sugar and the cream, which at this hour interfere with most stomachs far more than does the infusion itself, and add in their place a delicate slice of lemon, neither thicker nor larger than a halfcrown, the flavour of which—fragrant peel and a hint of acid—combines with the aroma of good tea, without in the least disguising or flattening it as the conventional additions do ? It would be almost as rational to add cream and sugar to wine, as to fine and dehcately flavoured tea ! Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, but it^ is mostly added in excess. A very slight shaving, whichDinner a Period of Relaxation. 83 contains both peel and pulp, is ample for an ordinary cup. The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters wholly different from the preceding. The prime occupations of the day are over; the guests are known and numbered; the sentiment is one of remiion after the dispersion of the day—of relaxation after its labours, sports, or other active pleasures. Whatever economy of time may have been necessary in relation to the foregoing meals, all trace of hurry should dis- appear at dinner. A like feeling makes the supper of the "provincial" system a similarly easy and enjoy- able meal. And all this is equally true of dinner, whether it unites the family only, or brings an addi- tion of guests. General conversation: the events and personal incidents of the day, the current topics of the hour, are discussed in a light spirit, such as is com- patible with proper attention to the dishes provided. AU that follows late dinner should for the most part be amusement—it may be at the theatre, an evening party, or a quiet evening at home. There should be ample time, however, for every coming engagement, and security for some intervening rest for digestion. Dinner, then, is the only meal which—as the greater includes the less—need be discussed in the third part of our subject, Avhich claims to treat of custom and art in combining dishes to form a repast. With the requirements and under the circumstances just speci- fied, it should not be a heavy meal, but it should be sufficing. No one after dinner should feel satiety or o 284 Food and Feeding. repletion, with a sense of repugnance at the idea of eating more; but aU should stiU enjoy the comdction that a good meal furnishes deHghtful and refreshing occupation. Dinners are of two kinds—the ordinary meal of the family, and the dinner to which guests are invited. There is a third dinner in this country, of common— too common—occurrence, viz., the puhlic dinner, ^'hich is essentiaUy a British institution, and cannot he passed by in silence. The late dinner should never include children. It is a meal which is in every way unsuitcd to them ; and they are quite unfitted to take part in its func- tions ; besides, the four-meal system is better adapted to their requirements of growth and digestion in early life. A family dinner may usually consist of a soup, fish, entvte, roast and sweet; the cntHe may even be omitted; on the other hand, if the meal is required to be more substantial, a joint may be served in addition after the fish ; but this should be very rarely neces- sary. A dish of vegetables may be advantageously placed before or after the roast, according to cii-cum- stances; and supplementary vegetables should be always at hand. The rationale of the initial soup has often been dis- cussed : some regard it as calculated to diminish digestive power, on the theory that so much fluid taken at first dilutes the gastric juices. But there appears to be no foundation for this belief: a clear soup, or the fluid constituents of a pur^e, disappearReasons for serving Sonp first. 85 almost immediately after entering the stomach, being absorbed by the proper vessels, and in no way inter- fere with the gastric juice which is stored in its ap- propriate cells ready for action. The habit of commencing dinner with soup has without doubt its origin in the fact that aliment in this fluid form—in fact, ready digested—soon enters the blood and rapidly refreshes the hungry man, who, after a considerable fast and much activity, sits down with a sense of ex- haustion to commence his principal meal. In two or three minutes after taking a plate of good warm con- somme, the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and irri- tability gives way to the gradually rising sense of good-fellowship with the circle. Some persons have the custom of allaying exhaustion with a glass of sherry before food—a gastronomic no less than a physiological blunder, injuring the stomach and de- praving the palate. The soup introduces at once into the system a small instalment of ready-digested food, and saves the short period of time which must be spent by the stomach in deriving some portion of nutriment from solid aliment; as well as indirectly strengthening the organ of digestion itself for its forthcoming duties. Few will be found to dispute the second place in order to fish, although this arrangement is in some quarters an open question: its discussion, however, can scarcely be regarded as within the limit of our space. The third dish should consist of the chief meat, the joint, if desired; if not, one of the smaller dishes of meat, such as fricandeau, cutlets, filet, or sweetbread, before86 Food and Feeding. spoken of, well garnished, will be appropriate, and to many preferable. Next the well-roasted bird—of game or poultry—accompanied or followed by salad, and a dish of choice vegetables. Then one light simple sweet, for those who take it, and a slight savoury biscuit or morsel of cheese completes the re- past. Such a meal contains within its limits all that can be desired for daily enjoyment and use. If well and liberally served, it is complete in every sense of the word. Dessert and its extent is a matter of indi- vidual taste; of wines, coffee, and Liqueurs I shall speak hereafter. A word about hovs-cVceuvrcs. It is well known that the custom exists to a very wide extent among Conti- nental nations of commencing either midday dejeuner or dinner by eating small portions of cold piclded fish, vegetables, of highly-flavoured sausage thinly sliced, &c., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This custom reaches its highest development in the zakusJca of the Russian, which, consisting of numerous deli- cacies of the kind mentioned, is sometimes to be found occupying a table in an anteroom to be passed between the drawing-room and dining-room ; or, and more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four dishes at least, and "qualifies" with a glass of strong grain spirit {vodki) or of some liqueur before taking his place at the table. Among those savoury preliminaries may often be found caviare in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent and delicate, of which most of the caviareHors (tCEuvrcs. 87 found in this country is, speaking from personal ex- perience of both, but as the shadow to the substance. I have no hesitation in saying, after much con- sideration of the practice of thus commencing a meal, that it has no raison. cVetre for persons with healthy appetite and digestion. For them, both pickled food and spirit are undesirable, at any rate on an empty stomach. And the liovs-cVceuvres, although attempts to transplant them here are often made, happily do not, as far as I have observed, thrive on our soil. They have been introduced here chie%, I think, be- cause their presence, being demanded by foreign gas- tronomic taste, is supposed to be therefore necessarily correct. But the active exercise and athletic habits of the Englishman, his activity of body and mind in commercial pursuits, all tend to bring him to the dinner-table wanting food rather than appetite, and in no mind to ask for " whets " to increase it. Among idle men, whose heavy lunch, liberally accompanied with wine and not followed by exercise, has barely disappeared from the stomach at the hour of dinner, a piquant prelude as stimulus of appetite is more ap- preciated. Hence the original invention of liors- d'ceuvres; and their appearance in a very much slicfhter and more delicate form than that which has been described, still to be observed in connection with the chief repasts of the Latin races. The one plate which heralds dinner, indigenous to our country, is also one of its own best products—the oyster. But this is scarcely a /lors-d'ccurre. In itself a singleFood and Feedmz- 88 service of exquisite quality, served with attendant graces of delicate Frencli vinegar, brown bread and butter, and a glass of ligbt cbablis for those who take it, the half-dozen natives occupying the hollow shells, and bathed in their own liquor, hold rank of a very different kind to that of the miscellaneous assortment of tit-bits alluded to. Oysters are in fact the first dish of dinner and not its precursor ; the first chapter, and not the advertisement. And this brings us to the dinner of invitation.CHAPTER VII. Dinners of invitation—Two kinds—Small and select—Large—The old iirotentious stylo—Scheme of a rational dinner-party—The half-hoiu- after dinner—Turtle and fish dinners—Curry—Sketch for a small dinner. And of this dinner there are two very distinct kinds. Fii'st there is the little dinner of six or eight guests, carefully selected for their own specific qualities, and combined with judgment to obtain an harmonious and successful result. The ingredients of a small party, like the ingredients of a dish, must be well chosen to make it "complete." Such are the first conditions to be attained in order to achieve the highest perfection in dining. Secondly, there is the dinner of society, which is necessarily large; the number of guests varying from twelve to twenty-four. The characteristics of the first dinner are—comfort, excellence, simplicity, and good taste. Those of the second are—the conventional standard of quality, some profusion of supply, suitable display in ornament and service. It must be admitted that, with the large circle of acquaintances so commonly regarded as essential to existence in modern life, large dinners only enable us90 Food and Feeding. to repay our dining debts, and exercise the hospitality which position demands. With a strong preference, then, for the little dinners, it must Le admitted that the larger banquet is a necessary institution ; and therefore wo have only to consider now how to make the best of it. No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of late; but it has by no means universally arrived at perfection. Only a few years ago excellence in quaHty and good taste in cuisine were often sacrificed in the en- deavour to make a profuse display. Hence, abundance without reason, and combinations without judgment, were found coexisting with complete indifference to comfort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, tempera- ture, and consumption of time. Who among the diners- out of middle age has not encountered many a time an entertainment with some such programme as the following : one of an order which, it is to be feared, is not even yet quite extinct ? Eighteen or twenty guests enter a room adapted at most to a dinner of twelve. It is lighted with gas; the chief available space being occupied by the table, surrounding which is a narrow lane, barely sufficing for the circulation of the servants. Directly—perhaps after oysters—appear turtle soups, thick and clear. Kcomo)n)ne is to be had on demand, but so unexpected a choice astonishes the servitor, who brings it after some delay, and cold: with it punch. Following, arrive the fish—salmon and turbot, one or both, smothered in thick lobster sauce: sherry. FourRoutine of an Old-fashioned Dinner, 91 entrees promenade the circuit in single file, whereof the first was always oyster patties ; after which came mutton or lamb cutlets, a vol-au-vent, &c.: hock and champagne. Three-quarters of an hour at least, perhaps an hour, having now elapsed, the saddle or liaunch of mutton arrives, of which gentlemen who have patiently waited get satisfactory slices, and currant jelly, with cold vegetables or a heavy flabby salad. Then come boiled fowls and tongue, or a turkey with solid forcemeat; a slice of ham and so on, up to game, followed by hot substantial pudding, three or four other s'weets, including an iced pudding; wines in variety, more or less appropriate; to be followed by a j^cife dc foie cjras, more salad, biscuits and cheese. Again, two ices, and liqueurs. Then an array of decanters, and the first appearance of red wine; a prodigious dessert of all things in and out of season, and particularly those which, are out of season, as being the more costly. General circulation of waiters, handing each dish in turn to everybody, under a running fire of negatives, a ceremonial of ten or fifteen minutes' duration, to say the least. Circulation of decanters, general rustle of silks, dis- appearance of the ladies; and first change of seat, precisely two hours and a half after originally taking it. It may be hoped that a charming companion on cither side has beguiled and shortened a term which otherwise must have been felt a little long. Now the general closing up of men to host, and reassembling of decanters; age and quality of wine discussed,Food and Feedino;. 92 recommendation of vintages. Coffee wliich. is neither black nor hot. Joining the ladies; service of gun- powder tea, fatal to the coming night's rest if taken in a moment of forgetfulness; and carriages an- nonnced. Admitted that such an exhibition is impossible now in any reasonable English circle, it nevertheless corresponds very closely in style with that of the public dinner; a state of tilings without excuse. And the large private dumer is still generally too long, the menu too pretentious. Let me, however, be permitted to record, equally in proof of growing taste and as grateful personal duty, how many admirable exceptions to the prevailing custom are now afforded. Then, of course, it must be understood, that while the dinner for six or eight persons is designed as an harmonious whole of few, weU-chosen dishes, aU of which are intended to be eaten in their order, the menu of the larger party must offer various dishes for choice to meet the differing tastes of more numerous guests, and it must tlierefore be larger. Let us see how this is to be' met. First, the soups: it is the custom to offer a consomme, which ought to be perfect in clearness, colour, and savour, and to be served perfectly hot; containing a few vegetables, &c., variously treated—doubtless the best commence- ment, as it is the key-note of the dinner; revealing also, as it does, nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose talent the guest is entrusted. Eut there is mostly an alternative of " white soup," andPrecedence of Entrdes or Joints. 93 this is almost alwa5's a mistake. Many persons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it gene- rally does, a considerable proportion of cream—an injudicious beginning, when there is much variety to follow; excellent sometimes as one of three or four dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. But suppose oysters, vinegar, and chablis have just been swallowed! A brown puvie^ as of game, or one of green vegetable, less frequently met Avith, would be safer. Two fish, of course, should always be served; as, for example, a slice of Severn or Christchurch salmon, just arrived from the water, for its own sake, and a fillet of Avhito fish for the sake of its sauce and garnish, which should be therefore perfect. The next dish is, in London, a question under discussion; viz., the question of precedence to an entree, or to the piece de resistance. The custom has been to postpone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes have been despatched or declined. If, however, the English joint is required at a meal already comprehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at ablate hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next to the fish, when those Avho demand a slice of meat may be expected to have an appropriate appetite, Avhich will certainly be im- paired, equally by accepting the entrees, or fasting partially without them. After the joint, two light entries may follow, and these must necessarily be either in themselves peculiarly tempting morsels, or products of culinary skill, ofi'ering inducement to theFood and Feeding. 94 palate rather tlian to an appetite whicli is no longer keen. Then the best roast possible in season, and a salad; a first-rate vegetable, two choice sweets, one of which may be iced; a light savoury biscuit or a morsel of fine barely salted caviare, which may be procured in one or two places at most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, the finest fruits in season to grace the table and for light amusement after; or simply nuts in variety, and dry biscuits; nothing between the two is tolerable, and little more than the latter is really wanted : only for decorative purposes fruit equals flowers. Eut it may be ad- mitted that the diminished number of sweet entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious fruits, rendering the dessert useful and agreeable as well as ornamental. And now that dessert is over, let me say that I do not admit the charge sometimes intimated, although delicately, by foreigners, of a too obvious proclivity to self-indulgence on the part of Englishmen, in permitting the ladies to leave the table ^\dthout escort to the di'awing-room. The old custom of staying half an hour, or even an hour afterwards, to drink wine, which is doubtless a remnant of barbarism, has long been considered indefensible. Still, the separation of the party into two portions for fifteen or twenty minutes is useful to both, and leads perhaps more completely to a general mixture of elements on reunion after than is attained by the return of the original pairs together. Whether this be so or not,Turtle or Fish Dinners. 95 the ladies have a short interval for the interchange of hearsays and ideas relative to matters chiefly concerning their sjjecial interests ; while the men enjoy that indispensable finish to a good dinner, an irreproachable cup of coff'ce and a cigarette, and the sooner they arrive the better. With the small dinners of men it can scarcely too quickly follow the last service. But marked by a special character are some dinners, Avhich may be either small or large in relation to the number of guests, but which are necessarily limited as regards the variety of aliments served. I refer to dinners at which either turtle or fish predominates. In accordance with a principle already enunciated, a bowl of substantial stock, containing four or five broad flakes of the gelatinous product, often miscalled - "fat," which alone represents the turtle in the com- pound, is not a judicious prelude to a dinner arranged according to the orthodox programme, and ofi'ering the usual variety. A lover of turtle indulges freely in the soup, both thick and clear, making it in fact an important instalment of his repast; and he desires, with or without some slight interlude, to meet the favourite food again in the form of an entree. After so substantial a commencement, the dinner should be completed chiefly by poultry, and game if in season, and for the most part by dishes which are grilled or roast, in contrast to the succulent morsels Avhich have preceded. The fish dinner, also an occaaional departure from96 Food and Feeding. daily routine, is acceptatle, and gratifies the taste for tliat delicate and pleasant food in considerable variety. But if so indulged, very few dishes ought to appear subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional bacon and beans, which appear towards the close of a Greenwich whitebait dinner, should afford another illustration of undesigned compliance with the natural law referred to at the outset, the bacon furnishing complementary fat to supply its notable absence in fish. The enjoyment of a curry—and when skilfully made it is almost universally admitted to be one of the most attractive combinations which can be ofiered to the senses of taste and smell—is only possible at a limited repast. When freely eaten, very little is ac- ceptable to the palate afterwards, exhausted as it is by the pervading fragrance of the spice and other adjuncts. Hence a curry should form the climax of a short series of dishes leading up to it: when pre- sented, as it sometimes is, among the entrees of a first course, it is wholly out of place. Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance at the characteristics of the feast where the guests are few in number. The small dinner party should be seated at a round or oval table, large enough for personal comfort, small enough to admit of conversation in any direction without effort. The table should of course be fur- nished with taste, but is not to be encumbered with ornaments, floral or other, capable of obstructingA perfect Dinner, 97 sight and sound. A perfect comommi, a choice of two fish, a filet or a Chateaubriand, a gigot or a fricandeau: followed by a chaudfroid, a creme cle volaille garni, a roast and salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced souffle or charlotte; and in summer a macecloine of fresh fruits in an old china family bowl, if there is one ; and lastly, a savoury biscuit; accom- panying vegetables and appropriate wines ;—may be regarded as furnishing a scheme for such a party— or a theme of which the variations are endless.* Seven or eight guests can thus be brought into close contact: with a larger number the party is apt to form two coteries, one on each side of the host. The number is a good one also in relation to the commis- sariat department—eight persons being well supplied by an entree in one dish ; while two dishes are neces- sary for ten or twelve persons. Moreover, one bottle of wine divides well in eight; if, therefore, the host desire to give with the roast one glass of particularly fine ripe Gorton or Pomard, a single bottle is equal to the supply; and so with any other choice specimen of which a single circulation is required; and of course the rule holds equally if the circuit is to be repeated. And this leads us to the question—and an important one it is—of the "Wine. * For an illustration of this, see a scries of mmms at the end of Chapter IX.CHAPTER VIII. really fine pure wine—and, rare as this is, I do not The question of wine with dinner—Should be pure but not pre- tentious—Eelation of various kinds with different dishes— Cigarettes after dinner—Tobacco and coffee—Common water— Aerated waters—Foreign mineral waters—Sweet drinks at dinner objectionable. I HAVE already said that, among aU civilised nations, wine in some form has for centuries been highly appreciated as a gastronomic accompaniment to food. I cannot, and do not attempt to deny it this position. Whether such employment of it is advantageous from a dietetic or physiological point of view is at this moment altogether another question. I am of opinion that the habitual use of wine, beer, or spirits is a dietetic error, say, for nineteen persons out of twenty. In other words, the great majority of the people, at any age or of either sex, wiU. enjoy better health, both of body and mind, and will live longer, without any alcoholic drinks whatever, than with habitual indulgence in their use, even although such use be what is popularly understood as moderate. Eut I do not aver that any particular harm results from the habit of now and then enjoying a glass ofHabitual use of Wine, etc., a dietetic Error. 99 think any other is worth consuming—^just as one may occasionally enjoy a particularly choice dish; neither the one nor the other, perhaps, being sufficiently in- nocuous or digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. Then I frankly admit that there are some persons—in the aggregate not a few—who may take small quantities of genuine light wine or beer with very little if any appreciable injury. For these persons such drinks may be put in the category of luxuries permissible within certain limits or condi- tions, and of such luxuries let tobacco-smoking be another example. No one probably is any better for tobacco; and some people are undoubtedly injured by it; while others find it absolutely poisonous, and cannot inhale even a small quantity of the smoke without instantly feeling sick or ill. And some few indulge the moderate use of tobacco all theii- lives without any evil efiects, at all events, that are per- ceptible to themselves or to others. Relative to these matters, every man ought to deal carefully and faithfully with himself, watching rigor- ously the effects of the smallest license on his mental and bodily states, and boldly denying himself the use of a luxurious habit if he finds any signs of harm arising therefrom. And he must perform the difficult task with a profound conviction that his judgment is very prone to bias on the side of indulgence, since the luxurious habit is so agreeable, and to refrain therefrom in relation to himself and to the present opinion of society, so difficult. Be it remarked, how- H 2Food and Feeding. 100 ever, tliat tbe opinion of society is notably and rapidly changing relative to the point in question. Having premised thus much as to what is abso- lutely best, I will now deal, in the spirit of compro- mise, with things as they are; and let it be understood that it is in this sense that I deal with the subject. I have only now to say, first, that wine, in relation to dinner, should be served during the repast; it should never be taken, in any form or under any circum- stances, before, that is, on an empty stomach, and rarely after the meal is finished. Regarded from a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should ap- pear after fruit but a small glass of cognac or liqueur, and cofi'ee. The post-prandial habit of drinking glass after glass even of the finest growths of the Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, for many persons a costly indulgence. Secondly, whatever wine is given should be the most sound and unsophisticated of its kind which can be procured. The host had far better produce only a bottle or two of sound bourgeois wine from Bordeaux—and most excellent wine may be found under such a denomination—with no pretence of a meretricious title, or other worthless finery about it, than an array of fictitious mixtures with pretentious labels procured from an advertising cheap wine house. I could only speak in terms of contempt and disgust, did I not feel pity for the deluded ^dctims, of the unscrupulous use of the time-honoured and historicalTwo Ways of obtaining pure Wines. loi titles wliicli advertisers shamelessly flaunt on bottles of worthless compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards sown broadcast through the country. So that one may buy "Lafite" or "Margaux"— "Chambertin" or "Wuits"—'47 port, or even '34 —at any village store ! No terras can be too strong to characterise such trade. If fine wines of unquestionable character and vintage are to be produced, there are only two Avays of possessing them: one, by finding some wine-merchant of long standing and reputation who will do an applicant the favour to furnish them, and the price must be large for quality and age. We may be certain that such an one will never advertise no man who really has the grancU vim of esteemed vintages in his cellar need spend a shilling in ad- vertisements, for he confers a favour on his customer by parting with such stock. But better and more satisfactory is it to obtain from time to time a i^iece or two of wine, of high character and reputed vintage, when they are to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early life, a man's cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years a possession of interest and value, and he can always produce, at his little dinners, for those who can appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free at all events from the deleterious qualities of new and fictitious wines. Briefly: the rule, by general gastronomic consent.1(32 Food and Peediiig. for those who indulge in the luxury of wine, is to , offer a glass of light pale sherry or dry Sauterne after soup; a delicate Rhine wine, if required, after fish; a glass of Bordeaux with the joint of mutton ; the same, or champagne—dry, but with some true vinous character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water just now enjoying au evanescent popularity—during the fret's; the best red wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, with the grouse or other roast game; and—but this ought to suffice, eveu for that excep- tional individual who is supposed to be little if at all injured by " moderate " potations. With the ice or dessert, a glass of full-flavoured but matured cham- pagne, or a liqueur, may be served; but at this point dietetic admonitions are out of place, and we have already sacrificed to luxury. The value of a cigarette at this moment is that with the first whiff of its fragrance the palate ceases to demand either food or wine. After smoke the power to appreciate good wine is lost, and no judicious host cares to open a fresh bottle from his best bin for the smoker, nor will the former be blamed by any man for a disinclination to do so. For unquestionably tobacco is an ally of temperance; certainly it is so in the estimation of the gourmet. A relationship for him of the most perfect order is that which subsists between coff'ee and fragrant smoke. While wine and tobacco are antipathetic, the one affecting injuriously all that is grateful in the other, the aroma of coffee "marries" perfectly with the per-Coffee and Tobacco should be tised together. 103 fume of the finest leaf. Among the Mussulmans this relationship is recognised to the fullest extent; and also throughout the Continent the use of coffee, which is almost symholical of temperate habits, is intimately associated mth the cigarette or cigar. Only by the uncultured classes of Great Britain and of other northern nations, who appear to possess the most insensitive palates in Europe, have smoke and alcoholic drinks been closely associated. By such, tobacco and spirit have been sought chiefly as di-ugs, and are taken mainly for their eff'ects on the nervous system—the easy but disastrous means of becoming stupid, besotted, or drunk. People of cultivated tastes, on the other hand, select their tobacco or their wines, not for their qualities as drugs, but for those subtler attributes of flavour and perfume, which exist often in inverse proportion to the injurious narcotic ingredients; which latter are as much as possible avoided, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the former. Before quitting the subject of dining it must be said that, after all, those who drink water with that meal probably enjoy food more than those who drink wine. They have generally better appetite and diges- tion, and they certainly preserve an appreciative palate longer than the wine-drinker. Water is so important an element to them, that they are not in- different to its quality and source. As for the large class which cannot help itself in this matter, the im> portancc of an ample supply of uncontaminated waterI04 Food and Feeding. cannot be over-rated. The quality of that which is furnished to the population of London is inferior, and the only mode of storing it possible to the majority, renders it dangerous to health. Disease and intem- perance are largely produced by neglect in relation to these two matters. It would be invidious, perhaps, to say what particular question of home or foreign poli- tics could be spared, that Parliament might discuss a matter of such pressing urgency as a pure water supply ; or to specify what particular part of our enormous expenditure, compulsory and voluntary, might be better employed than at present, by divert- ing a portion to the attainment of that end. But for those who can afford to buy water no purer exists in any natural sources than that of our own Malvern springs, and these are aerated and provided in the form of soda and potash waters of unexceptionable quality. Pure water, charged with gas, does not keep so long as a water to which a little soda or potash is added; but for this purpose six to eight grains in each bottle suffice—a larger quantity is undesirable. All the great makers of these beverages have now their own artesian wells or other equally trustworthy sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivalled in excellence. On the other hand, the foreign s//j//.o«, made, as it often is, at any chemist's shop, and from the water of the nearest source, is a very uncertain production. Probably our travelling fellow-country- men owe their attacks of fever more to drinking water contaminated by sewage matter, than to the malariousBoiled Water safe and pure. 105 influences whicli pervade certain districts of soutlicrn Europe. The only water safe for the traveller to drink is a natural mineral water, and such is now always procurable throughout Europe, except in very remote or unfrequented places.* In the latter circum- stances no admixture of wine or spirit counteracts the poison in tainted water, and makes it safe to drink, as people often delight to believe ; but the simple process of boiling it renders it perfectly harmless ; and this result is readily attained in any locality by making weak tea to be taken hot or cold ; or in making toast- water, barley-water, lemonade, &c. The table waters now so largely imported into this country from Germany and France, contain a considerable propor- tion of mineral matter in solution, and while they are wholesome as regards freedom from organic impu- rities, are, of course, less perfect for daily use than absolutely pure waters, such as tkose above referred to. Yaunted frequently as possessing certain medi- cinal properties, this very fact ought to prohibit their constant use as dietetic agents for habitual consump- tion, inasmuch as we do not require drugs as diet, but only as occasional correctives. Among them, the natural Selters, ApoUinaris, Gieshiibel, and St. Gal- mier—but of this latter some of the sources are infe- • Throughout France, St. Galraier; in Germany, Selters; in Austria and Bohemia, Gieshubel, are always obtainable, being tlie table-water of most repute, in each case respectively, of the country itself. In all chief places in Itoly, either Selters or St. Galmier, often both, are supplied by the hotels. In Spain these are not at present to be had, but the alternatives recommended arc easily obtained.io6 Food and Feeding. rior to others, the hest appearing now to be chiefly retained for Paris—are perhaps among the most satis- factory within our reach. A dash of lemon-juice, and a thin cutting of the peel, form sometimes au agreeable addition ; and nothing keeps the palate cleaner or in better order for appreciating food. I am compelled to say that the sweet compounds and fruity juices which haye of late been produced as dinner drinks, and apparently in competition with wine, are rarely wholesome adjuncts to a dinner. Such liquids rapidly develope indigestible acid pro- ducts in the stomachs of many persons; while for all, the sipping of sweet fluids during a meal tends to diminish appetite, as well as the faculty of appreci- ating good cookery. If wine is refused, let the drink which accompanies dinner, be of pure water —with a sparkle of gas in it, or a slight acid in it if you mil—but in obedience both to gastronomic and dietetic laws let it be free from sugar. No doubt there are exceptional circumstances in which fruity juices, if not very sweet, can be taken freely. Thus I have rarely quafi'ed more delicious liquor at dinner in the warm autumn of southern Europe, notably in Spain, than that afforded by ample slices of a water-melon, which fill the mouth with cool fragrant liquid; so slight is the amount of solid matter, that it only just serves to contain the abundant delicate juices of the fruit grown in those climates. Here the sac- charine matter is present only in smaU proportion.CHAPTER IX. In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food necessary—Also of tlie season at wliicli it is in perfection—The sclieme or elementary outline of a dimier—Menus shoiild be written in French. The remark is frequently heard from the domestic head of an English family, the lady of the house— who, although in easy circumstances and much occu- pied in good society, does not care to delegate her authority to a skilled professional housekeeper—that nothing puzzles her more than the composition of menus for the inevitahle dinner parties. She feels almost as ready, or rather as unready, as she would he if called upon to compose a sonnet or a symphony. Her hushand, Avhosc counsels are so valuable, or at all events are so promptly furnished on almost all other topics, utterly fails in his attempt to cfEer a suggestion now. Ilcnce she meets her cook on terms which preclude exercise of choice or criticism; and the latter becomes maiuly the author of the programme. But a leading confectioner and dinner purveyor may also be consultccl, who supplies the suggestion desired, sending in a dish or two in consequence; and a suit- able congruity is devoutly hoped for as the result. At all events it is now certain that the menu will beio8 Pood and Feeding. sufficiently comprehensive; and there is even a pro- bability that it will contain the latest invention—well, let lis say—in gastronomic nomenclature; the novelty of the imported dish itself being perhaps less remark- able. I venture then to ofier a few hints relative to that particular form of literary composition which is in- volved in the so-called art of menu writing. "Were it not that the art is really a very simple one, I should not risk the responsibility of offering advice. But it is necessary at the outset to state, that in order to ensure success in this particular department of letters, some little knoAvledge of the subject, namely, food, its nature and principal forms, is really necessary. First then, the author of a menu must have a toler- able acquaintance with the varied materials, which form the natural produce of any given season through- out the year. Otherwise, we may meet with a pro- posal to serve Scotch salmon at Christmas, fine fresh tomatoes before Easter, oysters and grouse at Mid- summer, asparagus at Michaelmas, and tender peas in IS'ovember. I don't say that it is absolutely impos- sible to procure some of these things ; more especially as the electric light may ultimately render us, for gardening purposes—and who knows for what else !— independent of sun and season. But at present most of those delicacies, as are many others which might be named, are practically unattainable. To be serious, it is necessary that a housekeeper should know what are the best products of the season, both of thePrimary Elenients essential to a Dinner. 109 animal and the vegetable world, in every montli of the year. A pleasant stroll through C event Garden once a week, and an occasional call on the fishmonger and poultryman, with frequent reference to some domestic manual of cookery, most of which contain a kind of Almanach des Gourmands, will soon furnish a competent acquaintance with what is really a very interesting branch of knowledge. Next, it is necessary to have a simple but clear notion of the foundation or outline, the "archetype" pattern—if I may borrow a scientific term of rather lofty significance—on which every dinner, however great or however small, must be planned, as the groundwork of its construction. Certain primary elements are essential to the structui'e of a dinner; shorn of these there may without doubt be a meal, and indeed not a bad one of some kind; but there can be no dinner. Thus, a man may satisfy his hunger with a large plate of meat, piled with supple- mentary vegetables, and flanked by the attendant bread, and greatly enjoy his meal, but this is not dinner in any technical sense of the word, and cannot bo so regarded; it is simply a plate of meat and vegetables. It ofiers no change in form, or kind, or flavour, and no shght interval of rest for the palate; it is a single movement, not the symphony—an " andante " in common time without the bright and sparkling "minuet" to follow, which in its turn leads to the "grand finale;" while this in its course may present a plaintive minor passage, which gives forceFood and Feeding. 110 and splendour to the resumption of the major key before the close. Thus it is that certain constituent parts are necessary, one lending force to another by help of relief or contrast; the attainment of perfection through variety being as essential to the idea of a dinner, as to that of a complete musical composition. Bearing this law in view, and maintaining the characters demanded, we may produce a dinner of Spartan simj)licitj, or may swell it to proportions which should satisfy a LucuUus; but the archetype pattern is still to be discernible throughout. A dinner to be complete within moderate limits should contain, in ideal terms,— 1. Au introductory or preliminary dish or two. 2. A substantial dish, or ;pii(x, de resistance, to satisfy a keen appetite. Exchangeable for the following if desired: 3. A choice dish or two of delicate flavour for those who have little appetite for the preceding (or No. 2), and also for those who have, but desire to reserve a place for the gratification of taste. Not absolutely essential; or may take the place of the substantial dish. 4. A dish of marked flavour and character easily digestible, inviting to the palate. 5. A dish of choice vegetables by itself. 6. A sweet 7. A savoury dish. Not all absolutely essential.Dishes needed for a Dinner. in Let the foregoing ideas be represented in a concrete form, either as simple, and applicable to one or two persons; or with additions of a luxurious kind; or to provide the variety necessary when there are several guests. It may be laid down as a self-evident axiom, that while two persons agreeing in their tastes may dine well on three, four, or at most five dishes, a larger number or choice of dishes must be provided to meet the differing tastes of six or eight persons, not one of whom individually will require more than the former. Thus:— Soup Soup Soup or and and Fisli. Fish. Choice of Fish. Joint or other poTtion of meat; tender and juicy ; rarely roast: to be well garnished, and attended with vege- tables. 1. Intkoductoey or Prbliminahy Dishes. 2. Substantial Dish —rdevi or remove. 3. Choice Dishes ; entries. 4. A Dish of Marked Flavour—lioast. The Entremets. 5. Vegetable {which may sometimes pre- cede, but will mostly follow, the roast). An cntrde of some kind : one of fish may come here if soup only were taken before the meat. Two entries—rai-e- ly more—simple or luxurious, ac- cording to the entertainment de- sired. Almost always a bird : game when in season; attended or followed by a salad. Tlie best in season carefully cooked, and served by itself,Food and Feeding. 112 C. Sweet. . . . One, or several, according to the guests. 7. Savouiiy. . . Kauges from a morsel of cheese to the most perfect presentation of delicate fillets, &c. in aspic—"flies in amber" —that can be produced ; one or more ; and cheese. Dessert. . The essentials tlien of a dinner reduced to its lowest term are:— 1. PiiELiMiNAKT. Soup only : or fish only, if soup disagrees, or is objected to. Both, if desii'ed. 2 and 3. The Meat Meat alone ; or fish in its place, if soup AND enirk. only has been taken ; or the entrie alone, if lighter food than meat is prefen-ed. 4. A Roast. . A roast bii-d of some kind. 5, 6, and 7. Entre- A vegetable; sweet, or savoury—one of wts. each only, or two only, as preferred. In order to illustrate the foregoing remarks, I shall now furnish a few examples of small but complete dinners; which are easily reducible, however, to the " lowest term," by the omission of a dish or two on the principle laid down. In each menu a choice of soups, fish, entrees, roast and sweet entremets are given : constituting in fact the memts of two dinners. Such a double menu is sketched from the materials most in season for each month in the year, making twenty-foui* dinners in all. I have ventured to do so because theMaws should be Written in French. 113 suggestion has been so frequently made that practical illustration of the principles advocated should be appended, and also because it appears possible that a few examples may, perhaps, be of some slight service to young or inexperienced persons, if any such there be. I wholly disclaim any idea of furnishing programmes here for elaborate dinners, or " state " occasions; and only intend to suggest simple products which any good or " thorough good " cook may furnish properly, at aU events with a little preliminary practice in some in- stances. Perhaps the truth is scarcely yet suflBciently recognised that the quality or character of a dinner does not depend on the number, the complexity, the cost, or even on the rarity of the component dishes. Let these be few in number, and be simple in compo- sition ; but if the material itself is the best of its kind, well cooked and tastefully presented, the dinner may rank with the best, and is certain to please. I have long been forced to the conclusion that menm, as a rule, should be written altogether in the French language. So many French culinary terms have been naturalised; so many more are almost if not quite un- translateable, that the endeavour to write inemis in English, invariably results in an objectionable mixture of the two languages, resembling a mongrel patois. As an example, those of the first three months and those of the last month shall be written as far as possible in English, and the remainder will be given in French. 1Food and Feeding. 114 Soup Fish Keleve or Kemove ENTRltE KOAST Entremets JANUARY. Brunoise. | Fillets of Sole a la | Cardinal. | Ox-tail. Ci-impcd Cod and Oyster Sauce. Roash Leg of Mutton, with puree of Onions and Haricots (a la Bretoune). Sweetbreads a la Braised Ox-tongue and Financiers Spinach. Pheasant. 1 Snipe, or Widgeon. Seakale and Butter Sauce. Iced Coffee, or Vanillo souJBe. Brown Bread Pudding. Canapes of Anchovy. S'EBRTJAIIY. Paysanne. Fillets of Turbot la ravigote. Braised Veal and Macedoine of Vegetables Soup Fisii EeleyS or) Remove) ENTPt^E Croquettes of Oysters, or Scalloped Oysters.* Eo.vsT "Wild Duck. Entremets. Stewed Celery in Gravy. Puree of White Haricots, or Lentils. Broiled Herring and Mu.stard Sauce. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. Hare. Apricots, Peaches, or Pears, with Rice. Baba with Eum. Caviare. * Another mollusc, the true "scallop" {Fccicn maxumis), may be substituted for oysters as an entree for occasional change ni tbe spring season. It was formerly largely consumed, being onguially cooked in the manner which is now commonly adopted for the oyster, when presented as above described. Long after the scallops, oysters came to be esteemed, and being cooked in the same way, were tlicretorc said to be "scalloped." Tlic original " scallop" may still be had at our fishmongers, and when thinly sliced and so dressed, arc by no means to be altogether uogkctod.Menns for March and April. 115 Soup. Fish Eeleve or Remove Entree..., MARCH. Croilte au pot. Boiled Salmon, Sauce lioUaudaise with capers. Puree of Turnips, or of artichokes. Red Mullets, baked. Broiled Steak from the fillet, Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. Timbale of Macaroni k la Milanaise. Quenelles of Rabbit, puree of Celery. Roast Guinea Fowl, with Cress 1 Capon, stuffed with fresh or young Salad. | truffles.* Entremets. Stewed Mushrooms. Young Salad. '' Spring Tart." Charlotte Russe, with pistachios. Herring, or Herring Roe, on Toast. APRIL. POTAGE Printannier, Consomme au Riz, a I'ltalienne. POISSON ... Truite grillee a la HoUandaise. Eperlans frites. Relev£ Aloyau braise h, la Nivernaise. Filet de Pore, Sauce Robert. Enteee Jambon glace aux Epi- uards, ou a la Chicoree. Pieds de Mouton a la poulette. R6t Poulet et Salade. Canetons. Entbemets. Asperges d'Argenteuil. Bavaroise au Chocolat. Creme au Caramel. Petits Souffles au fromage. * Fresh French truffles are in pei-fection in January, to which fruit- ful month of all good things this di.sh might well be relegated ; but are still in .season through February and March. Fair English ti-ufflcs, notably inferior, however, to tho French black truffle, may be found in Covent Garden a month later. I 2Food and Feeding. ii6 MAY. PoTAGE Bonne Femme. PoissoN ... Filets de Maqnereaii grilles, Maitre d'Hotel. Eei/E\t5 Selle d'Agneaii braisd, Entree Pain de Volaille aux truffes. E6t Cailles. Entremets. Garottes a I'Allemande. Creme frite aux amandes ameres. (Eufs de Pluviera. I Crecy. Sole a la Colbert. Macedoine de Legumes. Tete de Veau en tortuc. LeTTaut. Petits pois ^ la Flamande. Croquante d'Oranges. Canapes de Crevettes. Eaie au Beurre Noir, ou Sauce aux Capres. JUNE. PoTAGE Pot-au-feu. I Bisque d'ecrevisses.' PoissoN ... Saumon de Severn racolle, Sauce au fenouil. Eelev:6 Fricandeau de Veau h. I'Oseille. Entree Chaudfroid de Cailles. Poulet a la Marengo. EoT Canards aux petits pois. | Pigeons, Salade. Entremets. Salade aux Tomates. | Petits pois h la Franjaise. Gelee au Kirsch, garnio Nougat h. la Crfeme. de Cerises. Crodtes nu Pannesan. * A hisquc is understood to be a well-flavoured and garnished purde of crayfish, as above ; but the same treatment of prawns, of lobster, and also of crab, produces excellent bisques. Some apply the term to certain purees of game, at the risk, perhaps, of rendering the meaning of the word uncertain.Menus for July and AtigtLst. 117 JULY. POTAGE Puree de Pois (St. Germain.) PoissoN ... Flondres Frites. Relev]5; l-lpaule d'Agneau a Entrise Bouch^es a la Ksiiie. E6t Venaison. Entremets. Aspei'ges froides en Salade. Puree de Groseilles glacee. Puree de Pommes de terre aux poireaux. Merluche farcie au four. la pm-ee d'Artichauts. I Poulet a I'Estragon. I Pluviers. Haricots Verts, ou pa- naches, sautes au beurre. Bavaroise aux fraises. Petits Filets de Saumon au Diable. Consomme au Macaroni, ou au Vermicelle. Barbae, Sauce aux Crevettes. AUGUST. PoTAGE Puree de Chicoreo, ou d'Epinards. PoissON. ... Sole Frite, citron; ou Sauce Verte. Kelev^ Poitrina de Mouton h, la Chicoree. * Entree Filets de Canetous a la Quenelles de Veau aux Bigarade. petits pois. I^^T Dindonneau, | Coq de Bruyere. Entremets, Ffeves de Marais Ji la I Salade de Legumes. Poulette. I Macedoine de Fruits. | Ci^feme aux framboises. "Dressed Crab." * Au excellent dish, first braised, then cooled ; finished with bread crumbs m the oven, or on the gridiron, and garnislied with a -puree of endive, or of spinach, or with tomatoes. The trimmed neck similarly treated makes a roorc substantial remove.ii8 Food and Feeding. SEPTEMBEB. POTAGE POISSON ... Eelev^ Creine d'Orge a la Hollanclaise.* Merliiclie gi-ill^e a la ravigote. Haricot da Venaison. Julienne. Sole a la Normande. " Beefsteak Pudding" \ I'Anglaise. Blanquette do Eis d'Agneau a la Toulouse. Entree Filets de Poulet aux Truffes, Sauce Supreme. E6t Sarcelles. I • Perdreaux. Entremets. Choux-fleur an Gratin. Charlotte aux pomraes. | Omelette SoufHee. Champignons Grilles. OCTOBER. Puree de Tomates. PoTAGE Puree de Volaille (h, la Eeiue), PoissoN Filets de Barbue Frits. | Doree, Sauce aux huitres. Eelev:6...... Filet de Bceuf a la MUanaise. Entree Civet de Lifevre. | Fricassee de Poulets. Faisan. | "Black Game." Ektremeth. Artichauts au Beurre. Omelette au confiture. | Beiguets de pommes, &c. Canapes de Jambon, ou de Homard.. * The distinctive and agreeable addition, besides the little quenelles of fowl, in this soup, is the handful of sorrel leaves, which are still in season during this month.Merms for November and December. 119 POTAGE. POISSON Eelevic. NOVEMBER. Puree cle Gibier. | Solo Bouillie, Sauce aux liuitres. Potage aux Clioiix. Merlan grille, Sauce aux Entk^E Faisan bouilli, alapur^e de Celeri. Pi6t Becasses ou Becassines. Entrejiets. Foie Gras en Aspic, Salade Macedoine. Capres. Selle de Mouton Rotie, "Laver."* Salmi de Perdreaux, Oie. Pomines de Terre Sautees au Beurre. Merintnies h, la Creme. Savariu. Petites Coquilles de Macaroni au Gratin, DECEMBER. {Christvxas Dinners.) SoTJi" Consomme, with Italian Fish Oyster. Eels and Tartare Sauce. pastes. Turbot, Hollandaise Sauce with capers. Turliey Stuffed with Chestnuts. Fillet of Beef, Horse-radish Sauce. Westphalian Goose Breast with Winter Spiuach. Game in Season. liELEV]?; or Remove Entu^e Quenelles of Fowl, Sauce with Truflles. Roast Entremets. Spinach in gravy. Plum Pudding, ]^>randy Sauce. Welsh Rarebit. Potato Salad. Mince Pies. Chartreuse of Oranges. Devilled Biscuit. * Laver is in season from October to March ; and consists of two native marine plants, Porphijra vulgaris, and Uka LcUissima. It is unknown in France, and recognised in few of our own cookery books. A most excellent adjunct to roast mutton. Let it soak in two fresh waters, about an hour in each, to get rid of the salt ; then put it in a saucepan with some hot water, and simmer until quite soft and mucila- ginous ; dresa it as spinach, with butter, or with a little stock, and a dash of lemon juice ; serve hot.Food and Feeding. I20 On looking tlirougli the foregoing menuB, it may be observed tbat tbe most substantial dish has been placed next after tbe fisb, and tbat it is followed by tbe entrie, after wbicb comes tbe " roast," wbicb in its turn is followed by tbe choice vegetable served apart. Those who prefer tbe entree before the substantial dish, can so arrange it; but whenever the latter happens to be roasted, as may sometimes be the case, it interferes most undesirably, by juxtaposition with the " roast" proper. This error may then be to some extent corrected by placing the choice vegetable be- tween the two, i.e. before the roast proper instead of after it; and this course should be taken whenever the first-named change is made. In all cases too, there should be a marked difference in the material and culinary treatment of any two con- secutive dishes; thus it is obviously undesirable that one white (or brown) preparation should follow another; a quenelle of veal, for example, after a boiled sole; or that a salmi of game should precede a roast puUet. It may be observed that white and brown meats and sauces mostly alternate, that grills and braises contrast; tbat a delicate white entree successfully introduces the roast, that when the latter is substantial, as a haunch of venison, or a saddle of mutton, the preceding entree may be less important; and so on. As a rule, to which there are a few exceptions, the procession of dishes after the fish is from the substantial to the more delicate, then to the contrasts between more piquant flavour and sweetness.Variety afforded by the Menus given. 121 It should also be noted that numerous popular dishes have been omitted—and purposely so—from these menus, simply for the reason that they are well known, and can therefore be adopted at pleasure by way of addition or exchange. Thus, none of the joints, such as sirloins, rounds, haunches, saddles, loins, shoidders, &c., have been named, with perhaps a single exception only. Everybody is famihar with English joints, which have been on this accoimt ex- cluded from a list necessarily so restricted as the limits of only twenty-four menus demand. For the same reason I have not named turtle in any form, nor curries; nor such special soups as mock-turtle, mulligatawny, hodge-podge, spUt-pea,* giblet, water- souchets, and fish soups; nor whitebait, nor the fresh-water fish, carp, tench, dace, pike, e^c.; nor among sweets, tarts, ices, sorbets, and the farinaceous puddings, custards, &c; nor have I named the preK- minary oysters, which may well be added during the season as an additional luxury. My object has been to suggest a few of the leading smaller dishes of a comparatively simple and not expensive kind, and to place them in proper juxtaposition in relation to each other, so far as this has been possible, with the view of suggesting some little diversity in the dietary of our better middle-class tables. Almost every one also * Our common split-pea soup, •wliolesome and agreeable in winter, with dried mint and tiny croutons, is wholly unknown in France ; the dried green peas, termed pois cassis, only are used for similar purposes there.122 Food and Feeding. is more or less typical in its character, so that given the knowledge of preparing it, several minor varieties can be produced. At the same time, such dishes are impretentious, and do not demand the skill of a rare expert; yet, when really well executed, they offer results not to be surpassed by any, either in relation to refined tastes, nor in wholesome and noxuishing qualities, in relation to the powers of the stomach and the wants of the system. To the remark regaa'ding an estimate of the expense just made, I admit two or, at most, three exceptions, of which the cJiapon truffe is the most obvious example. And it is not suggested, moreover, that this should be prepared at home, but obtained only during the season of fresh trufBes, from France ; stuffed on its native soil with native produce, it forms a very important addition to a dinner, and stamps it with a rare distinction. There is no difficulty in procuring truffled poultiy of any size by rail direct from Paris, when the indulgence of a little extravagance is to be permitted; but even this trouble is not necessary, since a few first-rate London poul- terers import fresh truffles, and will furnish a fine Dorking fowl properly stuffed, the quantity used determining in any case the cost of the dish.* * No better names could be mentioned tlian tbose of Cbevet, of tlie Palais Eo3'al, and Bailey, of Mount Street, Grosvenor Square.CHAPTER X. The public dinner—Its nnJue length—Toasts too numerous— Suggestions for shortening the in'oceedings—Good cookery- independent of pedantic and complicated receipts—Schools of cookery—Better food, in better condition, and in more abim- dant supply, a pressing want for London—Conclusion. Before concluding, a remark or two may be per- mitted in reference to that great British institution, the public dinner. Its utility must, I suppose, be conceded, since for a vast number of charitable and other interests the condition of commanding once a year the ear of the British public for an exposition of their claims, seems in no other way at present attain- able. A royal or noble chairman, a portentous menu, an unstinted supply of wine, such as it is, and after- dinner speeches in variety, form an ensemble which appears to be attractive to the great body of " sup- porters." On the other hand, those whose presence is enforced by the claim of duty find these banquets too numerous and too long. The noise and bustle, the badly served although pretentious dinner, the glare of gas and the polluted air, the long, desultory and un- meaning speeches, interspersed with musical perfor- mances—which, however admirable in themselves.124 Food and Feeding. extend unduly a programme already too comprelien- sive—unfit many a man, seriously occupied, for the engagements 'of the morrow. Might it not be worth trying the experiment of offering fewer dishes, better service, and abolishing half the toasts ? Might it not be possible to Kmit the necessary and essential toasts of a public dinner to the number of three or four— these to be followed only by a few subordinate toasts associated with the minor interests of the special object of the dinner ? With the utmost deference to long received usage, and after some little consideration, I venture to suggest that the following programme would at all events be an improvement on the present system; if such it can be called. The first toast, or toasts, by which we declare our fidelity to the Crown, and our loyalty to the person of the Sovereign, as well as to the Royal family, to re- main, by universal consent, as before. The next, or patriotic toasts, unlike the preceding, are regarded as demanding response, often from several persons, and here it is that time is generally wasted. These might therefore be advantageously compressed into one, which need not be limited to the military and naval services, although it would of course include them. The object might be attained by constituting a single comprehensive but truly patriotic toast as second on the Ust, viz., " Our great National Institutions," which are easily defined. Supposing them to be regarded as seven in number, a response might be made on behalf of one, or at most two, according to the speakers pre-Toasts at Public Dinners. 125 sent and the nature of the special object. These in- stitutions fall naturally into order, as—(1) Parlia- ment : its leaders. (2) Justice : the judges. (3) The military and naval forces : their officers. (4) Educa- tion : heads of universities and public schools. (6) Eeligion : its ministers. (6) Science and Art: heads of societies, academies, colleges. (7) Literature and the Press : distinguished writers. The third to be " the toast of the evening: " in other words, the particular subject of the dinner. After this might follow a fourth, embracing the healths of officers connected with the subject, visitors, &c., if necessary. I confess I see no reason why the military and naval forces, however profound our respect and our gratitude for their great services to the nation must be—and in this matter I yield to no man—should invariably occupy a toast and speech, to be responded to by at least two, often by three officers, while the other great, and scarcely less important interests should be left out of consideration altogether, or be only occasionally in- troduced. The toast of "National Institutions" would mostly insure to the chairman and managers of the dinner an opportunity of obtaining two good speakers from different interests in reply—say, one for Justice and the other for Religion; one for Parlia- ment or the Services, and the other for Science or Literature, and so forth. Thus all the varied elements of our national life would receive in their turn a due share of attention from the great mass of public diners,Food and Feeding. 126 and better speeches would probably be secured than by tbe present mode. I confess this is rather an episode ; but the subject of " toasts " is so interwoven with the management of the public dinner that I have ventured to introduce it. I even dare to think that the proposition may be not unlikely to receive the support of " the chair," the duties of which, with a long array of toasts, are sometimes excessively onerous; only more so, be it recollected, in degree than those, of a humbler kind, which are entailed on many of the guests who are compelled to assist. In concluding this imperfect sketch of the very large subject indicated by the title employed, I desire to express my strong sense of its manifold shortcomings; especially by way of omission. Desiring to call attention, in the smallest possible compass, to a great number of what appear to me to be important considerations in connection with the arts of selecting, preparing, and serving food, I have doubtless often failed to be explicit in the effort to te brief. It woidd have been an easier task were time at my disposal to illustrate these considerations at greater length, and to have exceeded the limits of this small volume; I might thus perhaps also have avoided, in dealing with some topics, a tone in statement more positive than circumstances may have warranted. Gastro- nomic tastes necessarily differ, as races, habits, diges- tive force, and supplies of food also differ; and it becomes no man to be too dogmatic in treating ofTaste required in Treating of Cookery. 127 these matters. De gustihus non est disputandam is in no instance more true than in relation to the tastes of the palate. Still, if any rational canons are to be laid down in connection with food and feeding, it is absolutely necessary that something more than the chemical and physiological bearings of the subject should be taken into consideration. With these it is unquestionably essential for any one who treats of my subject to be familiar; but no less necessary is it to possess- some natural taste and experience in the cultiyatiou of the gustatory sense; just as a cultivation of the perception of colour, and a sensibility to the charm of harmoniously com- bined tints, are necessary to an intelligent enjoyment of the visual sense, and to the understanding of its powers. Hence the treatment of the whole subject must inevitably be pervaded to some extent by the personal idiosyncrasy and predilections of the indi- vidual. It is this fact, no doubt, which, operating in relation to the numerous writers on cookery, has tended to produce some of the complication and confusion which often appears in culinary directions and receipts. But the gastronomic art is a simpler one than the effusions of some of its professors might lead the wholly uneducated to believe; and the complicated productions originated by some of its past and greatest practitioners are as unnecessary as are the long and complicated prescriptions formerly in vogue with the leading physicians of past time. Both were the natural out-growths of an age when every128 Food and Feeding. branch of teclinical education was a " mystery; " and wlien those who had attained the meaning thereof magnified their craft in the eyes of the vulgar by obscuring what is simple in a cloud of pedantic terms and processes. But that age and its delusions are passing away, and it is high time for simplicity in the practice of cookery to take the place of some useless and extravagant combinations and treatment which tradition has handed down. The formation of elementary schools of cookery, and the encouragement they have received from the public, augur well for improvement. No doubt the standard of attainment is low, and a certain common- place uniformity in product will pervade the country as the result. Once make cookery a distinct business to which the young may be trained, which it never yet has been, and the chance of now and then pro- ducing a first-rate cook who may advance the art, is within reach. Hitherto the practice of cookery has been merely a resource for wage-getting among igno- rant women, who took to it at hazard, and acquu'ed such traditions as pertained to the kitchen they have happened to enter. Still further, until it is i ecognised in this country as a profession into which a man with some slight education and natural taste can enter, we must be content to rank below France in rearing artists of the first order. At the present day it appears desirable, before all things, to secure the highest quality of all produce, both animal and vegetable; a respectable standardEffects of Fattening Cattle. 129 being rarely attained throughout our country in regard to the products of the latter kingdom. Great Britain has long held, and still maintains, the first place as to quality for her beef and mutton ; in no other country in Europe—I cannot speak of America—is it possible to obtain these meats so tender, juicy, and well developed. The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and the round, so admirable on occasions, are only in danger of suffering here, like intimate friends, from too great familiarity with their charms. But even our standard of quality in meat has been gradually lowered, from the closer struggle, year by year, to produce a fat animal in a shorter space of time than formerly; a result which is accomplished by commencing to feed almost ex- clusively on oil-cake at a very early period of life. The result of this process is, that size and weight are attained by a deposit of fat, rather than by the construction of muscular fibre, which alone is true meat; while as a necessary consequence the cha- racteristic flavour and qualities of fully developed beef and mutton are greatly wanting in modern meat. Much more unsatisfactory is the supply of vegetable and dairy produce to our great city, particularly of the former. It must be confessed that our market at Covent Garden, in relation to capabilities for effective distribution of fresh vegetables, &c., would disgrace a town one-fifth of the size of London. Nineteen- twentieths of its inhabitants cannot obtain fresh green food on any terms, and those who succeed pay KT30 Food and Feeding. an exorbitant price. I tliiuk I am right in saying that a really new-laid egg is a luxury which a millionnaire can scarcely insure by purchase ; he may keep fowls, and with due care may obtain it, not otherwise. The great staple of our bread, com- monly called "bakers' bread," is unpalatable and indigestible ; and I suppose no thoughtful or prudent consumer would, unless compelled, eat it habitually— nsed as it nevertheless is by the great majority of the inhabitants of this great citj'—any more than he would select a steak from the coarse beef whose proper destination is the stock-pot. Let any one compare the facilities which exist in most foreign towns for obtaining the three important articles of diet just named, mth the parallel conditions afforded by London, and the inferiority of the latter -ndU be so manifest as to become matter of humiHation to an Englishman. I do not raise any question of com- parison between our own markets and the Halles Centrales of Paris, covering as they do nearly five acres of closely utilised space, with enormous vaults beneath, in direct communication by tram-road with the railways; nor of the well-stocked Marche St. Honore, and others of less note. To many among the thousands of tourists Avho frequent the public buildings of Paris, an early morning survey of the fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit, and flowers, which the Halles Centrales display, and the scarcely less remarkable exhibition of Parisian and provincial life brought together there, present one of the mostReforms for Supplying Cotmiry Produce. 131 interesting and truly foreign spectacles which the city affords. To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured to advocate in connection Avith this subject, I must add the Avant of ample and accessible markets in various parts of London, for what is IcnoAvn as country produce. I do this not only in the interest of the millions who, like myself, are compelled to seek their food within the limits of Cockayne; but also in the interest of our country gardeners and housewives, who ought to be able to supply us with poultry, vegetables, and eggs, better than the gardeners and housewives of France, on whom at present we so largely depend. We may well be grateful to these small cultivators, who by their industry and energy supply our de- ficiencies ; but the fact that they do so does not redound to the credit of our countrymen. Have I claimed for the consideration of my subject tdo great a share in the thoughts and multifarious labours of busy men? I think not. For myself, being not Avithout serious occupations, an attentive study of it has agreeably occupied many leisure hours at home and abroad; but it has furthermore performed good service in the interest of health. And if I have been rightly understood, this imperfect attempt to popularise a few undoubted truths in relation to the selection, the cookery, and the service of food, aaqII be regarded as a manifesto, which assuredly it is intended to be, on behalf of true temperance. In one word let me conclude:—if in professional K 2132 Food and Feeding'. life for some of us, the chief power Hes in a skilled right hand, and in the temperament which pertains thereto, it is no less true that a practical acquaintance with diet and digestion is also a power harely second to the other in importance. My last word then, no less than my first, shall testify to the value for all men of some knowledge in relation to their Food and Feeding.APPENDIX. THE POT-AU-FEU. Pjt-au-feu : Jules Gouflfe's instructions for making it—Directions given by Brillat-Savarin—The receipt of Alexandre Dumas. Jules Gouffe's instructions for the Fot-an-feu, referred to, page 60. " The broth {bouiUon) of beef is the foundation of domestic cookerj^ " It constitutes the most essential and really nou- rishing part of our daily food, that is, good meat soup. It is, moreover, the basis of a large number of culinary preparations such as ragouts, s-diUCQS, purees, &c. " The chief of all broths is undeniably beef-broth, many others, of course, existing, such as those of foAvl, vegetables, fish, and game. " The production of a good pot-an-fcu seems to me to be one of those operations, at the same time elemen- tary and fundamental, with which it is of the highest importance to render everyone familiar, as soon as domestic cooking is treated of "I shall not refrain from entering into the most minute details, even though it bring a smile to the face134 Food and Feeding. of those wlio take no heed of that which forms the first step in cooking. What I attach most importance to is, to enable even a person who approaches a range for the first time in his life, to make quite sure of suc- ceeding, if my instructions arc followed precisel3^ " The Pot. "Four different kinds of pot are employed in do- mestic cookery :—' 1. A cast-iron pot. 2. An earthenware pot. 3. A tinned iron pot. 4. A copper pot. " I object strongly to the first two kinds ; to a cast- iron pot because it is very difficult, if not impossible, to remove the grease, which, after a certain time, becomes engrained in the pores of the cast-iron. I object equally to the earthenware pot which enjoys a reputa- tion among certain housewives so little warranted. So far from improving the broth, it spoils it in every way. When new it preserves for a long time a taste of earth and varnish, of which hot water can never altogether deprive it; when old, it acquires a taste of rancid fat which no amount of washing can destroy. On the other hand I specially recommend pots, of tinned iron or copper, as they are easily washed, and as it is quite impossible to make a good broth unless the vessel is absolutely clean.Ingredients for Pot-au-feu. 135 " The Ingredients of the Pot-au-Feu. " I make a distinction between the big and the small pot-aii-fcu, the latter being for use on ordinary occa- sions, the former on extraordinary occasions. The smo}!2^ot-au-feu consists of:— 1 lb. 10 oz. of meat (750 grammes). Nearly 5 oz. of bones (125 grammes), (which is about the quantity of bones usually sold with the meat). 7 pints of water (4 litres). 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). 5|- oz. of carrots (150 grammes). 5| oz. of onions ( „ „). 7 oz. of leeks (200 grammes). Nearly J oz. of celery (10 grammes). 1 clove—stuck in an onion. 6h oz. of turnips. Nearly an ounce of parsnips (25 grammes).* " Some people add to the ]3ot-au-feu a little garlic, but I do not recommend it—the flavour of garlic, which is always so pronounced, tends to destroy the aroma of the broth, and further, it renders it unfit for the use of invalids. " For the extra pot-au-feu, double the quantity of meat and vegetables, but use only ten and a half pints of water in the place of seven. Perhaps it will be asked if the small pot-au-feu (that which I purposely ♦ The quantity of parsnip is curiously .small. If wanted, and it certainly i.s a desii-able addition, wliy not treble the wei{jlit ?Food and Feeding. 136 call 'small'), will answer the requirements of a small houseliold in wliicli the cookery is necessarily reduced within narrow limits. I do not for a moment over- look the necessities even of the smallest households. The small pot-au-fou furnishes a quantity of broth for four or five persons. But if the household con- sists of only two persons, it may he considered usual to make soup enough to last for two days. Besides it is convenient to keep some in reserve as a sauce for a made dish. " The Meat. "The portions of beef adapted for the jwf-au-fen are the thick portions of the leg and shoulder ; the lower parts (knee and below) are inferior, as consisting chiefly of bone, skin and tendon. On the whole, perhaps, the leg is superior to the shoulder for the purpose. All meat employed should be as fresh as possible. "Mode of proceecliucj for the Pot-au-Feu. " In the first place care must be taken to have a well-made fire which will last without much addition of coal, and will supply a constant gentle heat. The cover of the pot should be left slightly open, as broth becomes cloudy in a closed vessel. " Next proceed as follows:— " Separate the meat from the bones, tying up the former to keep it in form for serving afterwards, and chopping the bones into morsels. First put the bones in the pot and the meat upon them. Pour in theMode of Proceeding for Pot-att-Fett. 137 water cold, and place the pot on the fire. Add tlie salt. Make it boil, and as soon as the scum rises, pour in a Httle cold water. Skim with a perforated spoon. Let it boil three separate times, and skim each time, after which the broth should be sufiiciently skimmed. Wipe carefully the edges of the pot. Next add the vegetables named above, which will check the boiling for a minute ; as soon as it begins again, place the pot on the corner of the fire, or hot plate, letting it only simmer gently, five hours for the big, and three hours for the small pot-au-fon. It is essential that the simmering should be quite regular and continuous. When the broth is made, take out the meat and put it on a dish; taste the broth and see if it is salt enough. If more salt is wanted, it should not be added till the broth has been put in the soup-tureen. Care should be taken not to salt the broth too highly at first, as it always becomes more salt on being warmed up the second day, and still more so when reduced to a sauce. " Another essential point is to free the broth per- fectly from grease, after the meat is taken out, the pot being still on the fire. " Observations on the Vegetables for the Fot-au-feu. "The vegetables should be left in the broth only just long enough to cook them. By this time they have given their flavour to the broth, after which they would only rob it of its goodness. "It is generally considered, and justly so, that theFood and Feeding. 138 brotli should have a golden tint; the flavour is not improved thereby, but the eye is satisfied. Yet care must be taken not to alter the flavour; therefore if any colouring matter is used, it should be caramel, while fried onion, fried carrot, and similar substances should be avoided for the reason given."* The same principle is laid down by Brillat-Savarin. "By a 'pot-au-feu we understand a portion of beef destined to be treated in boiling water lightly salted, so as to extract the soluble parts. "The hoiiillon is the liquid which remains when the process is completed. "The houiUi is the flesh deprived of its soluble parts. " The water dissolves, first, a part of the osmazome; then the albumen, which coagulates by heat, some of it forming the scum which is removed; then more osmazome and extractive matter or gravy; finally, some portions of the sheath of the muscular fibres, which are detached in boiling. " To make good bouillon, the water must boil very gently, &c. Some vegetables are to be added to heighten the flavour; and bread or pastes to render it more nourishing; and then it becomes a soup." f By way of presenting a somewhat difi'ereut view of the pot-au-feu, I subjoin the receipt of Alexandre Dumas, from the Bictionuairc cle Cuisine, his last work, and a posthumous publication. Dumas was an * J. Gouffd : La Livre dc la Cuisine. Paris. 1867. Pp. 39-47. + Phijsiuloijic da Goilt. Erillat-Savariu. Paris, lSi3, Pp. 2S-9.139 Dtimass Pot-atL-Feu. amateur cook of great experience, but, beyond a few favourite disbes, and one or two witb wbicli bis name is always connected, be depended for bis receipts in tbe large volume referred to, on bis old friend Vuillc- mot, up to a comparatively recent date tbe famous proprietor of tbe pleasant quarters at St. Cloud, well known as tbe T'de Noire. Of tliis work Dumas furnisbed, and very abundantly, all tbe literary material, a medley of popular scientific jottings witb plenty of gossip and numerous anecdotes. It will be seen tbat for tbe pot~aa-fm be adberes to tbe old tradition of an earthen pot; tbe real reason for wbicb is, tbat at tbe ordinary fireplace, sucb a pot, being a bad beat conductoi', favours slow and very gentle simmering better tban an iron pot, wbicb. on making only a small addition to tbe fire, is apt to boil briskly and so injure tbe brotb. On a cooking-range, suck as tbose now in general use, tbe iron pot is as man- ageable as one of eartb, and is preferable for tbe reasons given by Gouffe. Wbile strictly adbering to tbe principle tbat tbe pot-mi-fcu must consist of beef brotb, and of a disb of beef to follow, Dumas admits some odds and ends to be added "in a borse-bair bag." Even in tbis receipt, tbe band of tbe amateur is visible; for wbile giving instructions, and most correctly, not to put tbe meat into boiling water at first, TiNliick would barden tbe surface of flesb, and lock up tbe albumen witbin, tbe brotb being im- poverisked in consequence; be omits to state tbat tbe mutton and veal, wbicli be orders to be partially140 Food and Feeding. roasted before using [really in order to communicate the flavour so produced] must be subsequently sliced, otherwise their albumen, which is completely locked up by roasting, will not enter the broth, and the pot- aii-feu will be a failure so far as that is concerned. It should be added that Dumas admits mutton and veal as ingredients, to be adopted only in the south of France, where beef is often inferior or not procurable. " The basis of a good pot-au-fcu is beef .... " Choose the freshest and juiciest meat you can find; let it be thick; for if thin, it will be exhausted in the cooking; do not wash it, or you will rob it of a portion of its juice. When the meat has been sepa- rated from the bones, tie it up, so that it may keep its shape, and put it in the pot with a pint of water to every pound of meat " We have advised you to separate the bones from the meat, not indeed because we banish them from pot-au-feu; on the contrary, we reserve for them a separate place, only we break them up well with a mallet, because the more they are broken, the more effectually is the gelatine extracted from them. Then we place them in a horsehair-bag with any scraps of fowl, rabbit, partridge, or roast pigeon, which may be found in the larder; in fact, the remains of yesterday's dinner. " Next, put your pot on the fire; you are doubtless aware that an earthenware pot is preferable to an iron pot; heat it gently; otherwise, if the meat is attacked by too high a temperature, the albumen will coagulateOrdinary Braising: [41 in the interior, and the osmazome will be prevented from becoming dissolved, and the broth will be wanting in flavour. " When the broth has been well skimmed, and has begun to boil, put in some salt, and, according to the quantity, three or four carrots, three or four turnips, a couple of parsnips, a bunch of celery and leeks tied together, and lastly three onions, one of which should have a head of garlic stuck in it, the other two having a clove each. " If, following the bent of your caprice or a long- established habit, you like to add a piece of mutton or veal to the ingredients we have named, remember to roast or grill it first (to deprive it of grease). Seven hours of gentle and regular boiling are neces- sary to give the broth all the desired qualities."* Ordinary Braising. Jules Gouffe's instructions for Been/ cl la Mode, referred to, p. 48. " Take about 4 lbs. (2 kilos) of thick beef-steak cut square. Take nearly f lb. (3 hectos) of fat bacon, cut off the rind, which should be put aside to blanch,f and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one- * Alexandre Dumas, Grand Dictioiinaire dc Cuitsinc. Paris, 1873, pp. 867-70, art. Potage. t To " blanch" is simply ijlunging, either vegetable or meat, as the case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid matters in the first case, and to aid cloiinsing in the second. To " refresh," is to dip them into cold water immediately afterwards for a minute or two.142 Food and Feeding. third of au inch, square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the pot- au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water: two calves' feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot-an-feu; next, having skimmed it, add fully 1 lb. (500 grammes) of carrots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corner of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four hours and-a-half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain Avhen it is sufficiently cooked; then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep them covered i;p hot until serving. Kext, strain the gravy through a fine tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for ser™ig; add the calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots and onions round the beef; pour the sauce over the meat, keeping the surplus for the next day. Taste it, in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef d la mode should be very relishing; sometimes a clove of garlic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of the house."Beef ct la Mode. 143 " Observations on Beef d la Mode. Beef d la mode is so useful and so justly appre- ciated iu domestic cookery, that I tliink it will be appreciated if I recapitulate tlie principal details of the process, so tliat there may be no error in carr^dntr it out. ^ ^ "The important question, after the choice of the meat, is the cooking, which must be done entirely by slow simmering; and this is one of the most essential pomts for success. For Avhcn exposed to a hot fire the result is a white, watery, insipid gravy, such as is too often found in kitchens where cooking is carelessly done. The gravy ought to be red iu colour, rather gelatinous in consistence, and full of the agreeable flavour and nutritive matter of both meat and vege- tables, which is the distinctive mark of the dish. To obtain this excellent quality, the vegetables should be put into the braising pot at the proper time, so that all are cooked together. "1 advise, in regard of all braised meats, whether beef or veal, that the portions should be rather too large than too small; a long process of cooking suc- ceeds always better with such, than with tiny portions. A second excellent dish can always be made cold ^vith the addition of jelly. It appears to me better then to eat twice following of a good dish thus varied, than to cook the small quantity which suffices only for one meal." * * " U Livre de Cuisine. J. aoulTd. Taris, 1867, pp. 126-8.144 ^^^^ '^■^^^ Feeding. I append tlie following as an example of a good conmnme made from vegetables only, and therefore nmigre; if well done it is very fragrant and agree- able in warm weather. Referred to at p. 62. Consomme of Fresh Vegetable Roots. Cut in shoes 2^ lbs. of carrots and the same weight of onions; put them in a stewpan with some parsley, thyme, shalot, and celery, and also 1 lb. 2 oz. of butter. Fry gently to a red colour, add 8| pints of water; let it boil, and skim it; Next put into it a pint and three quarters of peas and a couple of lettuces; Then add:— 1^ oz. of salt, ^ oz. of whole pepper, 1 pinch of nutmeg, 3 cloves. If pint of dried peas, 1| pint of white haricots. Let it simmer for three hours at the side of the fire, skim off the grease and strain through a cloth ; then put aside for use. Op. cif. p. 348-9. This consomme may form the basis of spring soup, juUienne, hrunoise, anx ceufs poches, crecy, &c., fresh vegetables being added, in each case as reqmrea, m the ordinary way.145 Fish Sottps. The following is given as an example of a well-made consommi of fish only; and forming, therefore, also a soup maigre: Put into a large fryingpan, with 14 ounces of butter, 5 large carrots, 4 onions, 3 heads of celery, 4 shalots; all the foregoing to be cut in slices. 1 head of garlic, 3 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 1 sprig of thyme, 12 sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a large bottle of white dry Bordeaux, and 8| pints of water; boil, skim, and then add 1| oz, of salt, and two pinches of mignonette pepper. Put in the stewpan 6i lbs. of gurnets cut into three pieces; next add the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clarifying; Let it simmer for two hours on the side of the fire. When it is finished strain through a cloth. Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs;Food and Feeding. T46 Clarify the consomme of fish with the whites of egg and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be sufficiently fried to give the consomme a light tint. Op. cif. p. 348. To present the above as a soup, make a number of small quenelles of whiting, and add to the tureen before serving. The next, a simpler receipt, can be recommended, after numerous trials, as an excellent family fish-soup. Keferred to at p. 63. Put 3 oz. of butter into a stewpan; add two carrots sliced; one onion and a shalot, in thin slices; a clove, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry them gently until of a reddish tint; then add 3 pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of two whitings, setting aside the fillets. Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for 2 hours gently, at the corner of the fire; take out the bones and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into 2 or 3 small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, and serve all to2;ether in a tureen. It is imnecessary to clarify this soup; if other garnish is desired, quenelles of whiting may be sub- stituted for the fillets ; and some of them may have a little coral (spawn of the lobster) added to furnish colour. A further change may bo made by adding fillets of other fish, or a few shell fish.147 Salad of Cold Vegetables. The French salad of cold vegetables, Unlade do legumes, referred to, p. 79 : Take 4 oz. of carrots cut in squares of about a quarter of an inch; 3 oz. of turnips cut in the same ■way; 4 oz. of small green asparagus cut in pieces ; 4 oz. of peas, 4 oz. of French beans cut in squares like the turnips and carrots. Boil each of these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a teaspoon- ful of salt; when cooked strain them on a cloth ; let them cool, and then place the French beans at the bottom of a salad bowl. Arrange the other vege- tables in little heaps around, first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the asparagus, so as to alternate the colours, and so on again. The rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigofe.^' Serve with cruet sauce on the table. Oj). cit. p. 268. * Fresh, tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives. "Cruet sauce" is of course oil and vinegar in the cruets, and not ready mixed : to be used with salt and pepper for a salad, as directed at p. 77. THE END. BnADBTJRY ACtKEW, & CO., PRINTEnS, •WIIITF.FRIARS,FREDERICK WARNE b' CO., PUBLISHERS, BEDFORD STREET, STRAND. THE NEW SOCIETY MANUALS. In crown Svo, price 2s. 6d. each, cloth gilt, MANNERS & TONE OF GOOD SOCIETY. By A Member of the Aristocracy, The Fifth Edition. " It is a book absolutely free from the glaring solecisms common to most of the so-called guides to etiquette, and one which may be safely recommended as really reliable. It is an excellent work of reference, and we congratulate the authoress on having written a very comprehensive book on a subject very imperfectly understood by the majority of the public."—The Qveen. SOCIETY SMALL-TALK; Or, What to Say, and When to Say It, By THE Author of " Manners and Tone of Good Society." Third Edition. "The contents of this amusing volume exactly answer to the promise of the title."—Observer. " The chapter on dinner-table talk is one of the brightest and best in the hoo\i."—Lloyd THE SERVANT'S PRACTICAL GUIDE. A Handbook of Duties and Rules. Expressly written for the Use of Masters and Mistresses. By THE Author of " Society Small-Talk." " The mystery of domestic service."—Saturday Review. "The book has been compiledTor the use of masters and mistresses, and will prove of great assistance in the management of servants."—Court yottrtial.FREDERICK WARNE CO., PUBLISHERS, BEDFORD STREET, STRAND. Entirely New Edition, Red Line Border. With Original Notes, Steel Portraits, and full-page Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, price y. 6d. each ; or in morocco elegant, 8r. Shakspeare's Poetical Works. Longfellow's Poetical Works. Byron's Poetical Works, Eliza Cook's Poems. Scott's Poetical Works. Burns' Poetical Works. Moore's Poetical Works. Cowper's Poetical Works. Milton's Poetical Works. Wordsworth's Poetical Works. Mrs. Hemans' Poetical Works. Hood's Poetical Works. Shelley's Poetical Works. Mackay's Complete Poetical Works. Pope's Poetical Works. Keble's (John) The Christian Year. Goldsmith's Poetical Works. Montgomery (James) Poetical Works. Johnson's Lives of the Poets. Heber's (Bishop) Poetical Works. Herbert's (George) Poems and Prose. Also uniform, without red line Border. Campbell's Poetical Works. Keats' Poetical Works. Coleridge's Poetical Works. The Poets' Year. Songs, Sacred and Devotional. Golden Leaves from the American Poets. Legendary Ballads of England and Scotland. Laurel and Lyre. Michell's Nature and Life.