15 May 17th.—He is up and dressed. Appetite and general health excellent. He wears a dextrine bandage for the support it affords him. June 1st.—lie walks about on crutches. The knee is quite stiff. July 1st.—Wounds entirely healed. The motion in the knee is returning. 12th.—The femur is perfectly firm and free from pain. He was furnished with a thick-soled shoe. Discharged, well. November 10th.—He came to the Hospital to-day. He is able to walk without the aid of a cane. Not the least motion can be detect- ed in the femur. The knee is flexible. Case YI.—Humerus. Patient, T. C., soldier, aged 41, entered the Hospital April 15th, 1864. He was wounded by a Minie ball in the right humerus at the first assault on Port Hudson, summer of 1863. The bone was broken at about the junction of the middle and upper thirds, and was con- siderably splintered. According to patient’s account, the surgeon sawed off about an inch from each end, and then approximated the ends of the bones by means of splints, but did not wire them. He was then put in an ambulance, carried fifteen miles over a rough country, then in. a steamer for some distance, so that it was two days before he arrived at a hospital. The wound soon healed, but the bones did not unite, and have not since. April 16th.—Operation by Dr. Bigelow. He was etherized. An incision was made over the point of fracture. The ununited ends were forcibly everted. The periosteum was carefully dissected up and reflected, and the denuded ends sawed off. A hole was then drilled through each end of the fragments. A wire was then passed through these holes and twisted. The periosteum was brought to- gether, and the wound closed by sutures. The arm was placed in an outside angular splint. 20th.—The arm has moved from the splint, and is quite out of po- sition, so that the ends of the bones are at a slight angle with each other. The angular splint was removed and the arm placed on a broad straight splint, with two shorter side splints to keep the frag- ments in place. 23d.—The wound is suppurating freely, and the arm is in good position. May 2d.—The wound , has nearly healed, except at the point where the wires emerge. June 10th.—Patient walks about the yard, with the arm firmly supported. There is considerable firmness at the point of fracture. 24th.—The arm is stronger. Discharged. September 17th.—He returned to the Hospital to-day with the arm so strong that ho can uso it for all ordinary purposes. The wire was removed, and the humerus was found to be perfectly firm.