4 been anticipated abroad. Within a few weeks, however, my atten- tion was directed, by my able house-surgeon, Mr. R. H. Derby, to the following paragraph in Holmes’s System of Surgery :* “Jordan ascribes the failure of resection to the removal of the periosteum. He, therefore, by means of some blunt' instrument, as the handle of a scalpel, dissects this membrane from the portions of bone which he is about to remove, and leaves the two empty pouches passed one within the other, and, in some cases, connected by suture, to form new bone. The suggestion is undoubtedly theoretically sound. Its practical value, however, remains to be proved. In two of the three cases which Jordan records, it failed of success; and he admits its failure in the hands of M. Sedillot.” Upon again examining more carefully the original paper of Mr. Jor- dan,f I find.that his method differs so essentially from my own as to ex- plain both the failure of two out of three cases cited by him, and the almost uniform success of the cases reported in this paper. Briefly, in the method of Mr. Jordan, no means are taken to secure the pei’fect and permanent coaptation of the bones—a measure which underlies the success of the whole proceeding—if we except a suture of the periosteum, which is wholly inadequate to that object, and which must also give way in a short time. This omission alone is fatal to any considerable success in the operation. 2. The muscle is detached from the periosteum,$ and the perios- teum then pounded to detach it from the bone; measures both tend- ing materially to devitalize the tissue upon which success most depends. 3. Mr. Jordan believes that suppuration hinders bony union, and therefore ingeniously modifies the whole operation for the purpose of preventing a suppuration which is in reality inevitable, and which must therefore be met and provided for, controlled and directed, and which does not prevent the desired result. Finally, it may be added that an oblique section of the already tapered bone, as recommended by him, and especially the rabbet,§ is not to be advised, as it tends to denude and devitalize the protruding extremities; while an apparatus of plaster is hardly sufficient to en- sure subsequent immobility, and one of gutta pcrcha, by confining transpiration, is irritating to the skin. Abstract from Dr. Bigelow’s Surgical Lectures at the Massachusetts Medical College. The chief cause of ununited fracture is undoubtedly the severity of the local injury, although perhaps the constitution of the patient or an obliteration of the osseous artery may, in a few cases, have to do * Vol. i. p. 804. t Traitement des Pseudarthroses par l’Autoplastie Pcriostique. F.R.C.S., Chirurgien en clicf dc l’hopital de Manchester. Paris, 1800. 1 Sec Plate 111. 9 An interlocking, called also in carpentry rebate. Par Joseph Jordan,