17 Case VIII.—Humerus. Patient, W. W., carpenter, aged 28, entered the Hospital January 2d, 1865. He had his left humerus fractured, twelve weeks before entrance, by the falling of an elevator in the Pacilic Mills. The fracture was simple, and treated in the usual way with splints, but there never had been any attempt at bony union. On admission, there was an ununited fracture of the left humerus at a point a little below its middle. The ends of the fragments were in apposition. R. Syr. hypophosphit., 5 ij., 3 t. d. January 7th.—He was etherized. A narrow-bladed knife was pricked through the integument and muscles to the bone, at the point of fracture. A small drill was then introduced through the wound, and each end of the bone was drilled in three places. The arm was placed in an inside and outside angular splint. 26th.—On removing the splints, no union was detected. February 25th.— Operation by Dr. Bigelow. Patient was etherized. A straight incision was made through the integument, on the outside of the arm, to the bone. The musculo-spiral nerve was so drawn out of place and embraced by the bone that it was accidentally divided in the blood which welled up from the tissues, still inflamed from the operation of six weeks before. The'ends of the bone were dissect- ed from the periosteum, everted and sawed off, A piece, half an inch long, was taken from the upper fragment, and three quarters of an inch from the lower. A hole was then drilled through each end, and a silver-plated, copper wire passed through and twisted. A suture was passed through the neurilemma of each end of the divided nerve and the extremities brought together. Several arteries were tied; the wound was closed by sutures, and the arm placed in an inside angular splint, to which it was fii-st firmly bandaged, and then placed upon a flat angular splint, reaching from shoulder to hand. 26th.—He complains of gi’eat numbness over the dorsal surface of thumb and index finger, and has general paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers. March 3d.—Wound suppurating healthily. 8th.—Hand considerably swollen, and elbow looking angry and red. The wound is everywhere open. The suture applied to neuri- lemma came away to-day. R. Pil. ferri iodidi., gr. v., 3 t. d. 16th.—Wound closing. 31st.—Considerable stiffnesg at point of fracture. May 6th.—Humerus quite stiff. 25th.—But little discharge from sinus about wires. Appetite and general health excellent. June 24th.—Under ether, the wire was untwisted and withdrawn. The humerus is perfectly stiff. Sensibility has returned to the thumb and index finger, but motion in all the extensors of the hand and wrist is absent. 3