11 eel. An incision, three and a half inches in length, was made through the skin over the seat of fracture. The subjacent fibres of the tri- ceps were then divided, as was also, accidentally, the musculo-spiral nerve, with the exception of a single fasciculus, by which the extremi- ties hung together, and which was afterwards carefully respected. The ends of the fractured bone were then turned out; the perios- teum was carefully detached from both; a piece one and a half inches long was sawed from the lower fragment, and a piece one inch long from the upper. A hole was then drilled through each end of the fractured bone, and the two surfaces kept in apposition by a silver wire, passed through the holes and the ends twisted. An in- side and outside angular splint, well padded, were then applied. A single suture was introduced to keep the edges of the wound slightly in apposition. The extensors of the hand are paralyzed. 13th.—Splints were removed and reapplied. Position excellent. Slight suppuration in wound. 16 th.—Splints removed, and arm dressed. 21st.—He has slight paralysis of sensation on the posterior radial aspect of forearm, and no sensation over the back of thumb and radial side of forefinger. 29th.—Appetite poor. Pulse accelerated. December 17th.—Slight stiffening at point of fracture. 27th.—Considerable stiffness in humerus. Wound nearly closed. January 10th, 1862.—Union moderately firm. March 1st.—On careful examination, a slight yielding was detect ed at the point of fracture. 11th.—A small piece of necrosed bone came away from wound. May 10th.—Patient was etherized. An incision was made down upon the wire, which was then extracted. 22d.—Discharged, well. This patient wrote, April 28th, 1867, that he was a “ section hand on the Northern Railroad,” had not lost a day since he left the hos- pital, and was “ well, doing the hardest kind of work.” Sensation and motion in hand perfect. Case IV.—Humerus. Patient, E. D., laborer, aged 31, entered the Hospital December 4th, 1862. A year before, his left arm was caught by a revolving shaft, and the humerus fractured. The skin was much contused, but not penetrated. A physician was called, who, after examination, pronounced the humerus comminuted through nearly its whole extent. He applied splints, bandages, &c., and on the third week reapplied them, at the same time making considerable extension to bring the fragments into position. At the end of the fourth week he announc- ed that the union was getting firm, and a week later he removed the splints and applied strips of pasteboard. A few days after this, by a sudden movement, the fragments were displaced, although very