18 March 17th, 18G6.—He reported at the Hospital to-day. He has worked at his trade since last August, without inconvenience. Mo- tion in the extensors of hand and wrist has returned perfectly. The humerus is perfectly firm and free from pain. Remarks.—The union of the musculo-spiral nerve, which was com- pletely divided and brought together by suture of the neurilemma, with restored function, is a point of great interest. Case IX.—Humerus. Patient, T. G., laborer, aged 26, entered the Hospital June 12tli,1865. A year before entrance he was thrown from a hand-car, one wheel of which passed over the middle of the right humerus, inflicting a com- pound fracture. The arm was placed in an inside angular splint, and kept in position for six weeks. The external wounds healed readily. At the end of this time, the arm was again broken at the original point of fracture and never again united. June 21st.— Operation by Dr. Bigelow. An incision, three inches long, was made on the outer aspect of the arm, over the seat of frac- ture. The musculo-spiral nerve was then sought, carefully dissected in its sheath from the bone, and turned aside. The periosteum was stripped back from the end of each fragment. A piece, half an inch long, from the lower, and three quarters of an inch from the upper bone, was sawed off. The ends were then drilled on the outer side, and a silver wire passed through; the ends of the bone were placed in apposition, and the wire twisted by four half turns. The arm was placed in the same apparatus as that used in the previous case. The edges of the wound were brought together by sutures. 23d.—Apparatus re-applied. The bones are in good position. Some oedema of the arm. 27th.—Suppuration is established. R. Calcis phosphat., gr. x., three times a day. July 3d.—The arm is much swollen about the wound, and covered with an erysipelatous blush. He complains of some headache and nausea. R. Quinire sulphat., gr. ij., three times a day. 10th.—The swelling and redness have disappeared. No uuiofi at point of fracture. 28th.—An outside angular splint was applied, the arm supported by a leather sling, and he was allowed to sit up. August 7th.—Apparatus removed and re-applied. There is slight stiffening at point of fracture. t 22.—Only slight motion can be detected in the humerus. September 11th.—The arm is stiff, but he complains of pain at the seat of fracture when it is examined. November 4th.—All discharge and soreness having disappeared, and the humerus being perfectly stiff, a pair of curved scissors were thrust down, the wire cut close to the bone, and easily withdrawn. December 15th.—The humerus is firm. Discharged, well.