23 From this date until March 27th, 1858, the record states that vari- ous sinuses formed and were laid open. March 27th.—Etherized. Dr. Bigelow made an incision over the olecranon, and found in the bone a cavity with carious walls, the size of an almond. The diseased parts were removed by the gouge. 28th.—Very little pain. Doing well. April 21st.—Abscesses continue to form. June 19th.— Operation by Dr. Bigelow. Patient, etherized. Joint opened by a semicircular incision, and the ulnar nerve sought and turned aside. The ends of all the bones wfere found to be much diseased, and about an inch of the ulna and an inch of the humerus were removed. The head of the radius was also excised. But lit- tle blood was lost. No arteries tied. The periosteum being firmly attached to the coral-like-surface of the bone, was torn out from the inequalities with strong forceps. Wound brought together by sutures. Flaps riddled by old fistulous openings. Arm placed on an angular splint, with water dressing. Evening.—Very little pain. Skin warm. Pulse 100. No haemorrhage. 22d.—Edge of wound looks sloughy. Stitches removed. Patient comfortable. 26th.—Pulse good. General condition as good as before opera- tion. Edges of wound have opened and sloughed. Sinuses clean. No pain. Porter. August 17th.—Wounds closing slowly. Discharge much dimi- nished. Appetite good. Walks out every day. 22d.—Wounds flabby. No dead bone felt. Adhesive straps. Sept. 5th.—General health is very good. Ulcers have contracted somewhat. Patient advised to go into the country, and is discharged. Nov. 11th, 1858.—Since leaving the Hospital has been in the country. Has had more or less cough. Looks as well as when last seen. About a month after his discharge, an abscess opened, two inches below head of radius. Now, integument around elbow is red and inflamed. There are five fistulous openings which connect with one another and centre in a cavity formed by the removal of the bones. No dead bone can be felt. The discharge is very slight. No pain. Still keeps on the angular splint. Has made up his mind to have the arm off, and enters for the purpose of operation. House diet. Ale. Poultice. 16th.—Has more or less cough. Cod-liver oil, 3 ij., thrice daily. 20th.— Operation. Patient was etherized, and the arm amputated just above the elbow. Feb. 28th, 1859.—Discharged, well. It has lately been ascertained that this patient, who manifested indications of tubercular disease of left lung before his arm was removed, died of phthisis about Dec. 1st, 1859, the disease not hav- ing been arrested by the amputation. The interesting points in this case of excision of the elbow-joint are:—