7 with fever, which destroys appetite and weakens the patient. Hence especial care is needed to detect any inflammatory induration super- vening after suppuration has begun, and the first decided pointing should be the sign for aii opening, to be explored by the finger, and enlarged inside or outside accordingly. I need not say that it is, in general, cruel to use the knife without an anaesthetic, but here the careful ex- ploration and the tearing of the adjoining sinuses with the finger, if adequately done, absolutely demands it, for the comfort of both sur- geon and patient. After a long experience, I have never seen a pa- tient, unless already moribund, really worse for ether, and I have often seen a weak person prostrated by the excitement and suffering of an operation, when it was withheld by the timidity or haste of the surgeon. As for freezing, it is sometimes more convenient for short and superficial incisions, and in private practice, but when its novelty is gone it will yield in other cases to general anaesthesia. In operating upon the humerus, the musculo-spiral nerve demands especial consideration. Winding around the outside of the arm near the usual place of incision, it is sometimes difficult to avoid it, especially when displaced by the deformity, and tied into an indu- rated mass of lymph. I have twice accidentally divided it, in spite of more than ordinary care; once completely, and once leaving only a single fibre at one side. In one case, an operation had been un- dertaken one month only after a previous one, while the arm was still inflamed. It was on that account absolutely impossible to keep the wound dry, and after a protracted dissection the knife was at last used beneath the blood; the nerve was imprisoned and concealed in a deep groove in the new bone, and was divided in separating the bones. On this ground, I should not advise a second operation until the traces of active inflammation from a previous one had disappeared. In this instance the neurilemma was re-united by a small suture. In both cases, the power of the paralyzed extensors ultimately returned, completely and unequivocally. In another case, now under treatment, partial paralysis ensued after the operation, but the nerve had been no where seen, and could hardly have been divided. On the other hand, the fragments were so short that a powerful and continued effort had been required to make their ends protrude, jamming the muscles in their interval, and very likely thus injuring the nerve. The fingers are now regaining their motion. In the same case, which was one of gun-shot wound, the operation twice failed, there being still some necrosis about the bone, of which the lower fragment was enlarged to at least double its diameter. In a future case, I should consider that necrosis contraindicated the operation, if there were any good chance of getting rid of it by time or interference. The case most favorable for operation is undoubtedly that of a healthy subject, where the bony extremities are of natural size. In a case of long standing, atrophy tapers the bones, which need in