20 1862, by a musket ball. The left humerus was shattered at a point a little above its middle. The small pieces of bone were re- moved ; the ends sawed off and the fragments approximated. Six months later there was no union; the ends were again sawed off and the bones wired together. At the end of two weeks the wire was removed. In October, 1864, a number of pieces of necrosed bone were removed from the seat of fracture; there was no union. In November, 1865, he entered the Hospital. The left humerus had a false joint at its middle. There was necrosed bone at the bottom of a couple of sinuses in the lower fragment. An incision was made over the fracture; the periosteum reflected and the ends of the bones sawed off. In March, 1866, there was no union. March 31st, Dr. Bigelow again operated. The periosteum was detached from both fragments for a sufficient distance; about one and a half inches was sawed off from the lower and one inch from the end of the upper fragment. The ends were drilled, silver wire inserted, and the fragments placed in apposition. The periosteum was then replaced and its edges united by sutures. April 28th, the arm had stiffened at the point of fracture. June 10th, he fell upon the arm and broke it. July 15th, he was dis- charged with an ununited fracture, to return when the arm looks and feels better. January 12th, 1867.— Operation by Dr. Bigeloiv. Patient was etherized. An incision, three inches long, was made over the outer aspect of arm and carried carefully down to the point of fracture. The two ends were found to be much roughened. Great difficulty was experienced in everting the ends of the now short fragments and in detaching the periosteum. The bone was finally separated from the periosteum for a sufficient distance, and a piece, one inch long, sawed from the upper, and one, three quarters of an inch long, from the lower fragment. The lower fragment was two inches in diameter; the upper one was of normal size but with fatty degene- ration of the marrow. A hole was drilled through the sides of both fragments; a silver wire was inserted; the ends were placed in apposition and the wire twisted. The periosteum was replaced and its edges united by sutures. The external wound was partly closed by sutures. A folded towel was placed in the axilla to lift out the short upper fragment, and the arm secured to the side, the forearm across the chest. 13th.—There is almost complete paralysis of the extensors of the fingers of the left hand. No nervous trunk was known to have been divided in the operation, and the paralysis is perhaps due to a compression of the nerve in very forcibly everting the shortened fragments. 21st.—The arm was placed in an apparatus, which consists of a firm cap about the shoulder, secured by a strap around the chest; this is made firm by two steel bridges to a splint that invests the