21 27th.—The arm remains in excellent position. The power of extension is returning to the fingers. February 3cl.—The wound is contracting by healthy granulation. 6th.—Slight stiffening at point of fracture. 16th.—R. Calcis phosphat., gr. x., 3 t. d. March 4th.—Allowed to walk about. April 16th.—The humerus is quite firm at the point of fracture. He flexes the forearm and raises the humerus from the side freely. 22d.—Discharged, probably well, although sufficient time has not elapsed to determine the fact. Remarks.—As will be readily inferred, this humerus was materi- ally shortened by these consecutive operations, two before entering the Hospital, and three subsequently by Dr. Bigelow. In fact, by measurement it was seven inches shorter than its fellow, yet the biceps and triceps were fulfilling their functions, and the patient was re- gaining excellent motion. There can be no comparison in the value of an arm of this sort, however short, and an ununited humerus. In the first operation and during the existence of undefined necrosis, the bony tissue of the substance of the lower fragment was of a red- dish hue, and of a dense, brittle and amorphous texture, sometimes to be observed in the denuded walls of the cavities of sequestra, when chiselled. At the end of about a year, at the next operation, when the probe no longer detected dead bone, the operator was agreeably surprised to find that this tissue had given place to a comparatively healthy one, with cancellated interior. Conclusions. 1. This operation is a successful one. 2. Though not a trifling operation, it is not dangerous. 3. In the operative procedure the points deserving attention are, the incisions, which should be arranged for the free escape of pus. The periosteum, which is not to be detached from the muscles, and .which, after incision, is best torn out from the rugous inequalities of the bony extremity, and subsequently attached by suture or not. The excision of at least a quarter of an inch of sound cylindrical bone, besides the irregular and tapering end. The wire, which should not be twisted too tightly, lest it break out of the bone. 4. The wire may be left in place indefinitely without danger of necrosis; and usually until union has unequivocally taken place; a period of from two to six months. 5. Burrowing pus is to be evacuated, when it approaches the sur- face, so that the wound will ensure it free and permanent exit. 6. The patient is to be invigorated by such food as lie bears, fresh air, and other stimulus if required. 7. The operation may be repeated if it fails, but only after seve- ral months’ interval.