with it. It occurs in an arm which has been run over, or after acci- dents from machinery, which bruise and devitalize the part. The obstinacy and persistence of this lesion under treatment are well known, and have arrested the attention of surgeons, who have de- vised many expedients, though often unsuccessfully, for its relief. The present operation must be deemed a successful one. * Operation.—The extremities of the false joint are to be attacked where they approach nearest to the surface, unless vascular or ner- vous trunks are in the way; in the arm, in all the cases I have seen, upon the outside; a free incision being contrived in each case with especial reference to the free exit of pus. In the arm, the musculo- spiral nerve, which is often displaced and tied by the lymph, is to be carefully looked for and avoided, and were it not for the care here requisite the bone might be exposed by a single incision. The principal bony extremities being found, the interval, which is some- times quite irregular and interlocked, is gradually divided, and the ends turned out, the dissection being materially aided by an assistant who powerfully flexes the false joint. As it yields, care is taken to prevent the muscles from being stripped from the periosteum, which they adhere to and aid in nourishing. When one extremity is fairly exposed, a crucial or other regular incision is to be made in the rag- ged callus which overlies the periosteum at its tip, which should be then seized by strong-toothed forceps and efforts made to tear it out of the rugous inequalities of the formerly inflamed bone. After a little delay and dissection, the flaps begin to yield; with some coaxing, the terminal adhesions are detached, and the sound bony shaft is reached, where the periosteum is only too easily stripped from the bone, requiring great care lest the shaft should be denuded higher than the intended section. The soft tissues being now protected by spatulas, or flexible strips of copper, the end of the shaft is removed by a common saw, the length of this fragment being determined by the amount of periosteum it has been necessary to detach. A half an inch of good cylindrical periosteum, with half an inch more of ragged tissue hanging at its extremity, has usually covered from three quarters to an inch and a half of bone. Perhaps half an inch of sound shaft, with an irregular or conical extremity varying in extent, is a good rule for the excised piece in most cases. The other extremity is now to be turned out and treated in the same same way, and this terminates the dis- section, leaving only the wire to be inserted. For this purpose holes are bored in each extremity with a good bone drill, larger than the wire, at a little more than half an inch from the end, and through one wall only. A pure silver or plated copper wire is inserted from without inward in one end, and inversely entered in the medulla from within outward in the other; the size of the wire ordinarily used is No. 10 of Stubbs’s iron wire gauge. The ends are brought together accurately, and the wire twisted long enough to protrude at the ex-