9 of the wire were then twisted, and the ends of the bone brought into exact apposition. The external wound was united with sutures; the ends of the wire were left protruding, and the former splint re- applied. After the operation, opiates were needed and freely given. 21st.—Wound smelling badly. A solution of chlorinated soda injected under the apparatus. 25th.—The apparatus was removed, washed and reapplied. March 5th.—Wound closing by granulation. General condition good. 23d.—Arm apparently stiff. 29th.—To-day, the arm and shoulder becoming somewhat painful from pressure of splint and necessary want of cleanliness, everything was with great care removed; on slight examination of the arm, no motion was detected. The arm and shoulder were then carefully washed, lateral splints applied, and the hand and elbow supported in a sling. April 4th.—The dressings were again removed. Slight mobility was detected at the point of fracture. As, however, only six weeks had elapsed since the operation, it appears to have progressed as rapidly as any compound fracture of an equally severe character could be expected to do. External wound nearly healed. 23d.—Apparatus frequently removed. Union firmer. June 13th.—Union appearing to be very firm, and the wire caus- ing some pain, there appeared to be no further indication for its re- maining longer. He was etherized; the wire was untwisted and removed. July 1st.—Arm was stiff and strong, with considerable motion in the elbow. July 12th.—At request, patient was this day discharged, being able to return to his work, which is that of a leather splitter. The arm appeared to be nearly as useful as the other one. Case II.—Kadius. Patient, A. D., farmer, aged 56, entered the Hospital February 6th, 1861. Four years before, he received a fracture of both bones of the-right forearm, with other injuries, by being caught in machi- nery. Splints were applied and kept on for nine weeks, the patient being confined to bed during this time on account of necrosis of both tibim, resulting from the injuries sustained. At the expiration of this time there was no union. A starch bandage was applied and allowed to remain for four months, but no union was secured at the point of fracture. During this time his health continued good. Nine months after the receipt of the injury, an incision was made over the lower border of the forearm, the ends of the fractured ulna were turned out and sawed off, and the extremities then wired together. Various other means were subsequently resorted to, but with no success. 2