14 them. He was etherized, and the ends of the bone were again and more thoroughly drilled. At most parts the bone was quite hard and normal, but at one point it was soft, and on withdrawal the drill was followed by quite a stream of oil from , the degenerated marrow. The limb was placed in a straight splint. November 4th.—There is no stiffness at the point of fracture. 12th.— Operation by Dr. Bigelow. The patient was etherized. A long, semi-circular incision was made on the outside and back of the thigh, its convexity downwards, over the ends of the bone, to favor the discharge of pus. The muscles of the thigh were found to be indurated, so that the ends of the bone were turned out with great difficulty. The ends of the bone were smooth, rounded and conical. The periosteum was then turned back for about one inch on each end, and the bones, thus denuded, cut off with a chain saw. The medullary substance was slightly degenerat- ed and fatty. A hole was then drilled through each extremity of the bone, and a wire passed through these holes and twisted, not tight, but leaving a small space between the ends, to allow of sufficient motion to prevent breaking the wire or the bone. The periosteum was then brought together and the wound closed by sutures. The limb was placed in a McIntyre’s double-inclined, iron splint, bent at an angle of 135°. The operation occupied about two hours, during which time the patient was kept thoroughly etherized. Cold-water dressing. 13th.—He has considerable irritative fever to-day. Pulse 132. Tongue thickly coated. The pain is relieved by acetate of morphia, one sixth of a grain, subcutaneously. 15th.—Much brighter to-day. Pulse 100. 16th.—Suppuration has commenced. 23d.—The leg and thigh have remained until to-day on the McIn- tyre splint, but the suppuration has increased so much that it re- quires removal for daily dressing. A pasteboard splint has been moulded to the anterior and inner part of the thigh and stiffened with dextrine; to this the thigh and leg are firmly bound, leaving the wound open. Above this a Smith’s anterior splint was applied, by which the whole leg is swung from a framework over the bed. 27th.—The splint works admirably. Less pain. The wound looks well, and is suppurating freely. Appetite good. December 24th.—The bandages and splints were removed and re- applied. There seems to be considerable stiffening, and the bones are in good position. January 13th, 1865.—No motion is observed at the point of fracture. February 12th.—The limb is so firm that it was laid on a pillow, with only pasteboard splints applied. April 26th.—Under ether, the wire was cut down upon and re- moved.