16 December 16th, 1865.—The arm is perfectly firm, and for some time he has done a great deal of heavy lifting, such as wheeling coal, without favoring the injured arm in the least. Case YII.—Humerus. Patient, E. S., female, aged 45, entered the Hospital Nov. 10th, 1864. She had an ununited fracture of the right humerus, the result of a compound fracture received a year and a half previously. Seven months after the accident there was no union at the point of frac- ture. A setou was passed between the ununited ends, and allowed to remain for a month. Notwithstanding this and other forms of treatment, no union followed. On entrance, there was a fracture of the humerus in its lower third; the ends of the bone were drawn widely apart by the weight of the forearm, unless held in place by an apparatus which she had worn for the previous seven months. She was a large, corpulent woman, with flabby tissues. November 19 th.— Operation by Dr. Bigeloiv. She was etherized. An incision, three inches long, was made on the outer and posterior aspect of the arm, just above the external condyle. The ends of the fragments were then turned out, the periosteum was dissected back for about an inch and a half on the lower fragment, and two inches on the upper. The denuded bone was then sawed off; on the upper fragment by a single stroke of the saw. The bone was much atrophied, softened and degenerated, the holes for the wire being easily made with an awl, and the bony tissue easily cut with a knife. A wire was then passed through the outer sides of the shaft of the bone, and twisted so as to bring the ends nearly but not quite in apposition, lest the tight wire should break the bone. The edges of the wound were brought together with sutures, and the arm placed in an inside angular splint. P. M.—The arm is so unwieldy that it cannot be sufficiently con- fined in the inside splint. It was therefore laid on a flat right- angled splint. 27th.—Pulse and appetite good. Wound clean, and suppurating healthily. December 30th.—R. Calcis phosphat., gr. x., 3 t. d. January 7th, 1865.—The wire has apparently torn out of the bone. No stiffening at point of fracture. March 20th.—No union. April 1st.—Patient was etherized. .An incision was made down upon the bone, and the wire was removed. The ends of the frag- ments were turned out and found so degenerated that they could be easily broken with the lingers. Forearm oedematous and tender. 26th.—The arm was to-day amputated, at the patient’s desire. The end of the upper fragment was removed. May 21st.—Stump has nearly closed. June 17th.—Discharged, well.