13 February 4th.—Patient is improving wonderfully. He sits up all day, and walks about freely. IStli.—Wound entirely closed. 2Gth.—The arm is quite stiff at the point of fracture. . March Oth.—Discharged, well. Case V.—Femur. Patient, B. II., teamster, aged 27, entered the Hospital March 10th, 18G3. Five hours before admission he was run over by a heavy team, the wheel passing over the middle of the left thigh. The whole of the left thigh is greatly swollen and ecchymosed, shortened about two and a half inches. The fracture is perhaps comminuted, and at the middle of the femur. Desault’s apparatus was applied. April 18th.—Comfortable since the last report. Desault’s appa- ratus was removed to-day. Limb in excellent position. There is apparently considerable callus, but the thigh appears flexible at the point of fracture. 21st.—A starch bandage, stiffened With pasteboard, applied to the limb from the middle of the leg to the upper third of thigh. 30th.—He sits up daily. May 4th.—Upon examination to-day, it was found that there was no union. Gth.—Desault’s apparatus re-applied. 7th.—Apply over fracture emplastrum cantharidis (6 by 4). 23d.—No union. Apply extension by weight. August 1st.—Starch bandage was applied over leg and thigh. R. Calcis phosphat., gr. x., 3 t. d. 15th.—The starch bandage was removed, and extension by weight applied. September 2d.—After a careful examination, it was decided that there was no union at the point of fracture. 8th.—A starch bandage was applied, and he was allowed to sit up. December 5th.—Patient now came under Dr. Bigelow’s care. No union. He was etherized, and a seton passed between the fractured ends of bone and out through the other side of the thigh. 16th.—Profuse discharge from lower wound. 27th.—Seton removed. February 2d, 1864.—Discharge from wound diminished. Appa- rently but little stiffness. June 4th.—Patient has continued in the same condition since the last record. There is no union. He was etherized, and the ends of the fracture were drilled in several different places. 18th.—There has not been the slightest inflammation in the thigh, produced by the drilling. July 20th.—There has been no change in the thigh since the last report. The ununited ends of bone arc surrounded by a large amount of indurated tissue, which makes it very difficult to get lit