6 ternal wound. The incision is then brought together by sutures* leaving an abundant exit for pus, and the apparatus is applied. Apparatus.—The best apparatus for the humerus I have found, on the whole, to consist of a firm concave splint of iron and leather, made to fit the top and outside of the shoulder as low as the axilla, and thence horizontally to the neck, and secured by a strap around the opposite axilla; a similar gutter to receive the elbow and fore- arm flexed at a right angle; and the two united by a narrow iron strap on the back, and another on the front of the humerus, adjusta- ble as to its length. The splint can be thus shortened when in place, so as to keep the extremities of the bone in contact, and nearly im- movable, in spite of the great leverage of the arm upon the wire, while the dressings can be readily applied in the open interval, with- out disturbing the apparatus. For the thigh, a pasteboard splint may be moulded to the anterior aspect of the thigh and leg, and then stiffened with dextrine, an in- terval for the wound being left. The whole limb is then secured to this by bandage; and surmounting the whole, a Smith’s anterior splint is applied, by which the leg is suspended from a railway on a frame- work over the bed. I have usually employed water-dressings at first, and poultices or oakum to absorb the discharge afterwards. The patient has remain- ed in bed for several weeks, and in fact till some stiffening has taken place, after which fresh air has been enjoined as an invigorating and osteoplastic agent. The diet has been as generous as the appetite would bear, and the phosphates have been generally administered' upon the principle of giving egg shells to hens. The wire has remained in place until the bone was firmly united, generally during several months, and there has been in no case evi- dence of any ill effects from its presence, either in producing ne- crosis or undue inflammation. In fact, it has, in some cases, remained quietly in place after the arm was in use, and before the patient returned for its removal. In Case II. the wire remained for two years. To remove the wire, the loop is best divided with cutting pliers, and forcibly drawn out; lienee an advantage in flexible wire. 'Ihis loop is sometimes quite superficial, but .in other cases is so deep as to require an incision to reach it. It may be remarked that a partial stiffening, dependent on the in- flammation of the soft parts, may take place in a few weeks, but the bone afterwards becomes gradually loose if the periosteum fails to do its duty. The one great point to be observed in treatment is the preven- tion of abscess, or, in other words, the early and free evacuation of imprisoned pus, by large and dependent incisions, which here as else- where arc incomparably less injurious to the tissues than the bun ow- ing of pus. Again, the formation of an abscess is always attended