12 slightly. After two weeks, they had become firmly united again, by the report of the physician. In the middle of May, lie reported that all was well united, but not strong, and applied bandages, &c., with the intimation that it would be a year before the union would be strong enough to bear hard usage. Three weeks after this, the pa- tient had the bandages removed to wash the arm, and his wife at once declared that the bones were loose. Various measures were then taken to procure union. For the past four months he has not inter- fered with the false joint, but has given his attention to recovering the motion of the elbow, stiffened by long disuse. Now, he has a false joint a little below the middle of the humerus. December 6th.—Operation by Dr. Bigelow. Patient was ether- ized. An incision, four inches long, was made over the outer aspect of the false joint, and the ends of the fragments were exposed. Both ends were irregular in shape, especially that of the upper fragment. They were bound together by a tough, pearl-colored, gristly material, quite firm to the knife. The periosteum was dissected up and turned back from about au inch of the end of each fragment; the ends "were then sawed off square, and a hole bored through each fragment at a point a quarter of an inch from their ends. The two fragments were then brought into apposition and held in place by a silver wire passed through these holes and twisted.. The free ends of the wire were long enough to project from the wound. Sutures were then in- serted, and angular splints, external and internal, were applied. 10th.—Suppuration well established. Splints removed, and wound dressed. 20th.—He has lost appetite during the last twenty-four hours. On removing splints, an erysipelatous blush was seen over the whole upper arm. R. Quinirn sulphat., gr. ij., ter die. Beef-steak and wine, if he will take them. 24th.—Splints changed. Doing better. January 2d, 1863.—Patient is quite strong and cheerful. On removing the splints to change dressings, considerable stiffness is found in arm. Suppuration is moderate; the wound is closed, ex- cept immediately about the ends of the wire. 4th.—Considerable pain at the point of fracture, and in elbow. 14th.—He walks about. 16th.—The pus has burrowed towards the elbow. Much weaker. Beef-steak, wine and eggs. 23cl.—There is tenderness and redness over the internal condyle, apparently from the commencement of a large abscess. 27th.—He has been very wretched since the last record, from great pain in the abscess. The splints were unbearable and were removed yesterday. The arm is laid on a large poultice, with an external straight splint. The abscess was freely incised under ether, and the various sinuses were torn into one. 31st.—Patient was etherized, and the wire cut and withdrawn.