10 On entrance, the fractured ends of the ulna could be felt distinctly j there appeared to be some ligamentous union in the radius. He had a very considerable use of the hand. February 9th.— Operation by Dr. Bigelow. He was etherized; a tourniquet was applied over the brachial artery to keep the wound dry. An iycision was then made along the upper border of the ra- dius, about two inches in length. The ends of the bone were turned out, the periosteum was dissected up, and about half an inch of each fragment sawed off. A hole was now drilled through the upper wall into the medullary cavity of each end, and the ends of the bone firmly wired together by means of a stout silver wire passing through the holes and twisted. Two small arteries required ligature. The edges of the wound were drawn together by sutures and a compress applied. The arm was placed in an external angular splint, and bandaged firmly, to prevent motion. 12th.—The pain in the arm is quite severe and constant. Con- siderable swelling about the wound. The bandage is daily removed. March 1st.—Wound nearly healed about the wire. Appetite and strength excellent. 23d.—Patient allowed to go home, to return for the removal of the wire. February 13th, 1863.—Patient has been able to saw wood with his right arm. He came to have the wire removed, which has re- mained since the operation. 14th.—He was etherized. Ah incision half an inch in length was made over the point of fracture; the wire was divided, and easily removed, two years from the time of its insertion. 4 Case III.—Humerus. Patient, J. C., laborer, aged 24, entered the Hospital November 4th, 1861. Eight months before, while turning the crank of a hand- car, he became entangled in some way, and his left arm was drawn under the crank and fractured above the elbow. A physician ap- plied splints to the arm, and for two weeks took them off and reap- plied them every day. At the end of eight weeks the splints were removed, but no union found at the point of fracture.' Four months ago, the fractured ends of the bone were rubbed together, but with no success. Now, the left arm is about one inch shorter than the right, from the ends overlapping each other. The fracture extends from a point about four inches from the lower end of the humerus, on the outer side of the shaft of the bone, obliquely inwards and downwards, terminating at a point about two inches above the internal condyle. Crepitus and motion in the fracture are very distinct. There has apparently been no callus thrown out around the fracture. Motion in the elbow-joint is perfect. November 9th.— Operation by Dr. Bigcrow. Patient was cthcriz-