SECT. XLIX.] AIRS. (i.'i SECT. XLIX. ON AIRS. The best kind of air is that which is perfectly pure, such as that which is not defiled with the exhalation from lakes or marshes, nor from any pit which emits pestilential vapours. That also which is impregnated with the exhalations from a canal conveying the impurities of a city is deleterious, and in- deed every kind which is loaded with vapours is not good; as also that which is contained within any hollow place, shut up on all sides by high mountains, and not admitting of ventila- tion. Those, therefore, which arc thus deleterious, prove hurtful to all ages and temperaments, whereas the best kinds agree with all. But their differences as to quality—I mean heat, coldness, dryness, and humidity—have not the same effect upon all. Those of a proper temperament are benefited by temperate air, whereas those labouring under an intempera- ment derive benefit from the opposite kind. Commentary. The first part of this Section is taken from Comm Oribasius. (Synops. i, 24.) The remaining part will be found to the ' Med. Collect/ (ix, 1), where the subject is treated of at great length. See, also, Aetius (iii, 162.) All these authors, however, are much indebted to Galen. (De Sanitate tuenda, i.) According to Galen, the moon produces changes in the atmo- sphere, whereby she occasions putrefaction of dead bodies, im- pairs the colour, and hurts the head of living persons. (De Diebus Criticis, iii.) On the supposed causes why the moon occasions putrefaction, see Plutarch (Synops. iii.) Antyllus says that there are many differences of airs: some arising from the season of the year; some from the changes of the moon; and some from the hour of the day or night; some from thickness or tenuity, motion or rest, or from the admixture of terrene exhalations. The sun, he adds, warms the bodv but the moon rather humectates, and, therefore, she moistens the brain, and occasions the putrefaction of the flesh; renders the bodies of those who sleep in the open air more humid and ob- tuse; and, for the same cause, she induces epilepsy and heavi- ness of the head. Cold air, he says, produces plumpness, good nutrition, and the formation of fat; it promotes the growth of