[book I. FOWLS. no gent, but very nutritious. Psellus calls it savoury, nutritious, and digestible. Apicius directs it to be dressed with pepper, lovage, mint, the seed of rue, pickle, wine, and oil. As at the present day it was eaten at the dessert. (Deip. xiv, 73.) Athenaeus describes distinctly two species of the partridge, which seem clearly referable to the tetrao perdix and tetrao rufus. The latter, or red-legged partridge, is still the common species in Italy. Galen ranks the pigeon next to the partridge in excellence. The Arabians, however, and, in imitation of them, Simeon Seth, calls the flesh of the pigeon heating and excrementitious. The attagen Ionicus has been celebrated by the muses of Horace and Martial. Porphyron, one of the ancient commen- tators on Horace, calls it " avis Asiatica inter noblissimas ha- bita." Harduin, who is deservedly reckoned a high authority in these matters, supposes it to have been the gelinotte du bois, or wood-hen. Altogether we incline to the opinion that it- was the scolopax agocephala, or godwit, a water-bird still much esteemed by the epicures of the East. We further think that the scolopax rasticula, or woodcock, is the scolopax of the an- cients. It is well described by the poet Nemesitanius. Athenseus quotes Aristophanes as calling the attagen a most delicious bird. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius speak of it in the same terms as Paulus. Apicus directs us to dress it like the partridge. Galen says of the starling that its flesh is allied to that of the attagen. (Diseta. iv.) It is also mentioned as an article of food by Athenaeus. ( ii, 24.) Persius speaks of the thrush as being a much-esteemed de- licacy. (Sat. vi.) Horace also says that there is nothing better than a fat thrush. (Epist. i, 15.) See Aristoph. (Nubes) ; Athenaeus (Deipn. ii.) It is worthy of remark that, although the thrush be by no means a delicate morsel in the north of Europe, it is very delicious in Italy and Spain. It feeds on juniper berries, grapes, and the like. The receipts of Apicius for dressing thrushes, and other small birds, contain spices, aromatics, honey, wine, pickle, and oil. Averrhoes says that their flesh is drier, more aromatic, but grosser than that of pigeons. The Romans bestowed great pains upon feeding thrushes, as we can learn from Varro and Columella. The species commonlv used bv them for food was the fieldfare, or tardus