528 DYSENTERY. [book III. digestible parts of fowls, and use baths of sweet water. But if the flux is brought on by the use of them, soak a large sponge or pieces of bread made from fine flour in wine of Ascalon, or some of the hot astringents, apply to the whole abdomen, bind it on, and order them to bathe in this state. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (Aphoris., de Affect. Epi- dem.) j Galen (Comment, de Med. sec. loc. ix); Aretseus (Morb. Chron. ii, 9) j Celsus (iv, 15); Cselius Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iv, 6); Alexander (vii, 21 and x, 1) ; Aetius (ix, 43); Oribasius (Synops. ix, 14, and Loc. Affect, iv, 88); Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 41); Nonnus (167); Leo (v, 9); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 31); Marcellus (27); Scribonius Largus (xi); Averrhoes (Collig. iv, 59); Avicenna (iii, 16, 2, 7); Serapion (iii, 26) ; Avenzoar (ii, 1, 5); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 26; Pract. vii, 22); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvii, 1) ; Rhases (adMansor. ix, 72; Divis. 67; Cont. xiii.) Hippocrates briefly describes dysentery as being a complaint attended with pain throughout the whole belly, tormina, and discharges of bile, phlegm, and blood. The disease, he says, is occasioned by an overflow of phlegm and bile to the veins of the belly, producing erosion and ulceration of the intestines. His treatment consists of purging the head, emetics, opening the belly, emollient clysters, and a regulated diet. In one of his aphorisms he states that a spontaneous vomiting cures dysentery. Another of his aphorisms is that a dysentery com- mencing from black bile is mortal. Another is, that when sub- stances resembling flesh are discharged by a person affected with dysentery it is a mortal symptom, (iv.) His commentator Theophilus says, in explanation, that it is because the intes- tines are ulcerated and do not readily heal. (Ed. Dietz, 401.) Galen treats separately of hepatic dysentery and of dysentery connected with ulceration of the mucous membrane of the intes- tines. Of his remedies some are astringents, such as galls, alum, dried roses, and hypocistis; some anodyne, such as opium and henbane; some are detergents, such as myrrh, pepper, spike- nard, &c.; and some escharotics, such as arsenic, sandarach, the scales of copper, and the like. These last are to be given only in clysters. Modern physicians will be disposed to con- demn them without a trial; and yet, as arsenic may be given by the mouth in properly-regulated doses, there appears no good