638 THE UTERUS. [book hi. Comm. same time lie directs us to apply fragrant things to the parte of generation, and dry cupping to the hypogastric region. This is the treatment during a fit. To remove the tendency to the affection he recommends the warm bath medicated with worm- wood, bay-leaves, marjoram, &c. fetid pills, hiera picra, and the like; and when connected with suppression of the menstrual discharge, he directs bleeding at the ankle, or even at the arm, if there be fulness and redness of the face. If the woman is unmarried, he recommends a change of life. Alsaharavius states that there is this difference between the hysterical and the epi- leptic convulsion, that in the former the woman does not lose her senses nor emit foam at the mouth. Like Haly, he directs us to bleed at the ankle when the menses are obstructed, to apply cupping-instruments to the thighs and hypogastric region, and to take diuretics and emmenagogues. There is nothing peculiarly interesting in llhases, as his account of the disease is collected' from preceding authors. One of them seems to say that the ascension of the uterus is not real but apparent. He remarks that affections of the uterus are attended with pain of the occiput. SECT. LXXII. ON PROLAPSUS UTERI. Prolapsus of the uterus takes place rarely indeed, but from a variety of causes ; for it is occasioned either by a woman's falling from a height and pitching upon her bottom, whereby the ligaments are ruptured which keep the viscus in its position; or by the tearing away of the secundines, which drag the uterus along with them when they adhere, as in difficult labour; or by the awkward performance of embryotomy; or by a blow, or mental emotions, such as when the loss of children has been communicated, or an irruption of the enemy, or by a dangerous voyage, or some such cause, by which the uterus has fallen down, owing to a relaxation of the whole system, or owing to paralysis and atony of the parts, which happens most especially to those in the decline of health. It is towards its mouth that it falls down. Some, indeed, have related that the whole uterus has been prolapsed, which is incredible; for how could it have been reduced and fixed in its place? Wherefore, we must first evacuate the hardened fieccs bv a clyster and bring