SECT. XLVI.] RIGORS. 305 SECT. XLVI. ON INORDINATE CHILLS AND RIGORS IN FEVERS. When rigors are critical, we must not interfere with them, nor attempt to put an end to the struggle; and a chill succeed- ing to a sweat will readily pass away and give no trouble. But when the rigor and chills are protracted, and more particularly, if occasioned by a collection of cold phlegm, we are first to apply ligatures round the limbs in various ways, and then anoint them with the oil of chamomile, or of privet, or of iris; or, if a stronger application be required, we may add to the oil some pepper, or the seed of the rosemary, or adarce, or castor, and the whole body is to be gently nibbed with these things. And in order that the oil may not readily run off, a small quantity of wax may be melted with it. Or, if it is the rigor not attended with heat, we must use the most powerful restorative ointments (acopa), and also dropaces and sinapisms. Proper fomentations ought likewise to be got ready. The acrid-scented things are likewise proper, such as calamint, pennyroyal, and hyssop. Before the attack, we should likewise give for drink honied water, in which pepper and rue have been boiled. And we should likewise give of the Cyrenaic juice, to the size of a millet, two hours before the paroxysm, mixing it up with boiled honey; and we are to give the juice of the laserwort in like manner. And the com- position for quartans, made from the Cyrenaic juice, has proved beneficial to many. And some, by going into a bath of hot oil, have shaken off obstinate rigors, as Archigenes affirms. But Galen recommends, before the attack, rubbing the skin with southernwood, or dried calamint, or the leaves and flowers of flea-bane (convza), or with costus, or pellitory, these two last with oil. By these means the rigors will nearly or altogether cease. Commentary. These febrile symptoms are treated of by Comm. Celsus at considerable length, (iii, 11, 12.) Pie properlv re- ' ' ' commends fomentations of a hot and dry nature, and friction with calcfacient oils. When produced by a bilious defluxion upon the stomach, he gives saltish water so as to operate as an emetic. He makes mention of the bath, and in certain cases allows wine. For Galen's sentiments, see ' de Diff. Febr.' (ii), 20