SECT. LIIT.] HERNIA. 589 Sec the learned note of Casaubon; also, Juvenal (Sat. Vlll, Comm. li t), and tlic note of the Dauphin editor. The Fathers inveigh ' y ' against this immodest practice. See Tertullianus (de Pallio), and Clemens Alexandrinus (Pajdagog. ii, 3.) According to Athcnams, the Tuscans were anciently much given to the use of depilatories. (Dcipnos. xii, 14.) See also Apuleius (jNIetamorph.) As this subject possesses little interest now, we need not enlarge upon it. SECT. L1II. ON BUBONOCELE, ENTEROCELE, AND HYDROCELE. Protrusions of the bowels occasioned by rupture of the peri- tomeum arc of a verv difficult nature, but those from relaxation are of easier cure; for happening commonly to children of a humid temperament, they, for the most part, can be cured with- out a surgical operation, by the application of remedies and suitable bandages. The under-mentioned remedies are to be applied ; but I must mention, in the first place, that these dis- eases differ in situation only; for, when the intestine remains in the groin, it is called Bubonocele, and when it falls down into the scrotum, it is named Enterocele. Wherefore, take of po- megranatc-rind, dr. x; of unripe gall-nuts, dr. v; boil in three cyathi of austere wine; pound and apply, having previously re- duced the intestine and bathed the part with cold water. Loose it in ten days; the patient remaining on his couch thirty days, and drinking of the decoction of cypress with wine; or of cypress balls, three oboli, in diluted wine. This medicine is ap- plicable to children.—Another agglutinative application: Of the roots of comfrcy, of the juice of horchouud, of bitter almonds, of gum, equal parts.—Another : Of turpentine, oz. iss; of wax, of frankincense, of myrrh, of isinglass, of snails with their shells, of each oz. j; macerate the ichthyocolla previously in vinegar for three days.—Another: Of cypress-balls, i. e. spherical fruit, oz. j; of galls, oz. j; of pomegranate-rind, oz. ss; of tauro- colla, oz. iij; of manna, of frankincense, oz. ss; oz. ss; of snails with their shells, oz. j ; boil the balls and rind in astringent wine for a considerable time; triturate; mix the other ingredients, and when they arc added, use.—Another: