sect, xxiii.] DISEASES OF THE EAR. 437 SECT. XXIII. ON DISEASES OF THE EAR ; AND, FIRST, CONCERNING PAIN OF IT. Earach may be known to be occasioned by cold from the season of the year, the preceding regimen, or from the patient's own account, if it proceed from any external exciting cause. If the pain be deep-seated without heaviness, distension, or heat, such cases are to be cured by calefacient remedies, as hot oil of rue, or of nard, or hot oil of bays, or that of marjoram, that called foliatum, or that called spicatum, or common oil with euphorbium, or pepper, or castor, or the ointment called commagenum, or opobalsam poured into the auditory foramen; and oil in which garlic or onion has been boiled is of service when injected. Pain from a hot intemperament is judged of by a certain sensation of heat without heaviness or tension. You may cure it by the opposite remedies; by injecting the white of an egg triturated, as in affections of the eye; and woman's milk, along with some of the anodyne collyria, or the juice of perdicias {pellitory of the wall?), with a small quantity of rose-oil, and rose-oil itself, or rose-oil and vinegar, or the juice of the nightshade, or of coriander, or of kingspear, or oil in which earthworms or millepedes have been boiled; or almond-oil, either by itself, or having three living buccinse boiled in it, is of great natural efficacy. Pain from viscid and thick humours you may judge of from the heaviness of head, or of the ear itself, and from the previous regimen. When it is without heaviness, this state alone of hearing indicates a windy spirit that cannot get vent. In both these cases we must use remedies of a deobstruent and incisive nature, such as the aphronitrum with vinegar and honey, and sheep's gall with common oil, or the oil of almonds, and the tepid juice of leeks and onions with honey; or triturate common marjoram with honey and a woman's milk, and inject it. For stronger cold- ness inject goat's gall with the juice of leeks; and when the pain is great and of long duration, and when difficulty of hear- ing is present, we must use these remedies, namely, the juice of dragon-herb, of wake-robin, and of bryony, and the like. When the pain is occasioned by a windy spirit, it may be greatly remedied by applying a cupping-instrument previously