[book III. 532 COLIC. by such things as are not violently heating; for by things which are thus heating the humours are dissolved and con- verted into air. Wherefore we must try to incide and concoct them by carminatives, and such medicines as are attenuant and desiccant, without heating much at the beginning of the com- plaint. The feeces being evacuated from the bowels by suitable clysters, we must use an injection of oil, in which cumin or rue has been boiled, with the grease of a goose or hen; or of a decoction from the roots of wild cucumber, with a drachm of myrrh and some honey and oil; or from myrrh, honey, and Sicyonian oil. And often, when common oil is injected, the vitreous phlegm is discharged along with it, and instantly re- moves the pain. If, owing to the violence of the pain, the in- jection be retained, we must apply a suppository of honey, cumin, nitre, and the dried seeds of rue; or of a stalk of cabbage well shaven down and macerated in salt water; or of the ashes of cabbage mixed with honey; or of colocynth triturated with ho- ney, nitre, and cumin. The suppositories should be six fingers' breadth in length, so that they may extend beyond the sphincter muscle. The anus is to be anointed with the juice of sow- bread, with honey and nitre, or with centaury along with honey and nitre. When the pain is continued, in addition to the afore- mentioned, these injections are to be used : Of turpentine-rosin, oz. j; or of opopanax, dr. i ; or of galbanum, dr. iv; of bitumen, an equal part, with, of nitre, dr. j ; and of water, oz. j; of oil of rue, oz. v, or more. Embrocations are to be applied to the affected parts from the oil of cumin, of dill, or Sicyonian oil. Cataplasms are to be applied, composed of the medicine called trispermumwith cumin, bay-berries, and parsley-seed. Epithemes are to be applied, namely, that from seeds, that from bay-berries, that from meliot, and the polyarchian. Let the patients sit in a hip-bath of the decoction of fenugreek, marshmallows, chamo- mile, mugwort, dill, bay, and the like. And they may be made to sit in a hip-bath of warm oil, or in oil and water. They should take potions containing wormwood and cumin, in equal parts, or panacea with water, or of castor, of anise, and of the peppers, dr. j, with oxymel. When the pain does not remit, we must give them a draught, containing the medicine from three peppers, or the theriac; and have recourse to a sinapism and dropax during the remissions, and to the natural baths ; but they