CHOLERA. SECT. XXXIX.] being a corruption of the food, for the most part ceases spon- taneously, if no more food be taken until after the complete digestion and evacuation of the corrupted matters; but if it continue, we must use the remedies applicable to cholera. Commentary. Consult Plippocrates (Epidem. v, 4, et alibi) j Comm. Galen (Comment., de Fac. Part., de Rat. Vict., dc Med. sec. loc. viii); Aretseus (Morb. Acut. ii, 5; de Curat. M. A. ii, 4); Celsus (iv, 11); Alexander (vii, 16); Aetius (ix, 12); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 11); Leo (v, 5); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 5); Nonnus (164); Cassius Medicus (Problem.); Scribonius Largus; Caelius Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. iii, 19); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 16); Marcellus (30); Avicenna (iii, 16, 1); Serapion (iii, 14); Avenzoar (ii, 1); Alsaharavius (xvi, 20); Haly Abbas (Pract. vii, 14; Theor. ix, 25); Rhases (Divis. 60, Contin. xi; ad Mansor. ix.) Hippocrates in his 'Epidemics' has given several well-detailed cases of cholera. In one, the patient drank hellebore in the juice of lentils, and vomited; he became cold, and was put into the hot hip-bath, where he regained his heat and recovered. In another place, he says that the disease is, for the most part, occasioned by unwholesome food, such as pork improperly boiled, pot-herbs, summer fruits, &c. Aretseus defines cholera to be a retrograde movement of the matters in the body upon the stomach and intestines, consisting of a discharge upwards and downwards of bile, which, if the disease proves fatal, becomes black; and, at the same time, the extremities are cold, with profuse sweats, pulse small and dense, constant straining to vomit, and tenesmus. He also makes mention, among the symptoms, of spasms and contractions of the muscles in the legs and arms, borborygmi, tormina, and syncope. The complaint, he says, is occasioned by continued indigestion, and proves fatal by superinducing convulsions, suffo- cation, and retching. With regard to the treatment, he cautidns us not to stop the discharge at first, but to encourage it by giving frequently some tepid water; and when attended with tor- mina and coldness of the feet, to apply to the belly hot oil of rue, and rub the legs to restore heat. When the faeces are all evacu- ated, he recommends some cold water to compose the stomach; and when the pulse sinks and becomes frequent, while at the