[book hi. 536 COLIC. sulphureous bath if convenient; rubbing the affected parts with calefacient ointments, or applying heated bricks to them; purging with aloes, scammony, and the like j using the hip-bath made with the decoctions of parsley and anise, common oil, and the like; applying epithemes; administering clysters of hot oil, either alone or with some carminative, such as turpentine; giving narcotics, as opium and henbane, when the humours are thin and acrid, but not otherwise; applying sinapisms and calefa- cient plasters; sometimes giving emetics; and in protracted cases enjoining exercise. When the disease proceeds from fla- tulence, he applies dry fomentations of millet, calefacient oils, and a cupping-instrument to the belly. When it is occasioned by constipation, he directs us to remove the obstruction by giving water, oil, and mead, and administering the same in clysters. In obstinate cases he directs us to innate the bowels with a bel- lows, and afterwards to inject a little nitre and oil and water. He also speaks of pills or pellets of lead. When it proceeds from hot and bilious humours, he gives for food fish, the testacea, the most indigestible parts of quadrupeds ; and recommends the common bath, and purging with drastic cathartics, such as hel- lebore and scammony. When inflammation is the cause, he forbids purgatives, because they only increase the evil, but re- commends general bleeding repeated at intervals; and, if the urine is suppressed, bleeding at the ankles; also emollient clys- ters, external applications of a soothing nature, and baths after venesection, but not before. Celsus recommends principally dry fomentations, friction of the extremities, and dry cupping. He also mentions a medicine called the colic composition, consisting of poppy tears, pepper, anise, castor, spikenard, myrrh, &c. The beginning of Cselius Aurelianus's chapter on colic is un- fortunately lost. He approves of venesection, fomentations of sweet oil, and injections of the same ; but disapproves of adding rue, anise, or anything calefacient to them ; speaks favorably of cupping and leeching, which are to be followed by hot fomen- tations with sponges squeezed out of warm water, or by the hip- bath. As to the calefacient and acrid things usually given, namely, parsley, cumin, and the like, he properly directs them to be avoided when inflammation is present. In this case he re- commends the bath of oil. When the complaint is on the decline,