CLYSTERS. SECT. XLIV.] SECT. XLIV. ON CLYSTERS. In constipation of the bowels, when the stomach is naturally weak, and cannot bear purgatives, recourse must be had to clysters. When phlegm is contained in the intestines, the clyster may be composed of the decoctions of dried figs, and of beet, nitre, the root of the wild cucumber, honey, and the oil of chamomile or dill. But when the complaint proceeds from dryness they may be composed of those of marsh-mallows, fenu- greek, chamomile, oil, unci a small quantity of honey. And sometimes oil alone, injected to the amount of half a hemina, will produce the desired effect; but even this must not be re- peated constantly, lest nature, becoming accustomed to these things, should forget to perform the evacuation spontaneously. Commentary. Hippocrates frequently recommends the ad- Comm. ministration of clysters. Herodotus mentions that the ancient Egyptians had recourse to clysters at stated periods every month (ii, 77.) Oribasius has treated of the composition of clysters, and the cases in which they are to be applied so fully in the eighth book of his ' Medica Collectanea/ that he may be said to have ex- hausted the subject. It appears, from his account, that the an- cients used a syringe for throwing up injections. A large clyster, he says, amounts to three hemmse, a small one to one hemina, and a moderate one to two heminze (two pints). (Synops. i, 19.) Celsus, after some very appropriate observations on the cases which are benefited by clysters, concludes with the following directions for the composition of them : Plain water may be in- jected, if the case be slight; or honied water, if stronger means be required; if emollients be indicated, the decoction of mallows, of fenugreek, or ptisan may be used; or if astringents be pro- per, vervain. Acrid clysters may be formed of sea-water, or with the addition of some salt, and their strength may be in- creased by boiling. Such a clyster may be rendered still more acrid by the addition of oil, nitre, or honey. He remarks that the more acrid a clyster is, the greater will be its purgative effect, but the more difficult will it be to bear. He says it