sect, xxvi.] AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. also of salts two parts; of burnt alum extinguished in vinegar and pulverized, one part; then wash with wine. For bloody gums, sprinkle fine alum, or rinse with aloes in wine, or with the root of bramble boiled in wine, or Syriac sumach. When the gums both bleed and are affected with a rheum, burn pickled tunny in a pot until it be reduced to ashes, with which touch the parts. Loose teeth arc fastened by being sprinkled with aloes, or Syriac sumach, or fissile alum, or galls, or the root of bramble, either by themselves or boiled in wine.—Another: Pulverize the bark of green nuts, and to the expressed juice add Minincan myrrh and fissile alum, and mix together, and use, by pouring it into the mouth, and put upon the gums of the pained tooth, which it will cure.—Another: Trinitrate together garlic, pepper, and stavesacre; put into a linen cloth; make small balls of it, and change frequently ; by which means you will purge the humour in the head, and effect a cure of the teeth. For loose teeth, running gums, and for every spreading ulcer in the mouth. Of burnt chalcitis, dr. xij ; of calamine, dr. viij; use in powder with vinegar. How to remove the teeth without pain. Apply flour with the juice of spurge, and above it an ivy leaf, and leave it for an hour. They will spontaneously break in pieces. A dentifrice, also for parulis, or gumboil. Of that kind of alum called plinthitis, oz. iv; of sal ammoniac, oz. iv; of myrrh, of costus, of pellitory, of each, dr. iv; of pepper, eighty grains. For pamlis. Of sulphur vivum, of pepper, of fissile alum, equal parts. Parulis is an inflammation in a part of the gums, which, not being resolved, suppurates. Having suppurated, and being divided with a scalpel, it is to be kept separate with a tent. Epulis is a fleshy excrescence from inflammation on the inner- most dens molaris, being attended sometimes with fever and pain. It must be repressed; and, therefore, we must use the species of verdigris called xyston, either by itself or with an equal part of galls, or burnt sori, or burnt alum, or galls alone, or the flakes of copper triturated with vinegar for a sufficient number of days and dried. A dentifrice. The burnt roots of birthwort, burnt hartshorn, with some mastich.—Another: White salts mixed with honey, and wrapped in the leaves of the fig-tree, and burnt until re- duced to ashes.—Another : Buccime filled with salt and burnt ;