21 SECT. XVI.] EXERCISES. pores of the skin, and evacuates superfluities by the strong move- ment of the lungs. Since, therefore, it contributes to distri- bution, care ought to be taken that neither the stomach nor bowels be loaded with crude and indigestible food or liquids ; for there is a danger lest they should be carried to all parts of the body before they are properly digested. It is clear then that exercise ought to be taken before eating. The colour of the Brine will point out the proper time for exercise. When it is watery, it indicates that the chyme absorbed from the stomach is still undigested. When it is of a deep yellow colour, and bilious, it show s that digestion had been long ago accomplished. W lien it is moderately pale, it indicates that digestion has just taken place ; and this is the proper time for exercise, after having e\ acuated whatever exercmentitious matters are collected in the bladder and bowels. Commentary. The remarks of our author on the effects of Comm exercise are exceedingly pertinent and comprehensive. See, in ' y ' like manner, Aetius (iii, 2), and Oribasius (Med. Collect, vi, 11.) But Galen is the great authority on this subject, which he treats of very folly and philosophically, in the second book of his ' 11 ygiene/ He agrees entirely wit h Hippocrates, that the proper time for exercise is before a meal, because, the excrementitious superfluities being thereby evacuated, the body is in a fit con- dition for receiving a new supply. He explains, however, after- wards, that it is after the digestion and distribution of a pre- ceding meal have been accomplished that exercise will be most proper. According to Haly Abbas, exercise is useful for three purposes: 1. For rousing the innate or natural heat, whereby the processes of digestion and distribution are accelerated. 2. For opening the pores of the body, and evacuating its superfluities. 3. For strengthening and rousing the animal actions, by the friction it occasions. (Theor. v, 2.) Avicenna gives nearly the same state- ment of the good effects of exercise. Haly Abbas forbids exer- cise immediately after dinner. He adds, that exercise taken im- mediately after a meal makes the food descend to the intes- tines, where it is absorbed by the veins before it is properly con- cocted, and thereby the liver becomes loaded with crudities. (Pract. i, 3.)