SECT. XX.] TETANUS. 405 cold water being, as Hippocrates says, exceedingly hazardous, and, for that reason, I suppose, rejected by succeeding autho- rities, we too are disposed to condemn. A liniment. Of nard (valerian), one sextarius; of wax, oz. ij; of malabathrum, of amomum, of storax, and of mastich, of each, oz. j ; of castor, of adarce, of euphorbium, of pepper, of each, oz. j; of spikenard, of opobalsam, of each oz. j. A potion for opisthotonos. Of the root of panacea, of white pepper, of costus, of myrrh, of poppy juice, equal parts. Give to the size of the vetch called aracus at bedtime. It is also a remedy for orthopnoea. Let the diet be attenuant, of easy diffusion, and by all means not excrementitious. Commentary. Consult all the works referred to in the Comm. preceding Section; also, Celsus (iv, iii)); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, ' * ' 10, 11, Pract. v, 31); Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Prob. i, 53.) Hippocrates, Plato, Galen, Horatianus, and Avicenna agree in stating that a fever coming on tends to remove the tetanic affection. Cselius Aurelianus seems to question the truth of this ancient aphorism. According to Hippocrates, tetanus generally proves fatal within four days, or, if not, recovery takes place. He disapproves of the cold affusion in cases of traumatic tetanus (Aph. v, 21); Alexander Aphrodisiensis, however, speaks rather favorably of it. Aetius, Oribasius, and Nonnus, like our author, recommend bleeding, emollient fomentations, and the bath of oil. Archigenes (ap. Aetium) directs the bath to be prepared by adding a fifth part of oil to the water. The treatment recommended by Celsus is judicious and not unlike our author's. He expresses himself hesitatingly about venesection, and forbids the early use of wine. He approves of opening the bowels. Aretseus says that tetanus is a painful spasm, sometimes proving speedily fatal, and always difficult to cure. Like the modems, he mentions the three varieties of it, namely, empros- thotonos, opisthotonos, and tetanus. The disease, according to his account, may arise from a variety of causes, such as a wound of a muscular or nervous part, abortion, and excessive cold. When it arises from the two causes first mentioned, it is said to be generally fatal. His description of it is given in his usual