[book hi. 612 THE MENSES. Comm. gogues; such as cantharides, myrrh, peony, cumin, elatenum, squills, the fruit of juniper, seseli, thyme, St. John's wort, rue, castor, elicampane, nettle, sage, &c. Of these some were given by the mouth, and others applied upon pessaries. He also re- commends fumigations with aromatics. The pessaries were supposed to be likewise capable of producing abortion; but Hippocrates, in his Oath, forbids to give them to pregnant women. Tt appears from Juvenal that foeticide was a very common prac- tice in his time (see Sat. vi); and various methods of performing it are described by Avicenna (iii, 21, 2), which we forbear to explain, lest our pages should be instrumental in increasing the frequency of this disgusting crime. It would seem that the an- cient Lydians practised some Malthusian process to prevent con- ception. See Athen. (Deip. xii, 11, with the notes of Casaubon and Schweigh.) Aristotle says that, with this intention, some anointed the os uteri with oil of juniper, or with ceruse and frankincense mixed with oil. (H. A. vi, 3.) Aetius makes mention of a mixture of alum, galbanum, with wine, &c. being used for this purpose, (xvi.) Although Galen has treated very fully of this disease in dif- ferent parts of his works, and has explained satisfactorily the nature of emmenagogues, we shall pass him by on the present occasion, in order to afford us more room for doing justice to the views of Aetius, whose account of amenorrhcea we consider decidedly the best we ever met with. Aetius says that barren and pregnant women, singers, and dancers do not menstruate, the menstrual superfluity in the latter being consumed by too much exercise. It is undoubtedly true, as he remarks, that those who take strong exercise have less discharge than women who lead an indolent life. Sometimes, too, he says, a fat or lean state of the body will occasion suppression of the menses, be- cause fat persons have too little blood in their veins, it being consumed in forming the fat; and hence too they seldom con- ceive, or, if they do, their offspring is puny. In those, too, who are much emaciated, the necessary sanguineous superfluity is wanting. The menses may likewise be suppressed from dis- ease, such as loss of blood, profuse perspirations, vomiting, purging, or cutaneous eruptions. Callosities, cicatrices, and other diseases of the uterus will likewise occasion suppression. His treatment is judiciously varied according to the cause of r