STERILITY. [book iii- C-14 will not retain the semen. Third, when, owing to suppres- sion of the menses, any obstruction takes place about the os uteri, it is apt to prevent impregnation. Fourth, when men- struation does not take place, the veins of the uterus become so gorged with blood that they do not retain the semen; or, on the contrary, the same effect may arise from profuse menstrua- tion whereby the retentive faculty of the vessels is weakened; or a return of the menstrual fluid in too great quantity may wash away the semen. Fifth, prolapsus uteri, by rendering the mouth of the womb hard and callous, prevents impregna- tion. The treatment is delivered at so great length that we cannot venture even to give an abridgment of it. Aetius treats very fully of sterility, but his views are much the same as our author's. See also Oribasius (Synops. ix, 45.) In cases of sterility, Octavius Horatianus directs us to ascer- tain whether the os uteri be turned aside or shut up. He delivers the treatment of these cases with singular minuteness. His principal remedies are pessaries, which of course are com- posed of various ingredients. We shall give the composition of one of the simplest of them in his own words: " Nullo etenim remedio meliore et magis innoxio, aut corrigi matrix potent, aut purgari, quam usus nitri suppositione." That is to say, a suppo- sitory of soda is one of the safest and most effectual remedies. Serapion, like Aetius and Paulus, regulates his treatment entirely upon the principle of correcting the intemperaments, which he considers as the most common causes of sterility. A humid iutemperament, he says, occasions sterility in the same manner that wet ground proves injurious to seed which is sown upon it; and a hot intemperament dries up the semen as the earth scorches the seed during the heat of the dog-days. Such being his ideas of the causes of sterility, one can readily com- prehend his principles of treatment. Avicenna, Rhases, and Avenzoar likewise direct their attention to the correction of the intemperaments, but also recommend attention to any other local complaint about the genital organs. Haly Abbas, among other remedies, directs us to correct the state of the uterus by means of stimulant fumigations. One of his prescriptions contain arsenic. This would prove a potent but dangerous application. Alsaharavius expresses his distrust in the virtues of many specifics which had long retained celebrity for the cure