CHOLERA. 519 SECT. XXXIX.] Octavius Horatianus calls cholera "omnibus acutis regritudi- Comm. nibus velocior." Like the others, he recommends draughts of' *""~< tepid water at the commencement, and wine and aromatic* in extreme cases. Cselius AureliamiSj with his accustomed accuracy, gives a complete history of the symptoms of this disease. The bile which is vomited, he says, is at first yellow, afterwards green, and at last black. His treatment is verv similar to that of Aretseus, namely, tepid water at the commencement to facilitate vomiting, sponges out of cold water applied over the stomach, or else cupping-instruments with much heat; aromatics, bread soaked in wine, and the like. He condemns Hippocrates for sanctioning the giving of hellebore. He blames Diocles for recommending southernwood, which, he remarks, is a very harsh medicine; and also for allowing milk, which, he says, is apt to grow acid. He finds fault with Heraclides Tarentinus for trusting to opium and henbane. Cassius Medicus accounts for the coldness of the extremities and contractions thereof upon the supposition that they are occa- sioned by the vital spirits having left them and been determined to the stomach. There is nothing very original in the works of the Arabians. Haly remarks that cholera consists of a discharge of bile. He inculcates as a settled principle of treatment, that, when the strength continues good, and the discharge not immoderate, the vomiting is to be encouraged by giving tepid water with oil of sweet almonds to drink. When there is great prostration of strength and tendency to deliquium, he directs us to sprinkle water on the patient's face, to apply ligatures to his limbs, and to rub his feet and legs with a calefacient oil. When the dis- charge cannot be got otherwise stopped, he advises us to apply a cupping-instrument over the stomach. Alsaharavius, like the others, directs us to promote the vomiting at first by giving tepid water. Among his other remedies, he recommends an in- fusion of aloes and wormwood. Rhases recommends draughts of tepid water, the application of snow over the stomach, liga- tures to the extremities, wine, and astringents. He, Avicenna, and most of the authorities direct us to encourage sleep. Avicenna's plan of treatment is exactly the same as that of Rhases.