;o BATHS. [book i. j Comm bath, especially in fever. He thus states the purposes for which ^ it is appLd • "Fere adhibetur, ubi summam eutem relaxan, evo- earique eorruptum humorem, et habitum corporis mutari expe- &it» He recommends friction with oil before going into the bath, (ii, 17.) ■ , ■ ia\ <5PP Our author copies from Onbasms (Euponst. i, lb.) bee a fuller account in Med. Collect, (x, 6) ; Galen (de Sanitate tuenda); Aetius (iii, 169); and Avicenna (i, 3, 2 ) Galen particularly recommends the cold bath to persons in the prime of life, and during the summer season. Before going into the bath they are to get well rubbed first with rough towels and then with oil. He recommends them to plunge into the water at once, and not descend gradually. After coming out of the water he directs them to get rubbed with oil, until the skin is warmed. Agathinus forbids infants to be bathed m cold water, but recommends the warm bath for them. (Oribasius, Med. Collect, x, 7.) Galen and Aetius direct the bath of oil to be formed by add- in- the fifth part of heated oil to a bath of water. They recom- mend it in protracted fevers attended with chills, convulsions, retention of urine, and to relieve lassitude, and nervous pains. The learned Bernard remarks that it must have been the ex- pense with which it is attended that has led to the disuse of the bath of oil. (Ad Nonni Epitom.) Avicenna and his expositor, Gentilis Fulginas, particularly recommend it for retention of urine. Mengus Favcntinas pronounces it to be highly anodyne. (Auctores de Balneis.) Psellus says that the warm bath relaxes, softens, and induces sleep, occasioning plumpness of the body. (Opus Medicum.) Actuarius forbids the use of the bath to those whose systems are loaded with superfluities and bad humours. (De Diseta, xi.) Averrhoes lays down the same prohibition. (Coll. ii, 4.) The proper time for the bath, according to Haly Abbas, is after exercise, and before eating. If used before exercise, it proves injurious, by occasioning the distribution of any super- fluities which may be remaining indigested in the body, and de- termining them to improper parts. If used immediately after a meal, he says, it proves hurtful, by promoting the absorption of unconcocted chyle, and sending humours to the head. But if used after exercise, and before a meal, it moistens the body, strengthens