SECT. XII.] VERTIGO. witli the mouth of the stomach. Archigencs pretended to dis- Comm. tinguish between the two cases in the manner described by our author, that is to say, when the disease is preceded by noises in the head, stupor, loss of the sense of smell, or of any other sense, he concluded that the disease was a primary affection of the brain; whereas, if preceded by nausea and heartburn, he be- lieved that it had its origin in the stomach. Aretseus details the treatment with great minuteness. He recommends restoring any suppressed secretion, bleeding at the arm, cupping, opening the frontal or nasal veins, sternutatories, emetics of hellebore and the like; cold applications to the head, friction of the extremities, gestation, walking, restricted diet, the cold bath, but not the hot. Aetius, in an extract from Posidonius, treats of the disease in much the same terms. Cselius Aurelianus recommends the same treatment as for cephalrea. Octavius approves particularly of hellebore. Serapion directs us to open the arteries behind the ears, which practice, however, Galen had pronounced to be less useful than some had represented. Mesue makes mention of leeches to the nose, and medicines for renewing the menstrual and hemorrhoidal discharges when suppressed. Avicenna speaks of the actual cautery. (See Book Sixth, Sect, i, of this Work.) Ver- tigo, according to Haly Abbas, may arise from a pituitous or sanguineous plethora of the cerebral vessels, or from compression occasioned by fracture. He approves of general and local bleeding only when there is a plethora of blood. In other cases he recommends drastic purgatives, aromatic stimulants, masticatories, and sternutatories. His treatment is judiciously modifiedaccordingtothenature of the excitingcause. Alsaharavius recommends opening the arteries behind the ears, strong pur- gatives, clysters, gargles, and hot plasters, containing mustard, and the like. Aaron, one of Rhases' authorities, decidedly in- culcates that vertigo may either be connected with disease of the brain or of the stomach. He principally recommends bleeding and purging, and also speaks favorably of cupping the nape of the neck.