BATHS. SECT. LII.] 71 the vital heat, promotes digestion, opens the pores, mitigates pain, Comm. and dispels flatulence. He adds, a short continuance in the bath, L-^-J warms and moistens the body, but a long warms and dries it. (Thcor. v, 13.) In another place he says that the proper time for the bath is after exercise, yet not immediately, nor until the powers of the system are in some degree recruited; but the body is to be first rubbed with oil, and then the bath is to be taken. (Pract. i, 5.) The uses of the bath, according to Alsaharavius, are, to moisten the body, open the pores, dispel flatulence, remove repletion, procure sleep, relieve pains, fluxes of the bowels and lassitude, to restore lean bodies to plumpness and obesity, if used after a full diet, to soften contracted limbs, moisten dry bodies, and dry humid. The evil effects of it when misapplied, are prostration of the vital powers, syncope, and determining the humours to weak parts. (Theor. xi, 1.) -Asclepiades, of Bithynia, was a distinguished advocate for the use of the bath. See Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 3); Celsus (ii, 6); Apuleius (Florid. 4.) SECT. LII. ON THE NATURAL BATHS. Of Natural baths, some are nitrous, some saline, some aluminous, some sulphureous, some bituminous, some copper- ish, some ferruginous, and some compounded of these. Of all the Natural waters the power is, upon the whole, desiccant and calefacient; and they are peculiarly fitted for those of a humid and cold habit. The nitrous and saltish are beneficial to the head, to defluxions of the chest, to a watery stomach, to dropsies, to swellings after diseases, and to collections of phlegm. The aluminous are fitted for spitting of blood, vomit- ing from the stomach, immoderate menstrual discharges of women, and repeated miscarriages. The sulphureous are sooth- ing and warming to the nerves, and relieve lassitude, but weaken and upset the stomach. The bituminous occasion ful- ness of the head, and hurt the senses, but occasion a steady degree of heat, and soothe wrhen persevered in. The copperish are peculiarly adapted for the mouth, tonsils, uvula, and eyes. The ferruginous are useful to the stomach and spleen. The