A\A SECT. |I.] THE HAIR. When only a third part of the oil remains, strain it, and mix- ing with the acacia, lay it up in a vessel, and anoint with it every day.—Another : Of the bark of green walnuts, oz. iij j of the root of the ilex, oz. iij ; of dark-coloured wine, three sextarii; boil to a third part, and, having strained, pound the remainder with one sextarius of myrtle oil. To be used every day. An infusion for dyeing the hair black. Of galls, one sextarius, of elm-leaved sumach (rhus coriaria), two sextarii; of the leaves of privet, an equal quantity ; of black myrtle leaves, the same; of cinnaris a handful; of poppy-heads the same ; of lake water, twelve sextarii. Macerate for many days, boil to a third, then rub and anoint the head. When the hairs are dry anoint with an acetabulum of Cimolian earth, and an equal quantity of quicklime. Dissolving these things in the juice of boiled beet, anoint with it, and then, for the sake of protection, put over it the leaves of beet, and, when they adhere properly, wash in the bath with it. For dyeing tawny hairs, and making them of a bright yelloiv colour. Take of myrrh, one part; of the flower of salt, one part; pulverize carefully, and, having made it of the thickness of the sordes of a bath, scrub the head, anoint it with the oint- ment, and allow it to remain a night and a day, and then order it to be wiped ofl'.—Another: Rub in unripe lupines with water. —Another: Of litharge, dr. j j of Cretan earth, dr. iv; of quick- lime, dr. j; with water make to the thickness of bath sordes, and anoint. Apply the leaves of beet for two or three days, and then clean. For making black hairs yellow. Add the lees of wine to the sordes of a bath, and, having made it to the consistence of ce- rate, use it when you are going to sleep, and in the morning the hairs will be yellow.—Another: Macerate the leaves of privet in the juice of Fuller's herb {struthium), and use the infusion. A gold-coloured dye. Of alum, dr. vj; of red arsenic, dr. vj« of saffron, dr. ij; of the thapsus used by dyers, called herba rubia by the Romans, dr. viij; of the lixivial ashes used by the bonnet- makers, four sextarii; boil the ashes and the thapsus pounded together, and, when but one half remains, squeeze out the juice, and dissolve in it the alum, red arsenic, and saffron; put it into a glass vessel, and, at the time of using, first scrub the head, and then anoint with it. When it is all drunk up, clean with