SECT. LVI.] 79 REGIMEN. the bath, and undergo friction until his body become ruddy, Comm. and then he may go to sleep on a soft bed; by which regimen he may be preserved from fever, if such be the will of God. (Cont. xxxiv, Ad Mansor. vi, 3 and 4.) SECT. LVI. OF THE REGIMEN OF PERSONS ON BOARD SHIP. With regard to the vomitings which occur to people at sea, it is neither easy nor expedient to contend with those which hap- pen first; for, upon the whole, they are generally beneficial. After vomiting, one ought not to partake of much nor of ordinary food, but either lentils, dried and boiled with a small quantity of pennyroyal, or bread pounded in a weak and fragrant wine. One ought also to use but little drink, and that containing a weak watery wine, or vinegar with honey. The lentils ought to be first boiled, and then when they become soft, to be triturated, and afterwards dried and put into an earthen vessel. When severe vomiting lasts for a long time, one should resolutely abstain from all kinds of food, and take only a little drink, which ought to be vinegar and honey with water, containing thyme infused in it, or pennyroyal water with some fine polenta, or some fragrant weak wine with fine polenta also. In order to overcome the disagreeable stench on board ships, one may smell to quinces, thyme, or pennyroyal. One ought also to look as seldom as possible upon the sea, until one has been accustomed to live in a ship. One must likewise attend, that the water which is drunk be not muddy, ill-smelled, or saltish. Commentary. This Section likewise is taken from Oribasius Comm. (Synop. v, 33), who copies from Diocles. Similar directions are "~ given by Ehases, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas. Haly remarks that persons on board of a ship are often infested with lice, which are engendered by want of cleanliness. For them he recommends mercury killed, with oil, the long bithwort, &c. (Pract. i, 31.) Avicenna says that, by wearing wool smeared with oil and mercury, the lice will be killed. (Cant. p. ii.) When the vomiting is unusually severe and protracted, Rhases recommends it to be treated with anti-bilious remedies. (Ad Mansor. vi, 14, Contin. 34.)