SECT- Mi-] PULSE. 217 defaillant;) and others again gradually recover their former Comm. magnitude, and are called recurrent myuri. Nearly aUied to these are the innuentes et circumnuentes, for which it is scarcely possible to find any appropriate term in English. Le Clerc thus renders and explains this pulse, in French: "Le myurus qui va en baissant de cMt et d'autre, c'est a dire qui frappe moms sensiblement le premier et le dernier doigt que celui ou ceux du milieu." It consists, as Avicenna explains, of a double myurus, which swells out in the middle, and diminishes at both extremities. It was therefore a sort of double inclined plane. The myurus, and the innuens et circumnuens, are thus described by Haly Abbas: "Est autem et in hac specie unius pulsationis pulsus qui muris cauda appellatur; quique inclinus vocatur pulsus. Et qui muris cauda vocatur fit cum arteria dilatatur sub primo digito qui a superioribus est grossa, et sub secimdo minus grossa, sub tertio parva, sub quarto minima. Inclinus autem pulsus est qui sub duobus mediis movetur digitis grossus et sub extremis hinc et inde subtilis et tenuis; aut medium ejus elatum est, et extremitates demissEe, videturque tangenti arteriae extrema ad inferiora declinari." Sprengel appears to think that the pulsus inclinus of Haly Abbas is one first described by him, but there can be no doubt of its being identical with the innuens et circumnuens (vsvevKujg Kai TrtpivtvtvKMQ) of Galen's system. It is likewise the same as the pulsus inclinatus of Rhases, who says it occurs in hectic fevers and consumption. Galen attempts to explain this pulse by referring it to weakness of the vessel and an unequal Avasting of the parts around, which convey the impression, when several fingers are applied together, as if the vessel swelled out in the middle. (De Diff. Puis, ii.) In the spasmodic pulse, the artery is said to convey the sensation of a string or cord tightly stretched, which, when touched, starts from its place. It seems to be the pulsus tortuosus of Alsaharavius, and is commonly met with when convulsions are impending. The vibratory derives its name from an imaginary resem- blance to the motions of a rod or dart when thrown into the air, and it can only take place when the artery is hard, and the strength good. Le Clerc renders it le pouts dardant. It is generally named thrilling in modern works. According