SECT LX1" i THE BRAIN. gg after birth is of slow growth, stunted, ami tawny. The humid and cold temperaments of the brain render those affected with thorn prone to lethargy and drowsiness; their senses are bad; they abound with recrcmentitious humours; are easily affected with cold and fulness of the head ■ and are liable to catarrhs and defluxions; but such persons do not readily become bald. Commentary. This is taken from Oribasius (Synops. v, 46), Comm. who abridges Galen. (Ars Med.) ^—v—' As our author's description of the temperaments is sufficiently intelligible, and the others, whether Greeks or Arabians, deliver exactly the same views of the subject, without any material im- provement, we consider it unnecessary to multiply references to, and extracts from them, on the present occasion; and, therefore, instead of crowding our pages with superfluous repetitions, we shall give in this, and the five following Sections, a brief expo- sition of the physiological doctrines of the ancients, with regard to the principal organs of the human body: The ancients divided the powers or faculties of the human body into the Natural, the Vital, and the Animal. The brain they held to be the seat of the animal powers—that is to say, they considered it to be the organ from which sensation and motion are derived, and these, they maintained, are the powers by which animals are distinguished from vegetables. This doctrine is fully explained by Galen, in his work, fDe Facultatibus Na- turalibus/ and by several of the Arabian authors, among whom we will venture to mention Haly Abbas, as being particularly worthy of being consulted on this subject. The brain, then, was accounted the seat of the five external senses, and of muscular motion, which also was reckoned as one of the senses by Hippocrates. (De Insomniis, c. 1.) Galen and his followers de- cidedly taught that the nerves of the senses are distinct from those which impart the power of motion, that the former derive their origin from the anterior part of the brain or cerebrum, and the latter from the posterior, called by the Greeks encephalis (under this term they comprehended the cerebellum, tuber an- nulare, and medulla oblongata of modern anatomists), or from its process, the spinal cord. They maintained that the nerves of the finer senses are formed of matter too soft to be the vehicles of muscular motion; whereas, on the other hand, the nerves of