SECT' XC-J FISHES. 163 It is supposed, by most of the classical commentators, that Comm. the accipenser was the sturgeon, but this is not quite agreed. ^ -bee Ins point fully discussed by Bandelet, Gesner, and W Uloughby The celebrated Artedi, and the writer of the article on Ichthyology m the 'Encycl. Method.' are quite de- cidedm the affirmative. We need have little difficulty, then, m determining it to be the accipenser sturio. To our minds there can be no doubt but that it is the fish described by Constantme Porphyrogenita, under the name of/W,'™™. (De Admm. Imp. 42.) Both in the days of the Romans, and un- der the Greek empire, the sturgeon was commonly procured from the Pontus or Black Sea. Its popularity appears to have been great m the days of Horace, but it had fallen into disrepute in the time of Pliny. It seems, however, to have retrieved its character afterwards; for one of the authorities quoted by Athemeus says that it was presented at the Roman banquets, crowned with garlands, and accompanied with the playing of pipes. See also Macrobius (Sat. iii, 16.) Martial speaks of it as a much-esteemed delicacy at the imperial table. The elops and the galeus rhodius were fishes nearly allied to the sturgeon. See Pliny and Athenaeus. The isinglass fish {accipenser huso), although described by Herodotus (Hist, iv, 53), Strabo (Geogr.), and iElian (xiv, 23), is not noticed by the dietetical writers, unless we suppose it the fish alluded to by Athenaeus (vii, 21), where see the notes of Coray and Sehweighauser. Martial mentions the gobius, or gudgeon, as being the first of the viands presented at the banquets of the Venetians. (Xenia, Ep. 83.) Juvenal speaks of it as being a fish of little value or' at least, low priced. (Sat. xi, 37.) It is, in fact, as Galen states' a very small fish; but he represents it as being delicious, digesti- ble, and wholesome, especially when caught on a stony or rocky shore. Seth gives the same account of it. Diphilus, as quoted by Athenaeus, says, that when its flesh is white the gudgeon is tender, wholesome, and digestible. The perch, according to the same authority, bears a close re- semblance to the gudgeon. Ausonius calls it the delicice mensa- rurn. Galen calls it a delicious fish, which is not only of easy digestion but most wholesome. He adds that it, and other fishes of the same description, form blood of a middling consist-