264 FEVERS. [BOOK of keeping the patient in a cool room perfumed with aromatic and fragrant herbs. One of them approves of applying over the stomach a robe moistened with a fluid prepared from camphor, rose oil, &c. We omitted to mention that Hippocrates states that children at the breast are subject to attacks of causus, by which of course he meant the infantile remittent fever, first well described some years ago by Dr. Butter. SECT. XXXI. DIAGNOSIS AND CUBE OF FEVERS WITH AN ERYSIPELATOUS AFFECTION. Fevers accompanied with an erysipelatous affection about the viscera, may be known by the vehement effervescence and vio- lent pain in the part, also, by the thirst and inordinate burning; in a word, by the symptoms of very acrid bile putrefied along with a deficient blood. They are to be treated in this manner: the patient must abstain altogether from the bath, and at the acme of the complaint, use very cold water in the most decided manner. Yet it must not be used at the commencement, but cold things are to be applied externally; and if this is not sufficient, they must be taken internally. Lettuces and such like things are particularly befitting. The juice of the lettuce is likewise a seasonable application externally, also, that of the house-leek (semper-vivum), and such like cooling things. We may use the following application, which is an excellent one: Squeezing out the juice of some cooling thing, we put it into a mortar with purslain, then pound and strain it; at the time of using, we mix a little polenta with it, and place it in cold water to cool it. A piece of cloth folded double is to be put into it, and afterwards applied to the hypochondrium, and not suffered to remain, but another cold one must be substituted. We some- times mix the oil of unripe olives. Comm. Commentary. This section is mostly taken from Oribasius, 1 * ' (Synops. vi, 20.) On erysipelas of the lungs consult Hippocrates, (De Morbis, i, 13, and ii, 53.) Hippocrates says in one of his aphorisms (vi, 25), that it is dangerous when an external erysi- pelas is determined internally, but favorable when an internal