SECT. XXIV.] DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 451 commends the same applications as our author. Those of Haly Com are nowise different. ^-v- Stemutatories. Similar lists of substances for exciting and appeasing sneezing are given byAetius, Nonnus, Avicenna, and others. On bleeding at the nose. Most of the remedies mentioned in this Section are taken from Galen (sec. loc. and Meth. Med.) Aetius repeats his directions (vi, 94.) Avicenna has surpassed every other author in the accuracy with which he details the phenomena and treatment of epistaxis; but his account is too long for us to do justice to it. His local applications consist of styptics, incrassants, and caustics. He very properly inculcates the propriety of producing revulsion and evacuating the general system by bleeding at the arm, which, he says, should be carried the length of producing deli- quium animi. He directs us to apply ligatures to the testicles and extremities, to place the patient in water cooled with ice, and to pour the same upon his head. He says a man will lose from twenty to twenty-five pounds of blood before he dies. Haly's treatment agrees in most respects with that of Avicenna. He directs ns to pour water upon the head, to apply to the fore- head a plaster of galls, roses, &c, or a piece of cloth soaked in the infusion of roses cooled with snow and vinegar. He also makes mention of general bleeding, and the application of a cupping-instrument to the nape of the neck. Alsaharavius cautions us not to stop a critical epistaxis. Like Haly, he recom- mends us, as a general practice, to bleed from the arm if the strength be good, to apply a cupping-instrument to produce re- vulsion, to pour cold water upon the head, and to snuff up the nostrils water impregnated with the virtues of such astringents as galls, alum, camphor, roses, &c. One of the styptic powders recommended by Rhases contains quicklime, vitriol, galls, and red arsenic. He also directs snow to be applied to the head. In extreme cases he approves of the cautery. Respecting the manna thuris, mentioned in this Section, sec Bernard's Nonnus (96.) Dale thus explains it: " Manna tlnu-is, offic. sunt micae, fragmenta, pollen, et farina thuris, quae ex collisione, dum in saccis vehitur, colliguntur. Alii autem per mannam thuris grana ejusdem intelligunt." (Pharmacol. 381.)