SECT. XXX.] -181 PERIPNEUMONIA. taken, or from bitter almonds with semilago, or chondrns having some sweet potion mixed with it, such as hydromcl, apomel, or hydrorosatuni. Fresh butter to the extent of three spoonfuls is also proper. The patient must also drink the propoma of the decoction of figs with hyssop, or of iris boiled in honied water, or of powdered iris, to the amount of two spoonfuls sprinkled upon honied water. This also evacuates downwards. To keep up the strength, he should be made to drink frequently of honied water alone, and with pine-nuts, and the seed of cu- cumbers. And cupping-instruments and the cerate of privet, having some iris sprinkled upon it; or the cerate of the oil of rue and dried his; or that made of wax, and rosin, marrow, butter, hyssop, dried iris, and nard ointment, maybe applied to the whole chest and sides. Commentary. The reader is referred to the authorities on Comm. pleurisy, as most of them treat of both diseases together. Hippocrates recommends bleeding, purging, and attenuant drinks as his general plan of treatment. If the appendix to his treatise on the Regimen in Acute Diseases be genuine he approved of carrying venesection the length of inducing deliquium. Aretteus gives a minute and faithful account of the disease, but his description is too long for our limits. He remarks that as the lungs have but small nerves, there is little pain unless the investing membrane be affected. He states that when the suppuration takes place, a metastasis of the matter to the blad- der or belly sometimes occurs and relieves the patient, whereas, if it be determined to the lungs, it is apt to terminate in phthi- sis. He gives excellent directions for the application of his remedies, which are the same as those now in use, namely, co- pious bleeding (but so as to avoid deliquium), purging, attenu- ant and diluent drinks, rubefacients, containing mustard, to the chest, alkaline substances, such as soda, given in the decoction of hyssop; and when the fever has subsided he allows wine de- void of astringency. Aetius makes the same remark as Aretseus respecting the metastasis of the matter. His account of the disease is excellent, but like our author's. Celsus properly states that the danger is greater than the