sect, xxxi.] SPITTING OF BLOOD. 483 SECT, XXXI. OX SPITTING OF BLOOD. When the spitting of blood arises from rupture, a great quantity will be evacuated, and sometimes from an obvious cause, such as a fall, straining of the voice, and the like; and sometimes from an obscure cause, such as plethora, or im- moderate cold; for cold, as Hippocrates says, occasions rupture of the veins. If it proceed from erosion, the discharge of blood will not be rapid, but in small quantity, and will have been pre- ceded by acrid and unwholesome food, or abstinence, or an acrid defluxion. When it arises from exhalation, none of the afore- mentioned circumstances, unless, perhaps, the plethora precedes; but a more moistening and heating diet, the use of immoderate baths, and living in very hot places, may appear to occasion it: and it will neither supervene upon inflammations, nor fevers, nor pains, as in the case of erosion; but, on the contrary, the patients will appear in all probability to be relieved by the evacuation. If the hemorrhoidal or the menstrual discharge in women be suppressed, the renewal of these will remove the danger; and the like good effects will result from discharges of blood by rupture, when the disease is connected with plethora, unless the ulcer, or the greatness of the loss of blood prove in- jurious. When the discharge of blood is from erosion, it is never productive of good. If it is brought up by vomiting, it is clear that it comes from the stomach or bowels, from which parts it is sometimes evacuated by the anus; but, if by coughing, it comes from the respiratory organs; but if it is frothy and whitish, and is brought up at intervals, without pain and oppres- sion, it is clear that it is brought up from the lungs, upon which, in process of time, a continual fever will supervene, more es- pecially if occasioned by erosion; and part of the substance of the lungs, bronchia, or veins, will be brought up. I knew a certain person affected with spitting of blood from the lungs, who, after a time, with much coughiug, and full evacuation of blood, spit up four or five stones, rough as caltrops, and of the weight of three or four siliquje; and he was immediately relieved, but soon after fell into a consumption and died. If the dis- charge consist of phlegm, with a slight cough or hawking, and