FEVERS. [book II. 200 you ought to examiue the face of the patients, and whether there 'be palpitation in any part, or throbbing of the temporal arteries ; or if the cheek, nose, or eye be redder than usual, you ought the rather to anticipate the coming crisis. But if they shed tears involuntarily, or fancy that they see sparks of light, and con- stantly carry their hands to their nose as if to rub it, then indeed you may see not only an approaching but a present flow of blood j for when they rub it once or twice the blood straight- way breaks forth. Pungent pain at the stomach, and trembling of the under-lip often indicate a crisis by vomiting. These con- siderations are sufficient, but to them may be joined the age and constitution of the patient, as strengthening the anticipation; to which may be added, the season of the year and the present constitution. For if the patient be a child, or otherwise by nature warm and full of blood, you may still more form this anticipation; or if formerly, when in health or disease, as we remarked before, an evacuation of blood appeared, this circum- stance alone may be sufficient to make you expect a hemor- rhagy. And if the season of the year be summer, or, if not summer, if the present state of the weather be hot, and if the patient had often experienced a crisis at that season by hemor- rhage, if the body be plethoric, if there is retention of the cus- tomary evacuations, all these things ought to strengthen your expectations. In like manner you ought to judge of the other evacuations; or, if none of these symptoms should appear, but if there be uneasiness occurring on one of the critical clays after the 20th; or if, when the disease is at its acme, pains should seize certain joints, or near the ears, or in other parts; or if not pains, but local sweats should occur unceasingly in any part of the body, then indeed you may expect a crisis to take place by abscess, and in that part where the sweats, pains, or swelling occurred. Comm. Commentary. This is taken with very slight alterations from J Galen (Therap. ad Glauc. i: see also, de Crisibus, iii, 2.) The critical evacuations enumerated by Galen are, those by vomiting, by the belly, by urine, by sweats, by hemorrhage from the nose, by hemorrhoids, by the menses in women, by abscesses of the parotid glands, and by determination to the knees, feet, or some other parts not vital. He says there are three ways in which