[book III. 620 THE UTERUS. SECT. LXIV. ON INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS, AND CHANGE OF ITS POSITION. Inflammation of the uterns takes place from several causes; for it may arise from an injury, from retention of the menses, from cold and inflation, not unfrequently from abortions, and from parturition after a misconception. Inflammation of the uterus is accompanied with acute fever; pain of the head and tendons, of the balls of the eyes, of the wrists and of the fingers j retrac- tion of the neck, and retroversion; sympathy of the stomach; and the mouth of the womb is shut up; the pulse small and dense. If the inflammation be weak, they have not violent pain in the uterus; but if it be strong, the pain is of the pulsatory kind, which, when the whole of the uterus is affected, darts through the whole of it, but when the inflammation is confined to a spot, the pain indicates the seat of it. "When, therefore, the posterior parts only are inflamed, the pain is in the loins, and hardened lumps of faeces are confined by the compression of the rectum; but when the anterior parts are affected the pain is seated at the pubes, and there is strangury or dysuria from pressure on the bladder. When the sides are inflamed, there is tightness of the groins and heaviness of the limbs; but when the fundus is af- fected the pain is principally near the navel, with swelling there- of ; and when the inflammation is in its mouth there is pain in the hypogastrium, and if the finger be introduced per vaginam, the mouth of the womb will feel hard and unyielding. As to the treatment we must, in the first place, use embrocations of wine and oil, or of wine and rose-oil to the pubes and loins, by means of folds of clean wool without a bandage; and abstinence from food is to be persevered in for three days, after which we are to let blood from the arm, if nothing contraindicate. The patient is to be supported with chondrus out of honied water, bread, or soft eggs, every alternate day. But after the fifth day we are to apply a cataplasm made of fine flour, linseed, or fenugreek, with honied water, in which the heads of poppy have been boiled and thrown away, and oil along with them. But if the inflammation be of an erysipelatous nature, and cannot endure heat, boil melilot in must, and having pounded, add the yelks of roasted eggs, with rose-oil, oil of apples, or of saffron, and