[book III. DISEASES OF THE EYE. 416 On encanthis and rhyas. Encanthis is an excrescence of the natural flesh at the great canthus, but rhyas is a wasting of it. You may treat encanthis with the remedies mentioned for ectro- pion, and similar caustic, or septic applications; but the whole substance must not be consumed, lest rhyas be produced, for it must only be reduced to its natural size. Rhyas, when the whole flesh is consumed, either by an awkward surgical operation or medicines, is incurable. But if part of it only be lost, you may restore it by moderately astringent and incarnating applications, such as that from saffron, horned poppy, and aloes; and the saffron collyria, and henbane boiled in wine and applied, and a small quantity of alum with wine. On ulcers. Of the ulcers in the eyes there is but one genus, but many particular species. For that in the cornea, when hol- low, narrow, and clean, is called bothrion. That which is broader than the bothrion, but less deep, is called cceloma. Argemon is the name given to that which arises on the circle of the iris, but affects the surrounding parts, so that the part which is on the external side of the iris is red, but that on the inter- nal white. Epicauma is a foul and impure ulcer with eschars, which, when cleaned away, often give vent to the humours of the eye. There are many other varieties of ulcers, all of which we shall treat of in general terms. If, therefore, the ulcer happen to be attended with inflammation, the cure must be accom- plished by such things as are calculated to soothe and digest the inflammation, regard being had to the peculiar nature of the ulcer. Such are the collyria, called libanium, cycnos, and palaria, aster, and the like; and those from starch, Samian earth, and ceruse. But the most sedative collyrium which we are ac- quainted with is that of Nilamon; and yet we must not perse- vere long with it, because it is very narcotic. The best of all ap- plications is the collyrium from decoctions not possessed of a narcotic quality. But if the ulcer be attended with a rheum, we must mix some of the collyria for it, such as that from the hydra, the chiac, the yellow cycnos, and such as possess repellent properties without being stimulant. When the ulcers are foul, we must use honied water moderately diluted, and the decoc- tion of fenugreek, by themselves, and along with the collyria for that purpose; when they are acrid, we may use that of Severianus with the diachylon from fenugreek; when not acrid,