SECTXCI-] FISHES. [fl; We may mention further, that, in Oppian's delightful Comm. poem on « Fishing/ the Crustacea are described at book i, L 259, the testacea at L 283, and the mollusca at 1. 638. On the terms used by jElian, see 'Be Nat. Animal/ (ix, 6, ed. Schneider.) Athemeus gives a long disquisition on these ani- mals in the third book of the < Deipnosophistse/ Of the testacea described by the ancient writers on dietetics, we are inclined to refer the enema to the genus chema of mo- dcrn naturalists, comprehending several species of the cockle: the purpura to the helix ianthiua or purple fish, in particular: the solen to the genus solen or bag-fish: the spondylus to the genus spondylus or prickly oyster: the buccina to the buccinum harpa: the cochlea to the helix pomatia or edible snail: the astacus to the astacus jluviatilis or crawfish: the pagurus to the cancel* pagurus or common crab: and the cancer to some variety of the same: the locusta to more than one species of the locusta or lobster; the squilla to the crangon vulgaris Cuv. or shrimp: and the leo marinus indefinitely to the genus cancer. We think it but right, however, to confess that our own ac- quaintance with this department of natural history is not so extensive as to warrant us in speaking authoritatively on these matters. We shall now briefly notice the ancient opinions on their dietetical qualities. From Athemeus, we . can only find room for thefollowing extract: "Regarding the testacea {dcrrpaKoSepfxa) the Siphnian Diphilus writes thus: ' Of the testacea, the squilla, astacus, locusta aquatica, cancer, and leo marinus, are of the same genus, but differ from one another: the leo is larger than the astacus; the locusta is more fleshy than the cancer; and the cancer, or crab, is heavy and indigestible.' Mnesitheus, the Athenian, in his work on ' Dietetics/ says, that the locusta, cancer, squilla, and the like, are all of difficult diges- tion, and yet they are much easier digested than other fishes." Galen's account of them is interesting, and our author's is abridged from it. In general, he remarks, those which have hard flesh are most nutritious, but indigestible. They all con- tain saltish juices which are of a laxative nature. He savs of the Crustacea that they have all firm flesh, and are, therefore, difficult to digest, but nutritious. Aetius and Oribasius copy from him without the slightest alteration of any consequence.