626 THE UTERUS. [book III. with alum, acacia, lycium, and hypocistis. A hip-bath is also to be prepared from these decoctions. When these things do not succeed, we must use an injection, at first of paper with oxy - crate, and then of vinegar, or of the powder called anthera, or of chalcitis, or of copperas, in the same liquids ; or of the reme- dies for dysentery. We must alloAv wholesome food in small quantities. When the ulcer has become clean, we must bathe more frequently, administer food freely, and give wine, so that the body may soon recover its flesh. In place of a pessary, we may inject the preparation from mulberries, mixed with ca- lamine, Cretan cistus, or plumbago. Externally we may apply the epulotic plaster to the abdomen and loins; for the powers of cataplasms, as well as those of plasters, may be thus commu- nicated by the insensible pores of the skin. Comm. Commentary. Our author has described the treatment of " ' ulcers in the womb so fully and judiciously, that little of im- portance can be added to it. It is mostly compiled from Aetius, who, in his turn, professes to have copied from Archigenes, Aspasia, and Asclepiades. Aretseus says that of ulcers in the womb some are broad, at- tended with pruritus and a discharge of thick matter without fetor. These are not dangerous. But when the discharge is thin, ichorous, and fetid, when the lips of the sore are callous, and when it spreads like a phagedenic ulcer, it is of a malignant kind. His chapter on the treatment is lost. Unfortunately there is also a hiatus in the text of Celsus, which detracts from the value of his account. Octavius Horatianus recommends a potent remedy for putrid ulcers of the uterus which supervene upon wounds. It is a trochisk formed of arsenic, quicklime, sandarach, burnt paper, and the like. Although the case recently reported of the man who killed his wife, by introducing into her vagina the oxyd of arsenic, ought to teach us caution, we can certainly conceive that such an application, if properly managed, might prove safe and effectual. It ought also to be kept in mind that the orpi- ment of the ancients was less virulent than the arsenic of the moderns. additional information is to be learned from the Arabians. The following application recommended by Avicenna