HICCOUGH. SECT. LVII.] 321 or the hkc, to be added to the water. In certain cases, when Comm. the patient is troubled with insomnolency, lie directs us to add the heads of poppies to his drink. He also recommends ex- ternal applications possessed of tonic, cooling, and repellent properties, (vii, 17.) Serapion recommends us not to interfere with a critical vomiting. When it is continued, he directs us to give clysters and gentle purgatives at first, and afterwards vegetable acids and astringents. When these remedies fail, lie directs us, if the strength be good, to bleed from the arm. He also makes mention of external applications, possessed of astringent and refri- gerant properties, (iii, 15.) Haly Abbas, in like manner, cautions against stopping a critical vomiting, (iii, 24.) Alsaharavius prescribes draughts of tepid water at first, and afterwards the infusion of wormwood or of aloes. He also recommends exter- nal applications of a strengthening nature. (Pract. xvi, 20.) Avicenna's plan of treatment appears to have been copied from our author's, (iv, i, 2.) Rhases recommends acid drinks, such as the decoction of pomegranates and the like. (Cont. xi.) According to Prosper Alpinus, the treatment of the Metho- dists consisted in administering sub-acid fruits, the juice of wormwood or of mint in wine, and in applying externally tonic epithemes, containing sumach, galls, mastich, and the like. (Med. Meth. xii, 11.) SECT. LVII. ON HICCOUGH. Singultus is occasioned cither by fulness, or emptiness ; or by the presence of acrid and pungent humours in the stomach, and when they arc vomited, it ceases. And many, if they only take the medicine composed of the three kinds of pepper, and drink wine immediately after, have hiccough. And it is well know n that many people hiccup when the food spoils on the stomach. Many also hiccup from rigors. We will find an emetic a proper remedy in cases which are occasioned by fulness or pungency, and warmth in those from cold; and, when the complaint is oc- casioned by a plethora of humours, there is need of strong eva- cuation. This may be accomplished by sneezing, but when emptiness is the cause, sneezing will not cure it; for in such 21