[book III. APOPLEXY. ing energies are impaired; but if the obstruction is in either side, it is called hemiplegia and paralysis; and if the injury is seated in any one part, it is called an affection of that part, and hence Hippocrates says, " His leg was seized with apoplexy." Wherefore, in apoplectics, the respiration remains small. When, then, it is greatly perverted from its natural energy, it will induce a strong affection, and when but little, a weak one. Respiration is of the worst kind when it intermits, or is per- formed with great exertion. The affection arises suddenly from a cold phlegm obstructing the most important cavities of the brain. Whenever the whole origin of the spinal marrow is affected, all the parts below the face become paralysed, whilst it remains unaffected, because the parts there derive sensibility and motion from the brain; but, if one half only be affected, then is there a paraplegia of these parts, that is to say, a partial para- lysis. If the sense of smell is affected, this arises from the an- terior cavities of the brain having contracted the intemperament, or from the pores of the ethmoid bones being obstructed. Where- fore, apoplectics lie speechless, motionless, and insensible, with- out fever. The precursors of this affection are sudden and acute pain of the head, distension of the jugular veins, vertigo, flashes, as it were, of light in the eyes, an inordinate coldness of the extremities, palpitation and difficult motion of the whole body, and grinding of the teeth in sleep. Their urine is in small quantity, of a verdigris-green or a black colour, and containing a branny sediment. The affection occurs in old age to those of a phlegmatic temperament, and who use a diet of this nature. If it occur in youth and in the season of summer, it indicates a strong exciting cause. The cure of apoplexy, and hemiplegia or paralysis. Apoplexy is an affection which is never or but rarely cured, for it threatens instant death ; and if it be relieved, it commonly leaves a para- lysis of some part of the body. Wherefore, those persons who admit of being cured should be immediately bled, and if there be any remission of the disorder, the operation should be re- peated on the same or the following day. The belly should be opened by a stimulating clyster, made by mixing salt water and honey. Then let the whole body be rubbed with plenty of sul- phurated oil, but the head with the oil of chamomile, or of dill in which cow-parsnip or calamint has been boiled. Inject honied