396 [book III. APOPLEXY. oil, with butter and castor, galbanum, opopanax, or the juice of laserwort. And these things, if injected into the bladder by the penis, will be of great service, or prove sufficient of them- selves. Clysters of centaury and colocynth, along with Sicy- onian oil, are also beneficial; and diuretics may be drunk with advantage, and castor taken in like manner. But, above all things, we must have recourse to the catheter when the patients cannot make water, and get them to sit in hot baths of a relax- ing nature, and use emollient cataplasms. When the urine flows involuntarily, we must treat them upon the astringent plan with tonic remedies, and make them use dry food and cold drink. During convalescence they ought to use rubefacients, and natural baths in a cold state. Cases occurring from a wound of the spine, from a fall and dislocation of a vertebra, if there be a concurrence of fatal symptoms, it is impossible to remedy. If the penis is paralysed, we must apply the remedies recom- mended for the bladder to the same parts, and also to the groin; and medicines which excite to erections ought also to be used. Milk, cheese, and the other cakes are improper, likewise let- tuces and the other pot-herbs. When the rectum is paralysed, in which case the faeces are either discharged involuntarily, or retained, the same remedies must be used, and clysters are to be administered, sometimes of an astringent nature, such as the decoction of cypress, of rush, or of bramble; and sometimes emollient; such as the fat of swine and geese, and the oil of mallows; and sometimes stimulating, such as salt water, the decoction of colocynth, or the like. Nothing contributes so much to motion as variety of exercise with the lever. If they complain of a sense of cold, the restorative plaster of euphor- bium, dissolved in oil, may be used for a clyster. But, along with the ordinary treatment, the paralysed limbs should be bent, rubbed, and stretched in the manner described; for our greatest dependence is upon friction. On paralysis supervening upon colic disease. In our times a colic complaint has prevailed, in which convalescents are seized with complete loss of motion in their limbs, but the sense of touch remains uninjured, there being a critical translation of the disease from the internal parts. Hence, in many cases the motion has returned spontaneously in process of time. Those of more difficult cure were remedied by using the more simple