182 or am WATCHFULNESS. [book u>r mental emotions, we must endeavour if possible to remove the offending cause, and then to divert the attention by agree- able sounds. For this purpose, some seek after the gentle noise of waters, by which they are soothed and lulled to rest. After proper digestion, they should use baths, especially in the evening, and a moistening diet, such as lettuces and the like. They may also mix the green leaves of the black poppy with condiments and eat fish of easy digestion. They should also use plenty of wine which is light and not old. When about to go to bed, their heads should be anointed with rose oil, or with oil m which the heads of poppies or mandrake have been boiled. And the oil of dill not too old is soporific. I have known rest succeeding sud- denly to fatigue produce this effect. Moderate coition will some- times do the same. Others easily procure rest by having their head and feet cooled. But if their watchfulness be occasioned by their stomachs being oppressed by the quantity or bad quality of the food (and I have known this happen, in like manner as m others it arises from an unseasonable abstinence or diminution of their accustomed food), this ought to be inquired into and the cause removed. Comm Commentary. We have mentioned, in the 74th Section, «—v—1 that Galen cured himself of watchfulness by eating freely of lettuces. See further Oribasius (Med. Collect, vi); Averrhoes (Collectan. ii, 5) ; Alsaharavius (Theor. xi, 3) ; Rhases (Contin. xxxi, Aphorism, iii.) Indigestion, as regards both food and drink, is stated by Hippocrates as one of the common effects of protracted insomnolency. (De Diset. in Morb. Acut. 13.) Ac- cording to Damascius, the commentator on Hippocrates, the causes of insomnolency are, heat of the brain, an intempera- ment alone, or the prevalence of a bilious humour. (Ed. Dietz. T. ii, 298.) Rhases recommends lettuces, the tepid bath, the affusion of tepid water on the head, and diluted wine. He also recom- mends mandragora and opium, which, he says, Galen states will produce soporific effects, not only when taken internally, but when rubbed on the forehead, and applied to the nostrils. He particularly approves of the following liniment: Pound the bark of mandragora, the seed of black henbane, and opium, with the juice of lettuce, and rub into the temples. He further