SPITTING OF BLOOD. [book nr. 486 the refrigerant juices, such as those of pomegranate, or myrtles, or with honey and unripe grapes mixed together, or eggs softly boiled, or cakes prepared from milk with some astringent. Of pot-herbs they may take endive, succory, plantain, boiled with the oil of unripe olives and vinegar. Of autumnal fruits they may use apples, pears, medlars, pomegranates, and the fruit of the cornel-tree. When they have no fever, their drink may consist of a small quantity of diluted wine; but, when they have fever, of some of the afore-mentioned draughts, or Cibyratic hydromel. Those who vomit blood may be treated on the same plan, only they must abstain from taking food often. They are easily cured, because the remedies taken by the mouth are applied directly to the parts from which the blood flows. When blood is coagulated in the stomach, let the patient drink of rennet, more especially that of a hare, or the lixivial ashes of figs with water, or thyme, or savory with vinegar; or evacua- tions may be produced by means of milk divided into parts (lac scissum), or of aloes. Those who hawk blood from the palate must use astringent gargles, and apply to the forehead and the rest of the head the remedies for bleeding from the nose. Such is the treatment of spitting of blood, which must be carefully attended to, on account of the danger from an immoderate dis- charge of it; for if a great quantity be evacuated, it will bring instant death, as in the case of a slaughtered animal; but a con- tinuance of the complaint threatens a conversion into phthisis. Wherefore, when everything is properly attended to, and the discharge of blood ceases, their strength must be recruited by getting fish and the feet and brains of young swine. We must also direct them to get their bodies rubbed, to abstain from the frequent use of baths, from drinking wine, and from mental emotions and venerv. Comm. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, et alibi); Galen ' (Meth. Med. v, and sec. loc. iv and vii); Aretseus (de Morb. Acut. ii, 2); Aetius- (viii, 65); Celsus (iv, 5) j Alexander (vii, 1); Oribasius (Synops. ix, 2) ; Leo (iv, 30); Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 17) ; Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2, 9) ; Nonnus (128) ; Scribo- nius Largus (83) ; Marcellus (de Med. 17); Serapion (ii, 25); Averrhoes (Collig. vi, 34); Mesue (de YEgr. Pect. 6) j Avi- ccima (iii, 10, 3, 4) ; Avcnzoar (i, 16, 5) ; Haly Abbas (Theor.