CRISIS. SECT. X. | 1!)!) Commentary. This Section is copied from Oribasius. (Svnops. Comm. vi, 3.) The subject is fully treated of by Galen (de Crisibus.) U~^-J Rhases describes very accurately the symptoms of an approaching crisis, such as, confusion of the understanding, vertigo, headach, inquietude, involuntary flow of tears, pain of the stomach, &c. He warns the inexperienced not to be alarmed at the violence of the precursory symptoms. (x, 26.) Avicenna, Averrhoes, HalyAbbas, and Alsaharavius, though they treat of the subject very fully, supply no original views. See an ample account of the ancient opinions in Prosper Alpinus. (De Prres. Vita et Morte segrot. vi.) SECT. X. HOW TO RECOGNIZE A PRESENT CRISIS. Restlessness precedes every crisis, and if the crisis be to take place by day, it will occur by night; or if the crisis be to take place during the night, it will occur by day; and then certain symptoms supervene, such as headach not previously occurring, sympathetic pain of the neck, retraction of the hypochondrium, sudden difficulty of breathing, and other dangerous symptoms which did not manifest themselves before then take place. And if, when these occur, the pulse, instead of sinking, is increased in magnitude and becomes stronger, and the critical day ap- proaches, and if it be one of the favorable, you may not only anticipate a crisis, but also a good one. And be not then alarmed if you see the patient become delirious and disturbed, for these are indications of the humours being earned upwards; in like manner as certain other symptoms indicate their being deter- mined downwards, such as pain of the belly, gripes about the navel, pain in the loins, borborygmi, and other similar symp- toms, when they occur. In addition to these, if the patient was accustomed to have a hemorrhoidal discharge, and if the period of it be at hand, and in like manner with respect to the men- strual discharge (if the patient be a woman), it is not unlikely that the crisis may take place by such an evacuation. And a critical sweat is recognized by a precursory moistness of the skin (especially if occurring upon one of the days called indicatory), and by openness of the pores. From these you may recognize crises by evacuations upwards ; for, in addition to the aforesaid,