[book nr. THE STOMACH. ;-.U SECT. XXXVIII. ON INFLATION OF THE STOMACH. The formation of flatus in the stomach arises from the juices or food being dissolved into vapours by a gentle heat. For cold, as it is not of an attenuating and dissolving nature, does not engender flatulence; whilst a violent heat not only attenuates, but likewise dissipates, and thus prevents the formation of flatu- lence. But a lesser degree of heat dissolves and changes the food, but not sufficiently, and hence flatus is gendered. Where- fore we must attenuate them by calefacient medicines—boiling in oil the seed of cumin, of parsley, of cow-parsnip, and of carrot. When the affection partakes of cold, youmayboil rue,bay-berries, gith, and fennel in the oil, and mix bitumen and oil of bays. But if the pain be attended with inflammation, instead of cale- facients, you may use relaxants, making a decoction of dill, and mixing with it the fat of a cock and of a goose. Those who have flatulence may be relieved by the decoction of a fasciculus of poley, or a decoction of calamint, having a small quantity of honey and a drachm of pepper mixed with it. These remedies must be applied when the pain is violent; but if it is moderate, fomentations from millet will be sufficient. But a large cupping- instrument that will comprehend the navel often removes the symptom at once. Castor also is of use to them, when taken in a draught with oxycrate, and when applied externally with Sicyonian oil; and it also cures flatulence when attended with tormina. But the ankles of a swine burnt, and taken in a draught, cure tormina and flatulence; and the round birthwort does the same. Pains from obstructions of the bowels, or flatulence arising from thickness of the humours, or from cold, are relieved by drinking undiluted wine after food; and, if sleep follow, it completely removes these complaints. Comm. Commentary. See all the authors referred to in the pre- v 1 ceding Section. Our author's treatment, which consists of dry cupping, dry fomentations, and the internal use of calefacients and wine, is what Celsus also recommends. He likewise speaks favorably of exercising the upper parts of the body, of friction, and of using purgatives occasionally, and sometimes, though rarely, the