EDITOR'S PREFACE. xv that Andromachus, the physician who added the flesh of vipers to the celebrated electuary of Mithridates, lived in the time of Alexander the Great!—that Dioscorides, of Am Zarba, nourished in the reign of Ptolemy Physcon, namely, about one hundred and twenty years before Christ, whereas it can scarcely admit of a doubt that the celebrated author of the Greek Materia Medica did not live earlier than the end of the first century of the Christian era !—and that Ruffus was contemporary with Plato, when we have the authority of Suidas that he lived in the reign of Trajan! Dr. Milward, in his epistle to Sir H ans Sloanc, endeavours to settle the age of our author from the following train of inferences: In the first place, then, since Paulus quotes Alexander Trallian and Alexander Aetius, it is quite certain that our author was posterior to both these writers. Now the age of Aetius may be made out from the following circumstances: Aetius mentions St. Cyril, Archbishop of Alexandria, whose death is ascertained from ecclesiastical history to have happened as late as the middle of the fifth century. Nay, he also takes notice of a medicine much recommended by Petrus Archiater, chief physician to Theodoric, who wras posterior to St. Cyril. We cannot possibly suppose it likely, then, that Aetius flourished earlier than the end of the fifth century. But wdiat brings him still further down, is the circumstance that his predecessor, Alexander, is mentioned by Agathias, the historian, about the middle of the sixth century. (Hist, v, 6.) It would seem almost certain, therefore, taking all these things into consideration, that our Author cannot have lived at an earlier period than in the end of the sixth or the beginning of the seventh century. But, whatever may have been the period at which he lived, there can be no doubt that he attained great eminence in his profession, and continued to be looked up to as one of the highest authorities in Medicine and Surgery during a long succession of ages. His countryman Nonnus, although he does not mention him by name, gives a brief compendium of a considerable por-