378 [book III. EPILEPSY. After proper purgation let tliem be put into the bath, and on the third day cup the hypochondria and back with scarifica- tions; and then, stopping for a sufficient number of days and recruiting the body, give the hiera from colocynth; and after- wards apply the cupping instrument to the head and nape of the neck, and the day following a cataplasm consisting of bread boiled in honied water, and pounded with bitter almonds, wild thyme, mint, calamint, or rue. This must be done for three days. Afterwards the head is to be shaven and rubbed with the juice of hog's fennel dissolved in vinegar, wherein cow- parsnip has been boiled; then, after stopping and recruiting the body, nine oboli of the antidote from colocynth are to be given in honied water; and, again, after an interval of some days, the antidote is to be repeated, and sternutatories used. After five or six days give castor in honied water; then stop- ping again administer a clyster of centaury and colocynth; and afterwards give the hiera again, and use masticatories and errhines in order, and apply a sinapism to the head. Acrid food must be seasonably given. Benefit may be obtained from oxymel of squills drunk every day, and honey in which the squill has been softened, to the amount of a spoonful. The diet should be of an incisive and attenuant nature; and there- fore capers may be frequently taken with pickle. But they ought to abstain from flesh, pulse, and much wine, likewise from frequent venery, baths, mustard, and from drinking im- mediately after the bath, more especially of undiluted wine. Let them have recourse to gymnastic exercises and friction, and the last part that is rubbed should be the head. On the cure of epilepsy from the stomach. If the disorder is occasioned by the stomach's being primarily affected, the patient must attend to his digestion, taking about the third hour some carefully-baked bread that has been soaked in some diluted wine, slightly astringent, and of a white colour. Give to such persons the medicine from aloes twice or thrice every year. " I once knew a boy," says Galen, " who was never seized with epi- lepsy after he carried a large piece of fresh peony appended from his neck." Agaric is beneficial to epileptics, also hartwort, the fruit and root of cow-parsnip, and the round birthwort drunk with water. Scarification of the legs frequently repeated is also of great use.