294 FEVERS. CBOOK ('OMM holds it to be a disorder of the general system. Having dis- ' cussed, in two chapters, the diagnosis, first, between it and affection of the stomach, and then between it and cntical sweats, he comes to the treatment. The patient is to be laid in a cool and well-ventilated apartment, to be covered over with light clothes, and to have his face, neck, and chest sponged with cold water and vinegar; and if the sweating continue, astrin- gents and obstruents, such as alum and Samian earth, are to be added ; or the body may be anointed with astringent oils; but in particular, various applications of a fragrant and astringent nature are to be made to the chest. He recommends great caution in the administration of food and drink; directs that the mouth should be rinsed with something cooling; and, m process of time, that various articles of a restorative nature should be given for food, and at last, wine, about the choice of which he is very scrupulous, approving, m general terms ot such as is white, well clarified, and subaustere, and m particular of the Surrentine, the Falernian, the Chian, and the Lesbian. He cautions, however, not to give too much at a time. When there is great prostration of the vital powers, he approves of liga- tures to the extremities, and the application of cupping instru- ments, with great heat to the prsecordia. When all other means fail, the patient is to be supported by administering nourishing things in clysters. Such is his own mode of treatment. He afterwards animadverts freely upon the practice of the other sects. Although Aretseus treats of syncope as a separate disease, he holds that it derives its origin from causus, or ardent fever. He pronounces it to be a loosening of the vital cords, and that its seat is the heart; hence his chapter on the treatment is entitled, on the cure of cardiacs. The symptoms, he holds, mark an affection of the heart, namely, small and weak pulse, great palpitation, throbbing of the heart, fainting, unrestrainable sweats, &c. His treatment is little different from that of Alexander in syn- coptic fever. Thus he begins with venesection, unless otherwise contra-indicated, justifying this practice by the pithy remark that the powers of the system may be reduced by suffocation as well as by want. He recommends, however, that blood should be taken in moderation, and that some wine should be given imme- diately afterwards, unless inflammation be present. Wine, he