420 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book hi. wholly impairs the vision, and sometimes nearly so, and when every object appears smaller, the affection is called mydriasis. The cause of it is some redundant humour. We must cure it by bleeding from the arm, or purging; but, if not, by dividing the veins in the angles of the eye, and then applying a cupping instrument to the back part of the head, and bathing the face and eyes with sea-water, or, if it be not at hand, with brine or oxycrate. We must also use the remedies which are appli- cable to phlyctamse or blisters. On phthisis and atrophy. Phthisis is an affection of the pupil, which is contracted, and appears duller and more rugose than usual, but objects seem larger than natural. The cause of it is condensation, mostly occasioned by dryness. Phthisis differs from atrophy in this, that phthisis renders the pupil contracted, whereas in atrophy the whole eye is smaller and more depressed. We may cure them by exercise, and rubbing carefully the head, the face, and the eyes; by bathing the face with water, and anointing the head with some healing ointment; and smearing the eyes with an attenuant and acrid composition, such as the following: Of ammoniac, dr. j ; of crocomagma, dr. iv; of saffron, dr. ij ; of verdigris, dr. j. Triturate in water, form and use. For nyctalopia. In the disease called nyctalopia, the patient sees during the day, but at sunset his vision becomes dimmer, and when night comes on he does not sec at all. We must effect the cure by bleeding from the arm and the angle of the eye, then purging or evacuating by a clyster, and afterwards ordering masticatories or sternutatories. Before food, wre give hyssop to drink, or rue ; but, if the disease do not yield, we must again administer the purgative medicine formed from scammony, and castor, anoint with clarified honey, and make the patient shut his eyelids, so as to retain the liquid application. Or of burnt alum, p. ij; of fossile salt, p. j j triturate with honey and anoint.—Another: Having roasted the liver of a goat, collect the ichor during the roasting and anoint, but give the liver itself to eat; or boil, and direct the vapours to be received with open eyes. For glaucoma and suffusion. (From Ruffus.) The ancients considered glaucoma and suffusion as the same disease; but by their successors glaucoma has been accounted an affection of