COLIC. SECT. XLIII.] Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 45) j Pliny (H. N. ix, 37)} Nonnus Comm. (170); Scribonius Largus; Cselius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass. ^ ' iv, 7); Marcellus (de Med. 29); Serapion (iii, 32); Aviceima (iii, 16, 4); Avenzoar (ii, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. vii, 28); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvii, 2, 12); Rhases (Divis.69; Contin. xxi.) Hippocrates treats very sensibly of the colic pains which occur in summer, recommending for them emetics of tepid mulse and vinegar, warm clysters, the warm bath, fomentations, soporifics, and purgatives, according to circumstances. When the pains are seated in the lower part of the belly, he merely gives clys- ters and laxatives. Galen gives a long list of preparations for colic. They con- sist principally of narcotics, such as opium, henbane, and man- dragora, along with carminatives and aromatics, as anise, pepper, valerian, cinnamon, saffron, gentian, and the like. Aretams concludes his chapter on ileus with a short account of colic. He remarks that the colon being a larger and more fleshy intestine than the ileum, the pain is less acute, and the complaint in so far less dangerous. The pain, he says, some- times extends to the side, resembling pleurisy; sometimes to the false ribs, resembling hepatitis or splenitis; and sometimes to the os sacrum, tops of the thighs, and testicles. The complaint is attended Avith unavailing vomiting; and what is vomited is thin, bilious, and oily. He also describes a more protracted species of colic among the chronic diseases. Among the symp- toms he enumerates torpor, loathing of food, watchfulness, and swelling of the face. He says the pain sometimes shoots down to the testicles, whereby ignorant surgeons have been led into the mistake of supposing that the disease was seated there, and have made an incision into the cremasters. Does he allude to the operation for strangulated hernia? or does he mean to say that the disease is confounded with inflammation of the testicle? His treatment of ileus will be given in the next Section. Alexander insists strongly on the absolute necessity of dis- tinguishing colic from the diseases of the adjoining parts, which, he remarks, is sometimes difficult. He first treats of colic pain arising from a cold humour, and discusses fully the remedies for it. They are nearly such as our author recommends, namely, attenuant food, including white Avines in cases of flatulence; avoiding the common bath, which does no good, but using the