[book III. DISEASES OF THE EAR. 444 Comm. by means of olibanum, or sarcocolla dissolved in wine. He also —' praises myrrh, aloes, alum, and red arsenic, as ingredients m the applications to ulcers of the ears. When the ulcers are chronic, they are first to be cleansed by such applications as the decoction of wormwood in wine, or oxymel of squills, with a small quantity of the flowers of copper; then they are to be dressed with the usual incarnants; and, lastly, they are to be dried or cicatrized by compositions containing aloes, myrrh, and frankincense. When the ulcers are foul, he and Serapion re- commend escharotics, such as the scoria aeris. Haly's applica- tions are quite similar. For sanious discharge he recommends us to wipe the ear with a piece of cloth wrapped round a probe, and dipped in an astringent solution. He directs us to remove fungous flesh by an operation, or with the ointment of flos seris. In this case Celsus recommends applications, consisting of ver- digris and honey, or frankincense, or squama aris triturated with red arsenic. These powerful ingredients enter into some of the compositions recommended by Rhases. For vermes in the ear. All the ancient authorities in this case recommend acrid and bitter injections. Wormwood, hellebore, nitre, calamint, birthwort, and sulphur are the common ingre- dients in the compositions recommended by Galen, Alexander, Aetius, Oribasius, Celsus, Mesue, Serapion, Haly Abbas, Alsa- haravius, and Rhases. On calculi and the like which have fallen into the ear. Alex- ander, Aetius, and Haly Abbas recommend similar means, and also direct us to compress the patient's nose and mouth, and to make him sneeze. Galen, copying from Archigenes, gives similar directions. This subject is more fully treated of in the Sixth Book. On noises. These are fully treated of by Galen. (Sec. loc.) He remarks that they commonly arise from indigestion, excess of wine, violent vomiting, or the improper application of medi- cines to the car. He says the disease sometimes arises from excessive sensibility, in which case he mixes with the injections the juice of mandragora, poppies, or the like. Our author's applications are taken from Alexander. Celsus treats of this affection very circumstantially, and modifies his application ac- cording to the circumstances of the case. He recommends particular attention to the diet, and injections, such as castor