SECT. XLV.] THE KIDNEYS. 559 and that, when connected with obstruction, the bladder gets Comm. distended. ' * ' For inflammation, pain, and ulceration of the bladder, Scri- bonius Largus recommends water into which a heated iron had been plunged. He adds that he had known the chalybeate waters of Tuscany do much good in diseases of the bladder. This may be said to be an anticipation of the modern practice, intro- duced, we believe, by the late Mr. Cline, of giving the tincture of muriated iron in such cases. On incontinence of urine. Galen properly remarks that in- continence of urine is often occasioned by injury of the spinal marrow either through violence, or the application of cold. (De Loc. Affect, iv, 7.) According to Avicenna it is occasioned by excessive cold, by relaxation of the muscles (sphincter vesica ?) or weakness of the bladder, as happens at the end of certain diseases, or by the immoderate use of diuretics. Rhases says briefly, that the com- plaint is occasioned by excessive heat or coldness. When it pro- ceeds from the former cause, he recommends a composition of coriander, vinegar, Armenian bole, acorns, &c. When from cold, he prescribes the following: Of dried acorns, of frankin- cense, q. s. to be rubbed into the pubes with oil of ben, or oil of rue. Halv Abbas attributes the complaint to enervation of the sphincter vesicae and loss of the retentive faculty of the bladder. He also mentions its connexion with disease of the spine. Alsaharavius recommends various stimulant liniments externally, and galls, vinegar, and the like internally. Ruffus briefly describes a disease of the urinary organs, by the name of scabies vesica, attended with furfuraceous sedi- ments and pains in the hypogastric regions, and ending, for the most part, in ulcerations of the bladder. The disease is said to be of a very intractable nature. It is alluded to by Hippocra- tes. (Aph. iv, 77; where see the Comment, of Thcophilus, ed. Dietz.) It is further stated in one of the aphorisms that blood, pus, and scales in the urine, accompanied with deep pain, indicate ulceration of the bladder. (Ed. Dietz., t. ii, 437.) Theophilus says, blood, pus, and scales in the urine, with a heavy smell, indicate ulceration of the kidneys or bladder. (De Urinis, 15.)