108 ARTICLES OF FOOD. [book r. a regular supply of food is necessary to the existence of animals. On this subject, Tima^us Locrus, Plato, and Aristotle have phi- losophised with great acuteness and ingenuity. No one, how- ever, has given a plainer account of the matter than the poet Lucretius in the following verses : " Mud item non est mirandum, corporis ipsa Quod natura cibum quaerit quoiusque animautis; Quippe etenim fluere, atque recedere corpora rebus Multa modis multis docui, sed plurima debent Ex animalibus iis, quae sunt exercita motu ; Multaque per sudorem ex alto pressa feruntur, Multa per os exbalantur, quam languida anhelant: His igitur rebus rarescit corpus; et oranis Subruitur natura dolor quam consequitur rem. Propterea capitur cibus, ut suffulceat artus, Et recreat vires interdatus, atque patentem Per membra ac venas ut amorem obturet edendi." (De Rerum Nat. iv, 856.) The explanation given by one of Phases' authorities is to the same effect. He says : " Since our bodies are in a con- tinual state of waste from the surrounding atmosphere, and the innate heat which is within, it behoved them to have nourish- ment to supply the part which is melted down; and, as all the food which is taken is not assimilated, it was necessary that there should be passages for the discharge of the superfluities." Hippocrates, Aristotle, Galen, and Musonius (ap. Stobsei Sentent. 18) remark that the stomach is to animals what the earth is to vegetables. Our author's general remarks on the properties of food are condensed from Galen's work (De Prob. p. Al. sue.) Horace agrees with Galen and our author in condemning the mixture of various articles of food. (Satir. ii, 2.) The arguments for and against this practice are very ingeniously stated by Macrobius (Saturn, vii, 5, 6.) It appears that Asclepiades maintained the opinion that a multifarious diet is most easily digested. (Celsus, iii, 6.) The ancients had the following meals during a day corre- sponding to those now in use : breakfast, jentaculum, a/cpaTio-jia ; dinner, or rather lunch, prandium, apiarov; soiree, merenda, lairtpiapa; supper, ccena, ^nrvov. To these may be added the