[book III. THE BREASTS. 504 Comm. solution of continuity. The last two causes soon occasion death. t-y_He mentions that palpitation may be occasioned by dropsy of the pericardium. He recommends bleeding in cases of palpitation, upon the authority of Galen, and also things of a cold nature, such us seeds of cucumbers, citrons, gourds, roses, and camphor. Alsaharavius gives a similar account of these affections. Rhases also approves of venesection and cold applications. He mentions that palpitation is sometimes felt in the region of the stomach, for which he recommends bitters, such as wormwood. The disease which Galen and his followers describe under the name of palpitation was no doubt that state of the heart now called hypertrophy with dilatation. In confirmation of the truth of Galen's prognosis, we may quote the words of the celebrated translator of Laennec, as to the issue of the disease of the heart we have mentioned: " Such persons however are marked for de- struction. After a certain time the disease obtains the mastery, and brings the strong man down, the sooner, alas! for the bold resistance made to his dominion." (English Translation of Laennec, p. 62.) SECT. XXXV. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE BREASTS. After childbirth, the milk frequently being converted into cheese in the breasts, produces inflammations. Wherefore at first we may use these applications : Having squeezed a soft sponge out of tepid oxycrate, apply it to the breasts, and bind it on in the proper form; or use dates triturated in oxycrate with bread, or a whole egg with rose-oil and some cerate; or alum, fleawort, with coriander and purslain, may be applied in the form of a cataplasm; or apply the firestone triturated with cerate, and bind it on. When there is distension or thrombus in the part, apply a cataplasm of bread with water and honey, or with wine and honey; or bread with the green herb perdicias {pellitory of the wall?), along with cerate twice a-day; or bean- flour with hydromel, or sodden must. But if they cannot bear the weight we must use an embrocation of hot sweet oil by means of soft wool. But we must foment them with the steam of hot water, or a decoction of fenugreek, or of marshmallows, or of linseed. And we are to apply to them a cataplasm made