EMPYEMA. 491 SECT. XXXI!.] Cold applications to the chest are not now generally resorted Comm. to in this disease, although it will be seen that the ancient an- ' ' ' thorities generally approve of this practice. It will be remarked, however, that Galen condemns the indiscriminate use of this remedy ; and Miases also states that he had seen mischief pro- duced by the unseasonable application of cold to the chest. In short, like every other mode of practice, it ought, no doubt, to be applied with proper caution and discrimination. SECT. XXXII. ON EMPYEMA AND PHTHISIS. Empyema is formed either in the cavities of the chest, or in the pleura, sometimes arising from vomiting of blood, when the nicer has not healed (in which case phthisis soon comes on, pro- vided the discharge came from the lungs), and sometimes from a precursory inflammation, which has formed into an abscess and burst (as is sometimes the case in pleurisy), or from a de- fluxion from the head. The symptoms of a confirmed empyema are weight in the chest, an intense dry cough, with pain, and sometimes with a fluid, in which case they seem to experience an alleviation. At the commencement the attacks of fever are weak, irregular, and difficult to perceive; but when the abscess is about to burst, they have more violent fever, attended with rigor, and in speaking their breathing is obstructed. When the abscess bursts, matter is brought up, sometimes pure and some- times feculent: sometimes it is discharged upwards, when it is attended with more danger; and sometimes downwards, in which case the matter is partly translated to the stomach and bowels; and partly to the bladder, the metastasis taking place by certain vessels. All along they have hectic fever until the ulcer becomes clean j and if this do not speedily take place, the empyema is converted into phthisis from the lungs undergoing ulceration. AY hen this takes place, the cheeks are livid; there are copious sweats about the forehead and neck j the flesh is melted, the nails bent, and they appear glossy, white, or pale. When the disease gains ground, the bowels become loose, the hypochondria are retracted; for the most part thirst and a loathing of food oppress them; and the expectoration is very fetid. The cure. Our first object, therefore, ought to be to assist