THE KIDNEYS. SECT. XLV.J from the frequent use of all kinds of pulse and food of grain, cheese, milk, and condiments prepared from dark-coloured wine, much flesh, and simply all things which contain thick juices; also from those things which are very hot and acrid, I mean hydrogarum, prepared wines, and the like. And the folloAving things not only prevent stones from forming, but also break down or produce the discharge of those which are already formed. Let them drink oxymel with some of the simpler diuretics, the decoction of maiden-hair, parsley, and couch- grass ; and, after the bath, let them drink tepid water before taking food or drinking wine; and in the midst of dinner, let th em drink cold water if nothing prevent it. If they feel a collection of vitiated humours, let them evacuate by bleeding or purging. But the most effectual of all remedies is to drink water of a middling temperature after the bath, and before taking food or wine. The stones which form in the bladders of young persons you may destroy by the more powerful reme- dies, making choice from among the above mentioned. But when the stone gets too large, or becomes impacted at the neck of the bladder, we must have recourse to concussion, catheterism, or even lithotomy, as will be described in the Surgical part of the Avork. On inflammation. If there be inflammation of the kidneys or bladder, it is to be recognized by the heat in the place, at- tended with heaviness and pain, fever, delirium, vomiting of pure bile, and inability to make water, more especially if the bladder is inflamed. Wherefore we must have recourse immediately to venesection, and use soothing fomentations and cataplasms from rue, dill, fenugreek, and the root of marshmallows; also emol- lient clysters and injections consisting of oil, poppies, and the grease of geese ; and when the bladder is affected, Ave may push up the anus half an obolus of opium with myrrh, saffron, and oil. They may take a sweet draught of honied water, but must abstain from the strong diuretics and much drink, unless an acrid and bilious humour prevail, Avhen they must take copious draughts, and plenty of the non-stimulant diuretics. Let them take in water a spoonful of a mixture consisting of two parts of linseed, and one of starch; and likewise let them take the seeds of cucumber and pompion. If there is a sensation of great heat about the kidneys, apply to these parts rags out of wine and