418 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book hi. thickens, add the honey, and having mixed together, lay up in a glass vessel, and use twice a day, or, if the case be urgent, three times. It at the same time cleanses the eye and proves incarnating and cicatrizing. On cicatrices and leucomata. Superficial scars on the eye are called by some cicatrices, and by others nebulse; but the more deeply seated are called leucomata. The proper remedies for them are those of a detergent and cleansing nature. Where- fore, nebula? may be cleansed by the juice of anemone, and that of the small centaury, with honey j but the more chronic are re- duced by cedar gum, or by copper alone levigated with water for a collyrium, and by the cleansing collyria, such as that from hartshorn, and those called rhinarian, hecatombe, and the like. Leucomata may be cleared away by nitre carefully levigated with some old oil, and properly smeared upon them, and by the shell of the cuttle-fish {sepia) burnt and pounded finely with honey. Among the collyria, the following one proves an excellent and mild detergent: Of mamira, of ammoniac perfume, of Troglodytic myrrh, of crocodile's dung, equal parts; make a collyrium, and use. Levigate the dung of the land crocodile with water, and anoint, having formed it into a collyrium. You may also suc- ceed well by dissolving Cappadocian salts in water, and then dis- solving the collyria for leucoma in it, and injecting it. Dyes for cicatrices. Of galls and acacia, of each dr. iv; of copperas, dr. ij; use. The following is a collyrium : Of the flowers of the pomegranate, of copperas, of acacia, of gum, of each dr. iv; of antimony and galls, of each dr. ij ; triturate with water. When the flowers of the pomegranate are not at hand, you may use the internal membrane between the seeds. On pterygium. Pterygium is a nervous (membranous ?) ex- crescence of the tunica adnata, arising at the angle of the eye, and advancing to the corona. When it increases greatly, it covers the pupil itself. Wherefore, large and chronic pterygia can only be extirpated by a surgical operation. But the smaller and more recent ones may be worn down by the abstergent applications, such as those used for trachoma and leucoma. Among the simple remedies are burnt copper, and copperas with the gall of swine, which answer well. The following is a more potent remedy : Of copperas, p. i, of gum, p. ss.; triturate with