[book iii- GOUT. G60 Let them use baths of sweet water, even at the time of the de- fluxions, as far as regards the cause of them, unless something else prohibit. Let them avoid violent passion, abstinence, acrid food, drinking of wine, immoderate labour, and venery. The cure of rheums from a sanguineous humour. In those cases in which the prevailing humour is sanguineous, we must have recourse to venesection without delay, and also in cases where the prevailing humour is phlegm or black bile; since in them the humour is for the most part contained in the veins, proving injurious by its quantity rather than its quality. We must have recourse then to venesection only at the first attack of the disease; since those who have had already frequent attacks of rheumatism are injured rather than benefited by the loss of blood, more especially when the body is naturally cold or weak. After the evacuation of the blood, if there was more than a plethora of blood, we must have recourse to purging with hiera after a short interval. And the Julian oxymel is a purgative suitable to these cases. Those who reject such purgative me- dicines may use these pills : Of aloes, of colocynth, of black hellebore, of scammony, of each, oz. j; of euphorbium, oz. ss; of nitre, oz. ss; mix with the juice of cabbage, and give ac- cording to the patient's strength. It will be better, however, if prepared with the juice of quinces.—Another pill given to gouty persons in the paroxysms, during the remission, and from whatever humour : Of aloes, oz. vj; of agaric, oz. ss; of saffron, oz. ss ; of costus, oz. j ; of spikenard, oz. j ; of schenanth, oz. j ; of balsam fruit, oz. j ; of cassia, oz. ij ; of scammony, oz. ij ; of dodder of thyme, oz. iiiss. A moderate dose is scr. ij; and a full one, scr. iv. Pills of Armenian stone also purge in a won- derful manner, being particularly applicable in arthritic cases, whether given at the commencement, in the decline, or during the remissions of defluxion. And since some avoid scammony because it is bad for the stomach, we may give them these things when a pituitous matter prevails : Of the medullary part of colocynth, of black hellebore, of bdellium, of gum, of aloes, of each, oz. j; of Alexandrian nitre, of euphorbium, of each, oz. ss. The dose is scr. iv. Instead of the gum I have sub- stituted dodder of thyme. Some, in the paroxysms of all arth- ritic diseases, have recourse to purging with hcrmodactylus ; but it is to be remarked that the hermodactylus is bad for the sto-