86 TEMPERAMENTS. [BOOK r- the arteries, winch beat strongly. The whole body ****** articulated, muscular, and without obesity; and the skni whard and dark. When the temperament is cold and humid, the chest is narrow, and, like the rest of the body, without hairs; the skm is soft and white, and its hairs somewhat tawny especially m youth; and such persons do not get bald when they grow o d; 'thev are timid, spiritless, and inactive; their veins are invisible; they are gross and fat; then muscles and legs are feeble and their joints ill-formed; and they are bandy-legged. But should the humidity and coldness increase, the colour of their skin and hair becomes tawny, or, if they increase still more, pale e hot and humid temperament is softer and more fleshy than the best temperament, and, when it increases much, is subject to putrid disorders; but, if it be only a little more humid and much hotter than the moderate, the bodies of such persons are only a little more soft and fleshy than the moderate, but they are much more hairy and hotter to the touch. But if the cold and the dry grow equally together, such persons have naturally then bo- dies hard, slender, and white, with fine muscles, small joints, and little hair; and they are cold to the touch. Although slen- der, fat is mixed with their flesh. The colour of their hair is correspondent to the degree of constitutional coldness. As to disposition of mind, they are spiritless, timid, and desponding. To say all in a word, with regard to the compound tempera- ments, they are always to be distinguished by the marks of the prevailing quality. Comm. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Synops. U"V""J v, 44), who borrows from Galen (Ars Med. c. 15.) See also all the authorities referred to in the preceding chapter. The ancients, it will be perceived, connected the passions and desires of the mind with the temperaments; and, to establish the alliance between them, Galen wrote a treatise, wherein he has handled the subject very ingeniously, and has delivered many profound views of the animal economy. Galen's work, to which we allude, is entitled, ' Quod Animi Mores Corporis Tempera- menta sequiniin^