303 STOMACH AFFECTIONS. SECT. XLV.] Alexander recommends attention as to whether the hcadach Com be connected with the crisis, and in that case he cautions w" against meddlesome interferences, which may do more harm than good. When any applications are admissible, he recom- mends that they be of a cooling and soporific nature, (i, 10.) Aetms likewise recommends bleeding, purging, aud vomiting, when not contra-indicated; and gives very proper directions about the local applications. He directs us to soak a handful of wool in some cooling fluid, and, holding it above the head, to squeeze out the fluid, so that it mav fall upon the head from a height, (v, 100.) Palladius says that headach in fevers is occasioned by re- pletion and distension of the veins, owing to fumes arising from the stomach. (De Febribus, 13.) Nonnus merely abridges our author's account. (Epit. 147.) Avicenna's directions about the local applications are brief, and similar to those of the Greeks, (iv, i, 2, 19.) Haly Abbas re- commends bleeding and attention to the state of the stomach, for the relief of which he in certain cases permits the use of wine. (Pract. iii, 20.) Rhases joins preceding authorities in recommending vinegar and rose oil to be poured upon the head. They are to be used cold in summer, but hot if in winter. (Cont. xxx.) We have seen that Celsus approved of cold and astringent applications to the head. The Methodists condemned this practice, and recommended hot water to be poured upon the open of the head. Hippocrates seems to allude to this prac- tice, when he says: " Much hot water poured upon the head removes fever." (Aphor. vii, 42.) Prosper Alpinus gives an ex- cellent account of the Methodical treatment. (Med. Meth. ii, 6.) SECT. XLV. ON THE CURE OF STOMACH AFFECTIONS. If the stomach be weak, we must apply strengthening cata- plasms to it, such as those made of dates and wine, and of barley- meal and saffron, and of mastich and aloes; and use embroca- tions from wormwood, the oil of apples, and of mastich, nard, and wine; and if hot, we must add cooling things, such as the juices of gourd, lettuce, purslain, nightshade, endive, and unripe