522 LIENTERY. [book III. Comm. Commentary. Hippocrates (Aphor., de Affect.); Galen (in L-Y_' Hipp. Aphor. Comment, id, 1; de Med. sec. loc. vii); AretaBus (Morb. Chron. ii, 10); Celsus (iv, 16); Nonnus (166); Theophilus (de Alvi Retrim. 2); Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 42); Aetius (ix, 37); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iv, 88) ; Leo (v, 5) ; Psellus (Opus Medicum); Scribonius Largus (xi) ; Marcellus (de Medicam. 27); Avicenna (iii, 16, 1); Serapion (iii, 18); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 25, Pract. vii, 16); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvii, 1); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 72; Contin. xiii.) In lientery, says Hippocrates, the food passes through the bowels in a liquid state and without change. Galen remarks that the affection may be defined to be a loss of digestion, the food having undergone no change in consistence, smell, or quality, while in the bowels. The intestines, he says, are either in a state of ulceration and great tenderness, or they have lost their retentive faculty. Aretseus calls it a disease arising from broad ulcers of the in- testines when the food passes through the bowels not at all altered. With respect to the treatment, he merely says that an emetic after food will remove it. Celsus recommends astringent food, stimulant and rubefacient applications externally ; and afterwards exercise, friction, inso- lation, and vomiting, which, he says, Hippocrates directed to be produced with white hellebore when other things fail. Dioscorides states that when the inner membrane of a cock's stomach has been dried and reduced to powder, it may be given triturated in wine with great advantage in stomach complaints. Our author, it will be remarked, makes mention of this medicinal article. Archigenes and Aetius describe cseliac affection as an atonv of the intestines, so that the food is not retained until it is digested. They treat of it at great length, their principal re- medial measures being purging, vomiting, and astringent appli- cations. According to Psellus it arises from superficial ulcera- tion of the intestines. Psellus defines lientery to be a loss of the retentive faculty of the bowels, so that the food passes un- digested in a liquid state. Serapion for lientery directs us to give astringent decoctions, and to apply to the belly an astringent epitheme containing galls,