THE KIDNEYS. [book III. Comm. can venture to say is, that, having no experience of them, we J do not think ourselves entitled to question or confirm their effi- cacy decidedly; but, as we repose little confidence in those now in repute, we cannot he supposed to have much in those which have fallen into disuse. On inflammation, abscess, and ulceration of the urinary organs. Celsus recommends rest; a soft bed; opening the belly; sitting in hot water; avoiding cold food and drink; abstinence from everything that is saltish, acrid, and acid, and from apples; taking copious draughts; adding to the food or drink pepper, leeks, fennel-giant, and white poppy, to promote the urinary discharge, &c. One may find in Galen many receipts for abscess and ulce- ration of the urinary passages, but they are similar to our author's. Areteeus makes mention of ulcers of the kidney occasioned by stones, which he pronounces to be incurable. He states also that ulcers of the kidneys give rise to consumption. With- out doubt he alludes to the morbid condition of the kidneys now known by the name of Bright's disease. Hippocrates lias been supposed to refer to the same in the following Aphorism: " When bubbles appear on the surface of the urine, they indi- cate that the kidneys are affected, and that the disease will be protracted/' (Aph. vii, 34.) Upon which MM. Lallemand and Pappas remark that frothy urine and albuminous are identical; and it is well known that Bright, Eayer, and Martin Solon have decided that albuminous urine is generally connected with a very obstinate disease of the kidneys. (Littre's Hippocrates t. iv, 414.) It seems highly probable that Actuarius alludes to albuminous urine in the folloAving passage : " When substances, the effect of melting, and resembling spiders' webs, float in the in ine, they indicate either that the kidneys are diseased, or that the system is in a state of atrophy from wasting." (De Urinis, vi, 16.) On frothy urine, see, further < De Urin.' (v, 4.) Alexander lays down the rules of treatment very properly, recommending venesection, purging, and topical applications of a cooling nature, especially at the commencement. When the abscess forms, he prescribes a variety of things which are deter- ment without pungency. When the bladder is ulcerated, Nonnus directs us to inject