614 [book III. THE MENSES. cause of suppression, it is to be cured by sweating, vomiting, or other evacuations. But in this case, and when the suppres- sion arises from barrenness or excessive labour, no marked in- convenience is felt, only conception cannot take place. When occasioned by an indolent course of life the proper remedies are suitable labour, exercise, gestation, a thin white wine, and living on attenuant and humid food. When the complaint is not connected with any of the causes or states above described, it is to be presumed that it is occasioned by some organic disease, which must be treated accordingly. The same subject is well treated of by Avicenna, but we cannot afford room for even an outline of his account. Like our author, he approves of tight ligatures around the thighs, bleeding from the saphena; and among his emmenagogues we remark savin, musk, castor, and myrrh. All these occur also in Serapion's list. Haly Abbas recommends baths medicated with various stimulant articles, such as fennel, rue, chamomile, parsley, &c. He mentions pessaries and suppositories, or tents prepared with attenuant and stimulant medicines, such as myrrh, wild marjoram, rue, savin, hellebore, colocynth, worm- wood, bull's gall, &c. He also speaks of fumigations with the vapours of aromatics, such as castor, olibanum, lignum aloes, &c. He approves of bleeding from the saphena, and of apply- ing cupping-instruments to the thighs, especially when there is any determination to the nose. When connected with cor- pulence, he enjoins strong exercise, attenuant food, restricted diet, and purgatives. Alsaharavius treats fully of this complaint upon nearly the same plan as Aetius. He says the stronger emmenagogues are wild mint, juniper, black hellebore, mas- tich, myrrh, colocynth, gentian, &c. To relieve the pains which sometimes precede menstruation, he recommends the tepid bath, moderate exercise, and attenuant food. Rhases recommends bleeding at the ankle, savin, purging with hiera, black hellebore, &c.; pessaries of the same, the hot bath, and stimulant friction. Eros strongly recommends repeated bleeding at the ankle, the tepid bath, purgatives, diuretics, and emmenagogues, such as savin, calamint, myrrh, &c.