SE( xcvm.] WATCHFULNESS. 181 on the other hand, nut are operates more, and the mind less.- Co irioblem i, 118.) See also particularly Oribasius (Med. Coll. ^ vi, 4) ; Actuarms (de Dfceta, 11); Avicenna (i, 3, 3); Rhases ad Mansor iv, 3); Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 35); Alsaharavius (Iheor. xi, 3); Averrhoes (Collect, i, 21.) Averrhoes defines sleep to be the recession of the sensorial powers from their organs to the internal parts ; and hence, he remarks, those who sleep with their eyes open do not perceive the objects nearest to them. The vital heat being then collected internally, he adds, the powers of the digestive faculty are increased. Rhases agrees with Galen that moderate sleep forms good blood; but that too much corrupts the juices, that is to say, impairs diges- tion. Haly Abbas remarks that, during sleep, the animal powers are suspended, while the vital and natural continue un- affected ; aud, therefore, the mind or principle of life being then disengaged, as it were, from one of its offices, is the abler to perform the others aright. Hence, he adds, digestion is best performed during deep. Alsaharavius approves of taking rest after a meal, but recommends an hour to elapse before gome to sleep. b B The reader will find in StentzeFs little treatise, entitled ' AiaTptpr} rrepi rou vrrvov/ an interesting exposition of the opi- nions of the ancient philosophers and physicians on this subject. There is an ingenious disquisition on the nature of sleep in the commentary of Stephanus on the Prognostics of Hippocrates* In reference to Aristotle's division of causes, he decides that the efficient cause of sleep is the rest of the particular senses, and of the general sensorium : the material, a humidity which is carried to the roots of the nerves, and prevents the exit of the vital spirit; the formal or organic, the brain, in which the humidity is collected; and the final, or end which sleep serves, the recreation of the powers. (Dietz, T. i, 142.) SECT. XCVUI. ON WATCHFULNESS. The cure of watchfulness in disease, whether proceeding from pain, fever, or some acute symptom, will be treated of under the head of Fevers. But we shall now treat of the watchfulness of those in health. If their watchfulness proceed from sorrow, care,