265 ERYSIPELATOUS. SECT. XXXI.] erysipelas is determined externally. He describes an epidemical Comm. erysipelas winch was attended with extensive gangrene of the limbs, but did not often prove fatal. (Epid. i.) The following are the symptoms of fever connected with ery- sipelatous inflammation, as detailed by Alexander: The patient experiences thirst more strikingly than in any other case, throws the clothes off his body, has exacerbations every third day, with bilious and ichorous discharges from the bowels j those in whom the erysipelatous inflammation is seated in the lungs have not so intense thirst, but breathe thick and large, their cheeks are red, tongue rough, they are delirious, and long rather for cool air, and are more benefited by it than by cool drink, which ought rather to be given to those who have erysipelatous inflammation in any other part, whereas those in whom the lungs are affected ought to be supplied with cool air. In ordinary cases he ap- proves of giving cold water to extinguish the fever, but says that he has seen patients brought to imminent danger by the unsea- sonable application of cold cataplasms and clysters. Aetius states that fevers are kindled by the parts about the bowels, liver, and lungs, being attacked with erysipelas. Like our author, he approves of cold drink, cool air, and cold appli- cations to the part affected, (v, 88.) The acute affection of the vena cava, which is minutely de- scribed by Aretseus, ought probably to be ranked with the diseases which we are now treating of. He himself is in doubt whether to consider it as a species of causus. Like the latter, he says, it has a tendency to pass into syncope. (De Sign. Morb. Acut. iii, 8.) He recommends for it venesection and the refrigerant plan of treatment. (Cur. Morb. Acut. ii, 7.) We have stated in the xxixth section that Palladius refers one variety of ardent fever to erysipelas of the lungs. A similar account of these affections is given by Avicenna, (iv, i, 4, c. 13, 14, and 15); and by Rhases (ad Mansor. x, 15, alibique.) We can draw no information from modern works to illustrate the opinions of the ancients respecting the febrile affections treated of in this section. It does not seem to be suspected now that erysipelas ever attacks the lungs or bowels; and yet, as this disease when it occurs externally is known to be seated principally in the epidermis, and as the epithelium, or membrane