GOUT. [book III. Gf>6 the composition. When these things are not at hand, an equal pro - portion of ceruse may often be mixed with it.—Another for tophi: Having triturated red arsenic, mix with misletoe of the oak, and use.—Another, which is applicable also for fistula and agilops: Of oil, one sextarius j of litharge, oz. viiiss; of arsenic, oz. j; boil the litharge and the oil until they do not stain, then sprinkle the arsenic well levigated, and before it catch fire, take off and use. The compositions from the flower of Assian stone, when used during the intervals, are applicable to all the collections which form in the joints; and some of the ancients attest that they remove the complaint entirely. The composition from the flower of salt, when applied in like manner during the remissions, is believed to dissipate whatever swellings remain. On the prophylaxis of gout. Gout and rheumatism, when formed, are among the most difficult of diseases to cure, except by the methods we have described; but, before being fixed, it is easy to prevent their occurrence by restricting the diet, giving only such food as is of easy distribution and not excrementitious, with a moderate allowance of wine, and increasing the exercise as far as proper. As a remedy, salts triturated with oil and rubbed into the joints, are of great use to all who are anxious to avoid falling into a gouty affection, unless they be of a dry intemperament. They ought to use it morning and evening through life, and the same thing is to be used after the decline of the inflammation. Comm. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (Aphor. vi; Prognost. 1 * * 15); Galen (Comment, in Aphor. Hippoc, de Med. sec.loc.ix); Celsus (iv, 24); Serenus Samonicus; Aretseus (Morb. Chron. ii, 12); Scribonius Largus (41); Cselius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass. v, 2) ; Alexander (xi) ; Aetius (xii) ; Oribasius (Synops. ix, 58) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 21); Nonnus (216) ; Marcellus (de Med. 35); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 21); Demetrius Pepagomenos (de Podagra); Psellus (Opus Medicum); Macrobius (Saturnal. vii, 4); Lucianus (Tragodopodagra); Serapion (iv, 25); Avenzoar (ii, 3, 28, ii, 7, 31); Avicenna (iii, 22, 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 41; Pract. viii, 32); Alsaharavius (Pract. 38); Rhases (Divis. 102, ad Mansor. ix, 90, Libellus de Morb. Junct., and Contin. xxvi.) The Prognostics of Hippocrates will be admitted at the pre-