COUGH. 309 SECT. XLVIII.] Avicenna and Rhases adopt the same plan of treatment as C pxu author. The latter directs us to rub the body with rose oil, or myrtle oil, to sprinkle the patient with rose water in the de- coction of myrtles, to fan him, and to lay in his chamber the tops of cooling herbs and trees. (Contin. xxxi.) Prosper Alpinus informs us that the Methodists approved of cool air, of sprinkling the face with cold fluids, of rubbing the body with styptic oils, and of giving astringent wines internally. He also mentions the application of snow over the arteries of the extremities, and pouring cold water over those of the wrist. It is to be regretted, however, that this author too frequently omits to quote his ancient authorities. (See Medic. Method, vi, 18, and vii, 3.) SECT. XLVIII. ON COUGH IN FEVERS. We must endeavour to remove a cough in fevers, more espe- cially in such as come on with rigors, for it exasperates the fever when it is subsiding. We must give lozenges from boiled honey to hold below the tongue, for these melt and remove the sub- stances which obstruct respiration. The time for using them is at the acme of the paroxysm, and a short time before the attack. Well-boiled hydromel must likewise be given. When there is no suspicion of the nerves being affected, in process of time you may give oxymel with confidence, or if not it, the de- coction of hyssop, which is a remedy also for rigors. If the fever is not of the ardent kind, you may give castor, which is also of use to the nervous system. Electuaries may be used, made of the kernels of the common and wild pine, iris, linseed, bitter almonds, and nettle-seed. But the most of these may be mixed with the food. Turpentine-rosin should be given in an egg. To the chest and the parts about the trachea, apply a sulphurated woollen cloth, and oil of rue, or of iris, or of dill. Tight liga- tures long applied are excellent for stopping cough, I mean to the middle and extremities. Nor will it be unsuitable to use for the cough stavesacre dried, which may be chewed with dried grapes or mastich. The extremities may be rubbed, chafed, and bound with ligatures, and afterwards the retracted parts unbound. But if the cough annoys, owing to the acrid nature