206 FEVERS. 0OOK "■ apparent in different places. Of this kind are the myuri, dimi- aishing once and again at one pulsation; for, if at the inner finger the pulse should be great and swelled up, but under tne external at the thumb of the patient it appear smaller, such a pulse is called myurus, from its resemblance to the tail ot a mouse; or meiurus, from its being diminished like a tail. -But if the pulse appear great, and swelled under the middle finger, but smaller on each side, Archigenes called this impulse innuens et circumnuens, i.e. the declining, and the declining on both hmids, wishing to mark the smallness of the diastole, with the decima- tion, as it were, of the two extremities; for these parts do not appear as if they were cut short, but as if they were bent m, and a little contracted on each side, and hence the pulse is curtailed (mvurus) on both sides. And when the inequality as to magnitude takes place at dif- ferent times, such pulses become undulatory and vermicular. And if irregularity of position be joined to them, they are called spasmodic and vibratory. Let us begin with the undulatory, m which the whole artery is not dilated at the same time, according to the same inequality, but this part of it first, that second, that third, and that fourth, the motion continuing constant like the swelling of the waves. And some have the wave carried straight forward, some obliquely; some have a sufficient altitude in a short expansion as to length, and some conversely; some have a broad, and some a narrow, and they have the like inequality in regard to quickness and strength. When the undulatory is wholly diminished in size, it is called the vermicular, which re- sembles the motion of a worm. As the undulatory pulse, when it goes on diminishing, terminates in the vermicular, so in like manner does the vermicular in the ant-like, or formicans, when, most of its motions being lost, it terminates in one, and it a very small motion. It is called formicans from its resemblance to the ant (formica), on account of its smallness and kind of motion. The ant-like pulse (called formicans) is very small, there being none smaller than it; and, in like manner, it is of all others the most indistinct and dense, but is not quick, as Archigenes supposed. Nearly allied to it is the hectic. For as there is a hectic fever, so is there also a -hectic pulse, which undergoes little or no variation, but remains always alike contracted as it first began, and never expanding, the whole habit being turned