DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECT. XXII.] 433 same, and is laid down with excellent judgment. That of Oribasius Comm. is similar. v v . To relieve the pains of cancer, Aetius recommends soothing applications and an anti-stimulant diet, consisting principally of milk. Avicenna, Alsaharavius, and most of the ancient authori- ties join in praising milk as the principal article of food in cancer of the eye. Avicenna's applications contain ceruse, opium, and the like. Haly Abbas recommends general bleeding, if the patient's strength permit, with emollient lotions, and collyria: the diet to consist of birds, kids, and lambs. According to lihases, cancer of the eye is attended with excruciating pains, redness, and distension of the veins, loss of appetite, and inabi- lity to bear all applications. On mydriasis. Aetius treats mydriasis, or preternatural dilatation of the pupil, like our author, by general and local bleeding, clysters, an attcnuant diet, and friction of the extre- mities. They no doubt considered that the disease arises from congestion in the brain. Avicenna refers the disease to cephahea and injuries of the head. Scarpa quotes with approbation the account given by Celsus of mydriasis, by which he thinks was meant not only cases of dilated pupil but also of incipient amaurosis occurring suddenly. Celsus approves of opening the bowels freely. Haly Abbas describes the disease, but thinks it almost incurable. It sometimes occurs, he says, from a blow, and sometimes from abscess within the uva. Alsaharavius at- tributes the disease to congestion, and directs bleeding, purging, and cooling applications. He calls it dilatatio. According to Jesu Haly, it is produced by dryness of the uva, or abscess within that tunic, or pressure on the brain. The first species is to be relieved by diluents and relaxants, such as the warm bath. For the second he recommends suitable cataplasms and purgative pills. The third is to be treated by general and local bleeding, cupping, and fomentations with water, vinegar, and salt. Constriction of the pupil he directs us to treat upon the same principles as our author. His account of it is mostly taken from Aetius. Leo describes, under the name of symp- tosis, constriction of the pupil; under that of paremptosis, an affection of the optic nerves; under that of platycoria, a pre- ternatural dilatation of the pupil, for which he recommends astringents; and under that of myocephalos, procidentia of 28