279 SECT. XXXVI.] THE PLAGUE. tion of fevers accompanied with buboes. (Aphor. iv. 54, Epi- Comm. dem. &c.) According to M. Littre, buboes are noticed among 1 ' ' the symptoms of plague by Rutins, and also by Dioscorides and Posidonius in an extract given in the following publication : ' Classicorum auctorum e Vaticanis codicibus editorum/ tomus iv, euraute Angelo Maio, p. 11, liomw, 1834. SeeLittre's Hip- pocrates (ii, p. 585.) Aretseus mentions incidentally that pes- tilential buboes are connected with the liver. (Morb. acut. ii, 3.) Under Sect, xvi will be found several passages from ancient authors, in which pestilential buboes are incidentally mentioned. It must be admitted thev are verv insufficient materials for il- lust rating the ancient history of the glandular plague, and it may justly excite surprise that the historian Procopius, in the sixth century, p. v., should be the first writer who has given a complete description of this disease. At the same time we can- not agree with M. Nauman, M. Pariset, and other late writers on the plague, who maintain that the epidemic which devastated the world in the reign of Justinian was a new disease. The frequent mention of pestilential buboes by previous authors, although vague, is sufficient to mark the existence of the dis- ease. In this light, at all events, they are viewed by the com- mentators on Hippocrates, who lived after the glandular plague was properly described. (See Pallad. Comment, in Hippoc. Ep. t. ii, p. 47, ed. Dietz.) We shall now begin our exposition of the ancient opinions regarding the plague, with a brief notice of the celebrated description of it given by Thucydides, the Greek historian. The more prominent symptoms mentioned by him arc the following : Strong heat of the head j redness and inflamma- tion of the eyes; the mouth and internal fauces turgid with blood ; breath fetid ; sneezing, hoarseness, and afterwards violent cough ; vomiting of bile, retching, and convulsions; the heat of skin not much increased, but the internal parts glowing with heat; the skin reddish, or livid, and covered with minute phlyc- tsenze and ulcers ; despondency, restlessness, and intense thirst; and, towards the conclusion, diarrhoea, ulceration of the bowels, and various symptoms of putrefaction. Those who survived the febrile attack were subject to blindness, fatuity, and mortifica- tion of the testicles and extremities. The disease generally proved fatal on the ninth or seventh day. The historian affirms