sect, xxii.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. •121 the crystalline humour, which is changed by a watery substance to a cerulean colour; but suffusion is reckoned a defluxion of humours concreted between the cornea and the crystalline lens. Glaucoma is in every case incurable. Suffusion may indeed be cured, but not always. We may try to cure suffusion before the disease is completely formed, by taking blood from the arm, by purging and acrid clysters, such as those made from the decoc- tion of centuary, or of the bitter cucumber, and by keeping the bowels for some time in a loose state. Cupping instruments with scarifications may be applied to the hind-head j the patient must drink water during the whole regimen, take attenuant food, and, in process of time, masticatorics may be used for a few days with advantage. When the vision is depraved, as, for example, gnats appearing before the eyes, which case proceeds from a cacochymy or from bilious vapours ascending to the head, we may give for a time the bitter medicine from aloes, or purge with it. To the eyes we must make applications at first simple, such as honey and oil, with the juice of fennel, and afterwards compound, such as this : Of sagapene, dr. ij j of Cyrenaic juice, of white hellebore, of each, dr. vj ; triturate with eight heminae of honey. We, says Oribasius, use the following medicine : Of the juice of wild carrots, of germander, of cresses, of each, equal parts; triturate. The following collyria are beneficial, namely, that from the juice of the fennel, that called proteus, the thalasseros and that from opobalsam. The collyria prepared from them are useful, and the decoction of fennel in the commencement an- swers well as a fomentation, and that from juices, opobalsam, honey, old oil, and the like. On amaurosis and dimness of sight. Amaurosis is, for the most part, a complete impediment of the sight without any apparent affection about the eye; and dimness of sight is an imperfec- tion of vision arising without any sensible cause. The same mode of cure as that described for suffusion applies generally in this case; but, in particular, blood may be abstracted from the corners of the eye, leeches applied to the temples, and friction of the extremities. In process of time we must have recourse to sternutatories, emetics with an empty stomach, and the ap- plication of ointments, at first with equal parts of honey and oil, and afterwards with the under-mentioned composition : Of saffron, two oboli; of the gall of the hyama, dr. j ; of common