REGIMEN. 73 SECT. LIII.J hot springs of Padua, but it is not by any means so satisfactory Comm. as could be desired. '—*—1 This would be the proper place to give some account of the ancient Temples of Health, most of which, there is reason to believe, were connected with medicinal springs. But our in- formation respecting them is so scanty, that avc can scarcely venture to touch upon the subject at all. We would refer, however, to what Pausanias says of the warm saline springs in the neighbourhood of the Asclepieion at Cen'chrcjc in Corinthiaca (ii, 2, 4), and of the springs near the temple of iEsculapius at Corone (iv, 34) ; and of the wrells near the temple of iEscula- pius at Pergamos (viii. 25.) SECT. LIIT. ON THE REGIMEN FITTING TO THE DIFFERENT SEASONS. It is proper to regulate the diet with a view to the season. In winter to take more fatigue, and eat more than usual, if the state of the Aveather be northerly ; but if it be southerly, to take the same fatigue, but to use less food and drink. In fine, to make the body dry in the wet season, and warmer in the cold, to eat also warm fleshes and acrid pot-herbs, and drink more wine than usual. In the beginning of spring some may evacuate by emetics, and others by laxatives, and another may get a vein opened, according as habit or inclination directs. Rest is suit- able to the season of summer, and also a diminution of labour and food; the food also ought to be more cooling and the drink abundant; and, in short, everything ought to be done which can contribute to cooling and dilution. In autumn, as it is a changeable, unsettled, and unhealthy season, the diet ought to be particularly attended to, that it be not too refri- gerant ; moderation as to venery and cold drink ought to be observed; and the cold breezes of morning and the heat of noon attentively guarded against. Too much fruit ought likewise not to be taken, being hurtful not only by the quantity, but also by the quality of the chyle which it supplies, and by engender- ing flatulence. Nay, even the best kinds of autumnal fruits, figs and grapes, engender flatulence, unless taken before any other food, for otherwise they spoil the other food ; but if taken