[book t. 98 THE LIVER, SECT. LXVII.-DIAGNOSIS OF THE TEMPERAMENTS OF THE LIVER. The marks of a hot liver are, largeness of the veins, redun- daJce oTvellow bile, and, in manhood, of black; the blood otter than natnral, and by means of it the whole body, unless hvpoehondriac reglons, and over the stomach T^ose f ^ are smallness of the veins, much phlegm, cold blood; thewMe habi of the body colder than common, nnless warmed by the hea ; no hair on the hypochondriac regions, nor over the stomach. Those of a dry are, thick and scanty blood and the vZs and the habit of the whole body drier. Those of a humid are, the blood abundant and liquid, the veins softer, as also the whole body, unless the heart antagonise. The marks of a temperament at once hot and dry are, the hairs very thick on the hypochondrium, the blood at the same time thicker and more scanty, a redundance of bitter bile, and m manhood, of black largeness and hardness of the veins, and the whole body hot and dry. The heat proceeding from the heart may indeed overcome the coldness proceeding from the liver, in like man- ner as the coldness may the heat; but it is not possible for the dryness to be changed to the contrary state by the humidity of the heart. It is obvious that, when the temperaments of those two prime organs combine together, the whole body is affected accordingly. The humid and hot liver, less than the hot and dry, renders the hypochondrium shaggy ; but the blood is abundant, the veins large, and the whole habit humid and hot, unless the heart antagonise. But, should it be preter- naturally changed as to both these qualities, persons so affected will be readily seized with putrid diseases and disorders from bad humours ; and more particularly if the humidity be much increased, and the heat but little, they will be liable to caco- chvmies. In the humid and cold, the hypochondrium is free from hairs, but the blood is pituitous, the veins contracted, and the whole body in like manner, unless changed by the heart to the opposite state. The cold and dry renders the blood scanty, the veins of the body contracted, and the body colder; and the hypochondrium is without hair, unless the heart overcome this state.