THE LIVER. 5C1 SECT. XLVI.] and the parts often become congealed, so that dropsical effusions derive their origin from hence. When the convex parts are in- flamed, the other symptoms just now enumerated are present, with a visible swelling along its circumference, which swelling is mani- fest both to the sight and the touch. These are the symptoms of a strong and great inflammation j but if it is weak, we must order the patient to take in a large inspiration, and, if he says that he has pain in the right hypochondrium, we may conclude that there is moderate inflammation of the liver. But if an oblona- tumour of a phlegmonous nature appear in the position of the muscles which lie over it, and none of the aforesaid symptoms be present, we know that the muscles themselves are iuflamed. Weight with distension, and a sensation of pain in the right hypochondrium, without swelling or fever, indicate an ob- struction of the veins, at the place where those of the porta and concave parts of the liver join those of its convex parts. When the inflammation is converted into an abscess, the pain and dis- tension increase, inordinate rigors come on, and they cannot lie on the left side without increasing the pain in the liver. When the abscess bursts, the matter is discharged freely by the urine or bowels. If the tumour pass into a scirrhous state, the pain is diminished, but there is a manifest swelling, attended with hard- ness, and the surrounding parts become emaciated. But, in process of time, the diagnosis becomes difficult; for dropsy super- venes, and the whole hypochondrium is concealed by the water. For a hot intemperament of the liver, we must use those things which have the properties of moderately cooling and strengthen- ing the viscus, such as endive and succory, sometimes eaten raw and sometimes boiled with coriander; and the decoction and juice of them may be drunk; and not only thus, but the plant, when sprinkled dry upon honied water, relieves hot and cold intemperaments of the liver. And the species of those herbs called intybus, and troximus, and the sow-thistle, are possessed of similar properties. And a cupful of the juice of citron added to honied water has the same effect, and that of the brake in like manner. But if the intemperament is moderate and com- plicated with obstruction, these things may be given in some light wine, or some of the diuretics. And the following pill may be taken : Of succory, dr. iv; of the root of ground-pine, dr. iv ; give in boiled honev to the size of a Pontic nut, and let 36