FEVERS. [BOOK 31G Comm. prove of anthelmintics. Sarac, one of Biases' authorities, re- ^v-- commends emetics and purgatives, with a cupping instrument applied over the stomach. (Contin. xi.) Serapion's treatment is entirely like our author's, (ii, 10.) SECT. LIU. ON THIRST. A protracted thirst may he supposed to he occasioned by dryness, or heat of the parts, by which liquids pass from the mouth to the stomach; and the natural cure of dryness is sleep, and of heat, watching. Some become thirsty from wine, or the heating nature of their food, in which case, the proper cure is cold drink. But some desire drink of a bad quality, as they do food corresponding to the prevailing cacochymy. I have known persons seized with unquenchable thirst, of which they died, who had eaten of the vipers called dipsades, and others who had got drunk upon old wine; and also persons on board of a ship, who, when their fresh water failed them, had drunk of sea-water, have all died. Febrile thirst may be mitigated, by pouring upon the head the coldest oil, or rose oil. But the best remedy for thirst is the seed of the black lettuce, chewed, or the liquorice; or, seed of the cucumber may be re- tained in the mouth. Give also the following pill, called adipson: Of garden cucumber, dr. viij ; of tragacanth, dr. iv; dissolve the tragacanth in the white of fresh eggs, and when dissolved, add to the pounded seeds of the cucumber; and when softened, form pills, which dry in the shade. Give one of these pills to hold below the tongue, and drink the fluid of it as it dissolves. Give also, to swallow, the decoction of quinces, or of pears, or of medlars, or of the tendrils of the vine, or the juice of the pomegranate. Comm. Commentary. The greater part of this Section is taken 1 * ' from Galen (de Caus. Symp. 1. a), who, as usual, handles the subject very philosophically. Oribasius treats of it in nearly the same terms as our author. (Sjniops. vi, 37, 38, 39.) Aetius remarks that there are two causes of thirst, a want of humidity, or a redundance of heat. In fevers, then, both these causes cooperate to occasion thirst; for there is excess of heat originally,