FEVERS. 300 [book ii. Comm. Commentary. We are informed hy Celsus that Asclepiades v ' trusted almost entirely to gentle friction in such cases, (iii, 18.) Our author, as usual, copies freely from Oribasius. (See Synops. vi, 31.) Nearly the same directions are given by Aetius. (v, 116.) Those in the beginning of the Section are from Galen; the remaining part is from Herodotus and Philumenus. Nonnus gives a correct account of the established rules of treatment in such cases. Thus, he directs us to use ligatures, and apply friction, to the extremities; and, if this treatment have not the desired effect, to have recourse to soporific decoc- tions, or liniments prepared with poppies, opium, mandragora, &c, or even to give internally an infusion of poppy heads. (Epi- tome, 145.) The directions given by Avicenna are so like our author's that we must suppose them copied from him. He directs us first to try the effect of fatiguing the patient by talking loud to him, placing many candles in his chamber, and applying ligatures to his extremities. When this method does not suc- ceed, he recommends the soporific applications mentioned by our author. When there is nothing to forbid the use of it, he permits the syrup of poppies, (iv, i, 2, 20.) Haly Abbas like- wise recommends poppies externally and internally. (Pract. iii, 23.) Averrhoes briefly directs food and applications of a sopo- rific nature. (Collig. vii, 2.) Rhases mentions our author's plan of treatment, and further seems to approve of liniments made of mandrogora, opium, henbane, and the juice of lettuces. (Cont. xxxi.) Cselius Aurelianus remarks that the indiscreet use of soporifics may bring on lethargy. According to Prosper Alpinus, the Methodists approved of fomentations, consisting of soporific medicines, such as lettuces, opium, and the like. (Med. Meth vi, 8.) The earlier of the modern writers on medicine approve of applying to the nose a sponge soaked in a soporific liniment prepared from opium, henbane, mandrake, cicuta, lettuce, and the like. (See Theodoricus, iii, 8.)