sect, xxxui.] PLEURISY. 497 the swelling is converted into pus, which may be evacuated exter- nally by an incision ; whereas pleurisy from inflammation of the membrane which lines the chest has not this termination; for if it do not discharge the empyema either internally or exter- nally, it terminates in peripneumonia. The cure. If the pain shoot to the clavicle, we must straight- way open a vein j or if to the hypochondrium, we must purge downwards. Physicians of late, in all cases, have recourse to venesection, apprehending, I suppose, the disturbance occasioned by purging. When the strength prevents us from having re- course to either of these remedies, we must use stimulant clys- ters ; and if the pain is moderate, after the clyster Ave may give honied water, and the juice of ptisan and of chondrus. When the affection is on the decline, we may add to the juices leeks or calamint, and the patient may get the seeds of pennyroyal and nettle, with honey, as a linctus. When the pains are violent after the evacuation, they must be soothed by the application of hot wool, or of sulphurated wool; or by fomentations of millet and flour in a bag, or by means of hot water or oil in a bladder. Unwashed avooI may be applied with oil; and wine, contain- ing an admixture of sea-water, or salt, may be added to it. Or we may apply a cataplasm, formed of the medicine from seeds, with the decoction of chamomile and marshmallows, or of dried figs, iris, wormwood, and some honey, with oil of nard. About the fourth day give spoon-meats for food, with some honey; but after the seventh day we are to give a linctus of almonds and nettle-seeds, triturated in honey, or the linctus of butter and honey pounded together. And we are to use the hypoglottis (electuary) of boiled honey. And we must apply to the affected parts the fetid epitheme—that from sweet marjoram, and the rue-plaster. The bulbi, applied with axunge, are often an effectual remedy, and they may also be administered in a clyster with butter and turpentine. Among the most power- ful remedies is the linctus from pine-nuts and bitter almonds, linseed, pitch-fruit, and starch, in equal parts, with honey. When they are troubled with insomnolenc}', it will be proper to give a linctus of poppy-heads; and we may use the antidote called athanasia, and those prepared for this purpose. When the disease remains after the fourteenth day, we must cup them, and keep them upon a spare diet; and then, when the disease 32