FEVERS. [BOOK n" 218 Comm. to Actuarius, it is hard, quick, and dense, and indicates in- u-v—' flammation of nervous parts. The undulatory derives its name from a supposed resemblance to the rolling of the waves, and can only take place when the artery is particularly soft, being accompanied with an unequal elevation of it in the diastole. It is thus described by Rhases: "Undosus vero est qui secundum latitudinem, magnum digiti occupat locum, cum lenitate et repletione, cum eo tamen non est magna elevatio neque subita, sed videtur quod elevationem ejus una post aliam contingit, donee fit ut undis assimilatur, quarum una aliam sequitur." It is the pulsus fluctuosus of Haly Abbas, and the pulsus fluens of C. Aurelianus. (Morb. Acut. ii, 32.) Le Clerc renders it ondoyant. The vermicular differs from the last mentioned only in mag- nitude and strength, being soft, small, and weak. Nearly allied to it is the formicans or ant-like pulse, which is one of the last degree of weakness, smallness, and density. They are thus de- scribed by Rhases : " Vermicolosi forma est ut forma undosi, in elevatione quae secundum diastolem eadem invenitur, non tamen est latus, neque plenus, cujus inundatio existit debilis, qui ver- mibus per foramen arterise discurrentibus assimulatur: formicans vero pulsus adeo invenitur in ultimo parvitatis, et spissitudmis consistere, ut pulsui pueri recens nati assimuletur." According to Galen the formicans is a pulse which it requires great ex- perience to detect. (De Dignos. Puis, ii, 1.) Haly Abbas states that it is the termination of the vermicular. It is the pulsus formicabilis of Cselius Aurelianus. The Chinese compare the formicans to a silk thread, a capillary tube, or a hair. The intermittent and intercurrent pulses are opposed to one another, there being a complete failure of a pulsation in the one case, and an accessory or superfluous one in the other. There cannot be a better proof of the imperfection in our modern systems of the pulse, than that there should be no mention in them of the intercurrent pulse. The hectic pulse, it is well known, is small and dense. Alexander Trallian says, small and feeble, (xii, 4.) The serrated is hard, quick, and unequal in its feel. Rhases says that it is principally observed in inflammations of the pleura and diaphragm. According to Actuarius, the pulse charac- teristic of inflammation is serrated and hard, more especially