sect; lxxxi.] THE NAILS. (SSI arsenic, of fenugreek, of each, oz. ij; of cantliarides, of deadly carrot, of each, oz. j ; of vinegar, q. s.—Another : Of bee-glue, of Attic wax, of bitumen, of each, dr. ij j of native sulphur, dr. j. Let only so much oil be added that it may not stain. In using it, warm and apply it to the nails.—Another: Of liquid pitch, of wax, of colophonian rosin, of turpentine, of ammoniac per- fume, of native sulphur, of aphronitrum, equal parts; evaporate until it does not stain.—Another, from the works of Raj) us, for leprous nails : Of cantliarides, of native sulphur, of copperas, of each, oz. ss j of liquid pitch, oz. ij : having made into a plaster, apply to the nail, removing it every third day. Another for removing leprous nails without ulceration. Of bitumen, of arsenic, of red arsenic, of native sulphur, of each, dr. iv j add to rosin and use, removing it every seven days.— Another: Mixing the flour of bitter vetches with sheep's gall, or sheep's urine, use ; or unslacked lime with oil; or Chian mas- tich with opobalsum j or mixing copperas and native sulphur with mistletoe, spread what is sufficient on a skin, and apply; or triturate stavesaerc with vinegar and use; or of turpentine rosin, dr. j ; of red arsenic, double the quantity j apply to the root of the nail, and bind carefully. When the nail falls off, apply the myrtle-cerate, containing a small quantity of the composition from rosin. Commentary. See most of the authorities referred to in Section lxxix. Aetius and Oribasius treat whitlow upon the same plan as our author, namely, by using cooling and astringent applica- tions, such as galls, alum, and pomegranate-rind at the com- mencement ; and after it has burst and fungous flesh has got up, by applying strong caustic and corrosive medicines, such us arsenic, verdigris, quicklime, and the flakes of copper. Neither of these authors, however, say anything about making an early incision of the part affected with whitlow, which must be consi- dered a defect in their method of practice. Octavius Horatianus, however, seems to have had it in view to recommend an early opening,'when he says, "Si saniem sane collegerit, locum pungis." In fact, it is as soon as the part becomes gorged with blood, and before the matter has had time to be properly formed, that an opening should be made.