478 [book III. ASTHMA. Comm. for difficulty of breathing, we remark vinegar of squills, natron —»—' (soda), opium, horehound, &c. The first article, it will be per- ceived, among his remedies for asthma is vinegar of squills. Almost all the ancient authorities praise the virtues of squills in this disease. Aretseus gives a good description of the symptoms of the disease, which he attributes to a humid, thick, and glutinous materiel in the lungs. He says, the lungs are primarily af- fected, and through them sympathetically the diaphragm, and parts about the chest which assist in respiration. But if the heart be affected, he adds, the issue is speedily fatal. Among the incipient symptoms he mentions flatulence of the bowels, rest- lessness, and latent heat by night. As the paroxysm proceeds, the cheeks become red, the nose sharp, the eyes prominent as if from strangulation, there is a rale even when awake, and still more so when asleep; the voice is humid and devoid of reso- nance, with an insatiable desire of cold air, panting, and orthopneea. To these symptoms are added, paleness of the coun- tenance, with the exception of the cheeks; profuse sweats about the face and chest; constant and difficult coughing, with little expectoration. His chapter on the treatment is lost. As Oribasius, Actuarius, and Nonnus follow the principles laid down by Galen, we need not give any account of their opinions. Octavius Horatianus adopts Galen's theory, which he thus explains: " Pingui autem et frigido phlegmate pulmonibus adhserente, cavernse, vel meatus, quibus naturaliter spiritus redditur et accipitur, concluduntur; et ex hoc impedimento sus- pirium, vel anhelitus molestissimus, nascitur, ut sedendo magis quam jacendo respiret." He recommends bleeding, if not contra- indicated; but, if that is the case, frequent abstinence. Among his internal remedies we remark oxymel, gum ammoniac, castor, and vinegar of squills. He approves also of emetics. He re- commends stimulant applications to the chest, also fomentations and sinapisms. A long journey, he says, is beneficial. Caelius Aurelianus disapproves of burning the head and of strong purging. He approves of bleeding, if the patient's strength permit, of clysters, cupping the breast, gestation, fric- tion, vociferation, emetics from radishes, or even from hellebore and of giving the vinegar of squills. He speaks favorably of