256 FEVERS. [BOOK Comm. quartana continua, which are spending intermittents by being attended with a partial reniis In and" not a complete intermission of the febrile ^V^' Avicenna describes the tertian intermittent by the name of febris tertiana periodica, and the continual tertian by that ot tertiana continua; the quotidian intermittent by the« of febris phlegmatica periodica, and the contmnal quotidian by Aat o/febris phlegmatica inseparably or latica; he qnartan I intermittent by the name of qnartana periodica and the conU- nnal qnartan by that of quartana continua The synochn he calls by the name of febris sanguinis; and, m treating of it remarks that Galen is guilty of inconsistency m stating the proximate canse of it; for that in one place he says it arises from the blood, and in another from bile. Averrhoes states the same objections to Galen's account of the origin of synochous fevers Avenzoar marks the distinction between the intermittent and the continual quotidians, tertians, and quartans. We have been more than usually minute in explaining the opinions of the ancients with regard to the Continual fevers, because much confusion has arisen in modern nosological trea- tises and works on medicine, from the distinction between them and the svnochi not being properly understood. After what lias been said^ the medical reader will readily perceive that the Con- tinual fevers (<™*X»c) of the Greeks are the same as the Re- mittent fevers described by Pringle, Monro, and other English authors of that age who have treated of fevers. SECT. XXVIII. THE DIAGNOSIS AND CURE OP SYNOCHOUS FEVERS. Synochous fevers are produced sometimes by effervescence of the blood alone, and sometimes by putrefaction of the same, arising from obstruction, and have, therefore, but one paroxysm from beginning to end. The symptoms are, pulse very great, strong, quick, dense, equable; but they are not pungent; and the urine is little different from the natural. The cure of them consists in bloodletting ad deliquium. And those who are affected with these fevers, and are not bled, run the most imminent danger. But if anything should prevent us from having recourse to phlebotomy, we must use such other re-