ISCHIATIC DISEASE. [book hi. C54 proved efficacy, not only in ischiatic, but in other chronic com- plaints ; but it is by far most efficacious in summer. Or if it should not have shooted out its leaves, we must bruise the rind of the root with axunge, so as to form a plaster j and then, spread- ing it on a thick rag, apply to the parts affected with the pain, namely, to the whole buttocks and thighs j and allow it to re- main until the part become black, or, at all events, until the cuticle become livid; then take it away, and, havingwashed, apply this cerate : Of opopanax, oz. iv; dissolve in ij cyathi of vinegar j and add to the cerate of privet. If they do not admit the use of such caustics, we must use the plasters called extirpative, among which is the following: Of wax, of pine-rosin, of each, dr. xij ; of wild pigeon's dung, of recent lees of burnt wine, of each, dr. vj ; of galbauum, dr. iss. And the plaster called the Lioness is of the extirpative kind. Those composed from strained lye and nitre are also proper. And some have continued to drink certain potions for a whole year, among which is the one composed of four ingredients : Of wall-germander, lb. j; of gen- tian, oz. ix; of round birthwort, oz. ix ; of the dried seed of rue, j sextarius : pound these things together, sift, and give every day a spoonful to the patient when he has an empty stomach and his digestion is good, with two cyathi of cold water; and continue this for a year, until the complaint cease. And the medicine composed of seven ingredients, and that which takes its name from Proclus, are of the same reputation. Exercise may be taken by walking, frequent bending of the body, leaping, and running. The food should be moderately attenuant and digestible. If ischiatic disease do not yield to any of the reme- dies now mentioned, it sometimes terminates in suppuration; and sometimes, from a relaxation of the ligaments, the thigh is dislocated at the joint. Wherefore, when the affection is pro- tracted, we must burn the joint in three or four places (as will be described in the Surgical part of the Work), and the ulcers are to be kept open for many days. Comm. Commentary. Consult most of the authors referred to in * the next Section. Hippocrates gives a pretty correct account of the symptoms which attend an attack of morbus coxarius, or ischiatic disease. He says it most commonly arises owing to the fluids of the