COLIC. SECT. XLI1I.] 531 according to circumstances. The account given by Alsahara- c vius is valuable, but too long for our limits. Rhases, in cases ^~ of protracted dysentery, directs snow to be applied to the belly. In fact most of the ancient authorities recommend cold appli- cations in cases of chronic dysentery. SECT. XLIII. ON COLIC AFFECTION. The colon, being a part of the large intestine, takes its ori- gin in the right iliac region, and passes across to the left, in the form of a belt. The most violent pains arise in it from various causes, either from a thick and pituitous humour shut up between its coats, or from a thick flatus that cannot find a passage out, or from inflammation of the intestine, or from acrid and sharp humours. Those, therefore, who suffer from a thick and pituitous humour, have a deep-seated pain along the whole abdomen, and especially in the region of the colon; there is a sensation as if it were pierced by a wimble; they are troubled with tormina, eructations, nausea, and vomitings of all kinds, but more especially of phlegm. The belly is greatly constipated, so as not to allow the passage even of wind; and any faeces which are discharged seem like the dung of oxen, light and windy. These symptoms are usually preceded by the continued use of food of a cold and incrassating nature, repletion, indi- gestion, inactivity, and the like. When the attack proceeds from flatulence, there is rather a sense of distension. When it is from inflammation, there is a sense of heat in the part, and no inconsiderable fever, retention of the urine as well as of the faeces, pulsation in the belly, thirst, and troublesome heat, nau- sea, and vomitings, more especially of bile, which afford no relief. In short, this is the most severe of the colic affections, and threatens to pass into ileus. When acrid and sharp hu- mours are the cause of the pain, the patients, as in the case of inflammation, have heat, thirst, and sleeplessness ; if they have fever, it is less than in the former case; their urine is acrid; the alvine discharges bilious; and often along with the discharge from the bowels the pain is aggravated, and exacerbations thereof take place, more especially after heating food or drink. Pains occasioned by cold, viscid, and thick humours are to be cured