sect, lxvi.] THE HEART. 97 proachto the Ifarveian theory of the circulation; indeed, Harvey Comm. himself candidly admits this. It will be perceived, from what Ave have stated, that the grand point of difference between Galen and Harvey, and that upon which the theory of the latter mainly rests, is the question whether or not at every systole of the left ventricle more blood be thrown out than is expended on exhala- tion, secretion, and nutrition. Upon this point Galen held the negative, Harvey, as we all know, the affirmative. In proof of the opinions which we have attributed to Galen, we refer the reader to < An Natura Sanguinis sit in Arteriis-' 'Admmist. Anatom.' (vii, 15); <de Usu Partium/ (vi and vii, 7, 8, 9); <de Placitis Hippocr. et Plat.' (i, 5.) See also Averrhoes (Colliget. ii, 8, ii, 9; Collect, i, 9; in Cant. Avic. i, 1); Avicenna (iii, xi, 1); Actuarius (de Spiritu Ammali,i, 6; de Causis Urinarum, ii, 2); Nemesius (de Natura Hominis, 24.) With regard to the passages collected by the ingenious M. Dutens and others, from the works of Hippocrates, Plato, Nemesius, Pollux, and Theodoret, to prove that the ancients were acquainted with the circulation of the blood, as taught by Harvey, we shall only remark, that, after having attentively considered them, we cannot but draw the conclusion, that some of these authors must have had, at least, an obscure idea of this doctrine, although, in general, these passages may be understood to refer merely to the lesser circulation and the movement of the blood from the centre to the extremities, as maintained by Galen. See Dutens (Origine des Decouvertes attributes aux Modernes, p. 157); Drelincurtius (de Lienosis Epimetris); and Littre (In- troduction aux GSuvres d'Hippocrate.) The last of these writers, whose minute acquaintance with the earlier works on medicine entitles his opinion to every consideration, after a searching in- vestigation into the state of anatomical knowledge in the days of Hippocrates and his immediate successors, comes to the con- clusion, that the germ of the theory of the circulation is, beyond doubt, to be found in the Hippocratic treatises. (T. i, 223.) 7