VENERY. 44 [book I. COMM SECT. XXXIV. ON WRONG DIGESTION OF THE FOOD. It contributes much to the health of those whose food spoils in their stomachs, that the offending matters be discharged downwards j and when they are not so discharged naturally, this operation ought to be promoted by gentle laxatives. Persons may, with advantage, take, before eating, an emetic from the drinking of wine, or must. They ought also to be counselled not to take food of a strong or offensive smell, nor such as easily becomes spoiled; but, on the contrary, such as is wholesome. To such persons, evacuations of the bowels at proper intervals, by means of gentle laxatives, are highly expedient. Commentary. See Oribasius (Euporist. i, 3, and Synops. v, 30.) This subject will be more fully treated of in the Third Book. SECT. XXXV. ON VENERY. From sexual enjoyments, the following advantages may be derived : they relieve plethora, render the body lighter, promote its growth, and make it more masculine; they free the mind from the cares which beset it, and relieve it from ungovernable anger. "Wherefore, the best possible remedy for melancholy is coition. Those also who are otherwise affected with mania it will restore to reason. It is also a powerful remedy for phleg- matic disorders, will restore the appetite to those who have lost it, and dispel continued libidinous dreams. The temperaments which are most adapted for venery are the hot and humid, and these bear it best. A dry and cooling diet, old age, and the season of autumn unfit for it. The diet, therefore, ought to be moistening and heating; and moderation as to labour and food ought to be observed. And as other kinds of labour are useful so also are the venereal, when taken in moderation : for thev incite to the act, and, by the habit, procure some alleviation. But nothing is so much required as abundance of food, which also ought to be of a nutritious nature. Of fishes, the best are polypi, (which are otherwise supposed to incite,) and all the