SECT. XLIX.] 579 THE SPLEEN. tamarisk, dr. iv; of pepper, dr. iv; of spikenard, dr. ijj of am- moniac perfume, dr. ij; triturate with vinegar of squills, and give one drachm in oxymel. For scirrhus of the spleen. Of sow-bread, dr. xx ; of bryony, dr. iij; of dittany, dr. ij j of baked squills, dr. viij j of fuller's herb, dr. vj; of the root of capers, dr. vj. Give a trochisk to the amount of three oboli in oxymel. And the trochisk from heath is also applicable. The food should be attenuant, acrid, and dry; little drink should be taken; but exercise, friction, and sinapisms should be had recourse to, and sometimes cup- ping with scarifications. Commentary. Hippocrates describes several diseases of the Comm. spleen in his work, ' de Internis Affectionibus.' He states "~>r~J that in scirrhus the spleen is sometimes larger and sometimes smaller than natural. It is an affection which continues long, but is not fatal. Sometimes, he says, it terminates in dropsy, and sometimes in suppuration, when he approves of burning the side. He also recommends diuretics and purging with hellebore. The description which he gives of the symptoms of enlarged spleen, in his work ' On Airs, &c./ is very curious. Dr. Coray considers that it applies to scurvy. (See Notes, &c. 29.) Aretseus remarks correctly that the spleen is very subject to scirrhus, but little so to suppuration. Scirrhus, he says, is re- moved with difficulty. For scirrhous enlargement of the spleen, Celsus recommends unction, friction, and sudorifics. He forbids all sweet things, milk and cheese. He approves of pickled and salted things, acids, the vinegar of squills, a decoction of wormwood, and water in which a red-hot iron has been extinguished. Emol- lient ointments are to be applied externally. Cselius Aurelianus says that some had directed the spleen to be cut out when it is much diseased, but he holds the proposal as mere words of course, and believes that the operation had never been performed. Octavius Horatianus recommends as general remedies for complaints of the spleen, bleeding, purging, and fomentations with wool soaked in equal parts of oil and vinegar. When it becomes indurated he approves of vinegar of squills, friction, gestation, dropaces, salt baths, &c.