SKCT. XIX.] VOCIFERATION. 29 Pliny delivers the rules of Hippocrates in nearly the same Comm words as Celsns. (Hist. Nat. xxviii, 14.) *-»—1 Onr author's account of friction is taken from Oribasius (Med. Collect, vi), or from Aetius (iii.) All, however, are indebted to Galen, who handles the subject most scientifically. (Hyg. ii.) Similar directions are given by Avicenna (i, 3, 2), and by I Lily Abbas (Theor. v, 12.) Averrhoes gives the sum of the directions laid down by Galen and the other authorities. Strong friction, he says, braces and hardens the body ; weak, rari- fies and softens; moderate, operates in an intermediate degree. Besides, he adds, hard friction diminishes obesity; moderate, on the other hand, tends to remove emaciation. (Collect, ii, 3.) It was a general practice of the ancients to have recourse to friction in the morning and evening. Oribasius has many ex- cellent observations on this practice. (1. c.) SECT. XIX. ON VOCIFERATION, OR THE EXERCISE OF THE VOICE. In the exercise of the voice, regular and gentle modulation can contribute nothing to health, but the utterance of louder tones is beneficial, and is therefore to be practised. For, much air being inhaled thus by respiration expands the chest and stomach, and dilates and extends all the pores of the bodv. Wherefore, even in reading, it promotes the excretion of re- dundant humours, to those who read in a high tone, by in- ducing sweats ; while in those who read with a moderate tone it promotes the insensible perspiration over the whole frame. For by attenuating the excrementitious matters which are hawked up, the saliva, mucus, and phlegm are discharged and consumed. And to those who stand in need of Avarming, on account of their frigidity, what mode of relief can be more proper than the action of respiration ? Such persons ought therefore to read frequently, and, relaxing the whole body, so as to distend the windpipe and all the other passages of air, endeavour to utter the loudest sounds. And yet we must not have recourse to the exercise of the voice rashly, and without consideration, nor when the system is filled with depraved humours, or the stomach loaded with crudities, lest noxious vapours be thereby distributed over the whole body.