48 SEMEN. [book i. brace, warm, humectate, and strengthen it. To those who in- dulge themselves immoderately, warm clothing is suitable, also rest and sufficient sleep until the body remits from its tension, and they recover from their atony. Comm. Commentary. This Section is partly taken from Oribasius. (Synops. v, 35.) A similar account is given by Rhases. (Ad Mansor. v, 67.) Inordinate venery, he says, occasions prema- ture old age, dries the body, and brings on frigidity. (Contm. c. xxiv.) See, in like manner, Avicenna (iii, 20, 1, 36.) To restore the body when debilitated by excessive enjoyment, he recommends a calefacient and diluent regimen, nutritious food, baths, aromatics, and everything that can exhilarate. SECT. XXXVIII. ON REDUNDANCE OF SEMEN. Some persons collect much semen of a warm nature, and then proceeding to coition and discharging it, render the body weak, and the stomach languid, and so become emaciated and dried : or, if they abstain from venery, they are seized with hea- viness of the head, and become feverish j after which they have libidinous dreams, and the same thing takes place. They must therefore avoid those things which engender semen, and take such kinds of food and medicines as consume it. After the bath they ought to have their loins rubbed with the oil of roses, or that of apples, or of unripe olives; and it is better to make them thick by mixing a little wax with them, and the juice of some cooling herb, such as the house-leek, nightshade, the navel- wort, or fleawort. In summer these may be used, but at other seasons, salt and the juice of the lettuce and linseed boiled in water, for it also furnishes a cooling juice. And a plate of lead applied to the loins will prevent libidinous dreams ; and herbs of a cooling nature, as rue and the tender tops of the chaste tree, if strewed under one in bed, will have the same effect. For this purpose, also, the seed of the chaste tree and of rue may be eaten. Care, however, must be taken that the loins be not too much cooled, lest the kidneys be hurt.