BBCT. LXXXI.] FRUITS. 137 Galen says of jujubes, that they suit best with the intempe- Comm. raments of women and children; but that they give little nou- nshment. Haly Abbas states that they are cold and humid of slow digestion, and apt to form phlegm. Thev are the serica oi Galen, who, however, also applies the other term (zizvpha) to them. (De Alim. ii, 38.) Abu'l-t'adli, as quoted by Olaus Celsius, says of the siliquajor carobs, that they are sweet astringent fruit. Horace speaks of them as being an inferior kind of fruit. « Vivit siliquis et pane secundo." (Ep. ii, 1.) And so, also, Juvenal (Sat. xi, 59), and Persius (iii, 55.) Galen says of them that they are woody and consequently indigestible. Aetius says that they are of a dry and very desiecative nature, but possess some sweetness. Pliny mentions that a sort of Avine was prepared from carobs. Galen says that the sycamores hold an intermediate place be- tween mulberries and figs. He says, further, that they are sweetish, and of a diluent and cooling nature. Dioscorides and Serapion speak unfavorably of them as being articles of food which are only used in times of famine. The citron, or "felix malum" of Virgil (Georg. ii, 126), was greatly esteemed by the ancients. Galen calls it fragrant, aro- matic, and pleasant to the taste as well as the smell. From Theophrastus downwards, it is much celebrated as an antidote to poisons. Sec some curious information respecting it in Athemeus (Deipnos. iii), and Macrobius (Sat. iii, 19.) Simeon Seth says that if taken in moderation it is beneficial to the stomach, but that in large quantity it proves indigestible. Serapion recommends after eating citrons to take of anise, mas- tich, and wine. No Greek or Latin author has noticed the lemon. Avicenna, we believe, is the first author who men- tions it. Galen says, in general, of the wild kinds of fruit, that they supply little nourishment, and that they are injurious to the stomach. The acorns, he says further, are the best of this class, being no less nutritious than the cerealia; he adds, that in an- cient times men lived upon acorns; and that the Arcadians con- tinued this practice after the cerealia were used in all the other parts of Greece. Simeon Seth says that, although nutritious, they are difficult to digest and form crude humours: and hence he recommends to abstain from them. It is well ascertained that