357 CEPHAL^A. SECT. V.] The following one is possessed of wonderful efficacy for hemi- crania proceeding from a thick and viscid humour : Of euphor- bmm, one part; of castor, an equal quantity; mixing with water, insert into the ear of the affected side, and order the pa- tient to go into a bath, and, when he has remained a short time, take it out, and bathe as usual. Thus it is of tried efficacy. It will not be improper also to add them to oil, and inject into the ear. The application described for ischiatics is likewise a successful remedy for chronic headach and hemicrania. For chronic hemicrania. Of garlic, dr. iv; of wax, dr. ij ; of old axunge, dr. ij; of cantharides, dr. ij. Apply this in the evening, and having allowed it to remain all night, break the blister in the morning, and cure with the plaster called pany- grus.—Another : Of bay-berries, stripped of their skins, dr. ij ; of the leaves of rue, dr. ij; of mustard, dr. j; moisten with water, ; and apply. It is most beneficial to those whose complaints arise from cold causes, so that frequently, when applied before going into the bath, it immediately cures the affection, and after the i bath they become perfectly well.—Another : Of Sabine oil, lb. j; of wax, oz. iij ; of euphorbium, oz. j ; with this anoint the half n of the forehead, namely, along the temporal muscle. If the cold is not great, pound an equal quantity of galls and croco- L magma with wine, and anoint. In cases from hot fumes or humours, do not use the applications with euphorbium. An apophlegmatism, or masticatory, for cephalcea and hemi- crania. Of mustard pulverized and dissolved in vinegar and honey, oz. xiv; of stavesacre, dr. iv; of pellitory, dr. iv; having \ pounded, strained, and mixed in the sun, gargle with it. When the cephalaea becomes permanent, owing to a bilious humour or some intemperament, use the remedies formerly described for [ headach. If after all this the pain continue, even after cupping \ and leeching, and there is reason to suspect that the distribu- r tion by the arteries is affected, it will not be improper to open i the arteries behind the ears. In those of a humid intempera- 1 ment the natural baths may be tried with good effect.—Another, ; for hemicrania : Mix euphorbium and earthworms with vinegar, • and anoint the affected part, or the whole forehead. Commentary. Our author's account of cephaloea is mostly Comm. abridged from Galen (Sec. Loc. iii), where the treatment is de- ^ '