671 SECT. LXXVIII.] GOUT. are intemperance, indigestion, debauchery, cold, too much or Comm. too little exercise, and external injuries. Some, he adds, are " ' of opinion that it is transmitted from father to son. He gives the symptoms of these complaints with his wonted accuracy. They are seated for the most part, he says, in the nerves, by which term he probably means the tendons and membranes. He remarks the well-known propensity which persons attacked with gout have to attribute the swelling and pain to a sprain or some such accident. If the belly be constipated, he advises us to open it by a simple clyster. He recommends us to ab- stract blood from the affected part by scarifications, which, he says, will occasion less irritation than cupping or leeching. Sponges squeezed out of hot water, or oil and water, or the decoc- tion of fenugreek, are then to be applied to the part; for he thinks these preferable to a cataplasm, as it is often too heavy. When on the decline, he approves of bathing, spare diet, emollient oint- ments, and gentle exercise, beginning with gestation, and pro- ceeding to the stronger kinds of it. When they can be borne, he approves of stimulant applications, such as dropaces, heated sand, and even sinapisms. He also speaks favorably of vomit- ing produced by radishes, hellebore, hip-baths of oil, fomenta- tions with hot salt water, and swimming in hot water or even in cold. He particularly commends the naturally-medicated waters, or spas (as they are now called), such as those of Albula or Cutilia, w hich, he says, will either cure or mitigate the com- plaint. He disapproves of burning the joints (the reader will have remarked his general aversion to the cautery), and the in- discriminate application of various narcotics and other such things. He also condemns the free use of emetics, (which, he says, prove injurious to the stomach, and occasion a determina- tion to the head,) of purgatives, acrid clysters, and diuretics. In short, his practice is not unlike that of our Sydenham. His grand rule is to keep upon a spare diet, or even to maintain com- plete abstinence at the commencement. The formula for his diacentaureo (as Van Swieten remarks) is the same as that for the Portland powder, namely, Aristoloch. rotundae; gentianae; sum. chamsedryos; centaur, min. p. ajquales. Cselius Aurelianus, Galen, Aetius, Celsus, Aretasus, Oribasius, Scribonius, and Horatianus make no mention of the hermodactylus. Myrepsus and Actu- arius make mention of a hermodactylus, but Matthiolus and