68 BATHS. [BOOK T- warm bath is the safest and best, relieving lassitude, dispelling plethora, warming, soothing, softening, removing flatulence wherever it fixes, producing sleep and inducing plumpness. It is expedient for all, man and woman, young and old, rich and poor. Commentary. We think ourselves called upon in the first place to give some account of the Therm*, or Public Baths, of the ancients, as an acquaintance with their construction and manv matters relating to them is indispensably necessary m order to understand the subject now in hand. VN e need scarcely mention that the Romans surpassed any nation that has ever existed in the magnificence of their public baths. An ancient Therma consisted of four distinct apartments for as many different purposes: 1, Tepidaria; 2, Laconicum; 3, Calidaria; 4, Frigidaria. The 1st, or Tepidaria, called also Apodyterium, derived its former name from its being filled with tepid air, and the latter from its being the place m which the bathers undressed. The 2d, or Laconicum, called also Su- datorium, was an apartment filled either with heated air or steam, that is to say, it was, according to different usages, an air-bath or a vapour-bath. The 3d, or Calidaria, was a cis- tern for containing warm water. The 4th, or Frigidaria, was a cistern for cold water. The mode in which the ancients went through the process of bathing was as follows. First they went into the Tepidaria, where they left their clothes, and proceeded to the Laconicum, and there they were carefully scrubbed with the flour of beans, soda, &c, and then went into the hot bath, where they remained for some time, and coming out of it, they took a plunge into the cold-water bath, and then returned to the Tepidaria, where they underwent the Restorative friction, that is to say, were rubbed with oils or ointments, and sprinkled with fragrant powders, and then they resumed their clothes. That the order in which the ancients took the different baths was that which we have described may be inferred from the construction of those now remaining, from a passage in Galen's works (t. iv, p. 146, ed. Basil), and from Stephanus (Comment, p. 259, t. i, ed. Dietz.) See also Auctores de Balniis pluries, Baccius de Thermis pluries, and Robertellus Lacon. explic. Pisanae urbis. In the public baths the ancients always