THE KIDNEYS. [book III. 542 humour, but the efficient is a fiery heat of the kidneys or bladder. But with regard to the kidneys, we must use lithontriptics of a cutting nature, without being decidedly heating : such are the roots of the royal asparagus and of the bramble, burnt glass, the root of couch-grass, maiden-hair, bdellium, the rind of the root of the bay, the seeds of marshmallows, the black chick-pea, the stones of sponges, vinegar of squills, and valerian, spignel, asarabacca, carpesia, saxifrage, water-parsnip, when eaten or drank, the golden-thistle (scofymus), hedge-mustard, and prio- nitis. Let them use baths constantly: and after the bath take some of the afore-mentioned things; and have recourse to em- brocations, cataplasms, fomentations, hip-baths of a soothing nature ; in short, applying the remedies for colics. The follow- ing are compound draughts : Boil the roots of wild rue, wild mallows, and parsley, with wine; mix the expressed juice with water, and give to the amount of two cyathi. And this is a powder: Of the fruit of balsam, of the stone in sponges, of dried pennyroyal, of the seeds of wild mallows, equal parts. Give a spoonful with two cupfuls of diluted wine. Also, dried goat's blood, dried cicada; without the wings and feet, the Jew's stone, in oxymel. Let these things be given in the warm bath, and the compound medicines prepared from them, the nephritic sour wine [posed), and the wines prepared for this intention. And the troglodytes (wren ?) is a much-commended remedy. It is of all the sparrow tribe the least, except that called the regulus; for it is a little larger than this one alone, and resem- bles it in colour, which is intermediate between that of ashes and green. It has a slender bill, and lives mostly in walls and hedges. When, therefore, this bird is pickled whole, and fre- quently eaten in a raw state, it makes the stones which are al- ready formed be passed with the urine, and prevents them from being formed again; and if it be burnt alive entire with its wings, and if the ashes by itself and along with pepper and a moderate quantity of Indian leaf, be drunk out of mulse, it Avill do the same thing. To relieve the acuteness of the pains and the want of sleep, the medicine called Sotira and that of Philo, are excellent remedies; and frequent venesection, if had recourse to, alleviates the pain, and produces a speedy discharge of the stone. The preservatives from the formation of stones are, first, wholesome and moderate food, exercise, abstinence