COl sect, lix.] GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. leaden mortar, may be applied. And the trochisk from wine and oil and that from Phrygian stone are excellent applications for fissures and foul ulcers about the corona glandis, more espe- cially when the prepuce cannot be drawn back.—Another simple application, which also blunts acrimony : Of cadmia burnt and washed, oz. ij ; of the rose-leaves stripped of their nails (i. e. the white parts of the leaves), oz. vj; sprinkle it dry, having first wiped the part with wine.—The following is an application for condylomata : Of chalcitis, of uncleansed wool, of cerate, of hart's marrow, of bramble-leaves, equal parts, with cerate; and that from wine and oil in like maimer. But if a concealed ulcer is found on the penis within its opening {the urethra), which is discovered from pus or blood being evacuated without urine, it may be cured by first washing it with honey diluted with much water, and then with milk, and then mixing with the milk the colly Hum of aster; or the white trochisk, or that from lotus is to be put into a leaden mortar, and the parts anointed, by dip- ping a feather in it • and then a small twisted tent of scraped linen may be anointed with it and applied. A most excellent application is the one containing of galls, of pompholyx, of starch, and of aloes, equal parts, triturated with rose-oil and the juice of plantain. For pains of the privy parts. Apply equal parts of butter and of rosin, both properly melted; or apply equal parts of myrrh and of roasted rosin {colophony or fiddlers' rosin?) triturated with the juice of the plantain. For swelling of the penis. Of tender vine-leaves, dr. j ; of ceruse, dr. v j triturate and apply j bathe with cold sea-water; enjoin rest j and apply bandages to the penis. The lixivial ashes of vine-twigs applied with vinegar cure thymous tumours of the penis, and do not permit them to increase again; and so in like manner the ashes of the burnt bark of willows. In general the thymus, myrmecia, and acrochordon will be eradicated by strongly corrosive applications, and become dead when treated with septics. But, in particular, elaterium when applied with salts is useful, also unripe figs with vinegar, nitre, and flour, and the juice of the fig when rubbed in; the burnt head of an an- chovy pickled, verdigris calcined with native sulphur, the juice of tithymallus {spurge ?) when rubbed in, the leaves of basil with copperas, or the fruit of the large sunflower applied with wine.