ANGINA, ETC. SECT. XXVII.] 465 sometimes increasing and sometimes diminishing its strength, by the mixture of other medicines. Cupping-instruments or leeches are to be applied to the chin and neck, and the patients must use the stronger gargles from iris, hyssop, gith, southern- wood, liquorice, dried figs boiled in honied water, or in the juice of rue with milk, or mustard with oxymel. If irritation arise from the use of them, we must give warm oil of the finest kind, or rose-oil by itself, or with the juice of ptisan or of fenugreek, to gargle w ith. The food should be honied water until the third day, after which the juice of ptisan, with some of the sweet drinks, and then the yelks of eggs in a liquid state. They may use spoon-meats made from chondrus, when deglutition is unob- structed, and take food suitable to their strength. When the disease is on the decline, we may get them to take exercise and the bath. The parts are to be enveloped in a cerate of the oil of rue; and we must have recourse to the other means of an analeptic nature. In suspended animation, such as have the foam already at their mouth we must do nothing to, agreeably to the precept of Hippocrates (Aph. ii, 43) j but the others may be resusci- tated by pouring into their mouths vinegar and pepper, or the fruit of the nettle pounded in the strongest vinegar. It is with difficulty that they swallow it, but they must be com- pelled ; and when the redness about the neck is dispelled, they immediately look up and recover. The same means are to be used towards those who have been wrecked in the sea; and, in fine, towards all those whose respiration has been suspended; for their heat is thereby resuscitated. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Victu Acutorum, 39; c de Prognos.; de Morbis, ii, iii) ; Galen (de Med. sec. loc. vi; de loc. Affect, iv) ; Aretseus (de Morb. Acut. i, 7) j Alexander (iv, 1) ; Aetius (viii, 48); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iv, 71); Leo (iv, 10); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 14); Celsus (iv, 4); Nonnus (123); Scribonius Largus (16); Cselius Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. iii, 1); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 6); Marcellus (de Med. 15); Serapion (ii, 18); Avicenna (iii, 9); Mesue (de iEgr. Gutturis); Avenzoar (i, 10); Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 26, and vi, 2); Alsa- haravius (xi, 2); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 54, and iv, 25; and Contin. vii). The plan of treatment recommended by Hippocrates can 30