SECT. IX.] DENTITION. Rhases directs the nurse to abstain from sweet and salt things, Com,*. as they inflame the blood; and to put the child into a bath me- dicatcd with mallows, pearl-barley, fenugreek, gourds, &c. Avicenna and Haly Abbas treat the complaint upon similar principles. SECT. IX. ON DENTITION. Dentition commences about the seventh month. At that time inflammations of the gums, cheeks, and tendons are apt to occur; and sometimes convulsions. The child must then get nothing which requires mastication; and his gums should be rubbed frequently when in the bath with the finger, or soothed with the fat of fowls or the brain of a hare. When the teeth are just coming through, the neck, jaws, and head should be wrapped in soft wool, or they may be anointed with warm sweet oil, some of which ought to be poured into the pores of the ears. The child ought then to have a more generous quality of food, and be bathed in warm water. If he have diarrhoea, it is proper to bind his belly by epithemes, namely, such as are of an astringent nature, as cumin, dill, or parsley, sprinkled upon wool. It is proper to mix the seeds of roses, and, in short to use hot desiccants. If the bowels are constipated, they may be gently roused to action by means of a suppository of honey, or the belly may be anointed with mint pounded in honey. But the best remedy for the convulsions of children, apparently, is to bathe them in water wherein turnsol (heliotropium) has been boiled. It will be of consequence also to use the oil of privet, of the iris, and the Sicyonian oil; and, in short, every- thing which is of a calefacient nature. But when the teeth have come through so as to bite the fingers, it may be proper that he keep in his mouth the root of the iris, shaven down and not quite dried. This also is of use to ulcers. Butter likewise rubbed in with honey will be of service. The flesh of an old pickle relieves pruritus of the gums. Commentary. See, in particular, Oribasius (Synops. v, 9), and Com Aetius (iv, 9.) Hippocrates and Aetius recommend a jasper '—r amulet. Hippocrates remarks that fevers, pruritus, looseness of the bowels, and convulsions are apt to come on at the time of