664 GOUT. [book in. wine, arc applied in the form of a poultice.—Another: Having boiled the leaves of cabbage, and triturated carefully, add the lees of vinegar, two yelks of raw eggs and a little rose-oil, and Inn ing triturated, apply, changing it frequently. Let them take food that is attenuant and of little nourishment. Let them, therefore, abstain altogether from flesh and pulse, from much wine of a dark colour; and, if possible, let them abstain from drinking wine altogether. For I have known many persons who have abstained altogether from this article alone, and all of them derived benefit. Those who did so in the commencement of the complaint were entirely freed from it; and those who were later in doing so experienced afterwards fewer paroxysms, and these not of great severhvv. If, therefore, no inconvenience occur, or be dreaded from it, they should abstain from wine all their life. Those who from weakness or coldness of constitution appear to sink under this regimen, after abstaining from wine for two years, may gradually accustom themselves to take a small quantity of diluted wine. Those who refrain from wine should take instead of it a decoction of anise, or of some such seeds, avoiding alto- gether the use of the autumnal fruits, and other things of a cold nature, and also venery. Of those who attempt to get rid of the complaint by continuing under a course of medicines for a complete year, many who suffer from pituitous and redundant humours have been benefited thereby, whereas such as are of a hot and dry intemperament have brought on sudden death, the offending matter being translated to the intestines, kidneys, side, lungs, or some vital part. It is better, therefore, for those who are bilious and sanguineous, to abstain from wine ; as from this course there is no risk of falling into the dangers just men- tioned. Those who are affected with cold and redundant humoivrs should take the theriac of vipers more frequently if they have good digestion in winter, but more rarely in summer; for it either removes the complaint altogether or renders it more mo- derate, and proves injurious to none of the afore-mentioned parts. And since some persons compel us to administer the medicines called Antidotes, you should be aware that the following are all of the same kind, namely, that from water plantain, that of Agapetus, those called Atacton and Octaidon, that of Proclus, that from water germander, that from coral, and mauy others' The safest of them all, and yet of approved efficacy, is the one