SECT. XLV1.] 563 THE LIVER. should be of a heating and deobstruent nature, such as leeks in oxymel, marsh asparagus, and capers in like manner; and the other articles of food should be boiled with some of the calefa- cient and deobstruent condiments. They should drink light old wine, avoiding such as are thicker, and also frequent baths, more especially after food. If the affection be protracted, we may have recourse to venesection and purging, if nothing prevent. M hen the liver is inflamed, we must bleed from the right arm without delay, and take away a great quantity, if the strength permit. And over the viscus we must apply externally a cata- plasm made of the flour of barley, of fenugreek, and of linseed, with dates, or quinces aud the flower of melilot, wormwood, and oil of chamomile ; in a word, we must mix astringents with emol- lients. The epithemes to be applied are that of Nileus, the fragrant, the Philagrianum, that of Apollophanes, that made of melilots, and the one called Copton. For great inflammations, the following one is of tried efficacy : Of the flowers of worm- wood, of Celtic nard, of asarabacca, of saffron, of each, oz.j; of iris, of myrrh, of storax, of bdellium, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. ij ; of a calf's marrow, oz. iv; of cerate of lentisk, lb. iv. Oxymel is also to be given to them, and the simple remedies, such as asarabacca, Celtic or Indian nard, bog-rush, and Mace- donian parsley. We must stimulate the boAvels by nettle, or the herb mercury eaten boiled; and during the decline of the com- plaint we must give of dodder of thyme (epithymum), and of polypody in honied water; and evacuate the bowels with a clyster, in the beginning by means of honied water with salts or nitre, but in the decline mix with hyssop, marjoram, or bastard saf- fron, or centaury and colocynth. In a word, the concave parts of the liver are to be purged by the belly, and the convex by the urine. For food, give them the juice of ptisan in which parsley has been boiled. We have already stated the cure of erysipelatous inflammation. When an aposteme is formed, we must promote its rupture, by applying a cataplasm of the composition called trispermus, with rosin, manna, pitch, the roots of marshmallows, pigeon's dung, and goat's dung. But let them take the propoma from the decoction of poley, that of the fumi- tory which grows in hedges, reduced to a third part, the decoc- tion of treacle-mustard or of succory, and of the root of wall- germander. When the rupture takes place, honied water and