602 GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. [book in. For inflammation of the anus. Of ceruse, oz. iv; of pompho- Ivx, oz. j ; or of soft cadmia, of frankincense, oz. j ; of the juice of endive, one hemina; mix, adding the juice by degrees until it be all consumed, and then having made a cerate of two ounces of wax, and one pound of rose-oil, mix; and having shaved the part, soften with this strongly. Inject by an instrument for ex- tricating pus, and apply a bandage above. It is of use for in- flammatory fissures, and ulcers of the anus attended with heat or pruritus. For erysipelas about the anus. Of diachylon plaster, lb. j ; of rose-oil, q. s; of pure bread, lb- j; of saffron, oz. j; of opium, oz. j. The saffron and opium are macerated in must, and the bread in water; then, when they are pounded, the diachylon and rose-oil are put into them and allowed to soften. It is also ap- plicable to gout attended with the greatest heat,—Another, ap- plicable also to inflammation of the anus : Triturate ceruse with wine and rose-oil in a leaden mortar with a leaden pestle, anoint with it; or, having triturated ceruse, the white of an egg, and rose-oil in the same mortar until it become of the consistence of bath-sordes, anoint with it. For acute pain of the anus. Of the tender leaves of henbane, of the tender leaves of purslain, of crumbs of bread soaked in wine, of the yelks of roasted eggs, equal parts; of rose-oil, q. s. After fomenting the part with the decoction of roses and meli- lots, apply this cataplasm. An excellent application for inflammation of the anus, and ex- crescences thereof. Of ceruse, of litharge, of ammoniac perfume, of bdellium, of each, scr. vj ; of turpentine, oz. j ; of wax, oz. ss; triturate the powders with the juice of nightshade, of henbane, or of purslain; and having mixed the soluble articles, take, and having softened them with rose-oil, use. And the composition called Phicotyche, and that from plumbago, are excellent appli- cations for inflammations of the fundament. And the trochisks from lotus, from winter-cherry, and that from roses are esteemed applications for the anus and privy parts. For excrescences of the anus. When these excrescences are inflamed, we must use the general applications already men- tioned, and in particular the following trochisk : Of ceruse, oz. iij j of pompholyx, oz. j; of litharge, oz. ij ; of mastich, scr. iij, add to the juice of henbane. When they arc free from inflamma-