[book in. THE LIVER. the other things mentioned for ulcerated kidneys may be given j and externally the plaster of Mnasseus, and the other emollient plasters, and the Icesian, or that from willows may be applied. When the liver is in a scirrhous state, there is little hope of recovery, as the affection will pass into dropsy; and yet it may be attempted by mixing ammoniac, bdellium, marrow, grease, and things of similar properties, with emollients. The patients may take draughts of such things as will act as deobstruents and detergents of the viscus, such as diuretics and lithontriptics, along with those just now mentioned for obstruction of the liver; the diet being regulated accordingly. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (de Intern. Affect. 30) j Galen (Meth. Med. xiii; Sec. Loc. vii); Aretseus (Morb. Acut. ii, 7 ; Morb. Chron. i, 13) j Celsus (iv. 8); Alexander (vii, 19); Aetius (x, i); Oribasius (Loc. Affec. iv, 96) j Nonnus (182) ; Cselitts Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iii, 4) j Octavius Horatianus (ii, 13); Marcellus (de Med. 22) ; Scribonius Largus (30) j Avicenna (iii, 14, 1) ; Avenzoar (i, 13); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 30; Pract. vii, 31) j Alsaharavius (Pract. xviii); Serapion (iv); llhases (Divis. 62; ad Mansor. ix, 67 j Contin. xvi.) Hippocrates describes three varieties of hepatic disease, which appear to have been bilious fevers. It is not easy to define the princples upon which his practice is directed. He mentions, however, emollient applications, bleeding, purging, and vomit- ing ; and, when the disease is protracted, recommends the side to be burned with spindles of box-wood smeared with oil. He directs abscesses of the liver to be opened by the cautery. (Coac. 457.) He states that abscesses of the liver are least dangerous ivhen they open externally; more so when they open internally ; and most of all when they open both internally and externally. (Prognost. 7.) He makes mention of hydatids, and says ofHhem that when they burst into the cavity of the peritoneum, the case proves fatal, (vii, 54; where see the Com- ment, of Theophilus and Damascius, ed. Dietz. p. 540.) Galen has laid down the principles upon which inflammation of the liVer should be treated in the 13th book of his ' Methodus Medendi.' We can only afford room for his conclusions. He approves of venesection with the intention of producing revul- sion. Such articles of food and medicine are to be given as