m PROGNOSTICS. [book ii. evacuation, or want of food; also, intolerance of the light, shedding tears from no external cause, there being no parti- cular affection of the eyes; or the one eye appearing less than the other; or the white of the eyes becoming red, or livid, or black, or having a muddiness in them; and the white of the eyes appearing during sleep, the eyelids not being closed, unless this symptom proceed from a great evacuation, or from habit. Likewise grinding the teeth, a state of delirium, picking at flocks of wool, or bits of chaff, are not favorable. Attention should also be paid to the patient's mode of lying. To lie on one's back, as it were, in a relaxed state, and to sink down- wards in bed, are indications of extreme debility. It is still worse to have a cold respiration at the mouth and nostrils; and a pulse obscure, dense, and intermitting, and profuse sweatings with syncope are most mortal symptoms. If all the symptoms we have mentioned, or even more appear, or if they be fewer in number but strong, and if they be without any of the favorable ones, death is inevitable. The breathing free, pulse natural, soundness of intellect, being well disposed to take whatever is offered, the appearance of countenance and mode of reclining like those of persons in health,—all these symptoms are favorable and prognosticate recovery; and, in general, whatever symptom is contrary to the natural state indicates an unfavorable, whereas, what is correspondent, indicates a favor- able termination. Concerning the prognosis from the urine, alvine discharges, and sputa, we will speak soon. Comm. Commentary. The great master of prognostics is Hippocrates, '—«—1 whose system of medicine was entirely based on the observation of the favorable and unfavorable symptoms of disease. It would appear that the first advances in this art were made in the temples of the gods, and especially of iEsculapius, which the sick Avere in the practice of resorting to in order to ascer- tain the issue of their maladies. See a very ingenious and learned disquisition, ' de Hippocratis Doctrina a Prognostice oriunda,' by F. Z. Ermerins, m.d. The works of Hippocrates, especially the ' Prorrhetica and Coacse,' contain a rich treasure of observations which cannot be too much explored by the student of medicine. His prognostics are founded upon the appearances of the face, eyes, tongue, the voice, hearing, the