184 EPISTLE OF DIOCLES. [book i. deed with any strong medicine, but taking the tops of hyssop and sweet marjoram, pound them and boil them m a pot with half a hemina of must or rob, rinse the mouth with this in the morning before eating, and evacuate the humours by gargling. There is no gentler remedy than this for affections of the head. Mustard in warm honied water also answers the purpose very well Take a mouthful of this in the morning before eating, gargle and evacuate the humours. The head also should be' warmed by covering it in such a manner as that the phlegm may be readily discharged. Those who neglect these symptoms are apt to be seized with the following disorders: Inflammations of the eyes, cataracts, pain of the ears as if from a fracture, stru- mous affections of the neck, sphacelus of the brain, catarrh, quinsy, running ulcers called achores, caries, enlargement of the uvula, deftuxion of the hairs, ulceration of the head, pain m the teeth. When some disease is about to fall upon the chest, it is usually announced by some of the following symptoms: There are profuse sweats over the whole body, and particularly about the chest, the tongue is rough, expectoration saltish, bitter, or bilious, pains suddenly seizing the sides or shoulder-blades, fre- quent yawning, watchfulness, oppressed respiration, thirst after sleep, despondency of mind, coldness of the breast and arms, trembling of the hands. These symptoms may be relieved in the following manner: Procure vomiting after a moderate meal without medicine. Vomiting also when the stomach is empty will answer well; to produce which first swallow some small ra- dishes, cresses, rocket, mustard, and purslain, and then by drink- ing warm water procure vomiting. Upon those who neglect these symptoms the following diseases are apt to supervene : Pleurisy, peripneumony, melancholy, acute fevers, frensy, lethargy, ardent fever attended with hiccough.—When any disease is about to attack the bowels, some of the following symptoms announce its approach : In the first place, the belly is griped and disordered, the food and drink seem bitter, heavi- ness of the knees, inability to bend the loins, pains over the whole body unexpectedly occurring, numbness of the legs, slight fever; when any of these occur, it will be proper to loosen the belly by a suitable diet without medicine. There are many articles of this description which one may use with safety, such as beets boiled in honied water, boiled garlic, mallows, dock,