FEVERS. [BOOK 23G neither by strong heat or cold; and compression of the pulse is also peculiar to them. This is the name given to the pulse when in the commencement of the paroxysm it is very small and irregular. This is a well-marked peculiarity of such fevers. But the strongest characteristic of putrid fevers is, the quality of the heat; for it is fuliginous so as to prove pungent to the touch. Want of concoction in the urine and feeble digestion are also peculiar to them; for, in such fevers, a strong and dis- tinguished appearance of concoction in the urine is never to be seen at first. Commentary. This Section is mostly taken from Oribasius (Synops. vi, 7.) Many of the histories in the Epidemics of Hippo- crates are synochous fevers, accompanied with putrefaction of the fluids. Galen remarks that they occur principally in persons of a plethoric and gross habit of body. (Meth. Med. viii.) Ac- cording to him, putrid fevers may either arise from the conver- sion of ephemerals, or originally from putrefaction of the fluids within the vessels. (De Diff. Feb. i, 9.) Aetius states that they arise from constriction of the skin, or viscidity of the humours, whereby the perspiration is stopped, and the quality of the vital heat so altered as to give rise to putrefaction, first of the fluids, and afterwards of the fat and solid parts. When these corrupted fluids are contained within the vessels, they occasion synochous fevers; but, when distributed over the body, they give rise to intermittents. (v, 74.) Synesius and Constantinus Africanus give a similar account. Alexander gives an interesting and ingenious disquisition on the origin and nature of putrid fevers, one of the most common causes of which he holds to be the conversion of ephemeral fevers, and the inseparable symptoms being want of concoction in the urine and quickness of the pulse with systole. This is the account of them given by most of the other authorities, both Greek and Arabian, so that we need not enter into any very circumstantial exposition of their views. We shall merely give the brief account of them fur- nished by Palladius. There are, he says, two kinds of synochous fevers, the one being occasioned by effervescence, and the other by putrefaction of the blood; of these, the latter are the more protracted and dangerous. In them the pulse is contracted, the heat pungent, and the urine white and putrid. Among