[book III. ILEUS. 538 Comm. authority supplies the smallest additional information. Pliny v ' seems to allude to an epidemical colic which prevailed in the reign of Tiberius, but gives no satisfactory account of it. (H.N. xxvi, 6.) The Jewish physician Moyses Alatinus gives the fol- lowing description of a pestilential colic resembling that described by Paulus and Avicenna : " Colicam, iliacamque, hujus generis, contagiosas passiones, quas hoc in loco refert Avicenna, memini me olim vidisse in civitate Mantuse anno 1560, mensibus nimirum Augusti et Septembris, quia publice tunc temporis ejusmodi passiones contagiosa? per universam civitatem grassabantur, cum ssevis symptom atibus, assiduo nempe, ac urgente vomitu bilis porraceee in magna copia, nec non etiam aeruginosa?, lipothymia, assidua febre malignitatis non experte, ac siti immensa, ac in eadem familia plurimi eo morbo oppressi inveniebantur," &c. (Marcise Prselect. 276.) See Book Second, Sect, xxxvi. SECT. XLIV. ON ILEUS. Iliac passion, being a very acute and painful complaint, has a symptom more grievous even than dangerous; for those who are overpowered by the disease die a most piteous death, vomit- ing up fasces at last by the mouth. The affection arises from indigestion and obstruction, when the corrupted matters are retained, and from deleterious medicines, and from a falling down of the bowels into the scrotum, and from inflammation of the intestines, commonly supervening upon a colic affection. Wherefore children are to be cured by embrocations, cataplasms, clysters, suppositories, and fomentations, as described when treating of colic. But young persons and adults are to be bled without delay, and the operation repeated; and dry cupping is to be freely applied along the abdomen, and cupping even with scarifications to the affected parts. The extremities are to be rubbed and ligatures applied round them; and we must have recourse to the most drastic clysters and enemata, putting the patients into hip-baths of hot oil, giving antidotes, and purga- tives ; and simply all things, in short, which are applicable for colics, except when the affection of the colon proceeds from acrid and pungent humours. It has a wonderful effect in this com- plaint to drink the decoction of dill, even if it should be vomited