576 DROPSY. [book nr. Comm. burnt copper, &c. Like Hippocrates, he approves highly of scarifications at the inner ankle. Upon the authority of Antyllus, he recommends lying in heated salt. In like manner, Galen and some of the other authorities speak favorably of insolation while the patient lies on sand, wheat, or the like. The sand- hath is mentioned as a remedy for dropsy by the earlier modern w riters on medicine. See Theodoricus (iii, 33). Leo, like preceding authorities, refers all dropsies to a cold- ness of the liver, and says they are mostly incurable. We do not find that Avicenna, Rhases, Avenzoar, and Serapion make any material alteration on the practice of the Greeks. In certain cases of anasarca they permit venesection, but generally con- demn it in ascites. They praise mezereon or the chamelaea strondv as a diuretic: and also make mention of colocynth and scammony. Haly Abbas treats separately of anasarca, as- cites, tympanites, and dropsy from a hot cause. When anasarca is connected with an obstructed secretion, he approves of bleed- ing ; and, in general, recommends abstinence from drink, exer- cise in the sun, friction with sand or hard towels, sulphureous baths and diuretics. He concludes with an advice not to per- severe too long in the use of any one medicine. In the treat- ment of ascites, he recommends mezereon, colocynth, &c, but disapproves in general of paracentesis. For tympanitis he prescribes various carminatives, such as parsley, fennel, spike- nard, mastich, southernwood, melilot, &c. Alsaharavius ex- presses himself strongly in favour of venesection for anasarca; and for all kinds of dropsy recommends the sand-bath, sudorifics, and the common remedies mentioned above. The general causes of dropsy upon which Rhases most insists are induration of the liver and debility of the kidneys, so that they no longer attract the aqueous superfluity of the blood. He approves of paracentesis and scarifications of the feet and testicles when they are much swelled. Among his hydragogues, the most powerful are white hellebore, elaterium, scammony, and euphor- bium. He mentions that he had known several dropsical cases cured by a spontaneous darrhcea, and hence he recom- mends us not to stop one when it comes on. When dropsy is connected with the retention of a natural evacuation, he ap- proves of bleeding. He speaks favorably of the elder as a diuretic.