THE KIDNEYS. SECT. XLV.] .VI7 On diabetes. Diabetes is a rapid passage of the drink out of the body, liquids being voided by urine as they were drank; and hence it is attended with immoderate thirst; and therefore the aflection has been called dipsacus, being occasioned by a weakness of the retentive faculty of the kidneys, while the at- tractive is increased in strength, and deprives the whole body of its moisture by its immoderate heat. Wherefore with this intention we will give more food, and that of difficult digestion and not humid, such as alica with rose-wine, or rhodomel, or hydromel, or some wine that is not old, or some of the hot wines. We must give of pot-herbs, succory, endive, and let- tuces; of fishes, those that abide among rocks; the feet and womb of swine; pears, apples, and pomegranates; and give cold water to drink. They must get to drink propomata, from the juice of knotgrass, and elicampane, in dark-coloured wine, and from the decoction of dates and myrtles. We must apply a cataplasm to the hypochondrium and kidneys of polenta, in vinegar and rose-oil; and of the leaves of the vine and navelwort, pellitory of the wall, and purslain. We must promote sweats, and excite vomiting by drinking cold water; and make them abstain from all sorts of diuretics. There will be nothing improper in letting blood at the commencement. On strangury and di/suria. When neither inflammation, nor a stone, nor any of the afore-mentioned complaints are present, if there is acrimony in the urine, and if the whole habit or the other symptoms indicate bile, the dysuria or strangury is formed by it, and we are to use medicines for altering and diluting it; the juice of ptisan, fishes, baths, and a corresponding diet; avoiding acrid things, wine, baths, anger, and long abstinence from food. If the thinness and whiteness of the urine, and the other symptoms indicate a cold intemperament, hot wine and prepared wines will be proper; also diuretic food and medicines, and hot hip-baths. When, in conjunction with the whiteness, the urine appears thicker than natural, we are to suspect a pi- tuitous humour obstructing the neck of the bladder, and must use oxymel, and the compositions from hyssop and pennyroyal, or marjoram, or thyme, or laserwort, boiled in honied water, and the hotter embrocations. But, if a thick humour, a stone, a thrombus, or some such obstruction stop up the passage of the urine, we must apply the catheter to them, unless inflammation