PAIN. SECT. XL.] 297 upon the part be the cause of the pain, it must be removed; but, if it proceed from a pungent humour, attenuant and cale- facient things are most improper. Dill boiled in oil is anodyne and soporific, and the green more than the dry. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Synops. Comm. vi, 29), or Aetius (v, 100.) All these authors, however, merely abridge the account given by Galen. (Meth. Med. xii, 8, and de Locis Affect, ii.) In the latter work he gives a most inge- nious dissertation on the different kinds of pain, and the states of the body in which they occur j but, as our author has given a summary of his observations, we think it unnecessary to go over the same ground. We shall, therefore, merely notice some of his remarks on the treatment, as delivered in the other work. AYhen the pain is connected with flatulence, it is to be removed by food, drink, cataplasms, and fomentations of an attenuant nature. When pungent humours are the cause of the pain, t hey are to be treated by evacuants, diluents, or narcotics. When occasioned by thick and viscid humours, he forbids nar- cotics, the action of which, being frigorific, renders them thicker, and the containing parts more compact. In all such cases, therefore, he holds that opium and hyoscyamus, although they afford a temporary relief from pain, act prejudicially. He also proscribes things of a very hot nature, both internally and ex- ternally, and recommends to give attenuants, or things of an incisive nature. He in particular commends garlic, which he calls the theriac of rustics. As to external applications, he directs, in febrile cases, first a dry fomentation of millet-seeds, and, if it is not successful, friction with subtile or attenuant oils, and the fat of fowls. Aetius defines pain to be a sensation produced by a sudden change of temperament, or a solution of continuity. In illus- tration of the former cause, he remarks that all sudden changes from heat to cold, or vice versa, occasion severe pains. To the latter he refers rupture, contusion, and erosion of the parts. Rupture is produced by tension, contusion by weight, and erosion by some pungent quality. These causes of pain ought to be particularly attended to, and the treatment modified accord- ingly. His subsequent account is exactly the same as our author's.