[book nr. ANGINA, ETC. 468 Comm. stantial account of this disease, but it is so long that we can merely afford room to point out a few of his leading opinions. He approves of a fomentation made with a bladder half filled with hot sweet oil. He directs the patient to inhale the steam of hot water, and to have sponges squeezed out of it applied to the neck and throat. He approves of cupping the neck or of leeching it, and also of scarifying the tongue and fauces if they are much swelled. With respect to the treatment of the other sects, he blames Hippocrates for making too rapid a detraction of blood, and also for opening the veins below the tongue, which, he says, will only aggravate the evil, and may be productive of inconvenience, owing to the difficulty of stopping the bleeding. But, in particular, he finds fault with Archigenes for mention- ing laryngotomy, and treats the operation as entirely fabulous and the fiction of that physician. His aversion to it is so strong that he pronounces it a crime. Before having done with this author, we may remark that Prosper Alpinus, the modern ad- vocate for ancient Methodism, does not agree with Cselius in condemning the Hippocratic practice of opening the veins below the tongue. In his own case he had experienced the good effects of this practice. (Meth. Med. vii, 10.) The Arabians, like their Grecian masters, describe the two varieties of the disease, and treat them accordingly. For the variety called synanche by the Greeks, they approve of hot gargles consisting of mustard, pepper, and the like. This re- sembles the modern practice of using gargles of Ca3renne pepper. In the following passage, Khases evidently points at the conta- gious synanche : " It happens on certain years in spring that a bad and destructive species of synanche attacks a great many persons. Wherefore at such a time it will be proper to anti- cipate the disease by venesection, abstracting blood from the legs with cupping-instruments, opening the belly, and gargling with rose-water, or infusions of sumach, mulberries, and nuts." Haly Abbas likewise states that the disease is sometimes epi- demical. Ehases approves of general bleeding, of opening the sublingual veins, and of using astringent gargles at first, and af- terwards maturative ones consisting of figs, sweet almonds, and the like. In his ' Continens' he seems to allude to broncho- tomy. Alsaharavius describes the two varieties of the disease with great minuteness. He agrees with the others as to the