2g6 FEVERS. [book ii. transit » And, in another place: " Pestilentia est morbus late vagans et contagio sno qu* contigerit interimens." Alexander Aplirodisiensis intimates that pestilential fevers are contagious, but common fevers not so. (Probl. ii, 42.) Aretams appears to be the first medical author who alludes to contagion in unequivocal terms. He says of elephantiasis, that it is as infectious as the plague, being communicated by respira- tion. Cabins Aurelianus, who was probably nearly contem- porary with him, mentions as contagious diseases the plague, incubus, hydrophobia, and elephantiasis. Galen expresses his sentiments on the contagious nature of certain diseases m the following terms : " That a pestilential state of the atmosphere produces fever, is unknown to no one possessed of good under- standing ; and, also, that it is dangerous to associate with persons having the plague, for there is a risk of catching it, like the itch and ophthalmy. It is dangerous also to live with those labour- ing under consumption, and, in a word, with all those having a putrid respiration of such a nature as to render the houses m which they he fetid." (De Diff. Febr. i, 3.) Aetius (xm, 120) and our author (iv, i) state their decided opinion of the in- fectious nature of the plague and elephantiasis. Oribasms, Alexander, Synesius, Palladius, Actuarius, and all the Latin medical authors, with the exception of Ceelius Aurelianus, have omitted to make any allusion to the contagious nature of diseases. Of the Arabians, Rhases mentions, as diseases "which are transmitted from one person to another," lepra (elephantiasis?), itch, consumption, and pestilential fever. These, he says, prove infectious, when one is shut up in a narrow house along with those labouring under them, or when one sits in the wind blow- ing from them. He states afterwards that ophthalmy and ma- lignant pustules are sometimes contagious. (Ad Mansor. iv, 24 • see also Contin. xxxiii, 5.) By malignant pustules he means the smallpox. Avicenna and Haly Abbas give the same list of contagious diseases. Avicenna says that smallpox and measles are of all diseases the most contagious. Of the other Arabians, Avenzoar alone, while treating of elephantiasis, alludes to the doctrine of contagion. Having now done with the ancient authorities, we shall only give further the declaration of the celebrated Boccacio regard-