SECT. LXVIII.J THE UTERUS. (529 We will see the treatment of cancers in general detailed in the Fourth Book. SECT. LXVIII. ON SCI11RHUS AND SCLEROMA. . The uterus becomes scirrhous, sometimes all at once without any preceding complaint, but most frequently after having been preceded by inflammation, which has neither been resolved nor converted into an abscess. The disease called scleroma is a species of scirrhus, most frequently forming about the neck of the womb, and having also some swelling, but less resisting, and attended with moderate pain. These are accompanied with displacement to the opposite parts, swelling powerfully resisting in proportion to the pain, with heaviness and difficulty of motion, not of the limbs only but of the whole body, and aversion to exertions. When not properly cured, a dropsical cachexia su- pervenes. In the commencement we must have recourse to venesection, or purging with the hiera of Archigenes; then to cataplasms of dried figs, grease of wool, nitre, or wormwood, and cupping with scarifications; and to the soothing ointments {ma- lay mat a), namely the Polyarchium, that from seeds, and that from bay-berries; to hip-baths prepared with the decoction of dried figs, mugwort, pennyroyal, and marshmallows; to pessaries of turpentine, galbanum, myrrh, iris, and the grease of wool; to dropaces and the use of the natural baths, namely, the nitrous and bituminous. When the strength permits, a course of hellebore may also be tried. An emollient pessary. Of Pontic wax, of nard ointment, of each, oz. iij ; of the ointments of iris, that of privet, and that called Gleucinum, of each, oz. ij; of the grease of bears and geese, of butter, of the sordes of unwashed wool, of stags'mar- row, of turpentine, of each, oz. j.—Another : Of poley, dr. ij; of myrrh, dr. iv; having triturated with Mindesian wine, and mixed it with Irinum, give to be applied.—Another: Of Tuscan wax, of the fat of calves, of turpentine, of stags' marrow, of Attic honey, of old oil, equal parts. The following is an altera- tive which answers also for inflation: Of the dried white grape without its stones, oz. iij; of the leaves of the green rue, oz. ij; of sea water, oz. iss ; of cumin, dr. iv; of honey, q. s.; having