320 FEVERS. [BOOK ǥ COMM Commentary. Oribasius recommends the same treatment. (Synops. vi, 40.) Our author appears to have condensed the lengthy account given by Galen and Aetius. (is, v.) Alexander also treats of the subject at great length, but we can only afford room for a few extracts. When the nausea arises from plethora, he directs bleeding; and when the plethora is connected with vitiated humours, he recommends both bleed- ing and purging. When bilious or melancholic humours oc- casion the nausea, he recommends dilution at first by giving tepid water or the like, and then evacuations of them by purging or emetics. When the humour is an acrid or sweet phlegm, he recommends oxymel, radishes, and the like. When a serous and thin humour is impacted in the stomach, he evacuates it by procuring vomiting with tepid water or ptisan, (vn, 13.) Serapion appears to have copied from our author, (iii, 5.) See Avicenna (iii, xiii, 5, 8.) Rhases applies over the stomach a cold plaster with snow. When the nausea is oppressive, he promotes vomiting with tepid water. (Cont. xi.) SECT. LVI. ON VOMITING OF BILE. To those who vomit bile, a cataplasm must be applied, made of dates, the rind of pomegranate, and gall, boiled in wine or oxycrate, along with pounded bread. And acacia, hypocystis, and the flowers of the wild pomegranate and sumach, ought to be added to the cataplasm. A cupping-instrument also, when applied with a strong heat, is of great service. Food ought to be given frequently in small quantities. To those who vomit black bile and have the stomach inflated, apply sponges soaked in hot vinegar of the most acrid qualities, or a cataplasm of the leaves of the ivy boiled in wine. Comm. Commentary. This is taken from Oribasius (Synops. vi, 41.) ' ' ' Alexander states that the proper remedies for vomiting oc- casioned by a redundance of bile are diluents and refrigerants. He recommends internally ptisan, lettuces with a small quantity of vinegar, &c. For drink, he particularly approves of cold water, but forbids much to be given at a time. When the strength fails, he permits a small proportion of hydromel, wine,