sect, xciv.] FISHES. 171 like fishes. The bakena of the Greeks was a species of physeter, Comm. or caclielot. ' Galen states that the flesh of all the cetacea in its recent state is excrementitious, but when pickled becomes more atte- nuate, and easier converted into blood. He gives them, in short, the same characters as our author does. For a full account of the pickled fishes of the ancients, we refer to the Fragment of Xenocrates, and the third book of Athenams. We shall give the general character of them as de- h\ ered by the latter, upon the authority of the Siphnian Diphilus. He says that the pickles prepared from sea, lake, and river fishes afford little nourishment, contain few juices, are of a heating nature, are good for the belly, and whet the appetite. The old, he adds, are better and more acrid. Of all the pickled fishes, the most celebrated was the one brought from the Pontus, called saperda. According to Atheneeus, it was prepared from the umber {scioena umbra L.) See also Galen (de Alim. Fa- cult, iii, 41.) Hippocrates says they are desiccant, attenu- ant, and for the most part laxative. (De Diaeta.) Diphilus says they are whetters and laxatives; and hence Galen directs them to be taken at the commencement of a meal, and particu- larly recommends them for old men. Rhases speaks more unfavorably of them. It may be proper in this place to give some account of the isitia, or isicia of the ancients. With regard to the etymology of the word, then, it isi derived by Macrobius ab insectione. They consisted of minced meat, either flesh or fish, boiled or roasted, and seasoned with pepper, cumin, lovage, and the like. Apicius gives receipts for preparing several dishes of this kind, from the loligo, sepia, locusta, and swine's liver. The last mentioned was inclosed in the omentum, or cowl, and must there- fore have resembled the dish now called a haggis. Lampridius says that the emperor Heliogabalus was the first who prepared isicia from fishes, oysters, lobsters, squillse, and the like. If this statement be true, the works of Apicius which we possess cannot be genuine. Isicia from shell-fish, the sepia, loligo, &c. are very favorably spoken of by Alexander Trallian (si.) On the Isicia, see further Ludovicus Nonnius (de Piscium Esu, jxxxviii), and Lambecius (ad Apic.)