SECT. XXII.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. 429 be well described by M. Aurelius Severinus. (On Diseases of Comm. the Eye, 3.) Rowley describes it as a moveable tumour in the ^v~~' margin of the eyelids. Aetius recommends us to open the tumour with a scalpel, and apply to it escharotics, such as burnt copper, chalcitis, and red arsenic. By Haly Abbas it is called ijrando, and the remedy mentioned by our author is recommended by him. Alsaharavius describes it as a gross humour congealed in one of the eyelids. He describes by the name of alsaanac a fatty tumour of the eyelids which we have sometimes met with and extracted. On the chalazion, see Celsus (vii, 7), and Isi- dorus (Orig. iv, 8.) On hordeolum. Most of the ancient authors treat of this trifliug complaint in much the same terms as our author. Scarpa evidently is mistaken in making the hordeolum and chalazion to be the same complaint. Haly Abbas describes it as being an oblong abscess resembling a grain of barley on the extremity of the eyelid. He recommends general depletion, and nearly the same remedies as our author; also a cataplasm of galbanum. Alsaharavius treats of it in a similar manner. Rhases particu- larly recommends melted wax as an application to it. He also speaks favorably of the diachylon plaster. On lice in the eyebrows. Stavesacre is a very ancient remedy for pediculi on all parts of the body. Celsus lays down very minute directions for the constitutional treatment, and recom- mends a local application containing sandarach, or the red sul- phuret of arsenic. Avicenna makes mention of sulphurous baths. Haly Abbas recommends general purging, various sti- mulant applications, and abstinence from figs. Our author states, in Section lxxxt of the First Book, that figs engender lice. Alsaharavius directs the eyebrows to be rubbed with sal am- moniac, alum, salts, &c. Jesu Haly recommends purging withhiera, the frequent use of the bath, and applications containing stave- sacre, sulphur, alum, nitre, sal ammoniac, vinegar of squills, and the like. Rhases recommends a powder containing quicksilver. On madarosis, or milphosis, and ptilosis. Aetius, Actuarius, and Nonnus treat of these diseases in similar terms. The cal- liblephora are fully described by Galen (sec. loc. iv.) Haly Abbas seems to allude to these complaints in the following sen- tence : " Palpebrarum autem casus ex humiditate fit acuta aut alopetia, et quidam fit cum palpebrarum grossite et duritie,