JAUNDICE. 08I SECT. L.] tight hypochondrium, it indicates that the ducts arc obstructed; but when without heaviness, weakness of some of its powers is indicated, either of the attractive, by which it attracts the bile from the liver, or of the expulsive, by which it propels the bile to the intestines. For when the blood is not purged of bile, it is diffused over the whole body (as we stated respecting the black jaundice); in which case the urine is voided very much mixed with bile. But jaundice is also occasioned by a hot intempe- raincnt of the solid parts, which convert into bile whatever is brought to them in place of food, in like manner as in anasar- cous complaints a conversion to a pituitous fluid takes place. This variety of jaundice is recognized by its not occurring at once but by degrees, none of the afore-mentioned symptoms being present. Moreover jaundice is occasioned also b}r drink- ing certain deleterious medicines, and by the external applica- tion of poison from some venomous animal. The cure of a hot intempcrament of the liver, and of inflammation of it, and of weakness of its powers, we have treated of under the head of the affections of it; and what we said there is to be applied here without alteration, that we may not be obliged to repeat the same tiling. When both the ducts of the gall-bladder are ob- structed, or either of them only, we must let blood from the right arm. But some, both in this case and in jaundice from inflammation of the liver, open the vessel near the middle finger of the right hand. And wc must use anti-inflammatory cata- plasms,' and purge with hiera. But persons affected with jaun- dice must take the propomata from a decoction of parsley, maiden-hair, or dock, or of wild thyme, reduced to a third part; or sprinkle wormwood on the potion. Two cyathi of the juice of radish, drunk with a cyathus of wine, is also of great use; also two or three cyathi of succory alone, and with wine. In cases of jaundice from inflammation of the liver, give a draught of mulse, or of a decoction of slender birth wort, or of St. John's wort, or of maiden-hair, or of fuller's Jierb, or of madder, in like manner; or a drachm of the shavings of hartshorn with wine, or the decoction of carrot boiled in wine to one third; or they may take a drachm of native sulphur in eggs. These things are of great use also in obstruction. But viij scruples of the seed of orachc, with Chrysattic, or any other uiust, if drunk when in the bath, effect a proper evacuation. But the picra