EPILEPSY. [book III. 376 SECT. XIII. ON EPILEPSY. Epilepsy, being a convulsion of the whole body with impair- ment of the leading energies, has its cause seated sometimes in the brain itself, and sometimes in its cavities. This is some- times a pituitous and sometimes a melancholic humour. The disease also sometimes arises from sympathy with the orifice of the stomach (as happens in colic affections, as will be stated when treating of them); and sometimes it is propagated from other parts, when a cold aura ascends to the brain, either from the leg or the fingers of the hand. It has also been seen to proceed from the uterus in females, at the time they were preg- nant, for after delivery it ceased. This disorder attacks mostly the young, more especially infants, and after them boys and adults; but least of all elderly persons and the old. Its pre- cursors are, an involuntary commotion, both of mind and body, despondency, oblivion of accustomed things, terrifying visions in dreams, headach, continued fulness of the head (especially from acute anger), paleness of countenance, and a distorted motion of the tongue, so that some even bite it. When it proceeds from the stomach, palpitation thereof goes before, with rumbling and aching pain; and when fasting, or during a delayed meal, they fall into a paroxysm. When the attack comes on they suddenly fall down, are convulsed, and some- times utter inarticulate cries. The characteristic mark of these cases is foaming at the mouth, all the other symptoms being common to other diseases. In certain instances the urine and faeces are evacuated involuntarily, and in some the semen also. In some cases, when the disease is very acute, it proves fatal speedily, by the continuance of the paroxysms, or the violence of the attack; but it is most frequently protracted, so that, if it be not removed by the attainment of manhood, by purging, or pregnancy, or if it invade after this period of life, it for the most part does not leave a man until death, unless removed by a suitable cure. The following substances are used to prove epilepsy, namely, the fumes of bitumen, or gagate-stone, or goats' horn, or the liver of a buck-goat when eaten, or the smell of the roasted liver. The cure. When the patient is an infant, we need not be