573 SECT. XLVIII.] DROPSY. rhcea, dysentery, and quartan fevers (dc Acr. &c.) Ho mentions Comm. a species of dropsy \\ hich lie calls the dry (Aph. iv, 11), which has been generally referred to tympanitis. See Littre (t. iv, 416.) In certain cases attended with dyspnoea he recommends venesection; and Galen in his Commentary states that these cases are, when the disease is preceded by suppression of the hemorrhoidal or menstrual discharges, or is connected with plethora. But no one, he says, ventures to bleed in tympanites or ascites. Hence A vicenna and most of the ancient authorities forbid venesection in dropsy, except under the circumstances mentioned by Galen. Galen says, indeed, in his work (de Venesect, ad Erasistrat.) that he had sometimes cured dropsy by bleeding; but it is not to be understood that he approved of it as a common practice. In short, he was no Sangrado, but had anticipated Blackall. One of his hydragogue potions is composed of cantharides. (De Reg. in Morb. Acut.) Hippocrates recommends us to perform paracen- tesis thoracis in the side at the third rib from the last. He also approves of paracentesis abdominis in cases of ascites; and directs us to burn the region of the liver, wdien that viscus is affected. He further approves of free scarifications of the testicles and thighs. He has described hydrops uteri, or hydrometra, a case which, although of rare occurrence, is occasionally met with. See Van Swieten (Comment. 1224) ; Vesalius (de Fabrica Hum. v. !)); Monro (Works), and Dr. A. T. Thomson (Paper in the Med. Chir. Trans, xiii, 1.) Galen gives a long list of external and internal remedies for dropsical complaints. (Sec. Loc. ix.) Ox-dung mentioned by our author was a common remedy in ancient times, according to Galen. Diogenes Laertius relates that the celebrated Heraclitus died lying in a bed of it. Upon the authority of Antonius Musa, Galen recommends a cataplasm containing elatcrium, stavesacre, and hyssop. He recommends a vinous preparation of elder. Pliny particularly commends this medi- cine in dropsy, and most of the ancient authorities make men- tion of its diuretic properties. Galen says that the liver is af- fected in all cases of dropsy. (De Locis, v, 6.) In like manner Stephanus, the commentator on Hippocrates, states that in all cases of dropsy the liver is affected, either primarily or sympa- thetically. Hippocrates refers one species of dropsy to disease of the parts situated in the loins, by which Galen and Stephanus