76 REGIMEN. [book i. that habit well, and escapes from diseases by having free per- spiration. Such a state of body is not to be suddenly changed to another habit, neither the mode of those who have long been in m health. But if constantly ill and plethoric, the indica- tion of cure ought to be by a healthful regimen, to supply mo- derate nourishment; or, if cacochymy was the cause, the indi- cation will be to supply proper juices. Those who suffer from fulness are to be directed when they go into the bath to use tac- tion, and to take some exercise, or, if they have already done so, to increase it a little, but to detract from their food, and use less nutritious kinds than formerly j but if from collections of bad humours, one indication of cure is not sufficient, because there is more than one kind of bad humours; for some have a col- lection of cold and pituitous, some of hot and bilious, and others of the melancholic. Every one, therefore, ought to avoid those articles of food and drink which are apt to en- gender that sort of humour which is collected. And m all these cases the common remedy is purging of the belly. *. Commentary. This is taken from Oribasius (Synops. v, 29), " who extracts it from the < Commentaries' of Galen. See also Rhases (Cont. xxxiii.) Galen and Rhases remark that persons who lead an active life, such as ploughmen and labourers, digest gross food more readily than any others; but that, their bodies being wasted by excessive fatigue, the vessels take up the chyle before it is properly concocted, and carry it over the system. Hence, such persons seldom attain to an old age, as their bodies get loaded with improper juices. SECT. LV. ON THE REGIMEN OF TRAVELLERS. In performing a journey, one will bear the fatigue best if anointed with oil, and by not making too violent efforts; and by having the body about the loins and to the hollow of the ribs, bound round, in summer, with a swath of a soft con- sistence, six or seven fingers broad, and in length not less than five cubits. A staff also is useful in a journey; for in going down a declivity it serves as a pole to support the body from