529 SECT. XUI.] DYSENTERY. reason why it may not be safely administered in injections. Rogerius, one of the earlier modern writers, speaks favorably of trochisks of arsenic, (i, 37.) Sprengel, however, decidedly con- demns the practice. He says of Athenaeus : " II recommandait dans la dyssenterie un lavement dont un melange affreux d'orpi- ment et de realgar formait la base/' (Hist, de la Med.) See Sect, xxix of this Book. Aretseus gives a very circumstantial description of the symp- toms of dysentery, but unfortunately his chapter on the treat- ment is entirely wanting. He describes all the varieties of ulcers, the superficial, the deep-seated, the irritable, the callous, and the like ; and the discharges from them, whether thin, bilious, fetid, devoid of smell, high-seated, or otherwise. Of the other authori- ties, Alexander may be mentioned as the one who has most correctly pointed out the importance of attending to the part of the intestines in which the ulceration is seated. The large in- testines, he says, are most commonly affected. He approves of bleeding in certain cases. His treatment is judiciously regulated according to the exciting causes ; and, in many cases, he pre- scribes gentle laxatives. One of the varieties of dysentery de- scribed by him is said to proceed from disorder of the liver, which is impaired in its attractive faculty. This variety he calls hepatic dysentery, which, instead of attempting to cure, as he says many do empirically, by a combination of aloes with as- tringents, he recommends to be treated according to the nature of the affection and the humour which produces it. His views of the treatment are given at great length Celsus gives a very distinct account of the treatment. He enjoins rest, as all motion proves injurious to the ulcers ; recom- mends astringent cataplasms, frequent washing with warm water in which vervain has been boiled, astringent food, injections of ptisan, milk, oil, the decoction of linseed, the yelks of eggs with rose-water, &c. For drink he directs tepid water to be given, either alone or with an austere wine; or, if these things fail, a draught of cold water to stop the discharges from the bowels. When the disease is seated high up, the belly is to be opened. Aetius allows the abstraction of a small quantity of blood from the arm when inflammation is present. He says it allays heat, produces revulsion, and induces sleep. His internal reme- dies are much the same as those of Galen. 34