sect, lxxx.] SUMMER FRUITS. 127 Paulus does. Galen mentions the method of steeping cliiches Comm. m water, and getting them to germinate before using them for food. Are the bons vivans of the present day acquainted with tins method of making peas tender and soft? The ancients were also in the practice of preparing these seeds for sowing in much the same manner. (Geopon. ii, 36.) See also Pliny (xviii, 13.) We are inclined to think that Virgil alludes to this prac- tice (Georg. i, 193) j but Dr. Hunter has put a different inter- pretation on this passage. The species of pea which grows plentifully in Sicily, and is called pisum ochrys, is said to hold a middle place as to quality. Rhases remarks that lupines, being bitter, are not properly articles of food, but medicines. They possess, he adds, little nutriment. Galen says that they are indigestible, and there- fore apt to engender crude hmnours. When eaten, he directs them to be well sweetened. Galen mentions that some took fenugreek, with fish-sauce, to open the belly. He says it may be eaten with vinegar, wine, fish-sauce, or oil. Some, he adds, use them as a condi- ment to bread. Rhases gives similar directions for using fenugreek. Galen likeAvise makes mention of the lathyrus and aracus, two varieties of the chichling vetch. He says they resemble in properties the fasels. The common vetch was scarcely an article of food. The sesame, that is to say, the sesamum orientale, or oily grain, as Galen remarks, is of an oily nature, and consequently heavy on the stomach. Galen speaks of linseed as having been used for food by peasants in Asia, but adds, that it is not eaten by more refined persons. SECT. LXXX. ON THE SUMMER FRUITS. The gourd is of a cold and humid nature, loosens the bowels, and gives little nourishment. The pompion is altogether a fruit of bad juices, cold, humid and emetic; and, when not properly digested, it occasions cholera. The seed of it is diuretic, breaks down stones in the kidneys, and is altogether very detergent. The squash has all the properties of the pompion in an inferior