ILEUS. 539 SECT. XLIV.] up; but after drinking it, dip bread in warm water, and give the hot pieces of it to eat. For those who cannot retain their food, triturate sumach and cumin together, and give to drink in oxymel to the amount of six cupfuls. Those who are attacked with ileus from taking deleterious substances are to be compelled to vomit by drinking warm water (the symptoms arising from taking any of the deleterious substances are detailed in the Fifth Book); and then they are to be made to drink warm oil, or fat soups, that they may again vomit; but, after a certain number of days, they must drink the theriac. If the constipation con- tinue, the belly is to be evacuated by curds and whey (schistori), with a little scammony, aloes, or some other purgative. If the complaint arise from the falling down of the intestine into the scrotum, we must put the patient into a reclining position with his feet elevated, and then we are to press the prolapsed intes- tine up to the groin, and retain it with a bandage. Commentary. Consult the authors referred to in the pre- Comm. ceding Section. Among other remedies for ileus, Hippocrates recommends in- flating the bowels by means of a bellows. (De Morb. iii, 15.) Aretaeus gives an excellent account of the disease, the causes of winch, as enumerated by him, are protracted indigestion of multifarious and unwonted food, a blow, exposure to cold, cold drink, and prolapsus of the intestine into the scrotum, or intes- tinal hernia. Some, he says, die from the violence of the pain, some from the conversion of the disease into suppuration, and some from blackening and mortification of the bowels. The symptoms are most accurately described. There is at first vomit- ing of phlegm and bile, but latterly of faeces; the pulse at first is rare and small, but before death it becomes very small, very dense, and intermittent. When inflammation is the cause of the disease, he approves of immediate venesection, so as to induce deliquium animi, which, he says, will, at all events, bring some respite to the patient's sufferings. If inflammation is not pre- sent, venesection may be omitted, and an emetic of oil and water may be given; and afterwards applications are to be used for promoting the discharge of flatus, consisting of sow-bread, nitre, salts, and turpentine, which last medicine is also to be adminis- tered in a clyster with oil, honey, hyssop, and colocynth; and