384 MELANCHOLY, ETC. [book hi. quent baths, and a wholesome and humid diet, together with suitable exhilaration of mind, without any other remedy, unless when, from its long continuance, the offending humour is diffi- cult to evacuate, in which case we must have recourse to more powerful and complicated plans of treatment. These cases are to be purged from the first with dodder of thyme {epithymus), or aloes; for if a small quantity of these be taken every day, it wiU be of the greatest service, and open the bowels gently. After purging, as we have mentioned, give wormwood, sometimes ma- cerating and boiling the herb in water to the amount of two cyathi, and sometimes diluting the juice with water, to the amount of half a drachm, and giving it frequently. Let them drink of the most acrid vinegar before going to sleep, and dip, for the most part, their condiments in it before eating them. But it will be better if to the vinegar be added squills, poley, or the slender birthwort. When you meet with an incipient case of the complaint, from sympathy with the general system (as de- scribed above), and the body is firm, you must, by all means, begin with phlebotomy, and after phlebotomy, when the strength is recruited, purge downwards, with the wild cucumber, and the composition from the black hellebore, and promote the hemor- rhoidal and menstrual discharges, if the affection be occasioned by retention of them. Diuretic remedies are likewise proper, as also evacuations by perspiration. But if the complaint arise from disorder of the hypochondria, we must attend to them, and foment them with a decoction of rue, dill, wormwood, penny- royal, the seed of the chaste-tree, and of the fruit of the bay- tree ; for these soothe the pains and diminish flatulence. They may be boiled in oil and applied; and the cataplasms of them ought to contain the remedies for flatulence, namely, parsley, or anise, or cumin; and it will not be improper to add cyperus, iris, and frankincense, to the cataplasms. These things are to be allowed to remain in general, even during the day, and whe- ther the patient eat or fast; and, when taken away, apply some other protection, such as a broad piece of wool. Use dry-cup- ping for flatulence, and cupping with scarifications for pains and inflammations. While directing your attention to the cure, you must not forget mustard, and apply acrid smegmata and cale- facient plasters to the back and belly. In chronic cases, the most powerful remedy is evacuation, by vomiting with hellebore.