SECT. XL1I.] 527 DYSENTERY. the juice of knotgrass, or of plaintain, with acacia, hypocistis, or the like. But, if this symptom be urgent, we may inject some styptic, such as the ashes of unwashed wool, or of new sponge, which has been soaked in liquid pitch, or the blood of an ox, or liquid alum; or it may be soaked in the juice of asses' dung in like manner, and burnt. And the trochisk of Andron is an excellent remedy, and that of Musa, and the like. But suppositories of collyria are among the most effectual re- medies, more particularly when the discharges are attended with pain. When there is a spreading ulcer in the intestines, which you may ascertain from the fetid smell and putridity of the discharges, and from its not having occurred at the commence- ment, but after some interval, we must use escharotic injections, such as the trochisks called Faustiani, that from paper, the Bithynian, the Thronian, and that from cork, injected in the decoction of dried lentils, or of some of the other astringents. And the following enema is of approved efficacy : Of burnt Omphacis (it is the cavity from which grows the acorn which the tanners use), of arsenic, of comfrey, of Syriac sumach, equal parts. Mix about tAvo spoonfuls of these when pounded to- gether with the juice of rice, and the juice of alkanet that has the thorny, broad, and black leaf (which they call chcerospelethron), and with the white of eggs, to the amount of two or three ounces; and give for an injection. Those epithemes apply which were mentioned for caeliac affection. And, in like manner, those li- niments to the belly which are composed of astringent and desic- cative materials, with some of the glutinous substances, gum, frankincense, taurocolla, fine flour, may have place with the cor- responding cataplasms. The food at first should be eggs mixed with milk, and the spoon-meats made from frumentaceous sub- stances, either alone or boiled with milk. And milk itself mo- derately boiled is an excellent thing. The use of pot-herbs is not necessary; however, we may allow the patients to taste of boiled endive, of succory, of plantain, of cabbage twice boiled, and of the autumnal fruits, such as are astringent, spitting out the fleshy parts, and whatever else will irritate the intestines. When the intemperament is very hot, we must give raw succory, and make the patients drink of cold water. The other drink should be rain-water; and, when the stomach is languid, wine may be taken. Afterwards they may take the drier and more