THE BREASTS. 505 SECT. XXXV.] of fine flour with linseed, or fenugreek with hydromel, or sesame with honey, or pounded butter. But we must interdict sucking of the breasts, because it only attracts more milk to them. lien the inflammation is on the decline we may apply the fol- lowing cerates : Boil beet in oil until it is softened, throw it away, but add to the oil a moderate quantity of wax, and use. —Another: Mix the red parts often raw eggs in a cerate con- sisting of wax, oz. iiss, and of rose-oil, oz. iv; stir with a spa- tula, and add as much salt water as it can receive, and then again stir with a spatula, and use. For hardness of the breasts, the composition from honey is applicable, and all emollient applications. When the swelling is converted into pus, we must use those applications which have been mentioned for parotis, and those that will be mentioned afterwards for apos- temes. From Archigenes, for spreading ulcers of the breasts attended with malignity. Of good Adriatic wine, xx sextarii; of the su- mach, lb. j ; of cypress balls, lb. j; of black galls, called ompha- citce, oz. vj; of cassia, oz. vj; when bruised, macerate in wine for ten days, then boil down to one half, stirring with a cypress spatula; then throw away the herbs; and when the juice is boiled to the consistence of honey, lay it up in a glass vessel. Use it for spreading ulcers, undiluted, or, if it is too thick, let it be diluted with wine. It is so made as to apply to spreading ulcers in the breasts, to runnings of the ears, foul defluxions from the gums, and dysentery. When diluted with milk it acts as a paregoric in soothing pain. Other kinds of ulceration of the breasts must be treated like ulcers in general. Preservatives of the breasts. Having pounded cumin with water, apply to the nipples, then lay upon the breasts a sponge squeezed out of oxymel, and bind it with a bandage. After three days, having taken away the cumin, put on a cataplasm of the bulbous roots of the lily upon the nipples, and having ban- daged it let it remain again for three days, and do the same three times a month.—Another: Apply powdered hemlock for nine days, and the sponge externally, as mentioned above; and after an interval of a few days repeat the same. The rubbings from the Naxian whetstone act as a preservative of the breasts of virgins.