GOUT. [book III. (370 to allay at once the violence of the pains, he, although he did not in general approve of this practice, would now give an ac- count of such remedies. For this purpose, he says, hermodac- tylus is particularly trusted to by some; and he admits that it seldom fails to remove a paroxysm, but affirms that it occasions more frequent returns of it. Some, he adds, have endeavoured to correct its prejudicial effects by adding to it cumin, mastich, or ginger, thinking that its action is narcotic; but this he affirms to be a mistake, for in that case it could not prove cathartic. He admits, however, that these things may prove useful by cor- recting its bad effects upon the stomach. He then gives various receipts for mixtures containing hermodactylus. As a specimen of them we may mention the first, which consists of hermodac- tylus, myrrh, pepper, and anise, to which scammony may be added. He recommends it, however, in general, to be given in the form of pills with aloes, scammony, elaterium, and colocynth. But, as mentioned by our author, instead of it he prefers the coronopodium. It is the same, we presume, as the coronopus of Dioscorides, or our buckthorn plantain [plantago coronopus L.), although the commentators are not agreed upon this point. (See Matthiolus.) Gesner supposes it a species of ranunculus, which he calls polyanthemon. Alexander then gives directions for various local applications of an anodyne nature, containing opium, strychnos, ceruse, wax, &c. We regret to say that so admirable a treatise should conclude with some frivolous direc- tions for curing the disease by means of amulets of approved efficacy ! However, the advocates of the Mesmerian system of animal magnetism do not hesitate to admit their remedial powers. On the periapta or amulets of the ancients, see Andreas Laurentius (de Marab. Strum. Sanat, 85.) Our limits will not permit us to do justice to the account of the gout given by Aetius. Like Aretseus, he maintians that the disease is hereditary. His general views of the nature of the complaint and his treatment are very plausible. He says it is occasioned by weakness of the part and a redundance of hu- mours ; that the proper treament therefore consists in evacuat- ing the humours by bleeding and purging, and afterwards in strengthening the part. Cselius Aurelianus considers arthritis, podagra, and chiragra, as diseases of the same genus. The usual precursory causes