[book III. 570 DROPSY. of the body is melted owing to its not being nourished. Some- times throughout the whole body a colder and more pituitous blood is collected, either coming from the liver, or deriving its origin from a melting down of the flesh of the whole body, which is as it were converted into water, so that the whole body appears white and pituitous like a corpse, and then the affection is called leucophlegmatia, dropsy of the flesh, or anasarca, being occasioned by protracted fevers, cachexia of the stomach, sup- pression of long-continued hemorrhoidal discharges, the female flux, dyspnoea, inordinate insomnolency, and similar causes. In treating these complaints, we commence generally with evacu- ation j but in ascites and tympanites it is by administering hy- drogogue medicines; and in anasarca by bloodletting, more especially when the affection is formed by retention of the he- morrhoidal or menstrual discharges, unless the patients had been previously bled for cachexia; and in this case, as in cachexia, the evacuation must be made at intervals. Then, having care- fully triturated the dried dung of an ox of the herd, boil it in oxycrate or oxymel, and sprinkling on it a fourth part of sul- phur, apply it over the whole belly; or, apply a cataplasm of goat's dung with the urine of a child, made of the thickness of bath-sordes. These things purge strongly by the belly; and we may use cataplasms made of leaven, dried figs, calcined lime, nitre, iris, cardamom, native sulphur, ammoniac, bay-berries, stavesacre, the dung of wild pigeons, all or some of these may be used with oxymel. After which the epitheme, called spon- gium, made of goat's dung, evacuates the fluids in a wonderful manner, both by the insensible pores and by the belly. After- wards we must apply desiccative plasters, that from willows, the Icesian, the barber's, that from bay-berries, the Poly archium, and that from seeds. And the following one is wonderfully effica- cious, for it fetches, as it were, the fluids from the deep-seated parts: Of the stone pyrites, dr. xij; of native sulphur, dr. xij; of ammoniac perfume, dr. xij; of cumin, dr. xvj; of nitre, dr. xij; add to a little wax and turpentine, and spreading it upon a piece of skin, apply to the whole belly. Let them take the pro- poma (liqueur) made by boiling the root of vervain-mallow in wine, or macerate the wild cucumber in austere wine, and give every three days, adding a cupful every day, until the dose amount to three cupfuls. The following is a very compound