4-11 SECT. XXIII.] DISEASES OF THE EAR. and apply as a cataplasm. Or this: Of bitumen, of frankin- cense, of aloes, of the flesh of snails, of African bulbi, equal parts, triturate with vinegar, and apply. When there is in- flammation, triturate with oily grain {sesame), or Avith chondrus boiled in vinegar, and apply as a cataplasm; but let the cata- plasm be light, and not bandaged at all, or but slightly; and let wool dipped in oil be introduced into the passage. On parotis. Parotis is an affection of the glands about the ears, being sometimes occasioned by humours from the head which are impacted in it, and sometimes by those collected from the rest of the body during the crisis of a fever. If it be deep- seatcd, and do not occasion a swelling, we may assist nature by applying attractive remedies, either by putting on a cupping- instrument or using frequent fomentations. For if the matter be determined inwardly, there is no ordinary danger; but, if it inflame and swell out to a tumour, we must, on the contrary, use soothing and digestive cataplasms, such as that from barley- flour, that from wheat, or from the flour of linseed with honied water, or boiled with the decoction of fenugreek, or of marsh- mallows, or of chamomile, and that from dock and axunge with- out salt. But if it appear that there is a fulness of blood, we must first evacuate by phlebotomy, if the strength permit: but if the swelling be not dissipated, we must use suppurative medi- cines, such as wheat-flour, with the decoction of dried figs and oil, and the application made from pollen and that from leaven. When the aposteme is converted into pus, we may evacuate it either by opening it, or produce its rupture by means of an acrid medicine, such as that called smilium, or that from garlic. The milder kinds of parotis are discussed by a fomentation of salt water, or the composition from Aperanus. This medicine is calculated to discuss the converted pus, and to prove very anodyne. For inveterate cases of parotis, we may apply the ashes of burnt buccinae, or purpurse, with honey or axunge, or figs boiled in sea water, or horehound with salts. Hard ones are softened by the composition of Mnasseus, and that of Ariobarzan; but one of the best applications is that formed from the juice of linseed. But before using these, we are to apply cataplasms of ammoniac, mixing with them liquid pitch, bull's fat, bdellium, storax, or hart's marrow.