THE UTERUS. 034 [book III. becoming completely stopped. This affection attacks most fre- quently in winter and autumn, especially young women who arc prone to venery, the barren particularly, if their sterility be brought on by medicines, and others of a cold nature. During the paroxysms, therefore, ligatures are to be applied around the extremities, and the limbs and whole body rubbed as for the re- covery of persons in deliquium animi. Things of a strongly fetid smell are to be applied to the nose, such as an extinguished lamp, castor, liquid pitch, gum vernix, burnt wool and rags. Some have even brought close to the nose a chamber-pot con- taining stale urine or fseces. It answers well to apply a cupping- instrument to the groins and hypogastrium, with great heat, either performing dry cupping or cupping with scarifications. When the complaint is protracted, carminatives will prove use- ful, such as collyria introduced into the anus, or cumin and nitre with honey. Hardened faeces may also be discharged from the bowels by means of clysters, lest by their presence they occasion pressure; and, in order to draw back the uterus to its situation, fragrant ointments are to be injected into the parts, such as those of marjoram and Indian leaf. Mustard may be applied to the nose and likewise to the feet, in the form of a cataplasm. One should call aloud to them in a shrill tone of voice, and rouse them thereby ; and sternutatories of castor, fuller's herb, and pepper may be applied. When the paroxysm remits we may compel them to vomit, and keep them from food altogether or allow them but little. After the seventh da}^ we must purge them with the hiera from colocynth. After the third, we must apply cupping-instruments to the loins and flanks, and then we may give a draught of castor, sometimes in a decoction of mugwort and sometimes in honied water j for in some cases this alone is sufficient for a complete cure. But hip-baths and emollient pessaries are also to be applied. Such is the treatment for the paroxysms; but for the recovery of the general system, we begin with venesection and proceed to purg- ing with hiera, and then give the medicine called picra from aloes to the amount of dr. j, with three cupfuls of honied water in succession, or dr. ij with six cupfuls at intervals. Dropaces, cupping, and sinapisms must also be used, and the acopa from cuphorbium; then exercises, friction, vociferation, and, last of all, the use of the natural baths.