122 FRUMENTACEA. [BOOK l' Greece in Ms time was the Pontic. It is curious to remark that Odessa wheat still retains its ancient character. I he nea- rest, he says, was the Sicilian, which, however, was lighter than the Boeotian. Pliny says that the lightest wheat brought to the Roman market was the Gallic, and then that imported from the Chersonese. The first in excellence, he adds, are the Boeotian, the Sicilian, and next to these the African Galen gives an interesting account of bread. The best kinds, he says, are such as contain plenty of leaven, have been pro- perly pounded, and exposed to a moderate heat m the oven. When exposed to too strong a heat, he properly remarks that a crust is burned on the outside, while the inside is left raw or improperly concocted. Unleavened bread he wholly condemns. Celsus appears to have had abetter opinion of it, for he ranks it first among those substances which do not spoil on the stomach. Of bread, in general, he correctly remarks, " Siquidem plus alimenti est in pane quam in ullo alio." Pliny and Galen de- scribe a soft spongy kind of bread, which would seem to have resembled that which we call buns. Pliny adds, that some nations prepare their bread with butter. He mentions a kind of bread called artolagani, which, according to Dr. Arbuthnot, answered to our cakes. Seth gives an interesting account of bread, but it is mostly extracted from Galen. Haly Abbas says, that the best kind of bread is that which is made from wheaten flour and salt, and is fermented, and heated in an oven to such a degree as not to burn the outer crust. Rhases disapproves entirely of unleavened bread. Serapion states that old bread is astringent. Avenzoar prefers newly-made bread, provided it has been cooled. Hippocrates condemns the eating of bread before it has been properly cooled. (De Duet, i.) He mentions only two kinds of bread, the fine and the coarse—autojnjrus. (De Vet. Med. 14.) According to Actuarius, the lightest kinds of wheat form the best bread for indolent persons, but persons ac- tively employed require the weightiest kinds. Unleavened bread, he says, is very indigestible. Bread prepared with oil, he adds, is very nutritious, but requires a strong stomach to digest it. See an interesting account of the various kinds of bread in Athenseus (Deipnos. ii, 26.) He makes the re- mark that the worst kind is the most laxative. Among the kinds of bread described by ancient authors may be noticed