[book Hi. JAUNDICE. ■>84 Comm. bile. When the biliary ducts are obstructed, the bile regurgi- ' ' tatcs from the gall-bladder, and mixes with the blood in the liver, whence it is carried all over the body. In this case the alvine discharges are white, owing to their not being mixed with bile. When the spleen is the seat of the disease, the skin is of a dark yellow colour. He maintains that jaundice like- wise arises from affections of the stomach and also of the colon, as digestion is partly performed in the latter viscus. But we must not follow out his description any further, as it is too long for our limits. Celsus having described the disease, directs us to cure it by abstinence for one day, and then by opening the bowels; if fever is present, the suitable remedies are to be applied, but otherwise scammony or bitters, such as wormwood, are to be given. Some, he says, cured the disease by attenuant food and diuretics, but Asclepiades rejected the latter, and gave salt water as a purgative. Celsus approves of a salt Greek wine, baths, and so forth. During the whole course of the complaint he directs the patient to use friction, and take exercise; and if it is winter to have recourse to the bath, but in summer to swim in the sea. He approves of all kinds of exhilarating sports and amusements, whence the disease, he says, has got the name of regius morbus. Isidorus, in like manner, says of it: " Re- gium autem morbum hide estimant dictum quod vino bono et regalibus cibis citius curatur." Pliny directs us to cure jaundice by producing perspiration with the root of the cyclaminus or sow-bread. Cffilius Aurelianus says that jaundice is brought on by indi- gestion, or by cathartic medicines which have been taken and have not operated. Sometimes, he says, it is attended with enlarge- ment or scirrhus of the liver, and sometimes, though rarely, the spleen and stomach are affected sympathetically. If the attack is violent, he does not disapprove of venesection; after which the sick are to be restored by soothing treatment, exercise, and food of easy digestion. The accessory symptoms, such as hardness of the liver, spleen, and stomach, are to be attended to; and the bile is to be carried off from the system by administering acrid clysters, and giving infusions of wormwood or wild succory. He also approves of sternutatories such as elaterium j of masti- catories given while in the warm bath, and of determining to