SECT. VI.] PHRENITIS. 361 and injections of oil, or rose-oil with the juice of ptisan. When watchfulness prevails, we anoint the head with rose-oil, or with vinegar and rose-oil; in some cases fomenting it with hot water; and we must give the medicine from the heads of poppy, unless prevented by the weakness of the patient's powers; and must have recourse to the other remedies for insomnolency formerly mentioned. Let the patient be laid in a place which is in a mode- rate state as to light and temperature, and let there be no paint- ings in it, for these are apt to excite emotions in such cases. Let some of his most beloved friends come in and converse with him in a suitable manner, sometimes gently soothing him, and at other times chiding him more harshly. His food at first should consist of honied water, and afterwards of the juice of ptisan, or spoon-meats formed from chondrus, with some sweet potion, such as apomel, or hydrorosatum, or rhodomel, or the sweet hydromel. But the vinous hydromel which is brought from Cebyra in small vessels must be rejected, as it produces more mischief than wine itself, especially in affections of the head and before concoction. We are also to administer bread that has been soaked in water, and succory, and boiled lettuces. Or, if there be much effervescence, they may be given raw, and also the medullary part of the cucumber, of the pompion, of apricots, and the like. They must be kept from cold water, more espe- cially if the affection be found to proceed from sympathy with the diaphragm. If their urine (as is likely) be retained, owing to their delirium, we must foment the lower part of the belly and bladder with warm oil and water, and then, by applying the fin- gers of the hand to the part, we must try to incite them to make water. We must also anoint the rest of the body with warm oil; and the patients are to be kept in a recumbent posture, for a state of quietude is to be maintained as much as possible; and, if they be rich, they are to be restrained by their servants; but, if not, they are to be bound with ligatures. For irregular motion is apt to produce prostration of the strength. And for another reason, too, the feet ought to be bound with ligatures after having been bathed, and friction applied to them, namely, for the sake of revulsion. But, if the attack be more protracted and difficult to remove, we must abstain from all narcotics ; and to the fomentations of the head are to be added things of a discutient nature, such as the juice of mint, or of wild thyme,