78 REGIMEN. 0OOK r' Comm. vinegar and water. He recommends little food bnt of good ^ nourishment j and forbids pot-herbs and fruit. With regard to the treatment of the feet, they are to be rubbed until^ they become warm, and then anointed with hot fragrant oils. When the feet have suffered from cold, some, he says, put them into cold water, and are thereby relieved, in like manner as con- gealed fruits are sometimes restored. When the water tor drink is bad, he advises to get it distilled. Haly Abbas gives very minute directions for the conduct ot travellers. Like our author, he advises them to gird the body with a swath or band, and to use a staff. He forbids them to begin a journey either fasting, or in a state of repletion with food. Exposure to the sun, he says, is apt to occasion hectic fevers, headach, consumption, and dryness of the body. He directs them to have the head covered. When hurt by expo- sure to heat, he advises cold water, or any other thing of a cooling nature to be poured over the head. After exposure to cold, he recommends the hot bath. (Pract. i, 31.) Rhases remarks that he had known all persons who had been exposed to great heat during a journey suffer from attacks of fever, except those of a humid and phlegmatic temperament. He forbids much food before setting out on a journey, and even approves of getting bled and purged, if the undertaking be severe. He recommends, if convenient, a bath at the close of the day; then the traveller is to eat and go to sleep. He and all the authorities quoted by him direct the body to be rubbed with oil before and after a journey. To preserve the eyes from the effects of snow and dust, he recommends them to be exposed to the vapours produced by pouring wine on a heated stone, or to those of chamomile, dill, or marjoram. To protect the feet, he directs them to be wrapped in cloths smeared with calefacient oils. When very hot, he cautions against swallowing much cold water at once, but recommends some cool liquid to be held in the mouth, and cold water to be poured on the hands and feet. He recommends travellers to chew pickled onions. During the prevalence of extreme cold he approves of drinking some hot wine before setting out on a journey. When the journey is over, he directs the traveller to go into a comfortable apartment, but not to approach the fire, nor enter the bath, nor allow himself to sleep during the space of an hour. After this he may go into