]14 POT-IIERBS. [book I- with oil, fish-sauce, and wine and coriander. Many of the au- thorities have referred it to the artichoke, but it seems to be now settled that no ancient writer has noticed it, with the ex- ception of Columella, who has given a very striking description of it. (x, 237.) We cannot decide positively what the cinara "dioscorides says, that the scolymus is eaten like asparagus, (iii 16 ) It is the scolymus Hispanicus, or Spanish cordoons. The hipposelinum appears to have been the smyrnium olu- satrum. See Hardum's note on Pliny (H. N. xix, 48) and Sprengel (ad Dioscor. iii, 71.) Dioscorides says it is used as a pot-herb, like parsley, its root being eaten boiled or raw, and its stalk and leaves boiled, either alone or with fish. It is not to be confounded with the smyrnium of the ancients, which is the smyrnium perfoliatum. Dioscorides says that the latter, when pickled, is used as a pot-herb, and is astringent. Galen says that the blite and orache are watery pot-herbs, and almost insipid. Seth, and the other authorities who no- tice it, agree that the latter is cooling and laxative. The blite is still much used as a pot-herb in Spain and Italy. It is the blitum capitatum. Xenophon mentions that the ancient Persians lived very much upon cresses, using them as a seasoner to their food. (Cyroped. i, 2.) According to Aetius and Simon Seth, they are calefacient and desiccative. Seth calls them aphrodisiacal. On the aphrodisiacal powers of the cresses and rocket, see Section xxxvi. The sion was probably the sium nodiflorum, procumbent water-parsnip. It was used as a substitute for the cress. Dioscorides says that the root of the dracunculus, or dragon- herb, is sometimes eaten as a pot-herb, both when boiled and raw. He mentions that the inhabitants of the Balearian Isles mix its root with honey, and use it at their banquets in place of cakes, (ii, 16.) Simeon Seth notices it by the name of tarchon, being a corruption from Tarragona. He calls it fla- tulent and unwholesome, and says that its leaves only are to be used along with mint and parsley. Galen and Rhases like- wise mention it as an article of food. The aron was a plant nearly allied to it, but one which it is difficult to determine accuratelv.