xvi EDITOR'S PREFACE. tion of his work; and Psellus does the same in politic verses of some elegance. All the medical authors, in a word, of the dis- tinguished Arabian period, quote his opinions in almost every page of their works, and never fail to recognize him as one of the most eminent of their Grecian masters. At the revival of literature in modern times, the Latin translations of the Arabians continued for a time to be the ordinary guides to prac- tice; but when the superior merit of their Greek originals came to be properly appreciated, our Author rose again into high consideration. As a proof of this, I may mention that the surgery of Fabricius ab Aquapendente is made up almost entirely from his works. Portal, therefore, had no good occasion for representing him as " one of those unfortunate writers to whom posterity had not done justice." I admit, indeed, that for some time past, since professional research and the study of ancient models have been superseded by a restless desire of novelty in theory and in practice, he has not enjoyed that consideration to which he is justly entitled; but, in this respect, he has only shared the fate of other names, equally eminent for their contributions to medical science, who have nowbeen suffered to fall into neglect. Of the Latin translations, which are very numerous, the most celebrated is that of Cornarius, published by Henry Stephens in his ' Medico Artis Principes;' which, however, after a careful examination, I have not found to be so trustworthy as I ex- pected to find it. There once existed an Arabic edition by Honain, or Joannitius, (see Choulant, Handb. der Bucher- kunde fur die Aeltere Medicin,) but of it I know nothing. The only part which has been translated into any modern language is the Sixth Book, a French translation of which was published at Lyons, a. d. 1539. Of the original there are two editions, namely, the Aldine of 1528 and the Basle of 1538, in neither of which is the text so accurate as could be wished. Banchory-Ternan ; Nov. \2th, 1833. F. A.