SECT. XXII.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. 419 wine, and anoint, or form into collyria. Some mix the gall of a goat with honey, and anoint with it. For pterygium, hypopyon, and dimness of vision. (From Onbasius.) Of the magnet-stone, of scraped verdigris (xyston), of reddle, of ammoniac perfume, of each dr. iv; of saffron, dr. ij j of Attic honey half a spoonful. It also answers for leucoma. For carbuncle and carcinoma. Carcinoma is an affection of the cornea, attended with pain, distension, redness of the tunics, and pungent agony, extending to the temples, more particularly if shaken. They loathe their food, and have the pain increased by acrid things. The affection is incurable, but may be alle- viated by a milk diet, farinaceous and otherwise wholesome food, devoid of all acrimony; and the injection of soothing collyria, such as the Spodiac, Severianum, and the like. We must pre- viously attend that the general system be in a proper tempera- ment. Carbuncle also is a malignant ulcer of the sloughy kind, forming sometimes in the ball of the eye, sometimes in the eye- lid, as in the other parts of the body. In cases of carbuncle of the ball of the eye, we must first evacuate with a clyster, and then purge moderately with boiled milk, afterwards foment with a sponge, and apply a cataplasm of the flour of tares, or of wheat boiled in honied water, or sometimes we may add pounded iris, and wash the eye with milk. If the ulcer spread, we may apply a cataplasm of lentils with honey or boiled quinces : if it continue spreading, we may use the boiled leaves of the olive, the rind of the pomegranate boiled in wine and pounded with honey. When the ulceration stops, and the eschar falls off by the application of the medicine about to be described, and the ulcers have become clean, we may apply a cataplasm of the roasted yelks of eggs, triturated with saffron and honey, until the ulcer is healed. The medicine is this : Of spodium, dr. iv; of myrrh not much toasted, dr. iij, and oboli iij ; triturate in Aminaean wine until it become dry, mix old Cretan sweet wine, and having triturated, lay up the liquid in an earthen vessel, and anoint with it. For carbuncles of the eyelids, having cut an acid pomegranate, boil it whole in vinegar, and, when soft- ened, pound and put it into a linen cloth, and use. Change twice or thrice during the day, and once during the night. On mydriasis. When the pupil does not appear changed in colour, but much wider than natural, and when it sometimes