CORYZA, ETC. [book III. 474 Comm. mends a composition of alum, opium, galbanum, and storax. ' He mentions lumbrici in the stomach as a cause of coughs. (Com. in Epid. iii.) Among the remedies mentioned by our au- thor, by Galen, and by most of the ancient authorities, we may remark the inhaling the fumes of certain acrid medicines, such as yellow orpiment and sandarach, or realgar, i. e. red orpiment. Whether the practice be safe or not we shall not pretend to de- termine; but, unquestionably, it is recommended upon high authority j and therefore it is not true, as has been often stated, that this practice arose from the mistake of confounding the gum juniper, or vernix of the Arabians, also often called san- darach, with the sandarach of the ancients, or realgar. (See Bree on Asthma, p. 231.) We refer to Aetius (viii, 61); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. ii, 33); Pliny (H. N. xxxiv, 55) ; Alexander (v, 4); Myrepsus (xli, 76); Serapion (ii, 19, and 24); and Rhases (Cont. viii.) The ancient veterinary surgeons used arsenic in fumigations for the coughs of cattle. See Vegetius (Mulom. iii, 67.) Platearius, a modern writer of the thirteenth century, recommends arsenic for chronic coughs, both in fumi- gations and taken into the stomach, and yet he distinguishes quite correctly the sandarach, or red arsenic, from the gum vernix. (De Simplici Medicina.) Some of the earlier writers on the venereal disease recommend fumigations with arsenic for syphilitic ulcers of the throat. (V. Aphrodisiacus, and Sect, xxix of this Book.) At the commencement of a common catarrh, Celsus advises to abstain " a sole, balneo, vino, venere;" but to use " unctione et assueto cibo." When the lungs become affected he recom- mends much friction and exercise on foot. He gives the follow- ing account of the origin of these complaints: " Destillat autem humor de capite interdum in nares, quod leve est; interdum in fauces, quod pejus est; interdum etiam in pulmonem, quod pes- simum est." The idea of the disease originating in the head and spreading downwards prevails in all the ancient descrip- tions of the disease, and, we may mention, is now sanctioned by the authority of the illustrious Laennec. See, in particular, Aetius, who copies, however, in part from Galen. Alexander devotes a whole chapter to the consideration of these complaints. He forbids diuretics, because they carry off the thin part of the humours and leave the thick behind. Be-