sect, lxxxv.] PARTS OF ANIMALS. I 19 The glis is mentioned as a favorite delicacy of the Romans by Varro, Pliny, Martial, Galen, and Ammianus Marcellinus. We learn from Varro that it was regularly reared for the table. (R. R. in, 15.) It is the glis esculentus or relhnousc. All the authorities agree that the flesh of the stag or roc is difficult to digest. Hence Rhases forbids it, except after hard exercise. Simeon Scth adds that, as in summer, stags fre- quently eat poisonous serpents, it may be dangerous to take of their flesh at that season. Celsus appears to have had a more favorable opinion of venison than most of the ancient authorities, for he ranks " onmis venatio" among the things which agree best with the stomach. Scth says that hare is sufficiently nutritious, if properly digested, but that it disagrees with persons of a dry temperament, and is apt to form melancholic humours. The poet .Martial also praises it extravagantly. Apieius gives many complicated receipts for dressing hares. Pliny remarks that there never is any fat on hares. (Hist. Nat. xi, 85.) Hippocrates says that their flesh is dry and astringent. Horace frequently praises the shoulder of the hare. (Sat. ii, I, 44.) In our days, the loins arc preferred. The cuniculus, or rabbit, was greatly esteemed in Spain, but does not appear to have been much used by the Greeks or Romans. Galen says the ass was eaten in times of scarcity, but was not a regular article of food. Xenophon, however, mentions, in the 1st book of the 'Anabasis/ that the flesh of the wild asses caught in the Syrian desert was most delicious. Martial also speaks of the wild ass as being tender. (Epigr. xiii, 97.) SECT. LXXXV. ON THE PARTS OF ANIMALS. The extremities are tendinous, without fat and without flesh* and arc therefore viscid, contain little nourishment, and arc laxa- tive of the belly, except those of birds owing to their great dry- ness. The snout and cars are gristly and indigestible. The tongue is spongy, full of blood, and gives little nourishment. The glands are sweet and friable ; and those of the breast are sweeter than the others, and, in particular, those of swine which are giving milk. These are no less nutritious than the flesh. The kidneys