224 FEVERS. [BOOK m f ^m, Flatus in the bowels may either arise from flatulent "rs "in the bow* or food dissolved into gases hv the heat of the parts. (De Excrementis.) "Catunt of *£ subject given by Haly Abbas (Theo, n£* and 10) is excellent, but principally collected from the Gieek "iters. An unctuous discharge, he remarks, is occasioned by I m Lg of the fat. If it be viscid at the same time, itm- dicates also a wasting of the principal members. A frothy K P-eeds from heat and flatulence. A indicates immoderate heat, and the presence of bile. Black discharges consist either of black bile, or of common bile b acktned by immoderate heat. This, he says, » the wors aupearal of all. If blood is discharged after the faeces it ^ be supposed to come from the small intestines; but; if Sre from the large; and if mixed with the feces it probably com from the intermediate parts. See also Alsaharavms Scor. ix), and Uhases (Cont. xxxi.) Rhases states that white feces arise from jaundice. When the discharges are watery, the nourishment of the body is stopt. The opinions of Hippocrates and Galen on this subject are correctly stated and explained by Prosper Alpinus (De Praesag. Vita et Morte segrot. vii, 11.) SECT. X1V. ON THE INDICATIONS FROM THE URINE. As concerning the alvine discharges, so also with respect to the urine j using that of healthy persons as a rule, we shall hence form our indications of that of persons m disease. That mine, therefore, is best, which is nearest to that of healthy per- sons Such is that which is at the same time of a famtish golden, or faintish saffron colour, and which, moreover, is moderate as to consistence. There are three varieties of turbid urine; for, either straightway after being voided it deposits a sediment; or it always remains the same ; or it is voided pure, but afterwards becomes turbid; of these, the thud is bad, the first favorable the second intermediate between them. That which is wholly unconcocted, being altogether watery, is symptomatic of diges- tion being entirely gone in the venous system; and when it is passed frequently, the disease is called diabetes, which is the