sect, lxv.] THE LUNGS. 93 on various .subjects, and at all events must be of considerable Comm. antiquity,) the doctrine of a gastric menstruum is discussed with angular ability. Metrodorus states, that "he found, by the writings of the physicians and philosophers of these times," that they make the menstruum, as they call it, whereby both appe- tite is provoked, and food in the stomach is digested, to be a certain juice or humour in the stomach," &c. Averrhoes denies that this menstruum acts by its acidity alone. SECT. LXV. DIAGNOSIS OP THE TEMPERAMENTS OP THE LUNGS. Not only does the stomach render us thirsty and otherwise, and excite a desire of warm and cold drink, but also the thoracic- viscera, namely, the heart and lungs, and likewise the liver. And drinking does not straightway allay the desire, but a small quantity of cold drink will rather allay the thirst than a great quantity of warm. Persons so affected are refreshed by in- haling cold air, which has no effect in alleviating the thirst of the stomach. Thus, also, those who are contrariwise affected, suffer sensibly from breathing cold air j this is the strongest mark of coldness of the lungs; but they also hawk up phlegm, and expectorate it with coughing. Dryness of the lungs is marked by freedom from excrementitious discharges and from phlegm ; and humidity, by being excrementitious, and ren- dering the voice dull and hoarse; and the recrementitious discharge is also very great when they attempt to speak in a louder or sharper tone. Commentary. The ancients were of opinion, that the lungs Comm. are an accessory organ, made to administer to the heart. " It ' v ' is the heart," says Aretaeus, " which imparts to the lungs the desire of drawing in cold air." And in like manner, Theophilus holds that the other organs of respiration were made for the sake of the heart, in order that its innate heat may be cooled, in- creased, and nourished. (De Fabrica Hominis, p. 89, ed. Greenhill.) The physiologists differed respecting the uses of respiration. Thus, according to Galen, the famous Asclepiades held that it is for the generation of the soul itself, breath and life being thus considered to be identical; Philistion, Diocles,