sect, xlvii.] SWEATS. 307 drinks, and by sleep. The sweats which occur in the decline of a fever are to be treated like the critical. Sudorific reme- dies are sufficiently treated of in the 48th section of the First Book. But when the sweats exceed in quantity they must be wiped off, and the covering of clothes lightened, so as to cool the patient. For, by exceeding, they occasion lassitude, and often bring on syncope. Let, therefore, the covering be light and moistened; let the air be cooled ; and let ventilation be used during sleep. Let the black myrtle, pounded, be sprinkled on the body, and gall, and the bark of the pine, in like manner. Let amber and polenta, with astringent wine, be applied to the proper parts; and let the face be sponged with oxycrate. Archigenes uses quicklime and the burned lees of wine in these cases, and for the rigor not succeeded by heat j for both, he says, when heated, become dry. He also orders us to bathe the middle parts of the body with the juice of plantain, or corian- der, or purslain, or cabbage, that they may obstruct the passages of the sweat. In sleep, pieces of cloth smeared with Cimolian earth, dissolved in water, are to be applied to the back and chest j and the whole body should be anointed with the oil of roses, or of apples, or of lentisk, or of myrtle, or with the cerates from them. But fatty substances are particularly adapted to them; for, by shutting up the insensible pores, they prevent the passage of the fluid. It is clear that dry food and mode- rately astringent wines are befitting to them j but much drink should be avoided, and, in particular, all things of a very liquid nature, and likewise frequent washings of the mouth. But, if possible, gestation should be taken in a cold state of the air. The extremities in particular are to be cooled by these means. For those sweats which are extorted by spasms and pains, tight ligatures, or fomentations, are to be applied to the extremities, and they may be relieved by gently rubbing with woollen cloths. Commentary. Hippocrates has delivered many interesting re- Com marks on sweats which occur in fevers. (See Epidem., Aphor., '—*" Prognost. passim.) Febrile sweats, attended with miliary erup- tions, are held to be unfavorable. " In general," he says, " sweats proceed either from resolution of the body, or the intensity of the inflammation." (Prog.) In general he holds that febrile sweats, unless they occur on critical days are unfavorable. (Aphor.) M.