SECT. IV.J 191 PROGNOSTICS. state of the hypochondriac region, the abdomen, the general Com system, sleep, respiration, and the excretions. We can do little more, in this place, than express our high sense of the value of the ' Hippocratic Treatises on Prognostics/ and re- commend the study of them to all members of the profession who would Avish to learn the true inductive system of culti- vating medicine. We shall give as a specimen of Hippocrates' and Galen's labours, in this department, a few of Galen's remarks on the causes of the symptoms, as described by Hippocrates. It is one of the prognostics of Hippocrates, that profuse perspiration in acute fevers is unfavorable; and, in explanation of this, Galen states that a critical sweat may in- deed be favorable; but that such as are profuse and conti- nued indicate a complete prostration of the vital powers. A fixedness of the eyes is said by Hippocrates to be a fatal symptom; the reason of which, according to Galen, is, that it proceeds from paralysis, or insensibility of the muscles of the eye. Hippocrates mentions it as an unfavorable symptom w hen the patient lies with his mouth open; and Galen attri- butes this symptom to the origin of the nerves, that is to say, the brain, undergoing pressure. Hippocrates states, that in- voluntary discharges from the bowels are an unfavorable symptom; and Galen justly remarks that they indicate great insensibility. The Prognostics and Aphorisms of Hippocrates are further illustrated by the learned and interesting Commentaries of Stephanus Sophista, Theophilus, and Damascius, which were published a few years ago by Dietz. From the nature of their works, it is impossible to give any satisfactory outline of their contents within our narrow limits. We shall merely give one specimen of them. It is stated in one of the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, that dyspnoea and delirium occurring together in fever, indicate a fatal termination. Upon which Theophilus and Damascius remark, that the one symptom implies disease of the heart and the other of the brain. (Ed. Dietz. T. H., p. 415.) Celsus gives an elegant translation of this part of the works of Hippocrates. The following is his version of the description of the Fades Hippocratica : " Ad ultima jam ventum esse testantur, nares acutse, collapsa tempora, concavi oculi, frigidae