APOPLEXY. SECT. XVIII.] 395 remedies, and use intense friction; but for the contrary state we must use relaxing remedies only, along with gentle friction. For the relaxed limbs, let the oil used for friction have a little nitre and dried lees of wine pounded on it. Let hot water also be strongly poured upon them, especially sea-water, in which have been boiled bay-berries, or the shoots of the chaste-tree, or marjoram, or the like. If it is in the summer season, let them also swim in the sea. But rubefacients arc particularly applicable to them, and therefore the parts may be whipped with rods, or nettle branches; but if the paralysis remain, the re- laxed skin between the joints is to be drawn up, and transfixed with small and slender burning-irons. To contracted limbs it is proper to apply constantly a calefacient plaster. On paralysis in particular parts. Paralysis occasioned by the division of a nerve is incurable; but when occasioned by an intemperament, or a certain humour, it is relieved by the common remedies already mentioned; but there are certain particular remedies applicable to each of them, which we shall describe below. Wherefore, in cynic spasms, the jaw is to be reduced to the opposite side by means of a muzzle. Detraction of blood from the vessels below the tongue will likewise be proper, as also cupping-instruments applied along the first vertebra, with masticatories, and purgatives administered by an instrument inserted into the nose. It is necessary to know that the jaw which appears to be distorted is not the one which is paralysed, but the opposite one. When the organ of deglu- tition is paralysed, cupping-instruments must be applied to the chin, and we must use the liniments made of castor, sagapene, and the Parthic juice. Acrid gargles are also beneficial. When the tongue is paralysed, we must open its veins, apply a cup- ping-instrument to the chin, and use masticatories of mustard, and exercise the tongue. When the organs of speech are pa- ralysed, apply the remedies to the chest, enjoin retention of the breath, and have recourse to vociferation. When the eyebrows are affected, anointing of the eyelids in like manner is of great use, and, at last, the operation by suture called anarrhaphe. When the bladder is paralysed, there is either retention of urine or an involuntary discharge of it. The remedies are to be applied to the bottom of the belly and perinseum, and clys- ters injected by the anus, consisting of oil of rue, or Sicyonian