THE LIVER. SECT. XLVI.] will emulgc the biliary ducts without occasioning irritation, and C everything of the opposite kind is to be abstained from. Where- "~ fore such things as are sweet and viscid are to be avoided, and only such as are detergent without pungency are to be allowed. Of this class are ptisan and oxymel much diluted. Astringents, such as pomegranates, are improper, because they occasion contraction of the vessels j and they are more especially to be avoided when the concave side of the liver is affected. When the convex is affected, these articles, being altered by the action of the liver before they reach the seat of the disease, prove less prejudicial. When the concave side is the seat of the disease, he directs us to evacuate by the bowels, which may be accom- plished by mixing with the food cnicus (carthamus tinctorius?) the herb mercury, &c.; but, if stronger medicines are required, black hellebore, colocynth, the small centaury, and the like, may be given. When the convex side is affected, he directs us to give diuretics; at first parsley, but, after the inflammation has subsided, the stronger ones, such as Celtic nard, valerian, spignel, &c. He animadverts in strong terms upon the practice of the Thessalian Asses, so he calls the Methodists. We regret that our limits prevent us from doing justice to the views of Aretseus. The liver, he states, is the grand seat of san- guification, being itself but a concretion of blood. Hence, he gays, diseases of it prove speedily fatal. He accounts for the pain which is felt at the top of the shoulder or clavicle in this way: the liver, being enlarged and becoming heavier than na- tural, drags down the diaphragm to which it is attached, and thus stretches also the pleura from its upper adhesions, whereby pain in the part is produced. A crisis, he says, may take place by a hemorrhage, a copious discharge of bile, or of urine; or the disease may terminate in suppuration, or in dropsy. When pus is formed, it may be discharged by urine, by the bowels, or it may point outwardly. In this last case, he recommends us to open it with an instrument red hot. When it does not sup- purate it is apt to end in scirrhus, which is marked by a dull pain in the part. His treatment of acute hepatitis consists of venesection, refrigerant and discutient applications externally, cupping or leeching the side affected, then applying cerates and emollient ointments, consisting of attenuants and diuretics, such as wormwood, elder, &c. The food is to be light, of easy dis-