SECT. II.] THE NURSE. 5 of spinning are proper. About the eighth month, which is the Com most critical period of pregnancy, the diet is to be more con- w tracted, and the exercise increased. If the bowels are consti- pated owing to compression of the rectum, by the enlarged uterus, laxative food is to be given, such as ptisan and mallows. In the ninth month the regimen is to be of a relax- ing nature, and for this purpose the tepid bath is to be fre- quently taken, for it has a great effect in rendering parturition easy. (Apud Aetiuni, xvi, 1.2.) Our author borrows part of this chapter from Oribasius, and abridges the rest from Galen and Aetius. SECT. II. ON THE NURSE. A nurse is to be chosen who is free from every complaint, and is neither very old nor very young. She ought not to be less than twenty-five nor more than thirty-five. Her chest should be large, as also her breasts, and her nipples neither con- tracted nor turned aside. The rest of her body should be neither very fat nor very spare. It is of great consequence to the child that his nurse should have brought forth but a short time before, and that her child had been a male rather than otherwise. She ought to avoid everything of a very de- siccative nature, and likewise such as are saltish, acrid, sour, acid, bitter, very heating, or of an offensive smell: also, such as are strongly fragrant, condiments, and such like acrid sub- stances. Let the nurse also abstain from venery. Let her work with her hands and shoulders, let her labour at the mill and the loom, and carry about the child in her arms. This may be done for three or four months. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. (Sy- Com nops. v, 2.) 1 Aetius gives somewhat fuller directions. He says, the nurse ought not to be younger than twenty, nor older than forty • should be free from disease, and have breasts neither too small nor too large ; for when the breasts are too large, they contain more milk than the child can manage : and part being retained spoils, and proves injurious to the child, and even affects the