n2 POT-HERBS. [book i. Comm. We now select from the dietetical writers a few remarks on L-^-J the most important articles of this class. Galen strongly recommends the lettuce as a cooling moisten- ing, and soporific herb. He relates that he cured himself of morbid insomnolency by eating liberally of lettuces. The sopo- rific property of lettuces is mentioned by Dioscorides Pliny, AtheLus, Rhases, Haly Abbas, Simeon Seth and most of the other authorities. It is even said by Simeon Seth and Floren- tine (Geopon. xvii, 13), that the juice of it when rubbed upon the forehead induces sleep. We need scarcely remark, that the lettuce was lately restored to its place in the Materia Medica as a soporific. Martial directs the lettuce to be eaten at the beginning of a feast (xi, ep. 53) ; Athenams at the end Atheneeus mentions that mallows are praised by the poet Hesiod. (Op. et Dies, i.) He adds, « Diphilus relates that mallows have good juices, smooth the trachea, are easily evacu- ated, and prove moderately nutritious." Damogeron says that when eaten with fish sauce and oil, they loosen the belly. (Geopon. 1. c.) Galen and Aetius state that they lubricate the intestines more than lettuce, but are not so refrigerant. In a word, mallows were in great repute with the ancients, as being inferior to none of the oleracea. Horace calls them "gravi malvai salubres corpori » (Epod. ii.) The poet Martial mentions them as being laxative, (x.) Different species of mallows were pro- bably used by the ancients for food, but more especially the Malva rotundifolia L. Galen states that the juice of the beet is thinner and more de- tergent than those of the lettuce and mallows. He says that, when twice boiled it becomes astringent. Apicius recommends boiled beet to be eaten with mustard, a moderate proportion of oil, and vinegar. Beet-root, according to Actuarius and Simeon Seth, is difficult to digest, flatulent, and laxative. Dioscorides and Diphilus, however, state that beet contains better juices, and is more nutritious than cabbage. Athen. (Deipn. ix.) Galen recommends its pickled roots as deobstruent in infarction of the liver and spleen. (De Alim. Facult. ii.) The wild succory and the endive or garden succory were much used by the ancients as pot-herbs. Galen briefly states, that in properties they resemble lettuces, but are less delicious. According to Simeon Seth, they are slightly cooling and moist-