sect, xxvi.] AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. 463 as alum with honey, chalcitis and the like. Sometimes, as he Comm. remarks, the uvula and parts there arc eaten down to the bone. ' " 1 Galen gives a long and very interesting account of these complaints intermixed with curious extracts from Archigenes. The general treatment consists of venesection, acrid clysters, and purgatives. The local applications are mostly of an acrid and austere nature. When the tonsils suppurate, Aetius directs us to open the abscess. He gives an interesting description of pestilential ulcers, which, however, is not very different from that of Aretaeus. He approves of bleeding at the arm, suppositories, clysters, liga- tures to the extremities, and so forth. The subsequent Greek authors follow him and Galen in their descriptions. Marcellus, the Empiric, recommends for swelled uvula various escharotic applications containing chalcitis, flos seris, alum, &c. Celsus delivers a brief account of ulcers of the internal fauces. He speaks in rather equivocal terms of warm cataplasms, fomen- tations and fumigations; but is, upon the whole, inclined to permit the use of them if there be no danger of cold afterwards. He very properly forbids such things as will irritate the parts. He does not approve much of gargles of vinegar, although re- commended by Archigenes, whom he calls, "multaruni rerum auctor bonus." He prefers emollient gargles at first, and after- wards repellent ones. The Arabians treat inflammation of these parts like the Greeks. Avicenna follows closely our author's plan of treat- ment. Mesne approves of bleeding, clysters, and so forth. Rhases mentions bleeding and gargles with vinegar, the water of roses, and other astringents. In inflammation of the uvula, Haly Abbas recommends general bleeding, gentle purgatives, and astringent gargles containing alum, pomegranate flowers, sal ammoniac, and the like; and when these do not succeed, he advises us to have recourse to the operation. (See Book Sixth.) Alsaharavius recommends a plan of treatment perfectly similar, and, like Haly, directs us to have recourse to excision when other remedies fail. Alexander Aphrodisiensis says, however,that those who have had the uvula cut off die of consumption; and attempts to account for the operation having this effect. (Probl. ii, 3.) Avicenna and the other Arabians make mention of the amulet recommended by Galen.