SECT. LXXYlil.] 123 FRUMENTACEA. the oxylipus mentioned by Galen (Meth. Med. viii, 5), which, Com as Manardus remarks, was prepared with vinegar. Another ^ kind, called vaaroq, was fermented with honey, dried grapes, &c. See Tzetzes (ad Lycoph. Casan. 640.) It is to be borne in mind that the ancients generally used leaven to ferment their bread. Pliny, however, mentions that the Gauls and Spaniards were in the practice of using yeast. (H. N. xviii, 7.) The zea, typha, and olyra of the Greeks, and the far and adoreum of the Romans, were all varieties of spelt, a species of grain bearing some resemblance to wheat; in short, it was the triticum spelta L. Actuarius calls it a light, and not very nutritious grain. The chondrus was prepared from spelt, by first separating the husks, and then breaking it down into granules. The alica was the same as the chondrus, with only the addition of a small quantity of chalk; and, indeed, almost all the writers on Dietetics, except our author, use them as synonymous terms. A more complicated method of preparing them is described by Pliny, and in the ' Geoponics' (iii, 7) Sprengel says that chondrus is what is called perlgraupen by the Germans. It was therefore nearly the same as the pearl- barley of this country, only that it was prepared from the grain called spelt, triticum spelta, and not from common barley. Galen, like our author, explains that a gruel, or decoc- tion from it, is unwholesome, as it thickens before it is properly concocted. Starch, according to Galen and Oribasius, is lubricant, and not calefacient like bread. They say that it is not very nutri- tious. Serapion gives the same account of it. Galen, Rhases, Haly Abbas, and, in fact, all the authorities, agree that barley is of a colder nature, and less nutritious than wheat. Polenta was prepared by first steeping the grain in water, and afterwards drying it at the fire, and grinding it down to meal. It was therefore a sort of malt. Galen, like our author, remarks that barley-meal sprinkled on wine and water, or water alone, makes an excellent beverage. Actuarius recommends barley-water as a diluent drink in fevers. Ptisan of barley was thus prepared : Barley was boiled until it swelled; it was then dried in the sun, and afterwards pounded and freed of its husk, and again pounded but not ground. This flour was boiled with fifteen parts of water, to which a small quantity of