DISEASES OF THE EAR. SECT. XXIII.] 139 without pain arc cured by the recrement of iron triturated with vinegar during the heat of the dog-star. To remove the hard sordes of the ears. Dissolve nitre in vinegar, and inject with water, and having wiped it dry, inject nitre dissolved in vinegar with rose-oil.—Another for sordes: Mixing cardamom and a little nitre with dried figs freed from their stones, make collyria, which put into the ear, and remove after three days. It brings away much sordes, and gives much relief. It also applies to fungous flesh, chronic pains, and ulcers. Or of aloes, of frankincense, of myrrh, of each, dr. j; of misy, dr. iv. Make a trochisk of it with vinegar, and, when you are going to use, dissolve it in vinegar and rose-oil, and inject. In the same manner the trochisks of Andron, Here, and that of Musa may be used. For chronic ulcers. Mix gum juniper with honey, and anoint. —Another: Blow in misy Avhat has been burnt and levigated. Before using those things which are injected into the ear, syringe it first with oxverate in owmel, or in mulse, or in a decoction Of some repellent article, such as dried lentil or roses. For bloody ears. Wash with the decoction of bog-rush, and inject the juice of knot-grass, with a little vinegar, or lycium, or lees of oil, or acacia, or the juice of leeks. For fimyous flesh. Wash nitre in hot water, and use with equal parts of flakes of copper and sandarach. Clean the eschars which are formed by it with honey. For vermes in the ears. Wash with a decoction of worm- wood, of centaury, or of leeks; inject the juice of the green leaves, or of the fruit of capers, or cedar-gum, or old human urine, or white hellebore with honey, or the juice of calamint, or scammony with vinegar, or the juice of wormwood. Oil poured into the opening of the ear, so as to make them ascend to the top, answers well. But a better application is vinegar and oil. It also applies to animalcules which fall into the ear. For calculi and the like ivhich have fatten into the ear. Having wrapped some wool about an ear specillum, dip it into turpentine- rosin, gum, or some glutinous substance, and thus draw it out; but if it does not yield, pour frequently warm oil into the pas- sage; and if it do not fall out or is left behind, use the other means to be described in the Surgical part of this work. On noises. If noises occur in fevers at their crisis, they ought