SECT, xcv.] WINE. i n Diaeta, n, 22, ct alibi); Celsus (ii) • Plinv (II. N. xiv and xx xni, 22, 26); Dioscorides (v) j Galen "(de Sanit. tuend. v, o, and de Alim. Facnlt. iii) . Oribasius (Med. Col. v and Euporist. i, 12); Aetius (i) • Athenams (Deipnos. i) j Macrobms (Satnrnal.) j Actnarins (de Diseta, 8); Simeon Seth (de Ahmcntis); Serapion (de Simplieibns, &c.); Haly Abbas (Theor. 30, and Pract. i, 8) ; Avicenna (i, 3, 2); Rhases (ad Mansor. m, 5, and Continen. xxxvii) • Alsaharavins (Theor. xin, 2.) Stobaeus gives an interesting collection of the opinions of the philosophers and poets. (Sermo xviii.) For an ample account of the ancient and modern wines, the reader is particularly referred to the late ingenious and classical publication of Dr. Henderson. See also Barry (on Ancient Wines), and Canonherius (de Adniirandis Vini Virtutibus.) ' From the works of Moses and Homer, we learn that the art of converting the innocent juice of the grape into wine must have been a very early invention. Eustathius informs us that, in very ancient times, the wines were all of a dark colour; and hence Homer applies to the sea the epithet of wine-coloured, mvoica tt6vtov. (Comment, in Iliad. I.) Achilles Tatius makes the same remark regarding the ancient wine, (ii, 67, ed. Salmasius.) However, in the time of Hippocrates, they had wines of all colours, as well as characters. He thus describes their general properties : Black and austere wines are of a drying nature, and are not laxative, nor diuretic, nor sialogogue. It is their heat that renders them desiccative, by consuming the humidity of the body. The soft dark wines are of a more moist- ening nature, and are more flatulent and laxative. The sweet dark wines are of a more moistening nature, but they are heat- ing and flatulent by imparting humidity. The white austere wines are heating, but are rather diuretic than laxative. The new are more laxative than the old, as being a nearer approach to the fresh juice of the grape, and they are nutritious; and the fragrant wines than those of the same age which have no bouquet because they are better concocted; and the thick than the thin. But thin sweet wines are more diuretic, laxative, and moistening, and form weak blood. Celsus ranks the "vinum dulce vel lene" among the " res boni sued." Sharp austere wine he places among the things which are most suitable for the stomach.