THE UTERUS. SECT. LXXII.] 639 about a discharge of the urine, in order that the uterus maybe freed from all compression, and then place the patient in asu- pme position, having her bottom elevated, her thighs bent, and her legs separated; and then take a hasp of wool, in figure and thickness resembling the female vagina, and this being bound round with a slender piece of cloth, and dipped in the juice of acacia, or of hypocistis dissolved in wine, is to be applied to the uterus, and all the projecting part pushed upwards gently, until the whole swelling is restored to the vagina; after which the pubes is to be covered externally with a piece of sponge squeezed out of oxycrate; and the woman is to be laid with her legs stretched out and applied so that the one may lie over the over. After this, cupping-instruments with much heat are to be fixed to the navel and the loins on both sides, and things of a fragrant smell applied. On the third dav, while the wool is still remaining in the vagina, let the woman sit in a hip-bath of dark-coloured austere wine slightly warmed, or in a decoction of myrtle, len- tisk, and pomegranate-rind. After these things, let the wool be taken away and another fold applied soaked in the medicine. Cataplasms are to be applied externally to the hypogastrium, of dates, polenta, or dried lentils, and pomegranate-rind with oxymel. And every third day let the same thing be done until the cure be completed. But if the prolapsed part cannot be reduced, and mortify in the course of time, we may take it away without apprehending any danger : for they relate that the whole uterus, having become mortified, has been taken away, and yet the woman lived. Commentary. This complaint is particularly well treated Comm. of by the Father of Medicine. He has even described the ' * case of a complete procidentia, when, he says, the uterus hangs down like a scrotum. Hippocrates directs us to make cold applications to the pudenda; to wash the part with an astrin- gent lotion, and restore it to its place. He afterwards gives directions to make the woman lie upon her back with her legs crossed and tied together; and if the disease be likely to re- turn, he recommends cupping and pitching of the hypogastrium. Celsus mentions prolapsus, and recommends for it hip-baths of salt or astringent, water, and local applications of a styptic nature after the womb has been replaced.