FEVERS. [BOOK 244 appearance. Neither does it answer to give food every day, but every alternate day will be sufficient. Rest and warm ap- plications to the hypochondriac region agree with them, also broths of easv digestion, and clysters not very emollient. And if detraction of blood be expedient, it ought by no means to be omitted. The nature of the diet ought not upon the whole to be cooling and diluent, but things of a more incisive nature ought to be added. They are particularly benefited by the juice of ptisan, to which have been added pepper, hyssop, sweet marjoram, and spikenard. Also, add pepper to honied water, boil, and give it to drink, and likewise everything which will promote the secretion of urine, except those things which are of a very heating and desiccant nature. In particular, after the seventh day, give Avormwood; and many have been benefited by drinking oxymel, and taking gentle laxatives. A vomit taken with food is very beneficial to those in whom the affection is of long continuance. Comm. Commentary. Galen explains that tertians are called spu- ' ' ' rious or bastard, when the symptoms assume an anomalous character. He states correctly that they are generally connected with disease of the spleen. His practice, which is consistent with his views of the nature of the attack, is similar to our author's, that is to say, he recommends venesection and fomen- tations at the commencement, and afterwards things of a hot penetrating nature, such as wormwood and pepper, which he, no doubt, gave with the intention that they should act as deob- struents. Here, again, Alexander cautions against the indis- criminate adoption of Galen's practice, affirming that these calefacient medicines sometimes prove dangerous, by increasing the inflammatory action. Almost all the other authorities, how- ever, adopt the views of Galen. See, in particular, Oribasius (Synops. vi, 11); Aetius (v, 81) ; Nonnus (de Febribus, c. v.) From the characters of the urine Actuarius infers that the spurious tertians are still more intensely bilious than the true, and consequently require longer time to reach their acme. (De Urinis, v, 15.) Avicenna recommends at first venesection and clysters; and afterwards deobstruent medicines, such as wormwood and pepper. Haly Abbas treats spurious tertians like true, at the commencement. After their acme, he strongly