SECT< Lxin.j THE BRAIN. 87 SECT. LXII. ON THE FORM OF THE HEAD. A small head is the peculiar mark of a faulty configuration of the brain, but a large is not necessarily a good one; for if occa- sioned by the strength of the vital powers of the part fcibricating an abundant and proper material, it is a good sign; but if occa- sioned by the quantity of matter alone, it is not good. We must judge of heads then from their shape, and from the processes which arise from them : from their shape, if well formed, for that is always a good sign; and from the processes of the brain, if they be in their proper state, and if the nervous parts be all properly nourished, have their suitable tone, and if the sight be acute. Sharp heads are defective in the protuberance of the front or hind-head, or else it is unnaturally increased. Now, in most cases we shall find that these last, like the large, are faulty, and yet some of them, though rarely, are good, the forma- tive principle being strong. Com \i i:\t.y ry. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Synops. Comm. v, 45); Aetius (iv, G3); or direct from Galen (Ars Med. c. 6.) L~v~J Psellus, like our author, remarks, that a small head, by con- tracting and binding, as it were, the brain, is necessarily a bad formation; whilst a large head, if it arises from excess of the natural powers, is good; but if it is occasioned by a collection of superfluous matter, the contrary. We would refer, in this place, to the curious account of the Macrocephali given by Hippocrates in his treatise 'On Airs/ &c. (§ 14), and to the in- teresting remarks in the same by M. Littre (t. iv, p. xi.) SECT. LXIII. THE MARKS OF THE TEMPERAMENT OF THE BRAIN. A brain of the proper temperament has its vital energies and excretions moderate, and is not liable to be affected by any ex- ternals. Such persons, when infants, have the hair of their head somewhat tawny—when boys, yellowish—and when adults, a bright yellow; being also intermediate between the curly and the straight, and they do not readily fall out. When the tem- perament is hotter than moderate, all the parts about the head