255 CONTINUAL. SECT. XXVII.] same terms as our author, and distinguishes them from the Comm. svnochi. 1—«—1 Alexander states that the continual fevers {ovvs^vIq) differ from the intermittents, solely from the humours which occasion the former being of a thicker nature. Our author's account is nearly copied word for word from Oribasius. Actuarius remarks that the synochus proceeds from an ebul- lition of the blood, and the continual fever (aw^c) from pu- trefaction of the different humours. Nonnus states very distinctly the difference between the sy- nochus and continual fever. In the latter, he says, there is an incomplete remission of the febrile symptoms, but in the former there is no remission at all. Synesius and Constantinus Africanus adopt the distinction between the synochus and continual fever, as stated by Galen. Leo says, a continual fever has no intermission, but merely a remission and abatement of the fever in the decline of the paroxyms. Celsus, although he does not describe the febres continue particularly, seems to allude to them in the following account of the quotidians : " Rursus alise sic desinunt, ut ex toto sequa- tur integritas; aliae sic, ut aliquantum quidem minuatur ex febre, nihilominus tamen quaedam reliquiae remaneant, donee altera accessio accedat; ac sajpe alise vix quidquam aut nihil remittant, sed ita ut continuent." In the works of Rhases, the distinction between the continual and synochous fevers is clearly pointed out. He states that the synochus, or continens, is a fever which consists of one paroxysm from beginning to end; whereas the continual, called owz^q by the Greeks, and/, continua by the Romans, is allied to the intermittents. In the barbarous translation of Alsaharavius, there is some difficulty in recognizing this distinction. He first describes a fever, which he denominates synocha, which arises, he says, from inflammation of the blood, and is marked by redness of the face, headach, and difficulty of breathing. Second, nearly allied to it is the synochus or februs continua (it ought to be /. conti- nent), which arises from putrefaction of the blood. Third, the febris quotidiana, the febris tertiana continua, and the febris