5.12 THE STOMACH. [book hi. Horatianus (ii, 16); Marcellus (de Med. 20); Avicenna (m, 13, 1 2, 3); Serapion (i, 1); Avenzoar (i, 15); Averrlioes (Collig. v, 54); Haly Abbas (Pract. vii, 2, Theor. ix, 24); Alsabaravius (Pract. 16); Rhases (Divis. 59, Contin. xi.) To all these authors, almost every one of whom has treated of these complaints more fully than Paulus, or upon a different plan, it is quite impossible for us to do justice within the nar- row limits to which we confine ourselves in these annotations. We shall, therefore, direct our attention principally to Celsus, and merely add a few remarks from the others. The stomach, he says, is affected by great heat, inflation, inflammation, and ulceration; by phlegm or bile; and by resolution, which is a common and fatal complaint. Heat is to be cured by cold ex- ternal applications, such as vinegar and roses, along with cold drink. Inflation we shall see treated of in the next Section. Inflammation which is attended with pain is to be treated by rest, abstinence, sulphurated wool, and wormwood, when fasting. If attended with ardor, he prescribes cold and repellent appli- cations, occasionally exercise, and a fuller diet. Ulceration is to be cured by exercise, friction of the extremities, smooth and glutinous food, and avoiding every thing that is acid and acrid. Redundance of phlegm is to be treated by emetics, exercise, fric- tion, hot drink, and hot food. When bile prevails he recom- mends laxatives, potions of wormwood, gestation, or a sea-voy- age ; emetics, if they can be conveniently borne, and suitable food, so as to avoid indigestion. Resolution, he says, is a severe affection of the stomach, when it cannot retain the food, and the body wastes. The bath, he says, is useless, but exercise of the upper parts of the body peculiarly proper. He recommends pouring cold water on the stomach, swimming in the same, and living on cold food, rather such as is difficult to digest than what will readily spoil on the stomach. Hence, he says, some digest beef. Undiluted austere wine, either cold or very hot, is proper. If there is vomiting with pain, he directs us to apply over the stomach, wool or sponge soaked in vinegar, or cold cataplasms; or, if the pain be more severe, a cupping-instrument; then bread which has been steeped in cold diluted wine is to be given. If this is not retained, some smooth article of food not disagree- able to the stomach is to be administered; and, if this be not retained, a cupful of wine is to be taken every hour until the