270 FEVERS. [b«ok "• Comm. sity of ascertaining whether the hectic fever and marasmus be ~^ connected with chronic inflammation of any internal organ, such as the stomach, mesentery, colon, liver, kidneys, womb, lungs, or diaphragm, in order that the remedies may be applied to the seat of the disease. We need not go over the practice of the subsequent Greek authors, as they follow servilely the doc- trines of Galen. According to Avicenna, the great indications of cure are dilution and refrigeration. To the class of refrigerant remedies he refers barley-water, the milk of asses, and trochisks of cam- phor, with cooling epithemes and ointments. To the class of diluents he refers the bath, about the administration of which he is very particular. He directs us to use the tepid bath at first, and gradually bring the patient to bear the cold. When it can be borne, he says, the cold bath should be taken imme- diately after the hot. He also speaks favorably of the affusion of tepid water. Haly Abbas directs us, when the symptoms of consumption are fairly set in, to administer before sunrise trochisks containing camphor, poppies, &c. to mitigate the cough. Like most of the other authorities, he speaks favorably of the milk of asses and of women for food. But, upon the whole, his greatest depen- dence seems to have been upon camphor. (Pr. iii, 26.) Alsaharavius directs us first to make the patient go into the warm bath, and immediately afterwards to plunge him into the cold. (Pract. xxxii.) What Avenzoar most particularly recommends is the tepid bath of fresh water, which he directs to be taken several times in the day. He speaks favorably of goat's milk, (iii, 1, 13.) Averrhoes recommends nearly the same practice; but he says that the bath ought to be gradually applied. He approves of the milk of women, asses, and goats, and also of refrigerant herbs. (Colliget. vii, 15.) Serapion is very minute in his directions about the asses' milk. He says the animals should be fed upon juicy and cool- ing herbs, such as grow by the side of rivers. He also directs us to medicate the bath, by previously boiling in it refrigerant herbs, such as gourds, barley, and violets, (vi, 11.) Rhases' directions, although they possess, perhaps, little originality, are in the highest degree interesting. He recom-