sect. lxxii.J DRY INTEMPERAMENTS. 105 without being heating. But when the humid intemperament alone prevails, such articles of food as are desiccant, without heating or cooling much are beneficial, and also abstinence from the common drinks. When the humid intemperament is joined with the cold, the best remedies are all acrid things, and they ought to be mixed with such things as are astringent, without being decidedly refrigerant. The drink should be in small quantity, and consist of some of the strongly heating wmes. These are the modes of curing intemperaments pro- ceeding from qualities. But since a humour contained within the cavity of the stomach, or being absorbed within its coats, often occasions intemperaments, it will be proper to treat also of these affections. If the former state occur at once, it may be easily removed by emetics • but if it be a defluxion, the parts it comes from will require very attentive consideration, and the cure will follow, of course; for it is to be applied entirely to the affected part j and of the other parts, we need only take care that they be not thereby affected. The cure is to be per- formed by astringents, and such things as will bring the whole body to its proper habit. Depraved humours in the coats of the stomach are to be evacuated by moderately cathartic medi- cines, such as aloes, and the powder prepared from it, called Picra. When a viscid phlegm is contained in the stomach, such persons ought first to take those things which will cut it, and then it may be purged off", or evacuated by vomiting with radishes. When the humour is neither viscid nor thick, a vomit from ptisan, or that from honied water, may be sufficient. The juice of wormwood with honied water may also be drunk. In like manner, intemperaments in other parts may be cured, by finding out the evacuation suited to the humours ; or, if the part has no sensible discharge, the prevailing matters and humours may be evacuated in the forjn of vapour; and in like manner, if it proceed from flatulence. Commentary. Galen supplies all the matter of this Sec- Comm. tion. (1. c.) 1—«—1 The modern ideas respecting the temperaments, appear to be founded upon the descriptions given by the Arabians of the symptoms which characterize the prevalence of the four humours, as they were called, namely, blood, yellow bile, black bile, and