EMPYEMA. [book hi. 492 the concoction of the abscess, which may be attempted by fo- menting with sponges, and applying cataplasms made of barley- flour, with dried figs boiled, some rosin, pigeon's dung, nitre, and mallows. The rupture of the abscess is promoted by lying upon the side which is not affected. Let them drink at intervals honied water, and the juice of ptisan with honey. Those who are stronger may likewise drink the decoction of hyssop and thyme with honey. Eating pickles also forwards the breaking of the abscess, and likewise the pills from the colocynth hiera, taken at bedtime. "When the pus begins to be discharged, give again the decoction of hyssop, iris, and liquorice boiled in honied water, or liquorice triturated with sesame; and apply a cataplasm of fine flour, boiled in honied water and oil. When the ulcera- tion is difficult to cleanse, we must use the compound remedies, such as that from horehound, either the simple or the compound one; that from tares j and those called dodecatheon, and the medicine named from Philoxenus. When it is converted into phthisis, we may give the headed leek, dissolved in draughts of chondrus or ptisan, and let them be twice boiled, and given by themselves. Let the water which is drunk be rain, and honied water made from it. At the beginning of the remissions apply cataplasms of linseed and fine flour, with the decoction of fenu- greek, or mallows, oil, honey, and the leaves of marshmallows. In process of time we may have recourse to cerates, such as those from butter, oil of privet, oil of bays, and iris. The plaster of Mnasseus is also to be used. When there is a defluxion upon the chest, that made of willows may be applied to it. They may also take the simple propoma, mentioned already for empyema, and some of the compound ones. When a violent cough pre- vails, mix thyme and hyssop along with the juice of liquorice, in well boiled honey; and, having formed them properly, give to be retained under the tongue. The antidote of Mithridates, at intervals, will likewise suit with them, as also that from vipers. But the best remedy is the Armenian bole taken in a draught, and the antidote esdra is not at all inferior to those aforesaid. Comm. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, ii, 45; Coacse ~^ ' Prsenot. et alibi); Galen (Meth. Med. v) ; Aretaeus (Morb. Chron. i, 8) ; Aetius (viii, 75) ; Oribasius (Synops. ix); Alex- ander (vii, 2, 3, 4); Leo (iv, 10) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 4,