skct. lxvi.] THE UTERUS. 625 for the fluid which is discharged varies in its qualities. When the ulcer is inflamed, the discharge is small, bloody, or feculent, with great pain; but when the ulcer is foul, the discharge is in greater quantity, and ichorous, with less pain. When the ulcer is spreading, the discharge is fetid, black, attended with great pams, and other symptoms of inflammation; irritation is pro- duced by relaxing medicines, and relief by the opposite class. When the ulcer is clean, the fluid is small in quantity, consistent, without smell, thick, white, with an agreeable sensation. When the ulcer is inflamed, we must use those things recommended for inflammations. When it is foul, we must inject the juice of ptisan with honey, or basilicon ointment with the oil called Susinum; or honied water, having fenugreek, mallows, bran, or lentil with- out its husk, boiled in it j and in order to clean it the more, horehound or vetches may be added; or mixing with honey the flour of vetches, or iris, or round alum, or the like, we may inject them; and externally we may apply cataplasms of the same things mixed with honied water. And this medicine is particularly ap- plicable : The finest saffron is triturated with a woman's milk, and being added to rose-cerate with the grease of a goose, is rubbed upon flocks of wool. But the following is a more effectual application, and one proper for violent pains : Poppy-heads are mixed in diluted must for three days, and then boiled until they become soft; then rose-leaves, dr. v, and saffron, dr. iij, are pounded together, and the decoction of the poppy-heads mixed with them; then wax, dr. ij, melted with rose-oil, are poured on them, and applied on a pessary, anointing with rose-oil. The same good effects may be derived from the preparation of eggs, saffron, rose-oil, the grease of a goose, and stag's marrow. And the Egyptian ointment without the verdigris answers admirably for the cure of ulceration. When the ulcer is spreading and attended with inflammation, we must apply a cataplasm of warm bread mixed with hydromel, oil, marshmallows, fenugreek, and fatty dates. We must inject also the juice of plantain, of night- shade, of knotgrass, and of endive, first by themselves, but after- wards with austere wine or vinegar. When the ulcer spreads and is without inflammation, we may inject more tonic remedies, such as the decoction of pomegranate-rind, of roses, of olive shoots, of cypresses, of quinces, of bramble, of myrtles, of len- tisk, of buckthorn, of sumach, in astringent wine, and afterwards 40