655 sect, lxxvii.] ISCIIIATIC DISEASE. joint being dried up by exposure to the sun. It is accom- Comm. panied, he justly remarks, with pain of the loins and vcrtebr* of the back, shooting down even to the knees. A sharp hot pain, he adds, is frequently seated in the groins. Upon any motion the most piercing cries are extorted. (De Dieb. Judic. 6.) In ischiatic disease Galen recommends general bleeding, and most especially, emetics, which, he says, by occasioning a de- termination upwards, operate more beneficially than purgatives in this complaint. He disapproves of acrid embrocations, but approves of cupping. He also allows stimidant clysters of colo- cynth. He gives a long list of local applications from Andro- machus, Asclepiades, and Democritus. He makes mention of the Iberian herb ; for further information respecting which we refer the reader to Matthiolus (ad Dioscorid. i, 147), and Bernard (ad Nonni Epit. 215.) It Avas the Lepidium Iberis. He recom- mends, in certain cases, the part to be beaten with rods. (Meth. Med. xiv, 16.) See also Pseudo-Dioscorides. (Euporist. i, 240.) Celsus says that morbus coxarius is a painful complaint and difficult to cure. He recommends warm cataplasms and fomen- tations, with various applications of an emollient or stimulant nature. If inflammation come on, cupping-instruments with scarifications are to be applied; diuretics are to be given; and the belly is to be opened if constipated. He also approves of fric- tion, and even of forming issues by burning with a red-hot iron. Various methods of performing the operation of burning are detailed by Aetius, as will be explained in the Surgical part of this Work. Cselius Aurelianus gives a long and interesting account of this complaint. Among the symptoms he mentions the lengthen- ing and shortening of the limb, the wasting and paralysis of it. The periosteum, he says, is principally affected, but likewise the heads of the muscles. He correctly states that, when the com- plaint is protracted, collections are apt to form in the joint. He approves of the emollient treatment, the application of wool dipped in sweet oil, fomentations, and bleeding from the arm. He recommends gentle purgatives and clysters, but condemns the use of drastic cathartics, such as scammony, hellebore, and the like; because, he says, they occasion irritation. When the pains are protracted he approves of scarifications and leeching, after which the vapour of sponges squeezed out of hot water