479 SECT. XXIX.] ASTHMA. the cold bath. His description of humid asthma is very striking, Comm. and has been commended by late authorities on the subject. ^ ' The sounds within the chest are thus described : " stridor, atquc sibilatio pectoris, cum vocis debilitate." Cassias discusses the question why there is a sibilant murmur in cases of orthopncea, and decides that it is because the affec- tion is a contraction and falling-in of the cells of the lungs, and the breath rushing through a narrow passage produces this mur- mur. (Prob. 82.) Serapion recommends friction, exercise, squills, fumigations with arsenic, &c. Mesue also recommends arsenic in various forms. Avicenna's account is particularly full and judicious. He properly remarks that asthma is sometimes connected with derangement of the heart, liver, and stomach. Like the others, he approves of arsenic, both in pills and in solution. Haly Abbas, like Galen, refers asthma to a collection of gross phlegm about the cells of the lungs. His remedies arc of an attenuant and incisive nature, and he particularises the vinegar of squills. He cautions asthmatics to beware of indigestion, and, therefore, forbids exercise after food, but recommends it before a meal. After exercise he enjoins hard friction, no doubt with the intention of favouring the cutaneous perspiration. Rhases commends squills and the tepid bath. Like the others, he approves of inhaling the vapours of arsenic. Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, recommends squills with wine, assafcetida, and oil, for these complaints in cattle. Respecting the use of arsenic in asthma, Prosper Alpinus re- marks : " Prseterea audent aliqui arsenicum summe exitiale venenum illis exhibere. Narrant quidam nepotem patris fratri decrepito orthopnoico, ut eum interimeret, clam in ferculo ex cucurbita parato porrexisse arsenicum, eoque non modo non in- terimisse decrepitum, verum et ab asthmate prorsus sanassc." (De Meth. Med. x, 13.) He states further, by the way, both in that work and in the one " de Medicina iEgyptiorum," that the Egyptians were in the practice, for the cure of asthma, of applying cones of cotton to the breast, and setting them on fire. Fracastorius) who recommends this practice of imbibing the fumes of arsenic, for contagious phthisis, speaks of it in the fol- lowing terms : " Nonnulli antiquorum jubent Sandaracae nido- rem per anhelitum in pulmones train : quum autem Sandara-