243 TERTIAN. SECT. XXI.] Synesius recommends cooling articles, such as damascenes, Comm. gourds, &c. but says nothing of wormwood. Constantinus Africanus also omits to make mention either of wormwood or the tepid bath. He, however, pours water on the head and puts the feet into hot water. Serapion directs emetics, if the matters are determined to the stomach, and clysters, or gentle purgatives, if to the bowels. He recommends myrobalans afterwards, and then wormwood, but not until the morbific matter is concocted. (Tr. vii, 13.) Rhases recommends gentle and cooling purgatives, with re- frigerant and diluent drinks, containing sorrel, cucumber, cam- phor, &c. (Ad Mansor. x, 4.) Avicenna's directions are exceedingly minute, and seemingly V0lT judicious. He cautions against using drastic purgatives, and expresses himself doubtfully of the effect of venesection. His practice consists principally in the administration of gentle purgatives, diluent and refrigerant medicines. He approves of pomegranates, plums, and water-melons. Averrhoes lays down the same .principles of practice. (Collig. vii, 11.) Haly Abbas states that, as it is the nature of these fevers to occasion heat and dryness of the body, they are to be treated with diluents and refrigerants. Agreeably to these principles, he directs us to give clysters and gentle laxatives, to use the tepid affusion, and the like. (Pract. iii, 12.) Alsaharavius recommends simi- lar treatment. Rhases, like Haly, recommends refrigerants and diluents. He approves of cooling purgatives, such as a combi- nation of myrobalans and scammony, or a draught made from prunes and manna. He speaks favorably of emetics. Several of his authorities recommend the bath, and others approve of wormwood. (Contin. xxx.) It will be remarked that many of the ancient authorities re- commend the tepid bath for the cure of tertian intermittents. Prosper Alpinus informs us that he had seen this practice suc- cessfully pursued by the Egyptian physicians. (De Med. iEgypt.) SECT. XXI. THE CUKE OF SPURIOUS TERTIANS. It does not suit with spurious tertians to bathe at the com- mencement, nor until symptoms of concoction have made their