m FEVERS. , [book C0MM.the 9tomacb is loaded, ^^^f^^T^e -v-> by emptying the veins, the distribution of the arodiboi.Hi S -11 be accelerated. When ^^f^J^L ■hodial discharge is expected, he directs us to bleed less prolu el^ than otherwise. Persons of a W sanguine, -d co-pact habit of body are said to bear bleeding best. venesection, he directs the physician to V^ove^o^o the strength of the patient than to the period of the feve ne is particularly earnest in recommending the use of cold he directs it to be given at the acme of the disease, but not at the commencement. He forbids us to administer it freely when there is obstruction or inflammation of an internal viscus ; and states many serious evils which may arise from the unsea- sonable administration of cold water, although it be an excel- lent remedy when given at the proper time. With regard to diet, he directs nothing but ptisan to be given for the nrst three days On the fourth he recommends the bath. Through the whole course of the fever the food is to be light, unless the powers of the patient be veiy feeble. As the other Greek authorities differ in no material respect from the principles of treatment laid down by Galen and Aetius we need not enter upon any minute exposition of their views ol practice. As a specimen, however, of the practice of the later authors, we shall briefly mention that of Synesius andConstan- tinus Africanus. They approve of bleeding, unless the stomach be loaded with crudities j in which case they forbid the operation until these are concocted or discharged. They recommend dilu- ents; and, if the belly is constipated, clysters, with decoctions, con- taining tamarinds, damascenes, manna, and the like. To remove the remains of the febrile excitement in the decline of the fever, they direct medicines of a refrigerant nature to be given, such as camphor, the seeds of melons, cucumbers, gourds, and the like. Palladius gives the following directions for the treatment of fevers in general. In all these diseases the skilful physician ought to know and understand accurately the constitution and temperament of the sick j and the peculiar form of the fever, and the formation, movement, onset, increase, and acme of every disease, and the analogies of the paroxysms, and the returns of the periods. And the first and general object in all these diseases is to clear the body of impurities, and render it perspirable;