2 [book I. PREGNANT WOMEN: most frequently about the third month after conception; because the foetus being then weak, cannot consume all the aliment which is brought to the uterus, and hence various superfluities are collected in the stomach; and therefore they have a desire for complicated and improper articles, such as extinguished coals, Cimolian earth, and many more such things. On that account, the affection has got its appellation, either from the variety of colours which the bird Pica possesses, or from its being subject to this complaint. Labour and long- journeys will also contribute to restore a desire for wholesome food. But she who has accustomed herself to live in an indo- lent manner, will not be able, when she proves with child, to bear exercise all at once. To those who loathe food, it may be of sendee to take acrid substances, and particularly mustard. For swellings of the feet, it may be proper to bind over them the herb anthyllis, soaked in vinegar; or to lay the leaves of a cabbage over them, and to anoint them with Cimolian earth mixed with vinegar, or with alum and vinegar. It is likewise of use to sprinkle the feet with a decoction of the Median apples, called citrons. Comm. Commentary. We shall commence by giving a short ac- —*—' count of ancient opinions on a curious subject not touched upon by our author,—we mean, on the influence of the imagination in pregnant women on the foetus. Hippocrates says, that when pregnant women long to eat coals and earth, the likeness of these things appears on the head of the child. (De Superfoet. c. 8.) Galen likewise be- lieved in the influence of the imagination of pregnant women on the foetus in utero. (Ad Pison.) Soranus also was a firm believer, and gives instances in women and in the inferior animals of the force of imagination at the time of impregna- tion, (lib. vii.) This belief was very ancient, for it appears to be countenanced by the Jewish historian. (See Genesis, xxx, 37-9.) Traces of this opinion may be found in Hesiod; and distinct allusion to it is made in the ( Cynegetics5 of Oppian. (i, 327.) The story in the 'iEthiopics' of Heliodorus re- specting Chariclea, the white daughter of the black king and queen of the ^Ethiopians, bespeaks the prevalence of the belief at the time when this celebrated romance was written. Andreas