PITYRIASIS. 349 SFXT. III.] describes the favus by the name of alsahara. It contains, he Comm. says, a viscid fluid like honey. He recommends for it purga-' " ' tires, and detergent applications containing nitre, lees of wine, &c. (Pract. i, 9.) The achor is called alsahafa by him. The description which Actuarius gives of papula;, favus, and ficus is sufficiently distinct, but not different from our author's. (De Diagnos. ii, 5.) The other authorities gives the same account officus as Paulus. It is Haly Abbas' second species of tinea, and is described by him as consisting of hard round protuberances. Haly's fourth species of tinea consists of small ulcers of a mammiform appear- ance. They are mentioned by our author. Fabricius ab Aquapendente defines the ficus thus : " Tumeur qui est rouge, ronde, quelque peu dure, et dc laquelle (etant ulceree et pressee) sort une matiere sanieuse, semblable aux grains de figues." (CEuv. Chir. i, 1, 13.) He says that Hippocrates and Galen give a dif- ferent account of it from our author's ; but we can see very little difference between them. Most of the ancient authors recom- mend the same remedies for ficus as Paulus. The most active of these are stavesacre, and sandarach or red sulphuret of arsenic. They do not appear to have apprehended danger from the free use of arsenic in this way. Galen recommends equal parts of white hellebore, stavesacre, and nitre with oil. (De Med. Sec. Loc. i.) Octavius Horatianus mentions equal parts of pellitory and galls. The same medicines are recommended by Serapion, (i, 5.) See also Oribasius (de Loc. Affect, iv, 11); Celsus (xi, 3); Cselius Aurelianus (de Morb. Tard. iv, 2.) Haly's remedies con- sist of galls, litharge, mercury killed (sublimed?), sulphur, and so forth. Among those of Rhases we remark squills, assa- fcetida, quicklime, mercury, &c. However, he prefers excision. (Continens. xxxvi). For pediculi in the head, the Arabians recommend nearly the same compositions as our author. They contain arsenic, staves- acre, hellebore, nitre, and the like. See Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 16), and Rhases (Cont. xxxvi, 6.) Among the ingredients men- tioned by the latter, we remark quicksilver, sulphur, red arsenic, mustard, stavesacre, the oil of oleander, vinegar, &c. These medicines form the ingredients in the compositions recom- mended by modern writers on this complaint. See Plempius (de Morbis Pilorum), and Amatus Lusitanus (Curat. 58.)