390 SECT. XVIII.] APOPLEXY. tion is contra-indicated the belly is to be evacuated, in order to Com relieve congestion there, and to produce revulsion from the head. v" For this purpose acrid clysters are to be given, containing nitre, euphorbium, colocynth, turpentine-rosin, and the like. He also recommends hiera as a purgative ; and if nausea be present, he advises us to encourage vomiting. He praises castor strongly as a remedy for the nervous affections. The food is to be light and of easy digestion. When the disease is protracted, cupping- instruments are to be applied to the back part of the head. When the parts concerned in deglutition, namely, the fauces and oesophagus, are paralysed, food is to be conveyed into the stomach by a suitable instrument. (By the way, Dr. Friend is mistaken in stating that Avenzoar is the only ancient author who recommends this practice. It will be remarked that our author makes mention of introducing food into the stomach by means of an instrument passed by the nostrils.) When the bladder is affected, he recommends injections, but forbids the use of the catheter, for fear of occasioning convulsions or gan- grene. He approves greatly of the bath of oil in this case. Aetius, Oribasius, Alexander, Actuarius, and Nonnus treat of the disease in much the same terms as our author. Alexander, in particular, properly recommends moderate purging with the hiera and such like medicines. He restricts venesection to those cases in which the disease is occasioned by fulness of blood. Cselius Aurelianus enumerates nearly the same causes of apoplexy and paralysis as Aretseus, namely, excessive heat, cold, indigestion, debauchery, and injuries of the brain. The season of winter is justly said to predispose to the disease. It is seated, he says, principally in the head. His treatment is nearly the same as that of the followers of Hippocrates and Galen, namely, emollient applications to the head and limbs, venesection, ab- stinence, clysters, cupping the back part of the head, and the bath of oil. Of paralysis he treats at greater length, and with much precision and judgment. He mentions nearly the same causes of it as of apoplexy; and remarks that it produces loss of sensibility, or of motion, or of both. He observes, in par- ticular, of the tongue, that it may retain the power of deglu- tition although that of speech be lost. He details all the phenomena of partial paralysis with surprising accuracy; and, at the present day, we do not know a work on the subject that