EPILEPSY. 380 [book III. is almost certain that the morbus sacer of the ancients, and the disease under which the demoniacs laboured was epilepsy. See Athenseus (Deipnos. vii, 33), with the notes of Casaubon and Schweigh.; also Coray (ad Hippocrat. de Aq. &c. 12.) Leo, m fact, says expressly, when treating of epilepsy, that the vulgar call the disease the demon and lunacy; and in like manner Aretaius mentions that some refer the disease to the moon. See further Galen (Introductio); Dietz (ad Hippocrat. de Morbo Sacro); and Greenhill (Adnot. ad Theophil. v. 30, p. 340.) Celsus lays down his rules of treatment with his usual judg- ment and elegance. His practice is very similar to our author's. He recommends bleeding; purging with black or white helle- bore ; shaving the head and applying cupping-instruments to it, and, in desperate cases, even the actual cautery; also fric- tion of the extremities, and bleeding in the foot, along with at- tention to exercise and diet. The use of hellebore in epilepsy is mentioned by Pliny, and byAulusGellius (Noct. Attic, xvii, 15.) The poet Lucretius gives a very glowing and accurate de- scription of the symptoms and causes of epilepsy. (De Rerum Natura, iii, 485.) Aretseus delivers separately the treatment of an acute attack and of the disease when in a chronic state. For the former he recommends the general remedies (we mean bleeding, clysters, and emetics.) Among the medicines enumerated by him for the cure of epilepsy, he mentions copper, which, he says, when given with cardamon, will act either upwards or downwards. We need scarcely say that copper has been strongly eulogised in modern practice. In the treatment of chronic cases he pays particular attention to the head, opening the veins and arteries of it, boring the bone down to the diploe, and applying the actual cautery to it. A more rational and less dangerous pro- cedure was the application of embrocations containing cantha- rides and other such rubefacients to the scalp; in that case he recommends milk to be drunk beforehand, to prevent the bladder from being affected. Aretseus and most of the authorities mention the gagate stone or jet as a test of epilepsy. The smell of it was said to bring on an attack. He exclaims in affecting terms against the abominable means often had recourse to for the cure of this disease. And so also Pliny (H. N. xxviii, 2.)