EPHEMERAL. SECT. XVI.] 231 more valuable than the reports of febrile diseases, contained in the 'Epidemics' of Hippocrates, illustrated, as they fortu- nately are, by the learned 'Commentaries' of Galen. Many of them are histories of ephemeral fevers, brought on by certain exciting causes, and terminating in synochus. The procatarctic causes generally assigned are fatigue, excessive debauchcrv, grief, exposure to extreme heat or cold, and the like. Hippocrates thus defines the duty of the physiciau in con- ducting the treatment of febrile diseases: To be able to tell what had preceded them; to know the present state and foretel the future; to have two objects in view, either to do good, or at least to do no harm. (Epidem. i, 7.) His general rule with regard to regimen in fevers is most important, namely, that a diluent or moistening diet is proper in all febrile affections. (Aphoris. i, 16.) See his Comment, (t. ii, p. 283, ed. Dietz.) Of no disease has Galen treated so frequently and fully as of fever. (See de Diff. Febrium, Meth. Med. viii and ix; Therap. ad Glauc, de Crisibus ii, 13, et alibi.) He every- where inculcates that ephemeral fevers are affections of the spirits, by which he seems to have understood the heat and gases contained in the blood. The exciting or remote causes of them, according to him, are want of sleep, indigestion, sorrow, fear, anger, anxiety, the application of heat and cold, excessive fatigue, tumour of the groin, and the like. He re- marks, that the heat in these fevers is not offensive on the first application of the fingers, but conveys an acrid sensation after a short time. He has particularly stated constriction as a proximate cause of fever; and this, by the way, is agreeable to what is stated by Cselius Aurelianus: " quidam vcro conclusioni viarum causam febrium ascribentes." (Acut. Morb. ii, 33.) In this variety, he approves of venesection, unless the patient be a child or a very old man. In the other cases, his most approved remedy is the bath; but his treatment is judiciously varied, according to circumstances. For example, when the fever arises from the depressing passions, he forbids hard friction and frequent baths, and merely directs us to pour tepid oil over the patient's body. When it is produced by exposure to heat, he forbids us to use much oil, or to have recourse to hard friction, and directs us to pour upon the head water which lias been cooled by means of ice, and to put the patient into