435 SECT. XXII.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. a seton in the nape of the neck for the cure of suffusion. (De OcuKs, vi.) Rhases considers the case incurable when the pupil has become insensible to the stimulus of light. On amaurosis and dimness of vision. Galen and Aetius give a very circumstantial account of the causes and treatment of amaurosis. They state that the disease either comes on sud- denly, in which case they refer its origin to obstruction and paralysis of the optic nerve, or gradually, when they believe it occasioned by a thickening of the coats of the optic nerve, or a change of the spirits, or of the humours of the eye. They enu- merate various causes of it, such as injuries, of the head, heat or cold, indigestion, or the like. When the disease occurs sud- denly, they approve of general or local bleeding, such as cupping the back part of the head, and active purging. In the other case general depletion is not required, but the treatment is otherwise nearly the same, attention being particularly paid to the state of the bowels. They forbid emetics after food, but approve of eirhines. They recommend in certain cases sinapisms to the head. The Arabians treat the disease upon the same principles. Haly Abbas describes amaurosis among the affections of the optic nerves, and recommends for it general bleeding, purging, and the saffron collyrium. Alsaharavius remarks that it often arises from the state of the stomach, which, in that case, will require the principal attention. Avenzoar blames Galen for giving up as desperate cases of amaurosis which occur suddenly. He recommends general and local bleeding, with repellent appli- cations to the head. On strabismus. See Galen (de Causis Morborum) ; Oribasius (Synops. viii, 49.) Avicenna properly remarks that squinting is occasioned by debility or spasm of some of the muscles of the eye. He and Rhases recommend the same treatment as our author. Avicenna also makes mention of a mask. Haly Abbas, who appears to have been intimately acquainted with anatomy, of which his work contains a valuable compendium, explains minutely the cause of the disease, which he attributes to an unequal con- traction of the muscles of the eve. See also Alsaharavius and V Jesu Haly. Jesu, like our author, directs us to fasten a piece of black or red cloth on the angle of the eye at the temples, when