SECT. LXXIX.] PULSE. 125 The obehus panis, mentioned by him in the 3d book, is Comm. supposed by Ludovicus Nonnius to have been a species of1"^ pastry. According to Schweighauser the French oublie is de- rived from it. (Ad Athen. iii, 76.) The bucellatum, mentioned by Ammianus Marcellinus and iElms Spartianus, was a species of bread used by the Roman soldiers, and appears to have resembled our ship-biscuit. (See Not. Gronovii, in Amm. Marcell. xvii, 8.) This kind of bread was called SiVupoc by the Greeks (see Hesychius), that is to say, bis coctus, and hence the English biscuit. SECT. LXXIX. ON PULSE. Of pulse, the lentil forms a bad chyme and melancholic humours j but especially it, when twice boiled, binds the bowels ; yet its soup, when drunk with oil and sauce, is rather laxative. But savory or pennyroyal ought to be added to it because it is flatulent. The common bean is light, flatulent, and detergent; but the Egyptian bean is much more succulent and excrementi- tious than ours. The pea is spongy, but not so flatulent. The chick-peas are flatulent and detergent, promote the formation of semen, are aphrodisiacal, and lithontriptic j when toasted, they part with their flatulence, but are of difficult digestion. Lupines are difficult to digest and evacuate, and produce a crude chyme. The fenugreek warms and loosens the bowels when taken before a meal. Tares and fasels, having been previously macerated in water so as to shoot out roots, are laxative of the bowels when taken before a meal with sauce j and are more nutritious than the fenugreek. But the fasels called dolichi, when eaten green with their husks, are more excrementitious. Commentary. Hippocrates, Rhases, and other of the ancient Comm. authors agree, that pulse, in general, are nutritious. All1—*—1 held that they are flatulent, excrementitious, and aphrodisi- acal. According to Plutarch it was on account of their aphro- disiacal qualities that the Egyptian priests forbade the use of them. Some assign this as the reason why Pythagoras " ven- tri indulsit non omne legumen/' Apollonius Dyscolus says that he did so because they are flatulent, difficult to digest, and