359 SECT. VI.] PHRENITIS. with hot water. If the belly be constipated, we are to give Comm. clysters of the oil of rue with honey, or the like. In the de- " ' cline of the complaint, emollient plasters (malagmata) are to be applied. Gentle gestation before food is particularly re- commended, and walking afterwards. Exposure to heat, indi- gestion, strong drink, hot baths, violent passions, constipation of the belly, and so forth, are to be avoided. His directions respecting diet are extremely minute, but judicious. With regard to topical applications, he recommends after the head is shaven mild ones at first, and afterwards rubefacients and stimulants, and cupping with much heat. Masticatories and gargles are mentioned. He recommends affusion of water, at first hot and afterwards cold. When the disease does not yield to these remedies, he directs a course of hellebore. The methodist oppugns freely the practice of the other sects. Re- frigerant applications, containing venegar, rose-oil, and the like, he says, arc very prejudicial; purgatives injure the sto- mach; cauteries excite a dangerous disturbance; the cold bath produces rigidity of the nerves; and hot masticatories do not answer well. Scribonius Largus mentions a black torpedo applied alive to the head as a remedy for headach. (De Comp. Med. c. 1.) The same prescription occurs in the collection of Marcellus Empi- ricus. See further Galen (de Simpl. Med. facult. in voce i>ap/cr?) and Aetius (ii, 185.) Is not this an application of the principle of galvanism in medicine ? Rhases insists, with becoming earnestness, on the propriety of administering purgatives, especially cholagogues, in cepha- hea. His commentator Leonardus Jacchinus blames modern physicians for having substituted weak and ineffectual cathartics for the powerful medicines of this class used by the ancients. Galen states correctly that cephalsea often arises from dis- ease of the pericranium. (De Loc. Affect. 1. c.) SECT. VI. ON PHRENITIS. Phrenitis is an inflammation of the membranes, the brain also being sometimes inflamed along with them, and sometimes a preternatural heat fixes originally in the brain itself. The cause of this disorder is either a fulness of blood, or of a yellow bilious