627 THE UTERUS. SECT. LXVII.] seems to be a judicious one : Take equal parts of litharge, ceruse, Comm. and sarcocolla; make a cerate with wax and rose-oil. When ' " the ulcers are attended with a bloody discharge, llaly Abbas directs us to use pessaries and injections of an astringent nature, consisting of galls, hypocistis, plantain, rose-oil, and the like. When the discharge is whitish and purulent, he recommends the tepid bath and injections of barley-gruel, honey, &c. For relieving the pain he recommends an ointment containing litharge, frankincense, axunge, fresh butter, strained wax, and rose-oil. Alsaharavius recommends similar remedies. SECT. LXVII. ON CANCER. Of cancers in the womb, some are attended with ulceration, and some are without it. In those cases in which the part is not ulcerated, a tumour is found about the mouth of the womb, hard, unequal, callous, of a feculent colour, and red, but sometimes also somewhat livid; and they have violent pains in the groins and abdomen, the lower part of the belly, and the loins, which are exasperated by handling and complicated applications. When the cancer is ulcerated, in addition to the pains, hardness, and swelling there are phagedenic and unequal ulcers to be seen, which for the most part are foul, callous, white, and having ugly scabs on them; but some appear clean, some feculent, or livid, or red, or bloody. The discharge from them always is a thin ichor, watery, black, or tawny, and fetid; but blood also is some- times discharged along with the other symptoms of an inflamed uterus already mentioned. Wherefore the complaint is incurable, as Hippocrates has pronounced, but may be alleviated by hip- baths from fenugreek, and mallows, and by cataplasms of a like nature. And the exacerbations of the complaint may be much alleviated by common mallows, or marshmallows, softened by boiling in honied water, and pounded with a little rose-oil, and applied; and by a cataplasm of dried figs and melilots, rue, frank- incense, and navew bruised carefully with oil, and also by that from dates boiled in must, containing also the yelks of eggs, and fine flour; or that from poppies with coriander, knotgrass, or endive. These things are to be applied during the violence of the pains; after which a cerate may be applied from rose-oil,