234 FEVERS. [BOOK 11 Comm. moistened with the same. When the fever is produced by -1 cold he recommends the warm bath, with friction, m order to promote perspiration; after which calefacients may be given; but he forbids wine, if the exciting cause be great, lest it should occasion a conversion of the complaint into a putrid fever which, as he remarks, Galen states not to be an uncom- mon occnrrence. To prevent this he recommends venesection and the liberal administration of diluents. The next class of ephemerals of which he treats are intestinal fevers originating in errors of food and drink. For these he recommends cooling drink, cooling articles of food, clysters, eccoprotics, and the like. When the fever is brought on by violent labour, he prescribes the tepid bath, gentle friction with emollient oils, light food, and a spare allowance of wine, provided the patient has been habituated to it. When the fever is produced by violent emotions of the mind, he recommends the tepid bath, refrigerant food, camphor, and the like. When it arises from sorrow, he directs us to have recourse to treatment of an ex- hilarating nature, the bath, wine, and so forth. For fever brought on by want of sleep, he recommends soothing treat- ment, the affusion of tepid water and wine, if the patient has been accustomed to it. In fevers arising from glandular swell- ings, he approves of venesection, and forbids the use of the bath and of wine. This is somewhat different from our author's treatment. The account of the causes and treatment of ephe- merals given by Alsaharavius is so like that of Haly Abbas, that we shall not enter particularly upon it. Serapion, Averrhoes, and Avenzoar give sensible expositions of the causes and cure of these fevers; but there is little in them worthy of attention that is not derived from the Greeks. Avenzoar states dis- tinctly, that, if neglected or mismanaged, they are apt to be converted into putrid, or synochous fevers. For ephemerals occasioned by labour, he recommends the tepid bath, and fric- tion with the pulp of melons. Avicenna remarks, that if, in ephemerals, the blood become inflamed, the fever is apt to be converted into synochous, or, if it become putrid, into putrid fever. This, he says, is particularly the case, when the ephe- meral fever is connected with obstruction of the pores of the skin. For the cure of this species, he approves of venesection. He recommends the same remedy when the disease arises from