THE MENSES. 616 [book III. pound one: Of fissile alum, of the inner part of galls, of the juice of acacia, of manna, of each, dr. iv; the yelks of four roasted eggs; these powders are rubbed with the juice of plan- tain, and mixed. In using it a pessary of wool is impregnated with it, dipped into rose-oil, and applied. And dry-cupping by large instruments applied frequently under the nipples acts powerfully by revulsion. The following is a composition for a hip-bath, in which a person having hemorrhage may sit: Of the heads of sharp rush, of myrtle, of roses, of the leaves of rham- nus, of bramble tops, equal parts; boil in water, which let the patient use for a hip-bath.—Another: Of the bark of sweet pomegranate-root, of myrtle, of the rind of cypress, of each, p. iij; of galls, p. j; boil in a sufficient quantity of water. In- ject with an uterine syringe the decoction of plantain, or of endive, or of knotgrass, or of nightshade, or of perdicium, or of fleawort, or of hypocistis, or of acacia; and let these things also be applied with wool, or by the finger, or a speculum, or a long-shaped feather, to the mouth of the uterus. And the tro- chisk of Andron, when injected by an uterine syringe, with some of the decoctions formerly mentioned, or with astringent wine, is an active remedy. Commentary. Aetius gives a very full account of these com- plaints, but nearly in the same terms as our author. He con- demns the practice of applying sponges soaked in cold posca, because, he says, they prove injurious to the uterus by producing too much coldness. Galen remarks that pregnant women have sometimes discharges of blood from the veins of the os uteri. We can attest the correctness of this statement. Oribasius and Actuarius treat these complaints like our author. Octavius Horatianus directs us to subject the parts to the vapours of such astringent articles as pomegranate-rind, roses, and galls j or to apply to the parts a sponge soaked in posca, or wool squeezed out of some of the styptic juices. He also recommends us to produce revulsion by means of cupping- instruments applied to the breasts. He further directs us to apply to the parts epithemes of astringents, especially Theban dates boiled in wine or vinegar. Moschion gives a very sensible account of uterine hemor-