THIRST. 317 SECT. Mil.] and dryness comes on owing to the fluids of the body being consumed by the febrile heat, (v, 119.) The question was keenly agitated in the ancient schools of medicine, whether cold drink might be safely given in fevers. Hippocrates was a great advocate for this practice, giving his patients barley-water and acidulated draughts very freely at all periods. Asclepiades, on the other hand, as Celsus and Alex- ander inform us, forbade even to wash the patient's mouth with water during the first stage of a fever. Celsus is disposed to hold a middle course between these opposite methods of prac- tice. Pic particularly approves of washing the mouth and fauces frequently with cold water, because, as Erasistratus had pro- perly remarked, these parts often required cold liquids, while the internal parts are not in want of them. Philumenus (ap. Aetium) also strongly recommends gargles, but forbids cold drink freely until after the acme of the fever. Alexander in- forms us that the celebrated Archigenes allowed his patients the free use of cold water and acidulated drinks. He himself does not speak very decidedly for or against this practice, but, upon the whole, is disposed to think well of it, unless there be inflam- mation, hardness, or swelling anywhere. He approves, however, of cold applications externally : and, accordingly, directs us to apply to the region of the stomach a bladder filled with cold water, ice, or some cooling decoction. Of the Arabians, Serapion expresses himself most decidedly in favour of cold drink. Avicenna forbids much to be given at a time. See also Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 22); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvi, 14); Averrhoes (Collig. vii, 24); and Rhases (Contin. xxx.) The pill mentioned in the end of the Section is from Dioscorides. Prosper Alpinus represents the Methodists to have disap- proved of the free use of cold water in fever. (Med. Meth. vi, 7.) The highest of the ancient authorities, as for example, Galen, Avicenna, and Averrhoes, agreed in allowing wine, much di- luted with water, in fevers. Galen says, the wine should be attenuant and of a light colour. According to Avicenna, wine thus plenteously diluted with water is preferable to plain water, as it promotes perspiration. Fabius Paulinus gives an admirable exposition of the philo-