THE KIDNEYS. SECT. XLV.] 545 water, or of the decoction of fenugreek with honey, or from the seeds of cucumber with must. To those who void pus in their urine we are to give Armenian bole, or the ashes of burnt reeds, as much as can be taken up with three fingers, in must; and drinking milk is an excellent remedy for them. The following are compound remedies : Of linseed, of the seed of cucumber, of tragacanth, of each, dr. ij j form trochisks.—Another: Twenty pine-nuts; forty seeds of the garden cucumber; of starch, dr. j ; add to two heminae of the decoction of nard and parsley seed. But Archigenes, in his epistle to Atticus, says that " when the dysuria is urgent, we should take of the powdered seed of toasted poppy, dr. j, which is to be sprinkled upon the decoction of bog-rush, sweet-rush, or liquorice. This medicine removes the pains from ulceration : Of the seeds of purified cucumber, xxx in number; pine-nuts, xij in number; bitter al- monds, whitened, xxxv in number; of saffron, what is sufficient to give it colour j give to the patient with an empty stomach every day, along with the wine protropum, or milk. It will be milder, if, instead of the pine-nuts, it receive an equal quantity of the seeds of mallows. The cyphi and the cyphoid antidotes are also said to cure ulcerations in the bladder. I, in the more protracted cases, by using this medicine, have not stood in need of more complex remedies : Of wall-germander, of ground pine, of each, dr. xxiv ; of asarabacca, of white pepper, of each, dr. vij ; of cinnamon, dr. j. Of this medicine, finely powdered, I give two spoonfuls in Cretan sweet wine; but if there is fever, in three cyathi of water; but when the ulceration is attended with pain, by adding two cyathi of starch, and fifteen seeds of cucumber, I accomplish my purpose." These things are from the works of Archigenes. And the remedies formed from alkekengi, the antidote from the seed of wild mallows, and that from sweet- meats are excellent. We may apply to the pcrinseum and lower belly cerates made from washed hyssop and butter, and the grease of geese, and storax ; and we may inject into the bladder, by means of a small syringe, honied water much diluted, or milk with some honey, or with cucumber seed, or the white of an egg with pompholyx, or some of the remedies formerly mentioned. When the ulcer is spreading, the trochisk from paper must be in- jected, or the Bithynian ; and cataplasms are to be applied, made from dates, dried grapes, with galls, accacia, hypocistis, and alum. 35