COMPLAINTS AND DIET. 3 SECT. I.] Laurentius gives an interesting statement of ancient and modern Comm. opinions on this subject. (De Mirab. Strum. Sanit.) The bird pica is mentioned by name (jctrra) in the < Arcs' of Aristophanes. (See also Schol. in Aristoph. in Pac. 496, and Vesp. 348 j Aristotle, Hist. An. vii, 4; and Pliny, Hist. Nat. x, 41.) Harduin concludes, from Pliny's account of it, that it was the magpie. But we are rather inclined to follow Schneider in referring it to the jay, or edrvus glandarius. On the disease, see Galen (Hyg.; de Causis Sympt. i, 7); Aetius (xvi, 10); Theophanes Nonnus (c. 213) ] Moschion (de Morb. Mulier. c. 27); Eros (apud Gynaecia), Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Problem, ii, 73); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. ii, 16) ■ Soranus (viii) j Leo (vi, 14); Rhases (Contin. xi); Avicenna (iii, 21, 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. vi, 17); Serapion (Tr. iii, 22); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxv, 2, 8.) It appears to be the malacia of Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxiii, 56, ed. Hard.) Moschion defines the Pica to be an appetite for unusual food, which happens to pregnant women at some irregular period; being attended with a collection of depraved humours and nausea. It occurs, he says, most commonly in the second month, but sometimes earlier, and sometimes later. He re- commends a restricted diet at first, then wine, dry astringent food, cataplasms of a repellent nature, and bodily motion. Soranus treats of Pica in very similar terms to those of Moschion. But the account of the disease given by Galen and Aetius is the fullest. They derive the name either from the bird, as mentioned above, or from ivy {k'ittoq), because, as ivy entwines itself about various plants, so does this appetite in pregnant women fasten upon a variety of improper articles of food. It is attended with languor of the stomach, nausea, and loathing of food, bringing on vomiting of bile or phlegm, anxiety, and pains in the stomach. All these symptoms arise, they say, from a sanguineous plethora, brought on by a suppression of the menstrual discharge. They, therefore, recommend a restricted diet, and moderate exercise when the w oman w as accustomed to it. When the humour which infests the stomach is of an acid, acrid, or saltish nature, they direct draughts of tepid water, to encourage vomiting; they forbid all sweet things; and re- commend an old sub-astringent wine. When there is a loathing