[hook III. PITYRIASIS. 348 Comm. vel myrobalanum cum vino." Marcellus distinguishes the pity- ~~^ riasis from porrigo. (De Med. 4.) The Arabians, especially Serapion, direct very active general treatment, such as venesection, masticatories, cathartics, and the like, (i, 4.) It is described under the name of furfures capitis by the translator of Haly Abbas. (Theor. viii, 18.) Like the Greeks, he represents it as consisting of small furfuraceous scales without ulceration. Alsaharavius uses the same name, and recommends bleeding, cupping, purging, and external ap- plications of a detergent nature, such as flour of vetches, with vinegar and the like. Avenzoar recommends pills of drastic purgatives, and the ordinary lotions, (i, 1, 10.) See also Avi- cenna (iv, 7, 1, 24); and Ehases (ad Mansor. v, 1; Contin. xxxvi.) In the f Continens/ the disease is described by the names of furfures and impetigo, for which Rhases recommends lini- ments containing nitre, sulphur, hellebore, vinegar, &c. Willan and Bateman describe the psydracia as being small pustules irregularly circumscribed and terminating in a lami- nated scab. Most of the above-mentioned writers treat of them in the same terms as our author. They seem to be the balchie of Avicenna (iv, 7, 6, 1) who calls them a malignant species of achor. See Galen (1. c.) Galen, Alexander, Aetius, and our author describe the exan- themata as being small superficial ulcerations. Drs. Willan and Bateman use it as a generic term for rashes. The exanthe- mata seem to be the alraba or pustules dulces of Alsaharavius (i, 10.) See Book First, Sect, vi, and Book Fourth, Sect, vm, of this Work. Willan and Bateman apply the terms achor and favus in the same sense as Paulus and the other ancient authors. Octavius Horatianus uses the terms acora and cerio. He says, " Acorai et ceriones distant, quod ceriones plures cavernas egestionis habent et humorem multo pinguiorem emittunt; acora autem unam cavernam habet, et humorem egerit aquatiorem." (i, 5.) Galen has treated of these complaints very fully, and his appli- cations are similar to those of our author. See also most of the authorities on pityriasis. The favus is the first species of tinea described by Haly Abbas. It consists, he says, of cells, and dis- charges a fluid-like honey. The achor is hhamada, or third species of tinea, consisting of smaller cells than the former. Alsaharavius