[book III. 554 THE KIDNEYS. Comm. taining opium and the heads of poppies. In due time diuretics ~Y~ "J are to be administered, such as the root of acorus, ground-pine, cassia, spignel, parsley, sea urchins, radishes, carrots, and the like. When an abscess is formed, there is a discharge of tawny and more natural urine, there is swelling in the loins, strong heat in the kidneys, and the pain becomes duller with irregular fever. The abscess bursts either into the bladder or intestines. Praxagoras, he says, related a case in which there was pus voided by the anus for twelve years and probably longer. When it bursts into the bladder, pus is voided with the urine. Suppu- ration is to be promoted by frequent fomentations with sponges, by cataplasms of barley-meal with a decoction of figs in mead or wine, to which may be added pounded wormwood, spurge, &c. For promoting the rupture of the abscess, diuretics are pre- scribed, such as wild marjoram, mock dittany, and the like. When the abscess does not burst, acrid clysters containing black hellebore, radishes, garlic, and the pulp of colocynth are to be given. To these oil may be added, and when thus taken they will promote the rupture of the abscess. However, fomenta- tions with sponges and plasters are to be applied to alleviate the pain. When the ulcers are of a mild nature (which is shown by the abatement of the fever and pain, and from the substances which appear in the urine being white and inodorous), the milder diuretics are to be used for cleansing them, such as the seed of pompion, the decoction of dates, &c.; or, when stronger things are required, galbanum, opopanax, turpentine rosin, and the like may be added to mead or wine. When the ulcers are putrid, ^Ethiopian cumin with must, rue with honey and wine, and the like may be given internally; while cataplasms of bitter vetches boiled in wine and honey are to be applied externally. It is proper also, he says, to inject some of the medicines for dysentery; to give clysters of strained ptisan; and to place the patient in hot water. If the matter is thick, a decoction of fennel, parsley, or wormwood is to be given. With respect to food, he recommends milk, especially that of mares or asses, along with honey; also cucumbers, lettuces, the flesh of kids', lambs, and goats, almonds, and wine; but vinegar must be avoided. All motion is to be abstained from. When there arc symptoms of repletion, emetics are to be given. When the abscess points outwardly, he seems to direct us to open it and