m THE LIVER. [»OOK the patient take some warm water, and then let him be made to drink the propomata from opinm and the seed of hyoscyamus, and the antidote of Philo. In those cases in which the heat is intense, it may be very proper to give of the oil of roses, or of apples, in a draught. For food, let them take of the juice of ptisan, or chondrus, with hydrorosatum, and bread m like manner out of water, with some of the sweet potions; and, m a word, let them take such food as is moderately cooling without being obstruent; abstaining altogether from wine, unless they require it for some other cause, such as atony of the stomach, and in that case the kind which is given should be thin, weak, and watery. And erysipelas of the liver must be cured in like manner. When the intemperament is cold, we must pro- ceed on the opposite mode; we must give them bread with wine, and cabbage which has been twice or three times boiled. Let them taste lightly of chesnuts, take what is sufficient of grapes, and of the flesh of fowls, and drink wine. Let them get a propoma from eupatorium, asarabacca, or the medicine from pepper; and a selection must be made for them from among the remedies formerly mentioned for colic and dysentery. The medicines called cyphoid do not suit entirely with the hot in- temperaments, unless the heat be small and joined to much humidity; but they are excellent remedies for the cold, and more especially if complicated with humidity or obstruction of the liver. When the obstruction is occasioned by thick and viscid humours, we may give the myacantha (ivild asparagus?), more especially the fruit of it, and the rind of the root of bay, agrimony in oxymel, or in the decoction of bitter lupines, with rue and pepper. And the flour of lupines in a draught; and of roots of cappers, p. ij; of costus, p. j, with wine; and the medicine from cacanus, are of use for obstructions occasioned by thick and viscid humours; also the iris, the fruit and rind of pistaches, horehound, and bitter almonds, and the trochisks from them, the root of dracunculus, and wakerobin, agaric, vinegar of squills, and oxymel. And the dried liver of a wolf, powdered and given with sweet wine to the amount of a spoonful, is applicable for all affections of the liver. And the antidote Theodoretus is one of the best remedies for obstructions of the liver, scirrhus, chronic inflammation, colics, and jaundice; and in like manner the picra with oxymel. The food which is given