382 EPILEPSY. [book III. Comm. that epilepsy is a convulsion which either comes on periodically, L-^" or at no stated times; and that it either arises from the brain itself, or from sympathy with the stomach, or with some other parts of the body. It is occasioned, he says, either by a gross humour collected in the ventricles of the brain, or from com- pression produced by fracture. He makes mention of the epi- leptic aura, and, like our author, states that the disease is dis- tinguished by foam at the patient's mouth. He joins Hippocrates in pronouncing such cases as occur before puberty to be not dif- ficult to cure, but those which supervene after that age to be most intractable. When the complaint occurs in an infant, he properly directs us to attend both to the nurse's and the infant's diet. In cases attended with plethora he approves of general bleeding, cupping the limbs, and opening the saphena. When the disease is protracted he advises to apply cupping-instruments to the neck, and to give drastic purgatives, such as black helle- bore, colocynth, &c. When it appears to proceed from the sto- mach he approves of emetics. He commends peony applied as an amulet. It is worthy of remark that Andreas Laurentius, in the 17th century, speaks confidently of this remedy. So inveterate is the dominion of superstition and ignorance! Alsaharavius gives a curious account of epilepsy, but mixed with some superstitious notions. He says he had had ocular proof that epileptics are possessed with demons; for that he had known many of them who had a knowledge of things which he was sure they had never learned. Like the others, he speaks of amulets ; but his general treatment is sufficiently rational and scientific. ILhases gives the theories and practice of preceding authors along with his own remarks, which, however, contain no very original opinions. One of his Arabian authorities recommends bleeding at the arm, and also by cupping and opening the occi- pital arteries, rubbing the head with mustard, purging with hiera, sternutatories, &c. The application of mustard to the head is approved of by most of his authorities. Like our author, most of the ancient writers approve of Cyrenaic juice, or assafoetida, in cases of epilepsy.