sect, li.] BATHS. 67 Rhases, in like manner, states that a draught of water imme- diately after eating impairs digestion, but is proper after digestion has taken place. (Contin. xxxiii.) Rhases, in another place, states that ice is prejudicial to the health, especially of old per- sons, by congealing the stomach and hurting the nerves. He ad nuts, however, of the use of water cooled in snow, but recom- mends its effects to be counteracted by a moderate allowance of Wine. \\ ater which has been drawn from a very deep well he directs to boil before using it. (xxxvii, i, 70.) In an anonymous treatise on diet lately published by Ideler, the drinking of cold water immediately after a meal is strongly condemned, as being hurtful to the digestion. (Phys. et Med. Grac. Minor, vol. ii, p. 197.) The following are the principal beverages of the Greeks and Romans: Wine diluted with water; Mulsum, or a composition of honey and wine, resembling the modern clary; Hydromel, or honied water; Zythi, or various kinds of ales/ the Spathites, a wine prepared from palms, mentioned by our author (iii, 39); the Sicera, or cider, prepared from apples; Perry, prepared from pears; Posca or oxycrate, a mixture of vinegar and water; the Cyccon, a mixture of wine, honey, flour, and water, according to Hesychius; the Dodra of the Romans, very like the cyceon; Ptisan, prepared from polenta; Barley-waier, mentioned by H ippocrates (deMorb. Acut.) and well described by the Arabians; the Lora, a small table-wine prepared from the husks of grapes. Comm. SECT. LI. ON BATHS. I think well of the cold bath, and yet I do not say that it is proper for those who use no restriction as to diet, but only to those Avho live correctly, and take exercise and food season- ably. It may answer with most people very well, when they want to get much cooled, to swim in water during the season of summer, provided they are young and brawny, and have been previously heated by friction. They ought to attend, however, that they be not in a state of lassitude from venery, or any other cause, nor suffering from indigestion, nor after vomitintr nor after evacuation of the bowels, nor when in want of sleep It may be attended with danger, if used at random. But the