THE HAIR. 0OOK 111 344 the decoction of fenugreek, barley, and cumin, having previously washed them with a sufficiency of tepid water, and add as much soap as is required.—Another: Mixing together the burnt lees of wine and the oil used in the baths, anoint the hairs.—Another: Scrub with Gallic soap and water at each bath.—Another very fine: Of red sumach, one sextarius; of galls, lb. iss; of sheep's dung, oz. ij; of the golden-coloured herb, called rubia by the Romans, oz. ij; of maiden-hair, two bunches (fasciculi); of worm- wood, one bunch; of lupines stripped of their outer coat, two cyathi; of water, six sextarii; put all into a glass vessel, and allow to macerate for nine days, stirring it twice a day. At the time of using, strain out what is required, and, soaking a sponge m it, rub the hairs, and when they are moistened allow them to drink it up. When dried, wash with a solution of soap in warm water. For making the hairs white. Burn the flowers of the white petty-mullein, moisten with vinegar, and mix for a detergent ointment.—Another: Of the fruit of petty-mullein, dr. j; of alum, dr. j; of the rind of radishes, dr. j; pound, and mix of bull's glue, dr. iv. Comm. Commentary. Galen, when about to treat of compositions '—" ' for the hair, remarks that the application of these does not belong properly to the physician, but that he may sometimes be obliged to furnish them to royal ladies, whom, under certain circumstances, he cannot venture to disobey. That the ladies, in ancient times, were in the practice of painting their hair, is evident from Achilles Tatius (ii, 149), and Juvenal (vi, 354.) Eustathius mentions that antimony was very much used for painting the eyebrows black. (Comment, in Iliad, viii, versus finem.) For further information upon this subject, with which we must confess ourselves wholly unacquainted, we refer the reader to the following works : Alexander (i, 3); Oribasius (iv, 7, 8) ; Aetius (vi, 58); Nonnus (2, 3); Octavius Horatianus (i, 1) ; Avicenna (iv, 7, 1); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvii, 7) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. v, and Contin. xxxvi.) Vegetius, the great autho- rity on Veterinary Surgery, gives prescriptions for dyeing the hair of cattle. (Mulom. ii.) The thapsus mentioned in this Section occurs in Theocritus