578 THE SPLEEN. [book hi. of bulls, lb. j; of nitre, oz. iij j of turpentine, of the fruit of the chaste-tree, of the bark of the root of capers, of each, oz. v; having boiled the soluble ingredients, sprinkle the powders above. And the malagma of Nileus is an excellent one. If the inflam- mation is converted into scirrhus, we must use the most power- ful applications so as to stimulate the skin, such as the one from goats' dung, and that from citrons, also that of Macherion, the barber's, the one from bay-berries, and that from willows. This one I have found to answer upon trial: Of arsenic, oz. ij ; of sandarach, oz. ij; of wax, of turpentine, of each, lib. j ; of dry pitch, lb. j; of galbanum, oz. j; of opopanax, oz. j; of the bark of the root of capers, of nut ben, of each, oz. iv j of ammoniac perfume, scr. vj j of the oil of nard, and of privet, oz. v. And ammoniac, when rubbed over the spleen with vinegar, is often of great use, and also, when drunk to the amount of three or four scr. with one scr. of castor, while sitting in the hip-bath, having previously chewed dried figs and spit them out. Or of ammoniac, p. j; of castor, p. j; give one drachm of these things, and it will be of great service for scirrhus; and, in like man- ner, the bark of capers, triturated with vinegar and applied. The same, when drunk with vinegar or oxymel, evacuates thick and viscid humours, and sometimes blood. And the bark of the willow is rubbed in similarly. And the ashes of the brazier's shop, when applied with raw barley-meal in oxymel, is of use; and the juice of centaury, when applied externally, and when taken in a draught; and the decoction of bitter lupines, when drunk with rue and pepper; and its flour, when applied as a poultice; and the water in which heated iron has been often ex- tinguished, when given to the amount of three cyathi to such as have fever; and to such as are free from fever, to the amount of one cyathus with wine and vinegar; or the root of the wild dock with squills, to the amount of three oboli; or of wall ger- mander, and of wild thyme, an acetabulum; all these may be given with oxymel; or, give two oboli of the juice of the pim- pernel having a blue flower (anagallis ccerulea?) with oxycrate; or vinegar of squills, or oxymel. These are compound medi- cines : Of the root of panacea, of ammoniac perfume, of the rind of the root of capers, of fuller's herb, of the inner part of baked squills, equal parts; give one drachm. It is also of use in asthmatic and dropsical cases.—Another: Of the fruit of