132 FRUITS. [BOOK r* cescit Si quis itaque hoc parum valet, palmulas pomaque et similia primo cibo assumit." (i, 2.) Ludovicus Nonnius, a great modern authority in dietetics, recommends us to eat the summei fruits, and cherries, strawberries, plums, peaches, and the ike, at the beginning ; but apples, pears, nuts, chesnuts, and the like, at the conclusion of a meal; that is to say, at the dessert. The fig was a great favorite with the ancients. Galen states that it is decidedly nutritious, but that the flesh formed from it is not firm and compact, like that from pork and bread, but soft and spongy, like that from beans. He says that figs in- crease the urinary and alvine discharges. Averrhoes says that they are of a hot and humid temperament, and that they loosen the belly and strengthen the stomach. See, in particular, Athemeus (Deipnos. iii); Macrobius (Satur. iii, 20) ; and Haly Abbas. Haly says that the fig is the most digestible, nutri- tious, and wholesome fruit of this class. Galen speaks doubtfully of dried figs. Pliny devotes a whole book to the consideration of the grape and its productions. Galen says that, like figs, grapes are nu- tritious, but that the flesh formed from them is deficient in firmness and durability. He remarks that their stones pass through the bowels wholly unchanged. Simeon Seth states that the grape consists of four different substances, namely, the membrane which surrounds it, the fleshy part, the juice, and the stones. Of these, he says, the outer coat and the stones ought to be rejected, because they are indigestible. Plutarch and Macrobius exert their ingenuity to explain how it happens that must, or the fresh juice of the grape, does not intoxicate like wine. The " pensilis uva," or hung grape, is mentioned by Horace as an article of the dessert, (ii, 2.) Galen gives mulberries the same character as our author does. Aetius says that the proper occasion for them is when the stomach is hot and dry. According to Athenseus, the Siphnian Diphilus said that they possess moderately wholesome juices, and that they afford little nourishment, but are savoury, and of easy evacuation. Haly Abbas recommends them cooled in snow for heat of the stomach. According to Pliny, cherries were first imported to Italy from Pontus, by the famous Lucullus, and in his (Pliny's) time they had become naturalized even in Britain. This story, however,