TENESMUS. [book III. 524 of fenugreek, mallows, or linseed. Sometimes the following hip-bath will effect the purpose: Of bramble, of myrtle, of the flowers of the pomegranate, of bays, and of green cypress shoots, mixing these in equal parts, boil in water. It is the Marcellian. When the inflammation and irritation are deep-seated, we must use injections of some of the juices of grain boiled with some of the astringents. And sweet oil injected and retained for several hours has the effect of removing the violent pain. When the desires to go to stool are frequent, Ave must apply a ball of warm threads to the anus, or warm bran in a bag, or a sponge, or some such thing. Comm. Commentary. See the authors referred to in the preceding * ' Section. Celsus recommends the tepid bath, emollient and astringent applications to the rectum, such as butter and roses, or alum wrapped in wool and applied, the remedies for tormina, and an austere wine every alternate day. Aetius may be referred to as an author who has treated of this affection in a very accurate manner, although nearly to the same effect as our author. Among other things he mentions the application to the anus of a sponge soaked in a solution of galls in vinegar. Nonnus defines tenesmus to be an inflammation of the rec- tum, and says that it is to be benefited by injections of the oil of rue, or of wine and honey with brine ; by hip-baths of astrin- gent decoctions, such as myrtles, bays, &c. or by fomentations with a sponge. Avicenna describes two varieties of tenesmus, the false, which is occasioned by the lodgment of hardened fseces in the intes- tines, and is to be cured by emollient clysters, &c.; and the true, which, if occasioned by cold, is to be relieved by foment- ing the parts with a sponge or the like soaked in hot water; if by hard pressure, a sponge is to be squeezed out of hot oil and applied; if by an aposteme, it is to be treated upon general principles by bleeding and embrocations; if by a flux, remedies suited to that complaint are to be given; and, if by ulcers, the common applications to them are to be used. Haly Abbas treats fully of tenesmus, like Avicenna. In several of his prescriptions poppies and opium occur. When produced by retention of