SECT. L.] JAUNDICE. 58.3 Aretseus, in his derivation of the term OHg. Suidas, however, Comm. derives the word from Iktivos, a species of kite, and Pliny from ' " some unknown bird of the imaginary name of icterus (H. N. xxx, 11.) We have no hesitation in saying that we are dis- posed to follow the authority of Aretseus. Hippocrates directs us to give at first fatty things, and to use the bath for three days; then to abstain from these things, and purge both the belly and the head, and give diuretics. But he forbids cholagogucs, which, he says, only increase the disorder of the system. We have stated in the Second Book, Sect, iv, his views regarding jaundice occurring in fever. His commentator Theophilus explains that jaundice arises from obstruction of the ductus choledochus. Hippocrates lays it down as a rule that in cases of jaundice it is a bad symptom when the liver is hard. (Aphor. vi, 42.) Our author follows closely the views of Galen. He remarks that, when in fever the bile is suddenly determined to the skin, it proves critical, and is easily removed by baths of sweet water, and friction with a discutient or rarefying oil. When the disease proceeds from obstruction of the vessels of the liver, he directs the administration of hot and detergent things, such as gentian, birthwort, and centaury. When occasioned by inflammation of the liver, the remedies suitable to that disease will be proper. When inflammation and obstruction are combined together, they are to be removed by relaxants and detergents. He gives from Andromachus and Archigenes a long list of compositions for jaundice j but we must be content with explaining his general principles without entering upon the detail of his practice. Galen, in another place, remarks that the poisons of certain reptiles occasion jaundice. (De Loc. Affect, vi, 8.) This fact is confirmed by modern observation. See Van Swieten (Com- ment. 916) j Dr. Simson (paper on Jaundice, vol. i of the Medical Essays and Observations) j and Rogerius (i, 47.) By the way, the ancients maintained that the primary action of certain poisons is exerted upon the liver. (See Book Fifth, xlii.) Aretams insists that jaundice is produced not only by disease of the liver, as generally supposed, but likewise by affections of the spleen, stomach, kidneys, and colon. He further states that jaundice is sometimes engendered by the condition of the general system. He appears to allude to non-elimination of the