SECT. XX.] LASSITUDE. 31 Tensive there is scarcely any superfluity in the system, but the state of the muscles and nerves is such that they appeal- to be stretched. The Inflammativc, in which we feel as if the parts of the body were bruised or inflamed, happens when, being much heated, the muscles attract the surrounding superfluities. There is a fourth species, occasioned by an unnatural dryness of the muscles, in which the body, when stripped naked, appears squalid and constricted, and is averse to motion. The cure of the ulcerose species consists in dispelling the superfluities by much and soft friction with plenty of oil devoid of astringenoy. The indication of cure in the second or tensive species is relaxation, which may be accomplished by means of little and soft friction with oil heated in the sun ; by quietude and rest, by tepid baths, and remaining for a considerable time in the warm water; for, if you repeat the bath two or three times in succession, you will confer so much the greater benefit. In the third species, or the inflammative, there are tln-ee indications of cure : the dis- charge of the superfluity, the relaxing of the constriction, and the cooling of the inflammatory state. Plenty of tepid oil, the softest friction, and remaining long in a bath of a moderate temperature, remove lassitudes of this description. Long-con- tinued quietude is also proper, and repeated inunction. The treatment of the fourth differs in no respect, for the first day, from that of the third, except that the water ought to be hotter, so as to contract gently; and on the second, the restorative kind of exercise must be had recourse to ; and when in the bath, let the person straightway leap into the cistern of cold water. All those affected with lassitude stand in need of wholesome food. Commentary. There is a short treatise on this subject, among the minor works of Theophrastus. He states that, as the excess of motion in this case has produced a preternatural dryness of the body, the indication of cure is to humectate, that is to say, to dilute, by baths and drinks. The work contains many inge- nious observations; but our limits do not admit of our giving a proper outline of it. Our author copies from Oribasius (Synops. v, 15); see, also, Aetius (iv, 55 et seq.) They all, however, are indebted to Galen. (De Sanit. tuend. iii, 7.) The ulcerose lassitude, he says, arises from a collection of excrementitious superfluities, which