SECT. XXXVI.] 283 THE PLAGUE. but more frequently of yellow bile. There are often fetid Com sweats. The disease usually terminates with syncope, coldness of the extremities, lethargy, spasms, and convulsions. Some of the most fatal varieties of the plague are not marked by any striking symptoms, neither the heat, pulse, nor urine being much affected. Fetid breath, as indicating putrefaction about the heart, is a most mortal symptom. The treatment must commence with venesection, if there be a plethora of blood, or with purging, if the body be loaded with other humours. The apartments of the sick are to be cooled, and the air of them corrected: they are to be cooled by cold odoriferous fruits, camphor, rose-water, or, if possible, by introducing a stream of water into them. The fetid air may be corrected by fumiga- tions with camphor, myrtles, quinces, ebony, &c; by sprinkling the apartments with vinegar and assafcetida, and correcting the putridity with lignum aloes, frankincense, musk, storax, sanda- rach, mastich, juniper, bays, and the like. (It may be proper to mention that arsenical fumigations are approved of by Muratori, Lind, and Russel, but condemned by Mead.) As a preserva- tive from the plague, he recommends, in particular, exercise and restricted diet. Haly evidently copies his description. (Theor. v, 11.) Rhases agrees with Hippocrates in stating, that pestilential fevers are distinguished by great heat internally, while the sur- face of the body is cool. The symptoms, as detailed by him, are vomiting and diarrhoea, pain and distension of the belly, coldness of the extremities, urine showing a tendency to putre- faction, discharge of blood from the nose, heat about the breast, singultus tendinum, blackness of the tongue, bulimia, &c. He particularly states that a black discharge from the bowels is a most fatal symptom. Like Avicenna, he gives directions to perform fumigations with camphor, musk, myrrh, bdellium, frankincense, and the like. He mentions that, during the pre- valence of a certain pestilence, it was found that hunters escaped the contagion. Like Avicenna, he approves of bloodletting. See Continens (xxx.) He also recommends cold drink and the cold bath. Calefacients and wine, unless diluted with much cold water, he disapproves of. He, like the other Arabian au- thorities, joins Galen in speaking favorably of Armenian bole and the theriac. (Ad Mansor. iv, 25.)