m WINE. [BOOK Dioscorides delivers very judiciously the different characters of wines He concludes with remarking that, although habi- tual intoxication be prejudicial to the health, a moderate indul- gence in wine for some days, especially after drinking water is beneficial, by proving an alterative to the system, purging the secretions, and promoting the insensible perspiration. From Pliny's excellent statement of the medicinal and die- tetical properties of wine, we select the following remarks : " Vino aluntur vires, sanguis, colorque hommum. Vino modico nervi juvantur, copiosiore heduntur, sic et oculi. Stomachus recreatur j appetentia ciborum invitatur; tristitia et cura hebe- tatnr; urinaet algor expellitur; somnus concihatur. Prseterea vomitiones sistit. Vetus coposiore aqua miscetur, magisque urinam expelht j minus siti resistit. Dulce minus mebriat sed stomacho innatat; austerum facilius concoquitur. Stomacho minus utile est pingue, nigrum, sed corpora magis aht. Tenue et austerum minus alit, magis stomachum nutrit." The information supplied by Galen on this subject is most ample, but in too diffuse a shape to suit our narrow limits. Upon the whole, he states, thin wines are diuretic, but supply little nourishment, whereas the thick are proportionally nutri- tious. He says that the Falernian, especially the sweeter kind, is one of the most wholesome wines. Athenaeus gives an inter- esting account of the Falernian, upon the authority of Galen. He says it is fit to be drank after it is ten years old, and from fifteen to twenty; but that, when older, it occasions headach and affects the nerves. He describes two kinds of it, the sweet and the austere. The latter, he adds, is of a tawny colour, that is to say, a colour intermediate between the white and black. Dr. Henderson concludes, that the modern Madeira is a near ap- proach to the ancient Falernian. Brasavolus and C. Avantius compare it to a wine known in modern Rome by the name of greco di soma. Galen gives very minute directions for forcing this wine, or giving it premature age by heat. (De Antid. i, and de Simpl. iv.) Vitruvius, for this purpose, gives directions for building the wine-cellar close to the kitchen, (vi.) Athenseus says, that wine digests the food, and, being of a subtle nature^ promotes the distribution of it. We learn from him that the ancients sometimes used their wines cooled with ice. (Deipnos iii, 99.) He thus describes the different characters of the wine!