TREMBLINGS. 408 [book III. humours, and from the too liberal use of wine. Those, there- fore, who have tremblings from any obvious error in regimen, must abstain from the things which prove injurious to them. And, again, when the tremor remains during fevers, we must first rub the body with Sabine oil; but in the remissions of the attacks with old or Sicyonian oil. Let the extremities after being anointed, be wrapped in soft wool, and then let cupping instruments be applied along the spine, from the first vertebra to the loins; these parts, together with the hypochondria, being previously covered over with raw barley-meal. Let them also be wrapped with wool out of old or Sicyonian oil. But if the fever continue, every alternate day let them be put into a hip-bath of oil, or oil and water, and use soft frictions. But if the affection be prolonged, and cold is suspected, they should take a propoma, or sweet potion, of honied water and castor, and be carried about in warm places; and we ought to give them food of easy distribution, at first spoon-meats, and afterwards such fowls and fishes as have tender flesh. When the fever is gone, they must be washed, avoiding the cold bath and wine. But, if there be a fulness of thick and viscid humours, we must use remedies of an incisive and attenuant nature. They are these : Of the shoots of rue, of cow-parsnip, as much as can be contained in three fingers; of castor, of nitre, of each two oboli. Give every day one spoonful with oxymel, for three days while fasting; or of panacea and pepper, five grains; take in a draught of a cyathus of honied water. The following simple things in proportion relieve tremors : Castor, the brain of a hare eaten, the decoction of the root of marshmallows, of the leaves of water plaintain, dr. iv, in honied water, hemp agri- mony with water. When the cold prevails, we may use the liniment of Zosimus, and the restoratives, liniments, and rube- facients described above for paralysis, also exercises and fric- tions. Those who have tremblings from drinking wine must abstain from wine altogether, until a complete cure take place. Comm. Commentary. See Galen (de Tremore, et alibi); Nonnus ~~v (40); Cselius Aurelianus (de Morb. Acut. iii, 7); Mesue (de Mgr. Cap. 5); Serapion (i, 3); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 11, Pract. v, 32); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 24); Rhases (ad Mansor' ix, 8.)