SECT. LXXXI. FRUITS. them in Pliny (xxiii, 5) j Macrobius (Saturn, iii, 19); and 133 is not very probable, as they had been described more than a c century before by Theophrastus; and further, Athenams men- tions that they had been noticed long before LucuUus by the biphman Diphilus. He speaks favorably of them as an article ot food. Servms, the commentator on Virgil, states that there were wild cherries in Italy before the days of LucuUus. Simeon Seth says that they are of a cold and humid nature, and open the bowels. They are useful, he adds, when the stomach and constitution are hot and dry. Galen states that the fruit of the pine contains thick and wholesome juices, but that they are not easily digested. The Siphnian Diphilus, as quoted by Athenseus, says that the strobili are very nutritious, smooth asperities of the trachea, and purge the breast. Mnesitheus, as quoted by the same author, says that they fatten the body, and do not impair the digestion. (Deipnos. ii.) Celsus holds them to be stomachic. Our author's remarks on the persica are taken from Galen. Seth calls them rhodaciua, a term which is generally applied to them by the Byzantine writers, and also by Alexander Trallian. Seth says that they arc cooling, diluent, and laxative, but dif- ficult to digest. If not the same as the modern peach (which the commentators suspect), the persica was evidently a fruit nearly allied to it. It is highly probable, but not quite certain, that the pracocia, duracina, and armeniaca, were varieties of the apricot. Galen does not use the second of these terms, and mentions, that many held the first and the last to be exactly the same fruit; and he, himself, in another place, forgets the distinction which he had endeavoured to establish between them. Simeon Seth describes them by the name of fiepiicoKKa, which appears to be a corrup- tion of the Latin prrecocia. See Geopon. (x, 73, and the note of Needham) ; Harduin (Notes on Pliny); J. Bruyer (de Re Cibaria, xi, 13) ; C. Avantius (Notae in Ccenam) ; Baptist. (Fier. p. G); Ludovicus Nonnius; and Sprengel (Dioscor. i, 165.) Seth says that they are fruits Avhich soon spoil, and form bad blood. Mala was used by the ancients as a generic term, compre- hending many species of fruit. See an interesting account of Athenaeus (Deipnos. iii), where Diphilus thus states their OMM.