585 SECT. L.] JAUNDICE. the skin by sudorifics and medicines which produce pruritus. Comm. He also recommends change of air, gestation, swimming in ' * water, frequent vomiting excited by simple means, and acrid food such as capers, squills, &c. He approves likewise of giving a thin wine, and the decoction of hellebore when the disease is protracted; but disapproves of the indiscriminate use of chola- gogucs, cathartics, and diuretics, such as scammony, and colo- cynth, with wormwood, birthwort, St. JohnVwort, anise, &c. He thinks mental relaxation and serenity of great consequence to the cure. Aetius gives an accurate account of the disease, but his views are very similar to those of Aretreus. He maintains that there are other causes of jaundice besides obstruction of the duct of the gall-bladder. When the affection is not critical, he re- commends bleeding and purging. He says that strong purging with colocynth, scammony, and other drastics is required to produce revulsion from the skin. He also approves of deobstru- ents and diuretics, which are to be given while the patient is in the hot bath. He speaks of sternutatories and sialogogues, like our author. He likewise strongly recommends emetics (iii, 119.) The treatment recommended by Oribasius, Actuarius,Nonnus, and Octavius, is verv little different from our authors. Accord- in<r to Actuarius, the colour of the urine which is characteristic of jaundice is the cerulean, that is to say, the colour of a ripe cherrv, or of a dark-coloured wine. (DeUrinis, vi, 7.) Theophilus in like manner states that the cerulean-coloured urine indicates jaundice. (De Urin. G.) Ruffus the Ephesian describes very correctly the situation and use of the gall-bladder, and remarks, that when its duct is obstructed jaundice is produced, in which case the stools arc white and clayey. Aetius' recommendation of emetics is upon his authority. Alexander Aphrodisiensis states that the constipation of the bowels in jaundice is occasioned by the want of the natural bile, which serves as a stimulant to the intestines. For the same reason, he adds, the stools are of a whitish colour. According to Leo, jaundice arises either from obstruction or from the conversion of the blood into bile by the heat of the system. He also adds that jaundice is sometimes critical. " The poet Lucretius (iv, 333) and the philosopher Aristippus