[book I. 8 THE INFANT. Comm. from baths, and to take food of a nutritive quality, such as fine bread, the legs of swine, tender birds, the flesh of kids, and sweet wine. When the milk is thick, he recommends frequent baths, and an attenuant diet. When it is excessive, he directs her to diminish the quantity of the food, and to take what is less nu- tritive, and to make discutient applications to the breasts, such as a linen cloth dipped in vinegar, and to wash them frequently with warm salt water, or the decoction of myrtle. Hippocrates forbids the nurse to take things of an acrid, salt- ish,acid,or crude nature. He recommends fennel, cytisus, parsley, and the hot bath as a general regimen to nurses. (De Mulieb.) Haly Abbas gives similar directions. He properly recom- mends the nurse to abstain from taking things of a pungent, sour, and bitter nature. When the nurse's milk is deficient, he recommends that she should get the milk of cows and goats, fennel, lettuce, parsley, and the like. (Pract. i, 21.) SECT. V. ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE INFANT. The first food given to a new-born child should be honey, and afterwards milk, twice, or at most three times a day. When it appears disposed for it, and seems able to digest it, it may get some food, care being taken not to stuff it. If this should happen to be the case, it will become more sleepy and inactive, there will be swelling of the belly and flatulence, and its urine will be more watery than natural. When this is observed, it ought to get no more food until what it has got be consumed. The child may be brought up upon milk until it be two years old, after which, its diet may be changed to food from grain. Comm. Commentaby. This Section is taken from Oribasius. (Sy- * ' nops. v, 5.) Galen, in like manner, approves of the honey. He directs the body of a new-born child to be sprinkled with salt; and after- wards rubbed every day with oil. After the milk diet is given up, the first food to be administered, he says, should be bread, and afterwards pulse and flesh. He forbids the use of wine, because the temperament of a child is hot and humid. He ap- proves of the hot bath, but condemns the use of the cold for young children. (Hyg. pluries.)