FOWLS. [book i. 142 Comm. like Galen and onr author, says that its flesh is ^j^^ —J excrementitious. Apicins directs us to dress it like the thrush The poet Juvenal asserts that sudden deaths are occasioned by the indigestion arising from eating peacocks, (Sat i.) It appears from Varro and Pliny, that the Romans reared them m great numbers for the table. The ostrich is often mentioned by the ancient authors as an article of food, although, as Galen says it be excrementitious and indigestible; and hence, most probably, it is proscribed m Scripture. Agatharcides makes mention of a ^vage race of people, who were called Ostrich-eaters, (Ap.Photmm.) The "afra avis " mentioned by Horace, is said by his commentator, Acron, to have been the ostrich. Porphyrion, however, rather sup- poses it to be the gallina numidica, or guinea-hen. It was the same as the meleagris, which Schneider (ad iEhan. N. A iv, 42) and Schweighauser (ad Athen. xiv, 20), agree m refer- ring to the pintada, or guinea-hen. Apicius directs us to dress it with pepper, lovage, thyme or savory, honey, mustard, vinegar, pickle, and oil. Rhases says that its flesh is very coarse. The otis was the otis tarda, or bustard. Xenophon, who gives a graphic description of the mode of hunting it in Persia, says that its flesh is most delicious. Galen and Simeon Scth say that its flesh is intermediate between the goose and the crane. Apicius gives very complicated receipts for dressing it. It is the tetrax of Nemesianus. The flesh of the domestic fowls, says Simeon Seth, is of easy digestion, and contains good juices, especially the flesh of those which are beginning to lay eggs. Chickens, he adds, are of easy digestion, and form blood of moderate consistence, neither very thin nor too thick: they are excellent food for persons who do not take strong exercise. It appears from Martial that the Romans were fond of capons, (xiii.) Both Aristotle and Pliny mention that cocks were converted into capons by means of a heated iron. The ficedula, called avKaXig hy Aristotle, was much sought after by the Romans. It was the beccafigo of the modern Italians, who are still very fond of it. Its flesh being fat, it was dressed with much pepper, as we learn from Martial and Petronius Arbiter. Galen and Simeon Seth agree that the flesh of geese is in-