SECT. LXIII.] FEMALE FLUX. 617 rhages, for which he recommends perfect quietude and sponging Comm. with cold water and vinegar, or if that fail, with astringent decoctions, &c. Soranus, in like manner, gives a very accurate detail of the symptoms and treatment of uterine hemorrhage. Rhases recommends venesection (but does not point out the cases in which it is applicable); astringent trochisks containing the recrementum ferri; cupping-instruments applied to the breasts; stuffing the vagina with wool smeared in the mixture of frankincense, wild pomegranate-flowers, galls, antimony, acacia, and alum. He also recommends epithemes, and when these things do not succeed, pessaries made with escharotics. In uterine hemorrhage after delivery, he recommends cold astrin- gent applications, and bandages to the extremities. Haly Abbas correctly remarks that uterine hemorrhage sometimes proceeds from plethora of the system, in which case he properly recom- mends bleeding. When connected with thinness of the blood, he recommends incrassant food. He also makes mention of the usual astringent applications consisting of galls, vinegar, and the like. Serapion and Alsaharavius lay down similar rules of practice. Avicenna, however, is the fullest of the Arabian au- thorities upon menorrhagia. Like Haly, he states that it sometimes proceeds from plethora, when he recommends us to produce revulsion by bleeding at the arm. When connected with debility, he prescribes astringents. When it proceeds from ulcers, he approves of a combination of agglutinative, astringent, and narcotic medicines. His general treatment during an attack is almost the same as that recommended by Paulus. He mentions acidulated water, vinegar, camphor, alum, galls, &c. Some of his prescriptions contain opium, which is an anticipa- tion of the modern practice in such cases. SECT. LXIII. ON THE FEMALE FLUX. This is a defluxion of the uterus, by which the whole body is purged. Wherefore that which is evacuated is of the same colour as the prevailing humour. It is red when from the ichorous part of the blood; white, from phlegm; pale, from bitter bile; and black from black bile; and sometimes it is watery.