f>26 [book III. DYSENTERY. bramble, the decoction of the root of marshmallows, the herb horsetail drunk in water or wine, and the juice of it, the unripe fruit of the mulberry dried, and, still more, bramble-berries when similarly dried. Eggs boiled with vinegar and eaten, dry up fluxes of the belly; but it will answer better if, mixing with them some of the articles which are good for dysentery, you fry them, and give to eat. The wine of unripe grapes is most useful in these cases, and the red sumach, and the juice of it, the rind of pomegranate, galls, grape-stones, medlars, myrtles, cornels, the ashes of snails roasted whole. The following is a compound medicine: Of the ashes of snails, p. iv; of galls, p. ij; of pepper, p. j; reduce to a fine powder, and sprinkle upon the condiments, or give to drink in water, or a white watery wine. It greatly helps dysenteric patients, when the ulcers are not putrid. But the dried dung of dogs who have eaten bones, when drank in milk which has been curdled by having heated pebbles put into it, is of great service. The following are compound remedies: The trochisk from Egyptian thorn, that of Philip, that from hartshorn, that from seeds, and the Trigonus. The pills from macer are excellent remedies. The following is an admirable one: Of opium, of saffron, of Indian Lycium {catechu?), of acacia, of sumach, of frankincense, of galls, of hypocistis, of pomegranate-rind, of myrrh, of aloes, equal parts; give in water to the amount of three oboli.— Another: Of sumach, dr. viij; of galls, of pomegranate rind, of each, dr. iv; give in a spoonful of wine.—Another: Of sumach, dr. viij; of galls, of acacia, of gum, of each, dr. ij; of opium, dr. j; give one drachm in diluted wine. This linctus will suit with them: Of black myrtles, one sextarius; of Syriac sumach, one sextarius; of Theban dates, lb. ij; of the flesh of quinces, lb. j; ten sour pomegranates with their rind; of astringent wine, one sextarius: boil to a third, and, having strained, add of honey, lb. vj; and, having boiled to a proper consistence, give for a linctus. It is clear, that the cataplasms should be made from astringents the materials of which you are acquainted with. On account of the tenesmus, which proves a troublesome symptom in dysentery, injections made from the juice of rice chondrus, or the like, with the tallow of goats, and likewise those recommended in the section on Tenesmus will prove ser- viceable. But, if there is a discharge of blood, we must inject