[book III. 480 PERIPNEUMONIA. cam dico non earn intelligi volo quae vemix vulgo vocatur, sed quae auripigmentum a nobis dicitur : porro nec per auripigmen- tum velim a te accipi priorem illam speciem quae citrina est sed alteram, quae est ruff a, et proprie Sandaraca vocatur." (Morb. Contag. iii.) Dr. Hill, however, properly remarks that the arsenic of the ancients, or orpiment was a much more innocent substance than the factitious arsenic of the moderns. See also Cleaveland (Mineralogy p. 680.) The arsenic of the ancients, in fact (as will be shown in the proper place), was the mineral substance called yellow orpiment, consisting of sixty-two parts of arsenic and thirty-eight of sulphur, according to the analysis of Klaproth. The sandarach was realgar, which consists of seventy-five parts of arsenic and twenty-five of sulphur. SECT. XXX. ON PERIPNEUMONIA. Peripneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs, supervening, for the most part, upon violent catarrhs, cjmanche, asthma, pleurisies, or other complaints, but being sometimes the original affection. It is accompanied with difficulty of breathing, an acute fever of the ardent type, weight and tightness of the chest, a rale, a seizure of the face with great fulness, the morbific matter being determined upwards like fire. Wherefore the cheeks appear red, the eyes swelled, with falling down of the eyebrows, and the cornea appears somewhat glossy. When the sypmtoms incline to a more ardent type, it is to be apprehended that the inflammation is of an erysipelatous nature. When the disease originates from the conversion of other diseases into this, we must not have recourse to venesection, more especially if the diseases be of a chronic nature, and if blood had been previously let. But, in the remissions, clysters are to be injected into the bowels, which are moved with difficulty; or, when nothing contra- indicates, large cupping-instruments with scarifications may be frequently applied to the breast and sides. But if the peri- pneumonia was the original affection, and the strength permit, we must open a vein; or if not, we may cup, proportioning the evacuation of blood to the powers of the patient. Let draughts of the juice of ptisan, or of chondrus with honey, be