TERTIAN. 239 SECT. XIX.] or giving gross food at that season. Further, with regard to Comm. venesection, he does not approve of abstracting much blood at once, which may occasion a dangerous prostration of strength; but prefers taking a moderate quantity, and repeating the ope- ration, if necessary. The purgatives which he most commends are tamarinds and myrobalans 5 but when these are not suffi- ciently strong, he permits scammony, aloes, and colocyuth to be given. He also directs us to give camphor as a refrigerant. It is to be kept in mind that the Arabians held the action of camphor to be frigorific, that is to say, narcotic. He is most minute in his directions about the diet. For drink, he gives barley-water, with a small proportion of wine or vinegar. Haly Abbas lays down the rules of treatment with great pre- cision. He recommends venesection at the commencement, provided the fever be of a sanguineous type; but, if the patient be debilitated, he is to be treated with refrigerants. Averrhoes treats of putrid fevers at great length, and with more than his usual judgment; but, as he differs but little from Avicenna, we shall not attempt to give an abstract of his prac- tice. (Collig. vii, 9.) Rhases gives a full account of the practice of the Greeks. When the extremities are cold, and the pulse weak, he directs them to be rubbed, in order to draw off the blood from the internal parts. Alexander Aphrodisiensis inquires how it happens that wine, which is of a hot nature, proves useful in fever. The amount of his speculations upon this matter is this, that the wine acts by strengthening the powers of the system. (Probl.) All the ancient authorities disapprove of the bath, except in the decline of the fever. See Ugulinus (de Balncis.) Rabbi Moyses says that the use of it is to be regulated by three cir- cumstances : 1st. That no rigor be present. 2d. That no im- portant member be affected. 3d. That there be no crudities in the veins. These appear to be very judicious regulations. SECT. XIX. THE DIAGNOSIS OF TERTIAN FEVERS. The tertian fever being occasioned by yellow bile set in agi- tation, has a considerable rigor in the beginning, which differs, however, from the rigor of a quartan in this, that the skin feels