290 FEVERS. [B00K of Galen's treatment. He states that, the system labouring under a load, the great indication is evacuation, but that ^section cannot be borne in such cases. In short, he insists that our great dependence must be placed on friction, for the application of which he gives very minute directions, men the pulse sud- denly sinks and becomes irregular, he administers wine, unless there be inflammation of the stomach or liver. In cases com- plicated with crude humours, he pronounces the bath to be most prejudicial, and also disapproves of very cold or very warm air. He is most particular in his directions for the selection of the most proper wine to be used, and gives some interesting obser- vations on the principal Greek and Roman wines used m his time. He concludes his remarks with stating that thick wines ought to be avoided as injurious, and such as are watery and thin as ineffectual, whereas those of a middling kind are to be selected. He particularly praises the Ariusian and the Lesbian. The Falernian he condemns, as being too fragrant and austere, which qualities render it injurious to the head. Alexander disagrees with Galen as to several of the points of treatment laid down by him. He insists that Galen's rigid rules for applying strong friction, at the same time that abstinence is enjoined, are such as no ordinary powers of constitution could bear up under; and, therefore, he recommends to rub first, and then to give some light nourishment, such as thin ptisan, oxymel, and bread soaked in wine, when the strength is greatly over- powered. Nay, when the powers of the constitution are in danger of sinking under the weight of the load, he suggests the propriety of having recourse to venesection; and accounts for the benefit derived from this evacuation upon the same principle that a fire which is like to be extinguished by an excessive load of green fuel burns brighter when part is taken off This is an ingenious explanation of the manner in which bleeding proves useful in cases of congestive fevers. Respecting the use of wine and the bath, his views are similar to those of Galen. He ap- proves very much of administering a light-coloured diffusible wine when the powers of the system are much sunk. Avicenna adheres closely to the principles of treatment laid down by Galen; and, therefore, says nothing of venesection, (iv, 1, 2, 58.) Rhases treats this complication of fever in like manner. He calls it " Febris syncoptica, ex humorum copia e1