180 SLEEP. [book I. SECT. XCVII. ON SLEEP. It remains, after having treated of everything connected with diet, to say something of sleep, ^^8?^^^^ every other thing. Sleep, then, may be briefly defined to be a relaxation of the vital powers, occasioned by a suitable moisture irrigating the brain. When properly taken it may prodnce many good effects. It digests the food, concocts the hnmonrs, soothes pain, alleviates lassitude, and relaxes that which is contracted It is also calculated to produce oblivion of mental sufferings and to rectify the distracted powers of reason. The most suitable season for sleep is after a meal. But that during the day does not agree with all, because the time spent in sleep is not suffi- cient for the complete digestion of the food; and, when the digestion is interrupted unseasonably, those who rise from sleep at noon are often troubled with acidity and flatulence, and some- times even with a gurgling noise in their bowels, unless from habit or sufficient rest these bad effects be obviated. Ihe best season for sleep is the night, for the humidity and drowsy still- ness of night contribute to perfect digestion. Wherefore after these nocturnal slumbers we feel the most desire for evacuation. The proper limit to sleep should be the complete digestion of the food, as may be ascertained by the eructations, and by tap- ping over the stomach; after which it may be not unuseful to awake in order to evacuate the excrementitious remains of the digestion. Comm. Commentary. The philosophy of sleep is ingeniously treated ' of by Hippocrates (de Insomniis), and by Aristotle (in his trea- tise de Somno et Vigilia.) Aristotle states that digestion goes on best during sleep. Pliny's definition of sleep seems to be taken from Hippocrates : " Est autem somnus nihil aliud quam animi in medium sese recessus." (H. N. x, 97.) Alexander Aphrodisiensis, in like manner, says, " Know that, during the day, the natural principle is less occupied with its own peculiar operations, I mean the digestion of the food, the changes of the chvle, sanguification, distribution, assimilation, and the like, the mind being engaged in its other energies, namely, the five senses, fantasy, reasoning, and memory; but during night,