411 DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECT. XXII.] in which there is an cedematous and white swelling about the eyebrows and tunica adnata, without injury of the coats, the best applications are those called liquid collyria, prepared from saffron, copperas, and honey. And this one is excellent: A liquid anodyne collyrium. Of the melanteria used by tan- ners, of Attic honey, of the juice of fenugreek, equal parts. Boil to the thickness of honey, and touch the two angles of the eye with it, by means of the rounded extremity of a specillum or probe. For a copious defluxion. For a flow of humours, in the com- mencement abstinence from food is proper, and the drinking of water, and most especially abstinence from venery; the belly should be opened, and the face washed with a watery oxycrate, if the rheum be of a hot nature; but if otherwise, the forehead and eyebrows may be anointed with copperas and honey. Some dissolve the copperas in water, and bathe with it. In defluxions without inflammation, or with inflammation, but so that the affection is seated above the skull, we must use agglutinative applications to the forehead, either simple ones, such as green vine leaves, or the juice of the bramble, or of purslain, or of quinces with some fine po- lenta, or with gall levigated in wine, or with fine polenta or hemlock, or flea-wort with water, or nightshade, or snails with their shells pulverized, and applied from temple to temple, and, in a word, with things of an astringent and cooling nature, or with the following compound applications : Wheat flour, and myrrh or frankincense, with the white of an egg, may be rubbed in; or Samian earth, with myrrh and manna, in like manner, with the white of an egg; but in colder defluxions, of native sulphur, of bitumen, of pitch, of colophonian rosin, of each, dr. ij ; also the trochisk of Musa, that called aster, and the like, are suitable repellents. And the theriac, dissolved in an as- tringent wine, and rubbed on the forehead, stops cold defluxions, and may be drunk with great advantage. Over the eye apply wool, or a smaU rag wet in the white of an egg; and new- made cheese, in like manner, when applied to the eye, restrains acrid defluxions in particular ; also the astringent collyria, as they are called, when rubbed in or injected into the eye in a watery state, do the same thing. -But if the humour be deep- seated, and below the skull, and if fixed there for a length of