90 THE STOMACH. [BOOK motion are too hard to be susceptible of fine sensibJity. See Galen (de Usu Partium, ix; de Administ. Anat. vn); Haly Abbas (Theor. iv); Averrhoes (Collig. iii, 33); Avenzoar (n, 7); and Rhases (Contin. i.) . . ,, The ancients were also of opinion that the bram is the cold- est viscus in the animal frame, being in this respect the antago- nist of the heart, the heat of Avhich they supposed that it coun- teracts. See Aristot. (De Part. Anim. ii, 7); and Pliny (Hist. Nat xi 49 ) There appears to be some foundation tor tins opinion; since, as is remarked by Haly Abbas, those parts of the body which are vascular, and contain much blood, are naturally hot • whereas such as contain little blood are comparatively cold. Of this latter class are the brain, nerves, and fat. (Theor. l.) The later Greek authorities, as, for example, Theoplnlus Protospatharius and Nemesius, adopt a division of the bram as regards its connexion with mind, to which Galen and his im- mediate followers appear to have been strangers. According to it, Fantasy is connected with the anterior part of the bram; Cogitation, or the discursus mentis, with the middle; and Memory with the posterior. See, in particular, Theophilus (p. 184, ed. Greenhill.) This hypothesis was received by all the Arabian writers on medicine/ See, for example, Averrhoes (Collig. ii, 20.) It was evidently an approach to the arrangement adopted by the phrenologists of the present day, who maintain that in- tellect is seated in the anterior part of the brain; the moral feel- ings in the middle; and the animal appetites in the posterior. SECT. LXIV. THE MARKS OF THE TEMPERAMENTS OF THE STOMACH. The marks of a preternatural dryness of the stomach are, that those affected with it are liable to thirst, but little drink satisfies them; and they feel heavy with much drink, as the superfluity occasions gurgling in the stomach, or floats upon it; of those of a more humid, that they are not addicted to thirst, and bear readily much liquids, and rejoice in humid food. A stomach preternaturally hot has a better digestion than appetite, particularly with regard to those things which are hard and difficult to* digest; it delights in much food and drink ; neither is it hurt by the moderate use of cold things. A preternaturally