xiii EDITOR'S PREFACE. nature of diseases, it is undeniable that, besides personal expe- rience, they freely availed themselves of historical detail, and of a strict analogy founded upon observation and the re- semblance of phenomena. To this class we may. refer Scribonius Largus, Marcellus, Plinius Valcrianus, and a few others, fre- quently quoted by us. The sect called the Rational, Logical, or Dogmatical, holding that there is a certain alliance and con- nexion among all the useful and ornamental arts, maintained that it is the duty of the physician not to neglect any collateral science or subject. They therefore inquired sedulously into the remote and proximate causes of diseases, and into the effects of airs, waters, places, pursuits, food, diet, and seasons, in altering the state of the human body, and in rendering it more or less susceptible of morbid changes. Looking upon general rules as not being of universal application, they held that the treatment ought to be modified according to the many incidental circum- stances under which their patients might be placed. They freely and fully availed themselves of whatever aid they could derive from experience, analogy, and reasoning. Hippocrates, Galen, Aetius, Oribasius, Paulus iEgineta, Actuarius, and all the Arabian authorities, may be looked upon as belonging to this sect. The Pneumatic sect, to which Aretseus probably belonged, was nearlv allied to the Dogmatical. The sect of the Methodists, rejecting altogether the consideration of remote causes, which they held to be of no importance to the cure, and giving them- selves up to too bold a classification of diseases, according to certain hypothetical states of the body in which they were sup- posed to originate, fettered themselves too much with a few general rules, which they held to be so universally applicable, that they would scarcely allow of their being modified by in- cidental circumstances in any possible contingency. Notwith- standing this defect, it is undeniable that their speculations as to the nature of diseases are generally very acute, and their modes of treatment frequently very rational. Upon the whole, the