SECT. [.VIII.] 599 IMPOTENCE. cooling nature, such as vinegar, pnrslain, solatrum, gourd, &c. Com i Alsaharavius recommends various refrigerant and anodyne ' v remedies, internally and externally. SECT. LVIII. ON IMPOTENCE OF THE PARTS. Those having this complaint have lost their venereal desires, and have become depressed in spirits on that account. The cause of it is a paralysis of the parts, or a defect of semen. Those things which engender semen are treated of under the head of Hygiene in the First Book; and there, too, the incen- tives to venery of a simple nature are mentioned; and we must now add those which are stronger. Wherefore we must use in general those applications called acopa which are recommended lor paralysis ; but in particular levigate a burnt swift (stellio), and, adding oil to it, anoint the great toe of the right foot, and then try the venereal act; and when you wish to give over, wash away the ointment from the toe. And the composition from swifts called polymigmaton is a very efficacious application; or propomata from medicines which rouse to erection must be taken, such as this : Of pepper, of pinc-nnts, of Macedonian parsley, of the shavings of hartshorn, of turpentine, equal parts ; mix with honey.—Another: Of raw chick-peas, of pine-nuts, of each, o/. ij ; of rocket, of pepper, of each, oz. j j mix with honey, and give two drachms in wine. And the compound medicine called satyriaca, and such like, will be applicable. But we must also attend to the other causes of the complaint, and apply remedies corresponding to them. Commentary. This Section is mostly abridged from Aetius Comm. (xi, 35.) , . , Octavius Horatianus recommends moderate exercise, friction of the extremities, and particularly of the groins, with pepper, cuphorbium, and the like; applying plasters (dropaces) of the same to the groins and loins, or making suppositories of them; giving flatulent food, such as rocket, pepper, and the seeds of tares; lying upon a downy bed; having the attendance of females; and indulging in obscene reading. Sec a long list of aphrodisiacal medicines in Myrcpsus (10);