l36 FRUITS. [BOOK Com M :ls are tender and white contain better juices, and are more J wholesome ; and that such as have been toasted m a furnace afford little nourishment. (Deipnos. ii.) It appears from Macrobius, whose account of them is very interesting, that they were eaten at the dessert. He states decidedly that the royal nut of the Greeks was the juglans or walnut. (Sat. in, 18.) Simeon Seth says that, when taken before other food, they are apt to prove laxative or emetic. Averrhoes says the like of them He adds that filberts are not so apt to produce this effect. According to Rhases, they are apt to prove injurious to the stomach and liver. The Siphnian Diphilus says that almonds are attenuant, diuretic, purgative, and afford little nourishment; that the green contain bad juices, and are possessed of stronger medicinal pro- perties ; but that the dried are more flatulent, and apter to swim on the'stomach. He adds that such as are tender, full, and are whitened, contain milky juices which are more wholesome. Simeon Seth says that bitter almonds are hotter, more at- tenuant, and more incisive than the ripe. He adds that filberts are the most nutritious of the nuts but difficult to digest. The pistachio nut has been long very celebrated in the East and in Sicily. See Celsus (Hierobotanicon), and Brydone (Tour through Sicily.) Galen says that it possesses a certain degree of bitterness and astringency, and that it proves useful in obstructions of the liver, but that it affords little nourish- ment. He adds that it is neither beneficial nor injurious to the stomach. Simeon Seth remarks that the moderns looked upon pistacs as stomachic. Averrhoes speaks highly of them. Rhases says they are of a hotter nature than almonds. Aviceima also says of them that they are of a heating nature. Theophrastus describes the pistachio tree as a species of turpentine, and it is now acknowledged as such. Galen states that the best damascenes are such as are large, spongy, and astringent. He adds that taken with sweet wine they tend to open the bowels. Oribasius says that they afford littie nourishment, but may be useful for moistening and cooling the stomach. Martial calls them laxative. It appears certain from lsidorus, that the coccymela and myxse were the same as the prima or plums. The principal variety is the jjrwius insi- ticia, or bullace plum.