SECT- x l APHTILE. l5 on Hippocrates, says, that aphthae are occasioned by the tenderness Comm. of the parts, which cannot bear the bad qualities of the milk According to Aretseus, the land of Egypt is particularly prolific of these ulcers, which are engendered by the impurities of the miter and the quality of the vegetables that grow there. (Morb. Acut. i, 9.) The aphthae appear to be the oscedo of Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8.) Our author copies from Oribasius. (Synops. v, 10.) See also Ae'tms, (viii, 39.) Aetius borrows his account from Galen, who is very full upon the treatment of aphtha?. He remarks that re- cent superficial ulcers are easily cured, but that such as spread and are of a gangrenous nature are very dangerous. He gives, at great length, directions for the composition of applications^ suited to every modification of the complaint. When the pus- tules arc red, he prescribes washes of a moderately astringent and cooling nature; if yellowish, the same, but somewhat more refrigerant; if whitish and pituitous, detergents are to be used; and, if black, the most powerful discutients. For simple cases of the aphtha? infantium, he merely recommends the floAvers of roses with honied water. Most of his remedies are astringents. (De Med. sec. Loc. lib. vi.) In another work, he says that aphtha? are occasioned by the acrimony of the milk, and are to be cured by astringents. (Comment, in in Epidem.) Pliny mentions that the lapis melititis was used as an appli- cation in cases of ulceration of the fauces. (Hist. Nat., xxxvi.) There is reason to believe that it was Borax, or borate of soda. Avicenna recommends at first washes prepared from the vege- table acids, and afterwards astringents, such as galls, sumach, balaustine, &c. (i, 3, I.) See also Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 20.) Alsaharavius states that aphthae commonly arise from the sharpness of the milk. His general treatment consists in regu- lating the diet of the nurse, and using washes principally of an astringent nature for the child's mouth. When they are very painful, he adds to the washes the juice of lettuce, endive, and the like. When they are whitish, he recommends a powder con- sisting of myrtle, saffron, and sugar. (Tr. xxvi, 20.) Rhases* treatment is quite similar. (De Morbis Infantium, c. 14.) The author of the following work, which has been falsely ascribed to Dioscorides, recommends certain applications of a