sect, iv.] THE MILK. SECT. IV. HOW TO CORRECT THE BAD QUALITIES OF MILK. The bad qualities of milk may be thus corrected. If it be too thick, the phlegm ought to be evacuated by vomits, the most proper of which are those of vinegar and honey. It is also proper to extenuate by labour before meals. Also the follow- ing substances are proper, namely : wild marjoram, hyssop, savoury, shepherd's needle, thyme, the small radish, and old pickle with vinegar and honey. But if it be more acrid and thinner than natural, the nurse ought to be relieved from much labour, to be fed upon strong soups, and the flesh of swine, and to be allowed sodden must and sweet wine. If it be in too small quantity, she ought to get soups and a generous diet, with sweet wine for drink j and her breast and nipples should be rubbed. The cupping instrument, if applied, will also be of service. That medicines for the formation of milk, are pos- sessed of some efficacy, I am well aware, and yet I do not re- commend them in all cases, for they greatly waste the body. They are, the root and fruit of the fennel boiled in ptisan, the leaves of the cytisus in dark-coloured wine or ptisan, the sweet gith (me/anthium), dill, the root and fruit of the carrot. They are to be first soaked with warm water, and then given. But when the milk is bad, whether it be thick, acrid, or of a strong smell, it is first to be sucked out and then the child is to be applied. For that which is acrid ought, on no account, to be given to the infant when hungry; but that which has an offen- sive smell may be corrected by fragrant wine and sweet food. Of coagulated milk in the breasts, we will treat in the Third Book. Commentary. Aristotle forbids wet nurses to drink wine. Com It is the same thing, he adds, whether the nurse or the child '—r drink it. (De Somno.) Oribasius, Aetius, and Avicenna give similar directions to our author's. They all permit nurses to take a moderate allowance of animal food and wine. When the nurse has too little milk, Aetius recommends her to drink ale (Zythus.) He also approves of sAveet wine, gruels prepared with fennel, or green dill boiled with ptisan. When the milk is thin, he directs her to abstain