30 REGIMEN. [book I. SECT. XXIII.—ON THE REGIMEN OF OLD PERSONS. Old age is dry and cold ; and its correctives are calefacients and dilnents compounded with them. Friction is to be applied to the aged, but so as not to occasion lassitude. To such as are weak, some such course of diet as the following isto,be pre- scribed : about the third hour, a small bit of bread with Attic honey ; and afterwards, about the seventh hour, after having undergone friction, and taken exercise and baths suitable to old men, they must first get such things as are of a laxative nature, and afterwards fish or fowls; and then for supper, such things as are wholesome, and not apt to spoil m the stomach. I also do not forbid them to use wines prepared with honey, particularly such persons as are suspected of being threatened with the stone or gout, and in that case, a little parsley may be added. If phlegm be gendered in the stomach, we must of necessity apply such remedies as will remove it, and return im- mediately to a diluent diet: we must give them ripe figs m preference to every other kind of food, and if during the winter, dried figs, unless they complain of unpleasant symptoms in the right hypochondrium. When serous and pituitous recrements collect in the bodies of old men, we must promote the discharge of urine every day, and soften the belly, principally by giving oil before a diet. It is obvious, that all pot-herbs ought to be eaten before all other food, with oil, pickles, or olives and dama- scenes seasoned with salt. When the belly is bound, the herb mercury and the bastard saffron will relieve it. Turpentine also is proper in such cases. It may be given sometimes to the bulk of a Pontic walnut, and sometimes of two or three. Oil also in a clyster is most useful to those who are constipated. Comm. Commentary. This Section is copied from Oribasius. (Synops. v, 18.) See also Aetius. (iv, 30.) These directions are all borrowed from Galen (Hyg. v), who has treated of the subject with his characteristic elegance and good sense. The following is a brief exposition of his views of practice in such cases : " Old age is cold and dry, and is to be corrected by diluents and calefa- cients, such as hot baths of sweet waters, drinking wine, and