PITYRIASIS. [book III. 346 excoriated, apply olive leaves boiled with honey.—Another: Of litharge and ceruse, of each, dr. xij; of native sulphur, dr. viijj mix with myrtle cerate. For the thick and red ulcers of the head, resembling papula, or small nipples, from which ichor is discharged. Having first shaved the head and scrubbed it with water and nitre, use native sulphur livigated with human urine; or anoint with melanteria and vinegar. For achores and favi. The complaint called achor is one of those which affect the skin of the head, corroding the skin by very small perforations, from which a discharge of viscid humour takes place. The complaint called favus is nearly allied to it in appearance, since it consists of larger perforations resembling the combs of bees, containing a honey-like fluid. They are occa- sioned by a nitrous and saltish phlegm. In such cases, the diet should consist of wholesome food; and everything that is acrid and saltish should be avoided, more particularly if the attack be inflammatory. After the proper evacuation of the prevailing humour, having shaved the hairs, foment twice, thrice, or oftener, with warm water, in which has been boiled myrtle, bramble, or lentil, or bitter lupines, or the root of asparagus. When the ichorous discharge is greater, apply a cataplasm of the leaves of willow, with water, or of lentil. The ointments used should consist of Cimolian, Cretan, or Samian earth, or pompholyx, or spodium, or litharge, or cadmia, or burnt paper, or the powder from pepper. All these are to be applied with vinegar. We may use the following smegma: Of sulphur, of the herb perdi- cias, and soap, of each equal parts. The following are com- pound applications: Of litharge, dr. xvj; of the leaves of rue, dr. viij; of the stavesacre, dr. iv; of copperas, dr. ij; with vine- gar and myrtle oil; make to the consistence of bath-sordes, and anoint with it.—Another: Of sandyx (calcined ceruse?), dr. iv; of myrrh, dr. iv; of native sulphur, dr. ij; of manna, dr. iv; rub into the part with old oil. For achores. When they discharge ichor, triturate the dross of silver, or yellow ore of lead (molybdozna), and sprinkle upon them.—Another, for achores and humid psora : Of the roses of the rhododaphne, oz. iv; of native sulphur, oz. iv; of liquid pitch, oz. iij; of dry pitch, oz. iij; of wax, oz. vj; of myrtle oil, q. s. For children, dissolve in milk, and anoint.