657 GOUT. SECT. LXXVIII.] SECT. LXXVIII. ON GOUT AND ARTHRITIS. It is not weakness of the parts alone that occasions gouty and arthritic complaints; for then the paroxysms would be without leasing, inasmuch as the debility is always present in the weak parts. Neither is a humour the sole cause, for then the com- plaint had not attacked the joints only. But the disease is occasioned by a preternatural humour and a weakness of the parts meeting together. For when the nutritive power of the parts becomes debilitated from repletion with food inducing dyspepsia, the prevailing humour, fixing iu some of the joints which are already in a weak state, and stretching the nervous ligaments, produces pain. For the inflammation is not an original affection of the nerves of volition ; as then it would have affected also the parts between the joints, such as the middle of the legs, thighs, arms, and forearms; but those of volition are affected sympa- thetically. When, therefore, the humour is seated in the joints of the feet only, the complaint is called podagra; but when the cause is diffused over all the joints of the body, we commonly call it arthritis, in which the vertebra;, scapulae, jaws, and every other joint are attacked with the disease. In certain cases the ears, teeth, and pharynx, and sometimes even the liver and spleen participate in the arthritic pains, when, if there is not a speedy translation of the disease to the joints, the patients will be in urgent danger. The prevailing humour is sometimes bilious, sometimes sanguineous, sometimes melancholic, but for the most part it is pituitous and crude, being engendered by excess of food, indigestion, and want of exercise. When the disease is protracted in the joints, the humours become thick and viscid, so as to form what are called tophi or chalk-stones. Sometimes the humour is of a compound nature, so that the disease is dif- ficult to distinguish, and difficult to cure, or nearly incurable. The precursory causes of this affection for the most part are im- moderate labour, violent walking, frequent exercise on horseback, the unseasonable use of venery, cold drink taken unseasonably, eating of much cold or unwholesome food, and drinking much wine. And some from accidents, as a blow, a sprain, or the like, have experienced the first attack of this complaint, the materials of the disease having previously remained quiet in the system 42