642 STERILITY. [book hi. cold intemperaments of the uterus are indicated by retention of the menses, a cold and incrassating diet, and some torpor about the pubes, loins, and legs j and these persons, if they be- come perfectly congealed in habit, have no venereal desires at all. Wherefore we must endeavour, in every other way, but par- ticularly by all kinds of fomentations, and by fumigation with aromatics, to recall the natural heat. And it will not be at all improper to drink of castor and of some of the aromatic seeds, such as cumin, anise, the flowers of pennyroyal, and the fruit of junipers, mixing some pepper with each. Fumigations of the womb may be applied either by sitting on a proper chair, and receiving the vapours which arise, or by injections of hot water in which sage, mugwort, rue, cumin, pennyroyal, sweet flag, and the aromatic seeds have been boiled. A cataplasm of any of them may also be applied to the lower part of the belly. The epitheme of Polyarchus is also appropriate. Frictions of the lower part of the belly and nates are no less proper. The woman may also use pessaries of myrrh, rue, galbanum, and castor, having previously fomented with honied water or salt water. The pessary called Gone is also an excellent one. Warmer intem- peraments of the uterus are indicated by the whole body being hotter than usual, by the menses being voided in small quantity and with pain, and by the privy parts of the woman being ul- cerated. They are to be remedied by such things as are mo- derately moistening and cooling, such as the pot-herbs, lettuces, mallows, blite, gourd, cucumber, pompion, orach, and purslain, and by the other articles of food of a like nature; and we must apply to the bladder, abdomen and loins, all cooling things, such as cataplasms and liniments made of the juices of herbs. If the woman cannot conceive owing to humidity of the uterus, it is indicated by there being much moisture of the parts during the venereal act, and by the menses being thin and in great quantity. A desiccative diet, therefore, suits with these cases ; also exercises and frictions of the upper parts; emetics and dry food in moderate quantities. It will likewise answer well to strengthen the uterus by austere medicines, such as the decoction of lentisk, of myrtles, of roses, and of sumach; or also by that of promegranate flowers, of the tender shoots of bramble, and of galls. When the uterus is drier than common, it is to be cured by the opposite remedies, I mean by baths and unguents,