sect, xn.] PULSE. 209 wine, or rage, have vehemence joined to greatness. Those who wish to conceal anger, or something which thev have done with- out permission of the physician, (such as if a person has taken a heating medicine, and wishes to conceal it from the physician, who inquires about it while he feels the pulse,) in such persons a manifest inequality is joined to greatness. To the discovery of this state other considerations may contribute, such as the habit of the patient, as if he appeared to be fond of taking me- dicines, or his disposition, as if it be bad, and cunning at con- cealments. A pulse which is great from putrefaction of the fluids has a contraction more hasty than natural joined to its greatness. To form a great pulse, an urgent necessity is not alone sufficient; but the vital powers must also contribute, and a condition of the instrument or artery intermediate between hardness and softness. When the heat, therefore, is increased in the heart by any of the above-mentioned causes, in the first place the pulse becomes great, and, the greatness not being able to supply the want, quickness is straightway joined to it j and if that is not sufficient, density is superadded. Small, slow, and rare pulses are formed by the opposite causes. But when a change first takes place from a great, quick, and dense pulse to their opposites, namely, when the necessity is at an end, the first character of the pulse is not the first that leaves it, but it loses first that which it last acquired, becoming first rare, then slow and last small. But if the slowness and smallness should go on increasing, the rarity will again change to density, in order that the necessary want may be supplied. Such are the causes of greatness, quickness, density, and their opposite pulses. To these we shall connect the alteration of the pulse in regard to one dimension only. Breadth alone then is increased, prin- cipally by a redundancy of humidity, either natural, or from external causes, as loftiness is occasioned by the softness of the instrument, assisted by the vital power; but length is rendered apparent by the dryness and melting of the surrounding flesh, the other dimensions being contracted. For an artery cannot, in fact, become longer than natural; and this ought more pro- perly to be called the lean pulse, as the opposite one, namely, that which is increased only in breadth and depth, should be called the fat. The pulse sometimes falls under the opposite characters to this, when it is restrained as to any of its dimen- 14