sect, xxiv.] QUOTIDIAN. 249 wished to punish those who made use of amulets. On the Comm. Trspunrra, mpiapnara, vcl amulcta of the ancients, see Andreas "~Y—' Laurentras (de Mirab. Strum, sanat. p. 83); Rendtorfius (Nota3 m Anatolii Fragment, ap. Fabricii Biblioth. Gxsec. iv, 305) ; and Wolfius (ap. Act. Lips. 1690.) The practice of using amulets for the cure of diseases must have been very ancient, tor it is alluded to by Pindar (Pytli. iii), and Theophrastus (H. P. ix, 10.) The facts recently stated in support of the system of Annual Magnetism have been supposed to give some counte- nance to the ancient belief in the efficacy of amulets. SECT. XXIV. THE DIAGNOSIS OP THE QUOTIDIAN. The quotidian does not make its attack with a rigor on the first day, but in progress of time, a chill rather than rigor takes place, which is, with difficulty, succeeded by heat, and it has a protracted increase. Yet, it does not make those af- fected hot, nor their respiration frequent and thick, nor does it make them pant or drink cold water. But they have vomitings of phlegm, and whatever is voided by the belly is cold, crude, and watery, in these fevers. And they have no sweats during the first days, neither have they an interval of freedom from fever. Their colour is white and pale; their urine thin and white, or thick, turbid, and red. Commentary. We have stated, in the 18th Section, that Comm. the ancients were of opinion that quotidians derive their origin '—'—' from phlegm, that is to say, serum. Our author's description is abridged from Galen (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) The other authorities treat of it in much the same terms. Even Alexander, who aims at originality, agrees with Galen and Hippocrates, in referring the origin of quotidians to pldegm. Palladius, in his valuable little treatise on Fever, is at great pains to explain the manner in which putrid extrava- sated phlegm gives rise to quotidian. He represents the heat as being smothered and concealed like that of moist fuel. Celsus describes all the varieties of the disease very minutely. Constantinus Africanus gives an accurate description of this intermittent. He says that the paroxysm lasts for twenty-four