[book III. ANGINA, ETC. 464 SECT. XXVII. ON ANGINA, OR QUINSEY, AND THE COMPLAINTS ALLIED TO IT; IN WHICH THE SUBJECT OF THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN STRANGLED OR OTHERWISE SUFFOCATED IS TREATED OF. When the parts within the throat are inflamed, the disease is called synanche; when those without it, parasynanche. In like manner, when the parts within the windpipe are inflamed, the disease is called cynanche; and when those without it, paracy- nanche. All these complaints are attended with orthopncea and. pain, with difficulty of breathing, and in some cases with fever. There is redness of the face and neck, and swelling in some cases, and sometimes the mouth is kept constantly open, and they cannot swallow drink. Cases of cynanche are sometimes attended with a sense of suffocation. This disease attacks child- ren but rarely, and then only from injuries of the spinal verte- brae occasioned by a fall, which case, being incurable, is not to be meddled with. In the others, we must immediately bleed from the arm, and take away not a great quantity at once, but in divided quantities; for from a rapid evacuation there is danger of suffocation, owing to the matters rushing to the affected part, if the patient should faint. Should they not be immedi- ately relieved by it, we must open the veins below the tongue; or make incisions into the tongue itself, if it be swelled and protrude out of the mouth. The bowels are to be evacuated by acrid clysters; hot water is to be poured upon the feet, and the extremities firmly bound with ligatures. The neck is to be wrapped in unwashed wool, or in wool smeared with oil, and a cataplasm of raw barley-meal applied. At the commencement we may use the gargles described for inflammation of the tonsils, or the simple medicine from mulberry, with the decoction of sumach; but the best remedy is that from wild mulberry, and after that the compound application from mulberry, or the parts are to be anointed with the composition from walnuts. When the disease is at its height, we may add a little nitre or sulphur vivum, unless the acrimony prohibit their use. And dog's dung, dried and powdered, and rubbed in with honey, is a most excel- lent application, more especially the white kind; also the dung of wild swallows, in like manner. When the complaint is of long standing, we may use the liniment from besasa, or wild rue,