SECT. XXXII.] 495 PHTHISIS. lion of the disease is singularly accurate. The pectoral rah he notices in these words : " Quosdam etiam sibilatio vel stridor thoracis sequitur." The pulse is said to be « debilis, densus ac demde formicalis." He mentions that it usually terminates by a colliquative diarrhoea. His treatment is judiciously suited to the circumstances of the case. He condemns the early use of the bath, hellebore, and the formation of issues on the pjtrt affected. Of the varieties of empyema he has treated elsewhere at great length. He appears to consider the operation of pa- racentesis as dangerous. Many of the remedies recommended by Marcellus contain a combination of stimulant with narcotic substances, that is to say, of myrrh, storax, and the like, with opium and hyoscyamus. Pliny speaks of navigation, that is to say, a sea-voyage, as a popular remedy for phthisis in his time. (PI. N. xxxi, 33.) Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, remarks that tubercles like boils form in the lungs of cattle. (Mulom. ii, 45.) A\ tcenna's treatment is in general like that of Galen and his followers. He speaks of inhaling the vapours of arsenic, pine- t'ruit, &c. He and his countryman Avenzoar approve of para- centesis and the cautery. Mesue recommends the tepid bath in the decline of phthisis. Serapion approves of opening the abscess in cases of empyema by means of a red-hot iron. In the treatment of empyema Haly Abbas appears to have put great confidence in absorbent earths, such as burnt crabs, gum Arabic, Cyprian earth, &c. He gives the milk of asses in the morning, and at night the syrup of poppies. He also praises goats' milk. Pie approves of a milk-diet and demulcents likewise in phthisis. He makes frequent mention of poppies, doubtless with the view of alleviating the cough. In certain cases he prescribes the tepid bath; and, under proper regulations, we are convinced that it might often be of service. Haly approves of the tests of purulent expectoration, which we have stated above that Aretreus condemned. Alsaharavius says that the bath may prove useful in phthisis, but that it ought not to be tried except under the direction of a skilful physician. He seems to direct the patient first to use the tepid bath in a warm place, and afterwards to go for a short time into a cold bath. Pie does not explain the principles of his practice. He approves in general of a milk-diet, but directs us to change it if a diarrhoea