[book II. 296 FEVERS. SECT. XL. ON PAIN. A torpid pain is occasioned by a cold affection j a throbbing is characteristic of a strong inflammation. But, if a person feel as if pierced by a sharp-pointed instrument, or bored by a wimble, this kind of pain is peculiar to the thick intestine, i. e. the colon. The pungent is seated in the membranes. The darting pain attends the most vehement attacks, not only of hemicrania, but also of cephalaea. It is said to be darting when it commences in the seat of the affection, as from a root, and spreads quickly to the surrounding parts. Stretching pains take place in the nerves, when they are affected and stretched towards both extremities. But the nerves are not liable to be affected with lateral distensions. The membrane under the skin when distended occasions tensive and torpid pains; those between the flesh, as it were, divellent. For they are many, have irregular insertions, and surround the flesh. But the pains proceeding from the membranes which surround the bone, are deep-seated, and seem to proceed from the bones themselves. Wherefore, when no external cause of the pain is apparent, you must consider the patient's preceding regimen. If it has been more inactive than usual, or if he has been taking more nutritive food than common, or if any evacuation has been suppressed,—if any or all of these circumstances be observed, plethora is the cause of the pain, and you must eva- cuate him as quickly as possible; for, by this means you will be enabled with all safety to use such remedies as are fitted to repel the defluxions from the affected parts. If the part be distended with a fulness of blood, open a large vein near it immediately; but when bad humours alone are the cause, you must purge; and, when both meet together, you must use both evacuations, beginning with the bleeding. If, after both these remedies have been tried, the pain continue, it is clear that the offending matter has become fixed in the part affected; and it is also clear, that the cure will be accomplished by discutient remedies. In like manner, we may cure pains from flatulence, by soothing them with attenuant food and injections, and open- ing the pores of the containing part with cataplasms, irrigations, and fomentations. If a swelling bearing down and pressing