534 COLIC. [book hi. fresh grease of a goose or hen, or the juice of ptisan with rose- oil, or the juice of linseed. They must take the antidote called picra from aloes in a draught, and use baths of sweet waters, and spoon-meats from chondrus or ptisan, and fishes caught among rocks; and, in a word, the whole regimen should be moistening and cooling. The patient must abstain from all acrid food and medicines, and from hot fomentations, by means of embrocations and cataplasms, and from drinking wine, more especially old. When the pain is strong, we may also use nar- cotics ; for they prove less injurious in this case than in any of the others, incrassating and moderately cooling the thin and sharp humours. I am of opinion that the colic affection which now prevails is occasioned by such humours ; the disease having taken its rise in the country of Italy, but raging also in many other regions of the Roman empire, like a pestilential conta- gion, which in many cases terminates in epilepsy, but in others in paralysis of the extremities, while the sensibility of them is preserved, and sometimes both these affections attacking to- gether. And of those who fell into epilepsy the greater num- ber died; but of the paralytics the most recovered, as their complaint proved a critical metastasis of the cause of the dis- order. Those, therefore, who were thus affected, a certain phy- sician in Italy cured, in an incredible way, by putting them boldly upon a refrigerant diet. For he gave them unboiled lettuces previously cooled, and succory, in like manner, to eat until they were more than sated; and also grapes, apples, fish which have hard flesh, and, in short, all the Crustacea; also the feet of oxen, the bulbi, and the like, namely, things which were not only cold by their powers, but likewise to the touch. He seldom gave wine, and when he did, he mixed it with cold water. And he gave cold water for drink, or cold oxycrate, and prohibited all warm food and that of the middle kind; and, con- trary to all expectation, he cured most people in this way, and even some who had begun to experience a conversion of the disease into epilepsy or paralysis. Comm. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Affect, xv); Galen (de v ' Med. sec. loc. ix; de Loc. Affect, vi, 2); Aretseus (Morb. Acut. ii, 6; Chron. ii, 8) ; Alexander (ix, 1); Celsus (iv, 14) ; Oriba- fcius (Loc. Affect. Curat, iv, 87); Leo (v, 13); Aetius (ix, 29);