428 [book III. DISEASES OF THE EYE. Comm. escharotic powders containing alum, limatura seris, sal ammoniac, ~^r~J and the like. When these fail, a surgical operation must be had recourse to. This is described in the Sixth Book. Mesue also has treated of the disease at great length. Haly Abbas de- scribes the disease very correctly. He says, " Aliquando autem ejus sanies ad nares defluit per foramen quod inter oculum est et nasum." This passage puts it beyond a doubt that the ancients were acquainted with the lachrymal duct. The disease, he says, sometimes occasions caries of the cartilages (os unguis?). When it is recent, he recommends bleeding and laxatives; and when it gets into a fistulous state, he directs us to use applica- tions containing arsenic, sal ammoniac, cantharides, alum, kc. Alsaharavius mentions that the abscess of the laclnymal sack may either burst outwards or into the nose. It would appear, therefore, that he also was acquainted with the natural structure of these parts. One of the applications recommended by Rhases for fistula lachrymalis contains arsenic, quicklime, and vitriol. Another is prepared from litharge, arsenic, and oil. These applications are mentioned by the earlier of the modern autho- rities on medicine. See Theodoricus (iii, 2.) The protostactos mentioned by our author was a composition consisting of potass and lime. (See Book Seventh, in voce, kovm.) On trachoma. This affection does not appear to be noticed in our late treatises on diseases of the eye, and yet in our own practice we have met with some cases of it. Rowley mentions it as an asperity of the internal superficies of the eyelid. Celsus describes it by the name of aspritudo. In severe cases, he says, some scarify the inside of the eyelid with a fig leaf, a rough probe, or a scalpel. But in ordinary cases, he rather approves of using exercises, frequent baths, fomentations with hot water, attenuant food, and escharotics, such as copperas, misy, anti- mony, and the like. Galen and Ae'tius give prescriptions for various collyria. They consist principally of detergent and caustic substances, such as sal ammoniac, squama seris, calamine, and the like. It seems to be the disease which Halv Abbas treats of by the name of lapidositas. (Pr. v, 51.) On chalazion. We will treat more fully of the nature of this tumour in our notes on Section xvi of the Sixth Book. It appears to be the species of encysted tumour said by Scarpa to