420 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [cook III. Comm. plasms containing poppies when the pain is violent, and other 1—y—' soothing collyi'ia. Alsaharavius, in like manner, recommends depletion and emollient fomentations. Serapion, among other things, mentions soothing fomentations. In chemosis, according to llhases, all the symptoms of ophthalmy are particularly strong and violent; the eyelids being swelled and everted, and the white of the eye appearing black. He recommends local and general bleeding, purging, and astringent applications. On hyposphagma and emphysema. Hyposphagma is not de- scribed by any particular name in modern surgical works. Besides the local applications mentioned by our author, Aetius properly recommends general treatment, we mean bleeding, purging, and the like. Avicenna also makes mention of vene- section and artcriotomy. Haly describes the disease by the name of tumor oculi as his first variety of inflatio. Alsaharavius uses the same term. Serapion treats of it by the name of sanguis divisus in oculo, recommending treatment similar to our author's. See also Celsus (vi, 6.) The emphysema appears to have been a sort of oedema seated below the eyelid. Aetius remarks that it occurs principally in old men. We have often seen it in them. He recommends fomentations by means of a sponge, rubbing the eyelid within with honey, pouring hot water on the head, using baths, drink- ing wine, and even bleeding at the arm. This last measure is omitted by our author, and must be unnecessary in general. It is described by Haly Abbas as his second variety of inflatio oculi. He says it is an cedematous swelling principally affecting old men in summer. He recommends collyria of a sharp pe- netrating nature, and various other applications. On psorophthalmia, scler-ophthalmia, and xerophthalmia. For these affections Aetius gives various prescriptions containing calamine, burnt copper, chalcitis, and the like. Similar ones may be found in Galen (sec. loc.) Galen, like our author, re- commends fomentations, by means of a sponge, with hot water or the decoction of poppies. One of Alexander's prescriptions for psorophthalmia contains arsenic. Celsus describes the symp- toms and treatment of xerophthalmia very minutely : " Neque tument, neque fluunt oculi, sed rubent tantum, et cum dolore quodam graves sunt, et noctu praj gravi pituita inhserescunt." He gives the sum of his treatment in this short sentence : "In