SECT. XVIlI.j APOPLEXY. 393 water, and apply strong-scented things, such as opopanax, saga- pone, galbanum, or castor, to the nose. It may be necessary to open the mouth forcibly, and introduce a finger or feather dipped in oil to remove the matters sticking there. Anoint the anus with applications for promoting the discharge of flatus. Give honied water and oxymel to drink, and use masticatories pre- pared by boiling thyme, or marjoram, in vinegar. When there is a remission of the complaint, we are to have recourse to ten- der, diffusible, and succulent food. When loss of speech con- tinues, if the strength permit, we are to apply to the back part of the head a cupping-instrument with scarificators, and, if ad- missible, it should be applied to the hypochondria also. Let them afterwards be carried about in a chair, or couch, or suspended bed, and have recourse frequently to sternutatories and masti- catories. After the fourteenth day, we may bring them back to the other kinds of gestation, attend to their speech, give old apomel with pieces of bread or alica, and afterwards a small quan- tity of hiera. After the twenty-first day, we may lead them to the bath, give them old wine to drink; and otherwise we must promote recovery by sprinkling them with warm water, by baths, and rubbing with unguents. If possible, let them reside in places by the sea-coast. The cure of paresis, or resolution. If there be paralysis of all or of certain members, without injury of the primary energies, we must first evacuate the offending humour, whatever it be, and then give hiera, and a certain portion of castor, beginning with half a drachm, along with some honey and warm water in which it has been dissolved, either alone, or with the addition of half a scruple of pepper; then, after an interval of four days, we may give a whole drachm, and afterwards one and a half, then two and three. After an interval of the same number of days, we may give four drachms, if the patient be able to take so much, adding one spoonful of honey. To the part we may apply some of the discutient remedies, along with rubefacients, adding to them some castor, or pepper, or pellitory, or rosemary, or euphorbium; and, in addition to these, we may have recourse to embrocations with oil of rue, or Sicyonian or old oil. The food ought to be fari- naceous, taken in a slop, of easy digestion, and not excrementi- tious. Let cupping-instruments be applied to the affected parts separately, if there be many of them, but to one if there be few.