[book r. 92 THE STOMACH. passages. It is particularly stated of Asclepiades, that he held digestion to be the solution of the food. See C. Aurelianus. (Morb. Acut. i, 14.) And that the ancients were aware that the stomach secretes a fluid possessed of solvent properties, is put beyond a doubt, by the following extract from the works of Haly Abbas. Speaking of the changes which the food undergoes in the mouth and stomach, he says: "Immutantur cibi in ore, retinenturque, et flegmati admiscetur quod digestum est, calorque ei datur. Quod autem flegma hoc hujusmodi sit, signum nobis est quod impetigines et sarpedones curat, qusedam maturat ulcera, scor- piones necat. Hac ergo de causa et in ore cibus immutatur. Sic et stomachus ipsum immutat: ejus etenim circum amplectitur substantia, quasque habet imprimit qualitates, immutaturque ipsius naturali calore cibus: Sed et quoniam cibus ipse in eo flegmati admiscetur humido." (Theor. iv, 3.) The whole bear- ing of this passage, but more especially the last clause, puts it beyond a doubt that the process of digestion was supposed to be performed, in a certain measure, by the solvent powers of a fluid secreted in the stomach. And the ingenious Alexander Aphrodisiensis, in like manner, treating of the digestion of mus- tard, pepper, and other acrid substances, says decidedly, that their acrimony is dissolved in the copious fluid of the stomach. (Probl. i, 30.) See also Macrobius (Saturnal. vii, 8.) He calls the fluid ventralis humor, which may be literally trans- lated, " gastric juice." Part of the process was, no doubt, sup- posed to be performed indirectly by heat; and deservedly, for even Spallanzani was compelled to admit, that the comparative temperature of animals exerts a considerable influence on their digestive powers. Hence, as was stated by Averrhoes, and as is confirmed by Cuvier, Birds, which are the warmest class of animals, likewise digest the fastest. At all events, the ancients were well aware, that digestion is not a mechanical, but a vital process, being performed by the principle of life. "Digestion," says Averrhoes, " is performed by concoction, and the concoction is influenced by heat, not that the first mover in the operation is heat, but the nutritive soul; because the operations of heat are indeterminate, and not directed to any manifest end." (Collig. v, 3.) In the ' Averroeana/ or ' Letters from Averrhoes to Metrodorus/ (which, whether genuine or not, contain a curious and interesting exposition of the Great Commentator's opinions