sect, xxviii.] SYNOCHOUS. 2.57 meclies as are calculated to remove obstructions, those which evacuate, and such as will allay the effervescence of the blood. But when in these cases you remark symptoms of concoction ot the humours, and there is neither inflammation, cedematous swelling, nor scirrhus in any important part, nor any part cold, so as that the evil may be determined to it, you may boldly give cold water, more especiaUy if the patient has been accustomed to cold drink. Commentary. After what we have said in the preceding Comm. section, and m the section on Ephemerals, it will be unneces- ' sary to enter into any detailed account of the ancient opinions with regard to the nature of synochus. It is to be distinctly recollected, however, that all the authorities from Hippocrates to Actuarius held, with Galen, that the synochi are produced either by an ebullition of the blood, as in the case of neglected ephemerals, or from putrefaction of this fluid. (SeeMeth.Med.ix.) In other parts of his works Galen seems, indeed, to hold that these fevers are connected with corruptions of the bile, and we shall not attempt to defend him from the charges of inconsist- ence and contradiction with which he is assailed by Avicenna and Averrhoes. His treatment is well deserving of our atten- tion. He inculcates with becoming earnestness that the great remedies for synochous fevers are bleeding and cold drink. He approves of bleeding ad deliquium animi, and relates an inte- resting case of its good effects. (Meth. Med. ix.) When the pulse is large and firm, he insists that no considerations of age, strength, or any other circumstance, ought to deter the physi- cian from abstracting blood freely. He directs the apartments of the sick to be kept cool and well ventilated, and to have the floors sprinkled and rendered fragrant by means of suitable flowers. The diet is to be of a light and diluent nature, espe- cially at the acme of the fever. (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) He for- bids the bath when inflammation is present. (Hyg.) Aetius conducts the treatment upon the same principles as Galen, and the directions which he gives for the application of the different remedies are most important. He states most de- cidedly, that unless venesection is had recourse to, the patient will be in the utmost danger, and can only be saved by the strength of his constitution, or some critical evacuation. When 17