THE HAIR. SECT. I.] ment are given; namely, to shave the part frequently, to rub Comm. it with compositions containing mustard, adarce, wormwood, ^ ' ali'vonium, &c, and to purge with aloes, scammony, colocynth, and the like. Similar directions are given by Heliodorus. Even Alexander, who in general controverts freely the opinions of Galen, does not differ from him at all in this case. He lays down the treatment of baldness very systematically, according as the falling off of the hairs arises from preternatural dryness of the part, or from contraction or expansion of the pores, or whether it proceed from the purging of the system from depraved humours. In the first of these cases he recommends baths, and a moistening diet, but forbids the use of astringent appli- cations. For preternatural openness or relaxation of the pores he recommends applications of an astringent and bracing nature, and strongly nourishing food. For preternatural contraction of the pores he advises the opposite class of remedies. When the hairs fall out owing to the cleansing of the system from de- praved humours, as happens after diseases, he cautions against a too meddlesome interference with the process of nature. Aetius and Oribasius are the servile copyists of Galen. Mar- cellus gives a long list of compound medicines for the cure of alopecia. Pliny recommends binTs gall with Egyptian nitre. The ancients were in the practice of using nitre for cleaning linen, as is remarked by Bernard (ad Nonnum, u. s.) On the ancient practice of scrubbing the head with nitre or soda, sec Salmasius (ad Tertull. de Pallio, 432.) The Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends shaving, rubbing with nitre, and stimulant applications containing arsenic. (Euporist.) The Arabians treat the disease exactly as the Greeks. Aven- zoar recommends purging, a regulated diet, and friction with oil of nuts and cherva. Haly Abbas approves of general eva- cuants, friction, and stimulant applications containing cantha- rides, nitre, &c. Alsaharavius recommends emetics after food, purging with hiera picra, friction with compositions containing mustard, euphorbium, pellitory, nettle-seed, with oil of sesame, or with liquid pitch. Ophiasis, he says, is to be treated upon the same principles. Among the ingredients of Mesue's com- positions, we remark cantharides, musk, and amber. Serapion, like Galen and some of the others, makes mention of red arsenic as an ingredient in these applications. Rhases, in his 1 Continens,'