SECT. LXXIII.] 109 ARTICLES OF FOOD. commmatto, kw^o?, which was a sort of jollification after the Comm. great meal or supper. See Athenseus (lib. i) j Jo. Bruyer (cle Re Cibar. iii, i) • Lambhms (in Pint. Truculent, ac. i, sc. 7, L 16) j Potter (Arch. Grrec. iv, 16.) The common hour of breakfast was about 7 o'clock a.m., of dinner about 3 p.m. • and of supper about 8 p.m. The practice, however, of taking so many meals appears to have been disapproved of by the physi- cians and suvans : for we find Actuarius discussing the question whether it be proper to eat twice or only once in the day; and Galen decidedly recommends people not to take food in general oftener than twice. Cicero even forbids to take two full meals in a day. (Tuscul. Qusest. v.) Hippocrates speaks with disap- probation of the practice of eating a full dinner. (De Vet. Med.) Suetonius makes it a reproach to Domitian that he dined fully. (In Domit.) Haly Abbas enters into a full examination of the question with regard to the number of meals. Some, he says, eat only once in the day, some twice, and others three times. He advises those persons who are actively employed not to dine, because, if obliged to take exercise immediately after- wards, the body will be loaded with half concocted chyle. Upon the whole he prefers supper to dinner. (Pract. i, 13.) Alsaha- ravius considers one meal in the day not sufficient for persons of a gross habit of body. He advises persons not to change even a bad regimen too suddenly. Rhases remarks, that to take another supply of food before a preceding meal is digested, will prove highly prejudicial to the health. From the views of domestic life given in the Greek novels we are inclined to think that the supper was the only meal which all the members of a family of the better class partook of together. See in particular Achilles Tatius (pluries.) The breakfast and dinner were light meals, consisting of bread or cheese dipped in wine. (Apul. Metam. and Martial Epigr.) The ancient physicians attached great importance to the proper regulation of the diet. Galen seriously admonishes his readers not to eat thoughtlessly, like brute beasts, but to con- sider attentively what kinds of food and drink they find from experience to be prejudicial to them. (De Sanit. tuenda, vi, 13.) According to Athenseus, a good physician ought to be a good cook. (Deipnos. vii.) Upon the authority of Daphnus, the Ephesian physician, he decides that night is the most proper