377 SECT. XIII.] EPILEPSY. particularly solicitous about it; for when its age changes to a more bilious and drier constitution, and the diet is more pru- dently regulated, the affection most commonly goes off sponta- neously. But we must attend to the diet not only of the in- fants, but likewise of their wet-nurses. After boyhood, those that tall into the disease ought to have the convulsed and dis- torted parts freely anointed, and ligatures applied to them, when they arc to be stretched out: and then the mouth is to be opened, and one must introduce a finger or a feather, smeared with oil of iris, in order to bring away the phlegm. We must also rouse the senses by strong-smelling things, such as hog's fennel, Cyrenaic juice, bitumen, and the pitch of cedar. But after the paroxysms, if nothing prevent, we must bleed from the arm; and when the paroxysm does not abate, we must apply a sinapism to the extremities, and a cupping-instrument to the hypochondria. When after these things no remission takes place, there can be but little hope, and yet the physician ought boldlv to force castor into the mouth, and Cvrenaic juice, with honey and vinegar; and the decoction of centaury, or of colocynth, must be injected by the anus. Those that are recovering from an epileptic attack are to be evacuated after recovery by purging with hiera. This is the cure of a recent and acute attack of epilepsy. We will next deliver the treatment of the disease when it is in a chronic state. Where- fore the patients are to be made to persevere for a long time in drinking cold water; and when setting about the cure, it will be proper to bleed if nothing prevent; and after an interval of four or five days to recruit the body, and thus evacuate with a purgative, more especially black hellebore, colocynth, or scammony. The hellebore, without its medullary part, is to be pounded and strained, and sprinkled on five or six cyathi of honied water, or it may be taken in boiled honey with some pepper. Rejecting the seeds of the colocynth, fill it, still re- taining the medullary part, with must, and allow to remain for a whole night; in the morning dilute the must, and give to drink. Or we may use the cathartic from white hellebore. It is this : Of cleansed bay berries, dr. viij; of white pepper, dr. viij; of alypias, dr. viij; of euphorbium, dr. viij; of white hellebore, dr. viij. Give these things at one dose, with the must in the colocynth, and it will evacuate well by vomiting.