220 FEVERS. [BOOK Comm us that Agathinus had denied and Herophilus affirmed the possi- bility 0f this. He, after having, as he says, examined the matter fully, agrees with the latter. (De Dignosc. Puis. 1, 3.) Psellus gives the characters of the pulses in not inelegant politic verses. A very clear and satisfactory description of them is given in the short treatise of Theophilus Protospatharius. The causes which produce all these varieties of pulse, and the changes of the svstem which they indicate, are, upon the whole, pretty clearly explained by our author; and the reader who wishes to consult other abridgments of the doctrines of Galen, may find them in the works of ILhases, Haly Abbas, and Actuarius. We shall merely make a few more remarks upon some of the more obscure and least understood parts of the system. Respecting the myuri, Galen states that they all indicate a prostration of the vital powers, but differing in degree, according to circumstances. When the pulse gradually becomes smaller, and in like manner recovers its magnitude gradually, and so on alternately, so as to form the recurrent myuri, it indicates an inferior degree of prostration; and, when the diminished state of pulsation continues permanent, a greater degree of oppression is indicated. In the former case the powers of the system seem able to struggle against the load, but in the latter they are com- pletely overcome. This state is next in danger to that of com- plete asphyxia. These three are the worst kinds of pulse. The intermitting is said by him to be allied to these, being indicative of great danger, though inferior to that of those we have men- tioned. Next to the intermitting is the intercurrent, which in- dicates that the powers of the system are strong, but oppressed, and contending against some great load. Galen was particu- larly apprehensive of the intermitting pulse, which he held to indicate that the system is struggling against some urgent cause. He remarks, however, that, when the pulse is otherwise strong and frequent, it indicates less danger than when it is weak and slow. But, upon the whole, he considered this kind of pulse so full of danger, that he affirms he had never known a person re- cover whose pulse intermitted during the interval of two pulsa- tions. When the pulse intermits during the space of only one pulsation or a little more, he says he had often seen the patient recover. He also states that an intermitting pulse is less dan- gerous in old persons than in adults or children. Some, he