688 THE NAILS. [book hi. Avicenna is exceedingly minute in his directions for treating whitlow. He recommends at first the finger to be put into hot vinegar: Then various astringent and repellent applications are to be used, among • other ingredients containing camphor. These are afterwards to be-changed for emollient and sedative applications' prepared with opium. When matter forms, it is to be let out by a small opening. Haly Abbas recommends at first the seed of fleawort pounded in vinegar or snow, to cool and deaden the sensibility of the part. When these do not answer, he advises suppurative applications; and when the. abscess does not open readily, he approves of an incision with the edge of a lancet. When the pain is violent and obstinate, he recommends, opium, henbane, and vinegar to be added to the applications. He mentions that Hippocrates recommends an application of galls and vinegar for whitlow*. Alsaharavius de- scribes whitlow by the* name of alqahas. He recommends us to bleed at the commencement, then to use a plaster of vinegar and opium, or apiece of cloth moistened in snow or cold water, and frequently changed, or to put the finger into hot oil. If these means do not succeed, suppuration is to be encouraged; and as soon as matter forms it is to be let out. Avonzoar describes a species of malignant whitlow, of which we have seen some few cases. He says it spreads up the hand, and occasions corrup- tion of it. He recommends free incision, and relates a case in which very bad effects resulted from neglecting this practice, (iii, 2, 37.) This is perhaps the same disease that is described by Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 1, 25), and by Albucasis (Chir. i.) Rhases says that common people put the finger into hot oil. He also recommends hot vinegar and hot water. (Contin. xxxvi.) Celsus directs us to make an opening around scabrous nails and then to apply a composition consisting of red arsenic, nitre, common arsenic, and liquid pitch. Under the use of this ap- plication, the diseased nails fall off and healthy ones come in their place. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius also recommend applications containing arsenic. Alexander Aphrodisiensis men- tions that leuce occurs more commonly on the hands than the feet, and in children rather than in adults. This arises, he says, from the feet being more exercised than the hands/and from children eating more voraciously than adults. (Probl. i, 146.) The compositions recommended in the 'Euporista' of Diosco-