[book I. 124 FRUMENTACEA. oil, and, when it swelled, some vinegar were added. Salt also was often added to it. It was either used as thus prepared, or it was strained, when it got the name of the juice of ptisan. (Hippocrates de Regim. in acut.; see Galen's treatise de Ptisana.) A long-lived race of people in Chaldea are said to have subsisted principally upon barley-bread. See Lucian (Macrobii). Galen states that it is very deficient in nutritive properties. (De Re Alim. i, 10.) According to Athenseus barley-bread was among the worst kinds of it. Galen says of oats that they are the food of horses and not of men. Aetius and Simeon Seth call them refrigerant. Galen, Dioscorides, Simeon Seth, and Serapion agree that rice is astringent, and recommend it for ulcers of the intestines. Galen reckons the bread prepared from it next in quality to that from wheat. Simeon Seth calls it nutritious. Celsus ranks it with things of a weak nature. Galen and Serapion say that millet and panic being devoid of oily matter are desiccative, and therefore useful in defluxions of the belly. Simeon Seth says that the millet is of difficult digestion, and not nutritious. Rhases directs panic to' be eaten with fresh milk, butter, and sugar. Pliny mentions a sweet species of bread prepared from millet. Galen says that it is not possessed of much nourishment. He says it was only used for bread in times of scarcity. The panic was merely a variety of the millet, i. e. of thepanicum Italicwn. It was looked upon as inferior to the common millet. The maza, as Zeunius explains it, consisted of the flour of toasted barley pounded with some liquor, such as water, oil, milk, oxycrate, oxymel, or honied water. Galen calls it flatu- lent and unwholesome food. Hesiod recommends the maza, or cake prepared with milk, as an article of food during the heat of the dog-days. (Opera et Dies, 588.) In the Prytoneum or House of Refuge, at Athens, persons were fed on it. (Athen. Deipnos. iv.) The bellaria, called also placentae, lib a, and crustulse, by the Romans, and by the Greeks irtfxfiara, 'Irpia, and 7rAaKom>T£c, were cakes of various kinds, prepared with flour, water, oil, honey, and sometimes fruits. See Athenseus (Deipnos. xiv.) They were served up towards the conclusion of a banquet, as appears evident from Matron's Parody, (in Athenseus iv. 5.)