SECT. XXVII.] 253 CONTINUAL. The rigor without heat, or « Mgus quod non calefit," is a Com febrile affection still met with in warm climates. The term typhus, now generally applied to the common fever of this country, is used by Hippocrates, in his work on ' Inter- nal Affections/ where he describes five varieties of the disease. They are cases of ardent fever, attended with stupor and insen- sibility. The term typhodes occurs in Galen's 1 Commentaries on Hippocratesf in his work, « De Diff. Feb/ (i, 9); and < De Prognost. Puis/ (ii, 9.) Leo defines a typhous fever to be one in which the heat is weak and concealed. (14.) It would appear that the fevers to which the ancients applied the term typhoid were either intermittents or remittents. Isidorus thus defines typhous fevers : " Typhi sunt frigidae febres, quae abusive typhi appellantur ab hcrba quae nascitur in aquis quae Latine forma atque status dicitur : est eiiini accessionum revolutio per statuta tcmporum intervalla." (Orig. iv, 7.) The word tv$oq occurs in Marcus Antoninus (ii, 17), where Gataker remarks, " Est enim rv<j)og Kvplwg idem quod Kairvoq, fumus." Salmasius gives the derivation of the term as follows: " rvfog proprie est fomes, Tv<pto6ai enim vavy^rj KateaOai Graeci exponunt." (In Tertulhani Librum de Pallio Amiot. 318.) Prosper Alpinus thus explains the nature of typhoid fevers: u Has febres exterius mites seu obscuras intus turbantcs Graeci typhodes appellant, quippe quae naturam multitudine humorum gravatam, ac fere suffocatam, incendium foras transmittere ne- qucuntem, significent. Hasque vulgus medicorum appellat, foris mites, intus conturbantes; suntque eae omnes, admodum perni- ciosae." (De Praesag. Vita et Morte iEgrot. i, 10.) SECT. XXVII.— ON THE CONTINUAL FEVERS. The continual fevers are allied to each of the intermittents; thus, to the true tertian is allied the causus or ardent fever ; to the quotidian, that fever which has a paroxysm every day, but does not terminate in a complete freedom from fever; and, in like manner, to the quartan, that which has an exacerbation ©very fourth day. For the true causus has all the other cha- racteristics of the tertian, and differs from it only in not com- mencing with a rigor, nor ending in a complete remission of