DROPSY. 574 [book III. Comm. agree that he means the jejunum, mesaraic veins and kidneys. (Ed. Dietz. 139.) Celsus describes three varieties of dropsy, namely, ascites, anasarca, and tympanites. He enjoins restriction as to food and drink, and recommends walking, friction, and sudorifics, such as heated sand and warm baths. He gives a long list of diuretics, as iris, valerian, saffron, cinnamon, &c. In tympanites he recommends emetics, cupping the belly, rubbing it with ru- befacients, and applying sinapisms to it, or burning eschars on it with heated irons. In anasarca he recommends scarifications at the inner part of the leg, squills in a linctus, and the like. He approves of tapping in ascites. Aretseus describes the symptoms of dropsy with great accuracy and elegance. He says it is a most unseemly disease, from which few recover, and those more by the aid of the gods than of art. He treats of the three varieties already mentioned, and also makes mention of hydatids. Hydatids, by the way, are described also by Galen (Comm. ad Aphor. vii, 55), and Khases (Cont. vii). He remarks that it is wonderful how much the patient in dropsy flatters himself with hopes of recovery, more than in many other diseases far less dangerous. He states that there are partial dropsies, such as of the head, lungs, liver, spleen, and uterus. He mentions among the exciting causes of the disease the drinking of cold water, flatulent food, and the insect buprestis (meloe vesicatoria L.) From a passage in Plutarch, it would appear that certain forms of dropsy had at one time been thought infectious. (De Sera, Num. Vind.) Dioscorides and Ruffus praise elaterium as a hydragogue in dropsy. In the ( Euporista/ baked squills and oxymel are particularly commended, with various cataplasms externally. Cselius Aurelianus states fully the causes of dropsy, such as cachexia, protracted fevers, hardness of the liver, spleen, peri- toneum, or uterus; dyspnoea, cseliac affection, dysentery, reten- tion of the hemorrhoidal or menstrual discharges, abstinence, an unseasonable draught of water, especially of salt water, the abuse of medicines, and so forth. He maintains, however, that the disease is the same, from whatever cause it arises. The common symptoms of all its varieties are said by him to be swell- ing, torpor, difficult breathing, disturbed sleep, thirst, diminished