669 GOUT. SECT. LXXVIII.] When gout is occasioned by phlegm the part is neither hot nor Comm. red; is benefited by calefacients and injured by refrigerants. ' v ' For this variety he recommends particularly a combination of purgative and attenuant medicines, such as the Julian oxymel, which contained white hellebore, agaric, polypody, thyme, cumin, &c. After purging he greatly commends hot and attenuant medicines, in particular the composition from coral, which, among other ingredients, contained birthwort, spikenard, cloves, myrrh, &c. (Birthwort formed one of the principal ingredients of the celebrated Portland powder.) He describes various other antidotes containing bitters, attenuants, and calefacients. His local applications in this case are pounded cabbage, parsley-seed, or fleabane, if the pain is moderate; but otherwise he recom- mends anodyne cataplasms. Should these, however, rather pro- duce an increase of the pain, he directs us to substitute instead of them discutient and repellent applications, such as decoctions of thyme, mint, &c. with vinegar. He also recommends various cerates with the same intention. Some, he says, have been benefited by stronger applications, such as blisters of cantharides, sinapisms, or the like; but he does not approve of the barbarous practice of burning with the substances called iscee (see Aetius and Paulus), nor of the above-mentioned rubefacients, but pre- fers a combination of emollients with discutients. When it is suspected that the gout proceeds from an overflow of blood upon the joint, he recommends us to have recourse to bloodletting, unless otherwise contra-indicated. He proscribes such articles of food as engender much blood, as all sorts of flesh, especially pork; also sweet wines and intemperance of every kind. He says he has known some cured by simply refraining from wine. He then gives directions for the formation of several topical applications which are of a repellent and discutient nature. He speaks very favorably of a sponge soaked in an astringent wine or oxycrate. He then gives ample directions for discussing Tophi or chalk-stones. He lays it down as a general rule that such applications should contain ingredients of a moderately calefacient, discutient, and solvent nature. Among the articles which enter into these compositions we remark litharge, old oil, san°Tiis draconis, nitre, turpentine, ammoniac, &c. He then states, that as some do not choose to submit patiently to the methodical plan of treatment, but insist upon getting medicines