KXKKCINKN. SHOT. XVII.] 23 becomes contracted, or when the florid colour of the skin de- clines. And, sliould any of the motions remit, it will then he time to stop immediately; or, if there should he any change in the quantity or quality of the perspiration ; for if it should he- come smaller in quantity, or colder, we must desist, and, be- smearing the body with oil, endeavour to restore it. If will then be proper to ase the Restorative friction, as the masters of gymnastics are wont to practise. Commentary. We shall now give a brief account of the Co ancient exercises, some of which are altogether omitted by our ^ author. The cTKin/nny^ui is thus explained by Cornarius: "Porro irKiOfia^iav accipio unihratilem puguam, qua quis privatim domi aut sub umbra, non in propatulo se exercet, ac velutipraeparat ad justam pugnam publice taciendam." (Notre in Paul. ^Egin. h. 1.) This account, however, does not agree with that of Oribasius, who describes it as a mock encounter at boxing and jumping with one's own shadow. (Med. Collect, vi, 29.) It is thus de- scribed in the Latin translation of AA-icenna: "Et ex eis est, insequi umbrani suam, ut ipsam percutiat in capite, et manus ad invieem pereutere." (i, 3, 2, 2.) It is mentioned in this sense by Plato (deLegibus, vii), by Plutarch (Probl. Conviv. vii), and by Achilles Tatius (p. 115.) Juvenal probably alludes to this sport. (Sat. vi, 246.) We have therefore translated it, "fighting with one's own shadow." The aKpo^£ipi<jluoQ is thus described by Scaliger: " Est autem aKpoy^eiplOiv luctae pars, cum primoribus tantum digitis insertis roboris faciunt periculum." (Poet, i, 22.) Suidas explains it thus : " A man taking hold of his antagonist's fingers, strove to break them, and did not give over until he compelled him to yield." The term occurs in Aristotle. (Eth. Nicom. iii, 1.) Sec also, Athenseus. (Deipnos. iv, 13.) It is called aKpoy^eiptaiq by Hippocrates (De Diaeta. ii, 42), who says it reduces the body. The exercise with the Kiopvicog, or leather bag, is described by Oribasius in the folloAving manner: A bag filled with flour or sand was suspended from the top of the house, on a level with the navel; it was then pushed forwards with the hands to the extremity of the rope, and, as it recoiled, the person performing the exercise retreated backwards, so as to escape from it. (Med.