383 SECT. XIV.J MELANCHOLY, ETC. SECT. XIV. ON MELANCHOLY, MANIA, AND DEMONIACS. Melancholy is a disorder of the intellect without fever, occa- sioned mostly by a melancholic humour seizing the understand- ing ; sometimes the brain being primarily affected, and some- times it being altered by sympathy with the rest of the body. And there is a third species called the flatulent and hypochon- driac, occasioned by inflammation of the parts in the hypochon- dria adjoining to the stomach, by which sometimes noxious va- pours or aurse are transmitted to the brain, and sometimes part of the substance of the humour. The common symptoms of them all are fear, despondency, and misanthropy; and that they fancy themselves to be, some, brute animals, and imitate their cries; and others, earthen-vessels, and are frightened lest they be broken. Some desire death, and others are afraid of dying; some laugh constantly, and others weep; and some believe themselves impelled by higher powers, and foretell what is to come, as if under divine influence; and these are, therefore, properly called demoniacs, or possessed persons. The peculiar symptoms of me- lancholy, from sympathy with the general system, are leanness, darkness, and shagginess ; the whole appearance melancholic, either by nature, or acquired by anxiety, want of sleep, the ad- ministration of noxious food, or stoppage of the hemorrhoidal, or menstrual discharge. Melancholy, from affection of the hypo- chondria, is indicated by indigestion, acid eructations, heat and heaviness of them, retraction of the hypochondria, and some- times inflammation, especially in the beginning; and then, when they increase, melancholic symptoms supervene. These are re- lieved by digestion, or copious discharges, or flatus, or vomiting, or eructations. When none of these symptoms, or very few of them, are present, melancholic symptoms appearing indicate that the brain is primarily affected, and for the most part from a me- lancholic humour. When the complaint is occasioned by yellow bile, which, by too much heat, has been turned into black, it will bring on the disease called mania, which occasions ungovernable madness, so that those affected with it will destroy persons who come near them unguardedly. The cure of melancholy. Those who are subject to melancholy from a primary affection of the brain arc to be treated with fre-