FRUITS. CBOOKI' ' lent, and form blood which is not good; wherefore, «^ used they engender lice. When grapes are not evacuated, neither are they digested, but form a crude chyme 5 but if eva- are more moderate. Dried grapes are warmer than the others, more stomachic, and more nutritious, but not soTaxato The mulberry is of a moistening nature cools mo- disagree with the stomach, but is httle nutritious.—Of cherries, tTweeter kinds loosen the belly, but are bad for the those which possess astringency are not so bad for the stomach but do not evacuate the belly. The same rule will apply to the grape, the mulberry, and many other fruits; for astringents, m Leral, when eaten or drunk at the beginning before any other food, bind the belly; but they who have their bowels consti- pated from atony, and have taken beforehand some articles of food of a laxative nature, such as pot-herbs, fishes, or the like, will find that astringents taken afterwards will, by strengthen- ing the bowels, evacuate downwards. The fruit of the pine called strobilus has good juices and thick, is nutritious but not of easy digestion. The juices of the peach are of a bad quality turn acid, and soon spoil; and, therefore, ought to be taken first, that they may readily pass downwards, and not spoil by remain- ing in the belly. The fruits called apricots are superior to the peaches, for they neither turn acid nor spoil so soon, and they are sweet. Of apples, the sweet are more heating, and easier assimilated than the others, especially when roasted or boiled; the acid are colder and more calculated to cut the humours 111 the stomach; the austere strengthen the stomach and bind the belly, more especially quinces. Of pears, the large and ripe are more nutritious than these; but the pomegranates are cooling, and contain httle nourishment. The medlars and services are more astringent and fitted for a loose belly. Dates are stomachic, unless very fatty they bind the belly, form thick and viscid chyme, and occasion headachs. Of olives, the over-ripe [drupa>) injure the stomach, and form a fatty chyme; those that are pickled and hung {halmades et colymbades), when eaten before- hand, whet the appetite, and loosen the belly, more especially if prepared with vinegar, or vinegar and honey. Of nuts, those called royal (walnuts) are less nutritious than the filbert, and more stomachic. The green walnuts are more juicy and laxa-