24G FEVERS. [BOOK CoMM. nature than tertians, and hence the pulse is slower and smaller^ ^ Ruffus (ap. Aetium, v, 83) refers the origin of certain quartans to the spleen. Alexander says that quartans arise from yellow bile overheated, or from feculent blood, these humours being lod-ed either in the vessels or in the spleen. Palladius, Nonnus, Svn'esius, and, in a word, all the Greek authorities, give a similar account of the nature of quartans. Constantinus Afncanus says that a paroxysm lasts for twenty-four hours, and is succeeded by an interval of forty-eight hours. The urine is at first white and watery, but in the decline becomes black. He mentions that it is connected with induration of the spleen. Actuanus gives a similar account of the nature of the disease, and of the cha- racters of the urine. The disease, he says, is generally connected with some affection of the liver or spleen, and passes off by a discharge of black urine. He relates an interesting case to this effect. (De Urinis, ii, 17.) It may be proper to mention that in all other acute diseases, a discharge of black urine was reckoned a very mortal symptom. (De Urinis Comment, ed. Ideler.) As there is nothing original in the theory and descriptions which the Arabians give of quartans, we shall not enter upon them minutely. Averrhoes states that the fever invades with a great sense of cold, so that the patient's teeth chatter. The colour of the urine at first inclines to green, or is somewhat white; but afterwards it becomes gross, black, or reddish. The interval between the paroxysms is two days. The most of those affected with quartans have disease of the spleen. Alsaharavius gives exactly the same account of these fevers. Avicenna's description is most ample and comprehensive, but contains no additional facts to those we have already mentioned. Haly Abbas, Avenzoar, and Iihases, in like manner, adopt the views of the Greeks. SECT. XXIII. THE CURE OF QUARTANS. Those affected with quartans are to be treated gently, with- out any powerful medicine or evacuation, unless a great fulness of blood prevail, in which case it may be necessary to bleed. The diet should be good and not flatulent, and the belly ought to be loosened by the customary things; and, if these are not