FEVERS. [BOOK "• 308 Galen remarks that profuse sweats are occasioned by rarity (i. e. relaxation) of the body, or redundance of the superfluity, or thinness thereof. The perspiration is checked, on the other hand, either because the superfluity is small in quantity, thick, and viscid; or because the pores of the skin are constricted Either state, he adds, may arise from atony of the natural powers of the flesh. (De Causis Sympt. iii, 9.) He says, m an- other place, that for the removal of copious sweats astringent and refrigerant remedies are indicated, and that everything of a relaxing nature ought to be avoided. He recommends cold wine, and forbids all hot things, also ligatures to the extremi- ties, emetics, and motion. He approves of cool air medicated by sprinkling the apartment of the sick with austere things, such as mvrtles, vine shoots, and roses. (Therap. ad Glauc. h.) Celsus directs us, when the febrile sweats are slight, to rub the body with oil, and, when more profuse, with roses, quince oint- ment, or myrtle oil, to which austere wine is to be added, (iii, 6.) Constantinus Africanus and his prototype Synesius concur in directing colliquative sweats to be checked by rubbing the body with oil of myrtles, of roses, &c. They commend an epitheme made of a decoction of roses, the flowers of the wild pomegra- nate, galls, and myrtle leaves, to which a proper proportion of oil is to be added. They also direct us to place beside the pa- tient vessels filled with water, to sprinkle the apartment with myrtles, roses, &c. to give him the syrup of roses, in cold water, and to avoid exercise. Actuarius takes notice of the miliary eruption which some- times accompanies profuse sweats. He reckons it an unfavor- able symptom. (Meth. Med. i, 58.) He also makes mention of other cutaneous eruptions, some resembling those produced by nettles, or the bites of gnats, and others of a red or black colour. (Ibid.) Serapion recommends styptic and desiccative applications, such as galls, frankincense, alum, the flowers of vine, myrtles, and the like. (De Antidotis, vi, 20.) Haly Abbas briefly recommends friction with styptic oils, and to remove the patient to a cool apartment. (Pract. iii, 24.) Alsaharavius, in like manner, recommends friction with astringent oils, such as those prepared with roses, pomegra- nates, and the like, (xxxi, 2, 8.) I