PULSE. 221 SECT. XII.] says, affirm that they have seen cases of intermission which did Comm. not prove dangerous, hut he helieves that they had confounded rarity with intermission. The intermitting is to be distinguished from the rare by the length of the time of rest, and by the latter being often equable, whereas the former is always unequable. He says it is generally occasioned by frigidity 'of the heart. These doctrines may be traced through all the subsequent au- thorities, both Greek and Arabian, down to Actuarius. Galen, Rhases, and Haly Abbas repeatedly inculcate that the undulatory pulse indicates an approaching crisis by a sweat. They describe it as being strong, full, soft, bounding, and un- equable. According to Galen it is most commonly met with in lethargic affections, quotidian, marsh, and typhoid fevers. (De Praes. ii, 9.) It is also said to be common in sudden attacks of dropsy. (Ib.) In some instances, however, it is the precursor of some critical evacuation, such as that by the hemorrhoids, or by the bowels. (Synops. 22.) Actuarius particularly states that critical sweats are indicated by the undulatory pulse. (Meth. Med. ii, 2.) The dicrotos is distinguished by a smaller pulsation suddenly succeeding to a larger one. Galen compares it to a hammer, which, when forcibly struck against the anvil, rebounds, and strikes it again. The artery in such cases is always strong and vibratory. Philaretus describes the pulsation as being hard, vehement, and rebounding. Galen says it can only occur when the powers of the system are strong, the artery hard, and the body oppressed with a redundance of humours. He repeatedly inculcates that it indicates an approaching crisis. The singular pulse called dorcadissans, Avhich we have translated goat-leap, is said by Galen to occur most frequently in affections of the heart and inflammations of the parts within the chest. (De Prognos. ii, 8.) It is the same as the pulse now called jerking, which the best authorities agree to be characteristic of pericarditis. In such cases, Hope says, the pulse is " full, hard, jerking, and often with a thrill." (Diseases of the Heart, p. 99.) We suspect the modern term jerking, although perfectly intelligible to one experienced in the art of feeling pulses with discrimination, will be found fully as difficult to define as the dorcadissans of the ancients. The vermicular appears to have been the same as that which