548 THE KIDNEYS. [book hi. of the part be present. Dysuria in fevers is to be cured by an embrocation with oil of rue, of dill, or old oil. When the bowels are constipated, a decoction of fenugreek or mallows is to be in- jected, and the patient made to sit in oil and water, or in some of the afore-mentioned decoctions, with oil. And this cerate will be proper for them: The roots of wild mallows are to be boiled in Sicyonian oil, with a little water, until they are dried, and they are to be thrown away; and with the oil is to be mixed of the juice of rue a fourth part, and of wax and castor a sufficient quantity. On paralysis of the bladder. This complaint, which is some- times accompanied with dysuria, and sometimes with an invo- luntary discharge of water, has been formerly treated of under the head of Paralysis. On incontinence of urine. Relaxation of the muscle at the neck of the bladder occasions this affection, and therefore it hap- pens most frequently to children. Our general treatment ought to consist especially of tonics, such as hot wine and oil, and the like, abstaining from all things which are powerfully refrige- rant, and rather as much as possible using calefacients ; for cold produces a resemblance to paralysis. The following things are naturally efficacious : Burn the crop of a cock, and give to the patient to drink in tepid water, when fasting, or the flowers of the white ox-eye (chrysanthemum) in like manner; or, shave down the testicle of a hare into fragrant wine, and give to drink ; or, give calamint and myrrh in a draught before supper; or, give the toasted seed of the wild rue to drink every third day. Let the privy member be anointed with Cimolian earth, mixed with the juice of perdicias (pellitory of the wall ?) m. Commentary. On these diseases consult Hippocrates (Aphor. J iv, 76; deMorb. Intern. 15, et alibi); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. x; de Affect. Renum; de Loc. Affect.; Isagoge); Celsus (iv, 10); Areta3us (Morb. Acut. ii, 9; Morb. Acut. Curat, ii, 8) ; Ruffus Ephesius (de Vesicae Renumque Affectibus) ; Alexander (viii, 1); Aetius (xi); Oribasius (de Loc. Affect. Curat, iv, 101); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 8); Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. ii, 112) ; Nonnus (173); Cselius Aurelianus (Morb. Chron. v, 4) ; Scribonius Largus (38); Marcellus (de Med. 24) ; Avicenna (iii, 19, 1); Avenzoar (ii, 2); Serapion (iv) ; Haly Abbas (Theor. ix,