SECT. LXIV.] 621 THE UTERUS. apply as a cataplasm j or having boiled dates in diluted wine, pound with fine polenta, and some of the afore-mentioned oint- ments, and apply as a cataplasm; and when the complaint is on the decline add the cerate of nard or of privet. Throughout the whole treatment the patient must sit in hip-baths prepared from the decoction of fenugreek, linseed, mallows, mugwort, and oil; and those who cannot bear these heating things must use rose- oil dissolved in hot water. Recourse must be had to pessaries, and injections prepared from the sordes of unwashed wool and butter, stag's marrow, the grease of geese, the ointment called Susinum, and Tuscan wax. When the patients can endure heating things, the pessary called the Golden will suit with them, and the Enneapharmacus; but when they cannot endure heating things, the pessaries are to be prepared from eggs, rose-oil, the fat of geese, or of domestic fowls. For inflammations attended with a greater degree of heat, melt diachylon-plaster in a double vessel with rose-oil, and add the juice of plantain, or of endive, of succory, or of intybus. Or use the following : Of the fresh fat of geese, or of swine, dr. iv; of the cerate of roses, or of the Susinum, oz. ij ; of the yelks of roasted eggs, oz. j ; of saffron, dr. j; of myrrh, three oboli; of opium, two oboli; or, instead of opium, the decoction of poppy-heads. When the pain is great, give poppy-juice {opium) to the size of a lentil, with woman's milk, or the juice of fenugreek, as an application per vaginam. For inflammation with hardness, dissolve the ointment called Tetrapharmacum in rose-oil, and introduce or inject. And when there is derangement of the position of the uterus, it is to be treated like inflammation during the violence of the attack; but, during the remissions or decline, emollients are to be applied; and when the complaint is protracted, alteratives (metasyncritica) are to be used. But if there is hardness externally, we must have recourse to malagmata; that from melilots, that of Mnasreus, the Icesian, that from apples invented by Serapion, and that from wheat. The diet at first should be light; but when the complaint begins to decline the patient may use the bath, and take a more varied and generous diet. Commentary. Aetius has given from Philumenus a very cir- Comm. cumstantial account of the symptoms and treatment of inflamma- tion of the uterus; but, upon the whole, it is little different from