14 APHTHA. [BOOK Comm. dentition, if the child be plethoric, and his bowels constipated. (Aphoris, cum Comment. Galeni.) Aretseus makes the same statement. (Morb. acut. i, 6.) Moschion directs the gums of the child to be rubbed, after the fifth month, with sweet oil, the fresh grease of a hen, the brain of a hare, and lastly with boiled honey. When inflam- mation supervenes afterwards, he recommends fumigations and cataplasms, and directs the food and drink of the nurse to be restricted, (c. 119.) The directions given by Avicenna are similar to those ot Moschion. (i, 3, 1.) Alsaharavius properly states that the best way to avoid difficult dentition is to guard against corrup- tion of the food and drink, and to abstain from emetics, acids, figs, &c. To remove the painful symptoms attendant on dentition/he directs us to rub the gums with olive oil, honey in which aloes and gum arabic have been boiled, and the like; to wrap the head in soft wool, and to pour tepid water upon it. (Pract. xxxvi, 19.) The treatment recommended by the other authorities is very similar. See, in particular, Rhases (Ad Mans, iii, 13.) The only ancient authors who make mention of scarification of the gums as a remedy for painful dentition are, Marcellus Sideta (Medicina, ex Piscibus,) and Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxxii, 26.) Both direct it to be done with the sting of the Pastinaca Marina. SECT. X. ON APHTHvE. Infants are liable to an ulcer of the mouth called aphtha. It is either whitish, reddish, or black, like an eschar. That which is black is of the worst kind and most fatal. The iris mixed with honey is of use, or you may blow in the dry powder if you please ; also, the pounded leaves of roses, or the flowers of roses, and crocus—a small quantity of myrrh, galls, frankin- cense, or the bark of the frankincense tree : all these together, or separately, may be mixed with honey; and, in addition to these, may be joined honied water and the juice of the sweet pomegranate. Comm. Commentary. Hippocrates mentions aphthae among the ""^—' diseases of dentition. (De Dent.) Theophilus, the commentator