32 LASSITUDE. [BOOK are produced by the melting of fat and muscle. In the second lis, called the tensive, there is no collection of humours, but Z muscular fibres are excessively stretched. The third specif or the inflammative, is characterized by a sensation, as it the parts affected were bruised or inflamed, and happens when the muscles, being excessively heated, attract the superfluities from the surrounding parts. From the pain being deep seated, it has been called ostalgia. He adds a fourth species, being a case somewhat different from all those we have been describing, it is the contrary state to that of the inflammative,- the body ap- pearing squalid and contracted. The first case, as it is con- nected with redundance of humours, is to be cured by discu- tients; and hence the proper remedy for it is much friction, with emollient oils wholly devoid of astringency. He also ap- proves of the gentle exercise called the restorative. The second species, or the tensive, is to be cured by gentle friction, with emollient oils heated in the sun; by complete quietude, and the frequent repetition of the tepid bath. In particular, unction with oil is proper. The third species, as it is occasioned by violent motions, and is attended with excruciating pains, is to be cured bv the gentlest friction, with the most emollient oils; by the most perfect rest, and the tepid bath. The fourth species, cha- racterized by squalor and constriction of the skin, is to be treated by the hot bath,to warm and invigorate the skin, then by soft and slow motions and friction; and then again by the hot bath. But, he adds, the patient must straightway leave the cistern of the hot bath, and plunge into that of the cold, but not remain long in it. The diet, in all these cases, is to be restricted and cooling, especially in the Inflammative. As all the subsequent authorities, whether Greek or Arabian, adopt the views of Galen, we need not enter into the detail of their plans of treatment. See Psellus (Opus Medicum) ; Avi- cenna (i, 3, 2); Rhases (Contin. xxxi) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 11); Averrhoes (Collig. vi, 8 ; Collect, ii, 15.) The bath, emollient friction, diluent food, and quietude are the remedies generally recommended by all the ancient authorities; and they are directed with a nice discrimination that cannot be too much admired. Syrasis, one of Avicenna's expositors, gives the rules of treatment with great judgment. Prosper Alpinus gives a fair account of the ancient doctrines