SECT. LXXVIII.] GOUT. 675 such as aloes, scammony, colocynth, and hermodactylus. But, Comm. if the patient's stomach be weak, he recommends milder laxa- ' y ' tives. When the defluxion is of a phlegmatic, that is to say, of a serous nature, he directs us to give the active cathartics already mentioned, especially hermodactylus; and, if it be the summer season, he advises us also to give emetics. He cautions us against using local applications of too stimulant a nature at first, lest they dispel the more fluid parts of the defluxion and leave the grosser behind. This is but a meagre sketch of his interesting account of arthritic diseases. Alsaharavius calls these complaints collections of phlegm, bile, or blood. He holds that they are often hereditary. Like all his countrymen, he approves of hermodactylus, which he gives in the form of pills, with myrobalans, colocynth, turbit, castor, opopanax, &c. When fulness of blood is present, he recommends bleeding. The hermodactylus is recommended for the cure of arthritic diseases by the earlier of the modern writers on medicine. See Lanfrancus (ii, 3.) Among the ancient treatises on gout, we have mentioned the tragi-comic poem entitled f Tragodopodagra/ usually ascribed to the famous Lucian. It ridicules, with much humour and se- verity, the many pretended nostrums for this complaint. Among the remedial articles mentioned, we remark hellebore, nitre (soda), henbane, poppy, fenugreek, and galls. The ridicule thus bestowed upon the use of specifics for the cure of a complaint so complicated as gout, is no doubt well founded; but we ought not to be deterred, by the ill success of such a practice, from attempting to afford relief upon general principles, as ably laid down by Alexander, Demetrius, and Haly Abbas. We would fain impress upon the physician and his patient, that more than is usually believed might be accomplished in all arthritic dis- eases, bv correcting the disorder of the digestive functions by means of a suitable diet and regimen; and that it is only when the constitution is radically unsound—when the joints are de- formed by concretions, and the vital powers have been worn out bv a long-continued course of debauchery—that Ave need adopt the discouraging opinion of Ovid, as expressed in the following line : " Tollcre nodosam nescit mcdicina podagram." (Pont, i, el. 4.)