APOPLEXY. SECT. XVIII.] 397 liniments formerly described. The acopa made of poplar and of the fir were found to be excellent applications ; and man} were greatly benefited by tonic and moderately cooling applications. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (Aphoris. ii, 42, de Comm. Glandulis, et alibi) ; Galen (Comment, de Loc. Aff. iii, 11); ' * 1 Aretaeus (Morb. Chron. i, 7; Cur. Morb. Acut. i, 4); Aetius (vi, 26) ; Oribasius (Synops. viii, 14) ; Theophrastus (ap. Photii Bibliothecam) ; Alexander (x, 2); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 2) ; Cselius Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. iii, 5) ; Octavius Horatia- nus (ii, 7) ; Leo (ii, 5); Nonnus (37) ; Avicenna (iii, i, 5, 12); Avenzoar (i, 9, 12); Serapion (i, 24); Mesue (de iEgr. Cap. 27; de /Egr. Nerv. 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 6, Pract. v, 22); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 18) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 3.) To so many excellent works on apoplexy, wherein the sub- ject is treated of fully and correctly, it is difficult to do justice within our narrow limits. We shall give, however, a brief, though imperfect outline of their opinions. Hippocrates pronounces a slight attack of apoplexy to be difficult to cure, and a severe one to be utterly incurable. He says that an apoplectic attack is brought on by turgidity of the veins. When a person has suddenly lost his powers Hippo- crates directs that he should be bled. (Aphor.) Apoplexy, he says, occurs most frequently between the age of forty and sixty. (Ibid.) He says, in allusion to apoplexy (as his commentator Theophilus remarks), that when persons in good health are suddenly seized with pains in the head, with loss of speech, and stertorous breathing, they die in seven days, unless fever supervene. (Ibid.) Galen states that apoplexy arises from a cold, thick, and viscid humour obstructing the ventricles of the brain. He re- marks that, in severe cases, all voluntary motion is lost while respiration is performed as in persons asleep. The reason which he assigns for this is, that the nerves which are distributed upon the respiratory muscles are all derived from the brain itself, and these often escape being injured, unless the attack be of a par- ticularly serious nature. His account of cases of partial para- lysis is highly interesting. (Loc. Affect, iii, 14.) Celsus' brief account deserves to be given in his own words : " Attonitos quoque raro videmus, quorum et corpus et mens