THE HEART. SECT. XXXIV.] forbids cupping until the seventh day; and, when the stomach Com and bowels are loaded, he opens the bowels before bleeding. Haly ^~v~ Abbas directs bleeding from the arm opposite the side affected, at first; but, if the disease is protracted, from the arm of the same side. He recommends gentle laxatives, and, after bleed- ing and purging, warm applications to the side, such as a blad- der half filled with hot water. He also speaks of cupping, and of stimulant plasters, sinapisms, and such like. He says, when the body is cleansed, and the disease matured, the patient is to be put into a tepid bath. This practice may deserve con- sideration. It is worthy of remark that the Arabians in general bleed from the arm of the opposite side. The Greek and Latin authorities are divided in opinion upon this rule of practice. Hippocrates, Galen, and Celsus recommend us to bleed from the arm of the affected side; but Aretseus, Aetius, and Camus Aurelianus, from the opposite. Galen, in one place, mentions that he had abstracted blood in a case of pleurisy by opening one of the arteries of the hand. SECT. XXXIV. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART. When the heart itself is primarily affected, the case is far beyond all medical aid, occasioning sudden death; and so also in the inflammations and erysipelas of it, strong distemperatures in very acute fevers, and hemorrhages when it is wounded, espe- cially in the left ventricle. When it is affected sympathetically with the brain, the liver, the orifice of the stomach, and from sorrow, fear, and many other causes, it brings on the affection called syncope, being a sudden collapse of the vital powers, in- dicated by prostration of strength, deliquium animi, a small pulse, coldness of the extremities, and copious perspiration. When this affection is of a violent nature, it also is irremedi- able ; but if the strength stands out, it may sometimes be re- lieved. But strong palpitations of the heart often arise from a fulness or effervescence of its blood. When, therefore, the heart is over-heated, it renders the respiration large and dense; but when it is too cold, the respiration is small and rare. The com- plete cure of syncope of the heart, when it occurs among the