16 CHOLERA. [BOOK 111 in the stomachundigested,we must order him to drink tepid water, and to produce vomiting by putting his fingers or feathers down the throat. We must also encourage the discharge by the bowels. After the evacuation of the superfluities, he must take rest, and apply warmth to the hypochondrium, by means of sweet oil, with some wine; or by the oil of mastich, or of spikenard, il it is winter: and he must be allowed to sleep. After diges- tion has been accomplished, let him have recourse to baths and wholesome food. When the discharge is immoderate, it will be sufficient at first to try those things which are mentioned in the Second Book for disorder of the belly. But when the discharge continues, and the belly loses its tone, and the pulse gets small and dense, we must apply a cataplasm of dates, with flowers of wild vine, acacia, the juice of hypocistis, and pomegranate rind. For drink, give a cupful of moderately cold water to swallow; or, what is still better, a decoction of roses, of the flowers of wild vine, of sumach, or of vine-shoots; or we may give the juice of an acid-sweet pomegranate, sprinkling upon it a little mint. When the excretions are more acrid, and heat and thirst come on, we must give the seed of cucumber, with three cupfuls of water; and succory and lettuces boiled in oxycrate are to be used for food. When the discharge cannot be stopped, we must administer some of the austere wines; if the patient be free of fever, the Palmatian, the Aminsean, or palm wine, or that from unripe grapes, with honey; but when he has fever, pome- granate wine, or myrtle wine, or Cibyratic hydromel for drink, and along with crumbs of bread, alica, or chondrus. If he loathes food from grain, he may chew some summer fruit, or medlars, pears, quinces, or pomegranates, but he must spit out the fleshy and hard parts. When he cannot retain the food, let a large dry- cupping instrument be fastened over the stomach, and while it is on let some of the afore-mentioned food be taken. For the spasmodic contractions apply to the muscles hot rags dipped in oil, and liquid cerates, containing some castor and Sicyonian oil; but before applying them let hot water be poured upon the legs. If he cannot get sleep, we must have recourse to the re- medies recommended for watchfulness ; and if his strength per- mit, he may take a potion from poppy-heads. When the disease is on the decline, he may be put into a bath, and recruited with chickens, pigeons, the feet of swine, or the like. Diarrhoea,