623 THE UTERUS. SECT. LXV.] the feces. He directs us to restore the uterus to its position Comm. by drawing its mouth in the opposite direction. Displacement ^ ' of the womb is also briefly noticed by Hippocrates (de Morb. Mulier. i); by Dioscorides (Meth. Med. i, 37); and by Soranus (Ap. Phys. et Med. Min. cd. Ideler, 256.) Many of the ancient authorities describe the uterus as con- sisting of two cavities, separated from one another by a mem- brane. See, in particular, Theophilus (Comm. in Hipp. Aph. ii, 469, ed. Dietz.) Galen, however, would appear to have been better informed (t. v, 789, ed. Kiilm.) The uterus, more- over, is correctly described by Soranus (Ap. Phys. et Med. Min. 256), and by Moschion. (vi.) SECT. LXV. ON ABSCESS OF THE UTERUS. When the inflammation is converted into abscess, all the symp- toms formerly mentioned become more intense; and, besides, there are irregular attacks accompanied with rigor, which at first are attended with intense pain ; but when suppuration has fairly taken place, there is some remission of it. About the time of the abscess' bursting, the pains, however, become more keen and seem to attack in a pungent manner; the fevers formerly slight become more oppressive; sometimes there is obstruction of the urine, and sometimes of the fseces, occasioned by the pres- sure of the affected part of the uterus. Sometimes there is swelling in the region of the pubes, and a sense as it were of fluctuation, when the abscess is large. Abscess in the more ex- posed parts is discovered by means of the surgical instrument called dioptra, or the touch of the finger, and from the pains being more violent, owing to the nervous nature of the mouth; as when the collection is in the fundus and vagina it is attended with less pain, and no swelling is felt heavy upon the finger, and the mouth of the womb appears less tumid. Wherefore we must promote suppuration by cataplasms of fenugreek, linseed, barley, or wheaten flour intermixed with boiled figs, and sometimes with pigeons' dung. Let the patient often use the hip-baths re- commended for inflammation, and pessaries of turpentine, myrrh, grease of wool and butter. When the abscess bursts, if the matter pass to the bladder, we must give milk to drink, and