586 [book hi. JAUNDICE. Comm. take it for granted that persons in jaundice see every object —1 tinged with yellow. (Sextus Empiricus, adv. Math, vii, 195.) "According to Serapion, a redundance of yellowbile in the body is occasioned either by the system's not being properly purged of it, or by an over-secretion of it, or by a combination of these causes. Obstruction, he says, may take place either in the liver itself or in the gall-bladder. Sometimes, he remarks, the liver having been inflamed, becomes as hard as a stone, or its ducts are obstructed so that the blood becomes mixed with bile, and in this state is carried over the whole body. He adds, that per- haps the whole gall-bladder is affected, or only one of its ducts, namely, either the superior one, by which it receives bile from the liver, or the inferior, by which the bile passes down to the intestines. In like manner he afterwards states, that sometimes the superior duct losing its tone and becoming obstructed, the bile becomes mixed with the blood j or, the inferior being ob- structed, the bile regurgitates to the superior, and becomes in- termixed with the blood. And sometimes, he says, the affection arises from the gall-bladder being over-distended in like manner as the urinary bladder sometimes is. When the disease is from obstruction he recommends attenuants, purgatives, emetics, and the other remedies directed by the Greeks. A similar account is given by Avicenna. Like Aetius, he approves of venesection in certain cases, in opposition to Galen, who, as a general rule, forbids to let blood in jaundice. (De Purg. Virt.) Avicenna also describes the species of jaundice connected with disorder of the general system, described by Aretseus. Avenzoar says that the ducts are obstructed aut verruca aut pustula. The exact signification of these terms cannot easily be determined, but it seems probable that they refer to gall-stones. But the following passage of Haly Abbas puts it beyond a doubt that the ancients were acquainted with hepatic calculi or gall-stones : " Some," he says, " relate that calculi are formed in the liver, csecum, and colon." (Theor. ix, 34.) Haly directs us, when jaundice is connected with inflammation, to bleed, and purge with myrobalans, hepatic aloes, &c. He also makes mention of emetics among his general remedies. When connected with obstruction, particularly of the gall-bladder, he recommends bleeding at the arm, a decoction of wormwood, hiera, scammony, and various remedies of a like nature. To remove the yellow