342 THE HAIR. [BOOK m- Comm. collects the opinions of all preceding authorities on the nature and treatment of these diseases. Most of the local applications recommended by them are stimulants and rubefacients, such as mastich, euphorbium, cantharides, ladanum, St. JohnVwort, &c. which are to be rubbed in with oil or pitch. He mentions that the celebrated Antyllus recommended scarifications, cupping, and leeching. Servitor directs a depilatory, prepared by mixing two parts of quicklime with one of arsenic in a crucible or mortar, and adding a little water to them. Pliny, Samonicus, Mar- cellus Empericus, and other ancient authorities speak highly of bears' grease for the cure of baldness. For the cure of ophiasis the earlier modern surgeons recom- mended depilatories containing arsenic, quicklime, vitriol, helle- bore, and the like. One described by Rolandus consists of quicklime and arsenic boiled in water, (i, 14.) A similar one is described by Plempius. SECX. n. FOR MAKING THE HAIR CURLED, AND FOR DYEING IT. FROM CLEOPATRA. Having first scrubbed the head, anoint the hair with the root of cow-parsnip in undiluted wine.—Another : Having shaved the head, and scrubbed it, take a young pine kernel, and burn it until it be reduced to ashes, put it into a mortar and pul- verize it, adding myrtle ointment, until it be of the thickness of honey, and thus anoint the head with it.—Another: Rub in equal parts of myrtles and beet, with oil.—Another: Twenty galls ; of maiden-hair, oz. ij ; pound with sea-w^ater until they attain the thickness of honey. Having rubbed the hair with urine, or lixivial ashes, and cleaned it with warm water, anoint it with this medicine for two days, then stopping, on the third day clean it, and, having shaved, anoint with myrtle oil. This will render the hair smooth, and curled, and black ; but it will be more curled if you shave before using it. Preservatives of hoary hairs, and other compositions for dye\ ing them black. Of the oil of unripe olives, three sextarii ; of spikenard, dr. j ; of unguis aromaticus (sweet-hoof?), dr. iv ; of schcenanth, dr. iv. Boil with oil, and separately pound and dissolve carefully one ounce of the juice of acacia in wine.