sect, xxvi.] AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. 459 pared with acrid vinegar. He then gives from Archigenes a Comm. long list of compositions for allaying the pain of toothach, from ' " ' which most of those mentioned by our author are taken. One of the articles which most frequently occurs in them is alum, a solution of which in the spirit of nitre was lately much cried up as a cure for toothach. Of the great number of substances recommended to be put into the hole of the carious tooth it is difficult to form a judgment, as most of them are now never tried in such cases. Some of them seem plausible applications. One consists of pellitory with myrrh; another of opium and pepper; others contain ginger,poppy-juice, hyoscyamus, galbanum,castor, &c. He approves of hot fomentations, and of the heated flour of barley or linseed applied to the cheek. He speaks favorably of filling the hole in the tootli with hot wax. When part of a tooth projects, it is to be filed down with an iron file. For pains of the gums he recommends fomentations with vinegar, in which henbane has been boiled. Of dentifrices he has treated at con- siderable length, and it is from him that our author takes his list. Scribonius Largus mentions alum among his remedies; and wc may remark, by the way, that this medicine is recommended for toothach by many of the earlier modern authorities. (V. Guido de Cauliaco, vi, 2.) Celsus delivers very judicious instructions for the treatment of toothach. He circumscribes the use of wine, enjoins restricted diet, and food which does not require mastication; then fomen- tations of hot water by means of sponges are to be applied to the tooth, and so forth. If the pain is more violent, the belly is to be opened, hot cataplasms applied, and some warm liquid retained in the mouth, and often changed. The liquid may be a decoction of some narcotic, such as poppies, mandragora, and hyoscyamus. He praises hot oil applied by means of a probe wrapped round with wool. He also mentions compositions containing pellitory, alum, bitumen, and mustard. He directs us not to be in haste to extract the tooth. Aetius gives a variety of applications for removing teeth with- out an operation. One of them contains red arsenic; another sori and the juice of spurge. Modern dentists are ignorant of such remedies. His account of the nerve which supplies the teeth with sensibility is accurate, but borrowed from Galen. Octavius Horatianus, like our author, affirms that the juice