177 SECT. XCV.] WmE also Plmv (Hist Nat w «u\ x> t A- T .7™«»J, i on. ¥ 1 ■ /in c.. ' ); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. ^4 honnms (11); Simeon Seth (iu voce Brassica); Geopon. er of > t>T?n\ RhaSCS^ and Se^Pion give the same charac- ter of it. Plutarch affirms that almonds also are a preservative from intoxication. (Quest, vi.) Before qmtfemg this subject, we must notice certain peculiar modes of preparing wine. The mustum was wine newly made or the fresh juice of the grape. The protropum was the juice Which run. from grapes without pressing. The mulsum was a preparation of wine and honey. Dioscorides recommends two parts of wme to one of honey ; but there does not appear to have been any fixed proportion. The sapa, called by the Greeks hepsema and sirmun, according to Pliny, is must boiled to a third; and the defrutum the same reduced to a half. Thev are now called robs, a term borrowed from the Arabians " The carenum, according to Isadoras, is must reduced to two thirds The possum was a sweet wine prepared from grapes which had been much dried in the sun. The possum creticum, which is much praised by Pliny and Athemeus, and is often mentioned by our author, the learned Andreas Baccius and Nonnius believe to have resembled the modem malmsey. We have already mentioned a peculiar species of wine prepared with salt water. The ancients also gave artificial qualities to wine by adding rosin, pitch, and other substances to the casks in which it was deposited. See 'Geoponica' (vii.) Dioscorides gives receipts for preparing a great variety of vinous tinctures. These were used only for medicinal purposes. (Mat. Med. v.) It is scarcely necessary for us to remark that the ancients generally drank their wines diluted either with hot or cold water Hence the poet Juvenal says: " Quando vocatus adest calidai gelidaeque minister/' (Sat. v, 63.) According to Plinv, Staphylus first introduced this practice (H. N. viii, 56) j but Athenams re- fers it to Melampus (ii.) It would appear, however, from some passages in the ' Ecclesiazusae' of Aristophanes, and from Eusta- thius's Commentary on Homer (Iliad, ix, 203), that the ancients often drank their wines undiluted. It was customary, during the time of dinner, to drink off a cup of pure wine to " the good 12