SECT. XXXV.] VENERY. class called mollusca; of pot-herbs, the all-good (horminum), hedge-mustard (erysimum), rocket (irio), and turnip. And the following are as medicines : of pulse, beans, chick-peas, Sicilian peas, kidney-beans and peas, which fill the body with vapours and abundance of food. Rue, as it concocts and dispels flatu- lence, blunts the venereal appetite. But I greatly approve of grapes, which supply the body with moisture, and fill the blood with flatus, which rouses to venery. He who is about to pro- ceed to the act ought to guard against repletion, indigestion, lassitude, precursory vomits and purges, and, in like manner, an acute diarrhoea; for a chronic one is dried up by venery. And strong desires I do not approve of, but think that they ought to be contended against, especially by those who have any distemper. The most proper season for enjoyment is after gymnastic exercises, baths, and a moderate repast; for food contributes to the strength, and diminishes the chills which succeed it. The proper time, as I said before, is after eating, and before sleep, for the lassitude is relieved by sleep. This too is the fittest time for procreation on many accounts, and because that the woman falling asleep is the more likely to retain the semen. Commentary. The contents of this Section are mostly taken Comm. from a fuller account of this subject, given in an extract from '—*—' the works of Ruffus, preserved by Oribasius. (Med. Col. vi, 38.) See also Aetius (iii, 18); Galen (Ars Medica, de Sanit. tuend. iii, 11) ; Avicenna (Cant.); Averrhoes (Comment, in Cantica, and Collig. vi, 7) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. iv, 17) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 10, 13) ; Alsaharavius (Theor. x.) The conclusion at which Galen arrives with regard to venereal exercises is that they have a tendency to render the body drier, colder, and weaker, and that these bad effects are to be coun- teracted by things of a bracing, heating, and strengthening nature. Averrhoes says, venery, in a word, induces the following evils : dryness of the body, effeminacy, imbecility, exhaustion, and at the same time prostration; therefore, the friction which is had recourse to after it, ought to remove the inconveniences occasioned by it. This should be much and rough friction, and be performed with oil.