160 FISHES. [book i. I c,«. had in view Galen, (de Facult, Alim in 26.) — rock fishes are particularly commended by all the authorities cm dietetics, both Greek and Arabian, it has justly ^dthe wonderof JoannesBruyerinusCampegiusandLudovicusNonnm , two very learned writers on the Res Aliment arm of the ^ that Celsus should rank the "pisces saxatiles' among the res mali succi» (ii. 21.) This appears the more remarkable as he had previously (18) classed « omnes sexatiles" among the i cs leviores," and had said again of them, « levior piscis inter saxa editus, quam in arena." Taking all this into consideration, we cannot hesitate in coming to the conclusion that m the passage first quoted the text must be in fault. We beg to offer, as a conjectural emendation, « fluviatiles." Galen Xenocrates, Psellus, Seth, and other authorities, agree in condemning river fishes, with the exception of those that run up from the sea. We may further mention, as tending to confirm this conjecture, that the same character of river fishes is given by the great Italian authority on dietetics, Domenico Romoli. (See Smgulare Dottrina, &c. vii, 50.) Rhases states that sea and river fishes are the best, especially such as have rough scales, are not mucilaginous, and are natu- rally of a white colour. Those, he adds, which are of a black or red colour should be abstained from. He says that all fish remains long in the stomach undigested. It is now generally admitted that it is less digestible than the tender flesh of quadrupeds. . Avicenna delivers the general characters of fishes m the same terms as Galen. He says that the best are those the flesh of which is neither too hard and dry j nor, on the other hand, too mucilaginous ; and which are neither very large nor very small. Averrhoes repeats this account of them. Haly Abbas, in like manner, abridges Galen. He says that fresh fish is of a cold and humid nature, and engenders phlegm. The ancients ate their fish either roasted, boiled, fried, or in soups. Invalids were recommended to take them boiled. The fried were believed to suit only with persons of a strong con- stitution. We shall now offer a few remarks upon the fishes which were in most request at the tables of the ancients. The labrax, or lupus, has been taken for the pike. But