284 FEVERS. CBOOK COMM The belief that the plague is preceded by extraordinary phe- nomena in the earth and sky is very ancient. Thucydides con- cludes his brief account of the last attack of the plague on Athens with the remark, that at that time there were many earthquakes at Athens and other places, (iii, 87.) Manilms says such plagues as that of Athens are commonly prognosticated by comets and other celestial fires. Diodorus Siculus mentions that the Athenian plague was preceded by earthquakes of extra- ordinary severity, (xiij 59.) While explaining the symptoms and treatment of the plague, as detailed in the works of the ancient authors, we have pur- posely omitted to notice its contagious nature, as we wished to give one connected view of the ancient opinions regarding Con- tagion. Before entering upon this disquisition, we think it proper to acknowledge the assistance which we have derived from the writings of Fracastorius, Paulinus, Mead, Marx, Omodei, and Winterbottom, leaving it to the reader to deter- mine, after comparing our humble attempt with their learned labours, whether or not our industry and research have contri- buted in anywise to throw additional light upon this important subject. The earlier ancient authors appear to have entertained no suspicions of contagion as a cause of febrile or of other com- plaints. Homer, as formerly stated, evidently refers the origin of the plague which prevailed in the Grecian army during the siege of Troy to the heat of the sun. The works of the fathers of History and of Medicine have likewise been ransacked in vain, for any traces of the doctrine of contagion. Thucydides, therefore, appears to be the first author (if we except the Mosaic description of leprosy) who makes any positive allusion to the contagious nature of diseases. From his description of the plague of Athens, there can be no doubt that he wishes it to be understood, that the disease was transmitted from one person to another; for he mentions that physicians were more attacked by it than any others, as having most intercourse with the sick; and he afterwards describes the terror which the citizens felt to approach those labouring under the disease, and intimates that it was often contracted by such intercourse. The language of Lucretius, who copies his description, and gives it a poetical form, is still more precise:—