[book III. JAUNDICE. 582 may be properly given in powder, or with oxymel, and the one called Theodoret; likewise the trochisk from bitter almonds. Give also of cinnamon what can be lifted with three fingers in a cyathus of mulse, or in mixed water; or of myrrh, the bnlk of a bean, with twenty seeds of pepper, and the same quantity of cinnamon. Those affected with jaundice, owing to a warm intemperament of the solid parts, are to be treated with gentle friction, moderate exercise, unction and baths, with a moisten- ing and moderately cooling diet, the juice of ptisan, intybus, endive, succory, fish, and light watery wine. The treatment of those who are affected with jaundice from drinking some dele- terious substance, or from the bite of some veDomous animal, will be laid down in the Fifth Book. When bile is lodged in the vessels of the face and eyes, inject elaterium to the size of a vetch, with a woman's milk, into the nose while in the bath, and then direct the person to descend immediately into it, but not to immerse his head; and after the bath, having given him a recruiting diet, again inject the errhine in the sun. The juices of sow-bread, of horehound, and of gith act in like manner. But let him draw into his nostrils, while seated in the bath, some acrid vinegar, and compress his nostrils for a short time, and it will produce a wonderful discharge. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Locis in Homine, 40); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. ix); Aretseus (Morb. Chron. i, 15); Celsus (iii, 24); Cselius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass, iii, 5); Aetius (x, 18); Oribasius (Cur. Loc. Affect, iv, 99); Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 11); Nonnus (188); Pliny (H. N. xi, 37; xxvi, 76; xxviii, 64); Ruffus Ephesius (ii); Palladius (de Feb. 6); Alex- ander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. i, 90); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 14); Scribonius Largus (31) j Marcellus (de Med. 22); Serapion (iv, 9); Avicenna (iii, 15, 1); Avenzoar (i, 14, 6); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 33; and Pract. vii, 41); Alsaharavius (Pract. xviii, 11); Rhases (Divis. i, 64 j Contin. xvi.) With regard to the etymology of the term icterus: in the first place, Aretrcus derives it from the animal ictis, which the Scholiast on Nicander pronounces to be a wild ferret. On the identity of the mustela and ictis, see further Pliny (H. N. xxix, 16.) Schneider determines it to be the mustela furo. (Ad Aristot. H. A. vi, 30.) Isodorus would seem to agree with