sect, lxxiii.] ARTICLES OF FOOD. 107 nourishment, it does not impart tone or strength to the body. One ought, therefore, to take some moderately nutritious food, when experiencing the effects of a deficient diet. They may do so with the least danger who are given to exercises and can take as much rest as they please. But all those who cannot take exercise before food ought to avoid such things as arc incras- sating; and those who are of an indolent habit ought by no means to take such food. For complete inactivity is one of the greatest evils for the preservation of health, whereas moderate exercise is particularly good. Those articles of food which are intermediate between the inerassating and the attenuating are the best of all, producing blood of a proper consistency. Such a diet, then, agrees with our bodies, but that which produces a bad chyme ought to be shunned. It is better also to avoid variety of food, more particularly if it consist of contrary qua- lities; for such things, when taken together, do not digest properly. Commentary. The ancient writers on Dietetics are, Hippocrates (de Diaeta, de Affectionibus, et alibi); Celsus (ii); Dioscorides (Mat. Med. ii) • Galen (de Facult. Alim., et de Probis Pravisque Aliment. Sue.); Xenocrates (de Aliment, ex aquat.); Oribasius (Med. Collect, i et seq.); Aetius (ii) • Simeon Seth (de Alimentis); Actuarius (de Spiritu Animali, p. ii); Anonymus (Tract, ap. Ermerins Anecdota GraBca); Marcellus (Sideta de Piscibus)• Psellus (Carmen de Re Medica) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. iii, Cont. xxxiii) ; Avicenna (Cantic. p. ii); Averrhoes (Comment, de Cantic); Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 15); Athenseus (Deipnos. passim); Plutarch (de Sanitate tuenda, Symposiacon); Macrobius (Saturnal. vii); Cselius Apicius (de Opsoniis) j Geoponica (xii); Horace and Martial (pluries.) Of all the ancient writers on Dietetics, Galen is bevond dis- pute the best. In the two treatises mentioned above, he has treated of everything connected with this subject so fully and so correctly, as to leave little to be supplied even at the present day. All the subsequent authorities in general are his servile copyists, with the exception of Averrhoes, who commonly differs from him only by deviating into error. The ancient philosophers were at great pains to explain why