HEADACH. [BOOK nI< 352 applications are likewise to be used externally as formerly de- scribed But if the headach be occasioned by viscid and thick humours contained in the stomach, these must be dis- lodged by drinking oxymel, either alone or that preparation called the Julian. We must also use decoctions of hyssop and marjoram, and other things still hotter and more incisive, and likewise the emetic from radishes, hot embrocations, and cataplasms. On headach from wine. If the wine remain undigested, we must procure vomiting, by drinking tepid water; but if the headach remain after digestion, we must use cooling and re- pellent applications, such as rose-oil alone and with vinegar, or the juice of ivy, or of cabbage. And the leaves of cabbage infused in warm water, and applied to and bound to the head naturally counteract intoxication. They must also eat boiled cabbage. Dried lentil is also beneficial, particularly to those who have a loose belly. They ought likewise to eat alica, pomegranates, apples and pears, and drink water. On headach from a blow. We must immediately bleed those who have headach from a blow (unless the injury be superficial), and use suitable embrocations to the head; bathe it with sweet oil; cover it with wool; and make the patients abstain from wine and a rich diet, more especially if they have fever; and, upon the whole, we are to accommodate our treatment as for the inflammation of nervous parts, and especially of the mem- branes of the brain. If there be a wound it must be treated accordingly. An emollient application for headach. Of wax, dr. vij ; of almond-oil, oz. iij; of turpentine, dr. viij; of scraped verdigris, of Cimolian earth, and of chalcitis, of each, dr. iv; of pumice- stone, dr. iij; of burnt copper and scales of steel {squama sto- momatis), of each dr. ij; and, if appear to be too hard, soften it with almond-oil. COMM Commentaiiy. By cephalalgia, as Aretzeus remarks, is to be understood an acute pain of the head, and by cephalsea a chronic one. Our author does little more than abridge the contents of the second book of Galen's work f De Med. sec. Loc/, where this subject is treated of with unrivalled precision. See also Aretseus (de Morb.Chron. i, 2); Oribasius (de Loc. Affect, iv, 1); Celsus (iv, 2);