[book III. 442 DISEASES OF THE EAR. Comm. Commentary. The following ancient authors treat of diseases of the ear: Hippocrates (de Affectionibus, et alibi); Galen (Sec. Loc.iii); Celsus (vi, 7); Oribasius (de Loc. Aff. iv); Aetius (vi, 74 et seq.); Alexander (iii); Scribonius Largus; Marcellus (de Med. 9); Nonnus (74 et seq.); Cselius Aurelianns (de Tard. Pass, ii, 3); Actnarius (Meth. Med. iv, 10); Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxviii, 48); Octavius Horatianus (i, 7); Mesue (de ^Egr. Aurium); Avenzoar (i, 4); Serapion (2); Avicenna (i, iii, 4); Albucasis (ii); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 14; Pract. v, 62); Alsaharavius (Pract. iii); Khases (ad Mansor. ix; Contin. iii.) For relieving earach Hippocrates recommends the warm bath and fomentations; and when these do not succeed, phlegma- gogues and masticatories are to be used. Celsus gives very judicious directions for curing pain of the ears, but his treatment is little different from our author's. When the pain is not violent he recommends abstinence alone; but if severe, venesection, purging, hot cataplasms from linseed and fenugreek, or sponges squeezed out of hot water. When the inflammation is particularly violent, poppies are to be added to the injections, which must be tepid ; and when the ear is filled with them, soft wool is to be put over it to contain the injec- tion. He mentions various compound applications, which con- tain poppies, castor, myrrh, alum, saffron, and the like. Our author copies from Galen. He recommends the follow- ing simple application: Having scooped out the heart of an onion, fill it with oil, and having heated it in ashes, put it into the ear. He gives prescriptions for various injections and other compositions, which are similar to those of our author and Celsus. Aetius on this head is more brief and less distinct than our author. Alexander, Actuarius, and Octavius Horatianus treat of these complaints very properly, but not differently from Celsus and our author. Alexander states correctly that inflammation within the ear sometimes spreads to the brain, and proves fatal. He en- joins caution in using opiate applications to the ear, as he has seen dangerous effects from them by their inducing stupor. He particularly approves of introducing steam into the ear, by means of a tube connected with a vessel containing some boilm<>- decoction.