sect, xxxiii.] PLEURISY. 499 ment. On the necessity of early and repeated venesection he c insists strongly, but recommends it not to be carried the length of producing dcliquium animi, as the fluids will thereby be de- termined inwardly. Archigenes (ap. Aetium) and other ancient authorities joined him in this rule of practice, although in opposi- tion to Hippocrates. He approves of cupping the side, but not until after the seventh day, and directs us to apply to the scari- fications salts or nitre. His internal remedies consist of demul- cents, diluents, and narcotics, varied according to circumstances. He forbids the use of cold drink and cold air. Celsus also cautions against cold, and directs sinapisms to the chest. His general treatment is nothing different from that of Hippocrates. Galen treats of pleurisy cursorily in many parts of his works, but, as he follows entirely the views of Hippocrates, we need not enter into a detail of his practice. We may mention, however, that the worst character of the pulse, according to him, is when it is hard, small, and very frequent. (Diff. Puis, iv, 5.) Aetius gives an interesting account of a species of pleurisy arising from indigestion or crudities of the stomach. In this case he forbids venesection, and recommends clysters and calefacient applications. Alexander gives very minute directions how to distinguish pleurisy from hepatitis. He remarks that, in the latter disease, the patient is yellowish : in the former the pulse is hard and serrated. When the pain is not violent, he recommends us to trust to cupping, which he says was a popular remedy in Armenia. He disapproves in general of opiates. When the discharges from the bowels are bilious, he directs purging with scammony, black hellebore, and the like. According to Actuarius, the urine in pleurisy is first reddish, and afterwards becomes red and of a dark wine colour. (De Urinis, vii, 9.) The sputa, he says, in pleurisy and pneumonia, is of a whitish and bloody colour. (De Diagnos. i, 16.) Psellus cautions us not to confound pleurisy with abscess of the side. In the latter case, he remarks, there is no cough, and pain is felt upon pressure. He appears to copy from Paulus. There is nothing particularly original in the accounts given of it bv Oribasius, Nonnus, Octavius, and Marcellus. We shall, therefore, proceed to explain the views of the Methodists. The remedies recommended by Cselius Aurelianus are, upon the whole, OMM.