sect, iavi.] THE HEART. OMM. !).-> usually cold heart lias the pulse smaller than moderate, and such persons arc timid and spiritless, more especially it' there be no hairs on the breast. Dryness of the heart renders the pulse hard, and the passions ungovernable, fierce, and difficult to quell j and, for the most part, the whole body is drier than usual, unless the parts about the liver antagonise. These are the marks of a more humid temperament: a soft pulse, a dis- position easily roused to anger, and easily pacified, and the whole body more humid than common, unless antagonised by the parts about the liver. When the temperament is both hotter and drier, the pulse is large, hard, and quick and dense; and the respirations large, quick, and dense. And of all others such persons have the most hair upon the breast and prascordia ; they are prone to action, given to anger, fierce and tyrannical in their dispositions; for they are both passionate and impla- cable. But, if humidity prevails with heat, such persons are less covered with hair than the afore-mentioned; they are prompt to action, their disposition is not fierce, but only prone to anger ; their pulse is large, soft, quick, and dense.' But when the temperament is more humid and cold than common, the pulse is soft, the disposition spiritless, timid and sluggish; they have no hair on the breast, and neither indulge in lasting resentment, nor are prone to anger. A cold and dry heart renders the pulse harder and small. Of all others, such persons are least given to anger, but when provoked they retain their resent- ment. They are also particularly distinguished by having no hair on the breast. Commentary. In the ancient system of physiology, the heart C was considered as the seat of the Vital poAvers, its office being "~ the preservation of the innate heat of the body. The philoso- pher, Aristotle, had pointed out the connexion between heat and vitality, and had taught that the heart, as being the centre of heat, is the prime organ in the animal frame. Hence, as his commentator, Averrhoes, remarks, it is the primum movens at ultimum moriens. Galen, however, maintained with Hippocrates that the animal frame is a circle, having neither beginning nor end, and that, consequently, it has no prime organ. He taught that the brain does not, properly speaking, derive its powers from the heart, nor the heart from the brain; but that these organs