sect, xii.] PULSE. 2] I the hardness of the artery. This is occasioned by immoderate cold, or dryness, or tension proceeding from inflammation, or spasm. To the hardness, moreover, are joined smallncss, quick- ness, and sometimes density instead of greatness accompanying, owing to the exciting want. A soft pnlse follows a humid state of the artery. An artery is rendered more humid by things not preternatural, such as more liquid food, immoderate baths, much sleep, a more abundant diet, and hilarity; and by preter- natural causes, such as coma, lethargy, dropsy, and the other pituitous affections. A full pulse indicates an abundance of fluids, or plethora from food, or from drinking Avine, as the empty, on the other hand, indicates deficiency of food or evacuation' When the body of the artery feels warmer under the finger, this indicates great heat in the heart, while the rest of the body is cold, or a certain spasmodic state of the arteries, which are warmed by the violent motion. Archigenes says that the place of the artery will particularly be found warmer in catochus and in those who are about to be affected with somnolency. With regard to rhythm, when the ratio of the times of motion and rest is equal, it indicates a proper temperament of the body, or no great departure from it, as in early age, and the otherwise well-regulated bodies. But when the time of rest is greater than that of motion, this indicates that heat prevails, as in adults and those of the adjoining ages; as, in aged bodies, which are entirely cold, the time of motion is greater than that of rest. It is to be remarked that inequality in regard to rhythm, being the measure of that as to quickness and density, this holds the place as it were of the materiel to the rhythm. The intermittent and intercurrent pulses take place when the powers are oppressed, and, as it were, borne down; but the in- terem'rent indicates a lesser, and the intermittent a greater in- jury. And, in general, that state in which the powers are op- pressed and borne down, changes the pulses to inequality and irregularity in every other respect, and also in regard to strength and greatness. The pulses called myuri, being shown to be of two kinds, (for they are found either in that inequality called systematic, or in regard to one pulsation), the failing or fainting evince the last prostration of the powers; but, when they return, or are recurrent, they indicate that the powers are weak, but that they are struggling, contending, and have not yet submitted.