[book III. THE UTERUS. 628 or myrtle-oil, or the oil from the flowers of wild vines, or that of apples with dates boiled in must. But one particularly re- commended is that from the sediment found in copper vessels, which being burnt, is reduced to a powder, and mixed with the „ cerate of roses until it acquire the consistence of a plaster. These are the external applications. But oil applied internally is soothing to the parts. And when they become ulcerated, the milk of a woman may be injected, and the tepid juice of plan- tain. But if they bleed, the infusion of knotgrass with a little rosemary proves soothing; and so also do pessaries medicated with saffron, women's milk, and the juice of poppies, and the sordes of unwashed wool. But the following is one of the best applications, and answers also for affections of the anus : Of washed Italian litharge, oz. vj ; of male frankincense, of the sordes of unwashed wool, of fresh axunge, of newly-made butter, of Tuscan wax, of each, oz. ij; of rose-oil, oz. iv; triturate the litharge with the juice of endive, and add to the other things when melted. Food of easy distribution and wholesome may be given, and some watery wine; avoiding acrid food and re- pletion, for they are apt to be troubled with indigestion. Commentary. Hippocrates (de Morb. Mulier. ii, 24) gives a long account of cancer of the womb, which, when fairly formed, he pronounces to be utterly incurable. He directs us, however, to try the effect of fumigating the womb by introducing into it a pipe attached to a pot. Steams from garlic and the fat of seals are to be applied in this manner. Aetius gives from Archigenes exactly the same account as our author. Aretseus describes the ulcerated cancer, and that kind in which there is no ulceration. He calls them chronic and fatal diseases. Haly Abbas pronounces the disease to be incurable, but directs us to soothe the sufferings of the patient by various ano- dyne preparations. For this purpose he gives directions for the formation of several pessaries and injections, the principal in- gredients of which are linseed, chamomile, fenugreek, coriander, beet, poppies, and the like. Alsaharavius also approves of such anodyne applications. Rhases enjoins abstinence from every- thing of an acrid nature, and such articles as engender black bile.