sect, xc] FISHES. (vii.) See Casaubon (1. c.), and Rondelet (de Piscibus.) 165 Ludovicus Nonnius confesses his inability to determine what Comm the scarus was. It would seem to have been the fish now called labrus scarus L, a small fish, according to Bellonius, being seldom more than a fathom long. Xenocrates praises it as being very savoury and of easy digestion, but of difficult distribution and evacuation. For a curious account of it, sec Macrobms (Sat. iii, 16.) The sargus nearly resembles the scarus, but is more astringent and nutritious. It is the sparus sargus L., and, according to Rondelet, is called sargo by the Italians. The melanurus {sparus m.) is very like to it in shape and qualities. The aurata, called by Braver and Nonnius in French brame de mer; and by Ainsworth and Artedi, gilt-head in English, (namely, the sparus aurata L.) is said by Celsus and Mnesitheus as quoted by Athenacus, to be a fish of difficult digestion but very nutritious. Xenocrates says that its flesh is firm, white, of easy distribution, and nutritious. The passer, called platessa by Ausonius, is supposed by Artedi and Nonnius to have been the plaice (pleuronectes platessa.) It is mentioned by Horace among the delicacies at the supper of Nasidienus. The solea or sole, called lingualaca by Festus and Yarro, was nearly allied to it. It is the P. solea. Diphilus says that both are very savoury and nutritious. The lamprey {petromyzon lampetra L.) is the mustella of Ausonius, the exormiston of Cassiodorus, the yaXa^iag of Galen, the iylvmq of Oppian, and the (3&\\a of Strabo. See Bruyer^ Nonnius, and Rondelet. It was reckoned unwholesome. The capros, or carp, is called by Archestratus " The flower of nectar." (Athenseus Deipnos. vii.) It is the cyprinus carpio L. The hake (gadus merluccius) is generally supposed to be the gadus of Athenseus (vii); the asellus of Ovid, Varro, and Pliny; and oniscus of Marcellus Sideta. It was reckoned wholesome. The ancients do not appear to have been ac- quainted with the gadus eglofinus, or haddock. According to Willoughby, the Latin poet Ausonius is the only ancient author who has noticed the tench or cyprinus tinea. We are inclined, however, to think that it is the j/'ij/W of Aristotle (H. A. vi, 14), and the yvafeve of Athenams