sect, xxxix.] . ON COLD. 49 Commentary. This Section, is taken, with a very few slight Comm. alterations, from Galen. (De Sanitate tuenda, vi, 14) The same treatment 1S recommended by Avicemia (iii, 20, 1, 35) j and by Hhases (ad Mansor. v, 67.) Alsaharaviua recommends bleed- ing, and various cooling and astringent remedies, both internally and externally. (Pract. xxii, 9.) Hippocrates says that the strychnos cures impure dreams. (De Direta, ii.) Serapion states that the lettuce possesses "virtus contraria spermatid (De Simpl. ex Plantis.) We may remark here, once for all, that by the juice (XvX6q) of herbs, the Greek medical authors generally mean the de- coction. Thus, according to Dr. Coray, by Xv\k tvp k^lvQuv, Hippocrates understood a<j>tyWa r. t. (Xenocrat. de Alim. ex Aquat. p. 219.) Iu like manner, by «the juice of ptisan," was meant strained ptisan, as Hippocrates himself has distinctly stated in his treatise on ' Regimen in Acute Diseases/ SECT. XXXIX. ON PERSONS INJURED BY COLD. Those who arc much congealed ought to be laid in a warm place, and rubbed with the oil of privet, or of the iris. After- wards, when moderately heated, they should get pepper, or myrrh, with sweet fragrant old wine, or Cyrenaic juice in wine I or vinegar, or pellitory or castor with vinegar, and be given food of a heating nature. ^ Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. Comm. : (Synops. v, 36.) 1—»—1 Rhases directs us to la}- a person congealed with cold in a i warm apartment, and to rub with hot hands the whole of his body, with the exception of the head, which is to be warmed iwith hot cloths. Persons having warm bodies are then to lie down in bed beside him j and he is to take a draught contain- ing assafcetida, myrrh, pepper, and strong wine. When the respiration is fairly restored, he is to take some nourishing food 1 and wine; and is then to be covered up Avith many blankets, and left to sleep. When he awakes, he is to be put into a hot ' bath, and after remaining for a long time in it, he is to be [strongly rubbed when he leaves it with calefacient oil, such 4