LETHARGY. 367 SECT. IX.] use a masticatory consisting of oxymel with hyssop, pennyroyal, marjoram, or mustard itself. We may give also in their drink things of a diffusible nature, more particularly the diospolites, to the amount of a spoonful, with oxycrate. When there is chronic trembling, we must give two or three scruples of castor; or, if there be a redundance of humours, and there be nothing to contra-indicate the use of it, we may add a scruple of scam- mony to the castor. When the disease is protracted, the head must be shaved and fomented with salt, millet, and the like, in small bags; and sinapisms are to be applied to the whole head, and medicines used to excite sneezing. Afterwards we may apply dry cupping, with much heat, or cupping with scarifica- tions, to the back part of the head. It will be necessary to attend to the natural evacuations by means of clysters and diu- retics. Apply to the lower part of the belly an embrocation with oil of rue, or Sicyonian oil with some castor. We must also attend particularly to the deglutition, injecting, by means of a vessel with a narrow mouth, warm water, to which has been added some sweet potion, more especially apomel. And, if there be inflammation in the intermediate parts, we must cure it with embrocations and cataplasms. To the nose is to be applied mustard triturated with vinegar, or burnt castor. Their food should consist of ptisan, or the decoction of oats, or that of alica, with oxymel, salt, or pennyroyal, sometimes giving of it every day, and sometimes only every alternate day, After food, liga- tures are to be applied to the extremities, which may also be bent back; and the limbs are to be pinched; and sometimes we may even tear the hair violently in order to rouse them. Rubefacients to the thighs and legs are also proper. When the affection is in the decline, we may enjoin suitable gestation, direct the bath to be taken, and a restorative regimen to be used properly. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, in, 5); Celsus Comm. (iii, 20); Galen (Meth. Med. xiii); Aretseus (Cur. Morb. Acut. i, 2); Oribasius (Synops. viii, 1); Aetius (vi, 3); Alexander (i, 14); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 2); Nonnus (c. 22); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2); Caelius Aurelianus (de Morb. Acut. i, 2); Avicenna (iii, i, 3, 7); Serapion (i, 17); Mesue (de iEgrit. Cap. 22); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix. 5, and Pract. v, 15); Rhases (Divis. c. 6, Contin. 1.)