448 DISEASES OF THE NOSE. [book III. For hemorrhage from the nose. Of bleeding from the nose in fevers we have treated in the Second Book; but we shall now t peat of it when it arises from any other cause, and is difficult to restrain. Triturate chalcitis, and apply upon the tent formed from lamp-wicks, or the one called priapiscus, soaked in water, and press it into the nostrils; or burn an eggshell, and add to it of galls one half; or touch it with Indian lycium, or blow in the ashes of burnt ass-dung, or press out the juices from it, and inject into the nose; or let the person smell to the vapour of lapis molaris heated and plunged into vinegar; or use the fol- lowing obstruent preparation: Of the manna of the frankincense tree, p. j ; of aloes, p. ss; mix with the white of an egg, and use, by means of a tent made of lamp-wicks, having added ex- ternally to it the down of a hare; or apply to the nostril the preparation called Lysimachium j or apply for a length of time a large dry cupping-instrument to the hypochondrium of the side from which the blood flows j or stuff the ear firmly; or apply sponges out of cold water to the forehead; or apply a cupping-instrument with scarifications so as to detract blood; and sometimes it will be proper to let blood from a vein, if this be not contra-indicated; and to apply ligatures to the extremi- ties, more especially the arms and thighs, as if for venesection. Direct motion to be made with them, exerting the hands by rubbing, and the feet by walking; for when the veins there are filled with blood, the parts about the nose will have a smaller supply of it. But a sponge soaked in cold oxycrate and bound externally to the bleeding nostril will often accom- plish the purpose. It is best, however, to stuff the nose first with a long tent in the form of a wedge. Comm. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (de Affect, et alibi); 1—v ' Galen (de Med. sec. loc. hi); Celsus (vi, 8); Cselius Aurelianus (de Mor. Tard. ii, 1); Oribasius (Loc. Aff. iv, 45); Alexander (hi, 8); Aetius (vi, 90); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 12); Nonnus (92); Scribonius Largus; Marcellus (de Med. 10); Octavius Horatianus (i, 11); Serapion (ii); Mesue (de iEgr. Narium); Avicenna (hi, 4); Albucasis (ii, 24); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 15; Pract. v, 68); Avenzoar (i, 5); Alsaharavius (Pract. ii); Rhases (ad Mansor. iv, 45; Divis. 40; Contin. iv.) Of polypus. Hippocrates describes five species of polypus.