TERTIAN. SECT. XX.] 211 was adopted, in a word, by all his successors. See Oribasius (Synops. vi, 9); Aetius (v, 80) j Nonnus (de Febr. 6); Palladius (de Febr. 6) j Alexander (xii, 6) ■ Synesius (iii); Avicenna (iv, 1, 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii) j Serapion (vi, 13); Avenzoar (m, 1, 2); Averrhoes (Collig. iv, 28.) SECT. XX. Ox\ THE CURE OF TERTIAN FEVER. In the true tertian, as arising from yellow bile, we must dilute and cool, evacuate the defluxions upon the stomach by emetics, and downwards by the belly, and carry them off by urine and perspiration. The bowels, therefore, are to be moved by emollient clysters, and the secretion of urine promoted by infusions of parsley and dill in the drinks. And if symptoms of concoction appear, you may confidently give wormwood. Apply also baths of warm common water, and let neither nitre, nor salts, nor mustard be sprinkled upon the body in the bath; but let the patient enter it after having had warm oil poured over his body. There will be no mistake if those who are fond of baths be bathed twice; and, if symptoms of the diseases being concocted appear, there will be no harm even if they be bathed oftener. Until the disease is concocted, wine is to be entirely prohibited; but when concoction commences, first some thin and watery wine may be given, and food of a diluent and cooling nature will be proper; but honey, mustard, pickles, and everything heating must be abstained from. Such was the practice of the ancients; nor is it to be wondered at, as these men were more habituated to exercises and a restricted diet; but now, when order is perverted, the bile is, for the most part, found mixed with phlegm. Wherefore, now-a-days, most ter- tians are either without a rigor, or it is very slight. And the mode of cure is also changed; for, neither does the bath suit with tertians now before concoction, nor yet a full diet, except crumbs of bread, eggs, or the like. Commentary. Hippocrates recommends generally purga- Comm. tives at the commencement, and afterwards the hot bath, and 1—v—' trefoil, assafcetida, and wine, to promote perspiration. (De Morbis, ii, 39.) He lays it down as a general rule applicable 16