FEVERS. [BOOK n 230 have been seized with the fever from inordinate heat are to be treated from the commencement with cooling things and more baths, but by no means with much oil and friction. The cooling things should be rose oil, or cold oil of unripe olives, prepared without salts. The same are to be poured upon the open of the head, and the bath used Avhen the fever has passed its acme. It a person has a fever from congelation, he is to be bathed m the decline; but if the fever be attended with catarrh, he is not to be bathed until concoction takes place; but those who have fever from exposure to heat are to be bathed while these symptoms are present. Those from exposure to cold are to be warmed mode- rately, and have the head bathed with such applications as the oil of iris and of nard. To those in whom the fever is occasioned by constriction of the skin, the proper remedies are, tepid baths of sweet waters, friction to open the pores, exercises, and an exhilarating diet. Those in whom the fever is occasioned by want of food are to be led to the bath after the decline of the first paroxysm, and to have plenty of tepid oil poured upon them; are to be rubbed most gently, and to remain for the greater part of the time in the cistern of the warm bath. After coming out and recovering their strength, they are to be led again to the bath, and afterwards get warm water to drink, the juice of ptisan, and sometimes of lettuce 3 and are to partake of fishes having tender flesh, in white broth. The common diet in all these cases ought to consist of things which contain good juices, of easy digestion, and which will not be restrained within the pores of the skin. Wine should be given which is watery in appearance and strength. It will sometimes be proper, on the first attack of the fever, to give some nourishing food, when the fever has been enkindled by an intemperament inclining to the hot an1 dry. Those who have this fever from inflammation of the gland of the groin, do not require a physician to instruct them wha ought to be done; for, attending to the ulcer from the time that the bubo is formed, they take the bath in the decline of the paroxysm. But they ought to be restricted as to wine, until the inflammation of the groin is resolved, and use a spare diet. Comm. Commentary. Among all the remains of ancient medicine ' v 1 which have come down to us, there is not, perhaps, anything