SPASMS. SECT. XIX.] 401 repletion with wine, which case generally proves fatal. He Comm. justly remarks, that one of the most common symptoms is ^ ' stertorous breathing. If the face he ruddy or livid, he directs us to open the cephalic vein, or vena saphena, and abstract blood according to the patient's strength j to apply ligatures to the extremities, vinegar and rose-oil to the head; and to give clysters. He also approves of emetics. When the disease has partly subsided, he approves of the bath. He treats separately of paralysis, describing many varieties of it. In paralysis of the face he recommends stimulant liniments, ligatures, gargles, and sternutatories. According to Rhases, apoplexy arises from con- gestion of blood or of viscid phlegm in the brain. He remarks correctly, that when attended with stertor it is difficult to cure. When the memory is affected, he directs us to apply a sinapism to the occiput. The paralysis of the extremities after colic, mentioned by our author, and after him noticed by Avicenna and Haly Abbas, was, no doubt, the same disease as the palsy after colica picto- num described by modern authors. De Haen has given a masterly description of this disease. (Rat. Med.) Rhases states decidedly that the skin of paralytics may re- tain its sensibility, although the muscular motion be lost. In a word, he maintains that the nerves of sensibility and motion may be affected separately. He remarks, however, that a part can scarcely retain its powers of motion when the sensibility is entirely gone. He says that he had known several cases of paralysis cured by a natural diarrhoea. His general remedies are bleeding, purging, and rubefacient applications. He, and several of the authorities referred to by him, recommend the warm salt-water bath for the cure of paralysis. SECT. XIX. ON CONVULSIONS, OR SPASMS. The consideration of spasms naturally follows that of para- lysis, because both are affections of the nerves; and, for the same reason, we shall next treat of tremors. When, therefore, spasms come on at the commencement of the complaint, or nearly so, and are protracted, they have their origin in plethora; but when they supervene after copious sweatings, vomitings, dis- 26