sect, xlviti.] DROPSY. 57.-, urine, and sometimes latent fever. He informsus thatErasistratus Comm. in his dissections generally found the liver indurated. His ex- ' ' ' ternal applications are very similar to those of our author. He particularly commends a vinous tincture of squills as a hydra- gogue. He approves highly of paracentesis, and has answered sill the objections which had been made to the operation. He mentions that Asclepiades practised scarifications at the ankles. The ordinary cases of dropsy are well stated by Serenus Samonicus in the following lines : " Corrupti jecoris vitio, vel splenis acervo, Crescit hydrops, aut cum siccata; febre medullae, Aut avichc fauces geliduin hausere liquorem." Among his internal remedies he mentions broom-seeds, the wine of squills, elder, and hellebore. Alexander states that a coldness of the liver is the cause of dropsy, in consequence of which it is no longer able to form blood, but converts the fluids into water, phlegm, or air. Hence the distinction of dropsy into ascites, anasarca, and tympanites. In certain cases of anasarca he permits venesection, in order to relieve the depression of the system. He adds afterwards that, if not only the liver, but also the spleen and stomach appear hard, and especially if combined with plethora of blood, vene- section is to be had recourse to before all other remedies. But in ascites and tympanites he agrees with Galen in condemning venesection, and trusts principally to purging and friction. Like our author, he commends copper and the leaves of elder. Exer- cise, he says, is adapted in an especial manner to dropsical com- plaints, either by sea, on horseback, or in a couch. Horace, by the way, no doubt, alludes to the established practice of taking exercise for the cure of dropsy in the following passage : "At qui Si noles sanus, curres hydropicus." (Epist. i, 2.) Alexander has stated correctly that the disease sometimes derives its origin from disease of the uterus, kidneys, spleen, liver, colon, heart, or other organ of the body. He remarks that dropsy is apt to come on in phthisical cases. Our author has merely condensed the account given by Aetius. His list of diuretics contains squills, spikenard, alum, spurge,