THE UTERUS. SECT. LXX1I.] Eros gives the same account of the symptoms and treatment Comm. as the others. ' v ' Moschion, however, disapproves entirely of the common prac- tice of applying fetid things to the nose, ligatures to the extre- mities, and fragrant pessaries to the uterus. On the contrary, he recommends warm fomentations, injections of warm water thrown into the uterus, rubbing the body with warm hands, and when the disease gets into the chronic state, giving altera- tives (metasyncritica) and hellebore. According to Leo, men who have been long restricted from venery are subject to the hysterical convulsion. See, in Alexander Aphrodisiensis, an ingenious explanation why fetid substances applied to the nose and fragrant ones to the parts below were supposed to prove beneficial in such cases. It is too long for our purpose. The account which Plato gives of the nature of the uterus and the phenomena of hysterics ought perhaps not to be taken in too literal a sense, considering that philosopher's well-known propensity to mystification. He says, that part in women which is called the womb being an animal desirous of generation, if it become unfruitful for a long time, turns indignant, and, wandering all over the body, stops the passages of the spirits and the respiration, and occasions the most extreme anxiety and all sorts of diseases. (Timseus.) The Arabians describe and treat the complaint exactly like our author. Serapion says that the uterus is delighted with fragrant things, and flies from fetid, not because it is an animal but from a natural property. He recommends ligatures to the extremities, purging with hiera picra, bleeding if not contra-in- dicated, the application of fetid things to the nose, and of fragrant things to the uterus, and so forth. Avicenna states that the affection arises from the menstrual discharge or semen being retained in the uterus. Haly Abbas adopts this explanation. He says the uterus affects the brain and heart sympathetically, giving* rise to apoplexy, epilepsy, and other serious complaints. Young women, especially widows, are most liable to it. He says it is often periodical like epilepsy. His treatment consists of ligatures to the extremities, with friction, sprinkling rose- water on the face, applying fetid things to the nose, and the other means used in cases of suspended animation. At the