SPITTING OF BLOOD. 487 SECT. XXXI.] ix, 20 ; Pract. vi, 10) j Alsaharavius (xii, 6) j Rhases (ad Man- Comm. sor. ix, 59; Contin. ix.) ' " The father of medicine has mentioned this disease casualty, but has not given a full account of it. We may mention, how- ever, that he refers one species to disease of the liver. (Coac. 450.) Aristotle states that vomiting of blood is not dangerous when connected with obstructed menstruation. (II. N. vii, 10.) The description given by Aretams is exceedingly accurate. IMood that is discharged by the mouth, he remarks, may come from the fauces, nose, and palate, in which cases it is seldom attended with danger ; or from the lungs and arteria trachea, which is exceedingly dangerous, and may prove fatal either sud- denly, or by terminating in consumption; or from the stomach, which is less dangerous, as the remedies can be applied direct to the part affected; or from the liver and spleen, which is a more dangerous case, as the remedies cannot be so readily applied to them. They all arise, he says, from rapture, erosion, or rare- faction. By rarefaction (apruweric) he means the same as ex- halation (avaaTo/uuxng). If the blood be black and thick, it comes from a vein ; and if florid and thin, from an artery. Of these cases that in which it proceeds from rarefaction is said to be the least dangerous, as it may readily be cured by astringents. The circumstances and characters of all the other cases are stated witli great accuracy and at some length. He concludes with the remark, that in hemoptysis the patient despairs from the first, whereas in consumption he flatters himself with the hopes of re- covery to the last. With regard to the treatment he directs that the patient be laid on a firm couch (as all motion increases the complaint), in a cool place, and that he abstain from speaking and all mental emotions. In every case, if the patient's strength will permit, he recommends venesection at the elbow. Ligatures, not so tight as to occasion pain, are to be applied to the extre- mities. Over the place from which the blood flows he directs us to apply wool or sponges soaked in austere wine and rose-oil, or in vinegar. In certain cases he directs us to put an astringent plaster upon the chest. With regard to the medicines taken by the mouth, he recommends astringents, especially coral, when the disease is occasioned by dilatation. These, however, are only to be given when no fever is present. The diet is the same as that recommended by our author.