SECT. XIII.] EPILEPSY. 379 On epilepsy proceeding from some of the members. When the attack is threatened, and they feel a sensation in the part, whe- ther the hand or foot, a tight ligatnre ought to be applied above it, and the cure attempted during the remissions, by applying some caustic substance to the part, such as the garden cresses [iepidium], preparations from cantharides, and the like. The Julian oxymelis also of great use to epileptics, by expelling the offending matter from the part. After those things which have been mentioned, the theriac and natural baths have place. During their whole life, they must particularly guard against indigestion, and be careful not to take food before digestion has been per- formed ; avoid all incrassating food, too long abstinence from food, all vehement venereal impulse, much wine, and drinking, after the bath, more especially of undiluted wine, as formerly mentioned, and likewise of old and thick wines. They must avoid, also, all aromatics of an acrid smell, and such as fill the head; must abstain from looking down steadfastly from a high situation, from remaining long in the bath, and exposing the head to the heat of the sun. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (de Morbo Sacro); Comm. Galen (de Sympt. Diff. 3; De Loc. Affect, iii, 11; De Puero '—» ' Epileptico); Oribasius (Synops. viii, 3); Aetius (vi, 13); Aretseus (Morb. Acut. i, 5; Morb. Chron. i, 4); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. i, 21); Alexander (i, 15); Leo (6); Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 16); Nonnus (36); Serenus Samonicus; Scribonius Largus (12); Apuleius (Apologia); Celsus (iii, 23); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2); Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8) ; Pliny (H.N. xxv, 5); Avicenna (iii, i, 5, 9) ; Serapion (i, 23) ; Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 6; Pract. v, 21) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 36) ; Avenzoar (i, 9); Mesue (de iEgr. Cap. 26) ; Rhases (Div. 7, alibique.) Our author derives his principles of treatment, more especi- ally with respect to regimen and diet, from Galen's directions for the management of an epileptic boy. Part seems also to be borrowed from Oribasius. Hippocrates with great good sense rebuts the popular belief of his own times, that the epileptic paroxysm is produced by demoniacal influence. He justly remarks, that the inferior animals, such as goats, are subject to this complaint; and that in them it is found to be occasioned by water in the brain. It