100 THE TESTICLES. [BOOK SECT. LXVIII.—DIAGNOSIS OF THE TEMPERAMENTS OF THE TESTICLES. Of the temperaments of the testicles, the hot is lustM, apt to generate, particularly males, and at an early age as the genial parts covered with thick hairs, winch extend to the sur foundino- part. The cold is the reverse. In the humid the Temen t copious and watery. In the dry, it is scanty and t uck- r^l^ent which is moderately hot and dry has very thick temen> most prolific, and rouses the person to, ^ zence Such persons have, at a very early period, thick harrs onXir geniti organs, and on the surrounding PJ^^JJ no as the navel, and as low down as the middle of the thigh . lul Temperament is prone to venery, but is soon satiated, ■ Ld readily U if compelled, ^^^^g heat such persons have thick hair, and much semen j yet thej have not greater desires than others, but they can bear much venery without injury ; and if both the moist and the hot com- bine properly together, they cannot safely abstain from venery Those whose testicles are of the humid and cold temperament have no hair on the neighbouring parts j they are slow m be- ginning to copulate, and not much prone to the exertion. 1 hen- semen is watery, thin, without strength, and fit only for beget- ting females. The dry and the cold temperament together, re- sembles the former in every other respect, except that the semen is thicker, and altogether scanty. Comm. Commentaky. The testicles were described by the ancient anatomists as being bodies composed of white glandular flesh, and surrounded by coats which they knew to be processes of the peritoneum: The semen they considered as a white frothy fluid, elaborated from the blood, by passing through the convo- lutions of the spermatic vessels. Aristotle held it to be a super- fluity collected from all parts of the system. His theory of gene- ration is similar to that of Buffon. For the hypothesis of the Epicureans, see Lucretius (de B, N. iv.) They taught that the foetus is the joint production of the male semen, and some- thing analogous secreted by the ovaria of the female. Galen has very ingenious ideas respecting the first organi-