sect, lxxvi.] DIFFICULT LABOUR. 651 Albucasis recommends us, when the membranes are tough, Comm. to perforate them by the finger or a spatumile. When the waters ' * ' are discharged, he directs us to press down the woman's belly- so as to make the head descend. If it does not come down readily, he advises us to give a clyster, and afterwards to apply compression to the belly. Albucasis also approves of the tepid bath. To promote the delivery of the secundines, he recom- mends us to make the woman sneeze and retain her breath. Alsaharavius (probably the same as Albucasis) treats fully of the causes of difficult labours. When occasioned by dryness and constriction of the vagina, he recommends baths, fomentations, and clysters, containing the decoctions of mallows, fenugreek, and Unseed; and also directs the parts to be rubbed with warm oil. When obstruction of the rectum by faeces prevents de- livery, he advises us to administer a clyster. When intense cold is the cause of the difficulty, he recommends clysters of hot oil, and the warm bath. When the membranes are tough and retard delivery, he directs the midwife to break them with a sort of reed or needle. Haly Abbas mentions imperforate hymen among the causes of difficult labour. Such cases have been reported by modern writers on midwifery. See Baudelocque (ยง 341), and Burns (Midwifery, x.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente relates a very curious case in which conception had taken place without rupture of the hymen. (OEuvres Chirurg. ii, 81.) When the difficulty arises from fatness and debility of the expulsive powers, Haly directs us to rub the parts with warm olive-oil, or other such emollients, and to make the woman sit in a bath prepared with chamomile, melilot, &c. He mentions, as an internal remedy, the infusion of a swallow's nest (alcyonium?) W^hen the difficulty proceeds from cold, he recommends the use of the tepid bath; and when from the contrary cause, he advises cooling things to be applied. According to Rhases, difficult parturition may arise from the mo- ther, the foetus, or the secundines. He appears to have considered all presentations unnatural except the head. In the other cases, he says, the life of the mother or child is endangered, although, he adds, many living children are born by the feet. When de- livery of the head is found difficult, he recommends ligatures or fillets. When the feet or hands present, he directs us to restore the position, or if that is impossible, to bring down the