[book I. 12 PRURITUS. Emetics and demulcents, such as gum arabic and liquorice, are the remedies recommended by Avicenna. (i, 3, 1.) Haly Abbas approves of lohochs, containing almonds, honey, &c. (Pract. i, 20.) Alsaharavius recommends various demul- cents, and an electuary containing poppy-seed, tragacanth, and the seeds of citrons, to be taken in a decoction of Sebesten plums. He also directs us to produce vomiting, by making the patient swallow copious draughts of honied water. (Tr. xxvi, 24.) Rhases recommends nearly the same remedies. (De Morbis Infant, c. 18.) This would appear to be the most proper place for giving from Aetius some account of two affections of infancy, which our au- thor has omitted to describe. He says, when children have been fed on improper food, or when, from any other cause, their sto- machs become loaded with phlegm, they are troubled with snort- ing ; and in that case he recommends a linctus of linseed, ho- ney, &c.; or if the affection be obstinate, to make them vomit by pressing down the tongue with a finger smeared with oil. (iv, 7.) When an infant has lost its voice, which, he says, arises com- monly from constipation, he recommends the juice of cabbage, either by the mouth or in a lavement; or a suppository into the anus, (iv, 8.) SECT. VIII. ON PRURITUS. If the child be troubled with pruritus, use fomentations, and anoint with plenty of refined oil, in which a little wax has been melted. Comm. Commentary. See Galen (Hyg. v); Oribasius (Synops. v, 8); v ' Avicenna (i, 3,1); Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 20); Pvhases (de Morb. Infant, c. 19) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. xxvi, 25.) The account given by Oribasius is similar to our author's. (Synops. v, 8.) Alsaharavius properly recommends attention to correct the acrimony of the nurse's milk; to wash the child with decoctions of roses, myrtle leaves, and the like; if the pustules are of a dry nature, to rub them with oil of sesame or of violets; and, if humid, with an ointment made of wax, litharge, and rose-oil.