THE MENSES. [book hi. G10 cular affection of the uterus itself, from local coldness, or a blow, or a congenital intemperament, or from some sustained injury, for the most part from abortions, or from a primaiy affection of some of the more important organs, such as the liver, belly, and chest, or from some such part labouring under a chronic affection. When suppressed, it becomes the cause of many and protracted complaints. If, therefore, the discharge be suppressed or delayed, owing to a primary affection of any of the internal parts, we must first direct our particular attention to the cure of the part originally affected, and afterwards think of the uterus. The symptoms of these we have already mentioned. When none of them therefore is present, it is clear that the uterus is the original seat of the complaint; and when neither the age, habit, nor any other thing prevents, we must have recourse to venesection, yet not before the regular period of menstruation, but ten days after it is past. The quantity to be taken must not be more than two pounds and a half, nor less than one; and whether we bleed or not, we must purge with the hiera of colocynth, giving it to the amount of two drachms, in six heminse of honied water. But when fever is present, it is not expedient to purge with hiera, but it will be advisable to open a vein during the first days of the fever. After the purging, we must give recruiting things for a few days, and afterwards recommend exercise by walking, friction of the lower extremities, and the bath. The most proper food will be that which is of easy digestion and humid, such as all sweet pot-herbs, and fishes taken from among rocks, the more tender parts of fowls, milk, honied cakes, thin white wine not very old; flesh and pulse, except ptisan, are improper. When the accustomed period is at hand, give of sea-fishes the cartilagi- nous, and the mollusca, as they are called, and the testacea, and headed leeks (porrum capitatum), boiled with rue and pepper; and let the woman drink the decoction of them, and apply liga- tures to the lower extremities for three or four days. When the expected period is at hand, the ligatures are to be removed, and she is to take beforehand fragrant draughts of myrrh, to the amount of an obolus, or the size of a bean; or of castor with must, or with honied water; or the decoction of mugwort; or of sage after the bath in must, and in that of wormwood. The wine of wormwood should be drunk as a propoma during the whole time of treatment. When the period has gone past, and no