SECT. XLV.J 555 THE KIDNEYS. apply the cautery; but here unfortunately the text is incom- Comm. plete. This account is so full and judicious that we think it unne- cessary to give extracts from any more of the Greek and Latin authorities. From the Arabians little or no additional information is to be derived. Haly Abbas recommends bleeding by opening the basilic vein, and then cataplasms of barley-flour, &c. He then gives a cooling draught containing the seeds of cucumbers, gourds, melons with purslain, mallows, and the syrup of violets. This part of his practice deserves consideration. When the ab- scess forms he directs us to apply cataplasms containing chamo- mile, fenugreek, melilot, &c. Alsaharavius, in like manner, recommends bleeding, cooling and demulcent draughts, the tepid bath, and discutient cataplasms. The same plan of treatment is fully laid down by Tthases. When pus is discharged from the bladder, owing to ulceration of it, he directs us to give astringent injections prepared from galls, sumach, purslain, pomegranate leaves, &c. On hemowhage of the kidneys. Our author's treatment is so fully stated that it will be unnecessary to multiply extracts from the others. It is mostly condensed from Aetius. (xi, 27.) The latter makes mention oi* injecting into the bladder some astringent infusion bv means of an instrument like a catheter, having a bladder attached to one extremity. When the coagu- lated blood (and the urine generally does coagulate it) cannot be got otherwise discharged, he recommends, like our author, an incision to be made in the perinseum. Crelius Aurelianus also recommends injecting into the blad- der some astringent infusion, such as that of hypocistis, knot- grass fee. In the case of women astringent pessaries may be used. * Avicenna recommends us to inject the rennet of a hare. Halv Abbas directs us to bleed by opening the basihe vein, and then to give draughts containing various vegetable astringents, such as wild pomegranate flowers, cucumbers, and purslain, with alum Cyprian earth, &c. According to Rhases, the discharge of blood by urine is often connected with disease of the liver The veterinary surgeon Vegetius ascribes the bloody water of cattle to general plethora. This is a very plausible hypothesis.