[book III. GOUT. CC2 not continuing long with the same application when it does not afford relief. These things we see every day occur in profes- sional matters. And often a certain remedy proves beneficial to one joint, while another joint of the same patient similarly inflamed is not only not benefited at the same time, but occa- sionally is even injured by it. And this is a wonderful circum- stance, that one and the same joint, when treated with the same remedy, is sometimes benefited, and soon afterwards exaspe- rated. When a viscid and thick matter prevails, it is not per- haps relieved by calefacients, but the acrid and hot quality of the humour prevailing is to be soothed by frigorific remedies; nor is it at all wonderful that a matter naturally cold, in the time of the inflammation, should become heated and glowing, to say nothing of the admixture perhaps of bile. The flour of lupines with oxymel or oxycrate, or the root of laserwort, or of bryony, with bread, prevent the formation of tophi. And the following composition is safely soothing and moderately discu- tient: Of lycium, oz. j ; of ammoniac perfume, oz. j ; having triturated with very old wine and oil of unripe olives, boil, and add of the flour of beans, q. s.; and having boiled moderately, apply as a cataplasm. After the acme of the complaint, if a swelling be left, apply a cataplasm with the bulbi by themselves, or with fine polenta, until it produce excoriation; for in this manner they act. When not relieved by the cataplasms, Ave may have recourse to embrocations and affusions on the parts (more particularly if the extremities be affected), with chamo- J mile, melilot, or centaury in decoctions. The preparation of j capers has entirely relieved some. The following is the most active of all the applications : Having boiled thyme, marjoram, savory, and calamint in the most acrid vinegar, bathe the parts j affected with the vinegar, not only once, but often in a day, with confidence. This has relieved many when suffering not only from phlegm but also from bile. Some observe this practice also : The acorns of the ilex being I powdered, are pounded and much boiled, and the joints of the extremities at the commencement of the rheumatism are fo- J mented for a considerable time with the decoction, but it is j poured from a sponge upon the inner parts; whereby the vio-| lence of the offending matter is repelled. It also is applicable to bilious cases; and, in like manner, immersion in hot water