THE NAILS. 680 [book nr. sordes of the ears and lycium are also good for whitlows. When it suppurates, having opened it and evacuated the fluid, soak a sponge in water, and apply; or apply a cataplasm of lentils pounded with water j or palm-plaster with wine; or green or dried roses macerated in water, and pounded; or dried barley- flour with water. The flour of lupines mixed with honey, or wine and honey is good for whitlow. For ulcerated whitlows : Of ver- digris, of litharge, of each, dr. iv; of sarcocolla, dr. iv; sprinkle of it what is sufficient, and apply externally a tent and sponge out of wine. And the flesh must be separated from the nail all around. On pterygia. Pterygium is fungous flesh covering part of the nail, being caused by whitlow or the like; for which, sprinkle equal parts of arsenic and manna, and apply a tent out of wine and a sponge above it.—Another : Of chalcitis, of the flakes of copper, of pomegranate-rind, equal parts; add to a roasted fig and honey, first bathing the part with the decoction of the thick- ening matters put into ointments; and clean away the part of the pterygium when dried up. For pterygia of the toes in a putrid state, and for ulcers of the pudendum. Of frankincense, dr. j ; of the scales of copper, dr. j ; of scraped verdigris called xyston, dr. iv; of honey, one cyathus; triturate in the sun until it become yellowish, and use upon a compress, having first bathed with wine. A composition for quickly drying and curing pterygia. Of burnt sori, dr. ij; of frankincense, dr. ij ; of verdigris called xyston, dr. j : having triturated with hone}r, apply to the pterygia. It is useful for the other malignant ulcers, and for lividity, and putridity of these parts.—Another: Add the flakes of copper to the flesh of dates, or of figs, and use.—Another: Having boiled and triturated pigeons' dung in must with fine polenta, apply warm. And the flakes sprinkled by themselves dry up pterygia, We must always raise and remove with a scalpel the corner of the nail when it increases so as to hurt the pterygium. For bruised nails. Apply a cataplasm of myrtle and the ten- der leaves of pomegranate. For bloody nails. Mix fine flour with pitch, and apply. To remove diseased nails. Add triturated sulphur to axunge, and apply. How to remove leprous nails. Of mistletoe of the oak, of red