372 [book III. CARUS. SECT. XI.- ON THE LOSS OF MEMORY AND OF REASON ; ON CARUS AND FATUITY. The loss of memory sometimes occurs by itself, and sometimes along with impairment of the reason, as an impairment of the reason sometimes happens first by itself, and is then followed by that of the memory. When both suffer, the affection called fatuity is formed. These complaints have for a cause the ex- citing intemperament; but, if it is humid only, it will occasion impairment of the memory and reason, torpidity, drowsiness, long and deep sleep; but if complicated with coldness, it will produce cams and lethargy. In like manner, dryness alone brings on watchfulness, but when joined with heat, delirium and frenzy. These intemperaments are seated sometimes in the fluids, sometimes in the cavities of the brain, or in its vessels; or in the chyle diffused over the system, or in the substance of the brain; or else the temporal muscles may be affected. If the humours are mixed together, they will produce this affec- tion. Whether the exciting intemperament be simple or com- pound may be learned from the appearance of the excretions. That the loss of memory and of reason springs from cold we readily ascertain; but whether it be accompanied with humidity or dryness, we judge of from the discharges, the habit and tem- perament of the patient, his mode of life, the season, and the country. TJie cure. If the intemperament be cold, we must warm, but if accompanied with humidity, Ave must also dry; but if with dryness, we must, at the same time, moisten and warm. In like manner, when the intemperament is warm, we must cool; but if dryness also prevail, we must likewise moisten; or if humidity, we must both cool and dry. Where we find a san- guineous humour prevailing, we must bleed or use acrid clysters, then give hiera, and use masticatories; anoint the head, by mixing with oil things of a cooling and desiccative nature, we mean roses, myrtles, lentisk, and the like; and we must attend to the general system. But, if it proceed from an over-heat and fatigue, we must apply to the head the embrocation of vinegar and rose-oil; and otherwise use a cooling and moisten- ing regimen in all respects, and with regard to food and drink.