523 TENESMUS. SECT. XLI.] roses, pomegranate-flowers, &c. the food to consist principally of c millet and the like. He also recommends a mixture of goat's milk and water boiled until the water evaporate. When the stomach is loaded he prescribes an emetic. In celiac affection he directs us to strengthen the intestines by astringents internally and externally. Haly Abbas defines lieniery to be a quick dis- charge of the food in an unchanged state. It arises, he adds, from immoderate debility of the retentive faculty of the intes- tines, or from excess of the expulsive. It is said to be generally caused by ulcers which, being irritated by the food, stimulate the intestines to expel it. He recommends a variety of remedies, most of which are either astringents or acids, such as balaustine, rind of acorns, mastich, sumach, galls, roses, &c. SECT. XLI. ON TENESMUS. Tenesmus is sometimes the precursor of dysentery, but often it prevails alone for a short time, and then ceases. The affec- tion is an irresistible desire of evacuation, discharging nothing but some bloody or mucous matter, which is the cause of the whole complaint, being an cedematous inflammation in the rec- tum, which creates the impression of faeces lodged in the intes- tine, and a desire of evacuation. And Galen relates*that a stone has sometimes been discharged by the anus in attacks of tenes- mus. But tenesmus often arises in consequence of fseces being retained in the small intestines, and is increased by astringents and obstruents, but immediately removed by acrid injections, such as honied-water with salts, or by any of the emollients taken by the mouth, such as damascenes, dried figs, the herb mercury, or the whey of milk; for when the feces are evacu- ated, the complaint immediately ceases. When the tenesmus occurs without such a cause, it will be proper to allay the in- flammation by barley-flour heated, the embrocations from wine, myrtle-oil, rose-oil, or the oil of unripe olives, applied to the loins and lower belly. The mucous matters shut up in the rectum must be cleared away by an injection of honied water. And salt and water when injected often effects the purpose, or six drachms of salts in a hemina of hot water. But we must mitigate the pain and intense sufferings by sitting in a hip-bath