318 FEVERS. [book it. Comm. sophical doctrines of the ancients on this subject. He remarks that there are three distinct species of thirst. The first is oc- casioned by the fauces and Oesophagus being drier or hotter than natural. This state, if it supervene upon sleep, is to be cured by watchfulness, or vice versa. In the second, the veins over the whole body are filled with hot and acrid humours. In the third, the mouth of the stomach, lungs, or heart are preter- naturallyhot or dry. (Marc. Pnelect. 315.) SECT. LIV. ON THE ROUGHNESS OF THE TONGUE. We may moisten asperity of the tongue, by making the pa- tients retain in the mouth a decoction of linseed. But it will be more efficacious if sebesten plums be boiled with the lin- seed. Having immersed the finger in this liquor, and rubbed the tongue with it, let them rinse the mouth with clear water, or let them clean it with a sponge, and then anoint it with rose oil. And the oil of roses mixed with honey also answers well. Likewise the juice of the purslain retained in the mouth, and the sumach used for condiments, when mixed with honied water, have a good effect. Damascenes, also, and the bones of the sebesten plum retained in the mouth, and rolled on the tongue, and the stem of the lettuce, answer well. Archigenes says, that the Indian salt, which, in colour and consistence is like the common salt, but which resembles honey in taste, when chewed to the size of a lentil, or, at most, of a bean, moistens greatly. They should lie upon the side (for lying upon the back dries greatly), and they ought to keep the mouth shut, because keeping it open allows the moisture to dry up. Sneezing properly produced, moistens the tongue more effectually than any other means. Comm. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. (Sy- y ' nops. vi, 43.) Aetius recommends nearly the same treatment. He also states, that when the roughness of the tongue is difficult to re- move, it may sometimes be accomplished by rubbing it with the fat of fowls or with fresh butter, (v, 118.) Cselius Aurelianus directs the tongue to be cleaned with a