SECT. XXIV.] DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 447 The sarcoma is a substance of the same kind; but ozama is a putrid ulcer formed by a defluxion of acrid humours. For polypus and sarcoma. Of the flakes of copper, dr. viij; of copperas, dr. vj; of sandarach, dr. iv; of black hellebore, dr. ij. Blow in, and use confidently, as being an excellent remedy; for in thirteen days it will prove of manifest service. Copperas alone with vinegar is of use.—Another : Of the rind of pomegranate, dr. xij ; of copperas, dr. x; of chalcitis, dr. viij ; of bull's gall, of amomum, of myrrh, of calamint, of horehound, of each, dr. iv; of sait'ron, dr. ij ; of white hellebore, dr. iv. Use in a powder.— Another : Touch with levigated diphryges (husk of brass ?), and distend the nostrils with the pledget from lamp-wicks. For oztfna. Of misy, chalcitis, and myrrh, of each, dr. vij; of copperas, dr. vj; of fissile alum, of galls, and of the flakes of copper, of each, dr. iv j of round alum, dr. ij; of frankincense, dr. j; of vinegar, one sextarius. Boil the whole in a vessel of copper, and when of the consistence of honey, use upon tents.—Another: Of verdigris and flakes of copper, equal parts. Use in a dry state. For fetid smells of the nose. Of myrrh, of acacia, and of amomum, of each, dr. j ; mix with boiled honey, and direct that it be glued to the extremity of the septum narium.—Another: Of amomum, of myrrh, of dried roses, equal parts; mix with nard ointment, and anoint with it. The malagma of hedy- chroum with wine produces the same effects. For ulcers in the nose. Of whitelead, lb. j ; of litharge, oz. iij; or of the dross of lead, oz. iij; of burnt lead, (see that all be washed); mix with wine and myrtle oil. For those ulcers called sweet. Of litharge, dr. iv; of fresh rue, dr. iv; of fissile alum, dr. ij ; mix with myrtle oil and vinegar. Sternutatories. White hellebore, castor, pepper, fuller's herb, either alone or together. They must not be blown in, but ap- plied with a feather or the end of a finger to the innermost pari s of the nose. If the sneezing continue too long from the use of the medicine, it may be appeased by injecting into the nos- trils some nard, or rose-oil, or sweet oil. Sweet-scented things, likewise, appease sneezing, as anise, and the pounded chaff of basil. In all these cases the head must be dried by detergent ointments (smegmata) of nitre and pumice-stone, or we may use that which is called ^Esculapium, and the soap of Constantine, the Cappadocian salts, and the like.