SYNCOPE. SECT. XXXIX.] 293 rent of air may reach him. Light food is to be frequently Comm. administered, and also, if necessary, wine neither too strong nor too weak, which may be given with barley-meal, if the patient lias not taken other food. If he cannot take food, he is to be first treated with the affusion of cold water; and if his stomach have lost its tone, he is to be allowed to vomit before taking food. If the stomach still reject the food, he is first to take a cupful of wine, which is to be repeated after an hour, and then the whole body is to be anointed with pounded bulbi (onions?), which will have the effect of making the stomach retain the wine, and thereby heat will be restored to the whole body and strength to the veins. As a last resource, he recommends an injection of ptisan or gruel. Fragrant things may also be applied to the nose, such as roses and wine; and if the extre- mities be cold, they are to be chafed with hot hands smeared with oil. If the violence of the sweating be thus checked, and life prolonged, the time thus gained will be of some assistance. Means are afterwards to be taken to prevent a relapse, (iii, 19.) Cajlius, the Methodist, treats so fully of the cardiac passion, that we feel at a loss how to give a competent outline of it within our limits. The followers of Asclepiades, he says, held it to be a swelling about the heart, connected with congestion; but, according to Soranus, the great master of the Methodists, the heart is not primarily affected; and he holds it to be an acute and sudden prostration, by which the distribution of particles »ver the passages of the body is stopped. The causes of it are many; such as protracted indigestion, intoxication, baths after food, vomiting after supper, and depressing passions, by which the body is dissolved into sweats. It takes place most fre- quently, he says, in continual, ardent, and inflammatory fevers on the sixth day. His description is too lengthy to find a place here. Suffice it to say that when the affection is at its height, the pulse is small, tremulous, and creeping; there is a profuse, viscid, and foetid sweat over the chest, face, and perhaps the whole body, with failing respiration, pallid countenance, hollow eyes, and so forth. Some of the preceding authorities, such as Asclepiades and Themison, held that it was generally, but not always attended with fever; and with them he pretty nearly agrees. As we have already hinted, he is not disposed to admit that it is a primary affection of the heart, but rather