SECT. LXXXVI.] MILK. 153 This is going farther than he was justified by his authority. Co* lie remarks that the milk of cows gives the most cheese. (Hist. ^ Nat. xi, 41.) v Dioscorides calls milk nutritious, laxative and flatulent. His account of its properties is interesting, (ii, 74.) All the Greek authorities subsequent to Galen evidently copy irom him. Seth says that the longer milk is kept the worse it becomes. When properly digested, he adds, it moistens the body, induces soundness thereof, and is useful in complaints of the chest. According to Haly Abbas, the milk of cows is the thickest of all, and the most nutritious j that of camels the thinnest, and the least nutritious; goat's milk is intermediate between them; the milk of sheep, intermediate between that of cows and goats \ and the milk of asses, between that of goats and of camels! (Theor. v, 2G.) Rhascs enumerates them in a considerably different order; he says that the milk of cows is the thickest, and that of asses the thinnest, while that of goats is intermediate! (Ad Mansor. iii, 15.) Averrhoes calls the milk of asses and of goats the best. See also Serapion (ex Animalibus, 457) • and Avicenna (ii, 2, 434.) The following remarks of Macrobius seem to us very acute and pertinent; and, if well founded, they ought to operate as a powerful consideration to every healthy mother to suckle her own offspring: " Quamobrem non frustra creditum est, sicut valeat ad fingendas corporis et animi similitudines vis et natura seminis, non secus ad eandem rem lactis quoque ingenia et pro- prietatea valere. Neque in hominibus id solum, sed in pecudibus quoque animadversum. Nam si ovium lacte hjedi, aut caprarum agni forsitan alantur: constat fermc in his lanam duriorem in illis pilum gigni teneriorem." (Saturn, v, 11.) The Galactophagi, a Scythian nation who lived principally upon mare's milk, are made mention of by Homer (Iliad, xiii) and by Stobseus (Sermo, v.) Eustathius says that they'made much use of a preparation from milk, called oxygala. (Ad Iliad, u. s.) Aristotle calls butter the fat of milk, which has concreted to the consistence of oil. (Hist. Animal.) Hecatacus, in Athenseus calls it the oil of milk. (Deipnos. x.) Dioscorides says that it is used for condiments instead of oil, and in confectionary in- stead of suet.