sect, xiv.] MELANCHOLY, ETC. 385 The diet for all melancholies should be wholesome, and mode- rately moistening; abstaining from beef, roe's flesh, dried lentil, cabbages, snails, thick and dark-coloured wines, and, in a word, from whatever things engender black bile. The cure of mania. Persons affected with mania are to be treated like melancholies; and, in particular, we must apply to the head rose-oil, or rose-oil with vinegar, and purge with the bitter antidote called hiera, having previously bled them; and we must use leeches to the head. But nothing is of such service as horse-fennel, either the root or seed drunk in water. A drachm of the root of bryony with water may be taken every day. If the maniacs will not be persuaded to take the purgative medi- cines, they must be mixed with their food, in a concealed man- ner, such as with mouthfuls of meat, or dried figs, or dates, or else with their drink. But, above all things, they must be se- cured in bed, so that they may not be able to injure themselves, or those who approach them; or swung within a wicker-basket in a small couch suspended from on high. Commentary. Consult Hippocrates (Aphor.); Galen (Com- Comm. ment. in Aphor., de Morb. Vulg.); Celsus (iii, 18); Aretaius (de Morb. Chron. i, 6, and de Curat. Morb. i, 5); Aetius (vi, 8) ; Nonnus (32); Oribasius (Synops. viii, 17); Alexander (i, 16); Actuarius (de Dig. Morb. ii, 34); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2, 5) ; Mesue (de ^Egr. Cap. 34); Serapion (i, 22); Avicenna (iii, 1, 4); Avenzoar (i, 9, 16); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 7; Pract. v, 23); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 27); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 13; Contin. 1). Hippocrates, in his Aphorisms, points out the lower intestines as the seat of melancholy, and directs us to cure the complaint by purging. Galen, in his Commentary, agrees with his principles and practice. Galen states correctly that melancholy sometimes changes to epilepsy, and vice versa, that epilepsy is often suc- ceeded by melancholy. (De Loc. Aff. iii, 10.) He gives a curious extract from the works of Diocles, with remarks upon the same. Aretaeus considers melancholy as an incipient mania. He gives a masterly sketch of the different modes in which mania makes its attack, and relates an interesting case of a joiner, who was perfectly sound while engaged at his work, but no sooner left the place where he was occupied than he became 25