[book hi. AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. 458 The juice of the liquorice root enveloped in honey also answers well. The swelling may be repressed by the following substances: blood-stone, the Phrygian stone burnt, agerat, the compositiou from Phrygian stone used for complaints of the pudenda; also Samian earth, Eretrian, Sinopic reddle, the Lemnian earth, the oil of unripe olives by itself, or with some of these j and the fruit of the Egyptian thorn, and fissile alum. The seed and leaves of roses act more mildly, but still more so gum tragacanth, sarcocolla, and starch, which we must use, if pained when repressed by astringents. When the swelling is of equal thickness through- out, in which case we call the disease columella, we must trust to the gargles prepared from myrrh, saffron, and cyperus, and avoid all pressure, and rather anoint with a feather. The fol- lowing composition answers well : Of Syrian sumach, dr. viij ; of saffron, dr. iv; of costus, dr. viij; of rose-seed dr. iv. It may also be applied to the gums. But a thread of a sea-purple colour which has been bound round the neck of a viper, and strangled her, has wonderful effects as an amulet in relieving affections of the tonsils and neck, as Galen testifies. For hemorrhages from the mouth. Apply the pounded leaves of leeks ; or, dip a new piece of sponge in raw pitch, burn, pul- verize, and use. It is also beneficial to rinse the mouth with a cold decoction of green or dried roses, that of vine , tendrils, or of the leaves of lentisk, or of bramble, or of quinces, or of roses, or of grape-stones, or of lentils. Commentary. All the authors referred to in the twenty- third section may be consulted. On the teeth. Galen, in particular, deserves to be consulted on diseases of the teeth, which he has treated of very fully in the fifth book of his work ' De Med. sec. loc/ He very pro- perly combats the opinion, which we still sometimes hear main- tained, that the teeth themselves are devoid of sensibility. He states that, once having toothach, he felt his tooth not only painful but throbbing. One of the best of our modern writers on the teeth, Eustachius, justly remarks that the teeth have a nerve of considerable magnitude distributed upon them, and arc in fact possessed of exquisite sensibility. When the teeth ach, Galen says the strongest medicines are indicated, in order to repel and discuss the exciting cause. Most of these are to be pre-