THE HAIR. CBOOK 111 • 338 burn the root of the club-rush, or the rind of the bitter almond, and rub them in with oil or bears' grease. These are moderate remedies. But stronger applications may be prepared from euphorbium, thapsia, and adarce, pounded with oil of bays, or liquid pitch.—Another : Having burnt the shells of sea-urchins, mix them with bears' grease, and anoint with them, having first cleansed the part with nitre.—Another: Of pepper, of dried sheep's dung, of hedge mustard, of rocket seeds, of each dr. iv ; of white hellebore, dr. iij ; of mouse-dung, dr. j add to the gall of a bull, of a goat, or of a hog.—Another tried remedy for alopecia : Of the root of mandragora, of birthwort, of the root of wake-robin, of wax, of liquid pitch, oz. viij ; of swine's seam not salted, of the heart or inner part of the herb nerium a little : boil the seam and the nerium until the herb be softened; then strain and throw away the herb, and add to the axunge the other ingredients, and boil. Add the wax and the liquid pitch, and use boldly in the sun. When the ulcers are cicatrized, burn the head of a fox, take alcyonium, the leaves of the black alka- net, and, having pounded all together, sprinkle upon the oint- ment, in order to promote the growth of the hair.—Another : Of a mouse's head burnt, one part; of the shells of the sea- urchin, one part; boil in a pot with swine's seam, and use. They may also be sprinkled in powder. A medicament from Thapsia, for all chronic affections. Of euphorbium, of thapsia, of bay-berries, of each, oz. jj of native sulphur, oz. ss.; of hellebore, oz. ss ; of wax, oz. viij ; of oil of bays, or old castor oil, q. s. When stronger applications are required, add of cardamom, oz. j ; of burnt alcyonium, oz. j ; and it will be applicable not only for alopecia, but for all cases of chronic coldness. But in every case of alopecia have recourse in the first place to the process of cleansing with nitre, then friction, and frequent shaving. I have seen many have their hah' reproduced by friction alone, and frequent shaving. For baldness, and to promote the growth of the hair, from Crito. Take the dried stomachs of five hares, roast carefully in an earthen vessel, add to them the third part of myrtle tops, of the fruit of acacia, of the juice of acacia, of sweetbriar, an equal part, of maiden hair, oz. iij; pound all these things to- gether, and sift through a small sieve. Then adding of bears' grease, lb. iv, of that of a seal the same quantity, pound and