sect, xxii.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. 431 accuracy. He recommends various escharotic applications con- taming chalcitis, misy, and the like, which, when properly ma- naged, may probably have answered the purpose equally well with the antimonium muriatum and argentum nitratum used by Scarpa and other modern oculists. Avicenna treats of the complaint like the Greeks. Some of his compositions contain antimony with ceruse, burnt lead, and the like. Haly Abbas describes the disease minutely in nearly the same terms, and recommends nearly the same remedies as our author, namely, such as are of a repressing nature. He properly remarks that it is one of the consequences of ulceration of the cornea. Alsaharavius gives a similar account, and recommends general depletion. On hypopyon. Aetius gives much more judicious directions for the treatment of this complaint than our author. He pro- perly recommends general bloodletting at the commencement, and afterwards local, by means of leeches and cupping instru- ments; and then emollient, paregoric, and discutient applica- tions to the eye. Galen (Meth. Med.) makes mention of an oculist in his time who efiected wonderful cures in this com- plaint by shaking the patient's head. When this does not suc- ceed, Galen directs us to perforate the coats of the eye, and let out the matter. (See Book Sixth.) Scarpa does not approve of this practice, unless the collection of matter be considerable. However, Plempius and most of the earlier modern authorities in surgery decidedly recommend it. Haly Abbas recommends a discutient cataplasm containing opopanax, ammoniac, and fenugreek. Alsaharavius properly directs bleeding and masti- catories at the commencement. On leucoma. Aetius directs his attention principally to the general treatment, and properly cautions against the use of strongly stimulant applications, as they only increase the evil. He allows afterwards moderately detergent ones, containing verdigris, burnt copper, squama aeris, flos seris, sal ammoniac, and the like. His compositions are taken for the most part from Galen's works (de Med. sec. loc. iv.) Aetius disapproves of applications for changing the colour of the leucoma. Alexander recommends the detergent applications mentioned by our author. Nonnus copies from him. Haly Abbas describes it by the name of albedo oculi, and recommends nearly the same remedies as