[book III. 402 SPASMS. charges from the bowels, hemorrhages, watchfulness, hunger, or much and violent exercise, they proceed from depletion. If they suddenly attack a person in health, they must necessarily pro- ceed from plethora. But when from ardent fevers the nerves and whole body are dried, and then spasms come on owing to the dryness, this is one of the worst possible cases, and is almost incurable. Wherefore, we must, in the first place, bind gently the limbs which are contracted, and resist their inordinate mo- tions, and rub them with oil of rue, Sicyonian or old oil, or the like; and the patients must take propomata of honied water. In convulsions from depletion, warm oil, or oil and water, are to be poured upon the patients, and if nothing contra-indicate, they may be put into a bath. We may use a tepid hip-bath with oil, and the gentlest friction. For food, they must take spoon-meats of chondrus and alica; and we may allow them a thin watery wine of easy diffusion if they have no fever. Then we must use the juice of ptisan and promote sleep. Spasms occasioned by plethora or inflammation, we may cure by dimi- nishing the fulness, and removing the inflammation by suitable remedies. Spasms come on also during the agitations of violent vomitings, which cases are benefited by drinking infusions of the root of cotton-thistle, or of the white thorn, or of the Egyptian thorn; but some give the juice of the slender centaury to drink when the convulsions arise from plethora; and one should not only drink it, but rub the skin externally with castor and Sicy- onian oil. If they do not cease, cupping-instruments, with scarifications, should be applied; when the legs are affected, along the ischium and the last vertebra; and when the arms are convulsed, to the back, to its first vertebra, and the one above the shoulder. When the rest of the body is not affected, but one of the lips, eyebrows, or tongue, is contracted, the symptom is to be reckoned dangerous and alarming, although the parts affected be but small in size. Wherefore you must abstract blood from the hind-head, and from over the first vertebrse. | Comm. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Aphor. v, 70); Galen ' (Comment.; de Loc. Aff. iii; Meth. Med. xii) ; Celsus (ii, 1) ; Cselius Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. iii, 6) • Aretreus (de Morb. Acut. i, 6); Leo (ii, 17); Nonnus (38); Octavius Horatianus