SECT. XVI.] PUTRID 235 drinking too much wine, or from apostcme of the groin, arm- Comm. pits, or neck. His expositor Syrasis particularly commends the tepid affusion in ephemcrals. Rhases joins in enforcing the same practice as Avicenna. He gives a most comprehensive account of the causes of these fevers. Like all the other au- thorities, he decidedly inculcates this important fact, that, al- though ephemeral fever be in itself neither serious nor fatal, it may be converted into a vehement and acute fever, when any error is committed in the regimen or method of cine. Constriction, he says, may take place, either in the pores of the skin, or in the internal parts, and is generally occasioned by cold or astringents. This is one of the causes of fever. The others are, immoderate exercise, the application of heat, food of a heating nature, and putridity. According to Prosper Alpinus, the Methodists held that the proximate cause of fever is constriction. Galen, as we have stated, held this to be one of the causes, but not the sole one. The Methodists, like our Cullen and Hoffman, seem to have generalized too much. Their most approved remedies were the warm bath and friction with emollient oils. (De Med. Method, v.) The earlier modern writers on medicine give the same ac- count of ephemcrals as their ancient masters, whose views in all cases they servilely adopt. See Rogerius (Tract, iii), and Platearius (de Febribus.) Rogerius correctly remarks, that ephemeral fever, from enlargement of the glands, is merely symptomatic. The causes of ephemerals, as enumerated by him, are exposure to extremes of heat and cold, food and drink of a heating nature, strong exercise, violent passions of the mind, and the like. Platearius remarks that if an ephe- meral be prolonged beyond the third or fourth day, it is apt to be converted into a putrid fever. SECT. XVII. ON DIAGNOSIS OF FEVERS FROM PUTREFACTION. The diagnosis of fevers from putrefaction is formed from ob- serving that none of the procatarctic or exciting causes had preceded; and it is peculiar to fevers from putrefaction, that they do not commence with rigors, and have not been preceded