sect, xlviii.] SUDORIFICS. Gl the Materia Medica. Perhaps, however, there is some foimda- Comm. turn for the doctrine of the ancients, that all hot diuretic medi- ernes are in so far emmenagogue. Prosper Alpinus maintains this opinion, but remarks that the action of the emmenagogues is mure uncertain than that of the diuretics, and must be as- sisted by warm baths, pessaries, and fomentations. We shall have occasion to treat more fully of these medicines in the Third Book. SECT. XLVIII. ON SUDORIFICS. The following medicines arc sudorifics : The dried powder of chamomile, sprinkled upon oil, and rubbed briskly upon the skin, seseli, pellitory, the seed of the rosemary, anise; and in like manner, when sprinkled upon oil; nitre toasted, and not very fine, with oil; the flower of salt mixed with oil; Cyrenaic juice diluted with water, which may be rubbed into the body, and taken in a draught, to the amount of a chick-pea. Cala- mint, in like manner, when drunk with honied water, and rubbed externally with oil. Commentary. This Section is mostly copied from Oribasius. Comm. (Synops. i, 23.) Ae'tius enumerates a good many more medicines 1—"—' of this class. Of these some are to be taken by the mouth, as cumin, bay berries, Cyrenaic juice, castor, and lovage; some are to be rubbed into the skin, as nitre with common oil, the oil of dill, of chamomile, of bays, and of radishes; and some are to be used in fumigations, as pennyroyal, the seed of balsam, and so forth. He recommends these medicines in jaundice, and for coldness and constriction of the skin, (iii, 157.) Celsus treats of the methods for producing free perspiration with more than his usual minuteness. Sweating, he savs, may be produced either by dry heat or by baths. The modes of applying dry heat, which he mentions, are by heated sand, the laconicum or sweating apartment of theancient bath (seeSect, li), the clibanus or moveable furnace, and the vapour-baths of Baia?. To these he adds strong exercise. He also treats minutely of the application of baths and fomentations for the cure of diseases, (ii, 17.) Consult Stobasus (100.)