sect, xlii.] VOMITING. 53 bile, and when the stomach is loaded with viscid matters, but Com forbids it when the stomach is weak. The opinions of Celsus ^ are very similar : « Vomitus ut in secunda quoque valetudine scepe necessarius biliosis est, sic etiam in iis morbis quos bilis concitavit. Vomitus utilior est hieme quam sestate j nam turn est pituitae plus, et capitis gra vitas major subest. Inutilis est gracilibus et imbecillum stomachum habentibus : utilis est plenis et biliosis omnibus si vel nimium se replerunt, vel parum con- coxerunt." The directions given by Celsus for producing- vomit- ing are very simple : " Qui vomere post cibum volet, si ex facili facit, aquam tantum tepidam ante debet assumere : si difficilius, aquae, vel salis, vel mellis paulum adjicere. At qui mane vomiturns est, ante bibere mulsum, vel hyssopum, aut esse radi- culam debet, deinde aquam tepidam (ut supra scriptum est) bibere." Galen commends the bulb of the narcissus as an emetic. He forbids those who have contracted chests to take emetics frequently. (De Purgantibus Medicinis.) Aetras gives an interesting account of this subject in an ex- tract from the works of Ruffus. He forbids vomiting when the eyes are affected, or when haemoptysis is apprehended. He commends it for the cure of arthritic diseases, dropsy, and jaun- dice. One of his simplest emetics consists of the decoction of radishes, with the strained infusion of dried figs. He mentions the oil of privet as a most effectual emetic, (iii, 19.) Aviccnna's information on this subject is very ample; but, upon the whole, his directions are mostly the same as our author's. He properly states that the too frequent repetition of emetics hurts the stomach, is prejudicial to the chest, the sight, the teeth, in chronic pains of the head, unless arising from sympathy with the stomach : and in epilepsy, when the cause of it is seated in the head, (i, 4.) According to Avicenna and Averrhoes, the proper season for emetics is the summer. (Cant. I. 1.) Rhases says that much vomiting hurts the liver, breast, eyes, and lungs, occasioning haemoptysis. He directs the person to bind a compress on the forehead before taking an emetic; and to wash the mouth and face with hydromel after its operation. He adds that persons who have long necks, prominent chests, and who are lean, ought to abstain altogether from emetics. (Ad Mansor. iv, 16.)