228 FEVERS. [BOOK * d Galen, but is entirely silent respecting those of Theopmlu Comm. and Galen, bnt is and Actuarius. (u. a.) , . napter Besides the aneient authors referred to by us an th>chap e the works of the following writers de Unms exist in—errpt bnt have never been published: 1, Athenams,quotedby DuC^ge , n 1 r„iw <iRU) ■ 2 Constantinus Afncanus (in JJiDi. (ex Cod. Colbert, 3ol4), ^, ^o Maximus Csesarea); 3, Joannes Episcopus (CodL Keg. , , Planudes and Meletius Monaehus (Cod. Reg. 3175) 5 Nice phorus BlemmydestinBibl.C^area); 6, Anonymu , &c. (Cod. 3614 and" 4230, et in Bibl. &«-.); 7, ^repute, (m Bibb Corsliniana, 448.) See Fabricii (Bibl. Grac x^ 77901» treatise of Abiciauus, noticed by Fabncius, has been pubhshed by Ideler. It proves to be a mere compilation from the works of Avicenna. COMM SECT> xv. ON THE INDICATIONS FROM THE SPUTA. Snch as are somewhat yellow, golden, frothy, and thin, indi- cate only want of concoction, bnt nothing positively bad. Hut snch as are intensely yellow, golden, frothy, green, viscid, round and still more the black, are bad. For, with the exception of the blood, whatever of the other humours is unmixed indicates a bad diathesis, having its origin in an inflammatory heat, lhe bloody sputa are of an intermediate character, but those of yellow and black bile are unfavorable. The manner in which they are brought up ought also to be considered; for, if they are readilj spit up, it is clear that such are good, whereas the contrary art bad. It is an indication of complete concoction that the ex- pectoration is unctuous, white, and equable, and in consist- ence, neither fluid nor very thick; as it is of a complete failure of concoction that it is not spit up at all. If it is indeed spit up, but thin, it is a mark of feeble concoction. If it is of an unmixed yellow or golden colour, it is not good. But if it is livid, of a verdigris-green, or black, it is a most fatal symptom. Commentary. Galen has treated fully of this subject in his work (de Crisibus, ii, 10.) See also Hippocrates (Prognost. and Coacse), and Celsus (ii, 9.) Aetius is somewhat fuller than our