SECT. XXXVII.] THE STOMACH. 511 ointments; also such epithemcs as the Baium, the fragrant, and the like. They ought particularly to have recourse to exercises and friction. When dyspepsia and anorexia arise from a cold and liquid humour, or such an intemperament, the medicines com- posed from quinces will be applicable to them, I meau that called meloplacuntion, that from the juice of apples, and that from the flesh of them, and that which is prepared from the citron. Also the malagmata or emollient unguents, such as the Marciatum, that from the juice of the unripe grape, the Baium, Polyarchium, and such like. When there is an ulcer in the stomach or bowels, the patient must abstain from all acrid food and drink, and use remedies of a soothing nature, such as draughts without oil, and those from starch, Samian earth, Lemnian earth, and milk, or a small quantity of honey, so as to purge without griping. A con- venient epitheme is prepared from dates, the flour of quinces, and a cerate from quince-ointment, or rose-oil with ammoniac and frankincense; and also the epitheme of Nileus, the plaster from willows, and the Icesian may be used. You may know that an ideer exists by blood, pus, or the scabs of a sore being vomited up. For those xuhose stomachs are enervated and in a state of atony, and who, for that reason, do not digest their food, or vomit it up. Of aloes, of masucha, of mastich, of storax, of each, oz. ij; of wormwood, oz. iv; of the flowers of the wild vine, oz. iij ; of Gleucine oil, oz. vj ; of quince-ointment, oz. iij ; of wine, q. s. Some also add of cyphi and roses, of each, oz. ij. These things, being powdered, are received upon purple or wool, and applied to the stomach. But some, by adding of wax, oz. vj, make an epitheme of it. For iliac affections of the stomach, that is, strong and spas- modic pains. The trochisk of the Amazonians is the best me- dicine in this case. An account of it, and of the ingredients which enter into the composition of other compound remedies for the stomach, you will find in the last Book, where Compound Medicines are treated of. Commentary. See Aretseus (Morb. Chron. ii, 8); Cselius Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iii, 2); Celsus (iv, 5); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. vi) ; Oribasius (Synop. ix, 10); Aetius (ix, 1); Alexander (vii, 5); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 5); Octavius