sect, xvi.] EPHEMERAL. 233 Stepliaims, the commentator, accounts for the enlargement of the glands in fever, as being a collection of the impurities of the system in its weakest points. (Ed. Dietz, p. 244 and 256.) Nonmus enumerates nearly the same causes of these fevers as our author, whom he appears to have followed closely. He remarks, that ephemerals are sometimes protracted to the third or fourth day, from which it appears that the term is not to be taken in too strict a sense. Leo, also, expresses himself in like terms. Synesius treats of ephemeral fevers with great accuracy, so that we have reason to regret that the text of this author should be so corrupt. Like preceding authors, he enumerates, among the exciting causes, abscess of the glands of the groin, neck, and armpits, the heat of which, he says, being deter- mined to the heart, kindles a fever. In this case he recom- mends discutient and emollient applications, such as mallows, linseed, and the like. The account given by Constantinus Africanus is exactly similar to his. Actuarius mentions the same causes, and briefly recommends the same treatment as our author. Alexander Aphrodisiensis says expressly, that the ephemeral fever may pass into the putrid and the putrid into the hectic. (De Febribus, 28.) Haly Abbas gives a most distinct and accurate account of the phenomena of ephemeral fevers, according to the nature of their remote causes. The first class are produced by external causes, such as exposure to the heat of the sun, hot baths, or astringents which occasion constriction of the pores of the skin. He also inculcates that these causes may likewise give rise to synochous or putrid fevers. The second class are pro- duced by calefacient food and medicines. The third class are occasioned by immoderate exercise, or violent passions, such as anger, fear, and the like. The fourth are sympathetic affec- tions proceeding from inflammatory swellings of the glands. He remarks, that in certain kinds of fever the increase of heat is not felt upon the first application of the hand, owing to con- striction of the pores. (Theor. viii, 3.) His treatment merits attention. When the fever arises from a hot cause, he directs us to pour refrigerant liquids, such as vinegar, rose oil, and the like, upon the head, and to apply to the forehead a cloth