Comm. M4 FEVERS. 0°0K "• the fever The continual fever which has an exacerbation every ; day, possesses aU the other characteristics of a quotidian except thit it does not terminate in a perfect apyrexy In hke man- ner, the eontinnal fever which has an exacerbation eveiy fourth dav, bnt docs not terminate in a complete apyrexy, is allied to the quartan. A eontinnal fever, therefore, is one which does not terminate in any interval from fever until it is altogether resolved. But when it evinces no remission, it is, indeed, 01 the same class as the ardent fevers, but differs from them in | acuteness. Commentary. Hippocrates has stated the alliance between the intermittent and continual fevers. (Epidem., Op. Galeni, ed. Basil v p 362 ) In his report of the epidemical diseases ot a certain'season, he mentions that the continual fevers (avve^) were distinguished by an exacerbation every alternate day, alter the manner of tertians, and that they were attended with ardent symptoms. He also remarks their tendency to terminate m dysenteries, lienteries, and tenesmus. Galen marks a distinction between the continual fever (awevvg) and the synochus, which it is necessary that the reader should particularly attend to. He remarks that there are three varieties of intermittents : the quotidian, which arises from putrid phlegm; the tertian, from yellow bile; and the quartan, from black bile. Of continual fevers, arising from yellow bile, there are two species; the one being called synochi, and consisting of one paroxysm from beginning to end; and the other, to which the generic appellation continual (o-wE/ae) is particularly applied, and which consists of a number of parti- cular paroxyms. Of the continual fevers, some assume the tertian type, having a remission of the fever every alternate day; some the quotidian, and have a remission every day; and others, of rare occurrence, resemble the quartans, in having remissions after an interval of three days. (De Diff. Feb. ii, 2.) In another place he says of synochous fevers that they consist of two varie- ties the one arising from an ebullition of the blood, and being produced by the conversion of ephemerals; and the other arising from putrefaction of the blood in persons who are gross and plethoric. (Meth. Med. ix.) Aetius treats of continual fevers (avvtyus) in nearly the