GONORRIICEA. SECT. LV.] 595 hard bed, wearing a plate of lead on the loins, and abstaining from the usual provocatives to venery. The practice of Alexander is exactly the same as that of Aetius. Caelius Aurelianus treats oneirogmon upon much the same principles, namely, by cooling applications and injections, the cold bath, astringent food, and so forth. He makes mention of a disease of the genital organs, which we have met with in practice, although we do not recollect to have seen it noticed in any modern author, unless Heberdcn alludes to it (Comment. 80.) It is an emission of bloody semen in actu venerea. He directs it to be treated by astringent and restorative remedies. For oneirogmon, the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends an infusion of the seed of lettuce and purslain, the decoction of nymphrea, &c. (Euporist. ii, 100.) Dioscorides himself recom- mends hemlock. (Meth. Med. iv, 79.) Avicenna and Rhases follow the treatment of our author. For the oneirogmon, Haly Abbas recommends various refrige- rant and sedative medicines, such as purslain, coriander, len- tils, fleawort, poppies, roses, &c. For gonorrhoea he recommends bleeding; emetics if connected with repletion; sleeping in a cold place; various anodyne, astringent, and refrigerant medi- cines, such as henbane, poppies, roses, lettuce, &c. He also directs a plate of lead to be worn over the loins. Alsaharavius treats minutely of these complaints according to the nature of the exciting cause. His general remedies for gonorrhcEa are of a refrigerant and cooling nature, such as citrons, pomegranates, lettuces, henbane, &c. with a plate of lead and other cooling applications. For oneirogmon he recommends liniments of camphor and opium, lying on a hard bed, and refrigerant medicines. Rhases recommends styptic applica- tions, snow, the plate of lead, and the cold bath. He speaks also of rubbing the parts with myrrh, henbane, and opium. On the pollutio nocturni somni referred to in Deut. xiii, 13, see Isidorus (Comment, in Deut. 20.) Pliny treats of certain herbs which excite, and others which dispel, the "somnia veneris." Martial, in his epigram addressed to Ponticus, ex- presses himself in terms of just abhorrence against the detestable vice of manustupration. Galen, however, relates a story of it with disgusting sang froid.