276 FEVERS. CBOOK comm. liar disposition of the body to admit it; for that otherwise, all without exception would be seized with the prevailing epidemic. This leads him to give directions to correct the mtemperament of the body when it is such as disposes it to be readily affected by the constitution of the atmosphere. His directions are simi- lar to those of our author. Besides the causes of epidemical diseases which we have mentioned, he states that unwholesome food and drink may sometimes, though rarely, give rise to them. Of this he relates a striking instance. (De Rebus bom et mail Succi, c. i.) He remarks that the most common epidemical diseases are pestilential fevers. We shall have occasion to state his opinion of them in the next Section. Of the Greek authors posterior to Galen, Oribasius and Aetius give the same account of epidemical diseases as our au- thor ; and the others either do not treat of them at all, or class them with the subject of our next Section. Avenzoar has given us an elaborate treatise on epidemical com- plaints, (iii.) The first cause of them which he mentions is a humid and warm state of the atmosphere, such as that to which Hip- pocrates ascribed the pestilence which afflicted Thasus in his time. (Epid. iii.) The other causes enumerated by him are the effluvia from dead bodies, stagnant air, the miasmata from stagnant and corrupted waters, and unwholesome food, (iii, 3, 1.) On the origin of epidemical diseases, especially the pesti- lence, see, in particular, Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 11.) The prin- cipal causes of the change of the atmosphere to a pestilential state, according to Haly, are the nature of the country and the season of the year. The former cause operates owing to the putrid effluvia arising from corrupted fruit, pot-herbs, &c, or the miasmata from marshes, cloacae, or dead bodies, whether of men or cattle. It was from such causes, he remarks, that the plague of Athens derived its origin. The nature of the season, as it produces diseases in the vegetable, so does it also in the animal creation. As epidemical complaints, he mentions ephemerals, cynanche, small-pox, acute fevers, and other fatal diseases. Avicenna's account of the origin of pestilential and epidemic diseases is taken almost entirely from Galen; he therefore enumerates as causes of them, a humid and warm state of the