SEMI-TERTIAN. SECT. XXXIV.] 271 mends for food fishes, cooling herbs, such as mallows, lettuces, Comm. citrons, cucumbers, &c. and the milk of asses or of goats. He especially commends the tepid bath, and rubbing with oil afterwards. He also speaks of applying to the chest cloths soaked in rose-water, which has been cooled in snow. When these cold applications bring on shivering, he directs them to be somewhat warmed. He forbids copious draughts of cold water. He recommends cool and humid air, and cautions to avoid smoke. When the belly is constipated, he gives open- ing medicines, such as prunes and manna. When, on the other hand, the belly is loose, he recommends astringents. He particularly commends trochisks of camphor, which, he says, will cool the heat of the heart, liver, or chest. (Ad Mansor. x, 3; sec also Contin. xxxi.) In the latter work he informs us that physicians were divided in opinion regarding the use of the bath in hectic fever. He forbids the cold bath and cold drink when the patient is much wasted, because the cold penetrates to the vital organs and impairs them. SECT. XXXIV. ON SEMI-TERTIANS. As a tertian paroxysm commences with a rigor, and a quo- tidian without one, the fever composed of both brings on a degree of shivering, which is less than a rigor, and greater than dullness, as being a mixture of these two extremes. Whence, this fever has not improperly got the name of semi- tertian. These fevers are formed in two ways, either the two paroxysms uniting into one, or being mixed together from the commencement. When, therefore, the tertian prevails, the fever is attended with a strong shivering, and has even a certain de- gree of rigor at the attack. Such a fever also soon becomes hotter and more ardent, and brings on some vomiting of bile, or a discharge of it downwards, or by a sweat. When the other, the pituitous, prevails, there is coldness of the extremities, but little shivering; neither are they accompanied with thirst, nor are they ardent. But when the tertian intermittent and con- tinual quotidian are equal in magnitude, the commencement of the paroxysm is with shivering; and when that from phlegm prevails, there are contractions and shiverings; but if the hotter