sect, xxx.] ARDENT. 263 who arc free from all inflammatory and erysipelatous swelling. And it they exhibit signs of concoction, it"will suit still better With them; but not so if the fever be occasioned by a saltish humour. These should be supported with the juice of ptisan. Commentary. Our author's directions respecting the treat- Comm. ment are mostly taken from Hippocrates (de Rat. Vict. Acut.) Hippocrates allows venesection only when the attack is violent. He approves of the application of cold water to the surface. Archigenes, as Aetius informs us, sponged the head and chest with cold water during the acme of ardent fevers, (iii. 159.) His own treatment, which is borrowed from Philumenus and Galen, consisted of cooling remedies internally and externally, such as drinking cold water and other things "of a refrigerant nature, using cold applications, and the cold bath, (v, 28.) Alexander, Oribasius, Synesius, and ConstantinusAfricanus treat the causus upon the same plan as our author. They say nothing of bleeding. Celsus likewise omits to make mention of vene- section, but recommends refrigerants, and especially cold water to be given, even to satiety. He forbids it, however, when there is any affection of the internal viscera, and when there is a cough. He informs us that Asclepiades, of Bithynia, strongly recommended gestation for the cure of this fever. Averrhoes abstracts blood when there are symptoms of ple- thora, gives gentle purgatives, such as tamarinds, and allows the patient cool drink and cool air. Haly Abbas treats the causus entirely upon the refrigerant plan, with cold drink, cooling fruits, fresh air, gentle laxatives, such as prunes, and by cold applica- tions to the skin. Alsaharavius conducts the treatment upon much the same principles. When the patient is troubled with protracted watchfulness, he directs us to rub the temples with the juice of poppies, lettuces, and coriander. Avicenna also speaks favorably of these soporifics, but does not in general approve of bleeding. The treatment recommended by Rhases is altogether refrigerant. He directs us to clear away the asperities of the tongue, and then to give cooling and acid drinks. When there is no inflammation of any internal viscus, he per- mits water cooled with snow. He says nothing of venesection. However, some of his authorities, as quoted in his ' Continens,' recommend bleeding. They seem in general to have approved