SECT. XXVIII.] CORYZA, ETC. 469 danger of that variety in which there is no swelling nor infiam- Comm. mation outwardly. Avicenna and other of the Arabians follow ^ ' Alexander in recommending bleeding by opening the jugulars. The two kinds of angina, mentioned by the ancients, are de- scribed in similar terms by Sydenham, Boerhaavc, and Van Swietcn. The first variety, or common quinsey, is well known. The second is of less frequent occurrence. The modern autho- rities have found it as fatal as the ancients gave them reason to expect. The reader will find a very interesting commentary on Aretaeus' description of malignant sore throat in a tract, 'de Recondita Abscessum Natural (Mangeti Bibl. Chirurg. i, 48.) It is the disease now called laryngitis acuta. Haly approves of the treatment recommended by our author in cases of suspended animation. In treating those who have been in water, he directs, very improperly we are convinced, the patient to be hung by the heels, to favour the escape of the water by the mouth. It would appear, however, from the late experiments of Professor Meyer, that the ancients were correct in supposing that water is generally found in the lungs of drow ned persons. When a person has hung by the neck for a time, and there is any prospect of recovery, Haly directs us, as soon as he can swallow, to make him gargle with oil of violets and tepid water, and to drink barley-gruel and the like. SECT. XXVIII. ON CORYZA, CATARRH, AFFECTIONS OF THE TRACHEA, AND COUGH. All these complaints have this in common, that they are oc- casioned by the defluxion of a redundant humour from the head to the parts below. When, therefore, it seats in the nostrils, the disease is called coryza; when in the pharynx and roof of the mouth, simply catarrh; but when it attacks the larynx and arteria trachea, so as to occasion a roughness of the membrane which lines them, the voice becomes hoarse, and the disease is called branchus, or morbus arteriacus : these terms being appli- cable not only to the inflammatory roughness occasioned by a defluxion from the head, but also to that arising from vocifera- tion and inhaling cold air. When the complaint is protracted, and the defluxion is carried down to the chest and lungs, it