462 AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. [book hi. Comm. ammoniac, and the like. If these do not succeed, caustics are " ' to be applied, so as to occasion a blackening of the part. If this does not answer, an operation must be performed. Rhases makes mention of an application containing green copper, vitriol, &c. For an account of the manner in which the veterinary sur- geons treated ranula in cattle, see Columella (vi, 8), and Vegetius (Mulom. iii, 3.) They recommend the tumour to be opened and stimulants applied to it, such as garlic pounded with salt. The disease which Hippocrates describes by the name of vTToyXuxjcrig appears to have been somewhat different from the one we have been treating of. The hypoglottis of Hippocrates was an inflammatory swelling of the tongue ending in abscess. When matter forms, he directs us to open the abscess. It is also described by Aretseus. For inflammation of the tonsils and of the uvula. Since, as Galen remarks, the same treatment applies to inflammation of the tonsils and uvula, we shall treat of both together. Aretseus has described inflammation of these parts with great accuracy and minuteness. He has also given a very circum- stantial account of the ulcers which occur there. Some, he says, are common, mild, and not dangerous; others are uncommon, pestilential, and fatal. The latter are described as being covered with a liAdd or black crust. The ulcer, he says, is apt to spread to the tongue, or it passes down the trachea and proves fatal by occasioning suffocation. The disease, he says, is brought on by cold acrid substances, and sympathy with disease of the stomach or lungs. Children are most subject to it. It is en- demial in Syria and Egypt. He gives a striking description of death occasioned by suffocation. With regard to the treatment, when the parts are inflamed, swelled, and threaten suffocation, he advises copious bleeding from the arm, acrid clysters, purga- tives, ligatures to the extremities, astringent and .emollient ap- plications to the parts, cupping the hind-head or breast, and other such means. Respecting the pestilential ulcers, when attended with inflammation and sense of suffocation, lie approves of clysters, venesection, gargles, fomentations, ligatures to the extremities, cupping, and so forth. When the disease is spread- ing, he directs us to burn the sore with powerful caustics, such