544 [book tit. THE KIDNEYS. rose-oil, water and rose-oil, or oil of apples; or a cerate com- posed of wax, rose-oil, oil of chamomile; or oil of apples, and the yelks of eggs, with a little vinegar, or the juice of knot- grass. Afterwards they may use the diachylon plaster with oil of chamomile ; but must abstain from very hot applications, lest they occasion suppuration; and from very cold, for thereby the kidneys will readily become scirrhous. During the violence of the inflammation they must abstain from baths, and use the regimen called the febrile and anti-inflammatory. On abscess and ulceration of the urinary organs. Pains m the loins, anomalous rigours, and irregular fevers indicate an apos- teme in the kidneys; but when it is in the bladder, it is marked by pain in that part in addition to the symptoms we have now mentioned. You may ascertain which kidney is affected from this, that when the person lies upon the sound side he has pain in the opposite one, from the diseased kidney being suspended. In these cases we must place the patients in hip-baths of oil and water, apply cataplasms of fine flour, oil, and rosin, or the flour of tares with honey, or cardamom, or pigeon's dung with dried figs. Pus freely discharged in the urine indicates a rupture of the abscess and ulceration in the part. But since the urinary organs are ulcerated without an aposteme, from the rupture of a vessel, erosion by acrid matter, or the irritation of a stone, we may distinguish ulceration in the kidneys from that in the bladder or urethra in this way: When the kidneys are ulcerated, the patient experiences a heavy pain in the loins, he makes water freely, and pus is found mixed with the urine, and particles of flesh floating in it. When the bladder is in a state of ulcera- tion, the patient has violent pain in the region of the pubes and hypogastrium, and difficulty of making water; the pus, after the urine is voided, sinks to the bottom, and fetid scales, or else foliaceous ones float in it. Furfuraceous sediments indicate scabies of the bladder. When the ureters are ulcerated, the mixture of the pus is in an intermediate degree, and rather re- sembles hairs floating in the urine; and the situation of the pain is intermediate between the kidneys and bladder. If blood or pus be discharged without any evacuation of urine, it is to be understood that none of the afore-mentioned parts are ulcerated, but the member itself. Wherefore to those who have ulceration of the urinary organs we must give the sweet draughts of honied