TREMBLINGS. 407 SECT. XXI.] the profession in general now entertain, after it has received Comm. another trial upon the recommendation of the late Dr. dime. (See 'Medical lieports/ and Larrey's 'Memoires de Chirurgie, t. 1.) Octavius Horatianus recommends bleeding, emollient appli- cations, purgative clysters, the tepid bath, antispasmodics, and soporifics. The use of the last-mentioned class of remedies does not appear to have been sufficiently understood by the ancients; at all events they were less partial to them in this case than the moderns. The Arabians enjoin nearly the same treatment as the Greeks. Avicenna and Mesue join the preceding authorities in recom- mending strongly the use of castor and assafcetida as antispas- modics. Avicenna, like all the others, praises the bath of oil. Serapion speaks of a bath prepared with emollient herbs. Haly Abbas describes minutely the two varieties as occasioned by repletion and inanition. For the former, he approves of purging with hot drastic purgatives, of rubbing the part affected with hot oils, and of using the warm bath with friction after it. He also approves of castor. For the other variety, he praises the affusion of plain water in which lettuces, barley, &c. have been boiled. He recommends the internal use of milk and other demulcents, and the bath of oil, and rubbing the body with oil of violets. The treatment recommended by Alsaharavius is very similar. Rhases mentions Hippocrates' proposal of the cold affusion; but, like our author, he rather disapproves of it. He himself recommends bleeding, when there are symptoms of repletion, emollient applications to the neck, the bath of oil, the application of leeches to the part affected, pnrging with aloes, &c. and the administration of antispasmodics, such as castor, assafcetida, and the like. SECT. XXI. ON TREMBLINGS. Trembling is generally occasioned by a weakness of the nerves (old age is a proof of this); but there are many particular causes which* occasion it; for it arises from a cold intemperament, from draughts of cold water, more especially if taken unseason- ably during a fever, also from a redundance of cold and viscid