UEGIMEN. [hook I. 18 SECT< XIV. THE REGIMEN OF INFANCY, AND OF THE SUCCEEDING AGES UNTIL MANHOOD. Infants and children when weaned from milk, are to be allowed to live merrily and without restraint; their food ought to he light, and their exercise gentle. After six or seven years of age, both bovs and girls are to be consigned over to school- masters of a mild and benevolent disposition; as such persons will impart instruction to them in a cheerful manner, and with- out constraint; for relaxation of the mind contributes much to the growth of the body. Boys twelve years of age should go to teachers of grammar and geometry, and get their bodies hardened by gymnastic exercises. From fourteen to twenty- one, their proper employment will be the study of mathematics and initiation in philosophy. At the same time, however, it will be proper to use more exercise for strengthening the body, so that, exercising both mind and body, they may be prevented from indulging their carnal desires. They ought likewise to be restricted as to wine. To adults the fullest supply of nourish- ment, both as to body and mind, ought to be allowed; where- fore, they should use all kinds of gymnastic exercises, parti- cularly such as each has been accustomed to, and food which is sufficient and nutritious. In the decline of life, both the bodily and mental supply ought to be abridged; and the gymnastic exercises diminished in proportion. The food also is to be gradually lessened as the habit begins to contract the frigidity of age. Comm. Commentary. These simple but judicious directions re- '—»—' specting the regimen of the different periods of life are taken from Oribasius (Synops. v, 14); or from Aetius (iv, 29.) Many of them are borrowed originally from Galen. (Hyg. i.) Similar directions are given at great length by Haly Abbas. He positively prohibits children from taking wine. He insists that wine not only proves prejudicial to health, but also deterio- rates the morals. (Pract. i, 22.) Alsaharavius agrees with him in proscribing wine to children. (Theor. xiii, 2.) Avicenna makes very judicious observations on this subject, but the greater part of them are taken from Galen. He insists,