SECT. XLVI1I.] 569 DROPSY. plained the treatment of cachexia. He mentions as causes of Comm. the disease intemperance, the improper use of medicines, hard- ' * ' ness of the liver or spleen, long-continued hemorrhoidal dis- charge, vomiting, protracted fevers, &c. His treatment is judi- ciously varied according to the cause of the disease, and is given at great length. Aetius gives a very interesting account of the views and prac- tice of Archigenes. He says the disease is generally occasioned by scirrhus of the liver or spleen. Like our author, he recom- mends bleeding if not contra-indicated, and purging with drastic cathartics, such as the hiera from colocynth, friction, rubefacients, exercise, the bath, and thiu white wines. Celsus admits of bleed- ing, but not until after purging, friction, unction, and exercise have failed to restore the health. Serapion expresses himself in much the same terms as our au- thor and Aetius respecting venesection; but Avicenna recom- mends not to have recourse to it unless there be a sanguineous plethora. He also forbids baths of sweet water, but otherwise he adopts the treatment recommended by the Greeks. SECT. XLV1II. ON DROPSY. When the liver is greatly congealed, sometimes primarily, as when it has been inflamed, indurated, or otherwise affected, or when from sympathy with other parts, the process of sanguifi- cation ceases, and the affection is called dropsy. When a great quantity of air is collected with a small quantity of fluid between the peritoneum and intestines, so that the abdomen when struck sounds like a drum, the dropsy in this case gets the name of tympanites, being formed by flatulence about the stomach, belly, and colon, and by chronic fevers. But sometimes from hard- ness of the peritoneum and of the uterus in women, or from scirrhus, on the contrary, a great collection of fluid with a very small proportion of air is formed in the same parts, being con- fined as it were in a bladder, when the dropsy is named ascites, and is occasioned by the afore-mentioned causes; but, for the most part, it arises from hardness and scirrhus about the spleen and liver, and from chronic defluxions about the intestines; whereby it happens that the belly is swelled, while the rest