AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. SKCT. XXV.] 453 face. Anoint, by rubbing with oxymel; or triturate litharge with turpentine and some white oil, and anoint by rubbing; or rub in fissile alum with turpentine; or triturate bitter almonds in vinegar, and rub. For callous vari : Of Gallie soap, dr. iv ; of frankincense and ammoniac, of each, dr. j. Dissolve in water, and anoint; after an hour, wash away. For vari, hairs, and roughness of the face. Of wax, dr. x; of turpentine, dr. j j of mistletoe, dr. ij ; melt, adding a small quantity of oil, and scrub the face witli it, for it takes out the hairs by the roots.—Another : Apply powdered poppy, or penny- royal, with salt and vinegar. The cerate of Thais, for rendering the face ruddy. Of saffron, of madder-root, of fucus, of frankincense, of myrrh, of each, dr. ij ; mix with calf's fat and mastich oil, and then anoint, and after a little interval wash away with a sponge out of hot water. These applications for the face will also answer for other parts of the body. Commentary. Most of the authors referred to in the pre- Comm. iviling Section may be consulted on these complaints. ' ' This Section is mostly copied from Oribasius (de Loc. Affect, iv), who, however, is greatly indebted to Galen (De Med. sec. loc. v.) Aetius gives a long list of compositions for these com- plaints of the face, and to it the lovers of personal appearance are particularly referred. Celsus seems to have thought it ne- cessary to make an apology for treating of these trifling com- plaints : " Paine ineptise sunt curare varos, et lenticulas, et ephelidas; scd eripi tamen fscminis cura cultus sui non potest." His applications are like those of our author. For vari he re- commends equal parts of rosin, fissile alum, and some honey. Ephelis, he says, is removed by rosin, with a third part of fossil salts, and a little honey. The fyaicoQ and 't<pt)\ig are, we believe, the lentigo and maculae of Haly Abbas. (Theor. viii, 18 ; Pract. iv, 15.) His remedies consist of bitter almonds, mercury killed (sublimed?), mustard, with the oil of figs. The 'IovOoq is his morum. For it he re- commends the flos seris and other stimulant applications. Alsaharavius speaks of the juice of the wild cucumber, the root of iris, pine-gum, and if these are not sufficient, venesection. He treats minutely of these affections of the face. (Pract. vi.)