358 CEPHALGIA. [book 111 tailed at considerable length. Alexander, Aetius, Onbasms, and the Arabians follow the views of Galen ; and, as they are similar to our author's, we need not dwell upon the exposition of them. General and topical bleeding, cooling or stimulant applications to the head, purgatives, masticatories, and errhines, applied according to circumstances, constitute the sum of their treatment. One rule laid down by Oribasius deserves attention; when the pain is acute, he recommends general bleeding ; and, when it is protracted, local. When cephalsea is connected with constipation of the bowels, Alexander advises that they should be opened with laxative food and gentle purgatives, such as sal ammoniac (a fossil salt procured from Africa), scammony, and euphorbium. When it is connected with a loose state of the bowels, he recommends such means as will stop it; and when it is produced by insomnolency he recommends things of a pare- goric and soporific nature, (i, 11.) Aretseus, who probably was prior to Galen, delivers an ad- mirable account both of the symptoms and treatment of this complaint. He recommends bleeding at the arm, and by open- ing the temporal arteries, or those behind the ears, or the vessels of the lining membrane of the nostrils, or cupping the back part of the head; purging with drastic cathartics, such as hellebore; errhines, masticatories, a restricted diet; and, in obstinate cases, he approves of applying the actual cautery to the cranium. (De Curat. Morb. Chron. ii.) Most of the ancient authorities recom- mend the cautery in this case. (See the notes on Sect, i of the Sixth Book.) Aretaius allows a small quantity of a light wine on account of the stomach, which is apt to be affected. (Ibid.) Cgelius Aurelianus has given a most minute account of the doctrines of the Methodists respecting cephahea. (De Morb. Tar. i, 1.) He enumerates many causes of the disease, among which we may mention too much attention paid to the hair by females. The following is an outline of his practice : Friction of the extremities, emollient fomentations and soft applications to the head, such as wool, or bladders half filled with warm oil, are to be used at the commencement. When the pain is violent, he recommends venesection from the arm opposite the side affected. The head is to be shaven with a razor, and a cata- plasm, or a cupping-instrument without scarificators, or leeches, are to be applied; and these are to be followed by sponging