<>00 GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. [book hi. . and in Avicenna (iii, 20, 1, 18.) In the latter we remark the nettle, lupine, rocket, asparagus, parsley, cresses, beans, cinna- mon, and an animal called dabet alurel, which we conjecture to be the stellio or swift. Haly Abbas treats minutely of this af- fection, according as it arises from paralysis of the part or defect of semen. In the latter case, as he considers the state of the parts to be connected with a dry and cold intemperament, he recommends juicy flesh, beans, vetches, sweet wine, and so forth. He approves of a hot bath in which violets have been boiled. He also gives calefacients, such as rocket, ginger, asparagus, onions, and the like. Alsaharavius mentions various causes of impotence. One of them is, " excessus delectationis ad illam quam diligit." The aphrodisiacal properties of rocket are mentioned by Juvenal (Sat. ix, 134.) See also Pliny (H. N. xix, 6.) Juvenal appears to allude to aphrodisiacal friction. (Sat. vi, 52.) Athenseus gives a marvellous account of the efficacy of aphro- disiacal medicines. (Deipnos. i, 11.) See the thirty-sixth Sec- tion of the First Book of this work. SECT. LIX. ON MATTERS RELATING TO THE GENITAL ORGANS AND ANUS. Ulcers on the pudenda and about the anus, when free from inflammation, require very desiccative applications, such as that from burnt paper, dried burnt dill, and burnt gourd. For humid and recent ulcers, aloes is a good application, when sprinkled on them dry in a fine powder. But the medicine which gives least pain, and is as efficacious as any other, is pompholyx. If the ulcers are more humid, the bark of the pine by itself and blood- stone are proper; but if the ulcers are also deep, manna must be mixed with them; and if the ulcer be spreading, we must apply a cataplasm of dried lentil with pomegranate-rind, and use the plaster called Coracum from oxymel, the trochisk called Bithynus, and that from paper. Fissures in the privy parts and anus are remedied by roasted rosin {colophony ?) rubbed with rose-oil, so as to become of the consistence of bath-sordes, and having the yelk of an egg and opium mixed; or the ashes of the dried leaves of ivy burnt, when pounded with rose-oil in a