[book III. THE UTERUS. 636 Comm. Celsus thus marks the distinction between the epileptic and '—»—1 hysterical convulsion : " Interdum etiam sic exanimat ut tan- quam comitiah morbo prosternat. Distat tamen hie casus, eo quod neque oculi vertuntur, nec spumae profluunt, nec nervi distenduntur j sopor tantum est/' If the strength permit, he approves of venesection, or of cupping the groins without scari- fications ; then fetid things are to be applied to the nose, and fragrant things to the uterus, the whole body is to be rubbed, sinapisms are to be put to the lower part of the belly, and castor, gith, and dill given internally. Aretseus surpasses every other ancient author in his descrip- tion of this affection. He sets out with pronouncing the uterus to be, as it were, an animal within an animal, wandering upwards, downwards, and to either side, being attracted by fragrant things and flying from fetid. When, therefore, it ascends upwards, it occasions compression of the liver, diaphragm, lungs, or heart, and sympathetically with the last, also of the carotids. It is accompanied with heaviness of the head and loss of sensibility. Nearly allied to it, but yet a different affection, is a complaint which attacks men, having therefore no connexion with the uterus, and not being relieved by fetid things. He says that, when the attack proves fatal, the pulse sinks and becomes irre- gular and intermittent, there is a strong sense of suffocation, loss of speech, loss of sensibility, respiration unequal or not even perceptible, sudden and unexpected death. For some time after the countenance does not put on the appearance of death, but is redder than natural, and the eyes project. He also gives a good account of the treatment, which, however, cannot be said to differ in any material respect from that of Galen and Celsus, as explained above. The same may be said of Oribasius, Nonnus, and Octavius. Aetius is very minute in his description. He remarks that after respiration by the mouth is stopped, the arteries may con- tinue to beat, as is the case with reptiles in winter. The disease, he says, is occasioned by a flatulent refrigeration, and not by inflammation, as Soranus has said. Actuarius accounts for the complaint and describes it in the same terms as the preceding writers. As it occurs principally with virgins and widows, he prescribes for them the Hudibrastic mode of wooing widows !