541 SECT. XLV,] THE KIDNEYS. ting the use of wine. When the disease is occasioned by oh- c struction, he recommends laxatives; when connected with de- l— scent of the gut, he directs us to return it, but says nothing of the operation for strangulated hernia. According to Rhases, the causes of ileus are inflammation of the bowels, debility of the expulsive faculty, and indurated fceces. Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, gives an excellent account of the symptoms and treatment of colic and ileus in cattle. (Mulomedicina, i, 41, 42.) SECT. XLV. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER \ AND, FIRST, ON CALCULUS. The alliance of these diseases obliges us to break through the order of instruction; for it is a common symptom of colic and of calculus in the kidney, that the belly is at first constipated, with violent pain, anorexia, indigestion, and tormina. But it is peculiar to colic affections to have all these symptoms more intense, whereas in nephritic they are less so; and in colics the pain is rather in the right loin, and ascends to the stomach, liver, and spleen; and the passage of the faeces is completely obstructed, so that not even flatus can pass; or, when with dif- ficulty the faeces are evacuated, they are flatulent, and resemble the dung of oxen, or sometimes a vitreous phlegm is discharged, and the urine is voided freely, and is of a pituitous nature : whereas, in nephritic cases, there is a severe fixed pain in the kidneys, as if transfixed with a sharp-pointed instrument, and the corresponding testicle is pained, and there is torpor in the thigh of the same side. They also have sometimes, though rarely, spontaneous evacuations of the belly; but clysters always bring away flatus and bilious faeces ; the urine is in small quan- tity and sandy, and the urinary passage is contracted. These are the symptoms of stones in the kidneys, which occur most frequently in adults, but the stones in the bladder form rather in boys. The symptoms of these are, unconcocted and whitish urine, with a sandy sediment; the patients rub constantly and handle the member, stretch it, and make incessant attempts to pass water, and are troubled with strangury. Wherefore the material cause of the formation of stones is a thick and terrene