SECT. XVI.] Kl'IIEMERAL. 220 author (v, 52.) Sec Avicenna (iv, 2) j Averrlioes (Cantic. i, 2); Comm. Haly Abbas (Tlieor. vii and x, 10) j Rhases (ad Mansor. x, 24.) We shall be content with giving a few of the observations of the Arabians, of whom Haly is the most full and accurate npon this head. The lungs and the other parts within the chest being the organs of life, when affected, they occasion inflammation of the heart. Expectoration indicates some affection of those parts. W hen the expectoration is thin and small in quantity, the dis- ease is not concocted; when the sputa are of moderate consis- tence and equable, the disease is at its acme; when thick, it is certainly on the decline. Thinness indicates that the humour which occasions the complaint is of a subtle nature; thickness, the contrary. Blackness indicates vehement heat. Green sputa are indicative of the presence of green bile, white of phlegm, and redness of blood. When fetid, they proceed from putrefaction. Black sputa indicate great danger. Prosper Alpinus makes many ingenious remarks on the cha- racters of the sputa. (De Vita et Morte <egrot. vii, 19.) SECT. XVI. THE DIAGNOSIS AND CURE OP EPHEMERAL FEVERS. It is a peculiar and inseparable symptom of ephemeral fevers that concoction of the urine takes place on the first day; and a pleasant state of the heat is likewise peculiar and inseparable from such fevers. After the first resolution of the fever, you will have a still more confident diagnosis j for the motion of the arteries then becomes similar to that of persons in health, whereas no other fever returns so soon to the natural state. And it is also a very great mark of this fever that the patient bears it well. Those persons are readily seized with this com- plaint in whom the perspirations are not vaporous, but very acrid, as if containing something fuliginous. Such are they who are of a hot and dry temperament, and, in fine, those who are troubled with bitter bile. Those who are seized with this fever from fa- tigue should be rubbed softly with oil and bathed; but those from diyness, are to be rubbed less and bathed more. Those from cares, grief, watchfulness, or anger, are not to be bathed often, but slightly rubbed with plenty of tepid oil possessed of little stypticity ; and bathed according to habit. Those who