24/ QUARTAN. SECT. XXIII.] sufficient, clysters may be used, at first emollient, and after- wards acrid. They must be prohibited from swine's flesh, and everything that is viscid and slowly evacuated, and also from all cooling and diluent articles of food. Let them use a thin white wine moderately warm, also pickles and mustard. And after an interval of some days, they should take the composition consisting of three peppers, or that called Diospoliticus. And if they take every day of pepper alone in water, they will do well. But if the patient is at the acme of the complaint, his diet ought to be very light, he should be enjoined to take pro- tracted rest, and to take care of his bowels by using emollient and laxative things. Next, let him use diuretics; and if the symptoms of concoction appear manifest, then he may boldly have recourse to such as evacuate black humours, and that not once only, but frequently. After a powerful evacuation give also the medicine from vipers, and such others as are recom- mended for these fevers, among which is the well-known and most celebrated of all containing the Cyrenaic juice. Commentary. This Section is copied from Oribasius (Synops. Comm. vi, 13.) Galen, however, is the great authority upon this sub- ' v 1 ject. With respect to venesection, he directs us to have recourse to it only when there is a plethora of blood; but recommends, when a vein has been opened, and the blood found to be black and thick, especially in the case of diseased spleen, to abstract blood until it change its colour. He approves of laxatives, and clysters, at first emollient and afterwards acrid. He forbids those things which were supposed to engender black bile, and recommends a thin white wine. He speaks favorably of pepper. When the disease is come to its acme, he recommends the state of the viscera to be rectified by fomentations and cataplasms, and by administering melanogogues, especially hellebore, in such quantity as to operate powerfully upwards and downwards. He speaks favorably of vipers, and also of assafoctida. (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) The Commentary of Stephanos on this work, lately published by Dietz, contains very sensible remarks on the practice here recommended. Alexander delivers his opinions regarding the treatment of quartans at so great a length that it is impossible to do justice to them in an abridgment. As usual, he animadverts freely