l6o DISEASES OF THE NOSE. [book hi. The Arabians imitate the practice of the Greeks. Serapion gives a prescription containing arsenic, copperas, black helle- bore, &c. Avicenna describes the treatment by ligature, ex- traction, burning, and septic applications. He prefers the operation. Mesue treats with great precision of the different modes Of cure. When the tumour is not large it may be re- moved, he says, by septic applications. His prescriptions con- tain arsenic, alum, flos a^ris, &c. Haly says that when a polypus is hard and cancerous it is incurable, but when soft, it may be removed by applying septic substances, such as flos seris, arsenic, and the like. Alsaharavius describes the two species of polypus, the cancerous and the fleshy. For the latter, besides the opera- tion, he recommends us to introduce a thread smeared with the Egyptian and green ointments. Several of the authorities quoted by Rhases approve of the septic applications prepared with arsenic, vitriol, oil of oleander, alum, and the like. The ancient method of removing polypus with septics is mentioned by Guy of Cauliac, and other surgical writers of that age. For ozana Celsus recommends stimulant and escharotic ap- plications containing copperas, lees of oil, turpentine-rosin, squills, &c. They are to be applied by means of a specillum or probe wrapped round with wool. The prescriptions given by Galen from Archigenes and Asclepiades contain misy, chalcitis, burnt copper, orpiment, red arsenic, alum, red nitre, myrrh, saffron, &c. The other Greek authors do but copy from him on this subject. Avicenna recommends such aromatics as amomum, cloves, and roses, with camphor, hellebore, and the like. Haly makes no mention of escharotics, but recommends aromatics, such as marjoram, cloves, amomum, myrrh, and such like substances. He directs us to purge with hiera, and to gargle with mustard. The substances which enter into the compositions of Alsaharavius are very similar to this. The ingredients in Rhases' applications are mostly desiccants and aromatics; but a few of them contain escharotics, such as vitriol and red arsenic. On ulcers. Galen's prescriptions contain burnt lead, burnt antimony, ceruse, litharge, and the like. Avicenna and Rhases praise the powder of Ruflus, which contains alum, galls, cyperus, myrrh, saffron, and arsenic. For the sweet ulcers Avicenna re-