432 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book in. Comm. our author. He particularly praises green glass finely pulverized, w-^ wtich is still a popular remedy in Scotland. Alsaliaravius makes mention of the juice of the lesser centaury as an useful appli- cation. Scarpa speaks favorably of this remedy, and further recommends the Sapphirian collyrium, the ingredients of which are similar to those which entered into the ancient applications. It consists of a solution of scr. ij of sal ammoniac and gr. iv of aerugo in oz. viij of aqua calcis, allowed to stand for twenty- four hours, and then filtered. Rhases recommends an ointment containing arsenic. On pterygium. Aetius correctly remarks that pterygium ge- nerally begins from the inner canthus, rarely from the outer, and scarce ever from above or below. He gives prescriptions for a variety of applications, which, like our author's, contain burnt copperas, magnesian stone, sal ammoniac, and the like. Galen briefly commends the same. Nonnus, Serapion, and the others approve of this practice. Modern oculists, however, trust to nothing but the operation, which will be described in the Sixth Book. Haly Abbas describes the disease very accurately by the name of ungula; and recommends general bleeding, purging, restricted diet, and a variety of collyria. Alsaharavius gives the same account of the ungula, and when it becomes cal- lous (nervosus), recommends an operation. JesuHaly recom- mends, before attempting a surgical operation, to make trial of escharotic applications. Rhases also approves of this plan of treatment. The most active ingredients in his prescriptions are sal ammoniac, copperas, and arsenic. Some of his compositions are merely detergent. On carbuncle and cancer. We are not aware that the parts about the eye are particularly liable to anthrax, nor do we re- collect to have ever met with such a case; and yet, as Alexander and our author remark, the disease may occur there as well as in other parts of the body. Rowley describes carbuncle both of the eye and eyelids. Aetius has given a very circumstantial account of the symptoms and treatment of anthrax. He forbids the early application of cataplasms, and seems to depend most upon constitutional treatment, by clysters, purging, and bleed- ing. Afterwards cooling and styptic fomentations are to be applied by means of a sponge, along with other treatment similar to our author's. Alexander's plan of treatment is nearly the