IS.) SKCT. XXXI.) SPITTING OF BLOOD. vessels, are to be bled from a vein, unless the discharge of blood be great. In every case, the patient is to be laid in a well- ventilated place, upon a steadv couch, in an erect position; and he ought to abstain from strong respiration and talking. To the affected parts we may apply sponges soaked in tepid oxycrate; but after the seventh day, unwashed wool, with the oil of roses, of myrtle, or of lentisk, sometimes with vinegar, and sometimes with austere wine; or, if the discharge be great, we may apply fine flour and manna, with vinegar, or alum and acacia, or pome- granate rind, or galls with vinegar, or dates with polenta and quinces boiled in austere wine. Afterwards we may put on the plaster from willows, more particularly if the discharge be mo- derate. But the following things are to be taken by the mouth: Purslain when eaten is of use (but its juice when drunk is more pow erful), the flowers also of the wild pomegranate, the fruit of the bramble and its flowers, the fibrous part of the common oak, and the membrane under the shell of the acorn (but these are used more especially in decoction); and yet those of the fagus and ilex are more powerful remedies. The Samian aster applies to every spitting of blood, and also the Lemnian earth, and bloodstone finely triturated with the juice of pomegranate or knot-grass. The dose of the stone should be one scruple. The following compound remedies are useful; namely, the trochisk from amber, that from coral, and that from Egyptian thorn, also the powder composed of the earth called Samian aster, Lemnian earth, coral, confrey, and starch, of each, equal parts. When the disease is occasioned by erosion, more especially if a catarrh precede, we may mix half a part of opium. And the compo- sition admitting of equal parts of Samian aster, agerat stone, and Lemnian earth, is an excellent remedy when drunk to the amount of two spoonfuls (cochlearia) in two cupfuls (cyathi) of plantain-juice.—Another : Of Lemnian sealed earth, dr. xvj; of Samian aster, dr. xviij; of starch, dr. viij; of sarcocolla, dr. iv; of gum, dr. ij. Of this in powder let one spoonful be taken with two cyathi of the decoction of dates. Let them also take cold oxycrate, or the decoction of dates, of apples, of pears, of vine tendrils, or the like. They may take food, if the strength urgently requires it, about the second or third hour, but if otherwise, about the fourth. Let it consist of bread that has been soaked in cold water, or halica, or chondrus, with some of