THE PLAGUE. SECT. XXXVI.] 277 atmosphere, the stagnant air of caverns, the miasmata of lakes Comm. and marshes, and the effluvia from dead bodies, (iv, i, 4.) I-^~J Alsaharavins enumerates exactly the same causes. (3.2.) Biases' account is mostly taken from Hippocrates and Galen. (Contin. XXX.) The historian Ammianus Marcellinus gives an ingenious disquisition on the origin of these diseases j but the distinction which he endeavours to establish in the following passage is not acknowledged by the medical authors in general: " Prima species luis Pandemus appellatur, quae efficit in aridioribus locis agentes caloribus crebris interpellari; secunda, Epidemus qme tempore ingruens acies hebetat luminum, et concitat periculosos humores; tertia, Lwmodes, quse itidem temporaria est, sed vo- lucri velocitate letabilis." (xix, 4.) The causes of these com- plaints, as enumerated by him, are excessive heat, cold, drought, or moisture, effluvia from putrid bodies, and exhalations from the earth. According to Diodorus Siculus, the causes which gave rise to the pestilential epidemic which attacked the Carthaginian army in Sicily were the marshy nature of the country in which they were encamped, the bodies of the dead lying unburied, and the excessive heat of the season, (xiv.) He ascribes the plague of Athens to similar causes, (xii. 58.) SECT. XXXVI. ON THE PLAGUE, FROM THE WORKS OF RUFFUS. In the plague there is everything which is dreadful, and no- thing of this kind is wanting as in other diseases. For there are delirium, vomitings of bile, distension of the hypochon- drium, pains, much sweatings, cold of the extremities, bilious diarrhoeas, which are thin and flatulent; the urine watery, thin, bilious, black, having bad sediments, and the substances float- ing on it most unfavorable; trickling of blood from the nose, heat in the chest, tongue parched, thirst, restlessness, insom- nolency, strong convulsions, and many other things which are unfavorable. Should a person foresee that the plague is coming, by attending to the badness of the season, and the unhealthy occupations of the inhabitants, and from observing other animals perishing; when one observes these things, let