423 DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECT. XXII.J by a weakness of the optic spirit. Old men are affected in the opposite manner to these, for they do not perceive near objects, but see those at a distance. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Aphoris., de Visu, et alibi); C Galen (de Loc. Aff. iv, de Med. Sec. Loc. iv) j Aetius (vii) j w Alexander (M); Oribasius (Synops. viii); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 11) j Leo (iii) j Pscllus (Opus Medicum) j Palladius (Comment, in Hippocrat. Epidem.); Scribonius Largus j Octa- vius Horatianus (i, 10) j Nonnus (Epit. 45) ; Serapion (ii); Avicenna (iii, 3, 1, 2) j Mesne (de Mgnt. Ocul.) j Avenzoar (i, 7) j Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 13, Pract. v, 3-1) j Alsaharavius (Pract. iv); Hhases (Divis., ad Mansor. ix, and Contin. ii); Canamusali (de Oculis, vi) j Jesu Haly (Tract, de Oculis.) On pain, disorder of the eye, ophthalmy, inflammation, and defluxion. The ancients treat of these complaints separately; but, as they are so nearly connected, we shall class them toge- ther. By disorder of the eye {taraxis), they meant an inferior degree of ophthalmy, as is remarked by Turnebus. (Bernard's Nonnus, 45.) It is, therefore, the mild acute ophthalmy of Scarpa. The remedies enumerated by Hippocrates for pains of the eyes are thus given in the language of Celsus : " San- guinis detractio, medicamentum, balneum, vinum." Drinking wine might appear to us at first sight not a very likely mode of curing ophthalmies ; and vet Galen, in his Commentary on this Aphorism (vi, 31), has related a case in which it effected a cure after every other remedy had failed. Even Scarpa allows the correctness of the aphorism as a rule of practice, and states that wine and the cold bath are proper when the disease is kept up by excessive irritability. Alexander recommends wine and the tepid bath when the inflammation arises from thick and pituitous blood. Philagrius, as quoted by Theophilus in his 'Scholia on Hippocrates/ indicates that the wine should be white, sweet, new, and if the patient's head be delicate, diluted with water. (See further, t. ii, 501, ed. Dietz.) Mesue makes many inte- resting remarks upon the above-mentioned remedies of Hippo- crates. For further explanation of the rationale of this practice, see Schelhammcr (de Tumoribus), and Littre (Hippocrat. t. iv, 418.) Another of Hippocrates' aphorisms is, that a sponta- neous diarrhoea is a favorable occurrence in ophthalmy; upon