[book III. 040 THE UTERUS. Comm. Aretseus, with his usual talent for description, draws a me- ^—' lancholy picture of a woman labouring under a complete proci- dentia uteri. He says it is occasioned by abortions, violent concussion, or severe labour; and explains very well how this happens from relaxation or rupture of the ligaments of the uterus. Our author takes his account almost word for word from Aetius, who acknowledges his obligations to Soranus. Alsaharavius recommends nearly the same plan of treatment as Hippocrates; and directs us, when the attempts at reduction fail, to extirpate the Avomb by an operation. Avenzoar relates a case in which he saw the whole uterus projecting externally. He did not know the issue, only he was sure that the disease subsisted for a considerable time. He also relates another case upon the authority of a friend of undoubted veracity. Haly Abbas likewise mentions that the uterus sometimes protrudes fairly out, and enumerates the same causes of the complaint as our author. He relates that cases have occurred of the whole uterus having become putrid and been removed entire. Rhases, Avicenna, and Serapion, appear to have derived all their in- formation from Aetius and Paulus. Rhases directs us to bathe the parts with styptic decoctions, to put the woman into a bath medicated with roses, myrrh, &c, to reduce the womb, and retain it with compresses soaked in an astringent solution. Eros recommends baths composed of the decoctions of acorns, pomegranate-rind, sumach, galls, &c.; also astringent fomenta- tions, and a cooling diet. The ancients appear not to have used pessaries made of solid materials, such as wood and metals. SECT. LXXIII. ON PHIMUS IN THE UTERUS. Phimus takes place about the mouth of the womb, either in consequence of ulceration or of inflammation terminating in scirrhus. We must cure it by emollient hip-baths of oil and water, and of the decoction of fenugreek, applying cataplasms of a like kind, and introducing emollient pessaries. But if the complaint be protracted, we must have recourse to vapour-baths and fumigation with aromatics. The phimus may be dissolved