SECT. LX.] SWOONING. 327 SECT. LX. ON DELIQUIUM ANIMI OR SWOONING. When the fainting is occasioned by cholera, diarrhoea, or other repeated and copious evacuations, we must sprinkle water upon the patient, twist his nose, rub over the orifice of the stomach, and encourage vomiting; and we should also irritate the throat with our fingers or the introduction of a feather. Several strong ligatures are likewise to be applied; when the evacuations are downwards, to the arms; and, when upwards, to the legs. The patients are also to be placed in an easy, erect posture, and a cupping-instrument applied, so as to produce revulsion to the opposite part of the body. Wine and water relieves prostration of strength occasioned by frequent evacuations, provided there be no inflammation of any visceral part, nor violent headach, nor delirium, nor ardent fever unconcocted, to contra-indicate it; for in such cases wine will do much mischief. And if it be summer, and the patient of a hot temperament, and addicted to drink cold things, we may give cold drink; but if the contrary, warm. Wlien the cleliquium is occasioned by profuse sweats, we are to constrict the skin, as formerly said, and allow a free current of cool air. In defluxions on the stomach, none of these tilings is fitting, unless the application of strengthening things to the belly and stomach, and bathing them; for baths are most beneficial in cases of stomach defluxions, but greatly aggravate hemorrhages and sweatiugs. Those who have fainting fits from plethora, must abstain from wine, and food, and from baths too, if there be fever. And we must give them honied water having thyme, marjoram, pennyroyal, or hyssop boiled in it. Oxymel also is beneficial to them. But if the faintings proceed from depraved humours contained in the stomach, we must prescribe a vomit with water and oil—at the same time tickling the throat with the finger or a feather. But if vomiting cannot be thereby procured, we must give pure oil, which will often evacuate down- wards. And wormwood is applicable in such cases. But if the faintings are occasioned by weakness of the stomach, we must use tonic medicines, as formerly stated in the Section which treats of this affection, and rub the extremities. When they proceed from exposure to immoderate heat, we are to prescribe the bath; or, when from excessive cold, we must use the medi-