SECT LXXVIII.] GOUT. mach, producing nausea and anorexia, and ought, therefore, to be used only in the case of those who are pressed by urgent business; for it removes rheumatism speedily, and after two days at most, so that they are enabled to resume their accus- tomed employment. I knew a person who did not give the substance of hermodactylus, nor any of the compound medicines containing it j but boiling the plant itself with some of the common remedies, such as anise or parsley, he gave the decoc- tion to drink j and it was wonderful how those who got it, after having evacuations of the bowels, were freed from the rheuma- tism. It is necessary, however, as I said, because the medicine is bad for the stomach, to correct the mouth of the stomach afterwards by stomachics and tonics, along with things that are moderately heating. Alexander says that purging by corono- podium is preferable to that by hermodactylus, as it procures evacuation and relief from pain, and at the same time is not bad for the stomach. But topical applications are to be had recourse to in cases of pituitous rheumatism. When the pain is moderate, a green cabbage-leaf may be applied, and also parsley, fleabane, and the straight vervain; but when the pain is violent, take of the flour of fenugreek, p. iij ; of the flour of darnel, p. j ; of the flour of chick-peas, p. j ; make a cataplasm with honied water, or thin wine, with a little oil of privet, or of nard, more especially if in winter. And the ashes of burnt cabbage-roots, or of their stalks, when formed into a cataplasm with axunge, have proved beneficial to many ; but, in order that it may prove soothing, the axunge must be fresh, whereas, if we wish it to be discutient, it must be old and salted. And in like manner the dung of oxen, when boiled in honied water with barley-meal, or fresh moist dung applied with the leaves of cabbage; and so also goats' dung by themselves, or boiled with barley-flour in oxycrate. And since some have derived relief from seemingly opposite remedies (for a mixture of various humours confounds the diagnosis), we must state the materials thereof promiscuously. Wherefore the wild and garden orach in a cataplasm with bread are beneficial, or the leaves of petty mullein, triturated with bulbi and bread, or with polenta, or the cataplasm of raw barley-meal. Upon the whole, when the cause of the complaint is obscure, we must change sometimes to medicines of the same class, and sometimes to the opposite,