(i 13 THE MENSES. SECT. LXI.] the complaint. Suppression, he says, brings on heaviness, tor- Com por, pain of the loins, of the hindhead, of the root of the eyes, w" &c. When suppression arises from a hot temperament, it is to be treated with cooling and diluent food, such as ptisan, milk, lettuces, domestic kids and lambs, tender fishes and fowls, grapes, cucumbers, and a white watery wine. Baths of com- mon water are to be used. When connected with a cold tem- perament, the patient is of a pale leaden colour, and her urine watery. She is to live upon food of a heating nature, with a generous fragrant wine, or the wine made with salt water, and must take active exercise. The suitable medicines are those of a calefacient nature, such as thyme, calamint, cassia, spike- nard, or savin, taken in a white old wine. He also recom- mends myrrh, assafcetida, opopanax, castor, sage, rue, cumin, and the like, all of which are to be taken immediately after the bath ; and when these do not succeed, he directs us to purge or give an emetic. Pessaries too may be used, but the more acrid substances, such as elaterium, cantharides, and white hellebore, must be rejected, as they are apt to occasion irritation and in- flammation. Of his long list of prescriptions for pessaries, we shall merely notice the one consisting of turpentine, myrrh, honey, and saffron. When occasioned by fatness, the principal reliance is to be put upon an attenuant diet, but suitable fo- mentations and potions must not be neglected. Guarded purging with drastic cathartics, such as scammony or spurge, has often a good effect. Strong pessaries are likewise proper. When the suppression is connected with plethora, the patient experiences pains about the loins and lower part of the belly at the accustomed period, and a marked fulness of the veins is perceptible. It is to be cured by copious bleeding cither from the arm or foot, by quietude, and the use of common fomenta- tions. Restriction as to the bath and food must be enjoined. When connected with m«ci#/iow, the constitution is to be recruited by suitable exercise and regimen, not neglecting pessaries and potions. When occasioned by vitiated humours, such as bile or phlegm, the body is to be purged with the proper medicines, and the parts fomented. Fragrant articles are to be mixed with the food. The pessaries are to be made of elaterium, sow-bread, or the like, if bile prevails; but of anemone, pepper, or colocynth, if phlegm. When a bleeding at the nose is the