SKCT- »»•! PULSE. 207 into disease. The spasmodic pulses appear as if thev were | nigged, stretched, and drawn by the extremities, conveying the sensahon of a stretched cord. But no such thing takes place m the vibratory; for in them the dilatation is greater, as i different parts of the artery were carried upwards at one and the same time. They may be resembled to darts, which, when thrown with force, are carried along with a vibratory motion. 1 he pulse is serrated when part of the artery seems to be dilated and part not; the artery itself also appearing to be harder than natural. This pulse has some of the characters of the vibratory and is quick and dense, but not always great. In addition to those mentioned, there is a tenth kind of pidses arising from inequality, namely, that with regard to regularity and irregula- rity. The unequal pulses being divided into those which are alike as to periods, and those which are wholly unlike, the regular and irregular are formed according to each of these divisions; from the equality of periods the regular is formed, and from the entire inequality the irregular. The equal pulse is also always regular (since consequently we call it alike); but the unequal is not altogether irregular ■ for, supposing it to have no equality, and yet to preserve a certain period, such, for example, as to extent of diastole, if there are two great and one small, then again two great and one small, and so on successively, such a pulse would be called anomalous, that is to say, unequal, but regular. But, if it not only had no equality, but likewise no order in its inequality, such a pulse would be not only unequal, but also irregular, and in like manner with regard to the other kinds. Of the irregular, some are altogether so, observing no period whatever; others are indeed regular as to periods, but, having no continued order, they may in this respect be called irregular, but in so far they observe a certain period regularly, they being regulated as to their periods. As if, for example' there were two great and two small, then three great and three small, and four great and an equal number small; and, return- ing again, two great and two small, three great and as many small, and so on in like manner. It is to be remarked that, of all the other opposite kinds, there is one intermediate between the two extremes, but that there is none between the equal and unequal, and the regular and irregular, unless you choose to call the one which is regular as to periods the medium between