sect, in.] PITYRIASIS. 345 (Idyl, ii, 88,) and is said by the scholiast to be a Scythian wood Comm. for dyeing the hair. It also occurs in Nicander (Ther. 1, 529). ,—v 1 11 is metaphrasist, Eutecnius, says that it grows in Sicily. Lucan, in like manner, calls it Erycina tkapsus, i. e. Sicilian thapsus. (Pharsal. ix, 916.) It is impossible to determine exactly what tree it was. The opinions of the philosophers regarding the hair may be learned from Aristotle (H. A. iii), and Pliny (H. N. xi, 94.) Both state that the hair and also the nails grow after death; and Philoponus mentions this circumstance as a well-known fact. See Comment, in Aristot. de Anima, Praefat. It may be proper to mention that Bichat and other modern physiologists have been of the same opinion. SECT. III. ON PITYRIASIS. Pityriasis is an eruption of small furfuraceous substances on the skin of the head, or the rest of the body, without ulceration. It is occasioned, either by depraved humours which have been determined to the head, or by a saltish phlegm, or by bilious or melancholic blood. After the general system has been evacu- ated, as formerly described, we must use some of the under- mentioned remedies. Having first macerated Cimolian earth in water, mix with the juice of beet, and anoint it, allowing it to remain until dry, then wash it away, and, having pounded frankincense with wine and oil, anoint with them. Next day, nib in stavesacre with oil.—Another: Of nitre, of the burnt lees of wine, of ben-nut, of each, lb. j; of stavesacre, lb. iss. Dissolve in wine, and rub the head; or, if the rest of the body be affected with tingling, it may be used dry. When the pity- riasis is more humid, wash with brine or the decoction of lupines. Of this remedy I have had ample experience. On psydracia and exanthemata of the head. The psydracia are small protuberances, like blisters, elevated above the skin. The exanthemata are superficial ulcerations, somewhat red and rough. Both are to be cured by the under-mentioned remedies: Of litharge, dr. iv; of ceruse, dr. iv; of alum dr. ij: of the green leaves of rue, dr. ij; pound with vinegar and myrtle-oil, and anoint.—Another: Pounding rue and alum with honey, anoint Avith this the head, after having first shaved it. If the head is