SECT. VII.] 11 COUGH. consisting of pustules, which affect the heads of infants, and Comm. sometimes the face. They are attended, he says, with a con- stant itching, and occasion erosion. His treatment is to shave the head, and to apply to it first a leaf of blite {bleta vel beta?) and afterwards an ointment composed of spuma argenti, ceruse, and lye, with rose-oil and wax. The Alkaba is said to be of the same nature, only that the fluid which runs from the pustules resembles honey. Tins, therefore, must be the porrigo favosa. His remedies are, to wash the head frequently with a lotion made from marjoram, mint, or centaury; and then to apply an oint- ment composed of spuma argenti, ceruse, Armenian bole, sul- phur, almonds, and quicksilver; and also liniments of rose-oil and vinegar, with the free use of the bath. As Dr. Willan re- marks, he has described the strophuli by the name of pustula?, (bothor.) (Tr. xxvi, 25.) He says of them: "Alia? sunt alba?, alia? rubea?, alia? nigra?, alia? magna?, aha? parva? et multa? et pauca?, alia? fortis et acuti doloris, et mortifera?," &c. It appears, therefore, that he applies the term in a very lax signification. Rhases describes the Exanthemata by the name of vesica. He prescribes, at the commencement, medicines for expelling the morbific superfluity from the inner parts, such as the decoction of dates or figs, with fennel water. When the eruption is fairly come out, he recommends baths medicated with roses, myrtles, and the like; after which, the child is to be rubbed with the oil of roses or of violets. (De Morbis Infant, c. 19.) We may mention that Lanfrancus, and the other medical authorities of that age, de- scribe them by . the name of saphati. SECT. VII. ON THE COUGH AND DEFLUXION OF INFANTS. WTien the child is seized with cough or defluxion, recourse is to be had to a linctus of honey. It is first to be bathed copi- ously with warm water, even to its head, and plenty of honey given : then press its tongue gently with your finger, and it will vomit up much phlegm. Commentary. See Oribasius (Synops. v, 7), and Aetius (iv, Comm. 18.) Aetius recommends various lohochs or linctus. One of * them consists of pine-nuts, almonds, linseed, liquorice-juice, and honey.