56 LAXATIVES AND DIURETICS. [book i. radicula, siser, cepa; ex venatione, maxime lepus; vinum tenue, piper et rotundum et longum, sinapi, absinthium, nuclei pine!. He also gives a long list of laxative articles, such as cabbage, mallows, sorrel, gourds, cherries, all ripe apples green tigs cockles, oysters, muscles, milk, crude honey, and all fatty and salty substances, (ii, 29.) Horace makes mention of the laxative properties of oysters, cockles, dock, and white wine- " Si dura morabitur alvus Mitulus et viles pellent obstantia conchae, Et lapathi brevis herba; sed albo non sine Coo." (Sat. ii, 4.) Avicenna gives very minute directions respecting the use of purgatives. He very properly recommends us when a purgative medicine has been taken, and instead of operating, has occasioned heat, vertigo, and headach, to administer an injection. (1, 4.) Haly Abbas treats of these medicines in pretty much the same terms as our author. He remarks that obstruction of the bowels leads to colic, flatulence, difficult respiration, and vertigo. Retention of urine, he says, leads to ulcers in the bladder. He states that diuretics are useful in diseases of the joints and spine, dropsy, and various complaints, but are apt to render the body'dry. (Pract. i, 12.) Diuretic medicines, he remarks in another place, are of a hot and sharp nature, so that they heat the kidneys, and thereby increase their attractive power, (ii, 27.) Alsaharavius cautions against the indiscriminate use of purga- tives, which, he says, in a dry temperament disposesto phthisis, and to dropsy when the stomach is weak. When a purgative medi- cine has induced hypercatharsis,he prescribes astringentpowders, containing sumach, pomegranate, and the like. (Theor. x. 1.) Rhases gives some very sensible observations on the use and abuse of purgatives. He says that persons who lead an indolent life, are of a gross habit, and live freely, are most benefited by them. To those of a dry temperament, on the other hand, they prove prejudicial, by predisposing to hectic fever. He recommends fat food and the warm bath before taking a purgative. (Ad. Mansor. iv, 15.) See a full account of these laxative medicines, in Serapion (De Antidotis.)