EPILEPSY. 381 SECT. XIII.] Aetius, Oribasius, Actuarius, and Alexander treat the disease Comm. upon the same principles as our author. Alexander, although 1 * 1 otherwise a most judicious and original writer, expresses great confidence in the use of amulets, for the preparation of which he gives very minute directions. Jasper is particularly com- mended as an efficacious amulet. One of his amulets is the nail taken from the arm of a malefactor who had been crucified ! In his general treatment he particularly approves of giving drastic purgatives and emetics. Isadoras thus defines epilepsy : " Epilepsia vocabulum sump- sit quod mentem apprehendens pariter etiam corpus possideat. Fit autem ex melancholico humore quoties exuberaverit, et ad cerebrum adversus fuerit." No ancient author has treated of epilepsy more accurately than the great Methodist Cselius; but his account is so long and minute, that it is impossible for us to do justice to it in an abridgment. The causes of the complaint which he enumerates are drinking too much wine, indigestion, compression of the brain, and frights. He says that the whole nervous system is affected, but especially the part seated in the head. When the patient is an infant, he properly directs us either to change the mu se, or to pay particular attention to her diet. Bloodletting he approves of on a first attack, unless the stomach be loaded with crudities ; and if there be pain in any part of the head, he directs leeches to be applied to it. He recommends gargles, and rubbing the skin with substances which occasion an eruption of pustules. He enjoins great caution in the use of hellebore. He approves of gentle exercise, a light diet, abstinence from wine, change of scene, or a sea-voyage. With respect to the modes of treatment pursued by the other sects, he greatly disapproves of the application of fire and other hot things to the head, and of strong sinapisms to the other parts of the body. Escharotics applied to the head, he says, only increase the disorder; and the use of bull's blood, or that of a man recently killed, and other such ridiculous remedies, he properly treats with con- tempt. He disapproves of diuretics, and of hellebore, scam- mony, and the like, when administered indiscriminately. He speaks unfavorably of chalybeates. The Arabians follow closely the views of their Grecian masters, without suggesting any material improvement. Haly Abbas says