DIFFICULT LABOUR. [book hi. G50 Comm. accomplish delivery readily. He mentions that in the delivery of twins, the two children may get entangled. He means, probably, that the head of the one may follow the delivery of the breach of the other. Of this singular complication, a fatal case was published in the 'Edinburgh Medical and Surgical JournaP some years ago. He expresses himself fa- vorably with respect to feet presentations. All cross presenta- tions are said to be difficult to rectify, but the child is to be brought by the head or the feet according to circumstances. When delivery is retarded by rigidity of the parts, he strongly recommends the warm bath. When fulness of the bladder occasions obstruction, he properly directs the urine to be drawn off by a catheter. When a foot or hand presents, he directs us not to pull down the part, lest it become more firmly impacted, or lest it should be fractured or dislocated j but the projecting part is to be pushed up and the position restored. According to Eros, one of the most common causes of difficult parturition is heat and tumefaction of the external parts. In this and in other cases, he directs the patient to sit in a bath prepared with emollient herbs, and to get the parts about the belly rubbed with oil of violets or of roses. Serapion treats this subject in nearly the same terms as our author. Like the Greeks, he approves of emollient oils and baths to produce relaxation. The same practice is recommended likewise by Rhases. When the membranes are tough, he advises us to tear them with the fingers, or to open them with a knife. Avicenna has treated of difficult parturition with his usual accuracy, which exhausts every subject he handles. He states that the expulsion of the child is performed by the abdominal muscles. This was the opinion of Galen; and we are inclined, upon the whole, to think it pretty correct. He approves greatly of the bath, both before labour has come on and during the time of it. When delivery is difficult, owing to the size of the child, he directs us to apply a fillet round the child's head, and en- deavour to extract it. When this does not succeed, the forceps are to be applied, and the child extracted by them. If this cannot be accomplished, the child is to be extracted by incision, as in the case of a dead foetus. This passage puts it beyond a doubt that the Arabians were acquainted with the method of extracting the child alive by the forceps.