FEVERS. [book ii. 206 comm. which lines the internal cavities, is admitted to be a prolongu- tion of it, (see Kaau Boerhaave, Perspiratio Dicta Hippocrati,) it would seem probable a priori, that the diseases of both por- tions of it should be alike. That fevers are often complicated with ardent affections of the lungs and bowels, and bilious symptoms, we all admit j and it was, no doubt, to such febrile affections that the ancients gave the name of fevers from erysi- pelas—erysipelas, as we shall see afterwards, being referred by them to the state of the bile. One cannot but admire the sa- gacity of Hippocrates in tracing the connexion and resemblance between the diseases of the epidermis and those of the epithe- lium. (See Littre's Hippocrat. t. iv, 419.) SECT. XXXII. DIAGNOSIS OF HECTIC FEVERS. The hectic fever is not only seated in the fluids and spirits, but also in the solid parts. It is unaccompanied with pain, and those affected with this fever imagine that they have no fever at all, for they are sensible of no heat, all the parts being heated equally. There are two kinds of hectic fevers, the one for the most part supervening upon ardent fevers which have been protracted so long as to consume in time all the juices in the body of the heart; the other may come on while it remains plentiful. The former constitute not only hectic but marasmus. Those that come on while the juices of the heart remain, seize upon the body of the heart, and hence the febrile flame is kindled, like the flame of a lamp from its wick. This is one of the modes of formation. The other mode is, when they make their attack originally, commencing like ephemeral fevers, from grief, anger, or much fatigue attended with heat. These may be cured without difficulty; but those of them which have terminated in marasmus, it is impossible to cure. A hectic fever which is running into marasmus may be easily recog- nized. You may see the patients' eyes immeasurably hollow, dry rheums determined to them, and they have a certain squalid appearance. The vital bloom of their colour is gone; their forehead is parched and stretched; they constantly wink as if asleep, and yet the affection is not sleep, but an inability to keep awake; their temples are collapsed; and what remains,