445 sect, xxiii.] DISEASES OF THE EAR. \\ ith \ iiiegai', oil of iris, or oil of bays, or myrrh and nitre, Comm. with roses and vinegar. When local applications do not sue- ' ' ' ceed, Haly states that the disease is occasioned by an affection of the brain or auditory nerve. Alsaharavius treats of the com- plaint with singidar precision and at great length. (Pract. hi, 4.) On deafness. On this subject Galen gives copious extracts from Apollonius and Archigenes, from which the aurists of the present day might derive perhaps some information. In deaf- ness occurring suddenly he recommends fomentations with the decoction of wormwood. Aetius copies from him. Alexander is very particular about the general treatment, recommending emetics of hellebore, drastic purgatives, errhines, topical appli- cations, exercise on horseback, change of place, shaving the head, and applying leeches to it, or a sinapism, or using fric- tion, and even opening the arteries. Celsus directs us to ex- amine the meatus, and if any scab of a sore or sordes appear in it, to inject warm oil, aerugo with honey, or the like j and afterwards to syringe it with tepid water. When the sordes is hard, it may be first softened by an injection of vinegar with a little nitre. Haly Abbas directs us to mix mustard with figs, and apply upon a tent for three days. As an injection he re- commends castor dissolved in oil of dill, and the juice of rue. When it proceeds from bile, he recommends hot purgatives and things of an attenuant nature. According to the nature of the exciting cause, Alsaharavius applies various remedies, such as purging, gargles, fumigations with decoctions of stimulant herbs, detergent oils, such as those of dill, chamomile, &c. Aaron, one of the authorities quoted by Rhases, states that deafness sometimes arises from congestion of blood about the ear; and, in that case, recommends local bleeding and an at- tenuant diet, with fomentations of hot oils, and the like. When it arises from obstruction, he directs the use of injections con- taining hellebore, vinegar of squills, &c. For contusions of the ears. Galen gives various prescriptions for this case. Similar ones occur in Aetius and Oribasius. Modern aurists forbid to bandage the ears tightly. On parotis. Celsus properly directs that if the gland swell without any other disease, applications to produce resolution should be first tried; but if the system is labouring under dis- ease, that the swelling is to be brought to a suppuration, and