242 FEVERS. [BOOK to all intermittent and remittent fevers, that the administration of food should be restricted during the paroxyms. (Apnor.) See the Comment of Theophilus (ed. Dietz, t. n, 268.) Celsus informs us that Cleophantus treated tertians by pour- ing warm water upon the patient's head, and giving him wmc before the accession of a paroxysm. This, however, he consi- ders to be precarious practice. Upon the whole, his great de- pendence is upon these three remedies: vomits, purgatives, and wine; of which the first is to be tried on the third day, the second on the fifth, the third on the seventh. Galen's practice is exactly detailed by our author. He eva- cuates the bile upwards and downwards at the commencement, and also, with the same intention, administers diuretics and su- dorifics. After these he reposes great confidence m wormwood, which, indeed, all the ancients held to be a powerful cholagogue. He also approves much of the tepid bath of common water. He directs the physician not to neglect venesection, if it be indi- cated ; upon which his commentator Stephanus remarks, that the circumstances commonly indicating bloodletting are the condition of the patient, if he be young and plethoric, and the season of the year, if it be spring. (Ed. Dietz.) He forbids wine until the fever is concocted, but afterwards allows a small quantity of thin watery wine. The food is to be refrigerant, and diluent. Everything of a heating and acrid nature is to be abstained from. Aetius, Oribasius, and Nonnus conduct the treatment upon the principles laid down by Galen. Actuarius directs bleeding at the commencement. Alexander discusses the established principles of treatment freely and fully. He disapproves of Galen's practice of giving the decoction of wormwood in the genuine or true tertian, after the seventh day, and confines the administration of it to spurious tertians, when he mixes it with oxymel. His own remedies are of a diluent and refrigerant nature. He approves very much of the bath. He speaks highly of the good effects of grapes and peaches, and still more of water-melons given with cold water before the fit. He approves of gentle, but not of strong purgatives. He praises very especially a rhodomel prepared from the juice of roses, honey, and scammony; and another, consist- ing of the same ingredients, along with agaric and pepper.