CORNS. [book III. G/8 Comm. The following application, recommended by Scribonius, might —^ be useful: CerussEe, lb. j j ol. myrtei, lb. j j lithargyri, dr. xxiv; ceras Pontica?, lb. j. Cerussa et spuma argenti coquuntur cum oleo, donee coeant, postea adjicitur cera. For pernio, Aetius gives a long list of applications, several of which are copied by our author. The ordinary ingredients of them are stimulants and astringents. The following may be pointed out as likely to be useful: Aluminis scissi, dr. x; lithar- gyri, dr. iv; myrrhse, dr. j ; ovorum albumina duo; vino ct oleo myrteo; m. Aetius also gives a variety of prescriptions for fissures and the other complaints of the feet. The turnip is mentioned by Pliny as an application to chil- blains. See also Galen (de Optima Secta, 16.) Octavius Horatianus lays down very judicious rules for the treatment of these complaints. His applications, however, are much the same as our author's. Thus, for chilblains, he recom- mends fomentations with salt water, or the decoction of beet, containing also alum; after which the part is to be anointed with melted wax. He also mentions, as proper applications, galls pounded with vinegar; a mixture of wax and melted pitch; a cataplasm of boiled lentils; the grease of geese, with wax and oil, applied in a tepid state; and the like. When ulcerated, he directs us to apply an ointment of litharge and axunge. For fissures he particularly recommends liquid pitch; or litharge mixed with ceruse, alum, and wine. When hairs are trouble- some, they are to be cleared away with a fine piece of iron. For fissures Rhases recommends the fat of a cock with galls. Alsaharavius lays down the rules for treating chilblains in all their stages with great precision. If the parts become red or black, he recommends us to make deep scarifications with a scalpel; after which the foot is to be put into hot water and allowed to bleed freely. His dressings are similar to those of the others. Haly's treatment is like our author's. SECT. LXXX. FOR CORNS AND CALLOUS FLESH. Having first cleaned the corns, apply one of the septics, either verdigris, red arsenic, the powder for fistulas, or the collyrium for fistulas instead of gum mixed with ammoniac. A corn is a white