FEVERS. [book ii. 22 (> M appearances scon floating on the surface, or as they may bo "S ed the scum. All the different appearances which these 2££ ut on, including every imaginary shade of colonr : tsenbed with surprising minuteness, and =ted with the morbid conditions of the system winch gives rise to them in £c there is no part of our task which we are obliged to di - charge n so unsatisfactory a manner to ourselves as the present; for to Sve our readers anything like a competent exposition of the knowl dge possessed by the ancients on the morbid appea - ses of the urine, we would require to transfer to our pages the give a few extracts from his work and that of Theophilus They Le that the urine of sedentary persons has more that of persons who pursue an active course of life, that tnc ^e of women, from this cause, has «^f^J^ than that of men; that of children more than that of adulto and that, of persons who live grossly, than the urine of temperate nersons. Theophilus thus delivers the characters of oily urine. When in fevers the urine assumes the colour of oil, it indicates that the fat of the body is melting down. When the appear- ances of the urine resemble oil still more, it indicates an increase of the melting of the fat; and when the urine in consistence and colour appears exactly like oil of a dark colour, it prog- nosticates a collapse and death. (§ 17.) This accords with what is stated in one of the aphorisms of Hippocrates : ^ hen in ardent fevers the urine has an oily sediment, it prognosticates death " The tare-like urine, as it was called from the resem- blance of the sediments to the colour of the tare (ervum ervilia), but which might be better called the grumous, since, as Actuarius explains, they bear a close resemblance to clots of blood, is said by Theophilus to be indicative of melting of the flesh/ The scaly urine derived its name from small substances resembling the husks or hulls of grain in the urine, and in febrile diseases was supposed to indicate great disorder of the general system, but otherwise to be connected with an affection of the bladder. The furfuraceous, which derived its name from the resemblance of the sediments to bran, was also held to be symptomatic of local disease of the bladder, or of constitutional disorder in fever. The gritty, so called from the resemblance of the substances in the water of the urine to large particles