sit OBESITY. [book t. SECT Lvil.—ON THE MEANS OF DIMINISHING OBESITY. When the body gets to an immoderate degree of obesity, it will be necessary to melt it down and reduce it. It was mentioned formerly that the warm temperament renders the body ean and therefore it ought to be superinduced, if possible, upon that of fat people, in order to reduce them to the proper state. Y on hm e also learned that active exercise, an attenuant regimen, medicines of the same class, and mental anxiety, bring on the dry tem- perament, and thereby render the body lean. What an atte- nuant diet consists of is perfectly obvious; but the more power- ful medicines, such as the seed of rue, particularly the wild, with its tops, the round birthwort (aristolochia rotunda), the small centaury, gentian, poley, and the stronger diuretic medicines, as Macedonian parsley: all such medicines, either alone or together, attenuate the humours, and evacuate the body. lne salts also from burned vipers and the theriac attenuate the body. The body may also be reduced and attenuated, by having an oil rubbed into it, containing the root of the wild cucumber, marsh- mallows, gentian, and the root of the all-heal and birthwort, or the poley and centaury. One ought not to take food immediately after the bath, but should first sleep for a little time. And it will be better if the water of the bath possess diaphoretic pro- perties, and, more particularly, if we can have recourse to a na- tural one, such as that in Mitylene. If it cannot be procured, the flower of salt may be mixed with sea water. Thin white wines ought to be used. Dry rubbing with thick towels is cal- culated to reduce the fat. A smaller quantity of food ought to be given in proportion to the exercise taken. Insolation also is of use for obesity. Fat persons ought not to take a fragrant draught before a meal; and it will be best if they eat only once in the day. The body ought to be rubbed with nitre (soda), and the rougher salts. A large quantity of nitre in the bath is atte- nuant, but a small quantity only stimulates to nourishment. The following mixture is attenuant: Of pepper and Macedonian parsley, two parts, of asarabacca and anise, one half. This acts well, both as a diuretic and a cathartic. Comm. Commentary. This is taken from Oribasius. (Synops. v, 40.) U~^ Aetius uses nearly the same words, (iv, 32.) Celsus recom-