SMALLPOX AND MEASLES. BOOK II.] 333 the discharge of it to be promoted. He points out the differ- Comm. once between distinct and confluent smallpox ; and remarks that the latter is far more dangerous than the other. He also cor- rectly states that when, in measles or smallpox, the eruption is suddenly determined inwardly, it is a fatal symptom. He all along inculcates that measles and smallpox are nearly allied to each other. Georgius, one of the authorities quoted in his < Continens/ says that measles arise from blood mixed with much bile, and smallpox from gross blood mixed with much humidity. He states that the danger is proportionate to the pain in the throat and difficulty of breathing. The elder Scrapion, as quoted by him in the same work, directs, if it is the winter season, the wood of tamarisk, &c. to be burned beside the patient. In his work ' Ad Mansorem/ he recommends nearly the same treatment as that which we have been detailing from his Trac- tatus on Smallpox; but does not speak so decidedly in favour of cold drink. Avicenna's description of smallpox and measles is very similar to that of Rhases. He confidently pronounces them to be con- tagious diseases. He states correctly, that when smallpox proves fatal, it is usually from the affection of the throat, or from the bowels becoming ulcerated. Sometimes, he adds, the disease superinduces bloody urine. He agrees with Rhases that measles is a bilious affection, and that it differs from smallpox only in this, that in the former the morbific matter is in smaller quan- tity, and does not pass the cuticle. His treatment also is little different. At any period during the first four days he approves of venesection, but forbids it afterwards. He recommends cooling and diluent draughts prepared from tamarinds and the like. He prescribes figs to facilitate the eruption of the pus- tules, and forbids cold drink after they begin to come out. When the pustules are large and fully formed, he approves of letting out their contents with a gold needle. His treatment of the throat, eyes, belly, and hands is nearly the same as that recommended by Rhases. When ulcers are formed after the falling off of the eschars, he directs them to be dressed with the white ointment, composed of ceruse and litharge, (iii, 1, 4.) Serapion's account of smallpox and measles, as is remarked by Haly Abbas, is very defective. He treats of them along