SPITTING OF BLOOD. SECT. XXXI.] •489 me that they have sometimes a contrary effect from what they Comm. are intended to produce, as they occasion a determination in- ' y ' wardly, and congestion in the deep-seated veins. I have there- fore known cases of persons affected with spitting of blood who were evidently hurt by the application of cold to the chest. \\ herefore, in cases of hemorrhage, I do not approve of the in- discriminate use of cold applications." (Meth. Med. v, 6.) See also de Const. Artis Med. (16.) Galen meutions that blood may run down from the fauces into the windpipe, and thereby occasion groundless apprehensions of hemoptysis. It deserves to be remarked that Dioscorides, Pliny, Galen, Alexander, and Paulus agree in recommending the haematite, or bloodstone for hemoptysis. It is a native oxyde of iron. To the long and accurate account given by Caelius Aurelianus it is impossible to do justice in a short abstract. Passing over entirely his description of the symptoms, and explanation of the sources from which the blood is discharged, we shall merely dwell upon a few points of his practice. He insists with proper earnestness on the necessity of complete rest, coolness, and ab- stinence from everything of a stimulant nature; and recom- mends the practice already often mentioned of applying to the part affected sponges or compresses soaked in cold water, or in water and vinegar, or in some astringent decoction. He also approves of the application of ointments or plasters composed of galls, alum, the rind of the pomegranate, and the like. From among his many internal medicines we would point out the composition consisting of gum acacia, alum, and the decoction of poppies. "When the discharge does not stop before the third day, he recommends venesection. But if pain, difficulty of breathing, or a dry cough should come on, he approves of bleed- ing at an earlier period of the disease. He then directs us to give emollient epithemes, electuaries containing frankincense and opium, and the like. When the pain is protracted, he recommends us to apply cupping-instruments or leeches to the part affected. Food of a middle quality, milk, and the like are to be given. From his strictures upon the practice of the others, it appears that some of the medical sects had condemned vene- section, but it is satisfactory to know that most of the authori- ties were agreed about the propriety of it. The Methodist forbids it when there are no symptoms of inflammation present.