PRIAPISM. SECT. LVII.] 597 poppy - the applications in either case being frequently changed. Com When these things do not succeed, the neighbouring parts are to be cupped or leeched; and in case of necessity the afore- mentioned refrigerants are to be changed for calefacicnts, such as the oil of privet, or the Sicyonian oil. This treatment, he remarks, will prove soothing to the nerves. He also recom- mends castor and a refrigerant diet, from which wine and flesh are to be excluded. It appears, therefore, that our author's treatment is mostlv taken from him. Oribasius pronounces satyriasis to be a fatal symptom in acute fevers; and Professor Sprengel confirms the justness of this observation. (Hist, de la Med. t. ii, 188.) Cselius Aurelianus gives a very circumstantial account of this disease. His treatment differs from that of Aretams in this respect—that he disapproves entirely of the refrigerant applications, and, instead of them, recommends soothing ones, namely, emollient oils, a hip-bath of oil and water, and the like. He approves also of bleeding, cupping, and leeching. Octavius Horatianus treats it upon nearly the same principles, that is to say, he recommends fomentations with the vapours of hypocistis or hemlock, hard friction, exercise, and astringent food. There is nothing original in the treatment of the Arabians. Haly Abbas recommends calefacient and desiccative medicines internally, such as agnus castus, rue, cumin, &c. He also permits the use of narcotics with desiccants, such as coriander, henbane, lettuce, and opium. To the member he directs us to apply a cataplasm containing the oil of roses, lettuce, cori- ander, and camphor; and when this fails, some opium is to be added. He enjoins hard exercise. Alsaharavius recommends much the same treatment as our author, namely, bleeding from the arm or foot, diluent and re- frigerant draughts, cooling applications containing vinegar, ceruse, &c; and, if these do not succeed, leeches. SECT. LVII. ON PRIAPISM. Priapism is a permanent enlargement of the penis, which is swelled both in length and circularly, and there is no venereal