493 PLEURISY. [BOOK nI- is on the decline, we may make them take the hath (hut avoid- ing the cold), and allow them to use a more nutritious diet. 11 Z inflammation of the pleura he not resolved hut appear to be converted into pus, we must have recourse to the remedies formerly mentioned. For \mins of the sides without fever. Pains of the sides without fever are cured by bdellium and costus, mixed with the ashes of burnt cabbage-leaves and tallow : for this remedy is powerfully discutient. , Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, ii; de Rat. Vict, in Acut.); Galen (de Med. sec. loc.vii, et alibi); Celsus (it,b)i Aretaeus (Morb. Acut. i, 10; Curat. Morb. Acut i, 10); Aetius (viii 76); Psellus (Op. Medicum); Alexander (vi, 1); Oriba- L (Synops. fa, 7, 8); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 4); Nonnus (129)- Camus Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. ii, 13); Octavius Hora- tianus (ii 4); Marcellus (de Medicam. 24); Serapion (n, 21) ; Mesne (de iEgrit. Pect. 7); Avicenna (hi, 10, 4); Alsaharavius (Pract. xii, 8); Avenzoar (i, 16, 4); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 21) ; Pract. vi, 13); Rhases (Divis. 54; Contin. x.) Hippocrates gives brief descriptions of pleurisy, and recom- mends nearly the same treatment that is now practised, namely, bleeding ad deliquium animi, purging, diluent drinks, and fo- mentations to the side by means of sponges squeezed out of hot water, or of bags filled with salts and millet, or the like. He says, those who have neither been bled nor purged die on the seventh day, either with delirium, or with orthopncea and ara/e. One of his aphorisms is, that pneumonia supervening upon pleurisy is dangerous, (vii, 11.) He was acquainted with pul- monary adhesions, as is remarked by his devoted admirer Laennec. Aretams, with his usual accuracy, gives a most complete de- scription of all the symptoms of pleurisy, but, as it is not much different from our author's, we shall not enter far upon a detail of it. He states distinctly that the disease is an inflammation of the membrane which lines the chest. The sputa are pituitous, bilious, or deeply saturated with blood, or yellowish. He re- marks, by the way, that pleurisy is sometimes a sporadic disease, and sometimes epidemical. His directions about the application of the common remedies are dictated by his usual excellent judg-