314 Comm. FEVERS. [BOOK Commentary. According to Galen, bulimos is occasioned by a want connected with atony, and coldness of the stomach. (De Cans. Sympt. i, 7.) Alexander, on the other hand, says, that it arises from inordinate heat and weakness of the stomach. He informs us that the vulgar practice consisted m giving fra- grant things, binding the extremities, rousing by pinching, giving bread soaked in wine, and, in short, administering every thing calculated to cool and strengthen the body. Others, he says, give opium in cold water, in order to extinguish the heat of the stomach. However, he disapproves of all these things, and recommends food of difficult digestion. He relates the case of a woman affected with bulimia who was cured by having a purgative powder given to her, which occasioned the discharge of a worm more than twelve cubits long, (vh, 6.) Aetius and Oribasius adopt the theory of Galen, and recom- mend nearly the same treatment as our author. Aetius also directs us to apply over the stomach cooling cataplasms made of dates, quinces, or polenta, boiled in diluted wine. Serapion remarks that bulimos is distinguished from the canine appetite, by the desire in the former complaint being for proper articles of food, whereas, in the latter, it is for depraved or improper food. His treatment in most respects is like our author's. He also recommends a mixture of old odoriferous wine, camphor, and lignum aloes, (ii, 11.) Avicenna and Haly Abbas agree with Galen in stating that bulimos is connected with a cold intemperament of the stomach, whereby the sensibility and attractive power of the stomach are • diminished. Their treatment in principle is quite similar to our author's. In extreme cases they agree with Galen in re- commending the theriac. One of Rhases' authorities recom- mends cardamom, cubebs, and the like. (Cont. xi.) The classical reader is referred to Callimachus for a grand poetical description of Bulimia. (Hymnus in Cererem.) SECT. LII. ON THE CANINE APPETITE. Although this symptom seldom occurs during fevers, it some- times does afterwards; and, since it is allied to loss of appetite, as being the opposite extreme, it will not be improper to treat