SECT. XXXIII.] HECTIC. 269 of chondrus, with a little bread in addition; and to treat the patient with a draught of moderately cold water, when neither inflammation nor putrefaction of the humours is pre sent. But if you conclude that the lesion is great, you must proscribe the cold M ater, and have recourse to the cooling applications ex- ternally. To those affected in this manner, baths are at all times proper. Commentary. This section is taken from Oribasius (Sy- Com nops. vi, 22.) It will be remarked that our author's treatment w~ consists of diluents and refrigerants internally, with cold appli- cations and baths. It is entirely derived from Galen. Galen defends, in very strong terms, the use of the cold bath, which had been condemned by a celebrated physician of the name of Philip. (Meth. Med. x.) He admits, indeed, that an inflam- matory or erysipelatous affection of a vital organ, and a redun- dance of crude and putrid humours in the body, may compel us to abstain from the bath; but, in all other circumstances of hectic fever, he insists that it is the remedium unicum. He also recommends cold drink and cold applications to the part primarily affected. He speaks favorably also of the internal administration of refrigerants, such as lettuces, which may also be applied externally. (De Marasmo.) For diet, he recom- mends articles of a diluent and cooling nature, such as ptisan, bread steeped in cold water, and the milk of asses. (Meth. Med. 1. c.) Aetius, in like manner, recommends the bath, unless the use of it be contraindicted by the inflammation of some vital organ, or a fever enkindled by the putrescency of the humours. He gives minute directions for the application of the bath, the amount of which is this, that, under certain circumstances, it will be most prudent to use the tepid bath before the cold. In all cases he directs the body to be rubbed with oil before goiiii; into the bath, and to be gently rubbed with towels after coming out of it. He greatly praises the milk of asses, which he re- commends to be drunk warm. Alexander also forbids the use of the bath, when inflamma- tion of any vital part is present. He approves greatly of the milk of asses for food. He allows wine only when the patient is of a cold and dry intemperament. He inculcates the neces-