DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book III. 410 order of the eye is a wateriness and heat of it, with preterna- tural redness, not occasioned by any cause within the body, but by some external one, such as the sun, smoke, dust, or the wind; wherefore it is soon dispelled when the cause is removed. And ophthalmy is a marked disorder, which may be occasioned not only by an external cause, but also without any obvious one, and remains until the third, fourth, or fifth day. It is best cured by avoiding every external exciting cause, by spare diet, drinking water, walking, and by opening the belly. On inflammation. When inflammation remains in the eyes after evacuation of the general system, we may use ointments for dispelling the rheum, and soothing the irritation, such as the collyrium of Nilus made from roses, the chiac, or the colly - rium from nard. When the tunica adnata is inflamed, we may use the collyria called monhemera, injecting them into the eye with the white of an egg. Next day, if the inflammation be not aggravated, we may anoint them with the collyrium of nard, and use a fomentation of the decoction of melilot and fenugreek. When the humour which occasions the ophthalmy is thick, we may use medicines which are neither obstruents nor incrassants, but which, on the contrary, will dissipate, dilute, and evacuate the humours, such as the chiac collyrium. But, if the humours are impacted in the head, we may fix a cupping instrument to the hind head, or scarify, or apply leeches to the forehead, near the eye affected. We must use cataplasms of pure bread soaked in water, with a little rose-oil, or polenta boiled in the decoction of poppy-heads also with rose-oil. We may also use a more efficacious cataplasm from saffron, melilot, the fleshy parts of dates, the tender leaves of coriander, eggs, and roasted wheat and crumbs of bread dipped in a decoction with a small quan- tity of rose oil, in a decoction of pounded poppy heads. We mix also the seed of the poppy as an anodyne. If compelled by the severity of the pain, we must add a little opium; but, unless the pain be very violent, we must abstain from all nar- cotics. If the inflammation be moderate, apply aloes by itself, or rub it in with water or the white of an egg. In order that the remedy may be ready for use, take of saffron, dr. vj • of aloes, dr. xvj; of gum, dr. ix; mix with rain water, and make a collyrium. And the saffron collyria, as they are called, are proper for the commencement of ophthalmies. In those cases