SECT. LXXXI.] FRUITS. 135 racters as our author, recommends them only in very small Comm. quantities. Aetius and Seth say that ripe medlars are some- what heating, but that the unripe are cold, astringent, and con- stipatmg. Actuarms calls them exceUent astringent medicines, but bad articles of food. Dioscorides describes two species of medlars, the aronia, and setanium. The first species is called azarollo by the Italians, and the other is the common species of medlar. See an interesting account of dates, or the fruit of the palm- tree, m the < Hierobotanicon' of Olaus Celsius. The date, ac- cording to Galen, is a fruit possessing a variety of characters, but having always a certain degree of sweetness and astringency. He says, it is indigestible and apt to occasion headachs. Simeon Seth says that dates form an impure blood; and Ruffus, as quoted by him, affirms that they prove injurious to the bladder. Scrapion, Rhases, and Mesue agree that the date is a cold, astringent fruit. Herodotus, Xenophon, and Athemeus make mention of a wine prepared from dates. Erotian says that a species of bread is made from dates, flour, and water. (Lexicon Hippocratis.) The olive, as Pliny remarks, consists of four parts, the kernel, the oil, the flesh, and the lees. The drupse, mentioned by our author, were the olives quite ripe and ready to fall from the tree. The colymbades and halmades were olives pickled with salt, &c. See Harduin (ad Plin. H. N. xv, 3.) The Siphnian Diphilus, as quoted by Atheneeus, says of them that they supply little nourishment, occasion headachs; that the black injure the stomach, and bring on heaviness of the head; and that the pickled prove more stomachic and astringent of the belly, Galen mentions that olives were often eaten with bread before dinner in order to open the belly. Simeon Seth says that ripe olives are moderately hot, but that the unripe are cold, desic- cative, and astringent. Serapion, in like manner, says that unripe olives are astringent. Plutarch mentions a pickled olive as a whetter of the appetite. (Sym. vi.) The ancients marked strongly their estimation of the olive when they set it down as being the emblem of peace, and sacred to the Goddess of Wisdom. The Siphnian Diphilus, as quoted by Athenseus, states that walnuts occasion headach, and swim on the stomach; but such