m FEVERS. [book and are watery, on the other hand the food ^ more dry and heating nature, as far as the ievei>mvL y Of this land, are those things which are prepared ^ »g condiments. But they must abstain from baths, unle«^ - required. When the digestive faculty is m an atonic state, w e must give food and applications of an astringent nature; the ^consisting of things in particular, to which apples, pears, or medlars have been added, or these tat^ selves, and thin fragrant wine of an astringent q^ty, «*d the applications are to be cataplasms made of polenta and dates, and wormwood, roses, myrtles, and such like things. It must be con- sidered also, to what part these cataplasms are to be appked I mean the region of the stomach, the lower belly, or perhaps the loins. Bloody discharges are restrained and dried up by reme- dies containing fine flour of polenta, with frankincense, or manna mixed with wine, or oxycrate. When the watery discharge - acrid, it must be sweetened by a lavement either with watei alone, or the juice of ptisan, or of chondrus, or rice, or tragum not once, but often; and afterwards there are to be added dried roses, or myrtles, and sometimes galls; and an egg with rose oil, and a thin astringent wine, or the decoction of roses, may be injected or applied to the anus, which will blunt the desire of going to stool. But when the calls are frequent, a clew formed of warm threads may be applied to the anus. COMM Commentary. Galen forbids venesection when the fever is complicated with diarrhoea. (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) When the body is constipated, Celsus recommends laxatives, diuretics, and sudorifics. He adds, it may also be proper to let blood, practise gestation, enjoin abstinence from food and drink, and keep the patient from sleeping. He likewise re- commends the bath, both of tepid water and of oil. When the bowels are loose he enjoins rest and sleep, gives medicines to restrain sweating, and forbids all exercise except gentle gestation. He also directs us to excite vomiting by copious draughts of tepid water, unless the complaint be of long standing, or there be pain of the throat, prsecordia, or side, (hi, 6.) Alexander forbids narcotics, unless in cases of extreme ur- gency. Avicenna joins him in laying down this injunction, and otherwise directs us to treat the diarrhoea febrilis upon general