126 PULSE. [BOOK *' comm. occasion disturbed dreams (His, Mirab. *i JJ^J"" — the most likely reason; but Plutarch, Iambhchus «^JP^ think they see more recondite meanings m the Pythagorean ZZ&L Actuarius remarks that all kinds o^u se are to be eaten in their green juicy state. In an ancient pro, eib, Jrescted by Athenlus, it is said that « figs are to be eaten after fish, and pulse after flesh." Galen speaks of lentils in much the same terms as Paulus. He particularly disapproves of the practice, which he says was common in his time, of eating them with sodden wine. Rhases says that they are of a cold, desiccative, and excrementitious nature. Actuarius calls them the worst of the legumma Athe- ne mentions that the Egyptians lived much upon lentils (iv.) Martial, in like manner, speaks of them as an Egyptian food All the commentators are puzzled to determine what the ancient faba was. We are inclined to think, with Dickson that Theophrastus's description of it applies best to our small bean. The Egvptian bean, according to Sprengel, was the ne- lumbium speciosum. Galen mentions that beans were much used by the gladiators, for giving them flesh, but adds that it was not firm or compact. Actuarius states that they are nu- tritious, but dissuades from using them freely, because of their flatulence. According to Celsus, both beans and lentils are stronger food than peas. Seth agrees with Galen, that the flesh formed from them is flabby and soft. Galen directs beans to be fried or boiled with onions, whereby they will be ren- dered less flatulent. (De Alim. Facult. i.) It is probable that the faseolus was the kidney-bean, or phaseolus communis L. Harduin calls it feverole in French. Rhases says that fasels are flatulent, and fatten the body. Pliny remarks that they are eaten with their husks. He al- ludes, we suppose, to the variety of them called Dolichi. Galen says that they are more laxative and nutritious, but not so fla- tulent as peas. Oribasius says that they hold an intermediate place between those substances which give much and those which afford little nourishment. Actuarius says they are the worst kind of beans, and that being heating and excrementi- tious thev are apt to disorder the bowels. Tares, as Galen and Oribasius mention, were sometimes used for food during a famine. All the authorities give peas much the same characters as