[book III. DROPSY. 572 pessary: Of anise, of cardamom, of cumin, of nitre, of birth- wort, of fenugreek, of pennyroyal, of the inner part of figs, equal parts; mix together in the oil called Susinum, and apply per vaginam. Afterwards we may use the natural baths per- severingly, and the sand-bath, but we must abstain from the others; but if they do ever go into a bath, let them sprinkle the body with powders from nitre, salts, mustard, lime, and the like. These things even without bathing are useful, when rubbed into the belly in a dry state, or with oil. In anasarca they must ex- ercise the other parts as much as possible, and use dry friction in the sun. And a desiccative diet should be taken. Let them, therefore, eat pickle, mustard, garlic, wild and dry fowls, aspa- ragus, picktooth fennel, leeks, wild carrot, and the other wild pot-herbs; and the theriac salts, or those of Iamblichus may be mixed with condiments; and old light diuretic wine may be used, or if it is at hand, the wine prepared with salt water. But the patients must abstain from much drink of any kind, and from water altogether. When the dropsy is attended with fever, the patient must ab- stain from the more heating and acrid food or remedies ; but we may give them intermixed with other things in case of urgent necessity. In tympanites, purgatives and every medicine which wastes the body must be rejected, and also the more drastic diuretics; and we must use both externally and internally such things as can attenuate and dissipate the flatus; and dry-cupping may be frequently applied over the whole belly. When those who have ascites are not benefited by any of the remedies al- ready described, we must have recourse to paracentesis, which does not apply to any of the other varieties of dropsy. Comm. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Intern. Affect. 25; de Ratione Victus in Morb. Acut.), and Galen's Commentary on the same (Prognost.), with the Commentary of Stephanus (ed. Dietz), and almost all the authors who treat of hepatic diseases may be consulted. Hippocrates gives a tolerably correct account of the causes and treatment of dropsy. The varieties of the disease described by him are dropsy from the drinking of cold water, from disease of the liver, and from disease of the spleen. He further states that it is frequently the consequence of protracted fevers, diav-