DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 449 SECT. XXIV.] The first is represented to be like a piece of torn flesh hanging Comm. in the nostril, and is to be extracted. The second consists of' ' ' hard flesh which fills the nostril, and is to be treated by the Cautery, with the application afterwards of the flos reris to the part. The third is a round and soft piece of flesh growing from the cartilage, and is to be extracted by a ligature, which opera- tion he describes minutely. The fourth is of a stony hardness, and is to be cut all round with a scalpel, then burnt, and the part touched with flos aeris. The fifth grows from the top of the cartilage, and is to be burnt. Galen gives various prescriptions from Archigenes, Asclepiades, Lampon, and others, for removing polypus. The most active ingredients in them are copperas, burnt copper, verdigris, alum, chalcitis, and arsenic. One of the simplest of Galen's pre- scriptions consists of arsenic, quicklime, and white hellebore, which are to be triturated together and applied. Another, named from Antonius Musa, is a powder consisting of equal parts of arsenic and copperas. We can from experience speak of the good effects of a similar application; and would, therefore, wish to call the attention of the profession to this method of curing polypus. That it may prove dangerous if misapplied cannot be doubted, but in the hands of a cautious surgeon such an application will be found both safe and effectual. Celsus forbids us to meddle with the disease when it is of a cancerous nature. But when soft it is to be cured by an operation. He adds that it may sometimes be made to drop off, if touched by means of a tent or pencil with the following composition: 'Minii Sinopici, chalcitidis, calcis, sandarachae, singulorum, p. j; atramenti sutorii, p. ij.' We need scarcely say that all these ingredients are powerfully caustic. Scribonius gives prescriptions similar to those of Galen. Octavius Horatianus says he has seen the tumour drop off' after such applications as arsenic with honey have been used. Aetius gives prescriptions for removing polypus without in- cision or burning. One of the most simple of his compositions is a powder composed of alum, ginger, red arsenic, burnt copper, and galls. Alexander, like the others, recommends escharotics, such as misy, copperas, and chalcitis. Marcellus makes mention of the same. 29