546 THE KIDNEYS. [book hi. On hemorrhage of the kidneys. The kidneys often getting into a relaxed state, cannot retain the urine, but, becoming di- lated, they allow the blood and other thick matters to escape from the veins. The kidneys often discharge blood periodically like hemorrhoids; and when evacuated they are relieved, m which cases we must not rashly interfere, if the bleeding imme- diately stops; but, if it continue, we must bleed in the arm, and use for hemorrhage of the kidneys and bladder those remedies which are recommended for hemoptysis and other hemorrhages; and, more especially, we must give the root of comfrey andtra- gacanth macerated in wine, the juice of knotgrass and plantain with oxycrate, or bitter almonds with must; or this medicine: Of fissile alum, dr. j ; of tragacanth, dr. ij; of gum, oboli, v; with must. And we must apply a cataplasm of raw barley-meal with oxycrate or rose-oil, or that from dates, and bread of siligo with acacia, or hypocistis boiled in an astringent wine or oxy- crate. In hemorrhages from the bladder, we must apply cup- ping instruments to the loins and ischium; and we must ascer- tain the part from which the blood flows by the pain in the place, and whether the blood be mixed with the urine or no, as was said with regard to pus. If there be coagulated blood in the bladder (which you may know from the flow of urine being suddenly stopped after a discharge of bloody urine, and from certain clots or bloody fluids being probably passed), give the decoction of mugwort to drink, and the seed of shrubby- everlasting, of fleabane, or of radish, or the juice of laserwort, or the Cyrenaic juice, or the juice of parsley, each mixed with vinegar, or the rennet of a hare, or of a hind, or of a kid, in oxymel, or strained lye with oil, and externally sponges out of hot salt water, or strained lye, must be applied. But, if they are not dissolved, we must make an incision in the perineum, as in the cases of calculus; and having removed the clots of blood, accomplish the cure in a proper manner. On hardness of the kidneys. When hardness occurs in the kidneys, it does not occasion pains, but they seem, as it were, to hang from the loins, and the haunches are torpid, and the limbs lose their strength, little urine is passed, and the whole habit resembles that of dropsical persons. Wherefore they are to be softened by cerates, emollient ointments, friction and fomen- tations; and we must administer diuretics, and clear out the bowels by clysters.