645 FISSURES, ETC. SECT. LXXV.J of sterility. Like the others, he directs us to find out the cause Co of it, and remove it if possible by suitable remedies. ^ Plutarch, thus enumerates the causes which had been sup- posed to explain why a woman does not conceive after every act of coition. Diocles, the physician, maintained that it is cither because no semen has been emitted, or less than necessary j or because it does not contain the prolific principle; or from a deficiency of heat, coldness, moisture, or dryness; or from re- laxation of the uterus. The Stoics held that it is from the obliquity of the penis, so that it does not project the semen straight forward; or from the disproportion between the genital members. Erasistratus taught that it is occasioned by callo- sities and fleshy excrescences; or from the uterus being more spongy or smaller than natural. (De Placit. Philos. v, 9.) The causes of barrenness are fully and ingeniously treated of in the tenth book of Aristotle's 'History of Animals/which, however, is of very doubtful authenticity. SECT. LXXV. ON FISSURES, CONDYLOMATA, AND HEMORRHOIDS OF THE UTERUS. Fissures occur about the mouth of the uterus from difficult parturition, and at first they escape notice while the pains from the labour are recent; but afterwards they are slightly felt, either upon manual inspection or during coition, when they bleed, owing to the friction. They are also discovered when the vagina is distended, for ruptures in the circle of the mouth are perceived. In these cases all surgical aid, and medicines of an irritating nature, must be avoided, and recourse had to the simpler hip-baths and pessaries. The medicine called Tetra- pharmacon diluted is befitting. But if it be callous, we must use that from paper, with rose-oil. If they cannot bear the strength of it, mix Illyrian iris with turpentine, and apply it. When the ulcers are cicatrized, it will be proper to use the medicine from cadmia, or some of the applications to the anus, such as that from litharge. It sometimes happens that these fissures, becoming chronic, are converted into condylomata, in which case the callus is to be removed by similar remedies, and the condylomata cicatrized. Hemorrhoids form about the mouth and neck of the uterus, which will be discovered by the speculum;