262 FEVERS. [book ii. febrile symptoms. The symptoms, he adds, beai- a consider able resemblance to those of the tertian intermittent, bnt aie m e trongly marked. According to Alsaharavius, the causus rodent fever, is occasioned by heated bile collected m the fining to the heart, stomach, or liver, and its symptoms resemble those of tertians, bnt are more intense From the above exposition of the opinions of the ancient regarding the cansns, or ardent fever, the medicareader wil read ly recognize its identity with the bilious remitent fever o SkJohn Pringle and other English authors. If there were any doubt on this head, it would be set aside by the descrip- tion of the symptoms of ardent fever which is given by the late Dr Robert Jackson, as they were manifested in his own person during a severe attack of it. (On Fever, 403.) Some late writers have confounded the causus of the ancients with synocha, or inflammatory fever. But, as we have said, and as was correctly stated by Baccius, the causus was decidedly of the continual or remittent type, and nearly allied to the ter- tian intermittent. (De Thermis.) Hoffman remarks that it seldom appears in the more temperate parts of Europe but is very common in Asia, Greece, and Italy; and hence the fre- quent mention of it in the works of Hippocrates, Galen, and Areteeus. (Oper. t. ii, ยง 2, c. 2.) Homer says that the dog-star brings many fevers upon un- happy mortals (Iliad, xxi, 31); and his commentator Eustathius remarks that the poet correctly refers the origin of ardent fevers to the heat of the dog-days. SECT. XXX. THE CURE OF ARDENT FEVERS. Either of the following things must take place, that this fever may terminate completely; the bilious humours must either be evacuated or extinguished. They are evacuated then by sweating, vomiting, or purging downwards; but they are ex- tinguished by cold drink, with which we have entirely cured ardent fevers. For diet, those in causus should not take water alone, nor mead alone, but boiled mead much diluted with water; for the food of such persons ought to consist entirely of drinks. The bath will suit with those only affected with causus