EXERCISES. [BOOK *• Alsaharavius recommends exercise before a meal, but advises it not to be continued after one feels fatted andJangari. (Theor. ii, 2.) The same rule is distmctly laid down by Rhases. (CTapp™that, instead of taking exercise after food the an- cients were in the practice of indulging m a short sleep after their dinner or mid-day meal. See Plautus (Mostell. ac. m, sc. 2 ] 8) and the note of Meursius (Ed. Gronov.) Homer says that it is beneficial to old men to indulge in sleep after the bath and taking food. (Galen. Hyg. 1.) Phitarch mentions that Cicero was cured of debility of the stomach bv taking moderate exercises. (In vita Cicer.) It was one of the extravagant opinions of Erasistratus, that exercise is not at all necessary for the health of the animal frame. SE CT. XVII. ON THE KINDS OF EXERCISE. The common effect of all kinds of exercise is to produce an increase of the natural heat of animals. But each species has something peculiar to it. Strong, that is to say, violent exercise gives vigour to the muscles and nerves: such are digging, and lifting a very heavy burden, while one remains in the same spot, or moves about; or lifting small weights and walking about as much as one can. Of this kind, is the exercise of scaling a rope, and many others of a like kind. The swift kinds of exer- cise are such as do not require strength and violence, namely, running, fighting with one's shadow, wrestling with the extre- mities of the hands, the exercise with the leather bag, and that with the small Ball. This last is compounded of intension and velocity; and such exercises as are intense may become violent by adding velocity to them. Besides, some kinds of exercise bring the loins into action, and some the hands or legs; others the spine or the chest alone, or the lungs. And exercise ought to be carried on until the body becomes distended, and the skin of a florid hue ; and until then, the motions ought to be strong, equable, and spirited, upon which you may see Avarm sweat, mixed with vapour, break out. It will then be time for you to stop, when any of the symptoms which I have mentioned have undergone a change, namely, when the bulk of the body