SECT- XIV-J URINE. 227 of ground grain, was reckoned by all the authorities, from Com Hippocrates downwards, as a very bad symptom in fevers. Fetid l— urine was supposed to indicate melting or putrefaction of the body. Actuanus gives a curious account of urine without sedi- ment, which he ascribes to its being attracted to some part of the system which is the seat of inflammation or erysipelas, (v, 5 ) Ihe emeorema, or substances in the middle of the urine, are said by Actuanus sometimes to resemble spiders' webs, sometimes specks of oil like what appears in fat broth when cooled, and at other times hairs, as will be more fully stated elsewhere. The nebulae, or scum on the urine, is said to put on various appear- ances, as, for example, that of bulhe or bubbles, of which mention wiU be made in another place. From a passage in Theophilus (v, 8), it may be inferred that the ancients sometimes applied external heat as a test of the characters of the urine. On the main the differences in the colours of the urine were held to depend on the mixture of bile in the urine, and some- times, though rarely, of blood. As a specimen of the doctrines of the Arabians, although, in fact, entirely borrowed from the Greeks, we shall select a few of the observations of Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius. According to Haly, thinness of the mine indicates deficient digestion. Thickness, on the other hand, is the product of excessive digestion, or arises from the presence of pituitous humours m the body. When the sediment is white, it is a favorable symptom; when yellow, it is from yellow bile; when red, it is from a sanguineous plethora and imperfect digestion; and if of long continuance, it must proceed from inflammation of the liver. If, after intense redness, the urine becomes black, it is a most fatal symptom. When the urine is moderately fetid, it is connected with indigestion; but when very fetid, with pu- trefaction. Alsaharavius delivers the characters of the different kinds of urine in nearly the same terms. He properly cautions the physician not to allow himself to be imposed upon by the colour of the urine, which may sometimes acquire a tiuge from the patient's having taken saffron, cassia-fistula, or the like. Such tricks, he says, are often practised upon water doctors. According to Rhases, it is an unfavorable symptom when the urine does not become turbid in the course of the fever. Yellow urine without sediment is said to be unfavorable.