653 sect, lxxvii.] ISCIIIATIC DISEASE. the rind of the root of capers in a draught, or added to the cataplasms, is of use. When the pain is great, anodynes may have place, such as the antidote of Philo and that from two poppers. This injection is to be used : Of honey, iss cyathus ; of oil, iss cyathus; of water, ij cyathi; of nitre, dr. viij; of tur- pentine, dr. iv. These are to be injected warm, and the anus fomented, that they may be the longer retained. It evacuates mucous matters, and sometimes blood when it affords more re- lief. But if the complaint be prolonged, which is rare, we must repeat it frequently, instead of the water substituting the de- coction of centaury. Blood is also evacuated by injecting the seed of treacle-mustard, and the juice of elaterium, and the Sicyonian oil prepared from it, or from the roots of the plant. The brine also of pickled fish, or of pickled olives, may be pro- perly injected. Cupping-instruments may be applied to the hip with much heat and with scarifications, or sometimes leeches may be used. When the affection is protracted, we must pro- ceed to purging either with the hiera, or giving of the medullary part of colocynth properly triturated to the amount of a drachm in two cyathi of honied water, more or less, according to the strength of the patient and the good state of his bowels. And let rue be boiled in the honied water. The pottage made with colocynth purges excellently. In some cases emetics from ra- dishes have proved beneficial at the commencement. During the remissions we may apply dropaces to them, and use the re- storative unguents (acopa) from euphorbium, and particularly the one called the complex. The natural baths also are proper; or if these be not at hand, they may bathe in the others; using the restorative ointments formerly mentioned, and the compound ones,—the iEsculapian, and that composed of equal portions of euphorbium, adarce,black hellebore, castor, pellitory, pepper, and wild grape dried. After the bath, we must sprinkle upon the skin while still warm, of dried pitch, oz. iij ; and of native sulphur, oz. ij ; and let the part be covered with paper. If even these things do not succeed, a remnant of the disease remaining, it will be proper to apply a cataplasm of mustard along with dried figs, or by itself. These complaints are completely removed by the Iberian herb, which some call lepidium, and some the wild cardamus (cress). And the shrub which grows among us, having leaves resembling those of the bay, but much larger, is of ap-