673 SECT. LXXYUI.] GOUT. it empties the stomach, which is the fountain whence the hu- Comm. mours are derived. His comparison of the stomach to a foun- ' tain which irrigates all parts of the system is very appropriate, and is beautifully illustrated by him. He recommends, how- ever, vomiting by simple means; and for this purpose directs the patient to swallow meat imperfectly chewed, radishes, leeks, &c. and, having drunk some honied water, to excite vomiting by tickling the throat with a feather or the finger. He forbids the use of strong emetics. His second method of evacuation is by purging, which he recommends to be done by pills con- taining aloes, hermodactylus, cinnamon, and scammony. He then proceeds to the cure when an attack has come on. In this case, he recommends us to begin with letting blood, unless the stomach be loaded with impurities, when an emetic must be premised, lest the emptiness of the veins produced by vene- section should cause these crude humours to be conveyed over the body. Venesection, he remarks, is particularly applicable at the commencement, when there is simply a plethora of blood, but it is rather prejudicial afterwards when the fluids become altered in quality. In such cases, as he fully explains, purging is the proper remedy, especially when performed by hermodac- tylus, which, he says, he had found from experience to answer well, from whatever cause the disease had originated. He di- rects it to be combined with various calefacients and aromatics, such as birthwort, cinnamon, and pellitory. He then makes an ingenious reply to those who affirmed that the disease is not to be cured by purgatives, but that it is sometimes exacerbated by them. In such cases, he properly remarks, it is not the remedy that is in fault but the misapplication of it. Those who cannot bear cathartics by the mouth may have clysters given them; or the preparations from elaterium, juice of sow-bread, or the like, may be applied to the navel. He afterwards gives directions about the local applications, which are nearly the same as those recommended by Alexander. We will have oc- casion, in the Seventh Book, to discuss the question respecting the nature of the ancient hermodactylus j and we shall mere I n- state here our own decided persuasion that it was a species of colchicum or meadow-saffron. It forms one of the ingredients of the celebrated Eau medicinale d'Husson. From the effects produced by the Eau medicinale we arc inclined to think, 43