591 SECT. LIV.] TESTICLE. the warm bath perseveringly. Haly Abbas remarks that pro- Comm. tnision of the bowels will sometimes occasion constipation, ' " ' pain, and death. He says nothing of an operation for relieving the strangulation. Alsaharavius declares that he had found all the applications recommended for the cure of these com- plaints utterly ineffectual after they are fairly formed. He directs us to return the protruded parts, and secure them by means of a bandage, along with a pad of lead and a plaster of pitch, &c. The Surgical treatment of these complaints is minutely described in the Sixth Book. SECT. LIV. ON INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE AND SCROTUM, AND ON THE OTHER DISEASES OF THESE PARTS. You may recognize inflammation of the scrotum from the pain being felt at the slighest touch of the hand, and from the heat and hardness appearing intense; whereas, when the tes- ticle is inflamed, a slight touch does not give pain, which is only felt when the part is firmly pressed by the fingers, while the redness and hardness appear less at the surface; but, upon grasping it firmly, a deep-seated hardness meets the fingers; and fever is sometimes present. To inflammations of the tes- ticles, in particular, venesection is applicable at the ancle; and to all these, in general, cataplasms and cerates. Cataplasms are to be applied, of the flour of beans boiled in diluted wine, with fat dried grapes deprived of their stones ; or, boil the root of cumin or asphodel, and, having pounded, mix with an equal part of the flour of dried barley-meal, and apply as a cataplasm; or, Unseed in diluted wine; or, fenugreek in honied water; or, the root in honied water; or, the recent lees of wine, with the flour of barley-meal; or, groundsel and green coriander, with dried grapes deprived of their stones. But if there is much heat, apply a cataplasm of the leaves of henbane with wheat-flour, or that of chick-peas; or, of the leaves of sweet- flag, or of unripe gourd. When the affection is protracted, and attended with hardness, boil the root of wild cucumber in honied water, and, having triturated with the flour of darnel, apply as a cataplasm. And this is an excellent remedy: Of dried grapes deprived of their stones, oz. v j of boiled chick-