438 DISEASES OF THE EAR. [book hi. heated in hot water, and affixed near the ear. But if there be heaviness, distension, and heat, with a pulsatory pam or fever, you may be sure that the ear is inflamed; and you must, in the first place, have recourse to phlebotomy, then foment frequently with hot sweet oil by means of the ear specillum wrapped in wool. We must also inject into the ear the fat of a goose or of a fox, or the ointment basilicon, with the oil of roses, of privet, or of iris, and apply externally cataplasms of a paregoric and digestive nature; but when the pain compels us we may use those things which are moderately narcotic, for there is no little danger, owing to the nearness of the brain to the inflamed auditory nerve. The following is an excellent paregoric: Of opium, p. j; of castor, p. ij. Inject it warm with a woman's milk, or the white of an egg, or tepid sweet wine. And the trochisk of saffron, that called aster, and the antidote of Philo is often of service to them. You must foment frequently, either with common oil or some of the hot fomen- tations, and apply to the ear wool steeped in it, taking care not to touch the inflamed part. When the pain continues and an abscess is about to form, use the remedy from the juice of linseed, injecting it softened with oil of roses or of chamomile. When the pain is occasioned by poisonous water which has got into the foramen of the ear, and if it be in considerable quan- tity it will be necessary to suck it out either with the mouth or by a reed; but if in small quantity, it may be wiped away with the ear specillum wrapped in wool; and then some of the attenuant oils may be injected, or else rose-oil, or the white of an egg, or a woman's milk. Everything applied to the ear should be moderately warm. For ulcers with inflammation. Triturate equal parts of ly- cium {catechu?) and meconium with honey, and inject. For severe pain, pus, and difficulty of hearing. Of whitened almonds, xx in number; of aphronitrum, dr. iij; of opium, dr. iij; of frankincense, dr. iij; of saffron, dr. iv; of galbanum, dr. ij; of myrrh, dr. j; triturate with vinegar, and inject. When there is pain, dissolve it in oil of roses, and when there is a dis- charge of pus, in mulse or oxymel, and when there is deafness, in vinegar. Recent ulcers are cured by horned poppy dissolved in vinegar, by the collyria from it, and by those formed from roses, saffron, and myrrh, in like manner as running ulcers