272 FEVERS. [BOOK species prevail, they soon acquire heat. This is the true semi- tertian, being a fever formed from an equal combination o both, a tertian intermittent, and a continual quotidian. But that which is not the true semi-tertian has either more ot the bilious or of the pituitous character j which species is of easiest cure the smaller humour being readily overcome by the prevalence of the greater, or by the aid of art. When the pituitous state prevails, we must use especially the remedies mentioned for the quotidian; or, if yellow bile, those for the tertian, always bestowing most attention upon that which is most urgent, but not neglecting the other entaely. Commentary. The reader may find histories of the semi- tertian in the Epidemics of Hippocrates, where see the Com- mentary of Galen. Our author's account is condensed from Galen (de Diff. Febr. ii, 2, and de Typis, 4.) See Aetius (v, 81); Actuarius (Morb. Dig. ii, 1) J Nonnus (142); Celsus (m, 8) d Palladius (21.) Celsus describes it as the second species of tertian in the following terms : " Alteram longe perniciosius, quod tertio quidem die revertitur, ex octo autem et quadragmta horis fere sex et triginta per accessionem occupat, interdum etiam vel minus, vel plus; neque ex toto in remissione desistit, sed tantum levius est. Id genus plerique medici wirpiTaiov appellant." He approves of bleeding at the commencement, and of a diet that is nutritive without being heating. Palladius says that the semi-tertian is compounded of a ter- tian intermittent, and a continual quotidian, the quotidian paroxysm taking place every day, and the tertian every alter- nate day. He ascribes their origin to a mixture of putrid bile and phlegm. (21.) Haly Abbas gives a similar account of it. He calls it a fever compounded of a tertian and quotidian, and remarks that it has a tendency to pass into hectic. He treats it with diluents and refrigerants. (Pract. iii, 17.) Avicenna gives a very detailed account of the symptoms and cure of the semi- tertians. He remarks that the fever is apt to be protracted and to pass into the hectic, (iv, 1, 4.) See Rhases (Cont. xxxi.) All his authorities agree in describing it as a compound of the tertian and quotidian, having a severe paroxysm the one day and a slighter the following. It is said to be generally pro- tracted to the fortieth day.