SECT. LXXVIII.] 603 GOUT. from coral, which dissolves tophi that arc formed in the joints. The properties of all these things, the manner of using them, and the precautions to be observed with regard to them, yon will find described in the Pharmaceutical part of this Work; and also the composition of depilatories for arthritic complaints, and the mode of applying them to these habits, I mean the pi- tuitous. Some, for the entire removal of the complaint, boil i whole wolves in oil, wherewith they cure arthritic cases; some throwing them in alive, and others dead, into a large caldron. I And in like manner they boil lmcnas, making a discutient oil ! from them ; and then filling the cistern of the bath with it, and j putting the arthritic patients into it, they direct them to remain in it for a considerable time. By these means it happens that not only the swellings about the joints, but the whole body, is evacuated. On tophi, or chalk-stones. Since tophi are often formed in the joints, sometimes owing to a thick and terrene humour seating in the parts, and sometimes owing to the use of applications which i arc immoderately discutient and desiccant without being emol- i lie at, it is proper to know that the most suitable remedies are such as are at the same time emollient and discutient. Where- fore, old suet, marrow, ammoniac, bdellium, very old oil, and storax, are emollient; and nitre, salts, strained lye, adarce, eu- phorbium, and the like, are discutient and desiccative. This is an excellent application for tophi in the joints : Very old and acrid cheese pounded and applied writh a decoction of fat swines' flesh, it also being old. For the chalk-stone breaking spontaneously, a discharge of it takes place every day. The composition from ham (which is prepared in two ways) is also an approved remedy, and those described from strained lixivial ashes (potash?). And this one is particularly excellent: Of aphronitrum, of turpentine, of protostacton, of virgin wax (i.e. bee-glue), of each, oz. iv; of wax, oz. ix; of colophonian rosin, lb. j ; of oil, oz. xvj; mix together, and use for chalk-stones and apostemes. The composition from dragon's blood is of wonderful efficacy for chalk-stones and many other complaints, but is difficult to procure. But that from walnuts is not only efficacious but at the same time easily pro- cured ; and is applicable not only to those who are strong, but also to those who are sensitive, if mixed with honey or the com- position from anemone, in the proportion of two parts to one of