SECT. XXII.] QUARTAN. 245 recommends wormwood, but forbids it earlier. It acts, he Comm. says, by increasing the strength of the stomach, opening the U^-J pores, increasing the urine, and promoting the secretion of bile. He approves of wine in the decline of the fever, with the view of supporting the strength, and of promoting the urinary and cutaneous secretions. He therefore directs that the wine be white, and not too old. (Pract. iii, 13.) From the account of the ancient practice in cases of tertians, ;«s given in this and the preceding chapter, it will be seen that the use of bitters ra these diseases was well understood formerly. The administration of pepper in such cases, it will also be re- marked, was an ancient practice. SECT. XXII. THE DIAGNOSIS OF QUARTANS. The quartan makes its attack with much coldness, as having its origin from a cold humour, namely, the black bile j but it is not attended with ardour and febrile heat like the tertian, neither does a vomiting of bile accompany. If, in addition to these, the urine be thin, white, and watery, the fever certainly is a quartan; but the characteristic of a true quartan is a small and rare pulse. They have their beginning most frequently in autumn, supervening upon wandering fevers. At that season, intermittcnts generally assume the quartan type, although sometimes the paroxysm observes a longer interval of days. Commentary. We mentioned, in the 18th Section, that the ancients held quartans to be occasioned by an accumulation of black bile. Hence, says Hippocrates, they prevail most in autumn, and attack persons between the ages of twenty-five and forty-five. (De Nat. Hum. 29.) He recommends principally for them emetics, purgatives, and the w arm bath. (De Affect. 19.) By wandering fevers, of which mention is made by our author, is meant fevers, the paroxysms of w hich return after an interval of many days. See Hippocr. (Epidem.); Rhases (ad Mansor x, 8.) Our author's description is condensed from Galen (Therap. ad Glauc. i), or probably copied direct from Oribasius (Synops. vi, 12.) Galen states that quartans are of a less inflammatory