sect, xxxvn.] SYNCOPE. 289 arms again, and afterwards to the spine again, continuing this practice for a whole day. Honied water, in which hyssop has been boiled, is most beneficial in these cases. And they must neither get farinaceous food, nor soup, nor water, nor be per- mitted at all to drink freely; but they ought to be contented with honied water alone for the first three days, and be rubbed in succession. If the strength be moderately good, and the contents of the stomach do not pass properly downwards, you may venture with a clyster. But if there is a greater overflow of the superfluities than proper upon the stomach, you must first boil the honied water well, for thus it will be less laxative; but when the belly is looser than proper, you must not thus stop it, but, instead of the honied water, give the juice of ptisan. But if the discharge still continue, we must support with a gruel made from chondrus. But if we ascertain from the weakness of the pulse that the powers of the system are pros- trated, it will be proper to give bread out of diluted wine, pro- vided there be no inflammation of the stomach or liver. But should they be inflamed at the same time that the body is loaded with crude humours, the state of the patient is hope- less. If you perceive that the humours are thick, give oxymel always instead of honied water; if it is summer, the patient hot, and fond of cold drink, give him cold oxymel; but when in winter, it must be hot. Baths are most prejudicial to such persons. If, when you are called, syncope has already come on, and the parts which I have mentioned are free from in- flammation, give a small bit of bread out of wine, and proceed straightway to the friction in the manner I have described. In those cases in which the syncope is occasioned by yellow bile infesting the mouth of the stomach, we must give cold drink, and administer wine that is thin, of a bright yellow colour, and old. Commentary. This Section is taken either from Oribasius Comm. (Synops. vi, 27), or Aetius (v, 97.) These authors, however, ' *—' merely abridge the account of this subject which is given by Galen. (Meth. Med. xii, 5, and Therap. ad Glauc. i.) Syncope, according to the explanation of Galen, is a sudden prostration of the vital powers, without suspension of the respiration, as in deliguium animi. Our author has given a very correct account 19