332 SMALLPOX AND MEASLES. [book it. CoMM to eive him some cold water to drink; to put on a double shirt J and to place near him two small basins of very hot water, one before and the other behind him, so that the vapour may be diffused all over his body, except the face; but he prudently directs us not to allow the moisture to cool upon the body, but to get it carefully wiped off. All furnaces and hot baths he con- demns, as overheating and weakening. He very much commends figs for promoting the eruption. He afterwards gives very minute directions about the treatment of particular parts, such as the eyes, the throat, and the nose. For the eyes, he recommends various astringent lotions or collyria, such as galls and rose- water, sumach, pomegranate rind, &c. The care of the throat he justly holds to be a very important consideration, and re- commends bleeding when there is acute pain, and gargling with cold water, or with astringent decoctions, such as those of acid pomegranates, sumach, and the juice of mulberries. When the pustules on the limbs are large, he directs us to open them j and when there is great pain in the soles, he recommends them to be rubbed with warm oil, or the feet to be put into hot water. When the pustules seem to stand in need of ripening, he directs the body to be fomented with the steam arising from a hot decoction of chamomile, violets, and the like; and, when too humid, the patient is to be laid on pounded roses, rice-meal, or millet seed. For removing the scabs and eschars, he recom- mends us to rub them with the warm oil of sesame, or oil of pistaches ; but the larger are to be cut off carefully without any application of oil. For removing the specks on the eye he recommends many stimulant collyria, containing antimony, verdigris, sal ammoniac, tatty, camphor, &c. For removing cicatrices or marks on other parts of the body, he mentions various applications, containing litharge, bastard spurge, &c. When the belly is loose, either in smallpox or measles, which, as he remarks, is commonly the case on the decline of the fever, he recommends abstinence from all laxative things, and com- mends barley-gruel, to which the meal of pomegranate seeds may be added; or, if the looseness increase, gum arabic, &c. may be added to the drink. He adds, that it sometimes hap- pens that the bowels require to be opened, and he directs this to be done by means of myrobalans, prunes, and the like. When in measles there is much appearance of vitiated bile, he directs