SYNCOPE. SECT. XXXIX.] 295 remarks, in inflammations, adds to the disease, but, in ordinary Comm. cases, to the strength. When general bleeding cannot be borne, ' ' ' he advises cupping in a guarded manner. He approves of bathing the head with cooling things, of cool air, and of all things that are grateful to the senses. When the system is quite sunk, and the extremities cold, he recommends wine guardedly with light soups. The wine, he says, should be fragrant and not veiy astrin- gent, but should be given with moderation, unless the sweats at e very profuse and the skin cold, when he advises wine to be given to any extent, Mine in such cases being the last hope of life. He directs further that the patient should be kept up with encouraging words, and the application of fragrant and astringent things, such as alum, rose-water, and the like. He is to be exposed to fragrant and cool air, and, if the sweats per- sist, obstruent substances, such as Samian earth, &c, are to be added to the applications, and a sponge soaked in cold water is to be applied to the face. Stimulants and rubefacients are to be applied to the extremities. He concludes with remarking that convalescence is often prevented by latent inflammations, which end in marasmus, in which cases the physician must en- deavour by gestation, friction, baths, and the administration either of a woman's milk or that of an ass to support the strength. (De Cur. Acut. ii, 3.) Aetius also has a separate chapter on cardiacs, although he holds syncope to be symptomatic of acute fever. We need not enter upon an exposition of his views further than to mention that he is of opinion that the part originally affected is the cardiac orifice of the stomach, (ix, 1.) By cardiac disease in fevers the ancients would seem to have meant to describe a febrile affection, attended with congestion and great nausea. Such a variety of remittent fever is de- scribed by the late Dr. Robert Jackson as still occurring in Warm climates. The symptoms are great nausea, sluggishness, obscure, weak pulse, and deep respiration. He recommends bleeding, and afterwards stimulant applications to the extremi- ties. (On Fever, p. 193.) Since writing the above we have had an opportunity of con- sulting Hecker's ' Epidemics of the Middle Ages/ and beg to refer our readers to it (p. 306) for an ingenious disquisition on the cardiac disease.