232 FEVERS. 0OOR Comm. a cold bath. Alexander, however, finds fault with him for "-^ giving heating medicines, such as pepper, and using hot appli- cations over the stomach in such cases. Alexander's account of the nature and treatment of these fevers cannot be perused with too much attention. He mentions as characteristics ot ephemerals, that the urine is properly concocted from the first; and that the pulses have a quick and elevated diastole, with a shorter systole; the vessels, he adds, requiring refrigeration rather than purification. They arise, he says, from many and various causes, such as repletion, want, watchfulness, fatigue, disorder of the belly, apostemes; and, in a word, from all the procatarctic causes. When the fever is occasioned by excessive fatigue, the indication, he states, is to supply moisture to the body, rather than to take from it. Hence, all friction with discutient oils ought to be avoided; and what is used for rubbing the body should be mixed with much water. But the principal dependence is to be put upon the tepid bath. Here, again, he thinks that Galen erred, in not directing that the oil used for rubbing the body should be diluted with water. He adds, that it will often have an excellent effect after the patient has come out of the tepid bath, and been anointed as directed, to make him take a warm bath and remain in it for a consider- able time. When ephemerals arise from indigestion, he gives very minute directions for the treatment, according to the nature of the exciting cause. When connected with constric- tion, he approves of bleeding, if, as generally happens, it be attended with fulness. Oribasius and Aetius treat of ephemeral fevers in much the same terms as our author. Palladius says that ephemerals are affections of the spirits, arising from some external exciting cause, such as fatigue, intoxication, anxiety, watchfulness, or from a tumour of the groin. Celsus gives a similar enumeration of the causes, but in briefer terms : " Febris ex inguine, vel ex lassitudine, vel ex sestu, aliave simili re est." Almost all the authorities, from Hippocrates downwards, mention enlargement of the glands, especially those of the groin, among the causes of fever. Agathias, the historian, remarks, that pestilential fever is at- tended with enlargement of the inguinal glands, but does not terminate favorably in one day, like the ephemerals. (Hist, v.)