SECT. LI.] BATHS. made use of common water. The ordinary hour for the bath was Comm. about two o'clock in the afternoon, but no one was restricted to any hour from the dawn to sunset. Galen approves of taking the bath in the morning, provided one had supped sparingly. (De Sanit. tuenda, vi.) All agreed in condemning the use of t he bath after a full meal. (Persius, Sat. iii; Juvenal, Sat. i, 143; Horat Epist. vi, 61; Avicenna, Libel, &c). The ancients had also various other modes of practising the bath in private, some of which we shall briefly notice. The Clibanus, mentioned by Celsus (ii, 17), was probably a portable stove. The Pensiles Balnea: were small baths suspended by ropes from the ceiling of the house, in which luxurious persons were rocked. (Pliny, xxvi, 3.) Hip-baths, either of plain water, or water medicated with herbs, or of oil and water, are repeatedly mentioned by all the medical authors, and are particularly described by Ae'tius and Avicenna. The douche or clashing with water is recom- mended by Aetius, in ardent fever, ophthalmy, &c; but he directs that it shoidd not be carried far. Sprinkling with plain water, or the decoctions of emollient herbs, is recommended whon the patients are so weak that they cannot bear the bath. Hippocrates thus explains his dews as to the effects produced by baths : The bath of sweet waters humectates and cools, for it imparts moisture to the body. The salt bath is cale- facient and desiccative; for, being naturally hot, it attracts moisture from the body. When the body is fasting the hot bath is attenuant and refrigerant; for by its heat it attracts the moisture from the body, and when the flesh is deprived of moisture the body is cooled. But after a meal it heats and humectates, by expanding to a greater bulk whatever pre- dominates in the body. The cold baths produce the contrary effects; for when the body is fasting they impart heat and moisture to it, and after a meal they abstract moisture, and being cold they fill it with dryness. Unction with oil is calefa- cieiit, moistening and emollient. (De Diaeta, ii, 36.) In another place he states that the warm bath, in moderation, softens and enlarges the body; but when taken immoderately it hu- mectates dry bodies, and dries humid bodies. (De Affectionibus, c. 47.) Celsus gives some ingenious reflections on the effects of the